

lM*
■-■ ■,> is i»
: ■ v ;V3vSi|@s ;^ißßi
.Kb *. .» ?« ~ M
pnHg m oHra
< a pyi ,
.
&y
i /: :
:
P
■
J *-* Lj J;L Lj > - <
,: s " « } ¥ ss* -
S? ** .... mmimmmm
9w9mmM
MSS
: ■
«p|ls^||
if o
I
I
.
1
:-^P‘
1 .. i ■ i
11
« . 11
-
WKtmm
i fJp.r
.
■— W«
& . • - H
?r\;,; 5 Jr
»|j(% * (§*
js -■-
r
’ Y
• v •:•.:■
»:rS
THE man who buys an
Australian-made AKUBRA
Flat for the first time makes
a real discovery. He finds
that, at a reasonable price,
he has obtained an article
of excellent quality, style
and appearance. He finds
also, as time goes on, that
the good looks are matched
by a remarkable wear .. .
that his money bought even
more than he expected.
High Quality Super Quality
( lined )
25/- 351-
The Bulletin
1/VksAt (fjtWo .—(PS
Vol. 51.— N0. 2645.
Wednesday, October 22, 1930.
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


’T’HE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
* now ready, and will be forwarded witn
full terras and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
sJoruV«
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address *
JJYSAGHF
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt!
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world’s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
Rt J.
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says;
“A few drops
of my Worcest-
ershire Sauce
served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
unexpected
guests.”
n
HS
JUST PUBLISHED.
A Fascinating Biography Full of Interest,
A LIFE’S PANORAMA.
Some Recollections and Some Reminiscences of
Things Seen and Heard by
John A. Gurner, K.C.
A LIFE’S PANORAMA.
(Profusely Illustrated.)
A LIFE’S PANORAMA.
At All Up-to-Date Libraries and at All Good
Booksellers. Price, 20/-
A Brilliant Satirical Skit,
THE MAGICIANS.
All Australians should enjoy a laugh with
THE MAGICIANS,
By Henry Chisholm.
Every Businessman should read and enjoy this clever
political satire,
THE MAGICIANS.
General Sir JOHN MONASH, G.C.M.G., K.C.G.,
LL.D., says: “One of the best things that I have
read for a. very long time. Apart from its _ literary
quality, which is on a high plane, it is intensely
amusing.- The cleverness and incisiveness of the
composition is satire at its best. —raillery without
bitterness —laughter without ridicule —and criticism
without malice. The verses can be enjoyed equally
by those who share or those who combat the writer’s
political philosophy. ‘The Magicians’ is an illuminat-
ing commentary upon the recent political history of
the Commonwehlth.”
THE MAGICIANS,
Price, 6d. (Postage.ld.)-,
A REAL THRILLER!
THE VANISHING HORSEMEN,
A Romance by Mr. A. E. Yarra.
“Times Literary. Supplement” (London), says: “An
exciting tale of the ‘Wild West’ of Australia, with
fistifcuffs, alarums, desperate riding and cattle thieves
.... plenty, of action and humor,”
At all Booksellers, 6/-
NOW READY, AT ALL BOOKSELLERS,
THE ABORIGINAL WORDBOOK,
By JUSTINE KENYON
(With a Foreword by A. S. Kenyon).
The most authentic collection of aboriginal words
and their meanings ever published. This compila-
tion has meant many years of research, and the
author is an authority on the subject. With this
book to guide them, no one need be afraid of adopt-
ing a ludicrous or even obscene name for the home.
Price, 2/-, Neatly Boxed (Postage, 2d.).
The Lothian Publishing Co. Ply., Ltd.,
497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
✓Y HAIR
HERE'S
why-
fhfsh
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she he in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrCUlaris CMEXICANJ
UkUnui Sicuun,
*-«EMOV£S THE GREY'*
[Sole Australian Agents:
DUEItDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (.416), 6d. being postage.
©
a
CANADAS
ROCKIES
IN
DAYLIGHT
'T'AKE the C.P.R. Route to Europe
for the world’s most thrilling
train journey—6oo miles of delight
through towering snow-capped
peaks—sun-silvered glaciers—pan-
oramas of delight—green forests
and lovely flower strewn valleys—
the glories of Lake Louise and
Banff: . ...
Enjoy this marvellous trip in the
luxurious comfort of a C.P.R. tram.
Literature on request.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
2fwWorlds Greatest 'Gravel System,
- = .'.
It heals as
it cleanses
Antiseptic
Soothing
The perfect toilet soap must be
more than a cleanser —it must
also keep the skin in good con-
dition, freeing it from all cause
of irritation. CUTICURA
SOAP contains the medicinal
and healing properties of
CUTICURA; it brings to the
skin Health, as well as Clean-
liness, keeping it smooth and
clear.
Every member of the family
should use CUTICURA SOAP
regularly.
Soap Is., Ointment is. and 2s.
Talcnm Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: “R. Towns * Co., Sydney, N. S.W."
SOAP
The Red Page
An Oxonian on Australia
In Australia, the latest volume of Benn’s
Modern World Series, W. K. Hancock, Pro-
fessor of Modern History at Adelaide
University and a Fellow of All Souls, has
set out “to write of the Australians as an
Englishman or a Frenchman would write of
his countrymen living in a previous cen-
tury'.” He has carried out his scheme not
merely with the detachment of a historian,
but with something of the relish of a de-
bunker. His clear style is well suited for
his purpose, and he is a witty phrasemaker.
He quotes an Australian professor who
considers that “'the descendants of convicts
must form a Jarge proportion of the popula-
tion” (of N. S. Wales). The position would
be intensified in Tasmania, which “was
saturated with convictism of the worst
description”; but, indeed, owing to the
mobile habits of Australians “the descend-
ants of convicts may be anywhere.” Nor
were most of them poachers: the typical
convict was “not the countryman who
snared rabbits, but the Londoner who stole
spoons.” The pioneer of the nation’s dreams
(the “ideal digger” or “typical settler”)
was not “an independent fellow seeking his
own fortune and paying his own fare.”
Even in the gold-rush period, more than 100,000
assisted immigrants entered N. S. Wales alone, and
it may be safely asserted that the assisted were in
a decisive majority throughout the second half of
the nineteenth century, as they were throughout the
first.
Australians are not “98 per cent. British,”
as they are wont to boast, and as the
“Official Year Book of the Commonwealth”
records:—
“Non-Britishers” have played a far from negligible
part in developing Australia, and they and their
children number more than 10 per cent, of the
population.
Protection is a failure. It “has been
more than a policy: it has been a faith and
dogma.” But it is no longer profitable.
He quotes Dr. Benham’s opinion that the
Commonwealth would have done better
under Freetrade, and concludes:—
It is possible that a majority of economists (if
we can imagine them being called to a poll) would
vote with Dr. Benham.
The States are not sovereign States (“the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court has be-
come their master”), and State socialism is
a failure. It has placed the Australians
in an awkward dilemma:—
On the one hand to achieve business success it
would seem to be necessary to observe business prin-
ciples ; on the other hand, if State businesses are
to be tied down by business principles what advan-
tage is there in running State businesses?
Basic-wage legislation is a failure:—
The Australian public is for ever talking about the
basic wage, but a remarkably small percentage of
Australian workers actually receives it.... In 1920
the chairman of a special Basic W'age Commission
pointed out that Australian industries were paying
for 450,000 non-existent wives, and 2,100,000 non-
existent children.
Our wealthy classes are undistinguished
(“In a society which has little fixity of
family or fortune, intelligence and good
manners may be found at any level;
and vulgarity is no less frequently observed
in men whose incomes are large than in
men whose incomes are moderate or
small”), and all classes, politically speaking,
are simpletons. In politics we have been
“incurably romantic,” and he cites Canberra,
“the crazy city,” in proof of it. It is a
severe indictment, but Mr. Hancock submits
his proofs as he goes on in the unhurried,
impartial manner of a good Crown Prose-
cutor.
The weakest chapter in a stimulating but
curiously uneven work is the last, which
deals with “Art and Literature.” It is the
only one which gives an impression of hav-
ing been written at second-hand. He
writes of The Bulletin (“the most popular
and influential mouthpiece of Australia’s
literary, economic and political national-
ism”), and mentions Archibald freely, but
has nothing to say of Edmond or the pre-
sent editor, who, between them, have sup-
plied practically all The Bulletin’s eco-
nomic and political thinking; he discusses
poetry, and gives a page to Blocksidge and
not a syllable to Victor Daley; he discusses
novelists and ignores William Hay!
But the chief defect of the book as an
informative synthesis is the author’s reluct-
ance to admire his native land. How does
it come about, for example, that a country
with such unfortunate beginnings, and a
population less than that of Greater Lon-
don, should have evolved so many world-
champions in sport, and the domain of phy-
sical prowess generally? “A man like
Lindrum,” wrote Professor Haldane rek
cently, “who not only possesses a marvellous
control of his muscles, bull can foresee the
position of the billiard ball several strokes
ahead, probably displays as much cerebral
activity as a higher mathematician, and has
as large a brain.” The same might be said
of Trumper, Macartney, Bradman, Norman
Brookes, our flying men, front-line soldiers,
and many more. Our alleged “high stand-
ard of living” has been shown to be more
or less mythical, and, if “air and sunshine”
were factors, supermen should have appeared
in the Riviera and other parts of the
world whose climates are comparable to
those of temperate Australia, What is the
explanation of our steady output of super-
men? Problems of the sort are within the
scope of Professor Hancock’s inquiry, and
they would have been dealt with by a Brit-
ish or Continental investigator, and perhaps
by r an Australian whose spiritual home was
not Oxford—the university which of all
others is least tolerant of what Australians
call “skite.”
JOHN DALLET.
The Chinese Novel
The classical Celestial novel runs to an
average of 300,000 ideographs. These could
not be translated into English in less than
a million words. Hence Chinese book
revieVs seldom begin with the remark that
“We confess that, having taken up Mr.
Ping’s latest book, we were unable to lay
it down until we had reached the final
chapter.” Novel competitions are not
popular with the editors of Chinese
weeklies.
The Chinese novelist does not indulge
in the star system. It is nothing for him
to trace the careers of 400 principal char-
acters in a single volume. A task that
would baffle most Western authors is made
easy for him merely by the exercise of
learning his own language. There are
approximately 45,000 accredited pictographs
in the Chinese language. Some of the
characters are obsolete and some redun-
dant, but the effective total still remains
formidable. When I started to learn
Chinese', in order to enjoy the Chinese novel,
I engaged a fat little savant whose manners
were irreproachable except for his habit of
innocent eructation. He attended every
day before breakfast and wrote down
characters on bits of pasteboard, which I
carried around in my pocket. At odd
moments I would pull a character out and
study it, and in a week or so its shape
would be more or less indelibly engraved
on my memory. When I was stuck for a
word I c'ould look it up in the dictionary,
which was divided into 217 headings under
the different radicals. These were the
nearest approach to an alphabet. They
were arranged in accordance with the
number of their strokes from one to 19
or 20; and if you could remember how
many strokes there were in the particular
radical you were after, all was plain sailing.
A knowledge of approximately 5000 char-
acters would enable you to read official
proclamations and an additional 5000 would
unlock the treasures of ancient Chinese
literature. But it would not enable you to
read a Chinese newspaper. As new ideas,
like companionate marriage and birth
control, arrive, the stock of characters is
constantly being added to. The foreigner
who turns sinologue usually ends in a
madhouse, or at least acquires a reputation
for eccentricity.
The Chinese novelist is a realist and
depicts life without subterfuge. He would
not understand our claim that some aspects
of human activity are not suited for pre-
sentation. This trait has always been his
most, prominent characteristic. The classical
work is “Dream of the Red Chamber,” by
Tsao Ilsueh-Chin and Kao Ngoh, which
has lately been translated in a very abbrevi-
ated form into English by Chi-Chen Wang.
It was written about 150 years ago, con-
tains 232 male persons and 189 females, all
described in considerable detail. A com-
plete translation would occupy fully 3000
pages. It is the story of a wealthy pro-
vincial family and gives an extraordinarily
vivid picture of a civilisation which has as
little relation to any other as if it had
arisen on another planet. It explains more
clearly than all the political publicists why
China has so conspicuously' failed to float
herself into a Western democracy'. The
hero by r orthodox European standards is
completely' loathsome. Being brought up
amongst female slaves and relatives of the
same gender he is no he-man. His chief
exercise is writing poetry and his chief
diversion love intrigues. His world is
bounded by' the walls of the domestic
prison. His father pays him attention only
once, when he is deterred from exercising
the parental prerogative of flogging him to
death by the intervention of the matriarch,
or chief mother-in-law. The women in the
household, of whom there are approxi-
mately 500, solve their problems by' throw-
ing themselves down wells or taking poison.
The impression given is that, an empire
consisting of innumerable family units of
this sort can only be ruled by a ruthless
autocrat.
Arnold Bennett never revealed the soul
of the Five Towns more uncompromisingly
than these ancient collaborators revealed
the psyche of their country. The modern
Chinese novelist carries on the tradition. A
renaissance is brewing and hundreds of
books are being poured out annually. Some
are written in the colloquial tongue, much
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—one of the foundation stones on which this firm is built.
Anthony Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE)
STOCK- CATF
REDUCING O ALL
S'
LAg
XI
m
it
%*5
¥
Blinds for Summer Coolness
—we will make them up free!
Order your Blinds now! We are making a remarkable
offer of making up free of charge all outside and inside
Blinds—materials only will be charged for at our Famous
Low Prices.
Materials for Outside Blinds
Our large and varied stocks include White Duck in various weights, Brown Duck,
Striped Duck in block and broken stripes, All-linen Ticking in block and broken
stripes, and also multi-color stripe effects in tones of Orange, Blue, Red, Green and
Gold.
Plain White Duck, from 1/9 per yard.
Weights. ; lOoz.
36in. wide. Price 1/9
72in. wide. Price 3/6
Extra Heavy Stripe Duck, from 3/- per yard
This heavy-quality material, is available with Blue, Brown, Green or Red stripes.
Prices, yd. .. . . 36in. wide, 3/-; 54in. wide, 4/6; 72in. wide, 6/-
All Linen Ticking from 3/6 per yard
This has fadeless stripes of Blue, Brown, Green or Red. Will add a bright and
cheerful note to the appearance of your home.
Prices, yd. 36in. wide, 3/6; 54in. wide, 5/3; 72in. wide, 77-
Multi-color Striped Duck, from 4/6 per yard
Multi-colored Striped Duck and Linen Ticking, in smart and cheerful fadeless
colorings. A spkndid quality that will give years of satisfactory wear. At unusually
low prices.
Prices, yd 36in. wide, 4/6; 72in. wide, 8/11
Materials for
INSIDE
BLINDS
—made up free
These include our Hollands,
which are of the best quality
only and guaranteed fadeless.
The colors include Dark
Green, Blue, Nigger, Chocolate,
Beige, Stone, Linen shade
and several shades of Art
Green. Prices are as follows:
Width, in.
24 30 36 40 42
Prices, yd.
1/7 1/9 2/2 2/5 2/8
Width, in.
45 48 54 60 72
Prices, yd.
2/9 3/- 3/6 3/11 4/11
Blind Rollers, 2/-
Robertshaws’ best-quality Eng-
lish Rollers.
Size, in. 1x43
Prices 2/- 3/- 3/6
Size, in. I\x 60 1J x 72
Prices 4/- 4/6
Blind Rollers, 2/-
Hartshorn best-quality Ameri-
can Blind Rollers.
Size, in. 1 x3O 1 x 43 x 49
Prices 2/- 2/2 3/2
In. 1J x 55 IJx 60 IJx 72
Prices 3/8 4/3 4/9
In. 1 i x 60 1 % x 72 1 \ x 84
Prices 6/- 6/11 7/11
Sizes 1 x Bft. 1 x 9ft.
Prices 9/- 10/6
Blind Tassels from
4d.
These are in colors to match
Holland.
Prices . . 4d., 6d., 9d., 1/-
Blind Pulls. Prices, ea. 4d. 6d.
Blind Laces and Insertions.
Per yd., Bd., 1/- , 1/3 to 6/6
Blind Motifs, in various de-
signs. Prices, 4d., 6d., 1/-,
1/3, 1/6, 1/9, 1/11 to 3/6 ea.
(Dept., Third Floor. Free De-
livery City and Suburbs only.)
REMEMBER Y O U
CAN ’PHONE US DAY
OR NIGHT AND LEAVE
YOUR ORDER.
m
' !•
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 271 C, G.P.O.


Hon. J. CJ
McPhee, Nation-
ist Premier of
Tasmania.
sfhfd
hfdh
fhfd
Hon. X. R. Bavin,
K.C., Nationalist
Premier of N.S.W.
hfh
The Rt. Hon. J.
H. Sculiin, P.C.,
Labour Prime
Minister of the
Commonwealth
Hon. E. J. Hogan,
Labour Premier
ot Victoria.
I
Hon. Sir J
Mitchell.
K.C.M.G., Nation-
alist Premier of
West Australia.
Hon. Lionel L.
Hill, Labour
Premier of South
Australia.
'
m
MM
i
Hon. A. E. Moore,
Nationalist Pre-
mier of Queens-
land.
These men have
signed the on ft/ agreement
that can Keep
you in your job j
THE political leaders of Australia, their Ministers, and their financial advisers, are
unanimously agreed upon one point—we must balance our budgets or face
National bankruptcy.
Federal Labour knows what must be done to meet the case. For political reasons
it dare not give you the facts before the election, since it would then be obvious to
everyone that New South Wales Labour could not possibly live up to its specious
promises.
Victorian Labour and South Australian Labour have said that there is only one
alternative to the rationing of work and reduction of wages, and that is—wholesale
dismissals in a few months’ time.
No one who knows anything of Mr. Lang and his parliamentary record will have the
temerity to claim for him that he has powers beyond those of his Labour confreres
of the other States or that he could convert his reckless promises into established facts.
The New South Wales National Party
makes no promises that it cannot fulfil
IT IS
IT IS
next few
IT IS
IT IS
IT IS
IT IS
coping with the situation.
alleviating distress and creating employment—work has been found for
20,000 unemployed, and 20,000 more will be given work within the
weeks.
stabilising the credit of the country and making further loans possible,
safeguarding your job, your home, your savings.
reducing the costs of production, for the benefit of both the producer and
the consumer.
aiming at a general reduction in the cost of living by the increase in the
purchasing power of money, which must inevitably be the result of lower
production costs.
I'jr fC pledged to honor the agreement entered into between the Commonwealth
* * and the other States to carry out a sane financial policy which will save
the country from bankruptcy.
ITT 1C offering you sane, sober government at a time when only sane, sober
* * government can restore the financial equilibrium of Australia and Aus-
tralians, restoring prosperity for you and yours.
Listen-in to
Station 2GB
TOWN HALL RALLY.
The Premier, Hon T.
R. Bavin, K.C., M.L.A.
The Lord Mayor, Aid.
E. S. Marks, M.L.A.
(in Chair).
Hon. F. S. Boyce, K.C.,
M.L.C., Attorney-Gen.
Hon. W. A. Holman,
K.C.
Thursday, at 8.
NATIONALmVOTE
—And keep your Job!
VOTING IS COMPULSORY—YOU MUST PUT A NUMBER IN EACH SQUARE.
Authorised by H. W. HORSFIELD, General Secretary,
National Association of N.S.W., 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.


■wmcffesmt
TRADE MARK
FLASHLIGHTS AND BATTERIES
—as Qood as the Qun
IF you know Winchester Rifles
and Shotguns you know Win-
chester quality. And you will
find this same fine quality in
Winchester Batteries and Flash-
lights —a light adapted to every
use, with special features of con-
struction and convenience that
no other flashlight gives.
In the three-cell focusing flash-
light shown above, note the stur-
dy construction, the deeply cor-
rugated case, the positive, easily
operated switch and the octagon
cap which keeps the light from
tolling off a table when you lay
it down. Note particularly the
special hook hanger by which
you can hook your light to belt
or pocket or to a rod, cord, au-
toiiiobile hood, tree branch—and
at many other points where a
light cannot usually be hung.
When you think of Winchester, think of
Bashlights and batteries as well as of guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING 20
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U S. A.
1
i ;mi jj
§
&
W 5
iVi
li
' TNI
"WINCHESTER
AS H UtGWfcS?^
to the horror of the eructating pedants.
There is a collateral attempt to solve the
awful difficulties of the written language by
confining expression within the bounds of
1000 selected characters. This will make
-iii a. ii*
literature available to an enormous public
and may stimulate interest amongst West-
enters. As somebody has said about The
„ • „„„ v
Bulletin serials, no countiy can be pio-
nerly known to other countries without the
‘ jfo fiction writers
assistance OI Its notion Wllters.
FENG-SHUI.
Education and Influence
The reply of “L.S.” (R.P. 17/9/’3O) to
my criticism of his educational theories does
not strengthen his case. He suggests now
that acquired knowledge may change the
natural character oi the young. Apparently
he abandons his previous contention that
in some unexplained way the mere in-
fluence of the schoolmaster can affect the
inherited nature of the boys under his
charge. It is this unscientific pretension
about refining and uplifting juvenile charac-
ter which is largely responsible for the tre-
mendous increase in the cost of education,
and the sooner we get back to the old
and unassailable basis that the school-
master’s function is to impart knowledge
the better it will be for all concerned. But
even here we must guard against being over-
sanguine. That knowledge may influence
character depends on other factors, of which
the principal is will power. A person may
know a lot, and through lack of will power
be quite unable to apply that knowledge to
the improvement of his life. So we are
back again at the tremendous influence of
T J-4. r ~-11 „ mD ttor
heredity, for will powei is purely a matt
of inheritance which no amount oi pecia-
gogic influence can increase.
I really cannot see why “L.S.” drags
Havelock Ellis into this question. This
student of human abnormalities relates facts
, . , j r • 1 , _„ +
horrible and demoralising, but does
suggest that the schoolmaster is the person
to deal with them. On the contrary, Ellis
declares that the unfortunate creatures who
are the subject of such abnormal impulses
are the victims of some pre-natal influence,
and that punishment and precept are alike
thrown away upon them. As for Billy
l ~, J 1 , a , j-
Smith getting any good trom these studies
of sex I am pretty sure the result would
be exactly the opposite. To a clean mind
Ellis’s revelations regarding sex perversions
, , ~ 1 ,?
may do no harm, though they are intended
only for the medical specialist. hut no
matter how they were presented to Billy
his reactions would not be varied in the
least degree by the process. We need go no
further than the Bible to find the proof of
this Everybody who has been brought up,
as was the writer, on an acquaintance with
, 1 .1 . -A „ o f a ,, annoa
this volume knows t t & .
sexual matters are often the first salacious
browsings of young minds, though doubt-
less they are intended for the uplift of
humanity
An educational reform long overdue and
cuuumuum •,
apropos of this discussion is the neces.. y
for some classification of brain power and
the grouping of the children accordingly,
There is great waste of time, effort and
money in trying to give first-class education
to third-class brains. Every teacher is aware
that his efforts to teach are conditioned by
the capacity of his scholars to absorb, a
, i- , t indina+c, tn
fact which of itself ought to indicate
such as L.S.' that his fine-spun theories
about education are of doubtful validity.
SFAX.
Where the Gamblers Gambol
P. G. Wodehouse, in a weak introduction
to And the Greeks, by Charles Graves
(Bles), manages to explain that the title
comes from the vaudeville song-line “With
the Argentines, and the Portuguese, the
Armenians and the Greeks.” The book
most engagingly describes those places in
Europe “which are professionally gay,
which are deliberately glamorous, which
make the providing of pleasure a serious,
concentrated study.”
Apparently the author, who speaks of his
brother Robert’s- “Good-bye to All That”
as “that unnecessary book,” is a kind of
super-“society” journalist, who has con-
verted a taste for enjoying life into a
means of doing so. It seems to be his job
to be mostly on holiday at one or other of
the great resorts. At Juan-les-Pins he is
with Bernard Shaw looking on to the
Mediterranean. Shaw speaks:—
A young woman told me about a fool-proof dive
this morning. All one had to do, she said, was to
hold oneself rigid, arch the body, hold the hands
above the head, and dive in. I did. Fool-proof? I
received a tremendous buffet on the face when I
struck the water. I was never so outraged in my life.
He tells Shaw that in America they had
been wondering how much he had got for
persuading Shaw to appear in the famous
talking-film interview. “You should have
got thousands, of course,” said Mr. Shaw.
A letter from Shaw presenting Graves with
the price of a dress-suit for a wedding gift
and asking to have it chronicled, “Bernard
Shaw; suit of clothes,” is another bright
item which helps to lead the reader into
the company of such people as Francois
Andre, who began life as a funeral mute,
was during the war a sergeant in the
French Army, and is now the king
of the French casinos, worth at least
£2,000,000 and at his present rate of money-
making likely to be worth £10,000,000 by
1931. From having not a penny he has
come to owning casinos in which there are
tables that have a betting minimum of £80!
He is only one of many striking figures
pricked out on a sumptuous background.
Glance at M. Zographos, the “small dark
Greek with the sunburnt skin, haunted eyes,
high forehead and'imperceptible fatigue”:—
In front of him are a pyramid of white oval
“biscuits” worth £BOO each, three feet of oblong
red and blue £BO “biscuits” neatly parked on the
green baize table, and a flood of transparent discs
worth £8 each. In all there is £30,000 in front
of him. £lB,OOO of it represents his winnings for
the afternoon.
Here he sits afternoon after afternoon and night
after night while the rich men of France, the United
States, South America, Italy and of Turkey and
Egypt, bring their cheque-books and their cash and
try to break his luck. As we stand and watch he
wins another £3OOO, lights a cigarette, waits a
moment and then, the cards being exhausted, makes
a movement as if to close the session. But he is
urged to continue. He does so, a trifle wearily, and
wins heavily again.
The writer regards his subject through
the eyes of the onlooker, the gambler, the
proprietary, the winner, the loser, the pawn-
broker, the philosopher. He describes with
effective restraint the Monte Carlo suicides
and their lonely cemetery, sees a London
society woman chase her husband round one
casino table because she suspected him of
making eyes at a pretty lady gambling
beside him, looks down upon the wounded
pigeons bleeding on the green turf as part
of a “sport.” He visits other resorts than
the gambling ones and makes them visible
and interesting, though it is where the
gamblers gambol that he is brightest. The
book is illustrated with a dozen group
caricatures by Jan Stanislas de Juanosza-
Rosciszewski, which are every inch as strik-
ing as his name.
A Satchel of Books
Hamlet, Two Lectures given for the Aus-
tralian English Association by Mungo Mac-
Callum, Professor Emeritus of Modern
Literature and Hon. Professor of English
at Sydney University. As many another
has done, he deals with “Hamlet” as if it
were a biography, with Hamlet as if he were
a living person controlling the dramatist.
The booklet, published for the English Asso-
ciation, is issued at Is., and can be com-
mended especially to those who are facing
the “final” this year.
Green Ice, by Raoul Whitfield (Knopf),
is a murder story told entirely in U.S.A.
gaol patter. A sample:—
Angel and Babe Mullens worked Melandez loose
from a flock of green stones. And then, because
Angel was a little guy and didn’t have the right
to be a crook for himself, things got hot. A lot
of guys quit breathing. They’re still doing it —and
the green ice is still out of sight.
There is no glossary, but the reviewer
gathered that stolen emeralds were respons-
ible for the shootings, stabbings, black-jack-
ings, etc., which eventually caused the ex-
termination of nearly all the leading charac-
ters. The latter resemble one another as
closely in their bestial stupidity and ruth-
lessness as a pack of hungry dingoes.
Robert Pcckham, by Maurice Baring
(Hein email n), is chiefly an impartial investi-
gation of the problems that beset an aristo-
cratic Catholic family in the closing years
of Henry VIII.’s reign and afterwards. In
the conflict of loyalties Robert’s life is
wrecked, and he ends by renouncing his
beloved England and going to Rome to die.
The rich loveliness of the English country-
side is charmingly conveyed, and there is
some brilliant characterisation. Robert,
an austere celibate who would have be in
happier in the Church; his worthless wife;
and his father, who was able to be a good
Catholic and a good King’s Man at the same
time, are like mediaeval paintings made arti-
culate.
In Desert Quest (Mills and Boon) Eliza-
beth Milton has assembled some of the most
popular identities in modern sentimental
fiction. Lady Patricia —young, exquisitely
lovely, “the daughter,” as she says, “of a
hundred earls, so to speak”—consents to
marry a dipsomaniacal Yankee millionaire
because her mother. Kitten Well, listen
to the moron countess: “Oh, Pat, darling—
save me! Save me! Most of our capital
has gone at the tables and at bridge! And
I’ve —I’ve borrowed —money from Mr. Wolff!
Oh, Pat, darling, accept him —for my
sake!” The newly-weds fly to the Libyan
desert, piloted by David Monteith. David,
a brave, good, sober young Briton—the anti-
thesis of Mr. Wolff —loves her in honorable
silence, and she slashes him across the face
with her riding-whip because he has tried
to save her from her wilful self. Then the
party gets lost, and David comes into his
own. The style is fluent, but the characters
are such stuff as flappers’ dreams are made
of.
Look Homeward, Angel, by Thomas Wolfe
(Heinemann). The latest fashion to hit
the book trade is the pantechnicon or super-
dreadnought book; J. B. Priestley started it
with “The Good Companions,” which is a
best-seller. This is an American example.
It runs to 613 pages in close, small type.
The writer has been hailed as a genius; if
so, he has all his job before him. After
being stunned and deafened by the 220,000-
odd words of his story one asks was it ivorth
it? Could he not have told his yarn as well
in 100,000 or even 10,000 words? Is a ten-
fcot square picture necessarily better than
a two-foot square one? Is Wolfe really
master of his Pegasus, or has he simply let
it get the bit between its teeth and bolt
with him? The fact is that he has a Rabe-
laisian vigor, which often reaches a mag-
nificent pitch of intensity. His portrait of
an old rake of a monumental mason
who dreams when sober of sculpturing
an angel’s face is drawn with remark-
able sureness; and his wife, in her
possessive passion, filling his house with
dubious boarders is relentlessly depicted. The
descriptions of the tropical south of America
are thick with the suggestion of nature’s
fecundity. There is a wild poetry about the
style. But a composition entirely in stac-
cato defeats its own object. A multitude
of unco-ordinated impressions don’t consti-
tute a picture. P.S. —A resolution that pub-
lishers of pantechnicon volumes should be
boycotted was submitted to the Reviewers’
Union and rejected by a narrow majority.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Old-’un : Nearly won a place in “Bellerive’s”
company.... M. de V.: Reads as if you’d studied
your swaggies at one of the universities... .Fr.:
Strong-drink item not worth a penn’orth of rain-
water. .. .E.E.: Imagery astray. For instance, idea
of firing arrows at Truth seems tough on the lady.
. ...K.T.8.: Afraid writing verse won’t solve the
financial problem for you ; but cheer up—our poli-
ticians have wilder ideas. .. .H.N.: Agree with your
solution, but the verse shakes badly... .W. 8.:
“Chequered Shade” doesn’t realise on its optimistic
title... .C.C.T.; Merely rhyming wishes for this, that
and the other is too much like a substitute for
thinking... .V.G.W.: Nothing new there... .F.S.:
Slight; but you might find a home for it somewhere.
. ...P.A.8.: Fairish in places, but generally unsuit-
able .... Ripponlea: Usher in “Springtime in the
Cemetery” :—-
Lo, yonder madman with dipsomaniacal nose is
Pulling moues and grimaces in frenzied neurosis,
For years jealously he has guarded his widow’s tomb
Clutching a gat, a dagger and a bomb
“With which,” he’ll tell you with a passionate tear,
“To finish her, should she ever reappear.”
N.A.H.: Has some striking stuff in it. Try
again... .E.N.: Well, so long as the girl’s satisfied
no harm’s done... .5.N.0.: A political verse—
promises well and comes to nothing. .. .H.C.W.: All
right as notes for a painting, but unconvincing as
a complete job. .. .Ganna: Nursery-rhyme parody
boom long since handed over to the official burster.
... ..H.R.A.: Chief defect is that it springs rather
from a desire to write verse than from an urge to
say something... .A.N.W.0.: “In Imitation of
Shelley’s ‘Skylark’ ” prompts the quotation, “Hail
to thee, blithe spirit; bard thou never wert”....
Dismal D.: Has a rough chance... .E.M.E.; Suffers
from the jumps... .A.R.A.W.: “The Vampire” wasted
her talents on the stony face in the pay office....
Anon: This week’s optimism prize awarded for the
idea that when you depart “for realms of space and
star” you will “not take a crowded car”....Nix;
No fancy for work entitled “A Fragment”....
Bellerive: Customary greetings to
DOG SHOW AT WIRTHS’ OLYMPIA, 1928.
There was Foxterriers, Pomeranians
And Irish Wolf Hounds
And fine sporting dogs
For the coursing grounds.
Spaniels, Black and Tans
And Bulldogs for the chain,
Alsatians, Pekinese and
The great yellow Dane.
. For freedom the restless
Did yelp, growl and bay,
And harmless pets frolicked
At the dog display.
(Next week: “Famous Games/’)
.. ..C.R.S.: The pantoum is the better, but both
miss... .J.S.: If “The Pedlar” lived up to his
first stanza he’d be worth a hearing... .R.C.R.: “The
Gardens” piece reads as if one of the old couplet
stringers had been resurrected... .G.H.: “Flawed—
Lord.” Floored... .Vius: One stanza of “The
Bargain-hunter” was nearly printed here... .W.E.C.:
Decline to doubt your word, though the temptation’s
severe. .. .Capi: Prose, plain prose. .. .T.S.A.: Well,
you have done your good deed. It just filled the
basket... .1.E.T.: Some of you poets never seem to
get tired of not writing verse. . . .0.V.: Oh, you, too.
. ...Bia: Sorry, but can’t take anything for any
other reason but itself J.S. J.: Story isn’t well
told and it isn’t much of a story, anyway....
F. :J. B. Priestley was born at Bradford in 1894,
and was educated at Cambridge. He served with the
Duke of Wellington’s and the Devons during the
war. Address: 27 Well-walk, Hampstead, London,
N.W.3 M. 0.8.: (X) Stevenson’s “Father Damien”
was first published in Sydney in 1890. A 1910
edition has no value. (2) The print is worth little.
P.K.: Widow failed to charm on this occasion.
W.A.B.: Thumbs down C.A.: W.p.b. holds
the secret of the diver’s end....F.M.: An echo of a
bygone Bulletin story... .R.S.T.: Monotonous....
L. : You can’t make an old yarn new by altering
names and place and tinkering with the end....
W.K.: “A Fragment” it is, and an untidy one, too.
. ...G.S.: Wronged husband who murmurs “I am
afraid I intrude” is a stock character... .K.H.:
Humor petered out too soon L.A.M.: Only
middling; but try again. .. .E. 0.8.: Hopeless
N.F.: Saddening. .. .N.T.: Five other writers have
used the same idea within a week.. 1 .S.H.: Too
many sobs to the sentence. .. .F.C.: Insignificant
people engaged in dreary horseplay... .G.S.H.: Too
discursive... .8.R.: Didn’t trouble to find out
whether the insurance clerk or the Greek wrestler
won the girl... .T.J.: Fatuous. .. .H.F.H.: What is
it all about ?.... C.P.: Fluttered for a few pages,
then gave up the ghost. .. .E.A.J.: Ponderous....
N.W.: Reads like an actuary’s report... .0.A.J.: The
million-to-one chance meeting helped to kill it... .
G. :It might happen, but you don’t make it read
as if it would. .. .A.C.J.: Too much icing and too
little cake... .R.S.W.: Your punter loses. .. .J.G.:
Description of Mediterranean islet not for u 5....
H. : If true, might suit a Vic. paper.... M.H.M.:
Just ordinary reminiscences... .K.D.S.: It bit the
dust... .L.C.8.: Ridiculous.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B.B.: Too many lines to the square inch; other-
wise rather promising... .H.R.H.: It must have been
a struggle to draw even that much.... M.P.: Sketch
shared the fate of the jester... .A. H.: Funerai-
coach tippler shot out. . . .C.R.H.: Scrap the jokes
and strengthen the art. .. . J.M.C.: Can’t tell from
copies; he must send something original.. . .E.8.J.:
Another victim of a friend’s advice. .. .R.L.: Im-
possible. . . .H.L.: Have had them all before. .. .
F.C.: They’ll have to be a lot better than that....
M. : The lady’s right shoulder is the most glar-
ing fault. .. .P. 8.: “The price is three guineas.”
Running ahead of yourself, aren’t you?... .R.J.A.:
You’re on a par with the schoolboy who traces his
maps... .U.L.: We clipped the fairy’s wings....
E.R.W.: A pair of stiff ’uns... .G.C.: Time the
Salvation Army captain turned on that drunk with
the drumstick.... JiC.: Muddy art and belated joke.
. ...D.H.: Amorous stoker can’t break in here...,
K.V.: A hopeless hotch-potch....D.S.Q.: You don't
shine with the brush.... D.W.: Female somnambulist
can’t flaunt her nightie in this office... .F.C.: Gag
is in its dotage.


jBSS?
i * j
' Hi


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2645.
October 22, 1930.
KEEPING THE HOME FIRES BURNING.
“The Commonwealth last quarter spent £6,747,000 more than it collected.”


The Bulletin
The \National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: HJ r 2O Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 289 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
8 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.i
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 8 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
TO THE WORKERS OF
N. S. WALES.
Something over 40 years ago the then editor
of this paper left his chair to enter the
Parliament of N. S. Wales in order that he
might translate into legislative action that
“one man one vote” which he had preached
as the foundation of democracy. The mea-
sure was passed in N. S. Wales, and was
presently extended to include women; and
The Bulletin adheres to the principle as
fervently as it did in the days of William
Henry Traill. Prior to this legislation one
man had many votes and many men had
none. To-day we have to ask ourselves
whether precisely the same thing is not
happening; for if every man is not doing
his own thinking and marking his voting
paper according to his own judgment, then
the fundamental principle of democracy
is once more being violated: it is again hap-
pening that some men have many votes
and many men have none.
As soon as every man was given a vote,
every man had something that was worth
stealing. And we can be sure of this: that
when a large body of men have something
worth stealing, thieves will soon appear.
But this was a case where ordinary burglary
or violence was no good. Nobody could
waylay a man and rob him of his vote that
way. The job was obviously one for the
confidence man; and the confidence man
soon appeared. He was the professional
politician. He saw that if he could win a
sufficient number of these new votes he
could dig himself into a position which
would give him a better job than he ever
had before; and he proceeded to develop
the confidence trick in order to reach that
end. All he had to do was to promise
wonderful things; for the confidence trick is
the same trick wherever and whenever it is
practised.
There have been already many instances
of the “job” being successfully done. The
latest was at the Federal general elec-
tion. Mr. Theodore was after the votes at
that time, and by making the most amazing
promises he got them. Among other things
the northern (N.S.W.) coalminers were to be
back at work without loss of pay within two
weeks. Of course they were not; and when
after many weeks they did get back, it was
with a severe cut in pay. But Mr. Theo-
dore had got their votes, Mr. Theodore had
got office, and what else mattered?
And now it is Mr. Lang. Mr. Lang is
a professional politician just as Mr. Theo-
dore is. Politics attract such men. Joe
Cook was the first leader of the Labor
party in N. S. Wales and he was a coal-
miner. Jim McGowen, who followed, was a
boiler-maker. Next, Holman: he had been
a cabinet-maker. Then Storey—another
man out of the Balmain workshops. Finally
Lang—house and land agent. None the
worse for that, of course; but still not a
boiler-maker nor a cabinet-maker nor a
miner: just somebody who picks up a living
out of commissions; the very sort of man
whom you would expect the professional
politician to be. Mr. Lang, noting, no doubt,
the great success of Mr. Theodore with his
amazing promises, proceeded in exactly
similar circumstances to produce something
of exactly the same sort. And he succeeded,
easily surpassing Mr. Theodore, however,
in magnificence.
As we have said, as soon as a man was
given a vote he had something that was
Worth getting; and, as we have also seen,
Mr. Lang lives by getting votes. That is
his job. It is, it must be kept in mind, to
his personal advantage to get these votes.
If he succeeds he will have the finest posi-
tion in his life, with the finest salary;
what is no doubt of even greater import-
ance to him, he will have enormous power.
And it does not affect the argument in the
least that he honestly believes he could do
great things for the country if he had that
power. When he asks for votes, when he
makes promises in order to get votes, he is
not, then, a bit disinterested. No confidence
man who ever used his wiles was more
interested in making a haul than Mr. Lang
is in winning the votes of the workers of
N. S. Wales. And that tremendous fact
has to be remembered when we come to
consider whether Mr. Lang shall have our
votes or not.
The position in this case is quite simple.
We got into great financial difficulties,
having borrowed far too much, and we were
paying our interest out of new loans, when
our creditors told us that that wasn’t right
and it must stop. Just at this most
awkward moment, to make our troubles
enormously greater, wool, wheat and metals
fell greatly in value—to about half. In
these circumstances, after struggling for a
while, Prime Minister Scullin and the
Premiers of all the States met. They were
finding the greatest difficulty in paying the
wages and salaries of State employees, and
had even been obliged to borrow from one
another for the purpose. The case was
getting most desperate. They conferred
earnestly and called in various authorities,
including a director of the Bank of England,
Niemeyer. He really was not of much
importance in the matter, except that,
coming from the Bank of England, he knew
the terms on which we could get new money
or renew old loans. After considering the
matter from every angle, this conference
agreed to do certain things. There was not
one dissentient. The Labor Prime Minister
of Australia, the Labor Premiers of Vic.
and South Aus., the non-Labor Premiers of
Queensland, Westralia and Tasmania agreed
unanimously upon a common course of
action. Previously the Commonwealth and
the States, believing that union is strength,
had formed a Loan Council- Mr. Lang says
that N. S. Wales could do better by break-
ing away from this conference and this
council—in other wofds, by blacklegging on
its mates. And that breakaway or black-
legging is the sum and total of the policy
with which Mr. Lang has been trying to
win the votes of the workers of N. S.
Wales.
He says that his policy means high wages
and plenty of work and prosperity. No-
body who asks another to break away from
a union ever offers anything else; but the
unionist at any rate knows how often
the promise is fulfilled. The Labor Prime
Minister and the Labor and other Premiers
agreed upon a course which they unani-
mously believed will save Australia from
a great disaster. They united for the pur-
pose. The breakaway of one great State
will imperil the entire scheme—just as the
defection of one-fourth of the members of
a union would certainly imperil the plans
of the whole union. A tremendous re-
sponsibility restsi therefore, upon the
workers of N. S. Wales. On Saturday, if
they give their votes to Mr. Lang, who is
so very deeply interested in getting them,
they will imperil a scheme which has been
accepted by every Government in Australia,
including the Labor Governments of the
Commonwealth and of Victoria and South
Australia. If they vote Mr. Lang down,
they will loyally honor the agreement which
has been entered into with the sister States.
This is sure: if we stick together and the
scheme fails, we shall all go down together,
with nobody in particular to blame; but if
N. S. Wales breaks away—and that is Mr.
Lang’s policy—N. S. Wales will have to
bear all the blame for every single failure.
And in the midst of that blame it will not
be pleasant to hear N. S. Wales described
by Labor leaders of other parts of Aus-
tralia as “the State that scabbed.”
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
AN OXONIAN ON AUSTRALIA .. . . 2
THE CHINESE NOVEL 2
ANSAVERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
TO THE WORKERS OF N. S. AVALES.. . . 8
WAGES AND MONEY : 8
OUR POSITION GETS WORSE . . .. . . 8
“GOOD ENOUGH FOR THE COWS!” .. 8
CREDIT . . 9
LAND NOTES 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD .. .. ..9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
(With cartoonlets by Frith.)
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . .. . . 11, 12
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER? .. ..13
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..14
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC. .. .. ..15
GOLD AND A NEW STANDARD .. ..15
SOME MORE QUESTIONS 15
THE PETROL MYSTERY . . .. . . 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
TRAINING A VAUDEVILLE ARTIST
(With diagrams by Frith) . . .. .. 16
“AVILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
DAVID JONES 17
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS 17
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO 17
FARMERS AND GRAZIERS’ CO-OP. ... 17
BRISBANE PERMANENT BUILDING . . . . 17
STANDARD INSURANCE 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND . . . . . . 22,25
SUPER’. ON MALLEE LANDS 22
FAT-LAMB PRODUCTION 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. . . 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. .. ..26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings! .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
THE CAULFIELD CUP 35
RACING AT RANDWICK 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER
(With some Scorfield dog sketches) .. 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
NEW SERIAL—
“THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER,”
Bv Montague Grover .. .. ..42, 43, 45
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop.”) .. .. .. . . 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“THE MAN WHO REMEMBERED”—
By George Garner .. . . .. 49, 50
VERSE —By M. Forrest, Elisabeth Richmond,
Dulcie Deamer, D. P. McGuire .. 45, 50
NEXT WEEK.
THE FORESEEN CRISIS FURTHER DISCUSSED.
THE BATTLE OF THE BALLOT-BOX.
“WITH SAVAGES IN SERGE.” A tale of the armed native constabulary sf Papua, by Alys Brown.
WAGES AND MONEY.
In itself money is one of the most useless
things in the world. On a desert island a
man would perish though he had a million
pounds in gold or Bank of England notes;
they could neither shelter him nor supply
him with food and drink. If his island
were not wholly desert and he was not quite
alone, he would presently be glad to pay
£IOO for a dozen bananas. If next week
Bank of England notes became more abund-
ant still, through another discovery of
treasure trove, the price of a dozen bananas
might, easily go up to £2OO. And if the fol-
lowing week a wanderer turned up on the
island and sought work, he would prob-
ably be paid £IOO a day for his. labor. But
if he had to pay £IOO for a dozen bananas
he might easily be worse off than another
man on another island who was getting only
a shilling a day, but who could buy 20
bananas for a penny. Money has no value
in itself: it is of value only for what it
will buy.
There is a high-wage party in Australia
to-day, and it no doubt honestly thinks that
it is doing a great thing for the worker.
But it isn’t, because it proposes to build
high wages on an entirely wrong founda-
tion. J. T. Lang and other of these advo-
cates have been quoting various employers,
etc., to show that high wages are a good
thing—especially good for trade. Of course
they are. The Bulletin, to keep close
home, can sell a great many more copies
of itself when wages are high and sixpences
numerous than when wages are low and six-
pences scarce. But whether the high wages
can be paid or not—that is to say, whether
a country can go on paying them—depends
entirely on whether those wages are earned.
And—this point is of the utmost import-
ance—that is not wholly a question whether
the workers work hard or not. It depends
chiefly upon how much labor and other
things are wasted. A community could
be as busy as bees and yet as poor as
church mice.
Take, for example, a community of 100
workers and their families. If 90 of these
are producers, digging something out of the
earth, growing something, fabricating some-
thing, exchanging their products with one
another and selling their surplus to outsiders,
they will be a rich community, because
only 10 per cent, of them will be non-
producers. But if only 40 per cent, are
producers, and the other 60 per cent, are
waiters upon those 40 per cent.—servants,
legislators, carriers, picture-showmen, store-
keepers, agents, lawyers, journalists—they
will be a poor community. In the first
community you can have high earnings and
a low cost of living: you can have, in other
words, real prosperity. In the second the
Langs, with the help of the Piddingtons,
can legislate high wages into existence.
But the high wages will be of no value
to the men who get them because the cost
of living will be high.
Mr. Lang and his like offer the worker the
shadow for the substance. The only thing
that is worth having is high wages accom-
panied by a low cost of living; and the
surest if not the only way to accomplish
that low cost is to cut out all waste. Un-
fortunately we cannot do as much of that as
we should in Australia because our Govern-
ments have loaded us with unproductive
works which will not earn their keep—work-
ing expenses, interest and sinking fund.
Still, though we cannot do what we should,
we should do what we can. The wealth of
a country lies in its production. The more
it can produce in excess of its consumption
the wealthier it becomes. From this these
things follow:
The greater the proportion of producers,
primary and secondary, the richer a country
tends to be. The greater the proportion
of non-producers, the poorer a country tends
to be.
Mere consumers are of no value to a
country. The story that we must have a
home market is only true insofar as the con-
sumers in the home market are also pro-
ducers.
In Australia the first attack must, there-
fore, be made upon the earnings of non-
producers. The more these people get, the
more all distributors and middlemen get, the
less is it possible to pay in real wages and
salaries to the actual producers. You can
legislate to give them high wages; but high
wages are no good if all that they buy is
dear because of an excess of middlemen and
their excessive profits.
Like certain members of the Federal Gov-
ernment, Mr. Lang has not the smallest
grasp on the essential facts of the case.
He thinks that expenditure means pros-
perity. He thinks that if men are employed
the problem is solved. So far from this
being so, expenditure on superfluities, cost-
ing interest, will make the position worse:
it will (unless we repudiate) be a bar to
the payment presently of even fair wages.
It is exactly the same with employment:
if men are engaged on non-productive jobs,
at the cost of taxation, it is equally a bar
to the payment of fair wages. A producer
may earn 205.; but if he has to carry on his
back a non-producer it is dead certain he
cannot get the 20s.—his hungry burden must
take some of it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Position Gets Worse.
The foreign-trade position nearly righted
itself for the month of June, and hopes
were entertained that the process of getting
the ship on an even keel might continue.
But in July the unfortunate vessel began
to tip over again, and the import and export
returns for August show that the list to star-
board is continuing and accelerating. The
reduction in the value of exports, which
ought to pay, and in better times did pay,
the bills for imports and interest charges
and sundries goes on persistently, though
the quantity of exports keeps up well
enough. It would be a bad position even
if there was some diminution in wages, rail-
way and shipping charges and taxation so
that the loss was more widely spread, but
industry of all sorts is too much burdened
with fixed charges which are mighty hard
to unfix. Despite the remarkable amount
which has been done, Australia is therefore
still up against the position that, if it can’t
sell more, measured by value, it must buy
less, and try to find work for its own people
at making the prohibited goods as cheaply
as possible, whether the quality is of the
best or only the second-best.
In the following statement of the case
each month has been charged with
(approximately) a month’s interest on the
external debt, and credited with the export
(on a liberal scale) of a month’s output of
gold. The result explains how the com-
munity is failing to meet current liabili-
ties out of current earnings—the only prop
we have to rely upon since the bottom fell
out of our overworked credit, and the only
prop on which any country can depend as
a steady thing:—
Before Great Slump in Value of Exports.
Monthly Shortage
Exports Imports Paid with
(including and Bank Reserves
Gold Output). Interest, or Overdrafts.
1929.
April-May .. £21,987,825 £26,982,940 £2,497,557
Slump in Export Values Begins.
June, 1929, to
Jan., 1930 .. £64,566,736 £117,928,911 £6,670,272
Period of Great Effort to Reduce Imports by
New Tariff.
1930.
February .. £9,072,690 £11,693,830 £2,621,140
March . . 8,861,779 12,765,416 3,903,637
April . . 7,603,682 11,192,409 3,588,727
May .. .. 8,411,923 10,946,820 2,534,987
June . . . . 8,176,151 8,655,944 479,793
July .. . . 6,559,536 9,563,787 3,004,251
August . . 4,949,712 9,150,275 4,200,863
It is quite true that recent months are
months of slack exports, when the wheat-
farmer is waiting for his crop to ripen and
the sheep-farmer is just wondering whether
he will get through this year’s shearing
without any labor troubles. But June is a
slack export month, too; yet in June we
managed to be only £479,793 to the bad,
whereas by August’we had climbed back to
a shortage of £4,200,863. The menace lies
in this: in August, 1929, our exports of
merchandise were £6,048,816; in August this
year they were down to £4,799,712 —a fall
wholly due to the slump in the markets for
our staples.
Our position grows more and more diffi-
cult ; and we still decline to fully face it.
It has become far too serious to be left
in the hands of any one political party in
any State or in the Commonwealth.
If the London banks, and especially the
Bank of England, will not stand by us, we
shall not pull through this coming 12
months. No millions that Mr. Lang may
float locally will save us. It is our foreign
commitments that threaten to overwhelm us
at any moment; and no quantity of our
local paper is any good to meet those com-
mitments.
e
“Good Enough for the Cows!”
One thing is sure: if Lang wins on Satur-
day nothing can save the Labor party in
the Australian Parliament from disruption.
Possibly it will split anyhow; but nothing
can save it if Lang wins—assuming always,
of course, that he attempts to put the
smallest part of his policy into practice.
One section of the Federal Labor Gov-
ernment, led by the Prime Minister, has
pledged itself to the Melbourne Conference
resolutions and the Loan Council. That is
the Government policy. If Bavin wins,
things will go on as arranged. That may be
awkward for Anstey, Daly and Beasley; but
they will probably accommodate themselves,
after the manner of politicians, to the situ-
ation. But if Lang wins and proceeds with
his policy, the whole position must change.
The Federal Government policy will be
challenged. Scullin, Fenton and Lyons, at
any rate, must stand by the -Melbourne
Conference and the Loan Council; and as
others will inevitably stand by Lang, there
must be a hopeless division in the Federal
Cabinet and the Caucus.
But the question is larger than that: and
most of us know it, though few of us will
as yet admit it. The big thing underlying
it all is whether we care two straws for
the foreign investor. Of course we say we
are not repudiationists. Very few people
are. But there are quite a large number
of people in Australia who, when told of
some investor’s misfortune, are ready to


say, along with an interjector at a recent
suburban meeting, “Good enough for the
cow! ” If we could escape paying the foreign
investor a farthing more interest, there
would be plenty in Australia to say “Good
enough for the cow!” And, though they
will not say so frankly, there are thousands
of Lang’s warmest and closest supporters
who are quite prepared to let the foreign
investor look after himself—they are not
going to put themselves out in order that
he may escape a loss.
The time is coming when we shall all have
to decide where we stand—whether we
belong to the “Good enough for the cows!”
party, or to that other party which says
that our debts must be paid even though
we have to suffer to do it. In the last
resort we shall get down to that simple test.
Indeed it is the crucial question even now,
although for the moment it is being blurred
and blotted. There is no question what-
ever that the Premiers’ Conference came
to its resolutions believing that that was
the only way to do the honest thing. Mr.
Lang opposes those resolutions. It may be
that Mr. Lang believes he can go some other
way and still do the honest thing. But it is
beyond all question that thousands of his
noisiest supporters don’t care whether he
does the honest thing or not; they would,
in fact, prefer the dishonest thing rather
than the disagreeable thing.
The question for the plain, honest man
is whether he will help to put a crowd of
that sort into a position where they can
let the dishonest thing happen.
A Politician Looks Back.
This is from a Commonwealth Senator:—
I have been in public life for a quarter
of a century, and have filled Ministerial
office in both State and Federal spheres in
two political parties. As I look back over
those years I know that all our economie
ills are directly traceable to our wicked
system of party government, and I am con-
vinced that we can never expect a complete
and permanent recovery until we abolish this
costly political sham.
One way in which this might be done would
be to abolish payment of members and leave
government to those who were honestly
anxious to serve the public interest. But
the most effective and simple reform would
be to initiate the Swiss system of Elective
Ministries. To place the Executive above
the corrupting influences of the party
machine would do away with the schem-
ing and the trickery and the open pur-
chasing of political support. The Executive
would be free to carry out honest adminis-
tration and submit only the measures
which were desirable, and members would
be relieved of the necessity of blind obedi-
ence to the crack of the whip. Ministers
could be chosen under a proportional
system which would ensure fair representa-
tion of all parties. The ablest men would
then be entrusted with control, and if
a Beasley did happen to secure a place his
influence would be confined to submitting his
fanciful schemes to a free and untrammeled
Parliament.
Unless some change is made there can be
no permanent solution of our problems.
Parties will continue to gamble with public
funds in order to buy support, and Ministers
of the Crown to attend conferences at which
they are told that they must obey the instruc-
tions of revolutionary trade-union leaders or
get the “order of the boot.”
♦
Land Notes.
“A note currency is infinitely better, cheaper, and
more economical than gold when the issue has a
solid basi§ such as real estate, especially so when
the issue is limited to 50 per cent, of the value of
its basis. No legitimate reason exists to deter us
from capitalising our wealth by the issue of local
currency notes, not exceeding 50 per cent, of the
value of our real estate wealth.”
—Sydney “Labor Daily.”
It is not a new scheme. John Law put it
forward over two centuries ago when Eng-
land was financially embarrassed by Marl-
borough’s wars, but found few to listen to
him. Frederick the Great’s mortgage notes
and France’s notorious assignats and man-
dats were inspired by the same theory. The
assignats of the French Revolution looked
promising. They were issued against con-
fiscated Church lands, and as the Church
had some of the best lands in the kingdom,
while only the pick of its properties were
taken, the security should have been good.
Yet inside a year or so the assignats had
declined to a hundredth part of their
nominal value, and they went on declining
till they were worthless.
At least three things are essential to a
note backing. The article must be useful
in itself, everyone must want it, and its
value must be more or less stable. A great
part of N.S.W.’s land, unlike that of France,
is useless. The drift to city jobs from the
vast open spaces has been worrying patriots
for years. And of all imperishable com-
modities land is the most unstable in value.
A new speedway to Dingo Valley may send
values down along the Poison Flat-road by
50 per cent., and vice versa.
Notes can of course be issued against
anything, from gold to the treasures at the
bottom of the sea. The politicians’ trouble
is to get people to take them, as The
Germans realised the other day when a
million marks would not buy a glass of
beer.
“It does not appear to be sufficiently
recognised,” says the writer of the “Laboy
Daily” article, “that our present financial
troubles are due to a restricted currency,
and that while we have abundant wealth
we have very little circulating capital.”
If N.S.W.’s circulating capital were in-
creased by, say, £200,000,000 next month,
with land as a backing, it is safe to say
the notes would not be worth a farthing
apiece inside a fortnight.
—#
Credit.
The politician is never so happy as when
he is making his poor dupes gape with
stories of easy substitutes for hard work
and pleasant substitutes for hard living.
Just at present his favorite plan of salva-
tion is credit. If only somebody would
“mobilise credit” the world would smile
again: the same story is told in Europe
and America as in Australia.
What is this wonderful thing credit?
Nobody should be able to answer the ques-
tion better than Australia. Here was a
land said to be very rich, bfit unpeopled
and undeveloped. So we mobilised our
credit resources—threw them all into the
scale—and got credit enormously. The
State alone, easily the most powerful of all
our mobilising agencies, got it to the extent
of over £1,100,000,000 —nearly £lOOO for
every household of five in the country: the
finest instance of credit mobilisation ever
known. And now, having got it, we make
the astonishing discovery that credit is
only another name for debt! And that
what under one name may seem a very
agreeable handmaiden is under another a
most disagreeable slavedriver. In fact, so
disagreeable that there is quite a large
section of the community which, while
protesting that it will honor its debts,
honors a good deal more highly some things
which will make the other honoring impos-
sible.
Of course some of the gentlemen who
talk most glibly about credit tell us that
this is not their sort of credit at all; they
propose to make it out of nothing and
charge nothing for it. Now there is a credit
which apparently can be made out of noth-
ing, though on examination it will be found
that away in the background there is some-
thing very substantial. But, however made,
it is always the same thing—debt. It is
a plan for getting hold of more than we
own; a plan for pledging and discounting
the future; a plan for
eating the cake and
letting our children
pay for it. True, it
does not always pan
out in that way.
Sometimes credit is
profitable to both
creditor and debtor.
But that is never true
of ind iscr i m i n ate
credit. And it looks
now as though it can
never be true of credit
obtained and granted
for political pur-
poses.
In our own case, at
any rate, we have seen
the greatest mobilisa-
tion of credit in his-
tory, apart from war
mobilisations, and we
have watched the re-
sult : steadily mounting
fares and freights on
Government railways
and tramways; rapidly
mounting taxes; and
costs of production so
high that we have not
paid one farthing of
the intei'est on our
overseas debts except
out of other debts for
the past seven years.
Credit is quite a
useful though liable to
be a very dangerous
thing; and to prevent
mistakes we had
better call it by its
right name.
4
Aircraft and
Submarines.
“Arenar” : If Aus-
tralia based its de-
fence on the air arm,
as “Flying Officer” (B.
24/9/’3O) proposes, an
enemy approaching
our coasts would have
a care-free time until
he came within air-
craft range —at present
about 500 miles. Then
up would go his fast
fighters -to wait for
our heavily - laden
bombers. With the
undivided attention of
a large fleet on them
and 220 m.p.h. scouts
sitting on their tails,
Heaven help the
bombers!
On the other hand,
submarines of the
modern types have
effective ranges of
3000 to 5000 miles, and
with supply subs,
double , that. If
we were known to
have a good outfit an
approaching enemy
would have to be pre-
pared for trouble a few hundred miles
from his home. His force would have to
be increased in destroyers, and would thus
become large and unwieldy, as the landing
on the Peninsula from a handy base showed.
Subs, would attend to his aeroplane car-
rier; four “mouldies,” if they didn’t sink her
outright, would leave her a very lame
duck.
The R.A.F. during the war did wonderful
work on land, but at sea neither heavier-
than-air machines nor dirigibles had the
range or offensive power to be formidable
to U-boats. For coast-defence or long-range
work the submarine is the cheapest and
most efficient article in the armament em-
porium. We should have learned that from
Fritz.
4
Sinn Fein in a Sari.
The rival government which the National
Congress leaders have set up in India is
based on the example of Sinn Fein. The
success of the Sinn Fein chiefs was con-
siderable. They created electoral divisions,
which voted 11 members to a Supreme'Coun-
cil, with power of life and death and autho-
rity to levy taxes, make war or peace and
negotiate treaties w T ith foreign countries.
Even English landowners brought their suits
to its courts as the only ones able to enforce
their decisions, and criminals loyally served
the sentences imposed on them. In the
meantime in the British courts juries were
finding Sinn Feiners not guilty of killing
policemen because the constables died
whilst bearing arms in aid of an alien and
enemy Government.
The Indian Congress people are setting
up courts and arbitration boards for both
criminal and civil cases. Firms and private
persons are warned that they will ignore
them at their peril, social boycott being one
alternative. Ex-Judges and lawyers, of
whom there are multitudes, are being
asked to preside over the courts, and
revenue will be obtained by means of forced
levies.
The chief fault to be found with the enter-
prise is that the Irish and Indian cases
are not parallel. In what is now the Irish
Free State most of the people were of one
religion. In India there are hundreds of
religions. Most Irishmen could reasonably
feel that they had a vested interest in their
country. The 60 million outcastes living in
the backblocks of Indian society have as
much share in their country as so many
working bullocks. The outcaste is physically
repulsive to the caste man; it is as if one-
fifth of the Australian people were re-
garded by the other four-fifths as monkeys
who had mysteriously succeeded in dress-
ing themselves up as human beings. Nor
can the outcaste improve his status by
education, good behavior or acquiring
wealth. His condition is beyond his con-
trol. He is what he is because of sins
committed in a previous state of existence.
The Mohammedans further complicate the
situation. An extra-legal government
founded on these considerations has a long
way to go before it can attain the efficiency
of the Irish example.
Sinn Fein got a lot of assistance from Irish
women. The women of India are a pretty
hopeless proposition. Most of them spend
their lives in the mental twilight of the
purdah, and there are 70 million widows
who have forfeited all right to existence
through not allowing themselves or not
being allowed to be burnt with the corpses
of their husbands. A few still find the
burden of public disapproval so great that
they pour petrol over their heads, set a
match to themselves, and fulfil the poet’s
picture of
Indian widows, gone to bed
In flaming curtains, to the dead.
Sinn Fein had a fairly industrialised and
organised community to work on. Only
about 2,000,000 people work in factories in
India. The workers are mainly recruited
from the criminal tribes, and the landless
poor are still as abundant as they were
before India began to make her own turban
and loincloth. There are, in fact, twice as
many beggars as factory employees. India
is still a land of peasant and tenant farmers
living on the smell of an oil rag, and of
agricultural slaves drifting hungry about
the outskirts of society.
ALICE IN BLUNDERLAND.
UNEMPLOYED ALICE: “I want to see some nice goodtimes, please.”
THE MAD GOODTIMES-SELLER: “We haven’t got any. The capitalists are very fond of the boss,
and so they won’t supply him. But I hope to be boss soon, and then I’ll be able to get
£200,000,000 worth from the capitalists, because they hate me.”


Supreme on Land
IRISH GRAND PRIX
The classic road race of 1930, over a 315 mile course, was won at an average
speed of 85 m.p.h., by Caracciola, with Campari second and Malcolm Campbell,
the world-famed British motorist third, at an average speed of 81 m.p.h.
J.C.C. "DOUBLE 12”
In the Junior Car Club "double 12 hours” endurance race, Ist and 2nd places
were won by Bentley cars. In these strenuous tests of sustained speed, all the
foremenlioned cars were fuelled and lubricated by Shell.
The Choice of Experts Everywhere
SHELL OIL & SPIRIT
vy
*<r
&
m
m.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Confidence men who are trying to get
Labor’s votes in N. S. Wales have been tell-
ing the workers that the Bavin-Niemeyer
conspirators are calling on them to make
all the sacrifices. An interesting sidelight
on that gold-brick story was thrown by
Charles Lloyd Jones at the annual meeting
of the ancient and honorable David Jones
Co.: £82,941 had to be provided for taxa-
tion before the co. began to earn a farthing
for shareholders. And when the shareholder
dies, the N.S.W. State Government is en-
titled to bite anything up to 20 p.c. out of
his estate and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment another 15 p.c. out of what is left. If
the shareholder was a South Australian,
even without the pending increase the bite
was liable to be 31J per cent. —that is 6s.
4d. in the £. And, in the circumstances, not
a penny too much either.
With the help of the four Country Progs.
Victoria’s Hogan Government survived
Argyle’s attack on its Budget proposals.
If the amalgamation of the Cockies and
Progs, had been ratified by branches a bit
sooner, the Progs, might not have been
He has got to come out again.
able to do Hogan this last good turn. The
bills to give effect to the Budget have now
to be bullocked through. The Uppish House
doesn’t like them, but neither does it like
blocking any reasonable scheme for balancing
the ledger.
The Federal Ministers have had another
series of meetings in Sydney without coming
to any decision about the mounting deficit.
If this crowd had to cope with a fire, the
place would be burnt down while they were
debating what to do. And, figuratively
speaking, there is a fire on the prem-
ises, but one faction is for turning the hose
on it and the other for trying to smother
it. with borrowed “sugar.” Meanwhile the
situation grows worse.
The issue of notes in Australia is wholly
in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank.
Twelve months ago it held £545 in gold
for every £lOOO of notes issued. But since
then there has been a considerable increase
of notes, though there has been no increase
of trade to warrant it, and there has been
a large export of gold to keep foreign credi-
tors quiet, so that now there is only £409
of gold for every £lOOO of notes. The result
of this and other like circumstances has been
to steadily reduce the value of the Austra-
lian £. A year ago it took only £lOl 15s.
of Australian money to pay £lOO in London.
To-day it takes £lO9. By the time the Aus-
tralian Labor party has kicked out the Com-
monwealth Bank Board and issued its 20
million more notes, the Australian £ will be
worth about 12s. 6d. Which will mean, of
course, a further rise in the cost of living,
and a further difficulty in producing for the
foreign market.
Three statements from three enthusiastic
“comrades” seeking election, reported in the
same issue of “S. M. Herald”: —
It requires a Labor Government to inspire con-
fidence in the future.
Prosperity and a healthy optimism always accom-
pany Labor Governments.
A Labor Government will always pull a country
out of the mire.
Apparently nobody interjected “What about
Britain?” A Labor Government arrived in
Britain last year with lavish promises to
reduce the number of unemployed, and has
remained in office to see it nearly doubled.
If Lang can’t get London to lend him the
millions he wants, he’s going to New York,
it seems. What he’ll pay in New York is
made clear by the latest quotation for
N.S.W. loans; 5 per cents., issued at 100,
can be bought there for 79. This means that
New York wants 6J per cent, interest on a
N.S.W. loan; and to that must be added
commission and underwriting (1$ per cent.)
and sinking fund. As New York requires a
sinking fund “sufficient to
repay half the loan by the
due date,” nothing short of
9 per cent, would cover the
annual payments. Where
Lang is to get public works
that will return 9 per cent,
only Lang knows. The works
he talks of are mostly rail-
ways, and N.S.W. railways,
including the old and most
profitable lines, haven’t made
4 per cent, for years.
Queensland Treasurer
Barnes has budgeted for a
surplus of £3OOO or so. Most
of the new money is to come
from increased income tax,
and here the cockroach in
the soup bobs up. There has
been a decided shrinkage in
the incomes of pastoralists,
who in 1927-28, taking com-
panies as well as individuals,
paid £241,000 in State tax.
The exemption is now to be
lowered so as to bring in
people in receipt of £l5O
p.a., though increased allow-
ances for wives and children
are provided for.
Tas. Assembly, at the in-
stance* of the harried McPhee,
carried a motion calling
upon the Federal Government to grant an-
other £71,000 to Small Sister, as recom-
mended by the Public Accounts Committee,
instead of postponing the matter until next
year. But when the motion was sent to the
Leg. Council for its concurrence the recep-
tion it got was astonishingly hostile The
Elders took the view that to ask the Federal
Government for £71,000 cash down would
be akin to purloining a blind cripple s beer.
Amazement has been expressed that poli-
ticians who were defeatists during the war
though they are fond of describing them-
selves as “fearless fighters”—should now be
shouting for more loans from the loathsome
capitalist, instead of taking the path of
honesty which leads to financial deliverance;
still, their attitude has a certain consistency.
Borrowing naturally appeals to cocktails.
N.S.W. Labor spouters expect to catch a
lot of farmers with the cry that Scullin
and Moloney promised them 4s. a bushel at
siding for their wheat and the Nat.-Cockies
in the Senate prevented it. The chairman
of the excellent Westralian wheat pool re-
cently estimated the harvest at 187 million
bushels, allowing 55 millions for N. S.
Wales and 50 millions for Victoria. Subse-
quent rains are reckoned to have been worth
another 15 million bushels to N.S.W. and
another 10 millions to Victoria. Wheat was
offered in Sydney last week at the equivalent
of 2s. 3d. at siding. Suppose siding deli-
veries amount to 200 million bushels and the
price realised is 2s. 6d., then the Govern-
ments guaranteeing 4s. would have been
liable for £15,000,000, or a lot more than the
entire yield from Federal income tax
THE INDIGNANT SUPER.
“Mr. Hughes complains bitterly that the papers
reserve all their election space for the Langs and
Bavins, and that his ‘party’ isn’t reported.”
(£11,120,000), Federal land tax (£2,840,000)
and Federal entertainments tax (£316,100)
last year. The Scullin-Moloney promise
should never have been made, and it is dis-
honest and wicked to suggest that it could
have been performed.
Melbourne City Council seems to be the pet
aversion of Bailey, the Minister of Lands.
Bailey threatens to resume the eastern and
western city-market sites on the' ground
that the council is using them, not for sell-
ing produce to the people, but for shops and
offices. For the convenience of car-owners
attending matches on the Cricket Ground
the council permits parking in Yarra Park ;
Bailey now demands the fees, saying that
Both together: “Take mine!”
the State owns the land. Premier Hogan
manages to hit it with the city dads, and
perhaps he will patch up a peace between
them and Bailey.
At Ashfield last week the egregious Beas-
ley, Assistant Minister of Industry, boasted
that he had denounced Niemeyer, and broke
out into a fresh tirade. “Because has
interfered with our self-governing rights,”
the hope of the Communists shouted, “I am
prepared to say that the Scullin Government
does not want to have any more truck with
him.” How a London hanker could interfere
with Australia’s self-governing rights wasn’t
explained. Even if he gave unpalatable
advice, when asked, nobody was under any
obligation to take it. As member of a
Cabinet that decided to take it, and whose
heads are endeavoring to act upon it while
he himself goes about cursing it for impu-
dence, Beasley’s position is unique.
The serious increase of unemployment in
Germany, where conditions grow gradually
worse, ought to suggest to us one thing at
any rate: you can’t achieve prosperity by
the simple process of diddling your creditors.
Germany got rid of hundreds of millions of
debt by 1 the simple process of inflating the
note issue; but it was left with its repara-
tions debt, and instead of settling down
soberly and steadily to pay that, it chuckled
over its release from the other great burden
and began to live the gay and extravagant
life. The recent serious outburst of Bol-
shevism is one consequence.
Sir Otto Niemeyer went to M.L. primarily
to advise concerning the Dominion’s bank-
ing system, which is still swathed with fes-
toons of war-time regulations. All that
has been revealed concerning his views on
that matter is a remark that the whole
system is overdue for a drastic overhaul;
hut a reference to the railway problem has
been made public. The Bank of England
man agrees with the recent Royal Commis-
sion that the railways should be placed
under a board of directors with “complete
authority and responsibility.” He considers
also that the Minister of Transport should
have a right of veto concerning any rail-
way- or road-building project.
Recognising the desperate plight of their
State Labor Government, the _ S.. Aus.
teachers consented to an Industrial Court
application for a 10 p.c. reduction in their
pay. In the same week the much-better-off
members of the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federa-
tion revived their claim that their last salary-
increase should date from July 1, 1927 (the
contention being that the word of some jack-
in-office was a contract binding on the tax-
pavers), and politicians’ spines being like
putty at election-time it is now to start from
July 1, 1928. This surrender, the “Labor
Daily” gleefully reports, will cost the tax-
payers “between £130,000 and £140,000” —
an odd matter for exultation in that quarter,
seeing that there will be £130,000 or £140,000
less for unemployment relief. It is an odd
business altogether, and it will make people
wonder still more whether N. S. Wales is get-
ting value for its tremendous expenditure on
Government schooling—s i millions in 1928,
of which teachers’ salaries came to nearly 3}
millions. It is certainly getting heaps of bad
politics, bad pronunciation and had spelling.
Largely with an idea of providing work
M.L. broke all records last financial year
in the matter of main-roads expenditure. At
a cost of £1,071,400, 566 miles of road and
miles of bridges were constructed; main-
tenance of 10,408 miles of road absorbed
£,1,246,027. The Maorilanders seem to be
getting better value for their money than
the folk of N. S. Wales. In the County
of Cumberland in the year ended June 3U,
1929, the construction of 681 miles of road
cost £633,769, an average of £9252 am lie,
as against the M.L. average of under £2OOO,
while maintenance costs worked out at £olb
a mile as against £l2O in the Dominion.
In Maoriland only a proportion of the roads
is given a bitumen or concrete surface,
macadam top-dressed with gravel serving
for the rest. It is claimed that the highly--
expensive bitumen- and concrete-surfaced
roads in favor in Australia are cheaper to
maintain than macadam, but the M.L. experi-
ence throws a lot of doubt on the theory.
Lang in liis “policy” speech—
The N.S.W. Government must get back to its
former position of being responsible only for N.S.W..
affairs.... N.S.W. must borrow to expand... • There
is sufficient money in our own State to finance the
Government.
And what about the other States? Surely
Queensland, Westralia, South Aus. and Tas-
mania have every right to object to the
N. S. Wales Government greedily reserving
the N. S. Wales money market for itself,
the London and New York money markets
being closed against them. In one way
and another, N. S. Wales draws a great
deal of wealth from these States. This
wealth is centred in Sydney, and Sydney,
so Americanised in other respects, might _at
least strive to resemble New York in being
the Empire City of the Union, and take a
hand in financing its less developed partners
—the frontier-States, Queensland and West-
ralia, particularly. The sacrifices agreed to
at the Melbourne conference of Premiers
to enable South Australia to meet pressing
engagements were in the true Federal spirit.
Langism is provincialism in its most selfish
form. A success for it on Saturday will be
a serious threat to the Federation —it will
certainly give a powerful impetus to the
separatist tendencies revealed in Westralia,
South Aus. and Tasmania.
The N.S.W. Labor party has been greatly
cheered by alleged news from the country
that many small farmers who don’t employ
any labor, except, perhaps, their sons, are
going to vote for Lang. They say that
wages, no matter how high, won't affect
them: If they think so they never made a
greater mistake in their lives. It is because
Governments have got such wretchedly poor
The farmer who doesn’t think high wages
affect him.
value for their money that railway lines have
cost twice too much and freight charges are
twice too heavy. Of the cost of practically
everything settlers have to buy more than
half are wages. The farmer who doesn t
think high wages affect him has had his leg
tugged till it is half as long as the list of
Lang’s promises.
Britain enjoys an insurance system which
provides medical attendance and allowances
for the sick, a disablement allowance if the
sickness develops into something permanent,
and a maternity allowance for poor mothers
(not a baby bonus for rich and poor alike).
It has pensions for widows, orphans and
the aged. It has war pensions as a matter
of course, and in proportion to population
its payments under this heading are almost
exactly the same as Australia’s. And it has
unemployment insurance—the famous dole.
War pensions are solely a Government
liability; employers, employees and the State
contribute to the rest. Demands for unemploy-
ment relief have grown alarmingly, and the
Government has had to “lend” the fund far
more money than it can afford. There is
even talk of its having to disgrace itself by
reducing the allowance unless it finds work
for more people by a tariff which will shut
out a lot of foreign goods.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Darling-hearsed”: The first intimation I
had that my regular sly-grogger was taking
a vacation at Long Bay was conveyed by a
visitor who explained that he was work-
ing the round and could be relied upon
to execute orders. I had hardly got rid
of him with the excuse that the hard times
had decided me to cut out after-hours beer
at two bob a bottle when another man
arrived and assured me that he had arranged
to lease the business, the price being a per-
eentage of profits to the grass-widow of the
Long Bay furloughist. He further repro-
bated the conduct of others who were trying
to jump the claim, stigmatising them as
“stinkin’ ’ounds.” In fact he so worked on
me that I told him that he might give a
whistle when passing my flat on Sunday
mornings. Then a lady arrived. After
hearing of my previous callers she pointed
out that the supposed grass-widow wasn’t
my regular sly-grogger’s regular wife, she
happening to be that herself; and she opined
that, as that creacher was “playing the
dirty” by living with a man she had sent
out with a tale of having rented the round,
the man she herself was living with was
more entitled to the trade of old patrons.
Affairs certaiply tend to become mixed in
Darlinghurst.
s*c & *
“Sixenate”: The Sydney Divorce Court
recently dissolved a marriage that seems to
have been about the last
word in race mixtures.
The petitioner described
herself as a native of
Liverpool, but it tran-
spired that her father was
a Chinese who had mar-
ried a Eurasian, the
daughter of a Frenchman
and a Hindu woman. She
gave her husband’s
nationality as a Canadian,
but further inquiries
elicited that he was a
mulatto with French and
Scotch blood in his veins.
She further alleged that
his fall from matrimonial
grace had been occasioned
by a lady of Boer extrac-
tion, born in Durban,
South Africa. To compli-
cate matters a little more,
the petitioner mentioned
that her husband was “an
Irish Roman Catholic,”
she herself being a Bap-
tist, although the mar-
riage had been performed
by a Congregational
minister.
“W.T.K.”: It was in the Fitzroy (Vic.)
police court, and the sergeant was making
heavy weather of his first case, a sly-grog
prosecution. Even the P.M. grew testy.
“What do you intend to prove with that
woman?” he snapped at last as an elderly
female ascended the steps of the witness-box.
The sergeant pondered. “Well, y r \\ or-
ship,” he said, “when intercepted by two
constables this woman had all the appear-
ances of having just knocked at a back door.
Case dismissed.
“Karaway”.: Some recent bus smashes make
me wonder at the charmed lives of picnickers
and others in crowded private vehicles on
busy holidays. A growing custom is for
several families, or a mob of young fellows
and their girls, to club together and hire a
trolly, delivery waggon or other large
vehicle for the day. Seats, are fixed pre-
curiously from stem to stern, the rearmost
suggesting a topple-out at the first rise. The
occupants are packed like sardines, but the
most dangerous clement is the bottled stuff m
the hampers. On warm nights dozens of
these overloaded “ ’buses” go past my place
to the beaches. They return any time after
pf) p.m., enlivening the way with commu-
nity singing.
* * * *
“Den. Chas” : One of Conan Doyle’s last-
reCorded sayings was: “In the well-equipped
police station of the future the psychome-
trist will be part of the detective depart-
ment.” Mrs. Foster-Turner, referred to in
a recent Bulletin par., was a psychome-
trist. She could tell what was in the mind
of anyone with whom she was brought in
contact. I tested her, and so did several
of my friends. As The Bulletin para-
graphist put it: “She knew what you knew”
—just that, and no more. There is no money
in ’ such a gift except for show purposes at
present. But how priceless it might be if
applied to the detection of crime! The
psychometrist would, _of course, be worth-
less as a witness. His (or her) job would
merely be to provide the police with infor-
mation. Say a murder occurs. The police
vag the probable perpetrator, and find them-
selves at a dead end. The murderer “knows
too much for them.” as the saying goes. If
they could be given his knowledge the posi-
tion would be entirely different, such a
case as the Constable Guilfoyle murder
C„ n Sliera2d 0t
r-»“ ,r £ t jsk
last”' M»
DRESS A LA MODE.
“My lawyer advises me to wear something appropriate—he says I may get more
alimony if I do.”
“Yes, dear—let’s see. I should suggest spots, and a purple background."
career would be one long test for competency.
The genuine ones —I am assuming they exist
—would not only get the guilty punished,
they would do more than all the gaols to
prevent crime. Why doesn’t some. open-
minded ’tec give the system a chance in con-
nection with the next mystery murder?
* * * *
“Nakli” : The last has not been heard of
R. F. Millane (B. 17/9/’3O), against whom
an order stands that he may _ institute no
legal proceedings in any court in Vic. with-
out the leave of the Supreme Court or one
of its Judges. I was in the City Court the
other day when liis familiar figure arose to
answer a charge of having pegged out a
mining claim in the middle of Queen-street,
in the heart of Melbourne. After prolonged
argument the earnest litigant succeeded m
getting an adjournment from a weary magis-
trate. The legal processes initiated by
Millane now number several hundreds.
“Lao-dah” : The death by suicide
at 3S of Dr. Peter Schmidt, the re-
juvenation expert and author of
“The Conquest of Old Age,” recalls
another tragedy. A convert of Prof.
Voronoff was billed to deliver a lec-
ture in London on “How Voronoff
made me a boy again at 70.” He
was found dead in his bed on the
morning of the lecture, the medical
verdict being that he had attempted
for six months to live at a pace
appropriate to a youth of 20.
“Mells”: The modern taxi-driver seems
to get more than a fair share of attention
from the hold-up men. He generally has
money, and liis position, at the steering
"wheel is liable to make him an easy victim
to menaces backed by a revolver suddenly
poked into his ribs or his back. The old-
time liansom cabby had a distinct advantage
over his successor in this regard; he sat
behind his fares and looked down upon them,
which gavfe evilly-disposed passengers little
or no opportunity for robbery under arms.
There seems to be room for an enterprising
inventor to evolve something in the nature
of a taxi-liansom, if only for the protection
of the twentieth-century Jehu.
$ # * *
“Pipards” : Even Governors, it seems, are
quite prepared to see their salaries reduced
to meet the times ;
in Westralia the
gentleman most con-
cerned has himself
suggested it. And
in Vic. C. J. Irvine
has decided to forgo
his judicial £3OOO
while drawing the
£5OOO to which he
is entitled as Act-
ing-Governor, al-
though he lias to
perform the duties
of both offices. Per-
haps tho most not-
able example of a
public man refusing
to accept two offi-
cial incomes was
furnished by West-
ralia’s first Pre-
mier, John Forrest.
When responsible
government wa s
granted all those
who had held office
under Imperial ad-
ministration were
pensioned, and For-
rest, who had been
Surveyor - General,
found himself
allotted £5OO a
year. But although
John was reckoned
a pretty hard man
in money matters,
he refused to take
the pension for the
periods when he
was a Minister of the Crown. He was never
anything else before Federation, and he had
several spells of office afterwards, but he
sacrificed a good many thousands.
‘j‘Jf to
P occasion being the coronation
of Ms Ohnstian Abys-
•fe.'ss
sa, m rrif a «en. S I,k aM°n S s!rVv availaMo
stand of timber and stayed there till this
indispensable commodity had vanished, when
it departed to fresh groves and sylvan areas
new. Then, about 40 years ago, a British
official, growing tired of chasing the poten-
tate to whom he was accredited all over the
country, suggested planting Australian blue-
gums. A Prime Minister of sufficient en-
lightenment was forthcoming, and the idea
was carried out by slave labor. To-day the
capital is the proud possessor of a per-
manent supply of firewood, and other towns
have also by the same means acquired the
virtue of domestication.
* * * *
“10-2-4” : Why do certain speakers charm
election crowds? I stood within ten yards
of Donald Grant the other night, and fol-
lowed every word he said. Few of his sen-
tences could have been parsed, or meant
anything when analysed, and the speech
as a whole contained no coherent message;
yet the general effect was inspiring to a
large audience. I was present when the late
John Norton performed a similar miracle on
almost the same spot 20 years ago. Quota-
tions from the Scriptures and Shakspearc
go down well, however irrelevant —and the
more threadbare the better. “Get thee
behind me, Satan,” “There is a tide in the
affairs of men,” and “Meue, Mene, Tekel,
Upharsin” are sure winners anywhere round
Surry Hills. References to the Deity nearly
always make drab sentences colorful. A
well-known Domain orator said in the Syd-
ney Divorce Court last week: —
I am ready to take my wife back, for better or
worse, just as I took her years ago at the altar of
her God.
The words of power were, of course, the
last four. li'ow different if he had said “at
the Crown-street Registry Office!” Not that
banality is barred by any means. The same
speaker, describing a clash with a rival that
led to the break-up of the home, said:—
I hit him, and prayed to God that I would not
kill him. I knocked him down, and he got up op
his knees, covered with blood. Next day I threw
my children on the fish train, and that was the end.
Jack West of East Sydney, W. M. Hughes
and Jock Garden are masters of this type of
oratory, though their methods differ greatly.
They are really musicians who use spoken
words instead of written notes to compose
their cantatas, fugues, etc. It would pro-
BOUND TO BE A CATCH IN IT.
ERNESTINE: “Well, of course, every romance must have an ending."
BILL: “Yes, some happily—and some in marriage."
bably pay tho State to relieve them of tin
responsibilities of government—if necessary
by disqualification—and enable them to con-
centrate on their art.
ELECTION TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now the verbal cut-and-thrustings echo from
a hundred hustings ;
As at Eatanswill, the Slumkeys and the
Fizkins spin their yarns,
Or at Newcome, when the'Colonel tried a
fall with that infernal
Super-bounder of a nephew, the insuffer-
able Barnes.
With a vigor full as hearty bang and boom
the drums of party,
As pervasive and persuasive is the
oratory’s flow,
Now legato , now staccato —and the egg or
the tomato
Still may punctuate a period, just as in
the long ago.
Now the free and independent listen to the
tales resplendent
Of .some lineal descendant —so I fancy,
anyhow—
Of the chap who’d the direction of a general
election
In my boyhood’s days, and won it with
“Three acres and a cow.”
Now the sturdy patriot, zealous for the up-
lift of liis fellows,
Splits the welkin with his bellows, impor-
tuning to be sent —
Where his sort are wanted, clearly, and lie’ll
do his best sincerely
For the land he loves .so dearly—to the
halls of Parliament.
Now the nightly . roar. arises that approval
advertises.
Or the hiss of execration and the hoarsely
hostile hoot;
Cheers or yells of scorn go pealing No the
rafters or the ceiling,
And the trouble is you get them on the
radio to boot.
All the ether throbs with voices advocating
party choices,
Pleading, needing, interceding, for defence-
less ears they strive;
RESTRAINED EMOTION.
THE GIRL: “I think you had better come with me to choose my ring, dear.”
HER New BOY: “But I thought you wanted to choose it yourself?”
THE GIRL : “So I did. But I’m afraid we can’t afford it.”
And one’s apt to grow moroser as the rivals
wax verboser
Ev’rv day that brings us closer to October
twenty-five.
Now the tumult and the shouting and inter-
minable spouting _
Herd the waverers and doubting with the
sheep—or with the goats, ,
Though it may be questionable if the babel
and the babble
Are the factors they’re accounted in deter-
mining the votes.
Youth and maiden, gaffer, gammer, are you
weary of the clamor _
Of the slogan that inspirits and the tocsin
that cajoles? _
Have you found the brawling galling and
the blatherskite appalling?
Never mind, your country’s calling! She
requires you at the polls.
N.s.w.
*
T. THE R.


“The Gaffer”: My young friend Tomkien-
nes is as ashamed of his juvenile appearance
as he is proud of his athletic ability, being
a notable track performer. He sports
the badge of his club in and out
of season. The other day, when an old
lady in the tram dropped her handbag over-
board, T-, ever the squire of dames, gallantly
leaped to the rescue. Then, chasing the
tram up the hill, he deposited the bag safely
in the hands of the owner, little suspecting
what humiliation was in store for him. Lean-
ing over, the old girl tapped the badge.
“Thanks ever so much, sonny,” she said;
“you’ve done your one good deed for the day,
anyhow.”
* * * *
“Kerys”: Oswald Pryor’s sketch of a
Cousin Jack arriving at divine service
and requesting the churchwarden to ask
his wife “if it’s time for me to put pasty
in t’ oven” had a parallel in Maoriland.
The bishop was visiting the village, and the
wife of the local solicitor had agreed to
sing a solo at morning service, leaving
her husband at home to prepare the dinner
and look after the children. Five minutes
before she was due to begin her item a hymn-
A TERRIBLE DISFIGUREMENT.
“She was in a crash and in a single day lost all her
attraction for men."
“Too had! Motor?"
“Worse — bank."
book containing a slip of paper was passed
along the choir to her. Fearing that some-
thing had happened at home she opened it
anxiously and read, “How long do you boil
potatoes?” Scribbling a reply she handed
the book back to the small chorister who
had smuggled the note in, and arose to sing
“Hear Ye, Israel.”
* * * *
“Tee Essbie”: Further to the comment
that “the ‘Red Flag’ dirge isn’t very sug-
gestive of revolt” (B. 15/10/’3O), it would be
difficult to tell exactly what it is suggestive
of, considering the varied uses to which the
tune has been put. It is first met as the Ger-
man “Burschenleid” (Longfellow’s translation,
“The Ilemlock-tree,” is pretty well known.)
Seventy years ago one James Randall wrote
and set to the tune the words of “Maryland,
my Maryland.” The Salv’army early seized
upon the music and made of it a song in
which good soldiers declare that “The
Yellow, Red and Blue shall fly Above our
heads until we die.” The “Red Flag” is
manifestly a cheap parody of this. During
the war I heard a company of Queensland
Diggers singing some hilarious words com-
mencing, “Bananaland, Bananaland,” to the
melody, and at the Booth organisation’s Syd-
ney Training Garrison the other day I
heard the cadets singing the grace, “Be pre-
sent at our table, Lord,”, to the overworked
strain.
$ $ $ $
“Litt. D.”: An illustration of the fact that
you can’t keep a good word down is to be
found in the last talkie I endeavored not to
listen to, in which the hero, a loathsomely
powdered and painted he-flapper, said to the
heroine, who was supposed to be pure, per-
secuted and polygamous: “Say, cutie, lut’s
go places ’n do things ’n make whoopee.”
“Make whoopee,” I gather, is the latest addi
tion to the American language, but like most
of the other grammatical eccentricities the
melting-pot has produced it has an alien
origin. The culprit seems to be Kip-
ling, who in a story of fighting on
the Indo-Afghan border, written probably
30 years ago, says the tribesmen were
“making whoopee.” In that connotation a
picture of the abandoned frenzy of cruel,
fanatical barbarians is neatly conjured up.
The application of the phrase to the social
amenities of a nation so righteous that it
chases booze from its shores with machine-
guns is neater still.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: All eyes were turned on a
signwriter in action about 150 feet above
the traffic of Flinders-street, Melbourne,
the other morning. The operator was stand-
ing on a suspended ladder without holding
on to the ropes and calmly slapping new life
and color into the letters of a huge adver-
ising sign. Nothing remarkable in that,
of course, but it was remarkable to see a
girl doing it, especially one in a fuji skirt
and silk stockings, for most girls doing a
man’s job like to dress the part. Appropri-
ately enough, the sign she was painting adver-
tised a nerve tonic.
* * , * *
“ J.H.M.A.”: The first steam ferryboat
began to ply across Port Jackson, between
the end of Windmill-street and McMahon’s
Point opposite, in March, 1841. It was some-
thing of a punt, too, for it accommodated
both passenger and vehicular traffic. The
secretary of the North Shore Ferry Co.,
which initiated the enterprise, was a ver-
satile gentleman, the Rev. Ralph Mansfield;
he was at the same time editor of
the “Sydney Herald” and secretary of
the Gas Company. The Princess, as the
boat was named, was advertised as plying
from dawn to dusk; the fare for passen-
gers was the same as to-day, but it cost
2s. 6d. to take a four-wheeled vehicle across
the water.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: It is quite true that
certain motor-car numbers take the public
fancy (B. l/10/’3O), but no private owner
need cherish a hope of getting either 1 or
13. I have it on the authority of a Mel-
bourne traffic cop that all numbers below
200 are reserved for the Crown.
“Arfpint O’Kashionally”: In times like
these 'what is known as the trade is as hard
hit as any other, if it isn’t hit harder. With
the smaller publican the trouble usually
ends with the brewery resuming possession ;
but only last week I chanced into a pub and
found the genuine bailiffs in. I walked two
blocks before having another drink —that
was at a hostelry which is being temporarily
kept going by the liquidator of the bankrupt
co. which started it. Being broke myself,
I make a hobby of drinking in broke
pubs; and there were several more quite
handy. But as I had only tuppence left the
beer trail finished.
“Whitehall” : The boom in midget golf—
there are already 47 midget links in Sydney
—is understandable. It has roped in the
vast army of spectators, those who know all
about games but never play one. It involves
no exertion, no danger, and, greatest advan-
tage of all, no humiliations. Nearly 100,000
are reported to have passed through the shil-
AMBIGUOUS.
“That new boy of yours is no oil 'painting."
“Perhaps not. But beauty is only skin deep."
“Too right, dearie. But if he was mine I think I’d take him out and hide him again.”
“Gad”: The ex-Duntroon officer who is
now butchering chops (B. 8/10/’3O) is
more fortunate than myself. I passed
through Sandhurst, after having abandoned
a legal career for the R.M.C., served in
the war, was afterwards forced out of the
peace-time army through economic reasons
(with the princely gratuity of £10), and
would now be glad to hear of anything that
would keep the dole from the door. My last
regular job ceased over a year ago when
the firm by which I was employed went bung.
* # # *
“Oxmead”: They wear well, most of these
explorers. A par. last week mentioned that
the South Australian L. A. Wells, at 70, is
just starting out in charge of a
party that will prospect s.-w. of
Alice Springs towards the West-
ralian border. Wells was second
in command of the Elder expedi-
tion which left Adelaide as long
ago as 1891 and worried through
the practically unknown interior
between the tracks of Forrest,
Gosse, Giles and Warburton
until it reached civilisation at
Southern Cross (W.A.). David
Lindsay was the leader. I saw
Wells five years later when he
was leading the Calvert expedi-
tion from the Murchison to the
Kimberleys. That journey had
a tragic end : two of the party
made a detour to examine new
country and perished from
thirst. Their remains were re-
covered after a lot of search-
ing and taken back by steamer
to Adelaide for burial. I re-
member getting a hurried inter-
view with the leader when the
boat touched at Geraldton on its
way south. It was the first he
had an opportunity of giving
to the press, although the wires
had been busy with the fate of
the missing men for months.
* t- *
“S.T.S.”: We don’t know how States
duplicate place-names till the G.P.O. takes
a hand. A Government office in Canberra
lately addressed a letter to me with entire
correctness, except that to the final “Ken-
sington Park” it omitted “S.A.” The thing
was superscribed “Unknown” at Kensing-
ton, N.S.W.; was then blue-pencilled “W.A.,”
and wandered about there; then it was “Not
Kensington, Vic.”; other postmarks show
that Flemington also had a shot at it as a
possible solution. In the end it was despair-
ingly pencilled “Try 5.A.,” and so came
home to the only—so far as I know —Ken-
sington Park of the lot.
* * * *
“Schiedam”: Now that the Dutch squad-
ron has left these coasts, after having had
all sorts of pleasant things written about
it and the nation generally, it seems worth
asking whether the word “Dutch” isn’t
rather unpleasing to the Hollander. In all
the reference books their country is listed as
Nederland (The Netherlands), with Holland
as an alternative. “Deutschland” or “Deut-
sches Reich” is, of course, Germany collec-
tively, and “Deutsch” is German, and soon.
Why the Low Countries should for centuries
have been singled out by the Briton for a
monopoly of the word that originally meant
“Teutonic” is a little puzzling. Does a
mynheer ever speak of himself as a Dutch-
man?
ling turnstiles at the State Theatre, and they
were all, perhaps for the first time in their
lives, in a position to carry on like world
champions. The slump will come when the
Bradmans of the game start to emerge. It
happened in croquet half a century ago, and
in ping-pong 20 years later. The efficient
will begin breaking course records, and the
others will be shamed into returning to the
only job they are fit for, namely, criticism.
The phenomenon is universal in its applica-
tion. Say a multi-millionaire published Aus-
tralia’s 100,000 unpublished novels. The
grandstands of literary criticism would be
momentarily emptied. But they would soon
fill up again. After a brief writing boom
the novelists would find that it is easier to
explain how things should be done than it
is to do them. As Rousseau would have said
if he had thought of it: “Man is born a dud,
and is everywhere a critic.”
* * * *
“Balbus”: Virgil, who has been occupying
so much press space lately, seems to be about
the first great writer on record to have the
2000th anniversary of his birthday celebrated
in seats of learning all over the world. If
the pleasing practice is to continue there is
plenty of work ahead for the professors.
Horace, for instance, will reach the 2000 mark
in 1935 —and most men with a smattering of
the classics can quote 20 lines of Horace
for one of Virgil—Livy in 1941, Ovid in
1957—and so on. Julius Caesar, who is per-
haps more indelibly impressed on the mind
of the. average schoolboy than any of them,
had his 2000th birthday 30 years ago, but
nobody seems to have remembered it, unless
it was in Italy. Yet it involved the least
calculation of any, for Caesar was born in
100 B.C.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There was pathos in the reply
of a Scotch ship’s riveter, summoned for
debt in the Malvern (Vic.) court, to the
beak’s inquiry as to why he had married
when he was destitute: “Because married
men were getting preference for jobs K and I
had been out of work for a long time.” As
a result of forsaking single blessedness he
was given 10 days’ toil.
* * * *
“Singemoine” : A cable from Spain :
Senor Lerroux declared before 20,000 people in
a Madrid bull-ring that Spaniards must recover
their sovereignty either by the means that Germany
used when she expelled the Kaiser or by following
Russia’s example.
If the senor brings off his revolution it will
be one of the few in history that have had
nothing to do with economics. Spain has
grown more prosperous with every year of
Alfonso’s reign. It gathered in money with
both hands throughout the war. Spanish
budgets always balance, taxation is always
low. De Rivera’s dictatorship was bloodless,
which Mussolini’s wasn’t, and like Musso-
lini’s it produced a lucrative wave of tourist
traffic, due to confidence in the Administra-
tion’s ability to keep order and provide
comfort. A revolution will please the Bol-
shies, but it will give the Spanish taxpayers
an even worse set-back than Spain’s unsuc-
cessful war with the U.S.A. It is doubtful
if the debonair Alfonso would object on
personal grounds to joining the kings in
exile. His personal fortune, which before
the war was larger than that of any Euro-
pean sovereign, is understood to be mostly
invested abroad, and he has always pre-
ferred tolerant London or Paris to censorious
Madrid.
THE OLD CASTLEREAGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The people of the city
Live in sumptuous abodes,
With gardens oh! so pretty,
By the tar and concrete roads,
The trams along them w’izzin’,
With janglin’ an’ with yells,
W’ile the motor-cars are fizzin’
An’ a-makin’ narsty smells!
But give me the Backblocks,
The Backhlocks for me!
With mutton-chops an’ damper
An’ an ounce or two of tea,
My water-bag an’ blanket,
An’ my black “ Jack-Shea ,”
All among the Warrumbungles
On the old Castlereagh!
The females in the city
Are all plastered up with paint;
They reckon they’re so witty—
An’ I wouldn’t say they ain’t.
But the way they dress is shockin’,
With their skirts above their knees,
An’ they show you that much stockin’
That you’d think their legs would freeze !
So give me the Bush Girl,
The Bush Girl for me!
That’s used to soap an’ sunshine,
As anyone can see.
You wouldn’t get a Town Girl
To stop a single day
In a pine-slab cottage
On the old Castlereagh!
The pubs in the city
They are three storeys high,
With rooms dark an’ gritty
W’ere you can’t see the sky.
An’ you can’t smell the wattle,
’Cos it ain’t there to smell,
An’ if you want a bottle
Cripes ! You ’ave to ring a bell!
So give me the Bush pub,
The Bush pub for me!
W’ere they pass a cove the bottle
An’ ’e pours ’is nobbier free!
The snug bar-parlor,
That’s w’ere I like to stay!
In the bark-roofed shanty
On the old Castlereagh!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
AULD LANG’S SIGN.
“Mr. Lang proposes to restore prosperity to Australia by a revival of hard borrowing and spending."
MR. LANG: “You just leave everything to me. I can make everybody rich and happy. The pawnshop is the gate to prosperity.”
MR. LANG’S FRIEND: “My oath! Look how happy and prosperous the people around here are!”
Work Sweeps
Dear Bulletin, —I suppose there are thou-
sands of clubs in Australia. Ninety-nine per
cent, of them go in for periodical sweeps on
horse-races. What’s wrong with their having
weekly work sweeps at _ a shilling or two
shillings a ticket, the winner to spend the
money on giving employment from which he
may derive some personal satisfaction or
advantage?
A man may be buying a house that would
look all the'better for some paintwork or
gardening. He perhaps has a car that needs
furbishing up, or a plumbing job that he hasn’t
been able to get done, or a block of land from
which the scrub really ought to be removed.
Or he would like to get that toolshed or
fowlhouse built; but he can’t spare the
money, and that’s gospel truth. If the work-
sweep idea were taken up in earnest, thou-
sands of such jobs could be done. The
sporting aspect would appeal to a sporting
people, and if I know clubmen —a good-
hearted but not affluent breed —they would
jump at the chance that these sweeps would
afford them of lightening the lot of decent
tradesmen now unemployed, and perhaps
giving some particular pal a job.
Of course, work sweeps need not be con-
fined to clubs —shop, warehouse and factory
employees could also run them. Small com-
mittees would be needed to see that the win-
nings were usefully spent.—Yours, etc., D.
Empson.
Make It Worth Their While
Dear Bulletin, —The politicians implore
wage-payers to find jobs for out-of-works, but
give them no incentive to do so. Instead
they smite them with unemployment-relief
taxes, spend the money on idiotic “works”
such as sand-shifting, and then boast how
much they have contrived to divert to doubt-
ful electorates.
I suggest that these relief-tax laws (four
States have them) be amended in the direc-
tion of permitting employers to contract out
of them, as it Tvere. Any man who can
prove that he has increased his staff as from,
say, July 1 to be given an abatement of
•relief tax to the extent of 25 p.c. of the
amount paid in wages to the hands put on.
This would encourage him to qualify for com-
plete exemption. I would also give salary-
earners and the like, ordinarily not employ-
ers, the choice of finding work for someone
or paying tax.
One merit of this plan is that people would
get the kind of jobs with which they are
familiar. It is melancholy to see droves of
men trained for other callings dispiritedly
shovelling sand for the wind to blow back
again.—Yours, etc., Wodgil.
Too Much Bank Credit
Dear Bulletin, —Australia has not yet
sufficiently recognised the tremendous influ-
ence of inflation of bank credit on prices,
wages, cost of production, etc. In 1929
2324 millions of pounds of cheques and
bills passed through the clearing-houses of
the five large capitals. Compared with these
.figures the transactions in Australian notes
and silver coin were quite negligible. The
deposits of the banks operable by cheques
are the real currency of the community, and
the enormous increase in such deposits is
the p.rime cause of the great inflation from
which we are suffering.
In June, 1914, the Australasian banks
had deposit liabilities of £186,000,000, and
to meet such liabilities as were asked for
in cash they held in gold £41,593,000 and in
Australian notes £4,977,000. In June, 1960,
they had deposit liabilities of £352,000,000,
and held in gold £12,940,000 and in Aus-
tralian notes £22,583,000 —manifestly not a
comfortable position !
Including Savings Bank deposits the Aus-
tralian (not Australasian in this instance)
deposits have increased from £45 per head
of the population in 1914 to £9O per head in
1930. The quantity of “money” has doubled,
with inevitable increase in prices of every-
thing. It is such increase that makes cost of
production heavier in Australia than in the
outside world. Unfortunately we cannot
export the “money,” but can only gradually
adjust it by setting off the deposits to reduce
the advances that created them. In other
words, the borrowers from the banks have
now to sell securities for deposits which they
must apply to liquidate the advances—a
very painful process.—Yours, etc., J. K. B.
Old Gold
Dear Bulletin, —Australia s position is
this: for many years she has borrowed
thoughtlessly and recklessly. Now she has
a stupendous debt, and. an interest bill
amounting yearly to 55J million pounds. The
internal debt can be paid in paper money.
The external debt can only be paid by gold
or by goods ; our foreign _ creditors won t
take paper money. Australia cannot export
much more gold to relieve the position m
England. Already the bank reserves have
been tapped. And we can’t pay by goods
either —at least, not for some time to come.
What is to be done? If we can’t use the
small gold reserves in our bank vaults, there
is another way. In every home, however
poor, in Australia there are gold things,
utterly useless except for purposes of
ornament and adornment —bangles, bracelets,
rings, etc. This is a time of sacrifice. Very
well. Let us sacrifice our golden knick-
knacks for the benefit of our country. Let
us deliver up these useless things to the
authorities, so that they may be melted
down and shipped to London to relieve the
pressure there. The value of the old gold
thus exported would be enormous. If every
inhabitant of this country owned just one
pound’s worth of gold jewellery, the total
sum would be over six million pounds sterling.
True, it wouldn’t pay off our debt. But
it would liquidate the most pressing of it;
and such a gesture would prove to London
bankers that we recognised our debts and
had no desire to repudiate them. It wrnuld
prove that we were trying to deal with the
position—that we were not shirking our
responsibilities.
The thing has been done before. In France
in recent years patriotic Frenchmen and
Frenchwomen delivered up jewellery in order
to save their country’s financial position.
Surely Australians are not less patriotic?
It might pay the Federal Government to
buy these gold ornaments, paying paper
money for them. True, such an act would
increase Australia’s internal debt; but Aus-
tralia’s greatest worry at the present time is
not her internal debt, but her external debt,
about which she must make some arrange-
ment mighty soon.—Yours, etc., Scara-
mouch®.
Farm Labor Settlements
“Huffin-Guffin” : The suggestion of “P.X.”
(B. 1/10/’3O) to revive the farm labor settle-
ment idea of the ’nineties is a good one.
But why does “P.X.” spoil a good idea
by saying that “the pay allowed was not
sufficiently attractive to hold them when any
regular employment offered”? (Does he
mean that that part of the scheme of the
’nineties should be revived? If so, why? Are
we never going to get rid of the Wakefield
idea of land settlement? The ownership
of land always seems to have associated
with it the necessity of employing labor.
It seems to be Thomas Paine’s formula over
again: “It’s no use getting rich unless you
also keep others poor, or you will still have
to cook your ow T n breakfast!”
Public Service Reform
Dear Bulletin,— Did anybody ever hear
of the permanent head , of a public depart-
ment being put back to some other job be-
cause lie had proved to be a round peg in
a square ho|e? Yet almost any wideawake
public servant will' know of such appoint-
ments. • It is not • only the political heads of
departments who are responsible for building
up the personnel: some of the permanent
heads are great offenders, too. They come
in not only with their fads and fancies, but
with their predilections for particular offi-
cers; and soon the fads, and fancies get an
airing and. the favored officers get promotion
—often because they are known to the new
head to share his fads and fancies.
And a new man coming in rarely has the
pluck to cut away the frills and rubbish
that have been brought in by liis predeces-
sors; mostly the latter have been friends
and seniors of his; they have grown up to-
gether in the service, and even if they have
not; been friends —well, in the service some
things are not done. This long succession
of fads and frills and fancies, with the offi-
cers specially set apart to look after them,
is mainly responsible for the overmanning
of the services and for the fact that some
departments are things of shreds and patches.
If permanent heads and other senior offi-
cers were appointed strictly on probation
for, say, two years, and were expected to
show financial and other . results —financial
results especially—we should be rid of this
bugbear. As it is, when the new man gets
his appointment lie. knows that nothing
but utter stupidity or occasionally the stir-
ring up of a political hornet’s nest will shift
him. So, above all, he lets things slide. And
when things are allowed to slide, there is
no need to recall where they are most likely
to slide to. —Yours faithfully, Old Pink Tape.
Rapid-freezing Possibilities
Dear Bulletin, —The advocates of fish-
canning leave me cold. It would need con-
siderable revision of our present tariff and
costs of production before any canning eo.
could pay dividends; for example, containers
are almost prohibitively dear. But there
should be money in fish preserved by the
rapid-freezing process. Judging by success-
ful experiments with North American sal-
mon, such fish as the Tas. deep-sea trum-
peter could in this way be sent in a palat-
able condition to our remotest markets.—
Yours, etc., Telopea.
Safeguard the Settler
Dear Bulletin, —One of my boys took up
wheat land in Central Vie. and struck a
series of drought years. I kept the ’bus
going from the old homestead. Shortly there
will be a mortgage to clear. Crops are good;
prices are putrid. Neither of us has a kick
left unless from the coming harvest. The
mortgagee may say “Cash up or quit.”
Our interest has always been paid; we
are honest and will remain so at all costs.
If these matters cannot be arranged by an
honorable agreement, to which merchants,
machinery firms, banks and Government
boards are parties, as in Westralia, what
about legislation to prevent a trier being
dispossessed where an extension of a year
or two may make all the difference, and
where ample security is held by the lender?
—Yours, etc., K. S. I.
Extra Votes for Brains
Dear Bulletin, —Universal suffrage has
let us down badly, simply because it
takes no thought of the fitness or other-
wise of the person on whom this free, com-
pulsory article is dumped. Let us try a
change. Give, as now, to every yob, flapper,
student and ordinary cove one free vote, not
compulsory, to be forfeited if not used. Then
to those who wish it, two, three and four
votes, according to the percentage gained in
an exam, on history, economics., elementary
law and kindred subjects. This be
above all party considerations ; Laborite, Con-
servative—a Garden, Monash or Mannix —
could qualify for the extra votes. Only those
who attained a special standard would be
permitted to offer themselves for Parliament.
I hold no brief for examinations, but some-
thing must be done to ensure government
on business lines. If my plan were followed
the country would be governed, by its brains,
and not by its lower extremities or innards.
And brains appear to have been responsible
for raising the human race above the nut-
cracking stage.—Yours, Leo Lear.
Overseas Travellers and Our Debts
Dear Bulletin, —What amount is added
to our national debt through the. spend-
ings of wealthy Australians in their trips
abroad? Blame is freely attached to
wage-earners for demanding and spending
too much and working too little; and most
of us must admit the reasonableness of the
charge. But how about this other class? —
Yours, etc., Bows.
A Lesson from M.L.
Dear Bulletin, —A rankling thorn
in the side of the M.L. Railway Depart-
ment was the motor-’bus service that com*
peted with the railway on the Wellington-
Hutt Valley run. In desperation the depart-
ment bought out the ’bus proprietors practi-
cally at their own price; the total cost was
£58,365—0ver £l3OO per ’bus. The pur-
chasers wrote off £16,530 as “goodwill,” and
entered the ’buses at £B9B each; two years
later they had to be written down to £230
apiece. Taking this into account there
was a loss on the first year’s service—the
’buses were kept in commission—of £7212,
and on the second year of £815; but £lO,OOO
was saved in railway operating expenses.
Now that the ’bus enterprise is on a proper
capital basis the department looks forward
to annual profits.—Yours, etc., Febnie.


ENGAGEMENT RINGS
€2O
w£ci Wr
fra**?
€2O
mm
€2O
£2O
£2O
FAIRFAX &■ ROBERTS L T
23-25 HUNTER ST.
_ yfuQ o(A&st J-eweilonn/ Moujq cn Sydney
W/M&
XCHOIC
I
w
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome. .. .and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITREN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Professor Alfred Lodge, now visiting Syd-
ney, is one of three distinguished Stafford-
shire-born brothers, all professors. Oliver
(79) is, of course, a man of world-wide emi-
nence in his own domain of physics and
psychics. Alfred (76) is the second; his
specialty is mathematics. The third is
Richard (75), whose long suit is history.
Ex-Premier McPherson, who threw up his
Hawthorn seat in Vic. Assembly because of
heart trouble, called at the House the other
day to receive an illuminated address from
his old party colleagues. Peacock, his pre-
decessor in the Nat. leadership, handed over
the parchment. Mac disclosed that it was
his late wife who spurred him to enter
public life after a successful business career.
His monument to her is the Emily McPher-
son College of Domestic Economy on the old
Melb. Gaol site, Russell-street.
Joseph Hamlet, the picturesquely fluent
Nationalist candidate for Goulburn, is mak-
ing things warm for J. M. Tully, the some-
time civil servant and footballer. Of Irish
parentage, Hamlet spent his early life in
America, and established himself in M.L.
some 20 years ago as' a motor-car salesman,
a. job in which his gifts of eloquence and
imagery were by no means wasted. He has
tackled various other occupations in the
course of a long and adventurous career,
and is thoroughly at home with an
agrarian audience. His hearers get a
feast of oratory that suggests the revisita-
tion by Demosthenes of the glimpses of the
moon.
R. E. Sexton, chief engineer of railways
in Queensland, managed to attend the open-
ing of the Sydney-Ivyogle line although he
was a sick man; he died last week at 69.
A native of the State —his father was once
traffic manager at Maryborough—he joined
the railways 51 years ago as draughtsman
in the construction branch. He was the only
Australian councillor of the Institute of
Civil Engineers, London.
Wing-Commander Kingsford Smith, whose
latest exploit of flying from England to Aus-
tralia in 10J days has set the world’s press
once more casting round for adequate super-
latives, was born in Brisbane 33 years ago.
He enlisted in the A.I.F. at 18, was trans-
ferred to the R.F.C. and had won the M.C.
at 20; and since the war he has had no
rival, or even any near competitor, in the
making of aerial history. He flew from San
Francisco to Brisbane (7756 miles) in three
THE WING WIZARD.
hops. He rounded the world when he
reached San Francisco again in the same
machine, after flying from Australia to Eng-
land and from Ireland across the Atlantic.
In the interval he had crossed and re-crossed
the Tasman. His latest feat, the most out-
standing ever accomplished in a light ’plane,
is of a piece with his whole series of record-
breaking achievements.
William Mclver, Vic. Sec. for Lands and
chairman of the Closer Settlement Board, died
suddenly in his office one morning last week.
Mclver was a departmental head who had
the knack of impressing his personality upon
Ministers and members as well as liis staff.
As director of Digger settlement he had a
tremendously big scheme to handle. He had
served the State for 40 of his 59 years.
The post of secretary to the S.A. Insti-
tutes’ Association, a small body in Adelaide
which advises the 300-odd institutes of the
State, goes to Id. J. Emslie, at 27. It is
highly specialised work, and Emslie, ever
since he was a small boy, has been assistant
to the late F. E. Meleng, who built up an
institute system acclaimed by other States
as a model.
According to a cable the Duke of North-
umberland left £2,510,000. But death duties
docked a million off that, so his 18-year-old
successor, who has four country places that
are virtually palaces to keep up, will have
to go slow. This peerage owns more of Eng-
land than any other —nearly 200,000 acres.
The property came into the family when one
Smithson married a Percy, and adopted her
name in the eighteenth century.
Dr. Prescott
is leaving New-
ington, the
Methodist “great
public” school of
N. S. Wales,
having reached
the age of 70,
when Method-
ists who hold
official ’ reins
must drop them.
Prescott gradu-
ated from the
pulpit to the
desk; his suc-
cessor, the Vic-
torian-born P.
R. Le Couteur,
one of the
State’s most
brilliant Rhodes
Scholars, and of
them all the
best all-round
athlete, never
wore his collar
wrong way
round. His
specialty was
philosophy, and,
later, psy-
chology: he
studied the
former at Mel-
bourne and
Oxford, and the
latter at Bonn,
in Germany.
PRESCOTT of Newington.
Like his prede-
cessor at Newington he once headmastered
a girls’ school, the M.L.C., but lately has
been in Westralia.
Of Westralia’s pre-Federation Forrest
Ministries —there were three of them and
they lasted over nine years—only one sur-
vivor is left, Edward Wittenoom, still an
M.L.C. at 76. Of the eight men who held
office in the first' post-Federation Government
under George Leake in 1901 four remain,
Senator Kingsmill, Harry Gregory, M.H.R.,
Joseph Holmes, M.L.C., and Walter James,
K.C.
The re-election of Councillor Luxton for
a third term to the mayoral furs and chains
cost Melbourne nothing. In their passion
for economy the city fathers saved tuppence
by omitting the ceremony of burning a candle
to indicate the passage of the hour demanded
for the ballot-taking.
Fred Hancock, who was accidentally killed
by an aeroplane propeller when on his way
to meet Kingsford Smith at Darwin, had
been seven years with the Brisbane “Courier.”
He was a native of Prahran (Vic.), and
had a fine war record. The hardest two
years for him were those he spent in a
prison camp in Palestine.
An outstanding figure in the mining world
was Bowes Kelly, dead in Melbourne at 78.
He came to Australia as a boy from Bal-
linasloe, was a member of the original
Broken Hill syndicate, and saw the birth
and development of two of Australia’s great-
est mining industries, silver and copper.
With him goes the last link between the
groups of the first directors of Broken
Hill Prop, and Mt. Lyell—he was asso-
ciated with both from their inception.
A slow thinker, but a man of remark-
able shrewdness and tenacity, Bowes Kelly
follows into the shades Robert Sticht, Wil-
liam Knox, George MaeCulloeh and Alex-
ander Campbell, a notable group of mining
men.
Tom Bath, trustee of Westralia’s co-opera-
tive wheat pool and one of the first persons
in the Commonwealth to express apprehen-
sion about Russia’s doings in the wheat
market, sat in Parliament for a dozen years
and might have been the State’s second
Labor Premier. He would have been if
he hadn’t relinquished the party leadership
to Scaddan shortly before the 1911 elections.
Tom, of whom a colleague once said that
“he knows more about land laws and less
about land than any man I ever met,”
secured second place in the Cabinet, but he
abandoned politics a few years later to get
closer to the soil and become a quasi-official
representative of the wlieatgrower. He was
a journalist in his earlier years, and one
of the “Westralian Worker’s” numerous
editors.
A fine war record was that of Lieut.-
Colonel Forrest, M.L.A. for Caulfield, who
died last week in a Melbourne hospital at
53. He was one of the very first into khaki
in the Speck in August, 1914, and saw the
war through in France, winning the M.C.
Nor did his service to the Diggers end there;
almost immediately he became secretary of
the Tasmanian branch of the R.S.L., and
later general secretary of the league, with
headquarters in Melbourne. A bright politi-
cal career seemed in store for him; but it
was not to be.
Dick Toutcher, who completed 33 years'
continuous service in Vic. Assembly the
other day, has had few of tlie plums of
office. He was chairman of the Railway
Committee for a few years and Minister for
Education for three months. Arafat and
Stawell have always stuck to him loyally,
however. He must be close on 70, but he
looks youthful compared with ex-Premier
Prendergast, who is in his 77th year.
Colonel Donald Cameron, who has been
M.11.R. for Brisbane since 1919, when he
wrested the seat from Labor, is definitely
retiring, on medical advice, at the end of
his present term. He has sought to be
relieved of his obligations several times
before, but has invariably been induced to
hang on by his party, who will find it hard
to secure another candidate of such personal
popularity and high reputation. Of pas-
toral stock, he began his soldiering as a
subaltern in the 6th Q. 1.8. in South Africa,
and after service with the sth Light Horse
in Gallipoli, Sinai and Palestine, rose to
command the regiment, acquiring the C.M.G.
and D.S.O. in the process.
A. G. (“Smiler”) Hales, mining reporter,
war correspondent, novelist, lecturer and
what-not, was once a Parliamentary candi-
date. That was at Coolgardie in 1897 when
he entered the lists against A. E. Morgans,
a mining figure of the period, who
was to become Premier for a few days.
Hales, who was running a small weekly
newspaper, would have carried the Labor
banner had there been one to carry, but the
party not yet having come into existence
in those parts he had to content himself
with whooping for democracy and assailing
capitalism off his own bat, so to speak. He
fought an unsuccessful but bitterly vitu-
perative contest. Morgans bore him no ill-
will. In fact, he befriended Hales in a very
practical fashion when his old opponent was
anxious to get to South Africa as a war
correspondent and hadn’t the price of a
steamboat ticket. This proved the chance of
“Smiler’s” life, and he seized it with both
hands.
Acting Governor-General Lord Somers is
the sixth baron of his line; born in 1887,
the son of a captain in the Coldstream
Guards, he suc-
eeeded his
great-uncle in
the title at the
age of 12. Per-
haps his first
public appear-
ance was when
he was one of
the late King
Edward’s pages
at that mon-
arch’s corona-
tion. His Ex.
served with the
Life Guards
during the war.
As Governor of
Victoria since
1926 he occu-
pies Lord
S t o n ehaven’s
shoes by the
precedent of
seniority until
a successor is
appointed and
the appoint-
ment looks as
if it would in-
volve more
delay than
usual. His Ex.
has shown him-
self indef’atig-
ab 1 e in his
duties, and has
a lot of origi-
nal ideas and
pleasing social
impulses, be-
sides being a
keen sports-
LORD SOMERS, the new
acting G.-G.
man; not only
has he specialised in polo, but he played
county cricket for Worcestershire not many
years ago.
F. G. Dalziell, of Wellington (M.L.), has
got within measurable distance of realising
Iris life’s ambition, which is to induce the
Government to set up a royal commission
to investigate some very large question of
his propounding. His latest petition calls
for an inquiry into “what human industry
really is,” and the Parliamentary petitions
committee recommended the prayer for favor-
able consideration, a number of well-known
citizens having offered to act as a commis-
sion buckshee. They include General Rus-
sell, a medical knight, a professor of philo-
sophy, a K.C., an ex-Commissioner of Taxes,
the superintendent of a great stock-and-
station firm, a high officer of the Agricul-
tural Department, and the president of the
Sawmillers’ Federation.
According to
Sir Alan Cob-
ham, the late Sir
Sefton Brancker.
killed when RlOl
went up in
flames, was the
worst Jonah in
the history of
aviation. In 1922
he had to tote
Brancker from
London to a
town in France,
a mere thr e e
hours’ flight. A
tyre burst as the
machine took off,
and a cylinder
broke as it com-
menced the re-
t u r n journey.
Another ’plane
was provided,
but it developed
engine trouble
within 50 miles.
Descending, Cob-
ham and liis un-
lucky passenger
took train to
Paris and board-
ed a third ’plane
-—only to make a
third forced land-
ing at Lympne.
When Brancker
flew round
Europe he used
four ’planes. The
fi rs t absolutely
refused to start,
the second split
its crankshaft
the third broke
down between
Aid. McELHONE, the
stormy petrel of the Re-
form party in the Sydney
City Council, who is
blowed if he’ll do what
he doesn’t think right
simply because some other
fellows say it’s right.
Cologne and
Calais, and the fourth ran short of petrol
and just scraped into Croydon with bone-dry
tanks.
Just passed out at Traralgon (Vic.), Toni
Fisher, the greatest authority on the habits of
trout in Australia. For years he was in
charge of the late Samuel Wilson’s Eroil-
doune hatcheries; later he was appointed fish
culturist for Victoria. He knew almost as
much about birds.
Frederick Dutton, just dead in England,
was born in South Australia 74 years ago.
Educated in Adelaide, he practised as a
solicitor in London for half a century; he
acted for Australian mining concerns. He
was knighted in 1921.
W. R. Black, who has passed over in
Brisbane at 71, was one of the pioneers of
the Queensland coal industry. A North of
Ireland man, he came to Australia in 1880.
and after working in Brisbane with a coal
merchant w r ent into the coal-carrying trade,
which then flourished on the Brisbane River
between Ipswich and the capital. Later he
opened up the Bundamba colliery, and fol-
lowed this with Caledonia and Abermain. In
each case he equipped his properties with
electric haulage, coal-cutting machines and
the latest labor-saving devices. Philan-
tlirophy was Black’s hobby, and since his re-
tirement from business ten years ago he is
estimated to have given away £150,000.
“Jeames”: Lady Decies, who has been
castigated by London “Daily Express’’ for
writing “silly gossip about the Prince of
Wales in a New York paper,” is a New
Yorker—a daughter of the late Jay Gould,
millionaire. So she didn’t need the money
she was presumably paid for telling the
U.S.A. that the Prince was going to “put
aside his aversion to marriage and take a
bride within a year,” in view of the Duchess
of York’s failure to bear a son. Lord Decies
is a fairly affluent Irish peer, popular at
Court, which makes his wife’s gaffe all the
more inexplicable. His brother Bob, who
was in Sydney some 20 years ago, is like
him in appearance (tall, fair and power-
fully built), and a typical Beresford in
other respects—a first-rate man at any kind
of sport, particularly if there is a bet hang-
ing to it. The late Lord Charles Beresford,
whom Australia also met, was a kinsman.
“ J.A.8.”: Thomas Thompson wasn’t “the
oldest native-born Sydneyite when he passed
out” (B. 15/10/’3O). William Lancaster,
born in Pitt-street in December, 1834, is
four years the senior. I saw him at Rand-
wick on Derby Day looking hale and hearty,
and he put me on a winner. In 1864 he
was Australia’s champion cueist, and he never
missed a Melbourne Cup until a few years
back.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Gold and a New Standard
The gold standard of currency is not,
as many people seem to suppose, the oldest
of monetary principles. It is the newest.
Britain adopted it a little over a century
ago, and up till 1844 she was the only
country on it. For years it worked, or
appeared to work, fairly satisfactorily, but
it has never acted as an efficient stabiliser
of world price-levels, and in the last five
years the vagaries of those levels have been
so marked that the world’s leading bankers
and economists are constrained to admit
that something ought to be done about it.
Even Sir Otto Niemeyer, who was a
member of the Currency Committee of
1925 which recommended Britain’s return
to the standard, referred in a recent inter-
view in M.L. to the “gold problem,” and
said: “I have always believed that there
is no alternative to the gold standard, but,
of course, all that it does is to relate a whole
series of countries to a single measuring-rod,
which is the value of gold. The gold stand-
ard itself does not fix the measuring-rod.”
And, as everyone is beginning to realise,
the measuring-rod isn’t fixed at all, but
elongates and contracts in a most surprising
manner.
It has been affirmed again and again that
the gold standard is a safeguard against
deliberate manipulation of the world’s pur-
chasing power by interested parties, but
doubts are creeping in even on that point.
Reginald McKenna, chairman of Britain’s
biggest bank, the Midland, told the share-
holders two years ago that he had arrived
at the conclusion that the value of the
dollar controls the value of gold nowadays,
due to the tremendous power of expanding
or contracting credit vested in the U.S.
Federal Reserve Banks, which can put the
dollar “off” gold at will by calling in Gov-
ernment gold certificates backed by 100
per cent, gold and replacing them with
Federal Reserve notes wffiich require only
a 40 per cent, backing. That that power,
which has no parallel in the Bank of Eng-
land’s repertoire, was exercised very drasti-
cally after the Hatry crash in Britain had
set Wall-street rocldng is a matter of
record, and its connection with the continu-
ing fall in prices all the world over is more
than suspected.
What’s the remedy? Sir Otto Niemeyer'
and the rest of the gold-standardites pin
their faith to co-operation between central
banks, but development of that co-opera-
tion is palpably a very slow business. The
Stable Money Association of the U.S.A.,
which numbers some of the world’s leading
financiers and economists among its office-
bearers, takes a more catholic view of the
situation, and is exploring every avenue
that seems likely to lead to increased sta-
bility. The matter is of particular im-
portance to Australia, as a debtor nation,
because when the price of its export products
is cut in two its debt burden is automati-
cally doubled.
There are two aspects of the matter to be
considered—stabilisation of domestic values
and stabilisation of foreign exchange. As
J. M. Keynes says in his “Tract on Mone-
tary Reform,” so long as the external price-
level is unstable a country has a choice
between stabilising its domestic price-level
or its exchange. It cannot have it both
ways.
Possibly the gold standard will in time be
so surrounded by safeguards that it will
operate satisfactorily, but it,must be remem-
bered that it is not the only available
standard. Reverting to a recent Bulletin
suggestion that it might be possible to
establish an entirely new standard based on
gold, silver, wool, wheat and perhaps cop-
per, it is interesting to recall that in
Elizabethan times it was decreed that
certain rents should be one-third expressed
in terms of wheat and malt; and at one
period of its history the State of Massa-
chusetts made a bond issue the principal
and interest of which fluctuated by the
extent to which five bushels of corn, 68
4-71 b. of beef, 101 b. of wool and 161 b. of
leather should cost more or less than £l3O.
The Bulletin’s suggested system is in
principle advocated by Prof. Irving Fisher,
the only currency reformer who has found
many disciples among bankers. Fisher
would make a large group of varied staple
commodities the measuring-rod of cur-
rency value. The old objection to that was
that there would have to be a change in the
size of the sovereign or the gold dollar
every time prices rose or fell, but nowa-
days notes and not gold are used for domes-
tic currency. From a purely Australian
standpoint a currency based partly on wool
and wheat would be extremely acceptable.
We should know where we were. With
gold as a basis, all we know about our
location is that it is entirely surrounded by
uncertainty.
Some More Questions.
The Bulletin continues to receive (and
to welcome) scores of letters discussing
points in its articles on the economic .situa-
tion. A half-dozen seem to call for further
consideration here :
THE SACRIFICES OF CAPITAL.
“Geoloin”: Re the sacrifices Capital is making
(B. 17/9/’3O). Many workers who do not belong
to any party hold that equality of sacrifice is what
should prevail at the present time, and to assert
that Capital’s sacrifice is in any way comparable
to that of the workers is only beating the wind.
The Capitalist, no doubt, is making sacrifices in
what we might term non-essentials; the worker’s
sacrifice cuts into what is necessary to the bodily
well-being of his wife and children.
But what else can Capital sacrifice except
capital? It is quite a mistake, however, to
assume that this sacrifice involves only “what
we might term non-essentials.” For every
rich investor there are a hundred poor ones,
who have put by a little for their own old
age or for their dependants. Thousands of
these are now suffering cuts into what is
necessary for their well-being. For every
even moderately well-to-do person w T ho con-
sults the “Wild Cat” section of The Bulle-
tin Service Department, at least two score of
very ill-provided-for widows, dependants and
elderly men do so. Perhaps there can never
be equality of sacrifice. Certainly the sacri-
fice that Labor is called upon to make is
appalling in its consequences. But realisa-
tion of that should not prevent us from
acknowledging that Capital is making also the
only sacrifices it can. (Of 23 cos. which have
recently published balance-sheets in Adelaide
only four paid an ordinary div, and it
averaged no more than 5 p.c.)
STOCK-WATERING AND COSTS.
“E.McC.”: The Bulletin (24/9/’3O) says: “The
issue of bonus shares does not necessarily mean stock-
watering. In Australia the instances [of real stock-
watering] are exceedingly rare.” But is the issue
of bonus shares so rare? The Sugar Co., Howard,
Smith’s, Tooth’s, almost every fire insurance co.,
Sydney Ferries, shipping cos/ and many coal
and brick cos. have certainly inflated their
capital beyond reasonable limits. Quite recently
an insurance co., a director of which is an economic
expert, paid a special dividend of £8 per share
to write share values up from £l2 to £2O. No
stock-watering myth about this, anyway. Capitalisa-
tion of profits is undoubtedly inflation of capital. In
America it is lovingly known as melon-cutting, and
is one of the main causes of the continued high
cost of living and of production.
Issue of bonus shares paid for out of
undivided profits is not inflation of capital,
any more than the increase of his tools of
trade by a carpenter paid for out of his
earnings, or of his books by a journalist, is
inflation of capital. The only way a small
concern can grow into a large one without
going to the outside capitalist is by hanging-
on to profits and investing them in the busi-
ness; and that is what the issue of bonus
shares paid for out of profits means. The
issue of bonus shares paid for by writing up
assets is quite different. That is stock-
watering; and, as said before, is very rare
in Australia.
The statement that the capitalisation of
profits is one of the main causes of the
high cost of production may be tested by the
case of Henry Ford. Nineteen-twentieths of
his capital is capitalised profits; he has built
it up in that way and enormously reduced
costs at the same time.
Certainly over-capitalising, whether out of
profits or otherwise, is a curse, and The
Bulletin’s “Wild Cat” is always fighting it.
But the paying out of every available penny
of profit is a worse curse, leading to the
dismissal of employees or reduction of pay
whenever a dull time comes.
ARE THE BANKS DOING THEIR BIT?
“Glenfield”: The Bulletin says the banks have
been lending too much. In this district, where
£2OOO overdrafts are common, a settler with similar
security and an overdraft of £4O approached his
banker for £2OO to enable him to put in his crop.
He was turned down flatly. He approached other
banks with the same result. The Drought Relief
Board (Vie.) eventually stood by him, at the same
time demurring that his position did not warrant
Government assistance. If what one reads is true,
the situation of many business and manufacturing
firms in the big city is similar, and many have had
to close down or reduce the number of their em-
ployees. Now I understand the deficiency of overseas
credit, and that the associated banks have shipped
their gold to ease the situation, and I understand
that a restriction of local credit is necessary, but
I do ask “Are the associated banks playing the
game and not unduly restricting local or home
credit ?”
It is quite true that the banks are not
doing, and for some time past have not done,
their job. The question is whose fault is
it? During the war Governments learned a
lesson. They simply said to the banks:
“We are raising a loan of 10 millions. You
will be responsible for so much, and you
for so much.” That practice has been con-
tinued. Australian credit has been so
strained that the failure of an Australian
loan in Australia has had to be guarded
against, and banks have had to stand by pre-
pared to finance Governments.
Meantime, while the demands on the banks
have been growing steadily, the deposits
have been gradually diminishing. This com-
parison is illuminating—it shows what all
ordinary banks, including the trading depart-
ment of the Commonwealth Bank, have had
on deposit and have advanced during the past
three years:—
Ratio of
Advances Advances
June, Deposits. and Securities, to Deposits.
1928. . £354,433,887 £370,558,467 104.5 p.c.
1929.. 373,919,270 352,707,384 94.3 „
1930.. 352,343,859 380,629,156 108.0 „
Thus, while deposits have decreased by over
21 millions in the past 12 months, advances
(including Government securities) have
increased by 28 millions.
THE BASIC WAGE.
And, finally, a question that drops in
oftener than any other: —•
“Bill”: Re your basic-wage article, do you be-
grudge the Digger who risked his life for you £4
a week ? ,
There is no unfathomable well out of
which £4 a* week can be drawn. The money
has to be put into the well by somebody
before it can be got out; and there is such
a thing as the well running dry. It would
have run dry in Australia any time during
the past seven years only we borrowed hun-
dreds of millions of pounds overseas and left
the settlement to our children. Of course
The Bulletin doesn’t begrudge the Digger
£4 a week; but it hates the idea of the
Digger’s children having to pay the bill, and
that’s what has been happening, and that’s
what it is concerned about.
This country has been loaded with over
one thousand one hundred millions of public
great part of it incurred to pay a
basic wage which wasn’t earned; and to-day,
in consequence, because of the sudden stop-
page of loans out of which that wage was
paid, tens of thousands of Diggers are idle
and in the sorest distress, and their children
—if they have any—are faced with years ot
heavy taxpaying. What The Bulletin
wants to do, further, is to cut out the
loafers and a large proportion of the middle-
men, and reduce the top-hamper of govern-
ment, which all take so much that the real
producer gets only a mite of what he honestly
earns.
A Question of Exchange
Dear Bulletin, —One way in which Aus-
tralians are being robbed is in connection
with the matter of exchange. I was recently
owed a sum —call it £lO0 —in London. The
£lOO was paid to my agent, who duly for-
warded an account stating my credit and
that the amount had been forwarded through
a bank. Having never taken any interest in
finance, high or low, I would have been per-
fectly satisfied with the result. I was owed
£lOO and £lOO now stood to my credit in my
local bank. So all was well. A phrase
about foreign exchange which had occurred
in a Bulletin leader, however, drifted
through my mind, and I made a few in-
quiries. I then learnt that what I should
have drawn in Australia was £lO6 2s. 6d.
It appeared then that what had actually
happened was that my agent had gone to the
bank in London and said “How much will
it cost to have £lOO placed to the credit of
Billy Bjones in Melbourne.” The bank
quite properly replied, “£93 17s. 6d. plus the
cost of the transaction.” Whether the Lon-
don gentleman intended to pocket the
£0 2s. 6d., the difference between the value
of £lOO in England and the same sum in
Melbourne, I do not know; but I am now T
in course of explaining to him the error of
his ways.
It would be interesting to know how many
thousands of real money are being lost to
Australia by this means. My bank tells me
it gets dozens of cases every week. A bank
is naturally not in a nosition to intervene,
because it is merely executing an order and
is not in a position to more than suspect
the actual facts. Ignorance on the subject
must be pretty widespread.—Yours, etc.,
Bill Bjones.
The Petrol Mystery
In view of the demand for cheaper petrM
in Australia the position in the U.S.A. is
instructive. Crude oil is pouring out of the
bores at the rate of 134 million gallons daily.
Some of the bores produce almost pure
petrol, fit to be put in a ear immediately, but
the average petrol content is 40 per cent.,
so that the daily production is approximately
53,000,000 gallons. There are bores which
are down two miles and delivering better
than ever, which suggests that the U.S.A.
is situated on top of a petrol ocean. One
bore in Texas is capable alone of yielding
double the whole present production.
Naturally the market is glutted. There are
689 million barrels in store in the U.S.A.
alone. This despite the fact that many bores
have been wholly or partly shut down—there
is one in Oklahoma which has closed its
daily flow bv 1,158,000 barrels. Although
there are 350,000 petrol depots and 800,000
bowsers the U.S.A. has more oil than it
knows what to do with. And the U.S.A.
is, of course, only one source of supply.
The Anglo-Persian Co., which reckons its
output in tons, has since 1926-27 been pro-
ducing upwards of five million tons a year.
Australia seems to be the only country in
the world which gets no benefit from this tre-
mendous production. “In America,” says
the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria, “the
retail price of petrol is 2|d. a gallon plus
a tax of 2|d.; in London it is Is. 2-|d. plus
a tax of 4d.; in Brussels, Is. 2d. 'plus a tax
of s£d. In Australia at the seaboard the
price is now 2s. 3d., including a tax of
in remote areas it rises to as much as 55.”
The club estimates Australian consumption
at 200 million gallons, and denounces it as
an outrage that this quantity should be
taxed to the extent of £5,833,000, which
amount includes primage duty and the penny-
a-gallon collected on the crude oil imported
by Commonwealth Oil Refineries.
"The Federal Government announces that
2s. 3d. a gallon is exorbitant, and promises
to’do something in the matter, without being
embarrassingly precise. To begin with, it
might explain why C.O.R. has been of so
little'help to the consumer —-the Government
holds more than half the shares.
Country Telephone Services
“Kripple”: I know this is a time when
economy must be practised; but economy
doesn’t always mean spending less money —
it often means spending more.
What I am concerned about is the sus-
pension of Sunday and bight services at
country telephone stations. To have motor
or flying ambulances in out-back townships
with poor communication in the surrounding
district is equivalent to setting up a fine
structure on a rotten foundation. Here is an
experience well known to me, A fall,. a
damaged spine, and there lay the victim,
obviously a case for skilled attention only,
from 10 a.m. until 10 p.m., enduring the
most hellish agony, when one hour at most
should have sufficed. Close by there was
a station with telephone and line to the
township, all in first-class order; but it was
Sunday and there was no service. Although
quick attention in this particular case may
not have saved a young man from becom-
ing a helpless cripple and a burden on the
country, quite conceivably rapid action in
others may avoid such calamities.
Where it may be considered unprofitable
to keep an exchange working at all hours,
could it not be arranged for subscribers
to call the hospital direct during the opera-
tor’s absence? Surely some emergency
measures could be devised.
Though there has been no appreciable
improvement in wool prices since the open-
ing sales, clearances have been satisfactory.
Last year’s stocks were all disposed of within
12 months of their coming on the market,
and so far the sales in the Australian capi-
tals indicate that this year’s clip will be
similarly absorbed. One virtue of wool is
that it can always be sold, even if the price
offered is not always profitable. This is
not the ease with some of the metals, rubber,
cotton, dried fruits or even wheat.
* * * *
There is a scrap of road in Melbourne
which was put down over 20 years ago,_ has
been in constant and heavy use ever since,
has not cost a penny in maintenance, and
looks to-day as good as the latest effort of
the Country Roads Board. It joins the lane
running into Dunlop-Perdriau’s with Flin-
ders-street, and is composed entirely (of
rubber.
■jf * * *
The Falkiner cane-harvester looked good
when it was tested in Queensland a year
or two ago. But the money gave out before
the young inventor had got very far, and
he found himself compelled to look for
further capital in America. His efforts have
evidently been successful; messages have
been received that the company backing him
has orders for 15 Falkiner harvesters for
Florida and 10 for the Cuban fields. This
argues success at last, and, since the cost of
machine-cutting is claimed to be only a third
of that of the old method, the outlook for
the Queensland grower becomes brighter.
* * * *
“FY7”: It is just 50 years since the first
shipment of frozen meat left Australia for
Britain. Thirty-four tons of mutton and
beef was shipped on the Strathleven, and
reached London in good condition, valuable
publicity resulting from the presentation of
a lamb carcase to Queen Victoria. In the
latest year on record Britain took 60,000
tons of our beef and mutton, valued at
£2,378,248.
* * * #
J. A. Sloan, a well-known N.S.W. breeder
of Corricdales, has returned from Japan,
whither he went with a consignment before
the Federal embargo on sheep export be-
came effective. He says the industry can
only be carried on in Japan on a tiny scale
and in connection with other farming pur-
suits ; the climate compels housing and hand-
feeding throughout the long winter. The
Australian embargo has not affected the
Nipponese woolgrowers, plenty of American
stock being available.
* * * *
British meat-traders have issued a mani-
festo urging the imposition of a duty on
foreign meat. Empire meat, it is recom-
mended, should be free; South American
produce should be taxed a farthing a pound
ou beef, mutton and veal, and a halfpenny
on lamb and pork; on other foreign meats
the duty should be fd., with Id. for lamb.
Whether such a measure of preference would
give Australia and M.L. a market advantage
over Argentina is questionable; however, the
manifesto is a move in the right direction.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Touching crude-oil engines,
mentioned in a recent Bulletin, there are
Australians who are alive to their possibili-
ties. One in particular is running a goods
service between Melbourne and Mt. Gambier
(S.A.). 300 miles each way. He carries a
load of 8 tons on a Mercedes Benz truck
and hands out for fuel 355. for the 600 miles.
Another drives a smilar vehicle between
Newcastle and Tamworth (N.S.W.). H'is
limit of speed being 25 m.p.li., he is passed
on the flat by many faster conveyances, but
as he takes the hills at the same rate as the
levels he arrives in Tamworth, with a 6-ton
load aboard, anything up to two hours ahead
of rivals.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —That Westralian report
of the discovery at the University of: a
cheap anti-corrosive water-soluble oil (B.
l/10/’SO) is amusing. My firm has
for 20 years had a preparation on
the market (a natural vegetable product),
which has never failed to give 100 per cent
efficiency, even using the worst of waters; it
also has a sister line for cars. At the end
of last year both products were taken up
in Germany for testing, and at the begin-
ning of the month we received a large mail
order for both lines from that country, fol-
lowed a day later by a cable doubling the
quantity mentioned in the letter. As you
are a good barracker for Australian trade
I think you will appreciate our successful
entry into the German market, more' especi-
ally as we have received assurances of big
business for both lines in Middle Europe.—-
Yours, etc., F. C. Niemann, chairman of
directors Ivyrac Pty., Ltd.
* * * *
As one means of getting more money into
the country, the Maorilanders are doing their
best to attract tourists. The Government,
which controls not only the means of trans-
port but the hotels at most of the principal
show-places, has cut its tariffs considerably.
For instance, the journey from Tunaru to
Queenstown (part railway, part motor),
which lies through some of the most pic-
turesque mountain scenery in the world,
now costs £5 10s.; it used to be £8 10s. An
all-lines first-class railway pass, good tor
seven weeks, can be bought for £l6 os., a
substantial reduction on the former price.
With it every province in the Dominion can
be visited at a third of the cost of separate
bookings.
# * * v
The Dobbin revival has not reached
Broken Hill, though the Hill used to oe
quite a good horse-dealing centre, stock com-
ing in from along the Darling and across the
Queensland border. Odd lots were assem-
bled to make a pretty big catalogue again
the other day. But now the highest price
was £4 and the lowest seven-and-sixpence.
* * * *
“C.W.C.”: The Bulletin is right; the
Perth-Sydney mail service has been arranged
with total disregard for the P u blm s
convenience. Look at it from the I erth
end. We have mails closing on Friday even-
ing, midday on Saturday (the train leaves
Perth on Sunday night), Monday evening
(air mail closes at nine on Tuesday morn-
ing) and Tuesday evening; then none tor
three days. The old Tuesday-Thursday-
Saturday service, with the air mail on Mon-
day night (i.e., Tuesday 9 a.m.) was a far
better arrangement for the community.
* * =i= *
The trustworthy old printing house of
John Andrew and Co. is nowadays respon-
sible for Woods’s Australian Diaries. These,
in no less than 85 varieties, are so compre-
hensive that there is surely nobody, business
man, professional man, housekeeper, society
woman, whose needs are not catered for.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion “This Thing Called Love ’
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Mr.. Cinders”
King’s “Let Us Be Gay”
Tivoli “Here’s Luck”
State Movies and Talkies
«
Last week this Showman awoke to the
fact that he must soon perform a duty.
Something like 40 or 50 vaudeville artists,
soft-shoe dancers, conjurers, gymnasts, jug-
glers and the like are nightly giving free
try-out performances round the suburb where
he lives. There are three headliners in
the troupe, Grips, Snollers and Banks, and
the duty is to decide which of these three
should be selected to perform on contract
for an extended season in the national
variety house in Macquarie-street.
Surveying their turns and those of their
40 or so offsiders, seconds, sparring part-
ners, towel-wavers, hot-air pumpers bubble-
blowers and the like didn’t help. The theme
of each one’s act, that if either of the other
two got in the country would never recover
from the shock, wasn’t convincing. None of
them looked as if he could shock the sus-
ceptibilities of a Customs censor. There
seemed to be nothing for it but to toss up,
when suddenly the heavens opened and
down fell the shower of manna named
Snodge, loaded with parcels.
“H'ullo,” said Snodge.
“Hullo. What’s doing?”
“Haven’t you heard? I’m training Snol-
lers. Care for a whatsit? Good. No, no;
on me. Election expenses.”
Clink. Gurgle-gurgle-gurgle.
“Another? Good. No, on me. Election
expenses.”
“So you’re training Snollers, are you?
How d’you mean, training him?”
“Better sit down. Good. Well, you see,
it’s like this. You being a theatrical critic,
so to speak, might vote for, say, Banks.
Proper training . from your point of view—
school theatricals, amateur theatricals, pro-
fesh. But I tell you he’s all wrong for the
Macquarie-street show. So’s Grips. Why?
Won’t last the distance. Training all out
to billy-o.
“Now, when Snollers got hold of me,
what’d I do? Went into it scientifically.
“Giving free try-out performances round the
suburb.”
Read books. At last I struck the right one
and knew I’d land him there sure as a goog.
I says to him, ‘Snollers, you’re a cert. What’s
more, you’ll last. Those other runts’ll
go in the fetlocks in the first hundred yards.’
So I started to train him, according to the
book. First, I asks him what he eats.
‘Lobsters,’ says Snollers. ‘Worst thing in
the world,’ says I. ‘Crabs, cucumber, mar-
malade, ' pickles, rhubarb,’ says Snollers.
Well, I had to talk to him like a Dutch
uncle. All wrong, all wrong to billy-o. How
did I know? I tell you, I read it in the
book. ‘An army fights on its stomach,’ said
Napoleon. It does, too. I was there. Down
on your guts every time —that’s war. But
if you’re going for the Macquarie-street show
you’ve got to fight on what’s in your stomach.
I know. I tell you, I read it in the book.
“Now, take baking powder. It’s one of
the most harmful things you can eat. A
good blow-out on baking powder and —well,
you might as well make a complete job of
yourself and join the Australian Party. It’s
positively deadly. So’s old cabbage. So is
egg plant and isinglass. Tear a good wad
of isinglass into you and you might as well
pack up. Radish is absolutely taboo. So
are soft drinks.
“Oh, by the way. Have another? No,
on me. Election expenses.
“Now, as I was saying, you’ve got to give
radish the go-by. Also soft drinks. Also
spices, tea, vinegar, yams and viscera.
Snollers used to sneak away on his own and
eat yams every chance he got. As for
viscera, he’s what you’d call a viscera addict.
Goes it scone-hot. Well, at last I brought
him round; got him right off the viscera.
Different man at once. I also broke him
off bacon, fruit puddings, goose, dried peas,
sweet potatoes, tomatoes and other things the
book reckoned weren’t too good for a public
performer to get outside of.
“And now see these parcels here. They’re
this week’s supply of what he’s going to have-
Here’s a pound of almonds. Great stuff.
Pearl barley, double-baked bread, beef. Now
take beef. IJow do you have it? Roasted?
Fried? All wrong, old boy; all wrong to
billy-o. You try it raw. Snollers tried to
squib on it at first, but I got the book out
and showed him. Now he can knock off a
pound of raw porterhouse with any candi-
date in the country. They tell me Lang goes
in for raw topside, with plenty of gristle,
and yet if he wins there’ll be people who’ll
say he got in on • his promises. Promises,
me foot! Raw topside—that’s what’s carry-
ing Lang along. D’you mean to try to
tell me a man could make the kind of noise
he makes without raw topside ? Bunkum!
Of course, you can’t blame anybody like
Snollers for thinking at first that Lang does
it by eating gramophone records, but I
happen to know Jack personally, and I can
give you the straight griffin he doesn’t eat
more than two or three dozen gramophone
records a week, and then only as dessert.
“And take Bavin. They tell me he has his
meat cooked! And if he doesn’t get in,
what’ll they say. They’ll say it was because
he was too damned honest. Honest! Honest
be hanged. No man is honest to his elec-
torate who takes his meat cooked.
“Now, see this parcel here. What’s that?
Well, it’s stuff for making bouillon. Bouillon
is absolutely
essential. It is
derived from
the A.I.F.
word ‘bull.’
Great stuff.
Of course, it’s
a bit obvious.
I mean, all
the candidates
know they
must go in for
it. But I’ll
tell you
what they
don’t know—
dates. The
most nutri-
tious of fruits
—I quote
from the
“Look at his head! Well,
they vote for him!”
book. Or honey (the best of sweets),
lettuce (rich in vitamins), oats, flaked (the
best of cereals), oatmeal (if well boiled),
oysters (cooked), peas (green), potatoes
(baked, stewed, or boiled in skins), raisins
(preferably seeded), rice (preferably un-
polished—l quote from the book; never ever
saw anybody polishing rice), pumpkin (rich
in phosphates), treacle (rich in mineral
salts), and, of course, vermicelli. I got him
on to all this all right, but there’s one thing
in the book I can’t get him to face —that’s
rainwater.
“Oh. by the way. No, no; they’re on
me. Election expenses. Thanks. Same to
you.
“Well, as I was saying, he won’t come at
rainwater. ‘Anything else,’ said Snollers,
‘but, by heavens, you don’t get me on to
that stuff!’ That’s been my only failure
so far, except for thick sour milk, which
the book describes as a ‘cooling summer
food.’ He wouldn’t come at thick sour milk
at all. ‘All right for blokes up in the cow
belt, like Missingharn,’ says Snollers. Well,
I was able to tell him that Missingharn is
a fair tiger for it. In fact, all the poddies
up on the North Coast are getting about
with their sides flapping together since the
election started. But Snollers wouldn’t
come at it. Otherwise, he’s a cert.
“Of course, you’re not to think it finishes
with food. Far from it. The book is red
hot on leakages of vitality. Blinking, yawn-
ing, drumming with fingers or toes —all
crook. Swinging the arms, legs or body.
That’s where Snollers fell down —swinging
the body. He used to swing the old chassis
every chance he got. Biting the finger-nails,
says the book, or scratching the head. That’s
where Snollers was missing, too —scratching
the old lollie. Couldn’t leave it alone.
Seemed to have an idea that you want to
attract as much attention to the old top-
piece as possible to get in. Bunkum. No-
body cares a tuppenny dump whether you’ve
got a head on you or not. I tell you, head-
piece doesn’t matter. Take Billy Hughes.
Look at his head. Well, they vote for him.
“Anyway, according to the book, a man
hasn’t an earthly if he goes in for twitching
the eyelids or fingers; stammers, starts,
fumbles; is subject to frights, sighing, wake-
fulness. That’s where Snollers wasn’t click-
ing, Too wide awake. Now take Butten-
shaw —that’s where he wins. Sleepy. They
like it. To look at Buttenshaw you’d think,
‘Well, here’s a bloke who’s been up riding
the old tractor plough all night.’ Of course,
seme men have natural advantages.
“Then there’s the sex question. I had to
broach that because it’s there in the book.
Snollers wouldn’t hear of it; said he was
only standing for this election because he’d
been in the corset business all his life and
was sick and tired of ’em. I read from
the book about how men shouldn’t allow
themselves to be captured by the dress or
facial make-up of the opposite sex, but should
give preference to anybody whose complexion
was as close to nature as good taste would
permit, and that he should always remember
that good health and cleanliness of blood
speak for themselves, when allowed to show
themselves. And what did he say? He
said there were no women like that in his
electorate, and if there were he didn’t want
their votes. ‘Show themselves like that!’
said Snollers. ‘Good God, man, this is not
Darlinghurst!’
“Well, I -got off the sex question on to
tobacco. I read him from the book, ‘Exces-
“Take Bavin. They tell me he has his
meat cooked!”
sive smoking may lead to imbecility.’ Now
he’s smoking harder than ever.”
This Showman left Snodge at once. Of
course, the vote must go to Snollers.
¥ ¥ ¥
There is a show at the Athenaeum, Mel-
bourne, which is attracting less notice than
Syd Beck’s latest turn at the Tivoli —and
this statement is not meant to bring Syd
Beck into contempt, for in his way lie is
an artist. It is simply a statement of fact
which may have mild historical interest
some day.
The show in question is a year’s painting
in oils by Clarice Beckett. In present obser-
ver’s opinion Miss Beckett is the most ori-
ginal painter in Australia. “Original” is
not meant to imply that she has done some-
thing that has never been attempted before,
like diving off the top of the new St. Paul’s
steeple into the baptismal font. She has
simply attempted what hundreds of other
Australian painters have attempted, and has
done it differently. The results may not
be so very different —the real advances in
art are not sensational —but in that differ-
ence lies everything. Generations of paint-
ers attempted to paint Sydney Harbor, and
J. J. Hilder came along and painted it
slightly differently ; and the slight difference
made previous painting of less importance.
In the same way, this show of Clarice
Beckett’s makes that slight advance which
places it ahead of all previous painting in
Victoria, including the largest and most
pompous pictures in the National collection.
Some of this painter’s landscapes are going
to be treasured, as those of other innovators
are treasured. It is no reflection on the
National Gallery in Melbourne that it has
no Clarice Becketts yet. It was 15 years
after his first exhibition before any public
gallery in Britain plucked up sufficient cour-
age to acquire a Whistler that had been
shown at that exhibition ; and it was roundly
abused for doing so. Meanwhile Miss
Beckett’s show is the best on offer in Mel-
bourne. Details of judgment, with additional
evidence, will appear in the Palette column.
* * *
Backhaus, who has given Australia nobler
programmes than any other virtuoso in its
history, closed with Melbourne in a verit-
able Titan of a bill which included Beetho-
ven’s Sonata op. 31, his op. 110, some Schu-
bert, a bagful of gems by Chopin, Schu-
mann’s “Carnaval” in 14 chapters, and some
of the comparatively modern. The Town
Hallful of hard bargainers was still demand-
ing more when present scribe made for the
exit.
¥ ¥ ¥
Four Australian plays were presented by
the Australian Literary Society at the Vic-
torian Railways Institute, Flinders-street,
Melbourne, last week, and that eminent
patron of the arts Railways .Commissioner
Clapp provided the musical accompaniment
gratis. The
first piece was
“T he Odd
Sens e,” by
Alice Serle,
intermezzo by
the 8.40 to
North .Carl-
ton, the 8.41
to Dandenong
and the 9.13
to Essendon.
The second
was “The
. White Fea-
ther,” byFurn-
ley Maurice,
Andante fav-
ori in D flat
major by the
South Gipps-
1a n d milk
train. The
third was
“Morning,” by
Betty Davies,
sonata in C
“Could shock the suscepti-
bilities of a Customs
censor.”
sharp minor by the Ballarat goods, plus
variations and fugue on a shunting engine
by Mishandle. The last was “The Kitchen
Table,” by Vida Lenox, nocturne in G flat
by the 10.50 to reservoir, etc. As far as
could be gathered in the pauses between Mr.
Clapp’s incidental music, Mrs. Davies’s
“Dawn,” which won first prize in the Liter-
ary Society’s recent competition, contained
the soundest drama and the best theatrical
road sense. There is sound characterisation
in the old fossicker who has found a pocket
of nuggets and is off to Sydney with each
nugget earmarked for its particular sub-
lime purpose—one for booze, one for races,
one for the women, etc. It was well inter-
preted by George Cockerell. . Eric Donald
only made melodrama of a fugitive from jus-
tice, and, from the obscurity of a stretcher,
Catherine Neill gave restrained effect to a
nursing mother.
* * #
Accompanied by a large and entranced
audience. Fritz Hart conducted the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra on a tour of
Wagner, the peaks, the valleys, the rivers
and the plains thereof, on Saturday at the
Town Hall. Beginning with the immature
“Die Feen” overture, he passed on to “Tann-
hauser’s Pilgrimage,” paid a brief visit to
“The Flying Dutchman,” called attention
to that monument to immortal love the
“Liebestod” from “Tristan Und Isolde,”
made a feeling reference in passing to the
“Gotterdammerung,” indicated the lighter
charms of “Die Meistersinger” and concluded
the evening with the magniloquent introduc-
tion to Act 111 of “Lohengrin.” A night
with one composer was an experiment fraught
with dire possibilities, but the excellent judg-
ment of the director of the Melba Conserva-
torium brought it off triumphantly. In the
person of vocalist Eda Bennie, Elizabeth
gave a somewhat cold “greeting to the Hall
of Song” (Tannhauser).
* * *
Wirths’ Circus hit Melbourne in the usual
place and at the usual time on Friday.
Claudia Albo continues to catch six-inch
shells on her elegant neck with the old
insouciance, Brody’s Lilliputian troupe of
aerialists is a clean, neat act, and the show
is as great a juvenile treat as ever.
* * *
Sydney St. James duly changed from
“Happy Days” to “Sunny Skies” on Satur-
day, and the Special Announcement that
Colin Crane would sing “Ole Man River”
brought its due response. The show is an
improvement on its immediate predecessor,
and is rattling good value for the one, two
and three, notwithstanding that Mo’s “jokes”
are the crudest this Showman has ever smelt.
“Sons o’ Guns,” at Her Majesty’s, was
booked out on Monday night, an unprece-
dented occurrence, possibly due to the fact
that a bunch of Sydney’s leading underwear
houses had got together, bought all the seats
and given them away to shoppers. The pub
on the corner wasn’t included in the scheme,
perhaps on the principle that to an honest
beer-drinker going to a theatre would be
such a waste of time.
“This Thing Called Love,” at the Cri., is
winning the business such good acting merits.
A breezy show with a worth-while mission
is running at Sydney Opera House. It is a
revue called “Whiz Bangs,” put on by the
Anzac Relief Division to assist out-of-work
Diggers.
* * *
Nellie Bramley continues weekly-change
vaudeville at Brisbane Royal. Outstanding
performers: Phyl and Ray as dancers, and
“Well, as I was saying, he won’t come at
rainwater.”
the Bramley in a dramatic sketch. Manager
William Raymond lends assistance with his
voide. Commencing next week, Nellie starts
with the “Smilestones of 1930,” for which
she has imported some new artists from Syd-
ney and Melbourne.
At His Majesty’s, “The Belle of New
York” for a short season of four nights.
H- * *
The other Monday night Nellie Stewart
was a star item at Melbourne Tivoli once
more. She went to Melbourne to receive
at the hands of Best, chairman of the com-
mittee, the painting of herself done by
Mclnnes and subscribed for by a number of
Melbourne’s old playgoers. Hugh D. Mcln-
tosh, with the sure instinct of the showman,
readily lent a half-hour in the middle of
his usual programme for the picture to be
handed over.
* * *
The Royal was once reputed to have the
most persistent hoodoo in Melbourne, but now
the Comedy possesses the distinction. At the
opening performance the profession unani-
mously shook its head when it observed that
the architects had installed a green curtain.
Conductor Benno Scherek supplied immediate
confirmation by dying in the theatre, a
member of the Margaret Bannerman com-
pany fell sick there and died later in Sydney,
and there were other disquieting phenomena,
including the failure of that young, vivacious,
good-looking and world-famous actor Wil-
liam Faversham to become a box-office
attraction. Faversham had prognosticated
this result when he saw the emerald dish-
cloth. The fact that Mrs. Harold Clapp has
recently packed the house again and again
with an amateur performance of her own
revue,' “The Love Step,” only means that
the hoodoo is cunningly engaged in provid-
ing a bait to lure more professionals to their
destruction.
* * *
A rusty hatchet was buried in the
lift of the Australia in Sydney recently, when
Hugh Ward and George Tallis found them-
selves fellow-passengers on the way from
the dining-room. The eminent entrepreneurs
had not spoken to each other for seven years,
following on a dispute which culminated in
Ward leaving J.C.W. Presumably they felt
the need to sink petty differences in the face
of the menace of the talkies. Anyhow they
shook, and Tallis swore to break bread with
Ward on his next visit from Melbourne.
« ¥ ¥ '
“Cauboy”: According to evidence in a
claim for damages in Melbourne, there are
people prepared to pay £4O a week for the
lease of the sweets-shop under the Royal,
phis varying sums for the exclusive right to
sell confectionery inside the building. The
sums are £l4 a week when a musical comedy
“Now he’s smoking harder than ever.”
is being performed and £l2 when drama
is presented. This only confirms what I have
felt for a long time—-that Governments
do not realise the importance of the drama.
Here is Allan Wilkie announcing that he
will have to disband his company owing
to the way Scullin, Bavin, H'ogan and the
rest of them keep slamming on amusement
taxes. Shakspearc is probably the least
conducive to the consumption of hard and
soft centres; nevertheless, I estimate that
during an average Wilkie season no less
than £7200-worth of chocolates, orange crush
and Eskimo pies are surrounded by students
of Elizabethan drama. The figure may be
doubled for straight comedies .like “Little
Accident” and trebled for dancing shows like
“Follow Through.” Compare this with the
miserable returns for other forms of art. I
have been at the opening of an exhibition
of painting where not even a lifesaver was
being sucked.


[ PREPARED ]
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.—“B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
D
i>yA
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—.
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call jor our Booklet “The Making of a Will
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney),
, f Dividends —
Ist 2nd
Net Prefs. Prefs.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 71 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
275 765
1920. .101,249 9000 10 p.c. = 40,980 227,034
Surplus from sale of property, £9OOO .. 236,034
Provision for depreciation of stock, £60,000 176,034
1921.. 3,984 9000 8,573 7 h p.c.- 37,090 125,355
1922.. 85,262 9000 8,485 10 „ ~ 49,453 143,679
1923.. 90,107 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 166,760
1924.. 95,776 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 195,510
1925.. 97,989 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,876 226,050
1926. .104,789 9000 9,911 10 „ „ 50,000 261,928
Premiums on shares, £25,000 .. .. 286,928
1927. .106,885 9000 13,330 10 p.c. = 52,764 318,719
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 „ „ 59,537 329,915
1929. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 360,497
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 „ „ 42,000 364,489
Nearly three years ago the management very
successfully transferred the goodwill which
the co. had built up during 89 years of trad-
ing at the corner of George and Barrack
streets to new 11-storeyed premises fronting
Elizabeth, Market and Castlereagh streets.
Doubt was whether, with a lot more money
invested in premises, turnover could be liv-
ened sufficiently to enable the usual 10 p.c.
div. to be paid on a million of capital. The
figures to the close of accounts in 1929 dis-
pelled that doubt.
But during the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts economic changes lightened the
public’s purse, increased the cost of import-
ing, and restricted retail and other trading
to supplying a lessened and more discrimi-
nating demand. Also there has been a steady
fail in the value of softgoods, with the trend
of prices still downwards, and capricious
fashion has added to difficulties. Thus a
quick clearance of stocks became essential,
and cuts had to be made in most lines; over-
head remained obstinate.
It is all reflected in the accounts by a sharp
drop of £44,590 in the year’s net profit. After
allowing for 6 p.c, and 74 p.c. on the respec-
tive prefs.—together they called for £27,750- —
there was enough to show 7.6 p.c. on the
ord. capital as against 15.1, 11.8, 16, 17.1
and 16.1 p.c. back to 1925, and a 7 p.c. div.
was paid. But since most of the slip occurred
in the second half of the term, that rate
of div. is by no means secure. Assuming
that the rate earned for the ords. in the first
half was 10 p.c.—which is not improbable
—then the rate for the.second half was only
5.3 p.c. Moreover, the acute position in the
exchange market, the primage duty, the
sales tax, tariff increases and import pro-
hibitions have strewn fresh difficulties in the
path of traders. Results will depend largely
upon shrewd buying, clean stocks and a tight
hold upon outgoings. But until the fog which
now envelopes the country’s fiscal policy
clears, a revival of business confidence and
quickening of trade need not be looked for.
How the board has handled the co.’s
finances is seen in the next comparison:—
1920. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £559,804 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Deposits .. .. 14,369 16,286 43,226
Overdraft . . .. 287,259 42,031 49,248
Sundry creditors .. 121,620 268,338 148,904
-Mortgages, etc. . . 203,585 469,218 475,480
Total liabilities.. £626,833 £795,873 £716,858
Fixed assets . . 520,250 1,322,082 1,317,632
Stocks . . . 669,308 588,010 533,664
Book debts . . 199,632 281,167 252,893
Investments, cash, etc. 49,470 8,986 9,033
At the close of last accounts the floating
debt (£264,383) was £79,015 lighter than
at the previous balance, and was more than
three times covered by more or less liquids,
including stocks. So, assuming that the
latter have been conservatively valued, there
is nothing to worry about there. The item
which attracts attention is the amount in-
vested in fixed assets —62.3 p.c. of the balance-
sheet total at June 30 as against 45.5 p.c.
four years earlier; it means a very lively
turnover if satisfactory results are to be won.
Also the mortgage (£452,475) is likely to
make its weight felt.
At 14s. the ords. return 10 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis, or 7.1 p.c. if the rate of distri-
bution drops to 5 p.c. The backing is 325.
6d. in net tangibles. There are 150,000 first
6 p.c. and 250,000 second 74 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which rank in the order stated and have
priority as to capital. The firsts are priced
at 18s. and the seconds at 175., at which
figures they return G. 7 p.c. and 8.8 p.e. respec-
tively. The cover is £9 11s. Id. and £4 17s. Id.
in net tangibles.
Amalgamated Wireless.
Writ- To Re- De-
June, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 16,546 6 p.c. = 11,136 7294 10,233
Establishment expenses capitalised, £6960 17,193
1923.. 6,834 Nil 6691 143 17,050
Establishment expenses capitalised, £451 17,501
Loss.
1924.. 14,505 Nil 7352 39,358
Establishment expenses capitalised, £102,009 141,367
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. .. 141,229
Profits.
1925.. 14,005 Nil 8969 5036 136,193
Establishment expenses capitalised, £54,592 190,785
1926.. 23,617 Nil 11,421 12,196 178,589
Forfeited shares, £193 .. .. 178,396
Nominal
Reserves.
1927*. 39,036 Nil 13,886 25,150 21,294
Deficit
Establishment account disclosed, £49,795 28,501
1928.. 70,722 6 p.c. = 43,961 23,297 3464 25,037
Written off establishment exes., £717 24,320
1929. .108,326 8 p.c. - 59,543 28,731 20,052 4,268
Written off establishment exes., £ll . . 4,257
Reserves.
1930.. 84,283 8 p.a = 59,543 24,740 20,483
*Reserves subject to undisclosed establishment exes.
After the impasse in connection with the use
of the co.’s rights in Australia had been
overcome by the Commonwealth Government
acquiring a controlling interest in the busi-
ness in 1922, fresh difficulties arose, and
shareholders went hungry for the five years
to the close of accounts in 1927. Mean-
while the successful development of the Beam
service solved part of the co.’s problems. It
was this and the agreement made with the
Federal Government in Dec., 1927, that
altered the investment outlook for the scrip.
Amongst other things, the agreement pro-
vided for a subsidy sufficient to cover the
loss in the Coastal Radio section of the busi-
ness. It also strengthened the co.’s goodwill
by making its patents free to the public for
five years. In return for the concession the
co. gets 3s. p.a. of each listener’s license
fee: revenue should have benefited by over
£45,000 from this moiety last year.
The quick development of the Beam, added
to the other things just mentioned, has sent
the p. and 1. figures along in this way:—
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Gross profits.. £158,032 £382,631 £443,331 £457,722
Exes.* .. 134,415 311,909 335,005 373,439
Profit as per
table .. £23,617 £70,722 £108,326 £84,283
includes losses on subsidiary, £2400, £3988 and
£439.
The earnings of the Beam improved a trifle
last year, but brisker sales of Itadiolas and
other wireless equipment and better returns
on account of listeners’ fees were mainly
responsible for the spring of £14,391 in gross
profits. Provision for depreciation, hitherto
enarged separately and shown as written off
in the introductory table, was lumped with
general exes, at the latest balance. Allow-
ing for this the net result was £4688 better
than the 1929 figure, beinv 11.3 p.c. on
average capital compared with 10.6 p.c. and
6.4 p.c. for the two preceding years; so the
8 p.c. div. was an easy matter.
Finances are comfortable enough :
1923. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £261,812 £662,634 £744,283 £744,283
Overdraft . . 4,573 67,020
Sundry creditors 30,842 130,150 95,557 113,652
Freehold 1 9fl - j 224,051 233,366 267,376
Plant, etc. f j 267,917 297,173 295,011
Ream service. 17,489* 214,601* 156,887 160,412
Shares other cos. 30,007 4,710 —.—
Book debts .. 54,330 150,438 169,613 125,268
Cash, etc. . . 12,529 1,127 68,420 114,565
*lncludes unspecified amount spent on research and
development.
The liquid surplus (£126,181) was £16,295
lighter than it was at June 30, 1929, due to
the addition of £34,010 to the book value of
freeholds. The co. bought a new factory site,
with three suitable buildings thereon, at
Ashfield.
Quite recently the board had to fight hard
to keep the business under Australian control.
Since the other ends of the co.’s Beam ser-
vice (in England and Canada) and the
Pacific cable and Eastern cable passed
into the hands of Imperial Communi-
cations, Ltd., ineffectual co-operation and
price cutting became dangerous possi-
bilities. However, what looks like a fair
settlement has been reached whereby the
two services at this end will be brought
under Australian management. The agree-
ment still awaits approval in London.
The wireless telephone service, opened
with Britain and other countries during the
year, is not yet a profit-earner. Since radio
equipment was placed on the list of pro-
hibited imports, sales of the co.’s products
have livened; but lessened trade activity
generally is likely to retard the earnings of
the Beam service.
The pound shares, which fetched 31s. a
year ago, are now offered at 245. without
attracting bids. At the lower figure the
return is 6.6 p.c. on an & p.c. div, basis.
A fact not to be lost sight of is that the col
operates a public utility, and therefore a
lift in the div. beyond 8 p.c. is unlikely.
Australian Drug Co., Ltd.
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 13,939 10 p.c. = 10,000 3939 33,112
1921.. 11,471 10 „ „ 11,250 221 33,333
1922.. 9,438 10 „ „ 12,500 30,271
1923.. 14,010 10 „ ~12,500 1510 31,781
1924.. 12,500 10 „ „ 12,500 31,781
War Profits tax, £7200 .. ~ 24,581
1925.. 10,269 10 p.c. = 12,500 22,350
Profit on sale of assets, £5875.. 28,225
Premiums on new shares, £2278 30,503
1926.. 14,688 10 p.c. = 13,308 1380 31,883
Pref. Ord.
74 p.c. 10 p.c.
1927.. 17,254 3531 13,723 31,883
1928.. 21,247 4708 13,722 2817 34,700
1929.. 19,681 4708 14,973 39,700
1930.. 12,708 4708 Nil 8000 47,700
Shareholders in this Sydney co. received a
regular 10 p.c. div. for the 17 years to the
close of accounts in 1929. According
to published accounts, it was not always
earned, but the treatment of the figures
suggested that the board had provided liber-
ally for contingencies, and there was evidence
that the business had been gaining ground at
many points. Meanwhile the leap in cily
rentals offered attractive returns from pro-
perty investments, so the co. built itself a
new 12-storeyed headquarters, with plenty
of letting space, opposite the city railway
station in Wynyard-squate. Also the fac-
tory and store in York-street were rebuilt.
To see the big construction programme to
completion the co. went heavily into debt.
The position in this and other respects is
seen in the next table :
1923. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Capital . . £125,000 £137,225 £225,000 £225,000
Liabilities . . 62,029 205,210 196,252 265,630
Premises & plant 35,528 165,841 222,217 291,147
Stock.. .. 102,208 106,722 104,378 102,268
Book debts . . 87,370 114,109 160,424 156,172
Cash, etc. .. 6,205 955 1,000 1,638
Extensions to the headquarters building were
completed early in the last term, but no fewer
than seven floors remained untenanted when
the books closed. Largely because of this,
and partly because of the general slump in
business, there was a sharp drop of £6973
in last year’s net earnings. After the prefs.
were handed their £4708, there remained but
4.9 p.c. on the ord. capital, and, for the
first time for over 20 years, shareholders
went hungry.
But the position has changed completely
since the books were ruled off. In August the
co. merged its main trading interests with those
of 11 other large drug cos. throughout the
Commonwealth in one big holding co., Drug
Houses of Australia, Ltd., which has a
nominal capital of £5,000,000. To guard
against disturbance of trade connections the
operating cos. will continue as formerly, each
under its old name and its old board of
directors. The unified control ought to mean
the elimination of much overlapping and
wasteful competition, and probably advan-
tages in buying as well, with consequent bene-
fit to net earnings.
For the purposes of the merger the Aus-
tralian Drug Co., Ltd., has agreed to (1)
sell its plant, book debts, stocks, office equip-
ment and goodwill to a new co., Australian
Drug (1930), Ltd., for shares; (2) exchange
these shares for an equal amount of scrip in
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd. ; (3) change
its name to Australian Drug (Investments),
Ltd. Holders of the 62,775 p.c. cum.
prefs and 162,225 ords. in the origi-
nal Australian Drug Co. will receive
similar scrip, share for share, in the
Investment Co. The latter’s assets will con-
sist of the old co.’s freeholds —Australia
House, the York-street factory and the
Charlcs-street garage—and between 170,000
and 180,000 pound shares in Drug Houses
of Australia. This Investment Co. will also
take over an overdraft of £160,000, secured
by a first mortgage on the freeholds, and a
lien on the shares just referred to.
The slump in property values, and the
fact that Sydney is overbuilt, can be expected
to affect rentals, and the heavy debt to the
bank will be a drag. Chief source of earnings
promises to be whatever divs. are received
on Drug Houses shares. Assuming that
175,000 of these will be held, a 10 p.c. div.
thereon would be sufficient to pay the Invest-
ment Co.’s pref. requirements and show 8 p.c.
on its ords. The market prices the prefs. at
19s. 6d. and the ords. at 13s. Subject to an
unspecified amount of goodwill in the Drug
Houses holding, the net asset backing is
£4 15s. 3d. for the prefs. and 295. Id. for
the ords.
The Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Co.
Broking and Trading Departments.
Bonuses
to To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 44,353 8 p.c. = 21,316 14,490 8,547 14,006
Forfeited shares, £B2 :. . . .. 14,088
Added goodwill, £lOOO .. .. 13,088
1928.. 56,621 8 p.c. = 24,754 15,905 15,962 29,050
Forfeited shares, £B3 .. . . . . 29,133
1929.. 46,968 8 p.c. = 29,017 13,074 4,877 34,010
Drop in forfeited shares reserve, £l7. . 33,993
June From Insurance Dept., £2300 .. 36,293
1930*. . 9,261 Nil Nil 9,261 45,554
This is the Farmers and Graziers’ Co-opera-
tive Grain, Insurance and Agency Co., Ltd.,
which set up in Sydney 13 years ago. With
the assistance of well-established farmers
organisations it forged quickly ahead; indeed,
a bit too quickly in some respects, lor the
11 years to April 30, 1929, the business,
including the Insurance branch, showed pro-
fits totalling £439,235, paid bonuses of
£140,611 to clients and dividends of ±186,800
to shareholders, leaving £114,728 for reserves.
Over the past 10 years paid capital has
advanced from £78,387 to £378,091. There was
a further £178,492 at call at June 30.
The outstanding feature of the accounts
is the extent to which the co. has plunged
into the pastoral banking busines. Look at
these figures :
1927. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Capital . . £266,457 £309,431 £362,631 £378,091
Mortgages .. 45,136 176,077 156,069 135,000
Overdraft . . 161,113 119,636 185,721
Creditors, etc. 311,230 213,646 340,294 *506,923
Freeholds, etc. 243,997 440,490 443,706 467,396
Debtors . . 386,328 453,816 590,516 791,732
Stocks .. 40,736 45,753 43,236 23,903
Cash, etc. . . 30,992 29,864 27,437 36,140
♦lncludes rural credits.
The way the co. has come to the assistance of
clients is obvious from last year’s leap of
£201,216 in the book value of advances.
This and the addition of £23,690 to the free-
holds item involved a net increase of £211,640
in the total outside debt, heaping it to
£827 644 at June 30. The extra funds were pro-
vided mainly through the co.’s new rural credit
department, which had gathered £2<8,109
when the books closed. How much of this
amount, if any, is at call is not visible from
the published figures. The purchase in 1928
of Goldsbrough-Mort’s old building at Cir-
cular Quay gave freeholds, etc., a book value
of £423,960. At June 30 last this item alone
represented all but about £35,000 of share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined). At the same date 62.7 n.c. of the
book value of tangible assets was. financed by
outsiders, who had 345. at risk in the busi-
ness for every 20s. belonging to shareholders.
Producers comprise the main body of share-
holders, which gives some justification for
the liberal way in which the co. has assisted
its clients; there may have been no alter-
native. It is plain, however, that the situa-
tion now calls for careful nursing.
The co. handles more of the N. S. Wales
clip than any other broker. During the last
term it sold 160,142 bales of wool as against
157,224 in the previous year; at Homebush
it put a record number of sheep under the
hammer, the total (593,455) being 162,479
more than in 1929. Wheat, rabbit-skins and
other station produce (some of it on a trad-
in or basis) arc also handled, and a small
but growing insurance business is included
amongst the activities. Owing to the .
sharp decline in values of all these lines
commission and gross trading profit (to-
gether £216,265) slipped £30,777 for the
14 months to June 30 ; the downward trend
has been continuous over the last four years.
Exes. (£207.004, including £5BOO for taxa-
tion) were £6930 heavier; thus the net
sult showed a precipitous drop of £37,707
to £9261. No div. or bonus was paid; so
reserves in the general branch, including
£2300 transferred from the Insurance dept.,
climbed to £45,554 in excess of goodwill
(£27,692).
The Insurance dept, has progressed in this
way:—
Other
Pre- In- To Re- Re-
April, miums. come. Losses. Exes, serves, serves.
£/£/&£>£> &
1927.. 30,337 3682 17,288 11,482 5,249 34,408
1928.. 28,149 1758 7,296 11,468 11,143 45,551
1929.. 46,598 - 22,109 16,603 7,886 53,437
June To General Dept., £2300 .. .. 51,137
1930*. . 50,626 2301 23,179 18,804 10,944 62,081
Last year losses took 45.8 p.c. of the pre-
mium income and exes. 37.1 p.c. It was a
favorable experience. The surpluses have
been allowed to accumulate, and at June
30, after allowing for £2300 carried to the
general branch, reserves of £62,081 had been
built up. These funds are invested in the
general business.
Brisbane Permanent Building.
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. sevves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 11,974 7 p.c. = 8,004 3,970 25,276
Written off, £1306 23,970
Citv & Suburban Co.’s reserves, £22,090 46,060
1921.. 16,811 8 p.c. = 12,769 4,042 50,102
1922.. 22,913 8 „ „ 16,956 5,957 56,059
Share premium, £1093 .. .. 57,152
1923.. 23,068 8 p.c. = 17,231 5,837 62,989
1924.. 31,455 10 „ „ 25,483 5,972 68,961
1925. . 38,342 9 „ „ 25,607 12,735 81,696
1926.. 36,230 9 ~ ~ 27,000 9,230 90,926
1927.. 44,950 10 „ „ 33,492 11,458 102,384
1928.. 48,214 10 „ „ 35,974 12,240 114,624
1929. . 47,720 10 ~ „ 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930.. 49,737 10 „ „ 40,000 9,737 132,172
For over 20 years after the crash in the
’nineties this co. limped along, paying a
trifle in divs. and nursing the properties on
which it had previously advanced too much.
In 1906 it jettisoned 3s. 6d. per share of its
capital, but was able to restore Is. 6d.
of it 10 years later, and the other 2s. three
years after that. Thus paid capital became
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step f
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat* Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
OCTOBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * -f
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * # *
Each year sees a growing number of important
contracts that specify Pioneer Wood Pipe for water-
supply. There are many good ' reasons for this.
Pioneer Wood Pipe is strong, durable and the most
inexpensive type of all conduit. It is easily and
inexpensively laid and is capable of giving excep-
tionally long trouble-free service. It is absolutely
non-corrosive and is unaffected by frost, heat or
electrolysis. Full details on request to The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), 'Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Foots-
cray, Victoria. —Advt.
jjc * $ ❖
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: 'Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.—Advt.
* sit :!= *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE. —Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sino-le rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All “meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
dav- £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing ’ bodies etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway _ porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please wiite for detailed
tariff card. Carlvon’s Hotel. Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
Pioneer Belting Lasts Longest
For over seven decades the name “Pioneer” has stood for all that is best in
Leather Belting, and because of its many records of economy and absolute
reliability under difficult working conditions, there are now more “Pioneer”
belts in use in Australia than any other make. Free advice given on trans-
mission problems.
LEATHER LASTS LONGEST.
THE LEADER SINCE JB5B
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
NOTE: This, the original Company, founded in 1858, is in no way con-
nected with another belting company using our surname.
PIONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
LONG LIFE
*
5?
y Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
the popular
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMITTH, of “ KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame,
London Office—29, King-sway, W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOD&ALL, P.O. Box 165. SYDNEY,
£107,620, and there was £21,306 of reserves
to support it. Meanwhile ’ the div. had
climbed to 6 p.c.
From that point the table gathers up the
threads. The purchase of the City and Sub-
urban Co.’s business in 1920 gave the figures
a lift, and the very remarkable expansion
since tells, amongst other things, of the
quick growth of Brisbane and its suburbs,
and of the boom in land values. How the
business has bounded along is seen clearly
in this next comparison :
1919. 1926. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital. . 101,433 300,000 400,000 400,000
Liabilities .. 272,139 869,704 1,018,888 972,921
Premises ~ 10,741 15,000 25,900 25,900
Advances, etc. 335,277 886,584 1,093,308 1,144,960
Public securities
and cash .. 65,750 379,546 452,115 364,233
To add £809,683 net to book value of
advances since 1919, the co. has gathered
an extra £700,782 of deposits and £298,567
of fresh capital. The high prices received
for primary products and the influx of mil-
lions of loan funds during the last decade
sent wages, rents and capital values steadily
up. Now that we have fallen upon a period of
low export prices, and the wells from which
the loan moneys used to flow have dried
up, unemployment is on the increase, and
rents, capital values and wages are follow-
ing one another down again. Chief danger,
so far as cos. of this kind are concerned,
lies in the possibility of purchasers being
unable to continue their payments and the
properties being thrown on! to the co.’s
hands. However, because the rocks are
there it does not follow that this co. will
strike, them; indeed, its experience should
help it to steer clear. It is the new loan
which usually causes the big trouble.
To meet the withdrawal of £45,968 of de-
posits and add £51,652 to the book value
of advances the board drew upon cash and
public securities for £87,582 last year. And
then 7s. 6d. of every pound coming to de-
positors and others was held liquid at Aug.
31. Thus the book value of advances and
premises would need to shrink to less than
52 p.c. of the figure at which they appear in
the books before depositors would be in
danger of losing any of their money.
Including a profit of £912 on the sale of
public securities, which suggests that pro-
vision for contingencies has not been over-
looked, the spring in gross earnings
(£111,445) was £3073 last year. Exes.
(£61,708) took £1156 of the increase, leav-
ing the net result at 12.4 p.c. on capital
compared with 11.9, 13.4, 13.4 and 12 p.c.
back to 1926. So the 10 p.c. div. was re-
peated with comfort, and the lay-by was in-
creased to 6s. 7d. per share at Aug. 31.
The market, doubtful of the future, prices
the pound shares at 225.; the return at that
figure is 9.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Standard Insurance Co. (Maoriland).
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1920.. 39,803 13|p.c.= 13,750 26,053 216,004
1921.. 43,086 15 „ ~15,000 28,086 244,090
1922.. 36,199 15 ~ ~15,000 21,199 265,289
Taxation reserve taken in .. 10,000 275,289
1923.. 44,313 174 p.e.=: 17,500 27,313 302,602
1924.. 46,097 221,, ~22,500 23,597 326,199
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 . . 276,199
1925.. 50,419 15 p.c.= 22,500 27,919 304,118
1926.. 56,254 16| „ ~ 25,000 31,254 335,372
1927.. 65,280 16§ „ ~ 25,000 40,280 375,652
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 325,652
1928.. 46,301 121 p.c.= 25,000 21,301 346,953
1929.. 55,570 121 „„ 25,000 1„ 7 07Q „ 7 , 02 o
Provident fund, £3500 . . J 374,023
1930. . 41,798 121 p.c.= 25,000 l 4 oor rrq 02 i
Provident fund, £lBOO .. j 14,998 J»9,UZi
Since 1919, £150,000 (12s. 6d. per share)
has been transferred from reserves to capital
account, making the 200,000 £5 shares paid
to 20s. each. Moreover, returns from invest-
ments have meanwhile kept close up to or
exceeded the dividend charge, so practically
the whole of the underwriting surpluses have
been available to swell investments and the
returns therefrom. At the close of last
accounts reserves were £189,021 in excess of
paid capital, and, after deducting the tax-
gatherers’ portions, the year’s interest, rents,
etc., (£26,736, up £966) were £1736 more
than the 121 p.c. div. called for.
The drop in the year’s profit from all
sources was due to a slip of £14,611 in the
underwriting surplus (£15,090), which was
only 7.5 p.c. on capital. Here is a com-
parison of underwriting performances over
a long period :
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.c,
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33.2 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9 „ 32.4 „
1915.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 „ 34.3 „
1920.. 165,054 73,331 70,200 44.4 „ 42.5 „
1925.. 210,926 96.978 82,934 45.9 „ 39.3 „
1927.. 292,719 159,571 91,056 54.5 „ 31.1 „
1928.. 297,024 181,900 93,955 61.2 „ 31.3 „
1929.. 335,472 211,692 94,079 63.1 „ 28.0 „
1930.. 283,027 181,679 86,258 64.1 „ 30.4 „
To wdiat extent, if any, the contraction of
£52,445 in the year’s net premiums was due
to reinsurances is not visible in the published
accounts; but the expense rate climbed 2\
points, which suggests that business was
more difficult to get. The downward trend
of property and merchandise values can be
expected to affect both premium income and
exes., tending to make the latter rise. Still,
policy-holders are very well protected. At
the close of last accounts they could see
net tangible assets equal to 208 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, and that was £164,480
more than is usually considered adequate.
And the funds are invested in good quality
assets: —
1914. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Mortgages ..£115,965 £36,750 £31,735 £31,610
Debentures .. 58,719 77,889 95,050 90,097
War Loan .. 270,950 304,540 313,340
Premises .. 17,318 62,158 119,410 119,908
Cash, etc, .. 47,522 90,158 111,046 107,425
If more is needed there is another £BOO,OOO
of capital at call. The year’s surplus earn-
ings, a reduction of £3621 in cash, etc., and
of £4953 in the debenture item, enabled
the board to clip £14,399 oft' the amount
coming to sundry creditors (£60,859) and
add £BBOO to the book value of Government
securities, which represented 47.3 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total at June 30.
The market’s opinion of the scrip is that
it is worth 60s. or thereabouts as against
675. a year ago. At the lower figure the
return is 4.2 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis.
The backing is 575. 6d. in net tangibles.
Mount Isa
The Mining Trust, Ltd., holds £902,955
of Mt. Isa’s £1,295,800 of issued and fully-
paid share capital. In addition it has put
up £1,007,000 in 8 p.c. convertible and
redeemable debentures and made advances
totalling £39,000-odd. But more is needed
to see the refinery to completion and pro-
vide for further development at Isa. The
position in this respect has been overcome
by the big American Smelting and Refining
Co. linking up with Mining Trust, and work
at Isa is being pushed ahead with vigor. The
20-mile pipe line from the reservoir at Rifle
Creek has been completed, the power-house
and the prill should make a start next month,
and the smelter in January; meanwhile con-
centrates will be stacked. When the first
unit is in full swing it will be treating up
to 2000 tons ore per day.
Ore reserves and assay values of the vari-
ous lodes at Aug. 30 were given as follows:
Long Lead, Zinc, Silver,
Carbonates— tons. p.c. p.c. oz.
Rio Grand . . 200,000 15.8 9.2
Black Rock . . 120,000 22.4 10.6
Mount Isa . . - 100,000 12.0 4.4
Black Star . . 3,180,000 8.0 3.0
Sulphides—
Black Star .. 12,779,000 8.0 9.0 4.9
Black Star .. 11,522,000 4.8 6.6 2.6
Black Star (a) 2,153,000 8.6 10.9 4.6
Rio Grand (b) 500,000 15.0 4.0 15.0
(a) Footwall veins. (6) To 500 ft.
The reserves measured up thus total
30,554,000 tons, and that leaves out of
account all ore beyond the strict limits of
finished drill-holes. In the Black Star alone
about 5,000,000 tons can be added on account
of holes which have entered the ore, but
have not cut the full width. The main ore-
haulage shaft has been sunk to the haulage
level, and driving is in progress to connect
with the man shaft. The carbonates are
being blocked out for stoping by raises, cross-
cuts, etc., and the work is about complete.
Even, with metals at their present prices
the co. claims to be able to operate at a
profit. It is essentially a mass-production
proposition. On the market the scrip fetches
17s. or thereabouts.
A number of those who have chanced their
luck under the prospecting scheme of the
N. S. Wales Government for the relief of
unemployed have done better than tucker.
Two parties in the Inverell country near
Howell, got amongst a few diamonds. One
party obtained 100 carats of stones in alluvial
wash at 28ft., these being valued at £125;
the other cleaned up £B4 worth. Not far
off yet another lot has got on to payable
gold, one piece handed in at Stewartstowu
going 440 z.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: A report of a new allu-
vial find has drifted through from New
Guinea, though by all accounts it is on the
small side. The ground is on a creek run-
ning into Bittoi River, and is n.-e. from
the Bulolo field. W. F. Anderson, the pros-
pector, describes the find as three days from
Salamoa on the old Gadu Gadu track, and
estimates that alluvial miners could dish
about two ounces a day. The gold is of
good quality, worth £3 15s. an ounce, but
there is no evidence as yet of extensive
deposits. Most of the unemployed alluvial
miners at Salamoa have trekked to the find,
and the country is now well pegged.
❖ $ ❖ #
Interest in the Eidsvold mining-field,
Queensland, has been further stimulated by
the discovery of what promises to be a
good silver-lead show near Gayndah. Some
20 claims have already been pegged, and
sinking is in progress. Over 20 years ago
ore from this locality was assayed in' Bris-
bane by the Mines Department to go as high
as 78oz. of silver to the ton, with traces of
gold.
❖ * * *
Victor Leggo and Farmers, Ltd., Vic-
torian manufacturers of super., will pro-
bably handle the arsenious oxide to be recov-
ered by tlie big Wiluna gold-treatment plant.
The recovery will total some hundreds of
tons monthly, and transport to Vic. for
manufacturing purposes promises to be a big
job. During the war the Victor Leggo
people railed thousands of tons of arsenical
concentrate from the Transvaal mine
(W.A.) to their works in Vic., and there
recovered both gold and arsenical content.
* ■ ■ * * *
Some shareholders in W.A. Manganese Co.
consider that the reason it is not exporting
manganese ore is that ample shipping facili-
ties have not been provided at the port of
Geraldton. The truth is that the show is
idle because it is not able to compete with
the S. African and Russian cheap-labor
article. Various Westralian Governments
have been liberal with expenditure at the
port: the co.’s mine is connected by'an 80-
mile railway link.
* * * * -
After years of battling Son of Gwalia
(W.A.) has succeeded in making gold re
covery equal mine expenditure, and there is
reason to hope that the change will con-
tinue. The show is a big one and ably
handled, but existing conditions have kept
it near the bread line.
* * * '-!=
The Tin Producers’ Association of London
announces that additional Malayan dredg-
ing companies are supporting the output
regulation policy, the wish, no doubt, being
father to the thought these times. Kamunt-
ing and Pagna River, companies in which
Australia is interested, will suspend dredg-
ing for the four months until the end of
January, while Tanjong will close one dredge
for the remainder of this year. Botang,
Padang, Batu Caves, Rantau and Putch, all
British shows, will suspend operations until
the middle of January; two other British
cos., Mamba and Temoh, have put the
shutters up indefinitely. Taiping and Taip-
ing South will also shut down until next
year. Larut, the big Australian concern
which has been hung up since July 3, has
also decided to stay put until the outlook
clears.
* * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED
(Tra7isfcrred from Service Department.)
I am a pref. shareholder in Sunday Times
Co., Sydney, mid have received a . circular
ashing for a subscription towards costs of
an, action for recovery of £65,000. What
is it all about? The circular implies that the
action is our only hope of getting anything?
—9640.
The position is complicated. Three yeai-3
back the Sunday Times Co. fell into difficul-
ties. There was £lOO,OOO of pref. capital,
held chiefly in Adelaide and Melbourne, and
ordinary capital, the latter held almost
wholly by a Mr. Dalwood, of Sydney, who'
had bought it from Hugh D. Mclntosh.
Eighteen months ago an action was begun
against Mclntosh and other former direc-
tors claiming £62,500 alleged to have .been
wrongfully advanced to Mclntosh on cer-
tain security. The co. had no money, and
was heavily in debt to the bank, which early
this year put in a receiver; and the “Re-
feree” and “Arrow,” which did not belong to
the S. T. Co., though their profits did, were
sold to. Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. The “Sun-
day Times” ceased publication: it had been
carried on for many months with money
advanced by Dalwood and secured by deben-
tures. There being no funds to pursue the
action, it was suggested that the pref. share-
holders .should put up enough for the pur-
pose. . But a further difficulty now arises:
the director (11. V. Carter), representing
pref. shareholders, who holds in trust the
money thus subscribed, considers that circum-
stances have wholly changed since July, 1929.
Then, he says, pref. shareholders had a con-
siderable equity, whereas now, he maintains,
they have none; moreover, even if the action
were successful, and if the whole amount
were recovered, it would be swamped by
preferential creditors.
(1) My wife has three small T. and G.
insurance policies in her name. Owing to
short time work and reduced wages I am
unable to make payments. Am I entitled
to any reimbursement, if I give them up.
which I shall be compelled to do? (2) Was
a bill passed by the Bruce-Cage Government
to compel cos. to refund 70 per cent, of
premiums paid? —93B3.
(1) In the T. and G.’s Industrial depart-
ment, cash surrender values are allowed on
all endowment and endowment assurance
policies over four years in force. Whole life
policies in the Industrial department cannot
be surrendered for cash, but can be exchanged
for a fully paid-up poficy. Endowment
assurances issued since March, 1912, have a
cash surrender value, according to duration.
(2) The bill has not yet become law.
Section 66 says: “A policy-holder who
desires to discontinue further premium pay-
ments on an Industrial policy which has been
in force for five years or upwards shall, on
application to the company, be entitled to
receive a policy of such an amount
as would be purchasable with the surrender
value of his policy on the due date of the
next premium payable in respect thereof.”
Section 68: “For the purpose of the last
two preceding sections, the surrender value
a policy means an amount not less than 75
per cent., not of the premiums paid, but of
the reserve value of the policy as defined in
the 6th schedule of the Act.” Incidentally,
the T. and G, Society, in addition to grant-
ing paid-up policies and surrender values to
Industrial policies, is also willing to grant
loans on Industrial policies, where such have
a surrender value, up to 90 per cent. And
in the event of a policy-holder having to
lapse his policy through unemployment, the
policy may be revived, and the unpaid pre-
miums charged as a lien, when he is in work
again.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.W.H.: (1) Position tomobscure to advise
any action. (2) Good. (3) Waiting for more
capital. .. .E.G.C.: No. 2 looks better than No. 1.
In either case, of course, you won’t be backing a
sure thing. But, then, perhaps there are no sure
things in the world any more.... F.F.: In your
circumstances the second. .. .Glip: Of that group,
Zinc Corp,, especially the prefs 0.D.: Elliotts,
or O’Connell-street, Sydney, are buyers of bismuth
concentrates. They will probably make offers for
outright purchases of concentrates or alternatively
treat the concentrates and make available to you
the bismuth metal. The market for bismuth metal
is limited and controlled... .W.J.8.: Sorry, we
haven’t the data and don’t believe it exists....
A.J.R.: Too long to print. Send full address and
we will post. .. .P.M.D.: Get in touch with Tooths
or Tooheys, in Sydney... .1v.8.J.: Not available.
But in 43 cos. (presumably you refer to fire, marine
and general offices) with head offices in Australia,
N.Z. or Fiji, the figures for 1928 were: premiums
(less reinsurances), £8,412,080 ; losses paid,
£5,016,717; divs. and bonuses, £641,085. Loss
rate, 59.64 per cent, of premiums; expense rate,
33.69 per cent.; surplus, 6.67 per cent... . M.H.:
Pretty hopeless at the moment. Land values are
coming 10wer.... Haldane: W. H. Paling and Co.
have branches at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Rockhampton,
Newcastle and Lismore. The eo.’s shares are not
listed, and it does not issue a balance-sheet.


IO lo I ih a CAPSTAN
Jill!
l
i .is ?
Pfmji
iisgs
«ssss
OfeM
Mm
S?°s*S?SsB!
1'
&r* -
?: ; S?‘
ilPllß
: 'VV S v
i.l
'mm.
A
m
ii %
It*s a "Capstan" he’s smoking,
you can bet on that. So many
people smoke "Capstans,”
people in all professions and all
positions, that even at 10 to 1
on, this is a perfectly safe
wager.
Such popularity is positive
Twenty - two for
one shilling, and io
tins of fifty.
evidence of better value. Let the
eleven cigarettes you get in every
sixpenny packet bear witness
to the satisfaction that "Capstans”
yield. Let your smoking taste
testify their quality, and your
verdict will be in their favour.
Give your verdict for
"Capstans” to-day.
Oval heavy-weights
in tinsoftwenty-five
and fifty.
11
<>
CAPSTAN
Capstans are made by W D. & H. O. Wills
at the Garden Factory, Raleigh ParK. N.S.W,


The centre of Queen s /on c/s
' ctisbnpu/sfec/ Soc/o/ Life.
<53
motel
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s 3 Brisbane.
Telephone, Central BS2I1 —6 Lines.
hfdh
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire «
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
m
tk
il iLiU si
m
iitH
n
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
ABORIGINALITIES
“E.S.”: Buffer carried a swag that was
a load for a packhorse, but the only work
he would look at was sharpening saws.
AMPLE.
New JACKEROO: “What sort of rider is the boss’s wife? Got a
good seat in the saddle?”
BILLY (the station groom) : “My word! ’Bout twice as wide ’s
Mary’s.”
Mostly when he inquired at a homestead if
there were any saws to sharpen it was
merely a preliminary to the introduction of
the ration bags. The bulk of his bundle
was rations. A settler, who had several
times answered Buffer’s monotonous query,
got annoyed at his persistency. “Haven’t
I told you over and over again that I haven’t
got a saw?” he growled. “That’s all right,
boss,” said Buffer. “But there ain’t never
no knowin’ when you might buy one.”
* * * *
“Camp”: “Fernie’s” experience with a
Maoriland gale (B. 24/9/’3O) reminds me of
a windy incident which occurred during the
cyclone which demolished most of the town of
Nhill (Vic.) some 30 years ago. I had a
sheep-dog chained up at his kennel in the
yard. Unfortunately Scotty happened to be
outside his kennel when the wind struck him,
and he was blown right off the ground to the
full length of his chain. He was a very dead
dog when the wind dropped. It is the only
instance of horizontal hanging that I have
ever known.
“MacFlecknpe”: I had planted a young
an .d it seemed to be flourishing, but
\\ uttum,. the aged man who does odd jobs in
gardens in our suburb, was pessimistic. “It
won t do no good there,” lie said, “but it’s just
the possy for a poplar. I’ll take it out and
a floplar for you meself. Cost you a
quid. I believed the expert, and the change
was made. A few days afterwards I was
talking to Muggs, about two doors away.
Muggs mentioned that lie had put iii a poplar,
but old Wuffum had told him no poplar
would flourish in such a position, so he
had let Wuffum take it out and put in a
willow. Cost me a quid,” Muggs said. Wuf-
fum may have been actuated by the most
rigid of consciences.
* * * *
“Booraby”: No nest-builder is more
interesting to watch than the little ringtail
possum, though very few observers have
been lucky enough to see it at
work. It builds a huge dome-
shaped nest, composed of ferns,
leaves and shredded bark, in the
fork of a tree in thick forest or
scrub. The material is gathered
on the ground with the forepaws
and transferred to the prehensile
tail, which is curled around the
bundle. The ringtail can carry a
good-sized swag, and he fairly
scampers up the tree with it. At
the nesting site the tail is swung
round and the bundle placed in
position with the forepaws. The
building is done easily and quickly,
and when the job is complete the
owner has a very cosy tenement
for its day-long slumbers. All
other ’possums are content with a
hollow in a tree, sometimes scantily lined
with a few dry leaves, but often with only
the dust of decayed wood for bedding.
* * *
“Denis P.” : Re Ilenniker Heaton’s allusion
to the method of determining the limits of
land grants, said to have been employed in
Tasmania, the Boers in S’Africa used some-
what the same method in the early days. A
person wishing to acquire land in a part
of that country had only to walk a horse
round the portion of unclaimed land required,
and the boundary was settled. The journey
had to be completed between sunrise and sun-
set, so that the longer the day and the faster
the horse the more land could be obtained.
* ❖ $ ifc
“Hamer”: The pigeons, now such a
nuisance in Sydney that “whiskied” wheat
is laid to catch
them, are probably
mostly the descen-
dants of those which
in the early ’forties
were a feature of a
house which stood
about where the
Angel Hotel is to-
day. It was the
residence of the
widow of~Sam Terry
—described at the
time of his death as
“notorious for liis
wealth.” He re-
marked to Dr. Bland
that he would give
£lO,OOO to possess
the doctor’s reputa-
tion for principle
and public spirit.
“You’d make £20,000
out of it in a week,”
grunted Bland. But
that’s by the way.
In the stable-yard
of the widow Terry
was a huge cask
perched on a pole to
serve as a dovecote;
when the premises
fell vacant and Re-
mained so for so4e
considerable time,
the overcrowded
birds, increasing un-
disturbed, filled the
stable-lofts and house-attics. The recon-
struction of the property evicted them and
they were scattered all over Sydney.
* * * « *
“O. I. Saye”: Many a hard heart softened
and tears begemmed many an unaccustomed
eyelid when Dr. Roy Chapman Andrews,
leader of an expedition sent to Central Asia
by the American Museum of Natural His-
tory, said he had found in the Gobi Desert
the remains of a number of platybelondons,
or shovel-nosed elephants (not to be con-
fused with the paddybedublins or wallie
auld reekies), which perished three million
years ago in a most pathetic manner. It
was a family party. The bones of at least
25 were lying together in a spot which seems
to have been a lake, and Dr. Andrews, who
was deeply affected, advanced the theory that
the animals, while searching in the water for
the spuds of that day and generation, which
grew subterraneously, apparently, wandered
further and further from the shore and,
having no mother to guide them, were
caught in mud and so perished, shovel-noses
and all. But why should the world go to
the Gobi Desert to have its feelings liar-
rowed? I have it on the highest authority
that the mud of various Australian lakes is
probably paved several feet thick with the
remains of animals so ancient that they would
STRICTLY LAW-ABIDING.
“Now, then, no smoking allowed — don’t you see the notice ?”
“Yes, tha’s all right — we’re doin’ it on the quiet.”
regard dinosaurs and mastodons as upstarts.
I shouldn’t be surprised if the sand-shovellers
in Sydney unearthed a wall-eyed muttipelup-
telous with a telescopic tail and webbed
whiskers to-morrow morning.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Recently the Melbourne Botanic
Garden people heavily fertilised a flower-bed.
The plants flourished until a week or so ago,
when they suddenly wilted. After prolonged
search director Rae’s detectives discovered
the thief in a Moreton Bay fig-tree, 225
feet away. Whatever sense it used to
locate the loot, the tree lost no time in crack-
ing the crib. The root was cut back and a
wall built against it.
“Phalanger”: Some time ago the N.S.\v.
Government imported a number of the valu-
able Tasmanian black
’possums and turned
the animals loose on
Pulbar Island, near
Port Macquarie. The
colony is said to be
in splendid condition
and increasing
rapidly. What the
idea is is uncertain,
unless it is to provide
free fur coats for the
wives of M’s.L.A.,
since the ’possums are
hardly likely to be-
come numerous
enough to meet an
open market demand.
There are ' other
avenues for exploit-
ing our native fauna.
In spite of the great
demand for lizard-
and snake-skin shoes,
little of the raw
material is supplied
by Australia. There
seems a great chance
here to utilise our
wealth of goannas
and snakes, and there
are plenty of islands
available for stocking
with these valuable
animals. The jobs of
managers, overseers,
head stockmen and
what not on these
runs would prove a
valuable source of
patronage to the poli-
tical narty in power,
and few of the
public would dis-
approve of the prin-
ciple of appointing
defeated Parliamen-
tarians to these and
analogous billets.
“Pale Ale”: Grogan had a cow that was
as the apple of his eye. He kept it in the
rear of his small allotment, and whenever
he was abroad he was always on the look-
out for thistles and the like which he would
bring home for Strawberry. One day
the cow broke through the fence into
McTay’s garden. McTay uttered despair-
ing cries, and set about the expulsion of
Strawberry; but it was a long job. When
Grogan came home he found the. wrathful
McTay on his doorstep voicing his plaint:
“Your coo has been at my vegetables an’
hasna left as much as a cabbage leaf!”
Grogan went with the irate gardener to see
the devastation wrought by Strawberry. He
stood silently for some time measuring the
extent of the damage, and appeared to be
ma^ da <i . mental calculations At last he
sa)d " All. right, Mac; 111 hand ye over a
duart o milk as soon as I ve milked her.
* * * *
“Tiewire”: Whence came the habit of
burdening towns in N.S.W. with double abo.
names? We have Wagga Wagga, Walla
Walla, Tilba Tilba, Woy Woy, Elong Elong,
Grong Grong, Goonoo Goonoo, Boonoo
PA COULD STILL DO HIS BEST.
“Him keep you! That kid? Why, it’s as much as I could do.”
“Well, Dad, he could help.”
Boonoo, Mooney Mooney, Whian Whiau,
Mogil Mogil, Budgee Budgee, Mitta Mitta,
Ghinni Ghinui, Cal Cal, Gol Gol, Baw Baw,
Wangi Wangi and Topi Topi. Several
others —Wee Waa is an example—just miss
this doubtful distinction.
THE PHILOSOPHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There’s jist one thing I’d like ter say,”
Long Tom remarked to me;
‘Though times is mighty ’ard to-day
They could be worse. Maybe
We look at things the wrong way round,
Without philosophy.
‘An’ that reminds me of a bloke
I met in nineteen-ten.
'E ’ad more reason. Dig., to croak
Than ’ave most bloomin’ men,
But sich a true philosopher
I’ll never see again.
“I met ’im out near Underbool
‘Umpin.’ ’is swag along.
The flamin’ ’eat was pretty crool,
Yet ’e was goin’ strong,
Limpin’ ’is ’ardest without boots
An’ singin’ this ’ere song:
“ ‘There’s jist one feed inside my swag.
Praise be, my twist is small.
My coat is nothin’ but a rag;
My pants beyond recall;
But what the blazes do I care?
I might ’ave none at all.’
“Now alius, Dig., w’en I ’ear men
’Oo moan,” said Tom to me,
“I think o’ that there cove again.
’Ow lovely it would be
If we could look at life like ’im
With true philosophy!”
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


STOCK FOR MARKET
Every Head Full Value
m
m
If those are the figures you want to secure
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs, Pigs, to
Winchcombe,Carson
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney; or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
OFFICES:
Winchcombe House, 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney. AND Brisbane.
Q
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
lubrication by automatic
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.)j Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“lan J.”: “Karalee” (B. 3/9/’3O) is
astray in his etymology and his biology when
speaking of what he describes as a “small
green shrimp” in the flood waters of the
Nullarbor Plain. This is probably the apus,
to be found in almost any inland pool after
spring or summer rains. There is no need
to assume that it has lain in a stage of
arrested development since the last rain, for
its tiny eggs could be wind-borne or carried
on the feet of wading birds. And there is
no foundation for the common belief that
wheat has lain in the Pyramids for centuries
without losing its germinating power. Care-
fully conducted experiments prove that
wheat, in common with other seeds, gradu-
ally loses its germinating power and becomes
useless as seed after a few years, however
carefully kept. The same thing applies to
the legends of maize from tombs of the Incas
having germinated.
“Yarri”: Binghi was
not a land-grabber.
There were numerous
wars between tribes,
but the conquerors
did not seize any terri-
tory by way of indem-
nity, although at times
some of them were
badly in need of an ex-
tension of their hunt-
ing-grounds. Some of
the most populous
towris in rich districts
were not very large;
others, especially in
the central parts of
Australia, extended for
hundreds of miles. The
allotments se e m to
have been made ac-
cording to the food
supply. The abos. in
poor territories were
scattered about in
small groups; the
more fortunate tribes
assembled in large vil-
lages. In small towris
game, such as kan-
garoos and wallabies,
passed from one to the
other, but hunters
dared Hot follow
across the boundaries.
Consequently in lean
times the poor Binghis
watched for the wild
stock to cross the bor-
der from their rich
neighbors, but appa-
rently they never
thought of seizing any
of the good country
after walloping the fat
fellows. Nobody got
more homesick than
Binghi when away from his ancestral haunts.
* s|s * *
“Melville”: There were three publicans
at Mullewa in the early days of the
Murchison goldfields, and they were cre-
dited with an ingenious device of their
own for whooping up business on dull days.
Not that there were many dull days at
Mullewa when it was the head of the rail-
way and carried a large floating population
of travellers, teamsters, camel-men and pros-
THE GREEN-EYED MONSTER.
THE RIVAL: “Him! I suppose he thinks he’s a sheik just because somebody gave him
a tin of Egyptian cigarettes and he dances like a camel.”
WRONG GUESS.
CHEERFUL OFFICER: “You’ve got no particular enthusiasm for the sea, I fancy, Mr.
Scroggins?”
SICK PASSENGER: “On the contrary, I’ve been trying to put my heart into it.”
pectors, .but still there were times when the
Bungs, who were excellent friends, consid-
ered it advisable to give trade an artificial
stimulus. Their plan was simplicity itself.
A would look in at B’s establishment, where
he would shout for the host and himself and
the score or so of thirsty souls who were
certain to be handy at the cost of, say, £l.
Then he would return to his own eyrie, and
half an hour later B would present himself
at C’s licensed premises and repeat the pro-
cess to the extent of A’s note. A bit later
C would drift casually round to A’s place,
and. the pound would get back into the till
of its original owner in exchange for its
equivalent in strong waters. The trio were
now on the same mark again, financially, and
each out to the same extent in the matter
of drinks supplied. But by this time the
ball had been well started, and there would
be plenty of bar patronage assured for the
next few hours, and probably till closing
time. The Bungs, too, had enhanced their
reputations as free-handed, sociable citizens,
above petty jealousies. Mullewa is the centre
of a wheat-growing district nowadays, and
has probably long forgotten its hectic youth.
* ■* -1= *
“Mercedes”: Malayan is a comparatively
simple language, but the natives have con-
siderable ingenuity in using its limited voca-
bulary to express new tilings and ideas.
There was no ice in Malaya, of course, be-
fore the white man’s advent, and no word
for it in the vernacular. So the Malays
called it “ayah batu” —water-brick. There
were no detectives cither (presumably no
need for them), and they called the sleuth
“mata gelap”—eye of darkness. A cinema
is “wayang gelap”—dark theatre. To be
happy is “senang liati” —peaceful liver (the
organ), and to be sad “susah hati” —troubled
liver. Many of the habits of the white man
have so far defied attempts at translation,
and there is no Malay term for a corkscrew;
beer or whisky.
$ H*
“Yarri”: A wily old teamster of Wes-
tern N.S.W. had a way of bleeding a rum
cask that left no tracks. A pub cargo on
a bad road in bad weather was always in-
viting the carrier to have one, and the com-
mon method was to knock up a hoop and
bore a small hole where it had been, plug-
ging it up after running out some of the
liquor and replacing the hoop. But Jack
didn’t traffic in gimlets; they left marks.
He- chose a full cask, poured a couple of
quarts of boiling water on the head of it,
and let it stand all night. In the morning
the liquid was strong enough to improve the
look of the scenery and set Jack singing
along the way.
i';c sj*
“Telopea”: There is some historical
record concerning the methods of the early
surveyors of Tasmania (B. 24/9/’3O). The
two first men to divide up the Speck into
residential sites were James Meehan and
George Prideaux Harris. Meehan arrived
at Port Jackson in Feb., 1800, and the fol-
lowing month was appointed assistant to
Charles Grimes, the acting Surveyor General.
Later he visited the Derwent settlement and
carried out several surveys. Plis notebooks
are still in the Lauds Department, Hobart.
Harris was much more casual than Meehan,
his so-called surveys caused consider •
.able trouble and in many cases had to be
done again. But even the spirituous Harris
would not have measured his miles by the
tail of his dog.
# * * *
“Fernie” : The white invaders of Maoriland,
who have done their best to turn the Dominion
into'a replica of the British Isles, do not, as
Australians do, affect a sentiment for the
indigenous characteristics of their adoptei
country. But the influences of a new and
strange land can’t be ignored altogether, and
so it comes about that the young Shivery
Islander, when disobedient or disrespectful
to parental authority, is told by a mother
or an aunt a harrowing tale that is abso-
lutely racy of the soil—or rather of the mud.
It relates to a family of children taken by
their mother to see the great Waimangu
geyser at Rotorua, which spouts, or used to
spout, hundreds of gallons of hot water and
mud at uncertain intervals, and which can
be stirred into less capricious action by
feeding it with soap. These children were
very naughty. Having'seen the geyser geyse
they approached more closely to see how
it worked, and though their mother begged
and implored they paid no attention to her.
And so, of course, when those disobedient
children were right at the very brink of
the geyser it suddenly geysed and they all
disappeared with horrid shrieks, engulfed
in boiling mud. There’s usually a spasm
of good conduct lasting at least three days
when the youngsters of a family have been
told that yarn in a properly impressive
fashion. And though white folk in nine
cases out of ten don’t know it, and wouldn’t
care if they did, Maori mothers have been
telling the story for 400 years.
* * * *
“Pieface”: I recently visited a farmer in
the East Pakenham district (Vic.). When
first settling there some years ago he had
thrown an earth wall across a hollow in his
property. He led me down to inspect the
sheet of water which covered an area of
about three-quarters of an acre, and I ex-
pressed surprise on getting close. to it to
observe scores of goldfish swimming about
amongst the water weeds. My friend told
me that when the dam was first filled tilery
wasn’t as much as a tadpole in it. “Then,”
he said, “I came down here onh day and saw
two shags sitting on that dead • limb over
there. One of them flew down and dropped
a little fish into the water. I’ve seen that
happen a good many times since then.
There’s brim and eels in that water now, too.
It’s nearly dry in the summer, but there’.s
always fish there in winter.”
KALOONA.
THE SPURWINGED PLOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By marsh and lake,
And wide lagoon,
The plovers wake
The sultry noon
With warning cries to snipe and crake
That hunters come grim toll to take
Among them soon.
On pool and mere
Where wildfowl lie
They start to hear
Ivaloona cry.
Full well they know that danger’s near,
And watch across the waters clear,
Half-poised to fly.
The hunter creeps
On crouching knees,
But while lie peeps
Ivaloona sees ;
For wide across his path she sweeps,
And shrills his presence, though he keeps
Behind the trees.
The swamp birds, when
Her cohorts dwell
Within their ken,
Know all is well;
For aye is she, by marsh and fen,
To duck and swan and waterhen,
The sentinel.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


INVESTIGATE—INVEST.
There may be a few who get rich quickly and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do not “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest, to do the investing
for him.
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town.
Commonwealth Savings!# of Hustralia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
LEFEVER NITBO SPECIAL
PRICE
£7/15/
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price.
The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
say it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77,000
times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years.
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made'in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
“WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
kUPLR. ON MALLEE LANDS.
trlenheld : In the north-west Vic. Mallee
this season the effect of various dressings
of super., together with the residues of the
previous year, on ground where the crops
had failed, wholly or in part, has been
strikingly evidenced.
The rainfall in our district (Galali) up to
the end of September was 609 points, most
of which had fallen by the middle of August,
Early germination was good, and the prolific
stooling of all varieties of wheat has been
exceptional. Had there been two more inches
at the right time astounding yields would
have resulted. A prolonged hot, dry spell
came in September, with varied results to the
crops.
Two 80-acre paddocks, A and B, sown last
season, were sown again this year with
Ranee seed. A got 451 b. of super, per acre
and had a residue of a 601 b. dressing from
the previous year; B was given 601 b of
super, per acre and had a residue of a 901 b.
dressing.
The sowing of B was completed a fort-
night after the sowing of A. Nevertheless
B came into ear eight days before A, and
looks a two-bag better crop; the heads are
half as long again as those in A. Both
crops have stood up well to the dry spell,
and should yield six and eight bags respect-
ively.
Many cockies this season put in a large
area with a limited supply of super. A
neighboring paddock not sown the previous
year, and therefore with no super, residue,
was dressed with 301 b. of super. Result at
the end of September was: Crop burnt off,
with heads withered and twisted. It might
yield two bags to the acre.
Another paddock under observation was
sown with 451 b. of super., having a residue
from a similar dressing the previous year. It
was fed off with starving sheep in July and
August, and is a complete failure. On the
other hand, a paddock of Sepoy grown on
fallow, with a dressing of 901 b. of super.,
is a nice healthy green and practically shows
no sign of the dry spell.
Every crop noticed to be holding out well
was found to have had a liberal dressing of
super, on a residue of a liberal dressing the
previous year; in the case of crops suffering
the most the super, had been skimped. On
the newer settled country, during the dry
spell, the crops were robbed of the
available moisture by mallee roots and
shoots. Heavier dressings of super, would
not have had the same payable effect there
us on the older worked ground.
’ .
WHEAT ON WET LAND.
“Tumbe Munda”: A new system of farm-
ing is coming into vogue in south-east S.A.
For three and four months of the year a
wide sweep of country is covered with
approximately 6in. of water, most of which
is spring-fed. As this wet land is of excel-
lent quality, t«lie Government has spent well
over half a million trying to drain it, with
only small local successes. Now it is being
proved that wheat sown after the water dries
off will give first-class crops.
The pioneer of the movement took a
swamp surrounded on three sides with sand-
hills. This* swamp in winter was about 6ft.
deep, but the water was all on the surface
and not spring-fed; there is an impervious
clay subsoil. The pioneer built an embank-
ment on the open side, shutting the water
off. and after the swamp dried up he began
cultivation. For a year or two he followed
the usual method of farming with varying
success. Then he began sowing in Septem-
ber; result, 10-bag crops. The idea was
then taken up on the flats. As the water
could not be held off them in winter it
was necessary to wait till it dried naturally,
SePt ®m be 7’f° Ct f° b i e -' or . N< ! v . embar - 0a «
man could not get Ins ploughing done till
promised to S open* and im-
Ims system piom sls to open and im
prove many thousands of acres; and all as
Sine' ° ne * Cnergy rcsource -
iuiness. »
fi.-iT-ir.rxt r. Tl . „
M HERE IEEDING-OFF DOESN T I AY.
“Glenfield”: The feeding-off of wheat crops
in the north-west Vic. Mallee is an unsound
practice. With no growth of natural herb-
age in the winter, a depleted hay supply,
and no money with which to purchase chaff,
many Mallee farmers this season put their
hungry stock on the wheat crop, and fed
their teams on it to do their fallowing,
Politicians advised this penny-wise-and-
pound-foolish policy to lessen the cost of
Government assistance,
The result is that paddocks of good crop
have been completely or partially settled,
stock having been put on too early or left on
too long. Even where apparent judgment
has been used the fed-off crop that strikes
a prolonged hot and dry spell, such as we
Mallee folk get nine years out of ten, can’t
niake up the leeway in growth, and gives a
considerably lower yield than if it had
n °t been grazed. Should a man strike
the one year in ten when feeding-off would
be beneficial—as it often is in districts of
greater and certain spring rainfall—it is
Purely a matter of luck,
Wheat crops in the Mallee require all
the early growth they can get. The wise
s £ttler is he who farms all the time with
tae expectation of the coming season being
a dry one-
—
RAMS FOR FAT-LAMB PRODUCTION,
“Atriplex” : A most important considera-
turn in the selection of rams for fat-lamb
breeding l/W’3o) is the season during
wb ich they work best. My experience in the
hotter parts of N. S. Wales is that most
the British breeds do not exhibit a
stron g disposition to work during the summer
months. To secure good spring lambs drop-
ping must commence about March, which
means a November mating. Therefore
don’t forget the Corriedale. Although his
lambs may not equal the true British-merino
cross, he is a vigorous worker, and you will
probably make up in numbers what you lose
in quality. Neither is he such an incorrigible
I'oamer as his British cousins. This is worth
considering when the property is not netted.
4 here may yet be breeders who, desiring
t 0 switch over to crossbred lambs tem-
Purarny, are chary of doing so lest they spoil
taeir merino ewes for subsequent breeding
woolgrowers. In the face of present-day
knowledge of genetics this theory of telegony,
or influence of previous impregnation, has no
foundation. Many experiments have been
carried out to test the validity of it, and
ba 7 G giv( f n a nega "
f annLt w k7?!,° 7 ases 'T 1 . ere raom
J iV-17,777^r««‘..R;, su b S( /( ue nt lnvestiga-
!i 'k^ a< 7° rs . showing the sup-
te ego> y to be simply a reappearance
a s ,. me 7 ai / i y characteristic, just as the
a^ a ? a ? n ‘7 black sheep crops up m the best
regmatea stuas.
«w tv »- t j ~
u„„i »'’McG,. : I endorse all that Juni-
buck says (B. 1/10/ 30) regarding the
merits of the Romney Marsh breed for cross-
ing and producing fat lambs. I have had 40
years’ experience with all the British breeds,
and the best ewes I ever bred were the
Romney-merino cross. They are splendid
dams, they cut a good fleece of useful wool,
and bred to the Southdown ram nroduce
the ideal lamb for export. And the salvation
of a lot of men on the land lies in the ex-
ploiting of the export lamb trade. Settlers
who put in a few hundred acres of oats,
instead of wheat, and feed the crop off with
ewes and lambs will, with ordinary luck, get
a fine return and at the same time restore
their land to its original value,
There has rarely been such an opportunity
for farmers to go in for sheep. Ewes four
and five years old (the best for fat-lamb
raising) can be bought cheap. If healthy
they would do wonderfully well on the old
cultivation land, rear splendid lambs and
fatten off after the lambs are disposed of.
Incidentally, I am favorably impressed with
the Ryeland breed for fat-lamb production,
The lambs of this cross at the late Vic.
Royal Show were all that could be wished
for—really ideal for export.
IMPROVE THE QUALITY
“Bar K.”: Reports on the wool sales
emphasise the necessity for levelling up the
qual , ity of clip - Prices for good-quality
woo i s we re firm, but oddments and inferior
sor t s were not wanted. The wool position
indicates a similar trend in the market for
all primary produce—a slightly lower price
over all, with inferior quality in very poor
demand. So every man on the land should
aim at improving the quality of his first-grade
produce and eliminating as much as possible
of his inferior grade.
In the case of wool, the drop of 2d. per
pound in the average price of the clip could
be counterbalanced by improving the grad-
ing- and quality of the whole, and by reduc-
ing the cost of production by going in for
more scientific methods. The richer and
better the pasture, the better the fleece. Very
well, then, improve the quality of the pasture
by top-dressing and by planting suitable
pasture grasses, clovers and lucerne.
Starving stock cannot possibly make the
best fleeces, po guard against starvation by
conserving fodder in the form of hay, which
in many cases can be made from the pastures
in a flush season. One pound of hay per
day will keep a sheep alive for a long time;
21b. per day will keep it in good condi-
tion for 12 months, even through lambing.
Fertilised pastures will weather a dry spell
much better than hungry land, and will carry
the stock further.
Another means of improving the quality
of the clip is of course by improving the
flock. None but the best are worth carry-
ing on a low market. We must select, cull and
re-select as long as we are in the business.
FIGHTING GRASS FIRES.
“Kripple”: Grass fires on the Darling
Downs and elsewhere can be fought mechani-
cally by those who have tractors of the crude-
oil variety. Have ready to clamp along each
side of the chassis, and projecting 10ft. or
12ft. ahead, a length of 3in. pipe. Across
the fore ends fix a T-piece, like the bumper
bar of a car.
At the scene of the fire suspend from the
cross piece a mat made from a chain, 3ft.
or 4ft. hanging, 6ft. or 7ft. dragging, and
backed off with leather (or some other non-
inflammable material) to act as a blanket.
Charge over the line of fire in a lateral direc-
tion, and w 7 ipe it out. Or, if you don’t care
to go over the fire, fix one pipe out from side
of tractor and work the mat from that (the
burnt side, of course). It will do the work
of a host of beaters with wooden-liandled
flaps, though one or two of these may be
necessary to follow on, attending to a missed
patch.
I hear the cry: “But what about the
tractor?” Well, before the advent of mag-
netos and other ignition devices open flaming
torches were used to start internal-combus-
tion engines and keep them running; I never
saw one burnt. Anyhow, where paddocks
of valuable feed and stock are at stake the
risk is worth taking.
A GOOD WORD FOR CROWSFOOT.
“Cayenne”: L. J. Newman, the State Gov-
ernment entomologist, is advising Westralian
farmers to turn to new plants for their
pastures. He recommends the Erodium
family, notably crowsfoot or cranesbill,
which occurs widely in the W«A. farming
areas.
There are four species commonly found.
E. cygnorum has a blue flower (the others
are pink) and is not so hardy as the rest,
but is larger. The seed head, being further
from the ground, is more liable to be eaten
by stock than its relatives, and therefore it
does not prevail to the same extent on culti-
vated and well-stocked farms. Of the three
introduced species, two, E. moschatum and
E. hotrys , are valuable winter pasture plants
and, as they fruit near the ground level, can
stand fairly heavy stocking. All the species
come on well after the first rains and form
the bulk of the pastures in May, June and
July. All are free from serious insect pests.
Top-dressing with nitrogenous fertilisers is
a help.
THE SMALL DAM.
“Mulyan”: The small dam, or small exca-
vated tank, in the dairy paddock often be-
comes offensive if adequate drainage is not
provided. It should be made, when not in
a gully, near sloping ground, so that a few
yards of piping from the bottom of the reser-
voir will run the water off. . Small hollow
logs do for pipes, or a box drain made of
6xl hardwood, but the entrance should
be a curved pipe, with a bit of cement round
it. For plug, a stake with a strip of thin
leather round the end is all that is necessary.
Then when the water is bad the reservoir
can be emptied before rain just as easily
as the cask or iron tank.
The dam should also be shaded; Straw-
berry and Dobbin like their drink cool, just
as humans do. A few willow-trees provide
good shade, and the roots bind the banks.
The water they drink is set off by the saving
in evaporation, besides which they absorb
much of the foul matter that gets into small
holes where cattle water. A few small fish
will keep the confined water from becoming
a breeding-place for mosquitoes. Two or
three loads of sand in the bottom, and sand-
stone or gravel at the southern and eastern
sides, fencing off the others, do away with
mud and bogging, and thereby make a clean
dam. The trees should be planted thickly
on the northern side. Where fish are intro-
duced, reeds, river w 7 eed or lilies should be
planted along the edges of the fenced sides.
The whole job doesn’t take long, and it is
worth doing.
BUNCHY-TOP.
“V.J.S.” : If one were to wait for dwarfed
leaves to appear on a banana plant with
“bunchy” (“Ento,” B. l/10/‘3O) he would
never be rid of the thing. Any experienced
grower on the Richmond or Tweed River can
confirm this, and Prof. Goddard, in his con-
tribution to the report issued by the Council
of Scientific and Industrial Research, made
it abundantly clear. The professor’s method of
treatment (the only effective one yet known)
is to dig out infected plants and spray them
with either black-leaf 40 or kerosene emul-
sion as soon as the dark-green dot (nearly
always on the right-hand side of the mid-
rib) appears. The spray kills the aphides —
now “bunchy” carriers—and the source of
infection is destroyed.
It is not quite correct to say that “bunchy"
stops growth. It does and it doesn’t. A
plant some months old will continue to grow,
each leaf becoming shorter and showing
the more advanced symptoms —the “Morse-
code” markings, which are an unmistakable
dark-green. The corm of the diseased plant
now diverts its energies to sucker produc-
tion. It becomes in quick time embossed
with sucker eyes about the size of and as
numerous as boils seen on delibitated people’s
necks. . Such will be bunchy and grow to a
height of three or four feet. Ultimately
the stricken plants wilt away, some rotting,
but not before the lapse of years. . All
aphides on such plants are disease-carriers.
Imagine, then, what would happen if plants
were merely dug out without killing the
aphides on them!
Nor is it true that the aphides are harmful
to the banana. They are no more harm-
ful in clean areas than are mosouitoes to
humans in fever-free zones. If there is no
disease in a- district, obviously they cannot
spread it.
SPREADERS FOR SPRAY MIXTURES.
“Hop Scrub”: When any spray mixture
is applied to the leaf surface of a plant it
naturally tends to form large drops which
run off without wetting the leaf. To secure
complete covering of the leaf and contact
with fungus or insect, certain spreading
agents should be used. Soap is the most
popular; for spraying choose one of the
fish-oil soaps on the score of economy.
Soft soaps and soft water give less trouble
than the hard products—nozzles and guns
are less likely to clog.
The casein derivatives are useful spread-
ers. Calcium caseinate is recommended for
use with lime sulphur and Bordeaux mix-
ture. Skim milk, plus a little slaked lime,
added to the water in the spray tank before
adding the toxic chemicals is effective in
producing a good adhesive film.
Saponin is one of the best available agents,
but the price in Australia is high, a dis-
advantage shared by gelatine. They are
both to be preferred to the casein com-
pounds for use with lead arsenate. There
are proprietary brands on the market.
In addition to the spreaders which in-
crease wetting power and adherence of the
spray material to the leaf, flour paste, dex-
trines, resin and molasses are used for their
adhesive qualities. Their value consists in
their ability to gum the spray particles to
the plant.
Spreaders increase the efficiency of pest
and disease control by making the material
go .farther, by putting on more toxic
material to the square inch, and in suspen-
sion sprays, such as lead arsenate, by pre-
venting sedimentation in the vat. In short,
they pay.
BLUEBERRIES.
“Fernlander”: A berry that is making a
lot of money for its growers in the U.S.A.
and Canada is the blueberry, of the genus
Vaccinium. It is something like a large
currant, fruiting in long clusters, and has a
flavor that has made it extremely popular
for jam-making and for pies wherever it is
grown. American nurserymen have consid-
erably improved the breed, and get large
yields. In a recent case hybridised blue-
berries, planted 3ft. by sft. apart, yielded
in their third year (there is no crop the
first two years) 30 bushels per acre, this
increasing each year until in the seventh
year the yield was 96 bushels and in the
eighth 117 bushels per acre. Canada, which
grows the fruit extensively, after providing
for all domestic needs exported it-' surplus
of 3,644.5501 b. in 1926, receiving £66,600.
The virtues of the blueberry from a com-
mercial standpoint are that it can be raised
on varying types of soil with little cultiva-
tion, no spraying (it has no enemies but the
birds), no pruning and very little care. It
will grow on uplands or lowlands, on deep
soil or shallow 7 . It likes an acid soil, especi-
ally qne composed of peat and sand; the
soil must be well drained, and must perma-
nently retain a moderate amount of mois-
ture.
In Maoriland, where experiments with the
plant on a very small scale were commenced
some years ago with all the best-known
American commercial varieties, it has been
found that blueberries thrive on soil which at
present has very little value for anything else,
and cultivation on an extensive scale is
being seriously considered. In the meantime
the Plant Research branch of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture is keeping in touch with
American developments, and it is hoped that,
(Continued on page 25.)


FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
TECHNICAL BOOKS FOR
TRADESMEN
Price, Postage.
Commonsense Stair Building and Handrailing. Hodgson .... 8/6 -/8
Projects in Furniture Making. Fred Adams 8/6 -/9
Modern Carpentry and Joinery. A Practical Manual. 2 vols.
Hodgson Set 16/6 1/8
Practical Lessons in Carpentry and Joinery. For use of appren-
tices. Geo. Ellis 14/- -/10
Canoeing, Sailing and Motor-boating. Practical boat building
and handling. Lieut. Warren Miller 14/- 1/-
The Art of Lettering. Carl Lars Svensen 22/6 1/6
The Magneto Manual. Practical and general reference work for
automobile engineers. H. R. Langman 10/- -/8
Manufacture and Uses of Concrete Products and Cast Stone.
H. L. Childe . ; 7/- 1/-
Manual of House Painting, Graining, Marbling and Sign-writing.
Ellis A. Davidson 10/- -/10
Model Yachts and Boats. Their designing, making and sailing.
Edward Hobbs 7/- -/7
The Art of Soap-making. A practical handbook. Alan Watt. . 12/6 -/9
Sketching in Lead Pencil. For architects and others. J. Salwey 10/- -/10
Sketching from Nature. A practical treatise. F. Glass 14/- 1/-
Design and Construction of Oil Engines. A. H. Goldingham. . 13/6 1/3
Gas Engine Troubles and Installation. With Trouble Charts.
John B. Rathbun 11/- ”/®
Fuel and Lubricating Oils for Diesel Engines. W. Schenker . . 13/6 -/9
Diesel and Oil Engineering Handbook. Julius Rosbloom 27/6 1/-
Electric Wiring. A primer for the use of wiremen and students.
Clinton-Freeman 6/6 -/8
The Book of Electrical Wonders. Ellison Hanks 10/- 1/3
Recipes for the Color, Paint, Varnish, Oil, Soap and Drysaltery
Trades. Analytical Chemist 13/6 1/2
Modern Gramophones and Electrical Reproducers. Wilson and
Webb . 11/6 1/-
Elementary Craftwork in Metal. Alfred Shirley 10/- -/10
Sawmill Work and Practice. A book for owners, overseers and
operators of wood-working machinery. W. J. Blackmir. . 7/- -/6
Stairbuilding and the Steel Square. A manual of practical instruc-
tion. Hodgson and Williams 5/6 -/6
Stair Builders’ Guide. Morris Williams 16/6 -/10
Practical Building Construction. Handbook for students.
John P. Allen 10/- 2/-
The ABC of Plastering. A. H. Selling 11/6 -/9
Brickwork and Its Construction. A textbook for all workers
in brick. Walter Jaggard 24/6 1/-
Aviation from the Ground Up. A practical instruction and refer-
ence work on aviation. Lieut. Manly 27/6 1/6
The Aircraft Handbook. Henry F. Colvin 26/- 1/-
Airplane Engine Encyclopedia. Glenn Angle 39/- 2/3
Practical Boat Building for Amateurs. Full instructions for
designing and building punts, skiffs, canoes, etc. F. Cowper 4/6 -/6
The Concrete Year Book for 1929. Faber and Childe . . 6/6 to 2/6 1/4
Practical Color Photography. E. J. Wall 19/- -/10
An Outline of Advertising. E. Hughes 10/- -/10
Elementary Studies in House Painting, Decorating and Paper-
hanging 14/- 1/2
N. S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPARTMENT,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Haveyo
on you?
Remember the roof covers all—protects all
—make sure by using a roofing tried over
a lifetime in all climates and countries. Use
Certain-teed
ROLL ROOFING
which covers so many of our city
buildings and suburban factories
throughout Australia. Certain-teed
is also suitable for use as a cheap
flooring for stores, garages, ver-
andahs, etc. Made in three grades,
one- two- and three-ply, and a
super quality for flooring.
We lay and fix Certain-teed on roofs and
floors. Old roofs reroofed with bituminous
paint equal to new. Write or ’phone either
house for low quotations.
pfmfankhjm
M
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


Columbia
w
THE
FAMOUS
THREE
COLUMBIA
PORTABLES
THE
world's
BEST
109 A
A
112 A
AMD
0/(e obxAtaoiat afPcrdaUEA
EISA
SPECIAL DE LUXE
MODEL IN SMOKE
GREY FABRIROID
m
■ 7
&
The perfect tonal quality of the large instruments, allied with
extreme convenience, portability, and smart appearance
that's what is represented in the Columbia Portable. Which-
ever model you choose to be the cheery companion of your
leisured moments, the purveyor of pleasure for your festive
parties, indoors or out, you can be certain of finding the fullest
degree of satisfaction and enjoyment which is always associated
with the name "Columbia " • # • #
109 a £5 10 0
Carrier in lid for
8 10-inch records
•
112 a £7 10 0
Carrier in lid for
8 10-inch records
•
113 a £l6 16 0
Carrier in lid for I fl-
inch and 12-inch records
Col umbia
Portable
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Grafonola Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Cl.
QUEENSLAND.
King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings,
Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA.
Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobait and
Burnie.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.


Doubled upper. . . .
doubled sole
This is an Abbey Cossack built
for hardest wear in all
weathers. It is rugged .... but
flexible and easy-fitting. The
upper, lined throughout with
soft leather, is shaped to
accommodate the foot’s natural
curve. It arches at the lacing
and does up without any strain.
For the sole, only the highest
grade of leather is used....
and in twice average thickness.
The tongue is sewn to the sides
of the boot and excludes grass-
seeds and dust.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 199
ill
Flashlights “ Batteries** Radio Tubes
ELECTRIC TORCH
With the
ROTOMATIC SWITCH
The GREAT Battery Economist
The constant purchase of
batteries is due in no small
way to the light being turned
on accidenaltly The
ROTOMATIC SWITCH in-
sures you against waste of
batteries Always lights
when you want it.
Positive prevention against
accidental battery discharge.
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
~ CHICAGO U.5.A. >,
' K 3 •
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
tO SUCCeci .THINK OF
"’I
'\S’
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you havo
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridse Street. Sydney.
c 'for their
happiness
ENSURE the future hap-
piness of your tittle ones
by investing your surplus
funds in P.P. Bank DEPOSIT
CERTIFICATES. This is
undoubtedly the finest form
of insurance.
P.P. Bank Deposit Certificates
are safe, convenient, never below
par, and are issued for any
amount.
Write us for full particulars or
consult our officers, free of
charge.
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London..
.
m
m
a
m
CHANDLER RINGLOCK FENCING
Manufactured by
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD., Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
if certain difficulties that at present make the
rooting of cuttings a very difficult business
can be overcome, a use will be found for
many thousands of acres of land now listed
as barren.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
My sows are losing 10 per cent, to 30
per cent, of their litters when farrowing. A
soio with 10 pigs will have seven well-
developed and vigorous piglings, one fully
developed dead at birth, and two half-
developed dead. What is the cause? The
sows are in perfect condition. They have been
fed sloppy food and swedes for the last six
weeks, and are well housed— 9346.
Probably due to the conditions under which
the pigs are fed and housed. From birth
until it is marketed, the pig requires healthy,
warm and clean conditions. Concrete
troughs, surrounded by concrete platforms,
are recommended for cleanliness. Wooden
troughs cause a lot of deaths among pigs.
My draught gelding has a sore on his hind
leg just above the hoof; it began about
two years ago. Lumps about the size of
cherries and crowded together formed, and
seem to be going further up the leg. The
horse hasn't lost condition, but walks slightly
lame. What is the disease, and the best
treatment? —9394.
Apparently this is a case of grease fol-
lowed by granulations and excrescences.
It may be necessary to get a vet. to apply
the actual cautery to the growths. In the
meantime wash the leg with soap and warm
water, dry thoroughly, and then with a hard
brush apply once daily sulphate of zinc,
20z.; sugar of lead, 20z.; water, 16oz. Keep
leg as dry as possible.
I had, a calf about nine months old that
was very poor and died. The cattle are
dipped regularly, and feed has not been
scarce, so I thought it had some disease. I
opened it, and could find no lung worms, but
the lungs were mottled with red. Would
being down for some days cause this? —9299.
The mottled condition of the lungs was
due to rupture of the small blood-vessels
prior to death. Possibly this was caused
by anaemia and debility, due to lack of suffi-
cient fats in the skim milk. Give the calves
a small ration of cod-liver oil, raw linseed
oil, tallow or other vegetable or animal fat
with their milk.
(1) Cost of cheapest milking machine (2-
cow, 4-cow and 5-cow plant)? (2) Best
type of engine; benzine or kerosene? (3)
Time-payment terms given to buyers? —9222.
(1) Prices of a machine of the single-
chambered teat cup type are: 2-cow, £135;
4-cow, £170; 5-cow, £200; this includes
engine powerful enough to drive a cream
separator as well as the services of an
installer. (2) Engine should be of the
throttle-governed type. It is too small to
be worth while running on kerosene. (3)
Usual terms are 18 months, with a deposit of
about 25 per cent.
I am a farmer and have a man on shares.
Have I to insure Mm under the N.S.W.
Workmen’s Compensation Act? And what
is my responsibility in respect to the men he
employs? If I have not to insure him or
his workers, what section of the Act releases
me from responsibility? —934o.
Originally the Act made the owner re-
sponsible, but by an amending Act in 1927
the owner’s responsibility was limited, and
by a further amending Act in 1929 all lia-
bility in respect of a share-farmer or a
share-farmer’s workers was removed.
(1) Do citrus-growers in the Montville
district (Q.) receive a fair return for labor
and capital invested? (2) Approximate
price of a going concern? (3) What are
the prospects of success for a man with
£lOOO capital? (4) Is the district infected
seriously with fruit pests? —93l7.
(1) They receive a moderate to fair
return for labor but little for capital in-
vested. (2) Approximately £l5O per acre.
(3) Pretty good, provided he knows some-
thing of the business and starts on new land
in a suitable district. Gayndah offers
reasonable facilities. (4) No more than
other parts of the State. Such pests
as there are can be kept in control by the
application of reasonable measures.
; Six years ago in the Strathalbyn district
( S.A .) I started a small plantation of
almonds —Brandis and. Hatch’s Nonpareil
(California Papershells) in alternate rows.
In the fourth year each tree bore a few
almonds. Last year there ivere none.
This year the Brandis have a fair crop but
the Papershells atre barren, only two of
the least vigorous trees having blossomed.
The land has been kept well cultivated and
the trees have made wonderfully good
growth. Is the Papershell a very shy
bearer, or is growth too vigorous?, —9244.
In most almond-growing districts of S.A.
Hatch’s Nonpareil is claimed to be a con-
sistently good cropper, while Brandis is con-
demned owing to its sparsity of fruit-bear-
ing ; but experiments by the S.A. Agriculture
Dept, show that at Adelaide H.N. yielded
an annual average of only 19.40 z. of nuts
over 16 years, and at Berri (irrigated) only
6|oz. over eight years. Brandis, on the other
hand, yielded 1211 h. at Adelaide and 91b. at
Berri per tree. Almond varieties crop better
where different sorts are grown which bloom
simultaneously. The non-cropping of the
trees in question is probably due more to
inclement weather at blooming time, com-
bined with lack of cross-pollination of the
blossoms, than to excessive vigor of growth.
Brandis blooms during July and early
August in S.A., being amongst the earliest
sorts, whilst Hatch’s Nonpareil flow’ers from
early August until nearly the end of that
month. Brandis almost invariably blossoms
when cold, squally winds and rain are pre-
valent, but H.N. likes the finer sunny days
of early spring, when its flowers are pro-
duced in their greatest abundance. Varie-
ties which bloom simultaneously with H.N.
are Ne Plus Ultra and the true Jordan hard-
shell. White Nonpareil, Commercial and
Stockham’s Papershell blossom at the same
time as Brandis.
Where can I buy queen bees in N.S.W.,
and at what price?— B226.
From Hawkesbury Ag. Col. and Wau-
chope Gov. Apiary. Untested Italian and
Italian X Carniolan queens cost 7s. 6d. eachj
post free; tested, 12s.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bung”: When your ferret refuses to
emerge from a rabbit burrow, stuff up the
entrance with dry grass, block every other
means of egress, and leave him until next
morning. You will find him nesting in the
grass at the entrance.
“Kirk”: “Booraby” (B. 17/9/’3O), in a
number of good hints about mounting a
grindstone, recommends sopping round the
centre hole with water to prevent the hot
lead splitting the stone. But care must
be taken to see that all the water has soaked
in ; if any remains in the hole, it turns to
steam when the hot lead is poured in, and
if there is much left it blows the molten
lead out. I have heard of a man losing his
eyesight through the molten metal blowing
in his face in such circumstances.
“Bar. K.” When yoking your field team,
see that the back bands are not too short.
It is a common fault to have the chains
drawn up by the back band, with the result
that they drag the weight down on
the horse’s back, often causing painful sores.
The chains should, of course, pull in a
straight line from hames to draw-bar.
“Orara”: Take care of Dobbin’s teeth. I
have seen a horse’s mouth in such a state
that lie could not properly close it, several
teeth being much longer than the others and
cutting the sides. Every man working horses
should learn to use the dental file, which is
simple enough with a little practice. Dobbin
with an even set of teeth is a different chap
from when his teeth are allowed to run riot.
“Bendee”: I agree in the main with “Bad
Australian” (B. 8/10/’3O), but there is still
the case of the badly-broken colt who has
acquired bad habits and must be cured. I
offer this solution. Let your horse get used
to being hobbled to the full length of the
hobbles; then put a strong bridle on him,
pass the reins over a sturdy rail, and
back under, fastening the end of the reins
securely to the hobbles. When the prad pulls
his head back he automatically pulls his feet
forward. I know of no cure so certain. Yet
another method is to tie the reins to a. three-
bushel bag of sand. He will soon get out of
the habit of trying to drag that round.
“F.”: To preserve a saddle, some bush-
men use bullocks’ blood, which also stains
the leather. For a yellow appearance wash
with cold water and soft soap until free
from dirt; then infuse some hay saffron in
water and rub it well into the leather. Next
apply soft soap on a woollen cloth; finish
with a woollen rag on which beeswax has
been rubbed. Dirty stains can be removed
with a little oxalic acid in warm water,
applied with a sponge.
“Locksley” : A time- and money-saver on
the farm is a drilling machine and a set of
taps and dies. Buying duplicate cog-wheels
when the only damage is a broken tooth is
sheer waste. A new tooth can be easily fitted
by drilling a hole in the place of the broken
tooth and putting a thread in it with a tap.
All that is then necessary is to screw into
this a bolt of the correct size and cut off at
the required length. A few rubs with the file
and you have a perfectly good cog-wheel, fit
sometimes for three or four seasons’ work.
“Tumbe Munda”: If you feel you can't
afford the space for belts of shade trees,
plant the corners of paddocks with pines. In
a South Aus. district where the farms are
from 20 to 80 acres, this plan was followed,
and during the war the farmers sold then-
pines to a sawmill for fl per tree as they
stood. For 20 years the trees gave shade
in summer, and then returned £lO to
£l2 per paddock for timber.
“Atriplex”: You can cut down expenses
by making gates of round timber; they will
last for years. Select sound pieces of close-
grained timber, about four inches diameter
for the heads, and remove bark. Place these
on ground so that they cannot roll, and bore
corresponding holes in each where rungs are
to go. Use an auger half an inch smaller
than the rungs and bore each hole vertical.
For the rungs I like rosewood. Just rasp
off the flaky bark, taper each end with an
axe and drive them tightly into the heads.
The gate is stayed with two diagonal double
wires, each twitched in two places. Put both
on before twitching and tighten each alter-
nately to avoid pulling gate out of square.
Swing gate on a block set in ground and
a collar at the top.
“V. J.S.”: “E.H.M.’s” banana-stool beetle-
borer traps (B. 3/9/’3O) are effective in the
Tweed district (N.S.W.), where banana-
growing has been resuscitated on a sound
foundation. Some of the departmental in-
spectors recommend the traps, and the
Writer, one of a number who have used
them, can vouch for their efficacy. In
Queensland the borers got out of hand
before any serious attempt was made to
combat them.
“North Essendon”: Last season some red
mites attacked my Canadian Wonder beans.
I syringed them two days running with a
solution of waste tobacco, lib. to 20gal. of
water. That effected a cure, and I had a
record crop. Thrips also got to my carrots.
I tried dusting them with lime; but did not
shift the pests until I sprayed with the
tobacco decoction described. Then they left.
“Cottage”: My experience, unlike that of
“J. Point” (B. 8/10/’3O), is that Mother
Goose will set well enough, as long as you
don’t interfere with her. Put a tin of water
alongside her; only towards the end
of the hatching period will she eat.
As regards selling, I can get rid of them as
fast as I like on the Sydney market, and
at good prices, too.
“Bad Australian” : Given the same soil and
weather conditions, rye is more productive
than barley or oats. It is little affected by
frost, makes good progress when oats and
barley are practically at a standstill, and it
will stand more cutting than either. If it is
still vigorous when the spring grass dis-
places it as green feed, it should be allowed
to mature, when a good return of grain may
be expected. Fowls and pigs do well on the
grain, and I have seen many fine chickens
reared on a ration of coarsely-ground rye.
For thatching stacks the straw is superior
to that of all other cereals.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved,
wanted to Sell”' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-soldier who has travelled the world wants
job as personal attendant to gentleman travelling, or
position of trust anywhere. Refs. —9434.
Returned soldier (32) wants to join scientific
exploring or prospecting expedition going anywhere.
W ell educated, healthy and good cook; familiar with
air, land and marine engines' and craft; five years’
exp. N.G.—9432.
Printer, lino, op., jobbing, etc., all-round exp.,
wants job anywhere.—94os.
Accountant-bookkeeper, Sydney, wants , clerical
position anywhere; G and 15 years last two jobs,
capable controlling staff, exp. executive methods.
Refs.—94s4. .
Draughtsman (22), "six years’ commercial exp.,
wimts ' job of any sort. —9425.,
Young man (21), Roseworthy Ag. Dip., exp. in
station and farm work, wants job as jackeroo with
chance of advancement. —9408.
Exp. farmworker (30), Vic., single, capable of
taking charge of wheat or sheep property, wants
employment anywhere.—94o4.
Partner wanted for small mixed farm, Vic. —9399.
English engineer, N.S.W., exp. metallurgical
analysis, electrical and general plant repairs and
cast-iron work, wants job to gain practical mining
exp. Refs—94lo.
Plasterer (ex-A.LF.), Sydney, married, three young
children, wants work of any kind. —9485.
Ex-soldier, Sydney, ‘ married, saddler, book- and
store-keeper, • gardener, wants job anywhere. Refs.
—9486.
Ex-officer, single,. 37, speaks Malay, French and
Hindustani, used to handling colored labor, can keep
books and has had exp. with boats and motors, wants
position anywhere, Islands, preferred. Refs. —9487.
Young married couple, man carpenter and handy;
wife cook; position on farm- or station, Q’land pre-
ferred.: —9471.
Sydney lady w'ould like to hear from lonely
people, 48 to 58, middle-class, anywhere in N.S.W ,
to arrange motor outings and picnic parties for the
coming season. —9439.
To buy books dealing with short-story writing. —-
9415.
To buj', or exchange for books, “Round the Red
Lamp,” by Conan Doyle, and “The Sketch Book,”
by Washington Irving.—94l4.
To buy, second-hand, “World Crisis,” by Winston
Churchill, both v 015.—9435.
To buy Bonwiek’s “Last of the Tasmanians”
(1S70), Burke’s “Adventures of Martin Cash”
(1870), Prout’s “Tasmania Illustrated” and Barron
.Field’s “First Fruits of Australian Poetry.”—94l6.
To buy second-hand, any date, 1923 to 1929,
Gibbons’s British Empire Stamp Catalogue.—946l.
Will exchange for reference books, all kinds,
modern novels. —9488.
Information Supplied.
(1) Quantity in gallons of wine and spirit
that can be produced from (a) 83 tons of
Gordo grapes, sugar contents 14 beaume, and
(b) 70 tons Doradillo grapes, at 12 beaume?
(2) What would be the excise duty in each
case? (8) Is the ls.‘9d. per gallon wine bounty
paid on wine exported talcen from general
■revenue? (4) Would a reduction in excise
duty have the same effect as the bounty?
(5) What is the meaning of the term “draw-
back'’ as used in the wine trade? —B4so.
(1) (a) Approximately 3960ga1. wine;
970ga1. proof spirit. (7;j About 8400 gal.
wine; 1704ga1. proof spirit. (2) If the
spirit were used for fortifying purposes the
excise duty payable would be : Gordo, at 11s.
per proof gallon, £533 10s.; Doradillo, at 10s.,
£BS2. (3) No. The money is provided from
a special fund set aside from revenue derived
from spirit used in fortifying wine. (4) No.
(5) It is the return to the exporter of the
duty paid on spirit used in fortified wine
upon exportation of the wine from the Com-
monwealth. ’
(1) What are “ static ” radial aero engines?
(2) Why do they have hji odd number of
cylinders? (3) Main advantage of radial
engines over other types? (4) Do they con-
sume more lubricating oil per h.p. than other
types? (5) Do they consume more petrol
per h.p.? —8920.
(1) The term “static” is applied to a
radial engine in which the cylinders are
stationary, as distinguished from a rotary
radial in which the cylinders rotate about
a stationary crankshaft. (2) To give evenly-
spaced firing intervals in transmitting the
power to the crankshaft. Some engines have
an even number of cylinders, in which case
a two-throw crankshaft is used, arranged
so that there is an odd number of cylinders,
to each crankthrow. (3) It is lighter, im-
mune from “plumbing” troubles and easier
to overhaul, and inertia torque is eliminated.
(4) Yes. (5) Yes.
(1) Row can I proceed for recovery of a
debt for board against a man who has' left
Sydney, where the debt was incurred, and
gone to Melbourne? (2) Can the man be
arrested sunnmarily? —923s.
(1) Take proceedings in the local court
in the ordinary way. The Commonwealth
Service and Execution of Process Act
then provides that a summons issued out
of any court of a State may be served on
a defendant in any other State, subject to
certain requirements as to endorsement and
time limited for appearance. (2) No.
In reply to a question you say it is pos-
sible to qualify as a N.S.W. barrister in three
or four years without attending a Uni. (1)
What are the subjects of the preliminary
and other examinations in order to qualify
as a barrister? (2) Where are examina-
tions held? (3) Where can I obtain lists
of books required, etc.?— 9269.
(1) The exams, to be passed are (a) a
preliminary or law matric, the subjects being
Latin, geometry, algebra, history and either
Greek or French, or logic and psychology (a
leaving certificate covering these subjects is
equivalent) ; (b) an intermediate or law
history exam.; and (c) a final divided into
two sections and covering generally the body
of common and statute law and equity. (2)
In Sydney. (3) From the secretary to the
Board ..of. Examiners, Supreme Court,
Sydney. .
(1) Can a Rolls-Royce car be bought out-
right or only under a hiring agreement? (2)
If a hiring agreement , has the vendor com-
pany to keep the car in good condition, and
for how long? (3) What parts of a Rolls-
Royce car are sealed? (4) What effect
■/would it r have if a seal were broken without
\the, permission of thefvendors? —9o97.
(1) It. may be purchased either for cash
'or under a hire agreement. (2) The matter
of keeping the ear in good condition rests
with .the purchaser or hirer. (3) and (4)
No part of the' Rolls-Royce is under seal.
The makers, however, give a three years’
guarantee to replace proved defective parts
with the clear understanding that no altera-
tions whatever must be made to the chassis
And component parts.
(1) Is it possible to secure a job in the
goldmines in 8. Africa to supervise Kaffirs?
(2) -'What is the limit age to join the police
in Africa, and where to apply? (3) When
does cotton-cutting start in Q'land, and
where is the cotton district? —9344.
(1) No hope. The men who hold down
those jobs must speak half a dozen Kaffir
dialects. (2) Twenty-five. Little use apply-
ing if you are not an Afrikander; in any
case you must be able to speak Afrikaans as
well as at least two Kaffir languages. (3)
Commences in February and runs on to tlie
end of July. Cotton is grown in the south-
eastern coastal areas from Rockhampton
downwards, though the Burnett Valley irri-
gation area, further inland, is now coming
into the picture. tl
(1) From what town in K.Q. do the
miners of the Batavia- field get their supplies
and at what period of the year do they get
them? (2) What is the name and address of
the sugar co. recently formed in New Guinea?
—9325.
(1) Mostly from the Coen, a long-estab-
lished field a hundred miles to the south.
Cooktown supplies the Coen, but it is under-
stood that attempts have been made lately
to ration the Batavia from Princess Char-
lotte’s Bay,' further north from Cooktown.
Missionary interests have made a trade
through the mouth of the Batavia River from
Thursday Island out of the question at
present. (2) Sangara Valley Co., Cairns
( N-. Q .). - ■ . * -
What is the difference between a monk
and a friar?- —9331.
A friar is a member of one of the mendi-
cant orders whose work lies among the
people, such as the Franciscan, Dominican,
Carmelite and Augustinian. A monk is a
member of a monastery.
An advertising competition in the “Mirror”
calls for the fitting of eight sets of features
into eight different styles of coiffure. In
how many waps can they be arranged, filling
in a complete set each time? —9314.
To find the number of possible different
arrangements or permutations in such a case
you multiply the number successively first by
the number minus one, then by the number
minus two, and so on until there is nothing
left to multiply by. In this case, 8 x 7 x 6 x 5
x 4 x 3 x 2 equals 40,320.
Could I convert a five-valve all-electric
receiver into a battery-operated model? I
am leaving the city for a locality where elec-
tricity will not be available. —93s2.
It can be done, but many expensive parts
would have to be discarded. It would be
advisable to negotiate with one of the wire-
less firms with a view to exchanging the set
for one that is battery-operated.
(1) What is meant by the “ampere-hour
capacity”.of a radio battery? (2) What is
the normal charging rate of a 40 amp.-hour
accumulator? (3) Does the size of' an accu-
mulator affect its voltage?— 93sl.
(1) . The ampere-hour is the unit .of quan-
tity of electricity. An accumulator having a
capacity of 100 a.-h. will theoretically
deliver 5 amps, for 20 hours or 10 amps, for
10 hours, or whatever the rate of discharge
permits. (2) The normal charging rate is
about one-tenth of its a.-li. capacity >in this
case 4 amperes. (3) No. The a.-h. capacity
increases with the area of the plates. The
voltage increases with the number of cells
placed in series.
(1) What are the good points to be looked
for _in a cocker spaniel? (2) Is: a spot of
white hair., a disadvantage? , (3) My cocker
spaniel, aged 10" weeks, when resting 'twitches
his deft front paw and' seems cramped ..when
he rises. Otherwise his condition is per-
fect. What is this due to and remedy? (4)
What are the symptoms of distemper and
treatment ?,—9083.
(1) Weight not to exceed 251 b.; eyes in
accordance with color of dog; black or brown.
Long body, coat flat and abundant, of silky
character. Fore and hind limbs should be
well feathered. Feet, medium size with good
feather between toes; ears long, with plenty
of fine hair and fringe. Active and lively
disposition. (2) Whole colors are preferred.
(3) Can’t say without examination. If
there is no history of distemper the trouble
may be purely a nervous twitching. You
might try massage. (4) A rash may be present
on the skin; there may be symptoms of
catarrh (discharging at eyes and nostrils) ;
the breathing may be humid and the dog may
vomit.. Diarrhoea is a common symptom and
a languid sleepy condition is often exhibited.'
The temperature of the dog is usually high,
and he is off his food. Nervous symptoms
with convulsions may follow. A preventive
vaccine is now being used for distemper.
Affected dogs should be isolated, and kennels
disinfected. Nursing is of great importance
and milk and beef tea should be administered
at intervals daily.
(1) In which of his books does Quiller-
Go-uch advance the theory that there is a
larger proportion of Roman blood in the
English people than in any existing race?
(2) What are the best histories of each
period of British history — ancient, Anglo-
Saxon, Norman , etc., Tudor, Stuart, Hano-
verian and modernj not more than 2 vols.
to each? (3) Best short history of the
Great War? —93os.
(1) One suggestion to that effect is made
in “On the Art of Writing,” but it is not
advanced as a definite assertion. (2) “Eng-
land Before the Norman Conquest,” by Chas.
Oman; “England Under the Normans and
Angevins,” by H. W. C. Davis; “England
in the Later Middle Ages,” by K. H. Vickens ;
“England Under the Tudors,” by A. D.
Innes; “England Under the Stuarts,” by
G. M. Trevelyan; “England Under the
Hanoverians,” by G. Grant Robertson;
“Recent History of England,” by G. M.
Trevelyan, and “History of Modern Europe”
(1878-1919), by G. P. Gooch. (3) “A Short
History of the Great War,” by Pollard.
(1) What is meant by the “rationalisa-
tion” of industry, as the term is used in
Britain? (2) Does it involve an increase
in unemployment? (3) Is it socialistic or
capitalistic in principle? —949o.
(1) Briefly it involves the reorganisation
of industry on more efficient lines, usually
by combining the resources of all or several of
the firms engaged in an industry, with a
view to eliminating overlapping, to instal-
ling more modern machinery, practising
the latest and most improved methods of
production and adjusting production to
demand. (2) At the beginning it usually
does, but advocates of the theory say that,
as in the case of the first introduction of
machinery and factory production, the re-
duced cost of commodities stimulates demand
to such an extent that in the end the demand
for labor is substantially increased. (3)
Neither. It is a matter of industrial econo-
mics and outside political theories.
I am an ex-British soldier, wounded in
the Great War. My injuries interfere seri-
ously- with my efforts to secure a livelihood,
1 never claimed for - a pension. Can I still
,do so, and how would Igo about it?— 94B9.
As a matter of law such applications are
barred by the expiration of a seven years’
time limit, but it lias been made known that
exceptional cases, in which clear evidence is
produced that substantial incapacity has been
caused by war service, will be investigated
with a view to the grant of appropriate com-
pensation. Claim can be made through the
British Pensions Section, Repatriation
Dept., Chalmors-street, Sydney.
(1) What sort of fish was Pelorus Jack?
(2) How did he get his name? (3) Did he
always remain in one locality? (4) How old
was lie when he died?. —9463.
(1) According to the Order-in-Council by
which the M.L. Government protected him he
was a white dolphin {Grampus griseus) , but
a very high authority identified him as a
white whale or beluga. (2) From his habitat,
Pelorus: Sound, on which the port of Havelock
is situated. He 'became famous through his
habit ;of swimming just in front of all
steamers that entered or left the sound. (3)
Yes,:,in French Pass,. near the. entrance to
the sound. His beat was well defined and
never altered. (4) No direct evidence that
he is dead, saye that he hasn’t been seen’for
10 years. As to his age, the Maoris; say he
used to pilot their canoes long before' the
white men came, and some big fish in the
same locality is mentioned in Maori history
as having met and accompanied the first
canoes to. cross Cook Strait. Nobody knows
how many centuries ago the Maoris - settled
in M.L., but they had been there (for many
generations when the first white man sighted
the country in 1642.
(1) -Was Maoriland the first country in
the world to give women the suffrage? (2)
Was it a Conservative proposal in M L.?
(3) What was the first Australian State to
grant women the franchise?— 949s.
(!) No: Women enjoyed the franchise
under the first Constitution of New Jersey
(U.S.A.) from 1776 to 1807, though that
was ; due to an oversight in drafting the. Con-
stitution. In Wyoming women have had
electoral -rights since 1869. In Maoriland
' the franchise dates from September. 1893.
(2) It'was considered a non-party question,
and was supported by the leaders of the Con-
servatives, Harry Atkinson and John Hall,
'as well- as by Ballance, Reeves and Seddon,
the last-named being in charge of the bill, as
Premier, when'' it was passed. (3) South
’Australia, in 1894.
(1) What is Shellkol motor spirit made
from? , (2.) How much is produced annually?
(3) Is it ousting other motor. spirits and
exclusively used? (4) Is it sold in N.S.W.?
—9923.".
(1) It is a rhixture of petrol and anhy-
drous alcohol, the latter distilled from mo-
lasses. .(2)’ Information is not available,
but there are said to be over 300 kerbside
pumps in Q'land. . (3) It has established
itself .in Q’land very quickly, havirig been
found particularly 'suitable for aeroplanes,
motor racing, outboard motors and petrol con-
sumption tests. It, is exclusively used by
the Q’land Railways Dept, for its rail-
motor services. (4), Not yet. It is expected
it will be available in N.S.W. towns adjacent
to the Q’land border within this month.
Which railway station is the busiest in
the world? The distinction is claimed for
Flinders-street, Melbourne. —9132.
Excluding goods trains, shuntings, etc.,'
and reckoning a trip from Flinders-street to a
suburb and back as one train, the total number
of electric trains dealt with dailv is 1912.
When last counted in 1927, the daily
average of passengers was 317,393. Com-
parable figures are Liverpool-street (L. and
N E.) : 1005 trains, 233,623 passengers;
Baker-street: 1260, 161,000; Waterloo: 1219,
146,171 —all London. Grand Central Ter-
minal : 557. 108,845 ; Pennsylvania Terminal:
556, 114,483 —both New York. English and
American figures regarding trains may not
be on so conservative a basis As the Mel-
bourne figures.
Brief Answers.
W.T.: Herbert Syme did not race under
name of V. A. Rawdon. He has not raced horses at
a 11.... J.R.: N.S.W. law provides that anyone subject
to a lighting rate who is of opinion that he derives
no benefit from the lighting may appeal against
the inclusion of his land in the lighting district.
The appeal must be made within one month after
service of the rate notice to the nearest Court of
Petty Sessions P.F.: Can’t undertake to pass an
opinion on the merits of all the physical-culture
systems in the world. The exercises described in
London’s “Strength ' and How to Obtain it”
are the basis of several other successful systems.
. ...R.E.W.: You would be ill-advised to go into
the thing without experience or business training,
and you will find it hard to get an agency worth
having. The sort of shop you have in mind would
be a very precarious proposition in these times....
G.F.8.: 1928 figures are the latest available.
In that year 882 persons were killed in Australia
as a result of automobile accidents. And there
were 418 licensed racecourses in N. S. Wales....
J.W.S.: Amount would depend upon the work to be
done. The various professional bodies to which the
people who would do it belong have a set scale of
charges G.R.S.: In 1928 the world’s production
of artificial silk was estimated at 350,000,0001 b. In
the same period 3,536,671,0001 b. of wool was pro-
duced P.D.: “A tinker’s dam” is the correct
version. Webster defines it as “supposedly, a wall
of mud, clay, dough or the like, to retain melted
solder against a joint to be soldered. Hence, something
worthless”... .R.G.: (1) Zane Grey is an American,
born 1879, and resides at Altodema, California.
(2) Co-education is the education of both sexes in
one school or college A.M.H.: About 30 years
ago a number of railway wheels was obtained from
U.S.A., the centres being made of papier mflche and
the tyres of steel. They did not give satisfactory
service. .. .1.D.: Rev. R. B. S. Hammond was born
at Brighton (Vic.), June 12, 1870, and was edu-
cated at Melbourne C. of E. Grammar School. He
has been rector of St. Barnabas’s, Sydney, since 1918.
. ...H.N.: Wipe over the varnish with a. rag: dipped
in turpentine, removing as much of the- gloss as
possible. Then- apply a coat of flat oil stain of the
required shade, and when this has dried, ' one coat
of floor varnish... .N.P.K.: Rand is a Dutch word
meaning border or edge, used in S’Africa ■ to desig-
nate a low rounded range of hills. Specifically it is
an abbreviated form of Witwatersrand, an elevated
ridge in the Southern Transvaal famous, for its.gold-
bearing reefs....A. McL.: (1) 'lf you’use the fence
as a dividing fence between you and your neigh-
bors, you are liable for half the cost.- (2) The
Q'land Dividing Fences Act makes B liable with
A in “equal proportions” for the actual cost of
erection, including material. The fact that it, could
now be erected for less is immaterial, and so also
is the fact that B’s own fence is one of netting
and A’s fence is two heights of netting... . V. 8.:
Veronal is a drug used in connection with sleepless-
ness. Unlikely that you can get it otherwise than
by a doctor’s prescription. .. .J.E.C.: Varicose veins
are now treated by the injection method quite suc-
cessfully. Main: contributing causes of the condi-
tion are prolonged; standing and chronic constipation.
.. . .M.P.; The general rule is that the joker is to
be considered the highest card in play. Hoyle,
dealing with the case of the “misere” bid in 500,
says if the holder leads .joker “he can specify the
suit that must be played to it, but cannot specify
any card In that suit”. .. .M.A. (Kalgoorlie) : Cannot
find record of horse or owner on this side. . . .D.C.:
It would be inadvisable to go at present; there is a
surplus of labor offering.... J.M.: As far as age
and residence are concerned you are entitled to the
old-age pension. The Act provides that pensioner’s
income, together with pension, must not exceed
£B4 10s. per annum, and, also that any person
owning property exceeding £4OO in value, apart
from his home, shall not receive the pension....
AIH.: If a business is purchased in a town where
papers have ■to be delivered it will cost £350 per
1000 ;papers. If just, starting a business £lOO would
probably suffice. (2) Not) a fortune at present.
... . W.M.: Xhe brigalow. is a, species of acacia. It
is most prevalent on the inland downs country in
Q’land:.. .F.F.: Get in touch with the Dept, of
Defence,-' Melbourne, and the various cable c 05....
G. : The referee gave the only possible decision
in ! the circumstances. .'. .E.'AiJ. : Transportation of
convicts to N.S.W. virtually . ceased on August 20,
1840. Convicts were transported to other States
after that date, and the last shipload went to W.A.
in 1868. Mitchell .Library, . Sydney, could furnish
other details. .. .A.M.H.: In 1890 the Australian
■ Gas Light Co. of. Sydney charged 6s. 3d. per 1000
cubic feet. :. .G.G.; Taoism is a. form of religion m
China, the name being taken from an ancient treatise
‘ called “Tao Teh dung,” by the . sage LOo-tsze. Lat-
terly there has been an infusion of Buddhist and
other theories... .A.R.: Boil fish for an hour, and
then run water' and extracted oil off. The residue
of fish may then be pounded and placed in the sun
to dry. After a few days in: the sun the dried flesh
can be worked into the 50i1.... S.M.: Write W. S.
Smart, Hodder and Stoughton, Ltd., 68 Elizabetli-
street, Sydney... .XYZ: If he had a search warrant
he might lawfully go upon your property. It does
not necessarily attach a suspicion of guilt to you.
. ...H.V.8.; Cannot recommend, anyone outside pro-
fession. Write , supt., Royal Prince Alfred or
Sydney Hospital.... Cordial: You haven’t sufficient
capital to kick off with... .R.F.8.: Write to Harri-
son Ramsay Pty., .Ltd.-, 52 Clarence-street, Sydney,
who have offices in India, Ceylon and Java... . J.R.R.:
(1) “The Canoe,” by R. E. Pinkerton; “Yachts, Boats
and Canoes,” by C. S. Hicks. Research Officer, Public
Library of N.S.W., Sydney, will be able to help
further. (2) and (3) Don’t know of any periodical
exclusively devoted to the subject, but most aquatic
journals touch upon it... . W.C.C.: British Australian
Dental Supply Co., 158 Castlereagh-street; Common-
wealth Dental Supply Co., 110 Bathurst-street;
Dentist Supplies (Aust.), Ltd., 9 Loftus-street;
.Elliott Bros., Ltd., 20 O’Connell-street —all Sydney.
A fuller list will be found in Sands’ N.S.W. Direc-
tory... .M.M.: (1) An out-patient contributes accord-
ing to his or her means —-no fixed amount. (2) No.
(3) No, only when admitted as an in-patient and
after being in hospital for 29 days. (4) The hospital
does not ask old-age or invalid pensioners to pay
either for in-patient or out-patient treatment....
J.C.W.: No demand, but you might try any of the
leading second-hand bookshops... .E.P.M.: “The Art
of Story Writing,” by F. M. Perry; “The Art of
Story Writing,” by N. C. Fowler; “Short Story
Writing for Profit,” by M. Joseph ; “The Short Story,”
by E. M. Albright.... D.G.: Burma Corporation, 95
Gresham-street, London, E.C.2... .W.J.M.C.: (1)
Albert Frederick Arthur George. (2) “Rose Marie”
ran for 851 performances at Drury Lane, London,
commencing March 20, 1926... .S.J.L.: Write A.
H. McDonald and Co., 6 McEvoy-street, Alexandria,
Sydney... .E.S.: See D. K. Tressler’s “Marine Pro-
ducts of Commerce” (published by the Commercial
Catalog Co., New York) —probably unobtainable
locally, but any bookseller could get it S.L.C.:
“The Races of Java,” by D. J. H. Nyessen; “In
Java,” by J. C. Van Dyke; “A Journey to Java,” by
M. McMillan... . 11. W.: Chances not bright. Write
Commissioner, Metropolitan Police Force, New Scot-
land Yard, London. ... (Many others mailed.)


You cannot realise what joy and comfort the keen rigid edge of
a Probak blade can bring to your shaving unless you put a
Probak in your own razor. Test for yourself how it glides like
silk through the stubble on your own chin. Learn by actual
experience how it goes on giving you the same velvety close shave
day after day. Probak blades are guaranteed. They never vary,
for they are made from continuous ribbons of steel, ground, honed,
finished in one unbroken operation. Five blades 1 /9, ten blades 3/6.
probak blades fit all three-
prong razors • make
shaving just like
wiping your face
PROBAK
BLADES
Made and Guaranteed by The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng,
Managing Agents for Australia;
PH3PSON & COMPANY; LIMITED, 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
i'9
FOR FIVE.
■ ■
m
■ 1
■
PI
, A}C/ s i
*9* u,^ 1 '- A
SI
, : r\
m
m
m
mt
Hk
tr f
10
fJM
tdl
Le
■
i
m
WM
%-■:>
;
■
1
Crystal Old and New
The lucky few whose 1 ami lies hand down and
cherish old cut glass need not be envied.
You can buy modern crystal that is made by
descendants of the very craftsmen who made /
under the same line of masters y much o/ the
finest crystal of bygone days. Aiaster and
man y Stuarts are no less skilled to=day. Look
for the name Stuart etched on the glass.
I i
I I
‘
m jyy
mm
m
m
m
1 SmHH
£
//
?:■"
m
m
m
m
US
m
•V-.!
M
-
i *
m
&
Y
k
m
-
mi m
m m
wm
-
1
wmmm
m
m
k
%
"stay
A
1
>5
Mi
rnsz
trr,
»*'/
?*»—
teU
~
r>
JW** - '*'*!
6*
£&&&&
I
tel
r
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful qlass is sold.


fdhd
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves/ for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS £/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and ■=
=. Agency Co., Ltd.
• A*
New Z<?alands
Greatest Delicacy
M—and fast becoming Australia s. Tiny incli-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
*53
i
m
W
Is
SMOKE-OH!
With wages dwindling life is dearer than
ever to most of us.
“Publicans claim that the practice of selling
whisky by measure is only fair.”
Customers say it’s only just.
“Improved conditions are certain before the end
of the year.”— “News.”
The trouble is we can’t bank on them.
* *
TOLLING THE TALE.
“She met defendant when he was a bridge toll-
collector. He attempted to make love to her, and
she resented it.”- — “Sun.”
He told her how the tolls were tolled.
Alas! she did but scoff;
A nd when he told his love for her
She sternly told him off.
* *
ONE DEMOCRAT TO ANOTHER.
Dear Jacko, —How about givin’ red tape
a miss and savin’ the sling to the banks
an’ civil servants by cuttin’ up that
£200,000,000 loan among the mob? All us
good staunch blokes ’ud be on a coupler
hundred each sure then, an’ could let our
heads go.
I know a coupler ponies goin’ for Ln
score, and I bet I’d clean up an alderman’s
pickin’s from them in a sixer. The' missus
UNANIMOUS.
“What’s the house like — full?”
“Well, he doesn’t look as if he could carry much more.”
is thinkin’ of puttin’ her cut inter a biz
somethin’ like yer own—forchin’-tellin’. She
reckons there’s oodles ter be made pro-
phesyin’ by anyone as knows ther way ter
keep inside the lor.
We can swing a good few votes between
us, Jack, so here’s hopin’ you’ll give it a go.
Angus O’Coiien.
“Mental depression is often due to biliousness.”
Quite true, the latest definitions of “bil-
iousness” being “nausea experienced by one
who is constantly billed,” and “feeling of indi-
gent person who receives shower of ‘please
remits.’ ”
* *
NURSERY RHYME.
How doth the busy Bceby
Change laws which clash with sense,
That railway chiefs may free be
To cut down the expense!
SOSHUL NEWS.
Doings of Poison Flat Younger Set.
Dear B., —Saeiety was orl agog here on
Satterday nite on account of a uker party
an’ darnse in ade of ther locul ’orsepitul.
The smart set has ter thank ther follerin’
for a festive nite: —
Organiser Mr. J. Dinny
Hon. Sec James Dinny
Judge Jim Dinny
M.C. Dinny
General Assistance Dito
The cash result (4s. Hid.) w T as not grate,
but the ’orsepitul will benefit to the extent
of 2 dray lodes of vegs. donated by sup-
porters.
Sum of ther soshul leaders present was:
Mr. and Mrs. Milkit, w r ith nearly all ther
famly, includin’ 9 of ther girls an’ 7 of ther
boys, but excludin’ ther twins. Ther rest
could not cum as they ’ad to work.
Mrs. Milkit wore a lovly creation in
Strawberry Roun wieh came neerly to ’er
nees one way, and neerly ’arf way to ’er neck
the other, wieh all agreed was a strikin’
onsombul.
The Purkins family turned up “on mass.”
but late on a/c of a weel leavin’ th’ spring
cart.
Mrs. Purkins wore a strikin’ dress uv wieh
ther mane color scheme was a mixture of
Hereford red releived by lucerne green, with
a bit of Jersey blue ’ere an’ there for
effeck.
Talkin’ uv ther Purkins famly reeminds
this skribe that Miss Daiserina P. won ther
ladies’ half of ther walsin’ competion eupple
an’ Joe Woets won th' other half, wieh
prise is a bag of super., an’ I wish
they’d cum ter my offus an’ collect.
Sumone once sed that a rose, by _any other
name smelt just ther same, wich I find also
.applies ter super., only stronger.—ler speshul
co-respondent, Jas^Dinny.
“Enlistment figures in the militia are highly satis-
factory.”—Melbourne “Herald.”
Yet there has been the usual falling off of
recruits in the cavalry regiments.
“Mrs. R —, who before her marriage was a
leading spirit in the Telephone Girls’ Association, is
now the proud mother of twins —boys.”— “Sun.”
Wrong number, again!
THE ONLY EXPLANATION.
PROSECUTING COUNSEL: “You’re a scoundrel, sir! You
stole this man’s wife!”
ACCUSED: “Well, you’ve only got to look at her and
you’d see I'm a kleptomaniac!”
“After all, what determines the value of an auto-
graph?”
Usually, in the last resort, a bank manager
—worse luck!
* *
Where did the dear old gee-gees go
That stood in the cab-ranks long ago?
Go to the races, and you’ll soon know!
* *
THE RESOURCEFULNESS OF ERMYN-
TRUDE.
The movie magnate faced disaster. He had
over-rated the entertainment, value of dwarf-
golf courses as a fillip to the talkies. The
mighty Mangel Wurzel had been struck dumb
by a distraint warrant; a couple of bailiffs
were permanently camped in the Grseco-
Roman Gents’ Club-room.
In his hour of grief he felt a hand on his
shoulder; the hand of Ermyn-
trude, his private secretary.
“I see a way out of your
troubles,” she said. “But you
must forego your present high-
brow tendencies.”
“Wodger mean? What’s the
big ideer?”
“Midget Golf, the Mangel
Wurzel, Talkatoon Cartoons —
all these are above their heads.
The simpler cultural joys of
childhood are what your public
yearns for. Eudo and Snakes
and Ladders on the mezzanine
floor. Ring-a-Rosy Competitions
on the roof. Animal Grab (with
Championship Challenge Cup)
in the basement.”
The great entrepreneur’s eyes
flamed with excitement. “Goil!”
he cried. “You’re a wonder!
You’ve got the mentality of
Australia’s amusement-loving
public figured out to a ‘t.’ How
did you do it?”
“I spent the week-end read-
ing Mr. Lang’s speeches,” said
the girl modestly.
A. O’C.
* *
PHILOSOPHY.
I love the simple life. It thrills me to
walk through the fragrant bush, enjoying
uninterrupted communion with Nature—or
at least it would if it were not for the hordes
of noisy, air-tainting, pedestrian-chasing
motor-cars which clutter every highway and
rob the countryside of all its beauty.
I can’t afford one, dammit!
Klondyke.
SLUMP IN INCENDIARISM.
Latest Aspect of the Depression.
“I don’t know what’s happened to the girls
days. In the old days when we went to i
Beach we used to do all sorts of things- dres. I ,
light fires on the beach. But the girls have no
leader now'. Sydney is definitely missing Elaine
Chair. It will be six or seven years before Kosema
Game will be ready to be put to the test. In
meantime the question calls for some thought. „
-—“Young Society Matronin “Sunday Sun.
Interviewed by our Special Representative
at Palm Beach the Young Society Matron
said the position was going from bad to
worse She pointed to a neighbor’s residence.
“Look at it!” she exclaimed
wistfully. “Highly inflam-
mable from floor to roof, ana
not a fashionable girl in sight
with the spirit to sound the
stirring old Government House
slogan, ‘Pass the matches,
please.’ ”
“Rosemary Game is defi-
nitely hopeless, I suppose.
“Quite. No initiative. It's
enough to say she has been at
school for the best part of a
year, and not so much as a
wooden garage has gone up m
flames. Why, when I was her
age, in the early ’eighties’
“Is Rosemary alone to
blame?”
“No. I regret to be obliged
to couple her name with that
of the Prime Minister. The
rise in the price of petrol is
undoubtedly a factor, the
responsibility for which must
be shouldered by Labor.” She
went on to stress the shocking
spread of unemployment in
Fire Brigade circles, and,
after selling me a ticket for
the Hosemen’s Benefit which
she is organising at her Syd-
ney home, she rose and ad-
justed a smart fireman’s hel-
met as a hint that our chnt
was at an end. “One must do
one’s bit in these hard times,"
she smiled. “If you'll excuse
me I’ll run out now and get
a few fires going while the
rain holds off.”
10-2-4.
* #
“Sawyer, the middle-distance runner, was unable
to compete owing to a broken arm.”
Another winged Mercury.
EXCEPTIONALLY MODEST.
The Waiter: “What did, the manager say
when you asked him could you take a
day off on your birthday?”
THE WAITRESS : “He said most girls he knew
took a year off.”
THE EXPLANATION.
“My friend is a carpenter. Well, I never knew a
carpenter yet, who didn’t complain. (Laughter.)”
— N.B.W. Nat. speaker,
These days the plumber plumbs the depths of
woe;
And stewards stew in grief, while on the
soil
The gard’ner guards his last remaining dough.
The grocer grosses little for his toil;
The tailor makes no suits and drops liis tail;
Harpists upon canned music sadly harp;
In times when every effort seem to fail
What’s left to carpenters except to carp?
H. M.
BEDTIME.
Flo, our Pom., turns in at seven,
Tibs, the cat, at nine.
Dad’s hour is about eleven —
Which is also mine.
Ma gets home, the neighbors say,
Mosfly after three,
While granny, singing jazz-songs gay,
Turns up for morning tea.
O. W. W.
THE LAPSE.
I wish he hadn't played that ace;
It ruined, all our fun.
The card lie played was out of place.
Another would have done.
If only he had played his king,
His ten-spot, or his queen,
None of us would have said a thing;
There would have been no scene.
I’m sony that he had the face
To make us feel so sore —
7 mean, to play another ace
When we had fust played four.
D.


\
I .
I
/•V.', ■** -
* v: 4
w
e
w
Vi-
Piping in' the popular favorite
NfcW
SC
cw
CUP
m
c£
PLt
SfIPE
£CUKE-
SEALED UNDEfV VACUUM*
in
GOLD LASEL
1/
OLD SCOTCH WHIShY
M
ualit
o
tSi^
ntnown
SIR
Vi N
i-tt
! U
w.
V
S 3
jippTj
ijjji *
=~W
v
<*OU>
L.Ao®*'
%
m
*
*
-
5f PtlatMo
%
)t^&!kj£h§o/^
ir*i
luol'irtcl ,n '*
tv
,^»o
seOTi>':
»
=P§Pi
i^SS^P^
Sv&l'^V'-'V'Ay 4 -V ; v-'^ Vi - i
I
v v-*-..‘.
lillteip
ite*i rf:4*s£: ? ;ir
a
«
iiB|gP?|iSl|lpi
r
5®
&
C>s
f r rm
X./:tn
- \
'?;i #>&
»,.t
d|£ifss
mmm
m&i&mk
‘ ■ "'???'v'"';
I V*
?v:«f
• • v -Vs * w ••_•- ••
Vf-V*,
gBgg§§g
&
V*
m
,\w
I ' , ,*’V;. ; 'i-i;'>'i
mmsl
*»


0
f/;
n
0
igr
m
i
>s^
&
r
X
//;
►
r
We change our minds, change our habits,
but wise folk never change from
the perfect cigarette
in the scarlet and gold packet.
ST4Tt &PR*SS
or
335
CICARE-TTES
20/1(5


AUSTRALIAN & TEXAS SADDLERY
&
THE ‘‘TEXAS
RANGER” COW-
BOY SADDLE,
double rigged with
cord cinchas.
£.13/18/6.
Fancy Studded Cowboy
Bridles, complete with
gold color bit with
nickel horse head orna-
ment, 76/- and 72/6
Fancy Breastplates to
match, 65/- and 75/-
Cowboy Chaps, dark flexible hide 75/-, 87/6, 95/-
Cowboy Quirts, shot loaded 8/6, 15/-
Lariats or Lassos, braided cotton . . 15/-. Linen . . 22/6
Cowboy Spurs . . 7/6 to 35/- pr. Straps . . 5/6 to 8/6
Australian Stock Saddles, the “Pioneer” £7/17/6
The “Tambo” £lO. The “Bundy” £ll/18/6
Park Saddles—“ Pioneer Park,” £7/10/-; “Kemp” Style,
£B/8/-; Queensland Park, £9/5/-
Saddles all fitted with stirrups, girth, surcingle and leathers.
Freight free for cash in N.S.W.
Station Bridles, 1 in. Ring head, with bit 15/-
Postage Extra on all lines except Saddles.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
hfdh
Meetings.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
'T’HE FORTY-THIRD ORDINARY GEN-
-1 ERAL MEETING of Members will be
held at the Company’s Offices on TUESDAY,
28th OCTOBER, 1930, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to September
30, 1930.
To elect one Director in place of Thomas Buck-
land, Esq., who retires under Clause 82 of the
Articles of Association and who offers himself for
re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. C. A. Ac
Maistre Walker and Co., Chartered Accountants (who
retire under Clause 131 of the Articles of Association
and are eligible for re-election), and to fix the
amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the Articles
of Association.
By Order of the Board,
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
The Share Register will be closed from
14th October, 1930, to 28tli October, 1930,
inclusive.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
14th October, 1930.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1230 of 1930.
BETWEEN ISABEL VICTORIA ROBERTSON
(falsely called Isabel Victoria Hibbs) Petitioner
AND HAROLD LESLIE CHARLES HIBBS
Respondent.
To HAROLD LESLIE CHARLES HIBBS late of
No. 10 Milburn Grove East St. Hilda Melbourne
Victoria..
TAKE NOTICE that the said Isabel Victoria
Robertson (falsely called Isabel Victoria Hibbs) has
commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a Decree of Nullity of
Marriage on the ground of your bigamy and ‘take
notice that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Thirtieth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and thirty and in the
event of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
Dated the first day of October, 1930.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SAMUELSON AND COWIE, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
mmm
km.
m
\w
mm
Wmk
mm
m
m*
mm.
m:<
m
■ ■
Native Dance—Pago Pago—American Samoa
WHERE HAPPINESS
IS A LEGACY
A world-renowned traveller once remarked that the natives
of the Pacific Islands could always spare time to dance.
Dancing, singing, playing always people blessed with
happy dispositions from birth. Happiness is a legacy handed
down to them from past generations of happy forefathers.
Travellers by the Matson-Oceanic Line from Sydney to San
Francisco will find the germ of happiness envelopes them,
when they see these happy people singing, dancing and playing
at their very work. When a holiday is taken under such ideal
circumstances, happiness must indeed attend every traveller:
FARES: SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO, First-class from £73; Second-class
from £5O/10/-; SYDNEY to NEW YORK, First-class from £95/14/-; Second-
class from £73/4/-. SYDNEY to LONDON from £97. ROUND THE
WORLD, First-class from £219.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
* Oceanic SteamshipCoi
NATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd.
Agents: Dalgety 8C Company Ltd.
Dalgety 8C Company Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle.
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
H-30i
POVERTY
POINT
“Lao-dah”: Said the “Argus” musical
critic of a performance of Beethoven’s piano
concerto No. 4:—
When interpreted with the ardor, the profanity
and the complete spiritual identification with the
music which constitute the wonders of a Backhaus
rendering, such an experience as this performance
provided defies analysis.
But perhaps the writer means that Backhaus
was swearing at the accompaniment of the
University Orchestra.
“Playback” : This happened. Seeking a
job as scenario-writer, an Australian friend
of mine .secured an interview with a pro-
ducer. “Well educated?” he was asked.
“Yes.” “H’m! Prove it!” “Well, that’s
not easy. I don’t carry diplomas about with
me.” The producer thought for a moment:
then, “Well, run off a lot of big woids.”
“Smasliie”: The “miget” golf craze has
waned considerably in America. Few public
courses still going are proving profitable.
Sixty were opened in Los Angeles during
the boom period ; on latest advices 51 were
for sale. Meanwhile courses are being opened
almost everywhere in Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
“Prog”: Though George Portus died in
Sydney the other Friday it was the follow-
ing Tuesday before the news reached the
dailies, which points a moral of some kind,
for George was for years a leading figure
and one of the well-liked fellows of legit.
He managed Clara Butt’s first tour for the
Tails and brought virtuosi of varied quality
to the country on his own account. Latterly
broadcasting had netted him ; he had spoken
for 2UW on the day the last curtain fell.
“Cornstalk”: Jack Dunne (B. 8/10/’3O)
is a versatile understudy all right. Even
when a mere novice he deputised in “Sally”
for George Gee on Monday, George Lane on
Tuesday and George Baker, juvenile lead, at
the Wednesday matinee. His list includes
Il'ylton Allen, Moscovitch, Gus Bluett and
Frith. In addition, he is a pianist with
Sydney Con. credentials.
“Lever de Rideau”: Allan Wilkie is natu-
rally inclined to blame everything but him-
self for his latest failure, but if the truth
must be told he has one disadvantage which
would have destroyed his chances if the
entire nation had a passion for Shakspearean
plays. A good actor of the traditional type
and a robust producer, he has poor
articulation, and if there is one thing a
student of the Bard wants to hear it is the
words. Again, Miss Hunter-Watts, though
still in appearance the ideal Shakspearean
heroine of a hundred Royal Academy pic-
tures, lias the same faults of intonation as
her husband. The pair have been heard year
after year doing the same parts in the same
way, and if the public refuses to wax
enthusiastic at the spectacle that is not proof
that the demand for Shakspeare has de-
cayed.
“Cauboy” : Is there anybody more super-
stitious as a class than the actor? The
other day a deputation representing all grades
at Melbourne Tivoli,, from actors to cleaners,
called on director Isaacson. Its spokesman
pointed out that although the theatre was
enjoying bumper houses some sinister in-
fluence had begun to manifest itself. A
drummer was seriously ill, the theatre cat
had succumbed to a mysterious sickness and
there were other indications of an even
more malign nature. As a reasonable man
and one versed in theatrical history, Mr.
Isaacson must see that this could only be
due to the fact that in renovating the build-
ing the management had thoughtlessly—or, let
us say, inadvertently—introduced three pines
in tubs into the vestibule. Everybody knew
that pines invariably brought bad luck to a
theatre, and, in the interests of all, the staff
requested their removal. The request was
refused, but in passing through the vestibule
next morning Isaacson noticed that the
offending trees had vanished.
“M.G.S.”: “It is difficult to understand
why the good English language is never good
enough for English musicians,” said Prof.
Bernard Ileinze, in the course of a public
plea for replacing Italian terms with Eng-
lish in musical notation. The eminent con-
ductor, who has already earned the grati-
tude of Melburnians by insisting on giving
the . full symphonic significance to the
National Anthem, is quite right, but I don’t
think lie goes far enough. As a patriotic
Australian, one would have expected him
to advocate, for local purposes, at any rate,
the use of his native language. How much
better would the members of the University
orchestra render the immortal works of Bach
if. instead. of the indication “prestissimo,”
“step on it” was clearly marked in the
appropriate places, if “spiritoso” was trans-
lated to “without, soda,” and “ strepitoso ”
by “put the boot in!” It may be retorted
that, composers use the Italian language for
precisely the same reason that scientists use
Latin namely, because they have an in-
ternational currency ; but, thank God, it is
only a disreputable minority which puts
music before parochialism.
S.T.S.” : Curious the development of the
modern ( society” play. New York (in local
idiom) sees the cynical immorality of
h rench comedy and goes one better. ' The
result yields a part that takes the fancy of
Marie tempest or someone like that, and
the thing is casually given a London setting,
with Riverside Drive translated into Park
Lane and Canada into Scotland. Casually
because the translator never does his work
honestly In “Tea for Three,” for instance,
people stall strolled “on the Avenue,” and
.or Confess ’ we got the American nursery
phrase Tess up.” The main idea was
tne purely American one of fashionable,
people worrying their evenings over “a real-
estate deal” ; just as in “It Pays to Adver-
tise,” the lazy young aristocrat was stirred
to show his manhood by—beating his own
father in a business transaction ! And then
the plays come to Australia; and we, who
would much rather see the Yank as he
started life, still get the bastard London
version.
“F.” : F. W. Thring’s Australian film enter-
prise begins to take shape in Melbourne. Hav-
ing abandoned the business of acting as indent
agent for the goods of Hollywood, Mr.
Thring is looking around to see if better
lines cannot be found in tbe works of local
writers. One of the first productions will
be one of Norman Lindsay’s early novels.
If the fool censorship had not sat down on
“Redheap” that work would have provided
the syndicate with a magnificent opportu-
nity and a foregone box-office attraction.
Nevertheless, there is a mine of material in
Lindsay’s early studies of the Australian
kid; present writer has seen nothing
in imported celluloid to equal in freshness
and vitality Norman’s “Magic Pudding.”
That artist and writer has been appointed
literary adviser to the new co. in N. S.
Wales, and C. J. Dennis will discharge the
same high office in Victoria. Twelve pic-
tures are promised for the first 18 months,
and the head man is off to Hoilywood to
pick up a director who, incidentaliy, will
be an Australian.
The Palette
Carlyle Jackson, who lias been showing
at the Little Gallery, Melbourne, threatens;
to run Harold Herbert close as a water-
colorist. He is developing a sense of rela-
tionships lacking in his earlier work, and
there is a searching for unity rare in users
of the medium. Some of his views of Kiewa,
one of the loveliest valleys in Victoria’s high-
lands, give the effect of things seen at a
glance and set down before the freshness
faded.
“Flinders”: An interesting project is the
proposal to aid the Lord Mayor’s unemploy-
ment fund by holding an exhibition of
paintings from private collections at the
Town Hall, Melbourne. Many valuable
works, both by old and Australian masters,
are scattered about the more expensive
suburbs. The idea is credited to L. V.
Biggs, editor of the “Age,” but a similar
suggestion appeared in that journal on Feb.
15 over the signature of Alex. Isaacson.
The annual prizes of S. A. Society of
Arts very nearly resulted in a big double for
George Whinnen. He took the landscape
award, with a fine bold—almost over-bold—-
quarry scene. And his study of a young
man only failed to take the Melrose prize,
for figure, because the judges for once
preferred a sculpture, James Wilson’s plaster
cast of his father, which has a living quality
rare in such works.
An exhibition of color prints of the Far
East at the Fine Arts, Melbourne, is the
work of Elizabeth Keith, who made the de-
signs and entrusted the carving of the blocks
and the printing to Japanese craftsmen.
Some suggest plagiarisms of the art of the
unprotected Oriental, but others show a
remarkably clever liaison between the East-
ern and Occidental temperaments, “Night
Scene, Peking,” and “Street Scene, Soo-
chow,” being of quite extraordinary charm
and vigor.
“F.S.”: When Percy Leason and Colin
Colahan get to Adelaide in Colahan’s motor
studio (they’re painting as they go), Colahan
will hold a show and deliver a lecture on
his pet subject, “The Nature of Realism in
Painting.” If Adelaide still holds by its
tradition of culture it ought to go and listen,
for Colahan is an entertaining speaker and
knows what he is talking about. He was
one of the original disciples of Max Mel-
drum, and was one of those who blew the
wind of revolt through the Vic. National
Gallery school in 1916 that nearly wrecked
it. He afterwards w r ent to France, and was
hung in several salons. Since his return he
has developed into one of Melbourne’s most
significant painters. One of the gibes flung
at Meldrum and his school was that they
painted the Australian bush with mud;
Colahan has since confounded the critics
with some remarkably brilliant passages of
sunlight, and I don’t think Adelaide will
find any lack of color in his pictures. If it
buys a few it will set an example to the
Melbourne Gallery, which shows towards all
Meldrumites the forgiving spirit that dis-
tinguishes W. M. Hughes’s attitude towards
Stanley Bruce.
The Inky Way
“Ike Hollar” : Todd, of the Sydney “World’s
News,” the paper which kept its parent, the
Daily Telegraph,” off the rocks for some
time, must hold something like a record
for continuously wearing the seat of an
editorial chair. The “World’s News” will be
29 years old in November, and Todd, who
started as its editor, is still responsible. For
a very brief spell he was switched off to
a job as sub-editor of the “Telegraph,” but
he so pined for his fledgeling that he was
allowed to get back to it.
“Lao-dah”: The Russians in Australia,
who were numbered in the 1921 census at
2317, are nowadays broadly divided into
adherents of the 1905 revolution and the
revolution of 1917; but they were at one time
classed mainly as Mijueff men. Therein
lies a curious story of journalistic fiction. A
Russian newspaper man named P. Mijueff
visited Australia and Maoriland at the be-
ginning of the century. He was enormously
impressed by the apparently Arcadian felicity
of both countries, and lie wrote a flam-
boyant book on the subject which he called
“The Happy Islands.” Czarist repression
was then at its height, and the book had pre-
cisely the same vogue as did Rousseau’s
picture of the ideal existence of the South
Sea savage. Societies of Happy Islanders
were formed, which contrasted the tyranny of
Russia with the unalloyed freedom of the
Australian and the Maorilander, and bands of
pilgrims were induced to immigrate to the
new Utopia. The hook is still the Bible
of sundry of the Russian intelligentsia for
whom the Soviet regime has not been the
dream which it was cracked up to be.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET,
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . • .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
BIRKMYRES CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “BIEKMYRE’S CEOTH” be-
ing a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each com-
plete in itself.
“BX” “H” *'S” and “K”
“L” “OM” “M” and “N”
Any one of these marks will protect your
interests
Th * COUROCK Export Co. LTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
fdhfd
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
* * * * •
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
®he Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 8299.1.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S.
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I '
iff
■ M
\r
ilfjiii ip
■ | Mb
i l
»
lUS-A* CAN AIDA" lEIUIROIPIE
Travel round the Sunny South Seas and
enjoy, not some, but every possibility of your
overseas trip. U.S.A., Canada, or Europe
may be either reached, or happily rounded off,
by a tour through the South Sea Islands, and
splendid accommodation on Royal Mail Liners
obtained with the expert assistance of Union
Company Officials.
Offices: Sydney—Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL LINES
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Agents, Brisbane—Perth.
m
Sunny South Sens
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water —Sandy Beaches—T ropi c a I
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands—Quaint
Native Villages and Customs—Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and
ADELAIDE.
Read
richly
1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
“B.P. Magazine,”
illustrated in color.
BANK.
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
hjfdj
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua.
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
C.“. “Si to, and draft, drawn on .W ,laa« DIRECT For., S n BUI. R, S o.I,Ud
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - " f 4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon, JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
J MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R- DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birehin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, s ° ut b other Sf ol
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other paits of
the world. . _ . ,
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart Parker Lyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
YOUR MOST GLORIOUS
HOLIDAY.
Whitsunday Passage
and
Great Barrier Reef
Expedition.
Dec. 19, 1930—Jan. 9, 1931.
Conducted by
“MACKAY TOURS LIMITED”
Sponsored by tbe Mackay Chamber of
Commerce,
F. TREUTHARDT, Esq., 8.A., Tourist Manager.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Booklet ,
apply immediately ■to
G. E. JONES & CO.,
Public Accountants, Mackay.
Booking by Order of Applications.
c b
TQ
-
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept.M24,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
RIJREAC
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
TLhc Dominion,
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly»
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!


The Rye Liked the Mixture
“FERTILISER WITH A KICK”
These headings are from the Sydney Daily
Telegraph , and refer to the following:
A Blackheath orchardist applied to
rye, planted as a cover crop, a mixture
of equal parts of superphosphate and
Sulphate of Ammonia.
On the plot to which the mixture had
been applied the rye stood from four
to five feet high, while on the neigh-
bouring plot, which had received super-
phosphate only, the rye was only from
9 to 15 inches high.
Market gardeners and orchardists are the
biggest users of Sulphate of Ammonia
good buying at present low prices*
Ask your agent. .
Information and agricultural service from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PTY. LTD.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ipi
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
■DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN 1
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HJNCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
AIDS FOR FARMERS
The Easy Way.
Sickle Grinder.
*-1
/A
twfi
AliK
mv Jf.'.'n
i
Less time is needed
for sinking postholes
when you use a “Sey-
mour” Earth Auger.
With this tool you can
save hours in a day—-
and it’s easier work,
too!
Made in several sizes:
3 to 6 in., 11/3 each,
fin., 12/-; Bin., 12/6;
9in., 13/6; 10in., 14/3
“MACSON”
EARTH
SCOOPS
Will make your work
easier and speed up
the construction of
drains, dams, roads,
etc.
They are stronger than
they need be, yet are
quite light.
3 cub. feet ... 59/-
5 cub. feet ... 64/3
7 cub. feet ... 70/-
10 cub. feet ... 112/6
The Bevel Sickle Grinder
shqwn above clamps to your
implement and sharpens two
sections at once.
Grinds at the correct angle,
and runs at an exceedingly
high speed.
The cone grinding wheel is
3Jin. x 3-Jin., and an ordinary
stone 4 Jin. x I Jin. is also
supplied for ordinary tool-
grinding.
50/- each.
We Stock All Types of Pump
CATALOG FREE ON REQUEST.
Prppncbnj limited
Established 1800.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
V
r
CUTS AND
BRUISES
□HE relief from
pain is immedi-
ate when you
apply Zam-Buk. It
penetrates the tissues,
destroys all harmful
germs, drives out poison
and soothes while it
heals.
BINDER TWINE
“RENOWN” BRAND
Smooth, even twine, good yardage.
Will give every satisfaction in the
field.
MANUFACTURED AT MASCOT BY
J. SCOTT, LTD.,
Rope and Cordage Manufacturers,
Head Office Stores,
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 82861. Box 251 DD.
SAMPLES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
%
"llllllla
hfdj
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Anybody’s War” (Paramount), at Melb.
State, introduces Moran and Mack, artists
in blackface, whose voices are already familiar
to gramophone owners. As recruits in Uncle
Sam’s army they go to France and have the
usual adventures in the trenches. A new
twist is given to the stereotyped situations,
however, and there is a touch of sound
psychology in the scene where a white fellow-
traveller on the troopship sells them a powder
spray guaranteed to make them invulnerable
and throws in with it enough powder “for
eight more wars.” All the armies contained
men who had implicit faith in talismans,
ihe return of M. and M. to their home
town, Buford, Tennessee, is a delightful bit
of comedy. Expecting the band out and a
public reception they find no one to meet
them, but their dog attracts* all the local
canines and a first-class animal welcome is
pioyided. ihe nigger patois is so excessive
that much of the dialogue of the two prin-
cipals was unintelligible to the present writer
but their pantomime was sufficiently ex-
planatory. '
In “Czar of Broadway,” a Universal pro-
duction at Melb. Regent, John Wray makes
his appearance as “Steelface” Bradley, lord
of the N. York underworld. Bradley has
a side-line in life insurance. When he wishes
to have an enemy bumped off he first invites
the victim to take out a policy for an im-
pressive amount and the victim invariably
consents. He then conveys a hint to a hired
assassin, whose elegant exterior hides the
spirit of the wolf.. Bradley rules with a
rod of iron the entire activities of the city,
but lie has an Achilles heel in the shape of
ms affection for a young man who has acci-
dentally come into his life. When he dis-
covers that this young man is a newspapei
reporter who has been put on to the job of
tracking him down his proud heart breaks
and he becomes an easy mark for the
machine-gun bullets of the rival gang. He
dies in hospital, but before passing into
the Great Beyond he performs one last
action be fur mg a monarch of the underworld,
bo that h.s young friend shall have his
s t( > r y he pretends to become delirious and
babbles forth the record of his crimes, while
the reporter stands by, torn between grief
and professional joy. The pressman then
reports to his editor, but when he hears that
the great crook is dead he tears his story up
preferring the ruin of his journalistic career
to taking advantage of the nobility of his
friend. This beautiful and passionate tale
lias Bctt.y Compson in it, but her part has
no significance alongside the lofty figure of
the Czar.
¥ ¥ »
“Sisters” and “She Couldn’t Say No”
were recently on the same bill at Sydney
Haymarket. Sally O’Brien and Molly
O Day are the sisters. One is naughty, un-
married, and eager for the quiet joys of
domesticity; the other is married, a mother,
and bored stiff. Two of society’s oldest
manifestations, of course, but they are
freshly handled, and the dialogue i.s smart,
j he excitement-seeking wife, the homicidallv
jealous husband, the deserted and howling
infant, and the girl who risks an honest
mail s love to save her flighty sister’s good
name have been met in conjunction before.
However, the near-seducer of the wife is a
criminal, which is a novel touch, and his
arrest is effectively handled by all concerned.
. Ihe star of the other film is Winnie
Lightner. She loves Chester Morris with
the noisy, overwhelming love of a she-womau.
If you are able to stand Miss Lightner yoii
will be able to stand the picture. She is
ia.it all the time, contorting her ample form,
grimacing, bellowing comic songs and love
songs, slapping herself intimately and being
waggishly slapped by others —a human vol-
cano, continually erupting vulgarity. She
is in sharp contrast to Chester Morris, one
of the most passionless racketeers on film
record, and reticently in love with a society
maiden. The photography is splendid, anil
the sound-recording much better than in
“bisters.
*(•
Practically all the action of 4< Big News,”
which transpired the other night at
Sydney Regent, takes place in or near an
editor’s office. Nothing remotely like it
could happen in a British or Australian
newspaper office, but it is no doubt true to
journalistic life. A pertinacious
young stahry-hound is on the trail of a mur-
derous dope-peddler. The editor is given
the stahry by the reporter, and a few
seconds later is gassed by the dope merchant
to prevent its publication. The big moment
arrives.when the villain smashes (ostensibly
by accident) the dictaphone record which
he fears will prove his guilt to the police
pressmen and others who have crowded into
deceased s room. Another record is trium-
phantly waggled in his face by the reporter
with the words “I thought you’d do that,
so l kept the genuine one in my parket.
bee you in the electric chair. Ha, ha!”
the old trick goes just as well as in the
days of bellow-drama when the comic ser-
vant used to turn it in the last act.
Our Blushing Brides,” which was also
seen for the first time in Sydney at the
icgent, depicts the lives of people associated
witli a big New York general store On-
lovely shop-assistant takes up with a pro
fessional store-robber and is arrested; an-
other is betrayed by a son of the store-
owner and suicides; a third clings to that
™. a ™ maidens prize more highly than
£i“ f ’ rr a , lld f et s engaged to the betrayer’s
mother. Ihe slender framework of the story
is garlanded with interesting and amusing
cleveHv Photographed and
cleveily acted. Pictures of this type have
a considerable educational value. The girls
who resemble hetairse in the store and coolies
nwn^ 11 ® ’ei 6 pan( , om , im<! Palace of the store-
owner , the spoilt boy-hero’s preposterous
sidelivhnF * tree ~ all cast highly significant
til c 2 n , mo P ru American civilisation.
Joan Crawford gives a moving performance
rLZ\r rtl l° U % workin & girl whenever she
rcmembeis to forget about her eyes. She
1 b !® a K f "l; but her eye-rolling can be almost
rulatSns 3 aS }7 lnilie Li ghtner’s gesti-
culations w T ith mouth and nose.


""""
afttp
mmm
mm
*
A
Wm
m,
mm
Mm
5
wx-yWwigv-
: ’ " '
•f ♦
" 'J %
>v
PI Jgi
88S?S£
MSS
— .,
mm
ipjl
:
§l*l
A/I*
1?
gives you
dead away”
he thought,
but to be polite, he s aid
“ I can’t guess who it is.”
B.O.” cheated Evelyn out
(Body Odour)
of popularity ...
until she discovered that
perspiration need never offend
pRETTY, gay, marvellous dancer —Evelyn : should
have been the hit of any party. But she wasn't l
Why? Everybody knew except Evelyn.
Luckily though, Evelyn's new sister-in-law. was very
frank. There's no “B. O.” —no body odour marring
Evelyn's attractiveness now. She was told the easy
way to keep perspiration odourless.
♦♦♦♦♦♦
What a giveaway “B. O." is ! Treacherous 1 Always
betraying, but never warning the offender.
Don’t be deceived. We can’t tell when we are guilty
because our sense of smell becomes deadened to an ever-
present odour. But even when we don’t seem to perspire,
the pores give off as much as a quart of odour-causing
waste daily.
Play safe bathe with Lifebuoy. Its mild deodorising
lather purifies pores deeply prevents embarrassing
odour. Even removes cigarette smells from the fingers.
Skins, too, stay smooth, clearer wifh Lifebuoy. Health
is safeguarded —it removes germs. You’ll love Lifebuoy's
pleasant extra-clean scent, which tells you it purifies,
yet quickly vanishes as you rinse. Adopt Lifebuoy to-day.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
ft
Lifebuoy
stops body odour
J 2.103.8
HEALTH
SOAP
NO INVESTOR IS SAFE WITHOUT IT
How many tens of thousands of people were ruined in the ’nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
and the bad?
We are on the edge of a similar disaster. Already scores of companies have gone into liquidation. But no great amount of
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen?
The files and other data at the command of the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” are so complete that the companies themselves often
apply for permission to consult them.
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
No investor, great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make sure it
is safe.
You need not buy the “Monthly” without testing its value. Send for a sample copy, along with 1 id. stamp to cover postage, and
judge whether it is not worth 22/6 a year to you.


AT CROSS PURPOSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The present times are big with fate
J’°r. you and me and all,” I said;
“Vast are the issues that await
Momentous settlement ahead.
Come, tell me how you think ’twill go.”
His emptied pint he deftly slid
Across the bar with “I dun’no.
I wish I did.”
hats,” I said, “will soon be thrown
a Ur?!*' ’ ®°h ie faces wry with woe;
Wh°’d ha’ thought it?’ some will groan,
Winte others chortle ‘Told yer so!’
VVhat wild excitement soon there’ll be
<(V "S oer the a * r the names they whiz.”
Why, that, ole pot, ’s a cert,” said he.
lhere alwuz is.”
“But never fight was waged before,”
I TOl, “on which such issues hang,
vv }.{[ .Lang or Bavin wipe the floor,
-think you, with Bavin or with Lang?”
A wondering eye on me he bent
And pityingly sized me up.
Said he, “I wouldn’t give a cent
Lor politics. I thort you meant
The Melbun Cup!”
N.s.w.
IFORD.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
. f mounis, by winning the Caulfield Cup at
eight years of age, carrying 9s t. 81b., demon-
strated that, with two or three brilliant ex-
ceptions, the Australian gallopers now in
commission are a poor lot. Thirteen horses
went to the post; the majority had failed in
suburban company and the field was pro-
bably the weakest on record. To make
matters Avorse, a muddling pace was set. The
Lay Mutineer, on whom Frank Dempsey had
orders to ride a waiting race, overpowered
fins jockey and led past the stand from
Lragtord, whose early prominence was sur-
prising. Dempsey gained a measure of con-
trol over The Gay Mutineer after leaving
the straight, and he slowed down the field,
which became uncomfortably packed. Things
were made to order for old Amounis, who
nevertheless was a clear last at the back of
the course and had only one rival in front
of him four furlongs from home.
How Amounis went round the field ,and
swept down the straight at express speed
is a bright chapter in current turf history.
The result was not in doubt after he faced
for home, and Cook had a comparatively easy
task. _ Soulton, whose previous Melbourne
form did not entitle him to be backed with bad
money, caused amazement by putting in a
late run which brought him close to the
leader. Amounis defied capture, and scored
by half a length, Aleman, whom D. J. Price
regarded as not being in the same class as his
stable mate, The Gay Mutineer, was third.
Neville Percival, who rode him, had informed
friends that The Gay Mutineer was a “pay
out” proposition. This reveals how trainers
and jockeys alike can be deceived.
Amounis was favorite at twos; Cragford
went to fives ; The Gay Mutineer (10 to 1),
Lineage, Lampra and Shadow Kina: (12 to
1) were the only others backed to any
extent. Soulton was at fifteens; Aleman at
fifties.
The earnings of Amounis to date are
£48,197 10s., and he has far outstripped
Gloaming as record stake winner. Gloaming
won £43,100. Phar Lap, even if he lands
the Melbourne Cup, cannot threaten
Amounis’s achievement this spring; but he
may have put up another record by the
autumn. The bagmen naturally claim that
the painfully short odds laid against Amounis
and Phar Lap for the two Cups means money
given away; but who can tell what may
happen to Telford’s horse at Flemington?
There is many a slip between Cup and lip,
as the late John Brown found when Duke
Foote, labelled unbeatable in the Melbourne
Gup of 1912, was unsighted on the journey.
Cragford bore the appearance of a hunted
dog when stripped for action at Caulfield,
but that is the Metropolitan winner’s normal
condition. He began smartly and ran fourth,
after a rocky passage; he would have appre-
ciated a stronger pace. He ran the Metrop.
distance, 13 furlongs, in 2.43; the 12 fur-
longs of the Caulfield Cup were traversed in
2.34 J. Cragford and Soulton may have to
be reckoned Avith in the Melbourne Cup,
while Scobie is confident that Carradale will
improve on the Herbert Power Stakes form.
Second Wind hampered Carradale over the
last furlong in that race, and Plarold Jones
could not use the whip on the V.R.C. chair-
man’s prad until close on the post.
Scobie went near to winning the Gwyn
Nursery for C. B. Kellow with Bold Bid (20
to 1), the Pleroic colt for Avliich Kellow gave
1200gns. as‘ a yearling in Sydney last Easter.
This race went to Gallantic (4 to 1), another
youngster by Heroic which Jack Holt trains
for the motor-car salesman. Heroic promises
to be as great a stud success as his sire,
Valais.
Mollison, who let his backers down in the
Toorak Handicap, failed again in the Wind-
sor Handicap, when heavily supported at
5 to 2. Reduction of the distance to six fur-
longs ought to have suited him; but Molli-
son was unruly at . the post, and, ordered
to the outside' of the field, had several horses
in front of him at the turn. There Mystic
Peak (8 to 1), who ran so well under a
big weight at Randwick, shot through the
centre of the field and easily defeated E. M.
Pearce’s sprinter. Ashley Reed, who had
piloted Cragford in the Cup, Avas on Mystic
Peak, who belongs to Cragford’s trainer. Reed
also landed the Burwood Handicap on Mira
Donna, a 25 to 1 chance.
Duncan, who was out of the saddle for
nearly 12 months as the result of an acci-
dent, had several mounts during the after-
noon, but did not gain a single place.
sK sjs ijc
For Moonee Valley next Saturday:—
W. S. Cox Plate: Phar Lap; next,
Amounis.
Gold Cup: Taisho; next, Kenney.
* * ms *
Misfortune still dogs the Sydney punter.
Not a favorite got home at City Tatt.’s
meeting on Saturday and three of the
winners—Drake in the Hurdle Race, Funnel
in the Novice Handicap and Potent in the
Club Welter—were outsiders. The large
croAvd evidently included thousands Avho had
refrained from going to Randwick on the
last dajr of the A.J.C. spring meeting be-
cause of the wet. Most of them had cause
for regret that it hadn’t rained cats and
dogs again.
Unlucky in the Epsom, according to some
apologists, Pentheus was lucky enough in
the Flying Handicap, for which he went out
at 6 to 1. At any rate, several fancied
horses were held up at the barrier, and
Pentheus was not among them. He came
with a good run at the right end and just
beat High Disdain (10 to 1), whose party
threw in for a good stake; King’s Arms
(12 to 1), who lias been very consistent
lately, was third. Gay Ballerina was favor-
ite, and had every chance, but ran a poor
race. She has evidently gone off.
Johnstone rode Pentheus, and he also
steered Spearman (6 to 1) to victory in
City Tatt.’s Handicap. He took Spear-
man to the front rather early, and Bawn-
na-Glas (14 to 1), Avho was handled more
patiently, made a very close finish of it,
but Spearman, who is very well these days,
mustered up another effort near the judge’s
box. He is trained by G. P. Nailon for
E. J. Watt. Cathmar (7 to 1) was a
good third —he hasn’t been out of a place
THE STEWARD WHO STAYS AT HOME.
“Mark my words, there’ll be an inquiry on that race!”
“My oath there will—the minute I get home.”
in five starts. Flinders was fourth and
Joy pore fifth; Gesto and Crown Area, both
well backed, shaped poorly.
Ranter (3 to 1), a sister to Rampion,
Ramulus and Rosendo, vanquished _ the
f aA r orite, Gloriole (Heroic —Gloaming’s
Sister), in the Two-year-old Stakes, and
Rosendo (7 to 1) had the Club Welter won,
it seemed, 20 yards from home; then he
faltered and Potent (12 to 1) just cut him
out of it. Potent, like King’s Arms, is
owned by Dr. G. A. Vivers and trained by
R. L. Cashman at Newcastle. They have
done a power of racing lately, but were
nevertheless *imong the best-conditioned
horses at Randwick on Saturday. Obviously
Cashman knows his business.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Credence; next, Circu-
line. ,
Canterbury Handicap: Flinders; next,
Mr. Whiz.
Highweight Handicap: Richfield; next,
Leisure Hour. , .
tCampsie Handicap: Lord Kennaquhair;
next, Garrula.
* * * *
The Cesarcwitch was won by the Aga
Khan’s Ut Majeur, a three-year-old bay
colt by Ksar-Uganda, carrying 7st. 121 b.
The youngster was bred by his owner, in
France, and goes back on the sire’s side to
Vigilant, and on his dam’s to the St. Simon
horse Cyllene. Ut Majeur won several races
as a two-year-old, and had a win and a
dead-heat in six starts this year. He pro-
vided the customary skinner which the books
have learned to expect in. the bis autumn
handicap over 2\ miles, going out at 100 to
8. The 5-to-l favorite, Friendship, was
second, four lengths behind.
“M. Punter”: Handicap form has been
sigularly poor these last few years. This
largely explains the outstanding achievements
of Amounis, Nightmarch and Greenline. Good
horses all three, of course, but not nearly
so good as their performances would suggest.
In the great days of the Australian turf a
Nightmarch Avouldn’t have had the slightest
chance of winning the Epsom and the Mel-
bourne Cup and running second in the
Metrop. (with 9st. 121 b.) in the same season.
We have made a practice of breeding from
third-, fourth- and fifth-rate English sires, (I,
of course, omit Magpie from this category,
for Magpie was a first-rate English horse,
and but for the war we should never have
got him) ; and we are paying the natural
penalty.
# Ms Ms *
“Hotliam”: A. V. Kewney, secretary of
the V.R.C., who has just returned from a tour
of inspection of European racecourses, nis
mission being to inquire into the most effi-
cient types of totalisator operating in Britain
and the Continent, found the tote unpopular
in Britain. Haphazard devices were adopted
by the clubs in their haste to get the thing
working, Avith the result that the bookmaker
has maintained liis popularity. In France
the contrary is the case. The Australian
Julius machine had a tremendous task set
it at Longchamps on Grand Prix day,
£152,000 being put through in 5-franc units
without mishap. It is probable that the
leading Victorian clubs, including the V.R.C.,
V.A.T.C., Moonee Valley and Williamstown,
will instal this class of machine, while the
minor clubs will go in for smaller units of
the same make.
* * * *
“JaniAvood”: Why doesn’t the A.J.C. use
its vacant tote-building space for “straight-
out” betting? At Goodwood, Perth, on Oct.
3 (A.J.C. Epsom and Derby day), Pelman,
winner of the Hurdle Race, returned £3B 18s.
for 10s. on the straightout machine (book-
makers’ price, 15 to 1) ; Miralga, winner of
the GoodAvood Purse, £B4 175., for 10s. (book-
makers’ price, 20 to 1) and Koorathella,
winner of the Final Handicap, £5 11s. for
10s. (bookmakers’ price, 5 to 1). In every
other race the s.o. tote div. was better than
the price offered by
McSliortodds. Straight-
out and doubles totes
would increase attend-
ances at Randwick and
revolutionise betting.
They would attract
people from the s.-p.
shops, the proprietors
of which would never
dare to bet straightout-
tote and doubles-tote
odds. And if people
must back horses, it is
immeasurably better
that they should do it
on the racecourse (and,
incidentally, help con-
solidated revenue) than
lose their money in
these nefarious joints.
* *
“T enakoe”: The
A.J.C. is not the only
Australasian racing in-
stitution to suffer from
the hard times. The
heavy falling off in tote
receipts at Randwick
has been echoed in
Maoriland. where
things financial are said
to wear a rosier aspect.
The figures for the
whole of M.L. during
the recent spring racing
show a decrease of
£177,656, only £603,888
going through the
machines as opposed to
£781,544 for the previ-
ous period. Proportion-
ately, the drop for M.L.,
with its smaller popu-
lation, is larger than
the Australian, especi-
ally Avhen it is consid-
ered that Ike Mcßagg
is not allowed to oper-
ate in opposition to the
tote- —-openly, at any
rate —in the Shivery
Isles.
“Der Jong”: Westralia is imposing a tax
on winning bets, and Victoria is coquetting
with the notion. Doubt has been expressed
whether the tax could be collected in view of
the comparative failure of the British attempt
to tax betting some two years ago. But South
Africa has been familiar with the system
for years, the Transvaal and Natal deriv-
ing a considerable revenue from this source.
In the Transvaal the bookmaker deducts the
5 p.c. tax from the winning ticket, and is
responsible to the Government for handing
it OAmr. He is also liable for a 2$ p.c. tax
on his own winnings over £3O daily.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: There has lately been a
revival of the outcry against the system
Avhereby promoters of large sweeps on rac-
ing events make public the names of drawers
of horses before the race is run. The prac-
tice was formerly a vehicle for unabashed
blackmail by owners and trainers, and
there is an impression that this form of
extortion is again flourishing. Racing authori-
ties might do something by inquiring into
mysterious scratchings and inviting evi-
dence on the subject from the sufferers.
* * * *
“Hotham”: James Grice, for long commit-
teeman and often chairman of the V.A.T.C.,
who has retired from active participa-
tion in club affairs, was one of the 28
foundation members when the famous club
was formed at Ballarat, in 1875. Only two
others are still on deck, Andrew Chirnside
and Arthur Wilson.
* * * #
Tattersall’s Club in Adelaide has decided
to fight the drop in race-meeting attendances,
and consequently in tote takings, by admit-
ting Avomen free to its next fixture; to the
grandstand by tickets to be issued to mem-
bers on application, and to other parts Avith-
out- restriction.
$ $ & $
“The Deacon” : How is this for encourag-
ing squibs? Before me is the programme
for Wyong Park (N.S.W.). The longest race
is 41. furlongs; the shortest is 21 furlongs.
And there are two of the latter.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Leo Bandias is a decided acquisition to
the Australian boxing game. Few gave him
a chance of beating Fred Young at Mel-
bourne on Saturday night, but Bandias, who
has only recently turned professional, Avon
in the seventh round with a k. 0., from which
Young took some minutes to recover. Ban-
dias, 12. st. lib.; Young, 13st. 2fib.
* * * *
Lightweights Freddie Welsh (9.10) and
Allan Edgecock were both on their
feet at the end of 15 rounds at Sydney
Stadium, Edgecock being lucky enough to
get the referee’s blessing. It was a tame
affair in the early rounds, but later there was
hard two-handed fighting. Welsh won the
last two rounds well, and was unlucky not
to collect.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: Desmond Jeans is doing a
lot better in the hempen square than he
ever promised before the footlights. When
he recently announced his entry into pro-
fessional scrapping he received the bird, but
the hisses were turned to hoots of apprecia-
tion when he made short work of the French
hope, Thomas, at the Albert Hall. By way
of proving it was no fluke, the ex-actor came
again the following week by putting another
Frenchman, Compere, to sleep in the second
spasm of an eight-round go in Gay Paree.
The young man seems to carry a useful swat.
»i* 'l* *l*
“Left ’Ook”: The elephantine Camera,
Avho has been permitted to waddle round the
U.S.A. for close on a year fighting tenth-
raters, has been licked by Jimmy Maloney,
a Bostonian. Jimmy gave the Italian a
rare hiding, and got an undisputed verdict.
Tie was walloped a couple of years ago by
Tom Heeney.
* Hs ❖ *
“Mitt Shover”: Two years or so ago box-
ing affairs were in such a chaotic condition
that European boxing organisations got to-
gether and formed the International Boxing
Union. This drew up rules laying down
conditions for championship bouts and com-
pelling champions to defend their titles at
regular intervals. The Union has so far
been ignored, especially by the United States,
which, according to its traditional custom,
has been running world’s championships of
its own an'd making up rules to suit itself
as it goes along. Australian boxing authori-
ties have recently received a circular from
the Union asking for assistance in an attempt
to take control of world’s championships.
As long as the chief of the world’s boxing
countries —and America can fairly claim to
be that —persists in doing the Lone Wolf
aet in defiance of international feeling, action
of the sort is a waste of time.
“Ichabod”: How true it is that fame is a
fading ember! The other day a Sydney
journal in the course of a characteristic
burble announced that Don Bradman’s fame
resounded throughout the world and that his
name was a household word among peoples
who had never hitherto heard of cricket.
Yet only a few weeks previously a leading
American journal, tlie “Detroit Free Press,”
in giving what professed to be an account of
the fifth Test, stated that “John” Bradman
had had another brilliant day. The subse-
quent information that Fairfax had scored
53 “not all” may be passed over after that.
Yet cricket is widely played in America,
Chicago, not so far from Detroit, being one
of the principal centres of the game.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N. S. Wales C. A. is
doing what it can to relieve the lot of the out-
of-work cricketer —unhappily, his name is
verging on Legion these times. One of the
latest steps taken is the provision of morn-
ing practice wickets at the Sydney Cricket
Ground under the eye of coach G. L. Garn-
sey. This at least gives compulsory
idlers a chance to fill in their time profitably
from a cricket point of view, and should
help to maintain interest in the game which
so many cannot afford 'to play regularly
under present conditions.
* * *
“Claypan”: One welcome result of the
annual meeting of the Country and Suburban
Golf Assoc, in Sydney was the decision to
have a City v. Country match next year.
Such an event would carry more interest
than inter-district and individual matches
for the country championships. A step
further might be taken and a singles match
between the town and country mice staged.
The present country singles championship
would make the selection of a country rep.
easy, and there should be no difficulty in
putting up someone for the city—say the
highest city player in the previous State
title event.
* * * *
“Norwood”: The close of the South Aus-
tralian football season saw North Adelaide
at the top of the tree for the fifth time
since the inception of the district system.
Port Adelaide, the runner-up, filled the
position for the 13th time, but it has been
the most consistent of the Adelaide clubs,
having won eight premierships in addition
to its devil’s number of second placings, and
filled third place on five occasions.
* * * *
“Bev. Knucklebone” : The tennis amateur
status is always taking on new shapes. The
latest is an intimation to affiliated bodies by
the Australian Council that any player lec-
turing on or demonstrating the game of
tennis will automatically disqualify himself
as an amateur, whether he is paid for the
performance or not. The ruling just about
takes the damper. . On that showing, every
youth who volunteers to teach his best
flapper the game becomes at once one with
a Rugby League footballer.
**< * *
“Colombes”: " Lacoste is to return to
French tennis after all. When he was mar-
ried last year to Simone de la Chaume, the
French golferette champion, he retired from
the game. However, with Borotra definitely-
decided to drop out and no other replacement
for the Basque in sight, the hard word
has evidently been put on Rene, who is
probably the soundest all-round player
France has turned out, counting even Cocliet.
France’s chances of retaining the cup are
greatly strengthened, for though Brugnon is
still h useful doubles player he is past his
best, and there are no young ones of promise
coming on.
(Continued on next page.)


Bert •, "Stumped] he's out"’
Qert: "How do you meam
OERT "HE WAS OUT OF HIS
CREASE V
QERT! "But that's not pcur; we did it
BEHIND THE man's BACK.' 1 ,
The Ins and Outs
“Hotliam” : Much to the indignation of its
N.S,W. cobber, the Melbourne press has
got in early with the announcement that
the profits of the Australian tour in Britain
came to £21.825, or £lll4 better than those
for the 1926 tour. The total Australian
whack, including the exchange profit, was
£39,825, from which £lB,OOO is to be docked
for expenses.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victoria’s ’eart still remains
faithful to her beloved Jack Ryder even in
the hour of his adversity. The State Cricket
Association has countered the King of Col-
lin gwood’s removal from the Australian
selection committee by appointing him to a
similar job for the State. Ransford has an-
il ounced his retirement as selector. He first
figured in English cricket with Noble’s team
of 1909, succeeding to Clem Hill’s mantle.
In 15 Tests the little chap averaged 38.32,
and he was one of the greatest outfields the
game has known.
* * * *
“Jolimount”: Some of the interest pro-
mises to be taken from the Ryder testimonial
match, which starts in Melbourne on Novem-
ber 14, by the inability of Ilornibrook and
Hurwood to turn out. The two Queens-
landers will be unable to spare the time so
soon after their return from a long absence
from Brisbane. Ilornibrook would have been
an attraction in view of his many fine per-
formances in England, while Hurwood would
probably have been a different proposition
on Australian pitches from what he proved
in England. Neither will be in evidence for
their State against South Australia in Bris-
bane, either, for that match commences on
October 31, and the returned travellers will
only reach Fremantle three days earlier.
- * * * *
“Gabba”: An interesting feature of the
first Sheffield Shield match between South
Australia and Queensland in Brisbane at the
end of this month will be the use of the
larger stumps which have b een employed in
English county cricket for the past couple
of seasons. The new stumps will be 2Sin. by
9in., as compared with the old 27 x 8
measurements, and will be pitched in all the
Shield matches played in Brisbane this
season.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Amateur Pro.”: “S.T.S.” (B. 15/10/’3O)
misses the point. I do not object to
cricketers taking monetary reward, but
I do to their insisting on being re-
garded as amateurs while doing so. The
brw as laid down by the Olympic Federation
is quite clear. No athlete may accept pay-
ment for any form of sport and remain an
amateur. As regards the statement that
Australians would regard the offer of a tip,
which would be -gratefully accepted by an
English pro., as a joke or an insult, I have
yet to be informed that Bradman took his
£lOOO douceur from a private admirer in
either light. Further, the “regular business”
to which many of our players return con-
sists in the sale or demonstration of cricket
and other sports materials. This is profes-
sional conduct in many sports, including
golf and tennis. Even the swimming folk
won’t' allow the manager or keeper of a
swimming bath to rank as an amateur.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”; Those who recall the aloof
and starchy Jardine whffn he was here with
Chapman’s side might have been excused for
rating him as a dyed-in-the-wool conservative
in cricket, as in less important matters. That
the contrary is the case is seen in his article
on Test-match cricket in the Cricket volume
of the Lonsdale Library series, a successor
to the famous Badminton. Jardine advocates
the playing, of all Tests to a finish, the
which is heresy of the rankest to the average
Briton. He pertinently asks what sense there
can be in asking a team to travel thousands of
miles in five months to play one decisive
Test. He stresses the fact, too, that in Aus-
tralia, where the marathon Test was early
inaugurated, 65 out of 67 matches have been
finalised. In England, only 29 out of 52
have ended in a definite decision.
* * *
“Tenth Slip” : History repeated itself with
the decision of the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion to take over the Sydney Domain playing
area, the powers that be being agreeable, to
provide practice wickets for cricketers iu
town unable to get out to suburban grounds
in time for a knock before dark. The C.A.
is to be responsible for the upkeep of the
ground, and though wickets are to be laid
down and dressing accommodation provided,
there will be no interference with those
accustomed to use the area in the past.
It was on this ground that the second inter-
state match between N.S.W. and Victoria
was played in ' 1857, the first having taken
place in Melbourne the previous year. N.S.W.
won both games.
Racquet and Bawl
“Let”: The proposal that in future Davis
Cup matches should be played on neutral
courts has fallen flat. The suggestion arose
out of the outrageous barracking of the visit-
ing side when Italy played Australia in
Milan, and the hostile treatment of the.
Americans in the Davis Cup challenge round
in Paris. It has been pigeon-holed, not be-
cause of the difficulty in finding a neutral
area for each of the numerous preliminary
matches in Europe and; America, but because
of gate considerations. The investigating
committee decided that tennis followers who
would roll up m masse to see. their own side
fight out a Davis Cup would , stay away in
large numbers from a meeting between two
strange teams. As the great god Gate
rules all sports nowadays, that settled the
matter.
* * :|: *
“Top Spin”: If there is a mess-up in
connection with the proposed visit of the
South African tennis players early next
year it will be the fault of the Australian
authorities. The Afrikanders are being
brought over by Maoriland, and there has
been some difficulty about fitting in the dates
for the Australian visit, the M.L. people
naturally desiring to have the height of the
season for themselves, while the Australian
heads want the tourists for the championships
in this country about tlie same time. Now the
Australian body has divulged that it has
started dealing direct with the Africans. This
looks like going behind the back of the
All Blacks, and the latter may be expected
to register emotion when they hear of it.
“Baksheesh” : Coolangatta, a seaside ham-
let near the N.S. W.-Queensland border, has
hit on the brilliant idea of providing free
tennis courts as an attraction for holiday-
makers. Pending the making of these courts
A. J. Kennedy, one of the city fathers, has
come forward with an offer that says much
for his sportsmanship—he will throw open
his private court to visitors free of charge
and supply balls and net into the bargain.
Anyone familiar with the cost of constantly
renewing the supply of tennis balls for an
ordinary club will realise that the offer is
by no means a cheap gesture.
❖ H* Hs H*
“Cut Shot”: Britain beat a second-rate
French tennis team on, the grass at Queens
Club last week by 9 games to 6. Borotra
and Brugnon were the strongest players on
the French side, but Austin, who seems to
be improving, beat both of them. The French-
men had the best of the doubles matches,
winning three of the four played, but they
failed to hold their own in the singles, win-
ning only two . matches.
The Nineteenth Hole
The N.S.W. mixed foursomes champion-
ship, played on the Royal Sydney links at
Rose Bay last week on a sodden course, was
a triumph for R. H. Bettington and Mrs. Bet-
tington, the pair playing up to each other
•with admirable consistency. Bettington has
never quite reproduced in Australia the form
that won him a golf blue at Oxford, but on
this occasion he showed exceptional form,
while his partner has improved out of sight
under his coaching. The winners did the
two 18-hole rounds in 80 and 78, their total
of 158 being one better than the card of the
runners-up, G. T. Balcombe and Miss Cliom-
ley. A 36-hole handicap, played in conjunc-
tion with the championship, also went to the
Bettingtons, who, with a minus 10 handicap,
returned a card of 148 net.
He H: H: H:
“Brassey” : There is a strong feeling among
N.S.W. golfers that an open championship
event should be added to the tourney for the
State titles at the next annual meeting. So
far Queensland and Tasmania are the only
two States to stage an event of this kind
The suggestion is that the championship
should consist of four rounds of stroke play
on the lines of the Australian open, a round
a day for two consecutive days, with a fixed
number who have reached a certain qualifi-
cation standard to play off two final rounds
on a tnird day. Though there are preliminary
rounds of stroke play in the State amateur
and professional championships, these are
finally decided on a match basis. Stroke
play is recognised as the true test of a
golfer, and the proposed innovation should
add greatly to the interest of the State
fixture.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The Ballarat open champion-
ship, the biggest Victorian golf event outside
the metropolis, drew a large and classy field
to the once-golden city. It included M. J.
Ryan, Australian amateur champion last
year and Victorian title-holder for 1930;
Alec Russell, an Australian open and Vic-
torian amateur winner; F. E. Ileadlam, of
Geelong, a foursomes-player of renown ; and
many other lesser lights. The title went
eventually to Ryan, after he and Ileadlam
had tied with 154 each for the 36 holes.
The play-off over 9 holes was very close,
Ryan scraping home with a card of 34 to
35 by Ileadlam.
* .* *
“Carnoustie” : Something ought to be done
about the increasing wave of ball-stealing
on the Sydney Council municipal links at
Moore Park. Man, it’s awfu’; only the
other day I lost a ball which I bought only
three months syne and was as good as new,
owing to my careful habit of never using an
iron club if a wooden one will serve. The
robbery is open, too. The malefactor, usu-
ally a youthful lout, picks up the ball in
full view of the player, and with a start, of
a hundred yards or so is uncatchable. The
council, which makes thousands a year out
of the links, should put on a ranger with
a motor-cycle, or even a horse. At present
it takes the fees from the public and does
nothing to deal with the dozens of young
ruffians who infest the course on the look-
out for easy money, A golf ball in decent
condition is easily saleable for a shilling
at least.
“Bloggs”: Ball-retrieving is just as much
of a nuisance at certain Sydney links with
water-hazards. Hordes of hobbledehoys
hang round these traps, and insist on per-
forming services which are rightly caddies’
jobs. At a course out Kensington way the
other day one of these pests extracted a
ball from the couple of inches of water into
which it had trickled—and demanded sixpence.
As the owner demurred the boy threw the hall
back —and not into the recoverable place
from which he had taken it, either. The
owner promptly seized him by the scruff
of the neck, and dumped him face down-
wards in one of Botany’s most insanitary
swamps. It is a form of wild justice that
threatens to become general unless the ball-
retrievers watch their step.
* * *
“D.” : There is an infallible method of tell-
ing a pothouse golf club from a good one on
sight. You see no slow players at a good
club —which is another way of saying a club
whose members have, good manners. Bad
players, yes; but then they have the decency
to let the good players go through. Many
new clubs have players who don’t even know
that it is a golfing crime to hold up those
behind them. They lounge conversationally
along, separate unwillingly to play their
shots, come together again for a further
debate, hang about the green after they have
holed out, and don’t reach the next tee till
those ahead are well on the way to the next
hole. And they never let anyone through if
they can help it. The fear that they may
have to is the one thing that galvanises
them into something like activity. New
clubs plaster their notice-boards with injunc-
tions against buying balls from strangers,
and so on. but rarely have a word of warn-
ing for the dud performer who hogs the
course, and thereby n'ot only spoils the game
for his fellow-members but also ruins the
club’s good name.
* * • * t-
“Hamilton”: The professional golf cham-
pionship of Queensland, the match-play sec-
tion of which was decided at Yeerongpilly, was
won by C. Brown, the Goodna professional,
who beat T. Southcombe, of Indooroopilly, by
2 and 1. Brown had previously downed the
title-holder, Quarton, in the semi-finals, and
having established a slight lead early in the
first round kept it to the end.
* * *
“Divot Digger”: The infant phenomenon
of Sydney golf, 18-year-old Jim Ferrier, of
Manly, put up a remarkable performance
on his home course recently by .going round
in 70 on a wet day, with casual water plen-
tiful in all the fairways. He took 36 going
out and 34 home, his card beating the
Colonel and the standard scratch score by
7 strokes, as well as lowering the previous
best, held by Eric Apperly and Les Wines,
by a stroke. The match was for the Manly
championship, and the defeated field included
Harry Hattersley, the Australian amateur
champion. Unfortunately a temporary
green, replacing one under repair, was used
during the game, and under the rules this
may bar the performance from being treated
as a record. However, the matter lias been
referred to the Australian Golf Council for
decision.
Car and Cycle
“Busli-cat”: It is now possible to have
early breakfast in Melbourne and dinner in
Broken Hill, and that without taking to
the air. But you must be a good driver.
Last week George Sayer, accompanied by P.
Van d.er Ben, left Melbourne at 5 a.m. in
a straight eight Marmon sedan, and arrived
in Broken Hill at 6.34 p.m., the 560 miles
having been thrown behind at an average
speed of 40 m.p.h. There were two stops
on the trip, one of two minutes to change
a wheel and another of 15 minutes when
the car overturned while taking a corner at
top speed. This occurred near the end of
the trip, and would have spoilt the effort but
for the timely arrival of a garage car from
Broken Hill which had come out to see
that the gates were open. The motorists
escaped injury, and apart from bent mud-
guards and slightly distorted body the only
damage was a burst radiator connection and
skittled lamps.
* * * *
“Four Horses”: The bland officials of the
Royal Automobile Club's London headquar-
ters had a shock recently when young PI. J.
Butcher, of Auckland (M.L.), barged in and
tried, in Yankee parlance, to sell the club
the Ninety-mile Beach of his home province.
Butcher was armed with maps, diagrams,
photographs, meteorological records and a
testimonial from Sydney’s “Wizard” Smith.
I Pc painted a picture of a beach of fine sand,
100 yards wide at low tide ; hardly a ripple
in its surface in the first three months, of
the year; 17 miles of dead straight going,
and 27 miles very slightly curved. Also
the energetic Mr. Butcher took his prospectus
and a sample of the sand to Malcolm Camp-
bell, Kaye Don, Captain Birkin and other
famous racing drivers, and pleaded with
Ihem to give the smallest Dominion a chance,
Why go to a ripply 7-mile course at Day-
tona (U.S.A.), or cut tracks across 'the
S’African veldt, he pleaded, when the Shivery
Isles could afford an incomparably better
site for ascertaining how fast a motor-car
can go before it bursts? Butcher’s sincerity
and enthusiasm won him a good, hearing, and
I’m prepared to say he wasn’t taking his
hearers down. As a motor-cyclist I don’t
know what may happen on any sort of a
course at over 200 m.p.h., but I had one
spin in a race on the Ninety-mile (and that
was in winter, when it was regarded as
rough), and the ten-mile straight-away track
I sped on was so smooth that it seemed
like flying. That MX. sand must be mil-
Hons of years old—incredibly fine in its
grains—and it packs down as hard as vul-
canite.
.....
“Whizz”- The special chassis which is
being constructed in Sydney by D. ,T. Hark
ness to house the British aeroplane engine
with which Smith will attempt a world s
speed record on the Ninety-mile Beach is well
on its way to completion. Long and low, the
outward design of the body follows closely that
of the Golden Arrow, in which the late Henry
Segrave put up his record of 231 m.p.h.; it
lias the same flat-nosed front,. and the
double fin in the rear to minimise lateral
sway. But the Australian machine will be
much higher-powered than the Arrow, her
Napier 12-cylinder engine developing about
1700 h.p.
* * * *
“Crank” : “Sprocket” is all out when he
sayg (B. i/10/"30) that the Sydney-Mel-
bourne road' race will be the first held
here on the Continental system. That
honor goes to the Dunlop Grand Prix, run
over a 690-mile course in Victoria in 1927,
f or a prize-list totalling £9s2—probably the
biggest in the world to date. The winner was
Hubert Opperman, and one of the results of
the race was the dispatch off the Australasian
team, headed by Opperman, to Europe for the
Tour de France.
* * * *
“Whizz”: A most interesting motor-car
handicap event was the British Racing
Drivers’ 500-mile run at Brooklands, which so
much resembled a tin-hare meeting, with the
tin-hare getting home triumphantly ahead of
the dogs, that a public wedded to the “poor
man’s sport” had a most enjoyable time,
The event was won by S. C. Davis, in a
Baby Austin, at an average speed of 83.41
m.p.h. Second place was filled by a big
Bentley, driven by Benjafield, which hit up
a 112.12 average. Two other big fellows
filled third and fourth P\
beam (104.74) and Howe s Talbot (104.2 b).
The finish wag a thriller, the three big cars
trying desperately to catch the little one.
With all their power they failed, and the
“pram” got safely into the escapes, or
whatever are provided in these cases.
Micccllaneous
„,.. - . _
Blue Bar : 4 ictorian pigeon-fanciers are
having a bad time of late owing to the un-
settled weather conditions, which have playe
havoc with several of tlie_ long-distance races,
The bad luck culminated in a heavy loss oi
birds when the Ayalong (JN.fe.\\.) to
Melbourne race for old birds over a
airline was held. The weather was fine when
the pigeons were liberated in JN.B.YV., but
was very bad from the Victorian border
southwards. Twelve hundred birds were
started, but though small batches have turned
up a t intervals since it is certain that three-
quarters of the flight, valued at £l2OO, has
been i os t. This is the worst knock for the
homer fancv since the 400-mile race from
Yarcowie (S.A.) in 1924, when over £2OOO
worth of pigeons went a.w.l. and remained so.
* * * *
, G a ® er A A re “ al^ q a 1 0 V! f1 .^ PT7
120-yards hurdles was done o fc „ yd e -
Cricket Ground last
01 d J. A. S. A hite, of The Kngs Schoo.
The race had been postponed from tin.
G.P.S. meeting on the previous Saturday
owing to the. sloppy nature ot the ground,
Running against seven others, white won
by six yards, and clocked 15 _-ssec., four-
tenths of a second better than the State
record, and --osec. behind L. J Ihomp-
sen s world s figures on gras i, hoisted i
London m l,)LO. mere is a eaten in. n,
however, for there is a doubt as to whether
the run was not slightly down hill. This
™ to be tested ’ and , if the slope exists the
performance wall not go on the records.
nne - * * * *
• . "
“Left Half” : Hockey s record year of 1900
has ended. Indications are that 1931 wall be
even more successful.- Next year Sydney wall
see the Australasian carnival, in which it
is expected Maoriland will also bark a few
shins. The Australasian Universities series
will take- place in Sydney at the same time,


“LABOR WILL KEEP THE
FLAG FLYING.”
Labor Fights Nationalism
Because It Is Reactionary
The Communistic Candiflates
Play the Game for Nationalism
■
...
■
■
IggppiSl
/
ex
i
f !
0
0
‘LABOR WILL KEEP THE
FLAG FLYING.”
Labor Fights Communism
Because It Is Revolutionary
Nationalism Supports
The Communistic Candidates
“Read, Mark, Learn and Inwardly Digest
WHAT THEY SAY
“I regret very much to see a determined effort being made
by Mr. Lang and his followers to turn this election into a
campaign of mud-slinging."
—Mr. Bavin, 2/10/30.
• •
“Politically speaking, Mr. Lang is
a direct descendant of the man who
sold the sundial in the Botanic
Gardens.”
— Mr. Arkins, M.L.A., 23/9/’3O,
“The Labor Party has organised
a boo-hoo gang, as they did in the
last Federal election, to prevent people
hearing the truth. These ‘basher
gang’ tactics will be dealt with.”
Mr. H. W. Horsfield (Nat. Org.),
30/9/’3O.
“You’ll rue the day if you put Labor
in. More men will be starving. This
dictatorial Mr. Lang.. .. This arro-
gant Mr. Lang.... This man is a
tinpot Mussolini.”
— Mr. Arthur Manning, at Waver-
ley, 3/10/’3O.
“Mr. Lang has told you—(lnterjec-
tor: “The Truth”) —Wherever did you
hear that? I have heard a lot about
Mr. Lang, but I’ve never heard of him
being accused of that.”
—The Premier (Mr. Bavin), at
Hyde, 2/10/’3O.
“Mr. Lang is an embryonic dictator
—a man who is a mixture of the
Count of Monte Cristo, the Scarlet
Pimpernel, and Dick Turpin.”
— Dr. J. E. Webb, at Hurstville,
30/9/’3O.
“After listening to the reading of
Mr. Lang’s poliey speech, I am of
the opinion that he should be sent
to a medical hospital for examina-
tion.”
— Dr. Arthur, at Earlwood, l/10/’3O.
“Mr. Lang will go down in history
as a political go-getter. The other
day he promised the farmer a road
from his gate to the railway station.
We shall next hear of him telling the
man in the country he will find a
goldmine in Sydney Harbor to pay
for that road.”
— Mr. C. Robinson, at Paddington,
7/10/’3O.
“I can understand a man being-
gulled once, but not twice. If you
are gulled by the Labor promises it
is your own damn fault. These pro-
mises are coming from men who are
crawling on their bellies for their £l6
a week jobs.”
— Mr. Adkins (Nationalist Candi-
date), 8/10/’3O.
“Mr. Lang—a man who makes false,
flattering, impossible promises at a
time such as this —is a traitor to the
best interests of humanity.”
—The Minister for Justice (Mr.
Lee )., at Abbotsford, 7/10/’3O.
WHAT WE SAY:
“Here I am. Am I what you expected? Or have you come
to see a wild man with whiskers to his knees and bombs in
his belt?”
—Mr. Lang, at Narromine, 7/10/’3O.
“In place of the usual policy, Mr.
Bavin, the Premier, delivered a speech
in which he said, in effect, that his
Government had brought the State to
the verge of bankruptcy, that he did
not know how it got there, and he
doesn’t know how to get out of it.”
— Mr. Lang, at Yass, 30/9/’3O.
“A Labor Government will finance
along the same lines as it did in 1927,
when we finished -with a record surplus
of £1,300,000 —not along the same
lines as Mr. Bavin in 1930, when the
finances closed with a record deficit of
£4,500,000.”
— Mr. Lang , at Summer Hill,
29/9/’3O.
“The trouble with the world to-day
is under-consumption. More than half
the people of the world are on a
standard of living so low' that they
can barely purchase the necessaries of
life. We cannot find a cure by reduc-
ing the rest of the world to gypsy
standard of living.”
— Mr. Lang, at Hurstville, 26/9/’3O.
“In effect. Sir Otto Niemeyer has
laid it down that Australia must lower
her tariffs and be content to become
nothing more than the supplier of raw
materials to the manufacturing coun-
tries of the world. The National and
•Country parties commend this dic-
tum.”
— Mr. Lang, at Tamworth , 23/9/’3O.
“Return Labor and restore the State
to the prosperity of 1925 and 1927.
We promised and we paid 7/6 a
bushel for wheat. What we did then
we can do now. Depression is a state
of mind. Acceptance of the Niemeyer
report is unworthy of the indomitable
spirit of the Australian.”
—Mr. Lang, at Parkes, 6/10/’3O.
“I am sick to death of people say-
ing ‘lt can’t be done!’ It is time
somebody said ‘lt has to be done!’
The policy of Mr. Bavin is a policy of
‘Let it slide, if it slides to the Devil.’ ”
— Mr. Lang , at Inverell, 24/9/’3O.
ON
VOTE
OCTOBER 25
LABOR
1


“Fitzcray”: Collingwood, by winning its
fourth consecutive Victorian League pre-
miership, has added to an already notable list
of records. The club lias now won the
title nine times, has been runner-up on the
same number of occasions, and has hlieu
third place seven times, a record approached
by no other club in the Australian code.
Gordon Coventry, its goal-kicker has now
kicked 717 goals in the 180 matches he has
played with the club, thus passing the long-
standing record of Dick Lee of the same
club, who hoisted the two flags 708 times in
230 games up to 1922.
•j: # sp
“Hoth'am”: One result of the long-drawn-
out football season in Melbourne has been
a move in the direction of abolishing the
present system of deciding the League pre-
miership and cutting out the grand hnal
altogether. The change suggested is that a
straight-out fight for the premiership in the
second round be decided by two semi-finals
and a final only. This would curtail the
season, and save a lot of the friction at
present existing between the League and the
Cricket Association, which is considerably
hampered by the continued occupation of the
Melbourne Cricket Ground by _ the foot-
ballers for the purpose of playing off the
grand final, a practice which gives little
time for the reconditioning of the cricket
pitches.
# :!= * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union,
on behalf of its confreres in Queensland and
Victoria, has accepted the South African
invitation for an Australian team to tour
that country in 1933. As there is an agree-
ment with the M.L. Union for an inter-
change of visits up to and including 1933,
the consent of the All Blaacks to a varia-
tion of the contract will be necessary, but
this should not prevent any difficulty. As
matters stand at present, the Union stands
to lose some £789 on the season, most _ of
this having been incurred through the visit
of the British team. If M.L. consents to
forego its 50 per cent, of the takings, some
£1245, there should be a credit balance. A
gratifying item was an increase of £366 in
takings at club matches. On the South Afri-
can tour the home side will pay all expenses
and take all gates, similar terms to those
prevailing on the last Waratah tour of
Britain.
* * * *
“Gate”: Reviewing the season just past,
the N.S.W. Rugby League is evidently re-
gretting its decision last season to leave
Sydney Cricket Ground for the much smaller
and less convenient Sports Ground. Attend-
ances and takings have suffered in conse-
quence, and a section of the League is urging
a return on the trustees’ terms. The League,
however, is committed to the Sports Ground,
having advanced some £3OOO to the trustees
for improvements. It is possible that an
attempt will be made to get the S.C.G. for
big matches in conjunction with the Union
and other codes. II can be taken as defi-
nite, however, that there is no hope of the
professional body regaining its one-time mon-
opoly of the arena, which was dedicated by
its deed of trust to amateur sport only.
% 5-1 sjc
“Amateur Pro.”: Many an Australian
player of the Rugby League game who has
been enticed away to the North of England
to play for one or other of the professional
clubs of the Northern Union has had good
reason to regret his action. Generally a
good-looking lump sum is given, plus, per-
haps, the promise of a job, and always a
fixed rate of payment for matches played
is guaranteed on a sliding scale of “win,
lose or draw.” Two Australians who recently
joined up have struck trouble early. Aynsley,
of Queensland, and Walder, of Maoriland,
have found that, owing to a late registration
by the clubs which have engaged them, they
are ineligible to play in the Northern Union
Cup matches. This will not debar them from
the more important premiership games, but
will cut out a lot of matches for which the
pair would otherwise have received payment.
Possibly the N.U. will compensate them, but
those acquainted with the methods of that
body are not enthusiastic on the subject.
Car and Cycle
(Continued from page 36.)
“Disc Clutch”: Now that Britain has
hopped into the cheap-car industry, she is
doing it with a will. At the Olympia motor
show, opened in London last week, two of
the leading small-car makers exhibited jobs
at £125, while the cheapest cars in the
4-, 6- and 8-cylinder classes were British,
the Americans being for once underbidden,
and by makes of high reputation, too.
* Hi * *
“Penrhyn”: Three machines are in process
of building overseas to attack the world’s
record. One is a mystery car which is be-
ing manufactured for Malcolm Campbell,
and the other two are American. Packard is
constructing a car, with, two 500-h.p. engines,
which will be driven by the American rac-
ing motorist Paulo. The other is a four-
engined freak, which is also being kept very
dark. All Campbell says about his car is
that it is 25ft. long and so low that the
driver’s head will be 4ft. only from the
ground.
* * * *
“Enderby” : The proposal for a 15-mile long
concrete speedway from Skegness to Freiston,
on the Lincolnshire coast, is taking definite
shape. The land required is of little use,
being practically at sea-level and flooded at
spring tides. As the enterprise promises to
find employment for a great number of
out-of-works, the British Treasury has agreed
to help by making a grant of the tidal lands
required to the promoters, property rights
in such cases vesting in the Crown.
* * * *
“Waihi”: Maoriland reports the adven-
tures of a small car which set out. to do a
10,000-mile non-stop run. It had covered
8000 miles when the lighting failed. The
driver went on for a bit with an electric
torch until he took a header over a bank.
The car did two flips and landed on its back
30ft. below road level. The driver wasn’t
hurt, and neither apparently was his flivver.
This was yanked back to the road again
and completed the set run without further
trouble. It was a sealed-bonnet test, with
official supervision of fuel replenishment. The
500-mile laps were completed at an average
of 28 m.p.h., and petrol consumption worked
out at 44 miles to the gallon. Only If gallons
of lubricant were used, including half a
gallon added after the sump had been emptied
by the capsize.
$ :j: $ #
“Yellowplush”: London’s traffic police
have lately been much bothered by an un-
usual class of offender. By English usage,
the horns on the Queen’s motor-cars are so-
arranged that they have a distinguishing
note which it is not permitted to imitate,
for obvious reasons. Nevertheless, private
cars have been appearing in London whose
horns have been tuned in to the sacrosanct
toot. Women owners are the chief offenders,
but legal opinion has been to the effect that
no action can be taken against infringers of
the rule as the law stands at present..
With their usual resource, the police are
dealing with the difficulty in their own way.
They confiscate the objectionable siren and
then summon the car-owner or -driver for
not being in possession of the statutory
warning signal.
Miscellaneous
(Continued from page 36.)
The N.S.W. rowing season opened offici-
ally on the Lane Cove River with the Mos-
man Club’s regatta. The big event of the
day was the Boone Memorial Cup for
senior eights. The only competitors were
the reconstructed Mosman crew and the
Sydney eight which is to row at Henley on
Yarra next month. Contrary to expectation,
Mosman, admirably stroked by A. R. Butler,
won by a length and three-quarters, though
most of the crew are inexperienced in senior
rowing. It was a triumph for R. Daly, who
coached the crew, in addition to coxing it.
* * * *
“Blade”: The Nepean Rowing Club, the
only country rowing organisation in all
N.S.W., which has its headquarters at Pen-
rith, opens its season at the week-end with
a programme of fours and handicap sculls.
NO STATIC.
SARCASTIC PATRON (as boxers sag against one another) : "Lets all ear the bedtime
story — don’t whisper it!”
Last year’s regatta was a big success and
was well helped along by the Sydney clubs,
while the local body showed that its crews
were by no means to be despised. It seems
an extraordinary thing that N.S.W. with
its many splendid rivers cannot muster more
than one club outside the metropolis, while
Quensland, Victoi'ia and South Australia
have many. It is an old story, but one worth
repetition.
* * *
“Doggett”: Ted Phelps, holder of the
world’s professional sculling championship
which he won some time ago from Albert
Barry, is evidently not inclined to play the
game according to accepted rules, for he
has again defeated Barry on the Thames.
Phelps won easily in 22min. 48sec. over the
4* miles from Putney to Mortlake. We may
yet hear of a world’s champion pugilist
agreeing to defend his title within five yeais
of his winning it. .
* * * *
“Shell”: The Australian rowing com-
munity heard with pleasure that Bobby
Pearce had decided not to proceed with his
Canadian engagement but to return to his
native land. Details have not been furnished,
but it is possible that Robert, does not find
the early Canuck winter to his taste. One
could have wished, however, that he could
have stayed on until he had carried out his
intention of competing in the Diamond Sculls
at Henley next year. In Canada he was
within easy distance of the famous Thames
course. Back in Australia, even if circum-
stances are propitious, the overseas journey
will be a much more serious undertaking.
* * * *
“Splash”: The two Robertson sisters of
N.S.W. are to take up professional coaching.
Their metier is swimming, and both rank
high among Australian amateurettes,. having
won many championships. The pair have
so often been asked to teach their acquaint-
anees and others to that they h&v© ie-
solved to turn their specialty to profit.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: .Tames Taylor, who bulks
big in Australian athletic control, had some-
thing interesting to say about the amateur
status at the annual meeting of the JN.b.YV.
Swimming Association. He pointed out that
the decision of the Olympic Congress m
Berlin to abolish payment to athletes for
“broken time” had been backed by the
resolve to forbid in future the daily “allow-
mice” which some countries, including Aus-
tralia, have been accustomed to bestow on
their representatives. Presumably inter-
State as well as international reps, will have
to bow to this decision in future. Significant,
too, was the statement that the Finnish
“amateur” runner Paavo Nurmi, who has
made several long tours of America and
Europe, had probably been prevented by
the new rule from visiting Australia. The
suspension of Dr. Peltzer over “allowances”
received by him is a case in point, as is that
of Arne Borg, now an open professional.
* * * *
“Spike”: When the Australian Empiad
team came back from Canada without any
complaints, people who have been much
exposed to these athletic tours wondered,
It was too good to be true, however, for
now Bascombe, the Victorian middle-distance
runner, asserts that he finished third in the
quarter-mile Empire championship at Hamil-
ton, though’ the judges placed the N.S.W.
runner Golding third. Argument has fol-
lowed, of course, but on the form shown by
the pair at the Empiad and other meetings,
Golding was much superior to the Victorian,
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Not only do the
American athletic authorities discourage
tours of their amateur athletes abroad (B.
9/10/’3O), save in such exceptional instances
as the Olympiads, but the universities, from
which most of the crack amateurs come, also
frown on the idea. A crack athlete is a tre-
mendous asset to an American university, as
is a good baseball or football team. Members
of these last, like the champion athletes,
receive practically free education in many
of the foundations, with privileges and per-
quisites which would not be tolerated _in
similar institutions in the British Empire,
Thus the universities have a personal in-
terest in the man whom they have aided and
developed at considerable cost, and the loss
of his services for drawing gates for some
months at a time is naturally not to be
regarded as a business prahposition.
“Fitz Cray”: That energetic body the Vic-
torian Athletic Association is determined to
import a consignment of athletes for the
coming season at all costs. Failing the pro-
posed American team, which can be taken
as a very doubtful quantity, an English trio
is to be invited. Those desired are Lord Burgh-
ley, the mighty hurdler; Wilson, the best
quarter-miler in Britain; and T. E. Hamp-
sou, a middle-distance runner of note. All
were title-winners at the Empiad, and
Burghley especially would be a tremendous
draw. There is very little chance, however,
of getting him to make the long journey, and
not much of persuading the other two. The
South Africans, who have asked for an invi-
tation, are a better proposition.
❖ ❖ Hs Hs
“Bamboo’’: The tour of the Ashton
brothers has put Australian polo definitely
on the list, the side being rated at 26, with
the best of the English teams at 30. Among
the tips picked up was the necessity of riding-
forward for the pass and to rely on the
other man hitting, not bothering about back-
ing him up. English and American players
use a shorter stick, getting more power into
the stroke and much greater distance than
is usual in Australia. The bigger the pony
the better, other things being equal. Many
overseas top 15 hands, and the modern long-
liitting game does away with much of the
turning which is the small pony’s strong
point. The Americans are keen on sending
a side to Australia, and, given better times,
the Old Aiken Club, made up of ex-gradu-
ates of Yale and Harvard, intend to make
the trip.
# * * *
“Hotham:” Finding that Sydney yachts-
men were regarding his ehalleitgc to race
all-comers from Melbourne to Maoriland
with a unanimous lack of enthusiasm, the
owner of the Victorian yacht Oimara sailed
liis craft to Sydney in the hope of stirring up
a spirit of adventure in the harbor mariners.
There was nothing doing, however, and the
argosy sailed back to Melbourne. The plucky
Maorilander who is bringing his yacht over
to Melbourne to sail her back "again will be
Oimara's only rival.
:l: * * *
“R.A.” : Your correspondent (B. l/10/’3O)
errs when he states that the yacht America
sailed all round the English yachts. The
11.Y.5. arranged a race without time allow-
ance round the Isle of Wight for a. cup.
The America quickly showed her superiority
over the smaller craft opposed to her and
won the bauble. She would not have done so
if the conditions of the race had been en-
forced, as she did not go round the Nab
Light, thus gaining a considerable advantage.
But she was treated generously and not dis-
qualified.
# :|c *
“Backwoodsman”: The smouldering feud
between the Australian Bowling Council and
the rank and file of bowlers on the subject
of bowls testing (B. 24/9/’3O) has burst into
flame again, this time in Queensland. The
local authorities were ordered by the
A.B.C. testing-committee to see that the
woods of their members agreed with the
official measurements. The Bananalanders
thereupon commanded their official scriv-
ener to inform the A.B.C. that it was a
lopeared catawampus, or words to that effect,
and that its incursions on the liberty of the
individual bowler were ultra vires and worse.
Further it was told that the insurgents in the
North proposed to take no blanky notice of the
A.B.C. ultimatum, but had instructed their
official bowl-tester to follow their instructions
and let those of the A.B.C. go to Rockhamp-
ton, or its most convenient equivalent.
H; ❖ He
“Sliinguard” : Australia is soon to house a
notable woman athlete in the person of
Patricia Bryant, who is to take up an
appointment as sports-mistress in a big
N.S.W. girls’ school. Many will remember
her as the tall, fair-haired wing-forward with
the English hockey team in Australia in 1927,
whose uncanny cleverness with the stick and
astonishing pace invited invidious comparison
with the ability of many inter-State male
players. She is at present in charge of the
games at Leeds School, and will return with
the Australian team. The latter is having
the time of its life in England, where the
manageress has had to close down on the
consumption of the free confectionery poured
in by English manufacturers. These
managers all have their troubles. First there
was Mr. Kelly of the Australian Eleven, and
now this instance.
* * * *
The N.S.W. King’s Prize, shot for at the
Anzac Range, near Liverpool, ended in a sen-
sational win for R. W. Gunn, of the Postal
Institute Rifle Club of Victoria. Gunn,
after leading at nearly every stage, finished
with a total of 241, not only the highest
ever compiled in Australia, but an Empire
record for the stages comprised in the King’s
Prize shoot. The previous best, 240, stands to
the credit of another Victorian, P. A. Pavey,
of Caulfield, an Australian representative at
Bisley. This is Gunn’s second success in the
big event, for he won in 1927 with 239.
Only two others have won the King’s twice,
H. Motton and W. H. Cutler. Commander
Keating, of the Naval Brigade, won on
four occasions between 1883 and 1896.
* * * *
“Full Choke” : The Scottish grouse moors
saw something new this year, when King
George went up for his first shoot since his
illness. For getting to the butts and travers-
ing the rough moor country generally he
utilised a tiny caterpillar tractor in-
stead of a pony. The innovation may
have its drawbacks. The car is said
to be spoiling fox-hunting in England,
and the tractor’s clatter may force the
grouse, wildest and wariest of birds, to the con-
clusion that life is not worth carrying on with.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The appointment of P. Le
Couteur to the headmastership of Newington
College should do a lot to improve the
cricket of the big Sydney school, which has
languished somewhat since the golden days
of Johnny Taylor. A triple blue at Mel-
bourne Uni., Le Couteur went to Oxford
as a Victorian Rhodes Scholar, and in addi-
tion to good work in the schools soon estab-
lished a reputation as an all-round cricketer,
being the outstanding player of his period in
the Dark Blue eleven and figuring for the
Gentlemen against the Players half a dozen
times. On his day he was one of the best
exponents of googly bowling, and on English
wickets reaped a rich harvest annually both
for his University and Middlesex. He took
no part in big cricket on his return to Aus-
tralia, though he performed well in Perth
and in pennant cricket for Hawthorn-East
Melbourne.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Australia, now well in the
grip of the epidemic which is referred to b;v
its American originators as “peewee” golf,
may take warning by the story of Charles
Dyt, of Los Angeles. That unhappy young
man, having turned for relief from the flicks
to the other calamity, soon became an addict.
When he found one day that he was right
off his game, he did not seek solace, as does
the ordinary golfer in strong drink and
blasphemy. He just grasped his trusty putter
and started to clean up the “hull darned
show,” as they say over there. To make his
intentions clear, he made for another course
as soon as he had emptied the first, one, and
resumed operations there. By this time, how-
ever, the police were on Charles’s trail, and
after 20 minutes’ stout work he was given
14 days for reflection. No doubt he felt it
was worth it.
Ht * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Vincent Richards, the
first of the leading American tennis amateurs
to turn professional, has retired from the
game on the ground that it is not worth the
candle. Richards did himself little good by
his change-over, for he was certain, as the
best American player after Tilden. to have
had years of Davis Cup play before him.
No one should have known better than he
that an amateur of such calibre can make
a great deal more money out of the game
than any professional.
* * * *
“Baffy”: Congratulated on his meteoric
finish of his golfing career, Bobby Jones told
an interviewer that the task of having to play
up to his reputation haunted him in his dreams,
with the result that he now got little fun out
of a pursuit on which he originally embarked
for pleasure only. The story is an old one.
A recent instance is that of Jack Hobbs. Hie
famous English' cricketer has found, as others
in the same line of business do, that what
was once an enjoyable and profitable recrea-
tion has become an irritating observance, to
be shaken off at the first opportunity.


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5/ including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . , 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
• ;
<.y\ • - v .
V
\\
QQQ
m
oq nmjwMirfl
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 44 Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean. RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Under 1
Royal
Warrant
ytjtu
ToH.NL
George V
Vintage 1920.
CH AMPAGNE
CHeslifakj
muni
Aiistrataalan Agents
Swift & Company U mitai
SYDNEY. ,
champagne
G>arleslleidsie<>
REIMS
”’**** 'C'-J-y
iStn—~»f?i
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD,
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
With so few plays running, opportunities
for the early-door folk and the queUers-up
to try out their endurance are becoming
limited. However, Heaven sends them now
and then a fashionable wedding, and hours
before the appointed time the indomitables
arrive at the church door. Last week, Betty
Willsallen’s gyving to Marshall Lawrence
Baillieu, of Melbourne, gave them an oppor-
tunity to show their staying-power. Before
twelve the first-comers drifted on to the
scene, and by the time the bride arrived in
the afternoon the ground was strewn with
confectionery wrappings and scraps of grease-
proof paper that told .of alfresco lunches. The
one policeman on duty could hardly stem
the tide of femininity when first the brides-
maids and then the bride appeared. Betty,
who is sylph-like, young and fair, was
all radiant charm as she stepped on father’s
arm from the gate of St. Mark’s at Darling
Point into the grey old church. Her ivory
satins were a shimmering sheath for her
grace. Her veil was a mist of tulle through
which lily of the valley gleamed, and pearls
were her only ornament. The ’groom’s sister
June, Morna MacCormick, Audrey Hordern
and Jean Anderson, in a rhythm of leaf-
green chiffons, walked on high-heeled green
shoes before the bride; their heads were
wreathed in crystal dewdrops and green
leaves, and tulips blazed upon their arms.
Small cousin Michael and Virginia Ileatli
brought up the procession. The pews were
crowded with the fashionable world, the
bride being the only daughter of the Percy
Willsallens, of Point Piper, and the ’groom the
eldest son of the Clive Baillieus, of Toorak;
and the church was heavy with subtle per-
fume, powder and the scent of flowers. Ross
Grey Smith was best man, and there were
three immaculate groomsmen. Even the bride’s
little black dog went to the wedding, all
tied up with a white riband. The reception
was in the ballroom of Retford Hall, Tony
Hordern’s home at Darling Point, and here
Mrs. Willsallen, in a Robin Hood green lace
frock, a small green straw hat and a cluster
of red roses, did the honors. Commendable,
too, were the ’groom’s mother’s black lace
ensemble and black velvet millinery.
The pushing crowd was a good deal the
result of newspaper preliminary publicity.
Of course when hardworking women less
favored by the god of luck read about the
de luxe preparations for a wedding between a
rich young man and an equally rich girl,
advertised in addition as one of the most
beautiful debs, in Sydney, nothing short of a
cordon of wild elephants would keep the
romantic-minded and the rubber-necked from
trying to get a close-up of the bride and
her fixings. Darling Point-road and its
seething masses at last week’s knot-tying
may be taken as such a warning by summer
brides that they will think of emulating those
American celebrities who have been married
in aeroplanes or diving-bells.
“'I have never been superstitious in my life,’
said the Peke, to the French Poodle.”
Romano’s on Wednesday evening seemed
populated with bridesmaids. Gloria McFad-
yen arrived there from St. Stephen’s with her
’groom just after Padre Hugh Paton had
made her Mrs. Clarence Miller. Gloria’s
father and mother housed the wedding recep-
tion in one of the private rooms, and ’maids
Lois Linsey, Beryl Earnshaw and Rosalin
MacPherson added their corn-colored tulles
to the dancing-floor. Betty Willsallen’s
’maids and younger wedding guests also
finished up there.
Another fashionable wedding of the week
was that which linked Enid Rodgers to War-
wick Pett, of London. This bride in her
mediaeval satins sought benefit of St. James’s,
and was attended by four ’maids in gold rai-
ment carrying armsful of golden lilies. Padre
Micklem tied the knot, and the toasts were
given at the Australia, where the bride’s
mother looked charming in vellum lace and
georgette. Honeymoon in Honolulu—than
which there could be nothing more romantic.
Every Bulletin reader will be sorry to
learn that James Edmond is ill. He’s not
seriously so, but just bad enough to be in
bed at his residence, 19 Benelong-creseent,
Bellevue Hill, a nd to have laid down his pen
for the moment —not for long, everyone will
trust. Mr. Edmond had just returned from
one of the periodical trips from which he
derives such keen pleasure; this time it was
over the goldfields districts of N.S.W. and
Victoria.
Mrs. Jimmy Ashton, mother of the famous
polo players, whose games she has followed
from land to land, was welcomed home after
her travels by the Harborside branch of the
Country Women’s Association last week,
The tea-drinking was staged at David
Jones’s, and Mrs. Ashton spoke her thanks
over a heaped mass of presentation posies.
Another guest was a young Italian journal-
ist, Countess Malvasia, who is travelling
to enlarge her literary horizons. Mrs. Colin
Venn and Mrs. Marie Irvine were spokes-
women, and Mrs. W. Macleod and Chryssa
Cricliton Imrie were among the listeners.
. ...
I nave never been superstitious in my
lile, said the Peke to the French Poodle at
the Dog Show (it was held at Canterbury
“The Alsatian next door is handsome in a
showy way, but decidedly of the adven-
turess type.”
Park) ; “but there’s no use in being too dog-
matic about such things as fortune-telling.
Just take my own case. You know, a deb.
of my class without a mother to guide her
cannot be too careful of her friendships. And
I assure you, my dear, in my neighborhood
there is a complete absence of anything in mv
own class. So I was very lonely, and one
day, in desperation, I started to chat to the
Alsatian next door, who is handsome in a
showy way, but decidedly of the adventuress
type.
“I was just beginning to tell her I felt
I must know what fate held in store for me,
when she snapped out; ‘Well, I’m no good at
riddles ; ask Gipsy Annie.’ Now Gipsy Annie
is a strange creature who comes to my home
every week with the bottle-oli man. She gets
her Romany strain from her mother, who
was one of a dancing troupe with a circus.
Her father, I’m told, is mixed Scotch and
Irish terrier. She is what a boy I know calls
a bony-fide fortune-teller. So I went down
to the rockery and dug up even the chicken
bones from last Christmas, for her prices are
terribly high.
“Directly I smelled her master’s approach
I ran out and asked her to read my future.
And (would you believe it, my dear?) she
claimed every bone of my little store before
she would even glance at v my paw! Mer-
cenary, but, all the same, every word she
said has since come true.
“‘I see a removal for you,’ she said,
straight off; ‘a tall dark man you know
will carry you off your feet. You will drive
in a motor-car to a large entrance, and you
will find yourself in the midst of great ex-
citement. You will be nervy and in great
sorrow, but a neighbor w r ill console you. A
fair man will prove an admirer and thrust
distinction upon you. You will put your
sorrow behind you, and end up covered with
honors, and marry well.’
“That w r as only a week ago, and every
word has come true. Didn’t the vet. sweep
me off my feet and examine me? Then my
master drove me here in his car; and will I
ever forget, the confusion all around me with
Foxies, Pekes, Poodles and all the rest strain-
ing at their leashes and all clamoring to
their masters to show them the way home.
The only one that seemed to be enjoying
herself was that little Australian silky from
Woolloomooloo, sitting there, insulting every-
body. She shouted out ‘Chink!’ to me, and
‘French Cutlets!’ to you, Poodles. A terrible
creature.and I simply can’t understand that
fair man in the ring who was so sweet to
me giving her a ribbon, too!
“Well, anyway, here I am sitting in
splendor, a champion of the Show, just
waiting for my master to take me home.
He’s the tall man there, arranging for the
handsome Peke opposite to come and live at
our house. He seems to know that mutual
sorrow has brought us together and that
we’re already as good as engaged.”
Ramsay Pennycuick arrived in Sydney
last week after 12 months or so in Europe,
and is back at his job in the Con. One of
the big things that happened to him wras
having his portrait painted by Maorilander
Fred Coventry, and later seeing the same
very well placed in the Royal Academy. The
Dean of Windsor, through Hector Bolitho’s
chat (he was on the Inky Way here for a
while) asked to see the portrait before it was
hung, and liked it so much that he commis-
sioned Fred to do one of himself; since when
the artist has never looked back. Ramsay met
Australians doing well everywhere. The four
leads in “Love Lies” were among them.
Maorilander Shayle Gardner is one of the
most sought film stars; singer Wilma Berk-
ley is never out of an engagement; Arthur
Benjamin has a London house all to him-
self; the pretty Mrs. Turner, who was such
a social success in Sydney, is just as popu-
lar in the American colony in Paris. Here
Ramsay, under her sponsorship, met so many
millionaires—that to come home to a national
depression was all the greater thud. Of
a sick Isabel Ramsay, whom he visited
three or so times a week just before' she
sailed for Australia, he tells that the flame
of her brain burned clear and strong to
the end. Mary Whidbournc, remembered
here as a vivid little eurhythmies teacher,
has a flat at Bournemouth. She has been
exceedingly successful, and has for house-
keeper a genius who was for years chef to
one of the King’s actuaries. Pamela Travers
still writes Irish poetry which draws com-
plimentary remarks from Yeats, and in
between keeps the rent paid and the cold-
cream jar filled by acting as secretary for
seme film magnate.
The vivacious little widow of Bertie
Nelson took another plunge into matrimony
last week; she is now Mrs. Amess
Bissett Coleman, of Manly. Padre J. L.
Cope blessed the vows, and the present
address is Franconia, Macleay-street. Mrs.
Nelson is a clever paragraph writer, a smart
dresser, and has a real gift for interior
decoration.
The French Alliance is organising a pro-
duction for Friday, November 14, at the
I'laybox Theatre, Crown-street, near Oxford-
street. The play is “La Double Passion,”
by Auguste Villeroy, one, of the recent suc-
cesses of the Odeon, where it was played for
the first time in April. This time the Alli-
ance’s choice is not a vaudevillesque comedy
but a dramatic piece of high moral and
literary character. Belgian Consul-General
Segaert will produce it and play one of the
principal roles. Others in the cast will be
Mesdames G. Brenac, J. Playoust, N. Play-
oust and Mr. Louis Pirenne.
“‘I see a removal for you,’ she said.”
Everybody in Sydney has heard of the
Penfold Hyland treasures in furniture and
pictures, and as great ah interest was centred
in these as in the programme at the musi-
cal staged at their home, Toft Monks, last
week. This was in aid of the Industrial
Blind Institution in William-street, and had
been arranged by Mrs. George yivers and
Mrs. Penfold Hyland. Society turned up in
great force, and at half a guinea a ticket
a cheque for £lOO is what the two hostesses
expect to hand over. Toft Monks is one
of the few remaining old homes of Elizabeth
Bay. Its gardens run down to Port Jackson,
green and flower-starred. It has a tessel-
lated marble hall and verandah, and its
rooms are so lofty and long that wide glass-
fronted cabinets, lustres, Queen Anne chairs
and such-like furniture, born before the day
of flats and slim silhouettes, spread them-
selves in comfort. There were masses of
lilac for sale, and Ann Gordon presided over
the programmes. Mrs. Yivers wore a pic-
ture frock of petal-pink chiffons, its bodice
tight, its skirt very long and swaying and
mamy-tucked. It was sleeveless and swung
a filmy shoulder cape. Her black hat was
wide and pink-lined, and she showed late
comers to their seats with unabated enthusi-
asm. Mrs. Penfold Hyland wrapped her
small person in blue-flowered chiffons topped
by a speckled blue and white straw hat, very
large and off the forehead. Lionel Lawson’s
fiddle won the hearts of all listeners ; Mrs.
Horace Sheller sang artistically in French,
German and English, so you were bound to
understand the words sooner or later; Frank
Hutchens was the pianist; Mary Charlton
supplied accompaniments, and Muriel Flet-
cher, very graceful in leaf browns, turned
the music. In the interval Elizabeth Knox
and Doreen Higgins handed round the lus-
cious meringue and the multitudinous sav-
ories. The Gordon lady, Mrs. Wilfrid Fair-
fax (very clear-skinned above sapphire-blue
frocking), and Dorothea Mackellgr, in a poem
of a coat with a grey fur collar, were among
the consumers thereof. Ruth Bedford and
Mrs. Norman Lowe, the Knox and MacCor-
mick ladies, Bertie Kelly, the C. L. Jones
couple, the A. E. Hugheses, Mrs. Walter
Swinson and actor George Blackwood were
others in the crowded rooms.
“And will I ever forget the confusion all
round me?"
Whoso desireth beauty should travel the
new road to Newcastle on a spring morning.
Past the trim beauties of suburban gardens
you slip along a satin-smooth track. .As
you proceed here and there that sly jade
the Ilawkesbury flings a beckoning hand, a
blue lotus in its palm, from the fern-lined,
bottle-brushed, boronia-decked gullies and
slopes. Here white gums, heavy with blos-
som, listen drowsily to the murmur of many
bees. Presently the Ilawkesbury unwinds
the veils of roads and hills and reveals her
greeny blues, her subtlety of shadow and
her rippling curves to her lovers. Down
you slip in enchantment to Peat’s Ferry,
and on the other side a road of pictorial
red but smothering dust climbs upwards,
still followed by that arm of the Hawkes-
bury that draws the gaze backwards to its
green-crested little islands. If you are. lucky
you drive through the comfortable trimness
of Gosford, and have a moment of sheer
joy as you cross the tree-fringed placidity
of Narara Creek. Orange groves, their trees
thick with blossom and heavy with the
golden fruit, nestle on every slope. The air
is heady with the scent of orange blossom.
Further along, on the road to Wyong, you
travel for miles between these groves.
There is so much orange blossom that all the
spring brides in Australia might wreathe
garlands from it and the loss be scarcely
noticed in the harvest.
German journalist Kurt Offenburg, who is
on the staff of the “Zeitung,” is making
this city his headquarters for five or six
weeks. He has come from Frankfurt by way
of Java, and is writing his first travel book
after having published several novels, of
which the best known in England is “Ten to
Eleven.” He is a clever amateur photo-
grapher, and already is speaking Efiglish,
if not fluently, very understandably. An-
other item to his credit is that he has
already been a fortnight in this country and
proffers no summary ‘Of his impressions,
either in print or in private.
If aeroplanes are ever to come into general
use, something will have to be done in the
way of a noise-muffler. Imagine at the
present rate of uproar per plane, two or
“She shouted out ‘Chink!’ to me, and
‘French Cutlets!’ to you.”
three hundred dashing wildly about above
the skyscrapers. Everybody would be
deaf or crazy in a week. And how quickly
familiarity dulls the edge of appetite. Last
week a seaplane circling and whirring above
the harbor tempted scarcely a head to lift
from paper or book, while, the week before,
a lonely albatross riding the waves caused
a mild sensation.
OVERHEARD.
She (airing her French) : “Your wife looks like a
bit of the Rue de la Paix.”
He: “Well, the quicker she learns it’s all rue
and no pay with me, the better!”


That the voice of Australia may be heard
throughout the World—
A.W.A. designed this equipment —the largest Wireless Telephone
Transmitter ever made in the Southern Hemisphere.
m
mm
m
Wmm.
1
I l \, 5
m ut x
m
m
V;
m
$
20 kilowatt Short Wave Transmitter —
installed at A.W.A. Radio Centre, Pennant Hills,
and used in
the Wireless Telephony Service between Australia
and Great Britain and 22 European countries.
£
Designed and manufactured in Australia by
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’SIA) LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation,
employing over 1,000 Australians •


Children’s Hospital No. 2 ART UNION
(ROYAL ALEXANDRA),
DRAWN ON DECEMBER 20, 1930.
Tickets 1/2
POST FREE.
Books of 12
can be had on
application.
Send at once.
Buy NOW!
By permission of the Honorable the
Attorney-General.
Lighten the
dark times of
the little kiddies
who are in
hospital. They
depend on your
sympathy.
FIRST PRIZE: Wonderful Necklace of Diamonds valued at £5OO.
SECOND PRIZE: Morris Minor Saloon Motor Car (1930 model),
THIRD PRIZE: Beautiful Trousseau valued at £lOO.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES OVER £lOOO.
Apply to Hon. Sec., Box 4200 XX, G.P.0.,
, £246 10s.
Sydney.
m
khgk
Food
■ - -
EegxL Trade MARK.
The
happy task
of motherhood is lightened
by Benger’s Food.
Nursing and expectant
mothers will find a mine of
valuable information in the
new booklet, a medically
approved work, sent post
free.
Try Benger’s Food for deli-
cate infants, and at weaning
time.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Melbourne
Chatter
The second day at Caulfield, was distin-
guished from a dress point of view by the
sudden popularity among women of the hue
known as “hunter’s .green,” which seemed
to have supplanted to some extent the craze
for black-and-white toilettes. Possibly the
weather had something to do with it, for
the sun shone brightly and warmly. There
was a big crowd, and the scene was a gay
one. On the flat about the lake there was
a vivid display of red, pink and yellow
blooms of the waxy plant which has a botani-
cal label a yard long, but is known to all
save botanists as “pig’s face”; it forms
an almost continuous carpet of color along
the railway line for some distance between
the city and Caulfield. It looks very pretty,
especially in places where a municipality
with an eye for beauty has planted trees of
yellow broom, which also are now in blos-
som. To revert to the dresses, many wearers
of black chiffon sported a white or pale
lemon handkerchief drapery, back or front,
from the neckline. Mary Taylor was one of
the girls who followed this vogue. Mayoress
.Luxton cheered her all-black attire with a
coat posy of lilies-of-the-valley. With her
was her mother, Mrs. W. H. Lewis, also in
black.
Nancy Green, of Camperdown, wore a
cherry frock patterned in red, black and white,
with a red hat, and Mrs. G. Lemon imparted
brightness to the scene in an all-red ensemble.
Mrs. Merson Cooper was accompanied by
her daughter, Mrs. Xavier de Bavay, of
Hobart, whose grey kasha suit was topped
by a swathed toque of black and white. Mrs.
Alec Russell, Mrs. Esmond Downey, Mis.
D. J. Hoban, Dr. Ellen Balaam and Mrs.
Charles Mitchell and her daughter Nell wore
in the throng. Other smart dressers were
Mrs. James Purves, in navy blue and white
ensemble ; Mrs. Fred Grimwade, in a shade
approaching bottle green; and Iris Connolly,
just back from a five weeks’ stay in Sydney;
whose navy suit was strapped with white.
Caulfield Cup Day was a great occasion
from every point of view—weather, racing,
crowd and dress parade. Dressing was a bit
mixed, but almost without exception season-
ably summery. The only sign of the depres-
sion even a Sherlock Holmes could have dis-
covered was the great popularity of the five-
bob bookies and the frenzied efforts of these
gentry to do business. Around the course
loses bloomed in quantities. Pansies of all
colors punctuated the lawns, and about the
stands were tubs and pots of azaleas and
delicate foliage. A couple of wee cypress-
trees flanked the members’ ladies’ stand
entrance, and this was deemed by many to
be an omen of ill-luck; but it didn’t prevent
Amounts from leading the field in the Cup.
It was one of the most thrilling finishes ever
seen on the course, and the favorite, coming
from last at the turn, was cheered all the
way to the post. Melbourne in its wild
excitement even overlooked the fact that a
Sydney jockey was steering the great horse
to victory.
Acting G.-G. Lord Somers was guest
of the chairman and committee at luncheon,
what time Mrs. Chaffey did the honors in
the committee ladies’ room, where Lady
Somers sat for the midday meal at a table
graced with water-lilies and sweet-peas,
which uprose from gilded baskets. Her Ex.
wore a chiffon frock with a small design in
powder-blue and grey, topped by a shady
straw hat. Mrs. Chaffey’s black satin with
a dash of white was topped by shiny match-
ing straw millinery. The Irvine lady and
Mayoress Luxton were all in black. Mrs.
A. V. Hiskens also chose black, brightening
the effect with a pale-pink vest. An effective
ensemble was sported by Mrs. Clive Leonard,
in gown and hat of leaf-brown. Mrs. Arthur
Bullivant, who was in the committee ladies’
box with Mrs. R. G. Casey, looked cool in
a green-and-white patterned linen suit with
blending millinery. June Baillieu struck a
gala note in a floral-figured chiffon of daffo-
dil tint, with a large floppy green hat.
The warmth of the sun brought out a
brave array of summer finery, and the prin-
cess mode, with its clinging lines, flowing
into flare and flounce, was chosen by many.
Godets had a day out too, bits and pieces
being let into skirts and frills with a lavish
hand. Silken fabrics were mostly in tiny
checks and traceries, while transparent
material - such as chiffons and ninons bore
sprawling floral designs of the sort formerly
reserved for curtains and loose covers. The
frocks in the heavier materials were in
almost every case fashioned several inches
shorter in the skirt than the models of
diaphanous fabrics, which latter were
allowed almost to touch the lawn —indeed,
one gown actually trailed upon the sward.
It w T as made of yards and yards of rose-
scattered yellow stuff and shaded by a pale-
green hat that matched the wearer’s satin
shoes. Mrs. W. Mortill had scarlet satin
shoes peeping from beneath her poppy-
sprinkled ninon frock. Mrs. Felix Lloyd
was one of th.e wearers of flimsy gowns,
achieving a cool effect in black chiffon and
almond-green flowers. As on the other days
of the meeting, lilies of the valley were in tavor
for frock posies, giving the magpie touch to
many black dresses. Mrs. Oscar Lempriere
was more exclusive, with orchids brighten-
ing her black georgette. Spotted gowns were
few', and all that there were seemed to have
the pin or sago sprinkle. Mrs. R. M. Cuth-
bertson and Mrs. Kettlewell were among
those who favored this form of combining
black and white. Hats were of a multitude
of sizes and shapes; but all were simply
trimmed. A few were wreathed with flow-
ers. Mrs. Barry Thomson had her cream
straw hat arranged with field flow-ers as a
set-off to a biscuit-tinted lace and georg-
ette frock..
Private dances are rare these hard times,
but the Ernest Poolmans, of South Yarra,
staged one on Friday night to launch their
daughter Audrey in the social stream. Roses,
rhododendrons, tulips and azaleas figured in
the decorations. The hostess’s gold-lace gown
made an effective background for a bouquet of
deep red roses. The deb.’s frock echoed the pink
glow of dawn, and was almost as ethereal,
being all frothy folds and flounces of tulle.
Rosebuds and lilies of the valley formed her
posy. Two pretty country girls, Prudence,
daughter of the Arthur Staughtons, of the
Western District, and Patricia, daughter of
the W. McKay Shaws, of Rifle Downs, also
made a first appearance. Miss Staughton
danced in white silken lace, and Miss McKay
had a gleam of pink beneath billows of
white tulle. Mrs. A. Staughton chose grey
ninon. Patricia Lempriere’s good looks were
set off by flowered pink ninon, Elizabeth
Stawell was in gros-grain silk of bois-de-rose
tint, and Cynthia Brookes’s frock was of
white chenille embossed ninon.
Joy, only daughter of the A. P. Suther-
lands, of Middle Brighton, was a bride of
last week, when she became Mrs. Harold
Holden at Wesley Church. The bridegroom’s
father, the Rev. A. T. Holden, and the Rev.
Dr. Iloban forged the links, and there was
a dinner afterwards at No. 9. Two ’maids
in periwinkle-blue taffeta frocks and felt
hats, carrying fan-shaped pink-and-blue
posies, waited on the leading lady, whose
ivory-white satin was overlaid with billows
of tulle that formed veil and train.
Mrs. Freshman, of Sydney, pictured here,
wears a proud and happy smile, and there’s
a reason for it. She is the mother of the
William Freshman who is being starred in the
talkie “Greek
Street,” now
being screened
at the Maj-
estic. Her son
was educated
in England,
and there
learned about
the movie busi-
ness on both
the operating
and acting
sides. On
Thursday
night at Men-
zies’ 25 guests
gathered round
a table, with
carnations
trailing over
the damask, at
a dinner hos-
tessed by Mrs.
Ernest Cox, in
honor of Mrs. Freshman. Afterwards there
was an adjournment to the Majestic to wit-
ness the first public showing of “Greek Street.”
Among the guests were General Blarney,
Ernest Turnbull and G. R. Spencer, of
British Dominions Films, Ltd., Mrs. Turn-
bull, Madame Kroef, E. Cox and Mr. and
Mrs. E. M. Ricker.
A wedding of interest to country folk
took place at Sale last week, when Valerie,
eldest daughter of the R. Douglas Single-
tons, of Maffra, exchanged v<3ws with
Leonard, eldest son of the W. B. Fells,
whose squattage is in the Gippsland Lakes
district. Satin of the tint of old ivory, old
lace and pearls made the bridal array, with
a touch of pink beneath all. Irene Singleton
and the bridegroom’s sister Ellinor ’maided
in blue georgette with sw r athed pink tulle
caps, and a small trainbearer officiated in
frills of pink organdie.
There won’t be many social trimmings
around the Melbourne Cup meeting this
year. All that is listed so far is a couple
of v.-r. functions and a coming-out dance at
the Norman Brookes’s home for their eldest
daughter, Cynthia. The Australian Club will
give no ball this year.
The dinner of Uni. ex-students who belong
to Trinity Women’s Society brought 45
graduates to the tables of Janet Clarke
Hall, The floral decorations blended the
red, green and white of Trinity, and the
badge of the college was also featured.
Vera Jennings, a vice-president, controlled
the proceedings. Representatives of other
colleges of the Uni. were present as guests
of honor. The new wing of the J.C.H.,
which will not be formally opened until
next month, was inspected and approved.
Champion Susie Tolliurst and Mrs. Alex.
Russell discovered that midget golf isn’t quite
as easy as it looks when they met in contest
to help the Lud Mayor’s Fund. Champions
F; Bulte and vV. Edgar, who also played
a match, found the cramped area rather dis-
concerting, but Edgar got the hang of things
first and easily defeated his opponent. The
ladies made almost a tie of their game.
Miss Tolliurst winning. Among the on-
lookers was Mayoress Luxton, who thanked
the quartette.
The Queen Victoria Hospital has enlisted
the aid of a new company of women workers,
who will run a little shop stocked with
extras for the patients and the staff. They
will be known as the Kiosk Auxiliary, and
their premises within the hospital grounds
will be officially opened on the 30th. A
bridge party was held in the Tudor lounge
of the Victoria the. other day, when a sub-
stantial sum was obtained to stock the shop.
Ida Doubleday is the president of the new-
auxiliary, with Mrs. W. McCracken as hon.
sec. and Mrs. Ernest Macgregor lion, treas.
Six maidens made trips up and down the
Assembly Hall
on Friday
night to pass
up the shoals
of horticulture
offered as
tribute to the
talents of con-
tralto Violet
Somerset, pic-
tured here,
and pianist
Kalie Liddle.
The singer,
whose clear
diction is not
the least of
her vocal
merits, wore a
gown of tour-
maline pink.
Miss Liddle’s
blue taffeta
had interludes
of pale pink,
and the stage setting, a matter of palms
and ferns, suggested a glade in the bush.
Francie Young made the portrait.
Mayoress Jacka, of St. Kilda, took the
chair last week at a meeting to form an
auxiliary to the Homoeopathic Hospital.
Interest was keen, and many offers of assist-
ance were received. Mrs. Jacka was elected
president, with Mrs. Frank Beavis, Mrs.
J. Edwards and Mrs. A. V. Hart as hon.
sec. of different sections of the new body
of workers.
The Victorian Junior Car Club will stage
a hill climb on the 26tli in aid of the Lud
Mayor’s Hospital Appeal Fund. In addi-
tion to events for all classes, including cars
driven by women, there will be three chal-
lenge match races in which two cars will
rush the barriers abreast instead of singly,
as is usual. The eminence selected for attack
is in T. M. Burke’s property at Grice’s-
road, five miles on the Mornington side of
Franltston. There will be tea and what-
not for the buying.
The committee of the Melbourne and East
Melbourne Auxiliary of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital welcomed home their president, M'rs.
Merson Cooper, with music and tea at
Menzies’ banquet hall. Mrs. T. M. Burke
supplemented the greeting with a posy, and
Mrs. Goodall lifted her soprano voice in
song. Office-bearers present at the re-
union included Mrs. D. P. Mackey, hon sec.,
and Mrs. J. Warne, hon. treas.
The bunch of feminine workers who,
headed by Mrs. Eustace Flanagan, help the
Society for the Advancement of the Blind
have in 12 months entirely furnished and
equipped the lately-completed infirmary of
the Home for the Blind at Brighton, as well
as re-stocking the linen-press. Mrs. E. H.
Mace is hon. sec. and Mrs. H. C. Norman
hon. treas. To replenish the funds of the
auxiliary there was a bridge gathering at
the Brighton Town Hall the other day, the
result being very satisfactory. Life-governor-
ships were conferred on four of the workers.
The rain was pitter-pattering down on our
unsheltered city pavements, so the Chatterer
sought refuge in a store where you can pur-
chase anything from a pound of pork saus-
ages to a gown of the latest French model,
and strayed into the department where toys
for Christmas had just been unpacked. The
makers of gifts for children show increas-
ing command of detail in the production of
models in miniature. A most imposing grand
piano, motor-cars of every sort and lovely
sets of tables and chairs figure in this section.
Dolls are more adorable and more natural
than ever in face and form. Among them is
a chubby figure with a mop of flaxen curls
and an array of dimples that bears the
brand “Royal Smile.” It is quite an excel-
lent representation of little Princess Eliza-
beth, and is daintily dressed in a frilled
frock of pink muslin and a couple of strings
of pearls. This patriotic notion is from
Germany. A query regarding the origin of
some other prettily-clad dolls brought the
information that they came from the U.S.A.
and other foreign parts. “England doesn’t
make dolls, Madam,” the Chatterer was
assured.
Miss A, M. E. Bale, who is represented
in our National Gallery by flower studies,
and Bernice Edwell, who specialises in
miniatures, have a combined show at the
Beaux Arts in Collins-street. Camellias
grouped against a copper tray, one of Miss
Bale’s pieces, has been recommended for pur-
chase by the Gallery. For her landscapes
she has gone chiefly to Castlemaine. Among
Miss Edwell’s wee portraits are those of
Mary Campbell, of the Albert-street Con.,
Dr. Eileen Fitz Gerald, pianist Harold Smith
and the late George Swinburne. Miss
Edwell, who has exhibited at the Royal
Academy and the Paris Salon, also shows
some diminutive landscapes and sea-
scapes on ivory, set in square panels of
polished ebony. Peeps at Tasmania are
given in a number of oil colors. Dr. and
Mrs. Felix Meyer, Mrs. C. B. Moore and
Mr. and Mrs. H. Cade were among those pre-
sent. on the opening day.
Barrie’s “Dear Brutus” was chosen by
the Dramatic Club of Past Students of the
Kindergarten Training College as the means
of extracting coin to help the Renown
Free Kindergarten and the holiday home for
kiddies. This latter place, which is at For-
rest Hill, near Blackburn, provides numbers
of kindergarten youngsters with a three-
weeks’ change of scene, good food and a happy
time generally, and is daily proving its
w T orth. The play, produced by Irene Apple-
ton and staged for two nights at Christ
Church Memorial Hall, South Yarra, gave
the ladies of the cast an opportunity of
arraying themselves in evening-gowns of
smart mode in the first act, with dainty
organdie and diaphanous flowered chiffons
for their wanderings in “the magic glade of
the second chance.” Leading roles were
played by Daphne Stone, Anne Dreyer,
Madge Ogilvy, Howard Smith and John
Wyndliam, and Keith Page as Lob showed
mastery of the art of make-up.
The work of the late Mrs. James Angus
on behalf of the sightless has been recog-
nised by the erection of a memorial tablet
in the entrance hall of the Royal Victorian
Institute for the Blind. This was unveiled
during the week by the president of the board
of management, J. L. Carnegie, at a meet-
ing of the central council of the auxiliaries.
When Mr. Angus became a member of the
board, over 13 years ago, his late wife
devoted a great deal of her time to further-
ing the cause of the institute, and gathered
around her an army of workers banded in
various suburban auxiliaries, of which she
was the general president. Spurred on by
her enthusiasm over £6OOO was raised by
four fairs and devoted to the building and
furnishing of tw r o hostels.
The District Nursing Society should bene-
fit substantially through the gymkhana held
at the Metropolitan golf links. Thanks to
Mrs. Dan Taylor, an associate member of
the club, who is also a member of the com-
mittee of the society, the co-operation of
the M.G.C. was enlisted. Numerous men,
pros, and amateurs, found time for a round,
or putted or drove for the charity. The
weather was perfect—bright and fresh—and
the gay jumpers and sports suits of the
players had as a background one of the
prettiest links in Melbourne. Golf in four-
somes and in pairs, and even in the midget
form, constituted the backbone of the pro-
gramme; Beneath a red gum-tree there was
a flower-stall run by the Albert Park Club
associates. Mrs. G. Berling, president of
associates of the Metropolitan Club, with
Nancy Murdoch, vended cakes; and Mrs.
G. G. Henderson, president of the Nursing
Society, sold fancy goods. Mrs. Geoffrey
Chapman, of Tasmania, and Mrs. Richard
Linton assisted at a produce stall run by
Mrs. J. ,T. Black. Mrs. FT Tatliam headed
the catering department. Two fortune-tellers
exercised their art, and bridge players found
they could have a game indoors or outside,
Mrs. Russell Gabb being in charge. Mrs. M.
M. Phillips was co-organiser with Mrs. Taylor
of the whole affair. Lady Somers looked in
towards the end of the afternoon in a dainty
frock of china-blue and white patterned
silk, with matching scarf and straw hat. She
made a round of the stalls and took part in a
treasure hunt.
Hattie and Nancy, daughters of the C. H.
D. Steeles, of Surrey Hills, and graduates
of Melbourne Uni., have departed for the
U.S.A. to continue their studies. Hattie
will take a post-graduate course in economic
entomology at Cornell, and Nancy, who has
already tacked the letters L.D.S, and
B.D.Sc. to her name, will gather more know-
ledge about dentistry at Toronto and other
seats of learning.


A
LEIPZIG SPRING
TRADE FAIR, 1931
hkfgh
(GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig.
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer.
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
jnodation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
Authorised Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, C. N. KEPPEL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
(’Phones: 84006 and MW2201)
THINK o ftohe LAKES
NOW . . . .
Think of the boating, the fishing, the surfing
of the mirrored reflections in the placid blue waters of
the lakes. . . .of the golden sunshine and the fragrance of
the green bush.... of the tinkling music of the bellbirds
....of the muffled roar of the Southern Ocean along the
white curving sweep of the Ninety-mile Beach.
Think....and then ACT. Plan your next holiday
at the GIPPSLAND LAKES, the most picturesque
chain of lakes in Australia.
A fast and comfortable train service from Melbourne connects at
Sale or Bairnsdale with steamer or car services to the Lakes.
And the accommodation is excellent.
Booking and all information at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY ; OR QUEEN'S WALK, MELBOURNE.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER.
By Montague Grover
ILLU ST RATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
CHAPTER XXXIII.
THE following Sunday Jimmy and
Alma went to Croniilla for the day
They took their lunch in a hamper
and had it on the beach. As they basked
in the sun, Jimmy turned the conversation
to her life in Melbourne.
“I thought you’d have been married long
before I ever saw you again,” he ventured.
She knitted her brows in that quizzical
manner which had won him when she first
visited the coke-ovens. “I very nearly was
once or twice, but things happened as
they do, and here I am.”
“I’m sorry,” murmured Jimmy.
“I’m not,” retorted Alma. “Looking back
now, I rejoice to the Heavens. Either of
them would have been a dreadful mistake
—one especially. But a girl isn’t much of
a judge of men when she’s eighteen or
nineteen.”
“Some are,” said Jimmy. He was think-
ing of May with her warning to him and
her boast about her judgment.
“I’m afraid I wasn’t. When I look back
sometimes I shudder—absolutely shudder—
about what might have happened if I’d mar-
ried. But it’s over, thank goodness, and
here I am an old maid.”
“I suppose we’re all pretty bad judges
in love affairs,” hazarded Jimmy.
But she was not to be lui\ i on to dis-
cuss his position. He waited for her to
make some reference to May; but she
merely talked generalities, and all his en-
deavors to direct the conversation to his own
position proved futile. She spoke freely of
herself, but steered clear on the one subject
he desired her to mention.
Her omission was so pointed that Jimmy
became convinced that it was intentional.
For a woman to show eagerness for the
details of a story and then to deliberately
avoid the heart interest, was unnatural.
He was more than ever convinced that
Alma must have heard something of his
devotion to May.
They returned to the water in the after-
noon, then went for a long walk along the
beach towards Kurnell, coming back for a
final swim at sunset. They dressed and
had dinner at the hotel and reached town
by the last train.
Stan Carlisle had been introduced to the
Lalla Rookh shortly after Jimmy discovered
the place, and it was possible that he had
heard something. Still Jimmy did not like
to question him. He had never spoken to
Stan of May, save as a friend. Her por-
trait signed “Jimmy from May, alias
Illara,” hung in his room for Stan to see
every time he entered; but in the super-
scription was nothing to indicate they were
more to each other than Jimmy’s remarks
implied.
It was less than a week later that Jimmy
received a reassurance in a way that made
him aware that he was not singular in the
secrecy of his love. He had been “down”
for Parliament and, with the marvellous
system of government which obtains, the
Opposition had succeeded in calling for a
quorum when there was none. The result
was that the Government was counted out
and the sitting had to shut down unex-
pectedly. The count-out was without effect.
The only result it brought about was a
waste of public time and public money;
yet the Opposition rejoiced as if it had
won a mighty battle and the Government
side was plunged into the deepest despair.
The reporting gallery rejoiced with the
Opposition because the count-out meant
that, instead of sitting through six or eight
hours of dreary talk, it would be free to
do as it liked.
Jimmy felt tired. He went home, found
the studio empty, and flung himself on his
bed, switching off the light. He had been
lying there for only a few minutes when
he heard footsteps approaching, those of a
man and a woman. He guessed it to be
Stan and one of his models, for at this
particular time Stan was turning out a
series of water-colors, illustrations of the
Trojan War, in anticipation of a forth-
coming show.
Jimmy was not interested. He knew all
Stan’s models: when they were beautiful
they were dull, when they were bright
they were not beautiful. He prepared to
go to sleep. The studio was flooded with
light, w’hich shone through his open door,
and, as they had entered, he saw the woman
pull Stan towards her, fling her arms around
him and hug him rapturously.
“At last,” she cried, “I never thought
we were going to get alone, dear.”
The voice was the voice of Emily Marl-
ton.
He glanced through the open door. They
were seated together and Emily, the
queenly, regal, the dignified, the woman
who could freeze the presumptuous with a
glance, had twined her arms about Stan’s
neck as ardently as if she had been accus-
tomed to giving glad eyes all her life.
Jimmy did not know exactly what to do.
W 7 hile he was considering he heard some-
thing which made him defer.
“ Alma’s awfully sorry for him, too.
It’s such a shame to see a nice boy like that
wasting his affection. It isn’t likely the
girl will look at him now. She’s gone up
too many steps. It’s a lord or a millionaire
for her now.”
“Not a bit of it, Emily,” Stan replied.
“You don’t know May. If she was fond of
Jimmy in that way she’d marry him if he
was working at the coke-ovens still. But
she isn’t. When we were all at Illawarra,
he was just as mad after her. She went
about a lot with him, for she likes him, but
I honestly don’t believe she ever kissed
him, except when she said good-bye.”
Jimmy smiled, not at Stan’s gratifying
innocence, but because his fears had been
set at rest. Alma knew. She had discussed
his mad infatuation for May, had expressed
pity for his position, had been especially
nice to him because of it and from motives
of delicacy and a desire to save him pain
had refrained from mentioning May in his
presence.
He rejoiced silently for some minutes.
Then he suddenly remembered the couple
in the next room. There was no way of
getting out; there was no closing the door
between them. He was playing tlm part
of eavesdropper, the contemptible role of
Peeping Tom to a love episode. He
breathed heavily, succeeded in emitting a
tolerable imitation of a snore and realised
from their dropped voices that they had
become aware of his presence. There was
a whispered conference. Then Stan said:
“Why not? Jimmy,” he called loudljn
“Jimmy, wake up and be courteous.”
Jimmy ruffled his hair to give an impres-
sion of a man suddenly awakened and
stepped into the studio with closed eyes.
“Surprised to see me here, Jimmy?”
asked Emily. They had all passed the
stage in which they called one another Mr.
and Miss.
“This is what she came for,” announced
JOHN CRISP.
“Break o’ Day,” the next Bulletin serial, opens in S. Australia, but after
giving a vivid little picture of what that province was like in its very early
days, makes an adventurous crossing to New Zealand, where it settles down
in earnest to pioneering life in Otago. Mr. Crisp introduces us to at least two
characters that will be found as outstanding as any thus far drawn in Australian
literature. The judges in THE BULLETIN’S Second Novel Competition, in placing
“Break o’ Day” among the first six, referred to Bess Digby—the principal feminine
character—arid Allan McAllister, one of the men, with the warmest commendation:
McAllister, 'they declared, “lives” in Mr. Crisp’s story; he is not of ink and paper,
but of flesh and blood. Apart from the excellent character-studies the serial will be
liked for its movement: there are no dull moments in it.
Stan, and, pulling Emily to him, kissed her
on the lips.
“Quite an adequate reason,” laughed
Jimmy, now appearing fully awake. He did
not quite know either the extent or the
destination of their love. Still it was not
of the haphazard studio variety; he was
satisfied as to that.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
“I suppose she wants to meet Stan,” said
Alma to Jimmy the following week, when
she announced that Emily declined to
accompany them to Coogee.
“Does she?” asked Jimmy, nonchalantly.
Alma flung him a strange look. “Of
course, she does,” she replied. “Don t
you know she does?”
“How should I know?” he sparred.
Alma turned and looked him square in
the face, her little jaw stiffening. “Look
here, Jimmy,” she announced, “I’ve never
known you to be untruthful before. Of
course, you know. You saw them rip at
the studio the other night, saw them kissing.
Jimmy smiled. “Well,” he observed,
“now that you happen to know all about
it I suppose I may as well admit that I
did.”
“Then,” she went on, “why did you pre-
tend to be ignorant? I’m surprised at you,
Jimmy. I’ve always regarded you as so
straight.” She seemed more serious than
he had ever seen her previously.
“It wasn’t my business, Alma; it wasn't
my secret. I stumbled on it .accidentally.
It wasn’t a fair thing to tell anybody, even
you. If they care to kiss it’s their busi-
ness—not mine, not yours, nobody’s.
Because chance puts me in possession of
certain facts is no reason why I should
reveal them.”
“But you never thought”——
“I never thought anything. It’s their
affair wholly. Stan’s a decent fellow. Emily’s
old enough to look after herself and a
remarkably shrewd woman too. They like
one another. I saw enough for that. What
right have I to butt in, either in deed or
thought?”
“Then for all you know it might have
been some horrible intrigue?”
“You may apply that term, but it
wouldn’t strike me as particularly horrible
—two fine, healthy, decent types like they
are.”
Alma looked grave. Jimmy saw that he
had fallen in her estimation, at any rate
temporarily. He was sorry, but he knew
that he would be reinstated by time and
reflection.
His reinstatement came sooner than he
had expected. When Alma saw Emily she
told her what had occurred with indignation,
which she expected Emily would reflect.
“So he swore he’d seen nothing?” smiled
Emily. But instead of becoming indignant
she assumed an attitude which made Alma
wonder for a moment whether she should
not place her in the same contemptible
category where Jimmy was pigeonholed.
“He wouldn’t put me away,” said Emily.
“He’s a grand fellow, Alma; I could hug
him for it.”
Alma did not pursue the subject, but
she thought over it, saw Emily’s point of
view and, while deploring its ethical un-
soundness, grew to admire Jimmy’s splendid
mendacity. She became repentant, rang
him up and made him laugh heartily by her
honest tearful penitence.
“I’ve been a little prig—prig not pig—
though I’m that, too!” she announced. “It
would serve me right if you never spoke
to me again. Can you ever forgive me?”
“That’s easy!” answered Jimmy.
Emily and Alma soon became regular
visitors to Stan’s studio symposiums, for
which, as far as was possible, Stan selected
the company. But it is a task of extreme
difficulty to surround a studio after work-
ing hours with the restrictions which hedge
the homes of the mighty. Few of Stan’s
visitors possessed cards, and there was no
butler to meet them on the landing. Still.
Stan succeeded fairly well, so Alma received
only one severe shock—from Thelma
Barkly, the poetess, who gravely informed
the company that sin was the sweetest,
thing in life.


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
&
ap
Hail
w
MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS!
QUEENSLAND
IS CALLING
'T'HE great northern State beckons to your product these
difficult times, for Queensland is the bright spot in the
Commonwealth just now. If you would exploit the splendid
market offered by the Brisbane metropolitan area you must
advertise in
THE SUNDAY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT WEEKLY.
This journal of character and distinction goes into the homes
of the people at a time when they have leisure to read, and
circulates mainly m the metropolitan area. It is read by a
majority of the readers of the several dailies published during
the week in Brisbane, and is companion journal to
THE DAILY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST NEWSPAPER.
Rate cards and particulars from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane; and
N.S.W. BRANCH: 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
One or two more Illawarra boys found
their way to Stan’s. As they grew older
and realised that life had better things to
offer to those who escaped from the work
of wheeling in the mines or firing the coke-
ovens, they drifted to the capital, there to
embark on enterprises of less value but
more profit.
There was Malcolm Loch, who had
worked beside Jimmy for old C.J. Mal-
colm was now an advertising agent, often
making more in a day than he had received
in a month when he was performing labor of
advantage to the community. Naturally
shrewd, Loch had a brain capable of develop-
ing the education he had received in the
State school, and he possessed personality,
which is more valuable than vast quanti-
ties of merit.
Any enterprise he took up he believed
in implicitly. When he told an advertiser
that a certain allotment of his money
would mean a twenty per cent, increase in
turnover, he firmly believed that he was
telling the truth, and had the faculty of
making the advertiser believe that any in-
crease was attributable to his particular
efforts. During the two years he had been
in the city, Loch had prospered exceedingly.
Instead of his having to look for adver-
tisers, they were beginning to look for him.
He added a correspondence school to his
enterprises—the Sydney Institute of Mail
Learning. With the aid of an indigent
Italian musician of considerable reputation
but no cash, he had just included a course
of violin tuition by post. Aspiring Kubeliks
on the fringe of the Never Never purchased
fiddles and sent their fees to the Institute
—Malcolm Loch, governing director,
Antonio Dato, musical director.
Loch was a man of broad ideas. He did
not limit his courses of instruction to
shorthand and typewriting, book-keeping
and business principles. Were you ever so
slow in your footwork and tardy in your
punch you could, after reading his double
column display advt. headed “The Mailed
Fist,” feel that his postal course in boxing
would make you supreme among the un-
graduated, even if you did not rise to the
class which could hold its own with One-
punch Patsy himself. Did you lust for
strength, there was the half-tone block of
the leopard-clouted giant to show you what
you might become after six months’ perusal
of the letters from the institute’s physical
culture branch. While, if you were a woman
and longed to be beautiful, there was the
picture of Fitzie Fitzroy, premier danseuse,
revealing much tooth and little clothing,
to bear out her testimonial that she owed
all her loveliness of face and form to the
advising correspondence of the institute.
“You only want to add a course in love-
making*; ‘make it the co-respondents’
school!” suggested Wellington, meeting
Loch during one of his visits to Sjffiney.
“I don’t know that it would be half a
bad idea,” mused Loch. The world was his
oyster. He would capitalise the sunbeam
and work out the prospective profits of
the morning star to four places of decimals.
Of such is the Kingdom of the Business
Heaven.
Personally, he was a genial youth—quite
the life and soul of the gathering when he
was present at Stan’s reunions. Jimmy
looked somewhat askance at his money-
making schemes, but he could not help lik-
ing him; for, whatever his methods of
securing money might be, he was generous
and open-hearted and kindly in his spending.
One day Jimmy came across another of
his schoolmates, Clyde Havelock, in
Elizabeth-street. Clyde was fat, showily
dressed and wore a gold watchchain capable
of hobbling a horse.
“Chucked the Keira Main?” asked
Jimmy.
“My oath; three years ago,” replied
Clyde. “It’s only fools and horses that
work. I’m on a better lurk now than
hewing coal for eight hours a day.”
Jimmy looked inquiringly. Clyde drew
a card from a silver case and handed it to
him.
Jimmy read “Maximilian Schoepenhauer,
Certificated Chromopath—lnsomnia, neuri-
tis, chronic headaches and other nervous
troubles a specialty.”
“Who’s Schoepenhauer?” inquired Jimmy.
“Your humble,” replied Clyde. “The
cows won’t let you call yourself doctor or
it’d be worth another hundred a year to
me.”
Jimmy felt disgusted. Clyde had been
a really decent little youngster fifteen years
ago. “And what’s a chromopath?” he
asked.
u “Color therapeutics,” explained Clyde.
“The influence of color on disease.”
“But,” cried Jimmy, “do you mean to
say you’re making a living by taking down
unfortunate people this way—people who’re
suffering? It’s over the odds, Havelock.”
“Don’t run away with that idea,” said
the chromopath. “The psychological effects
of color on extraneous matter is a well-
established scientific fact. I have my blue
room for certain complaints where the
psy chrome trie vibrations are brought into
direct contact with the seat of trouble. I
have the yellow room for stubborn cases
of”
“Damn it,” cried Jimmy, “don’t come
that stuff on me. It’s sheer downright rob-
bery. What do you do it for? You weren’t
crook once.”
Clyde’s manner altered. “No, I wasn’t;
I worked my life out in a coalmine and
what did I get for it? The world owes
me a decent living. Did I get one down at
Illawarra.? It was all right as long as I
was single, but with a wife and kids it was
Hell—Hell for them. I could stand it; but
I couldn’t stand seeing them wanting ordi-
nary comfort, so I got out. As for robbing
people, it isn’t anjr more robbery than
other business. I do a lot of them good.
You can laugh, call it Christian Science
or anything else you like. But come along
and see the testimonials 'l’ve got.”
Jimmy was sad when they parted. Clyde
was one of his boyhood’s friends for whom
he had had the highest admiration. He had
been such a straight little chap, absolutely
honest and kindly to everybody. Even
now, his true nature was revealed in his
devotion to others. The wife and kids
‘“This is what she came for,’ announced Stan, and, pulling Emily to him, kissed her
on the lips.”
again! He loved them so much that he
had even abandoned his very principles for
their sake. The feeling of disgust which
Jimmy had felt for Clyde was still there.
But it was directed not toward Clyde but
towards the system which had imposed
upon him the sacrifice of his self-respect.
CHAPTER XXXV.
One day Jimmy walked into the office
and saw in the rack a letter addressed to
him in May’s handwriting. May’s letters
were always a joy to him. He hastened to
a quiet corner of the reporters’ room and
tore it open. It was dated from New York
and ran :
“Dear Old Jimmy — l’ve got good news
for you, though you’ll probably regard it
as bad, until you think it over. I’m in
love, Jimmy, and I’m going to be married
in a few weeks.
“There, I’ve done it now. It’s taken me
a whole heap of courage to write that,
though I didn’t delay. I knew it was a
fair thing to let you know as soon as this
happened, and it was only after the last
Australian mail left that Hammy told me.
“Oh, Jimmy! I’m so sorry, if this causes
you any pain. I know you’re awfully fond
of me Übut so am I of you’ was crossed
out]. But what you feel towards me is only
what I feel towards you, minus the fact that
my heart is in the possession of somebody
else. Oh, Jimmy, it’s wonderful. You
never felt towards me anything like what
l’m feeling at the present moment. I know
you haven’t. I often used to think to
myself that I did really love you, Jimmy,
and hundreds of times—years ago in Ilia-
warra and since I left Australia — l’ve kicked
myself for not marrying you. But I am
glad now that I didn’t, and, although I
feel a beast for I know I’ll cause you pain,
I’m sure it’s the kindest thing I could do,
for you never really loved me either.
“Now don’t say I’m wrong, I know now
I’m right. I know that what you feel
towards me is just the same as I used to
feel towards you and, speaking as an expert
now, it isn’t love at all.
“Oh, Jimmy, I’m so happy. Hammy is
such a dear. You’d love him, too, if you
met him.
“1 haven’t told you who he is yet. Well,
he’s Hamilton J. Wright, thirty years of
age, tall, dark and not a little bit good-
looking. He’s one of those tough-looking
types we see playing cowboys in the movies,
He’s an American, of course, but not one
of those Yanks we get out in Sydney who
wear loose clothes and say they’re some
{yuy . Yd call him a gentleman ij I was a
snob. He’s first president of a tinplate con-
cern in Syracuse. I don’t suppose you’ve
ever heard of him in Australia, but he cuts
some ice hereabouts. He isn’t a millionaire
or anything of that sort. I don’t think he’s
really so well off as I am; but he’s cer-
tainly free of any suspicion of being out
to better himself. Outside business hours
he’s mixed up a lot with the musicians
and artists and writers—he studied art in
Paris for two years when (he puts it) he
heard the clarion call of the tinplate sum-
moning him home. He’s got a sense of
humor and a sense of everything that a
man should have. And I love him, Jimmy,
“There wasn’t anything romantic about
our meeting. He was treasurer of a charity
show that I was to sing at, and, although
he’s seen me in opera, he didn’t know me
when I called at the office. 7 was dressed
all anyhow and he was t’ery busy ana when
he did see me he said: Weil, Girlie, what
can we do for you?’ Girlie! Just fancy
some of my hated rivals being addressed
as Girlie! It was very vain, I suppose, but
1 laughed. ‘Going to sing a song, little
boy,’ I replied, and added, when he looked
puzzled, ‘Happen to be on your bill. My
name’s Illara!’ It was some fun, I can
tell you. He tumbled over himself apolo-
gising. So I apologised for calling him a
little boy, and we became great pals. Well,
one thing leads to another and so on (as
poor old Mrs. Blessington would say), and
here I am head over ears in love and en-
gaged to be married, just as soon as I can
shake off my discarded lover—that’s you,
Jimmy—with a harsh metallic laugh.
“Of course, I had to tell Hammy about
you and the others—you know. It was
awful. I was frightened he’d turn me down
when he knew. But he just shut me up
as soon as he knew what I meant and said:
‘Well, I guess, little girl, your life’s been
something a bit whiter than mine anyhow;
this is the last time we’ll ever refer to it.’
I did love him, Jimmy, rnore than ever
and I’m glad he wouldn’t listen to details,
for I’d have had to tell him about you
by name if he’d insisted. I wouldn’t like
him to hate you if you ever met and I
don’t want to have to cut you out of my
acquaintances, and if Hammy knew, I d
have to do that in spite of everything. But
now everything’s right and I’d like you to
meet him some day.
%( On second thoughts I don t know that
1 would. It wouldn’t seem nice to be there
with both of you, and that would have to
happen some time. But we ll let the future
look after itself—and the past,
“You’ve been a good pal to me, Jimmy,
and I’m so glad for your sake that I didnt
marry you. Buck up, old chap; it ll be all
right in a few weeks. Then forget me. No,
1 wouldn’t like you to do that altogether,
But whenever you think of me, think of
Mrs. Hamilton Wright, your girl pal who’s
married the man she loved. And go ahead,
Jimmy, and look out for some good little
girl that you can love. You’ll know the
difference between love and the synthetic
article when it does come,
“With heaps of the very best wishes in
the world but no love or kisses this time,
—/ am, Your sincere friend, May.
“P.S.—Hammy and 1 won’t be married
j or ano ther month, so if you write by return
(Continued on page 46.)


ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
kfgh
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW i 3 the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION:
THIS THING CALLED LOVE
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MR. CINDERS.
KING’S THEATRE:
LET US BE GAY.
DICK ARDS’ T*l VOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
HERE’S LUCK.
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
Victoria Racing Club
Flemington.
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY Ist NOVEMBER
CUP DAY 4th NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY 6th NOVEMBER
STEEPLECHASE DAY, Bth NOVEMBER
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £40,000.
£lO,OOO added to Melbourne Cup and
Gold Cup of £2OO.
£5OOO added to the Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Personal.
DODGERS. —Henrietta May Rodgers (ade
Halton), widow of John Alexander
Rodgers, formerly of Coonamble, or any
person knowing her whereabouts, is re-
quested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Sydney, N.S.W.
Patents.
AUTOMOBILE TRUNK.
'T’HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 9784/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and ,
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of Asbestos
House, York & Barrack Streets, Sydney
(Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney).
IMPROVEMENTS IN BREAD-
TOASTERS.
TTIE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 4158/21 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of Asbestos
House, York & Barrack Streets, Sydney
(Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney).
IMPROVEMENTS IN MECHANISM
FOR OPERATING AND CONTROLLING
PNEUMATIC MOTORS.
’T’HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 432/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of Asbestos
House, York & Barrack Streets, Sydney
(Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney).
Missing Friends.
HYMAN. —If Harry Hyman, son of Alfred
Henry Hyman, deceased, will communi-
cate with the Union Trustee Company of
Australia, Limited, 333 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, he will hear of something to his
advantage.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
Contains everything a ivoman needs to know.
If any illustration in THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy ,
write to the MANAGERu)ho will
quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lemon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Against the gay beds of lupins and snap-
dragons at Ascot the raincoat and um-
brella moved in sombre measure. The
Governor lunched with the Q.T.C. com-
mittee ; Lady Goodwin came later and,
with Sir John, entertained guests to
tea on the committee-room verandah.
Amongst the guests were Mr. and Mrs. J.
Cadell Garrick, Miss Cadell Garrick, Mrs.
S, F. McDonald and Mrs. E. K. Tully.
Lady Goodwin wore a larkspur-blue coat,
trimmed with mastic fur, over her crgpe-de-
Chine gown, and a mastic sisal hat. Mrs.
Cadell Garrick was in black and white; Mrs.
Spencer Browne wore sienna with a hat to
match in lighter shade; and Mrs. Peter
Murphy was in navy.
Edgar Holt, who left the Brisbane “Tele-
graph” to join the staff of the Melbourne
“Argus,” was married at Dalmeny, New
Farm, the home of the bride’s parents, to
Dorothy, daughter of the R. W. Vaughans.
The Rev. Scott-Macdonald performed the
ceremony. Pretty Dorothy was given away
by her father in ivory satin, a veil _of
Brussels lace and orange blossoms. Cecille
Vaughan, in turquoise taffetas, and Betty
Vaughan, in rose-pink, ’maided. The newly-
weds wall live in Melbourne.
For Ruth Portraite, who leaves Australia
next month to pursue her vocal studies in
England and Italy, Mesdames R. D. Eve
and M. Cohen had a bridge and musical
afternoon in the Carlton cabaret. Ruth
wore a gown of black moire crepe de Chine,
outlined in white pointed applique, and a hat
of brown cire-trimmed baku. Mrs. Cohen was
in black cr@pe de Chine and a brown hat.
Mrs. Eve’s figured georgette was made with
a cape, and she wore a black baku hat.
Sherwood’s Presbyterian Church saw the
marriage of Reginald Cox and Dorothy
Muirhead. The bride was given away by
her uncle, J. Brownlee ITenderson, in white
chiffonette, with a white and silver net veil
and a semi-circldt of orange blossom. Leila
Crawford and Lorna Lynn ’maided in rose-
pink floral chiffons and Italian straw hats
trimmed in rose-pink. The feasting was at
the Hugh Macdonalds’ home at Sherwood.
At St. Peter’s Kirk, Townsville, Edmund
H. H. Philp, of Burleigh station, Richmond,
married Alice McDowall, daughter of Mrs.
Armstrong, Acacia Vale. The bride, who
was given away by her stepfather, was in
ivory brocaded silk and Iloniton-lace veil.
Mona McDowall, Gwen Philp and Olive Bur-
stall ’maided in floral silk chiffon mounted
on pink, yellow and green slips and golden-
brown hats. For the feasting a marquee
on the lawn at the bride’s home had been
decorated with cocoanut palms and flags and
the Fifth Light Horse colors, in compliment
to the bridegroom. Toowoomba sees the
honeymoon.
Brisbane gave “The New Moon” a hearty
welcome when it appeared at His Majesty’s,
and admired Romola Hansen’s lovely hoop
frocks. Amy Rochelle and Jim Gerald have
been in vaudeville here, and were heartily
greeted; so was Sydney Burchall. Nellie
Bramley has definitely decided that revue
and vaudeville is a better paying proposition
nowadays than comedy and drama. Bert le
Blanc and other J.C.W. artists join the third
instalment of vaudeville.
Edward Cahill is staying at Lennon’s. An-
other guest there is Mrs. George Brooke.
Mr. Cahill’s concert next week will be his
first appearance alone in Australia; for 20
years he and George Brooke were the closest
chums, and for 16 invariably appeared on
the platform together.
Mrs. Grierson-Browne. wife of The
B U L L E TIN’S
old contribu-
tor “Tarboy,”
and here por-
trayed, has been
re-elected pre-
sident for the
eighth time of
the League of
Women Rela-
tives of Sol-
diers and
Sailors. The
League was
inaugurated in
1915. At the
recent old-
world pageant
Mrs. Grierson-
Browne wore
a beautiful
Spanish lace
scarf 100
years old over
a 20-year-old
gown.
At the golden jubilee of St. Patrick’s
Church, Valley, Archbishop Duhig suggested
the appointment of a public recorder to
chronicle the reminiscences of pioneers
of Brisbane before they were altogether lost.
There were people present who remembered the
city 60 years ago, when Queen-street was a
bullock track and the site of the City Hall
a waterhole. Professor Guido Valensin, of
Florence, was with his Grace.
Mr. W. R. Black, who died recently in
St- Martin’s Hospital, had made generous
gifts to nearly every Presbyterian congre-
gation in Queensland. He was chiefly re-
sponsible for Scots’ College and the Presby-
terian Girls’ College at Warwick, and the
Presbyterian Girls’ School at Toowoomba.
He established a home for boys at Oxley
and one for girls at Graceville. As well as
assisting many other charitable bodies, he
gave a large sum to the Anzac War
Memorial. The Black benefactions probably
touched £200,000. Born in Ireland 71 years
ago, he came to Queensland as a young man
and made a fortune out of coal and coal-
mines. He was unmarried; Mrs. S. J.
Phillips and Mrs. L. A. Bowers are his
sisters.
TASMANIA.
H'obart.
Pew signs of the bad times were visible
at the 58th annual Show at Launceston. The
weather was fine, the attendance good, and
the record entries and splendid standard of
exhibits showed that the man on the land
is still going his hardest. His Ex. opened
the show with a commonsense speech, and
the lawns and flowerbeds were a picture.
President and Mrs. J. A. Bain, with the
committee, tea-ed the v.-r. party and a host
of others. Miss O’Grady opened the women’s
industries section, where some wonderful
work was on view. The ring events were a
great attraction, the Midland Hunt Club’s
women representatives doing particularly
well. Barbara Bennett, Mrs. J. N. Archer,
Miss Bowman, Miss Iv. Mercer and May
Littlechild were among those who scored wins
with their entries.
The T.A.J.C. held a benefit meeting for the
Tas. Conservatorium, with appropriately
named events. The Elwick grounds looked a
picture. President Lindsay Miller and the
committee tea-ed his Ex. and party, which
included Capt. and Mrs. Stoyles. The women-
folk, taking no chances, were mostly in
tweeds.
Mrs. Sorell, Thorneycroft, is one of the
Speck’s best advertisements for longevity.
The old lady held a great reception on her
91st birthday, and finished up the evening
at the bridge table. Her husband was a
descendant of one of our early Governors.
This picture shows Enid Reid, one of our
most proficient
golfers. She
was last year’s
champion, and
though she
failed to re-
tain all her
laurels in the
recent cham-
pionship
matches at
Kingston
Beach, she
won, with Miss
E. Barclay, the
fours omes.
Miss Reid i s
a consistent
player, and
held up the
Speck’s end of
the stick very
well in the
recent contests
in Victoria.
Launceston spread itself in the shape of
gaieties both before and during Show Week.
The Grammar School Ball was one of the
smartest functions; the Albert Hall was
decorated in the school colors. Headmaster
and Mrs. Adams received the throng of
guests, and Ivate Richardson carried out the
secretarial work. Juveniles in fancy cos-
tume held the floor in the earlier hours, and
the march past, led by Britannia in a chariot
drawn by four wee sailors, was a pretty
sight.
Margaret O’Grady was an interested spec-
tator at the Free Kindergarten demonstra-
tion at the Town Hall, when the youngest
kiddie presented her with a posy. The Edu-
cation Department lias raised the age of
entry to the State schools, so the Free Kin-
dergarten folk are getting ready for aug-
mented numbers. Mrs. Howard Buchanan,
the new president, and James Marsh organ-
ised the show.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Wet week-ends are becoming too frequent
for the organisers of alfresco functions. At
the garden party at Loreto Convent to meet
the Mother General, the spacious verandahs
and huge concert hall enabled the guests
to be entertained at afternoon tea, but the
proposed eurhytlimic dancing on the lawn
by the pupils had to be abandoned.
The garden fete held at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Hodgetts at Kensing-
ton Gardens, in aid of St. Edward the
Confessor’s Church, was even more at the
mercy of the weather. Mrs. R. Crompton,
looking very charming in hyacinth blue
crepe de Chine with wide-brimmed hat to
match, performed the opening- ceremony;
in spite of drawbacks the fete realised over
£6O.
For some reason there is generally a
scarcitv of men at Alliance Frangaise even-
ings. * The social held at the Adelaide
Women’s Club provided an excellent pro-
gramme. Madame Hornemahn, of the
Copenhagen Conservatorium, rendered a
group of songs by Grieg, and there was a
French play, “La’Nuit d’Auberge,” in Louis
XVI. costume.
Mr. and Mrs. Heaton-Hodgson, of Hong
Kong, are spending a month in Adelaide
prior to tripping to England for their fur-
lough. Mrs. Heaton-Hodgson was Miss
May Baldwin, of Millswood.
On Wednesday afternoon Mrs. J. Blitz,
of Glenelg, gave a bridge party at the South
Australian Hotel. The guests were enter-
tained in the drawing-room, beautifully
decorated with roses and broom. The hostess
was smartly gowned in fawn georgette with
beige lace and gold embroidery; her hat
was a fawn baku straw with a shady brim.
Afternoon tea was served in the reception-
room downstairs.
The annual meeting of the Kindergarten
Union of South Australia, held at the train-
ing college, was well attended. Professor
McKellar Stewart presided, and the Mayoress
and Mrs. J. P. Morice received the guests.
Mrs. Morice, who has been connected with
the Kindergarten since its inception, _ spoke
of the progress that lias been made in the
past 25 years. There are now 10 flourish-
ing branches in the different suburbs.
Quite like a huge garden party was the
fete at the residence of Dr. and Mrs. Harry
Gilbert. Lefevre-terrace, North Adelaide, for
the sale of disabled soldiers’ handicraft.
Stalls were arranged upon the verandahs,
and afternoon tea was served in a huge
marquee on the lawn. The garden was a
mass of bloom. Lady Hore-Ruthven, who
declared the fete open, was received by the
genial doctor and his wife, with Mr. H. C.
Cave. Excellent business was done at the
stalls.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Show drew satisfactory crowds. The
water-jump was a new ring innovation and
caused a good deal of interest; but the
horses appeared to regard it with suspicion,
and there was little really good jumping,
Two abos., in full war paint, chewed stolidly
for five days in their mia-mia; adjacent were
a settler’s humpy a-nd a modern beach dress-
ing-tent, part of the various habitations of
the human race exhibited by a well-known
firm. The frocking was summery, with
a scattering of tweeds and furs in keeping
with the downcast sky. Mrs. P. G. Hamp-
shire was in flowered blue ninon, with match-
ing millinery; Mrs. Durack wore green; Judy
Clarkson chose a patterned foulard; Mrs.
Ted Lukin wore all cinnamon; Mrs. Cocks
had a fawn hat with a raspberry shaded
frock; Dr. Nolan and Mrs. Monteath chose
navy; Mrs. Silveston, in a cigar-brown turn-
out, accompanied Dot Cadd, in dark green;
Mrs. J. S. Young’s grey coat was stitched
with blue; Doris Good wore red, Joan Cariss
black, and Sita Stapleton a white and china-
blue suit. Grace Gavan Duffy’s summery
raiment was autumn tinted ; Mi’S. Alec
Kelly’s frock was of green woollen lace;
Mary and Flora Anderson chose respectively
printed silk and navy marocam. _
For the third year in succession Miss Liela
Hancock, of Spencer’s Brook, bore home the
coveted trophy for her champion Jersey cow.
Two years ago one of her Jersey bulls carried
SSJ2T
M 30b 18 *°°
Salvia made a aeariet splaair aronnd tire
grandstand and the plane-trees were wearing
their new spring green for the October race
p*^iied a by U Mrs.
a violet frock and hat; Mrs. John Cruikshank
wore black and two wee feathers in her hat;
Mrs. Lovell’s navy silk was patterned with
white, and Mrs. Evans accompanied her in
a grev tweed coat; Neva Hocking wore a
short-skirted red ensemble; Elizabeth Edwards
was all in cream; Mrs. iWebsters co
browns were offset with an orange
her millinery; Mrs. Stuby topped ner »
satin with a beige hat; blue-spotted witu
white was Mrs. Leo O’Connor’s choice; Eileen
Hayes’s blue suit sported pleats and a
bolero effect; a leaf-green straw hat ana
a green-and-black patterned cr^^ ]lT e rp av \or
were worn by Aenel McGhie; Mo y , .
wore a black velvet coat over » rp e xr nona n
Molly Atkins was in tan, and Cl
in red. _ . .
On an evening last week Marie Qmgiey
and Emmett Brown sought a blessing on tne
life partnership at the brass gates or tno
new marble altar rail in St. Mary s Catne-
clral. The bridal gown was of ivory satin, cu
with long sleeves, and a train gummere
through a cascade of tulle veil worn ott t
face and filleted with orange blossoms, xn
bride carried a prayer-book, from which te
a trail of orange buds. Four maids- ' eiv
Quigley, Elsie Paxton, Millie Lightly ana
Madeleine Durack—wore moire gowns
delphinium-blue, with fitting corsages and De-
flared skirts falling into short trains,
pink rose nestled under the wide brim o
each blue straw hat, and they carried shears
0 f red roses. The feasting was at the Royal
Mint.
<£ ke yi nce nt Wheatley couple will be
m i sse{ j j n South Perth. After many farewells
tkey i e f t by tke Katoomba for Sydney, where
tkeir new home is to be.
The Moldavia’s stay in port was not long
enough for Mollie Fordham, M.Sc., who spent
a ku sy few hours with her friends and
re ] a tives. After some research work in Syd-
ney Miss Fordham will return to her job
0 £ i ec turer at the University of Liverpool.
Bed
drawingroom for Doreen O’Hara'a
RfSBnS. The hostess’s frock
was P s p ot ? ecl with white blue crepe de Chine.
Goldstein’, Mollie Atkins and Doreen Brjan.
Karrakatta Club. Miss I
(Mrs. Le Tessier) m i,de a pleasing littit
introductory speech. There was music ana
the presentation of a gold pencil to Dorothy
Mark, the association s capable secretary.


ill
M
m
4**
Duel
mr
fi
, r
808-SLEIGHING
at the Swiss Winter Sports
Set out from Australia
WIDER RANGE of European attrac-
** tions is available to the traveller who
leaves Australia in November, December
or January. It is possible, then, to see
Ceylon and Egypt under the best con-
ditions; to be present at the famous
Swiss Winter Sports, to visit the French
Riviera at the peak of the season and after-
wards to be in time for the incomparable
beauties of the English spring.
To know the full meaning of a delightful
voyage, travel by one of the 20,000-ton
Orient Royal Mail Liners! Great decks,
well-ventilated cabins, excellent cuisine
and prompt, efficient service combine to
make the experience an outstanding
memory.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia.
ORIENT LINE
V
-Vv \.4
post you can say anything you like. Once
married, I hand all my letters to Hammy.
—May.
“P.S.S. —I made Hammy hold back the
news oj our engagement so that you might
get this letter before the cable ■ got busy.
Now you can beat it if you like and scoop
your reptile contemporaries with the news.
—May.”
Jimmy Avas astounded, not at May’s an-
nouncement, but at his own reception of
it. He had read it Avithout a tinge of
emotion. He was not despondent, not in-
dignant, not broken-hearted. He felt per-
fectly normal. He even, experienced a
certain sense of joy that such a fine girl as
May had at last achieved a great love which
promised to bring her happiness.
He had loved this girl, had looked forward
to making her his wife, and now the news
that she was to marry another man left
him unmoved. Jimmy marvelled at his
own attitude. Was he utterly selfish and
callous? Had he a heart at all?
He felt disgusted Avith himself; utterly
deficient in ordinary feeling, such a man was
unfit to live. He reflected that he had not
ahvays been like this. He had suffered
keenly when Mary West died; he had
been overcome Avith emotion when young
Jackson was injured, when Des Quirk was
convicted, when Dalgety was brought down
the hillside with the blanket over him.
Something had hanoened to dull his sen-
sibilities or they had simply atrophied.
To-day he was a mere husk of a man, body
and intellect developed but the greatest part
of his being dead. He was a living corpse,
a mental machine. Jimmy wondered whether
the condition was permanent or whether
something might yet happen to make him
whole.
He Avandered into the studio. Stan was
Avorking hard at his big cartoon which was
to become Helen in his water-color. His
method was to draw large and reduce his
scale Avhen he came to color.
Stan was full of enthusiasm. He had
just caught what he Avanted and Avas filled
Avith the elation which only the artist can
feel. He talked excitedly of his finding the
lines he had sought to complete his com-
position, showed Jimmy how they were
precisely what were wanted to compose his
picture. He brought out the original
sketch and explained his aims. He talked
Avhile the model was dressing, talked Avhile
he paid her and said good-bye to her and
agreed to her suggestion for the next
appointment without knoAving what she said.
He talked as they put on their hats to go
out for lunch.
Always interested in art matters, Jimmy
listened to all he had to say, asked a
question now and then and became
thoroughly infected by Stan’s enthusiasm.
It was not until they were a couple of hun-
dred yards along the street that he sud-
denly remembered May’s letter. In the
presence of Stan’s triumph of line the whole
thing had gone clean out of his memory.
“I must be a contemptible creature,” he
thought. Then aloud to Stan he said,
“Got a letter from May to-day, from New
York.”
“Any news?” asked Stan.
“She’s going to be married next month,”
replied Jimmy.
Stan stopped and looked hard at Jimmy.
“I’m awfully sorry, Jimmy,” he said; this
was the first time Stan had ever referred to
his love for May. “I’m awfully sorry. I
knoAV how you must feel.”
“No, you don't,” replied Jimmy. “That’s
what’s worrying me. I don’t seem to care
a scrap. I don’t knoAV what’s the matter
with me, Stan. I was awfully fond of May.
I made up my mind to go to Europe just
to see her. If things had turned out as I
planned I’d be on my way there now. That
Ayas the first sign of something wrong. When
May left, I fixed up just what I’d do over
the trip and I’m hanged if I didn’t forget
all about it. Then, when I got this letter
I didn’t turn a hair. What’s the matter
Avith me? Am I losing all my human feel-
ings and becoming a mattoid or a criminal
lunatic or what?”
Stan was no longer apprehensive. He
smiled quietly to himself..
“Don’t you worry, Jimmy. You’ll find
you’re all right in a feAV days.”
The engagement of May, illustrated by
photographs of her and Hamilton J. Wright
(secured from the American Consul), Avith
a biographical sketch of the bridegroom
expanded from “Who’s Who in America,”
was duly published. Jimmy sent her a
cable of congratulation and wrote a long
letter to the same effect, which he posted
with a wedding present.
As he dropped the letter in the box he
felt that he was cutting the last link with
May, performing the final sacred and
solemn ceremony of the obsequies of their
love—placing a wreath on the grave of a
dead romance.
To a man, there is always a suggestion of
the funeral about the marriage of a girl
Avith whom his relations have been tender.
It means the end of the old life; the sever-
ing of ties Avhich bound them, be it ever
so lightly; the glorious resurrection of her
womanhood in a paradise at which he is
beyond the gates.
Jimmy’s sadness was modified consider-
ably by his joy that she was gaining what
she had looked for since she Avas a child.
All the same, he Avas depressed and at
3 p.m., wandering aimlessly around the
city, he found himself, without the slightest
intention of having directed his steps, stand-
ing before the cash register of the Lalla
Rookh.
“Alma’s gone to Melbourne,” announced
Emily. “She got a telegram yesterday
afternoon and had to leave by the night
train.”
Jimmy’s heart jumped, and all the rest
of the day he spent Avondering why it had
not jumped Avhen he received May’s letter,
Avhen there Avas infinitely more reason. He
began to Avonder Avhether there might be
some physical reason for his strange atti-
tude toAvards the facts of life.
Alma, was a dear little girl. He valued
her friendship and companionship very
highly. Still, that was no reason why he
should have felt her absence—absence, at
most, for probably two or three Aveeks—
Avhen he had received the intimation that
the woman he loved Avas to marry another
man, Avithout his equanimity being dis-
turbed.
A day or tAvo later another strange thing
happened. In Pitt-street he ran across
Maisie York—pretty, charming, j oiliest of
companions. Maisie Avas just back from
Maoriland after nearly tAvo years’ absence.
She dashed up to Jimmy and simply over-
whelmed him with her smiles. He invited
her to afternoon tea. Resting her elbows
on the table and gazing across the flowers
into his eyes, she chirruped away a hundred
and fifty to the minute, just the same
damty desirable little ball of fluff and gaiety
she had been during their previous associ-
ation.
(To be continued next week.)
Humanity.
Man crucified the Christian symbol is;
Only through suffering grows the soul of
man.
But from that blind green grove we hear a
kiss,
The Pagan calling of the pipes of Pan ;
And while we nail our spirits to the Cross
Our human hearts have sickened for our
loss.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Interior Decoration.
Between the windows and the wall
There are long curtains and a bed,
There is the cushion for your head,
The chair that kneiv your length, the tray
That took the greying ash away
From dying flames of cigarettes.
There is the bookcase, there the books
With covers blue and red and gold,
And some are new, and some are old.
The things they tell inside are true
Of you—and me and you.
There is the little broken lamp,
And, strictly practical, the clock
Breaks into silence with the knock
Of tiny hammers. Time swings on.
There is your picture on the shelf,
And there the cards you used to play,
Between the window and the wall,
Between the night-time and the day;
While people hurried home below,
And supper was an hour away.
There is the mirror that flung back
Your smooth dark head. Now I, alone,
Peer into it, faint-heart to see
Your own dark eyes stare back at me.
This is the room in which you said
That you must go abroad for bread.
This is the room that will belong
To us when we are but a song
Blown out upon a bloAving wind....
BetAveen the windows and the wall
There was but love, and love was all.
n.s.w.
ELISABETH RICHMOND.
Leaf-smoke in the Lane.
Upon the holy, hidden altar —
An unshapen block of stone—
I piled the tree-gods’ fallen tresses
And the life-ensuring cone.
Then —a treetop-touching prayer—
Rose the smoke, blue-grey as dawn.
In the fawnskin of the forest-woman,
On the little deer-cropped laAvn,
I stood companioned by the' tree-gods—
They alone. The secret place
Knew only stars’ and wolves’ and ghosts’
eyes,
And a stag’s or the sun’s face,
And mine—a virgin’s. The old priestess,
Uttering hoarsely single words,
And showing cavern-hidden symbols,
Made me sister to the birds,
And to the four-foot and the footless,
And a servant without fear
To the great, quiet, green-tressed tree-gods.
Birth and death to me stood clear.
Yet. . . . What turf-deadened tread approaches’?
Antlers move between the leaves.
Lo ! a stag’s scalp crowns him, the impious,
The intruder! A dove grieves
Like a weak woman, and the leaf-smoke’s
Sudden eddy blinds my sight.
Oh, could the tall, the great-armed tree-gods,
Fir-cone croAvned, put forth such might?
His eyes have seen the hidden altar,
He has trod the wolf-trod grass....
Earth’s whispered secret? It chants full-
A’oiced ;
Like blown smoke the taboos pass....
11.
A dove grie\'es like a love-bruised woman ;
Wind-dispersed, athwart my sight
Blows blue-grey leaf-smoke. Oh, wild incense !
Young as morning, old as night!
Down the lane the stark white garage
Gapes ; the huddled windows peer
Like uninitiated faces....
Doavii the lane no sleek-coat deer
Tread, but ancient joy and' fear
In a waft of smoke stand clear.
M.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


*
?
Come to
'
IKS
m
m
if#
<*»» msi-s
•v. ■.............
m ■
■<M T:
£ v » ■'
s
S#* j-v
■
\^cM
t.
«v
MOUNTAIN PEAKS
foY splendid spoYt
and climbing
ALMOST the entire length of the South Island stretches
the great range of the Southern Alps. Giant, snow-
clad peaks are lifted high : huge glaciers and icefalls move
slowly down their granite sides. Come to Mount Cook in
the South, or the Tongariro National Park in the North for
snowsports of riotous fun, with modern hostels of perfect
comfort to give you a cosy ending to each glowing day.
And, for the alpinist, Professer F. Schaffer, of Vienna, says,
“ I have seen the greater part of the mountain ranges of
the world. The Southern Alps belong to the very best
that exist. The Alps are the most imposing in the world.”
NEW ZEMAND
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to —N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand.
Name
Address
5.8.0 A
for a DIFFERENT
Holiday
be in
NEW
ZEALAND
5A
Free Steamer Fares to New Zealand
The Mount Cook Company’s office will
pay your First Class Steamer Fare to New
Zealand. The terms of this offer leave
you free to plan your itinerary as you
please, providing that it includes the Com-
pany’s services at Rotorua, the Chateau,
National Park, Mt. Cook or Queenstown.
In the case of extended tours, this offer will
be increased.to include return fare also.
Full particulars and specimen tours avail-
able on application to The Tourist Booking
Office, 9A Bligh Street, Sydney; to the
Company’s Agents, Dalgety & Co., through-
out Australia; or to New Zealand Govern-
ment Tourist Offices, Martin Place, Sydney,
and Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, and Ade-
laide.
This offer is open until November 28th, 1930.
MOUNT COOK TOURIST COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
9a Bligh Street, Sydney.
The NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney
jCarllon
OVENWARE
. English Manufacture.
yet unbreakable
in oven use
Price of
medium size
Round Casserole
12/9
Carlton Ovenware adds
grace to any table; its
design is pleasing and its
utility unquestioned. It
holds the heat far better
than other cooking ware,
and the sunken handles
make for safety and
economy in oven space.
DOES AWAY WITH DISHING-UP.
r*z
v y |
Will not break
with heat or sud-
den chill, and this
is guaranteed!
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Smedley Service.
T 0...
LOS ANGELES
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
...over the delightful southern
route direct from...
HONOLULU
A
ALL the attrac-
tions that make
Southern California
one of the world’s
favorite playgrounds
spread themselves
immediately before
you when you enter
through the port of
Los Angeles!
Regular through pas-
sage fares can be ar-
ranged to Honolulu via
Canadian - Australasian
R. M. Line or Oceanic,
[Matson] Line, with a
stop-over of any length
you desire for a visit in
Hawaii...and then in a
LASSCO liner direct
from Honolulu to Los
Angeles over the de-
lightful southern route.
For full particulars ap-
ply at any steamship
ticket office or travel
agency, 0r...
7A-9
LASSCO
LOS ANGELES STEAMSHIP CO
HAROLD C. SLEIGH, Agent
55 Pitt Street . Sydney
A Booming Christmas is coming at
Broken Hill. All alterations of
wages are postponed. Traders are
getting ready for the rush of busi-
ness. Get your Christmas goods
into the Barrier Public’s eye through
“The Barrier Miner,” the people’s
daily newspaper for the past 42
years.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
h~ " M V.
( cj>| 1W
It was a christening incident. The hero
of the occasion w’as a large red baby with
a head like a station duff; he was about 15
moons of age, but very far advanced in
life and much experienced in wickedness for
a child who had happened so recently. He
hailed from Alfredton (Vic.) and was
brought dowm in a perambulator. The sheep
and cattle yards are at Alfredton. There
the stockman and the drover congregate bi-
weekly, and lift up their voices, calling their
dogs accursed and characterising the cattle
as damned and debased. The large red
item who was announced to have a name
upholstered on to him was reared so far as
he had gone in this atmosphere of ferocious
cursing and long-lingering malediction. He
had been in the habit of lolling out on the
grass, chewing his toe, and remarking, with
wonderful precocity, the mellifluous flow of
the shepherds’ swearing, and ruminating
thereon. The presiding parson secured his
victim, the parents stood round and looked
apprehensive, and the congregation woke up
and manifested some interest. Then the
solemn ceremony began. The rev. gentle-
man got down to the watering point with-
out interruption, but the water shook the
baby up and made him shiver and squirm,
and jump at the conclusion that he was
being imposed upon because he was young
and inexperienced. As soon as he had done
sneezing he entered his protest. He merely
said: “What the are you doing’ You
■!” But that was enough for all practi-
cal purposes. The parson’s knees turned in
and he flopped like a scarecrow in a gale,
the congregation collapsed into a state of
amazed imbecility, the father faded away into
his boots, and the mother fled howling. The
writer is contrite now, and sometimes does
poetry for the “Southern Cross”; but he
was that baby.
The fair partner of a certain Western
N.S.W r . solicitor was not a perfect thing
of sweetness. Her education had never been
“finished” ; her knowledge of music, for in-
stance, had been gleaned from the tinkling
of the dinner-bell at the bush pub where she
once superintended the kitchen, parlor,
dining-room and bar. Her only perfect art
was the enforcing of her own sweet will-
One day recently the lawyer received instruc-
tions from his Sydney agent to procure evi-
dence in a divorce suit, the erring party hay-
ing removed with the co-respondent to his
district. There was enclosed with the in-
structions a bundle of letters written by the
guilty lady to her lover, which letters
were couched in the most loving and
passionate terms. As the lawyer was
too busy to peruse the correspondence during
office hours, he took it home. The wife won-
dered why he remained reading so late. Next
morning on leaving for his office he made a
huge mistake —he left the letters loosely
strewn over his library table. Soon that
affectionate wife was in the library spelling
out the epistles. Soon her dark eyes flashed
with rage. A horrible suspicion had taken
possession of her. She was the unhappy
dupe of an unfaithful husband! At length,
[l2/1/1889.]
snatching up the letters, the complete evi-
dence of his guilt, she scrambled down the
street to the lawyer’s office; she would
charge him with the crime before his clients
and the world. Into the office she bounded
like a March hare, and, in the presence of
the bank manager, the police magistrate and
the parson, she hurled abuse and the bundle
of letters at the head of the man of law,
with a threat that she would once more be-
come a slavey. She wound up a long tirade
by demanding a divorce. During the torrent
the husband couldn’t get a word in edge-
ways. When his opportunity came to deny
the charge and explain matters, he was para-
lysed by a blow from a volume of Oliver’s
“Statutes.” Then the office boy rushed in,
and, by the aid of the clients, she was
secured. The lawyer was then able to
explain. Slowly the truth dawned upon her,
and she left.
The latest is an aboriginal barmaid bn a
Queensland field. The diggers rarely take gin.
The mother-in-law fiend advertisement
once more:—
I, MARGARET do not intend to get credit,
as you never had the means to pay for it. I left
home through your mother. MARGARET .
Poor old mother-in-law, the most sassed and
abused of modern social institutions, at
whose head clods of derision are always
flying. The mother-in-law joke is eternal.
The uncle has been tried and has died out;
the stepmother went out for a little while
and then fell flat; the maiden aunt collapsed
in her early stages; the orphan boy was too
damp and maudlin to last; and the twins
who couldn’t be told apart except for the
strawberry mark on their arms perished in
the washtub very young. The venerable
grandmother with the false teeth was sat
upon for a brief space by storywriters and
comic clowns of literature, and then she
caved in with a hollow, reproachful thud;
the aged grandpa with the asthmatic wheeze
whose bark used to be heard upon the shores
of the drama as he told impossible stories
about the wood he chopped when he was
young, has gone down to be with the dust of
Ananias; the bad boy who wrote diaries grew
up and became solemn and respectable; and
the jam-smeared baby of various maudlin
tables blossomed for a brief period and then
choked. But the mother-in-law keeps going
on. Like the Wandering Hebrew of ancient
legend she clumps through fact and fiction ;
she turns up in the police court and the
palace; she is .sometimes in a lunatic asylum
and sometimes drunk on an ash-heap; she
is found drowned and overgrown with bar-
nacles, and she is discovered flattened by a
mu dear t or arrested while heaving bricks in
a hotel; she is advertised for by people who
have lost her, and again she is advertised
about by people who have found her and
wish to Heaven they could lose her but don’t
know how; * she is sued for rates, and is
summoned for dog-stealing, chicken-stealing,
bad language across the fence, assault and
battery and obstructing the thoroughfare
with an applecart, and yet she survives it
all. God bless our home! Also, in parti-
cular, God bless our mother-in-law!
AFTER THE VIATICUM.
You have done what is best for my soul’s
last flight,
But one pain gnaws at my weak heart yet.;
Since I looked the last on my youth’s delight
Fifty red summers have risen and set.
“The things of the world,” you may shake
your head—
You are skilled in the things of Heaven —
What!
The fires in my shrunken veins are dead
Long ago—how long I have even forgot.
It is Lovej the purest, I speak of now.
Do you see this tress from her young gold
head ? .
I cut it one night from the queenly brow,
When she and I and the world were dead.
By the side of mine, how young it seems!
By the side of mine, the gold and the grey.
Yet, Father, in our time of dreams
These hairs were young together; the grey
Were brown and alive with light like the
gold,
Yet you see what the world has done to
mine;
When we meet to-day, she young, I old,
How shall she say, “I am thine, you
mine ?”
And if she waits at the great gold gate
And looks at each guest with her starry
eyes,
How shall she know me, coming so late,
And coming at last in an old man’s guise?
*
I think God mated us from the first,
When His fiat through virgin space was
hurled,
Ere the first fish swam, or the first grain
burst
From the uncouth breast of the steaming
world.
But death was stronger and tore her away,
Before I had more than kissed her mouth —
In the place you think I am going to-day
Shall I meet her and quench my soul’s
long drouth?
You see, when Death made her sweet eyes
mist
She whispered me, “Dear, we’ll meet
again” ;
Now, tell me, was that an idle tryst,
And have I waited so long in vain?
“I think too much of a human love.”
Well, if I am wrong then you may be
right;
But if Heaven is Heaven, and God’s above,
She will keep her tryst with me to-night.
[lO/12/’92.]
P. E. QUINN.
A SPLIT AND A JUNCTION.
“Where does this river lead to?”
“Goodness knows! Somewhere on the
coast.”
“Of course it does. But what part?”
“How should I know? What I should
like to know is how are we going to gef
down that gorge on footsore horses?”
“Best way we can.”
The questions and answers were rough
enough: but when men have been starving
AN ILLUSTRATED ADVERTISEMENT.
“For Sale, a new Cedar Skiff, var nished; suit a family 16ft. long.
B. Barnett, boat-builder, Blue’s Point, N.S.” [14/5/1887.]
for a few days civility is not one of the
cardinal virtues with them.
On the brow of a range which, strange
to say, has not yet found a name on any
Australian map, two men were standing re-
garding the prospect before them. The
range was in the Northern Territory of
South Australia, and faced the long south-
ern shore of the Gulf of Carpentaria. Some-
what beneath them lay stretched a maze
of rough hills, with a watercourse, easily
distinguished by the green of the treetops,
winding its uncertain way. But what a
lonely scene! In all the wide expanse there
was nothing to suggest the presence of life,
not even the smoke of a distant native camp.
The men were absolutely alone, separated
by hundreds of miles from their fellows, and
all they could do under the circumstances
was to quarrel. So they did it.
“I told you we should have gone down that
spur we passed yesterday afternoon,” growled
one. “Now”—and he indicated what lay
before them with a wave of the hand.
_ “Well. Go back and tackle it yourself,
I’m sick of this constant nagging. We’ll
divide what few rations are left and each
man take his own horses.”
A few more sharp words spoken in the
solitude, and then the two proceeded to divide
the small portion that stood between them
and death.
“Good-bye,” grunted one.
“Oh, go to !” said the other.
And that was all that passed between two
men who had been fast friends and close
companions for many months, and who now
fell out on the question of which was the
best way down a range, simply because they
were hungry and had been forced to have
none other but their own society for a con-
siderable time.
Awfully like married life !
The case was peculiar. About 12 months
previously the two men had invested in a
small lot of fat cattle and taken them from
the north of Queensland round by the then
uninhabited, almost unknown, coast track to
Port Darwin. Having got rid of their stock
to advantage (for in these days there were
few cattle of any sort in the Territory) they
decided on returning by a different route
more to the south to see if they could find
any country worth stocking. They were suc-
cessful enough in this quest, but seeking to
make their way north, to regain the route
by which they travelled the cattle, they
found themselves, with footsore horses and
scanty rations, amongst ranges which ren-
dered their way difficult. So they parted, as
just related, each man taking his own two
horses with him, one ridden and one packed.
It may be mentioned that this was the first
quarrel the men had had throughout their
•trip.
Jack Evans, the man who selected to go
back to the spur, had got about 10 or 15
miles on the back track by dusk. He turned
out his tired horses and lay down for a
cheerless, hungry camp. Barton, who pre-
ferred going on, made an attempt to follow
the river, the extreme head of which they
had been on when the disagreement took
place.
He did not get far. The gorge was very
rough and impracticable, his horses were
footsore, and at sundown he. found himself
between high, stony hills which forced him
to pick a painful way along the bed of the
river, now much increased in size. Select-
ing as good a camp as possible under the
circumstances, he, like his late mate, laid
himself down supperless in no very pleasant
frame of mind.
What few rations they had both men
felt it necessary to husband carefully, as
the region they were in contained little game,
and that, as it always is in unsettled coun-
try, was as wild as it could be.
Needless to say, both were pretty wake-
ful, and had time to reflect on their hasty
words; but each arose in the morning' with
a determination that he was right, and would
not give in, in case they should ever meet
again—a doubtful possibility.
Evans reached the
spur he was making
for early in the
morning and com-
menced to descend.
It led him round to
the east, the direc-
tion in which he had
left Barton, and.
finally, of course, ran
out at the junction
of two creeks. As
the hills On each side
looked most unpro-
mising he kept to the
creek, but did not
make much progress
during the day. That
night his rations
were done; still, he
was going in the
right direction.
The corresponding
day Barton was
equally unlucky. He
made but slow pro-
gress down the river
he had elected to
follow, and was so
hungry that, like
Evans, he devoured
the whole of his
scanty store when he
camped ; still, he was
making north, if but
slowly.
The next day,
about noon, he saw,
to his great joy, that
he was getting into
better country. Pre-
sently the ranges fell
back on either side,
and he found himself on comparatively level
land. The flat was sandy, and he was able
to make good progress; so, tightening his
belt, he rode on.
About five o’clock he noticed a large
creek coming in on the other side of the
river, and almost at the same moment heard
a sound like the bellow of a cow or bullock.
That was impossible, surely! He looked
around; not a track was visible. Suddenly
it arose again, quite distinctly, there was no
doubt : there was a beast in the bed of the
river. Visions of frizzling steak and hot
joints arose at once before him. They must
be cattle lost from an overlanding mob, mak-
ing up the river. By sneaking up to the
bank on foot he Could surely pot one with
his rifle. His horses were too tired to move
far, he had only to unbuckle the strap of
his rifle and commence his stalk. He had
noted the position of the sound, and when
he peered cautiously over the edge of the
bank he had the glorious satisfaction of see-
ing a solitary _ white cow feeding along a
bank or small island in the bed. The river
here was clear, and this was the only
obstruction in it.
No thought of cattle-stealing entered
Barton’s mind; beef was the only considera-
tion.. “Behind the shoulder,” he thought
to himself, took careful aim and fired.
The cow jumped forward, and stood for
a moment. “Missed, by thunder!” he cried,
when there came another report from the
opposite bank and she staggered and fell
over.
Barton rushed down the bank and made
for the island, and as he did so another man
followed his example from the opposite side,
They met at the dead beast.
“That’s my beast!” said Barton.
“She’s mine,” said Evans.
They looked at each other fiercely, then
burst out laughing. “Don’t you think there’s
enough for both?” said one, and across the
carcase they shook hands.
“Let’s have a look whose she is,” said
Barton as he looked at the earmark. “Why,
hang it all, she’s our own! It’s that white
cow we lost on the Robinson, and she’s been
wandering about here ever since. We can’t
be so far from where we cross.” Nor were
they.
Needless to say the creek that Evans got
on to was a tributary of the river Barton
was following and junctioned close to where
they found the cow.
[2/7/’92.]
N.T.


L\
\T»
? ~IVUIUI li* ,
. ~ 9
a :-
i N/.'v
r »iX
1 \ Wj\
c*>
■ 0 )o.
!.rt
i« k \
* §Ss|'li*!‘7 u '
Msj.'aA'y
*>».
sWl\a
mmm&
FMfW*
MK
(irntnTTiimrTTrrrmT/iif miiiimi
.oJLvjMI J
hA n
(-.at
r ,:
5
6>r the Cup
If you are coming to Mel-
bourne for the Cup, we can
pick you one or two winners—
in what to wear!
SHIRTS. —If you’re going to
put your shirt on a horse, you’ll
want a spare one to wear.
You’ll probably prefer silk—
jockeys aren’t the only fellows
who sport silk on the race-
course —but, whether silk or
broadcloth, it should be “HB”
for the sake of fit and pattern.
Delightful silks, with TWO
collars, in fadeless two-tone
stripes exclusive to HB, 22/6
and 27/6 (or higher if you
wish). . . Beautiful fadeless
two-tone broadcloths, with
AITCHBEE (Regd.) NON-
CURL Collars, at 10/6 and
13/6, with one attached collar
—or 15/6 with TWO non-
attached collars.
TlES.— With a new HB shirt
you will want a new HB tie —
either a Club stripe, in pure
rep silk, at 4/6 —or an uncreas-
able, unstretchable Marocain
at 5/6 —or a genuine Irish
poplin at 7/6. Magnificent
patterns.
>/<wJ
:v
\
HATS. —If you will bring your
head to us we’ll show you the
best hat to put on it. HB values
this spring are wonderful—
Australian-made Fur Felts,
fully guaranteed, 25/- and 30/
including the new spring color
“Acacia.” Also Woodrow,
Mossant, Borsalino and Stetson
at lowest standard prices.
SOCKS. —In case you have to
walk back from Flemington to
your hotel you’ll need good
socks. We’ll show you the
best Australian-made socks
we’ve ever seen —pure wool,
excellent quality, striking pat-
terns (but perfectly civilised),
3/9 per pair, 3 pairs for 10/0
SUITS. —You may realise with
a shock at the last moment that
your suit, after all, isn’t good
enough or new enough for Cup
Day. But never worry. Take
a taxi straight to Henry Buck s.
We can fit you perfectly on
the spot in as finely tailored a
suit as you ever wore. Three-
piece HB Lounge suits from
£5lO/-
Mail Orders.—Any of the above goods may be ordered by
mail. State size and preference as to color. We pay postage.
HENRY BUCKS
Of SWANSTON STREET
HENRY BUCK PTY., LTD., SWANSTON STREET, AT QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE, .CL


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Willy Willy”: In the Brisbane Museum
there is a fragment of an old canoe on which
can still be deciphered, scrawled in some
native pigment, a message that a white man
was held in captivity on Malaita Island,
one of the Solomon Group. The writer,
John Renton, was in 1868 a seaman on a
whaling-ship, who, with others of the crew,
seized a boat and deserted when the vessel
was cruising about the Kingsmill Islands.
Some of the boat’s crew died from priva-
tions ; a few reached Malaita Island, where
all but Renton were promptly killed and
eaten by the savages. His own life was
spared and he lived there for eight years, but
whenever a sail hove in sight he was kept
a close prisoner. He wrote many messages
on pieces of wood and placed them on out-
lying reefs. Finally the recruiting brig Bob-
tail Nag picked up one, and the captain
put in at the island and induced the natives
to release their captive in return for gifts.
Renton entered the Queensland Government
service as a recruiting agent of native labor,
and was killed two years later at Abo
Island.
“Attache” : The Siamese delegate told the
League of Nations that, though be spoke Eng-
lish better, he would address it in French ;
which recalls an incident in Disraeli’s
career. Dizzy’s spoken French was no better
than that of the Duke of Wellington, who
was once assured by a polite Frenchman
that he spoke the language avec courage.
There was therefore some perturbation when
on the eve of the Berlin Congress the
Prime Minister announced that he would
make his address in French. Odo Russell,
afterwards a great ambassador, tackled his
chief and craftily pointed out that it would
ill become such a master of the English
tongue to deprive the other delegates of an
intellectual feast; “to speak in French, with
which, my dear Lord, all are, like yourself,
/ familiar from childhood, would be to throw
away a golden opportunity.” Dizzy blandly
agreed, but Russell was never quite sure
whether the Old Man had swallowed the flat-
tery or taken the hint not to make an ass of
himself.
“Sansi” : The Privy Council has just com-
pleted a hearing full of interest to lawyer
and layman alike. It was an Indian will
case, the legator being a wealthy widow
living in “purdah.” A European doctor
called to examine her had to do so through
the curtain. The pulse extended to him
was that of a living woman, and that, and
the story told by the voice behind the cur-
tain, convinced him that he was right
in witnessing the woman’s will, signed before
his eyes with a thumb-print, as is the com-
mon custom thereabouts. It turned out that
the legator was dead at the time, and that
hand and voice belonged to her sister.
All would have gone as expected if the sister
hadn’t impressed her thumb-print as wit-
ness. That gave the whole show away.
“Corporal Once”: It happened when I
was a convalescent in a Blighty hospital.
Some other chaps and I were invited over
for afternoon tea at the mansion of one of
the local lords, and we were treated kindly
by the lord and his lady, and a dowager
lady—l think she was the lord’s mamma—
a grim dame, looked at us through a lorg-
nette with what was obviously intended to
be an amiable expression. In the course
of chat the junior lady asked if any of us
had come across one of the younger sons of
the family who had gone to Australia. As
it happened I had met him, and I said so,
adding “He’s on one of the big stations,
Boggabidoola in New South Wales, and
doing very well.” Evidently this younger
son wasn’t much en rapport with his family,
and they avidly lapped up all the details I
could furnish. The dowager, who was a
bit deaf, cocked a listening ear. “What’s
that about Cedric?” she barked. “He’s on
a big station in Australia, mother,” said
the lord loudly and patiently, “and doing
very well.” “A station !” ejaculated the old
lady; “well I never! But of course it was
bound to.be. Didn’t I tell you a thousand
times, Margaret [this to the junior lady],
that you shouldn’t have let him play so much
with trains?”
“Yarri” : Yarns of wooing the fickle voter
always bring recollections in western parts
of N.S.W. of “Baldy” (William) Davis, who
represented Bourke in four Parliaments. He
was first elected in 1889, and on one occa-
sion squeezed in by defeating Millen (after-
wards a Senator)'by eight votes. Baldy
was well known as a good mark at
his station homestead. All the floating
population of the western region remem-
bered him at election time, and gave
him a call, sometimes several calls. None
of them was turned away with empty bags,
and the largesse was accompanied by .sheaves
of political literature, to be distributed
along the tracks. Baldy also orated to all
and sundry while dipping up flour, tea and
sugar. It was said that he required an
extra load of these commodities during his
election campaign. The wandering bri-
gade’s support was called the tea-and-sugar
vote, and it was the tea-and-sugar vote that
outed Millen.
“Purple Brigadier”: When I went to
Bhong to act as adviser to the Sultan of
that warlike, populous, but incurably lazy
island kingdom, I found that cows were the
basis of currency. The islands with which
Bhong traded had, like Bhong, long ago
adopted that convention. There came a mur-
rain, and the cows of Bhong died like flies,
so that we. were in sore straits to pay for
our imports, and our domestic trade was
practically at a standstill. Asked for advice
by the Sultan, I suggested a change in the
basis of currency, but warned him that so
far as his foreign trade was concerned he
would have to get the other islands to agree,
and as there was no murrain amongst their
cows it would be a delicate matter. “Don’t
worry about that,” said his Highness. “I
have in my armory 300 Enfield rifles, and
in my army 1000 men who know how to
shoot. Now, tell me, what are the prin-
ciples of money as you dogs of unbelievers
understand them?” So I told him all I
knew about it, and he pursed his lips. “You
say the basis must be some commodity con-
taining much value in small bulk, univer-
sally prized, universally saleable. You say
gold is generally accepted as the most suit-
able commodity, but of course there are
exceptions. We and Jong and Wong and
Slong and all the islands of our group have
no use for gold. We cannot eat it nor make
it into clothing. Cows, as you say, are,
bulky, and anyhow we are short of cows,
and we have no mines yielding jewels or
precious metals. Now if we could make a
currency of something we have and which
the other islands have not —what then?”
“Excellent, your Highness,” said I; “but
it can’t be done, I’m afraid.” “Wliat about
salt?” was the rejoinder. “Last year we
sold all our salt to the other islands, taking
in return cows.” “Hence the murrain,” I
said bitterly; “and now most of the cows
you bought with the salt are dead.” “But,”
he pursued, “if we make salt the means of
barter, it must come back to us.” “We
have nothing else to export,” I explained,
“and if we send away this year’s salt all
our cows will die, and we shall have to live
on bananas and cocoanuts.” He pondered
this awhile, and then he, said, “Still, salt
shall be the currency. This year we export
nothing but rifles for six months —ten tons
of,.salt shall pay for one rifle. Then with
our surplus salt we shall buy cows.” “But
why arm your enemies, Highness?” I asked.
“Wait and see,” he said. And I did. Inside
three months the other islands, bucked up
no end by the possession of rifles, combined
and attacked us in force. We annihilated
the invaders; the Sultan became Emperor
of the whole group, and when I left cows
were once more the basis of currency.
“Te Anau”: The hit-and-run motorist has
been with us for 30 years or so, but the
world’s first hit-and-fly fatality happened
only the other day off N’Yark, when a sea-
plane cut a motor-boat in two and made off
without stopping. The only hit-and-sail
offence that I ever heard of was perpetrated
off Sydney in 1871, when the American
steamer Nevada holed the barque A. H.
Badger without-rendering any subsequent aid
or even reporting the incident on arrival in
port. The A. 11. Badger’s men were picked
up by another barque, and a law case,
brought in Adelaide, cost the offenders
against the unwritten law of the sea a fine
of £l6OO.
“J.1.M.” : My pal Bloggs, who has been driv-
ing a truck for a city firm for years and years,
is always “windy” of cars when about town
on foot. “Got no faith in drivers,” he told
me. “Why, when I got my license I’d never
driven a car —a cobber got the oil about
this job and rushed me up to the license
place in his old ’bus —and with the cop
makin’ me all flustered, I reckon I
didn’t do much what he told me except when
he said to step on it going down Grosvenor-
street. However, he said, ‘You’ll do; got
to rush some more through,’ and gave me
my ticket. I’ve been so busy driving since
I’ve had no time to learn.” I suggested that
he was doing all right. “Struth, yes,” he
said. “But first day I nearly bowled over the
traffic cop at Pitt and King streets, and
for weeks afterwards I hit something when
I was trying to dodge somebody. Take it
from me, you’re not safe with people that's
driving cars!”
“Lex”: Libel action after libel action has
gone against newspapers lately, and the
damages have been heavy. It is another
sign of the times. Slumps are periods of
deadly peril for capitalistic concerns, and
even for concerns that only look capitalis-
tic. In the first place people are more dis-
posed to go to law when money is tight.
Settlements are easily arrived at when money
is easily earned, few caring to waste time in
the courts. And, secondly, juries are much
more favorable to the financial under-dog,
who is usually the plaintiff, when times are
hai’d. Natural sympathy apart, some jurors
perhaps feel that it may be their turn next
to hump against the power of the purse.
“Flagwagger”: Nearly 15 years have
passed since we cleared out of Gallipoli, but
a Turkish cartridge nearly got a cobber of
mine the other day. He had brought home
a clip of five, left by Abdul when he was
ejected from Lone Pine. Collecting a lot of the
junk of his bachelor room, the Digger lighted
a bonfire in the back yard. Some sudden
explosions made him dive to earth almost
as quickly as in war days, hut he had already
narrowly escaped death, one of the five
bullets passing through his hat. It would
have been rotten luck had Abdul killed him
so long after shaking hands; but it wasn’t
that consideration that annoyed him. It
was the destruction of his cherished souvenir.
“Avon” : In Maoriland the tote is the only
permissible vehicle for turf wagers; book-
makers are outlaws. But the Post Office gets
a lot of its revenue from telegrams to the
McSliortoddses and the multifarious tele-
phones they instal; you can make a bet with
almost any tobacconist or billiard-saloon
keeper, and the Taxation Department doesn’t
ask questions about the (usually) per-
fectly honest returns of income sent in by
layers of the odds. Of course the lads in
the telegraph offices know what is what. On
a sunny morning last December one of the
heads at Auckland p.o. listened-in on the
office telephones, and copped five officers call-
ing up friends and distributing racing tips.
There was a magisterial inquiry and the men
were sacked. But it struck many members
of Parliament that sacking out of hand was
rather too tumultuous a punishment for
’phoning to a friend, especially when it
couldn’t be proved that the information trans-
mitted was stolen from telegrams. There
was a strong movement for reinstatement,
but after many long and heated debates in
the House the dismissals were confirmed by
32 votes to 31.
“Blue Rock”: The pig;eon.s of London, as
famous as those of Venice, have been con-
demned to death. In spite of furious pro-
tests the City of London authorities have
passed sentence on them because of the
damage they are doing to the ancient city,
and a force of trappers has been formed to
extirpate the birds. It isn’t for traffic
obstruction either, but for a strange and
little-known malfeasance. Their habit of
pecking cement and mortar for their lime
value from between stone and brick amounts
to a serious dilapidation of numerous build-
ings, with consequent high costs for annual
repair. It sounds almost incredible, but the
pigeon population of London is numbered by
millions, and the annual damage done is
staggering.
The Man Who Remembered.
GEORGE GARNER’S
GREAT STORY OF A SKIPPER CARRYING EX-
PLOSIVES DURING THE WAR, WHO LEARNS THAT HIS FAMILY HAS
BEEN WIPED OUT IN AN AIR-RAID IN ENGLAND.
ON the faces of the five men on the Man-
drake’s bridge there was rather more
pallor than the icy touch‘of the fog
justified, as the dark shape to starboard
faded into the prevailing grey. The chief
mate brushed the cold drops from his cheek
and stared again into the soundless mist.
“Wouldn’t it be worth sounding the siren
just once, sir?” he demand,e<s brusquely. “It’s
a question of risks. We must take the
lesser.”
‘‘Exactly.” Captain Pace’s words lately
came in short, snappy sentences which told
of prolonged nerve strain.
The mate was too well acquainted with
his commander to be rebuffed. “I mean, sir,
that is the. third of that damned convoy we
have just missed. We don't know how many
more there are coming, and if we sound the
siren”-
“We will give a useful hint to those subs,
that Sparks took a warning of three hours
ago.”
“The subs, might get a couple of ships—
not more in this fog. If we get bumped,
filled to the scuppers with T.N.T., how many
of the convoy will there be left, sir?”
“It depends on how many there are near
us,” replied the captain shortly. He walked
away to the bridge wing and stood, a dark
grey figure against the paler grey of the fog.
After a minute he moved back to the mate.
“This will lift within the hour, Mr. Hayes,”
he said almost apologetically. “We must bo
nearly through them, and they will be on
the lookout as much as possible without our
howling to them. It’s not only their safety
I’m thinking of, it’s our own—and this load
of T.N.T. We can’t afford to lose stuff just
at present.” He stopped abruptly as though
run down, and, leaning against the weather
dodger, gazed again into the blankness of
the mist. His head pivoted round. “It’s
lifting, Mr. Hayes,” he barked.
With the swift unexpectedness of the
North Atlantic fogbanks, the mists were
swirling into tall pale ghosts, stalking one
another and drawing their skirts tighter as
they moved. To the north-cast a broad sea-
lane of slaty water opened up: a long low
shape, slid across it.
“Destroyers. There’s the escort, sir.”
“Ours or theirs?”
As if to answer, the mist swirled away,
leaving only the south-west shrouded in
angry cloud. To starboard a dozen or
fifteen weirdly streaked and raddled
steamers plunged along in some loose
sort of formation; others of the outbound
convoy which had drawn ahead in the fog
were indefinite shapes mist shrouded. A
couple of hundred yards to port of the Man-
drake a destroyer raced through the waves,
throwing spray high over her funnels.
Another appeared and disappeared a few
points off the bow.
“Only' two!” exclaimed Hayes aghast.
“Not enough for a munition ship these days,
sir.”
“There are a couple more to the north,”
replied the skipper. “You are getting
nervy, Mr. Hayes !”
The mate did not answer. He saw the
others of the escort now; just a pair of
pointed hows butting through the waters as
they came directly towards the Mandrake
at full speed. But what he was thinking
was that Captain Pace had small reason to
chide others for nerves. Usually a restrained,
tactful type of man, lately the skipper had
been decidedly raw. It would have been
strange if he had not shown signs of strain
after the gruelling they had endured since
leaving Canada with their jumpy cargo.
Some demon of mischief seemed to pursue with
a determination to send them aloft. They
had narrowly avoided collision with fishing-
smacks in a mist off the banks. And twenty-
four .hours later they had been gunned by a
long-distance raider. A hellish half-hour
relieved by the appearance of a cruiser. These
were, the days when the undersea raiders
roved ravenously like balked wolves. A T.N.T.
ship would be a fat prey for them indeed.
The anxious days without an escort had
scarcely crawled past when this second fog
had swooped down to conceal an outbound
convoy of some thirty ships with almost
appalling results.
“Well, thank Heaven they are here!”
growled Hayes. “That fellow is coming
alongside,” he added.
Captain Pace picked up a megaphone and
went to the port bridge-wing. The destroyer,
one of the big rakish craft which had lately
appeared in the escorts, shot towards the
Mandrake as though ramming furiously, but
turned squarely alongside at about eight
fathoms.
“Why aren’t you zigzagging?” demanded
her commander aggressively.
“Why? You didn’t expect me to zigzag
through a convoy in a fog, did you?”
The captain checked his rising voice. The
lieutenant was quite right. What was mak-
ing him so touchy these days? He had been
selected for this work because he was so
self-controlled. “Pace, of the Mandrake —
he’ll pull it through,” they said. “We got in
a difficult position,” he explained apologeti-
cally. “Any orders?”
“Keep your course as before, but for the
Lord’s sake get zigzagging again; you’re a
fair mark. Don’t slacken off yonr watch at
all; there were subs, to the so’th’ard last
night. May have wandered this way.” The
lieutenant turned to give an order and the
lithe vessel snaked carefully nearer. “Here’s
some mail and newspapers for you,” he called,
and a small bundle soared into the air and
fell with a thud on the fore-deck.
The captain lowered the megaphone and
smiled. It was like a breath from home to
get the mail. He could almost smell the
English coast and feel the flagstones of
Balham under his boots.
“Any news?” he shouted as the destroyer
sheered off.
“Nothing special. Bad air-raid night be-
fore we sailed. Get it in papers.” The
lieutenant’s voice died and his command went
to join the rest of the escoa’t in their rest-
less nosing around the ship for the dangerous
game which lurked in the depths.
v ’Nother air-raid ! That’s a swine’s game, '
remarked Hayes.
Captain Pace took the bundle of papers
which a seaman had brought up to the
bridge. He glanced hesitatingly around and
over the sea. The only sign of the fog was
a dark curtain in the far south-west. Though
in all other directions both sea and sky
were a uniform flat grey, the air was clear
and visibility was good. The rails and
stanchions of the Mandrake were sharp-cut
against the melancholy background. She was
a little live world by herself. Away there,
the destroyers, grey also, prowled restlessly;
hunting.
“Keep the men alert, Mr. Hayes,” said the
skipper. “Better make it half-hourly reliefs.”
He stepped eagerly into the cliarthouse and
cut the lashings of the bundle. The news-
papers were packed tighly around a batch of
letters. Pace tossed the papers aside with the
briefest of glances. Yet one headline con-
tinued to stare up at him: “Fearful Air-
raid on Southend —158 killed.” There
was a smaller line; something about Women
and Children. There generally was. The
damn cowards! He could stand the sybs.
which threatened himself; but this bombing
of families in their houses —it: was damn
savagery!
As he glanced through the letters he threw
them into small heaps. Here was his lot,
tied together by themselvesi, as befitted the
master’s correspondence. A couple of long
official envelopes stamped with the company’s
house-flag, and two private letters. He took
up the last almost caressingly. One was
addressed in his wife’s hand ; the other bore
a huge scrawly writing which spelt Mandrake
“Mandrikke.” He smiled. Elsie always in-
sisted on posting her letters to daddy in
envelopes of her own preparation. Thanks to
her mother’s subsequent (and secret) sub-
editing of the address, they always reached
him.
He did not open them yet. Perhaps his
sense of duty made him take the official
correspondence first; perhaps there was a
subtle pleasure in tantalising himself with
the others. There were emotions in him
which his outward quiet hid from others.
They never plumbed the deeps in him, though
he was notoriously a family man, and they
easily led him on at the mess-table when
they talked of home life and then sat and
grinned slily while he expounded his ideals
at length. He should never have been a
sailor, they said: too much of a family man.
Yet, perhaps that was what steadied him.
Pace, of the Mandrake, eh? The man they
trusted T.N.T. ships to.
Chuckling at the thought he ripped open
the latest postmarked of the official
envelopes. It might be urgent; it was cer-
tainly less bulky and would be easily
skimmed. There was just a single sheet,
written, not typed.
“Dear Pace,” (Rather more intimate
than usual —Maxwell, the Marine Super’s,
writing.) “To save you, I trust, the shock
of receiving the terrible news unexpectedly
on your arrival, I am taking on myself the
difficult task”
What was the man talking about? So far
Captain Pace had run on without under-
standing, but somehow now he could not read
it properly. His hand was shaking. Some-
thing was swelling to bursting-point inside
his breast. The chartroom was swaying
dizzily around him. He made himself read
again; trying to believe there was a different
meaning from the one he knew was there.
An air-raid. Yes, an air-raid on South-
end. (Well, he knew that. But they didn’t
live in Southend. They lived in Balham.)
Gone. on a visit. (O God ! Emily, her
sister, lived there. God, she hadn’t gone
there! With little Elsie? No, it could not
be true.) A bomb. House completely shat-
tered.... completely shattered. No trace
Pace’s cold hands relaxed. Then he
gripped the edge of the table and glared
wolfislily round. There was a destroyer in
line with the chartroom door: prowling
about; prowling to kill. Kill? Yes, kill
them! Kill every one of the cursed race!
If he could help do it! He shook. Tried
to control himself. Choked.
- He caught sight of the newspapers again.
The first fierce passion had passed, and he
reached for them —he was Pace; steady, reli-
able Pace. He had had nerves a bit lately,
but had control again now. This thing had
not happened. Not to his wife not to —to
little Elsie! There were their letters, writ-
ten —written a week ago. Before
Another spasm passed and he read. There
were horrible details, journalistically told.
He passed then to a list of names in black
type. He could not see them very clearly,
his eyes were blurring them. There was a
heading:
KILLED.
The names followed. Women —children —•
strange names. The list shortened:
Mrs. Henry Pace and child.
jjc -!* $ -5-
The mate, glancing through the glass of
the chartroom, wondered why the Old Man
stood such a long time staring out to the
sea. There was nothing wrong, was there?
Hayes glanced round the lookouts; con-
sidered the zigzagging (it was being done
according to the Old Man’s own pattern,
anyway). The destroyers were nosing
briskly about, leaving no approach to the
ship uncovered for long. Perhaps there was
a wigging in the correspondence. Pace did
not worry about wiggings, as a rule.
He came out to the bridge at last, and the
mate looked at him squarely—and was
shocked. He was quite calm, but his face
was grey and drawn. His clothes seemed
to hang on his figure as though he had
shrunk to limpness. The years had swept
(Continued on next page.)


RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE, SCIATICA
If you are a victim of Rheumatism,
dreadful Backache, if you are feeling
worn-out, hating work and with no
zest for pleasure, your strength just
“ giving out,” if you are having bad
nights, it is practically certain that
Kidney Trouble is the cause of your
serious condition.
o
<0
Ci
This illustration shows the excess of
uric acid crystals formed in the blood.
These lodge in joints and muscles and
set up the inflammation that causes
the dreadful pain you refer to as
rheumatism, lumbago, backache, joint
pains, etc.
RATIONAL TREATMENT
As explained above, De Witt’s Pills
constitute the ideal treatment for
uric acid ailments because they go to
the root of the trouole—the. kidneys.
De Witt’s Pills have no effect on any
organs of the body except on the
kidneys. The ingredients have been
specially compounded for this purpose.
Try De Witt’s Pills now.
The kidneys, in health, act as the
great cleansing and purifying centre
for every drop of the body’s blood
supply. They should filter and
pass out from the system any excess
of uric acid and other pain-giving
poisons. When they fail in their
duty, your health fails and pain
and suffering result.
As long as those harmful bacteria,
uric acid or poison (toxins) are in
the blood you will suffer. Oint-
ments used from outside will not
help you. There is only one thing
to do and that is to prompt the
kidneys to clear out from the body
the pain-giving impurities, and this
we tell you clearly De Witt’s Pills
will do.
It is no use doping the system
with heart-exciting drugs, pick-me-
ups or purgatives, when the trouble
lies in your kidneys. Get a bottle
of De Witt’s Pills to-day and start
to end yonr suffering and build
strength, vigour. and vitality. De
Witt’s Pills, because of their pop-
ularity, have been imitated. Other
kidney pills there may be, but
for your own health’s sake, and
your pocket’s sake, refuse all im-
itations. Ask for and see you get
“ De Witt’s.”
Remember, every bottle of De
Witt’s Pills sold bears a guarantee,
and is backed by recommendations
of tens of thousands of cured suffer-
ers, many who have come through
years of untold agony to per-
fect health. The price Of the
usual size box is 3/6 only.
Surely the expenditure of so
small a sum is well repaid by
the end of chronic suffering
and the return of splendid
vigour and vitality.
The following are just two of the letters constantly received
WEEKS OF PAIN—QUICK RELIEF
Writing - from 117 Warren Rd., Marrick-
ville, New. South Wales, Miss .Beryl
Wallace says “ I suffered so badly with
pains in my joints that I was compelled
to give up my work and for nine weeks I
remained at home, in terrible pain all the
time. Finally, I got a box of De Witt’s
Pills from the chemist, and by the time I
had taken six of the pills my pain had
gone. I can honestly recommend De
Witt’s Pills to anyone.”
NEVER IN BETTER HEALTH \
Mrs. Dorothy M. Ren tel, “Riverlea,”
Glen Forbes, G-ippsland, Victoria, says :
“For six years I suffered very badly
from headaches, dizziness, and kidney
trouble. I tried many prescriptions but
could ffet no relief. I saw an advertise-
ment about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills and decided to try them. I have
been taking - them for some little while,
and I have never been in better health in
all my married life.”
\\AA l\t\l 111///
IDeWITTS
X
X'
m
Invaluable in cases of
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA
LUMBAGO, BACKACHE
PAINS IN JOINTS, and all
Kidney and Bladder Troubles
down upon him in half an hour. He handed
Hayes a bundle of letters with a hand that
strove vainly to steady.
“You distribute them, Mr. H'ayes. I—l’ve
had bad news.” He tried to add something,
but failed. Handing an open newspaper to his
officer instead, he turned and walked from
the bridge.
Hayes watched him, half-ready to go to
his assistance. It seemed doubtful whether
he could safely- negotiate the steps. But
Pace, though he moved slowly, went mechani-
cally down the familiar steps and dis-
appeared. The mate glanced hastily round
the sea, lifted the newspaper, caught the
headline and read hastily till he understood.
Hayes quietly took command of the ship,
and her well-disciplined routine went on.
The grey sea altered scarcely at all, but
as night drew near the sky cleared, and for
a few brief minutes the sun lit the Man-
drake and softened the dulness of the drab
destroyers. The steward had taken tea
quietly to the captain’s cabin and left it
without a word. Equally quietly he' had
taken the untouched tray away. But the
word had passed swiftly-round the ship, and
there was a tendency for . the crew to move
stealthily and to speak softly and only when
necessary. There was something different
in this from the rawness of war to which
they were accustomed.
The mate was preparing himself to report
at the captain’s cabin when Pace came back
to the bridge. There was a stiffness and
aloofness about him which forbade' any word
of sympathy or even faint reference to his
tragedy, but Hayes felt a relief to see the
skipper taking the reins again.
“Everything all right, Mr. Hayes?”
“All 0.K., sir. Sparks has had the usual
sprinkling of warnings but nothing near our
course ”
Pace glanced at the sky. “We will keep
zigzagging through the night. Visibility
going to be too good to take risks. You
turn in now; you’ve had a long stretch.”
“That’s all right sir”
The captain had walked away to port.
~ 1 . , „ , . , ,Y
,? e a l n °w. whispered the mate
to the third officer whose watch it was. I
told you you could rely on old Pace to find
an , ,f, en , el ‘ „
Its the steady ones often get upset
most, responded the third grudgingly: his
own estimate of the position was not turn-
ing out too accurate. . .
“You don’t still think I should pinch his
gun, do you?” demanded the mate teasingly.
“It’s nothing to joke about,’ snapped the
third. ‘I was going by what I should feel,
anyway.”
The return of the captain cut short the
discussion, and Hayes slipped from the
bridge. He admitted to himself that a gre'at
anxiety had been lifted from his mind by
the reappearance of the Old Man. This
thing coming along on top of the protracted
nerve-strain of the voyage might well have
caused a nasty mess. Strong character, old
Pace.
“We seem to be through our troub —
through our dangers, I mean, sir,” remarked
the third in what he tried to make a casual
voice. “I mean, they are good destroyers
they have sent us—newest types, I mean to
say.”
He decided that his remarks were lame,
but did not venture to try to improve them,
The captain, paused beside him and stared
at the warships. “Yes,” he said. “Yes.
We have to pull through with it now,
Mr. Peters,” he added, very deliberately.
“Not much fear now, sir.” The third
spoke with more assurance and quite cheer-
folly. “That fellow’s a bit uneasy, though.”
He indicated‘the destroyer on the starboard
bow, which had turned sharply to run off
farther from them. With his head turned
thus from the skipper he ventured to go on.
“I—l’ve three kiddies of my own, sir, I
l tnow what it means.”
Pace did not answer. He stood quite still
watching the roving destroyer. But the
words had broken the thin crust under which
he had managed to confine his pain. He felt
the raw horror of having to stand up here
and pull his ship through when he did not
even, wish to live. There was a steady in-
crease in the pounding of his heart till the
blood roared in his ears. Pie had to live
to pull liis ship through! So far he could
trust himself. _ He had not even locked the
drawer in which in the end he had thrown
back his revolver. But his soul still cried
out for the easier way. The trail of a
torpedo seen for a moment; the explosion;
then •••••it would be better 1 , easier, more
honorable than the revolver. And he could
£° ? n them with clean hands and a pure
soa i- ~ , . ‘ ... ~
Even these others his would not be the
responsibility. It would be the Germans,
e Y wl ™ , had , ta * e “ froa ? him .. Mary—and
® lsie - Why should the others cling to their
anyway Why - should The third?
A hey lmd children. Perhaps in the next an-
raid Diey would lose them. Those air-raids
damn them! Cowards! Cowards!
himself again and again that he
was_ quite calm. That he just looked facts
m mu? C -NT m S a^ways - ... ,
This T.N.T.—perhaps that would be used
w'n a * r i hombs to kill- women and children.
Well, he would guard it till they reached
p ort . after that he would—would !—— God,
” ha ,-’ would he do tlien?
< Tm going round the ship,” he said
sharply, and turned away.
The third looked after him and shook liis
head. “H e ’ s . taking it hard. I wonder if
j shouldn’t have said anything?”
Before leaving the bridge Pace glanced
hito the chartroom. Someone had put his
letters carefully at the end of the table.
j de f e Jt a shock as he saw that he had left
them all, there.' Stepping inside, he took the
smaller ones and thrust them into his pocket;
Although he tried not to look, he .caught a
glimpse of the scrawled “Mandrikke” on the
thumbed and crumpled one. It stabbed him
again. He would never read them now—
never!
Hurrying . from the room with liis chin
sunk into ?his bridge coat he stumbled down
to the lower deck. There was really no-
thing for him to see to. He should be on
the bridge, if anywhere. But he always
made sure. There might be something wrong
which would only appear in a critical
moment.
The third was right; he had to pull them
through, however foolish it was.
He went right aft to the poop. The gun-
ners were awake by their piece, and the
lookouts aft were alert. Some thought him
fussy to have lookouts there at all. Never
mind, he always brought his ship through.
As he came for’ard on the starboard side
the moon peeped above the eastern horizon.
It was a big moon, only a day past the full.
It would be the bright moonlight nights
which had given the aircraft their oppor-
tunity. But for the moon, Mary—Elsie....
In his agony he stood on the lonely deck
and clenched his fist at the rising disk.
Across the sea towards him stretched a
path of silver, and in the midst of it, by
the black outline of his fist, moved a feather
of white! Pace did not need to note the
thin vertical line behind which it travelled
to know what it was. In the same moment
the leading destroyer opened fire.'
Pace raced for the bridge, his eyes in the
direction of the periscope. He could not
see it now; probably it had dived. The
destroyer was leaping through the water
still blazing away. A babble of cries from
above announced the excitement of the Man-
drake’s lookouts. The crew were pouring
from' the fo’c’s’le.
Pace reached the bridge with his heart
beating madly. The third had acted promptly
and the ship was now broadside on to the
menace, but still turning. There was no
sign of a torpedo. Perhaps the sub. had
been badly placed for a shot; perhaps she
had hesitated.
“They’re not bombing her,” the third was
. exclaiming hysterically.
“No, not with us so near,” replied the
captain. His face was flushed and he held
the '.bridge rail firmly while his eyes searched
the. water. “Hold her at that, Quarter-
master.” ' o :
“My God! If they torpedo us!” The
third had some difficulty in speaking clearly
. “They won’t do that.” It was the mate
who spoke as he reached the top of the
bridge ladder. “They’ll know what we
carry. One ship—-and such an escort. They’d
blow themselves up too.”
“They* might think it worth it,” remarked
the captain thoughtfully.
Two of the destroyers weredashing
furiously to and fro. The gunfire had stopped.
“She’ll-pop up somewhere• else,said, the
third anxiously. “Keep your eyes skinned.”
“She can’t make any speed under water,’
reassured the mate. “We have the heels of
her easy.”
“Sub. on the port b-o-iv!” wailed the
crow’s-nest lookout.
“Damn.! It’s another!”
“We’ve hit a nest,” snapped the mate.
“Good man, that lookout. Who is it?”
said the captain. “There she is. Hard-a-port,
Quartermaster.” Like a hunted stag, .the
Mandrake staggered over as she turned and
steadied on a new course. '■ *
All eyes were straining to the new menace
towards which the other- destroyers • were
racing. Only the captain looked ahead and
saw the periscope of the third submarine
rise right in front of the Mandrake. It was
no more than 200 yards away and the com-
mander of the U-boat could have had no
idea of the dangerous position in which he
had placed himself. In a minute or less
the Mandrake would be upon him; he had
no time to dive again before he was rammed.
That would be the end for them both. T.N.T.
brooks no shocks, especially such a blow as
comes from ramming a submarine.
In the, few moments of understanding the
captain realised that he alone had seen. It
was a gift from God, All the voyage God
had been trying to call him home to his
dear ones. Like a fool he had been striving
to ignore it and live. Now at last he saw
clearly. There was nothing ugly about
the black object in the path ahead; only
peace, re-union, Home!
“My God!” said the third. “If they’d got
us! I’ve three kiddies at home.”
It could have taken only a moment, but
. Pace seemed to himself to stand there for
hours and think things out. He had agreed
with the third they must pull through. And
suddenly something seemed to give way. He
had no longer any grief; no longer did lie
know tragedy. He had become just the
skipper!
“Hard-a-port, . man! Hard! Hard! For
your life!”
The harsh strength of his shout brought
them round, but they stood yammering help-
lessly like children. Only the quartermaster
responded fiercely, in animal obedience to the
whip of the order. But they saw it now.
The swirl as the periscope dived frantically,
going ahead at the same time.
For a few seconds the bow of the Man-
drake hung above it. Then it fell slightly
away ; nevertheless they stood frozen, waiting
for the thud which must come.
But the ship went quietly on, rising on
the swell without a jar; her bow still swung
to starboard. .
“How—how did you see it, sir?” queried
the mate in a queer high voice.
The captain was standing rigid. “I—l
expected it,” he said.
He walked away and looked back. The
destroyers were snaking along in line abreast,
screening the munition ship from a follow-
ing attack.
“We’ll keep this course for a few hours
and then work round,” he said. “Get below,
Mr. Hayes; I’ll stay here all night.”
Burying liis chin in his coat-collar he
paced to the wing. There was a strange hol-
lowness, in his breast. He could not tell yet
what it meant.
Forgetting and Unforgot.
We who must work in the mines
Have forgotten to sing
Of the corn and the fruit and the vines
And the harvesting.
And our eyes than can see in the dark
Are blind in the light,
And. bur eyes that can see in the dark
Cannot stand upright;
But we cannot forget in the pen
The vision of men,
And we cannot forget in the gloom
The sun and the bloom,
And still, while we work at the coal,
Thoughts fly to the soul.
England.
D. P. McGUIRE.


spprfWT
&mMk.
:Jgii
■ '
iM
■
if!
,,-,-
.
as
tett
HR
J $ n&l-'jd
mm
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office-—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185- 1 /.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Bates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PR
A 65%
THE
OGRESS
increase in 5 months,
NET SALES OF
%
kfgk
fgkfg
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA'S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICE,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)„
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Austj.
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2,
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Clk mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State,
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Rep.esentative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cbc fldwrtiter
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies o] «THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Business Sagging?
ADVERTISE
IN
“Cbe telegraph”
BRISBANE
OR IF YOU ALREADY DO SO
Increase
Your
Space
PUBLICITY IS
THE LIFE-BLOOD OF TRADE
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once 0 you
read it you will never be without' it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
To keep
smiling &
vigorous-
KEEP
HEALTHY
Health is the key to happiness. Radiant
smiles and high spirits speak of a system
vital, active and clean. Health depends
on that, you know! Once you become
constipated, wastes and poisons vitiate
the blood, and the system slowly becomes
sluggish, inactive. Eyes get discoloured—
tongue becomes furred—the complexion
shows sallow; headaches and biliousness follow.
If you suspect auto-toxication. is ruining your
health, take
BEECHAMS
PILLS
'WORTH A GUINEA
A BOX'
“WEEKLY COURIER”
CHRISTMAS ANNUAL
Published Launceston, Tasmania, November 5, 1930.
This popular illustrated Tasmanian Christmas Annual is again full of
interesting and beautiful reproductions in three and two colors and double
tones, giving delightful gravure effects.
The cover is a striking example of Tasmanian beauty printed in four colors.
Orders should be given immediately to Gordon & Gotch (A/sia), Ltd., all
States. PRICE 1/6
Published by W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD.,
71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £. .
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
kfgk
o
a*
o 0 ’
o<&
+\o /S 6
iie v . 4 o
♦♦fc'VoA 0 " ss
#•
• ’ .. •' ({//>
• * o<


■.X.;rws*®
o
M
&
dS
3*?
m
||a
(3$
II
<
\
Ol(J fioutl
il
fc*£^
W?\
X
tP>V;
mp
oo"
feC:;,
m
cnV
\jV*b
&ftH
bb
*
bo
pft'-
eb?
Stc<\’
\ob
Ah'
tb
tbe
ftb
C^ A
b ete
Yye* e
\b s
tbe
tf*
tb e
es>
eft*'
b et .
o
Ae*
oe
b'
tb e
Vvcte
lb»
es 1 -
ftb
tbe
\vO«
vet
tb e
tot
st°°
abt
sVj
bY
sS/b'
V\s
be
ets
\tb
\b l
\b&»
V v t\et
Co
5?
vbe
O\o
t vte
ftt'j
Ae s ,
tft^ 0
\V e
fc*A
to"
tbe
xvft'i
tbe
be te
vtv^
ob
b et
eVv
b 0
cbj
tb e
bt
bb
tbe
btb 6
tb
o* 1
ties
\jS s
tb
\obbfe>
ses
A^ c
ft"
Nb
Vftteb
tb e
Wvft' 1
sftb s
sftb
e«
Alt'
ib e
tt°Y
vi e
o'ft
b* e
tt"V
tot
etv
bb
tc. e
lb
\>ftb&
c o
SO
tie"
tbe
eb"
tob
cV
te
Ob'
fcb lS
Bt°
sVi
ssb'
tbe
vib'
tbe
Go
eb
■VI s
tbe
tb
be
tftttb
bb
tbe
e cts
ftb
\ftt
tb' s
ob"
oSY
O"
Y:
ness
tbe
beets
cos'
nb
Go
tbe
ibb
be
cM
tbe
vvss
lb
to
Avse
\V'
sob
seft
be
teft
tftS ,
Aebo^
vbS
bb
ob*
vet
*Y
bftb
est
bb e
tbb
bbt
bbs
tb' s
sb
bb
ecte
tbe
tbe
bft s ''’
e*Y
tie
tbe
tb
tb
ftb
bo'
Sob
\ft ce
tb e
e\ c °
ttte
tb
tft^°^
l^ot
N v°b
tn
bob
\vftS
nb
b>ft
\t
CO
tbe
c o)n*
aUty
tbe
qu
Sfl es>
Co* 11
iv<*o
Old
fit
an se
fy:.
pec
iboid
V^oi
u’ tJ
tbe
tV*
btio
n f )
sp ll
tft! 1
tiob
a
a
fgjk
i
mi
