

A
CX-C
W&
• Si
as
jmm II
$39
B- ?$* V,
fSiE 5^
) '\Ja
Wm
m
0
mm
m
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
JOHNNIE WALKED
- MASTER of ARTS
A ‘fresher’ in 1820... a refresher in
1930, Johnnie Walker has graduated
with honours from the University
of Good Fellowship—Master of the
Arts of Hospitality and Popularity.
Johnnie Walker, M.A. ‘Mine’s
Another’—such a degree of universal
favour never has been achieved
by any other whisky. And under
his ‘s-topper’ is the reason why.
NIE WAbKER
Johnnie Walker has the largest sale of any
whisky in the world. Now added to the
innate virtues of this fine Scotch the
flavour and purity, tke mellow maturity—
is the further advantage of the new stopper
• • . opened with a twist of the fingers.
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
LONDON, AND KILMARNOCK
The Bulletin
%\AuAewvcc Cuyiykd IPcuj&o 8, 18.
Vol. 51.—N0. 2621.
Wednesday, May 7, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Why worry thro’ the winter with a grouch,”
A sad-eyed peever, sulky and morose?
Why sit around or by a fire crouch
While wise ones take “The Little Daily Dose”?
Why not be “0.K.,” confident and gay,
Instead of having lung-woes to endure?
Why not begin the wiser way to-day
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure?
Stance
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please, send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
M" Address
5.8.316
JLYSAGHT 7
o
8
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
■ W >V
rn*
v *-
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says:
“ A few drops
of my Worcest-
ershire Sauce
served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
unexpected
guests.”
Posed by
Victor McLaglen
and Clyde Cook,
noted “ Fox
Players.
m
mm
XWw-
%
1
sm» i
hen I
Nerves
■. I-: 'i X "K'*! -
are
and Jangled
Bad nerves are dangerous—apt to produce hasty
actions regretted a lifetime through. Keep calm.
Keep your grip. Keep your friends. Take “Cream
of Yeast.” It steadies the nerves surelv, quickly
and safely. Makes you feel Better and Brighter in
a few minutes. Relieves headache; calms upset
stomach; assures healthy sleep at night. Try it'
Your chemist or store sells “Cream of Yeast”—
24 tablets, 1/11; 48, 3/6 ; 125 for 5/9. This is
the modern way to get well and to keep well.
Contains no iron to hurt digestion. Don’t put this
paper down before deciding to let it help you as it
has helped thousands, luanv famous people included!
Truly, “CREAM OF YEAST is LIFE!”
(ream o/Yeast
BIfWRE S CLOTH
(Begd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “BIEEMYRE’S CLOTH” be-
ing our EegistPred Trade Mark the follow-
ing are also our Eegistered Trade Marks,
each complete in itself.
“L" ‘‘OM’’ “M" “N”
“BX” ”H” ”K” and ”S”
Any one of these marks will protect our
mutual interests.
GODROCK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydne.', N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
é
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ê
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young,
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
ë
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
«t tbs Lungs.
The Red Page
The Library and Corruption (2)
The thing our censors go after in art is
obscenity. Unfortunately for the easy and
just working of such censorship obscenity
in art, is as hard to define as truth. Books
that, could be carted before one magistrate
and rated obscene would be classed by
thousands of members of the legal profes-
sion as the noblest flowering of humanity.
A bookseller who sets himself out to
catch the pennies of adolescence by stock-
ing, as his principal line, suggestive writings
and advertising their suggestiveness will, so
long as society keeps sex among its taboos,
deserve to be arrested, gaoled and maybe
even burnt with his wares. His influence
is horrible, not because his tripe will be
likely to make perverts, but because it in-
flames the already perverted. The man
who says, as great men have been saying in
Australia lately, that he would not put this
or that book into the hands of his daughter
clearly throws at the young lady a very
dirty insult. Young ladies fathered by such
fathers not uncommonly manage to grow
into women whose writings go enthusiasti-
cally on to the Index.
But the world is populated neither by old
rakes of 90 nor young ladies of easily pro-
voked accessibility. There is a tremendous
number who, having early discovered that
most critics are humbugs, have spent a
good deal of the allotted span in finding
out for themselves the sort of literary fare
that suits their palate. Occasionally one
of these lets out a righteous bellow, as in
“Books and Persons” (p. 175-76): —
You can always leave what you don’t want. All
these people who are (alleged to be) crying out for
a censorship—they’re merely idle! If they really
want a censorship they ought to exercise it them-
selves. Robinson has a daughter [just as these
people have daughters in Sydney and other parts
of this south land of the Holy Spirit], and he is
shocked at the idea of her picking up a silly sham-
erotic novel by a member of the aristocracy, or a
first-rate beautiful thing by George M00re.... Am
I then to be deprived of the chance of studying the
inar.e psychology of the ruling classes or of enjoving
the work of a great artist? Be d—d to Robinson’s
daughter. I don’t care a bilberry for her or her
innocence. I’m not going to be responsible for
Robinson’s daughter. Let Robinson, if he is such
a fool as to suppose that daughters can be spoiled
by bad books or good books —let him look after
her himself! Let him establish his confounded
censorship at his own front door. Let him do
his own work. Nothing but idleness—that’s what’s
the matter with him! The whole project that
Robinson suggests is simply monstrous. He might
just as well say that because his daughter has a
weak digestion and an unruly appetite for rich
cake, therefore all the cake shops in Londpn must
be shut up. Let him keep her out of the cake
shops.
In Sydney there is not even the excuse
of a Robinson making open demands for
a.- tightening of the censorship. There is
simply secretive uncertainty, with the
booksellers almost literally quaking in fear
that they will be the next to be classed as
vicarious seducers of innocent maids. There
is no clearly defined Index; there is merely
an indefinite belief that is yet definite
enough to make them “get rid of” the
Arabian Nights. It is preposterous. But-
it is the literary censorship which Sydney
is content to accept.
The tripiest American moving picture is
examined by a board, including a professor
and other personages of note, all highly
paid for the work. The “trade” writhes
under this board’s decisions, possibly be-
cause salacity and big moving-picture
dividends are not peculiarly unrelated. But
the majority of people accept it as a
wholesome and sensible institution. And who
and what and where are our censors upon
art? Are they a board of even alleged
experts? They are the Customs Depart-
ment and the police. And Sydney is con-
tent, to have it so, or rather Sydney is too
indifferent to art to bother.
Lately our censors have visited even the
Public Library. They did not, I am in-
formed, visit the Mitchell Library, and this
is most important. Anyone with an atom
of intelligence might well be excused. for
shouting “Fools!” against the perpetrators
of this stupid crusade. But the heresy
hunters show that they are not fools by
keeping away from the Mitchell Library.
Anybody who has read in Australian
literature, which is the Mitchell’s specialty,
knows thoroughly well that nothing has
been written in Australia that would be
put on the Index of even Boston, U.S.A.
Therefore, these crusading censors are
merely using commonsense in keeping away
from this Mausoleum of the most Eminently
Respectable literature on the face of the
earth.
I do not put that to our credit. Practi-
cally every writer who has any claim to have
written great literature, from the compilers
of the Bible (embracing William Tyndale,
whose translation of the Gospel, by the
way, was the first book burnt in England)
down to the Hardy of yesterday and the
Norman Douglas and the James Joyce of
to-day, have not been able to avoid ex-
pressing as a part of their unquestionable
art things which, in their own separate
times or throughout time, have been held
taboo by the sort of people who have im-
proved on the Ten Commandments by
making them ten thousand, and would make
them fifty thousand if they could.
No, Australia has little to feel proud of
in the uniform respectability of her national
library. Admittedly we need time, but
that makes no difference to the fact that
we have not yet started to use time com-
paratively speaking. I use the itali6s be-
cause I strive not to be mistaken by
sensitive good people. To the best of my
knowledge almost every line written so
far by Australians has been free from the
slightest hint of overstepping the taboo.
We have to go to a visitor like D. H.
Lawrence to find anything our guardians
could possibly object to. And we have to
go to the same source for the higher litera-
ture also. I do not disparage Lawson—to
my mind the only world writer, because the
only true innovator, an innovator in essence,
that we have so far produced. I
admire the splendid fight in the cause
of art that Katharine Susannah Prichard
has made. I am proud that. Australia pro-
duced “A House Is Built” and that “The
Passage” has a quality of prose beauty
rare in fiction-writing anywhere. These do
well; but better could be done. And I am
hurt by this stupid censoring because I
believe it must discourage and put off
that better. For what is it that is censored
but human ideas? What is the censor-
ship of .these but a denial of freedom
of thought? And what must be the logical
effect, however indirectly it works, of such
a denial? Surely it is obvious. Australian
writers never have had much liberty, and
they will not have until they win it for
themselves in a fight against the noisy
moralists screaming in the front line
trenches and the great national indifference
stagnant in the supports.
It is here that the menace of this ridicu-
lous censoring lies: that it is a further
cramping of freedom of thought, which, if
permitted by smugness or indifference to
continue, will retard, by the force of psy-
chological environment, the writing of
Literature in this country.
CECIL MANN.
Hacks, etc., Wanted
If the tariff on books gets retired its
demise will not be without precedent. That
does- sometimes happen to ideas distin-
guished for their prime foolishness.. The
absurdity of keeping out what it would
hardly pay us to produce at twice the im-
ported cost is apparently so utter that even
the majority acknowledge it. Yet the pro-
posal wasn’t wrong in principle; it simply
aimed too high.
To nine people out of ten six-shilling
novels are already luxuries, and the small-
est tariff burden could not be imposed upon
them without seriously restricting their
sales-field. But most Australians read only
a small proportion of novels. There are
far better sellers than “best sellers”—cheap
British fiction magazines, cheap American
ditto, violet weeklies (“servant-girl fiction”),
boys’ and girls’ school and sport story-
papers, detective “libraries” and comics.
All these this country takes by the ship-
load every week. They are read by the
ton while books are read by the copy; they
crowd our newsagencies (numerous as
grocers’ shops) to the exclusion of pretty
well everything but the Sunday newsrakers,
and 90 per cent, of them come from over-
seas. Shutting the gate against this stuff
would give us a national industry of the
first rank.
We can produce it all ourselves. There
is no more question about a sufficiency of
local writers and artists than there is about
a sufficiency of local printers, for it is simply
tripe that we are up against. Work would
be needed in prodigious quantities, but very
little else.
Books, as carriers of knowledge, have an
international value, and nearly all coun-
tries admit them duty free; but fiction
magazines and paper-covered trash in
general are the products of workers and
machines, and call for protection as ordi-
nary commercial manufactures. We are
prepared for such protection; amidst the
foreign flood there are already several Aus-
tralian periodicals that cater very success-
fully for the popular taste. Much of their
popularity is undoubtedly due to their com-
parative originality and freshness. The
magazine addict shifts from one imported
fiction-sop to another, restlessly and hope-
lessly seeking change from the sickly con-
ventionality that infests them all.
All that is smug and stodgy in English
life is expressed by the twopenny and seven-
penny trash of Britain, and all the loudness
and sham sentiment of America in the
(Red Page continued on page 5 .)


Anthony Horderns'
HYGIENE CAMPAIGN
44
BETTER 8 CLEANER" BEDDING
Sfc
&
<3
©
V
\
=s «§f|§^b=;
mkm
v :§|sss
ty
\
Muni
kSs*
©
vis*
W«-h w?
A
<*p/
w
! SK
©
We will give you 'for your old Mattress
Wl WANT TO BURN IT /
*d we will supply you with
new one at our “Famous
Low Prices.”
Introduced last year, this event stands as the greatest in the history of
Anthony Horderns’. We again present to the public the opportunity
of securing new and better bedding, and at the same time disposing of
old mattresses which may be a positive nuisance. What an offer! £1
for the privilege of making a bonfire of that old mattress of yours—
however dilapidated its condition! In instituting this campaign,
Anthony Horderns’ are mindful of the immensely important bearing
that bedding has on health —they know how easily it becomes
unhygienic. It is this fact that prompted the Government to practically
forbid the remaking of bedding (Kapok) under the Public Health
(Amendment) Act 1921. In many cases the old mattresses which you
have are not in any sense an asset —they may be actually a liability.
You cannot have them remade; you cannot sell them; you would
probably have to pay for them to be removed. Then why not take
advantage of Anthony Horderns’ Hygiene Campaign to secure “Better
and Cleaner” Bedding?
“Truth in Advertising” —
Anthony Horderns’ practise
it as continuously as they
speak of it.
iswhatwedo & what you do -
I—-You select your fresh bedding from our
tremendous assortment, the prices being, as
always at Anthony Horderns’, the lowest
possible, quality considered. BUT note this!
Off our "Famous Low Prices’’ you receive
generous rebates on your old bedding. WE
WILL ALLOW YOU £1 FOR YOUR OLD
MATTRESS IF YOU PURCHASE A NEW
FULL-SIZE ONE. IF YOU DECIDE ON A
MATTRESS SMALLER THAN 4ft. 6in.
WIDE, WE WILL ALLOW YOU 10/- OFF
THE PRICE OF A NEW ONE. This, of
course, is off our standard prices quoted in
our regular price list. We do not include
Flock or Fibre Bedding in this offer, as we do
not recommend them as ’’Better Bedding.”
2—-WE WILL deliver your new Bedding
free of charge (if you live in the Metropolitan
area), and special vans will pick up your old
mattresses.
You will note that these conditions are just as gener-
ous as before. The campaign is now in full swing'.
We would like to remind you that the well-known
Madad mattress, with its countless desirable features,
is made in our own factory and is. obtainable only from
us. When buying, investigate a “Madad.”
The Bedding Department is located on the
Third Floor. See special displays in the
d partment, also in Windows 63 and 65
Goulburn Street, 112 and 114- Pitt Street,
and 23 George Street.
e
(The Senior Store)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


■•I have been
Wait
*
i
A Superior Player
The BEALE
“Interpretive” Model
A QUALITY INSTRUMENT! From the castors up
This model is the proud achievement of many months of patient laboratory and technical
experiments in the Beale factories—experiments which have had for their definite objective
a Superior Instrument at a Lower Price.
Modern intensive research and the applied science of the Beale manufacturing plant,
have actually improved the intrinsic quality of vital details at an economic production cost.
This Player appeals to a discriminating public on the straight-out basis of Quality and Value.
fictionally
.uitecturally
In this instrument the transcendent beauty of the
Beale tone is preserved inviolate. Its Player
Action incorporates every approved device for
musical expression.
The durability built into it, step by
step, extends its limits of service
far beyond the 25 years of the
Company’s guarantee.
The instrument is beautiful in every
line and contour.
We invite you to critically examine
both the internal and external
Beale Pianos
have been in
Australi an
production for
over 35 pears.
structure of this Beale Player.
'
Generous terms, with modest deposit, and the Company’s Written Guarantee for 25 yearsl
BEALE
è
COMPANY
LIMITED.
Showrooms at
350 George Street, Sydney;
Newcastle and Wollongong.
Representatives at other centres.
Distributors: Maples at Wagga and Albury,
N.S.W.; Maples, Melbourne and suburbs ; Maples,
Hobart and Launceston; Saverys Pianos, Ltd.,
Adelaide; Thomsons, Ltd., Perth and Fre-
mantle ; G. J. Grice, Ltd., Brisbane,
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rock-
hampton, Mackay, Townsville
and Cairns.
FACTORIES: TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
r
/5
S3«!—**
i
'M
$>
KOPPER HAD BULLET
m&gi
vm&mm.
KOPPERKLAD BULLET
STAYN LESS
22
Fast, Ac cUTate ’
i _ nine
_ s„ the same
iaHieC who build the
met' wrvo hiK game
incheSt widelV sed
TKpit quaV'tV IS .
Trieu m in
built. Heu^e
appeata ' n d
andeaSV «to» u "'
of P t®° t .i2Cal-
C.NJ/WPbeote at£
Ta '^ e o{ wotld-
faU- -*£3
reCOtd \,«et.» Cal '
Win chestet
lbel A«uu“" {o t
be depended J?
p£'*~*»*
results.
&
e
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Rifles — they
are made for each other. TKexe’s a Winchester Rifle and there’s
Winchester Ammunition for every .22 caliber shooting purpose.
20-cent wood-pulps, and to an extent this
trash has a value in its own country; it
nurses national traits. But it voices no-
thing that is cherished in Australia. Aus-
tralian children are aware of the anomaly,
but they accept it because they are offered
no alternative. It is significant that Bertie
and Blub are better liked by Australian
children than Angel and Her Many Play-
mates or Tiger Tim. There is no reason
why the younger generation’s field should
not be covered by two or three Australian
publications as satisfyingly and completely
as woman’s taste is already satisfied by the
“Mirror” and its contemporaries. If we can
consume love, school and adventure stories
of the threepence-a-time variety, we can
also turn them out, The distinction is
.energy, not artistry. And the opportunity
fairly shrieks.
L. MORRISBY .
Talk
It has long been the custom to sneer at
talk as if it were something innately repre-
hensible. Which, of course, is downright
stupidity. Foolish talk is rightly con-
demned. But so is foolish thought, or
foolish anything else. The fact that some
people talk foolishly is no more an argu-
ment against talking than the fact that
some people think foolishly is an argument
against thinking.
Talk is far more intimately connected
with thought than many people imagine.
Modern psychologists hold that thinking
is sub-vocal talking. When a man is think-
ing the muscles of his larnyx are in motion,
and probably if they did not move he
could not think. The status of talk, there-
fore, has been lifted almost to the level
of thought.
The end of all thought, all emotion, is
action. Reason, as Darwin said, is the
power of profiting by experience—the power
by which man can either adapt himself to
his environment or adapt his environment
to himself. Speech is the medium by which
this power can be extended to the tribe,
or to the nation, or to mankind in general.
The tongue is older than the pen. In
primitive times, literature, so far as it
existed at all, existed in the memories of
men, and was broadcast by the spoken word.
Poetry wate spoken long before it was
printed, and many hold that it gains vastly
in power when uttered by the living voice.
When I was in England recently I heard
John Drinkwater broadcast verse, and the
beauty of the poet’s words was made more
beautiful by the poet’s voice. It may be
that radio, when it becomes more perfect,
will restore the spoken word to its ancient
eminence.
After all, what is great literature but
talk? What are the books of Herbert
Spencer but the talk of Herbert Spencer?
What are even the plays of Shakspeare but
the talk of Shakspeare on the themes that
moved him most deeply? Speech is the
living garment of thought, just as, accord-
ing to Goethe, the universe is the living
garment of God. What would God be if
there were no universe? What would
thought be if there were no talk?
In view of the declaration of Sir James
Jeans and other physicists that the age
of the sun and the stars generally is
somewhere in the region of ten millions of
millions of years, human life becomes but
a momentary flash in the eternal darkness,
and all our poetry and our philosophy but
a talk between a silence and a silence. We
come for a moment out of the infinite night,
look around us and within us, until, over-
come, sometimes with the mystery of it,
sometimes with the beauty of it, sometimes
with the comedy of it, sometimes with the
tragedy of it, we proceed to talk about it.
If we did not, our hearts would break. And
we have hardly commenced when our
mouths are stopped with dust and the great
darkness engulfs us for ever.
It almost looks as if life’s chief merit is
that it gives us something to talk about.
And the wise talk of the wisest, stored up
in what the world calls its literature, is
man’s greatest possession, his supremest
achievement.
WALLACE NELSON.
Bad Smells
“M.L. Critic’s” homily (“Bad Smells”—
R.P. 2/4/’3O) does not quite hit the mark.
“Monstrous perversion” may be out of
place in an aesthetic book. But did the
author intend his verse to be aesthetic or
eclectic?
If the norm, why should not the abnorm
also be exemplified in song and story?
Otherwise we encourage the fallacy that all
women are angels, and all men made in
the image and likeness of an anthropo-
morphic God—as Shelley would designate
Him. In the imminent era of Democratic
Feminism such sentimentality might be
dangerous. Already we are like to be press-
persuaded that all female defendants are
beautiful, and arrayed like the lilies of the
field —except maybe in juridical innocence.
Some palates need salt with their apples
and prefer it to sugar. Accordingly, in
the cause of Individualism, we might still
be permitted to read all English Chaucer’s
Tales, even though they were issued by a
“reputable” American house. The prurient
peep-shows of literature will seduce no-
one that really matters, and Australia-
banned Boccacio will never oust from even
transient popular favor the pictured body-
bend of Hollywood heroines. In the Bible
at least one instance of incest is “very
much on stage,” and there is no clamor
to have this inspired Book—aesthetic in the
main—placed on the Index Expurgatorius.
Just to mitigate the blushes of “M.L.
Critic’s” “decent-minded man alone”
(with his thoughts) “in a thousand-acre
paddock,” it may be said that “the masses”
will never need or read pornographic
aesthetic literature. Moreover, as “the
classes,” hibernating in their discontent, are
composed of wise and foolish mental
virgins awaiting the coming of the poly-
gamous bridegroom Truth, it is their respon-
sibility to discover any nasty habits he may
posfsess before they take him to ( their
bosoms. While a midden may, as “M.L.
Critic” avers, be out of place on a front
lawn, a top-dressing of blood-and-bone
manure will ensure a temporary bad smell,
but will subsequently cause to grow such a.
wealth of herbage that even the most
aesthetic may be induced to unblushingly
reflect that all flesh is grass.
S.N.R.
A Satchel of Books
Stone Daugherty, by John P. Fort (Cliatto
and Windus) ought to be popular; it is as
revolting as an anonymous war book, and
much better written. The story begins in
Tennessee in 1802. Indians scalp and
slaughter Daugherty’s wife and two boys.
Then Daugherty and some friends lure the
chiefs of tlie Indian tribe to a peace talk
and slaughter and scalp them. Daugherty
marries, when he is elderly, a girl not much
older than his 14-year-old daughter Jane
(who hates him and whom lie hates). He
murders this wife, but is acquitted, and is
murdered by his daughter. The horror is
not so unrelieved as might appear from this
brief summing-up (plenty of decent, kindly
folk figure in the book), and there are
excuses for Daugherty. He is a victim of
the neuroses that afflict those who make a
religion of hate.
Irene Forbes-Mosse, author of Don Juan's
Daughters (John Lane), writes exquisitely
of children, animals and the faint emotions
of the old. One quotation out of hundreds
that might be supplied will give an idea of
the poignant beauty of her style:—
There had been the owl in the garden of the mill.
They had scooped a terrible cramped cave for it
and wired it in. It slept by day, but the children
teased it and never gave it any rest. And when
night fell it tried to spread its wings and had to
give it up, just as if you were trying to open an
umbrella in a much too narrow doorway. It strained
to plunge into the dark warmth, to hunt and slip
through the tree-tops with its like....it was almost
eaten up by lice; its narrow prison reeked, and
adjoining it were the lavatories. The solemn bird
that else were drinking dew and starlight amongst
the tree-tops.
There are three long stories, or “novellen,”
as the Germans call this art-form, and the
translation has been so well done by Oakley
Williams that they appear to have been
written in English.
The customary charge—that the poet is
wearing thin —will be preferred against
Ambition and other Poems , by W. H. Davies
(Cape; Roycroft Library, Sydney). The
answer is that he always was. Most com-
plaint about him is based upon a reading
of anthology pieces, which, though some of
them are exceptionally beautiful, do not
represent the poet at all. Davies is still
here:—
It is the Robin, singing of
A silver world of snow and frost;
Where all is cold and white, except
The fire that’s on his own warm breast.
A charming fellow altogether, Davies, and
it takes a charming fellow to make such a
success of such a hopeless rhyme, or to
commit some of the sins he commits in
“For Sale,” and then get away with it
through this climax :
Six hundred pounds for all this precious stone!
These little, quaint old windows squinting down;
This orchard, with its apples’ last appeal
To dumpling or sweet cider; this deep well,
Whose little eye has sparkled from its birth—
Four hundred years in sixty feet of earth!
But the real Davies does not live in selec-
tions ; he lives in the strange simplicity
which often enough gets close to banality.
It is the simplicity of a most childlike faith,
and a care only
To make this world, when I am gone,
Think all the more of me—
Each time a rainbow’s in the sky,
Or a bird is on a tree.
Richelieu, by Hilaire Belloc (Benn).
Chiefly a presentation of the position and
point of view of Catholicism in present-day
Europe. The main argument is that that
position is a positive result of the policy and
influence of, first, Richelieu, and subsequently,
Bismarck. Richelieu’s guiding principle in
the attainment of indivisible France was the
“permission of deep religions cleavage in the
French nation as tne price to be paid for
preserving that political union by which, as
he thought, the nation’s soul could be alone
(and sufficiently) preserved.” Bismarck, in
turn, carried on this exalting of nationalism
by erecting the Reich. The first’s monarchy
lasted 150 years; the other’s less than 60.
But the basic principle, nationalism, prevails,
and with it the over-government of Catholic
communities. That basic principle created
to-day’s Europe, and the writer attempts to
realise results of its continuance, or of its
overthrow or death. Mr. Belloc can be as
nonsensical as most controversialists, as, for
instance, when he sees no other motive behind
those recent millions of men who “allowed
themselves to be driven” into war than a
fear of being “branded heretics to the religion
of Nationalism.” That means nothing more
nor less that that all those men went to fight
and fought under the pale shadow of the
White Feather, and that is nothing less than
childish. Some did, of course, but the
majority fought from the natural human
instinct not to be overridden by another
human. They had these alternatives—to
fight or to do what no body of men ha*s ever
done, throw in the towel without a blow
when threatened by an equal-seeming antago-
nist. In spite of such lapses into Wonder-
land. Mr. Belloc has written a forceful,
intelligent and comprehensive book. His pos-
tulates are colored, but not biased by his
religious .convictions, and in spite of "them
lie lias managed to construct a biography
enhanced by the rarest quality to be met in
this branch of literature—thought.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (.except 0} a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.G.6.: Narrative told in 14 sonnets lias
good stuff in it, but is too diffuse... .F.0.T.:
Protest against Sydney bridge dismissed. .. .J.C.:
Unpromising idea. You should do all right with a
better 0ne....N.1.: Snivelling as a war n0ve1....
L.W.: Bring in the philosopher:—
The happiest philosopher I’ve ever come upon
Is almost brown of eye and universally called John;
For run him down as you will or blow him up to
the sky,
He creases his face into smiles as he lisps, “Allee-
li.”
.. . .R.H.: Too much “I lay me down at sunset”. .. .
T.T.A.: Yes, a poem might be made out of it....
K. 8.: Only shandy.... Magog: “Nursery Rhymes,
1830 Versions,” rejected by official two-year-old on
grounds of immaturity... .F. 8.: Verse beginning “To
Randwiek, to Randwick, to back a fine horse”
comes at a time when we’re full of remorse... .Jack
Stirrup: Same to yours commencing “Yes, I backed
’im ; I backed the blinkin’ cow !”... .R.S.C.: “Within
the Crucible” is good of its kind. Try a free-verse
market.... Tootum: Pen-name seems to describe the
poem... .D.W.8.: Nothing to disturb the cash-box
in that little 10t... . J.F.8.: Treatment rather solid
for the light idea. Otherwise it is g00d....
O’Phimerty: If only you’d filled your reservoirs with
something else.,. .E.L.: One line:—
Stoney and rough and far below.
And tha t describes it.... N.M.F.: True enough, but.
scarcely poetry.... J.W.R.: A few fair words from
“Finis”; Opiate-handed; vampiric; convolute;
anaesthetise ; sinuate ; vortiginous ; anarthrous. What
are you—a bookmaker?... .G.M.11.: Bunno what the
other was like, but “Voyage” is pretty bad.... J.L.P.:
No room for impressionistic sketches... .G.M.H.:
“The Complete Criminal” almost reprieved. .. .
E.N.V.: Can’t fix a contract price for it... .G.J.G.:
Sorry, but had to turn it down... .C.S.G.: Mere
sensationalism.... V.R.: Pay less attention to the
spirits and more to composition and grammar. ...
D.C.J.W.: Sorry ; no. .. . J.A.N.: We won’t shoot this
time, but there’ll be a poisoned bullet for the next
one to mention that racecourse. .. .C.V.: Been
thrashed out once or twice already... .R.W.J.: Neat
thought in “A Memory,” but second and third
stanzas are heavy... .S.A.: No inspiration there; it
is simply a piece made to measure for an occasion.
, ...0.D.: A little in all of them, but it does not
come out we 11... .Ratio: Two at him already... .
J. Este: Neat, but no meat. . . .S.R.McD.: Your
blackbird sings in prose.... Rursus: Arrived weeks
too late.. . .G.H.P.: No harvest from the artificial
fertilisers.... Jack O’Longtrail: “Sapristi” got it in
the necko. ... Tommo: Harrowing picture of an
author in the throes: —
I tried to think of something clever, something rare,
and bright,
But everything went blank and blurred; I spent
an awful night.
And since I’ve tried my hand with pen to earn
some spondiooks,
I’ve come to the conclusion it’s not as easy as
it looks.
.. . .W.M.: Moral excellent; matter stale. . . .E.J.G.:
Most fabulous part of the fable is its political
economy.... Zed: Only worth a par 1 . A.1.T.: A
bit too delicate in color. .. .A.K.: What you call
“poetry” is tortured prose. .. .C. B. de B.: Spectral
dingo chased away.... C.G.: Sympathetic, but too
slender... .E.L.C.: Newchum yarns out of date....
H.A.L.: Fire it at another paper, then. . . .L.R.:
“A Self-inflicted Lockout” expresses it....D.5.: Not
quite, but persevere... .A.G.M.: Neurotic young
lady on the way home... .L.M.R.: Merit in it, but
daughter’s gullibility not easy to realise. .. .M.H.:
Tall, even for a fish yarn. .. .D.1.G.: Too long for
an anecdote and too short for a story... .A.L.S.:
Fiendish. ... E.C.F.: A bit dull and a bit obscure.
.... R.W.R.: No dividend from “Monty’s Mine.”
. ...G.L.L.: “The Choice” declined... .M.R.McC.:
Narrative may be veracious, but isn’t suitable....
N.R.: “The Old Story” hasn’t improved with age.
. ...J.R.R.: No offer for Macpherson or his hat....
A.J.J.: Fails to rise above description, but fair
enough in that respect... .L.R.T.: You must find
something to say....Pax: “My sou] already pants
for wider flight” is the most striking item in
“Completion.” All in the other was said more
forcibly by Kipling.... Syd Swagman: Fair; you’ll
do better... .S.K.G.: Thinnish... .P.T.: Any city
bookshop ; get your local man to order it for you.
... .E.T.G.: You say one or two new things, but the
topic as a whole has been worn to tatters....
Lancer: Your sword is mightier than your pen....
Fabius: Bo you really believe that the British
claim is in respect of “loans to the rebels” ? ' The
repudiated debts were contracted long before the
Civil War. There is a reference to the matter in
“Martin Chuzzlewit,” written in the early ’forties.
. ...E.G.: Very well, then; Swan Hill town has
about 4000 people and the shire 13,000... .Jake:
Rufus Isaacs became Lord Chief Justice of England
and then G.-G. of India. He is not related to our
man... .K.J.J.: Had to dismiss hero with “prog-
nosticatory gleam of hymeneal potentialities in his
stricken eye”... .E.H.8.: Tired of reading about these
henpecked husbands... .Bigger Wheatgrower: Bidn’t
say they were after pickings. Bid say that Ministers
make work for themselves in order to justify their
existence, and we believe the wheat pool is a
case in point.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.S.: Very raw.... R. 11.: Flustered old lady is
returning... .P. 8.: Might place ’em elsewhere....
H.S.W.: Should have sent that pair to a hospital.
... .5.H.11.: The week’s worst... .R.F.H.: An untidy
trio carrying underweight gags.. . . E.D.: Neither
what we are looking for... .C.K.: The lad’s a trier,
but he badly needs a tutor. ...8.T.: Try some other
paper. In drawing, as in racing, there’s such a
thing as “placing”. .. ,T.R.: Can’t hold out much
hope for you—as yet, anyhow... .A.H.: Nothing
startling about them... .S.P.: What’s young Aus-
tralia wrestling with? A deflated tyre?....A.T.:
It didn’t make us yearn for more... ,-C.K.: Not for
us, nor for anyone else. .. .11.M.K.: Just scratches.
. ...H.W.: A lifeless family,.. .W.M.: Overworked
gag.... S.W.: ’ Try working in ink, and carry on
with caricatures... .W.J.T.: All stereotyped.


è
é
ê
ë
/
e.
a


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2621.
May 7, 1930.
THE POET AND THE RUDE INTRUDER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE : 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.t
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; 8 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
tip: 10os., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof ,
Id. elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
CENSORSHIP OF ART AND LITERATURE—
By Cecil Mann .. .. '.. .. 2
AUSTRALIAN POPULAR NOVELS WANTED—
By L. Morrisby .. . . . . 2 5
TALK AS A GOOD THING—
By Wallace Nelson .. . . . . .. 5
BAD SMELLS IN ART AND LETTERS !! 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS " '§'9
THE LAST GASP INSURANCE" CO. " . 8
THE GASTRO-ENTERITIS PLAGUE—
By a Sydney Specialist .. . . . . 8
ARE WE OVER-PRODUCING? 8
COST OF FEDERATION 8
UNDERMINING THE MANUFACTURER !! 9
TEMPTATION! . . 9
GOLD THE BEST GAMBLE .. .. "9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith)
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11 12
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES.. 13
“THE YEARLING SALES”—
A Study by Percival. . .. .. .. 13
PERSONAL (with illustrations) . . .. ~ 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 16
Heethoven, Backhaus and Frith—
(Frith does the drawings) . . 46
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP
Points on Life Insurance .. 17
AUSTRALIAN CEMENT.. .. "47
GIBSON & HOWES . . "47
GARRATT’S . . ' 47
PROVIDENT LIFE . . " "47
WEST’S " 18
STRENGTH OF AUSTRALIAN BANKS " is
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20 21
MAN ON THE LAND . . 22 25
WHEAT SOWING . . *22
STRAWBERRY CLOVER " 22
NEW SHEEP MALADY . . . . " 22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 22
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS . . . . 25
Free Service Department 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . os
POVERTY POINT .... 34
THE INKY WAY " “34
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc. . . . ] ['.33
SPORTING (illustrated) . . .. .. 35, 36
CITY TATT.’S (RANDWICK) .. .. ’35
MENTONE RACES 35
FOOTBALL AND CRICKET 35
SERIAL—“MEN ARE HUMAN”.. .. ..38
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER . . .. 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. '44
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . 44
The New Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer.. 42, 43, 45
“As We Said Before”—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“THE SQUARE DEALER”—
By J. H. M. Abbott.. .. .. 49, 50
VERSE.—By M. Forrest, Adrian Summers,
Roderic Quinn, Sirom Nicholas, J. M.
Prentice 38, 45, 50
NEXT WEEK.
A Mother is Dying of Inoperable Cancer. Are
there any circumstances which justify the taking
of human life? Has a doctor a moral right to
condone such an action? These problems are
poignantly dealt with in a complete story by W.
Chamley.
“How Can I Tell a Good from a Bad Life Insur-
ance Office?”—An Article of Great Practical Value
at the moment.
fHuTfyxi!ldx//l
WEDNESDAY, MAY 7, 1930.
THE LAST GAST INSURANCE
COMPANY.
For some reason, or for no reason save
nf k° me and reduge
x uu en 1 e-msuranee company.
It spreads over the continent, but it has its
1,,• 0 , ’
headquarters in Sydney almost to a cer-
t • Ur „ qty , q ■ , , , ce
y ' . a e lfc> P la y ed according to
a few simple rules, and only one of them
really counts—that the law mustn’t inter-
fere till the swindle is completed. When it
is so complete that the Last Gasp Provi-
dent and Imperishable Insurance Society
can t pay a small claim due to the executors
of a defunct policy-holder, the law prob-
a> Y Il n\ ove f assuming the executors move
first. Or it a shareholder has been induced
to put his sa\ ings into the concern under
conditions so outrageous that the holding
up of a train was mild by comparison, the
law acts —provided the victim acts with
such energy that the law can’t help itself.
But by the time the bubble officially bursts,
a number of people have bought policies in
it as a provision for their prospective
widows and orphans, and the provision
vanishes, and the insurer may be too old
or too dilapidated in health to insure again,
and in any case 10 more swindles, as bad
as the Last Gasp Provident and Imperish-
able, are waiting for him.
They are waiting with the permission and
connivance of Bavin and Buttenshaw, and
Scullin and Theodore, and their prede-
cessors, and the ghosts of their pre-prede-
cessors. In the Commonwealth "Summary
of Australian Financial Statistics,” a work
occasionally studied by learned and tech-
nical persons, appear tables showing the
insurance offices in existence, their revenue,
expenditure, assets, and the amounts they
are liable to pay to their policy-holders.
These are published without comment. The
genuineness of the statistics isn’t guaran-
teed, and if no one has the power to investi-
gate they naturally can’t be guaranteed.
One of the conspicuous assets in some cases
is money spent and gone in the work of
building up the business. In other words,
it is in the nature of deficiency or shortage.
In some instances this unfortunate absence
of assets is put down as. the biggest asset,
and in the aggregate it grew from £693,484
in 1922 to £1,288,052 in 1927. Added to
other drawbacks, some companies which
certainly profess to exist can’t be found on
the list. It is inferred from this that they
didn’t send in returns, fraudulent or other-
wise, and considering the badness of some
which furnished figures the badness of those
which didn’t is a matter of interesting
speculation. Presumably it is nobody’s
business to insist on returns, even unreliable
ones.
The Australian Financial Statistics for
1927-28 owned up to a nodding acquaintance
with 33 life offices which have headquarters
in the Commonwealth, and of these 21 were
debited to Sydney. This makes it seem
advisable that Bavin should move if the
people at Canberra, whose real business it
is, are immovable. Australia has far more
concerns in this line of business which
are open to suspicion than above it, and
those which are above it would welcome
any sane and reliable form of Government
inspection which would save them from
being mixed up with so many shady con-
temporaries. Of course the managing direc-
tor of the Last Gasp Provident and Imper-
ishable Society takes the reverse view. He
says that “it would be an outrage to have
financial detectives going through My
books and those of the A.M.P. Society as if
we were common adventurers.” He is in
the same category as the captain of the
Gory Bleeders push, who holds that the way
the cops hang round watching blameless
citizens like himself and Adrian Knox
deprives decent coves of the last semblance
of liberty.
The mere regular issue of certified
balance-sheets will not do. The mere Gov-
ernment audit of accounts will not do either.
Solvency depends upon the quality of the
asSets. It is possible for “Offices and other
real estate” to appear on the balance-sheet
as an asset for £lOO,OOO, though they would
not bring £lO,OOO at auction and though
the return even at £lO,OOO might not be
2 per cent. Worse still, the office may
have paid hard cash to bring the item up
to £lOO,OOO, which may explain why an
office that is quite solvent to-day may be
in a wretched state of insolvency a year
later. When half a dozen crooks get
together in an insurance office, manipu-
lation is quite easy. Brown buys a block
of land for £5OO and presently sells it to
Smith for £lOOO. Smith sells it to Jones
for £2500, Jones sells it to Robinson for
£5OOO, and Robinson sells it to the company
for £lO,OOO. Every transaction can be put
through with scrupulous regard to all the
forms. On the face of things every one of
them will be bona -fide. Yet only two of
them will have been real transactions—the
original purchase and the final sale. All
the others will have been bogus, to cloak
the fact that a property bought for £5OO
was within a few months sold to the com-
pany for £lO,OOO. The balance-sheet in
such a case would show the asset as worth
£10,000; and nothing less than a valuation
would disclose that it was not worth one-
tenth of it.
Certainly a valuation would not be neces-
sary in every case. Where it could be
clearly shown that a fair return was being
earned in cash by the assets, there would
be no need for a valuation. But the Gov-
ernment should have the right to make it,
and that right ought to be freely exercised.
THE MURDER OF THE INNOCENTS.
The writer of this article is a Sydney
doctor in large general practice.
Recently there was a mild small-pox scare
in Australia. The main features of the
pother were, in brief, that ( a ) one nurse
and her male patient died, ( b) a large liner
lingered expensively on our front doorstep
for a few days, and (c) arguments arose
as to the presence or otherwise of hunger-
maddened fleas in the long-empty Sydney
Quarantine Station, wherein a visiting golfer
of some eminence was given time to polish
his clubs. Howbeit, there was small need
for panic. Ever since Jenner discovered
the uses of vaccination, a thing completed
during the intervals of playing on the flute
and writing small verse,- small-pox has had
not a dog’s chance for murder in any level-
headed, civilised nation. There are other
diseases, ever present among us, which are
worthier of a little hard thinking, and one
of them is gastro-enteritis.
Gastro-enteritis attacks its scores each
year during the warmer months, and leaves
a trail of dead babies behind it, for its
victims are tiny children less than 12
months old. Who can read without a sink-
ing heart that of this “seasonV* crop of
273 little patients at the Children’s Hos-
pital (Sydney) 111 have died? Of its
sort, there is no finer hospital in the world
than the "Kids’.” It is manned by special-
ists, each of whom works in rotation for
a yea,r at a stretch on the cases of gastro-
enteritis; the nurses are pledged to make
the care of small children the work of their
lives, and the nursing of the “gastros” is
an art in itself. All these babies are isolated
in a special block, along with a specially
trained staff, and housed in specially con-
structed cubicles designed to admit sun and
All foods are weighed, measured, ster-
ilised, guarded from infection. The patients
are moved and washed with as much care
as if they were more fragile than porcelain,
as indeed they are.
What caused the massacre of the 111?
Part of the answer is that they came too
late to the hospital. And nine-tenths of
them had been denied a baby’s proper food,
which is the milk of the mother’s breast.
For the rest, unsuitable feeding, dirty milk
and the neglect of the mothers to seek
advice at the Child Welfare Clinics must
be held responsible.
It is pertinent to observe that the mach-
inery of Sydney’s milk supply is in urgent
need of overhaul. Our dairy herds are clean
enough, taking them all round; but the
methods of distributing their product
would seem disgraceful in a Chinese bazaar.
A little investigation, amounting to down-
right prying, on the part of our health
authorities would do no harm. Personal
observation convinces me that my par-
ticular daily quart is never delivered with-
out wetting the milkman’s thumb, a thumb
which offers the suggestion that it is infre-
quently washed and never manicured. All
milk should be sold in sterilised, sealed
bottles, and the spectacle of empty milk-
cans lying in some gutter, to be picked up
by a cart On its return trip, should no longer
be tolerated.
A new phenomenon of our suburban life
is the appearance of numbers of bedraggled
gentry who peddle milk from door to door,
announcing their presence by trumpet blasts.
They are undercutting the established
registered dairies, it is said; and so lucra-
tive is the trade that “runs” have been
sold for as much as £2OO. Is the Board of
Health aware of the activities of these
hawkers, and has their milk been tested?
My guess is that its bacterial content would
equal that of the sewage which flows into
the Tasman at Ben Buckler, and that it
is rather less useful as a food for infants
than so much prussic acid.
PONS.
ARE WE OVER-PRODUCING?
Man is a great egotist. A fault is rarely
his. It was the weather that went wrong
or his tools were no good or the other
fellow was a fool. We can thus still go on
doing the pleasant thing though we know
it is the wrong thing: it is merely necessary
to humbug ourselves into believing that it
went wrong before because we approached
it at the wrong angle or on the first Sunday
after full moon instead of the second
Monday after new moon.
We are being guilty of a lot of this
nonsense now. Australia having got into
a bad way, it is being offered all sorts
of easy remedies. In particular it is being
told that what it is suffering from is over-
production. Wool, wheat and metals having
fallen in price, there is obviously too much
wool, wheat and metals in the market.
Therefore the right thing to do is to produce
less. And the way to produce less is to
work fewer hours. So we have Labor con-
ferences declaring for 44-hour weeks and
advocates quoting someone or other that
the world can supply all its needs in 30
hours, and tribunes carrying banners ex-
horting workers to go slow and live long.
All this simply begs the question so far
as it applies to ourselves. It probably is
true that in many lines the world is over-
producing. The engineer and the chemist
have done marvellous things in the last few
years. Superphosphates and top-dressing
have added enormously to the harvests
of wheat and wool, and the development of
the cultivator and the harvester has in this
century doubled the average area with
which a fanner can cope single-handed. The
dredge is digging tin from depths never
dreamed of even 20 years ago, and the
flotation process for the separation of zinc
and lead from their ores and from one
another is a bare quarter-century old. If
production and consumption had kept per-
fectly in step while these remarkable
changes were taking place it would have
been a miracle indeed. Without that
miracle there must be over-production,
temporary or otherwise, in some lines, and
under-production in others.
And it may be also that Australia is
chiefly interested in articles whose markets
are for the moment suffering from over-
production. But, even so, unfortunately we
cannot get out of our difficulties by merely
reducing our production; for the supreme
fact is that, even if the world has been
over-producing, our share of the production
has not paid our bills. It is quite possible
that there are communities in which the
proper course to adopt is to reduce work-
ing hours and generally slow down. It a
country is exporting more than it imports
and has no foreign bills to pay, and u
stocks are piling up in its factories and
warehouses, then it might reasonably
diminish its output. But Australia has
not balanced its ledger for years past.
Even when prices for wool, wheat and
metals were very much higher than they
are now, it was producing and exporting
far too little to pay for its imports. The
shortage was made up by loans; when we
could not pay cash we gave lOU’s. For-
tunately or unfortunately our lOU’s are
no longer accepted. We must therefore pay
cash or not buy. But there is something
more than current purchases to be paid for.
There is 30 millions of interest which we
have contracted to pay in London every year.
We might refuse to buy anything from
abroad and thus escape having to produce
and export goods in payment; but, except
by declaring Australia a defaulting bank-
rupt, we cannot escape exporting to. meet
first the annual interest bill, and then
the repayments as they fall due. No
amount of local borrowing, no amount of
local taxation, can pay those foreign bills.
They can be met only with gold or goods
that will sell for gold.
The simple fact, then, so far as we are
concerned, is that, instead of over-producing,
we have under-produced; and the financial
trick by which we kept it up for many years
is played out. Hence, whether the world’s
markets are over-supplied or not, we
must go into them with our products and
take the best price that offers. That we
have to produce and sell more in order to
pay our bills than we need have done when
those debts were contracted is our mis-
fortune. We certainly cannot get over or
around it by slowing down and sending
less to market. The most we can do is to
cut our overseas purchases to the bone, so
that we shall require to raise less in foreign
markets; but for all that we are obliged
to sell we shall get much less than we have
averaged for years past; and that means
cheaper and not dearer production.
Two factories have been set up side by
side. One, Smith’s, well handled, has made
money and commands a large market. The
other, Brown’s, mishandled, has only kept
going by getting advances from its bankers.
In a period of financial stress Brown’s
bankers announce that they cannot make
any more advances. Brown is suddenly
faced with this position: Smith can under-
sell him and still make a profit. When
Brown goes into the market and dis-
covers this he naturally talks of over-pro-
duction. But talk of over-production will
not do him any good. All he has to do is to
so reorganise his works, so speed up his
output, so cut down waste, that he can at
least compete with Smith. Indeed it is the
only thing he can do if he is to carry on
and pay the interest on his debts. And it
is the only thing Australia can do. For
Australia is in Smith’s position exactly,
and talk of over-production, so far as it is
concerned, is delusive rubbish.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
One of a number of reasons why Maori-
land, though it sent delegates to some of
the conferences and dallied awhile with
the idea, declined to become a Federated
State of the Commonwealth was fear of
High Protection. Vic.’s tariff wall, largely
a monument to David Syme, was proving
a successful means of fostering manufac-
tures 30-odd years ago, and the men who
led public opinion in Maoriland foresaw
that the heresy, as they regarded it, was
likely to make headway under Federal
administration. Maoriland, they argued,
wasn’t ripe for manufactures, anyhow, and
must peg along for many years making a
living as a purveyor of food and wool to
Mother. It was predicted, too, that the
imposition of a Federal sovereignty over
State Governments would considerably in-
crease the cost of administration.
On this latter score, at least, almost every
Australian who takes an interest in poli-
tics would be inclined to agree that the
Solons of Maoriland were true prophets.
Australian administrative costs are very
high; taxation is becoming a throttling
burden on industry, and it is natural to
assume that Federation is in some way
responsible. Yet, so far as figures go, it isn’t.
The Maorilanders haven’t escaped any sort
of taxation—customs, excise or direct—
by staying out. Instead they have paid
more than Australia.
Here are the figures, vouched for by the
Commonwealth and M.L. Government
Statisticians:—
Taxation Since 1900 (30 Years).
Australia. Maoriland.
Customs and excise .. £593,000,000 £140,819,814
Direct 558,200,000 155,290,712
Total .. .. £1,151,200,000 £296,110,556
Mean pop. for period . . 4,894,888 1,115,834
That amounts to £235 3s. Bd. per head of
Australian mean population and £265 7s. sd.
for Maoriland. Australia paid £l2l 2s.
lid. per head in customs and excise duties
and Maorilanders £126 4s. Direct taxes
come to £ll4 os. 9d. per head for Austra-
lians and £139 3s. sd. for Maorilanders.
Maoriland’s “tariff for revenue only” policy,
while it undoubtedly has prevented the-
development of manufacturing industries,
has taken more out of the pockets of the


THE DANGEROUS ALLY.
“Mr. Cleary, an Australian, is using the pruning knife in order that English bondholders may be assured of their interest, an attitude which I, as an Englishman,
born in the heart of the Empire, do not endorse.” —State Sec. of the A.R.U. ( Railwaymen’s Union).
ARTFUL IMMIGRANT: “Come on! What are you afraid of? I’m ready to bilk him, and he’s my own father.”
AUSSIE WORKER: “That’s just it. If you’re capable of taking HIM down, what won’t you do to me?”
people than Australia’s “tariff for Protec-
tion.”
It may be said that differing conditions
make such a comparison unfair; but if it
is unfair it is unfair to Australia, which
has a vast continent to develop, a climate
that makes agriculture more of a gamble
than it is in Maoriland, and a multiplicity
of problems that don’t worry the folk in
the snug little islands across the Tasman.
Whatever may be blamed for Australia’s
present troubles they can’t be laid at the
door of either Federation or Protection.
Undermining the Manufacturer.
To a very great extent, and so far a§ the
encouragement of Australian manufactures
is concerned, the present super-taxes are
wasted. There is no law in Australia
which requires the manufacturer to put
either his own name or a registered trade-
name on his products. On the other hand,
a great many big retailers insist upon their
names or their trade-names being put upon
the articles. So an article may be put before
the public under a score or more different
trade-names, and the actual maker remains
unknown.
The Australian manufacturer has a chance
that he never had before of getting his
products into Australian use and of making
their names household words—like those of
a hundred foreign lines that could be men-
tioned. But, though his wares may be
sold, the Australian maker is establishing
no goodwill, such as the foreign goods
possess; with the result that the moment
the foreigner can get on to the market
again he will have the advantage.
And there is another point of great practi-
cal importance. So long as Jones and Smith
and Brown stock the same line under three
different trade-names, Jones and Smith and
Brown can squeeze out of the public any
price they choose to put upon the goods.
In Sydney certain goods are being sold by
the manufacturer at 7s. 6d. apiece. They
are not branded with the manufacturer’s
name —the retailer wants his own name on
them. In consequence those goods—sold, as
we say, by the manufacturer for 7s. 6d.—
are being retailed in different stores at prices
running from 12s. 6d. up to “275. 6d.
(reduced from 355.).”
At the moment, as the Federal Govern-
ment is very well aware, the Australian
retailer is much more powerful than the
Australian manufacturer. The manufacturer
can therefore very rarely stand up against
the retailer—nor can the wholesaler, if he
comes into the business. Occasionally the
retailer is sincerely eager to give the Aus-
tralian manufacturer all the help in his
power; but what good does it do the manu-
facturer for a retailer here and there to sell
the manufacturer’s goods under the latter’s
own name when that name is quite un-
known—when, indeed, scores of rival
retailers are pushing some other brand as
the best Australian goods on the market,
such brands covering the very same pro-
duct!
The Federal Government is beyond all
doubt sincere about this matter of assist-
ing the Australian manufacturer and through
him the Australian operative. Ministers
have given abundant proof of that. They
can therefore be trusted to lose no time in
following up their protective measures by
one that will secure to the manufacturer
and the operative the projected benefits.
Temptation!
“Mr. Fenton, accompanied by Mr. Collins, is visit-
ing America. The sale of Commonwealth securities
at 6 per cent, has been stopped, owing to the
financial situation having greatly improved; it being
considered that money will be readily available at a
lower rate very shortly.”
Ominous announcements these, for Aus-
tralia’s industries and the now-unemployed.
They mean without a doubt that the over-
seas manufacturer and exporter, urged on
by the need to keep their own employees
going, and to prevent their own countries’
unemployed armies growing larger, are, be-
tween them and the transport people, going
to find credit for Australia once more.
They are not going to lose a valuable
market if they can help it. They will tempt
Scullin and Theodore, and offer them
further credit, through new channels, per-
haps—and for a consideration, of course.
And that consideration? Low interest, long
terms perhaps, but with an immediate re-
duction of the super-taxes at the Customs!
Will the heads of the Government be
able to withstand the temptation? They
are being pressed, and will be, on every
hand, to accept tliis God-given manna in
the wilderness. No effort will be spared by
the importers, or by the Civil Service,
fearing retrenchment, to induce the Sculli-
dores to again open the door to foreign
money and goods. If the credit is forth-
coming, as it seems fairly certain it will
be, what a temptation! No more worry
for them, no need to fag themselves about
the Civil Service vote, or the importers or
other opponents of the tariff imposts that
have been forced upon them, and local loan
money now being impressed for foreign
service will be available for unemployed
doles, or digging postholes and filling them
up again, or, better still, to continue making
good roads for the imported chariot to
roll along!
Will they have the pluck to resist the
offer, to refuse the credit, and to say “No—
we have solemnly engaged Australia to
pay its way in future, to make, as far
as possible, the goods for its own needs, and
to employ workmen and people in this
country, and not elsewhere”?
*
Gold the Best Gamble.
The Scullin Government has offered the
farmers a guarantee of 4s. Bd. a bushel,
handling and other charges included, for
next season’s wheat, the condition being
acceptance of a compulsory pool in at
least three States. Going on recent prices
and past harvests this may mean that the
taxpayers, farmers, of course, included, will
have to find £4,000,000 —6d. per bushel on a
160-million bushel crop. The Government
has also promised more bounties to the
cotton industry, which in one form and
another has been subsidised for 10 years;
they are expected to amount to £260,000
a year. Yet there is notoriously a glut
of wheat and cotton in the U.S.A., the
world’s greatest supplier of both commodi-
ties, and the Federal Farm Board there has
implored the growers to reduce both crops.
The Scullidores have been asked to pay
a bonus of £1 per fine ounce on new gold
won. One Minister is in favor of it, but
the others are said to be hostile, though the
amount involved for a limited term might
be less than the scheme of cotton subsidies
will run to, and would be only a fraction of
what the Government is willing to risk on
wheat. And in its favor many things can
be said which cannot be said for the others.
In the first place, two-thirds of the money
spent on gold-mining goes in wages, and
good wages at that—a fact which might
be expected to appeal to a Labor Govern-
ment. There is not the slightest danger
either of gold becoming a drug on the
market; and gold can do more than any
other commodity to lighten our difficulties
—economic, financial and industrial —if
sufficient is produced.
Victoria was saved after the crash of the
’nineties by the gold discoveries on the
Murchison, the Yilgarn, Coolgardie, East
Coolgardie and other Westralian fields.
Those same discoveries transformed a stag-
nant part of Australia into a thriving and
progressive Western State. From Kal-
goorlie Adelaide drew rich dividends, which
were invested to good purpose in South
Australia. The decline of the industry is
largely attributable to the doubling of costs
with no increase in price. A bonus would
lead to the reopening of scores of shows
with proved ore bodies which it doesn’t
pay to mine under present conditions.
There would be a revival of prospecting,
with all its possibilities, in all the States
and Central Australia. With a swelling
gold output our position would be strength-
ened abroad, and a start might be made, as
Senator McLachlan suggests, with the con-
version of our 560 millions of external debt
into an internal debt.
To some extent, no doubt, a gold bonus
would be a gamble, but in our present
circumstances it looks a better gamble than
either the wheat guarantee or the cotton
bounties, and there is no string tied to it,
as there is to the wheat guarantee.
♦
Get Into the Workshops!
Dear Bulletin, —I joined my union 40-odd
years back, have taken an interest in it
always and have followed my trade through
all these years, so I can claim to have some
experience of unionism and matters affect-
ing it.
Nearly all shops and factories are kept
flooded with pamphlets, posters and circu-
lars of the “Not a penny off the wage, nor a
minute on the hour” sort. In Sydney the
men are told that they must not read the
“S. M. Herald,” because it only manufac-
tures lies for the damned capitalists. The
“Labor Daily” is pushed under workmen’s
noses, and must be read and absorbed if
a man wants to retain his job in comfort.
One never comes across a circular or
propaganda putting the other side.
Some important referendums and elec-
tions are in view, and it is highly desirable
that the electors should know what they are
voting upon. But how can they if the}'
hear only one side? The remedy is obvious:
literature should be distributed in the fac-
tories and workshops. Personally, knowing
how meaningless a vote is in very many
cases at present, I think we should go fur-
ther and legislate that every person should
be subject to a simple examination before
being enrolled—not, of course, to ascertain
what his political views are, but to ensure
that he has political views. My friends talk
about wage-slaves. At present three-fourths
of them are vote-slaves.
It is not their fault. It is your fault, you
employers, you educated men!
The last general election (Federal) was a
splendid illustration of the effect of propa-
ganda. But all the propaganda worth men-
tioning was done by Labor. No doubt
somebody will say, “But, since a good many
of you have read and thought, why don’t
you get to work?” The employers could
tell you. How long do you think I could
keep my job, much as I might enjoy the
goodwill of my employers, if the bulk of my
fellow-workmen decided that I was “no good
on that job”?—Yours, Forty-year Unionist.
The Professor and the Whaler.
Professor Radcliffe Brown, a Sydney don,
supplied a good illustration the other day
of the absurdity of trying to arrive at what
is the living wage. In opening an exhi-
bition of Piper prints he declared that “the
country which treated art as a luxury was
doing its people an injustice. Life without
such luxuries was hardly life at all.”
Almost simultaneously comes a Bulle-
tin contributor’s report of a meeting on the
Lower Darling with a man, as highly edu-
cated almost as Professor Brown himself,
who asserted that he hadn’t lived under a
roof for. 15 years, had never seen a movie
nor heard a talkie, and challenged the world
to produce anybody happier.
No amount of evidence could be much
help to these two men in deciding what
was the living wage. Whether this or that is
necessary is obviously a matter of opinion;
and nearly all the evidence one could
produce must be opinion also. It may be
the function of the Legislature to decide
whether a girl needs three pairs of silk
stockings or six a year; it cannot be the
proper function of a Judge. For when all is
said and done the Judge will express either
his own opinion or what he conceives to be
the opinion of the political party which he
favors. What his own opinion is depends
on whether he is Radcliffe Brown or the
Darling “whaler”; and when a Judge settles
a matter according to what he believes
tP be the desires of one political party, he
drags the name of Judge in the gutter, and
brings the Courts into disrepute. In either
case the decision settles nothing. Least of
all does it settle whether the lady earns
the six pairs, and, therefore, whether the
industry in which she is engaged can afford
to hand her the money to buy them.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
ê
QUIET RESTFUL
COOL Open to the
Summer Sea Breezes,
with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths, Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommoda-
tion.
TARIFF:
From 4J Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS:
Y3O I 2 (4 lines).
INVINCIBLE
Marine Motors are
stocked in 12 popular
sizes: 2 \ to 6 h.p.
“The World’s Best Since 1906”
All Spare Parts always available.
Write jor 30-page illustrated Catalogue.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED
Sydney Showrooms:
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET
(Near Harbor Bridge).
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Scullidores have drawn pointed
attention to the fact that there are no Dig-
gers among them by doing away with pre-
ference to returned soldiers in the Works
and Railways Department. New tender
forms were issued with the Ministerial
“Returned soldier, you say? Want some-
thing done for you because it’s Anzac
Week? Now, let’s see. Why, cert’nly
— we’ll abolish your preference!”
instruction “Preference must be given to
unionists, who shall be engaged through the
Trades Hall.” Storm clouds gathering,
there was a hurried Cabinet meeting, from
which a flustered Priminister emerged to
say that preference would be given, “firstly,
to returned soldiers and sailors who are
members of trade-unions, and, secondly, to
members of trade-unions” —which is none
the less a flagrant act of repudiation. And
this in the Anzac month!
Ross, the member for Albury, has broken
one of the cardinal rules of the party game.
Explaining his position to a meeting of
local Nats, and C.P. men, he said he had
supported the Government when he could
do so with a good conscience, but had voted
against it when he thought it had gone
astray. He had been asked by the National-
ist Association whether he intended to nomi-
nate as a Nationalist and had replied that
he would stand as an Independent. The
meeting said it would stick to the man with
a conscience, but the Sydney wirepullers are
furious, and “S. M. Herald” declares in
indignant headlines that he is “Deserting
the Nationalist Party.”
A recent item of news was that Red-
flaggers had hoisted their gory rag in an
Australian capital, and taken partial pos-
session of the Government offices. A few
years ago they chased the Federal authority
out of the
same capital,
and shipped it
off down
south.. A re-
straining influ-
ence is that
so many “mili-
tants” do no
work and re-
ceive a Gov-
ernment allow-
ance, and they
don’t want to
actually kill
their source of
income. It is
hoped that
some day the
weary crowd
at Canberra
will really
complete the
trans - conti-
nental r ail-
way from the
south end, and
bring Darwin
into such
rapid commu-
nication with the populated Australia that
it will be easy to stop this disreputable fool-
ishness.
In 1927-2 S both the unfinished scraps of
the South-to-North line got to the point at
which they paid working expenses and some-
thing over, which is more than can be said
for 42 N.S.W. State lines. A finished work
should do better, especially as the Com-
monwealth owns 834,000,000 acres of land
in the Territory—the only big estate it
possesses. In 1927-28, when the South-to-
North railway began to pay expenses, the
Canberra dead-end left off, by way of counter-
balance.
With the help of the four Country Progs.
a<nd Gray, the St. Kilda Lib., the Hogans
defeated the Argyle-Allan amendment to their
tax bill for unemployment relief. While
the House then languidly debated the second
reading, party leaders had an informal con-
ference regarding a compromise. The Opposi-
tion wants a stamp duty of Id. in the £ on
salaries and wages, and the Uppish House
will force some makeshift if the bill is not
recast.
Delegates from Petersham tramped dis-
gustedly out of Hughes’s Australian party
convention last week, saying that William
was too autocratic, and having left that
small body they proceeded to form a smaller
one of their own. The programme has all
the stirring characteristics of a damp-blue
cotton umbrella which belongs to nobody.
It includes the extinction of State Parlia-
ments and party politics, maintenance of
the highest possible standard of living, and
“full national status not incompatible with
the British Commonwealth of Nations.” The
faction Hughes founded is boresome, but
the sub-parties which branch off Billy, and
those which sub-branch off the ones which
branched off Billy, threaten to be worse.
The only change in the Tas. Labor plat-
form effected by this year’s party conference
is a slight but useful-looking addition to the
education plank. It provides for continua-
tion classes and vocational guidance for
primary-school pupils who, failing to qualify
for high or tech, schools, are now left at
an educational dead-end between the legal
school-leaving age of 14 and the apprenticing
age of 151 or 16. McDonald, M.L.C., suc-
ceeds to the president’s chair, Postmaster-
General Lyons declining nomination; Allan
Guy, of the Reps., remains gen. sec.
N.S.W. railwaymeu obviously think a great
deal more of Cleary, their new Commissioner,
than they do of Chapman (imp.), the A.R.U.
secretary. Cleary put it to them that the
financial position was such that either work
must be rationed or there would have to
be wholesale dismissals. Chapman shouted
insults at Cleary, and ordered the men to
resist and “form committees,” suggesting also
his willingness to repudiate railway interest-
payments. A secret ballot shows thumping
majorities for the Cleary plan, and the union
ought to follow it up by getting another
secretary.
The Senate is throwing out the first of the
Constitution Amendment Bills —the one
which aims at removing ail checks on the
caprices of a caucus at Canberra —and a
bitter argument is raging as to when the
thing may be put to the general vote. It
is a profitless controversy, and it is no use
going on with the referendum. The dragging
“Now, look here, you fellows. I’ll really have to
shoot myself if you don’t let me get to my toil.”
“The Red-flaggers are adopting aggravating and disturbing
measures, making it impossible for the Government staff to do
any work.” —Telegram from Darwin.
in of the unification issue has spoilt what-
ever chance there may have been —and it
looked a good chance a few months ago—
of getting full industrial and trade-and-com-
merce powers. Moreover the Government
has handled other issues so clumsily that
myriads of people will seize the first oppor-
tunity of giving it a bump.
Jones, Minister of Works in Victoria,
seeks to levy a State tax on “those who
have made money in Australia and are going
abroad to spend some of it touring the plea-
sure resorts of Europe.” That is good
enough, but
having got
this paper
revenue
Jones’s dream
is to some-
how turn it
into gold and
spend it
abroad in
advertising the
scenic beauties
of his State so
that streams
of wealthy
folk may come
out and study
Jones’s alps
and Hogan’s
cataracts, and
blew their
riches here. It
would be
wiser to stick
to the tourist
tax money
and help the
revenue
with it.
Sydney will shortly have an elected City
Council again, Premier Bavin’s conscience
being against a continuance of government
by Commissioners as standing for the nefari-
ous system of taxation without representa-
tion. The old way of doing things stood for
a good deal of representation without taxa-
tion, but that may be of minor importance.
A matter which the casual Premier has left
to the future is whether the electricity under-
taking, a highly technical business, shall be
left in the hands of the Council or put under
a body of experts. The old gang found it
a wide field for the distribution of patrqja,-
age, and it was in connection with the
electricity works that so many attempts were
made to acquire a municipal coalmine, or
a bit of land with alleged coal concealed
underneath the grass. The electricity de-
partment, even with no coalmine attached,
accounts for more than half the city expendi-
ture, so it is a matter of some size.
Two machines have arrogated to them-
selves the right to pick the Sydney aider-
men, one despotism being tempered by an-
other ; and both are out with their tickets.
The Nationalists have excluded ex-aldermen
Courtenay and Lindsay Thompson, and the
A.L.P. has turned down former Lud Mayors
Stokes and Mostyn, Mick Burke, M.L.A.,
Holdsworth and others of the old gang.
Garden, of the Trades and Labor Council,
is its candidate for Lud Mayor, and Grant,
of I.W.W. notoriety, is to be next in com-
mand. It is one way of justifying Garden’s
boast to his Moscow masters that “Revolu-
tion has stepped on the stage in Australia.”
A favorite platform cry during the timber
strike was “Labor will remove Judge Lukin
from, the Federal Arbitration Court.” Mr.
Lukin has now received notice of transfer
from the Arbitration to the Bankruptcy
Court. The Labor Attorney-General indig-
nantly denies that the shift has “any politi-
cal significance.” Of course it hasn’t. Any-
body can see that.
A bill before Vic. Assembly provides
another suspension of debts for the dis-
tressed wheat-farmers of Millewa county,
in the extreme north-eastern Mallee, and for
some parts adjoining. Millewa was the last
wheat-settlement effort in the State; there
were 1491 acres under this grain in 1924,
and 116,028 in 1928. During 1928-29-30
it and some adjacent Mallee districts received
£2,113,451 in drought relief. The Govern-
ment is also pledged to an expenditure of
£500.000 between July and December next.
Hogan reckons that those in want of assist-
ance this time number 3000.
There are demands for a moratorium in
other quarters besides the Vic. Mallee. A
moratorium is a kindly arrangement by
which Smith, being in difficulties, is pro-
tected by law from the necessity of paying
Jones, who may be in difficulties himself
or heading that way. It is especially
unkind if Jones is an elderly party with a
few hundreds lent on mortgage, and his or
her income from interest is stopped. The
writ-proof certificate may be for one or two
years, though of course it may be renewed.
When it finally expires the distressed agri-
culturist or buyer of the time-payment villa
takes up the dead horse of his destiny, and
resumes the pilgrimage.
The MacDonald Government, now eleven
months old, is beginning an unpromising
session. It is dreadfully short of money, and
has promised a variety of tax additions wh
are guaranteed not to promote any rmtis
industry, the promotion of industry m tna
way being contrary to Freetrade principles.
A little while ago the people were miorniec
that the protective duties which had been
put on experimentally for a period would
not be renewed. The first due to _ expire
is the duty on lace, and 13,000 Nottingham
lace-workers have petitioned against its
removal. That is annoying from a town
which returns three Labor members out ox
four. Till last election it returned three
Conservative members out of four, and it
changed without considering the possible
consequences.
Hogan’s Government expects £BOOO or
more in license fees from its opossum-
slaughtering season. Whether the 4000-odd
trappers will get the handsome return pre-
dicted is dubious.. The flooding of the market
with skins is sure to cause a drop in prices,
as it did in 1926. Officials deny that the
offensive will do permanent damage to the
Vic. fauna; but in 1926 the opossum was
nearly exterminated in some districts, as
well 'as the rare flying-squirrel and other
diminishing varieties.
Hughes compares his “Australian party
to Christianity, which began in obscurity and
spread. But the early boss Christians started
with a definite policy, and waited a long
while for office.
The Lonsdale-street land (4 acres 3 roods)
on which Melbourne Hospital stands was
granted in March, 1859, to three trustees,
a right of re-entry being reserved for the
Crown should the site be used for other
purposes. The title cannot, therefore, be
pledged as security for a loan to provide
a new building at Parkville, and the Hogans
are unwilling to guarantee repayment. Ilogan
thinks it would be wicked waste to scrap
buildings which have cost close on £400,000
and have all gone up in the last quarter
of a century; and Hogan is right.
The majority of seven by which the Vie.
Uppish House passed the second reading of
the Tote Bill was larger than was expected.
Nobody dared to forecast more than three.
At the beginning of the week it looked as
if the bill would be put through the remain-
ing stages without a vital amendment. An
"Beaten, brother!”
attempt was to be made to eliminate
McShortodds as a competitor, but the Min-
istry made it clear that such an alteration
would mean dropping the measure.
The nomination of Isaacs, C.J., as a
possible G.-G. is a matter for mixed
emotions. There is no reason why the
Commonwealth shouldn’t be G.-G.’d by one
of its own citizens. The U.S. President
and State Governors are, of necessity, local
citizens. But the President isn’t created by
the Ministry. The people elect him, and
then he creates the Ministry. If the obvious
suitability of Isaacs led to the nomination
of Governors-General by the bosses of the
political majority at Canberra becoming an
accepted arrangement, the regime of party
hacks at Government House might be ex-
pected to commence.
The prophet Ratana has launched a cam-
paign for the reinterpretation of the Treaty
of Waitangi, with the idea of dragging up
land titles by the roots. The treaty was
engineered by Captain Hobson, first Lieut-
Governor, in 1840; under it the Maoris
recognised Queen Victoria as a sort of over-
lord who was to exercise in respect of their
lands the legendary property right possessed
by the Crown. What the chiefs who were
parties to the thing didn’t understand was
that the Crown would enforce all save the
most outrageous land bargains made between
Maoris and pakehas with foot, horse and
artillery. Almost all the Maoris are signing
Ratana’s petition. Apirana Ngata, Minister
of Native Affairs, bachelor of laws and of
arts, and a belted knight, took no part in
the hui at which the matter was discussed,
but sent word to say that he was not opposed
to the petition, and saw no harm in sign-
ing it.
BLUE BOOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Forde, Minister for Customs, spent several
hours in reading ‘Redheap’ to decide whether or not
it should be admitted to Australia.”
Scullin, with stubborn resolution,
Reads tomes about the Constitution,
Absorbing lore from various legal
Sources on filling posts vice-regal,
While Theodore is interviewing
Bankers or diligently stewing
O’er publications that enhance
A fellow’s knowledge of finance.
But Forde’s is no such dry or dead heap
Of pabulum—he’s sampling “Redheap.”
Yet deem not fiction light enthralls him,
’Tis stern, insistent duty calls him.
Who runs our Customs can’t ignore his
Twin obligation to our mores.
He has to shield the unsophistic
Tastes from the over-realistic
Pictures that bear a likeness to
Those Zola and Maupassant drew,
And place romances too uproarious
On his index expurgatorius.
From high affairs of State he snatches
A day to browse on purple patches,
To rule with disapproval icy
This is too raw or that too spicy.
Tales at which graceless rakes might chuckle
He’ll find perhaps too “near the knuckle,”
Full-flavored yarns outside the fence
Of pedagogic preference.
If such befall, ’tis useless squealing:
There’s no provision for appealing.
Some statesman —“Pam,” I think, or
“Dizzy”—
Said office kept him far too busy
For ever even glancing through books,
Except the sort entitled blue books.
It’s volumes of a diff’rent azure
Await release or risk erasure
While their recesses are explored
By the indomitable Forde.
His job’s to make the world acquainted
If they’re as blue as they’ve been painted.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Lulworth”: The opening of the across-
the-worlfl telephone service set the “S. M.
Herald” recalling the first cable message
received from London in July, 1872. In the
comments published on that occasion
there is a queer reference to Royalty: “A
short time ago it was reported that the
Queen was about to be married, but Reuter’s
telegrams give no confirmation to the story.”
It would be interesting to know how the
yarn got to Sydney that Victoria, then in
her fifties, contemplated taking another mate,
and who was the personage indicated. The
possibility of her ever having had a second
marriage in mind is not hinted at by any
of her biographers.
“Sol Malaprop”: The suicide at Los
Angeles of Mrs. Guy Bates Post, wife or
divorcee of Mr. Buy Gate Posts, the actor,
was a typical American incident, inasmuch
as he was her second husband and she was
his third wife. That seems about up to the
United States average nowadays, so far as
city life goes, but not beyond the average.
Domestic complications of the picturesque
sort have belonged to all times and all
nations, but they were once regarded as
more remarkable than they are now. Henry
VIII. of England, for instance, had six
wives, and his only daughter by the first wife
had five stepmothers. The last stepmother
was Henry’s sixth wife and he was her third
husband. After his death she married a
fourth husband, of whom bad things wer.e
said; anyhow, his head was cut off. Our
present Royal family has various compli-
cations in its pedigree. Henry V.’s skittish
PUTTING DADDY IN HIS PLACE.
“Willie, you shall not have a bite till you’ve washed, your hands. You’ve never seen
daddy come to the table with dirty hands.”
“No, but I bet gran’ma has.”
French widow either married or didn’t marry
a handsome youth with a bit of land in
Wales (or else his father had the bit of
land) and a minor job at Court. Unto them
a son was born. Parliament annulled the
marriage, if any. But the son, who was push-
ing and ambitious, got a title and burst more
directly into Royal circles by marrying the
great-grand-daughter of the mistress of
Edward lll.’s fourth son, a lady named
Swynford. The mistress is said to have
become the fourth son’s third wife, but all
lier children were born out of wedlock. Owing
to much butchery the Welshman came to
the throne as being some sort of an heir,
and his daughter s marriage to a Scottish
king was the making of George V. If Mrs.
Catherine Swynford of the fourteenth cen-
tury had been more particular in her con-
duct it is impossible to guess who would be
king now.
“lan C.”: At least one Vic. Government
department is anxious to show Hogan that it
is economical. An officer of many years
service went on annual leave for three
weeks, drawing his pay in advance. He feu
ill, and a fortnight later was dead. The
department demanded the return of the other
week’s pay. The widow replied that her
husband had received no more than was due
to him, having earned his leave, and that
she had been left so badly off that she would
have to go out and work. The genius who
had made the demand went higher up to
ascertain what should be the next step.
“Higher-up” arranged for the amount to be
charged to “unforeseen and accidental ex-
penditure.”
* * * *
“Swanbourne” : Election of mayors by the
ratepayers may have advantages: it also
has humors. Years ago,
when a pompous captain of
industry was after the
rabbit-skin in Perth, some
jesting souls sought to en-
sure a contest and infuse
some gaiety into it by
nominating the town bell-
man against him. The
bellman, having been subsi-
dised, was agreeable; but
he dou b 1 e-crossed his
backers by retiring at the
last moment, owing, it was
suspected, to a further sub-
sidy from the opposite quar-
ter. Perth has had at least
one mayor who would
never have been elected by
councillors —a comparative
newcomer who had struck
it lucky on the goldfields.
Under his regime council
meetings became so dis-
orderly that the Mayoress,
a lady with strong views
on temperance, descended
on the hall where the city
dads were gathering, osten-
tatiously locked the cup-
board, where enough drinks
were kept to stock a small
pub, and withdrew with
the key. There being no
duplicate, and his Worship
not daring to send for a
locksmith, that was a very
dry night.
“Brace”: Every year the organisers of the
Melbourne Motor Show entertain all the
available Cobb and Co. coachmen, and a
real Cobb coach is an exhibit. Frank
Smiley, "whose father was a famous American
driver, manages to make this relic move on
parade. He himself was a pupil of “Cab-
bage-tree” Ned Devine, the Tasmanian who,
competing against, cracks from the American
prairies, gained the title of Prince of Whips.
Smiley once had over 200 names on his list
—he is an unofficial secretary of the coach-
men’s brotherhood —but many have been
scored out. Of the drivers who still flick
their whips at Time the youngest is 70 ; the
oldest nearly 100.
* * * *
“Ostrich”: If was a busy main road, five
miles outside Melbourne. The long, sleek
car held a youth and a flapper. A four-
foot black-length wriggled out of the road-
side dust. The youth grinned and swung
his wheel in an attempt to squash the reptile.
He did not get it, but got a car which had
selected that moment to pass him; they can-
noned together, and the off-front wheel of
the swain’s machine was shorn off. Frantic
application of two sets of brakes left the
cars propped up against one another in the
middle of the road. An irate gent, in a
dustcoat got down, and was spiritedly abus-
ing the swain when a small and rackety
tourer shot light-heartedly round the corner
and went smack into the hapless youth’s
caravan. The tourer bounced off without
much apparent harm, but the other car’s
nickelled lamps and radiator looked as if
a Mills bomb had been there. Driver No. 3
had scarcely joined the parliament when a
six-wheeled lorry came unexpectedly from
the rear. It finished the damage by wreck-
ing Romeo’s spare wheel and two suitcases,
one of which disgorged a frilly cataract of
pink and green. It was three-quarters of
an hour before traffic was normal again;
then as I was about to depart I saw a move-
ment on the other side of the thick hedge
which bordered a cottage garden. A scared-
looking boy was peering through the leaves,
In his hand was a piece of string, and on
the other end of the string was the four-
foot length of black hosepipe with which he
had been amusing himself.
* * * *
“Mark V.”: “Mark IV.” (B. 23/4/’3O)
makes too much of the “mystery” of the Big
Berthas. British ordnance experts were
able to calculate the ballistics once they
were shown a fragment of a shell, and they
THE PLACE WAS FELL OF EXCITEMENT.
“But didn’t you find it terribly dull up there?”
“Dull! Why, uncle’s bull got out three times in one week!”
“reconstructed” the gun (on paper) in a
manner later found to be entirely accurate,
The first of the Berthas was an llin. Krupp
naval gun, with the bore reduced to Sin.
by inner tubes, and an extra 30ft. of muzzle,
smooth-bored, screwed on. Muzzle velocity
was 5000 ft. per second. Tbe shell had to
be so thick in its walls, to stand the strain
of propulsion, that the bursting charge was
relatively small. The Germans were aiming
at moral effect, not ballistic efficiency. The
British could have copied Big Bertha, had
they thought it worth while. Why the
Frepch are doing so is their business.
* • • • • •
“Marker” : A full description of the big-
gest Bertha was published in the Royal
Artillery magazine in October, 1918. Figures,
as I recall them, were: Muzzle velocity,
5000 ft. per second; greatest height from
the ground of shell during flight, 26 miles ;
time of flight, 183 seconds. The chief diffi-
cult.v in construction was to get a pro-
jectile to withstand the force of the propel-
hint charge without losing its centre of
gravity.
'=:= * * *
“D.M.0.”: Brisbane is becoming unsafe
for jazz-girls who are too popular and has-
bands who are not sure whether the wife is
called Muriel or Bella. There has been an
eruption of subjoined notices on boarding-
house walls :
Married couples without luggage must occupy
separate apartments.
Guests must not entertain members of the opposite
sex in their
* * ,
“Baniera” : Even the pious build on false
foundations sometimes. When the .John
Williams, third of her line, was launched the
other day in Britain, .she was christened
with cocoanut milk instead of champagne,
the London I .\ ssl ®^ ir - y i
total. But while cocoanut milk is an i e l
temperance drink in the early stages of ts
exposure to the mn * raP’dly s up,
the mo t° hTad- Sng chain iAtning ? ever
LLTa ken from the
sampled. Palm toddy taken from the
crowns f of /he cocoanut palms, is a meie
cncumstance so . ...
“X.S.”: Memories of a case of sex-impos-
ture which interested the last generation
were revived by a police-court case in Mel-
bourne. A man was charged with assault-
ng a woman called Marion Edwards. In
palliation it was claimed that he had thought
he was hitting not Marion but Bill Edwards.
The beak, being puzzled, a constable ex-
plained that Marion had masqueraded as
Bill off and on, for 40 years or thereabouts.
* * „..
„ ~ , v .. . ,
General Prac : Ihe common belief is that,
financial depression or not, peop e must get
ill, and that, as a corollary, doctors must pros-
per. But I don’t know. Both the grandees
of Macquarie-street and their humbler subur-
ban colleagues feel rather morose just now;
and the queer thing is that each section
blames the other. The big city consultant,
contemplating his empty waiting-room, be-
lieves that old Dr. Poultice, out at (say)
Botany, is being hungry and rash enough
to treat the serious cases which in good
times were subjected to anxious head-shak-
ings in Macquarie-street at two guineas per
shall' ; and poor old Poultice, as he sits at
the silent telephone, thinks that all Ins
patients, neglecting minor ills, are seeking
the best Macquarie-street advice only when
death seems imminent. Anyhow, times are
bad. The Stork doesn’t call at midnight, as
once he did; and, as a renowned authority
on nervous diseases says, “Even the dashed
lunatics don't seem to go mad.” Another
man who devotes his lift* to the repair of
the human nose and throat told me that no-
body ever seems to get sick above the
shoulders nowadays. I told him that a
really good slogan, properly broadcast, might
help, and suggested “Grow more adenoids.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A seaman who left N.S.W.
23 years ago and was reported drowned in
Maoriland in 1916 has just satisfied the
N.S.W. Supreme Court that he isn’t dead,
A declaration of presumption of death can
be secured after a person has been missing
for seven years, but in the mariner’s case
it wasn’t asked for until some property in
which he had a legal interest had to be
distributed. About the same time the spirit
moved him to get in touch with his Aus-
tralian friends, and an advertisement repub-
fished in Wollongong (the place he once
regarded as home) revealed that he was
living in Wales. The return of people long-
supposed to be dead is fairly common. There
is an old chap in the ’Boo who until five
years ago had not been heard of since he
went away to the South African War. He
left a family behind, and came back to find
a grandson living in the house lie himself
had occupied so long ago. The old fellow
tells scrappy tales of adventures in many
parts of the world, but is seemingly incapable
of relating a connected story,
* * * *
“N.Iv.C.” : They are in a row—“Ah Met,
Herbalist”; “Tom Lin, Chinese Herbalist”;
“Sin San, Specialist Herbalist.” My upstairs
over i o oks their common back yard. Three
front doors and plates, and one “doctor.”
I teased him about it, and he looked at me
impassively until I had finished. Then he
sa jd; “It’s easy to see you’re no psycholo-
„
B ’ ’ .... * * *
“Morita”: Pozieres convinced me that,
after a severe shock, abuse and sarcasm
stopped many f rom being cases for nerve
ialigts f irst inst incts were to dive for
the de . the dug-out the better.
Except for men Ldly shell-shocked, who had
to be got out of the way, the dug-out was the
vvorst % emed of all . After being dragged
from under * b lown-in parapet I was one of
the first into a deep Fritz dug-out. Trembling
a leaf and with J
ta /‘ a in / au °P ea trench by an old timei,
aad together we sat out the night. I d have
ad had to slink below again, bur
that S«° d inate sustained me, and his sar-
fasm had me somewhere about normal for
usua * dawn strafe. I remember a doc.
who when short of bearers called the mob
together and swore that not one of them
w °uld go past him with nerves. lie did
pass back a couple with shell-shock, having
no option, but the rest, casualties excepted,
gaw t ] ie s tunt through when other units
were sen ding their breakdown cases to rest
A. , b
1 ... ...
“Pawang” : Pain will drive men to extra-
ordinary lengths of self-torture, but probably
the record in that direction was established
by an old man who lias died in Melbourne
Public Hospital. In an endeavor to rid him-
self of rheumatism he had successively
snipped off portions of his anatomy with a
pair of garden secateurs. The end came
when he , removed an entire foot by this
method.
COMPROMISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One was tall, and just as comely
As a sweetly tapered lily;
Yet I gazed upon her glumly,
For her words were few —and silly.
One was golden-tongued and gracious.
All of wit and wisdom blended ;
But her mouth was—oh, so spacious!
And her nose, alas, ascended.
Winsome maid and maiden witty !
Eyes or ears proclaimed you charming.
Which is why I thought it pity
Ears or eyes proved you alarming.
Silken-skinned and softly-spoken,
What a pa*ir you were to pother,
As I vainly sought a token
Of the charm of one in t’other!
Since no wishing could combine you
To compose your differences,
Clear it seemed I must resign you
Both, to suit my warring senses.
Yet I held it more than duty
Such rare graces to be spurning,
So —I wandered, deaf, with beauty,
As I loitered, blind, with learning.
VICTOKIA.
HASEN.


“Centurion” ; Two revolving pistols of the
type which was the forerunner of the Colt
have been dug up near Bathurst. Instead
of a single fixed barrel with a tumbler
behind containing the charges, the ancient
weapon has six barrels in one unit, the
whole revolving as the trigger is pulled. The
disadvantage of the pepper-pot in its muzzle-
loading heyday was that the explosion of
one percussion cap often fired the whole six
barrels. This sometimes settled the argu-
ment, or at least the person fired at, but it
allowed the firer only one broadside. So
those affecting the pepper-pot made a prac-
tice of carrying a couple of spare barrels
ready loaded in their pockets, which could
be hurriedly substituted in emergency.
* # * «
“Wanda”: They escaped from our insti-
tution at 8.5 o’clock on a cold, rainy winter’s
eve, two naughty little creatures who should
not have been abroad after dark. The alarm
was sounded and I was roused from after-
dinner contemplation of a book and a cigar
to go in search. I climbed into the car and
set off down the deserted suburban street.
No sign of the escapees. Round this corner,
round that. Still no sign. Ila! what is that?
Two little trim shapes, forging warmly-coated
through the drizzle, shoulder to shoulder,
looking neither to right nor left, chins
(saucy little chins) tilted up. I follow dis-
creetly, awaiting developments. Some dirty
dog wishes to make their acquaintance. They
spurn him with a contemptuous toss of pretty
heads. I follow. The chase ends at our own
front door. Bettina and Molly, our match-
less Poms, for- whom aunt paid a hundred
guineas apiece, have returned home after an
unauthorised constitutional round the block.
$ & * $
“Fernie”: People who have their doubts
about Longfellow’s dictum that life is real
and earnest ought to attend a W.E.A. class
in Maoriland. The letters stand for Workers’
Educational Association, and the University
of M.L., as represented by its four city col-
leges. has never been backward in supplying
tutors, though it knows jolly well that most
OF COURSE THEY OUGHT TO BE MARKED IN SOME WAY.
“Oh, Elinor, your dog has killed one of Reggie’s prize roosters.”
“Darling, I’m so sorry. But you musn’t blame poor Fido —how was he to know that
it was a prize rooster?”
of the students feel they have a mission to
uproot the social system and implant social-
ism, theosopliism or commuiysm in its stead,
It is felt by the dear old lads who con-
stitutc the Uni. Council, some of whom bear
the scars of a long political career, that a
dissemination of wiiat: lit tie is known about
the complex problems that beset modern
existence can’t do anybody any harm. The
tutors, who give their services gratuitously,
learn a bit too. One. an earnest youth and a
bachelor, recently gave, a lecture in which he
trenched upon the subject of the economic
dependence of woman upon man. He showed
tha<t in many civilised countries the females
out-number the males, and as an example of
au exception to the rule lie mentioned an
island where men outnumber the women
two to one. There were giggles and nudg-
ings amongst the bright-eyed young girls
who constituted more than half his class, and
he added jocosely, “So if any of you young
ladies want a husband, you know where to
go.” The joke fell flat. The girls bridled,
and then, as by one accord, rose up and
walked to the door. A red-haired male who
worked in a shipping office saved the situa-
tion. “Don’t go,” he yelled. “The boat
doesn’t leave till Friday.”
% $ :Jc sfc
“Spare Corp”: When the big man from
the country, down in Sydney for the Anzac
Day march, hailed me as a pal, I couldn't
“place” him. “Don’t you remember ‘Jimmy
the Splinter’ and saving his life?” he de-
manded, dragging me into his circle and
calling for another drink. “Saved me life in
France,” he repeated, as lie introduced me
all round, and I began to feel proud of myself.
The barmaid looked at me with admiration
as he turned to her: “You know him, Kid,
eh? Well, he proved himself a real hero
in France.” Then to me: “Why aren’t you
rearin’ a medal, Dig.? Those who earned
’em most didn’t get ’em.” My chest was
about bursting its buttons, when someone
called for the yarn. Not remembering it, I
modestly passed the demand on to my
enthusiastic friend. “What?” he cried;
“don’t you remember wanglin’ that extra
rum from the Q.M. an’ givin' me half of it?”
* ■'!= * *
“Freetrader”: An unknown smuggler
whose activities have been baffled by the
Customs at Brisbane must have studied
Edgar Allan Poe. He had a lot of cigarettes
to land, and chose for a hiding-place an un-
locked box close by the gangway in which
deck-sports requisites were kept. It was the
first thing likely to catch the eye of the
boarding officers, and he no doubt calculated
on this obvious fact to carry
him through. But boarding
officers are a suspicious
breed, and when a long
examination of the inner-
most recesses of the ship had
revealed no contraband it
occurred to the last searcher
as he was leaving that he
had better have a look at that
box. Someone aboard that steamer is pro-
bably still walloping his joss.
* * * *
“Dingbat”: With its dingy shrubs and
threadbare grassplots, the narrow garden
which flanks St. Paul’s, Melbourne, on two
sides offers a dismal commentary upon the
outlook of the church authorities, who are
spending the balance of a hard-won £70,000
on the completion of the cathedral spires.
For many years this space was surrounded
by high iron railings, within which there
was nothing but a bare stretch of litter-
strewn turf. Some cheerful soul awoke at
last to the need for better things; the rails
were torn down and a garden was made.
This, however, has not fulfilled its early
promise, and its claims on the attention of
the elect have been overlooked in the frenzy
of effort associated with the spire-building.
If one is nearest to God in a garden, the
laundering of the cathedral’s skirts should
at least keep pace with the enrichment of
the shrine itself. The fact that St. Paul’s
is now celebrating its jubilee might be
expected to provide an immediate reason for
a little briglitening-up of the precincts.
* * * *
“Avon”: To live in Canterbury (M.L.),
probably the flattest 10,000 sq. ' mile plot
of land in all the Empire—it runs 50 miles
from mountains to coast and 200 miles
parallel to the alpine backbone—is to enjoy
by proxy a taste of the beautifully-trimmed
little islands in which the ancestors of 98
per cent, of Maorilanders saw the light of
day. The trees, stout British emigrants,,
soon displaced the neutral-tinted native scrub
—the kauri doesn’t grow south of Cook Strait
and the other few big trees that are indi-
genous to the land don’t flourish in the
polar blasts that occasionally ravage the
South Island. The oak, the elm, the poplar,
the willow and the ash enjoy the climate.
One of my saddest recollections is of a
motor trip I undertook in the days when
motor-cars weren’t as numerous or as reliable
as they a<re now. Christchurch City Council
sent out an expedition to have a look at
Lake Coleridge, named after Samuel Taylor
of that ilk, which was just commencing its
days as a source of liydro-electric power.
We crossed the Styx early in our journey
and later came in sight of the river Acheron
and of Mount Parnassus —our early settlers
were new from Oxford and Cambridge, and
drew their nomenclature from the classics.
The names greatly interested one of the
councillors who sat beside me in the car.
“We’ve crossed the Styx and seen the peak
of Parnassus,” he said. “What more is
there for us?” There wasn’t any more for
him, poor chap. Our car broke down. We
spent a bitterly cold night huddled together
in our seats, foodless and marooned far from
telegraphs and telephones, and had to tramp
15 miles next morning to Wind whistle,
which boasted a motor-’bus. The councillor
wasn’t in any shape for such exploits and
he died in hospital two days later of
pneumonia.
“Icon”; Sydney girls, the picture-papers
insist, are all “pretty.” They certainly
look well nourished and healthy (many
THE SORT OF MAN THE MANAGER IS.
NEW CLERK (being shown round) : "And the manager—is he very fussy?”
HER PREDCESSOR: “Fussy! Why, if you make a blot he’ll insist on you initialling it!”
London girls, on the other hand, are pal-
pably underfed) ; but the genuinely pretty
ones are in the minority, as is the case
everywhere. As for bathing beauties, of
whom so much is seen and heard, Cottesloe
(W.A.) can, I think, show a larger propor-
tion of fine young women than any Sydney
beach. But the Sydney young man receives
less than justice from the flapper-idolising
prints. Whether you see him in a surf com-
petition, on the football field or just walk-
ing in the public places, you have to ask
yourself, if you have travelled a bit and
are at all observant;, whether a nobler
physical type is to be found anywhere. Sun-
day afternoon in the Botanic Gardens is a
good time and place for comparing the pul-
chritude of the sexes as they stroll about in
couples. The girls, of course, are in all their
war-paint, and their companions have in
most cases been ill served by their tailors,
but even so the palm for good looks must
be awarded to the boys. And I am not
reckoning in the lads from the warships,
who come from all the States, and some of
whom are so classical in form and feature
that they might have stepped out of a Par-
thenon frieze into their 11.A.N. togs.
“T.P.”: Three of us, present 50 years
ago when the foundation-stone of St. Paul’s,
Melbourne, w-as laid, tried
the other day to locate the
particular block of granite;
the diocesan authorities have
been asking oldtimers to aid
them in the search. No
hope! The stone might be
anywhere, for the whole
scene lias changed. We then
had a shot at finding the
sites of the ancient fish-shop
and the morgue, mentioned
so often by contributors to
the argument about the
stone. * We agreed there,
only to find later we were
wrong again, though, when
the world was young, we
had passed that way hun-
dreds of times. It took me
back to a day 35 years ago
when I tramped all over
Ballarat East with two old
Eureka diggers seeking the
exact scene of the famous
light. These ancient Cousin
Jacks wrangled through the
afternoon and walked my
feet sore. Finally, one said
(the other nodding appro-
val) : “The good Looard,
boay, He do knaw wheel 7 ’tis,
but ’tisn’ theer.” And he
pointed to the memorial.
“Spate Corp”: Hall was the greatest bar-
racker in our unit for the Y.M.C.A. He
was writing a letter,one day when a Digger
just back from Britain began talking about
the V.D. cainp. “Gripes,” lie said, “there
must be 4000 blokes at Bulford, and 1
reckon they’s all ranks there, from a gen’ral
to a Y.M.C.A. rouseabout.” Hall caught
the last words and looked up. "Yes,” he
declared triumphantly, “you’ll find the
Y.M.C.A. everywhere!”
* * * *
“Amos Quito”: Malaria has no terrors
for some people. Consider my record. I
was in Mashonaland in 1897 (about 1000
whites were down to it there), in Central
India for two‘years, on the Gold Coast for
12 months, and in the tropical parts of
Argentina—everywhere without an attack.
Then I was three years in German New
Guinea, and had two touches, each of which
I got rid of before the sun went down. My
job during that period w 7 as draining swamps;
in an ordinary civilian occupation I would
probably have been quite free. In Mashona-
land there was only one other white man
who escaped the scourge. How do you
account for it?
“C.Q.” : For the fifth time the focal point
of the Anzac Day solemnities in Melbourne
was the temporary cenotaph. It had to be
taken out of storage, loaded on a lorry, set
up on Parliament House steps and removed
when the celebrations were over. Every year
a fresh coat of whitewash gives the struc-
ture an aggressively new appearance. Every-
one will be glad when the permanent shrine
in the Domain is set up, but there is no
prospect of its being ready for next year.
$ * *
“F.S.”: Herbert Robertson, the A.W.U.
rep. in Mildura, has a big territory to look
after. Two members of his union got a
month apiece for being concerned in a
shindy, but there were mitigating circum-
stances and, provided they were in at dusk,
the local gaoler didn’t worry much about
their movements. One day the boys were
working on the road in front of the lockup
when Robertson spotted them in passing.
Rot recognising them (although they recog-
nised him) he stepped across the street to
put the questions expected of a zealous
official. “It’s all right, Be'rt,” grinned
one of the pair, pointing to the portals of
the prison; “the bloke in there’s got our
tickets!”
* * * *
“Piecrust” : The upper-ten habit of cremat-
ing the remains of a loved one and keeping
the ashes in an urn on the mantelpiece has
its counterpart in lowlier homes. Collect-
ing rents in Richmond one day, a friend
was invited by one lady to step into the
kitchen while she found the money. A
dilapidated gramophone in one corner was
grinding out an ancient reproduction of
“Moonlight and Roses,” and at every circuit
a sound like tearing calico denoted a crack
in the record. He stood it for a few
moments, and then remarked that the record
was showing signs of wear. “Yes,” his
hostess explained, with gentle melancholy.
“I play it every morning. It’s the one me
'usband chucked at me the day ’e died.”
# * * *
“Percy Chippendale”: An antique hound of
my acquaintance recently chanced on the
knowledge that a distant cousin had in her
possession a mahogany four-poster bed which
was reputed to have begun its career in the
eighteenth century on the family estates in
Devon. Eighteenth-century mahogany being
regarded by him as sometliing above rubies,
he at once wrote to offer any price in reason
for the venerable article of furniture, llis
hopes were dashed by a letter mentioning that
the bed “was recently taken in hand by my
son Willie, w 7 ho is a great one at bringing
things up-to-date, and turned into the nicest
jardiniere stands —four of them, all done up
wit li a bit of French polish, and the very
thing for my aspidistras.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: An unusual combination
was involved in a traffic accident in Mel-
bourne. Going down hill in the dark, a
nurse riding a push-bike ran into a swaggie.
He was uninjured ; she hit the road and was
killed instantly.
“Runa”: The Rolls-Royce was parked
outside the most expensive house in the
suburban street, and I heard sounds of
fierce altercation from within. It was obvi-
ously a motlier-and-daughter rumpus. “I tell
you I w T on’t get out of this car till you say
I can have it!” said the flapper. “Well,
you’ll stay in for ever!” the matron retorted.
There was a tramstop at the gate, and I
waited to board the tram that had just
turned the corner. The chauffeur opened
the car door for a portly dame, but her
daughter was before her. Hopping out she
sped to the tramline and cast herself across
its dusty rails. The driver, clanging furi-
ously, applied the brakes hard, and brought
his vehicle to a standstill a couple of feet
from the prostrate damsel. “Get up, darling;
get up!” implored the distracted mother.
“Not till you say I’m to have that frock,”
said Miss Sixteen, tucking her toes into
the dust. Everyone in the tram descended
to look on, and the chauffeur hovered round
awaiting orders. “You’ve got too many
frocks already,” began mamma weakly;
then, observing a policeman approaching,
she added, “Get up! You can have any-
thing you want!” The brat arose unhur-
riedly, languidly dusted herself, and strolled
towards the Rolls-Royce. “And that’s one
way of bringin’ up yer parents,” said the
tramdriver cheerfully as the big car honked
and plunged off in the direction of the city
presumably to collect the item in dispute.
THE CORPULENT COP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A recent official order decrees that members of
the Yic. police motor patrol must not weigh more
than 12st. 71b.”
A Robert of Gargantuan girth,
M hose fairy footsteps shook the earth.
Sat sighing ’neath a willow-tree.
“Alack and well-a-day!” quoth he,
"Since Fate has otherwise decreed
No more on rubber tyres I speed.”
“O Guardian of the Law,” I said,
“Why is this thus?” He shook his head.
“Yet I account it cruel hard.”
lie sighed, “that adventitious lard
Should, in a departmental sense,
Thus turn the scales at my expense.
“Reducing I have tried in vain.
Exiguous my fare and plain;
No foaming tankards touch my lips;
No undercut; no fish and chips.
A small banana and a rusk
Have stayed this frame from dawn to dusk.”
“Stiff luck,” said I. “Too right,” said he.
"Yet you”—he coughed—“it seems to me,
Are—you’ll excuse me, sir—no tub.
Now, what might be your special grub?”
Said I, “No diet will avail
At twelve stone seven to make you scale.
“If you would fain be thin and spare,
Go, grip the Muses by the hair.
Learn those coy speedsters to arrest,
The dactyl and the anapest.
Impale your fancies on a nib,
And soon you’ll count each curving rib;
For metric virtuosity
Is death on adiposity.”
VICTOKJA.
WAWHERESH.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
A SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
The Sargasso Sea has tickled the imagi-
nation of the world for centuries. The
ancients guessed or heard about it. Plato
knew all about it. Pliny yarned about it
as he yarned about everything. Maunde-
ville had, of course, been there. Columbus
sailed across it. It was supposed to be a
vast weedy whirlpool into which the inexor-
able currents of the oceans inevitably swept
every wreck, every derelict, in later days
every steamship which lost her screw an 4 d
was abandoned by her complement. Some-
times the live crews went with their help-
less vessel. The weeds seized their keel, grew
up over the sides, climbed the shrouds and
finally dragged the ship down into Davy
Jones’s locker or; into a harbor of lost Atlan-
tis where the crew continued their' ghostly
lives, giving and taking in marriage and
breeding baby ghosts to form spectral
nations. A great theme for the romantic
playwright. It does not matter that scientific-
expeditions have since visited the spot, found
it to ,be larger in area than the United States
but containing nothing more romantic than
50-odd new varieties of polyzoa. It is good
for a powerful story, and First National
have seized on it and it appeared on the
Melbourne State screen on Saturday. In
the First Nat. version, called “The Isle of
Lost Ships,” we find Virginia Valli, as the
usual conventional Hollywood heroine,
oppressed with secret yearnings for a hand-
some young convict (Jason Robards), who
bears all the stigmata of a hero, and who is
being conveyed to New York by a detective
on an ocean liner. The liner strikes a dere-
lict, threatens to sink, is abandoned by every-
body but the principal characters, and eventu-
ally drifts into the Sargasso (by common
consent spelt Sargossa in the advts.). There
are people living amidst the welter of liners,
tramps, Spanish galleons and what not which
have been swept together; and here the film
develops a touch of grim realism. Noah
Beery is the self-made commander of the
castaways, who are as unsavory a lot of
primitives as ever figured in a picture. The
law is that any fresh woman shall be mar-
ried within 24 hours of her arrival, and Noah
lusts beerfully after the shrinking Virginia.
There is a stirring scene when the monster
drags the screaming virgin up to the altar,
but hero Robards escapes from confinement
and rescues her after a willing catch-as-
catch-can with the ruffian. It then trans-
pires that he is an ex-submarine officer, and
that there is a submarine amongst the .dere-
licts. The hero, the heroine, the comic reliefs
and all the most deserving characters in the
plot get inside the submersible and escape
from a difficult situation in the manner Sir
Hubert Wilkins proposes to reach the North
Polar regions.
A breathless bellowdrama expressed in poor
dialogue leaves little time for the working
up of the appropriate atmosphere, even if the
appropriate atmosphere were within the
powers of this producer, which is doubtful.
What sticks out of a wild and whirling tale
is the astonishing recreation of the physical
side of the romantic Sargasso legend in the
shape of hundreds of ships of all periods, all
cluttered together and decaying. Where the
picture-makers got their models from baffles
conjecture. Perhaps the setting is a dump
of Uncle Sam’s war-time marine oddments.
# * *
“Only the Brave,” a Paramount picture
which arrived at Sydney State Theatre
on Saturday, is a romance of the
American Civil War. It is convincingly
produced, but as misleading, historically,
as “Disraeli.” The appearance of “18(50”
amidst the smoke of battle implies that
the Southern States seceded a year before
they did, and the Northern hero and Southern
heroine look no older on their wedding-day
than when we first meet them, though the
reconciliation between Grant and Lee, which
the film depicts, didn’t take place till 1865.
This picture helps to perpetuate the stage
tradition that America’s Civil War was
fought mainly
by spies. Cap-
tain Braydon
volunteers for
a particularly
nasty job in
the spy line
after his Yan-
kee girl has
turned h i m
down for a
cold - footer.
If he and his
m i s 1 e ading
d o c u ments
aren’t c a p-
tured by the
Con federates,
Grant’s plans
will be upset.
He arrives at
Mr. Calhoun’s
southern man-
si o n during
the usual mili-
tary ball, and
the producer
gets some ex-
MARY BRIAN
in “Only the Brave.”
cellent comic effects from his futile
efforts to .be unmasked, and from the
efforts of the infatuated daughter of the
home to save him after the unmasking has
occurred. The daughter is a flirtatious lass
with a long string of uniformed admirers, and
the dour Northerner begins by classing her
with his cold-hearted first love. However,
she is not that kind of a girl at all, and when
he realises it love is born.
Hollywood’s Civil War films usually ring
true, and “Only the Brave” is no exception.
Every situation is more or less credible, and
Gai'y Cooper—lean, grim and businesslike —
resembles a genuine fighting man, as dis-
tinguished from the bounding mountebanks
that so many U.S.A. pictures have accused
America of exporting to the last war. Mary
Brian plays Barbara Calhoun with girlish
charm and a po’ful so’thun accent, and
William Lc Maire supplies a true-to-life
study of a dirty, scrimshanking private.
Intentionally or otherwise, the psychology
of this picture is very sound. Lead-swingers
of the type presented by Mr. Le Maire get
cushy jobs in all armies, and it was inevit-
able thnt the feather-headed Barbara should
fall in love with the Yankee. Such girls are
always attracted by men who differ from the
men they know.
* * *
Fox Movietone’s all-Australian Gazettes,
which get better and better, would do the
Commonwealth more good, if foreign picture-
houses could be persuaded to use them, than
all our High Commissioners, Agents-General
and ex-Governors. The latest one shows
the Anzac Day ceremonies in Sydney, Rand-
wick during the running of the Doncaster, a
parade of blood stock at the Sydney Show,
some Show jumping and a wood-chopping
contest. The only weak point in an excit-
ing and superbly-photographed item is the
announcing; they ought to put Australians
on to this job. The Americans are “selling
their country to the world” by means of
the film industry—getting international pres-
tige from their naval and military pictures,
and booming their architecture and engineer-
ing skill, as well as their cars, clothes and
a thousand other products with their pictures
of social life. Pending the arrival of an Aus-
tralian film industry it would be well worth
the Commonwealth Government’s while to
encourage organisations such as Fox Movie-
tone to make pictures emphasising Australia’s
advantages, and work hard to persuade over-
seas exhibitors to use them. It should be
comparatively easy. The news-value of a
good surfing picture, or a big shearing-shed
in action, or the Parramatta or Yarra dur-
ing the Head of the River finals is universal.
There would be a big national profit if the
experiment succeeded in increased tourist
traffic.
If Hastings' MacDonald’s stage version of
Joseph Conrad’s “Victoi’y” (elegantly mur-
dered by Margaret Bannerman in Mel-
bourne) made the defunct novelist turn in
his grave, as is likely, the screen arrange-
ment, “Dangerous Paradise,” must have
made him revolve even more violently. It is
by Paramount, and was released at the State,
Melbourne, on Saturday. If the producers
had left Conrad out of it altogether the
result would have been better ; but bits of him
kept floating up like quotations from Shaks-
peare in a patent-medicine advt.; and the
effect was disconcerting. Nancy Carroll
appears as the heroine, her name changed
to Alma, possibly because Lena doesn’t record
well on the talkies. Miss Carroll is gener-
ally good for a spasm of lightsome enter-
tainment, but as Conrad’s Lena she rings
as hollow as a tank at Oodnadatta in drought
time. Richard Arlen figures as the elderly,
cultured philosophic Heyst, who resorts to
life on a tropical island because be is weary
of the world and its follies. Arlen repre-
sents him as a young man with a smart
motor-launch, an uncouth accent, slovenly
speech and a habit of sulking behind a. book
to indicate the torments of his conscience.
The natives of Java are made to sing negro
spirituals and perform on the ukulele.
v- * #
It is hard to decide whether pictures like
“South Sea Rose” (Fox Movietone) at
Sydney Regent, are tributes to the un-
worldliness of film fans or reflections
on their moral outlook. The heroine,
Rosalie Dumay, is supposed to be a
LENORE ULRIG
in "South Sea Rose.”
flapper of
French origin,
who has been
brought u p
among the
natives of a
South Seas
island. Lenore
Ulric presents
her as a mem-
ber of the
Parisian half-
world. Her
face with its
touch of post-
youth hard-
ness, her
husky voice
which has lost
its girlish
timbre, her
craze for ex-
posing as
much of her
figure as the
law will
stand, and her
Delilah - like
ways with men would be very much
in the picture in a night club on
Montparnasse. The only excuse for her
sojourn in a strait-laced Massachusetts
township is that the inhabitants cannot
recognise professional naughtiness when they
see it.
The truth is, of course, most of these
Hollywood stars are one-part artists. Charles
Bickford, for example, who is labelled “Cap-
tain Briggs” for the purposes of this film, is
simply the miner-hero of “Dynamite” in a
merchant-seaman’s uniform. As in “Dyna-
mite,” he has to win a frivolous wife from
another man whose dapper appearance con-
trasts with his ruggedness. Miss Lenore is
the same girl in every detail in “South Sea
Rose” as she was in “Ki Ki,” and she has
the same kind of part. The captain
contracts a mock marriage with Rosalie for
her supposed fortune, only to find that she
has no money and that he loves her. H'is
American relations are scandalised by her
goings-on, which include luring the local
doctor into her bedroom, going about more
or less undressed, and dancing a hula-hula
at a meeting of the Talk of the Month
Club in cami-knickers and a native apron.
But their objections are not so much ethical
as social, and the audience is expected to
envisage a life of happiness for her and
her honest sailor-lover when they decide to
get properly married.
The native ballets in the South Seas island
forest are pleasing, though absurd, and there
is a realistic storm at sea in which the
first mate Hackett (Farrell Macdonald) is
injured by a falling spar. He is responsible
f*r the bogus marriage. The captain owes
him 5000 dollars, and means to pay it back
out of Rosalie’s fortune. The Australian
actress Daphne Pollard has the principal
comedy part (Mrs. Nott, a village scandal-
monger), and very funny she makes it.
A STUDY AT THE YEARLING SALES.


è
Fine Quality Silver-plate Tea and Coffee Service
v
comp le t e on
tray. The Tea-
pot and Coffee
or Hot-water
Jug have ebon-
ised knobs and
handles. Tea-
pot (2 pints).
Sugar Bowl and
Cream Jug,
£B/5/-. Coffee
or Hot-water
Jug, £4/10/-.
Tray, 20in.,
£6/15/-
Set complete,
£l9/10/-
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd.,
‘The Oldest .Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 Hunter Street.
7hp c±>nfre Oi Queens/onc/s
d/s/inguisfac/ Soc/o/ Life.
mnnom
motel
RDTCn
BRISBANE
é
Magnificent B a 11-
~ ...... room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central S7Bo—lo Lines.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ages of Federal Ministers: Scullin 53,
Theodore 45, Daly 38, Lyons 50, Blakeley
43. Anstey 64, Green 60 and Fordo 39.
El T. Fisk has been the mainspring of most
wireless operations in Australia for over 20
years past. In the beginning there was a
little group of enthusiasts at Mosman (Syd-
ney) ; Fisk belonged to it, and C. P. Bar-
tholomew gave it house-room for its experi-
ments. Then a syndicate in which Hugh
Denison and William Macleod were inter-
ested got the Australian rights to the Tele-
fun ken system; and presently, when the
holders of the Telefunken and Marconi
rights got together Amalgamated Wireless
was formed, with Fisk as its technical and
executive head, and ho has been that and
more ever since. It was he who first con-
trived to get a wireless message from the
British station in Wales; it was he who,
“Wireless” FISK.
12 years later, earned the loudest cheers
for the extraordinarily successful start of
wireless telephone talks with Europe last
week. At present it costs £6 for three
minutes’ chat with Britain.
Major-General Coxen, who moves up into
General Chauvel’s place as Chief of the
General Staff —Chauvel’s other office of In-
spector-General is apparently to be abolished
and £5OO saved thereby—-was born in Surrey
close on 60 years ago. He came to Australia
young enough to go to Brisbane Grammar;
his first command of troops w y as at Thursday
Island when last century was closing. In
the Great War he was with the big guns,
and afterwards was Director of Staff for
Repat. and Demobilisation.
Charley Brand and Tom Dodds, who have
been appointed Q.M.G. and A.G. of the Aus-
tralian Military Forces respectively, first
started the hunt for a crust in Australia as
State-school teachers. Brand is a* Banana-
lander from the Bundaberg-Maryborough
sugar country. He first saw service in South
Africa as a subaltern in the 3rd Q.M.1., and
on his return he went on to the permanent
staff of the State military forces. Dodds, a
Northumbrian with a burr you can still blunt
an axe upon, w T as a lieutenant in the old
volunteer Teachers’ Corps when he went to
tackle brother Boer as adjutant of the stli
Q. 1.8., collecting a D.S.O. during the proceed-
ings, as Brand was later to do on Gallipoli.
He also went through the State permanent
forces to the C.M.F., and, like his teacher
cobber, rose to high rank in that service,
with plenty of experience in the big rough-
up to help him on the way. Both are
brigadier-generals, and sportsmen from the
boots up..
After details of
a second expedition
to the Antarctic
had been discussed
by the Federal
Ministry and naval
heads, Captain
J. K. Davis an-
nounced that he
would not com-
mand the Discov-
ery again. He has
na v igated seven
expeditions to the
frozen bottom of
the world and
feels it is time to
leave the job to
younger men. In-
cidentally, one of
the qualifications of
the navigator of
a vessel like the
Discovery is the
elderly quality of
patience. The 30-
year-old ship is
still, as staunch as
ever for - resisting
ice pressure, but
her maximum speed
under engine power
is 4\ knots and
under a full press
of canvas she is
going well if she
does seven. During
the late expedition
90 miles a day was
a matter for gen-
eral con gratula-
tions. Davis’s dad,
by the way, used to
be a master of
Sydney Grammar
School.
Captain J. K. DAVIS.
Retiring from the chairmanship of S.A.
Land Board, after half a century in field and
office, is L. A. (“Larry”) Wells. His indoor
work goes back to the far-off time when
Goyder (who set down the line of rainfall
for the guidance of wheatgrowers that has
steadily been justified by events) was Sur-
veyor-General. Wells was second in command
of the Elder Exploring Expedition of ’91.-’92
in Westralia, arid leader during its later
stages; he led the Calvert expedition of
’96-’97 throughout.
The Ma State is the home of at least
three baronets. Sir H'ussey Burgh Fairlie-
Cuninghame, of Manilla, is the 14th of his
line. The first of them was master of the
horse to James VI. of Scotland. The present
baronet served with the A.1.F., won an
M. and succeeded his father, a grazier,
last year. Near Orange lives Sir Alexander
Ramsay, a sixth baronet, who was captain
of The King’s School, Parramatta, 10 years
ago. Sir John Lawes-Wittewronge, third of
his title, has lived in Sydney and other parts
of the State for the last 15 years or so.
Percy Coleman, M.11.R. for Reid (N.S.W.),
who goes to Europe shortly to represent
Australia at Geneva, made his first sea-trip
as a 13-year-old ship’s boy. Fortunately for
him he did not sail on a later trip for which
he had signed on, owing to illness. The ship
sailed without him —and was never heard
of again. After that close cadi Coleman
stuck to dry land, to become a clerk in the
Seaman’s Union and later secretary of the
N. branch of the General Workers’
Association.
Lyndon Dadswell, son of Herbert, the
Fairfaxes’ secretary, is sculpturing 12 panels,
each 7ft. 2in. square, for the Melbourne
Shrine of Remembrance. Three of them are
already completed, ‘Tanks Going into Action,”
“Medical Corps” and “Infantry in the
Trenches.” The young man is only 22. Dad
has had a life-long association with the “S.
M. Herald.” Bohemians remember him when
he. used to hand out the cash for contribu-
tions.
“D.”: What marvels the Jews are! The
race represents only about a third of 1 per
cent, of Australia’s population, yet it lias
supplied the Commonwealth with a Chief
Justice (and possible Governor-General) in
Isaacs and a world-famed soldier in Monash.
Sydney’s best-known business patriarch is
George Judah Cohen, and Melbourne’s two
richest merchants may be Montague Cohen
and his son Harold —who, incidentally, col-
lected a C.M.G., D.S.O. and a brigade in
France. Jews have not shone here in the
ancestral grazing industry, but they have
made millions on the turf. Sol Green, Aus-
tralia’s leading racehorse owner, is a Jew,
and the name of the smaller racing fry, from
Lou Barnett downwards, is legion. Oddly
enough, the Commonwealth has produced no
crack Hebrew footballer, and no Jew has
gone to England with a Test XI.
Westralia has had 14 Premiers in 40
years. John Forrest, first of the line, held
the job for 10; his successors have averaged
less than 2J. Jimmy Mitchell, who has just
returned to the top place, had five years
in his previous term of office. Six of
his predecessors are still on deck: A. E.
Morgans, a mining man of note in his day;
Walter James, K.C.; Newton Moore, British
M.P.; .Tack Scaddan, just returned to Parlia-
ment and the Cabinet; Senator Colebatch;
and Opposition-leader Collier.
Tom Donnellan, who was for 21 years
superintendent of Vic. State inebriate retreat
at Lara, has reclaimed his last dipsomaniac.
He was only 58 when heart trouble gave him
the knock-out. Humane, skilful, firm and
tactful, with. a genius for getting the slave
of drugs or alcohol back to normal, he
was a treasure to the Chief Sec.’s Depart-
ment, and earned the gratitude of hundreds
who had been in his care.
One of Adelaide’s oldest law firms takes
on a new name. Bennett, K.C. and joint-
owner of a Melbourne Cup winuer, was the
last of a long line of partners of the veteran
.W. F. Stock. After Stock’s death Bennett
took in Dr. Browne (former partner of Sena-
tor McLacklan) and Owst Atkinson, who
had grown up in the office. Since Bennett’s
death A. C. Rymill (just admitted to the
Bar) has come in, and the firm starts afresh
as Browne, Rymill, Atkinson and Stevens.
A recent recruit to the ranks of Victorian
•T’s.P is Issy Smith, Y.C. He won the
Cross while serving with the Manchester
Rifles in 1915 and was the youngest man in
the Army to get it. In civil life he looks
after the Victorian interests of Cinema Art
Films, a branch of the British industry at
Elstree. A year .ago he had the opportunity
of seeing himself win his decoration over
again in a war picture, screened in Mel-
bourne, which had been made before he left
England.
James Ilebbard, who is going by motor-
truck to Ta*nami, in Central Australia,
to look over the field for English investors,
is the youngster who climbed up to the
Plateau Goldfield in New Guinea soon after
it was discovered two .or three years back.
Forty-five years ago he undid his pack at
Broken Hill, and he was then old enough
and experienced enough to get a job as
manager of one of the. main-lode mines; he
was at the Junction when his neighbor at
the North was Zeb Lane. He got his early
training at Bendigo.
C. H. Bertie, head of the Sydney , Muni-
cipal Library, is the latest to have his
department overhauled by the economists:
among others, his chief assistant is' to be
retrenched. Bertie
himself might get a
job even if the new
Lord Mayor, who
may be Jock Garden,
decided that a city
is best without a
library: he was
trained to be a
metallurgist, but
preferred making
books and looking
after them. He is a
high authority on
early Australia, and
especially early
Sydney, and among
the heap of publica-
tions he has edited
are one or two of
ab o. and other
stories from The
Bulletin. It is
said to have been
Bertie who enthused
George Robertson
(Angus and Robert-
son) With the idea
of publishing an
“Australian Encyclo-
paedia.” Bertie
undertook to edit it;
but the thing grew
and grew, and men
with more time on
their hands had to
Librarian BERTIE.
take it over. The job ran the firm into
over £20,000 before the first copy was sold.
Bertie is N. S. Wales-born ; he came from the
North Coast.
One Australian, flying with bis gaiters o
Lambeth, was able to send liis clergy some-
tliig unusual for Anzac Day. When that oßl-
time champion sprinter of Brasenose
Reginald liaise, now Bishop of Riverma,
Handsome Bishop HALSE.
got to Jerusalem he found he could catch the
mails that would land in his vast diocese
by mid-April. So he plucked sprigs of
rosemary at Gethsemane and sent the offer-
ing to his people for Anzac Gay. H'alse came
to Australia as a Bush Brother, with Towns-
ville as a jumping-off place. These days
his territory runs from Hay to beyond
Broken Hill.
Captain F. S, Briggs, who has left his
job of chief pilot of Australian Aerial Ser-
vices in Melbourne to join up with the
Shell Oil Co. in Westralia, is an English-
man who holds several Australian records.
H'is flight from Melbourne to Perth with
C. J. de Garis, in 19 hours 40 minutes, has
never been beaten. He made the first Mel-
bourne-Adelaide trip in a single day, pion-
eered the route to Central Australia and
carried the first Sydney-Melbourne-Adelaido
air mail. He transported most of the British
peace delegates to the Versailles conference
and carried the draft of the treaty to
London. He has piloted 5000 Australian
passengers without a mishap.
Broken Hill gets, and Adelaide loses, a
good man in Roderick Ross, expert for Fyvie
and Stewart, the consulting engineers of Mel-
bourne. They lent him to S.A. Harbors
Board nearly five years ago, and he has been
reconditioning the cranes and other coal-hand-
ling plant at Osborne on the Port Adelaide
River. Ross, who got all his early training
at Melbourne Technical School, will super-
vise the erection of a power station a*t
Broken Hill to serve the Australian < >re
and Metal Co.; it will probably light some of
the mines too.
Edward Wittenoom, brother-in-law of
ex-Premier Lefroy, who died recently,
had a period of unpopularity never
approached by any other public man in
Westralia since Governor Broome’s time.
Wittenoom was Minister for Mines in the
Forrest Government when the regulation
was passed forbidding alluvial diggers to go
within 10 feet of a proved reef —and there-
with lie became “Ten-foot Ned” to thou-
sands of the aggrieved goldfielders of 1898.
Wittenoom never worried about the sobriquet
or the effigy-burning that went with it; he
was just going away to be Agent-General.
And when he returned the whole business
was forgotten.
An Australian who has made a name for
himself abroad, and who has returned after
years of absence for a six-months’ stay, is
Dr. A. .T. Saunders, who occupies the chair
of economics and sociology in Madras Uni.
He is an old Scotch College boy. who had
his university training in the U.S.A., graduat-
ing in Chicago. The Extension Board of the
Melbourne Uni. has engaged him to give four
lectures on Nationalism in India.
“Rembrandt” sums them up:—
Cartoonists in the Federal Parliament have never
had suqh an unpromising lot of anti-Laborite leaders
to work on. Latham and Gullett are drab, smug
men who could pass unnoticed in a herd of .bank-
clerks. Indeed, with that fine comic subject Hughes
and the self-consciously resplendent Bruce out of
the party, Federal Nationalism is a thing of shadows.
Archdale Parkhill is about the most cartoonable of
an unpicturesque lot. Labor, on the other hand, is
full of quaintly memorable figures. Scullin of the
top-knot, Theodore of the toothy grin, Anstey of
the hair, more or less draw themselves. It is very
different in the N. S. Wales talking shop. The
gawky Boyce, who resembles an elderly Sniike;
Weaver, a hero of bellowdrama in specs; Bavin, with
his square, black-avised mug and nobby suitings—
all are more obvious oddities than any one in Lang’s
party. Even Lang looks what he is—Auburn painted
to look like Moscow.
THE WAILS OF WALES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Towards the end of the radio-telephone conver-
sation between Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Hughes,
the conditions were affected by atmospherics.”
Our present politicians
Are sadly orthodox;
From those in high positions
The Word that sears and shocks
Comes swooping as a Viking
Too seldom for my liking,
Who revel in the striking
Of metaphoric knocks.
In voicing their convictions
Profanity they scout;
How rare such maledictions
As Billy used to shout,
Whose cry of “Blithering Blazes!”
Evoked admiring gazes
When high-explosive phrases
Were freely tossed about.
It seems a quaint inflection
That only men from Wales
Can harness to perfection
Vituperative gales—
A simple rule, which varies
As seldom as canaries
Succumb to dental, caries
Or Bernard Shaw eats snails.
And now, in grand revival
Of oratoric art,
Their former feats they rival,
These twain, a world apart.
Our William’s esoterics,
With David’s shrill hysterics
Occasioned atmospherics
At wireless speech’s start!
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


TRAVELLERS OF THE OLD WORLD
A Peking Cart built for roads that are unusually
rough. The heavy wheels are iron-tyred for
strength. A lengthy journey in one of these carts
is anything but a pleasure jaunt*
i I
yy t / !••
fiiiflss
V\\
sw>»» ha„
£
ii
.
s#°
ft*
w
42*
§
i
11
52
s**i
V'»
BS
£
m'
r
-■'
Wm
■U
W,
•a
n
i
y
'Si!
M!n
i *
S?
SMI i
M
*!!!
X
W
u
m
m
•up
*o*
1
? A
k
X
%
i
«r
il
\Vvx|
\ V X
\ \\v XV
si"‘'
\ f '
Barnet Glass
Tyres
8G.16M.30
-AND
Comfort


<±\2>
stt
jp®
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs, EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) la the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately,
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manaerer
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Saturday), “The Country Girl”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “White Cargo”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Merry Widow”
New Comedy “The Hawk”
King’s “So this is Love”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
*
Backhaus does not wear pink tights.
There is nothing showy about him whatever.
He, is not one of those chaps who lift a
hand three feet in the air, to fill the ungodly
with the ribald thought: “Great heavens!
He’ll miss the blessed piano!” He is a
little man with a solid forehead, baldish
Going to hear Backhaus at Sydney
Town Hail.
head, sombre, everyday-looking clothes, and
clean white hands. He inspires confidence.
You would be prepared to put your money
on him even if Jimmy Pike had drawn, the
whip on the other fellow. He sits upright,
with little bodily movement, and coaxes and
caresses the Bechstein. And from the first
caress the audience in Sydney Town Hall
sits frozen.
Frozen, it happens, is the right word.
Frozen on cane-bottomed chairs so un-
comfortable that even music addicts, those
great lovers, fidget and shift, obviously aware
of something adamant in the State of Den-
mark or thereabout. The one who isn’t an
addict, or adept, sits frozen just the same;
indeed, the adepts, taken altogether, have
an advantage, since they have been to the
Town Hall before and go along prepared,
even as Frith has pictured them. Still, the
chap who took along to one of last week’s
concerts four blankets, a horserug and an-
other chap’s wife was possibly an extreme
example. Not all of them carry their taste
for home comforts quite as far as that. The
majority do go prepared, though—with rugs
and cushions and large uncut tomes from
their library shelves, these last winning
literature a new place in society, as footrests.
The chap who doesn’t take these precautions
just sits, envying the comparative comfort of
the Select, tiered
above the player on
the platform an d
seated on two-incli
board s, discarded
trombones and the
stops of the great
organ.
It speaks highly
for the fascinating
qualities of music that
these true adepts fight
each other to get into
these chairs. But
music was ever thus.
Present writer saw a
supreme instance on
a New South Wales
border station. The
train -was in, and the
members, of a choir
that had competed at
the local eisteddfod
were seated in their
carriages ready to go
back with their
laurels to the city,
when one compart-
mentful began to sing.
At once half a dozen
of the others got out of tlieir com-
partment and stood on the platform near
the other, heads up and back, eyes
closed, voices uplifted to Heaven; blind
each of them to the staring and even
giggling heretics about them; blind and deaf
to everything but their present offering to
the goddess Music. And they were still
there, eyes closed, heads up, singing fervently
and profoundly when the train went out and
left them to it.
There is one here now two seats away
who closes his eyes the moment Backhaus
begins. Asleep? Look at him! That music
has got inside him and given him convul-
sions. His head shakes, his chest heaves,
his fingers crush the prqgramme. Whatever
Backhaus is playing, this one, at least, seems
to have accepted it as that well-known juven-
ile classic, “Green Peaches'.” There is an-
other, a lady, apparently—it’s hard to see
for fur —to whom music must be the very
devil of a religion. A whisper, a subdued
cough, a creak of a seat, and she’s round
like a tiger, looking for fight. If ever she’s
out of work she ought to give Mr. ,S harm an
a ring. Yet another talks loudly between
items, passing opinions in a voice specially
cultured on the way in from Coogee. It
is very edifying, and yet dozens glare at
her as if they wished she had taken the
option offered by Artemus Ward’s showman,
and paid without coming in. The chap over
there who looks bored stiff is not so much
an exception as a martyr. There is a
blond vision beside him with her soul rapt
and her body wrapt. Men have gone to
the stake for lesser causes.
Altogether it is a mixed crowd. The dress
is bunny a la Douglas Mawson. A few are
dressed in the other sense; but mostly there
is none of that uppish tang that distinguishes
the theatregoer. These are not pifflers. They
are worshippers in solemn earnest, and the
little chap aloft is their prophet. And so
they sit, frozen to the marrow, if not even
more intimately, while he puts forth - his
white hands, strokes the white keys and goes
on to interpret that other Great One of
whom an illustrious—or perhaps only an ill
—poet warbled :
O sire of song! Sonata-king! Sublime and loving
Master,
The sweetest soul that ever struck an octave in
disaster!
* * *
But the smallest and tenderest octave
comes to no disaster at the hands of
Backhaus. His sureness is as amazing as the
tremendous velocity of his prestos. On
Thursday night he sat serene, benign, as un-
Nocturne in D flat major.
perturbed while the
sturm und drang of the
“Moonlight” thi r d m
movement raged from
his finger-tips as he
was when the adagio
flowed its placid
course. The elemen-
tal surges of the
“Appassionata” made
no more visible im-
pression on him than
billows besieging a
granite cliff. It is
related of Rubenstein
that at the conclusion
of his recitals he was
usually a sartorial
wreck —-collar adrift,
shirt soggy with
sweat; panting and
dishevelled. Also, in
the excitement of a
great passage he would
strike many a wrong
note. Backhaus pre-
serves the calm of the
gods, master of emo-
tions. For him digital
difficulties simply
don’t exist. His power as a Beethoven
exponent were, to this Showman’s mind,
most strikingly exemplified in the very
simply-written Sonata, No. 1 of Op. 14.
Follow it in the score, and you marvel how
Backhaus conjures from such a kindergarten
arrangement of notes the freshness of a
spring morning and the happiness of a lad
hastening to meet his love. Beethoven put
it there, but it takes Backhaus, his prophet,
to get it, out.
The Man of Bonn didn’t name the “Moon-
light” and the “Appassionata,” about which
a great deal of imaginative cant has been
written, but he did describe his Op. 129
caprice as “Rage Over a Lost Penny.” It
is a vigorous virtuoso piece, perhaps inspired
by a scoundrelly publisher—Beethoven was
always getting bilked by them —-and the title,
conferred when the composer’s ire had sim-
mered down, is a little index to the great
Ludwig’s sense of humor, many musical
examples of which, scattered through the
third of the Op. 81 group of Sonatas, were
delivered by Backhaus with the droll solem-
nity of Mark Twain telling a whopping big
lie.
This Showman went home from the recital
with a better appreciation of Beethoven —
and an added respect for Backhaus.
* * *
Alexander Watson, his voice fine and
flexible as ever, has been drawing excellent,
houses to the Central Hall, Melbourne. The
tall, greying elocutionist is doing- what
Wilkie did —profiting by the reaction against
the aggressive Yankeeism of the talkies. When
lie recites the brawling scene from “Romeo
and Juliet,” Mercutio, Tibault and the rest
crowd on the stage before you and far more
satisfyingly than if they were represented
by a stock company of actors. A condensed
version of Masefield's long narrative poem,
“The Everlasting Mercy,” was a masterpiece
of - sustained drama. Strong men wept—
the writer vouches for it—-when Watson
placed before them a row of characters from
Dickens’s “Christmas Carols,” and immedi-
ately afterwards they swelled with nation-
alistic pugnacity when he turned to Kipling.
If the many-tongued virtuoso had been
born in Australia he might have become a
successful politician.
* * #
The Proscenium Club, Melbourne, blew the
gaff on the intellectual drama movement last
week by staging “9-45,” a common or indoor
American mystery play such a«s the com-
mercially-minded Moscovitcli would have
revelled in; and the intelligentsia rolled up
in force to the Central Hall and thoroughly
enjoyed it. Also the Prosceniumites showed
themselves to be infinitely more at home
with' low-comedy slaveys and New York cops
than such organisations usually are with the
Gabriel Borkmans, Hedda Gablers and such-
like highbrow creations of the master drama-
tists. The exciting pastime of guessing who
caused the corpse of Howard Randall, found
in a cupboard in the opening chapter, ful-
filled .all requirements for an evening’s cul-
tured entertainment. The Inspector Dixon of
Chromatic (not to say rheumatic) Fantasia and Fugue.
John Ormiston was the only conspicuously
feeble performance. Marguerite Cockerton
was a remarkably convincing mother to the
murdered Randall; Christine- Nel was funny
as the skivvy; Gilbert W- Fox was noble
as the hero, and as the hefowhine Irene
Mitchell was the concentrated juice and
true essence of antique melodrama.
* ¥ *
One of the finest of the recent Melbourne
Uni. Conservatorium concerts in the Town
Hall was the pianoforte recital of Edward
Goll. If Goll lowered his artistic standards
a trifle he might become a world-famous vir-
tuoso. His playing of the lovely Prelude,
Aria and Fugue of Cesar Franck and the
Variations and Fugue on a theme by Handel
(Brahms) was masterly, though, as a compo-
sition, the lastnamed suggested a*n attempt
to sec how many different ways you can
arrange a Meccano set. The lower hall is
not the best place to hear first-class music,
however. Once you have caught its note, it
is difficult to hear anything but the ticking
of the large clock which the civic fathers
have seen fit to hang over the head of the
performer.
* #
Faversham finished a disappointing season
in Sydney last week. He could do worse
than try stronger ammunition in storming
his next citadel. Mary Macgregor, who did
very well in the first F'aversham offering,
was fair again in the Leon Gordon revival
of “Scandal” at the Criterion. Cosmo
Hamilton’s comedy lasts a week; then
Gordon will
positively sa y
f a rewell in
“White Cargo,”
leaving the
good-bye records
of Melba and
Lauder bloody
b u t unbowed.
The point of
interest in the
latest telling of
the Anglo-Afri-
can yarn is the
appearance of
M ary Mac-
gregor as Ton-
d eleyo, the
dusky sodwall
over which one
or two earlier
Scherzo from
“Midsummer
Night’s Dream."
triers thudded
heavily.
VICTORIAN ARTISTS’ SHOW.
The Vie. artists’ show, usually a target
for ribald jests, this year commands more
respectful attention. The also-rans finish
more closely behind the favorites, though
the fact that some of the favorites are below
their usual form may have something to do
with that. The H. B. Mclnnes portrait of
“Betty” is trite, stodgy and superficial. The
final manicuring which this artist’s figures
usually receive is not extended to the dam-
sel's face, though it is obvious enough in
her costume. E. Buckmaster, a few years
ago the brightest hope from the National
Gallery stable, has dropped with depressing
suddenness into a slick and momentarily
effective formula. His “Seapiece” is shallow
decoration, without true observation, and
his portraits of an old lady and a young
girl should attract the attention of editors
thinking of the covers of their Christmas
annuals. The portrait which carries best,
has most character and atmosphere all round
it is that of the engaging young woman
painted by John Farmer. Eileen B. Pearcey
has a vivid illustration of “A Workman”
which might stand for a symbol, of class-
conscious Labor. Constance Parkin, a Nat.
Gallery scholarship winner, has a self-
portrait in which she beats Lambert at his
own game by making her figure web-handed.
Louis McCubbin has an interesting essay in
idealism in “Amethyst and Gold.” The
female figure is indistinguishable in texture
from the gum-trees, which is one of. the
snares idealists are liable to fall into.
Murray Griffin has a striking decorative
panel, but a short arm on one of his nude
figures distracts the attention.. Ailecn Dent
lias her best effort to date in a head of
Frank Clewlow. The eminent actor-man-
ager is bursting with suppressed emotion,
probably at the spectacle of an amateur his-
trion missing his cue at a Repertory first
night. In the landscape section John Farmer
carries away the palm with the quiet,
observed and penetrating “Olinda.”
The most ambitious and distinguished pic-
ture is by Mrs. P. Hurry. The three women
grouped round a comfortable reading matron
are somewhat cramped for space inside their
frame, but Mrs. Hurry has faced her troubles
squarely, and viewed at the point from
which the artist intended it to be viewed
(and what other distance is permissible?)
the scene is full of sparkling light and the
mystery of shadows. Hans Heysen’s still-
life is fake realism : Alma Figuerola’s modest
ones are better. Elma Roach’s water-color,
“Fading Light,” is freshly and cleanly
painted. In “The Alchemist” James Flett
continues to follow in the footsteps of Nor-
man Lindsay, though with no immediate
prospect of catching up with his exemplar.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
e
REDUCE OVERHEAD!
INCREASE PRODUCTION!!
We hear it on every hand these days—and it is
sound advice.
Power transmission can be made more efficient and
more economical by equipping all drives with
M ANGRO VITE
WATERPROOF
LEATHER OR
RAWHIDE BELTING
Made in Australia, and recognised as the standard
of quality. Backed by efficient service and guaranteed
by a firm witli over 50 years’ practical knowledge
of every phase of power transmission.
Advice is available without obligation.
MANGROVITE BELTING LIMITED,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
The “Hit-or-Miss” Man
Usually Misses
THE “hit-or-miss,” man may
start out in business, but he
is not likely tb make a success
of it. Successful business to-day
is being conducted on the basis
of known principles. With the
co-operation of the leading busi-
ness authorities of the world, the
A.H,I. has assembled these prin-
ciples in its Modern Business
Course, with which goes a fine
supporting monthly service. You
will be interested in the absorb-
ing booklet, “Forging Ahead in
Business.” It describes this
course and service in detail. Send
for your copy to-day.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Controlled in Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, Barrack Street.
P 8 :
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
The trouble is that so few people look
upon life insurance as an investment. Here
is something that the average man declares
he doesn’t know anything about; and when
they talk to him of actuarial valuations and
life expectancy and so on, this average man
is more than ever convinced that it is
beyond the ordinary untrained person’s grasp.
So when the salesman (who probably knows
far less about the matter than his “pros-
pect”) produces a bundle of tables and shows
that his office will insure you for 3s. lid.
p.c. p.a. less than one of the big and better
known offices, the average man is inclined
to ask why he shouldn’t get the benefit of
that 3s. lid. himself and signs on the dotted
line.
If the life insurance business had been
left to ordinary private enterprise, there
might not have been this trouble. But,
especially in Australia, the mutual office, as
it is called, came into existence —really a
co-operative concern without any share capi-
tal whatever, and undertaking to make a
periodical distribution of profits and so-
called profits according to size, age and nature
of policy. Obviously it doesn’t matter much
what the premiums are so long as you get
back with interest any surplus left after
paying exes, and claims and providing for
future outgoings. Indeed, presently the com-
peting offices found that these inpayments
were tremendously important. George Crow-
ley’s City Mutual office used to say: “What’s
the good of taking money out of your right-
hand pocket merely to drop it into your
left-hand pocket? We’ll ask you for as little
as we think we need.” That, of course,
meant small premiums. But, of course, .it
also meant small bonuses; and that was so
held up against the office that it presently
changed its methods, bumped up its pre-
miums to the neighborhood of those of other
offices and thereafter was able to pay impres-
sive bonuses.
You want to know therefore what your
net premiums will be. You should find' out
what it would be on the basis of the past
three years’ bonuses. Don’t take any notice
of estimates. Demand actual results.
Above all. things, realise that neither pre-
miums nor bonuses of themselves will tell
you the net cost. To arrive at that you must
deduct the cash value of the bonus from the
premium.
And then you’ve got to remember that you
are entrusting this concern with your money
not for a month or a year, but perhaps for
30 or 50 years. Also if it ;is a whole-life
policy you will not yourself be there to argue
any point when the claim goes in. It is
hardly possible to conceive of any circum-
stances which should call for more con-
sideration, or any kind of business which
should call for more guarantees. You cannot,
of course, know how the office is going to
be managed in the future. You cannot, of
course, know what fist they are going to
make of the investment of your money in
all the future years. You can only judge
the future by the past.
Especially do you want to know what
sort of assets they have, whether there is
any dead horse to work off. If the expense
rate is very high you will not only probably
get no bonuses ; you will probably not get the
amount for which you are insured. For this
insurance fund is no widow’s cruse; it is not
inexhaustible. The first claims may be paid
—always are paid. In this connection don’t
trust any balance-sheet either. It may show
plenty of assets—paper assets. If the ex-
penses are very high the assets almost cer-
tainly are paper.. The money will have gone
to pay the expenses; the bogus assets will
remain.
4
Australian Cement, Ltd.
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit,
£ £ £ £
Goodwill ( £75,000) and prelim, exes. ( £393) 75,393
Less ■ Reserves ( £3G7) 75,026
1925.. 156,581 15 p.c. = 112,501 44,080 30,946
Reserves.
1926.. 106,249 10 „ „ 75,001 31,248 302
1927.. 109,404 10 „ „ 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94,603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54 307
1929.. 136,894 15' „ ~113,143 23,751 78,058
Toward the close of last year this co..
whose works and quarries are at Fyansford
(Yic.), and the Kandos co. (N.S.W.)
decided to amalgamate their businesses. The
idea was to minimise the dangers which
threatened from overproduction in the indus'
try. A new operating co., Australian Port-
land Cement Pty., Ltd., took oyer the manu-
facturing assets and freeholds of the two cos.
from December 1. The exact terms of the
merger have not been disclosed, but the
vendor cos. were said to have received equal
holdings in the new working co., which issued
scrip (and some cash to Australian Cement,
Ltd.) for the plant, etc., transferred. Stocks
were taken over separately for cash. The
two old cos. are collecting their own hook
debts. In order to obtain its 50 p.c. hold-
ing in the working co., Kandos had to take
up an unspecified number of shares for cash.
Under the terms of the merger the vendor
cos. are acting as joint managing agents
for the Pty.’s products in their respective
States, thus guarding against disturbance of
trade connections.
The latest figures for Australian Cement,
Ltd., made up to the day before the
merger, do not show the present posi-
tion. For the 12 months to the close of
accounts there was an encouraging spring of
£66,497 in gross profits (£287,746), despite
generally duller conditions; exes. (£150,852,
including £66,612 written off for deprecia-
tion as against £02,605 so struck off in 1928)
were £24,206 heavier. Hence the net result
benefited by £42,291, mounting to 18.2 p.c. on
capital compared with 12.6, 14.5,. 14.1 and
20 p.c. back to 1925. Shareholders wei’e
treated to an extra 5 p.c., making 15 p.c. for
the year, and the £23,751 that remained
lifted reserves £78,058 higher than the good-
will item (£60,000).
The year’s improved trading is further re-
flected in balance-sheet movements:—
1925. 1928 1929
Paid capital .. .. £750,005 £750,005 £750,005
Overdraft .. .. 32,329 88,141 1,859
Sundry creditors .. 49,387 42,046 158,752
Land, buildings, etc. .. 260,539 278,430 260,422
Plant, equipment, etc. 378,519 398,862 387,303
Tramways, tunnel, etc. 34,640 70,203 150,889
■Stocks and stores .. 67,916 96,659 79,344
Shares in other cos. . . 300 24,050 24,050
Book debts .. . . 122,813 99,131 139,208
Cash, etc 11,049 4,663 4,349
Stocks were worked down £17,315 during the
year, while the growth in book debts was
£40,077. On land, buildings, etc.,. £lB,OOB
more was written off than was spent, and the
net decrease in the book value of plant and
machinery was £11,559, notwithstanding the
purchase of a new turbo-alternator. Most of
the growth of £80,686 in tramways, etc., was
on account of the tunnel connecting the new
quarry with the works. It appears to be
mainly responsible for the increase of £30,424
in the outside debt (£160,611). Nevertheless,
the more or less liquid surplus (£62,290) <■
was only £7976 short of the previous year’s
figure.
Though substantial additions have also
been made to plant, which is reported thor-
oughly efficient, the book value of all fixed
assets has actually decreased £4918 during
the last three years.
Early in December last the co. bought all
the shares in National Portland Cement,
Ltd. (100,000 8-10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
278,500 ords.), for ,10,570 of its own ords.
The National co.’s plant, at Maria Island
(Tas.), has been shut down indefinitely; its
capacity is 30,000 tons p.a., but it has long
been a losing proposition, the co. having
accumulated a deficit of over £lOO,OOO at
June 30 last. The cause of its failure was
mainly one of costs and an insufficient local
market. Exactly what it is intended to do
with this purchase is pot mentioned.
Broadly, the position now is that the new
working co. controls plant with a capacity of
over 400,000 tons p.a., or slightly less than
a third of the total plant capacity of the
whole Australian industry (1,350,000 tons
p.a.). Under the new arrangement the out-
put of each plant can be controlled to the
best advantage, and consumers as well as
shareholders may ultimately benefit; but
conditions at the moment are not favorable
to improved earnings. Indeed the board anti-
cipates lighter earnings for the current term.
The combined earnings of the Australian
and Kandos cos., according to latest figures,
were equal to 17.3 p.c. on their combined
capitals. The Australian co.’s scrip is at
295. on the market; the return at that figure
is 10.3 p.c. so long as the 15 p.c. distribution
continues. Kandos has paid 10 p.c. for years ;
its shares are around par.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.).
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921.. 48,747 20 p.c. = 42,000 6,747 25,088
1922.. 50,196 20 „ „ 42,000 8,196 33,284
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. 3,284
1923.. 28,353 8 p.c. = 19,200 9,153 12,437
1924.. 56,669 12 „ „ 28,800 27,869 40,306
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 . . 306
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 „ „ 22,400 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 „ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
Reserves disclosed, £4050 .. 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 p.c. = 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 „ „ 22,400 368 25,551
Under the sugar agreement between the
Commonwealth and Queensland Govern-
ments the price of raws for ordinary Aus-
tralian consumption is £26 10s. per ton
until August, 1931. But, as the result of
much lower prices received for the surplus
exported, the average price to the grower and
miller last season was only £l9 Bs. as against
£2O 17s. lid. the year before. Final adjust-
ments, however, are expected to lift the
figure to £2O ss. lOd. The average declared
for exported sugar was £9 17s. per ton, or
13s. less than for the previous season, and
further shrinkage in the current year’s figure
is anticipated.
However, the visible effect upon the profit
declared by this Bundaberg miller —the co.
also owns Bingara plantation, comprising
some 8000 acres on the Burnett —was very
slight. The board put the year’s net result
at 8.1 p.c. on capital compared with 8.3,
12.9, 7.8 and 12.5 p.c. back to 1925. But
that is leaving out of account the net growth
in the depreciation reserve, to which £11,117
was added last year, lifting the accumula-
tion to £57,506, and some or all of this —
it is not included with the lay-by in the
table—may be true profit. So the margin
over the 8 p.c. div. might not be so slender
as it looks. And everything is not on view
either, as the Government valuator made
plain when in 1921 he assessed the factory
and plant alone at approximately £70,000
more than their book figure. Moreover, two
gift issues in the last seven years make the
8 p.c. div. w T orth 10.7 p.c. to old holders.
Here is the position as balance-sheet figures
show it, with comparisons:—
1921 1927 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £210,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities .. 16,205 18,594 8,541 6,121
Freeholds,
in a chinery,
plant, etc. 162,031 255,612 281,066 281,895
Stocks . . 30,851 63,545 35,911 41,199
Gov eminent
securities .. 16,000 15,910 15,910 15,910
Debtors, cash,
etc. . . 05,311 32,690 35,625 38,573
Finances are comfortable. The more or
less liquids (£95,682, including stocks)
exceeded the small outside debt by £89,561
at the close of last accounts, and that was
£10,656 more than the excess a year earlier.
Most of the year’s allowanco for deprecia-
tion was used to carry heavier stocks, book
debts, etc. Of recent years a lot of money
lias been spent upon the mill, as a result of
which the crushing rate has been increased
and other advantages gained.
At the producing end the outlook for the
current year is for another satisfactory
crushing. But the share market, which
keeps an eye on the surplus exported (38.4
p.c. of last year’s production), notes the
recent slump in the world’s price for sugar
and also the fact that the local agreement
regarding price is due for revision next year,
and pays only 18s. for the' pound shares as
against 245. 6d. a year ago. Excluding the
depreciation reserve, equal to 4s. Id. per
share, the backing amounts to 21s. lOd. in
net tangibles.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. (6 p.c.). Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 9,623 60 10 p.c. = 6363 3,200 17,351
Written off reserves, £5849 .. .. 11,502
1921.. 9,070 60 Nil 9,010 20,512
Loss. Deficit.
1922.. 46,224 30 2}p.c.= 2069 27,811
Written off capital, £21,296.. .. 6,515
Profit. Reserves.
1923.. 11,800 90 Nil 11,710 5,195
Goodwill (£4622) disappears.. .. 9,817
1924.. 25,186 60 10 p.c. = 8518 16,608 26,425
Set aside for taxes, etc., £BOOO . . 18,425
(10 p.c.)
1925.. 33,506 3914 10 p.c. = 8518 21,074 39,499
Written ofl, £3587 35,912
1926.. 36,014 10,100 12J p.c.=10,648 15,266 51,178
1927.. 7,674 10,100 10 ~,, 8,518 40,234
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976.. 31,258
Loss. 7i p.c.
1928.. 23,683 7,575 Nil —■
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors, Deficit.
etc., £lB,OOO 18,000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil 62,639
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 63,888
Written off capital, £63,888 .. ..
Profit. Reserves.
1930.. 21,087 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,512
This co. set up in the motor trade in N. S.
Wales 23 years ago. For the first 10 of them
it got little out of the business; but, with
the scattering of loan moneys and the growth
of credit buying, things brightened. Then the
co. was caught with heavy stocks On a fall-
ing market; and 4s. a share was struck off
the orfis. to square accounts in 1922. Pre 1
sently the old conditions returned and Gar-
ratt’s made a prompt recovery; and then
once more the whole outlook for the co.
changed. The Fiat agency, which it had
handled since pre-war days, passed to another
concern, which bought Garratt’s stock of
Fiat cars. That concern soon lost all its
capital and 16s. in the pouud of unsecured
creditors’ money besides. One result was
that a loss of £23,683 showed up in Garratt’s
books at Jan. 31, 1928. Meanwhile new
agencies had been acquired, but they proved
unprofitable; so prices were cut and stocks
sold. Thus £62,639 of capital had disappeared
as at Jan. 31, 1929, and another £1249 fol-
lowed later. The slate was cleaned by slash-
ing 12s. per share off the ords.; that reduced
paid capital to its present figure—£l22,296
in 101,000 £1 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 106,480
ords. of 4s. each.
The tidying-up was thorough, activities were
confined to the Willys agency, and with the
assistance of the subsidiary (Overland, Syd-
ney, Ltd.) the figures made a good recovery.
Last year’s gross profit was £92,863; exes.,
including £2347 for depreciation, were
£71,776, leaving £21,087 net. _ That was
enough to pay a full year’s pref. div. and then
show 51.5 p.c. on the present £21,296 of ord.
capital. But no allowance was made for
taxation; also, there was 4s. per share in
divs. (£20,200) coming to the prefs. when
the books closed —Is. od. of it had been paid
at May 1.
How the current year will pan out is diffi-
cult to say; there has been a falling off in
sales since Oct. last, and prospects for an
early revival are not bright.
The financial position improved : —•
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Capital .. £186,182 £186,182 £186,182 £122,296
Liabilities .. 257,491 121,236 120,433 57,909
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 79,993 82,062 33,032 24,428
Plant, etc. .. 10,349 12,181 1 - 777 o 484
Stocks .. 202,189 1,067 j 0,777
Book debts . . 86,052 195,828 176,387 166,2.14
. Mortgages . . - 28,500
Cash, etc. .. 1,412
Shares in other
cos 5,622 39,522 39,022 4,622
The reduction in book debts, the mortgage
money that came in and the year’s surplus
earnings, etc., enabled the board to lighten
the outside debt by £62,524, reducing the over-
draft to £50,052 and sundry creditors’ bal-
ances to £7857. Much obviously depends
upon the soundness of book debts, which
were £108,325 in excess of liabilities at Jan.
31, and that was £52,371 more than the ex-
cess a year earlier. The co. is not carrying
any stock of cars on its own account, nor
. is there mention of any contingent liability
in respect of bills backed oil behalf of the
subsidiary.
The market, mindful of the past, is doubt-
ful of the future; it prices the prefs around
16s. 6d. Allowing for accrued divs. the
return at that figure is 14.3 p.c. They are
covered by net tangibles with a book value
of 265. 10d., and last year’s profit was twice
their annual requirements. For the ords.
3s. is pa-id ; they are back by 3s. Bd. in net
tangibles.
Provident Life (Maoriland).
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 28,985 6,238 5,214 17,533 86,131
1920.. 33,688 5,759 6,185 21,744 107,875
1921.. 38.176 6,312 6,857 25,007 132,882
1922.. 42,075 7,296 7,643 27,136 160.018
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,789 30,457 190,475
1924.. 53,195 11,675 9,233 32,287 222,762
Transferred to Industrial Branch, £3548.. 219,214
1925.. 58,583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256,123
1926.. 65,138 16,549 11,269 37,320 293,443
1927.. 70,031 19,147 12,580 38,304 331,747
1928.. 78,975 27,584 15,692 35,699 367,446
1929.. 87,475 27,821 10,883 } 33 493 405,939
Trans, to Shareholders, £4278 j
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 75 200 22,837 35,457 1050 136,341
1920.. 82,062 19,782 37,246 1050 160,325
1921.. 90,512 23,300 39,074 1050 187,413
1922.. 99,103 28,224 40,957 1050 216,285
1923.-108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 p.c.)
1924.. 120,562 39,134 46,676 1470 2/6,324
Transferred from Ordinary and
Accident, £3548 .. 279,872
1925.. 128,044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
Written off, £636 . . . . 325,910
1926.. 137,552 35,518 55,004 1470 371,470
1927.. 148,937 33,267 63,511 1470 422,159
1928.. 163,773 45,069 69,320 1470 470,073
Transferred to
Shareholders.
1929.. 172,600 43,320 74,745 4937 519,671
The Provident is a conservative little office,
Dunedin-controlled, which gathers about
two-thirds of its business in the Dominion
and the other third in Australia. It began
in 1903, when it took over the then 14-year-
old Provident and Industrial Insurance Co.,
and first gave its friends a chance to invest
in ordinary policies in 1908. Progress has
been slow, but has been on sound lines, and
the outlook for both policy-holders and share-
holders is one of gradually increasing benefits.
For the quinquennium ended Dec. 31,
1919, the combined surplus in the two
departments was £6017 ; it was £30,338 five
years later, and £67,468 at the close of
accounts in 1928, when bonuses in the Ordi-
nary branch—6os. p.c. on whole of life poli-
cies—were at double the rate declared in
1923. Also, for the first time, holders of
Industrial policies were given a share in
the profits. The profits, by the way,
belong 90 p.c. and 80 p.c. to policy-
holders in the Ordinary and Industrial
branches respectively, and the balance
to shareholders. The amounts shown as
transferred to shareholders during the last
term are in respect of the five years to Dec.
31, 1928; they were handed 12 p.c. for the
year.
(Continued on page 18.)


IRRIGATION PLANTS
Call for'less attention—Operate at lower cost. Proved the finest Complete Installation on the
market —comprising
OIL ENGINES
Save pounds because they run on Crude Oil
IMPERIAL CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
IMPERIAL SPRAY SYSTEM.
Numbers now in use.
We are experts on Water Conservation Problems, and will advise you concerning your special
proposition. Special particulars forwarded free.
a. h. McDonald & co. pty., ltd.
SHOWROOMS AND WORKS: 566-574 BRIDGE ROAD, RICHMOND, E.l, VICTORIA
(12 Minutes from City—Take Flinders Street Tram).
Branches at Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
W-McF.
Life and Fire
Policies
You are being asked to
insure with offices which
are on the verge of bank-
ruptcy.
If you want to protect-
yourselves read
The “‘WildCat’
Monthly”
MAY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/C. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Inventoks. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
, IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
# * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipes are being used on an increas-
ing number of important water supply contracts,
which shows how well they have performed their
work under Australian conditions. The fact that
wood cannot corrode and is unaffected by heat or
frost is a point greatly in favor of Pioneer Wood
Pipe. Then there is its cheapness in comparison
to metal pipe—its ease of handling and installation,
and its great durability. Those interested should
get in touch with the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* »!c :S
Robertson Coal and Shale Prospecting Syndicate,
Benzol Distillation. The above syndicate places
before investing companies 3000 acres leased coal,
showing 25 per cent, volatile matter, 33 per cent,
oil, 76 per cent. coke. Investigation welcomed.
All particulars from Secretary, Robertson. — Advt.
■■'f * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons’,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
e
» pOORD&SOiy p
FINEST DRY GIN *
&. OLD TOM
Swift & puny Ltd.. Aiimi riiliihinii Agent*. 26 60 Ciurpnce St.. Sydney
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. — To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call jor our Booklet “The Making of a Will.’’
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
" CDMPANYLIMiTED
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
There was a falling-off in new business
figures in the Ordinary branch last year,
due mainly to difficult conditions in Aus-
tralia :
1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
New Policies. . 1,104 1,062 1,427 1,281
Assuring . . £244,664 £245,609 £356,874 £331,052
First premiums 5,612 5,827 7,965 7,697
Renewal pre-
miums .. 29,191 37,657 41,342 45,175
Disregarding the consideration for annuities,
exes, got off with 23.8 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums as against 23.2 p.c. and 20.8 p.c.
for the two preceding terms. The cost of
putting the year's new r policies on the books
was 95.6 p.c. of the first premiums compared
with 95.4 p.c: in 1928. That is assuming
that, new business is 10 times more costly
than old.
The advance in the Industrial branch was
not so brisk either; but the £704,240 of new
cover put on the books was £23,506 more
than was written in 1928. Here exes, took
51.9 p.c. of the net premiums as against
50.3 p.c. the year before; the new branch
opened in Adelaide a year ago cannot yet
be paying, its way.
The co.’s profits score heaviest from sur-
plus interest. The office assumes that the
Assurance funds (£925,601 at Dec. 31) will
earn 3-J p.c. Last year they turned in £5
16s. 3d. and £5 13s. sd. per cent, in the
Ordinary and Industrial branches respec-
tively. The recent hardening of interest
rates should lift these figures still higher.
Of the £88,082 added to funds last year
£74,928 was invested in Government and
local body debentures (£810,743), which
represented 84.5 p.c. of the total assets, and
another 7.3 p.c. was in mortgages, loans
and other public securities.
West’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 8,178 74 p.c. = 7,233 945 14,214
1921.. 16,914 10 „ „ 9,644 7270 21,484
1922.. 6,954 7i „ 7,233 21,205
1923.. 8,488 74,, ~ 7,233 1255 22,460
1924.. 13,009 10 ~ ~ 9,644 3365 25,825
1925.. 12,068 10 ~ „ 9,644 2424 28,249
1926.. 9,863 10 ~ ~ 9,644 219 28,468
1927.. 16,112 124 „ ~ 12,055 4057 32,525
1928.. 16,417 124,. ~ 12,055 4362 36,887
1929.. 17,929 124,. „ 16,402 1527 38,414
1930.. 27,042 10 „ ~ 24,017 3025 41,439
Profits depend mainly upon the earnings of
Union Theatres. Like Spencers’ and Amalga-
mated, West’s interest in the big operating-
concern is through its holding in the General
Film Co., which controls Union Theatres
and Australasian Films. The latter has a
paid capital of £300,000; it does the hiring,
thus far the least profitable part of the busi-
ness.
The curtain is kept drawn over the figures
of the working cos. But during the last two
years Union’s capital has bounded from
£300,000 to £1,000,000 by cash issues at par.
The new money was wanted to finance an
ambitious programme of development, includ-
ing the erection of elaborate buildings in the
capital cities, the purchase of country and
suburban theatre-circuits, and the installa-
tion of talkie equipment.
Thus, since the close of accounts in 1928,
West’s put out £173,566 of its own scrip,
making paid capital £270,009 at March 31,
and increased its holding the General Film
Co. (now £269,809) by £183,273—it drew
upon liquids for the difference. Other assets
are Government securities and cash, £31,155;
book debts, £2563 ; film co.’s debentures, etc.,
£14,400; freehold, £37.011; leasehold, £6lB.
There was only £4220 coming to creditors.
The lot netted 11.2 p.c. on average capital
last year compared with 13.6 p.c. and 17 p.c.
in the two preceding terms; so the 2| p.c.
bonus was dropped, leaving the div. at 10 p.c.,
and there is doubt whether that rate -will be
maintained. On capital as it now stands a
10 p.c. div. will call for only £l3 less than
was netted last year. And it may not be so
easy to earn because the larger picture
theatres recently cut their admission prices,
and the State Governments in N. S. Wales
and Vic. have increased their bite from tak-
ings. Further, much of the new capital is
represented by expensive premises, in some
of which there is still plenty of space to let.
Also Union has guaranteed the div. on
£600,000 of pref. money in two subsidiaries,
which own the “State” theatres in Sydney
and Melbourne. On the other hand it has cut
out some expensive frills, called a halt in
its construction programme, and the two big
organisations—Union and Hoyt’s—have
ceased outbidding each other in the film
market.
Slack times and doubt whether the theatres
will escape extra taxation in the future have
kept down the price for the scrip, which
collapsed following- the special taxation pro-
posals of the Bruce-Page Government. Thus
West’s pound shares, which sold at 325. a
year ago, are now priced at 18s. At that
figure the return is 11.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, or 8.8 p.c. if the rate of distribu-
tion drops to 8 p.c.. The co.’s own reserves,
including £37,888 originally received in
scrip for goodwill, amount to ss. lOd. per
on n nn
The Position of Australian Banks.
' There is no single rule by which you can
measure a bank and say it is sound or that,
on the contrary, it is insecure. Good assets
are of the utmost importance; yet a bank
with very good assets might get into great
difficulties through having too few very
liquid assets to meet a sudden and perhaps
quite unwarranted loss of confidence. And
a bank very strong in liquid assets might
have a large proportion of very poor frozen
securities, and might not on a quick liqui-
dation be able to pay anything like 20s.
in the f.
Two main groups of people are interested
in a bank —those who provide the share
capital and those who provide the deposits.
The safety of the share capital is of course
important; but from the public point of
view the safety of the deposits is infinitely
more so. For one thing, the person who
puts up the share capital expects to take
risks and hopes to get paid for it: the deposi-
tor, since he does not share in the prosperity
of a bank, is not expected to suffer from
its failure.
Reserves protect the capital, so far as
they will go; and both capital and reserves
protect the depositor. The size of the
reserves in proportion to capital ought to
show the protection which shareholders
enjoy; the size of the reserves and capital
combined in proportion to the deposits ought
to show the protection which depositors
enjoy.
The following table shows the share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) of various Australian banks in 1889-
90 and 1929-30 respectively, along with their
deposits (’ooo’s are omitted) :
Shareholders’
Funds Deposits
(’ooo’s omitted). (’ooo’s omitted).
’B9-’9O. ’29-’3O. ’B9-’9O. ’29-’3O.
Australasia .. ..£2414 £9,089 £13,004 £33,876
A. 8.0 1075 3,323 9,088 14,714
Adelaide .. .. 59C 2,299 849 6,105
Com. of Aus. . . 2025 5,797 9,247 24,181
Com. of Svdney .. 1395 9,010 10,467 54,420
E., S. and A. . . 1240 6,427 5,881 33,734
National . . . . 1698 8-,257 8,554 37,341
N. S. Wales . . 2209 13,813 18,141 66,056
Q.N. . . . . 1614 2,571 7,894 9,404
Union . . . . 2576 8,936 13,101 35,644
The most striking feature of that table
is the extraordinary growth of capital and
reserves compared with the growth of
deposits. Take, for instance, the first line:
if the Australasia’s deposits were as great
now in proportion to the shareholders’ funds
which protect them as they were in 1889-90,
they would amount to £48,750,000 instead of
£33,876,000. In other words, in this case
deposits now have nearly 50 p.c. more pro-
tection than they had in ISB9-90.
The ratio of deposits to funds (capital
and reserves) in these banks at the two
dates was as follows: —
1889-90. 1929-30.
Australasia . . .. .. 5.38 to 1 3.72 to 1
A.B.C. .' 8.43 „ 4.43 „
Adelaide .. .. .. 1.42 ~ 2.65 „
Com. of Australia .. .. 4.57 „ 4.17 . „
Com. of Sydney .. . . 7.63 ~ 0.04 „
E., S. and A. .. .. 4.74 „ *5.24 ~
National . . . . . . 5.04 ~ 4.52 ~
N. S. Wales . . . . 8.21 „ • 4.78 • „'
Q.N. 4.89 „ 13.66 „
Union .. . , . . 5.21 ~ 3,98 ~
*4.06 to 1‘ on funds and perpetual soteks.
f 1.66 to 1 on funds and perpetual stocks.
So tight a rein, lias been kept on . Aus-
tralian bank dividends during the past few
years of great (albeit largely fictitious) pros-
perity that in almost every case present
reserves alone are greatly in excess of capital
and reserves combined in 1889-90. In some
instances this has been due partly to amal-
gamations. But it has been the same where
there have been no amalgamations or absorp-
tions. For example:—
Total Reserves
Shareholders’ Funds, Alone,
1889-1890. 1929-1930.
Australasia .. .. £2,414,602 £4,589,760
Adelaide .. .. 596,986 1,049,482
Union .. ~ .. 2,576,788 4,936,336
The quality of the assets is still, of course,
a matter of the utmost importance; but
obviously it would be possible for securities
to shrink very much more in value now
than they did in the early ’nineties before
the deposits would be endangered.
Further, the securities would have to
shrink much further now than they did
formerly to endanger the share capital, the
reserves being now so vastly more substan-
tial. The next table shows how the various
banks stand in that regard:—
Capital. Reserves.
Australasia .. . . £4,500,000 £4,589,760
A.B.C 2,208,000 1,115,550
Adelaide .. .. 1,250,000 1,049,482
Com. of Australia .. 3,803,600 1,994,190
Com. of Sydney . . 4,739,013 4,271,508
E., S. and A. .. .. 3,000,000 3,427,741
National .. .. 5,000,000 3,257,773
N. S. Wales . . . . 7,500,000 6,313,478
Q.N 1,750,000 821,059
Union . . . . . . 4,000,000 4,936,336
It has to be remembered that banks do
not all adopt the same policy so far as the
disclosure of reserves is concerned : some no
doubt have larger internal reserves than
others in proportion to disclosed reserves.
Thus one or two banks have hardly any office
premises account, almost all the total value
of premises being an internal reserve, and
available to meet contingencies before com-
ing on to the admitted reserves, at all.
These figures explain why, notwithstand-
ing the great fall in values in Australia, and
notwithstanding the very unsatisfactory
position of the national finances, there has
not been a breath of suspicion with- regard
to any Australian bank. Australia owes more
to its banks than it has yet realised for
keeping their heads during the last few years.
The Zinc Corp. is doing a little work in
a quiet way on the Barrier South, the lease
adjoining on the south, not primarily for
development but for ventilation and drain-
age in its own property, and useful ore is
being disclosed. Further south, on behalf
of the Durani Syndicate, prospecting is
being done on the Rising Sun’s 600 ft. level;
a diamond drill campaign as well as winz-
ing is proposed.
. ••!'• ❖ ❖
Opinions differ as to the extent and value
of the new find near Edjudina (W.A.). Alf
Thomson, highly thought of in Kalgoorlie
and Perth, reckoned that the outcrop en-
richment was something out of the ordi-
nary, and that the discovery, so far as he
could judge, was a big thing. Local inspector
of mines Gourlay differs. Both are confident
that they are right. This is not- the first
time that Edjudina has come into promin-
ence. It had its share of boosting in London
during the Coolgardie boom days. At that
time an English co. came to the field, in-
stalled a battery regardless of expense,
raised 3000 tons ore and then left without
having dropped a stamp. Later most of the
stone was treated for over an ounce per ton.
For some years the Edjudina reefs were the
Mecca of working parties, and good average
yields were obtained from shows now idle.
Recently a London syndicate acquired a sec-
tion of the field, and now has its prospects
under consideration.
* * * ■ *
Boring at Government expense may shortly
commence at the north end of Kalgoorlie.
It was in this part of the Hannan’s belt
that the Golden Zone and Hannan’s North
cos. spent money for a time. Both gave up
owing to high costs and irregular values.
Others also tried and failed. Then the
Great Boulder Prop, stepped in-—and out
again. It is now proposed to stab the
country east and west of the old Hannan’s
North workings in search of new and deeper
gold carriers. It is, of course, purely a
gamble.
5». ;j* }{: ■
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Deportment.)
(1) Chief sources of supply of platinum
in N.8.W.? (2) Mode of occurrence, (3)
Average annual quantity produced and value?
(4) Present market pricef. ■ (5) . Can the
‘metal he prospected for by a two-man showf
—6313. ' ! 1 :
(1) Practically all the platinum produced
in N. S. Wales has been won in the Fifield
district. ,(2) The platinum at. Fifield occurs
in association with gold in alluvial material,
and in the surface soil. Platinum occurs in
the beach sands on the north coast of N. S.
Wales and in lenticular veins of gossanous
material near Broken Hill. (3) The pro-
duction in N, S. Wales in 1.928 amounted to
3540 z., valued at £4544. (4) The latest
quotations to hand are £l2 10s. to £l3 per
ounce. (5) Two men can take possession
of an area of 144 ft. x 144 ft. as a block allu-
vial claim under miner’s rights to mine for
platinum.
I hold National Bank and shares in two
other cos., which have not reduced their
dividend. Yet Nat. Bank shares have fallen
from £9 13s. 9 d. a year ago to £7 Is. now,
and the others more in proportion (1) What
is the explanation? (2) Is the movement
likely to continue ? —6296.
(1) Money is now worth more. In July
last year Commonwealth bonds on their
market price showed a return of £5 4s. 6d.
By January of this year the market price
showed a return of £6 25.; and though the
subsequent movement was not so rapid or
definite, it has been upward. This means that
money is worth approximately 1 p.c. more
than ‘it was nine months ago. Therefore
even if there was no suspicion that the rate
of dividend might be reduced, a ..share that
. was worth £9 13s. 9d. nine months ago
would be worth no more than about £8 Is. 6d.
now. Any fall below that figure would be
due to a difference in the market's estimate
of the share now and nine months ago.
(2) Impossible to say definitely. This paper’s
experts are inclined to think it will for a while.
Position of Ramson Tyi'e Co.?- —6337.
Don’t know the Ramson Tyre Co. The
Rapson Tyre Co., if present negotiations are
completed, will be taken over by the Dunlop-
Pcrdriau Co., and Rapson pref. shareholders
will be paid out mainly in Dunlop-Perdriau
shares. The exact basis has not yet been
finalised. Rapson prefs. recently changed
hands at 14s.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
y.H.L.; Purely a gamble. Which means
that you shouldn’t touch it if you can’t afford to
lose your capital. . . .G.J.C.: Cut your 1055... .R.8.D.:
Don't know it. From which we assume you'd have
difficulty in selling if you wanted to get 0ut....
H.G.8.: See B. 30/4/’3O W.A.N.: A ridiculous
estimate... ~T.D.: Take the paid policy. Don’t
foi'get that you’ve been covered for seven years;
and, though you haven’t died, many others have, and
you’ve got. to . pay for them. That’s why these
surrender values and paid policies are generally so
disappointing. . . .P.A.C.: (1) When you took the
shares you contracted to pay £1 each, and you can
be held to it. (2) Directors usually have power to
reinstate forfeited shares. (3) A gamble. .. .C.G.S.:
(a) You are riot secured. (6) A very good lot;
but we know nothing about No. 6....5ap Pup: (1)
See answer to 6296. (2) Quite likely. (3) Depends
on what you would do with the money ... .0.0. C.:
Don’t know the area; but there are square miles of
unoccupied country thereabout. No market at
present.... Small Investor: (1) Doubt whether it’s
a good time to buy. (2) Wright, Heaton for choice.
. ...H.A.R.: (1) Very speculative. (2) If you
applied and had the shares allotted to you, they
can compel you to complete' the purchase... .L.G.E.:
(а) Yes, oinit No. 3 and put No. 1 at the bottom.
(б) Can’t guess what the market is going to be.
... .D.D.: Better not. ...T.L.S.: See B.
p 16;.; .E.F.T.: Its expenses are much too high. ...
F.D.P.: Sorry, can’t tell you. We are not market
tipsters. .. .L.R.: We know of no market for them.


0
i
\1
m
Q
fgh
fghf
6% monthly interest
on current accounts
£5 only required to open this account.
Practically all investment plans which credit or pay inter<
monthly require much larger initial payments than £5.
Add any amount at any time.
This ,is advisable for those who do not wish to contract
to invest a definite amount at stated intervals, and especially
attractive for the business or professional man whose income
is received ’in odd amounts at irregular intervals.
No discounts, no charges.
No charge is made to open this account, and no part of
the principal or interest is discounted when withdrawn.
A Form of Investment for Large
or Small Investors that holds firm
against Financial Tides
To-day’s need is for a safe investment that will return a substantial income.
Bank interest is sure enough but not sufficient. Among the dangerous tides
of finance to-day the Merron Estate, Ltd., stands out like a solid rock of
security. Its business is built on the soundest form of finance in existence—
the advancing of money against approved securities.
Your money, no matter how much or how little, is secured by loans on
solid securities made on conservative valuations by men of expert capacity
and judgment.
COMPLETE PROTECTION AGAINST LOSS.
No money is advanced without ample security; Moreover, the securities
themselves are insured against loss, destruction or default. Also, the Share
Capital of the Company is a substantial-guarantee to investors.
You can place your money in our hands for safe and wise invest -
ment and be assured of a guaranteed return of 10 per cent. This
is a higher rate of interest than any bank has yet offered.
Call in and talk it over or write for details. This is the
SAFE way to make your money earn profit for you.
THE MERRON ESTATE, LIMITED
Deposit and Investment Company
11 Martin Place
(next door to Com-
monwealth Bank),
Sydney.


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike*
cuiaine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
H ed an d
* re *kfast
h riff
if faired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
a
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern ' Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking businesg.
e
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Wang" : Terry Reilly’s favorite drink
was a certain brand of stout. One day he
came into Ryan’s pub and noticed a stranger
sitting in the bar parlor. He asked Ryan
who the stranger was. “That’s Mr. Brewell,
the maker of the stout you’re so fond of,
Terry,” Ryan told him. “He’s up here trout-
fishing.” “Be gobs,” cried Terry, “is that
him now? I’d like t’ meet him, so I would.”
Ryan took Terry into the parlour and made
the introductions, finishing up with the
remark: “Mr. Reilly is very fond of your
stout, Mr. Brewell. He thinks there’s nothin’
t’ equal it.” Mr. Brewell expressed his
pleasure, and ordered Terry a pot of his
favorite beverage. “It’s foine stuff, it is,
indade,” remarked Terry, after a gulp ; “an’
may I ask what it do be made of?” Mr.
Brewell enumerated the ingredients for the
connoisseur’s benefit. Terry listened atten-
tively till the brewer had finished ; then he
said: “Well, now, sorr, I didn’t think it was
made of them things, at all. D’you know
what I thought it was made of?” Mr. Brewell
craved enlightenment. “Well, sorr,” replied
Terry, “I thought it was made av diction-
aries an’ boxin’ gloves, so I did.” “And
why?” asked the astonished brewer. “Becos,
sorr,” answered Terry, “afther I’ve had a
few pots of it I want ayther t’ be arguin’ th’
pint wid a felly or scrappin’ wid him.”
* * * *
“Seth”: A stern and upright soul is W.
11. Wallerbith, who keeps the general store,
the garage and the bowser palace in our
village. There. was a time when his beard
flecked the third button of his vest, but
William Henry now takes his fashions from
another land. His white moustache is clipped,
and his eyes are framed in tortoiseshell-rim-
med spectacles of vast diameter, but he still
manages to convey by his attitude of spotless
integrity a faint condemnation of a worldly
world. He came violently in contact with it
the other day when the tenant of one of
his mod. bungs, refused to pay rent on the
ground that the tenement was inhabited by
what the Diggers used to call “cooties.”
It wasn’t much of a defence, and Henry
knew it, but the solicitor for the defence was
young, enthusiastic and caustic, and he didn’t
love Henry. Henry was positive there were
no bugs in the house. Defendant, a meek-
looking little man, said dubiously “If they
wasn’t bugs I don’t know what they was.
All I know is I was bit terrible in the middle
of the night.” After a pause and apropos of
nothing he added, “I ain’t got an enemy in the
world unless it’s him” (pointing at Henry).
Henry’s pink cheeks grew crimson and then
turned to a lovely purple. “Do you mean to
say,” he thundered, “that I prowled from my
bed in the middle of the night to bite you?”
That was the end of the case. The beak
looked at Henry, cast a fleeting glance at
the defendant and then buried his face in
his handkerchief. Between burbles he gave
judgment for Henry, but added that defendant
could pay it at threepence a week.
AS EVERY GOOD AUSTRALIAN WOULD.
TEACHER (examining after a dictation lesson ): “How would you spell‘loquacious’?”
PUPIL “Turn her out in a paddock, sir!”
HATED TO HAVE IT AND NOT USE IT.
JORKINS (after the ring events): “I don’t think the accident would have happened if
he’d been riding with shorter stirrups.”
MCSKINNET: “Aye, but I ken what it is mase!'. I hate tae see guid leather gangin’
tae waste.”
“Ostrich” : It was a sheep-worrying case,
and counsel for the defence had been trying
to prove that plaintiff’s own dog had done
the damage. “You admit the two dogs were
very much alike,” he barked. “And you
say it was a dark, foggy morning when the
killing took place, and that you were up on
the opposite hillside. Do you mind explain-
ing to the Court just what made you _so
sure it wasn’t your dog?” “Not a bit,”
said the old man heartily. “Ye see, ma dog
had been dead two days!” Verdict for
plaintiff.
* * * *
“Toggle”: Miss Four-years-old had come
to town. She had brought her hail-fellow
country ways with her, too, rather to the
scandal of her prim city cousins, and spent
a good deal of her time craning from door
or window to shout greetings and exchange
gossip with good-natured passers-by. Some-
times she boasted of some special conquest,
“My word, I talked to a nice boy,” she in-
formed us. “He’s got hundreds of guinea-
pigs, and he’s going to give me one.” We
asked bis name. Just for a second she
was abashed; she had forgotten to ask him.
Then she saved the situation with the first
bit of woiddly lore the town mice had
labored to teach her. “Course I don’t know,”
she said primly, “’cos little girls mustn’t
make friends with strange fellers in the
street.”
* # * *
“Dr. Mivart”: About, the dreariest thing
that can happen to a human male who hasn’t
been effeminised by dogs, the champion
sycophants of the brute creation, is to listen
to the stories told about these poor creatures
by persons, otherwise sane,'who regard the
very slightest manifestation of intelligence in
a dog they owned as a- tribute to their own
magnetic personality. The fact is that the
dog is an expert in deceit. His progenitors
learned the art by a long experience as
wolves and jackals, skirmishing for an exist-
ence in regions denuded of food by a shift-
ing of the earth’s axis, and a redistribution
of ice which occurred about the time men
shed their tails. It has been erroneously
supposed by many that had not the fish-bird-
ape strain represented by man been favored
by the climatic change, the dog, who derives
from the lizards, as witness his cold nose,
would have attained the intellectual status
which man purports to occupy. I say no.
The cat nurtured in the tropics, where he
still attains his greatest bodily dimensions,
decided as soon as he had five claws on each
foot that the riddles of the Universe were
incapable of solution. Like the elephant, he
found a free life good and preserved it so.
Unlike the elephant, he has never bowed his
yoke to man. The shades of the mammoths
deplore the decadence of their descendants,
The ghosts of the sabre-toothed tigers rejoice
at the maintenance of a charter of indepen-
dence, infringed only occasionally (and often
disastrously) by circus-proprietors, who
support aged lions and tigers, and by Indian
rajahs who put hoods on cheetahs. Fleas,
pigs, seals, dogs and monkeys can be trained
to ape humanity, but not the small cat.
*‘* * *
“Boro-Belle”: The North Queensland
croc> i s a timid lizard. He will expend
, „ . ...
tremendous energy in smashing a wire-
Retted fish-trap to make a meal of the
prisoners, but once he realises that he is him-
self caught in a net or trap he makes no
effort to escape. Recently near Innisfail
(Q.) a ten-footer made a snap at a barri-
mundi meshed in a net. He missed the fish
hut his two front teeth became entanglea
in two slender cords, which held him
securely for three hours. An oar was lashed
along the length of his body, to keep him
from swinging a broadside with his powerful
tail, and he was then hauled on (o the
fishing launch. The hide when tanned with
mangrove bark will realise from £lO to £l5,
and his pearly white circular teeth will
bring in another £lO or £l5: they’ll be
gold mounted and made into match-boxes,
The abos. get ten bob apiece for 2ft. crocs.,
and at that price there’s a handsome profit
for the buyer who knows his way about.
BEDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve known beds of ev’ry kind,
Outsize beds an’ small,
Featlier-beds an ’ beds o’ grass
Where the mopokes call;
But the bed I ’ump with me
Beats ’em one an’ all.
It’s two grey blankets wearin’ thin an’
mended ’ere an’ there,
A sheet o’ canvas stained with rain, an’
much the worse for wear;
But when I put it on the ground I am a
bloomin’ king,
An’ never worry wot the day that lies in
front will bring.
I’ve made it where the Gippsland ’ills stand
black against the light.
An’ ’card the little mountain creeks a-singin’
through the night.
I’ve rolled it up when daylight came with
bird songs sweet an’ gay,
An’ took the road that ribboned down
through forests old an’ grey.
Where breakers thunder on the rocks ’way
down the coast from Lome,
I’ve watched the stars go streamin’ on acress
the sky till morn
With just these rags to cover me, my coat
beneath my ’ead,
An’ envied no man in ’is soft an’ fluffy-
feather-bed.
It’s something when a man can sit an’ watch
the shadows creep
An’ never worry where or ’ow ’e’ll find a
place to sleep.
There’s friends will leave you in the lurch,
as I ’ave often found,
But you’ll be right if you’re like me an’
’ump your bed around.
Feather beds an’ bracken beds,
Roomy beds an’ small,
I’ve dossed almost any place
Where a man could craicl;
But the bed I ’ump with me
Beats ’em one an’ all.
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


e
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
duv as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times have you promised someone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
• How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
tomonwealtb Savtngalank of Httstralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
SEASONS MAY COME and
SEASONS MAY GO
But the holiday appeal of
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
never varies.
Spring, summer, autumn and winter
alike, the mountain scenery is the
finest in Australia, just as the Gov-
ernment Chalet is the finest holiday-
house in Australia.
Consult the
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
MORE PHILOSOPHIC CALM.
“Are your affairs all in order, Mister Tredinnick? You are very
ill, you know, and may not be here much longer.”
“Dawn’t ’ee worry, Doctor—the shorter ’ere, the longer theere.”
“Murrungurry” : The sundowner shouldn’t
be confounded with the ordinary swagman,
travelling in search of work. The sundowner
usually has an uncommon profession, such as
tuning violins. He wants rations and tucker,
a>nd invariably arrives at a homestead at
sundown, with the object of getting bed and
breakfast with the station-hands and a dole
from the store. One of the fraternity who
had wandered too far out for comfortable
stages and regular daily hand-outs inquired
the distances of the places ahead. They
ranged from 20 to 30 miles apart. “No good
to me,” he said, preparing to turn back.
“A man would have to do overtime every
day to get to ’em, an’ walk two days for one
day’s pay.”
* * * *
“Nullarbor”: The rapidity with which
flood-waters drain away through blowholes
on the Nullarbor Plain has reminded the
Commonwealth Railway Commissioner that
“John Forrest, on one of his overland trips,
noticed that the water in the Great Austra-
lian Bight was fresh for a mile or two from
the shore, indicating a con-
siderable flow of fresh water
under the limestone.” The trip
referred to is, of course, that
of 1870, when the future West-
ralian Premier, with his brother
Alex, and two other white men,
left Perth on March 30, struck
the southern coast at Esperance,
where a schooner met them with
supplies, and arrived at' Adel-
aide on August 27. The fresh
water noted in the Bight must
have been on the S. Aus. side,
for it is recorded that between
Israelite Bay and Eucla the
explorers suffered severely from
thirst, and had to make a dash
inland to a permanent supply
discovered by Eyre 30 years be-
fore. The Forrest party, with
15 horses, took five months over
the point-to-point that the mod-
ern airman manages in a couple
of days or so.
“J.H.P.”: One evening some years ago I
was swimming in the Cairns (N.Q.) baths.
It was getting dusk, and I was alone in
the. pool, which was protected by a picket
palisade. . I . swam over to the fence, and
clung to it, idly kicking out and wondering
whether I would climb out or not. I gradu-
ally became aware of something outside the
fence rubbing my fingers where they passed
round the picket, and looking out in the
dim light I suddenly became aware that there
was a large shark nosing my fingers.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil”; In my time at sea the com-
panies that contracted to ship Chinese back
to Cathay used to supply some sort of
hermetic shells in which to preserve the
bodies of any .who died on the voyage. But
on one occasion there were no containers
on board, and we were slam in the middle
of the tropics when Tin Can shipped his
cable. Our crew
were Malays, and
they don’t love
Chinamen. Not one
of them would
touch the departed.
So the purser and
the second engineer
and Chips had to
get him from the
'tween-decks and
stack him on the
house-on-deck for
the night. Next
morning the Old
Man. told me it
was up to me as
ship’s doctor. I
could do what I
liked and have
what I liked, but
I must do it my-
self, and do it
quick. So I had
a sail rigged across
the fo’c’s’le-head
and—never mind
the details. Any-
way, Tin Can was
ready by the time
they made him a
sarcophagus of 3in.
by Sin. Oregon pine,
bolted, hoop-ironed
and t a r-1 ine d.
When he was in,
and all nice and
comfy, we mixed a
barrel of cement,
2cwt. of sharp sand
and water, and
filled up the casket,
floated it off with
a straightedge, and
bolted down the
lid. Then we stow-
ed him in the fore-
peak, near the
chain-lockers. So
far so good. The
fee was £2O, which was promised to me—
‘ sundry expenses, ship’s surgeon.” And I
got it when we arrived at Hong Kong. But
they debited me with “material supplied and
time on job,” which left me with only 60
dollars.
“L. Main”: I’m strong on kindness to
animals and I wouldn’t whang a wasp unless
it stung me first. But I think the dear
old ladies who endeavor to stir the conscience
of the community on the subject are wasting
TRYING TO EVEN THINGS UP.
PASSENGER (whose money no steward has seen so far ): “Steward, what makes this
boat tip so much?"
DECK STEWARD: “Couldn’t say, Madam—unless she’s trying to make up for what
passengers don’t do.”
time a*nd money that might be better devoted,
in the present condition of this land, to
obviating some of the cruelties that are
imposed'on human beings. “A small cage is
a bird’s prison,” was the legend attached to
a poster in a recent Sydney show, and to
drawings with a “Be-kind-to-the-poor-dumb-
things” moral. If it means that birds that
desire their liberty shouldn’t be caged, 1
haven’t a word to say against it. If it is a
protest against housing an eagle in a epop
meant for a canary, I’m still more strongly
for it. But if it is directed against any
caging of birds I dissent. Some time ago
a white cockatoo, immediately christened
Nicodemus because he looked like that,
attached himself to my household and
resisted attempts to drive him forth. Be-
cause he so evidently expected housing
accommodation, I bought him a cage and
provided him with seed and a water-bowl.
The door was left open and lie had the run
of the place. But, though a companionable
soul and good tempered, except in the
case of cats, he loved his little home and
seldom left it. As a conversationalist he was
not brilliant. He could say “Hello” and
“Gordelpus,” and his second remark con-
stituted his dying words, emitted a?s our
senior cat, Aristotle, bit his scraggy neck.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : An old busliman, “H.T.L.,” sug-
gests in Adelaide “Register” (9/4/’3O) a
tremendous scheme for helping Australia, by
turning fresh water, instead of salt as some-
times suggested, into the bed of Lake Eyre.
“The cost of a canal from Spencer’s
Gulf,” he says, “would be double one from
the. s.-e. corner of the Burdekin across the
Great Divide to the Toi*rens Creek, an
upper tributary of the Barcoo and Coopeps
Creek. The Burdekin flows more water into
the sea than the Murray, on an average, and
the great n.-e. roof of Australia has a rain-
fall unequalled in any part of the continent.
To bring fresh water from the wild summer
torrents of the Burdekin south, and rein-
force the local falls in the Cooper’s water-
shed, would mean almost a flood on the
Cooper yearly, right through to Lake Eyre.”
The rest is all about the enormous advan-
tages of such an inland sea.
* * * ±
“Wang” : “There’s more in this ’ere pre-
natal influence,” remarked old Dan, “than
some people, think. I usen’t t’ b’lieve in it
meself one time; but Ido now. I wus graftin’
fer an ole cocky named Terry McGrath, who
had a good-lookin’ daughter, Katie. A
new schoolmaster come to tli’ district, a real
decent . sorter bloke. One night ’bout a
month after he come there was a darnce,
an’ all th’ young bucks an’ tarts was there.
Everything’s goin’ along nice an’ smooth till
one of th’ blokes takes th’ schoolteacher up
ter interdooce ’im t’ Katie. As jsoon as he
sets eyes on the girl th’ teacher starts
snappin’ liis teeth, an’ makin’ horrible faces,
an’ Katie squeals an’ runs into a corner, where
she starts shiverin’. Every time tli’ pair
got near each other th’ same thing would
happen. A few days later there’s a crowd
of us swimming in th’ creek; th’ teacher
bein' there, too. When he stripped we
noticed a queer lookin’ blotch on his chest,
like a cat’s head. Th’ teacher sees us
lookin’ curious at it, an’ tells ns it’s a birth-
mark. A few months before he was born,
his mother had been frightened be a pet
cat what had suddenly gone mad. Old
Terry McGrath’s there, an’ as soon as he
sees it he gives a yell. £ I see it all now,’
he says, ‘that explains things. Jest before
me darter Katie wus born th’ missus got
th’ divil of a fright from a mouse, which
ran up her leg, and Katie has a mark like
a mouse on th’ small of her back!’ ”
* * * *
“Klondike” : I strolled down to the camp
one morning, and, finding Jacky going about
with a sulky air, I guessed that once again
there had been trouble with Mary. He
showed me the cause. Mary had mended
his pants, and, at any rate, her intentions
had been good. Jacky’s rear was now pro-
tected by an oblong expanse of white flour-
bag, showing up tastefully on his blue dun-
THE MESS.
GEORGE: “I reckon dad and mum made a
fearful mess of things!”
O LCA: “That’s what I like about you,
George — you’re not a scrap egotistical.”
garees. I tried to make peace, but ’Mary
would liave none of it. “Don’t take any
notice of him, Boss,” she said, gazing malevo-
lently at her spouse, who was at that
moment bending down with his back to us.
“He always got something on his plurry
mind !”
THE SHEILA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She made a show o’ me, an ’oly show.
These women give a man the bloomin’
’ump;
They kids ’im on and lets ’im spend ’is
dough,
An’ then they turns an’ drops ’im with a
bump.
’Ere’s me; I’m trackin’ with a jane wot’s
square,
A sheila that’s a pretty nifty sort;
We ’ad it fixed to get ’itched up for fair—
Ar, gee, she seemed a bonzer little sport!
“Now, Will,” she sez (I lets ’er call me that,
Though Skeezer does me when I’m with
the mob),
“You’ll ’ave to give up drinkin’ ” —strike me
fat!—
“ An’ fightin’ ” —that’s a snorter on the
nob.
“Ar, stone the crows,” I sez, “but ain’t yer
tough ?
Not just a little?” “No,” sez she, “it’s
barred.”
An’ so I promised to cut out the rough,
Though life without a booze or stoush—
it’s ’ard!
The mob start slingin’ orf. They’d say,
“ ’Ullo,
‘Ere’s Skeezer, don’t ’e lead a lovely life!
’E’s givin’ straight an’ narrer paths a go,
’E’s knocked orf beer an’ stoush to- git a
wife.”
I didn’t mind that much, but when that cow,
Long Stinker Smith, sez, “Willie mustn’t
fight,”
I done me block an’ donged ’im proper.
“Now,”
I sez, “shove up yer dooks, p’r’aps Willie
might!”
We stouslied outside the pub. I knocked
’im clean ;
Th’ mob is urgin’ us an’ yellin’ loud,
An’ then—l thought of ’er, an’ I felt mean,
When—strike me pink ! —she comes up
through the crowd.
“Th’ same ole games,” she sez. “So that’s
yer word!”
“’Old ’ard a mo,” I chips. “Give us a
burl;
I tells yer straight”.... “I’m through,”
she sez. “You’ve ’eard.”
I looks at ’er an’ knoo I’d done me girl.
Ar, cripes, but I dunno, they’re orl the same,
A man’s a mug to ’ave the sheilas on;
They kids ’im on—l know their bloomin’
game—
An’ then they goes an’ socks ’im on the
scone.
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


é
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Offices 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
WHEAT-SOWING.
“Hortus”: Generally speaking, April and
May are the best months for sowing wheat
in Australia. There are districts where late
plantings of early-maturing varieties may be
made, but the land would have to be well
prepared, and then only a fair return must
be expected. Of course, I am referring to
growing for grain purposes only.
It is considered best to sow before the
winter has really set in. The whole problem
as to whether it is time to sow or not can
be shelved if farmers have systematically fal-
lowed as large a proportion of their culti-
vation paddocks as possible. A great many
are in this position, but there are still.others
who plough, harrow and cultivate their land
a short time before sowing, leaving the crop
to be’ entirely dependent on the rain that
falls immediately before sowing and during
growth.
The first thing to do is to study the
climatic conditions of your district. Have
as much as possible of the wheat land
ploughed to a depth of sin. and left open
(in the comb) to catch every drop of the
main rainfall. Don’t forget to “work” this
fallow before the sun has a chance to cake
the surface, but leave in the comb for a few
weeks before starting to break furrows down
with harrows. The “caking” undoes all the-
good work. Note the effect. Worked fallow m
Victoria contained before sowing equal to
492 tons of moisture per acre in the top
ISin. of soil; a neglected fallow could show
only 281 tons.
If weeds spring up all over the paddock
turn in sheep to nip them off. The sheep
will help to tramp down some of the lumps
that are being weathered, and the liquid
manure will assist to enrich the soil. After
they have been turned out, run over with
harrows or disc-cultivator. Continue to
work the ground until sowing-time, for the
greatest asset a young wheat crop can have
is a clean seed-bed. Don’t let weeds rob
the young plants of any moisture.
The ground after this fallowing and work-
ing is in just the right state for sowing, for
there arc about 3in. of good, fine tilth on a
compact foundation bed, which allows of a
nice easy, upward flow of the soil water.
I have known farmers who, leaving things a
bit late, plough their stubble under to a depth
of sin., then shortly afterwards break down
with harrows and sow their wheat. This is
fatal, for the young plants after a while
find their roots in the large air spaces left
by this poor cultivation, and many wither
off or become stunted.
If things have so fallen out that a farmer
is faced with a late sowing in a dry seed-
bed, I should advise him to use the roller
after ploughing, harrowing and cultivating.
For two reasons: one, to avoid air spaces,
and the other to break up surface soil as fine
as possible. He must not plant his seed
more than 14in. down. Anyone knows that
this cannot be done with lumpy soil. Follow
the rule of European farmers: “The later
the sowing the shallower the drill.” But
you must have soil fine for shallow drill-
work.
There is another point which must be
considered when sowing in a dry seed-bed,
and that is the method of pickling. If the
season is dry, don’t sow seed that has been
treated only with pickle, no matter whether
it is Milestone or formalin. Bluestone, if
left on grain in dry soil, often kills the germ;
formalin, _ under the same conditions, renders
germination poor and causes undeveloped
growth. If seed is to be sown in dry soil
clip pickled seed into limewater before sow-
ing; the lime neutralises the effect of the
bluestone, and so preserves the life of the
wheat germ.
Don’t mix bluestone with lime. Make a
separate caskful of limewater, using 41b.
freshly-burnt lime to 10 gallons of water.
If freshly-burnt lime cannot be obtained, use
|lb. of slaked lime to the same quantity of
water. Make a fresh caskful of this lime-
water at intervals, as the constant dipping
of the bluestone-saturated wheat-butts
changes the solution from an alkaline iffto
an acid one, which, of course, does more
harm than good.
WASTE OF FEED IN WESTRALIA.
“Wescocky”: Hundreds of Westralian
wheat-farmers could better their financial
position by keeping stock. The quantity of
grass fodder, stubble and seconds wheat that
is wasted is a tragedy. Land must be rested;
then if cows, horses or sheep are not Kept
what profit can be derived from the luxu-
riant weed growth on the uncropped land?
Many have half-heartedly tried these side-
lines and dismissed them as tedious and un-
profitable. Slipshod methods and haphazard
breeding certainly will not pay. Pure-bred
stock are the only stock worth keeping.
Reliance on scrub cattle and mongrel pigs
is a common mistake.
In the Westralian wheat districts Jersey
cattle give the best butter-fat returns, while
the offspring of Berkshire boars crossed
with Tamworth sows make the most desir-
able porkers and baconers.
STRAWBERRY CLOVER.
“Buckwong”: Since the first successful
growth of strawberry clover at Tarwin, on
the Gippsland coast, there have been many
changes of opinion among graziers as to its
worth, and still more as to its adaptability.
For a long time it was asserted that sea-
air and very moist, if not marshy, soil were
essential requirements, but it is found to
flourish as well on the Upper Murray as
the Gippsland coastal flats, while wherever
irrigation is possible it seems likely to prove
itself the most valuable of all the legu-
minous fodder-plants, especially as it re-
joices in a moderate amount of salinity. At
any rate it can be safely urged that every-
one who has even the smallest area on which
English rye grass has established and main-
tains itself should give this clover a chance
also. As far as can be learned, when once
introduced it will hold and spread under the
same conditions as the rye grass.
I know a grazier near Corryong (Vic.)
who for years had a standing challenge of
£IOO that he would fence off one acre of his
strawberry-clover pasture and fatten there-
on any average store bullock in the usual
time allowed for the process. The chal-
lenge was never taken up. The usual area
allowed in similar country, without the clover
is at least five acres.
Perhaps the chief reason which has de-
layed the more widespread introduction of
strawberry clover is the very low ratio of
germination in its untreated seed, which has
caused the tiresome and expensive method
of root-propagation to be usually adopted.
For this there is really no need, as it has
been proved that a simple and inexpensive
process will increase the ratio of germina-
tion from about 10 per cent, to 80 or 90
per cent. On two small smooth boards
paste fine (but not the finest) glass-papev.
Lay one board on a table; provide the
other with a hand-hold on the back, and
then, with a light, even pressure, keep rub-
bing a sprinkling of the seed between these
boards until 'the thick, hard skins are well
abraded. It is then ready for sowing. This
may seem very slow, but as the seed is
expensive—about; 7s. 6d. per pound—it is well
worth while. And there is no necessity to
expend a large amount on the seed. Like
most of the trefoil tribe, if the situation
suits the thing will spread itself once it
gets a start, and repay a thousandfold any
trouble it may cost in the first place.
Strawberry clover occurs indigenously
from far-northern Norway to Morocco and
Persia. It would seem only reasonable
that it should eventually succeed, in suit-
able areas, in all our States.
A NEW SHEEP MALADY.
“Valerin”; Considerable mortality amongst
ewes heavy in lamb has followed a too-
lengthy use of concentrated foods, such as
grains, nuts, etc. The ewe becomes dopey
in appearance, moping away by itself and
refusing j’ood. Death occurs within a
couple of days, and in many cases there is
blindness. A post-mortem shows a pale
liver and heart and often bloodstains are
found in the caul fat.
The disease, fatty infiltration of the liver,
is comparatively new, and is due to want
of exercise when fed on concentrated food-
stuffs. The sheep become used to feeding
about the one place and will not roam
about in a natural way looking for pasture.
The departmental remedy of moving from
the paddock or feeding in different parts of
it has failed with me; I have got better
results by balancing the ration, feeding
roughage of a poor quality of hay twice a
week, together with oats on other days.
Curiously enough, among dry sheep fed on
concentrated feed I have never seen a case.
A GOOD WORD FOR RYE.
“Minthall”: A rather neglected crop in
Australia is rye. It is a palatable, nutritious
green fodder and makes a fair hay
and is a good line for cleaning dirty
cultivation areas. Seed requirements are
small, about 14 to 3 bushels per acre
being ample. A crop will respond well to
manure; my dressing of super, at the rate
of fewt. per acre doubled the yield compared
with unmanured areas. Rye, moreover, will
do well on poor soils, and in districts subject
to severe frosts can be planted in conjunction
with other crops, such as rape.
The two principal varieties are mammoth
white and black winter. When your rye is
not too high, take the stock on to it gradu-
ally, and then spell it; it will soon shoot up
again. It is a great mixer with' other fodders
for dairy cows. If the grain is harvested
it makes a good pig, fowl and stock ration,
while clean parcels find a fair market. The
straw is used for stuffing harness, and it
makes the best thatch out for stack covering.
Chaffed it needs mixing to give a balanced
ration.
TREE-PLANTING EXPERIENCE.
“Planter”: Re “J.G.’s” theory about small
holes for tree-planting (B. 5/3/’3O). On a
loamy soil (N.Q.) my neighbors planted
coffee-trees in potholes, it beiqg hilly country
with a good drainage. At least 50 per cent,
died; the farmers seemed to be for ever
replanting.
I had holes dug three feet deep with five
feet diameter, and left the soil exposed to
sun and air for three months. When the
young trees were transplanted from the
nursery they struck root at once. I did not
lose a tree, nor even a branch of a tree.;
they soon surpassed the pothole trees,
planted the previous year, in size and vigor.
I admit I ignored the agricultural expert’s
advice to plant out when the trees were six
months old; mine were 12 months.
Years later I planted citrus trees in clayey
red soil on the same plan. They blossomed
and bore fruit at three years from time of
planting.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Can subterranean clover be grown on Darl-
ing Doxvns, and would it be advisable to
sow grass seed with the sub. clover? I am
told artificial grasses are not a success on the
Downs. —5967,
Trials indicate that the winter season is
ordinarily too. dry to give satisfactory results,
though sub. clover may thrive well during
a good herbage season. The same remarks
apply to artificial grasses from temperate
climates. Under conditions of cultivation
these grasses are likely to do much better
than on ordinary box flats at present carry-
ing dead timber. Prairie grass and Phalaris
bulbosa, if planted in March or early April
on clean, well cultivated land, should thrive,
and Rhodes grass should be worth a trial
under similar conditions.
Is Wimmera rye grass suitable for hay or
chaff?— 6l49.
Yes, it makes good-quality hay. and cuts
into attractive looking chaff, and is not sub-
ject to attacks by rats and mice to the same
extent as oats and wheat. Buyers of chaff
do not like handling a mixture of grass and
oaten or grass and wheaten chaff, and it is
therefore not readily marketable, but such a
mixture makes splendid fodder.
(1) When is a flax crop ready to har-
vest? (2) Method of harvesting? —6ls2.
(1) As soon as the majority of the seed-
bolls have turned brown. The stems at this
stage are usually of a golden color with the
lower leaves beginning to drop off. (2) As
pulling is impracticable in Australia, the
crop is cut with a reaper and binder set
to work as close to the ground as possible.
As flax is. tougher to cut than oaten hay, the
reaper-knives, which should be plain and not
sickle or serrated, must be in good order. The
crop cuts most easily in bright, clear weather,
and it is not advisable to start cutting
before 10 a.m. The sheaves should be of
medium size, well butted and tied securely
nearer the head than the butt, as the ten-
dency is for the twine to slip towards the
butt. Long narrow stooks are best, and
the flax should be stacked as soon as ready,
as standing in the paddock longer than
necessary causes the fibre to deteriorate.
Suitable N.S.W. districts and soils for
peanut cultivation? —6160.
Peanuts will not stand frost, being sus-
ceptible at all stages of growth. Abundant
sunshine, moderately high and consistent
temperatures, and a well-distributed but not
excessive rainfall are the required conditions.
Peanuts will thrive in districts suited to
late varieties of maize, or where citrus fruits
grow to perfection. The crop grows well in
the coastal districts, particularly the North
and Central Coast. It may also be grown
successfully on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Areas and other portions of the State which
conform to the climatic requirements. Pea-
nuts will thrive on a large variety of soils,
ranging from light sandy loams to dark
medium heavy clays. A fertile, well-drained
light sandy loam, with a good liumus content
is preferred, particularly if it is desired to
grow nuts for the roasting trade. Nuts from
colored soils are invariably stained, thus
detracting from their market value.
I have two peach-trees the fruit of which
ripens about February and is invariably
attacked by Ruth-erglen buy. 1 have been
advised to graft both trees with a variety
ripening in December. Is this recommendedf
If so how is grafting done and where can
grafting wax be obtained? —6008.
It cannot be guaranteed that a peach
ripening in December will always escape the
Rutherglen bug, but early varieties of
peaches are more suited to your locality
(Sydney). It is easier to top-work the
peach by budding than by grafting. Get
Farmers’ Bulletin No. 63. which contains
particulars of both operations, and recipes
for grafting wax, lOd. post free, from Dept,
of Agriculture, Sydney.
What is transit rot in fruit, and how can
it be prevented? —6ll9.
It is a fungus disease, which may cause
considerable loss while fruit is on its way
to market, and which sometimes attacks
growing fruit whose skin has been broken.
To prevent transit rot, immerse all second-
hand cases in boiling water to which blue-
stone lias been added, at the rate of lib. to
every 100 gallons. The time of immersion
required is about three minutes. Spray
packing-shed and everything in it, and a*lso
any vehicles used for carrying fruit with
bluestone solution (11b. to 10 gallons of
water). Care in picking and packing fruit
will minimise losses, as the parasite attacks
only fruit, the skin of which has been
ruptured.
What are the chief uses of sunflower seed ?
Would it pay the holder of a large outer
Brisbane allotment on which sunflowers are
growing in profusion to collect the seeds?
Where could he market same and what return
could be expected? —6l26.
Mostly used in the preparation of bird-seed.
Prime is worth £lB to £2O per ton. It is
customary for sellers to submit samples to
wholesale buyers interested in the bird-seed
trade. If the crop is prolific, it may pay to
harvest, dry and thresh out the seed. Ordi-
narily it is an expensive crop to harvest and
prepare for market.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Odd Job” : The next wet day, when you’re
tidying up the shed, knock up a small chest
of drawers from some petrol-tins and -cases.
There is nothing handier for storing bolts,
nails and odds and ends.
“Korumburra” : If you want to use a bark
torch for lighting scrub, tussocks' or rubbish
bind the bark round with fine wire. This
will hold the bark together and the torch
will burn better; moreover, the wire can be
used over and over again.
“Disc Harrow”: Where anew piece of
scrub is to be broken up and a tractor
is available, try to borrow a road plough
from the shire or a contractor. There are
always some roots left in, and it is asking
for bent beams, or at the very least slow
and tedious work, to do the job with an
ordinary single-furrow. With the road plough
one can go ahead with safety, for whatever
goes it isn’t the plough.
“Hortus”: Watch how high the nose is
raised when giving animals medicine. If
raised too high, the medicine will run down
into the windpipe and lungs, and may cause
broncho-pneumonia and death. This applies
particularly to sheep and pigs.
“XSA”: A fruit-fly lure for immediate
application: 2 gallons molasses, 21b. proven
arsenate of lead, loz. oil of aniseed to 30
gallons water ; mix well. Drive the spray
cart between the citrus-trees, giving each
a burst of spray in passing. The flies
cannot resist the lure, and if applied before
the fruit ripens it will be quite safe to use.
“Wrash”: Pimples forming scabs on a
cow’s udder or teats indicate cow-pox, which
is contagious. Diseased cows should be
isolated, and their milkers should not operate
among the clean cows. Before milking, the
udders of affected animals should be washed
with a solution of permanganate of potash:
after milking, the sores should be dressed
with earbolised vaseline.
“G.11.W.” : If you have nut grass in the
cultivation or orchard, wire-net round and
run a few poultry. In a few months the
ground will not only be well fertilised, but
clean and ready for any crop. I have seen
paddocks choked with nut grass respond to
this treatment.
“Fysh” : To tan hides with bloodwood-gum
melt three pints of gum in four gallons of
water and mix well. Put skins in this mix-
ture while they are green; let them soak
for four or five days, and then remove all
fat and flesh with a blunt knife. Put skins
back again and leave in mixture till the tan
can be seen coming through on the hair side;
then wash well and soak in running water
or in several changes of water for 24 hours.
Dry in the shade and rub all the fluff off
w r ith coarse sandpaper. The tan mixture
must be kept a deep red.
(Continued on page 25.)


ffilli
w mSsSSK
..Ml,'
1
*
/
■
M
**■
an
'iter
| Qualify
ana Quantity
m
"A
a
nd mt Tm
Ever noticed the number of men smoking
Country Life these days? Ever wondered
why these Cigarettes are so popular ?
No need to wonder. Just think what they
offer! The swagger Country Life tin brings
you 23 cork-tipped Cigarettes (3 more than
the ordinary 20) for your usual 1 16. It
brings, too, a new and splendid blend of the
finest Virginia tobacco.
Join the ever growing circle of men who
appreciate this combination of Quality and
Quantity. Smoke Country Life.
Country life
HHf
COKK TIPPED
VIKCI NIA-
C I GARETTES
Made in Yaur Own Country at the
Garden Factory Raleigh Park —by
W. D. H. 0. Wills (Australia) Ltd.


HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE. CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
ê
ë
tfcV,
Jade
30/-
Eternal
30/-
USE
‘SWAN’ INK
FOR
ALL PENS
Of Stationers and Jewellers
Illustrated Catalogue post free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London,W.l
.Factories: London and Liverpool
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
See the New “Swans” in Exquisite Colours!
L(A.)
1—
S
n
High
Pressure
Alemite-ing
Insures
Perfect
. j
Lubrication
80% of your repair bills are due to lack of proper lubrication.
To avoid these costly repair bills drive into an ALEMITE Service
Station and have your car properly lubricated.
What Alemite-ing Does Sor Any Car
1. BEARINGS: Genuine Alemite High Pressure Lubricant
forced into every vital chassis bearing with Alemite equipment.
Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thoroughly flushed out
by a special Alemite process. New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced
in. Every 2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite Spring Bath. They are
sprayed with special Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil—every
500 miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run smoother.
The ALEMITE Systems insure perfect lubrication because the
bearings are thoroughly cleaned—old, worn-out gritty grease is
forced out under tremendous pressure—replaced with clean,
solidified oil.
Every car should be “ALEMITED” at least every 500 miles.
Throughout the world there are over 15,000,000 motor vehicles
equipped with the ALEMITE System.
Full particulars from:
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydnev N. S. W.
Or from the following Representativess
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. ...... 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box£G. P. O. 496, E. Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION, Chicago, U.S.A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
alemite
ē
ĕ
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY.,
LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston
Please send me Booklet “B,” giving full particulars
oj Delco-Light.
NAME
ADDRESS
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors


....
V-
CS.
s i
%
2?
\
Better fit at instep
The foot’s natural shape requires
special accommodation in the
arching over instep before any
boot can fit with comfort. In
this pliant Abbey Boot, the
upper is built to curve easily
over the foot at the lacing.
Strain is eliminated—the boot
fits comfortably from the first
time on.
The pliant calf upper, too, is
lined with soft leather, while the
sole is double thickness. You
are assured of extra durability.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order also the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin) or one of the
handy, new cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
,Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 175.
ė
Little Giant
Sash Support
A set for any size window
can be sent anywhere
for 5/-, post paid. So
strong, two (one on each
sash) will support a
pair of sash weighing
161 b., or four a pair of
sash weighing 321 b.
Use Solid Frames,
stronger and less costly.
The Old
Window Prop
may be good enough
for the humpy,
but it’s out of place in the modern
country home. It is untidy, unsafe
and unnecessary.
No matter how far out back you may live,
you can now have the comfort and convenience
of box-frame (pulley and cord) windows, with-
out the expense, freight, difficulty of instal-
lation, or cost and trouble of renewal.
And no matter how near town your home,
it will -pay you better to specify, instead of the
clumsy and perishable cords and weights, the
“Little Giant Sash Support.”
Fit the LITTLE GIANT yourself
with a screwdriver.
Write jor particulars to the
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.,
10 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Green
ę
Seal
Remedy
™“ ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Q r ta r lcc - Carbon Tetrachloride per scc. dose.
0 doses to tlie gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
we ca J? Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
£•, s : P „ lxl ® y Brisbane
® o } ! n * Co Adelaide
King Lawless, Ltu Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding scc. and acting as
-Measure and Prenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
Chandler
Ringlock Fencing
The Original
RINGLOCK FENCING.
D. & W. Chandler Ltd. pioneered
the manufacture of Ringlock Fenc-
ing in Australia, and this has now
superseded all other forms of farm-
fencing. Our Chandler Ringlock
Fencing is recognised as the strong-
est fencing on the market.
Chandler Ringlock Fencing is a
wonderful improvement on the ordi-
nary five- or six-line fence, as it
is a combination of droppers and
laterals. All the wires are crimped,
and the special Ringlock Knot is
formed around the cross wires, thus
making them absolutely non-slip-
pable. The fence is, therefore,
sheep- and cattle-proof.
Style RLS is an ideal sheep or farm
fence. The droppers are 12in.
apart. Five lines spaced from the
bottom 5,6, 7 and 8 inches apart
to a height of 26in. The top and
bottom wires are 10-gauge; the
three other laterals, droppers and
all ringlock knots are 12-gauge gal-
vanised-wire.
Prices:
5/9
per chain for 5-chain
rolls.
Special heavy Chandler Fencing (10-gauge
throughout). Prices for RLS are 6/3 per
chain for 5-chain rolls, or £22 per mile.
NOTE.—The prices quoted are
strictly cash with order.
We also stock Waratah “Hinged-
joint” Fencing. Send for particulars.
Send for list of the new REDUCED
Prices of other styles.
Manufactured at their Fence and Gate %
Factory, Greeves Street, Fitzroy, by
D.gW. CHANDLER LTD.
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
AND AT WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO.
HORSHAM, BALLARAT AND PORT-
LAND.
£l9/15/-
per mile.
THE PATRIOT
■DIRECT WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
sw
I
A cheque is a passport to business consideration.
A cheque is a receipt in itself. The whole of the
modern fabric of trading and production is based
on cheque payments.
Get into cheque circles with a bank deposit!
Have a Bank Account —Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London.
Farm Accounts.
EXAMPLE 3 {continued) .—The remainder of the Ledger accounts in this example,
including P. and L. Account, are given hereunder. The Balance Sheet, with explana-
tions, will be given in our next article.
LIVESTOCK ACCOUNT. (No. 6.)
i- .i.- .■ ■ TH . I -l. JTI
1929. | I •! I- • I' .I ■ s * I
Jurte |3(>l. To Balance | I £825 0 0 1 i I
I„ | „ P. & L. A/c | 125 0 0 || I
I".,I • / ; I I I
; j I ,1 j £950 0 0
OVERDRAFT (on Mortgage). (No. 7.)
rw-— — .-in ■ ■ ■ 19297] j in
| |- ||- .Tune 1301 By Balance | 11£300 0 0
J‘ I J - ■ • J iI i J I M -
WAGES ACCOUNT. (No. 8.)
792971 r ~ 1 : r~v, : ‘ 19297] i -'■ ■ in
June 1301 To Balance : . I " £206 14 8 June 1301 By P. &L. A/c |1 11 £206 14 8
~. 1,, | „ Balance j |.| 60 0 „|„ | „ „ „ 111] 60 0
j | |j j £212 14 8 || .| | j £212 14 8
|| | || ~ July |l| By Balance | |) 6 0 0
I I | 11 LJ LJJ
STOCK FEED ACCOUNT. (No. 9.)
19297] ] ] fi 19397] ] ■ i FI I
June 1301 To Balance | 11 £75 10 0 June|3o| By I>. &L. A/c | || £75 10 0
I I- I II J_J J_J
RENT ACCOUNT. (No. 10.)
1929.1 | | |l 1929. | I II
June 1301 To Balance I 11 £6O 0 0 June 30| By P. &L. A/c || £6O 0 0
„ |„ | „ Balance | 11 20 0 0 „ „| „ „ „ I• 11 20 0 0
|| 111 | | ||
II | || £BO 0 0 || |HI £BO 0 0
|| | || July II | Bv Balance | )| £2O 0 0
I 1 I 11' LJ J. II
FREIGHT ACCOUNT. (No. 11.)
i929.| | T II 1929.| | I II “
June 1301 To Balance | 11 £3O 6 8 June|3o| By P. &L. A/c | || £3O 6 8
I I I II LJ I II
REPAIRS ACCOUNT. (No. 12.)
1929.| j . | || 1929.| |. “ j n
Junel3o| To Balance | || £25 17 4 June |3o| By P. &L. A/c | || £25 17 4
I I I II ill I II
GENERAL EXPENSES. (No. 13.)
1929.1 j | || 1929.1 -I I .11
June 1301 To Balance | || £23 12 2 June|3o| By P. &L. A/c ! j | £23 12 2
I I I II II LJJ
INTEREST ACCOUNT. (No. 14.)
_____ . j || 1929” ] ‘ in
June|3o| To Balance | || £l7 10 0 June|3o| By P. &L. A/c | || £l7 10 0
„|,, | ~ Balance 111 310 0 „|„ | ~ „ „ ill 310 0
I I iII £2l 0 0 i j 111 £2l 0 0
|| 111 July I1 | By Balance | || £3 10 0
II- ■ I II I I ' I II
TAXES ACCOUNT. (No. 15.)
19297] j J FI 1929.1 j F II '
June |3o| To Balance | || £lO 14 6 June|3o| By P. &L. A/c. | 11 £lO 14 6
ii i ii ~i l i if
PRODUCE SALES ACCOUNT. (No. 16.)
i929.f'| TTI 1929.| | | ||
June]3o| To P. &L. A/c j ||£76B 10 6_ June|3o_j, By Balance | ||£76B 10 6
I I 111 ■ " ' I I l__J I
RATIONS ACCOUNT. (No. 17.)
i9Z9.| i ~ | || . ' 1939.1 | I J I
June|3o| To Balance I || £25 0 0 June|3o| By P. &L. A/c || £25 0 0
l l I II g==iaß i | , l_ i ii
SUNDRY INCOME ACCOUNT. (No. 18.)
791777]" "| ' I II i929.| | i i|
June j 3 To P. &L. A/c | || £62 10 6 June|3o] By Balance | || £62 10 6
PETTY CASH ACCOUNT. (No. 19.)
1929. | j 7 ' ] fP " i 7 1 ] [j
June 1301 To Balance | 11 £6 710 LI II!
LJ ML _1 ! LJJ
DEBTORS. (No. 20.)
iozu.i j in ii in n
June 1301 To Balance | 11 £4O 0 0 U |
I I : I II I II _v_ LJJ
CREDITORS. (No. 21.)
I | I II 1939. | | I J
.Tune 30 By Balance | | £lll 0 0
. _ M I N M ||
CASH ACCOUNT. (No. 22.)
1929.1 ] : in i r : ; in s
June 30 To Balance | l| £44 710 Ii ' I
ii in : ii - : - ur n
è
1925. | | ii i929.| j ~ j
July |l| To Unsold | Jurie|3o| By Produce I I
Produce I £6O 0 0 I I Sales | | £768 10 6
1929.| | I |„ | .. Sundries II 62 10 6
June 1301 „ Wages | 206 14 8 |„| „ Livestock | |
„ ! „ do., accrued | 6 0 0 | | Account | I 125 0 0
„ | „ Stock Feed, | j ~ Unsold I I
etc. | 75 10 0 I Produce I I 35 10 0
„ | „ Rent | 60 0 0 II \ j
„ | „ do., accrued | 20 0 0 j | ' I j j
„ | „ Freight ■ | 30 6 8
|„ | „ Repairs 25 17 4 I ■ | ill
|,, | „ General Exes. 23 12 2 j I I Ii
„ „ Taxes 10 14 6
„ ~ Rations 25 0 0 II 111
„ „ Interest 17 10 0 || ii
~ „ do., accrued 310 0 ' | | | ii
„ „ Depreciation 17 14 0
~ „ Balance, II | ||
! being profit ' 409 1 8 j |
i ■‘l 'I- ! 11£991 11 Q
II II! July 111 By Balance | I Iflocf" - ! Is
; i. 1 in . ii I ||


Our Service Department
This page is set apart tor the-service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging w’ith replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell”' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Ag. Coll, training and book-keeping
exp.; wants job at anything, anywhere.-—6178.
Lady (29), Brisbane, five years teacher N.S.W.,
musical, book-keeping exp., wants position as gov-
erness or companion, anywhere.—6l7o.
Englishman, life exp. sheep and stock, 6$ years
in Aus., wants job with stud f10ck.—6129. ,
Traveller, exp. with all classes merchandise, wants
position with Sydney firm. Travel anywhere.—6l32.
Youth (19), Sydney, taking commercial art
course, wants job.—ol4l.
Young man (19), Hawkesbury Ag. Col. diploma,
varied agricultural exp., wants job on farm or station.
—6198.
Married couple, N.S.W., child (3), healthy,
quiet; husband, exp. farm work; wife, nurse; own
farm leased, wants job, wages no object, go anywhere.
—6199.
Lady (Vic.), wants situation as housekeeper or
on station.—62ol.
Chemist, qualified, Vic., (28), unmarried, wants
job as dispenser and doctor’s assistant on overseas
b0at.—6175.
English engineer (40), married, elec. mech. exp.,
knowledge metallurgical analysis and physics;
abstainer, ex-R.N., wants employment. Refs.- —6181.
Two girls, fully qualified teachers, want positions
as governesses, in or near Brisbane, from July.—62oB.
To get in touch with N.S.W. poultry-breeder who
haH good Silver Wyandottes for sale (utility breed).
—0176.
Words of “How the Sailor Rode the Brumby.”
—0127.
To buy, “Phil May in Australia.”—6l47.
To buy “the Rose of Old St. Louis.”—6lo4.
Harpist, Sydney, wants to practise duets with
violinist. —6169.
Information Sought.
Duty on marble imported from England
for a church altar? —5881.
In the rough, free; unwrought, including
scabbled from the pick, 10 per cent.; slabs,
scantlings or blocks sawn on one or tWo
faces, 35 per cent.; slabs, scantlings or
blocks, sawn on one or more faces, and one
or more edges and ends, 40 per cent.;
wrought marble, 50 per cent.; statuary, 20
per cent.
What are the qualifications for a position
as a health officer in Victoria; how arc they
to be obtained; how long, and at what cost? —
5865.
Lectures and demonstrations for students
desirous of obtaining the certificate of the
Royal Sanitary Institute are held at the
Pharmacy College, 360 Swanston-street,
Melbourne, every Thursday evening from
7.45 to 8.45. The term lasts from March
till September, with an examination at the
end of the course. Fee, £5 ,ss.
How to apply a grit surface to a tennis
court ? —5641.
After levelling surface, and before apply-
ing grit, roll dry and wot alternately till
perfectly smooth and hard. Then take some
battens 2in. x ljin., place, these 6ft. apart,
broadest side flat, fill in between with grit
;md smooth surface with a straightedge.
Then remove battens and fill spaces they
occupied with grit. Continue this process
till the court is covered. Then damp
slightly and roll one way; water more
heavily and roll both ways; then water more
heavily still and roll till the surface is
almost a sludge. Let it dry a-little and roll
again until the surface dries right off. If
the grit sticks to the roller unduly, do the first
rolling under hessian strips the length or
breadth of the court. When all is done a
top-dressing of ironmoulders’ sand will give
a perfect surfaee.
Is there provision in the W.A. Constitu-
tion Act empowering a Government to in-
crease the pay of members? —s6s9.
There is no special clause in the W.A.
Constitution relating to the matter, but the
Government is within its rights in increasing
the salaries of members, subject to the assent
of the Governor.
What happened between America and
.Japan when all Japanese were ordered out
of the U.S.A. in or about 1922? Was there
any talk of war, and did Britain intervene?
-6144.
There has been no wholesale deportation
of Japanese, but since 1924 the right of
Japanese and Chinese migrants to enter the
U.S.A. has been cancelled. There has been
some war-talk in Congress, but officially the
relations of Japan with the U.S. remain
friendly, as witness the recent naval con-
ference. There has been no occasion for
Britain to intervene, nor is such occasion
likely to arise.
How to catch silver perch? —6ls6.
Its usual haunts are the deep, snaggy
pools, and for this reason it is best to use
a single No. 2 hook and the lightest of
sinkers —a split shot or two. A gut cast
should be employed and a light floater. Fish
off the bottom. Try to determine where the
snags are thickest and buoy your bait in
front of them. Worms, yabbies, grubs,
crickets and crayfish tail make acceptable
bait, but shrimps are best. In running
water silver perch may be caught by cast-
ing as for trout, and occasionally they take
a spinning artificial bait.
Why are two dots placed after the “F”
or bass clef and not after the “G" or treble
clef in musical notation? —5851.
Each clef form now in use was derived
from the letter by which it is known. The
dots in the F clef have been retained in
the process of evolution, whereas the G or
treble clef never had such excrescences.
(1) Nature and value of imports from
Russia, also nature and value of exports to
Russia from Australia? (2) Any commer-
cial reference book of Russia? —8163.
(1) Imports of Russian origin for year
ending June 30, 1929, were: Fish, £39,867:
dressed furs, £26,384; hair and fibre,
£12,472; hides and skins, £17,165; veneers
and plywood, £4987; all other articles,
£24,891; total, £125,766. Exports to Russia
for the same period totalled £1,574,603, of
which greasy wool accounted for £1,275,974
and scoured wool £292,605. (2) “Soviet
Union Year-book” (7s. 6d.).
Is a widow 45 years of age eligible for
a widow’s pension in N.S.W.? —5984.
If she has no children and her husband
recently died, she can make application for
a pension, and if her circumstances warrant
it a pension may be paid for six months
after the death of her husband, otherwise
a widow without children under 50 is not
eligible. If she has children under 14 years
of age, she should make application to the
Deputy-Registrar, of Widows’ Pensions near-
est her place of residence.
Has the public a right to attend and listen
to proceedings at meetings of committeemen
of a hospital maintained by public subscrip-
tion and subsidised by the Government ?
5957. t *
In the absence of anything to the con-
trary in the by-laws or rules of a subsidised
hospital, the question is one for the com-
mittee to decide.
Can a returned soldier on the land who
wishes to learn accountancy apply to the
Repatriation Dept, for vocational training
assistance —6l2s.
No. An ex-soldier who has been assisted
under the Returned Soldiers’ Settlement Act
is not eligible for assistance under the Aus-
tralian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act, with the
exception of sustenance whilst awaiting pro-
ductivity of his holding, and medical treat-
ment for war-caused disabilities. Also, the
time limitation governing the class of assist-
ance sought has long since expired.
(1) Conditions of admission to a diploma
course at Sydney Tech. College? (2) Par-
ticulars regarding the diploma course in
architecture ? —6159.
(1) Standard of qualification is Leaving
Certificate in English, Maths, and Physics
or, if occupation is satisfactory, students
who have matriculated for admission to any
Sydney Uni. faculty are eligible. If Physics
has not been taken for matric. it must be
completed. in the first year of the diploma
course. There is an entrance exam., held
early February each year, subjects being Eng-
lish, Maths, and Physics at L.-C. standard
for those not otherwise qualified. Prepara-
tory classes in the three subjects have been
instituted. (2) It is a course of evening
study covering five years in all. , Students
completing it, besides qualifying for diploma,
are entitled to registration as architects in
N.S.W. Admission is restricted to persons
w-ho are actually engaged in architectural
work. Further particulars from lecturer-in-
charge of architecture at the college.
Do females exceed males in number in (1)
Australia? (2) United Kingdom? (3)
Europe and America? Numbers in each
case? —6116.
(1) 3,241,535 males; 3,095,251 females-.
(2) 16,977,647 males; 18,703,372 females.
(3) Of Europe, the Irish Free State and
Roumania, and of the Americas, Argentina,
U.S. and Canada, the only countries for
which recent figures are available, have an
excess of males over females.
Has Brisbane Art Gallery any works by
Australian sculptors. If so, what < are the
principal examples —6l4B.
“The First Breath of Spring” and
“Esther,” by Harold Parker ; sketch model
of the late Dave Bowman, M.L.A., by the
late J. L. Watts; and a sketch model and
portrait bust by Miss D. Mayo.
(1) Is it necessary to obtain a license to
collect and distil eucalyptus leaves in
N.S.W.? (2) Districts at present worked?
(3) Royalty rates? (4) Where can species
be forwarded for examination and determina-
tion of oil content? (5) What type of still
is used for distillation? (6) Literature on
the subject? —6lss.
(I) Yes. Apply Forestry Commission,
Margaret-street, Sydney. (2) Bathurst,
Wyalong, Batlow and Tumberumba, and
Southern. (3) Rate varies according to
species, and ranges from Id. and 3d. per
gallon. (4) Curator, Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney. A- bag containing
about 501 b. of the leaves and terminal branch-
lets, cut as for commercial distillation, and
taken from about 20 trees selected oYer a
wide area, must be forwarded. (5) If or work
on a small scale, particularly in rough and
mountainous country, a still -made out of
a 400-gallon ship’s tank is most popular. (6):
“Guide to the Extraction of Eucalyptus Oil
in the Field,” by A. R. Penfold (6d.). Gov-
ernment Printer, Sydney.
(J) If a class of 30 to 40 people in Sydney
could be organised for the purpose of study-
ing Australian literature, could.arrangements
be made with the W.E.A. to take over the
class and provide a tutor and a suitable meet-
ing place? (2) What would be the cost to
each student per annum for such a course?
(3) Could the subject be suitably studied in
two years? —6lol. ? ,
(1) It might be possible to incorporate
them into a class which has just started a
course in Australian literature and meets at
the Uni. every Thursday evening under H.
M. Green, Librarian of the Fisher Library.
If this is not possible, the W.E.A. would
do its best to provide a tutor and a suitable
meeting place. (2) Seven and six per year
to include use of library. (3) Yes,
How did Australia's first squatters get
their luud —GOso.
Following Commissioner Bigge’s report in
1822 supporting John Macai-thur’s proposal
to form a joint-stock co. that would seek
unlimited range for flocks in the interior of
N.S.W., “not approaching nearer to the
settled estates than five miles,” there was a
stream of immigrants who took possession of
unoccupied areas. The first squatters had
to be approved both by the British Govern-
ment before they sailed and by Governor
Macquarie after they arrived ; but Governor
Brisbane freely granted to persons he con-
sidered “reputable” licenses revocable at
six months’ notice. Governor Bourke de-
veloped the system, which was based on the
theory that it was advantageous to- the
colony to turn the lands on the fringes of
town settlement into pastures. It was not
till 1836 that those who ran their herds
and flocks on such lands had to pay so much
as a license fee. In 1847, leasehold charges
were imposed coupled with a right to buy
any part of the leasehold at any time at £1
per acre. This gave the squatters an oppor-
tunity to “pick the eyes” out of a consider-
able area of land and cemented the founda-
tions of many fortunes. The system was
developed in other parts of Australia on
much the same lines.
Is an invalid pensioner entitled to ask
for food relief in N.S'.WJ —5859.
No. Such assistance is granted only to
those who are destitute and- who are avail-
able for employment offering through the
labor exchanges.
I have occasion at frequent intervals
to paint signs in Hack. Ready-mixed paint
dries up between times. Is there any way
of mixing a quick-drying paint so that it
xcon’t dry up?— sB3l.
Can’t be done. Your best plan is to mix
your own paint. Get some dry carbon black
and make a paint of it with turpentine as
required, adding a little Japan gold size to
assist drying and give it binding qualities.
How to prepare the surface of fibro-plaster
walls in a kitchenette?— sB33.
To resist heat, steam and grease, scrape
off old kalsomine or paint and apply one
coat of cement sealer, followed by two coats
of paint or enamel.
(1) What values of anode resistance,
coupling condenser and grid-leak would be
correct for the resistance-amplifier of a broad-
cast receiver? (2) Value of plate voltage
and type'of valves in a three-valve amplifier?
—6070.
(1) Anode resistance, 100,000 ohms;
coupling condenser, .OOS to 0.01 M.F. of
good quality mica dielectric; grid-leak, J
to 1 megohm. (2) At least 120 volts, pre-
ferably 150. Special valves are made for
resistance coupling having a high value plate
impedence and amplification factor. Use a
power or semi-power valve in the last stage.
llow to remove fur from green kangaroo
skins ? —5450.
Soak the green skins in sufficient water to
cover them. Chaaige the water after the first
hour vand allow to remain approximately 24
hours. Then put them into a solution of
31b. lime stirred into ‘lO gallons water _ for.
six to seven days, or a solution of lib. of lime,
10 gallons water and from Jib. to Jib. of
sodium sulphide, which will remove the hair
in 24 hours. In making the sulphide solution
dissolve the sulphide with boiling water, add
to the solution of lime and stir. After the
hair has been removed the skins are full of
lime and it is necessary to remove most of
this by several washes in lukewarm water.
Recommend a perusal of “Practical Leather
Manufacture,” by 11. G. Crockett.
How to mix a strong poison for weeds and
boxthorn? —5920.
Dissolve lib. white arsenic and 31b. wash-
ing soda in one gallon of water by heat-
ing. Make up to 75 gallons with water for
spraying ordinary weeds. It is not likely to
be very effective on boxthorn, but could be
tried, made up to 30 gallons. The solution
is very poisonous and should be handled with
care.
(1). How long is it necessary to be domi-
ciled in California before divorce' proceedings
may be instituted? (2) Does anything debar
a foreigner from taking such proceedings?
(3) Upon tohat grounds may a divorce be
granted there? (4) Is a divorce granted to
a foreigner in California legal outside that
State? —5954.
(1) A divorce will not be granted unless
the petitioner has been a resident of Cali-
fornia one year, and of the county in which
the action is brought for three months. (2)
No, but to acquire residential qualifications
the petitioning foreigner should secure from
an American consular office a quota immigra-
tion visa permitting permanent residence in
U.S.A. (3) Adultery, extreme cruelty, wil-
ful desertion, wilful neglect, habitual intem-
perance or conviction of felony. (4) Can’t
say.
Has the Australian Commonwealth
Engineering Standards Assn, published any
data regarding the elimination of waste by
si m p lifted practice ? —6lOB.
. The AJO.E.S. Assn. w r as absorbed in the
Standards Assn, of Australia last year. No
definite recommendations for reducing waste
through simplification have yet been pub-
lished. but preliminary conferences have sug-
gested the reduction of 38 sizes of road gully
gratings to two ; of 118 sizes of plywood door
panels to 48 and of 150 sizes of galv. iron
fittings for buildings to 45. In addition, a
building construction classification is being
drafted. Numerous specifications have been
published and many others are in prepara-
tion,. together with safety codes, for boilers,
lifts, cranes and the like. Communicate with
the Standards Assn., 16 College-street, Syd-
ney, which will gladly supply any information
required.
Due to the carelessness of the driver, A is
run Into by a delivery motor and injured.
He obtains a verdict ( -under £5O) for
damages against the driver, who swears that
he is penniless, although a few days after
receiving the summons he transferred his
own private motor-car to a relative. The
delivery motor belonged to his uncle, and the
business in which he was engaged at the time
belonged to his father.. Is the father {as
proprietor-of the business ) or the uncle (as
owner of the delivery motor ) responsible. -
should have proceeded against the
fqther. No responsibility attaches to the
uncle.
Brief Answers.
T.H.K.; If interest is computed at
quarterly rests, the final payment should fall in
May, 1942.... 8.J.: Roofing' tiles are obtainable in
light and dark greens,- blues, buff, golden brown and
yellow. The cost of a multi-color roof would be
about £4 10s. per 100 square feet, fixed on the
roof, in" Sydney H.E.A.: The Vic. Government
does not contribute to the Port Phillip Pilot Fund,
which is maintained by deductions from pilots’ earn-
ings, the annual income being derived from invest-
ments of the moneys belonging to the fund....
D.M.: Archer was the only horse to win the Mel-
bourne Cup twice. He won the first two Cups, 1861
and 1862... .E.V.S.: “Perfumes and Cosmetics,’’ by
G. W. Atkinson (365.) ; “The Preparation of
Perfumes and Cosmetics,” by J. P. Durvellc (2.15.) ;
“Perfumes and Cosmetics,” by W. A. Poucher (265.)
—Dymocks, Sydney... .N.S.: “Profitable Rabbit
Farming,” by Arlie Wright (Is. 6d.), obtainable
from N.S.W. Wool and Furs, Ltd., 115 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .A.K.: Write Department of Agriculture,
Brisbane, for pamphlet “Custard Apple”... .F.A.S.:
Chapman and Sherack, 26 Clara-street, Erskineville,
Sydney.... F.D.: The highest mountain in Vic. is
Mt. Bogong (6509 ft.) ; the next highest peaks are
Mount Feathertop (6306 ft.) and Mount Nelson
(6170 ft.) M.E.K.: (1) Try “The Open Road,” 26
Grosvenor-street; “Motor in Australia,” 228 Pitt-
street ; and “Motor Life,” 247 Elizabeth-street —all
Sydney. (2) “The Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ Year
Book” (2s. 6d.), contains a list of papers accepting
such articles.... N.A.: Interview a local clergyman.
He would be able to suggest the best avenue of
approach and possibly would help you with the
entrance exam A.1L11.: (1) Write Police Depart-
ments, Adelaide and Brisbane. (2) Write N.S.W.
Board of Fire Commissioners, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney. (3) Prime Minister’s Department, Canberra.
. ...L.C.V.: (1) Apply to the various shipping cos.
(2) Yes. (3) When there are vacancies there is no
dearth of experienced applicants.... M.A.: Interview
the advertising department of the paper concerned.
Your chances of getting additional payment don’t
look promising... .A.M.G.: Yes, a number of Aus-
tralian timbers are suitable for making golf clubs.
Mararie, tea-tree, grey myrtle, water-gum and native
cherry are suited for treads; and spotted gum, giant
gum, mountain ash, long jack and scrub hickory
for shafts.... S.A. J.: Little is known as to the toxic
effects of stings from our endemic scorpions. The
usual treatment is to apply a ligature, scarify the
'wound, apply permanganate of potash or a weak
solution of ammonia, and give stimulants... .A.F.:
The Cutty Sark was sold in 1895 to a Portuguese
firm, who' renamed her Ferreira. She was bought
from them in 1923 and re-rigged at Falmouth, where
'she now lies - under her old name... .N. 8.: Leeuwin
should be pronounced Lew-in; Diamantina, Di-a-
man-tee-na ; and Papua, Pah-poo-ah.... W.K.D.:
Snow has been recorded in W.A. on the hills in
the extreme south-west and at a few places on the
southern goldfields... .T.P.: The history of the old
forts of Sydney ■ Harbor will be found briefly sum-
marised in “The Australian Encyclopaedia” (vol. 2),
under the heading “Military Defence”... .N.S.;
Goldsbrough, Mort, 18 King William-street; Dalgety,
Currie-street; Elder, Smith, Currie-street —all Adel-
aide. .. .D.M.: (1) and (2) An lOU is merely
an acknowledgment of a debt, and no legal action
can be taken on it. ... C.L.P.: A specimen agree-
ment for dairy share-farming can be obtained from
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, Sydney. It
can be altered to suit local conditions... .0.J.:
“Australian Fishing Manual,” by “Taggerty” (2s.
60.), from Reviews Pty., Little Collins-street,
Melbourne... .8.H.: The police officer in charge
might make inquiries for you F.K.: Get
in touch with any of the following Brisbane firms:
Aust. Disinfectant Co., 341 Queen-street; Aust.
Chemical Co., Grey-street, South Brisbane; N.Z.
Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Queen-street;
Aust. Machinery Co., Ltd., 371 Adelaide-street;
and J. Campbell and Sons, 12 Creek-street....
H. : As the object in the confirmation of
the minutes is to ensure the accuracy of the record,
it is desirable that those signifying their assent
or raising objection should have been present at
the meeting to which the minutes refer, but this
is not essential. .. .C.S.R.: Apply to Manager, W.A.
State Shipping Service, Fremantle... .F.R.: Com-
municate with Department National Defence, Ottawa,
Canada... .C.C.: The Sydney Industrial Blind Insti-
tution’s library contains a fair number of books in
Braille by Australian authors. H. Hedger, manager
of the institution, will supply particulars...-L.S.M.:
(1) Macarthur. (2) Variations in spelling are prob-
ably due to carelessness. (3) He was not recalled.
He was sent to England by Paterson with Johnston
for trial in 1809, and remained in exile till 1817.
Full particulars in “The Australian Encyclopaedia”
(vol. 2).. . . M.L.S.: Vance Palmer’s “Men Are
Human” is to be published in London and New
York this month... .F.S.: If in first-class condition the
Hennan Melville first edition is worth £3 35.; Guppy’s
“Solomon Islands and Their Natives” is worth 12s.
6d.; and Robley’s “Moko; or Maori Tattooing,”
£2 2s J.H.S.: “Post Mortem” was written by Dr.
Charles MacLaurin, well-known Sydney surgeon and
Bulletin contributor. His “Mere Mortals” (published
posthumously in 1925) also deals with the pathology
of famous men and women. He died at Rose Bay
(Sydney), April 19, 1925 R.D.: It is from
Byron’s “Mazeppa.” The correct version reads:
“For danger levels man and brute, And all are
fellows in their need” K.L.: The “Spanish Farm”
triology was written by Ralph Mottram. He was
born in 1883 and served with the Imperial Forces
during the war. Address: 4 Poplar-avenue, Eaton,
Norwich, England. .. .G.A.A.: (1) Details are given
in “Hoyle’s Games Modernised” (45.). (2) The
Helen B. Sterling was dismasted in heavy weather
on the night of January 20, 1922, in the Tasman
Sea. All the crew were rescued by H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne. Capt. Harris commanded the schooner at
the time... .A.W.Y.: A causerie is an informal
newspaper essay or article, generally on literary
subjects and appearing as one of a series. Named
after Sainte Beuve’s “Caxiseries du Lundi” (Mon-
day talks), a series of weekly criticisms in the “Con-
stitutionnel” and “Moniteur” newspapers E.F.J.:
Get Pamphlet No. 5, “Troughs, Tanks and Wells,”
and No. 6, “Fence Posts,” from the Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Association, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney... .E.K.: Entry to the Medical Branch,
R.A.A.F., is by direct grant of a Short Service
Commission, restricted to Uni. graduates in medicine
who preferably have had resident hospital exp. or
have been in private practice. Vacancies are adver-
tised, conditions relating to rank, duty, etc., being
specified.... S.C.: Destroy isolated plants and eonti’ol
by cultivation where the plants are growing thickly.
... .R.F.F.: Dig a pit 2ft. deep by 4ft, wide,
empty the receptacle and.cover with soil. Continue
this "until the. pit !is full, then take the whole into
your garden and dig in. In sandy soil there would
be no danger'from a sanitary. point ojf view....
U.D.: Heatherbank, Hindhead, Surrey, England... .
R.O.H. : Get Bulletin No. 32, “A Survey of Tanning
Materials of Australia,” from Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, Melbourne.... B.B.: “Polo
Monthly,” 46 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London, W.C.2.
~. . (Many others mailed.)


V-..
SiS
'■a^j^rns^
\Sl£x=,
KT«
A-KL
M
r 5
4£
r
n-i<* it
if
&
T^rr--:
'tjv'‘c: c-Si v %~
-'-‘•'er~.,k/J
A .
,?*S '^('
V c
>%> )& V-iFv
5^
vh<fir.m* c>
-%SJ*
1
%
i
?5
L ... '<f,
wm&k
*g?tl
Vi-
-3
<s^xnx v \ \>n\ ie
ifiimh
. _ 'vV'!
mi
%
X' J=E
71
><s
rill fi
i 1
v-uiiiik * . <- 7
> v i
i u J *>‘ -?
1 \pF7M
! i
(L
I
&
?• '
;.; >l,.
"III! \
K& \\
V - v\
A\ v \
iTfiirr ip*f : .
• mmwTr-i
JKIMI
wa
ggt <g
V
rt
i i
4
fvv
€
f u >*
PION RESERVE
PORT
>»
fV
f bottled by the makers
ShOMAS HARDY &SONS LIMITED
3 V _,. a mE MELBOURNE & SYDmc-a-
S#**
AaCIAIDE MtLouuKNt & sy Dne
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN W| N£ EY
mwj
1 PINT 6 FLUID 02S.
P ■
w
t ,
4W
fINBI
B&
1
SSfo2
\ V
--VVV
fix
|V"^'
F ortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


69
EL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The
Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fus
Detonators
Cartridges
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING
is a serious matter and difficult to solve.
BUT
THE HIGH COST OF ASSURANCE
has been solved.
DOMINION FORESTS Bond Assurance
cuts premiums in two and also gives you a planted freehold
acre. Write the Sole Brokers:
PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
m
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
A selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean, penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director; H. Fell.
Head Office- P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
V --NvStW. Agents: -Farmers -& Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
s_- • " Agency Co., Ltd..
SMOKE-OH!
“Golf suit stolen.”
His minus-fours.
* *
“He admitted having had several shrinks of
whisky.”— “Sun.”
The comp, supplies the right word once
more.
# *
PARES.
Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee
’Tis hat'd to judge, it seems to me;
Thus ever in red Scullidore
I seem to glimpse pink Bavinshaw.
* *
“She had to ask him a dozen times a day for the
housekeeping money, and he used to come home drunk
at night.” —Sydney divorce evidence.
When the moon had lost its honey
An unpleasant sort was Bill;
He was tight by day with money,
And by night was tighter still.
H*'
COMING OUT.
“The coming out or debut is a joyous occasion.
I love meeting those who have just come out.”
—Dorothy Dix.
Our representative found the Australian
musician sitting precariously on a bread-line.
“He is coming out,” said the interviewer,
and pointed to a towering Afro-Gothic talkie-
palace.
A MATTER OF MULTIPLICATION.
“Jack is not rich, but then one can be happy even in poor
circumstances, don’t you think, dear?”
“M’ yes—but two are liable to find it much more difficult.”
“I know,” said the musician, and took' his
belt in a couple of holes. “It’s his lunch
hour.”
“He is coming out. Have you nothing to
say?”
A shadow flitted greyly across the artist’s
cultured but ill-nourished features.
“I have nothing to say,” he repeated,
“not with the policeman near, anyhow.”
A parrot in the fruiterer’s shop across
the way burst triumphantly into that haunt-
ing theme-song “The Razzbcrry,” and simul-
taneously the Wurlitzer King came out of
the Greco-Bowery portals of his place of
business, and entered a silver-plated
limousine.
“The bird has said it all,” observed the
musician, and returned to the bread-line.
A little man with a dreamer’s face sat
in his new North Shore home, “Australian
Party.” He dreamed of greatness, and as he
dreamed he smiled —if you could call the
thing a smile.
“He is coming out again,” said our repre-
sentative. “Like yourself lie seems to have
made a hit with the duchesses. Have yon
nothing to say?”
“Wodderyer mean, have I nothing to say?”
“No loving word of welcome? No cry of
encouragement? He came out politically
under your wing, you know. He was your
colleague. Now he is coming out from
England, and Latham and Gullett don't
want him.”
“Did you say he was coming out again?”
“Quite soon. I presume you will welcome
him to ‘Australian Party,’ as you welcomed
him after the war to”
“Welcome the ! !? ? * ! Once ! * ! ! ! !
well bitten, twice !!? ? ! well shy!
! ! ! !x x ! Blithering Blazes ! ! !”
Imprecations blasted the landscape like a
typhoon. As our representative fled for
safety a fine specimen of Insignis bruceonis
withered and crashed across the garden path.
Still the interviewer fled on. Tlie owner of
“Australian Party” had come out, and a
heavy mashie-niblick had come out with him.
The Sydney newspaper magnate was
intercepted coming out of his office after a
heated meeting of shareholders.
“I hear a new tabloid daily will make its
debut shortly,” said our representative.
“What of it?”
“I was wondering if your company would
come out with the usual offer to buy it?”
The magnate was duly indicted for murder,
but the jury returned a verdict of “justifiable
homicide” without leaving the box.
10-2-4.
¥ iy
“Gandhi’s followers have begun an attack on
foreign liquor.”
They should have no difficulty in putting
that down.
SIGN OF THE TIMES.
In addressing the shareholders of Go-
Bust Motors, Ltd., at the first general meet-
ing yesterday, Mr. Diddlem (managing
director) said;
“Gentlemen ! As I
predicted at the
outset, Go-Bust
Motors, Ltd., has
proved a goer. It
has now gone to
the extent of all
its capital and
£150,000 besides.
Sales during the
past six months
have exceeded ex-
pectations. We
haven’t a car left.
Unfortunately the
p urc hase'rs ( t,p.
propositions one
and all) have also
disappeared. Their
5 per cent, deposits
(attractive terms
that assisted our
phenomenal sales)
were spent on
lunches, dinners,
etc., at my home
for the good of the
business. I have
therefore tendered
myself my resigna-
tion, to take effect
immediately, and in
lieu of the usual
notice have paid
myself one year’s
salary from* the
proceeds of our
successful sale of
office furniture and
fixings. This leaves
the co.’s finances as: Liabilities, £350,000
11s. 9d.; assets, Is. 9d. petty cash. The
Is. 9d. though missing should be recover-
able. I understand from our Investigation
Department that the office boy borrowed it
to take the typist to the talkies. This
bears out my oft-repeated warnings regard-
ing the demoralising effect of the films on
our youug folk. Gentlemen, I thank you.”
At this stage Mr. Diddlem disappeared
through a newly-constructed trap-door in
the board-room floor, and has not been seen
since.
Rob P.
* *
“When on holiday bent it is remarkable how many
young people can pack into a small car.”
Again the proverb purveys its truth;
When joy is loosened from its tether, -
At the command of care-free youth,
“Birds in a flivver flock together.”
* *
Gay though bagmen are they like those
who keep them in orders.
“ *’E suffers from ’oarseness and ’eadaches,’ the
bottle-oh said.” — “News.”
Due to lack of aspirins, no doubt.
* *
“Bankrupt said he had assisted.his,son, William,
firia ricia 1 ly. ’ ’—“Sun,”
Backed his Bill —a fatal thing to do.
* *
Muriel mused as her optics she cast
On the just-arrived diamond crescent —
“He may be a man with a terrible past,
But thafs nothing to do with his present!”
NOW WHAT DID THE GIRL MEAN?
WILFIE: “Why are you so short with me,
darling—are you like that with Percy?”
PEARILIE: “Well, Percy’s known me longer.”
Some are born to greatness; others tell
a newspaper reporter that they have been
bound, gagged and abducted by masked men.
* *
The manufacturer breaks into the journal-
istic industry with a covering letter.
The Editor,
Dear Sir, —Herewith please find samples of pro-
ducts. Said samples are of the best material and
workmanship and were wholly designed and con-
structed in my own Australian plant. Their quality
will impress consumers at a glance. Samples A
(Par. brand) are trimmed and finished in the best
of literary material. Durability is an outstanding
feature; these pars, may be stored in the accepted
basket for a very long period. Sample B (Verse
brand) is of soft but strong material. Mind-made
and completed after a thorough test. These samples
will take a blue pencil shade. The line will be
found to have a special appeal to lovers. Sample 0
(Short Story brand) is novel in construction,
embodying the best of raw material. I swear by
these 'products. You are offered these lines as
trials. Hoping we may be able to do business on
mutually satisfactory terms. —I am, dear sir, yours
faithfully, Scrapem & Co., Ltd.
The gossip switched to Mrs. Fattun’s figure.
“I wonder if its real?” smiled Mrs. Quizz.
Said Mrs. Fattun's best pal, with a snigger:
“ Don’t be so silly, dear. Of corset it is.”
* *
“Our next item,” announced the chairman
of the Woop Woop church
concert, “will be an item by
Miss Sarah Fitzgurgle—‘The
Lost Chord.’ ” “Cripes!”
muttered Dad of Wombat
Gully, “they wuz lookin’ fer
it fifty year ago. Ain’t the
blarstid thing bin found
yet?”
* #
Natural history note : Sea-
gulls when following Scotch
ships always fly with one
wing. They carry their food under the other.
* *
“What then is wrong with the . theatre ? Just
that twentieth-century drama is enmeshed in the
bonds of realism.”— “Stead’s.’’
Theatricals spell it “reelism.”
#
“Her husband had objected to her friends, the
Traceys, coming to the house.” —Divorce report.
It is known as kicking over the Traceys.
# *
TO A BARMAID AT CLOSING TIME.
Dearest, our hour is over.
Kiss me, my maid divine!
I must go back to my missus,
And to my children nine,
Back, sweet, to “Ruo Emoh” —
However, dry those tears,
For I’ll breast your bar to-morrow
And there’ll be an end of sorrow,
Unless — er—my missus hears.
DORIC.
DISGUYSES: A MISTERY TAIL.
Who is this Who Rides Wildly Ore the
Rocky Plat-oh Holding a Forged Will in
His Hand? (This being a Mistery Story
We are Unable to Repply at this Jurikture.)
Too men are in Hot Persute. Wun we
reckernize as Wun-eye Pete, the Other as
the Arch-Villon, Dugglass Duplex ! ,A-s the
Huff of the Fuggitive’s horse
acrost the Frale Bridge, over the Yawning
Cazzum the Rider herls a Bom and
Bridge goes up Behind Him m a Shete or
Flame. T .
Shuddering at his Narrer Escape, Dug
glass Duplex, who had neerly Reached tne
domed stricture, shook his Fist.
“Tom Truehart, I will get You Yet. he
The onlv Answer was Another Bom. With
Palling Face Dugglass Duplex galloped his
Horse Aside. 0 . ~
Not so the Other Persewer. Seeing the
Bridge Gone, and the Smokking Bom on
the Ground, Wun-eye Pete seized a Shete
of Iron "from the Roof of a W ayside Hut,
and Flung it Over the Bom. Then, Throw-
ing Himself from the Saddel, He attached
his Stummick to the Shete of Iron!
The Exsploshun was Terrehck I
Truehart gave an Exsclamashun of Diss-
inay as the Shete of Iron Rose in the Air, and
Saled towards Him. Horrors! W un-eyed
Pete is steering it with His Feet! lom
put Spurs to his ITorse; but Two Dait.
Down came the Shete of Iron, Cutting oft
the Legs of his 1 Horse. m „
In a momment Young Truehart was On
His Feet, and His Revolver Spoke. Quick
as Thort, Wun-eyc’s Pistle Spoke, two. The
hulets met in Mid-air, and Fell Harmlessly
to the Dust. ...
Bulet after Bulet is fired, and Ewer with
the Same Result. But, see! What is Mun-
eye, doing? Ho now has a Revolver %ti
Each Hand! Both speak together; and
while One Wrenders Tom’s bulet Harmless,
the other Rushes on.
With a grone the Strikken man
Krumples to the Growned. Ded!
“Hands up ! I have the Bede on you! 1
arrest you for the Murder of Tom True-
hart,” sed a Voice.
Turning Swiftly, the Vikter staired into
the Muzzel of a pistle in the Hand of
Dugglass Duplex. But he only Laffed.
“The Deceesed is Not Tom Truehart,” he
cried, “any moar than you are Dugglass
Duplex! There lies Dugglass Duplex, Who
adopted his disguys to Thro suspicion
on an Innercent Man. Noing that You had
disguysed Yourself as Dugglass Duplex in
Order to mistei'fy Him, I disguysed myself
as Wun-eye Pete —namely yourself.”
Tearing aside his Disguys, the seeming
Grate Detective revealed himself as Nun
other than Our Hero, Tom Truehart 1
But Annother Serprise was also in Stoar.
“Nor am I Wun-eye Pete,” cried the
sweedoh Dugglass Duplex. “Pete was not
In This Case Atall!”
Taring off Wig and Wiskers the Smiling
eyes of Ida. the Millyonare’s Luvverly Dor-
ter, looked Winsimmly into Tom Truehart’s
face.
“I did it to Save You,” she sed, as Our
H'ero took her in his Arms.
OH, WELL, IN THAT CASE!
BILL: “All right! Ij you won’t marry me
I’ll drink myself to death.”
SADIE: “You can’t afford to do anything like
that, Bill.”
BILL: “You bet your life 1 can!”
SADIE: “Well, if you can afford to do that,
I reckon I’ll marry you!”
“And I have a Serprise fer You !” said
he. “The document we fered was false was
only a Forged Forged Will, and the Estate
is Therefore saif.”
Needless to Say they lived Happily Ever
Afterwards, Until they were Married,
HAMER JUNGIOR.


r
RELIABILITY
Everywhere —on city
streets or on country
roads Goodyear Tyres
are known for their de-
pendability and long
trouble-free wear.
Supertwist Cord and the
All Weather Tread
belong only to Goodyear
Tyres. Ask the Goodyear
dealer to demonstrate
them to you.
A
A
:
N
JO-57 D


Perfectly matured full-cream Cheese
pure produce of our country.
0
r's _
wm
Huiiii
UDll OjliiJi
m
r=
Ipi
WPS
H
PRODUCTS
>229<W Jone&
££s|
1
BH
\
-ffi
X
Spread it like butter, on bread
or biscuits. Make sandwiches
with it. Use it for savouries.
Everybody enjoys its creamy
deliciousness.
Cheese has its highest food
value only when fully
matured. REX Luncheon
Cheese is always matured
to perfection hence its
delightful flavour and per*-
feet wholesomeness. Use
a little with every meal.
It aids digestion and is
delicious.
Rex Luncheon Cheese is
packed in dainty opal
porcelain jars and 4oz.
and2oz. tins. Housewiues
will find many uses for the
empty clean-looking white
iars with screw tops.
e
REX
Luncheon Cheese
Foggitt Jones Pty. Ltd.
Curers of the Choice KEX Hams and Bacon.


è
Dynamic Unit A.C. Model
£7/15/-
Dynamic Unit D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker”
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
I
“Tasted Betterl”
“ Never! ”
—and you too, will agree when
you taste the piquant flavour of
this rare old Liqueur.
As far back as 1534, Francis I.
gave the new elixir, Benedictine,
his Royal endorsement in en-
thusiastic terms. To-day,
Benedictine is still the choice
of connoisseurs and discrimi-
nating hosts the world over.
As a Liqueur its wonderful
flavour and delightful bouquet
have placed it in a class apart.
A dash of Benedictine in your
cocktails will improve them
tremendously. Try it !
Benedictine was dis-
covered by the Monk,
Vincelli, in the year
1510. In addition to
its undisputed superi-
ority as a Liqueur,
it has highly valuable
tonic and digestive
qualities.
* j
c
For Four Centuries the World’s Supreme Liqueur
Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: Melbourne Majestic has added
a new horror to existence by installing a
device in the front of the theatre which
maintains a continuous uproar of laughter,
to indicate the risible nature of the goods
on view within. The ghastly infliction re-
calls Allan Wilkie’s method of making his
entire company laugh heartily while play-
ing a Shakspearean comedy, in order to
convey an impression of lightheartedness,
though the result is quite otherwise, as the
scheme only serves to emphasise the dumb-
ness existing on the nether side of the foot-
lights. A further development of the Majes-
tic’s notion will probably be fo hide mechani-
cal clappers and guffaw-makers about the
auditorium. The average movie fan has
become sufficiently indolent to welcome any
device that will Ispare him physical or
mental effort.
“Unity”: I also saw John Lemmone suffer
a temporary stage embarrassment in the
days when Melba and he were both on the
tree-top. When Lemmone came out to play
at the first concert in Auckland (M-L.) he
was just about to lift liis flute when a voice
from the gallery remarked “Burra Burra,
John!” There was an electrical silence.
Then the accompanist began to toy with the
pia*no and Lemmone again lifted his instru-
ment. “Burra Burra, John,” said the voice
again, very quietly. Another pause, a fresh
start, and the same remark brought Lemmone
to the edge of the platform. “AH right, old
man—-see you afterwards,” he said, and the
performance began. Nobody ever solved the
mystery of “Burra Burra, John,” but it
sounded like a voice from the past putting in
a word.
“Amity”: Our amateur dramatic society
played for charity the other week, with most
of the local youth and beauty assisting. The
heroine was a pretty little flapper of 17,
and the hero, the village sheik, a year or
so older. Things went fairly smoothly for
the first three nights of the performance,
though the hero did receive an anonymous
letter casting fierce contempt on his method
of making love to the leading lady. On the
next night he arrived at the hall with a
large bump on his forehead, effect of a rock
hurled at him as he left his own gate. For
the last night the producer, pandering to
popular enthusiasm, instructed the hero to
interpolate sundry additional items in the
love-making scenes, and authorised them to
take the final curtain standing realistically
locked in each other’s arms in a< doorway.
It' was manifest during the newly-introduced
business that there was a disapproving spirit
at the back of the hall, and the final scene
caused a fearful uproar in that region. The
audience clapped and waited for the curtain
to rise again, but this did not occur. Behind
scenes an infuriated young man, who was
understood to be the “boy friend” of the
fickle heroine, had plunged in and dealt the
hero a tremendous punch on the nose. When
friends bent on congratulation rushed the
stage they found the leading lady in tears,'
while the hero had only one eye in working
order, and the village constable was pon-
derously writing in his notebook details of
what our local rag next day ambiguously de-
scribed as “a lamentable end to a week of
splendid achievement.”
“L. de R.” : In “Romance,” the old piece
which Nellie Stewart resurrected at
Melbourne Comedy, the leading lady is sup-
posed at one point to sv ; off-stage to an
enraptured audience. When, as in Nellie’s
present case, there is need of a ghost to
perform the vocal item, a singer from a
local Conservatorium is usually engaged.
On the opening night the house was some-
what staggered when an unmistakably brazen
voice betrayed a gramophone or panatrope.
It is gratifying to know that the theatrical
trade is so fully seized of the necessity for
national economy.
“Mid-Channel”: The cast of “The Belle
of New York” when it was played at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, in May, 1899, was as
follows: Icliabod Bronson, Oscar Girard;
Harry Bronson, Charles Ivenningham; Blin-
key Bill, J. E. Rome; Karl Yon Pomperinck,
D. L. Don; “Doc” Snifkins, Percy Denton;
Kenneth Mugg, Arthur Jackson; Count
Ratsi Rattatoo, Albert Sealey ; Count Patsi
Rattatoo, Alfred Selby; Mr. Twiddles,
Richard Vernon; Mr. Peeper, George
Bentley; Fricot, R. Dougall; Mr. Snooper,
Albert Whelan; Cora Angelique, Louise
Royce. After the first few nights Girard
was taken ill suddenly and Albert Whelan
was pushed into the part at a moment’s
notice. Whelan was a wonderful mimic,
who was later to become world-known, and
so excellent was the substitute that bets
were made as to whether he wasn’t really
Oscar Girard in disguise. I saw the per-
formance with both men in the part.
“Frinigga”; Musicians in the U.S.A. seem
to have more guts than in Australia. Their
union is advertising widely to ask the
people if they wouldn’t prefer rca l music in
theatres to the “canned” jsort; and it assures
them that if they only say so firmly enough
they can get it back.
“Craiser”: J.C.W.’s next gift to Australia
in the musicomedy line is “Sons of Guns.’
It had already been the usual huge Ameri-
can success before the Firm secured it.
“Cauboy” : I am tired of hearing that the
stage will always triumph over the talkies
because of the intimacy of the former class of
entertainment. The latest protagonist for
this point of view is visitor Oscar Hammer-
stein, author of sundry more or less successful
musical comedies. The same opinion is held
by quite a number of dud actors, who by
no stretch of the imagination could be charged
with having personal appeal. Many of them
are noted for their terrible capacity for
interposing a collection of distressing manner-
isms between a playwright and his audience.
In any case, the argument does not apply
to any other form of art. It isn’t claimed
that a painting would give more pleasure ii
you could see the artist at work; and books
are still bought and read with enjoyment
although their writers have been centuries
dead.
“L. de R.” : One of the longest theatrical
suits in Australian history has con-
cluded—-if it has concluded —with a judg-
ment in the Banco Court in Melbourne. The
argument started in 1926, and has been
through the Supreme, Full and High Courts.
It concerned the lease of the Cremorne, in
Brisbane, and plaintiffs alleged that after they
had opened a season, defendant began a
season in a rival theatre. Plaintiffs Dr. and
Mrs. Bretherton are expected to have to
foot a bill of costs of over £5OOO. Edward
Major, who started a« an office boy in the
Firm and is now its secretary,, was the
defendant.
“Craiser”; By a coincidence, the revival
of “The Merry .Widow” at Melbourne Royal
synchronises with the 60th anniversary of
the birth of its composer Franz Lehar. He
was born in Hungary in 1870. _ “The Widow’
was first produced in Vienna in 1905.
“Isaac Email”: The only original member
of “The Belle of New York” cast not shipped
to London by Geo. Musgrove was the Polite
Lunatic. He was David Warfield, later to
become famous in “The Music Master” and
still starring in Shakspearean productions in
the U.S.A. Belasco discovered him selling
razor paste from a soap-box. One of Mus-
grove’s original co. was Dan Daly, who
spoke so rudely to the Queen of Comic Opera
during the first week that Musgrove. (who
could go a long way himself) threw him out
of the theatre and had to get another Icha-
bod Bronson. The wise ones said he’d ruin
the show, but Musgrove stood pat, and Daly
didn’t get back.
The Inky Way
“Piecrust”: Here’s my entry for the
endurance record. I have a par. which I have
sent out for 15 years. In that time I
estimate it has travelled a distance equal
to the orbit of Jupiter, used up six type-
writer ribbons, taken 12 months from tin
collective lives of 23 editors a«nd paid tin
P.M.G.’s salary for one year. It is still as
good as new.
“Avon”: The most disagreeable but ablest
editor I worked under in Maoriland had a
habit occasionally of robbing the subs, of
the entire contents of the “local news” basket
and dealing with them himself. If he found
anything that was, in his eyes, particularly
abominable, he would scribble something-
scathing at the foot of the copy and return
it to the perpetrator. He kept a spike for
such missives, and another for his own con-
tributions to the rag, which went straight
to the printer. The outside world got an
unexpected insight into his methods one
day when a new boy took both the editorials
and the censored stuff to the comp.-room,
and the subs, were having such a busy night
that they didn’t worry about staff copy.
Next morning’s issue included among other
bright gems the following: “Mr. Silas Smith,
who has been absent for five years in New
Guinea, where he has been manager for the
Wildcat Gold Mining Co., has returned and
speaks encouragingly of the prospects in
that vicinity. Results have been so promis-
ing that he intends to float a new company
to exploit hitherto unexplored regions, with
a capital of £lOO,OOO in £1 shares. Tell him ,
to see the advertising department about it. |
You’ve been here long enough to remember i
Smith’s last bankruptcy. If he’s been within
a thousand miles of New Guinea I’ll eat
my hat.”
“Temple Bar” (Lond.) : The Bulletin
is still looked upon in London as the best
training ground in the world for black-and-
white artists. When the new “Daily Herald”
first appeared the other day it made a great
stir; and, though it was generally very well
received, the “World's Press News” says
the new paper lacks a great cartoonist, and
advised it to turn to the Sydney Bulletin
(“there is a real winner for the ‘Herald’
on the Bulletin at this moment,” it added).
“Hamer”: The Inky Way has lost an old
identity in Tom Andrew Crowe, who joined
the rush to Wyalong (N.S.W.), but found
his job as editor of the Wyalong “Star,”
first published in a tent on the goldfields.
The “Star” helped to beat up the agitation
for representation of the miners in Parlia-
ment. Crowe was in Forbes municipal life
for a time, but returned to his old love, and
was still its boss when his foot faltered on
the doorstep of his 80th year.
“LIGHTS! LIGHTS!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The glory that was Greece or Rome
Has vanished where of old it shone.
Ruins are tower and gilded dome
That crowned old Tyre and Babylon.
What poor apologies remain
Of hallowed things are sad to see,
And mostly cause of deep disdain
Or grief. Hinc Mae lachrymae.
When as in uniform or tights
I strode down (c) as Romeo,
Or leading man in “Harbor Lights,”
On that spot fell a splendid glow
That centred every eye on me.
The house in fine old-fasliioned style
Gave hand and voice spontaneously.
That was an entrance worth the while.
More! When I stormed the deadly breach
With “On, you noblesse, to the fight!”
Or, thrown within the villain’s reach,
Strove up-stage, down, left, centre, right.
What time I made the supers, quake
With trumpet tones and thund’rous shout,
The limelight man knew how to make
That glory follow me about.
And now a faint, uncertain ray
Falls round about my faltering feet;
A will-o’-wisp in sportive play
Is all that may my entrance greet,
Within the darkened mystery,
Past vaulted hall and gilded porch,
The only beam that’s played on me
Comes from a flicker-flapper’s torch.
S.A.
BILL O’C.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. • • • • £
Preference Shares .. .. • • 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,135
Ordinary Shares .. • • • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts ' and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
Wc[t
é
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph”
(ffiisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
Quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
ê
\\;v s
i mm
V\\
m
GiHo/tKe^olonions
Full of charm and interest the Solomon
Islands are only 7 days’ steaming north-
east of Sydney.
To those in search of an Ideal Sea
Trip the opportunity should be now
availed of for a Holiday Cruise among
these Wonderful Coral Islands.
The S.S. “MATARAM” sails from Sydney
11th June and 23rd July, 1930, visiting
more than a score of Picturesque Island
Ports.
Round Trip 4\ Weeks.
Fare £4l Return.
Write for Booklet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP S CO. LTD.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The B.P. Magazine,” richly illustrated in color. 96 pages
of travel, story and pictures. 1/- copy. All newsagents.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ë
ē
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - . - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAII COHEN (Chairman) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R . DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birckin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other paits oi
the world.
All Classes oi General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted. _
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Huddart Parker Le-S
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— Regular sailings*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
•Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per W WfiJ: .
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
OollinsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Sireat, Sydney.
A FRIENDLY
. GREETING
to travellers fro m
Australia and
New Zealand
... awaits at
The Clift
Hotel in San
Francisco,the
gateway to
America. The
Clift is a
C 0
cto
® 0 0 -1 0 v
D D
modern American hotel, with
540 rooms, each with bath. Every
room is equipped with radio re-
ception apparatus.
The Clift is close to the things
San Francisco visitors care to do
most—near the theatre and shop-
ping districts, and the points of
scenic interest.
Rates: single, from #3 (about 125.) up-
issss
Is
r ;r«N
mmk
ward; double, from
$5 (about i guinea)
upward.
Full refund on wire-
less request for ac-
commodations from
your steamer.
THE
CLIFT
.HOTEL
SAN FRANCISCO
CALIFORNIA, U.S. A.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office]: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
he obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Zhc Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.


e
If results prove anything
It is that Sulphate of Ammonia stands out practically
on its own as a big-crop producer. This responsive
fertiliser gives new life to all kinds of crops, keeps
them in fine fettle right throughout the growing
period, and puts the finishing touches on them by
adding more bulk to the yield and imparting finer
quality to the product. Farm, orchard, vineyard and
garden crops—in fact, all kinds of crops—show a
ready response to this rich quick-acting form of
nitrogen.
It is ideal as the nitrogen ingredient in a complete
fertiliser, and, when used in its “straight” form, it
plays a dominant part in growth-promotion and crop-
improvement generally.
Fertiliser agents, everywhere, sell Sulphate of
Ammonia, and also “complete” fertilisers containing
it. Free literature on the use of Sulphate of Ammonia
will be supplied on application to
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PTY., LIMITED.
SYDNEY ADDRESS:
Box 481 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
MELBOURNE ADDRESS:
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
N
%
fm
a
u
*
CIGARS
Tender and carefully cured, the
mellow leaf used in Club Reil
Cigars possesses the mild mellow-
flavor best suited to Australian
taste. Obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists, or at address below.
\ ORDER BY POST.
10 Cigars 5/6
(Posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/-
(Posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/-
(Posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/-
(Posted 46/-)
CRAIG AND
AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
PPL 9
è
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
é
Tormenting
ECZEMA
A Newcastle Man’s Rescue
After Hospital Failed.
Mr. Thomas D. Kyle of Belmont
Road, Charlestown, nr. Newcastle,
says:—“For 30 years I suffered from
an acute form of eczema. Nasty
patches of irritating disease broke out
on my left leg. I spent a small for-
tune on ointments and medicines and
was in hospital three months. But,
until I used Zam-Buk nothing could
check the eczema.
“I washed the limb with Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap and then applied the
Zam-Buk balm. This continued
treatment soon removed the itching
irritation and drew out all trace of
impurity. Zam-Buk covered the
affected parts wilh new healthy skin. ”
AU chemists sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 & 3/6 box.
Za:n-Buk Medicinal Soap 11- a tablet.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
J.A.E.”: There is not tlie slightest neces-
sity to go to America for canned gherkins
(B. 9/4/’3O). Several Adelaide factories
make a specialty of them.
* * * *
“Carbo”; One of the by-products from
meatworks of which little is heard is the.
water in which the meat to be canned is
boiled. Instead of being utilised for soup,
as one might suppose, it is evaporated into
meat sugar, a valuable constituent of many
of the animal foods now on the market.
Last year one Queensland meatworks used
£lB,OOO worth of this meat sugar, and the
demand for it still exceeds the supply.
* * % *
“Nikko”: A crowd collected on a Whaka-
tane (M.L.) beach to watch John Allison
of that town fly his home-made monoplane.
The machine, a single-seater with a 28-h.p.
Lawrence engine, is 20 feet long, with
detachable wings, and in it the not-yet-
certificated flier banked, side-slipped and
rose to 2000 feet with the confidence of a
veteran, covering 50 miles. Allison imported
only a few minor parts for his machine, in
the building of which he was helped by a
friend, Victor Allen. Efforts are being made
to induce the Government to encourage the
enterprise.
* * * *
“Sheelah”: It is estimated that 2£ million
bushels of apples, worth half a million in
freight to the shipping companies, will be
exported from the Speck this season. What
the grower will get is problematical; he
never knows what to expect. I know of one
consignment of 300 cases which was held
up by inspectors for “excessive black-
spot. (Ten per cent, is allowed in
cases branded- “Standard.”) Agents re-
packed, and later advised that 295 cases had
been shipped and rendered ail account for
£l3 Is. lid. for the repack that wasn't
necessary on the figures. I know another
grower whose fruit met the same hold-up.
He instructed his agents to send it back to
him, kept the cases in the shed a few days
and returned them to the wharf untouched.
They are now en route to England. Either
the fruit was clean in the first place or it
escaped inspection in the second.
* * * *
“Philm”: An article affected by the new
tariff is ‘motzos” (unleavened bread), con-
sumed in large quantities during the Jewish
festival of Passover. There have been peri-
odical arguments in Westralia whether
the Scriptural food should be purchased from
Palestine or Melbourne. This year a change
was made to the Australian brand, and the
new restrictions will ensure its permanency.
? ase the Australian brand is more
edible (or less indigestible) than the
imported stuff.
* * * *
Piecrust”: The Melbourne jam and jelly
tactones are mostly in Richmond and Bruns-
wick, where the cockies deliver their plums,
tomatoes, pears and apples for canning and
preserving. While the motor-trucks wait
their turn at the weighbridge, enterprising
youngsters may be seen to clamber on the
back, reach a hand under the tarpaulin and
race off with, a> fistful of whatever comes to
hand. If it happens to be small, unripe
apples the cocky is liable to get one back in
the ear. To stop the thieving some growers
tether the farm dog in the truck, but one
man, after losing a lot of fruit, set a row of
spring mouse-traps along the top row of
cases. Thereafter his cargo was left severely
alone.
* * * *
“P.X.”; Sydney “removalists” are feeling
that the world isn’t what it was a month
ago. A lady handed her goods over to a
carrier, and told him to be particularly care-
ful with a vase, which was Satsuma ware
and valuable. Of course that was the very
thing that had to go and break itself, and
when the carrier pleaded act of God or
the cussedness of inanimate objects the lady
replied with a claim for £25. Judge Thom-
son heard what the parties had to say and
made it £l5. Seeing that stress was laid
on the fact that particular care was de-
manded on behalf of this vase, it looks as
though a carrier may smash a few ordinary
things and escape. Or maybe he is allowed
a fair proportion of breakages. But how
would he get on if he pleaded that it was
just the plaintiff’s bad luck—that he had
handled 9999 Satsuma vases without even
chipping one, and yours happened to be the
unlucky 10,000 th? Of course the easy way
out is to insure before handing over to the
“removalist”; but you are liable to get a
shock when you see the size of the premium.
* * * *
“Chev.”: A device which may eventually
be obligatory on all motor vehicles is now
on the market. It reveals at a glance the
speed at which a car has been travelling at
any hour or minute, the stops, the length of
same and the total mileage covered. It is a
continuous tape record worked somewhat on
the principle of a seismograph, but, whereas
a seismograph must wait for an earthquake
to agitate it, the recordograf is actuated con-
tinuously from the transmission. Its value
to a private owner lies in the fulness of its
information with regard to performance; to
a truck-owner as a check on his employee’s
operations; and to the police as a silent
witness against the road hog.
* * * *
Exile”: Touching the early chequered
2273 S y dnG y s Hotel Australia (B.
23/4/’3O), the Anglo-Australian Assets Co.
spent £279,000 in buying the land and erect-
ing the building with the assistance of a biv
overdraft from the Lbnion Bank. The hotel
was too good and too dear to pay in the early
’nineties, and the bank foreclosed. D. J Mac-
kay, who floated the North Lyell Co. in Lon-
don, was a member of the syndicate which
bought up the A.-A.A. Co. for £90,000 when
the bank’s guillotine fell. He came into our
London office from a meeting at which the
deposit on the purchase had been paid and
gleefully told us that his syndicate had got
over £300,000 worth, of assets for £9O 000
Tlie difference was little less than they
cleaned up when they sold out to the fore-
runners ef the present Hotel* Australia Co


*.N
I
%
S!!«il
l. T&
laC'Vt
i mum
■M
m
u, "
ihi';':!i:ii;H'4'ii
\
iiSP
“W
°'J(
'*M&i!i.Vi!.V. .
aflsessas
V:<t
V/
iH
ik
iSifeiils
xixvi-nass*
«USOi!
ili
■as i
P.Vfo! iTOSSfe
mam
m smm
! n
: i-
mMS
Njjjj
ii.-sssa
Si-SKB
,
mmm.
iHi
ik&tsmi-. /
ill
w
3 fi
II
WSSsi*
S.h!i
n 8K
ypf.
---■
1
&
%
,>T.%
iS®
iSWjMI
Wig
ijsinjjiiiij
sa
mmm.
■:
i
rjii&S
*:•••/ ;
is® 1
■
»3ii«
■
imm. a
W
38 i‘
■H
wr #/
HIS
SST /,\s
J! r
wftli
■KMKI
w*
«•:
•fjm
*/ **
ir;»i.
mmm
l7.iT,
BK-Mv*
iiiliilWiiiii
smA
i!ir.!BS!i!*?i «!i!S !
, Hi ft
m
.(‘IS
«IV.
m?
...»
Q
WL;mi
\ v'"IH
NO A •.•>"
J a D ,
warn
j&Wfig
s c^>
i *ts-
E»
332;
H&KSS!
a.
■Mr. /«
Pi'liifHi
S.'s,*-! SB
'•-riiT-ini
KiiSn
iiliiii
’ wJhi'
:• '/
Sil&tiiKiSwyjsia
I*
f
riwa.iii!
a
«a«
t\ V'vh
i ■
EH
■■
Mf /niPSii!
ms"ui pi i
rnmnnW-'
ALREADY the biggest selling indi-
L\ vidual brand of bottled whisky on
the Australian market, Old Court
Whisky, everywhere in Australia, is
forging ahead to still greater leadership.
Discriminating Australians have come
to realise that there is no Whisky
comparable with Old Court —in all
those qualities which make a whisky
desirable.
Do not allow prejudice in any form
to prevent you from trying this, the
World’s Purest and the Nation’s
Favorite Whisky.
The World's Purest and the Nation's First Favorite


A great drink this
. V
RESCH’S d.a.
The famous DINNER ALE
SffV S H6WOwS^ R
DS
The remarkable efficj e Q^ adrup le
BRITISH “RENRUT o^.ts flaw .
Hand Pump “ d engineering
less construction J* eaS IEST of
excellence. operate—due
all hand pumps t * nder , which
a dou^ both up ward hi eh-
draws o*® , The inner hig
downward *tro " does the rest,
pressure cy Manufacturer*:
Patentees and no bRO , LTD.,
william turner to*
Eyr ° Z
Procurable J j ij oU ses.
Will fully inflate the average motor tyre in
me minute.
4
THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
51- extra.)
If unable
write to our
to obtain
Factory /
Mr.
WhiTaRNOI.d:
iSjVlt Mel-
bourne, Australia^
è
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
As was the case last year, the City Tatt.’s
Club had a beast of a day for its annual
meeting at Randwick, and it was a mistake
to go on with the dismal affair. History
Gert: ,( Look ! they're all putting
their heads together ’’
Bert : “ Yes , I.t's A scrum / ."
G,ERT “ £>UT WHAT ARE THEY
DO)ME ?•”
BERT'/'OH, JUST TELUINC,
STORIES”.
was repeated ia one race and nearly in
another. Twelve months ago Mr. Whiz ran
second to Inducement in the Novice Handi-
cap. He M T ent one better on Saturday, and
people with good memories profited, for the
price M 7 as 10 to 1. New Sweet won the 1929
City Tatt.’s Cup at outside odds. _ There
was good money for her (at sixes) this time,
and it looked like being landed when the
mare hit the front in the straight, but
Troilus (5 to 1) ranged alongside her and
just cut her out of it. Bartle w 7 as a shade
more vigorous than the apprentice on the
mare. Sir Ribble (5 to 1) w r as a fair third.
The track was in such a condition that it
took them 2min. 284 sec. to plough through
the 11 furlongs.
Troilus is trained by Walker, udio can’t
go M 7 rong nowadays. The stable played up
some of its Troilus winnings on Pavilion
(9 to 2) in the Club Welter, and the chest-
nut won as she liked from Habit (10 to 1)
and Golden Music (5 to 1), the favorite,
Adrian’s March, being bothered by the going.
Habit is a three-year-old filly from Maori-
land, by Thespian—Cowl, who should do
well in Sydney.
Remora (5 to 4) let her backers down
in the Denman Stakes; Vertoy (9 to 2),
who ran third in the last Epsom, beat her
pointless, though Remora accounted for the
others. Price, wdio trains her, is out of
luck.
For Rosehill on Saturday :
Auburn Handicap: Luita; next, Bunkum.
Granville Stakes: Gibsontea; next, Gar-
nella.
Rosehill Handicap: Stormy; next, Cath-
mar.
Highweight Handicap: Golden Music;
next, Antiochus.
# * * *
Mentone (Vic.) results on Saturday did
not send McShortodds home in a happy
frame of mind. Every event was won by
either a first or second favorite. The nearest
to a turn-up Mas when Rhynus (15 to 1)
ran Spear Girl to half a length in the Two-
year-old Handicap. David Garrick (20 to 1)
gained second honors in the Mentone Plate,
but he never troubled the winner and pro-
bably surprised his connections. When the
stable stakes on this Comedy King gelding
in some future down-the-line contest it ought
to be a case of pay out. A. Dewhurst,
apprenticed to the Flemington trainer Dick
Bradfield, rode three winners, and F. W.
Hoysted, whose family has been associated
with the Australian turf for generations,
scored two training successes.
Flying Corn did the bookmakers a good
turn w r hen he overthrew Zanibar, a hot
favorite, at Moonee Valley; but, laden with
public bullion at Mentone, the son of Blank-
ney 11. gave a disappointing display. How-
ever, punters did not mind so much, as
their first choice, Blematic, caught the judge’s
eye. Blematic, as his name suggests, is by
Emblematic. He belongs to and is trained
by D. Marks, who won a number of races
on Victorian courses with the diminutive
Reputed King. Immediately Blematic took
charge in the straight riugmon sorrowfully
got ready to meet their obligations.
Winalone looked rough in the coat, but
was labelled thoroughly fit for the Brush
Steeple. She gave the leaders a tremendous
start for more than half the journey and
did well to finish third. Fred Brown, for-
merly a brilliant hurdler, deprived Giru’s
Rival of control seven furlongs from- home,
and won as he liked from Titanic, the Sea
Prince—Crosslike prad for which .1. H’. Cor-
teen paid a fancy price as a yearling.
Because Waicullus was supposed to be
not forwmrd enough in condition, the Maori-
land-bred gelding drifted to 10 to 1 in the
betting on the middle-distance Mentone Han-
dicap. Stable commissioners stepped in then,
and Waicullus shortened dramatically, end-
ing up equal favorite with Chalaki, from
Ronald Cameron’s establishment. W. Elliott,
on Cap, tried to steal the race; but the
Pistol mare blew 7 out several furlongs from
home. Waicullus, w 7 hose jockey claimed a
71b. allowance, came along and won in
leisurely style from Taciturn and Chalaki.
The Queenslander In Petto revealed some
improvement of form by leading the unplaced
division. After failing in the Australian
Cup lie passed into the possession of Jim
Accola, who trains him. Just 16 years ago
Accola captured an Adelaide Cup for Lou
Robertson on Hamburg Belle.
Divisions of the Encourage Mile were won
by Elanora and Minipa. Latter is trained
by A. Sparks, nephew of veteran jockey Bob
Lewis. Salatis sired Elanora, while Minipa
is by Woorak, another great sprinter of
years gone by. The Purse w 7 ent to Hazel-
wood, a three-year-old son of Backwood.
For Sandown Park on Saturday:—
Sandowm Park Handicap: Byron; next,
Chalaki.
Jumpers’ Flat: The Locker; next, Lord
Bounty.
“F.O.S.’!: About the worst blunder in turf
nomenclature that I have seen is the name
given to the Queensland three-year-old
Myles-la-Coplen. Of course, it should be
Myles na Copaleen, after the entertaining
character in the senior Boucicault’s Irish
drama “The Colleen Bawn.” A Myles na
Copaleen was l’acing in and about Sydney
in the early ’eighties. He was by Grand-
master out of Colleen Bawn. so was cleverly
named. As for Myles-la-Coplen—well, no
wonder the poor brute went wrong and had
to be scratched for his Sydney engagements.
❖ ❖ H* He
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide facing Club, which
by its lease of a slice of the city’s park
lauds has to admit the public to the Flat
without charge, has decided to put up a
barricade at each starting-gate, to prevent
anyone but officials coming within several
yards of it. A recent race was ruined by
the barrier not rising properly, and some
of the jockeys were nearly strangled by
strands they carried away in the scramble.
The official verdict was that the barrier
had been deliberately interfered with, whether
as a practical joke or otherwise will never
be known.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Benny Golden opened his winning account
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, de-
feating Australia’s lightweight champion,
Norman Gillespie, on a technical k.o. in the
12tli round. The Yankee proved a hard
thumper and a clever boxer. Gillespie made
a good fight of it over half the journey, but
a weighty left hook opened his eye and
Golden made the damaged eye a target,
pounding the Australian’s body in addition.
Gillespie battled on gamely till the referee
ordered the cease fire. Golden, 9st. 841 b.;
Gillespie, 9st. 51b.
The Watermen
High School won the Head-of-the-River
championship on the Parramatta for the fifth
time in six years. High was followed
home by St. Joseph’s, Church of England
Grammar School and Newington, but. the
quartette could have been covered with a
fairly large blanket at the. finish of the
gruelling struggle. The winners were able
to unwind a final sprint, and got the verdict
by half a length in lOmin. 20sec. for the
mile and a half, slow time that was excused
by the heavy head M T ind prevailing. .1.
Budge stroked the crew like a champion,
and coach Hancock has once more reason
to be proud of his lads. St. Joseph’s did
remarkably w T ell considering that it was the
crew’s fourth race in seven days. In the
mid-week heats they had a. hard battle to
win by four feet from Newington. At the
University regatta on the previous Satur-
day they were turned out in the Maiden
Eights (1 mile) and the Junior Eights
mile) in the one afternoon, winning them
both —the first from Leichhardt and the
second from University, both adult crews.
Surely this is overdoing it. St. Joseph’s was
on top in both races for fours.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
For the opening of the season, Victoria’s
Football League staged an encore of last
year’s grand final, the meeting of Colling-
wood and Richmond on the latter’s ground.
This drew a crowd of 31,000, worth £836.
Except that the new rule under which a
man held with the ball must immediately
kick or punch it away prevented accurate
passing and cut out spectacular individual
runs, play was fast, and very exciting near
the end. Richmond marked the better and
their forwards worked together, but when
the pinch came Collingwood’s steadiness and
determination landed it a winner by 74 to
60. On its own ground the speedy and
lighter Essendon held Carlton for a while,
but towards the close the solid Oarltonites’
drives overwhelmed the others and snatched
a 7-point win—sB to 51. Melbourne, having
ransacked the Commonwealth for new blood,
put the comether over South Melbourne to
some purpose, scoring 95 points to South’s
70. Fitzroy, following Melbourne’s example,
is raising something like a team, and outed
Footscray, 86 to 72. North Melbourne went to
Geelong and provided a painful exhibition for
the 12,000 Hubites who attended —Geelong
121 points, North 19, was the record. The
surprise of the day happened to St. Ivilda,
which visited Hawthorn and kept on top
till a brilliant burst of systematic play com-
bined with accurate kicking in the last
quarter gave the home side a meritorious
win—Hawthorn 103 points, St. Ivilda 92.
The new rule permitting the replacement of
one injured player proved its efficacy in
three cases.
# ll: *
Vile weather conditions marked the open-
ing of the N.S.W. Rugby Union’s grade com-
petitions. At Sydney C. G. Randwick downed
the premiers, Western Suburbs, by 9-8 (3
tries to a converted try and a penalty goal).
Morrison, the ex-Police centre, repeated his
form of last season, while the brilliant Cross-
man scored a couple of dashing tries. West-
ern Suburbs failed to make the best use of
their strong forwards in the heavy going,
and paid the penalty. Fullback Stewart’s
kicking again stood his side in good stead.
At University Oval the Students made light
of Eastern Suburbs, winning by 21-9. The
’Varsity backs, with Lamport .working the
scrum, were too nippy for the visitors, who
were all at sea in the slush. Northern Suburbs
provided the surprise by beating the power-
ful Glebc-Balmain side 9-4 at North Sydney.
It was an ideal day for the G.-B. forwards,
but N.S. utilised the back division to good
advantage. At Manly Oval, St. George had
no chance against the Surfers, who wallowed
home by 28 to nil, Louden scoring four tries.
Bad footing and a greasy ball did not
prevent some of the Rugby League sides
playing good football in the second round
of the grade competitions. At the Sports
Ground South Sydney put it all over North
Sydney by 24 points to 7 (8 tries to a try and
2 goals). Kangaroo Kadwell played a great
game behind the scrum. North Sydney reljed
on kick and rush tactics in the wind and rain,
but found the opposition far too clever. At
Earl Park, Eastern Suburbs beat St. George
11-6 in a rough game. At Marrickville,
Newtown won handily from University by
7-0, the Blues scoring all their points in the
first half. Western Suburbs provided a
surprise by beating the fancied Balmain at
Prattcn Park 12-8.
(Continued on next page.)
The Australians took their first Davis
Cup match from Switzerland with compara-
tive ease, winning the two opening singles
and the doubles match with the loss of only
two sets. Moon beat Chiesa by three sets
to one, while Crawford went through the
veteran Aeschilman in three straight sets.
Hopman and Willard w 7 on the doubles from
Aeschilman and Waurin by three sets to two.
Australia next meets the winner of the
Monaco-Ireland round, and should score
another easy victory.
ON THE SPLICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lord Hawke appealed to players on both sides
not to sit on the splice in the coming Tests.”
On to the combat, ye w 7 ho wield
The willow or the leather wing!
Display your prowess in the field,
Like valiant bruisers in the ring.
Up, batsmen, and at loose ones sling,
Make skimming drives or cuts precise.
In short, my sons, do anything
Excepting sit upon the splice.
Your fame shall round the world be pealed.
But take your block, remembering
The bat’s to smite as well as shield
And dreary draws scant glory bring.
Rethink M 7 hat gave the game a king
Like Trumper and a pearl of price
Like Jessop. No such memories cling
Round those who sat upon the splice.
Into the lists, then, strung and steeled
To puissant feats for bards to sing.
But whiclisoe’er the palm must yield,
No call for any hands to wring.
No fair defeat need leave a sting,
But singularly little ice
They cut, from noon to evening,
Whose forte is sitting on the t splice.
Spring to your tails, you champions, spring!
And heed this excellent advice:
To blazes Fabian tactics fling,
Better the handle long to swung
Than roost impassive on the splice.
N S.W.
T. THE R.


Clothes
for Men
é
and 1 heir
Sons.
All-Wool
English Caps
For Golf, Motoring or
Evening Wear.
Days in the open—motoring or
golfing—call for the need of a
smart-looking cap.
In the evening, too, for the
cabaret, theatre or party, a cap
is in correct style.
All-Wool English models. One-
piece crown or golf shape. Smart
shades and shapes.
8/6 10/6 12/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
w
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ŵ
Footbrawl
Australia, with one eye cocked on Wood-
full’s wanderers, is now focussing the other
on the four differing codes of football which
in due season move the community to the
verge of assault and battery, and, sometimes,
over it. The Australian Rules players in
South and West Australia, with the Tassies,
are comparatively free from heresies, and
are going on the festive path of stoush undis-
turbed. In Victoria, on the other hand, their
brethren of the League and Association are
swapping verbal punches and stealing each
other’s crack players as fast as the rules
permit. In Queensland, the Rugby Union is
watching the bitter scrap between the
Queensland Rugby League and its serpent-
toothed offspring, the Brisbane R. L., with
a certain amount of complacancy. In
N._S._W. the League and the Union are main-
taining a sort of armed neutrality. Neither
body will trust the other as far as anyone
could kick an elephant. The Union is very
pleased to have a big draw-card in the com-
ing British team. The League, after think-
ing until it is credibly reported to be in
danger of getting corns on its brain, is to
bring over one of those pathetic M.L. sides
as a counterblast. Tempers are frayed all
round, and it looks as if we are in for a
really sporting football season.
* * * if
“Fitzcray”: The war between the Victorian
Football League and the Association is being
fought at dagger point. One of the chief
duties of club officials is the purloining of
players from other clubs and from the enemy
organisation. An important step was taken
recently when one George, of Williamstown,
transferred to Collingwood without the for-
mality of asking a permit from his Associa-
tion club. The Association threw him out
for three years, and is now sitting back wait-
ing to see what the League, of which Colling-
wood is the bright, particular star, is going
to do. There is a “gentlemen’s agreement”
between the two bodies on the subject of
these transfers, but in professional football
it is not always easy to be a gentleman.
# * * *
“Glenelg”: S.A. stoushballers have had a
mighty indaha■ as to the height a player can
rise when taking a ball in their saltatory
game. The consensus of opinion is that,
given a few yards run, the lad of fair
stature who knows his job can bring down
the leather from lift, or so. It may be, but
to the uninitiated it sounds like a politi-
cian’s promise or a gold-mining prospectus.
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
side for Queensland is to be picked on May
17, and will leave for Bananaland on May
27. Five games will be played, three against
Queensland at Brisbane, one at Toowoomba
and a final at that staunch old N.S.W.
amateur centre, Armidale, as the team comes
home. There will he some heart-burnings
when the side is picked. More than one
Waratah crack has been relegated to the
also-rans by the Sydney clubs this season,
and there is such a wealth of talent, among
the youngsters that selectors Harald Baker,
Bosward and Walker are already anxiously
scratching gravel.
The Fifteen
Australia’s fifteen tourists opened their
tour of England auspiciously last week by
beating Worcestershire by an innings and
365 runs. The county went for 131; Grim-
mett took 4 for 38 and Fairfax 4 for
36. A rare fighting knock by Don Brad-
man for 236 gave English critics
something to think over, while Woodfull
also played an attractive game for 133.
None of the others topped the 30 mark, and
Woodfull declared with 8 for 492. The
Saucemen did a little better in their second
try, bowler Root laying the wood on gaily
for 48 in a total of 196. Grimmett (5-46)
was again on the job, this time assisted by
Hornibrook, 3 for 30. Generally, Aus-
tralia’s bowling seems to have disappointed
the connoisseurs, though it is rather early
in the day to sit in judgment on that ques-
tion. It is pleasant to read that our fielding
was unexpectedly smart and clever. Kippax,
Hurwood, Walker and Ponsford were the
onlookers in this match.
* » * *
The Australian cricketers’ programme is a
rather lighter one than usual, with more
breaks. They play 34 matches. Five, of
course, are Tests. Every one of the 17 first-
class counties is encountered, three of them —
Lancashire, Yorkshire and Surrey—twice.
These three shires finished second, third
and tenth respectively in last year’s table.
The M.G.G. is played twice, once early in
the tour and once a«t the end. The other
opponents are Oxford, Cambridge, a South
of England XI at Folkestone and an English
ditto at Scarborough. There are only three
of what might be termed picnic matches,
against Scotland, West of Scotland and
Durham.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : So far the most entertain-
ing feature of the Australian Eleven’s tour
has been the Mussolini-like attitude towards
players, press and public of manager Kelly.
But already there are indications of revolt.
In the absence of their Duce most of the
members of the team yielded to the impor-
tunities of a host of small boys and signed
autograph-books—a procedure which has
been strictly forbidden. Since then it is
reported that several of the side have given
autographed photos for advertising purposes.
Both sets of offenders claim that neither
course is forbidden by their contract, but
the last has not yet been heard from Supreme
Authority.
The Watermen
“Blade”: Saturday will see the eleventh
race for the King's Cup, which the trium-
phant A.I.F. crew brought from Britain.
This year’s event is the first to be rowed in
South Australia since 1924, when N.S.W.
lifted the pot, with the home eight second.
Inter-State racing on an organised basis
began in 1878, when Victoria opened a
series of victories, though there had been
four-oared meetings between Victoria and
N.S.W. long before that. The earliest
recorded clash between the two took place in
1863, when N.S.W. won on the Pa«rramatta.
In the 48 inter-State races in eights prior
to this year’s meeting, Victoria heads thq
winning list with 26 victories. N.S.W. has
8, South Australia, Tasmania and W.A. 4
each, and Queensland 2. Since the King’s
Cup was added, Westralia has won 4 times,
South Australia 3, Queensland, Tasmania
and N.S.W. once apiece.'
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The annual schools’ boatrace
frenzy has broken out in Melbourne, and
the usual public hysteria is being whipped
up by the newspapers. The points of the
various crews are being canvassed as if they
were so many racehorses. The usual dark
suggestions of ringing-in of youths who are
over age are being bandied about, and betting
on the event is being indulged in by adults
who ought to know better. In due course 40
or so immature lads will be lined up and
sent off to run the risk of straining their
hearts to further the ambitions of head-
masters and others. Amongst the most
hysterical spectators on the banks will be
sonie of the boys’ teachers. Clarence Weber,
the physical-culture expert, has stated in the
press that he would never dream of putting
boys under his care through such a gruelling
trial. He has only succeeded in making
himself exceedingly unpopular.
“Shell”: Professional sculling in Australia
has fairly gone to pot. The men who used to
stack up the necessary cash for the sheer love
of seeing their champions meet, with a hope,
perhaps, of getting a bit of it back in the
heavy betting that then ruled, are now like
the snows of yesteryear. Since Major Good-
sell fled to the grateful refuge of the Amurri-
can eagle’s wings, the only champion Aus-
tralia has had in sight is “Snowy” Burns, of
the N.S.W. Northern Rivers. A fine sculler,
lie cannot get a match for Dominion or
Baronet GEORGE CLIFFORD, the G.O.M.
of the M.L. turf, who has seen his last
race.
world’s titles, try as he will. It isn’t that
he isn’t game to tackle anyone, and vice
vei'sa. The brass simply isn’t there.
Racquet and Brawl
“Top Spin”: Britain made a fine recovery
to beat Germany in the opening round of the
Davis Cup. The match was played on grass
at Queen’s Club, and when England’s singles
hope, Austin, collapsed in his match against
Landmann through cramp, as he did in the
qualifying round against Germany in Berlin
last year, and Prenn walloped Lee, it looked
like a case of Deutschland riber alles. Gre-
gory and Collins beat the Germans in the
doubles, and it remained for Austin and
Lee to win the two remaining singles matches
to avoid the knock-out. This they did to
the great chagrin of Fritz, whose press
was already announcing him home on the bit.
Past experience should have taught our old
friend that it does not follow that the first
out of the barrier is the first past the winning
post.
* * * *
“Castor Olio”: It is rather astonishing
to read that De Morpurgo is again to appear
for Italy in the Davis Cup contests. Some
AUSTEN ROBERTSON, the ex-G.P.S.
sprinter, who recently won the world's
professional sprint championship in
Melbourne.
months ago it was publicly announced that
the formidable Italian, appointed by Mussolini
as a sort of Minister for Tennis, had chucked
his job in disgust because of the veiled pro-
fessionalism which he found rife in the
game, and had stated his intention of taking
up golf. Evidently he has thought better of
it. Why, does not seem clear. Perhaps Italy
is now free from the slightest hint of “veiled
professionalism.” If so, it must really be
the paradise that the Fascisti claim it is.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: Though youth is all to the
fore in golf nowadays, some of the old hands
occasionally get their heads in front. A
nota<ble win for the old brigade was that of
P. J. Russell, who carried off the coveted
Royal Melbourne medal at Sandringham the
other day. On the 11 mark, he collected
the decoration with a net score of 75, and as
he ran off the last 5 holes in 20 strokes —
par figures—it will be seen that there was no
fluke about his win. Five and twenty years
ago the veteran won a similar event staged
by the old Surrey Hills club, which used to
be located at Mount Albert, so he can fairly
be classed with the stayers.
* * # *
“Old Q.”: At last Brisbane is to have its.
municipal golf course in Victoria Park,
£6OOO having been allotted for the purpose.
As a preliminary to setting in on the course
itself, the formation of a road through the
park has been begun, and, with luck, Bris-
banites unable to join one of the established
clubs will soon be able to enlarge their
vocabulary in the pursuit of the Royal and
Ancient obsession. Within a few minutes
of the heai-t of the city, the park is ideal as
the location of a really sporting course, and
should need little reconditioning, apart from
the construction of greens.
# * * *
“Ha«milton”: Queensland specialises in
A.I.F. golf events, and one of them, the
A.I.F. Cup, came off with due form and
ceremony on the Royal Queensland course in
Brisbane the other day. The Rananalauders,
unlike their N.S.W. brethren, do not bar
professional players from these events, and
the result is a thoroughly representative
entry, both for the game itself and the sub-
sequent dinner —a characteristically hilarious
affair. An amateur, C- E. Hull, who was
handicapped at minus 12, came out the winner
with a net card of 65. Professional Alec
Denham, off scratch, took 70 off the stick for
the 18 holes of stroke play, and finished
second.
* * *
“Divot Digger”: Maoriland’s recovery of
the Kirk-Windeyer Cup was not unexpected,
it being generally recognised on this side
the Tasman tha*t the victory of a weak
N.S.W. side at Wellington two years ago
was a piece of rare luck. The Ma State cer-
tainly held on to the mug in Victoria last
year, but the M.L. players are admittedly at
a disadvantage on our fast dry courses, which
are all against really good golf. Where
M.L. excelled was in putting. Almost with-
out exception, Australian players are weak
in this most important department ot tne
game. Walter Hagen has shown us tins
year what accuracy on the greens stands tor
in the way of winning matches.
Car and Cycle
"Disc Clutch”: Australian motorists are
upset over the decision of the Royal Auto-
mobile Club of London that Norman Smiths
world’s record of 148.63 m.p.h. over 10
miles, put up in M.L. recently, cannot be
forwarded to the International Association
of Automobile Clubs for formal record.
Under the international body's rules speed
records of the kind must be based on a run
over the course in both directions. Before
the attempt was made on the Ninety-Mile
Beach, Smith asked the M.L. authorities
supervising the spin if it was necessary for
him to go both ways. He was assured it
was not, and consequently put up his record
in one direction only. Smith and his partner
D. J. Harkness combined to build up a
special ca<r for the job, and now find all
their energy and enterprise gone for nothing.
* * * *
“Differential”: Yet another world’s tour
in a motor-car is to descend on this country.
F. Van Audenhave and G. Dufay, Belgian
war veterans both, have started for Canada,
whence they will tour both the Americas
from Hudson’s Bay to Cape Horn before
coming on to Australia and, presumably,
Maoriland. After Australia, Africa* and
Asia are to be tackled, according to the plans
and specifications. Two new features in the
proposed tour arc the attempt to reach
southernmost America, and the fa«ct that
they are using a car which they bought for a
song after it had already done 175,000 miles
running. It is a Studebaker.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: W. M. Whyte, of Victoria,
has been chosen to fill the vacancy in the Aus-
tralian team for the Empire Games. A great
runner over distances from the half to the
mile, “Tickle” is possibly a little past his
best. Still, early this year, he cut out the
mile in the Australian championships on the
turf of Melbourne Cricket Ground in 4min. 21
l-ssec., an Australian record. Among the men
Whyte has beaten recently are Dr. Peltzer.
and Leo Lermond. He qualified for the final
in the 1928 Olympiad mile, and was third in
the subsequent spin over the same distance
for the English championships. Good man
as he is, he will be up against a hot one
at the Canadian meeting in Cyril Ellis of
England. This lad has been clocked for
the mile at 4min. 17sec.; lie has done the
half in lmin. 54sec. Whyte’s best time
for the half is lmin. 56sec. —so there you are.
* * * *
“Fast Flapper”: It is with the greatest
indignation I read the announcement that
the M.L. athletic authorities have banned
women candidates from the contingent they
are sending to the Empire Games in Hamil-
ton (Out.). They are following, of course,
the miserable example set them by their
Australian cobbers. I am not much of a
long-distance runner myself, but long prac-
tice in my Dario flat at throwing the crock-
ery at my husband has convinced me I would
be home and dried in the discus-chucking event.
Now I am left on the beach, so to speak,
and that after laying in some of the duckiest
frocks and longerry you could imagine—on
t.p„ naturally. Then, of course, I had my
eye on the sprints. What’s the use, any-
way? A girl never gets a chance to get out
and prove herself as good as a man these
days—-in athletics, anyway.
❖ ❖ $
“Retired Urger”: Queensland, which for
many years past lias been *a punter’s para-
dise, shows signs of reformation. The Moore
Government is out to enforce the provisions
of the old Tozer anti-gambling enactments.
Coursing, dog-racing, goat-racing and the
good old professional ped. joke will have to
be carried on in future without betting.
Backing the gun or the bird is also to be
washed out, but nothing is said of mak-
ing the vicious practice of pigeon-shoot-
ing a criminal offence in itself. Some of
the Australian States, including Victoria
aind Queensland, still permit what even
America, with its Chicago and New York
gunmen, long ago barred as too wantonly
cruel.
* * *
“Ride Off”: The Goulburn (N.S.W.) polo
team, first of all Australian polo sides to
go overseas, opened its season in England
well, taking its first three matches in con-
vincing style against strong teams, which
included England and Indian representatives.
Certainly it is early for the Englishmen to
have worked up form, while the Ashton
quartette have played together so long that
combination is almost automatic. The real
test will come in July, when the crack Army
teams and the leading clubs will be encoun-
tered at Hurlingham and Ranelagli. The
Australians should hold their own with the
best of them, the more so since their ponies
are reported to be quite at ease on the heavy
turf so far encountered.


-m
•CP?
t
A
I
I
-N
V
..... : : ■*
\ >
Sprinting , stopping , punting, passing, tackling good and hard;
Back and forth the teams are pressing , fighting every yard .
Bustling “halves” are hanging on “forwards” bite the grass ,
While barrackers are bellowing “Pass . . . wan . . . pass!”
He’s a selfish player who won’t
pass the ball and a foolish
man who won’t pass his bottle
of Tooth’s K. 8., for a good
thing shared is enjoyment
doubled. K.B. is a TRUE lager.
SfrX-SKG
gT
a tniAJi
ipsa
a ' 'c
jC-So-h *&•:©?:*&
*
jrl-.0.-jji w ,
mmm®
o3Or ijSSj! o" ' ’Qj- ‘' *>£ c c
.-sfeMT "
o j< * r
K:c«:e..
s*o!v -
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO. LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner d
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ŵ
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereaeh Street, SYDNEY.
\
■S/}
um
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ’*
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
COPYING
THE POPULAR
PENCILS
L. &
JOHN
Also in 8 colours for checki g»
From all Stationers, etc.
C. HARDTMUTH, of " KpH-I-KOOB,' ’’
London Office—29. Kmgswnj. w.L.2
Australian Kepreoontative-
MACDOOOALL, P. O. Box 165,
etc.
Pencil fame,
SYDNEY.
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER.
ILLUSTRATIOHS 'BTjT
DARYL: LINDSAY.
CHAPTER XXX ( Continued ).
THE white, squat homestead buildings
were sleeping under the shadow of
the pepperinas and the only sign
of life was a man in a light dustcoat
moving about his car near the saddle-
room. His build and his movements sug-
gested Boyd, but when McCurdie rode
through the rails and cantered down the
track he saw it was the doctor preparing
to depart.
“Well?” he jerked out.
The doctor was tired and listless, and his
brown eyes held a secret resentment.
“It’s all right,” he said, “that is, as far
as the mother is concerned.”
McCurdie dismounted and said in a jerky
voice:
“Eh? The mother’s all right, you say?
Child didn’t live, then?”
“No,” said the doctor, with a touch of
irritation. “There wasn’t Buckley’s chance
of that after what she’d been through. And
it came well before its time.”
He went on cleaning the fan of his engine
that had become specked with mud. There
was a deliberate preoccupation in his man-
ner that annoyed McCurdie.
“Better have a drink before you go,”
he said perfunctorily.
“No, thanks,” said the doctor. “I’ve had
all I want. And I’ll probably fall asleep
at the wheel, anyhow.”
“You could put up for the night,” said
McCurdie. “No use tackling that road in
the dark unless you’re in a dead hurry. But
I suppose you’d rather push 0n.... Whose
horse is that in the night-paddock? Mrs.
Day’s?”
“Probably. Things would have been
pretty mixed here if she hadn’t ridden over.
A wonderful woman, that!”
“She is,” assented McCurdie whole-
heartedly. “Is she still here?”
“Oh, yes. I saw her go off towards the
creek half an hour ago.”
He dropped into his seat at the wheel and
drove off; and McCurdie, feeling the chill
of a heavy hand on his spirit, strolled down
toward the windmill.
For the first time since the news came
to him he wanted to talk to someone,
preferably Barbara. Of all living people she
was. nearest him. His feet made no sound
on the cropped grass, but the two pelicans
that haunted the lagoon rose at his approach
and labored off heavily into the dusk. The
water looked black and still, and the old
punt that was moored to a tea-tree lay
water-logged a few feet from the bank, as
if the mud and weeds were gradually suck-
ing it down.
McCurdie suddenly saw the figure of a
woman stretched on the turf by the wind-
mill, her shoulders huddled up and her
face hidden in her arms. Her body was
still, but there was an utter abandon in
the pose, as if she had flung herself down
like an exhausted child. McCurdie stopped
with a sudden twitching of the heart.
“Barbara!” he said, half-aloud.
But she did not hear him, and he had
an overpowering instinct to efface himself
quietly. What he could not efface was the
vision of that crumpled figure lying on the
grass. Two figures now! He was growing
old, and until the last few days life had
tasted good to him: but here was youth
crushed and broken before his eyes. He
was glad that not many years remained to
him.
CHAPTER XXXI.
Finale.
For the first time since the sprawling
homestead had been built at Abernet.hy it
was flooded by the sort of family life for
which it was designed. A couple of small
boys, with a. cattle-pup at their heels, were
racing down the overgrown gravel-paths of
the garden, shouting when they found a
bush of Cape gooseberries, or a melon
ripening in the tall, sun-dried grass of some
hidden corner. From the fig-tree dangled
a pair of brown, bare legs, and a rustling
among the bunchy leaves showed where a
girl of nine was searching for the last of
the fruit.
The Farquhars had moved over to take
possession. From the court at the back
of the house, where the two elder girls
were playing, came the steady plunk of
tennis balls, interrupted now and then by
a dispute over the badly-marked lines.
Teacups had begun to rattle in the alcove
behind the passion-vines. In the office at
the end of the verandah McCurdie sat with
his elbow on the table, watching his suc-
cessor work out some figures in a notebook
with a stub of pencil. For a week they had
been mustering and counting the cattle,
McCurdie using all his energy and bush-
craft to make sure of getting every beast
that would add to the tally, partly because
this fellow roused all his old feelings of
rivalry. No good leaving too much meat
on the bone for him to pick!
“Eight thousand cattle at a fiver a head,”
droned Farquhar, jotting down the figures,
“and a couple of quid each for the three
hundred horses You’ll be veiy comfort-
able, McCurdie.”
McCurdie caught at the word. “Comfort-
able? I’d have put the dogs on to you
once if you’d offered me double the money
for the place.” And he strolled out under
the pepperinas to the back gate, wondering
how he could fill in the time before the
mail-car left at dusk.
In spite of the life the Farquhars had
brought to the place it seemed curiously
empty and meaningless to him; even the
yards a.nd outhouses he had built had a
look of unfamiliarity. Jeff Thorp had gone
off three weeks before, taking Larry with
him, and though Mrs. Cleary still remained,
the trailing of her felt slippers along the
kitchen floor had a constrained sound, as
though she had a sense of trespassing.
McCurdie could not even entertain him-
self with the fancy that Barbara might
come riding up at any moment to bully
him about the way he had let the garden
go to pieces and the couch grass overrun
the tennis court. She had gone off to
Sydney as soon as Leo had married, and
the last note from her had come from some
place in the Blue Mountains. He could not
imagine what her life would be now.
The sight of the axe standing upright
by the woodheap reminded him of Duncan.
He looked down toward the old man’s hut
and saw him putting the harness on a lean,
goose-rumped horse.
“He’s making tracks to-night,” he
thought. “Going off to camp by some
creek or other, outside the station boun-
daries. I guessed lie wouldn’t lose any
time in getting away.”
Yet there was something that moved him
in the haste of the old man’s departure now.
Duncan had only been paid off that after-
noon, for, true to his own conception of
loyalty, he had insisted on lending a hand
till the last. Who would ferret out all the
little gullies and rock-wells in the timber,
where stray bunches of cattle might be
found, if he didn’t? And didn’t every
•beast that wasn’t mustered mean the loss
of a fiver to the boss? McCurdie knew
how the old chap’s mind worked.
He had found a peculiar pleasure in
riding about the run with Duncan that last
week. Duncan was better company than
Farquhar; he only spoke when he had
something to say. But beneath this sense
of simple comradeship, McCurdie could feel
an unsatisfied part of his nature reaching
out towards Duncan; a vague desire to
break down all the barriers that separated
them came over him as he made his way
down to the hut.
“Off on the road again?” he said casually,
sitting down on a low stump near the cart.
“Shaking the dust of the place off your
feet, eh?”
“Something like that,” Duncan assented.
“Thought I’d better get down to the Ten-
mile Lagoon to-night.”
McCurdie picked up a smooth chip and
fingered it.
“It’s a clean sweep, right enough,” he
said. “Hardly as much as a dog left out
of the lot of us. You’re not going over to
see the girls, then?”
“No, not yet. I’ve heard there’s good
trapping just now down on the C'ulgoa.”
In his quiet voice there was a new note,
an assei’tion of independence. He had won
to his own idea of freedom, and was not
going to be a burden to his daughters while
any strength remained to him! McCurdie
looked at the spring cart that had been
drawn out from its bough shed.
“You ought to have those eyes of yours
attended to,” he said sharply. “No use
just poking along! A man’s helpless as
a winged bird if his. eyes go back on him.”
There was a trace of bluster in his tone,
the old domineering note asserting itself.
Yet within his brain a voice was saying
quietly: “This isn’t what you wanted to
talk about. Something else, wasn’t there?”
Duncan came slowly over to the fire
where a blackened billy was boiling, raising
the lid and pouring in some tea. His un-
hurried movements had almost an effect
of self-assertion.
“My eyes were never much good,” he
said at last. “I had the blight bad once
and it left them crocked. Somehow I’m
not game to let a stranger muck about with
them, though. They wouldn’t matter to
him like what they do to me. You’ll have
a drink of tea, Boss?”
McCurdie assented, and for awhile
watched his companion pouring out the
strong, black brew in silence.
“That’s all bunkum, you know —old
woman’s talk,” he said. “Doctors know
what they’re about, and don’t take chances.
You’d get as good a spin at the hospital
in there as I would. But I suppose it’s
no use arguing. And why do you call me
‘Boss’? I’m not your boss any longer.”
The ghost of a grin played about
Duncan’s lips. *
“It’s the name that comes easiest, some-
how,” he said.
He handed a pannikin of tea to McCurdie
and sat down on the ground, his hitched-
up trousers revealing half-laced boots and
a lack of socks. There was a clumsy diffi-
dence in his manner as he produced some
johnny-cake from a clean white cloth. It
was a long time since he had been able to
offer hospitality.
McCurdie was not conscious of any
irony in the situation. He had a .sense of
oneness with Duncan such as he had never
felt before, and something in him was set
at rest. This- shambling fellow with the
wrinkled eyes • and fumbling tongue was
nearer to him than any other man he
knew. Yes, that was the living truth! He
had a conviction that Duncan knew what
he thought rather than what he said; some-
thing grew in the silence when they were
together. They had lived much the same
kind of life, after all, and buried the same
kind of hopes. And now, having torn up
their roots, they were drifting away to their
separate destinies.
He finished his tea and lit his pipe with
a coal from the fire, handing it over to
Duncan between two pieces of stick. A
memory of the harshness that had marked
their daily relations for so long came back
to him with a twinge of compunction. Well,
there was no use chewing over that! He
had paid for his power and Duncan for
his tameness; that seemed to be about the
rights of it. And here they were, smoking
a final pipe, feeling they understood some-
thing of one another and of the nature of
life!
“That money I put in the bank for him
would keep him till the end of his days,
he told himself. “But he won’t use it.
Won’t bother about it any more than it
it was so much dirt. Just wants to go on
and on and have no one trouble him.
And for the moment he saw the world
through Duncan’s eyes, blurred, devoid of
glamor, yet shot with the comforting little
lights of camp fires.
The sun was dropping towards the mulga
behind them and Duncan emptied the dregs
of tea out of the billy, gathering the last
of his belongings together.
“Time to go,” he said, rising. “There’s
no moon to-night.”
“No,” McCurdie agreed. “There’s no
moon. Not even a sliver of one.”
He helped Duncan back the stolid horse
into the cart and then stood hesitating. A
vision came to him of the plains along the
Culgoa, little clumps of trees, miles of
tall, honey-colored grass soaked in sunlight,
a blue mist like smoke blotting out the
horizon. He saw Jiimself camped with
Duncan in the bed of some little creek, the
old horse belled and turned out, the day s
toll of skins stretched on the wires, some-
thing frying in the pan. They would yarn
for awhile around the fire before they
knocked out their pipes and rolled them-
selves in their blankets —two old buffer’s
who had left the world and its cackle behind
for good and all!
“You don’t happen to want an on-siderr
he asked suddenly.
“Eh?” Duncan said, looking up.
“Nothing,” said McCurdie. “My joke;
that’s all. I may be back here some day,
and I’ll look you up.”
“If ever you do come, you’re bound to
find me back on this creek somewhere,”
said Duncan. “So long, Boss.”
“So long,” McCurdie repeated.
And then, after awhile, he added:
“But don’t stick at that game too long.
A man oughtn’t to live alone; makes him
crawl into his shell and feed on his own
inside. You’ve got children and
children. Not everyone’s so lucky.”
For awhile McCurdie stood watching the
swaying cart and the bent back, and then
he slowly made his way up to the home-
stead to wait for a cloud of dust on the
skvline.
[The End.]
Little Gay Houses.
I would like to live in a street of little gay
houses, ...
Mauve and yellow and green, with vermilion
for the hall, .
Where nothing was grey or brown anu
nothing was black at all,
With a summery wood of pines where a higli
warm wind carouses.
There would be a shop for sweets, with an
awning striped and red,
And clear, tall yellow glasses and gilded
ginger-nuts j
White kittens on the steps of all the bright
blue huts, ,
With kaleidoscope of flowers in every garden
bed.
Here the mansions are large and gloomy and
streaked with rain, .
The pavements splashed with mud and tne
railings painted grey;
Fog comes in from the sea and contuses
night with day,
For the town is the color of sorrow and the
streets are the shape of pain.
But the hope is with me still, the faith that
always rouses —
I must get aw r ay from this town, from the
sound of the sullen sea;
Red and blue and green and mauve, they are
beckoning me
Who want to live in a street of little gay
houses!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


I
am es
s
a
LL LINEN/
TO MARK
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
"A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.”
cs.&!7}'±£iuxsn&'
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Write for Name Style Circular to
j &j.cASH, wt , v *r s T co7 T ;. ITD
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
*5? »
w
ŵ
AS NEW AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING
’SSF
9
uarantee of Wentworth Service,
Smart people—the leaders —always congregate at the Went-
worth—the most efficiently-managed hotel in Australia.
They know, from their personal experience, the real mean-
ing of service which is personally guaranteed by Mrs. H.
Maclurcan, the Governing Director.
Wentworth comfort and cuisine is a byword among
seasoned hotel guests.
Wire or write jor reservations.
Ohe Wentworth
V
Church Hill,
Sydney.
Under
Royal
Warrant
ẁ
To H.M.
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
ẃ
MOM
Australasian Agents—
s wift & Company U mitad
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiarleslleidsic^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrsnts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Macintoshed and rubber-booted, Flapper-
dom cheered and screamed “High” to the
Head of the River on Saturday. It was
one of the wettest boat-race days Sydney
has known. Equally macintoshed and
rubber-booted flappers cheered on Joey’s and
Shore, Newington and King’s. The wind
shrilled, a rain like sleet spattered and
stung; but vantage points along the route
were thick with cars, whose eager loads had
poured out into the wind and the rain. The
Lady Carrington and the Lady Rawson
nodded in friendly fashion at each other and
a score more in spite of the rivalry on their
decks. “Well,” each old lady seemed to say,
“we’ve seen a good few boatraces since we
were flappers.” Ferries, launches and canoes
massaged and jostled one another as the
youth aboard strained neck and toe in a
determination not to miss a flash of an
oar. It was all youth aboard, though some
of the males wore grey hair, and many of
their starry-eyed comrades were mothers. So
High for the fifth time in six years won
the title. But Joey’s, who came second in
the eights and captured both the fours,
found it wasn’t such a bad day, after all.
The first of May, merriest, maddest day
of all the glad New Year according to Alfred
Tennyson, looked sourly down on Sydney.
Grey skies, grey rain and that first touch of
winter that stirs up the lumbago patch
greeted the unwary as they bounced from
bed to go a-selling or a-buying. The Com-
munists took out their new red ties, but
regretfully, owing to the look of the morning,
folded them carefully away; then, knotting
their second-best round the fraternal throat,
hied to the great out-of-doors. But in spite
of banner proudly waving, the sky refused to
smile, and the most ardent spirits declared
it a washout.
But the Communists weren't the only ones
with a grievance. There was a pretty strong
programme afoot for these dull social times.
The garden party at Tresco, the May Day
Cabaret, the United Service Ball and the
theatricals in aid of the Bush Book Club (in
which only society of the nth degree took
part) got the wet smack from Mother Nature,
who is the greatest socialist of us all.
“Belle of New York” Marie Bremner led
her merry men and maids last Thursday
to the May Day Cabaret. Marie was Queen
of the May, so to speak, and to her standard
within the. Wentworth flocked hundreds of
revellers, eager to help the Dalwood Home
for Mothers and Children. A satin frock the
shade of thin amber glass and a brown off-tlie-
face velour hat enhanced the actress’s charm.
A posy of roses and asters handed over by
Mrs. Arthur McNiven tipped the scale, and
Marie poured out “Second Minuet” and
“Cuckoo Clock.” The band played well-
known “Belle” numbers, and an old-fashioned
waltz competition was won by Mr. and Mrs.
R. C. Griffiths. The couple danced so flow-
ingly to the strains of “The Blue Danube”
that Marie Bremner and Sidney Burcliell
decided enthusiastically in their favor, and
then found that Mr. Griffiths had not
danced for 40 years and is sightless.
The Wentworth blazed with bunting and
Union Jacks, and, having pinned a few
swords, propellers and lifebelts on its palpi-
tating bosom, declared itself ready for the
yearly hop of the United Service Association.
This was, as usual, a merry whirl, having but
one impressive moment, and that the
arrival of the Stonehavens. A fanfare of
trumpets and a roll of drums wafted the vice-
res. down the stairs of the Palm Court and
into the ballroom, where they were received
by Rear-Admiral Evans and his lady and
Colonel and Mrs. Spain. Lady Stonehaven’s
black georgettes trailed sweeping side-panels,
and her throat was in a choker of jet. Mrs.
Evans was statuesque in pow’der-blue moire,
and completely overtopped Mrs. Spain in her
black satin and lace. It took a table the
length of the Palm Court to accommodate
the guests of Captain E. T. Penfold. This
was divided by only a tiny coping from
the Blue Room in which the Stonehavens and
the official party were at meat. Here about
a T-shaped table sat, among others, Mrs.
J. B. Stevenson, in a frock whose rose-pink
drifted into a hem of black tulle on which
a poplar had scattered some falling leaves.
The Widgeon Wacketts were of the com-
pany, she in sea-green sprayed with silver.
Secretary Fred Daniell was set off by a
slender wife in black lace. The Brigadier
Bennetts, the Brigadier Heritages and the
Brigadier Goddards toasted one another.
Airman Malley’s wife shone like aluminium
in a grey satin frock that was slashed out
about the shoulder-blades and Grecian as to
hip-mould. Another Maid-of-Athens outline
was contributed by Mrs. Radcliffe, whose
raiment was built in lorelei greens, with side-
frills that suggested fins. Miss Monteith
Nahr, a gold-blonde Maorilander who looked
like a Bisque doll, swirled layers of black
tulle; and journalist Adam McQay and his
wife had a night of mere enjoyment. Cur-
rant-red lace glowed on the wife of Com-
mander Duke; Diana Herring appeared in
blushing pink; Audrey Maple Brown brought
a sleek dark head and white moire to honor
the Service; and there were five debs, all
shining-eyed and snow-white.
The afternoon reception given by Captain
and Mrs. J. B. Stevenson at Tresco was
the bright party of the week. Though at
first glance the affair seemed absolutely
Navy blue and brass-bound, close inspection
disclosed patches of mufti. The day was
as grey as a battleship, and that rather put
the garden out of commission. Though hardy
soles pottered about the grassy ways, most
of the invited 300 viewed the day and Port
Jackson from the wide windows and the
verandahs. Brown and gold were allied in
Mrs. Stevenson’s frock of georgette and
lace, with which she wpre a gleaming string
of amber. Her hat was brown, small and
off the face. Her gold-entwined captain
looked at once merry and alert; you wouldn’t
have been surprised if he had burst into
a chanty at any moment. But there were
no individual efforts at music. The band
of the H.M.A.S. Australia decanted “The
Belle,” but that was regarded not so much
as music as an accompaniment to chatter.
The reception-rooms were warm with soft
lights, gum-tips, chrysanthemums, Chinese
rugs and polished floors, and in the ever-dis-
solving and re-forming groups the upstand-
ing wife of Rear-Admiral Evans captured the
gaze in her rose-red coat and hat. Chief
Justice Street brought his lady; and the
Premier came with his Nancy and Mrs.
Bavin. Mrs. Bavin’s navy was collared in
fox, and Nancy covered her blue crepe de
Chine with a stone-grey coat, and was small
and blue as to millinery. Two of the best-
lookers were Mrs. George Vivers, in black
georgettes that flowed ankle-length at one
side, an enticing black hat, silver fox furs,
and a string of pearls; and the wife of
America’s Consul-General Tredwell. Black
velvet and pearls wei'e Mrs. Tredwell’s
choice. Another guest was Lady Bedford,
whose husband was one time Governor of
Westralia. Consuls, Judges, soldiers and
their wives, the popular Kelso Kings and
Oscar Pauls, and Margaret Windeyer were
others who helped in the afternoon’s make-
up. And, meriting a place much higher up.
Nora Stevenson, who, pink of cheek and
hat and sapphire of frock, helped with the
entertaining.
Patricia Long Innes, the clever girl here
depicted, belongs to one of this State’s few
remaining “old” families. Father is a
Supreme Court Judge (Patricia is his asso-
ciate), his
father was a
Supreme Court
Judge before
him, and her
great - grand-
father, Cap-
t ain Long
Innes, was
one of Gover-
no r Ma c-
quaric’s
friends. “Reg”
Innes, as he is
still addressed
by those who
knew hi m
when he was
;i light of the
Fquity Ba r,
played cricket
a t Malvern
and Oxford
with the
famous Foster
brothers —one of whom made a record score
here early in the century—and lie is still
a prominent supporter of the game. Swifts,
on Darling Point, was the home of the
Long Innes clan half a century ago.
To the strains of the Merry Widower —
presumably in compliment to Henry VIII. —
the English-Speaking Unionists opened
their ball in honor of Shakspeare. David
Jones’s was Bess’s temporary court, and
there the Queen, in the person of Lucy
Fox, whose auburn hair was piled high
under a gemmy crown, swept royally past
in ermine-trimmed blue and white satin.
Lawrence Campbell was again the Bard of
Avon. Daisy Clayton, the Mary Queen of
Scots, brought so much of the pathos of
the young Stewart that that guid Scot Lord
Stonehaven sent for her to compliment her
on her personation. With her walked lovely
Mary Brigham, in sea-blue moire, as Mary
Carmichael. Another exquisite creature was
Lalla Mockbell as Katharine of France, in
the towering head-dress, the white satins
embossed in gold fleur-de-lis beloved of that
sparkling damsel. For the English-Speaking
Unionists decided, so to speak, the more
the merrier, and resurrected not only Richard
111., but Henry V. and Antony and Cleo-
patra. With Lady Stonehaven, in black
chiffons and lace, came Alexander MacCor-
mick’s lady, in black lace, and Mungo Mac-
Callum’s, in sable velvets; but the Mac-
bethan gloom thereabouts was lightened by
Morna MacCormick’s morning blue moires
and Mrs. Roger Tredwell’s golden chiffons.
Handsome froekers of the night were Mrs.
C. Brigham, whose petunia velvets were
splashed with gold; Miss Elizabeth Plum-
mer, in black and gold ; and Dolly Hollander
Moore, in Chinese red and gold. Half-way
through the doings Premier Bavin and Mrs.
Ravin made an entry amidst loud applause.
Wing-Commander Wackett stood by the G.-G.
If you want to know what the bride of
a missionary bishop looks like, gaze on the
clear-cut features of the subject of this pic-
ture. She was Joan Cronin, of Mosman,
and she mar-
ried the Angli-
can Bishop of
Carp entaria,
Dr. Stephen
Harris Davies,
last week. A
still, sun-
steeped day in
late autumn
saw the tail
girl in a full
complement of
ivory satin
and tulle
emerge from
S t. James’s
pledged to a
life of work
amid the
heathen and
the reabouts.
But this holds
no terror of
the unknown
for her, as for years she has been a con-
sistent worker for the Australian Board of
Missions. The first Bishop of Carpentaria
tied the knot, with Padre Micklem to lend
a hand. Bride’s sister Mrs. H. J. Davys
brought the rustle of autumn hedges into
the picture with her parchment moires and
red berries, and Dorothy Poole’s frocking
toned in with the golden-brown season. By
the time this Letter is in its pink envelope
the two will be packing their wanted-on-the-
voyage for the Lambeth Conference.
The Country Women thrashed their way
through a stormy conference last week. First
of all the eligibility of Mrs. A. E. Mclntosh
and Mrs. F, G. Fanning to act as delegates
was questioned, the ladies being “overlooked”
when the voting tickets were handed out.
This was the result of these two members
neglecting to fill in the papers sent to all
town-dwelling delegates asking them whether
they drew the whole of their income from the
land, and, if not all, how much. Thereupon the
air in David Jones’s auditorium was electric
for hours. Delegates sparked in every
cylinder while the ladies staunchly defended
their rights. The meeting took sides, and
there was the excitement that wordy war-
fare always sends up and down the female
spine. But the tornado passed, and next day
a resolution was carried entitling all women
in the State to full membership whether they
derive their livelihood from the land or not.
. But still the dove of Peace did not have
a comfortable perch; and once a stormy
petrel chased her from her new Ararat.
Midway through the electing of the president
the announcement was made that some dele-
gates had received and marked more than
oiie ballot-paper. Then, of course, though it
was really all a misunderstanding, there was
wild confusion. Protests, disclaimers, argu-
ments roared and piped to the rafters; but
they were as useless to dispel the mists of
distrust as ferry sirens to dissipate the fog
upon the harbor. The suspended election
was declared null and void, and the elec-
tion held the following morning resulted in
Mrs. Matt Sawyer being re-elected presi-
dent.
Hours of the Conference were thus wasted
and bad feelings—mostly cloaked —were left
behind. With years of good service to out-
back sister to its credit, it is a pity that
the C.W.A. should have these internal com-
bustions. It is a fine organisation, its mem-
bers practical, sympathetic, clear-headed
women; and now that this rivalry of town
mouse and country mouse has been disposed
of, there should be an uninterrupted flow of
the oil of good fellowship.
The confetti merchants show no sign of
being hit by hard times. The “Come haste
to the wedding !” arrives with every morning’s
post, and if the writer went to all she is
asked to her complexion would begin to look
like a wedding-cake with moth-eaten icing.
One of the highly blazoned of last week’s
unions bound Neryl Hollinshead. the attrac-
tive only daughter of the C. Hollinsheads,
of. Edgeclili and Newcastle, to Kenneth
Wheeler, only son of Fordyce Wheeler,
of the “Sun.” Thistledown weave _of
lace and silk tulle enmeshed the bride,
and kingfisher-blue moires, velour hats and
satin shoes were added to the procession by
Dorothy Abrahams and Marjorie Chiplin.
The Alberts’ heir-apparent, Alexis, and
Lieut.-Commander Norman iCaldcr produced
the ’groom in good order and condition,
Canon Langley affixed the seal, and a long-
line of cars purred from All Saints’, Wool-
lahra, to the Australia.
It. C. Hagon, of Edgecliff, saw eldest daugh-
ter Dorothy to the portals the other night,
while mother, in blue chiffons and decked with
a posy of zinnias; looked on from a front pew
in All Saints’, Woollahra. Canon Cake-
bread, whom a frivolous flapper has named
Canon Bridecake, saw that the vows dove-
tailed to a nicety, and Itoy James Furley
made an upstanding, outspoken groom. Ivory
satin, over which a surf of tulle broke and
sprayed, formed the bridal raiment, with
which yellow roses, orchids and lily of the
valley chimed. Two ’maids, in sapphire tulle,
topped by silky felts of the same shade, fol-
lowed Dorothy. Ambassadors afterwards.
“They met -by accident,” and now there’s
a romance that has excited the nurses (even
nuns are inclined to the feminine excitability
about weddings) of a Sydney hospital.
Adonis, badly hurt in a motor crash, found,
directly he was well enough to get about,
that Yenus, who had been in the other car,
was in the same institution. He met her
on the verandah, and apologised for any
fault of his which helped to make the acci-
dent, and thereafter they talked much
together and shared the offerings that friends
brought to them. Long before they were
discharged they had made up their minds
to make it a life partnership.
The Sydney that feels in its heart that it
really is the best part of the best people filled
the seats of the Savoy when Noel Coward’s
“Hay Fever” was staged for the benefit of
the Bush Book Club. The Chief Justice’s
lady was president of the committee, Barbara
Knox its secretary and Mrs. Roystoue
Davey its treasurer, and the people in the
cast were such as view the demands of the
income-tax collector with nonchalance. The
play -was first produced in Sydney by the
Vagabonds, on which occasion Ruby Cox-
head played the ex-actress Judith Bliss. Mrs.
Dundas Allen was that erratic and somewhat
exotic lady in last week’s production, and
looked particularly dashing in the second act,
trailing bright red georgettes. As a laugh-
raiser the play is irresistible. Mrs. Alec
Hay, so seldom seen these days in Sydney,
was in the audience; and Keith Smith and
his wife sat near by, ruddy with health. Mrs.
John McKelvey, Mrs. Pat Levy and Mary
Doberer were exponents of three distinct
types of good looks. Tall Jean Anderson
wore black lace with good effect, and Eliza-
beth’ Knox wore green chiffons, caped and
fluttering.
Business and pleasure are to walk hand in
hand for the resident nurses at Ridge-street
Nursing Home, North Sydney. As a relief
from their serious business of private pillow-
patting, they have decided to organise a series
of frivolities, under the direction of Miss
Somerville. But these will ultimately benefit
the North Shore Hospital, for the Nightin-
gales intend to inaugurate a fund of £lOOO
to endow a bed in perpetuity.
The journalists have decided to hold an-
other ball this year, and have captured Chief
Justice Street’s lady as president of the com-
mittee. The P. and O. is lending the Nar-
kunda, and the organisers hope to have new
Governor Game and his lady at the party.
The Rose Bay Golf Club specialises in
Sunday lunches, set out on a long buffet. The
idea is to capture the tone of the ancestral
homes of old England, where you hover over
the hot plates and cold meats on the side-
board, picking a plover’s egg here, a snack
of pate de foie gras there, or a good old wad
of the cold joint. Members have done their
best to cultivate this atmosphere. There-
fore, think of the crash among the china
one Sabbath lately when a just-arrived guest
gushed loudly: “So free and easy, quite
cafeteria style!” Incidentally, the G.-G.
and Chaalie Lingen (one of the oldest inhabi-
tants) celebrated their birthdays on Sun-
day, April 27, by pottering amid the bones on
the sideboard. But the Stonehaven has some
time to go before catching up to the barrister
who is now a hearty 82.
This Letter heard the other day of a charm-
ing thing done by Lady Stonehaven. Over
a year ago the Vicereine, who is a genuine
lover of art, drifted into a gallery in Sydney,
and bought one of John Banks’s pictures. A
few weeks later the artist, to his surprise and
delight, received a note from the purchaser
telling him how much she liked it, and that
as the creator of the picture he might like
to know where and how it was hung. She
proceeded to tell that the landscape hung
in her sitting-room, the sort of light it was
in, and so on.


10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
f^ N BooWoV -xj
’ :
.
*
on the hundreds of things you
use daily in your home, your
factory, office, store or farm.
Price 211-
POST FREE
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK:
RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition.
IN every can of baking powder or paint you buy—in the hundreds of things you use in
your home or business —is a goodly profit you can now save and make your own
through the priceless knowledge contained in HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK
OF RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
It places at your finger-tips over ten thousand separate recipes, preparations, formulas
and processes containing the latest scientific discoveries. •
In simple, non-technical terms it explains how you can make every conceivable thing
in general use, from inks and toothpastes to asphalt cement and battery solutions. It
contains the discoveries of civilisation itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Here and there in costly volumes and' scientific works are some of the rare recipes
included in HENLEY’S amazing book, but no other volume published to-day offers you
such complete authoritative information on so wide a range of subjects as HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK OF RECIPES, FORMULAS and PROCESSES.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for the first time —
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European scientists
and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think what it. would mean
to have ten thousand to cliooso from!
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it the factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams or boiler
compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on fertilisers, cheese
making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this remark-
able one volume encyclopaedia to-day?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
FINE QUALITY
<§\
D
m
No. 306—£25
578
577
No. 308—£55
m
No. 300 —£20
No. 309—£30
No. 307 —£65
No. 305—£40
No. 304—£25
No. 303—£45
The Diamond Rings illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s ring
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring, Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
M.DRUMMOND 6
DIAMOND AND-PEARL SPECIALISTS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
MFI RA! IPNF
4
□ □ Ej
dl[\pd
/
EVERY SUFFERER
FROM
RHEUMATISM
MUST READ THIS
Every sufferer from the dread-
ful pains of rheumatism, chronic
backache or sciatica will surely
read this extraordinary letter
written by Mr. Bickley, who is 70
years of age, and who ended five
years of suffering in a very simple
way that everyone can test.
Mr. Bickley, of Hall’s Creek,
North West Australia, Drover,
Farmer and Prospector, writes :
“I have been very bad for five years
with rheumatics in my arm and shoulders
that I could not work, and I have tried
everything to cure me, but all failed.
I was advised by a friend of mine to try
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
and eventually he bought them for me.
I said to him ‘ Oh, it may be like every-
thing else I have tried.’ I took them,
and to my surprise I can go about and
work in all weathers, and I do all kinds
of work. lam 70 years old and I always
keep a bottle of Pills at hand.
I am now quite free from rheumatism,
thanks to De Witt’s Pills.
• I am a man known nearly all over
Australia and you are at liberty to make
what use of this you please, as it is the
genuine truth, no advertising. I tell all
my friends about your wonderful Pills,
as they are a boon to sufferers. ”
There is a message of hope,
ringing with truth, written by a
man who knows what rheumatic
torture is. Why not follow Mr.
Bickley’s example and get a sup-
ply of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills ? The only possible
means of ridding the body of the
pain-giving poisons which are
ruining your health, making you
look and feel too old, is to prompt
the kidneys to purify the blood —
that is their all-important work.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills cost but 3/6 (or larger, more
“ De WITT’S” WILL NEVER FAIL YOU
—they show their effect wjthin 24 hours. Persevere and your
cure is certain. De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are never
sold loosely. Ask clearly and distinctly for De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. This remedy, sold by the millions of bottles, is
guaranteed to prove effective in all cases of
Pains in the Back
Bad Taste in Mouth
Rheumatism
Rings under Eyes
Aching Limbs
Sciatica
Lumbago
Loss of Vigour
Sallow Complexion
Bad Nights
Pains in Joints
Urinary Trouble
economical size 6/6) per bottle. In 24
hours from the first dose you will see
from colour of urine they have started
their health-action. You can end your
pain and build up splendid health, vigour
and vitality if you will only give this
guaranteed re.medy a fair trial. Per-
severe and you will be glad to find Mr.
Biekley’s experience your own —pain
and suffering gone for good.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are
no mere purgative or heart-exciting
drug. They are a medicine which
regulates the urinary system
and cleanses and heals the
kidneys, gently helping
them to filter off poisons from which
backache, rheumatism, pains and weak-
ness in limbs and joints arise. They
cannot possibly harm the weakest and
can be taken by women at all times.
After even a few days with De Witt’s
Pills you find yourself
able to enjoy life
once again.
The
Remedy
with a
Guarantee
D
rsi?.
i
DeWITT’S PILLS


ALWAYS
w
ŵ
ẅ
ẁ
ALWAYS
RIGHT
Catanach’s Prices
24,892 —A Dainty 8-
Stone Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold and Platinum
set, £22
24,861- —Dainty 5-Stone
Ring, Hexagon Centre,
18ct. Gold and Platinum
Settings, £lB
ẃ
ẅ
w
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 200for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
A notable attempt to make Australians
air-minded was the at-home given by No. 1
Flying Training School of the R.A.A.F. at
Point Cook, when 40 'planes of various
makes, including Aero Club and privately-
owned Moths, showed their paces. For nearly
three hours, with a break for afternoon tea,
spread in the hangars, eyes were turned
heavenwards to watch flights in formation,
parachute descents, bombing over sea and
land at varying altitudes and a mimic battle.
Between the flights the Air Force band made
a pleasant echo to the deafening roar of
engines. Wing-Commander It. S. Brown,
with Squadron-Leader McNamara, V. 0., and
Mrs. McNamara, extended welcoming hands-
the lady looking attractive in a grey-tailored
suit and fawn felt hat. All sorts of pre-
cautions were taken to prevent anyone get-
ting hurt. Group-Captain Goble, who
earned fame as the leader of a seaplane
expedition round Australia, w r as in mufti,
and also, apparently, incog., for when lit;
approached the lined-up ’planes he was in-
formed that he did so at his own risk, which
vastly amused him. Other notabilities pre-
sent were Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Munro
Kerr, Commander Langford and his daughter
Molly, Defence Minister Green and Mrs.
Green, Air-Commodore Williams and Mrs.
Williams, Prof, and Mrs. Payne and Major
and Mrs. Coleman. A chill in the breeze
brought out a crop of smart coats, includ-
ing many leather ones with big fur collars.
Lord Somers mingled with the bargain-
hunters at the Myer emporium last week
and was nearly as interested in the struggles
of the shoppers as in the surprising display
of Australian-made goods. His Ex. saw the
wheels go round in the making of smokes,
wearing apparel, rubber goods, bath towels,
upholstery, chocolates and a host of other
articles. In the big windows on three side-
walks were W’orking exhibitions, in which
trim girls in white overalls and equally
smart young men guided electrically con-
trolled machinery. The Bourke-street win-
dow’s were devoted to still-life displays of a
vast variety of local manufactures.
Lord Somers passed from contemplation
of the Australian-made to the Australian-
grown w’hen he opened the two days’ autumn
show of the Royal Horticultural Society,
with which was associated on this occasion
the Fruitgrowers’ Cool Stores Association.
Chrysanthemums were the strong suit among
the flower exhibits and were pronounced by
the connoisseurs to be the finest seen in this
city for years. The dahlias were also of
outstanding quality and other blooms of the
season made worthy setting. His Ex. had
the pleasure of viewing the lovely gold and
buff Japanese chrysanthemum originated by
W. Pockett which bears the Governor’s
name. Other new chrysanthemums were
the Sir William McPherson; First Dawn, a
pale pink and gold tinted bloom, and Annie
Mitchell, a loose-petailed pale yellow. J.
Dwyer, of Trafalgar, with a huge white
of the William Turner variety, won the
championship in the floral section.
Two Diggers domiciled at the Macleod
repatriation sanatorium at Heidelberg won
prizes with gorgeous autumn beauties.
In becoming a grower and exhibitor, Gordon
Humphries, late of the 13th Battalion, is
carrying on the hobby of his late mate James
Millard, who prior to his death about a year
ago grew champion chrysanthemums at' the
sanatorium. Thanks to the efforts of Hum-
phries, the sanatorium will retain the Dr.
Edgar Inglis Cup, awarded for a number of
perfect blooms, for yet another year. The
Whitcher Cup will keep it company, the
winner being Arthur Harris, who during the
Great War was in the A.F.C.
“Fit for a king” was the verdict on a
case of Jonathan apples, all rosy-red, grown
by A. E. Dennett, of Somerville, which is
beyond Frankston. So these apples, packed
by Miss R. Dennett, are being dispatched to
Windsor, and George Rex will be able to
keep his distinguished doctors away for
days and days and days.
Originally intended for St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital, the proceeds of last week’s race-
meeting at Moonee Valley were by mutual
consent handed to St. Anthony’s Home for
the new building fund, the appeal on behalf
of -which was in the final days of its allotted
period. There was a good roll-up of the
public, for it was a day when the weather
invited an outing. The .course put up a
great display of phlox, and roses bloomed
here and there. Many of those interested in
the orphanage attended. Eileen Byrne, lion,
sec. of the Welfare Committee, was there
in an all-scarlet sports suit and felt hat. Mrs.
Maurice MaeGillicuddy, Mrs. M. J. Canny,
Mrs. J. Gotchett and Mrs. T. V. Milica,
the lastnamed in a navy blue frock with
crimson-and-gold embroideries, were on the
lawn, together with the Rogers Thomsons,
Mrs. B. Nolan, Mrs. E. Buller Allan and
Mrs. A. V. Kewney.
This winter the ultra-fashionable trip will be
through Central Australia to the North. W hen
Lord Stradbroke was our Governor-General
he and his countess went over the ground
and thoroughly enjoyed their experience, but
their example didn’t popularise the adven-
ture. Now the South Australian Governor
is following in their footsteps and Lord
Somers is planning to go in June. So it
has become quite the thing.
There was a cheery hop at No. 9 last
week, put on by 10 of the coming-on set who
were debs, of March race-week. The bevy of
young hostesses, holding early-Victorian
posies of pink carnations, lined up to receive
their guests, who, save for a few parents,
were of the unattached brigade. Diana,
daughter of Mr. Justice and Mrs. Mann,
was one of those who did the honors. Her
frock was of white chiffon with attachments of
red berries and she wore a necklet of crimson
beads. Barbara, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Gerald Weigall, chose delphinium-blue geor-
gette that dipped in the current mode, and
the Stanley Elders’ maiden Elspeth was
swathed in * peach-pink satin with a dash of
gold. Ursula H'enderson and Josephine
Webster were other hostesses who took the
eye.
The first military hop of the season was
given by the Uni. Rifle officers, who had 200
dancers on the floor at No. 9. Lt.-Col. J. A.
Ciarcborough and his wife, she in black lace,
greeted the guests. Lt. A. D. Teele, lion, sec.,
had the support of a committee of brother
officers. Major E. A. Head was there with
Mrs. Head, who wore white moire. Edna
Teele came in satin of garnet hue. Warden
of Trinity (J. C. Behan), Master of Ormond
(D. Picken) and Master of Queen’s College
(R. F. W. Kernick) brought their respective
spouses, Mrs. Kernick being clad in black
lace and white chiffon. The Rector of New-
man (Father Murphy) and General Brand
and his wife were also honored guests.
Lady Somers worked overtime last week.
She began by accompanying his Ex. to the
all-Australian manufactured goods display at
a Bourke-street shop, and then was motored
off to christen and have a fly in the first
three-engined monoplane of the Larkin Air-
craft Co. at Coode Island. An afternoon
at the Y.W.C.A., another at the matinee
for St. Anthony’s Home, and several other
engagements were on her calendar. Also she
gave a message over the air in connection
with the birthday scheme of the Q.V. Hos-
pital ; and dined one evening at the Janet
Clarke Hostel of the Uni.
Members of the Society of Australian
Authors met about the supper tables at the
Langham Cafe one night last week to give
a f a r c well
cheer to Myra
Morris, off by
the Jer v i s
Bay for a six
months’ stay
in England.
President Ber-
nard Cronin
expre s s e d
everyone's
best wishes
for the clever
young writer's
success, and
W. A. S. Slium
enlarged upon
the the me.
Miss Morris,
looking nice
in black taf-
feta embossed
in pink and
blue, gave
thanks in
humorous vein. Though she has not yet had
a novel published in book form, this young
lady, whose work is well-known to Bulletin
readers, has several serials and numerous
short stories and poems to her credit. Her
lately published collection of verses has
been praised by the critics and is bringing
some monetary reward too. Marietta made
the portrait.
Union Theatres and E. J. Carroll handed
over the Athenaeum Theatre and the Maurice
Chevalier talkie “The Love Parade” on
Thursday afternoon to help St. Anthony’s
Home. Some theatrical favorites and the
Sisserman trio provided the first half of the
programme. Gladys Moncrieff, in nut-brown
suit and felt hat, warbled a piece from “The
Maid of the Mountains” and joined Michael
Cole in a duet from the same source. Her-
bert Browne sang Neapolitan love songs,
and Clem Dawe scored with a skit on the
works of Edgar Wallace. Lance Fairfax,
with Henry Penn at the piano, gave a grand
opera excerpt, and Vilma Clarke and Isabel
Mahon, pupils of Jennie Brcnan, did a song
and dance. Lady Somers was there with
Monica Somers Cocks, and had a guard
of honor of Genazzano students and flowers
of greeting. Organisers of the remunerative
affair were Mrs. B. Nolan, Marie de Bavay
and Eileen Byrne. Sales of flowers, sweets
and programmes increased the takings.
When Erin Stead wedded John Grinvwade,
at Melbourne Grammar School Chapel, two
padres shared the job of welding. The
bride, the second daughter of the late S. V.
Steads, of this city, was handed over by
her brother David. Orchids nestled amid
the lynx collar of her biscuit-colored en-
semble suit, her close-fitting felt hat being
of the same shade. Her sister Penelope
attended her in fawm.
Douglas MacLaren, son of the R. W. Ward-
laws, of Chain of Lagoons squattage in
the Speck, married, at Christ Church, South
Yarra, Catherine Doreen, youngest daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. H. F. Walker, of Geelong.
A trained gown of ivory satin clothed the
bride, who wore a wealth of tulle and orange
buds. Three maidens, in chiffon that
blended autumn tints, topped by primrose-
hued millinery, stood by, and Patsy Hollo-
way, the small daughter of Captain and Mrs.
Holloway, of Deniliquin, was train-bearer.
After-rejoicings took place at No. 9.
The lass with the delicate eyebrows here
de p icted by
Ruskin has
been f a r e-
welled by
many friends
prior to a de-
parture. She
is Viera, only
dang liter of
the Alan
B e v e ridges,
of Esstndon,
and is sailing
to the U.S.A.,
where she will
become Mrs.
Ben Way, and
will make her
home in San
Francisco. The
roma n e e
budded three
years ago
when t h e
bride groom-
elect came here on business.
The Church came to the aid of the Law
at Holy Trinity, Kew, last week when Canon
Sutton united a gent, one and a lady one.
The bride, Enid Alice Druce, has been in
practice with her father, W. E. Druce, of
Chancery Lane, the bridegroom being bar-
rister Keith McLaren,Emmerson, only son of
the W. R. Emmersons, of Camberwell. Old
Brussels and other delicate lace flowed as
veil and train over the leading lady’s ivory
chiffon velvet gown. Her ’maids. Phyllis
Druce and Clarice Chambers, played foliage
to her snowdrops in pale green frocks and
straw hats. There were rejoicings after-,
wards at the Kooyong clubhouse.
St. Anthony’s Home got a couple of hun-
dred from a garden party at the orphanage
organised by the Hibernian Society. A
good many thousands are still required for
additions.
Enid Josko, principal of Janet Clarke Hall,
formerly known and often still referred
to as Trinity Hostel, gave a welcome home
during the week to Dr. .7. C. V. Behan,
Warden of Trinity, and Mrs. Behan, lately
back from a holiday jaunt to Europe. Among
those who attended were the Chancellor of
the IJni. and many of the dons. Accom-
panying Prof, and Mrs. Skeats was veteran
Edgeworth David, of Sydney. Miss Joske’s
chiffon frock of sands-of-the-desert hue was
topped with a bridge coat of sequins and
gold lace. Mrs. Behan wore over her rust-
red moire gown an Oriental embroidered
shawl. Bracken and warm-tinted chrysan-
themums and dahlias made a cheerful setting.
Mrs. George Thirkell launched Charles
Bryant’s show of marine paintings at the
Athenaeum Gallery. W. Sedon, of the Scdon
Galleries, who is directing the show, intro-
duced the lady and presented her with a posy
of violets and heath, which found an appi’o-
priate background in her bottle-green cloth
ensemble and felt .hat. The Maudsley lady,
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Myer, she in navy
blue with lynx fur necklet, the Hylton Dales
and many local wielders of the brush ex-
pressed appreciation of the Sydney artist’s
work, which includes some charming glimpses
of the Harbor.
The Uni. Symphony Orchestra’s concert at
the Town Hall on Saturday night was con-
ducted by Dr. Orchard, Director of the
N.S.W. Con., and deserved a bigger attend-
ance than it drew. Madame Joy McArden,
wearing a Grecian-like gown of vellum-tinted
satin with embroidery in gold and olive, a
bright green ribbon binding her golden hair,
sang the “Liebestod” from “Tristan and
Isolde,” and earned a regular garden of
blooms. Dr. Orchard was rewarded with a
laurel wreath, jauntily tied with rod and
white ribbon.
This should be mushroom time, but the
scarcity of rain has discouraged growth, and
it is an adventure to discover and capture
one. But hope springs eternal, and there
are frequently groups of parked cars outside
likely paddocks. The seekers take large
basktts, but usually these return empty. In
sporting circles they have a bob in, to be
won ,by the finder of the first mushroom, but
they usually have to play poker for the pot.
There was a social gathering at the
Y.W.C.A.’s Connibere Hall last week in the
interests of an appeal for £2OOO to carry on
certain activities of the association. The
president, Mrs. F. J. Cato, and the board of
directors gave the tea-party, at which Lady
Somers was a guest, receiving some choice
autumn flowers as welcome. Gen. sec. Jean
Stevenson sa*:d there were 100,000 young
women earning their own livings in Mel-
bourne, 29,000 of them being under 21. She
was able to show that the Y.W.C.A. was a
boon to many of these girls. Marjorie Black,
principal of Fintona Girls Grammar School,
gave an address on “The Girl of To-da*y,”
and Miss R. 11. Adamson and Elsie Bennett
spoke of the work of the association’s classes
and clubs. Mrs. John Smyth, vice-president,
the Masson lady, Mrs. Robert Knox, Dr.
Georgina Sweet, Mrs. Chester Manifold and
Mrs. Britomarte James were present.
Madame Joy McArdeu sang.
Molly Hammond Chambers, who has
become engaged in England to Richard Fort,
spent part of her youth in this land. Site
is a granddaughter of the late R. S. Whiting.
After marriage, her handsome mother, as the
wife of a naval officer, had experience of life
in many parts of the world. Miss Chambers
has a host of relatives in this city, including
Harry Whiting and Mrs. Geoffery Walker.
Her fiance’s family roof is in England and
probably she will settle there.
At the Assembly Hall one night last week
gum-trees framed the stage for Gertrude
Healy's fiddle recital. By the interval, most:
of the spare space on the platform was
covered with flowers. A large house greeted
the player, who was attired in creamy taffeta
brocaded In pink and gold flowers. Clear,
decisive tone and nimble technique marked
the violinist’s contributions. White-haired
Harold Smith, in addition to accompanying
Miss Healy, played some solos.
Bill Mclnnes has been commissioned to
paint the subscription portrait of Nellie
Stewart. It was hoped that Sweet Nell
would have commenced sittings during the
run of “Romance,” but the short season
prevented it. The member's of the organising
committee have sent an invitation to the
favorite to spend a couple of weeks in Mel-
bourne as their guest, in order that a start
may be made with the picture.
To add interest to the four o’clock tea,
bridge talks and other lecturettes are nowa-
days arranged. At on shop a.weekly dis-
course on “Food and Its Functions” is given
by Mrs. 11. A. Woodruff. The lecturer, who
is the wife of I’rof. Woodruff, is president
of the Emily McPherson College of Domestic
Economy, and was Inspectress of Domestic
Science under the Scottish Education De-
partment for many years.
At the Beaux Arts, Phyllis Sliillito, a
Sydney water-colorist and etcher, is giving
her first show in Melbourne. Miss Sliillito
was senior assistant mistress of design at
the Winchester Art School, and a founder
of the Winchester Society of Artists. After
three years of such service she joined the
Liverpool school, and nine years ago she
came to Australia*, commencing her “colo-
nial experience” by working at commercial
art in Brisbane. She is now an instructor of
design at the East Sydney Tech. Coll. The
exile is so far Australianised that she uses
the indigenous flora and fauna a*s motifs
in decoration, and finds material in the art
of the abo. as well.
Violet Parkinson, a pianist and teacher
who has made accompanying—a musical art
that is rather neglected-—her specialty, lately
added a B.A. to her Mils. Bac. Miss Parkin-
son has written several stories for children,
and is known on the air as accompanist for
3LO. She was at the piano for the radio
competitions directed by 3AR. She came
from Adelaide, where she was a student of
the Elder Con. under G. Reimann, gaining
the diploma for piano and the Frederick
Bevan prize. A scholarship brought her to
the Albert-street Con. in Marshall Hall’s
'time and she went to the Uni. Con. for her
degree in music.
The annual summing-up of the Arts and
Crafts Society was presided over by Mrs.
Oswald Syme, and satisfactory progress was
reported. Recently back from abroad, Miss
E. W. Syme spoke about French and other
craft-work. She has brought back a hundred
wood engravings from the recent show
of the Society of Wood-engravers of England.
Organist Mansley Greer’s widow recently
took a second plunge into matrimony. The
happy man is Hubert Roberts, a lawyer of
the Wimmera district.


LONDON.
THE FOUR HOTELS WHICH GUARANTEE
LUXURY AND REFINEMENT, WITH
CUISINE OF THE HIGHEST STANDARD.
ALL BEDROOMS HAVE RUNNING WATER
AND EXCHANGE TELEPHONES, GAS
FIRES AND CENTRAL HEATING,
PASSENGER LIFTS TO ALL FLOORS,
GARAGE AND NIGHT PORTER.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
90 Rooms. Terms from 4->] guineas.
Telephone 9901 Park (5 lines).
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
100 rooms. Terms from 4 guineas.
Telephone Padd. 9121 (3 lines).
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
75 rooms. Terms from 3J guineas. Double, 6 guineas.
’Phone Padd. 9712 (3 lines).
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
55 Rooms. Terms from 34 guineas. Double 6 guineas.
’Phone Padd. 8022.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT AND LANCASTER
COURT HOTEL ARE IDEALLY SUITED FOR
RECEPTIONS AND AT-HOMES.
The above are personally supervised by Mrs. J. E.
Stevenson. Keep these addresses for future references
and friends. X 142
VICHY
uMD
Mm i
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 13 1 for your reservation.
THE PASSAGE
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
“Why don’t you come over to Glenrowan for tennis?’ Lena asked.”
Synopsis : His father, Boh Cal-
laway, drowned at the bar of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough with the life, but slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
He resents the determination of his
mother (Anna) not to allow Hughie
to become a fisherman. But Hughie,
Lew admits to himself, has brains; it
is Hughie Uncle Tony calls when any-
thing is ivrong with his boat; so when
Kunkel offers Hughie a job at his store
Lew agrees that he should take it,
Anna is disturbed over Lew’s attach-
ment for Clem McNair, daughter
of a man who has made money out
of patent medicine, and has just sold
a large area of land on one side of
the Passage—to Osborne, a specu-
lator. Anna believes Clem, who
lives in the city, and comes to the
Passage only occasionally, is out of
Lew’s class. Lew’s diffidence, however,
prevents closer relationship, and Clem
returns to town intending to make a
career for herself.
CHAPTER VII ( Continued ).
THERE were always immediate issues
to keep Lew from thinking very
much about the future. Hughie,
working full time at the store now that
Kunkel’s wife had gone to town for her
operation, had plans for putting his extra
wages into new improvements. Why
shouldn’t they make their own ice instead
of bringing it laboriously from town? He
had been poring over catalogues as he stood
behind the counter, and knew the kind of
engine and plant that would be most suit-
able. Any chance of fiddling with an
engine always excited him and made him
stutter slightly when he talked, though
his mind was clear about the details as
a printed page.
“You c-could save the c-cost in a year,
Lew, and I’d look after it and keep it
running. It’s a mug’s game c-carting ice up
here and then sending it back to town. If
we had our own plant we could sell what
we didn’t use —there’s Kunkel and the
hotel.”
But Lew, slow and conservative, always
wanted time to think over an idea.
“Wait till next year, Hughie. We might
be able to manage it next year. Getting
near the end of the season now.”
He had none of Hughie’s faith that
money could be made by arranging this
thing or that in a better way. Patient,
slugging work was what he put his trust
in, and anything in the nature of a gamble
made him blink. So far he had carried
the family on his shoulders well enough,
and he was satisfied he could go on doing
it as long as he trusted to the strength of
his body rather than the quickness of his
wits. Fred and Marnie would soon be earning
their own living, as Hughie was already
doing: so that particular drain on the
family resources would be stopped. Mean-
while the mullet were still coming in, and
the agent’s prices were never less than ten
shillings a case. It was undoubtedly a good
year.
All winter the days glided smoothly into
one another, with a keen, bright air that
nipped the flesh on the sandbanks, and
Anna waiting with hot meals and dry clothes
when the men came in. She had forgotten
her little difference with Lew about
Hughie; she seemed to have reconciled her-
self to the idea of the boy working at the
store. Maternal devotion flowed from her
as she moved soft-footed about the table,
seeing that Lew’s steak was cooked the
right way, sending Dot scuttling off to the
store for his tobacco, inquiring anxiously
about the foot he had cut on a sharp shell.
For the time being it seemed unthinkable
. that she should ever set her will up against
his, or treat the interests of the others as
anything but secondary. He was the bread-
winner.
“Cold out there waiting for the tide,
Lew? Get your wet clothes off, and I’ll
have tea on the table as soon as you’re
ready.... Dot, run out to the kitchen and
get that flannel shirt drying in front of the
fire.”
“It’s all right, Mother. I don’t want a
change.”
“For God’s sake don’t talk like that,
Lew; you must be chilled to the bone.
I’ve been watching you and Tom out there
on the sandbank, and thinking I’d give any-
thing to get a billy of hot tea across to
you.”
When he had finished his meal, Lew
always sorted out a few records and lay
down on the sofa in his socks, turning on
the gramophone that brought the . same
satisfaction to him that the fiddle had done
to his father. Even the worn orchestral
pieces that he knew so well he could almost
whistle them through had a power oyer
him. While Dot struggled with her exer-
cises and Hughie pored over the last copy
of “Motor Mechanics,” he lay back with
his eyes closed in sensuous fatigue, seeing
and hearing more intensely than in the day-
light hours. The white wedge on the under-
side of the black swans’ wings as they flew
over, the silky swish of the making tide
on the shelly inner beach, the silver flash
of a fish’s belly as it turned for a moment
in deep water
CHAPTER VIII.
Lena Intrudes.
It was a morning of early spring. On a
strip of green near the jetty the men were
squatting mending their nets —Lew, the
Wiegerts, Tom Rahilly and Lamont the
oyster'man—while a little distance away
Uncle Tony lay on his stomach watching
them, his pipe in his mouth and his wind-
wrinkled eyes narrowed to thin slits. The
sun had a soaking warmth in it that brought
out mixed smells—tar, drying mullet-weed,
tea-tree in bloom, rotting fish—and the men
were drowsy from broken sleep. In the
middle of the Passage the withdrawn tide
had left the sandbanks dry and bare, and
a few pelicans waddled with absurd dig-
nity along the edge of the water-line, or
stood with their necks bent back and their
heavy bills sunk on their chests, gazing
down at their own fantastic images. Be-
side them, small, long-legged birds searched
busily for soldier-crabs, exploring every hole
and never taking their eyes off the sand.
The inner shores of the island beyond
showed in a white curve, the cliffs of sand
topped with the delicate green of salt-
grass.
“Things are going to change,” Uncle Tony
was saying. “Osborne’s cutting up all that
McNair land into pieces the size of a
vegetable garden. He’ll have it covered
with little tinpot bungalows before another
few years are out, an’ then God help the
fishermen! There’ll be people plugging
about the Passage in motor-boats, kicking
up a hell of a row all summer and leaving
a stink of oil wherever they go. Not a
spot where you follows can shoot a net
in peace.”
He grinned cheerfully, showing his broken
teeth, as if he were past being affected by
the change. He had been talking about the
early days of the Passage, boasting of how
he and Bob, as boys, had explored every
creek that led into it, searching the banks
for red cedar to be sold to the sawmillers,
and living for weeks at a time on what they
could win with line or gun. There was no
way of getting the fish to market then,
though the channels were alive with them,
so he and Bob had to scratch for a living
the best way they could, ferreting out things
that might have some commercial value.
But those were the days, after all! No
worry, and a whole empty countryside to
sprawl about in! A man didn’t look further
ahead than the next meal, and every day
closed at sundown.
He lay in the sun, his brown, bare legs
crossed behind him like the tail of a fish, and
his narrowed eyes fixed on Lew, who was
using his long wooden needle silently. There
was something that puzzled the old man
in the moody, dark face. Why did Lew
always seem to be chewing over his own
thoughts instead of laughing and cracking
jokes as his father had done? It wasn’t
like a Callaway to take life so seriously.
He himself had a cancerous growth gnaw-
ing into his vitals, yet he didn’t let even
Rachel know the truth.
“Yes, there won’t be a living here for
any man soon,” he repeated provocatively.
“Not without he hums round the visitors
looking for odd jobs fixing up windows or
taking them out in a boat. There’ll be
letters to the papers saying you fellows
are spoiling the sport of the people with
rods, and they’ll have inspectors down mea-
suring the size of your nets and seeing
you don’t, sell as much as a crab without
3j license.”
“That won’t hurt me,” said Rahilly, stop-
ping to roll a cigarette, “Never owned a
net since that spell in hospital six years
ago when I was stung with a stone-fish.
And it won’t hurt you, Tony. You’ll make
more money out of freights.”
Uncle Tony, grinned derisively.
“Like Hell! There’ll be a blasted com-
pany running a new service as soon as
there’s money to be made. Natty little
boats with cushioned seats for passengers
and a lot of gold paint plastered over them.
I don’t care. I’ve had a good spin, and
made enough to keep me going. It’s Lew
here who’ll get the worst bump. Getting on
your mind already, isn’t it, Lew?”
“On mine?” said Lew looking up.
“Haven’t thought about it for five minutes
on end.”
“What! And you with a face as black
as a wet shag whenever you a new
house going up among the tea-tree!”
“There’ll soon be an end of that. Every-
thing comes to a head. Anyway, none of
us are knocking out such a wonderful 1 nung
that we need be scared of getting robbed
of it.”
He was in a sullen mood. A fortnight
before Clem had written urging him to
come down to hear Geissmann, the violin-
ist, and keen anticipations of this trip had
colored his days as he moved about his
work, drying the nets and getting the fish
away. There had been an excitement in
Clem’s letter, an answering excitement m
his own blood. He had never heard good
music except on the gramophone, and the
very name of Geissmann had magic m it.
Deep chords sounded.in his ears; his feet
walked on air; he pictured himself sitting
in the crowded hall with Clem, both lean-
ing forward breathlessly, their eyes pricked
wide open, their hearts drawn out in the


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
<r
free pattern
EVERY WEEK
i
&
<7^
fi
eoree
TO
-the Paste with
the Oyster flavour
Made from the world-famous,
luscious Stewart Island
oysters. St George “OYSTO"
is a daintily flavoured oyster
paste that will provide, as a
relish dr for sandwiches, that
‘something different’ for which
you are eternally seeking.
Just try it. From all grocers.
Delicious Oyster Soup, too,
can be easily made from
‘OYSTO’ paste. Instructions
on wrapper.
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, New Zealand. 4
rhythmic waves. Intensity, the blotting out
of time! But when he casually told his
mother he was off to Brisbane there had
been such a blank look on her face that
something had closed in him like a clam.
Go away now while the fishing was so
good? she had protested. It was like throw-
ing money into the sea! If he wanted a
holiday, why not wait till the slack times
came?
It would have been simple enough for
him to have persisted in going, for the
season had been good, and he had money
in hand, but his own pride stood in his
way. He couldn’t confess that what tugged
at him was a passionate desire to hear a
violinist; it would be giving himself away
altogether. There was a part of himself
he was more shy of revealing to his mother
than to almost anyone; he would sooner
open up about his secret enthusiasms to
Uncle Tony even. Yet if he made no
explanation at all his mother would think
he was merely anxious to see Clem McNair
again. That would be nearly as bad! Not
true, either! It wasn’t the thought of
meeting Clem that excited him most, though
her eager words were ringing in his head:
“Come down, Lew, no matter what stands
in the way. You must, must, must!”
He went on mending a huge gap in the
net where a captured ray had slashed wick-
edly with the tiny saw in his tail, but the
darkness behind his eyes made his fingers
clumsy. That exasperating sense of being
in conflict with his mother had come back,
working up to the surface like a sharp
pebble in the lining of a sandshoe. How
was it she always fought to get the best
things in life for Hughie and Fred and
never considered him? When Fred wrote
home for money she never wanted to know
how he spent it: she would have melted
down her wedding-ring if she couldn’t get
what he asked in any other way! Yet-
when he himself talked of spending a few
pounds she made him feel as if he were
robbing the family of its last crust!
“Hullo!” said Uncle Tony. “Who’s that
riding up to the back gate? Some of the
Glenrowan people, ain’t it?”
Rahilly lifted his pale, bloodshot eyes
from the nets.
“That’s so. Young Lena and that sur-
veyor she knocks around with. After fish,
most likely. Any fish left, Lew?”
Lew muttered something indefinite as he
rose and slouched over to the shed. The
concert was not till to-morrow night, he
was thinking, and he still had time to sling
a few things together in a suitcase and get
Reardon to run him into the station in his
truck: but would he be able to justify
himself in his own mind afterwards? He
put two hands on the paling-fence and leapt
over, finding himself suddenly face to face
with a girl in a silk blouse and corduroy
riding-trousers, who had been trying to
attract someone’s attention at the back of
the house. For a while he stood still, look-
ing at her full-eyed and dumb.
“Hullo, Lew!” she greeted him. “Got
any mullet?”
He flushed at her easy use of his name.
They had never spoken to one another, so
far as he remembered, though he had seen
her often enough as a long-legged girl gal-
loping past with a rowdy party from Glen-
rowan for a day on the beach. And some-
times she had looked at him with that
frank stare of hers that always roused some-
thing in his blood. It was fixed on him
now, the blue, doll-like eyes having a baby-
ish look that contrasted oddly with her tall
figure and her assured voice. He felt a
queer pricking under his skin.
“Mullet?” he repeated. “It depends.
What did you want it for?”
“Oh, only for bait. Craigie and I have
just come over for a day’s fishing. At
least I’ll fish and Craigie will lie in the
sand and go to sleep like he always does.
How’s the fish, Lew? Any about?”
“A few. You might get some snapper
off the rocks. Or some sea-bream at the
mouth of the Passage.”
He threw the piece of wet sacking off the
box where he had the remaining fish in
ice, and Lena bent down and felt them
with her fingers. Through the open door
he could see Craig, the surveyor, sitting
on his horse, his felt hat pulled down over
his eyes and his knee drawn up over the
pommel as if he had settled himself for
a wait. The fellow was on a long job near
Glenrowan, Lew remembered. He had last
seen him at Sully’s Beach with Lena and
her brother on the day after Clem had come
back, and it had struck him then that Craig
was like one of the family. Lena had sorted
out three or four fish and was feeling in
her purse.
“How much’ll that be, Lew?”
“Nothing. Only for bait, isn’t it?”
“Yes, but Look here, my dear boy,
play fair. You’ll never keep your head
above water if you go on like that.”
“I’ll take the risk,” he said, reaching for
some paper. “I’m a pretty good swimmer.”
A lazy laugh sounded from her throat.
“Well, if you’re not the limit! You fisher-
men must be on velvet if you can afford
to give away something for nothing.”
“Oh, we don’t make a habit of it,” he
said. “Mostly we’re out after every six-
pence.”
He wrapped up the fish for her, but she
was disinclined to go. Her eyes darted
round the dark shed, fastening on this thing
and that, and a hundred questions seemed
to be jostling one another on the tip of
her tongue. What was the big fish with
the out-thrust jaw that was hanging in the
corner? How long were the nets he used?
Was he always sure of a haul when he went
out? She half-sat on the rickety table
near the door, swinging one leg and letting
her roving glance rest boldfy on his big
figure, from the curly hair to the bare feet.
There was not the slightest self-conscious-
ness about her, and she shot out her in-
quiries rather from general curiosity than
from interest in the thing before her eyes.
“Why don’t you come over to Glenrowan
for tennis?” she asked him when she was
going. “They’ve done up the coui*t now,
and it’s scrum. Craigie comes over pretty
often, but there’s never enough men. You
must have heaps of time on your hands.”
“Not too much,” he told her. “There’s
never enough hours in the day.”
“Oh, that’s what they all say. It’s dead
easy to make work. Dead easy, too, to
Hughie.
snavel a few hours off if you usS your
head You’ll come, won’t you? Yes,
I can see you will.”
There was a challenge in the look she
flung over her shoulder as she strode off
to where Craig was holding her horse, and
Lew returned to the group at the nets feel-
ing, for no reason sufficient to him, a defi-
nite lilt in the blood. Something in the
girl’s voice had made his mdses quicken,
and he listened inattentively to Uncle Tony
telling of Corny Lait’s find of whisky after
the Doris was wrecked off Rathbone
Island. He had never heard this Christensen
girl talk before; he had merely been
attracted by something a bit striking in her
coloring, the unusual blue of her eyes, the
mysterious whiteness of her skin. But her
voice was more exciting still! It was deep
like a man’s, but softer and richer, and her
laugh had overtones. He threaded his thick
needle through the net, and let the other
men’s talk flow over him unheeding.
Blue eyes that seemed to be looking over
fields of ice Skin whiter than the belly
of a mullet Laughter that bubbled out
with a low, gurgling 'sound like water from
a spring Why the devil was this Craig
always hanging round?
“Corny took one bottle and buried the
rest in the sand—a whole case of it,” Uncle
Tony was saying. “But when he went back
he was so fuddled he couldn’t find the
place. Must have shifted tons of sand with
his bare fingers, poor old fool, but no
luck! That’s over twenty years ago, but
he’s never got over it. Never will till he
pegs out.”
A little later when Lew went in, his
mother was ironing in the kitchen, but
she did not look up as he passed through.
There was the repressed look on her face
he was always conscious of when any dif-
ference had cropped up between them, and
the hair was falling over her hot eyes. On
the bed in his room were two or three
freshly-ironed shirts, and while he stood
looking at them she appeared at the door
with another, her eyes deliberately pre-
occupied as she examined the cuffs.
“I’ve got most of your things ready,”
she sa,id in a matter-of-fact voice. “You
won’t need to waste much time if you’re
going down -to-night.”
A touch of color showed under the tan
of Lew’s forehead.
“But I’m not going.”
Anna turned her back on him and began
to open one of the drawers.
“It’s for you to say. I didn’t want to
block you, Lew, if you were keen on going.
God, know you’ve been up to your neck
in hard work all winter.”
“Well, there’s more ahead yet,” he said
lightly. “No use easing up while the
going’s good! I can wait till some other
time.”
He didn’t know why the pressure had
relaxed on his mind, giving him a feeling
that it really would be a waste to go away
now while the mullet were in. Was it his
mother’s surrender that made it so easy
for him to yield without growling? Any-
how, he could wait. There would be other
violinists coining, and a trip to town was
no great matter, after all.
CHAPTER IX.
Hughie Takes the Wheel.
Something was happening to Hughie. It
wasn’t merely physical growth, though that
was surprising enough, and he looked almost
a man now that his chest was broadening
and his rather spindly legs covered by long
trousers. The thinness of his legs had
always been a worry to Hughie; they
seemed just sinew and bone, and were
never covered by the healthy tan that
marked those of Lew and the other fisher-
men. Then there was his voice, which had
cracked early, and sometimes evaporated
to a whisper when he most needed it. These
things had haunted him during his last
year at school, making him doltish and
awkward, inclined to tumble his words out
like blue metal from a dray, as Uncle
Tony said.
But since he had become attached to
Kunkel’s store, all this had been left be-
hind. His voice had resolved itself into a
manly baritone, and his manner was equal
to it. Except for the wide, likeable grin,
there was hardly a trace in him of the
bare-legged boy who had tracked through
the bush to the further beach a year before
to get sand-worms for the summer visitors
and then had been too shy to offer them
for sale. He had grown suddenly out of
his clumsiness and his Stutter. An alert
politeness shone frorti him as he stood
behind the counter, suggesting brands of
tinned food to casual customers, or whisked
to the telephone to assure the hotel on
the headland that its supplies of sugar
would be up by the next boat. He was
used to hearing old Kunkel say to the men
around":
>‘T’at Hughie got a head on him all right.
Learned the price of everyt’ing before he
been here a mont’. He knows more about the
business now than what I do.”
It was true enough—not the humorous
exaggeration Kunkel seemed to think it.
Hughie himself had no doubts about that.
He had begun to see through KunkePs pre-
tensions, and was quite aware that the old
man was incapable of achieving the order
and system he talked so much about. It
was the patient, heavy-footed Mina who
had kept a roof over his head all these
years, and now that she was away he was
always at a loss to get a meal for himself
and remember where he had laid his pipe
or his slippers. When he wasn’t reading
his paper at the front door he was hobbling
about the kitchen, nibbling at cheese and
biscuits, and speculating on how Mina man-
aged to keep ants out of the safe. In the
evenings he persuaded Hughie to stay late
and cook a bit of fresh fish for him.
“I’m no good at woman’s work,” he told
him. “Mina—she never let me waste time
in the kitchen. ‘You got plenty oder t’ings
to use your bead on,’ she always say.”
And while they sat over the meal Hughie
had cooked they argued about the other
things for which, in Mina's opinion, his
head was best reserved —strikes, the superi-
ority of the Nordic races, and the way
everything inclined to become topsy-turvy
in anew country where a man could sit
down at the table with the boss who
employed him, and women thought them-
selves nearly as capable as men.
“You t’ink dat any good?” Kunkel
demanded, peering through his glasses. “I
say no. A country run by women and
working men soon go down der hill. Unless
some day der powerful men wake right-
side up and roar like Hell: ‘Look here,
now, no more foolery! We’re boss here,
an’ we wear der heavy boot.’ ”
Hughie was a little at sea among these
speculations, but when the talk touched
on mechanics his eyes lost their absent
look. Even Kunkel’s jumbled collection of
facts about the size of the Assouan dam or
the speed of anew racing-car could interest
him and stimulate his mind. He was read-
ing voraciously for himself now, but the
piles of paper-covered novels on the coun-
ter only held his attention for a little
while: it was the flying and engineering
journals that really absorbed him. On the
warm afternoons, when Kunkel went to
sleep in his chair at the door, he would
stand half-sprawling over the counter, his
chin on his hands and his eyes busy with
models and diagrams; or he would lie
curled up in a corner of the living-room at
home, contrasting the different makes of
engines, while Dot did her exercise at the
table and Lew lay smoking on the sofa.
It was one more piece of evidence for Anna
that he ought to have been an engineer
like Fred. She hadn’t really grown recon-
ciled to his working at the store, though
the money he was paying for his board
made it easier to balance the family budget.
But there was no trace of a defeated
purpose in Hughie’s mind. He didn’t want
to go away: his ambitions, for the time
being, lay nearer home. One Sunday while
he and Lew were lying on the warm strip
of turf above Sully’s Beach, watching the
score of bathers in the surf, he said with
a jerky boldness:
“Say, Lew! Couldn’t manage to put your
hand on forty quid if you saw something
that was worth it, could you?”
Lew, who was chewing stalks of grass and
wondering whether the white flurry in the
surf a couple of hundred yards out was a
school of bonito and whether the girl in
the faded green bathing-suit was Lena
Christensen, turned a pair of quick eyes
upon him.
“I don’t know. Perhaps I could. But
what have you got in mind that’s worth
forty quid, Hughie?”
“That’s only part of the cash I’d want,”
Hughie told him. “I’ve got close on thirty
myself now Reardon’s thinking of get-
ting rid of his truck.”
“And he’s offered it to you? What the
devil would you do with it?”
There was genuine astonishment in his
voice. If Hughie had talked of buying an
elephant it wouldn’t have surprised him
more.
“Just what Reardon’s doing,” said Hughie
unperturbed. “I could drive the fish in,
for one thing. Now that Mother Kunkel’s
come back I won’t have a whole-time job
at the store any more, and I’d find plenty
ways of earning money with a truck.
Couldn’t go wrong, really.”
Lew said nothing. Hughie’s ceaseless
initiative was always a source of wonder
to him; he had no instinct for getting on
himself. Deep down in him there was a
hatred for any kind of ferment or change.
He liked his work to move with a slow
rhythm that gave him time to watch the
swans come flying up the Passage, or the
soldier-crabs marshalling their armies on
the sandbanks; and in his leisure he still
wanted to go on enjoying the world around
him aimlessly, without speculating how this
or that could be turned to account. But
there was a different urge of life in Hughie.
He couldn’t be happy unless he were shap-
ing future plans or making two wheels turn
where only one had turned before. On his
broad, freckled face, with its irregular fea-
tures, there was always the flicker of new
ideas chasing one another.
“Uncle Tony would put up the money.”
he said, “but I don’t want to go to him if
I can help it. He’d laugh, and gammon
he thought Reardon was selling me a pup,
(Continued on page 45.)


THE delicate charm of Eng=
lish Crystal made the art of
the old Stuart craftsmen tradu
tionaL To=day descendants
of those men produce for you
slass which generations to
come will venerate as the
work of old masters. The
registered name /V Stuart" is
stamped on every piece as a
proof of genuineness.
i
I
raMMt Wf
English Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass ii
sold
oiCHKW
19 * 4
0
Prepared
Ensure positive traction
for your car on muddy,
sandy roads . . .
Drive safely, without
skidding, on wet, slip-
pery pavements . . .
Carry always Weed
Tyre Chains, ready to
be put on when needed.
Look for the name
“Weed” on every hook.
Order from your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
8-6
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
il’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE COUNTRY GIRL
(Commencing next Saturday).
CRITERION: WHITE CARGO
(Commencing next Saturday).
1 WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GLADYS MONCRIEFF in,
THE MERRY WIDOW.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
THE HAWK,
With WM. FAVERSHAM, ANN DAVIS
and Special Company.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHITE & EDGLEY’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
SO THIS IS LOVE.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
JOHN GILBERT in
HIS GLORIOUS NIGHT
(All Talkie Conditional Picture).
AND
BROADWAY SCANDALS,
With SALLY O’NEIL.
All Talking, Singing and Dancing.
WHO HATES
THE JOB OF
DISHING UP?
N° need to say just who —
no need to do the job!
CARLTON" OVENWARE
is fashioned for oven and
table use, and, quite different
to other ovenware, is guaran-
teed not to crack in oven use,
though a cold, luet cloth be used
in handling the heated disk!
jCarllon
Ovenware
mm
Price of Oval Casserole, 17Ji
Price of Pie Dish, 8/6
FREE Illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stow Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SON PTY., LTD.,
328 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Smedley Service,
Position Wanted.
REFINED young lady (23) desires posi-
tion companion ; teach children to sixth-
class standard; or as subsidised school-
teacher. Refs—M.J., c/o Bulletin.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 70 of 1930.
BETWEEN HENRY JAMES WALKER of Erina
near Gosford Petitioner.
And BERTHA ADELIA WALKER (formerly
Bertha Adelia Draeger) his wife Respondent.
To BERTHA ADELIA AVALKER.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Henry James
Walker has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and has applied for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion without
iust cause or excuse for three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the sixteenth
dav of July one thousand nine hundred and thirty
and in the event of your not so doing within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this First day of May One Thousand mm
hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
D. C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
MAGNEY & MAGNEY, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
On Anzac Day the Governor took the
salute on the steps of the City Hall; it was
40 minutes before the last company passed.
Nearly 30,000 people gathered in the Botanic
Gardens for the Memorial Service. In the
evening the City Hall was packed for the
concert. Various luncheons were given to
the Diggers. There were over 1500 of them
in the quadrangle at St. John’s Cathedral,
where the baked meats were ready. A mar-
quee was lined with palms at St. Stephen’s,
and 700 feasted here. St. Andrew’s Pres-
byterian Church, Ann-street, had its quota,
and 500 went to the Methodist luncheon in
the Albert Hall. There was a Baptist lun-
cheon and a Salvation Army one, and the
Council of Jewish Women did their bit.
Edward Cahill and George Brooke drew
an audience of two or three thousand to
their concert in the City Hall, Jean Rigby
being the assisting artist. Their Exes, were
there, Archbishop Sharpe, the Mayor and
Mayoress and the Chief Justice and his
lady. George Brooke sang negro spirituals,
German lieder, a China flower song 1000
years old, and ditties in Spanish and French.
Eddie Cahill rendered Beethoven, Chopin,
Liszt, Brahms and a Russian march.
The first ball held in the new City Hall
(proceeds for the Anzac Memorial Fund)
was a brilliant affair. Lady Goodwin wore
cactus red. Colored lights from the dome,
changing from soft blue to rose and amber,
filtered down upon the damcers, and there
were card tables in the vestibules. Mrs.
Campbell was with Lady Goodwin, wearing
pastel-tinted lace. Mrs. Jolly was in apri-
cot, Mrs. A. E. Moore in cyclamen-mauve
and Chief Justice Blair’s lady in cinnamon.
Fifty years ago Thomas Henry Fitzgerald
navigated a whaleboat up the Johnstone
river. Another whaleboat with another
Fitzgerald, a son of the old pioneer, took
the same voyage this week. The first expedi-
tion, to Innisfail, carried stores up to the site
of the town. The first crushing by Innisfail
sugar mill was in 1881; Fitzgerald planted
a tree in honor of the pioneers. At the
recent Jubilee celebrations Mines Minister
Atherton laid the foundation of a new wing
at the hospital and recalled the days when
his mother, going to the river for water, had
to be protected by an armed man.
Two newly-married pairs are Duncan
McWhirter and Marion Hancock, and J. A.
Tait. and Florence Esmee Smith. The
McWhirter wedding took place in the City
Tabernacle. The bride was in ivory taffetas
with a veil of Brussels lace. Jean Bell,
Edna Hancock, Dulcie Reid and Nancy
McWhirter ’maided in crocus yellow. Rowe’s
cafe saw the feasting.
The Tait wedding was at St. Thomas’s.
The bride was in ivory satin and a> Honiton-
lace veil. Elaine Smith and Lorna Craig
’maided in dawn-pink. Atcherley saw the
reception. The McWhirter couple leave by
the Ormonde for England. The Taits are
honeymooning on the South Coast.
Barbara Sisley was responsible for the
two-night, production of “Outward Bound”
by the Brisbane Repertory Theatre Society
at the old Cremorne. Outstanding per-
formers were Jim Pendleton, Dulcie Scott.
Cecil Carson, Edgar Smith and Kathleen
Radford.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A week of weddings followed upon Easter.
The nuptials of Nizza Sarell and Wilfred,
second son of Sir William and Lady Cam-
pion, were an afternoon affair in St. Mary’s,
followed by rejoicings in the King’s Park
Tennis Club pavilion. The wedding garment
of ivory satin with a sheen of apricot
beneath, fell into a short train. A snow-
drift of tulle formed a second train falling
from the shoulders and a sheaf of deep cream
roses bloomed amid the folds of the carrick-
macross veil. The three ’maids, bride’s
sister Barbara, Jessie Thomson and Ruth
Winslade, wore mushroom-pink frocks and
hats.
After the wedding congratulations, society
went home to slip into evening gear and
gather up a box of confetti for the marriage
of Kathleen Piesse and Edgar McKenzie
Grant. St. George’s Cathedral was the venue.
The bridal gown was of beautifully cut
white moire with a fitting corsage and a
fishtail train emerging from the two deep
flares of the skirt. Attendants Moosie But-
cher and bridegroom’s sister Jean wore
Juliet caps of interlaced pearls, from which
fell tulle veils to the waists of their white
taffeta frocks. Toasts and dancing were
staged at the Esplanade.
A further tryst of the week was kept by
Peggy Connor and Hugh Banger in St.
Mary’s. Georgettes of the palest shell-pink
fashioned the bride’s picture frock with its
undulating flares and tight-fitting bodice. A
flesh-pink foam of tulle formed her veil.
Two ’maids, Cecile Scott, in ivory and pink
georgettes, and Grace Stapleton, in patterned
blues, walked behind the bride.
To have sandwiches handed you by a
king and be proffered cigarettes by dukes
was the privilege of a sprinkling of Perth
folk on the evening of Shakspeare’s birth-
day. The Allan Wilkies sent out the invita-
tions and received the guests on the stage
of His Majesty’s, after the presentation of
“Henry VIII.” It was a merry informal
party, and costumes and greasepaint added
to its attractions. The guests included Molly
Icb, who renewed old acquaintances made
when she was with the co., Dr. and Mrs.
McWhae, Prof, and Mrs. Ross, Miss Elsie
Pittard, H. A. Corbet and daughter Frances,
and the John Le Tessiers.
P. and O. gmcl Orient scholarships for 1930
went to Coralie Clarke, 8.A., Olive Web-
ster and A. M. Stewart, B.Sc.
Lovers of etchings will be repaid by a peep
at J. S. Gill’s exhibition on the third floor
of Goldsbrough House. Victor Cobb, E.
Warner, J. C. Goodh’art and John Shirlow
are represented, and the Norman Lindsays,
prominently hung, can be viewed with safety
by elderly maiden aunts. The only examples
of brushwork are scenic bits by J. W. Roach.
The dawn service on Anzac Day was
impressive in its silence. No words inter-
rupted the prayers of those who com-
memorated the heroism of their loved
ones 15 years ago., There were beautiful
and costly wreaths side by side with wee,
home-gathered posies on the steps of the
Cenotaph, and a bugler played “The Last
Post” and “The Reveille.” After the boom of
a solitary gun it seemed as if all the feath-
ered creatures in King’s Park started twit-
tering.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There was a large attendance at the Tat-
tersall’s Club meeting at Victoria Park. Mrs.
P. J. Flannagan, wife of the chairman,
wore a black satin cloth ensemble with a
black velour hat and fur. The f rocking
was various; some were in chiffons, others
in fur coats. Mary was a lucky name for
punters, Mary Spa and St. Mary both return-
ing over £2O to their backers.
The college chapel at St. Peter’s has fur-
nished the background for two weddings.
At the first Betty Phillips and Max Taylor
were the contracting parties; at the next
special interest attached to the entrance into
wedlock of John Hill and Lilian Henderson.
The bridegroom was a house-master at the
college, and the college rowing club in their
Lido blue blazers raised a canopy of oars
from the chapel to the motor. The bride
is as popular as she is pretty. The couple
motored to Melbourne for their honeymoon.
Brides and debutantes seem to be begin-
ning to fight shy of the orthodox pure white
for their dash into matrimony or the world.
The second of the abovemen tioned brides
cnose a parchment shade of chiffon; the first
was in white over yellow. A number of
young things who will debut at the Burns-
Cumings dance this week favor green, pink
and buttercup.
The Hunt Club Ball this year is to be held
on Wednesday, July 2, before the Cup meet-
ing at Cheltenham. It is always a popular
affair, the hunting set with the scarlet coats
and hair poudre having a special appeal for
feminine hearts.
The English-Speaking Union held its
first afternoon-tea of this season at the
club rooms, North-terrace. Mesdames Ernest
Good and Bronte Smeaton were the host-
esses.
There was a big gathering of members at
the Lyceum Club to welcome back their pre-
sident, Mrs, C. Todd, who with her sister-
in-law, Miss Lorna Todd, has just returned
from a trip to England. Mrs. Todd related
her experiences of the Lyceum Club in
London.
Mrs. N. P. Booth, shown in this McCauffic
picture, left a
big gap among
her friends
when she and
her husband,
the genial
director of
Cadbury’s, left
for a trip to
the Cold Couji-
t r y. M r s.
Booth’s activi-
ties arc many,
both social and
philanthropic,
and she has
done invalu-
able work in
the little
centre at
Claremont.
Mr. and Mrs.
Booth were
both members
of the Bir-
mingham Repertory Society when in Eng-
land, and have been pillars of the same body
in Hobart. They expect to return in the
spring.
The marked personality of Carillo makes
a worth-while evening out of the quite
moderate “Lombardi” play at Adelaide
Royal. The city’s other main attraction is
becoming a marathon: a Chamber of Manu-
factures exhibition, besides being interesting
as a show, teaches the crowd how its own
land can produce very nearly all it needs.
The show’s run must make others envious.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
General regret was felt throughout the
island at Governor O’Grady’s sudden and
serious illness. All official engagements had
to be abruptly cancelled, and the patient
spent his Eastertide in bed. It is satisfac-
tory to know that his Ex. is now steadily
improving.
There was perfect weather for all the
Easter fixtures. The various camps were
held in sunshine, with warm nights and no
rain, while the race meetings attracted good
attendances.
Gina Constance, number two of the Percy
Harrisson girls, of Newstead, walked down
the aisle of the Church of the Apostles,
j.aunceston, as Mrs. Bede Percy Dove. She
wore a frock of gold taffeta and georgette,
sleeveless, and made with an enormous
“bustle” bow, which flowed out into long
ends. The veil was of gold tulle, and the
bouquet a sheaf of blue delphiniums. Sister
Joan was the sole ’maid, in a charming frock
of apple-green moire velvet. The bride went
away in nigger brown reversible satin under
a wrap of moire velvet.
The Brighton Jockey Club’s Easter meet-
ing at Elwick was a cheery gathering, especi-
ally for the punters who were on the £22
dividend. The women looked particularly
well in their autumn and winter rigs, the
warm dahlia reds, dark greens and browns
making a good background for the fur gar-
nishings, which are.more popular than entire,
fur coats nowadays. A good many northern-
ers were present and a sprinkling of main-
land visitors.


ŵ
Poor Sydney! Poor Melbourne!
Cheer up. Rich Broken Hill will
help you! £40,000 weekly paid in
wages. £2,000,000 a year! Get
some of it by using
“THE BARRIER MINER.”
The Strong Daily Paper.
ẁ
ẃ
Certain-teed
Hexagon
Shingles
The use of Certain-teed Asphalt Hexagon Shingles on Gables and Roofs
provide a very effective means for the Weatherproofing of the Home, and
the attractive appearance they add to the building is much appreciated by
lovers of beautiful homes.
Certain4eed
Battleship
Linoleum
Certain-teed Battleship Linoleum is a resister of heavy traffic and is easy to
keep clean. It is a floor covering used extensively on the floors of big
buildings and on the deck of big ships. It is obtainable in Granite Inlaid and
in soft tones of Brown, Blue and Green.
Certain-teed
Cork
Carpet
ẅ
and that he’d be throwing his money down
a hole. And he’d chiack me every time I
had a breakdown. But the truck’s a bar-
fair dinkum one —and I could pay
it off inside a year. Reardon wouldn’t be
parting with it only he’s going up north.
Got a chance to buy into a sugar-farm with
his brother.”
“But you can’t handle it,” protested Lew.
“Haven’t got the strength on. those hilly
roads, apart from the knack of the thing.
“Oh, ring off, Lew! I’m nearly as good
as Reardon at handling it now—better at
fixing anything that goes wrong. Me and
him went out to Glenrowan the other Sun-
day, and I brought it all the way back on
my own.”
Lew hesitated. It was the first time he
had been able to put by money, and what
little he had in the bank was a safeguard
against a lean season. But it certainly was
wasteful to go on paying so much in freight,
and if Hughie owned the truck they could
work in together.
“All right,” he said. “Looks a bit of
a gamble to me, but if you think you can
make a do of it I’ll have a word with
Reardon to-morrow. You know better than
I do what it’s worth, though.”
They sauntered together down to the
bathing beach, and he noticed for the first
time that Hughie’s shoulders were nearly
on a level with his own. It was odd, this
sense of the boy catching him up, perhaps
leaving him behind. He had for so long
been accustomed to think of himself as
the mainstay of the family that it had be-
come fixed in his mind as something per-
manent, a condition of his life; but here
was young Hughie getting ready to take
part of the load off his back! And there
would be other changes soon. Marnie was
coming home for good at the end of the
year, and Fred was talking of finding a
billet on one of the sugar-boats going up
the coast.
The news that Hughie had bought Rear-
don’s truck caused quite a flutter of interest
among the fishermen, and the boy had to
submit to a running fire of banter, the
whole crowd gathering round him when he
first brought his purchase down the hill and
drew up on the green.
“God spare me days, you don’t expect
us to send our fish away on that thing, do
you, Hughie?” said Dave Wiegert. “Why,
it’ll rattle itself to pieces before you get
in on your first trip: Held together inside
with fencing-wire, ain’t it? Didn’t you know
Reardon only wanted to get rid of it because
he’d got the last mile out of?”
“The cop in at Eumerella’ll nab you when
you turn up at the station,” grinned Albert.
“Take you off to a home for strayed child-
ren. You’ll never put it over him that
your mother let you go out alone in that
thing.”
“Better insure it, Hughie,” said Larnont,
the oysterman. “You’ll get your money
back in a week or two.”
But Hughie only smiled at their humor
in his shy, self-contained way.
“Those blokes are mighty good at poking
mullock,” he told Lew, “but they won’t be
too proud to cadge a ride up to the pub
or the post office.”
He was happy as he steered the truck
in through the gate and covered it with
a tarpaulin. In the evenings when, the
others had gone to bed he could be found
fidgeting about it with a lantern, crawling
underneath it and trying to locate a slight
knock in the engine. The only thing that
troubled him was Uncle Tony’s disappoint-
ment with the venture. It appeared that
McEvoy had had his eye on him for some
time, and definitely wanted him as offsider
on the boat.
“Now that’d be something like a life
for 3mu, Hughie,” said Uncle Tony. “No-
thing to do but sprawl about the deck and
see the engines were running smooth. Why,
you’d learn enough in a year to be able to
run the boat down yourself. Sooner spend
your days on the water, wouldn’t you, than
muck about on shore?”
Hughie was evasive.
“I don’t know, Uncle Tony. Perhaps I’ll
give it a fly if anything goes wrong with
the truck.”
But he was quite definite in his own mind.
He didn’t particularly like the water, and
he had no ambition to be offsider to
McEvoy, who was cranky and explosive,
prickly as a sea-egg, old Tom said, and
inclined to take it out of everyone around
him if the boat grounded on a sandbar or
anything went wrong with the engine. The
truck promised independence, a life of his
own. He was quite satisfied with what he
saw opening up ahead of him.
There was more than the usual amount
of building going on that summer, and no
sooner had he started on the roads than
jobs came chasing him. He still brought
Kunkel’s stores from the boat and went
round with his orders, but there was other
and more paying work on every side. When
lie took Lew’s fish in to the station he
rarely had to return with an empty truck.
A couple of new houses were going up near
the hotel at the headland, and there was
sawn timber to be carted from the mill, as
well as roofing and general building material
from the station; and the truck that had
stood idle in front of the hotel for days
on end when Reardon owned it soon be-
came a conspicuous feature of the sandy
road. Every journey was a joy-ride to
Hughie, and as he clattered down the rutty
hills with a full load or gave Dot and the
Wiegert boys a ride home from school, his
flushed and radiant face seemed to be assur-
ing everyone that he had come into his
“This is life!” the flickering eyes said.
“I’ve got hold of the wheel of it now.”
And Kunkel, watching him through his
glasses from the door of his shop, said with
complacency:
“T’at Hughie all right—by Hell, yesl I
know all the time he make good when I
give him a start. Wort’ all the Callaways
rolled into one, I tell Mina.”
Indeed everyone seemed to have a good
word for Hughie, and to wish him well.
He was sunny; there was never any of the
unaccountable moodiness in him such as
made them sometimes think twice about
giving Lew a greeting. And yet how com-
petent and responsible he was! Even the
builders, who at first were disinclined to
trust their loading to a boy of his age and
used to ask how he got his license, began
to treat him like a man. Everyone knew
how much the truck had cost him, and how
keen he was to pay it off in the first year.
"He’ll get on, young Hughie,” they said.
“He’s got it in .him.”
“That’§ right. Not too much of the sea-
slug about him like there is about some
of them Callaways. It’s up to us to give
him a lift.”
Without being conscious of it, Hughie hac.
a knack of making any success of his theii
affair, almost their responsibility. They
shared old Kunkel’s satisfaction in the feel-
ing that they were putting him on his feet.
Lew, who had often brooded over the
fact that it was by his will Hughie had
been kept at home, felt a sharp pleasure
now in watching the boy whirling round
in his truck. In his slack times, when there
was very little fishing to be done, he rode
about with him and gave him a hand with the
hejivy loading. He was proud of Hughie,
always glad to be in his company. And
he was hopeful that his mother would real-
ise now that he had been right about the
boy. That slight withdrawal he felt in
her hurt him, drove him back On himself,
prevented him being boisterous and light-
hearted in the home, even with Dot.
Though his mother was thoughtful about
his comfort and attended to all his wants,
he was aware of a secret grudge buried deep
in the core of her. She wasn’t quite as
playful or at ease with him as she had been
once, never asking him to come for a stroll
along the shorefront with her before he
turned in, or joking about Rachel’s little
fads when they sat up after the others had
gone to bed.
Sometimes at meals, when Hughie was
talking in an excited way of how he had
cut down the time from the station, or
what one of the builders had said about
his skill in negotiating bad patches of road,
Lew’s eyes sought his mother’s as though
to say:
“There, you see! Hasn’t it turned out
for the best, after all?”
But he never got quite the answer he
wanted. Her dark eyes had a film of heavi-
ness over them, as if she were deliberately
nursing her sense of frustration.
“Hughie would get over any snags put
in his way,” they seemed to say. “Nothing
could keep a boy like that down. He’s
the hope of the family, Hughie is.”
(To be continued next week .j
Dedication.
To her the subtle and the sleep-inspired
Pale moon that makes my mind a passive
sea,
To ebb, to rise, to surge, to sw’eep, to sing,
To do her soft-voiced bidding utterly.
Let the suave flute sough soft, dream duskily,
Faint notes of velvet falling pleasantly,
To her the subtle and the sleep-inspired!
To her the sombre and the mystic-eyed,
Walking in her own hell of morphous
night;
Scented and soft with dark calamity,
Sullen with shadow, strange with sorcery.
The air is thick and sweet. Fatality
Ha*ngs like an incense. Thin and bleak the
light.
O Thou the sombre and the mystic-eyed!
We in an occult marriage of dreams forlorn
Sob with the ’cello, wail with the whimp’ring
horn.
N.S.W
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
At Dawn.
A while since, when dawn lights
Shone dove-grey and red,
I woke from deep slumber
And drowsily said, .
“My good horse bestriding,
To-day I’ll go riding,”
And tossed off my blankets and rose from
my bed.
I made my horse ready,
My good iron-grey, '
And then free to wander
With none to say nay,
My foot in the stirrup,
I heard a bird chirrup,
And mounted and galloped away and away.
And now through the dawn lights
I’m galloping on,
Glad that the silence
Of night-time has gone;
For, as I go speeding,
Sweet thrushes I’m heeding,
And maybe I’ll hearken a lyre-bird anon.
As swift through green places
Goes my iron-grey,
To me wakened Nature
God-speed !” seems to say—
“ Rose lights and lights pearly
He sees who rides early,
So gallop, and gallop away and away.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


GENERAL MOTORS AUSTRALIA ANNOUNCES
IMPORTANT IMPROVEMENTS
«*CHEVROLET SIX
but not one change in the fundamentals which
have made it Australia’s outstanding motor car value
Once again Chevrolet demon-
strates the extent to which it
leads the field—once again General
Motors Australia makes an
announcement of vital interest to
the cause of better motoring.
Important improvements have
been made in Chevrolet —the car
which last year impressed a
sophisticated motoring world with
its daring departure from estab-
lished convention —with its dis-
regard for accepted practice—in
the interests of the car buyer,
novice and expert alike. It was a real achievement to produce
a Six like the Chevrolet —an even greater one to produce it in
the price range of the four.
Chevrolet never has subscribed to the belief that low price
is the essential in a low-priced car. Instead, it has always
been the Chevrolet policy to provide really satisfactory
motoring, at the lowest prices consistent with true values.
And in thus gauging the trend of motoring—in thus fore-
casting what the public wants —Chevrolet has year after
.a
m
mi.',
Illustrating the
Chevrolet Six
Club Roadster.
The Chevrolet Six is available in two series—the
Suburban series, with disc wheels, and the' Club
series, with five wire wheels, meeting every
requirement with seven body styles.
year given evidence that its
policies were sound, and that
the public was solidly behind
every movement to increase the
standards of value in cars of low
price.
Last year Chevrolet left tradi-
tion far behind. The introduction
of the Chevrolet Six marked the
end of the era of mere transporta-
tion —and ushered in the new type
of economical transportation,
which at low cost provided refine-
ment, comfort, and quality—and
performance which only a minimum of six cylinders can give.
And now, Chevrolet incorporates important improvements
in the Six which so far out-distanced the field. These
improvements and refinements affect every factor in which
the motorist is interested —and they establish more definitely
than ever the fact of Chevrolet leadership. Now more than
ever there is one outstanding car in the low-price range :
Chevrolet has buttressed even more strongly its position
as the one car in this class which is unapproached in value.
w
Check!
The Six-cylinder Engine.
- Automotive engineers have
made tremendous progress
in the past few years in engine design.
Chevrolet’s great six-cylinder, 50 horse-
power, valve-in-head engine reflects
this progress. It combines with every
desirable feature the assurance of con-
tinued satisfactory performance made
possible only by the use of the finest
materials and workmanship throughout.
A special high-compression combustion
chamber gives faster acceleration,
higher speed, and more power—with
the economy for which Chevrolet is
famous.
Check!
Beautiful Body Styling.
The fineness of design and
workmanship characteristic
of Chevrolet is clearly shown in the
all-Australian bodywork. There are
two series, seven types in all —from
which your choice can he made. All
of them are pleasing—comfortable—
and generously proportioned for ample
accommodation. The Chevrolet wheel-
base is 107". Hence Chevrolet design
is far better-looking. Its interiors far
roomier—and a glance will show you
that in equipment and appointments
it is definitely superior.
CHECK these VALUE FEATURES
{Check![
The Brakes.
The high speeds and fast
acceleration of which the
Chevrolet Six is capable demand that
the brakes he powerful, positive, and
certain in their action. The improved
Chevrolet Four-wheel brakes give the
driver complete control of the car in
any traffic situation. The emergency
brake system is entirely separate, and
is operated by the hand brake lever.
These brakes are fully enclosed, internal
expanding mechanically operated type,
and they are water-proof, front and
rear.
Jk\\\
1
a
I
m
Ml
Check!;
New Wheels and Tyres.
The wheels on the Improved
Chevrolet Six have been
slightly decreased in diameter and the
tyre diameters increased to correspond.
This modification gives the entire car a
fleeter, racier appearance, and larger
tyres give the thoroughly practical
advantage of greater comfort and
roadability. The Club Series of the
Chevrolet Six is equipped with five wire
wheels as standard. The Suburban
Series has disc wheels as standard.
ŵ
Check !
The Vision-ventilating
Non-glare Windscreen.
This improved windscreen is a Chevrolet
safety feature on the enclosed bodies-
It is so designed that the light from
headlamps of motor cars approaching
from the rear is reflected downward
away from the driver's eyes. This
gives clear vision of the road ahead at
all times, and makes night driving
safer. The windshield glass is raised
and lowered from the driver’s seat by
means of a regulator easily worked with
one hand. It automatically is secured
in anv position, and gives any degree
of ventilation desired.
ẁ
Two-beam Headlamps.
Here is another aid to night-
driving comfort. Instead of
dimming your lights you change the
angle of the light beam away from the
eyes of drivers of oncoming cars. You
can be courteous without the danger of
dim headlights. The angle of the beam
is controlled by a foot switch located
at the left of the clutch pedal. Both
your hands remain on the steering
wheel, and you control the lights with
a slight pressure of the foot.
Check !
The Instrument Panel.
The driver’s compartment of
the Chevrolet Six is com-
plete in every detail. A new petrol
gauge mounted on the instrument panel
enables you to read, without leaving
the driving compartment, the amount
of petrol remaining in the safety petrol
tank at the rear. All the usual instru-
ments are there —speedometer, oil
gauge, ammeter, water temperature
indicator, together with buttons for
lights, throttle, spark, and choke.
There is also a safety combination
ignition switch and lock. _ The instru-
ment panel is indirectly lighted. The
horn button is conveniently located at
centre of steering wheel.
ẃ
Check!
Greater Riding Ease.
Riding comfort has been
improved by the use of self-
adjusting spring shackles. The two
side plates are constantly in tension,
and the shackles are provided with
alemite fittings leading into an oil
reservoir, which makes
frequent lubrication
unnecessary. Hydrau-
lic shock absorbers also
contribute to increased
riding comfort, ensur-
ing the elimination of
road shocks.
ẅ
The ONE car in the low-priced range which is unapproached in VALUE
Built in Australia by GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
Metropolitan Distributors:
METROPOLITAN MOTORS LTD.
Adelaide Street
BRISBANE
john McGrath ltd.
155 Elizabeth Street
SYDNEY
STOKOE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
559-565 Elizabeth Street
MELBOURNE
CITY MOTORS LTD.
95 Waymouth Street
ADELAIDE
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street
PERTH


w
ŵ
ẁ
Food
Keffd. Thadb Mask.
fretful
backward—delicate !
I have a home for young
and delicate children and
every fresh child which
comes under my care is at
once put on a diet of
Benger’s Food, for I find
that by far the best food
I have ever tried.”
— Matron.
Write jor booklet to <BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
AN HISTORICAL SPECULATION.
JOHNSON (gazing upward at the coat of arms on Sydney Town
Hall): “‘I take but I surrender’! What the dooce does
that mean?”
JOBSON: “Well, you see, it was just this way. The first alderman
was an unsuccessful bushranger.”
It happens any day, any Sydney tram —
or on any other tram, for that matter. First
of all an innocent young female comes in
and sits down with a modest smile as if
there were something amusing in the mere
fact of her presence in that particular spot.
Then she settles her dress, and puts herself
to rights generally, and smiles a great glad
smile that suggests the reflection of the morn-
ing sun on the bright glass-eye Of day. By-
and-bye the conductor asks for her fare,
and she finds it in the nethermost bowels of
her pocket, and as she fishes it out from that
receptacle she smiles some more with a look
of Christian resignation as if she were
resolved to bear up against all manner of
affliction, and when ho hands over the
change her face lights up with a smile of
joyous intelligence as if she had been stag-
gered by a great inspiration. After a while
she smiles over again because she finds she
has to get out at the next corner, and
when the tram stops she smiles because, it
has stopped, and as she gets out she trips
on her dress and screams in an engaging
sort of a way, and then she smiles on
general principles, and when the tram starts
she smiles for no reason in particular, and
finally she trots away still smiling. And
meanwhile the other female passengers
have their souls filled with murder, and long
to heave her into the street on account of her
smile. Somehow she aggravates them.
A medium has induced a widower to entrust
him with £BOO for transmission to the spirit
world. It seems that tin' husband waited
upon the medium a while back, desiring him
to rap up poor dear Maria and ask how she
was getting on since her death, whereupon
Maria replied that her general health was
good, but she was terrible badly off for
“things.” With a wardrobe limited to one
shroud, and that worn almost to tatters,
she had no sort of a show, said Maria,
against the other lady-spirits of her set, who
were in the habit of promenading round the
Jasper Sea in cos-
tumes copied from
Mrs. Potter’s, and
never thought of
going for a drive
through Heaven in
the same figured
muslin they wore
last time. Further-
more, Maria ex-
plained that all the
best-bred spirits had
their wings silver-
gilt and sported a
good deal of jewel-
lery and silk stock-
ings, not to men-
tion soft, clinging
underwear. Under
these circumstances
there was nothing
left for the be-
reaved husband! bug
to hand cheques to
the medium, who
duly wafted ’em to
the eternal regions
and got messages
back on the good
old slate; “Money
to hand. Please
send another lot
on Monday next.—
Yours as usual,
Maria.” Some-
times the lady
slated up a milli-
ner’s bill for the
bereaved husband
to settle, and every-
thing went on
smoothly until he
received a thump-
ing account for
carpets, which
aroused his suspi-
cions and caused
him to take pro-
ceedings against the
medium. At latest
dates we read, “an
interesting trial
was expected,” but
as the medium
always produced
receipts for cash,
and the wife can
testify to his bona
fides on the slate,
a verdict for de-
fendant with costs on the higher scale is
tolerably certain to ensue.
A young Englishwoman, only four months
married, has committed suicide because she
didn’t know how to keep her house properly.
She left a letter asking her husband to
marry some other girl who will know how
many beans make five. How different to the
young Australian matron, who tells Adol-
phus to cook the dinner himself, and then
bits him across the head with the baby if
he mildly suggests that steak is all the better
for being “done through.”
There are a good many ways to make
money. One of them is to be a fasting man
in a cheap show; and another is to run a
cannibal expedition in Africa, and ea«t the
astonished native girl, and then come back
and lecture about the performance; and a
third is to be a land-boomer and sell an
inaccessible mountain top to a building
society. But a lady in Maoriland has
HE NEARLY ALWAYS WON.
WIFE: “What is necessary to make a successful nap-player, my dear?”
HUSBAND ( thoughtfully): “Well, a man must be cool, calculating, crafty, deceitful,
selfish, sly and have a touch of meanness in his disposition.”
WIFE ( shocked ): “I shouldn’t think you could care to play with such people.”
HUSBAND: “Oh, I almost always win!”
improved on these. She published an adver-
tisement setting forth that a dark-haired
and truly affectionate maiden of 18, with
bright eyes and a private income, desired to
make the acquaintance of a good-looking,
gentleman for the usual purpose, and 22
individuals at once concluded that she was
some wealthy squatter’s daughter and wanted
to elope, and wrote stating that they were
the sort of person inquired after. Then she
sent them all a photo of an angel with a
rosebud mouth, and asked for enough money
to pay her passage to town, as her property
was still in the hands of her trustees. Ten
of the crowd backed out, but the other 12
sent the coin and made 12 separate appoint-
ments at the railway station, where, unhap-
pily, the dark-haired creature with the large
private income altogether failed to turn
up. In fact, she never turned up, but
inquiries being made at the post office to
which the money had been sent, it transpired
that the orders' had all been cashed by an
elderly person with a countenance like a
hidden crime, and that she had promptly
left the district with the loot. The story
closes just here.
A bright and shining intellect which runs
a certain small penny shriek in London has
started an art union in which the leading
prize is a good-looking lady—the same to
be married to the winner at the cost of the
paper, and the joyous pair to receive £lOO
a year afterwards. How the lady will feel
when she is given away to the bow-legged
dwarf who can’t read is a point which is
left unexplained; and how he will express
himself when he comes to ta«ke delivery of
his seraph and finds an elderly spinster
with goggles, and what they will both remark
when the paper bursts and stops the annuity,
and who will pay the divorce expenses, and the
awiul way they will curse the editor after-
wards a*re things that had better not be
inquired into.
Henry Lawson, the poet, dropped in at
The Bulletin office for a moment last
Saturday just to mention that all the stories
about how Chinese cooks take cake-icing into
their mouths and then blow it across the
cakes were quite true, as he had seen ’em
do it at a hotel on the western line.
Mr. Herbert Reynolds, a very shining light
amongst English dissenters, writes in a* melan-
choly strain to the effect that the present
Sunday-school system has been a failure,
whereas every close observer of such matters
knows that it has proved an unqualified
success up to now. Without Sunday schools
life would be a dreary waste for hundreds of
weak-kneed young men, who find a bond ot
sympathy in" the interesting legend of Jonah
and the whale. Ruth and Obadiah look on
Bible-classes as stepping-stones to co “ rt '
ship. For these young people, Sunday
schools, with the picnics appertaining there-
to, serve as outlets for sanctified giddiness.
just as balls and carpet darnces fill a long-felt
want in more earthly circles. Ruth’s secret
yearning for the masculine liug is every bit
as strong as that of her frivolous cousin
Ethel, but whilst the latter likes a gentle
squeezing to the accompaniment of dance-
music, the former prefers that Obadiah shall
hum a hymn-tune during the ceremony. So
Ruth takes a Sunday-school class, and in
due course Obadiah comes along, in a hesi-
tating sort of way, with his first kiss of
Christian love. Even if the osculation be
only of a brotherly character it gets there all
the same. Apart from the opportunities they
offer for full-grown mashing, Sunday schools
are of inestimable benefit to children. The
missionary-box is a grand institution for
enabling little Tommy to substitute hard-
bake for heathen when disbursing his Sabbath
penny. “Be sure you put it in the box.
Tommy,’’ says his confiding mother. He does
put the penny in the slot and gets a cake
of toffee in return. Sometimes he gets a
cigarette. Sunday schools a failure! Rey-
nolds must be getting at us.
Hell hath no fury like a woman corned.
A man recently picked up a gaudy garter
on the stairs of a theatre and unthinkingly
thrust it in his pocket. Next morning on
waking up late with a somewhat large head,
he found a note pinned to the vacant pillow
that lay next his own, on which lay the
garter. It simply said: “At last I have
found you out. Why don’t you go to her
altogether, the shameless hussy? Off to
mother’s.”
A blushing young creature went into a
Brisbane chemist’s shop and stated that she
hankered after a toothbrush. The shop was
crowded, so the suave young man behind the
counter indicated a box with about two dozen
brushes in it. Then there was a long inter-
val which was broken at last by a fresh
young voice that stated: “Oh, I’ve tried
them all, please, and I like this one the
best. How much is it?” And she was quite
surprised to see how mad the suave young
man became, and how another woman, who
also wanted a toothbrush, backed out saying
that she would call in again in about 18
months.
A droll agitation is being aroused to
abolish the Miss, as applied to old maids,
and call them Mrs., a title which they claim
by right, on old English, principles. Up to
this time last century girls became entitled
to the Mrs. when they were marriageable, and
the invidious name of Miss did not apply
after school days, wherefore the familiar
Mistress in the old comedies and novels.
Men have an unfair advantage, for why
shouldn’t the old bachelor be Master? The
agitation may be regarded as the antipodes
of that for compelling married men to wear
a wedding ring.
THE HOSPITAL NURSE.
I got hurt in a railway collision,
And they carried me up to her ward;
I don’t go in much for religion,
But for that smash I do thank the Lord.
For she looked so natty and winning
In her uniform dainty and trim
That I loved her right from the beginning,
Though I hadn’t an uninjured limb.
She would bandage me up in the oddest
Positions; then, with a grimace,
She‘d whisper, “Don’t deem me immodest —
You are not a man now, you’re a case!”
The evening before I was leaving
She was singing away in her room,
When my arm with an ease that’s deceiving
Found its way round her waist in the
gloom.
“Now I’m well must I love yoit and leave
you?
Won’t you nurse me the rest of life’s
span?”
Her reply was: “I don’t like to grieve you,
For you’re not a case now—you’re a man.”
Well, I ’ve never had cause to regret her,
Better fellows have often done worse;
Twas the turn of my luck when I met her,
My dear little Hospital Nurse.
G. F. CASHMORE.


ẃ
MADE IN ENGLAND
Obtainable from all radio dealers.
Ask for a Free Copy of the very
useful little book—" The Osram Valve
Guide,” detailing all Osram Valves.
If your local dealer cannot supply the
Osrarn Valve you need, it will be
sent direct, safe delivery guaranteed.
Write to Osrarn Valve Technical Dept.,
104 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BRITISH GENERAL
ELECTRIC C9LT?
EVERYTHING
you
guarantee
ELECTRICAL
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co. Ltd.
Head Office and Public Showrooms: Magnet House, 104- 114 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1666 of 1929.
BETWEEN EFFIE MARION BARKER Petitioner
and THOMAS HENRY BARKER Respondent.
TO THOMAS HENRY BARKER, late of 93 Surry
Street Darlinghurst in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EFFIE MARION
BARKER has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a Dissolution
of Marriage on the grounds of desertion during
three vears and upwards without just cause or
excuse ” AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-eighth day of July One thousand nine
hundred and thirty and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned solicitors
free of charge.
Dated this Twenty-eighth day of April, a.d. 1930.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] D. C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Braye & Malcomson, Solicitors for the abovenamed
Petitioner, 92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter § Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slata Merchants,
Slaters. Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST. s REDFERN, N.S.W
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN COMPRESSORS.
’THE proprietor of Commonwealth Paten.
A No. 2141/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, us ■
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable, terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith air
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle
reasj'li Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is required as to the
A whereabouts, if alive, or as to the death
if deceased, of HENRY GEORGE MILES
who was last heard of in the Dubbo distnc
and who had lived previously at Norte
Botany and Rozelle. Any person able to
furnish information kindly communicate with
REGINALD THORNTON,
Solicitor,
185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin take-
your fancy, write to the Manager, who wilt
quote you price for the original
Missing Friends.
UNCLAIMED MONEY, PERSONS
WANTED, OR NEXT-OF-K.IN.
ANDERSON, Robert Desmond Anderson, born Ju y
BURKE, 19 William and Michael, children of Walter
B RICKMAN, Grace Harriett, born jarcfc.l'Mg
BAGNALL, Janies Jervis, son of James Je * t * B23 _
CARROLL, James, born m Dubbn in o nis
CHADWICK, Frederick Berchman C h ™L<iwiek.
widow and their son Herbert■ • j yj ew
DAWSON, William Allison Dawson, late
GOA Ij',* 1 Charles Henry, formerly of Zealand.
GREEN, Edward John (clerk), born abou .. j
HUNT, Charles, George, William, Edward ChUd
of Henry and Rebecca Hunt ( iM lilll , k
KERSEY, Herbert Thomas, formerly of Lake Boga,
MCCARTHY, Francis (Dan), went to Sydney about
MACKI/ e Georle' son of Robert Mackie, deceased.
MacFARLANE Alexander Galloway MacFarlane
sometime resident in British Columbia, left
MATTHEWS, Harry, son of Christopher
NOLAN Pat (farrier) and Mary, childien ot Pa
Nolan of Tuam, County Galway, Ireland, deceased
PINK or FAIRCHILD, Robert, left England about
45 years ago for New Zealand.
STUART, Percy Wallace Stuart, left England over
50 years ago for Australia or New Zealand.
SUMMERS, Alfred Robert, in Melbourne 7 years ago.
SINGLETON, Mary Ann (nee Caslm),
Kiltrustin, Strokestown, County Roscommon,
TUXFORD, George Weston Tuxford, left Henley
Beach, South Australia, about 32 years ago.
TAYLOR, Emily (Mrs. Boyd) ; Annie Jane (Mrs.
Sykes).
VILE, Heman Wilbertree Vile ,
WARE, Philip John Samuel Ware, and Edward
Leonard Ware, formerly of Broken Hill, New
South Wales. . . . , . ..
Write Mr. TELFER, 16 Pine Street, Adelaide,
immediately.
m
Many a good day’s work Has started
with a good shave, and many, many
good shaves have begun and ended
with a Rolls Razor. You see, this
razor has a hollow ground blade, just
like the barber’s razor, and it’s
Always keen, for the Rolls Razor
strops and hones itself.
ROLLS
RAZOR
HOLLOW GROUND—STROPS AND
HONES ITSELF.
BRITISH THROUGH AND THROUGH
IMPERIAL MODEL
No. 1 45/-; No. 2 35/-
From all Leading Storekeepers, Che-
mists and Tobacconists throughout
Australia.
THE ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF
AUSTRALIA.
8a Castlereagh-street. Sydney.
THE
LODGE
SPORTS PLUG
(ILLUSTRATED)
alone possesses just those
special qualities that make it
the finest plug in the world
for motor-cycles and sports-
car engines.
Stocked by all garages throughout
the Commonwealth.
&
LODGE HI, for
sports engines.
Price,
6/9
in sealed blue
metal box.
ẅ


' im
a
a
a
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges that last and
give a cleaner, far,
far better shave.
From Stores,
Chemists and
Hairdressers.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Kirby Beard and
Co., Ltd., Raven-
hurst Works, Bir-
mingham., Eng.
Also London, Red-
ditch and Paris.
r KIRBY. BEARD 8c C^td
%
HAIR.
NEED
G
N°
HERES
•UjfUj-
If,
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfroUvris (.MEXICAN)
KkUtud Stain
the GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
1} unobtainable locally, posted
direct U!S), 6d. being postage.
ẁ
Cuticura
TALCUM
It keeps the skin
sweet and whole-
some ** overcomes
perspiration and
is cooling and re-
freshing.
ẃ
Soap la., Oint-
ment la. and 2a.
Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each
free.
Address:
"R. Towns A 00.,
Sydney, N.8.W."
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Garden Work Lightened—
and Speeded up.
If you have a garden you should
have a barrow. It will save you
a surprising amount of work in
shifting garden refuse, manure,
soil, sand, etc.
f'A
■c
\ T. A
Js
•*7
>2£
If you really
want to
know how
handy a
barrow is,
ask the man
who owns
one.
We have a limited number of a new type of all-metal Barrows. They
have strong rigid bodies of useful capacity, well braced frames,
and are fitted with running wheels. The wheel-guard is extended to
form a handy tipping nose. The great feature of these Barrows
is their lightness and their balance—the weight rests on the
wheels, NOT ON YOUR HANDS. Until our present limited stock
is exhausted we are selling at the remarkable price of 29/6 each.
Owing to the high quality and tempting price we anticipate a
rapid clearance.
ORDER YOURS TO-DAY.
Proprietary limited
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street }
447 George Street j
Sydney.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
The Square Dealer.
J. H. M. ABBOTT TELLS THE STORY OF THE LORD DESBOROUGH.
CONVICT SHIP. AND OF HOW THE BKIPPER MAROONED THE SURGE ON
PETER TWOBODY and Jimmy Pascoe,
the South Head signalmen, stood near
the base of the Macquarie Tower, each
in the same attitude of body, with a tele-
scope to his eye, and the weatherbeaten
countenances of both of them puckered into
expressions of intentness and puzzlement that
endowed their unhandsome features with a
curious similitude to one another. They
stared from the heights at a full-rigged ship
which seemed to grow out of the wide, blue
spread of waters stretching to the encircling
rim of the horizon like some great flower,
her white sails gilded by the sun of mid-
afternoon. She was on the starboard tack
towards the north against a gentle nor’-
easter, heading outward from the land, with
the starting-point of her slant somewhere off
Coogee Bay.
Governor Macquarie’s new lighthouse, that
had cost so much as to be roundly condemned
as an extravagance, towered above the two
old sailormen with a beauty of its own. Just
on two years ago the light in the tall column
had first begun to spread its beams at night-
time from its perch high above the tall and
sheer cliffs rearing their battered ramparts
277 feet over the line of surf creaming gently
along the edge of blue-green waters at their
base, and was still an object of bright
interest and pride to the citizens of Sydney,
both when the lamps were lit in it and when
its white column gleamed in the sunlight
against the azure Pacific sky to seaward.
Near it was the signal-mast, with a gay
and many-colored flutter of bunting inform-
ing Fort Phillip of the ship off the Heads.
It was a perfect summer afternoon, and
behind the two watchers Port Jackson
stretched in sunlit loveliness to the distant
westward, disappearing in silver reaches in
the midst of far-off wooded headlands, beyond
which lay a-sleeping the long, low-seeming
ranges of the distant Blue Mountains. Mid-
way in the picture, on the southern side, the
little white splash that was the capital of
New Holland gleamed amidst dusky wood-
lands behind Sydney Cove. It was a differ-
ent picture then, but none the less one of
an exquisite beauty.
“ ’Tis th’ Lord Desborough for sartaiu
sure,” observed Mr. Twobody to his com-
panion ; “but in th’ name of all is holy,
what’s th’ skipper up to?”
“He’d ought, be rights, to be on t’other
tack,” responded his mate, “a-makin’ for th’
hentrance ; but, glory be! he’s a-runnin’ away
from it, as if he were a-givin’ it th’ go-by.”
“Bide a bit,” said Peter presently. “He
might be a-makin’ his oflin’ for to go about
an’ make a clean, .straight run-in past th’
Nor’ ’Ead, an’ up th’ ’arbor past th’ Sow-
an’-pigs. They’m arl got diff’rent fancies.
Some on ’em don’t like a-puttin’ about betwixt
th' ’Eads. ’Tis but a matter o’ fancy, to
be sure.” ■
“Mebbe,” grunted Jimmy. “But he’d be
a-comin’ round now surely if so be he weren’t
a-makin’ to th’ nor’ard. Seems to me that’s
what he’s about.”
The elder man, Twobody, presently low-
ered his glass and closed it with a click as he
pointed to the signals.
“Go an’ fix them flags, Jimmy, an’ tell ’em
at th’ town th’ Lord Desborough’s a-passin’
nor’ard. I don’t make nowt of it. If we
was on her poop, mebbe we’d be knowledge-
able o’t; but seein’ as we ain’t, we don’t
know nothink. An’ keep y’r heyes on Fort
Phillip. I’m a-goin’ for to get me tea; then
I’ll come an’ relieve ye w’ileg you get yours.
If we was on’y on’ er poop!”
It was a puzzled official world which read
the .signal repeated on Fort Phillip that the
Lord Desborough had passed by, heading
n.-e. by e.
* * * *
Captain William Rigg stood at the top of
the port poop-ladder and spoke his mind
to the surgeon-superintendent of the Lord
Desborough. He was a burly man, the
master of the transport, with a rugged face
and an ungentle voice.
“I’ll tell you what, Dr. Cowdery, I’ll put
you right about it. I’m a square dealer, I
am, and I don’t like any man to misunder-
stand me. We’re sailing past Sydney Heads
because I’ve got to deal with you. ’Tis my
duty for to put you in your place, and I’m
fully mindful for to do it. You’ll be put
ashore over yonder.”
The thin, ascetic-looking surgeon gazed up
at the master with an astonishment that
delighted and stimulated the other.
“Now, now, Captain Rigg,” he said, “you
know very well that’s all nonsense. It can’t
be done.”
“Can’t it, by God!” bellowed the mariner.
“No, it can’t. The terms of the charter-
party under which the Lord Desborough was
taken up by the Board of Transport stipu-
late unmistakably that you are to navigate
the ship by the shortest possible route to
Sydney—by way of Rio and the Cape. Is
it the shortest route to pass by our port of
destination and then to come back to it in
your own time —as if you were of opinion
that the convicts had not been aboard long
enough and needed further sea-travel for the
good of their health? Please to put the ship
about, sir. We are far to the nor’ard of the
entrance to Port Jackson.”
The master made an emphatic gesture with
the telescope clutched in his big gnarled
right fist, and brought it down as if he were
banging out the brains of the outraged offi-
cial on the slanting quarter-deck below him.
“I’ll tell you straight,” he roared, “and
I’ll tell you at once, for I’m a square dealer.
No circumventation about Will Rigg, sir—•
none whatever. I’m going to put the ship
about when I consider we’re far enough to
the nor’-east’ard o’ Broken Bay to run in
there wi’ a dead fair wind astai'n of us. And
then d’ye know what I’m a-goin’ for to take
an’ do? I’m a-goin’ to lower my gig and
put you ashore on the south side of the har-
bor—that’s what I’m going to do. You and
your baggage; so ye’d do well to go to your
cabin and make it ready. I’ll not await your
pleasure. You’ll not keep us a-waiting like
you did at Rio and in Table Bay, with your
accursed botanising. A-keeping the ship and
a-filling her up with rubbishy weeds an’ truck
o' that sort!”
“In the name of Heaven, sir, why do you
contemplate this foolishness, this insanity?”
“You .said I was a common fellow when
I rebuked you at the Cape. Well, I may
be, but I’m a square dealer, and no man
insults me aboard my own ship without pay-
ing damages. What you’ll pay is by a
rough walk to Sydney; an’ mebbe th’ blacks’ll
ate ye. Though God knows ye'd not make
a decent meal for any cannibal used to good
meat. And you can get your fill of botanis-
ts' on the way, so you ought to be thankful.
Now go below, for ’tis time to ’bout ship.
Hey!” he called as the white-faced surgeon
took a step towards the entrance to the poop,
‘best take what you can carry light. I
don’t mind takin’ your dunnage on to Syd-
ney, but you may walk, Mr. Doctor, an’ be
damned to ye!”
The Lord Desborough had anchored under
the lee of Lion Island, and, as Dr. Cowdery
regarded her from the extremity of the rocky
and Avooded point opposite Barrenjoey, in
the glow of sunset, she looked very ship-
shape and picturesque, with the half-furled
sails looped up to her yards, and the massive
cliffs of the fragmentary islet dark behind
her sunlit outline. A tiny speck upon the
rosy waters, Captain Iligg’s gig was draAv-
mg close alongside; he could hear the crew
chanting at the capstan-bars on the foc’s’le
as they heaved the anchor short, preparatory
to slipping out of the bay. As he gazed at
her, still bewildered and amazed at the sud-
den predicament in which he found himself,
a puff of Avhite smoke bellied out from her
side in a pink cloud over the gleaming sur-
face, and, seconds afterwards, the report of
a gun echoed amongst the forest-clad hills
of Broken Bay. The doctor swore softly, as
he recognised the jeer in this ironical fare-
well on the part of Captain Rigg. “By
Cod!” he muttered. “If there’s law in this
country, the infernal scoundrel will pay
dearly for this.”
Dr. Cowdery stood on a rock, gazing at
the ship as she passed the tall bluff of
Barrenjoey and disappeared behind it, and
was about to turn his regard towards the
high hill that rose steeply behind him, with
a dim realisation that the first thing he
must do was to seek water, when he
was amazed to see a boat coming across the
entrance to the long southern arm of Broken
Bay. He had no idea that rescue Avas so
close at hand when, resisting in a futile
fashion, he had been shoved out of the boat.
Nor, he Avas sure, had Captain Rigg. He
grinned sourly Avhen he thought of this.
Obviously Heaven was on his side, and not
on that of the bullying master of the conA’ict
transport. Obviously.
As the boat: drew closer he Avas surprised
to see that it was manned by soldiers, four
of Avhom pulled at the oars, whilst another
four, armed Avith muskets, sat in the stern-
sheets. A corporal was at the tiller, and
under his direction, as the boat approached
the point, one of the privates stood up and
covered the doctor with his piece.
Noav, then, me smuggler boy,” cried the
n.c.o. as the boat lay-to a little distance
from the rocky foreshore, “what’s th’ name
o that ’ere ship, an’ what’s th’ little game?
Come now, look sharp, an’ give an account
o y self, or Jimmy ’ere’ll let daylight inter
ye!”
There was no mistaking, thought Dr.
Cowdery, the earnestness and sincerity of
this address of the corporal’s, so he hastened
to account for himself.
"The ship which has just left the bay,”
he replied, ‘js the convict transport Lord
Desborough, of which I am the surgeon-
superintendent. She is bound to Sydney
with one hundred and eighty male prisoners.”
"Well, Avhy th’ devil didn't she go to
Sydney, a-takin’ you with ’er, ’stead o’
shovin’ ’er nose in ’ere? Answer me that
now, me bucko, an’ come into th’ boat.
Jump in over • th’ boAvs an’ come down ’ere.
We want to get back afore dark. There’s
a southerly buster a-comin’ hup th’ coast
or I’m a flamin’ Dutchman. Look sharp,
boys, an’ get ’im aboard. We don’t want
to be caught be that lot!”
The corporal’s attention was concentrated
on the approaching storm, which, after the
sudden fashion of Sydney’s southerlies, was
piling great masses of black clouds into
the evening sky far down below the distant
end of the long reach of Pittwater. The
nor’-easter had died away, and the twilight
was close and muggy. When the surgeon
attempted some explanation of his presence
where they had found him, his captor told
him tersely to “hold his jaw, an’ keep it for
th’ sergeant.” They had not long reached
the little haven under Barrenjoey, and the
shelter of the huts behind the beach, where
Macquarie’s guard against smugglers were
housed, when the storm burst over them.
“Well,” murmured the doctor to himself,
as he glanced upward at the wild and scurry-
ing sky, “I may be in Sydney before the
ship, after all! ’Twill be a surprise for that
brute Rigg.”
He found the sergeant in charge of this
outpost of authority a quiet, decent, agree-
able man, who readily believed the story he
told. It seemed that he himself had come
to New South Wales a few years ago as
part of the detachment of soldiers guarding
a transport of which the redoubtable Captain
Rigg had been master, and he was by no
means astonished to learn how the old sea-
dog had behaved. He had a name, it seemed,
for bullying eccentricity.
“Ho!” he had laughed, when he heard the
story. “Ha, ha, ha! Jest what our bully
boy’d do, that is, sir. Him all over. ‘Square-
dealer Bill’ to a ‘T.’ But you’ve got tli’
pull on him this time, Doctor! Ye’ll rest
here to-night, and in the morning I’ll send
a man into Manly with you. You should be
there by afternoon. There’s a fishing-camp
on th. harbor side, and they'll take you up
in their boat to Sydney for a guinea or two.
Then ye can go straight to old Mac. and
tell your story. Billy’s ship’ll be blown
(Continued on next page.)


All British & Continental-
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
tecalemit
PUSH - ON.
\
s,
can be serviced by
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkina (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street i decide
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pine Street
Keep ..Bros.' & ‘Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbomnc
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street wSSSS
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street ........ Bu&bane
THORNELL, 312 • Pitt • Street, SYDNEY
Factoiy Representative: Mr. JAMES
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Laue, London, N.W.10, England,
ẅ
No, 3
DIGESTION
Guinness is a splendid
digestive* The pleasant
bitterness of the hops
brings about a more
plentiful, powerful sup-
ply of the digestive juices.
Guinness helps the bodily functions to do
their work well.
Guinness is a natural beverage is not pas-
teurised and therefore preserves its original
flavour and quality. Guinness will keep
indefinitely.
No. 4
EXHAUSTION
Guinness is a great
restorative. Famous
doctors say that it is very
valuable in cases of men-
tal and physical exhaus-
tion. It is stimulating and nutritious. It
makes you feel better, and its strengthening
effects are lasting.
NT B —One oint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt
carbohvdratecon&sat equal to one and a half pints of pure dauv nullc
far to th’ nor’ard to-night, and if tli south
wind holds —as it sometimes does for a while
—he’ll not drop his mudhook in Sydney
Cove for a couple of days. By that time
you can have a royal welcome ready for him.
And Macquarie’s the lad to make it hot
and strong, I’ll promise ye!”
It was with a comforting sense of impend-
ing vengeance and victory that Dr. Cowdery
turned into the blanket they lent him, after
a hearty supper.
:|c ❖ *
With sympathetic hospitality Governor Mac-
quarie had invited the doctor to remain at
Government House, as his guest, until the
arrival of the Lord Desborough. with liis
personal baggage aboard, should render it
possible for him to set up_ in some lodgings
of his own. His Excellency had been justly
indignant at the treatment the surgeon-
superintendent had experienced at the hands
of Captain liigg, and expressed himself as
determined to make the fullest inquiry into
what he could only describe as “a gross and
indefensible insult to the high office Dr.
Cowdery filled aboard the transport.” More-
over, he was of emphatic opinion that Captain
Rigg had committed an offence against the
Transport Regulations by taking his ship
past Port Jackson, when his orders clearly
indicated Sydney as his place of destination.
Having beaten up to Broken Bay against a
fairly stiff nor’-easter, he could hardly plead
“stress of weather” in his defence. It would
have been a different matter altogether if the
gale that blew the Lord Desborough as far
north as Newcastle had caught him a few
hours before it did.
On the fourth morning after his compulsory
landing on the shores of Broken Bay, whilst
walking on the lawn in front of the vice-
regal residence with his charming hostess, the
doctor was called upon by Mrs. Macquarie
to observe a singular procession that was
approaching the entrance to Government
House. .
“Dear me!” she exclaimed. “Why, who
can these funny looking people be? Do cast
a glance in their direction, Doctor. My
husband has to interview some queer charac-
ters in the course of his duties, but I must
say that this detachment puzzles me com-
pletely !”
Dr. Cowdery turned to behold a quaint
procession of four stepping on to the veran-
dah from the drive that led along its front-
age. .
In the lead was a* gorgeously attired
Captain William Rigg, in a top-hat of beaver-
skin, a blue tailcoat with shiny brass butr
tons, tight white buckskin pantaloons and
Wellington boots that gleamed resplendently.
in the morning sunlight. Followed Mr. Joce-
lyn, the mate, in a Sunday-best that seemed to
cause him great discomfort. Then came the
boatswain, a waddling stout mariner with a
mahogany face, wearing a short round jacket
and a glazed hat. Last came Jenks, an
able-bodied seaman, whom the doctor remem-
bered to have been at the wheel during the
course of his interview with the captain
when the latter had announced his intention
of putting the surgeon-superintendent ashore
at Broken Bay. A footman met them at the
door, and after a short parley they were
admitted to the house. Almost immediately
afterwards Mr. J. T. Campbell, the Gover-
nor’s secretary, came to summon Dr. Cowdery
to his Excellency’s office.
Macquarie was seated behind liis writing-
table wearing an ominous expression, when
the doctor entered the room in which vice-
regal business was transacted. Captain
Rigg occupied a chair near the window,
whilst the mate, the boatswain and the
seaman had ranged themselves, along the wall.
Captain Rigg greeted Dr. Cowdery with
hearty joviality.
“Ha, ha, Doctor,” he boomed cheerily, “I
trust .your walk to Port Jackson was a profit-
able one, regarded botanically. As for me
I’d lia’ found it a bit trying, I’m inclined
to think. A bit rough an’ scrubby, so to
speak. But, then, you scientific gents, don’t
mind little things like that, do you? You
know how I advised you against the roughness
and wildness of the country ; hut of course,
’twas your own look out, and you wouldn’t
be persuaded agin it, noliow. Well, I’m* a
square dealer, I am; and if so be as. you
would walk down the coast to Sydney, twas
on’y courteous on my. part to,oblige you by
putting you ashore. Even though, mebbe,
I’d no right to sail past Sydney, as his
Excellency has reminded me in the letter the
naval officer handed me yester afternoon.
However, as I’ve said, I’m”—-
He was interrupted in his extraordinary
address by the Governor.
“One moment, Captain Rigg, if you
please. ,1 have sent for you this morning,
in order that Dr. Cowdery, the surgeon-
superintendent of the transport which you
command, may repeat in' your presence the
accusation lie has made against you to me. It
is that of having violently, and against his
will, forced him ashore at Broken Bay, so
that he would be compelled to walk to Syd-
ney through an inhospitable and barren tract
of country, in which he ran not a little risk
of being molested by both the native abo :
rigines and those bands of roving banditti
which are alluded to in this country as
‘bushrangers.’ But I have not sent for the
people you have brought with you. Who are
they, pray?”
“They are my evidences, your Excellency
—people who will substantiate my spoken
word regarding this incident. I’m a square
dealer myself, and expect to have my word
took, by high an’ low alike, but I’m well
aware that evidence is considered rightful,
sir, to back up any statement made an’
promlegated. This gent., your Excellency,
is Benjamin Jocelyn, my chief officer. This
one is my chief of petty-officers, sir, Mr.
Richard Poole. And this ’umble seaman,
your Excellency, happened to have the wheel
when Dr. Cowdery made his request to me
to be landed at Broken Bay.”
“Me make a request, sir?” angrily inter-
posed the doctor.
“You say that the surgeon-superintendent
asked to be put ashore? Can this possibly
be correct, Doctor?” inquired Macquarie,
turning to his guest.
“A tissue of d —d lies —I beg your
Excellency’s pardon. I mean to say, it is
an outrageous falsehood,” declared the
doctor.
The Governor looked a little puzzled, and
thought for a while before he spoke.
“Well, then, sir,” he said to Captain Rigg,
“pray, what is your version of the affair?
I am, of course, bound to hear it —though
I must confess that Dr. Cowdery has given
me a very circumstantial account of the
business. Well, sir?”
“I’ll tell your Excellency exactly what took
place, for I’m a square dealer, an' believe in
truth-tellin’ at all costs. We was at dinner
in th’ cabin, sir, when we was some miles
off Botany Bay—th’ doctor, Mr. Jocelyn
and myself. The doctor, then, and in front o'
th’ mate, made the somewhat peculiar request
to be landed at Broken Bay, a-saying, sir,
as officer-in-charge o’ th’ pris’ners, how he’d
indemnify me against any delay _ as might
take place in the landing o’ th’ convicts.
He begged so strongly, your Excellency, that
I’d land him there, so that lie might indulge
his hobby for botanising, that I hadn’t the
heart for to say him nay. Ain’t that so,
Ben?” he inquired of the mate. _ ;
“That’s how the matter was, sir,” replied
that hardy liar. “That’s what took place
y’r Ex’lency, at dinner-time, horf Bot’ny
Bay.”
Macquarie regarded anxiously the speech-
less doctor, who looked as though he were
about to be taken with a fit. Then his eyes
wandered to the boatswain and the sailor.
“And what have these two to testify?’
asked the Governor. “Come, sir—what and 6
you know about it?
“Me, sir!” somewhat bashfully replied the
embarrassed boatswain —but with an air of
truthfulness. “On’y that I ’card th’ doctor
ask th’ cap’n on deck w’en ’e was a-goin’
to put abart, so’s we could run into Broken
Bay. That’s all, sir.”
“And you?” Macquarie turned to the sea-
man.
“I ’eard this gent, a-thankin’ th’ cap’n for
’is kindness, sir—jest as we come hup to
w’ere we hanehorcd below th’ big rock.
That’s all, sir.”
Macquarie gazed at each of them in turn,
and then looked at the doctor with deep
sympathy. Presently he rose from his seat,
to indicate that the business was at an end.
He addressed the meeting briefly.
“Ah, well, I fear there has been some mis-
understanding. The captain’s evidence is
very strong, Doctor. Captain, I bid you
good morning. Pray remain a few moments,
my dear Doctor.”
Captain Rigg bowed with great impres-
siveness to the Governor, and led his pro-
cession away. He turned at the door.
“Avery good morning to your Excellency.
I’m a square dealer, sir—and I Ictieve in
such. Doctor, I bear you no ill-will. Shake
hands, sir. Always your humble servant, sir.
Always.”
Automatically, and with bewilderment in
his features, the doctor limply shook hands.
The door closed behind the mariners.
Macquarie’s mouth twitched, and then his
face broke into a broad grin.
“Ah, Doctor,” he said, “now we know what
a square dealer is.”
H.K.W.
My manliest, my godliest is gone
On some untellable,, unquiet quest.
Or else obliterated in dusty rest,
Who stood up like a seraph. I live on.
Earth is not sweetened round the o’ergrown
grave,
And tha*t which laughed and clasped me by
the hand
Is hushed and does not move. Our sorrows
have
A reasonable root; yet sunsets leave
The warmth of days all night upon ,the
land,
And this friend’s warmth remains with me
who grieve. . .
N.S.W.
SIRORN NICHOLAS.
The Beaufort-road.
Some dreams arc mine, that still recur
In spite of close-locked heart and brain, •
And unto, these must both defer: ,
The scent of gum-trees after rain; .
The bush track where the branches meet:
The Beaufortf-road, so long untrod;
The wattle blossom, bitter-sweet;
The acre men have granted God.
These memories of long-lost days
Come with the thin, white,'crescent moon
That erstwhile lit the bushy ways
My heart and feet forsook too soon ;
The'-rain comes to the gum-trees still
And scent of golden wattle creeps
From Raglan bush, across the hill
Within whose shadow Beaufort sleeps.
The distant mountains, faintly blue,
Fade with the twilight, formless, far.
And merge into a tintless hue
As night comes down without a star;
The old bush track is breathless, dumb,
All-fearful lest some voice might speak
And break the silence ere I come
To -wander by the Yamlioles Creek.
Within Go'd’s acre Beaufort folk
Joined to the kindly, silent dust,
Whose souls arose, like incense smoke,
To join the Legion of the Just—
Dear, simple people, where they rest
Do they recall, with indrawn smile.
The one -who made of Life a quest
That ends where they stayed all the while?
My heart is like a home-drawn bird,
That seeks the swiftest way to find,
When I recall how night-winds stirred
The firs wherewith the road is lined ;
For though I tread a city street
And own a moment’s petty fame,
These all grow shapeless, incomplete,
When someone speaks a Beaufort name.
The world is such a little place
To those who wander, such as I;
Time seems to be a narrow space
And hope a somewhat futile lie
That mocks and comforts. Driven on
By dreams that prick me like a goad,
Ere what remains of life be gone,
I hope to tread the Beaufort-road.
When Beaufort firs sing in my ears,
Nor age nor strife my strength impair,
A secret call my spirit bears
(E’en as I tread another’s stair)
Which sweetens Exile’s bitter bread,
For I know, in the Ultimate,
It will be given me to tread
The Beaufort-road to Heaven’s Gate.
N.S.W.
J.M. PRENTICE.


II
m
WEST! N G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—l)3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WJ
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
FOR 84 YEARS QUEENSLAND'S LEADING DAILY NEWSPAPER
The
BRISBANE
COURIER
The largest and most widely spread
Home-delivered morning newspaper in
Brisbane and Queensland. For 84
years the “Courier” has been the most
outstanding advertising medium of
Queensland, and still enjoys the
supreme confidence of all local and
national advertisers.
220,571 inches
The "Courier” during 1929 exceeded
its morning contemporary’s total adver-
tising space by 220,571 inches.
Published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
COURIER BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
“THE AGE” publishes over one million adver-
tisements annually. A newspaper, advertising
record for the British Empire.
This achievement is definite proof that “The
Age” has moved forward with irresistible
power to its objective-—public confidence.
When formulating your advertising pro-
gramme, link up with “The Age.”
Your confidence will not be misplaced.
AUDITED NET DAILY SALES,
123,533.
Advertising rates on application to the
principal Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
4e Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotcli, price lsd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office : 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its.
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Booh, giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged , will
he forwarded on application .
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable t Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
. Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “THE i
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for
Cl digestive
coVuctiue,ludtototwe
and athatm
medicine
(fad So*
<37
aft:
T'Z
rm
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
to
2v
s.
V
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
w.
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin’
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, 0.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
/
jr o’
0
al»
o°
6
e %
6 V
\\ e
0
>3
,Vf 5 ' •** Viif
**
.•••'«<
■-r&y


.. arou
w
ŵ
ON rough country roads,
it’s all the same to the
1930 Whippet Four. The
new and higher compression
engine gives more than 20
per cent, added horse-power
—resulting in even faster
speed, quicker getaway and
greater hill-climbing ability.
By the Whippet’s remark-
able performances in the
hands of thousands of satis-
fied owners, convincing proof
is provided of this fine light
car’s capabilities.
Operating economy is now
reduced to an absolute mini-
mum. Petrol consumption
averages 30 and more miles
to the gallon, while bigger
hearings, heavier crankshaft,
full forced feed lubrication
and silent timing chain are
important advantages that
ensure exceptionally low
maintenance costs with long,
dependable service.
Whippet’s longer wheelbase,
oversize balloon tyres and
longer springs give this low-
priced car exceptional riding
qualities.
Arrange with your local
dealer for a complete demon-
stration of the economical
Whippet Four.
WHIPPET
KES3
£ DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD., . _ . ,
Breakfast Creek Road!, Newstead, Brisbane*
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED, o
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD., „ , .
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
