

10 lo I ih
a CAPSTAN
v'J
yap//
■ V
X
r «
■»■■
v</...
... ;Tv*«
#X|' W'
UW ip
Liymr ,
fSMSgi
It’s a remarkable thing, this
consistent preference for
Capstans.
People whose tastes differ
very much in other things,
choose the same cigarette.
You’ll find 11 good rea-
sons for this popularity
in every sixpenny packet
of Capstans eleven cig-
arettes made from the
pick of the world’s finest
Virginia tobacco.
“10 to 1 it’s a Capstan” is
recognised as Australia’s
safest bet.
Twenty-two for
one shilling, and in
tins of fifty.
11
Oval heavy-weights
in tins of twenty-five
and fifty..
CAPSTAN
. 4 ' V s*».<;•' . > ! -K. - :
Capstans are made by W D. & H. O. Wills
at the Garden Factory, Raleigh Park, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
1/tykaA /h\iUXA\sp <
Vol. 51.—N0. 2648.
Wednesday, November 12, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'"THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 ia
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
- STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
ST ° 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
My Name ..
My Address
S.B. 316 ..
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
fs
THE SUPPER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ Good evening
merrie gentlemen !
Your supper awaits
you.
With the lobster,
salad and cheese ! have
served my Worcester-
shire Sauce. Ah !it is
indeed a delicious
relish.”
/-i
a
Solve the Gift Problem with a
ROLLS
RAZOR
A ROLLS RAZOR is a worthy gift
for a worthy friend.
Let this year be a Rolls Razor Year. Your
friends have all got cigarette eases, cult links,
cigar lighters, pipes, etc.
Give him something useful and something
that will save him his weekly bill for Razor
Blades.
Give him a Rolls Razor.
Imperial No. 1 50/-
Imperial No. 2 40/-
Wholesale Distributors:
Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney, for N.S.W.
D. Reddan & Co., Melbourne, for Victoria
and Tasmania.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Brisbane, for
Queensland.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
WIWW/I
XsW
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cu&
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention*
Office: 44 Bri it' Street. Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’’
PRICE .. .. .. .. .» 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
<%•*£*s*
V&T
fsf
Close to shopping and
theatre districts, yet situate
in exclusiveneighbourhood.
Two minutes from Royal
Albert Hall. Overlooking
Royal Parks. Central heat-
ing, running water and tele-
phone in every bedroom.
Private bathrooms, self-
contained suites, garage.
Inclusive daily, weekly or
monthly terms.
Telegrams: “ Improvisor,” Kensington.
* in the social heart of the first city
of the world ’
under same direction.
Brighton
GRAND PUMP
ROOM HOTEL
ROYAL
CRESCENT
HOTEL
■S’
m
:
'll
2
3
m
8
4
R
VI
Paris, the cradle
of elegance
has adopted the Omega watch as stan-
dard of good taste.
It is the favourite of discriminating
people throughout the world for the
beauty of its lines and the unfailing
accuracy of its movement.
At the better jewellers only.
Omega
EXACT TIDE FOR LIFE
The Red Page
Another Skipper Book
Mervyn Skipper’s “The Meeting Pool”
now has a sequel, or rather a companion,
The White Man’s Garden, published by
Elkin Mathews and Marrot.
It would be foolish to commence compar-
ing them. 'Each is- vital. If the writer’s
aim was no more than to make a book that
would entrance youngsters, he has . scored
the possible twice. There is no question of
“ought to”—children positively do find fas-
cination in the fanciful, colorful and often
exciting stories, told, in the earlier volume,
by the animals, insects and the like, and, in
The Garden, mostly by the trees and
plants. Something of that fascination no
doubt lies in the tropical luxuriance of the
■ se.tting-MDaat, an. island near the coast of
Borneo. Much more of it lies in the mar-
vellous experience of hearing animals, birds
and, in this recent volume, trees talking,
plotting, joying and suffering as the child
mind, and indeed any mind that is not yet
too old and jaded to believe in fairies, loves
to fancy they do. Personally, I believe
they do ; or at any rate 1 believe they do
while I am reading either of these books.
But though that high aim, entrancing the
youngster, is so surely achieved—the only
way to test this is to read portion of either
book to one of the chosen—that, after all,
is often enough managed by writers who
have not approached within wireless range
of anything remotely resembling art. Here
you have a combination of fascinating
reading for children and fascinating child
literature. Dismiss the earlier book for the
moment and focus on The Garden. In it
the author does something which I cannot
recall having seen done before—he makes
the jungle not only a living but a moving,
a mobile crowd. First, it is a great with-
held power in the background. The garden
is-not the. White Man’s ; it is the White
Man’s wife’s. While he has been driving back
the jungle and planting the rows of rubber-
trees, she has been making around their
small house the little garden of Bougainvil-
laea, and Pisang the Banana, and the Poin-
ciana, and the rest of them; or rather she
has been making it /or them, for it is their
outlook, their point of view, that we share
throughout. They have been there long
enough, grown big enough and have come
to feel so secure under the White Man’s
protection that they worry no longer about
the jungle, even though, when the White
man packs up and takes his wife and seed-
ling from the island, Supan-Supan, the Sen-
sitive Plant, and Koobong, the Flying
Squirrel* remind them that now the jungle
will come back and destroy them. Through
several wets and several drys the reader
listens to them telling the stories which the
writer hiirfeelf gathered from the natives of
that part' of the world. These stories in
themselves are most engaging, and their
interest is heightened by the serial method
of their telling, a method surely modelled
on. That greatest of all serials “The Arabian
Nights.” But above the engagingness of
the stories and that serial lure there hangs
a brooding magnet of suspense—that terror
withheld, the time when the jungle will be-
gin to move.
The garden people know t'he_White Man
would have held it back; they have long
since lost faith in the professorial person
who came, ostensibly to look after the
place, soon after the White Man’s departure,
but who is too interested in the little things
he can see though his microscopes to be
concerned with a thing of the jungle’s size.
At last it comes. It attacks, conquers, all
but obliterates. And there, when the White
Man and his wife and their seedling return,
are their plantation and garden, nearly,
though not quite, ruined. The White Man
has been to a war, he has a lame leg, and,
as his cane, who gives this information,
states, he has seen things in a place called
London and elsewhere which to the garden
people seem incredible. It is, of course, a
disappointment to the White Man to find
his island neglected in that way; but what
does he do? Like the Man he is, he sits
down (a little creakily owing to the leg)
and tells a story.
That the book is vital apart from its en-
trancing child aspect might be slightly indi-
cated by this fragment of description of the
wet that came to the garden after a long
dry:—
... .the sky seemed ter be so close that even the
Cooosinut-tree could touch it. A terrific wind came
howling through the Rubber-trees, which screamed
and bent before it. Whole flocks of leaves like birds
came swirling with it through the garden. In a
second the glossy banners that the Banana-tree was
so proud of were ripped to tatters. It lifted a
couple of ataps off the roof, tore the garden gate
off its hinges, and was gone in a moment.
“It’s come!” screamed the Cocoanut jubilantly,
though his nuts were being ripped off one after the
other and his trunk was neatly bent double.
“It’s come!” shouted all the other trees, waving
their arms about as if they were bathing. °
“Of course, it’s come,’’ laughed the Banana.
“Didn’t 1 say that the Toalang would bring it?”
Then the rain began to fall. It did not fall in
drops, but in great sheets of water. The water hit
the ground with a hiss as if the earth was made of
red-hot iron. It leapt feet up into the air again,
and then blew along like smoke, so that fire flowers
and the lawn and the vegetable-patch disappeared
from view and the trees themselves seemed to be
standing in a sea of raging billows.
“Didn’t I say the Toalang would do it?” shouted
the Banana.
“Good old Toalang,” laughed the other trees when
they could shake their heads free of water.
“So there’s nothing to worry about, isn’t there?”
said a small, sarcastic voice from outside the fence
during a lull in the tempest.
“Who’s that?’’ gasped the Pawpaw.
“It’s only Supan-Supan, the Sensitive Plant,” said
the Cocoanut. “Don’t take any notice of him. He’s
jealous.”
“All the same, I wouldn’t be so pleased about the
rain, if I were you,” said the Sensitive Plant. *
“Why not?” asked the Banana.
“Because rain makes the jungle grow twice as
fast as it makes a garden,” replied Supan-Supan.
The author has illustrated the book himself,
and very well he has done that, too.
CECIL MANN.
Australians on Australia
, Presenting the engaging spectacle of
two readers attacking a reviewer be-
cause (a) he said “tosh!" and he
shouldn't, have, (b) he didn’t say
“tosh!" and Tie should have.
I.
John Dailey, reviewing ‘‘Australia” (R.P.
22/10/’3O), misrepresents Professor Han-
cock’s views, and implies that he is a
bad Australian. It is time we stopped
sneering at what Mr. Dailey calls “the
author’s reluctance to admire his native
land.” Our critics are expected to tell us
that we are the best people in the world,
that the present depression is only a state
of mind, that everything we have done in
the past was excellent, and that, there is no
need to change our ways in the least. We
have had enough of these people.
Mr. Dailey calls on Professor Hancock to
explain “our steady output of supermen,’’
This was the first time that most of us had
heard of them, but apparently they are our
athletes like Bradman, or even our billiard-
ists like Lindrum. If athletes, even extra-
ordinary ones, and sportsmen are supermen,
then a superman means nothing. As well
might we include the cranks who make
non-stop dancing records, or who in the
U.S.A. shatter all figures for the consump-
tion of “hot dogs”! They are just as
socially useful as athletes. Our feats of
athletic prowess do call for admiration, but
they seem to be explained easily enough by
our high standard of living (which is far
from mythical), our climate, our love of
sport, and (not least important) our social
structure, which makes 'sport a possibility
for nearly everyone, instead of the preroga-
tive of a few. The fact that games are not
the preserve of a small class has a further
important result. The Australian athlete
is not class-conscious.
Professor Hancock neglected to account
for our athletic prowess because it is com-
paratively unimportant, and, anyhow, the
reasons seem obvious enough. The sneer
that the matter would have been investi-
gated by anyone whose spiritual home was
not Oxford, flatters that ancient city far
too much. A professor from any other
British or European university would have
had at least enough sense of values to
ignore our athletic supermen. Professor
Hancock is not anti-Australian because
he has been to Oxford. He is an Australian
first and an Oxonian incidentally.
There is direct misrepresentation by Mr.
Dailey of Mr. Hancock’s views on Protec-
tion. He does not say that it has been a
failure; he says “Protection has been profit-
able up to a point, but Australia has reached
or passed that point.” In reaching this con-
clusion he only endorses the finding of the
Committee of Inquiry on the Tariff (1929),
that the costs of Protection at present are
dangerously high. This does not say that
Protection has been a failure, but that
caution is advisable in giving more.
We want a few more Australian critics
with patriotism and courage enough to
criticise their own country impartially.
Even a few who would ridicule our absurd-
ities, as Sinclair Lewis and Mencken do
for America, would not be amiss.
HERBERT BURTON.
11.
An Adelaide professor’s turning to" a kind
of journalism, and aiding some industrious
newspaper correspondents.in their perennial
Australian caricatures, evidently failed to
visit upon Mr. Dailey the horrors of pat-
riotic insomnia. W. K. Hancock’s remark-
able “Australia” deserves a closer scrutiny
than Mr. Dailey appears to have given
it. Seldom is so complete a bouleversement
witnessed as this book represents. There
is scarce a hint in it of the careful erudition
which won for Professor Hancock his fel-
lowship of All Souls’. There is, instead,
much indiscriminate “lifting” of half-facts
and opinions, some positive inaccuracy, and
a procedure which is the antithesis of that
which is characteristic of Oxford scholar-
ship. The author’s job was to assimilate
a great deal of facts concerning this
(Red Page continued on page 6.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”-—an assurance of accuracy.
LIFT OUT ICE CHAMBER
-LEAVES INTERIOR CLEAR
FOR CLEANING. (CECAN BE
CARRIED TO CHEST IN CHAMBER.
Model
N 250
r
THE DOWN PIPE IS SOLID
BRASS AND IS NICKELLED
TO PREVENT CORROSION
One-piece seamless
PORCELAIN FOODCHAMBER,
WITH ROUNDED CORNERS.
Hygienic-easy to clean.
O^NN-CO-V'S
li=
V
f '<v
ov
r s r .
rrs.
>
IW
Back is solid wood., not
TONGUED & GROOVED BOARDS
Sides are 2" deeper than'
ORDINARY CHESTS
ACCOMMODATING ANY
SIZE ICE BLOCKS .
&&£6'ls'o
Insulation packed with
DOE HAIR-PROVED BEST BY
EXPERIMENT. DOES NOT
DETERIORATE. STAYS IN ITS PLACE.
»&£ 7150
Handle drops and
AUTOMATICALLY LOCKS
ON CLOSING DOOR.
DECIDEDLY—the “CHILCOTT”
is the finest Ice Chest You can buy!
Because:—
The “Chilcott” is made of seasoned
Oak in our own factory under strict
supervision.
The interior cavities are lined on two
sides with waterproof “Risistoid.”
It has extra broad provision and ice-
chambers.
The insulation is proved by exhaustive
tests to he the finest possible.
Drop handle automatically locks on
door.
It has ribbed Ice tray, also patent anti-
air condensing under tray.
Ice can be carried to Chest in tank.
Prices are as follows:
The “Chilcott” Refrigerator illustrated is No. SIP. Overall width
23in., height depth 18in. Provision chamber: width 1 7^in.,
height 18in., depth Min. Price £7/15/-
Other Sizes Porcelain-lined “Chilcott” Refrigerators:
No. 50P. Overall sizes: 21 x 39 x 16 in. deep.
(One shelf.) Price £6/15/-
No. 52P. Overall sizes: 24 x 43 x 18 in. deep.
(Two shelves.) Price £B/17/6
No. 2000 P. Overall sizes: 36 x46x 21 in. deep.
(Four shelves.) Price £24/10/-
Various Other “Chilcott” Refrigerators, Lined with
Heavy Gauge Galvanised Iron:
No. 50. Overall sizes: 21 x 39 x 16 in. deep.
(One shelf.) Price £4/17/6
No. 51. Overall sizes : 23 x4l xlB in. deep.
(Two shelves.) Price £5/15/-
No. 52. Overall sizes: 24 x 43 x 18ih. deep.
(Two shelves.) Price £6/17/6
Model G. Overall sizes: 48 x 53 x 22^in.
(Five doors.) Price £2B/10/-
(Dept, Ground Floor , Pitt Street Level Delivered Free city
and Suburbs only.)
The “Chilcott” is obtainable only from
Anthony Horderns’
(THE SENIOR STORE),
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED. SYDNEY.
Postal Address.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


m
■
mm
m%
Sss?
-V A*
more and more of ih t
with every jusHricarion
sd
SYDNEY 142 YEAII.S AGO
IN 1770- 160 YEARS AGO-HISTORY
TELLS US THAT THE SITE UPON
WHICH SYDNEY NOW STANDS WAS
SIGHTED BUT NOT EXPLORED BY
CAPTAIN COOK. IT WAS NOT TILL
1788 THAT THE FIRST PARTY LANDED
FROM SYDNEY HARBOUR. THUS
SYDNEY. THE OLDEST CITY IN
AUSTRALIA. IS BUT 142 YEARS OLD ’
' 7 5
MELBOURNE 95 YEARS AGO
IN SEPTEMBER. 1835. 40HN PASCOE
FAWKNER'S PARTY ENTERED PORT
PHILLIP AND MADE THEIR WAY UP
THE YARRA TO THE SITE OF
MELBOURNE. WHERE THEY ESTAB-
LISHED A CAMP-THE BIRTH OF
WHAT IS TO-DAY A GREAT CITY
£
ADELAIDE 94 YEAH.S AGO
THE FIRST SETTLEMENT OF ADELAIDE
DATES FROM 1836.94 YEARS AGO. ANO
THE NAME ADELAIDE WAS GIVEN TO
IT IN HONOUR OF THE QUEEN OF
WILLIAM W
rr
ssl
Tri
•4
MLIS&ANE IO6YEAHS AGO
BRISBANE WAS OCCUPIED BY SIR ?.
BRISBANE IN 1824. BUT IT WAS NOT
UNTIL 1842 THAT SIR G. GIPPS HAD
THE TOWN SITE SURVEYED IT IS.
HOWEVER. FROM THE YEAR 1859 THAT
THE SERIOUS DEVELOPMENT OF
BRISBANE CAN BE TRACED
n F f?-
PEILTH 101 YEAILS AGO
THE SITE Of PERTH WAS CHOSEN BY
CAPT. JAMES STIRLING WHEN THE
COLONY WAS ESTABLISHED IN 1829.
AND THE TOWN WAS NAMED AFTER
THE OLD CAPITAL CITY OF SCOTLAND.
AT THE END OF 1829 PERTH HAD A
POPULATION OF 300.
sf
ƒd
HOEAkT I2OYE AkS AGO
HOBART WAS THE NAME GIVEN TO
HIS SETTLEMENT BY LIEUT. BOWEN
IN 1803. IN I®H) THE S,TE 0E THE
TOWN HAD e*£N DEFINITELY FIXED.
BUT NOT LAID OUT. IN 1812 THE
HOUSES OF THE TOWN NUMBERED
BUT 150
’HAT country in the World can show, in an equally short
periodthe progress of our sunny Australia?
f f What country , beginning with an aborigine-inhabited
antipodean waste, could have achieved the progress—the nation-
hood-which this baby-of-the-nations has already done?
Through the misunderstandings of years gone by, through the
enormous drawbacks of isolation, through all the vicissitudes
which must beset a young community, Australia has emerged
triumphant ... there is no other word for it
She has served the Mother Country in two great wars. She has
given to the World laws which have been gladly adopted. She
has made the welfare of her people her first responsibility. Her
assets have accumulated to envious proportions. She has
fostered her primary industries, and, when the time was ripe, has
sanely and swiftly developed her secondary industries as well
Vast area has been her problem; nevertheless she possesses
railways and arterial roads of superb dimension and efficiency.
Where blackfellows camps stood a century ago, proud cities
now stand. In each of her great centres are young industries
ever growing stronger . .", ambitious for a future day when
Australia can supply every need of her people .
Australia’s present economic situation is serious. But who, in
view of the country’s youth; who, in view of its marvellous
resources; who, in view of the weighty problems already left
behind, can DARE to be q pessimist?
A part in the Country’s industrial progress has been played
by the industry which produces Old Court Whisky.
The ever growing popularity of this-the Nation’s favourite
spirit—has been beneficial to a vast army of Australians.
It has been a boon to the primary producer in the form of
the barley grower and to the many hundreds, directly and
indirectly, employed in its production and distribution]
And because it is a superb spirit—the World’s purest-its
ever growing popularity will increase its value to the Nation
as the years advance.
iUfiisfui
TH £
nation's
favor.it e
THE
WORLD'S
PUREST


/ X
z
/ /
A
PlOWn
c
»
WARATAU
A
M
X
s
AM
H
\\
/
!/<
Foley Bros.’ Crown and Waratah Xmas
Hams are outstanding in quality. These
brands have won the big prizes at the
R.A.S. Show for six years in succession,
1925 - 26 - 27 - 28 - 29 - 30 including
several Champion Gold Medal awards.
You pay no extra for these famous hams.
Wholesale only from
FOLEY BROS. LTD.
353 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY
country-social, economic, political, sesthetic
—and in the result to serve up a snack
of pre-digested Australia for overseas con-
sumption. It was a difficult job, and he did
not succeed.
The section of “Australia” which treats
of our national economy is as manifestly
second-hand as the “Art and Literature”chap-
ter which Mr. Dailey singles out for mild cen-
sure, and the account of State Socialism and
standard of living” will be received with con-
siderable disrespect by anybody who knows
anything at all of the subject. Mr. Hancock
does realise our peculiar national bent—
the struggle for social justice, the “fair and
reasonable” thing, which is inseparable from
tne texture of Australian society. In no
other community in history has a sustained
attempt been made over a period of more
than half a century to effect an economic
as well as a political levelling. It is the
implications of this attempt which make
Australia a happy hunting-ground for the
professional student of society, and Mr.
Hancock s knowledge of this fact should
have urged him to faithful description and
reasoned estimate of our social experiment
as the major task of his book. This is a
country where, as he amusingly quotes,
every man thinks that he is twice as good
as another.” It was Mr. Hancock’s golden
opportunity to be the first to explain and
value the conditions responsible for the
enshrining of our unique egoism in every
lm P° r^ institution of the Commonwealth,
jhe author of “Australia” knew his task.
I hese Australian experiments,” he says in
the book, “should be viewed against their
own individual historical background.” The
mystery is that the book so wants the
historical method which he recognises as
necessary. We read such mis-statements as
this:—
Left-wing idealists complain that industrial
arbitration tms the unions to the State and ties
the State to the capitalist system. This, certainly,
is its intention . ' *
I have italicised the error. If Mr. Hancock
had known anything about the circum-
stances in which compulsory arbitration was
introduced, first in several of the colonies
and then in the Commonwealth, he would
have appreciated that two Commonwealth
Ministries broke on the arbitration rock
within four months, not because anyone
tried to engineer that arbitration should
tie the State to the capitalist system, or tie
the unions to the State, but because a great
body of opinion was convinced that arbi-
tration would tie the State to the unions;
and that, certainly, was its intention—at any
rate up to the appointment of Chief Judge
Dethridge.
This is one instance of Mr. Hancock’s
misreading of Australian social history. It
is significant as showing how a professional
historian, when he devotes himself to what
he seems to regard as a journalistic tour
de force, may divest himself of the sack-
cloth which everyone engaged on a work of
research ought to wear. The plain fact
is that Mr. Hancock did not know enough
about Australian social history to justify
him in treating of it, and didn’t bother
to make up the deficiencies in his know-
ledge by the only reliable means—finding
out for himself.
Our national vanity may induce us to
lament that Mr. Hancock’s estimate of us
is not a little less Oxonian and a little more
Australian. Our honesty will certainly
induce us to lament that his method is
not a little more Oxonian and a good deal
less Australian—that is, slovenly.
BRIAN FITZPATRICK.
A Retort in Sharps
Stan Morrison (B. 29/10/30) wants to
know what I mean by “jazz,” and he pro-
ceeds to inform me that Ravel and Stravin-
ski invented the thing, and that cowbells,
swanee-whistles and gazookas are involved
in the playing of it; also he infers that I
have developed a quite unreasonable an-
tipathy to it just because it happens to be
popular. Mr. Morrison, like myself and
the gentleman who revived this controversy
by declaring that “jazz” was dead, appears
to be of Scottish extraction, so I shall adopt
towards him the method of the Shorter
Catechism.
Q.—How many (a) fox-trots, (b) blues,
(c) Charlestons, ( d ) blackbottoms have
been scored by (1) Ravel, (2) Stravinsky?
A.—None.
Q. —What is “jazz”?
A.—According to the foremost American
musical authorities it is an adaptation of
the rhythms used in lewd negro dances,
performed, before they were commercialised,
only m brothels. A feature of the scoring,
either for orchestra, piano or Wurlitzer, is
the creating of an atmosphere of sexual
frenzy. Dissonances are introduced at
appropriate moments in some examples to
heighten the aphrodisiac effect.
Q. —What is the principal objection to
“jazz” from a musical standpoint?
A.—Monotony. According to Ernest New-
man, there is no composer of merit who has
toyed with “jazz” who has not very quickly
discovered its shallowness.
Q. —Is A. D. Wylie justified in blaming
Australian publishers and importers of music,
gramophone records, piano-player rolls and
such for the “jazz” craze in this country?
A.—l’m appending to this the catalogues
furnished to me when I approached the two
leading Sydney firms of music publishers
for a list of their publications. They reek
of jazz, and the classics aren’t mentioned.
Q. —Are the popular songs of to-day more
banal than those of 30 years ago—“Ta-ra-ra-
boom-de-ay” “Two Little Girls in Blue,”
Bicycle Made.for Two,” etc.?
A.—Yes. Proof of that is to be found in
the fact that gramophone-record makers are
reviving those old favorites, being, appa-
rently, disgusted with the lack of originality
m factory-made “jazz” compositions.
Q. Will Gabriel syncopate the last
trump?
A.—-He will not. He knows jolly well
that if he does the star of the morning will
leave off singing and hit him on the nose.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
A Satchel of Books
Australia Beautiful. —Easily the best of
tne seasonal annuals that The Bulletin has
so far inspected. It sells at half a crown,
and is dirt cheap at the price. There are
lo page color reproductions of landscapes
ky l€^ ding Australian artists, between 30
and 40 pages of lovely photographic work,
all representative of the best in Australian
physical outline and spirit, and a fine long
article in praise of the beauty of Australia
by Dorothea Mackellar. Altogether as taste-
ful a thing as ‘Art in Australia” has done.
Straight and Crooked Thinking , by Robert
H. Thouless (Dodder and ' Stoughton;
Dymocks). It might be better for the State,
though possibly it would be disastrous for
themselves, if our politicians studied these
fresh and engaging lessons in the art of
straight thinking. The writer’s main point
is the necessity for clearing emotional terms
out of public thinking, since if a chemist
doing an experiment depended upon such
thought processes as a nation uses in select-
ing its rulers or in deciding on peace or
war, he would blow up his laboratory. The
book is anything but dry. It is alive, alert
and mildly spiced with humor.
Jewels of Song, W. H. Davies (Cape),
looms in English literature of not more
than lines, which the poet-editor remarks
he ; would be glad of the chance of steal-
ing Not as good as his “Shorter Lyrics”
collection, no doubt because the shorter the
moderns are the better, whereas the best
poctiy of the past was nearly all enshrined
in longer work. Still, it is a bright
anthology.
ol ' Man Adam, and His Chilian, by Roark
Bradford (Heinemann). Chiefly interesting
be 3! lg th ® book upon which the play
Ihe. Breen Pastures” was based. The play-
wright drew so freely from the text that
pages of him would amount to downright
theft were it not for the fact that whatever
ho touches he subtly improves. Here in the
rough, are the' old negro tales of God walk-
ing the earth and arguing the point with
His people.. As ore they are interesting and
valuable. The play’s the gold, for a’ that.
The Riddle of Sex, by Joseph Tenenbaum
(Koutledge). Some consideration of the
medical and social aspects of sex, love and
marriage, written by a doctor with a sense
of humor. It is this last which distinguishes
the book from almost all others on the topic,
instead of the usual solemnity there is
bright persiflage that does not at all damage
the commonsense and serious thought
wrapped within. In his breezy fashion the
writer examines his subject from every angle
of any importance.
Pastures New, by R. V. Billis and A. S.
Kenyon (Macmillan’s; Robertson and
Mullens). A great deal of this book on
early Victoria is written for those with a
professional interest in the pastoral and
agricultural industries. But imbedded in it
is much of absorbing interest and amusement
for the general reader, who is apt to forget
that it was only the sturdy and astounding
growth of those industries which made pos-
sible- such great national shrines as the
State Theatre, Melbourne. Of historical
value are the letters of a pioneer, John
Cotton, of Doogallok, to his brother William
in England, published (for the first time)
as an appendix. Cotton arrived with a large
family in Hobson’s Bay in 1843. Six years
later he died, but in the interim he left his
mark on the colony’s history and valuable
flocks and herds in various parts of the
country. Some of his correspondence is
concerned with rebutting his brother’s con-
tention that the settlers had no moral right
to occupy the immemorial hunting-grounds
of the aboriginal. Although the book is on
the whole dry reading except for the special-
ist, the writers go a long way to make good
their belief “that the early colonisation of
Port Phillip was the most successful achieve-
ment of its kind known to history, ancient
or modern,” not excluding the Greek and
Roman examples.
In Huon Belle (Stockwell) Charlotte I.
Dick investigates the lives of some families
in a remote part of Tasmania. She has some
remarkable gifts, notably a shrewd sense of
character, a quick ear for the Australian
voice (her dialogue would serve as a useful
model for many better-known Australian
writers) and an eye for beauty. Ginny, the
waif; Cairns Gilmore, the wealth-hungry
orchardist who marries her; Gilmore’s
mother and the Severings are very human
people. The writing alternates between a
sure expressiveness which is full of charm
and this kind of thing:—
Twelve years old is not a great age. In fact, it
is a very diminutive age, and a very little span in
comparative time, but it is quite a long way to
have travelled when life has knocked you from one
sharp corner to another. Still, 12 years old is a
very young age to set out to earn your living in an
entirely strange world.
The story, which is packed with incident and
sharp-eyed observation, may have been
written in a hurry, but with all its crudities
it is a notable work.
Palmer White, author of The Circle of
Confusion (Chapman and Hall), specialises
in international thrillers. This one has
some of the characters of “Mystery Island,”
such as, Sir Neil Probert and Ronald Bar-
stow and Rita Remington (now man and
wife), and they do much the same heroically
idiotic things as they did on the island off
the M.L. coast, where the sinister Russian
Ivarnoff met his end. One Domenge strews
corpses about like leaves on Vallopibrosa
till the right-thinking reader notes with
relief: —
The battle was over, and the fight for the honor
of Britain, as well as the lives of Sir Neil and his
companions, was won.
Phillips Oppenheim must shoulder much of
the blame for this work and its predecessor.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted •
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Morris H.: Too gruesome. When we can
buy only a single story and two are offering, we’U
take the one with a grin in it every time....
E.A.A.: It would be well done if it didn’t lose
itself... .H.T.G.: You can see the humor mill at
work; and that’s fatal L.N.0.: There will not
be a special Chiiistmas Bulletin this year (it
would be a bit over the odds to ask some readers
to buy two Bulletins in one week just now) ; so
we will combine the Christmas B. and the ordinary
B. in one enlarged and superlatively good issue.
In fact, two issues late in December will carry
special holiday literary and art matter... .H.C.:
All but. You have smothered up the improbabilities
very we 11.... Horton: Good idea ; doesn’t seem to us to
get the atmosphere... .C.T.R.: Well up among the
possibles, chiefly because of your sure touch when
you’re applying the local color. You crash on dia-
logue... .William H.: The story isn’t strong enough
to fill 3ieols Stephen C.: Too melodramatic. And
we don’t believe a dying jockey thus reduced could
do it... .1.R.M.: A bare miss; its setting doesn’t
help.... Jean B.: Would take a Somerset Maugham
to make the story convincing. Try something simpler
till you know more about the game S.T.G.: Too
stilted. You can’t make believe it’s true when
your characters talk like nobody on earth Yep-
poon: Sorry, no mint sauce here for your frisky
lamb, even though you do kill her so beautifully.
. ...W.T.M.: Started like a champion; finished like
a cabhorse... . W.H.: Possible chance for it else-
where... .W.K.S.: Hurled the modern Sir Galahad
from the battlements... . J.E.8.: Not the place for it.
. ...C.H.A.: Earnest but. dull. .. .L.G.: Lawson did
it ever so much better... .D.D.P.: Effort required to
produce the corpse in the opening paragraph ex-
hausted you.. . .A.0.E.: Pub comer loafer dribbling
nonsense T. J.: Propaganda and fiction don’t mix,
as a rule... .1.0.5.: Cost us tuppence in deficient
postage. We regret the tuppence... ,N.W.: Dog yarn
unsuitable, but considering the other... .H.G.8.: In
its present form it is too rambling and obscure....
N.L.: Needs drastic pruning... .W.A.0.: Rewritten
it might find a home in one of the dailies
M.E.M.: Begins well but interest peters 0ut....
J.N.A.; Too large a subject for one small message.
Gallion: Note your intention “to write occasional
contributions to The Bulletin,” but you’ll have to
write better ones than the samples forwarded....
8.M.: Dampier landed in Australia nearly a century
before C00k... .R.V.: Golf article has its points,
but quite outside The Bulletin’s sport ambit. Read
the paper, and you’ll see why...,H.L.: Shadow-
sparring with an idea. Depraved taste here for
solid milling.... F.: Would not like any contributor
to desist. A writer whose stuff is not acceptable
one week might send along suitable work the next
week. We can only judge contributions as they
come to hand. .. .R.C.T.: Fair thought, but you don’t
translate your observation into poetry.... Darb: The
dream gets tangled up in words... .A.W.8.: Doesn’t
quite get there, but keep going; it has sincerity....
J.R.C.: “To the Moon” is a lightweight offering to
send all that distance... .B.B.; Despite the climax,
it is rather a desiring to sing than a singing....
J.D.McD.: No kick in the sports item... .D.M.:
If you’re young, there’s promise in ’em.... 11. J.:
Can’t enjoy the humor of “Remorse”—if it’s meant
that way... .8.L.A.: “Junk.” Have heard of worse
titles. .. .G.T.8.: Not those, but whimsical note sug-
gests you might hit the mark... .F.McC.: Did not
miss by very much.... Dick Dryasdust: Dream of
Old Nick arriving with case of beer ruined by un-
timely awakening just as Religious Editor was
getting excited—.R.T.K.: Good stuff, all right, but
it belongs to Lawson.... Bellerive: Poignant instal-
ment of the great sporting serial: —
PLAYMATES OF THE SCHOOLYARD.
Playmates of the schoolyard,
Scattered o’er life’s ways,
In fancy I can picture
Our happy boyhood days.
When we played at liy the garter
And across the yard did race
While the veteran master watched us
With a smile upon his face.
I’ve shared in fate’s misfortunes,
And silent hours by night
W'rote for recognition by
Blinking candlelight.
Bob Hicks of the schoolyard
Died fighting in the war,
And poor Walters sadly perished
Out where the breakers roar.
(Next time: “The Thrill of Football.”)
. ...L.C.S.: Miles and miles too 10ng... .E.P.0.C.:
Chief trouble is that it doesn’t ring true... .K.W.:
Should interest Coralie, but doubt if there’s a wider
appeal in it. .. .50,260: That’s better, but a fair
way off yet.... Freeman S.: Slump in that sort of
fish. .. . J.E.F. (S’Africa) : Thanks and greetings.
Verse engaging, but off the track J.J.H.:
Well told; but there’s not much grip in it.
T.F.P.: Trite and preachy. .. .C. 0.: He’ll have
to cut his teeth elsewhere... .M.M.: It might suit
somebody else.. . .D.W.0.F.: Yarn has been told
before, and told better... .G.S.: Literary butchery.
. ...L.W.M.: Livingston Hopkins died at Mosman,
Sydney, on August 21, 1927. (2) Yes. See “ ‘Hop’
of ‘The Bulletin,’ ” by Dorothy J. Hopkins (his
daughter), published by Angus and Robertson... .
E.A.P.: Don’t want “random articles on varied sub-
jects such as education, statesmanship, etc.”; if you
must write, write about your job.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.P.: Almost tempted us F.V.: Looks as if you
had stamped on the ink bottle and then trampled
on the Bristol board.... D.C.: Shanghaied... .L.:
No need for you to worry about distribution problems
until you can produce the goods H.L.M.: It
couldn’t be much worse... .E.A.S.: Folded in its
original creases and sent back K.N.: Good thing
Mawson didn’t see your version of him before he
left M.C.: Give yourself a holiday J. 11.:
Caused no rejoicing at 214 George-street D.R.T.:
You’ve picked up a few tricks, but nothing more....
B. J. 0.: No mirth in any of them. . . .R.S.: Ever
try keeping silkworms?... .W.F.: Stale... .H.Y.:
Drop those friends if that’s the advice they give. . ..
R.Q.: Searched for the point of the gag and retired
beaten.... 5.M.1.: Acres of room for improvement.
. ...J.T.C.: Scriptural pun squelched. .. .E.R.: The
more lines you draw the worse the effect is
T.A.D.: A gaunt and jagged pair.


M
mk
m
wk --
•x
f
■. m m
m im gp
if
mm m
-■*BMS PlOft JSsSfeL
ind^
•: ’• -
£ ' /
■
SSi
i
iS;i
m
a i
HH
, @8 i
■■■Vl'
. ~-
m
■
~: ■ ' . *■
Mil
ell
11
*«*•
* t:* ‘
SS*S
| ' , V
. ssP|pl *» sf> *
v. *
PHAR LAP,
Winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1930.
Owner D. J. Davis
Trainer - - - - H. R. Telford
Jockey- - - - - J. Pike
Weight - - - - 9st. 121 b.
Time ----3 min. 27fsec.


The Bulletin
Vol. 51. —No. 2648.
November 12, 1930.
A PEEP AT THE PROMISED LAND.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: W, George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: W/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westealia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to anv address in . Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
ti months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
HOW FAR WILL LABOR GO?
This was the first of the five resolutions
adopted at the August meeting of Premiers
and Treasurers in Melbourne:—
“The several Governments represented at
this conference declare their fixed determina-
tion to balance their respective Budgets for
the financial year 1930-31, and to maintain
a similar balanced Budget in future years.
This Budget equilibrium will be maintained
on such a basis as is consistent with the
repayment in Australia of existing internal
debts maturing in the next few years.
Further, if during any financial year there
are indications of a failure of revenue to
meet expenditure, immediate steps will be
taken during the year to ensure that the
Budget shall balance.”
Along with the other four resolutions,
one of which was to the effect that no
further loans would be raised overseas
“until after existing overseas short-term
indebtedness has been completely dealt
with,” it was put in writing and signed.
Signed by Mr. Scullin for the Common-
wealth Government (Labor), by Mr. Hogan
for the Victorian Government (Labor), by
Mr. Hill for the South Australian Govern-
ment (Labor), and by the heads of the
Nationalist Governments of N. S. Wales,
Queensland, Westralia and Tasmania. By
way of living up to their undertaking the
Governments of Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia, Westralia and Tasmania immedi-
ately set about increasing taxation and re-
ducing expenditure, though State taxation—
in South Australia especially—was stiff
already. And the N. S. Wales Bavinshaws,
having to go to the country, asked for a
mandate to tax and cut to the extent re-
quired to fulfil their particular pledge.
It was reserved for the Commonwealth
Government to tear up the scrap of paper.
That extraordinary Administration let
four months of the financial year go
by before it called Parliament to-
gether, though aware, in its Acting Treas-
urer’s words, that “a deficit of between
£12,000,000 and £15,000,000 might be possible
if the position continued to drift.” The
wild men of Cabinet and Caucus spent most
of the four months campaigning for Lang,
and, like him, denouncing every clause of
the agreement which bears the Prime Minis-
ter’s signature; the moderates must have
disapproved of this gross betrayal of their
absent leader and of the country, but they
failed to do their duty and come to grips
with the Judases of their party. Even
when Parliament met at last there had to
be a week’s adjournment, the wild men,
now exulting in Lang’s victory, having at
last stirred a few of the moderates into
a half-and-half resistance.
Some sort of a Budget had to be pro-
duced, however, and one made its appear-
ance on Wednesday. A worse Budget has
never been inflicted on an English-speaking
country. There are to be no economies
worth speaking of, nor is any provision
made for the 38 millions of short-term debt
falling due in London; on the contrary,
possibly with a reckless idea of destroying
whatever confidence remains in that quarter,
£1,950,000 is to be transferred from Page’s
sinking fund (one of his few good deeds)
to revenue. But primage duty is to go up
from 2i per cent, to 4 per cent., and there
are to be revenue duties on tea, coffee and
kerosene; and, though a specific promise was
given that the Government “would not
encroach on the States’ -field of taxation,”
another two millions or so is to be taken
from incomes, if it can be got. For one
thing, there is to be an additional Is. 6d.
in the £1 on property income, the exemption
being reduced from £3OO to £100; in fact,
Federal income tax is to be so “readjusted”
that an old widow drawing £4OO from her
husband’s estate will pay £4O 6s. 3d., whereas
a bookmaker clearing £lOOO will pay £34
10s. 3d., bookmakers’ profits being “earned”
income. Nor are the victims to have the
feeling that they are suffering in a good
cause; it is airily admitted that there will
be a deficit of several millions. In
short, the Government has, with utter
shamelessness, broken faith with the State
Governments, the overseas creditor and the
nation.
Obviously the worst features of the un-
speakable Budget were forced on Mr. Lyons
by the windbags and doctrinaires of the
party. Emboldened by their triumph the
credit and currency cranks, the inflation-
ists who deny that they are repudiationists,
demanded “that legislation be passed im-
mediately compelling bondholders in the
£27,000,000 loan maturing in December to
hold their bonds for a further period of
12 months.” They secured a party majority
for this amazing resolution, and Mr. Lyons
withdrew to consult his leader in London.
Thus at the moment Federal Labor control
is in the balance—will it remain with
Scullin, Fenton and Lyons or pass to a
faction without good faith, national feel-
ing, common honesty, or commonsense?
FIXED RATES OF INTEREST.
An old workingman-contributor makes this
complaint:—
“Is Capital of more importance than
Labor? It would appear so. Capital can
demand a fixed rate of interest. But Labor
does not appear to be able to command a
stable amount of wages, as witness the recent
suspension of the Federal Arbitration
Court’s award of wages and conditions to
railway employees and station-hands in
Queensland. Should not Labor—which is,
after all, Humanity—be considered at least
equal to Capital, which is Property? It
had been said that English laws are largely
based upon old Roman laws, which con-
sidered property first, with humanity only a
bad second; and we never seem to be able to
get away from that. Else, instead of Labor
having merely the leavings after Capital has
taken its share, Capital would have to be
satisfied with the crumbs that fell from
Labor’s table.”
But in general Capital does take what is
left over. A co. was formed 30-odd years ago
to build the Emu Bay railway in Tas-
mania. The labor employed has always
been paid the award or current rate; but
the ordinary shareholders have never had
a penny. A tabulation was recently made
of the history of registered joint stock cos.,
and it was found that not quite one-third of
them lived to pay a dividend. In more than
two-thirds of the cases the labor employed
ate the entire loaf, leaving not a crumb for
Capital.
Labor is thus not nearly as badly used
as it is continually asked to believe. It is true
that often it does not get what it earns.
But in thousands of cases it gets far more
than it earns, its true earnings being sup-
plemented by capital subscribed. When the
capital is exhausted, the co. goes into
liquidation or the firm goes broke.
Capital’s return is of course fixed—so far
as anything can be fixed—in certain invest-
ments; and it is in regard to these that
complaints are being made by people who
ought to be listened to. “Here,” they say,
“we are burdened with a heavy debt, in-
curred when prices were much higher than
they are now, so that in fact, whereas we
undertook to pay 5 per cent., we must now
supply wool, wheat and metals which at
the time of the contract would have paid
7i per cent.” It is a terrific load; but let
us remember that it is our own fault that
it is on our backs. A hundred times at
least The Bulletin warned Australia, and
especially the Labor party, that it could
not possibly choose a worse time for a
borrowing orgy than a period of high prices,
and that it ought to seize such a period to
pay off its debts. But the orgy was too
pleasant, and we were lured into it —just
as we are now being lured into, a note-
inflation orgy.
Not all our debts, however, were incurred
during this period of high prices. Some
of our borrowing was done in the ’nineties,
when our products were very cheap. This
little table, compiled by Wickens, the ines-
timable Commonwealth Statistician, shows
what the inflation of prices has meant to
us in certain typical years:—
Value of Exports
Exports Other Other Than Gold
Than Gold. at 1901 Prices.
1906 . . . . £52,842,704 £42,005,330
1917 . . . . 86,433,667 43,985,398
1921 . . . . 126,787,491 56,249,996
1925 . . . . 161,071,949 57,464,127
1928 . . . . 140,352,872 62,938,508
In the five years 1924-28 we got 696 mil-
lions for exports for which in 1901 we would
have got only 298 millions. But this aston-
ishing statement ought to be stood on its
head and view 7 ed that way, too. It then
means that in these five years we paid to
our overseas creditors interest which would
buy only £298 worth compared with £696
worth when they lent the money to us. If
they ever asked us to increase their rate of
interest on that account we certainly never
did it. From this it will be seen that the
rate of interest even on investments of this
class is not so fixed as it looks on the sur-
face.
Indeed, the time may come when we
may be driven to make an appeal to our
overseas creditors on the ground that, while
the fall in the value of our export staples
makes it humanly impossible for us to pay
interest except in good seasons, a reduction
in the rate of interest will not be any burden
at all upon the vast majority of them, and
will, in fact, be no more than a nominal
reduction. If we are driven to apply for
some' adjustments—and we might just as
well make up our minds that we may have
to do it—it ought to be made on those
grounds and no other. We shall, of course,
hesitate to ask even for an adjustment;
but it will be far better to go about the
thing in a business-like way than to be sud-
denly driven into doing something to which
disgrace will attach.
TOURIST MONEY IS GOOD.
Australia has always been inclined to offer
a cold shoulder rather than a welcoming
hand to the tourist. This was a nation of
workers, and we were on the border-line
of resenting the intrusion of idle gilded
people who expected us to be lackeys to
them. No doubt of recent years there has
been less of this almost-active hostility,
though it is still ready to flare up if the
tourist applies a lighted match—as now and
then an American personally conducted
party has done. But of active friendliness
for the traffic there still are very few
signs, though an exceptionally strong case
can be made out in its favor.
There is, in the first place, the money,
of course. So far as the overseas traffic
is concerned—and it is with that we are
chiefly concerned—it brings us gold, the
thing we need most. Not that the tourist
lands with his pockets bulging with sov-
ereigns: that is not necessary. He has made
his sovereigns available to us on the other
side of the world, and we have given him
paper in exchange; so he has been as good
as another 5000 bushels of wheat to us—
maybe more. France is a great agriculturist;
but for many years past its best crop has
been the crop of tourists, and the recent
emergence of a French unemployed problem
is largely due to the transfer of a big sec-
tion of the annual American invasion from
Paris to Berlin and Vienna. There is no
richer country in Europe than Switzerland;
and almost all of its affluence is due to the
wealth the traveller brings to it, whether he
is a mere sightseer gaping at the Jungfrau
or one of a thousand diplomats prepared to
settle the woes of the world at Geneva.
In the last generation it was the day of
the Hague, one of the most interesting spots
in Holland. Always these world efforts at
uplift are made where beauty reigns and
the tourist is catered for and welcomed.
The catering and the welcoming is a good
thing, too. It is all very well to talk of
the Swiss, for example, as a nation of
waiters; but if you have waiters you at
least must have something to attract the
customer who keeps them in their job.
They and the probably 50 times more who
are not waiters are almost always tremen-
dously proud of their town. They are both
the product of civic pride and the culti-
vators of it. Heaven knows we need many
things in Australia; but we need few more
than civic pride. The average Australian
township, even though its natural surround-
ings are beautiful, is almost the drabbest
thing on earth; and, though in this respect
there has been considerable change for the
better, the accommodation available for the
tourist is still, with rare exceptions, very
indifferent. The country town which
acquires civic pride will get more than the
money of the tourist. It will keep its own
money. Who could expect the bright
3 r outh born and brought up in one of our
dejected villages to want to stay there?
So there is the drift to the cities; and
industries which ought to be scattered over
the country are corralled within a few areas,
to add enormously to the cost of living and
the chances of industrial unrest.
And there is the further point that,
having spent so many millions in highways
—having done something also, though not
yet enough, in improving travellers’ accom-
modation—we shall be wasting money if
we do not go out after the traffic that will
use these things. Without, perhaps,/ intend-
ing to do anything of the kind, we have
ploughed the land and prepared it for
quite an extensive harvest; and in view
of our present needs it would be foolish
not to plant the seed—always, of course,
with the reservation that the seed must
be both bought and planted economically.
This seed will consist of many things: pub-
licity of many kinds; local efforts; district
efforts. Behind it all there must be a
larger disposition to view the tourist traffic
as something very well worth having; that
sharply realised, the other things will follow
in their course.
DEMOCRACY IS IN DANGER.
In the first days of the Labor party in
Australia there was no thought of limiting
it to men in moleskins and dungarees. A
man belonged to the Labor party, just as
others belonged to the Protectionist and
Freetrade parties, because he believed in
something. Soon, however, that practice was
broken down, and a man was expected to
belong to the Labor party because-he was
something or did something. That was the
beginning of the teaching of class conscious-
ness. You belonged to the Labor party as a
matter of course because you were born and
brought up in a certain suburb and did a
certain kind of work. If you did not like
that suburb and moved to another, or got
on to another class of work, then you might
not only cease to belong to Labor but were
almost expected to renounce it. So party
politics are for most of us not a matter
of argument and conviction any longer:
they are a matter of environment.
But there is a section whose environment
is not definite enough to brand the citizen
beyond all question. This is the body which
decides most general elections. Class con-
sciousness has not got them absolutely in
its grip; they are prepared to vote
as their conscience dictates, conscience
being often another way of spelling
pocket. So we have a large number of men
class-bound to the Labor party, a compara-
tively small body bound to the opposite
side, whatever it may be, and a third sec-
tion ready to swing either way. The vast
bulk of the first and second sections are
really only pawns in the game. “There is
my vote,” they say in effect—“do with it
what you please.” Now obviously this gives
enormous power to a few men—or to one
man. If enough people can be got to the
point at which they renounce their individ-
ualism and merge themselves in a class,
then plainly those few to whom they hand
over their political power become dictators.
Whether they use their power for the good
of the people or for their own good is
beside the question: it has ceased to be a
democracy. There is only one basis on
which a man is entitled to a vote, and that
is that he is an honest, intelligent citizen
who will use it for the public good. It is
not something to sell. It is not some-
thing to be transferred. The question
arises whether the intelligence and honesty
and knowledge ought to be assumed.
Are the results achieved under our system
so good that obviously things ought to be
left as they are? Or are they so bad that
we ought to get down to root causes?
If one large and one small section of
men are to be class-bound to two parties,
and if a third section holds itself ready
to transfer itself to either side, obviously
it is of great importance that this section,
this determining factor in many cases, shall
be well-informed and public-spirited. But
what are the facts? Notoriously this sec-
tion consists largely of public servants,
who number now somewhere about one in
ten of the community. One part of it is as
class-bound as any to Labor; the other con-
gregates very largely in those districts
which hover between Labor and its oppo-
site: districts like North Sydney and Coogee
and Drummoyne in N. S. Wales; districts,
therefore, in which a small swinging vote is
exceptionally influential. Yet, instead of
being a judicial vote, cast in the best inter-
ests of the countiy, it is to a very great
extent a bought vote, cast in exchange for
promises made by either present or pro-
spective employers. That such a vote should
be the determining factor in an election
is a further travesty of popular govern-
ment.
One other conclusion seems inescapable.
Plainly the so-called popular Chamber can-
not be trusted to represent either the people
or the considered judgment of the people on
any political question. Apart from the
class-bound vote, cast automatically, there
is the swinging vote, whose cast is decided
by self-interest. In a perfect democracy,
functioning perfectly, one House should
suffice. Yet even here a second Chamber
may not be superfluous; just as a mathe-
matician will, if he can, try two processes
to get one result, so a second legislative
process may not be wasted in a democracy.
But where the first Chamber is so obviously
liable not to represent the considered judg-
ment of the majority, there is a positive
and urgent demand for a second Chamber
strong enough to compel a direct appeal
to the people. No doubt it is possible that
on this appeal the answer may be a poor
thing, too; but at least it will be the best
possible check in the circumstances.
Complete satisfaction will not be reached,
however, until every vote is cast intelli-
gently and honestly, and neither automati-
cally nor for personal gain;' and if it is
necessary to apply further checks in order
that the power of those votes may be les-
sened, then we must not hesitate to apply
them. At present, without these checks,
democratic government is being dangerously
undermined. In Italy, and elsewhere it has
been supplanted by an oligarchy or a
dictatorship. We are steadily drifting
towards the same thing.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Did Lang or Niemeyer Win?
The victory of Mr. Lang at the N. S. Wales
general election has apparently deluded the
Federal Labor caucus into believing that
this country is enthusiastically in favor of
the Lang policy. Actually, the country has
turned down everybody’s policy in turn.
It has thrown the Nationalists out of the
Federal Cabinet and out of Victoria and
South Aus.; it has tossed Labor out of
Westralia, Tasmania and Queensland. There
is not a Government which has survived a
recent appeal to the country. In Canada
the same thing has happened, the Dominion
Government being defeated with tre-
mendous slaughter; in England there have
just been municipal elections in which the
Labor majority in the great manufacturing
centres was routed, foreshadowing what is
to happen at the coming Parliamentary
elections; and in the U.S.A., by a tremen-
dous swing, the Republicans have lost their
majority in the House of Reps, and their
hold on the is doubtful.
If Lang had been in power in N. S.
Wales he.would just as assuredly have gone
down.
And it is not a matter of the sheer cussed-
ness of electors. It is mainly a matter of
the failure of politicians everywhere. The
world is sick, and the politician cannot cure
it with his little quack remedies. More
particularly he cannot stop the operation
of economic laws. W"e have all had a boom
—some countries worse than others—and
now we are having the reaction; and all the
Labor Governments in the world can’t stop


the tide flowing out any more than Canute
could stop it flowing in.
The one thing, then, that recent elections
have proved is that, in the opinion of the
public, the politician is a failure—every
Ministry which has been tried has been
turned down. Therefore, if the Federal
Labor party is to draw any conclusion from
the N.S.W. election, it is that neither crowd
in politics is trusted; and no hint to call
in experts and be guided by them could be
plainer. Niemeyer, for example.
— : ♦
Nationalisation of Coalmines.
Encouraged by the success of Mr. Lang at
the N.S.W. State election, the men who
mislead the Newcastle and Maitland
unionists begin to advocate the nationali-
sation of coalmines. They are careful to
point out that they are not advocates of
confiscation; they are prepared to pay for
all they seize. By some the scheme will not
be really regarded as worth bothering about
on such terms; nevertheless, they may be
relied upon to advocate it in the hope that
what is given in payment with one hand
may be somehow snatched back with the
other.
But, putting that question aside, has the
public got anything out of the nationalisa-
tion schemes of the past to justify further
experiments? The largest State-owned en-
terprises in Australia are the railways; and
these in one State alone were recently losing
money at the rate of £IO,OOO a day. So
poor a fist has the State made of running
the railways that nowhere in Australia are
they paying working expenses, and the
people of one State alone are taxed to the
extent of nearly £4,000,000 a year to keep
them going.
But that is not the only loss. Lately in
N. S. Wales a commission was appointed to
deal with the whole problem of transport
apart from the railways. One of the earliest
decisions was to prohibit the running of
motor-’buses on certain routes where it was
alleged they competed with trains and
trams. They are kept out of the streets of
the city of Sydney proper, ostensibly be-
cause they cause congestion, although they
are admitted into the streets of the city of
London, from which trams are excluded.
There is an outcry also against the use of
the roads by service cars and motor-trucks
in competition with the railways; and it is
generally agreed that “something will have
to be done about it.” When the first rail-
way was built, nobody worried much about
the bullock-driver; he was thrown out of a
job, but the world told him that that was
its way—yesterday had always to make
place for to-day. When the stage-coach was
pushed off the country roads by the steam
express, nobody worried much about the
Stage-coach; it was told that civilisation
had to go forward. But when motor-
haulage comes into the picture, it has to be
put into hobbles because it would compete
with something that has been nationalised
—nationalised and, as usual, not paid for.
So nationalisation has been not an instru-
ment of progress, but an obstacle to pro-
gress. And it might well be so again if the
coalmines were nationalised. We should be
reminded that, since the mines belong to
the State, it was the policy of the State to
sit on the head of all competition, no matter
how superior the competition might be.
Protection Coming in Britain.
The British municipal elections, almost in-
variably a foreshadowing of the next Par-
liamentary elections, show a swing over to
the Conservative Opposition, which has
lately been coming out definitely in favor
of some kind of a Protectionist tariff. Labor,
which for some years past has held sway
in many of the municipalities, has been
routed. It is impossible to avoid the im-
pression that Philip Snowden’s fanatical
Freetrade attitude has been responsible for
the debacle.
In the past the bugbear of the Protec-
tionists in Britain has been the national
obsession that a Protectionist tariff means
dearer food, and the majority has refused to
consider whether resulting increases in em-
ployment and earnings did not far out-
weigh anything of that sort. The working
man has always been supposed to object
to any interference with his “breakfast
table.” But the recent municipal vote
shows that he really wants a job more
than he wants a Freetrade Labor party,
wherefore great centres like Sheffield, Car-
diff, Salford (Manchester), Birmingham,
Liverpool and Leeds have returned Con-
servative candidates who are actual or ■
implied Protectionists.
With Empire preference, which should
follow, though refused by the present Labor
Government, the markets in the homeland
for Empire products will be largely freed
from the underselling by Continental and
overseas cheaD-labor exploiters which has
been such a heavy handicap on Empire pro-
ducers—Australian more than most.
Solidarity or Sincerity?
Australia is entitled to have a definite
statement from what is known as the Left
Wing of the Federal Labor party. What
are its members aiming at? Do they sin-
cerely believe that Australia should pay its
debts, or are they, under cover of the Labor
policy, deliberately working Australia into a
position where the payment of the debts
and the interest on the debts will be impos-
sible? In plain English, are they honest
and straightforward men or are they trick-
sters who are using the Labor party for
their own disruptive and revolutionary ends?
Australia is entitled to have from them
a definite statement on this question; but,
of course, Australia will not get it. ’ The
most it is likely to get are further pro-
testations, served up with tears from some
and gasps of injured innocence from others,
And while tongues are hot with protests and
eyes dewy with tears, things will be cheer-
fully done which will produce default; and
the question is whether default is not’what
these members believe will do their “class”
most good and the other “class” most
harm. In short, are they not in the “class
) var ’” and are not following the teach-
lnSs their school that the use of any
wea P° n > aQ y instrument—even the Labor
justified?
are n °t likely to get a definite
statement from the Left Wing, we are at
entitled to ask that every member of
Jv I ®, Labor party shall search himself and
und out where he stands in relation to this
H ia^er * there a Labor member who be-
iev’e.s that the Left Wing is aiming at dis-
ruPtion and has therefore not been sincere
W1 .y 1 ,,, e .„ P eo P| e .‘ “Solidarity! Solid-
arityl will be whispered in his ear, and he
4° n °thing to split the
P a , ■ w hat the honest Labor man
w . have to ask is whether this is not the
Y,° schemer. What a fool, certainly,
Communist conspirator within the Labor
P aia y would be if he did not strive to keep
th ®. pai ; y uitact, that he might swing the
? n , f° rce this way or that! What a
9P be would be if he did not strain every
e j l ** , an , ma , every possible appeal in
01 S, er , Y? c l°se the mouths of the doubters!
. ±sut l . tber P 1S a P at which the pretence
solidarity must be nbrnidoned, £uid ei
struggle made to establish the real thing.
. ® solidarity of an Australian cricket team
Is irarmly encouraged. Victory is
S rea uy helped by it. But if two or three
mem bers of a team are very strongly sus-
pecied of conspiring to do something which
ia quite outside the aim and purpose of
the team, and if they use their places
within the team to make the whole team
their tool, then its solidarity is a mockery
and a fraud, and those who go round whis-
pering about the need for it are pretty sure
to be in the swindle.
What the Labor party wants is not solid-
arity so much as sincerity.
Don’t Know the Boom Is Over.
On a conservative estimate, Australia was
furnished with 2000 midget golf links during
October, and the end of November will see
the number doubled. It is a poor Sydney
suburb that will not then have a dozen
of its own. On an average they probably
cost a couple of hundred pounds.
. It is a characteristic boom. Inasmuch as
it did not for many years past pay its
debts, but loafed on whoever would trust
it to the extent of an average of £40,000,000
a year, Australia felt full of beans. It
could afford things that no other people on
earth could afford. It could have its good
old Piddos and its basic wages that were the
envy of the world. It could support more
race- and pony-meetings and tin-hare courses
than countries with five times its popula-
tion. Even the U.S.A., with 20 times our
numbers, could not match us in pony-courses
and race-meetings; our pre-eminence in
tin-hares is in doubt,no statistics on the point
being available. The fact that we have
now burst out into these toy golf-courses
merely shows that we have not even begun
to realise that anything serious has hap-
pened to us. We don’t know that the
house is afire, and the tail of our shirt
already alight.
No. doubt we all know there is a certain
amount of depression. But Mr. Lang is
back in power in N. S. Wales and Mr. Lang
is going to borrow some more money, and
what with one thing and another we shall
soon be more “prosperous” than ever. Mean-
time we make another midget course.
Thus far, by levying taxes and more taxes,
Governments have more or less supplied em-
ployment and put no one adrift. But this will
not give us any help whatever to pay our
overseas debt. We are only pulling through
with the help of banks which have told us
we must not depend on them for anything
further. So far as increasing our production
and exports are concerned—and it is only
with exports that we can pay our overseas
debts—we have not done a thing beyond
increasing the acreage under wheat this
year. And the price is so poor that we
got no great relief out of that. We have
piled up a casual debt of 28 millions in
London with a further 10 millions in *»■
traha, and we owe another 27 millions
falling due next month. And we have not
done a thing towards meeting any of it
except build 2000 midget golf-links and
make plans for another 2000.
*
Shall We Give Up the Mandate?
From Fred W. Eggleston, of Melbourne: —
A Bulletin editorial (15/10/’3O) under
this heading criticises me for my views on tlie
New Guinea Mandate. Summarised, what
I did say was that Australia was not doing
the Mandated Territory justice, because she
12
mostly to lack of finance. We need all our
resources for our own development, and have
none to spare for the difficult task of develop-
ing this territory. _ If we did spare any we
should be exhausting ourselves. Therefore,
to
some other nation ( e.g Great Britain or
America) to undertake the Mandate; of
course, under the same terms as we had it,
in which the interests of the natives should
have first consideration. _
I pointed out that we had deliberately
sacrificed New Guinea to our own economic
restrictions, there were other restrictions
which we had not relaxed. I made no
definite statement about. the permission of
Asiatic migration into the Pacific Islands,
What I did say was that the question of
such migration Bhpuld be cairefully con-
sidered, and that the interests of the natives
should be paramount, but that the Chinese
were a race which inter-married, and that a
virile strain of .Chinese blood might improve
the primitive stocks. Your writer probably
does not know that the Chmese-Polynesian
mixture is considered very successful in
Hawaii. He also seems to be ignorant of
the fact that the Chinese constitute the
economic backbone of Malaya, and occupy
the same position in the Philippines, and very
largely m Tahiti and other parts. So far as
I know, the Chinese in South Africa are
quite negligible. It is the Indians who are
troublesome there.
Lastly, I said that Australia stood to gain
not so much by undertaking difficult adminis-
trative responsibilities, but by developing
trade with the Pacific, and that all economic
development of South Pacific territories, by
whomsoever made, should benefit Australia,
for Sydney would always be the entrepot for
that trade. With regard to defence, the
terms of a mandate preclude fortifications,
naval bases and the training of troops. Mili-
tary men know that there would be no
danger if a European or American power
occupied New Guinea on mandate terms.
The Bulletin’s high authority on the
Pacific responds:—
t 14.TX/TT7IT4.
say that the arfie of which he" complains
was founded on a report of his address which
appeared in Melbourne “Age” of September
13. He may not have made any of the state-
ments credited to him, but the report says
be did. _ . .
J-*;, a uS 11 /,? e lrn ait
ton exultingly asserts, but a blend of Jap-
Polynesian, and the American overlords are
to-day wishing to Heaven they had never per-
mitted the beginning of it. Further, the
admixture which Mr. Eggleston so eagerly
advocates in New Guinea would be Sino-
Melanesian—a very different proposition and,
to those who have seen anything of the
breed, by no means a desirable one. As Mr.
Eggleston says again, the Chinese have made
themselves the economic backbone of Malaya,
They have also absorbed most of the other
sections of the body politic, to the detriment
of the Europeans who made the country pos-
sible for them. Their great secret societies
SjraSh Mala ,l per ° f tbe
The writer’s reference to the Chinese in
Soutli Africa dealt, of course, with the
wholesale importation of coolies a genera-
tion ago, to work the Rand mines. South
Africa has not forgotten that nightmare yet,
nor has the British Conservative party,
which crashed so heavily as the result of
backing the policy. It is true, to quote Mr.
Eggleston again, that it is now the Hindu
who is “troublesome”; that is because he
was introduced by fatuous altruists with the
fixed obsession that the introduction of
“Asiatic labor” is a panacea for all indus-
trial ills.
It is true that the terms of a mandate
forbid fortifications, naval bases and the
training of troops. There is, unfortunately,
plenty of evidence that.some mandatories are
singularly blind to their obligations. Mr.
Eggleston, nevertheless, asserts that all mili-
tary men know that there would be no
danger in a European or American military
power occupying New Guinea on mandate
terms. The writer, with some military
training, is not so sure of that. And if the
new mandatory happened to be Asiatic, as a
glance at the present mandatory dispositions
shows it probably would be, the position
would be even more dubious.
*
The Curse of Hard Times.
Dear Bulletin, —The other day this “Situa-
tions Vacant” ad. appeared in a Sydney
daily: “Home offered married couple,
return services; woman gen. house duties,
man garden, gen. useful.” The address was
a swanky suburb. The kind of ad. quoted
is becoming common. Jobs are unprocur-
able, and now well-to-do folk are openly
making a bid for servants without pay at
all, offering only food and shelter, as in
the case of horses. Of course many des-
perate people, chiefly women, are accepting
rather than starve. I hear one type of
economist rising to protest: “Well, why
not? Isn’t a living without a wage better
than starvation?” I answer that there is a
principle at stake. Such advertisers are
not philanthropists, but utterly selfish oppor-
tunists.
By the way, there is still one job open
to everyone, and the “Positions Vacant”
columns are full of it. You can become a
go-getter for big city firms, tramping around
the suburbs on commission only, and mak-
ing a nuisance of yourself from door to
door. These firms, too, are merely oppor-
tunists, making something out of the dis-
tress of others.—Yours, etc., James D.
♦
William Hughes.
W. M. Hughes put up a score or so of
faithful followers for election in and around
Sydney, and nowhere got near enough to
success to touch the remotest hair on the
tail of the elusive animal. Having lost his
following in the Federal Parliament, he is,
therefore, still a king without a subject. But
he is something more than that. He is
the greatest platform performer in this
country; there is no other who can so
move a crowd, give him material which the
crowd can take seriously. But real as the
demand may be for another party—or an-
other dozen —Mr. Hughes’s latest creation
has never been taken seriously: it was too
obviously merely a stick to beat a dog with.
The Bulletin long ago suggested that
Mr. Hughes’s proper place was in the Labor
party; and it makes the suggestion again
with very small hope that anything will
come of it. Yet in his present condition
the little man is a tragedy. Freelancing on
an absurd platform, cut and trimmed until
it was like nothing else on earth, Mr.
Hughes has just been wasting his great
talents when, had he been associated with
Labor, he could have saved it from many
of its worst mistakes, while had he been in
Mr. Bavin’s shoes he could almost have
gained a victory.
Mr. Hughes is a difficult man to work
with. Maybe he is none the worse for that.
He is certainly too valuable a man to be
left wandering in the wilderness, flinging
wanton stones in every pool.
* ■
The Mess in India.
For the altruist, life is just one damned dis-
illusion after another.
The latest move of ■ the Ramsay Mac-
Donald Government in India is a case in
point. For some time its so-called humani-
tarian attitude towards the vociferous
fraction of India’s population which de-
mands impossibilities in the way of self-
determination has been one of fatuous
acquiescence. The only result has been in-
dustrial and social sabotage in the infected
area north of the 20th parallel. Here the
great cities have been obsessed with the
Babu-Bedlam doctrines to which their Hindu
population, as apart from the Moslem ele-
ment, has largely subscribed. The men on
the land, if we except the always insurgent
Sikh-Punjabi element, have remained, as
always, supremely indifferent.
The ultimate outcome has been the forma-
tion of the self-styled National Congress.
This body, entirely Hindu in personnel, has
attempted to usurp authority, levying its
own taxes, setting up its own courts of
justice, and enforcing compliance with its
commands from all natives under severe
penalties. Having permitted this undesir-
able state of things to develop, just as the
Soudan and South African troubles were
bred by the vacillation of the Gladstonian
era, the Ramsay MacDonalds have found
themselves faced, as they had been in Egypt,
with the problem of mopping up the mess
that is always made, whether in Asia or
Australia, by refusal to look facts in the
face. And, unfortunately, that means throw-
ing away the velvet glove stuffed with
cotton wool, and using the hobnailed boot.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
M. G. SKIPPER’S NEW BOOK—
By Cecil Mann .. .. .. .. 2
PROP. HANCOCK’S “AUSTRALIA” DIS-
CUSSED .. .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
HOW FAR WILL LABOR GO ? 8
FIXED RATES OF INTEREST .8
TOURIST MONEY IS GOOD 8
DEMOCRACY IS IN DANGER 8
DID LANG OR NIEMEYER WIN? .. ..8
. NATIONALISATION OF COALMINES .. .. <>
SOLIDARITY OR SINCERITY? .9
POLITICAL POINTS—
(With cartoonlets by Frith) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 14
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..1(>
A COMMUNITY “SING”—
(With drawings by Frith) .. .. 1G
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC 17
FARMER AND CO. (SYD.) 17
HERALD AND WEEKLY TIMES .. ..17
FEDERAL DEPOSIT BANK (BRIS.) .. ..17
COX BROS. (MELB.) 17, 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED ... 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
CATTLE AND BEEF PROSPECTS—
By J. B. Cramsie .. .. .. .. 22
STOCK ON THE WHEAT FARM .. .. 22
VALUE OF TOP DRESSING 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 22, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 2G
SMOKE-011 (with drawings) .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE .. ..31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 30
V.R.C. SPRING MEETING 35
RACING AT MOOREFIELD 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 38
NOTE INFLATION IN OTHER COUNTRIES.. 38
VALUE OF THE SUGAR INDUSTRY .. .. 38
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
NEW SERIAL, “Break o’ Day”—
By John Crisp .. .. 42, 43, 45, 50
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
AS WE SAID BEFORE—
(With drawings by Phil May and “Hop”) .. 47
COMPLETE STORY—
“THE BROTHERS OF AH-LEE”—
By S. Stedman .. .. .. 49, 60
VERSE —By D. P. McGuire, Roderic Quinn,
Myra Morris .. .. .. .. ..50


fdsdf
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W,
sfds
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 17 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Federal Labor’s Left Wing lacks even the
tribal virtue of loyalty to the chief. Scullin
was a very sick man when he left for Lon-
don, and his principal object in going was
to arrange for the funding of the 38 millions
due immediately there and to get another
12 millions if he could. It was just when
he had reached the most delicate stage of
this mission that the Left Wing—without
consulting Scullin, or the two Ministers
abroad with him, or the Ministers and mem-
bers absent in other parts of Australia —
bullocked its motion through Caucus “that
legislation be passed compelling bondholders
in the £27,000,000 loan maturing in Decem-
ber to hold their bonds for a further period
of 12 months.” And because the staggered
and humiliated Prime Minister will not have
the Commonwealth posted as a defaulter, he
is now stigmatised as a traitor to his party;
“his reputation as a loyal Labor man,” the
“Labor Daily” says, “has been wrecked in
a night.”
ANOTHER TRIUMPH FOR “LABOR
PRINCIPLES.”
Federal Minister Anstey, looking for gold
on his New Guinea mine, strikes a reef
of inconvertible paper.
Acting Priminister Fenton announces, in
effect, that he and Acting Treasurer Lyons
will defy the Left Wingers and ask Aus-
tralians to subscribe the £27,000,000 required
in December. “The Government, the Parlia-
ment and the people of this country will
never repudiate their just liabilities,” he
declares. They would be crazy if they did,
seeing that (as Mr. Fenton himself points
out) £141,000,000 worth of Government and
municipal securities are held by the savings
banks, £65,000,000 worth by life-assurance
societies, £33,000,000 worth by the Common-
wealth Bank, and £13,000,000 worth by
friendly societies; still, confidence is a sensi-
tive plant, and action will do more to revive
it than acres of verba] assurances, Two
things are necessary if the conversion loan is
to be a success. The first is the dismissal of
Ministers Anstey and Beasley; the second,
the abandonment of the crushing income
taxation proposed in Lyons’s Budget
Lazzarini and Yates, of the House of
Reps., have been shocked because they have
been called repudiationists. There are thou-
sands of men in Australia who don’t repudi-
ate the debt, but who do repudiate the obli-
gations which the debt entails. The differ-
ence between them is the difference be-
tween the man who disowns his wife
and lets her starve and the man who admits
she’s his wife all right and still lets her
starve.
Some of the daily papers last week an-
nounced that for the first quarter of this
financial year (July-Sept.) our exports had
outdistanced our imports by £3,070,314. This
is mere eyewash; that position was only
reached by exporting another £6,198,758 of
gold. Our gold production is now about
£1,700,000 a year; and the export of current
production does not reach £140,000 per
month. On that basis our exports for the
quarter were £17,583,362, and our imports
£20,291,806, leaving a shortage of £2,708,444.
Our exports, in other words, were that much
short of paying for our imports; and we
still had £7,500,000 of interest to pay for
the three months.
Lang’s troubles began at the Caucus elec-
tion of Ministers. W. F. Dunn, whom he
dismissed from his Cabinet in 1927, along
with Mutch, MeTiernan, Fitzgerald, Cann,
Lazzarini and Coates, was placed at the
head of the poll, and had to be named Min-
ister of Agriculture again. Then McKell
was chosen instead of the towering Lysaght,
whose name was on the Lang ticket. Lysaght
was Attorney-General, succeeding MeTier-
nan, in what that indignant little man (now
quite tame) called “the Scabinet”; lie was
given the Justice portfolio also on its being
reported that McKell, who had been kept
on provisionally, being
abroad, had said he wouldn’t
follow Lang into the wilder-
nes s. Swallowing his
wrath at the rebellion
against his ticket, the Pre-
mier asked for and got per-
mission to nominate a thir-
teenth man to share in the
£20,000 p.a. provided for
members of Cabinet; he
then made Lysaght Attorney-
General and McKell Minister
of Local Government,
Lamaro being given McKell’s
former job. Nobody objected
at the moment, but there
was bitter murmuring after-
wards. It is the first rift in
the lute.
Lang must be following
the progress of events at
Canberra with mixed feel-
ings. A win for his friends
of the Left Wing will spoil
his chance of getting large
quantities of loan money; on
the other hand, if the Lyons
Budget stands liis prospect
of raking in more income-
tax revenue will fade into
thin air. John Thomas’s
private opinion of both fac-
tions would be worth hear-
ing.
The A.W.U. is a power at Canberra, but
its influence in Lang’s third Ministry will
be small. It has only one representative,
the exuberant Mark Antony Davidson
(Works), whereas the Miners’ Federation
has four—Baddeley (Mines), Davies (Edu-
cation), Lysaght, and Willis (vice-president
of the Executive Council), who had Bailey,
N.S.W. president of the A.W.U., expelled
from the Labor party. Bailey, who recov-
ered damages from Willis last year, is still
expelled, and liis union, as it surveys the
Ministry, is making a brave attempt co look
pleased.
“Another £250,000 will be required this
year for old-age and invalid pensions,” said
Lyons glibly in his Budget speech. That will
bring the outlay to nearly 114 millions, cost
of administration included, and, though the
truth may seem harsh, it is an insupportable
burden when nearly everything we sell
abroad is below 1913-14 price levels and only
260,000 people pay Federal income tax. In
1913-14 old-age and invalid pensions cost
£2,636,000. The rate was then £26 p.a. ;
it was increased to £32 10s. in 1916, to £39
in ’2O, to £45 10s. in ’23 and _to £52 in
’25. There should be an immediate cut to
£39. The politicians are trying to prolong
inflation by means of taxes destructive of
thrift and industry; if that crazy policy were
abandoned £39 would soon have a greater
purchasing power than £52 had six months
ago, and there would be less danger of a
crash which might make it impossible to pay
pensions on even the 1913-14 scale.
The New York market loves Australian
loans as much as a flapper loves fat. Com-
monwealth 5 per
cents, were worth 721
at latest quotation,
and 44 per cents, were
worth 69: which
means that Uncle Sam
wants 7 p.c. p.a. on
our loans straight
away, plus a bonus of
45 p.c. on his invest-
ment when the loan
matures in 1955-57.
Uncle Sam has doubts about us.
And that on a loan with strict sinking-fund
1 provisions attached! It almost looks as if
Samuel had some doubts about us.
War pensions are in a different category
; from old-age pensions. They cost very
much less —£7,919,700 last year, as against
£10,791,300, cost of administration excluded
—and of the recipients on June 30, 279,285
altogether, 74,758 w r ere incapacitated sol-
diers, 65,242 wives or widows and 110,656
children. Dealing with only one phase of
the matter, these children have greater needs
than old people, and the nation is bound by
every sentiment of honor and gratitude to
satisfy them. It must also accept the
responsibility of caring for the aged and un-
fortunate, as far. as its means allow. But
NEEDY PREMIER : “How about lending our fair State a
coupla million ?”
it may fairly object to taking over the whole
duty of maintaining those who have families
in comfortable circumstances, though this
duty has been thrust upon it to a disgrace-
ful and demoralising extent.
The all-parties conference on balancing
the Vie. Budget has all but faded out. At
the preliminary sitting, the Opposition dele-
gates assert, a definite arrangement was
made for another meeting, but this Ministers
deny; anyway they didn’t turn up. Argyle
despairingly said that it looked as if no
good could come out of the pow-wow any-
how. The truth is that the Federal Labor
Budget, with its proposal for extracting an-
other Is. 6d. in the £ from what it is pleased
to call “unearned” income, has put every
State Treasurer in a hole.
Labor members have begun to wander
around N. S. Wales telling their constituents,
in effect, that they mustn’t take Lang too
literally : as Knight told Lithgow, “big things
can’t be expected of the new Government
immediately.” However, they were not to
despair: “with the industrial and political
wings working in unison, there is no obstacle'
that cannot be surmounted.” It is just there
that Hamilton Knight and three-fourths of
his colleagues go wrong. Economic law —the
law that two and two are four and not five
—couldn’t be overcome by the Labor or any
other party even if it had 50 wings.
Works Minister Jones has persuaded the
Vic. Labor Cabinet to look favorably on a
plan for spending up to £250,000 out of
unemployed-relief funds in placing carefully-
selected unemployed and their families on
moderate-sized Gippsland farms. He thinks
it should not be all Government endeavor;
he wants a citizens’ committee to help as
a sort of honorary directorate. And he
hopes to induce banks which have fore-
closed land going back to nature to sell it
cheap. Jones is a city _ business man, but
he knows more than a trifle about land. He
has pastoral interests.
Why should a man call himself a Com-
munist in Australia? He can get just
where he wants to be by encouraging the
manufacturer to go on manufacturing and
the farmer to go on farming and then tak-
ing the proceeds. The Russian experience
showed that the Government which look
factories over without also taking over the
men who ran the factories was heading for
disaster; and the lesson hasn’t been thrown
away.
Lud Mayor Luxton is not finding the
Assembly by-election the cakewalk some of
his friends persuaded him it would be. There
is a scramble for the vacancy, and the Caul-
fieldians have no reverence for cocked-hats
and gold chains. There is to be no National-
ist pre-selection—-and there ought never to
be another.
Australia’s experience that every Govern-
ment which goes to the country these times,
whatever its political complexion, is doomed,
seems likely to be shared by the rest of the
world. Although the Ramsay Macs are not
half through a normal term of office in
England, the municipal elections show a
swing to Conservatism that has startled even
the Labor press. Almost simultaneously in
the U.S.A. the Republicans have received
such a drubbing that their majority in one
House has disappeared and in the other is
at vanishing point, while Hoover’s chances
of a second Presidential term look blue. The
windbags and doctrinaires of the Federal
Labor party who talk so glibly of forcing
a dissolution of both Houses and another
general election next year may, if they can
manage the first part of the programme, get
the greatest surprise of their lives..
The Queensland Government has intro-
duced a bill making it possible for holders
of sugar land in the Tully (N.Q.) district
to convert perpetual leaseholds into freehold.
“Barcoo” Bulcock protested that it would
be an outrage to alienate the public estate.
Atherton, the Minister of Lands, retorted that
when the Tully mill was being erected Theo-
dore, then Premier, had been a brisk buyer
of freeholds, though his party stood for the
leasehold principle. Then there was an
exchange of pleasantries which suggested that
Queensland’s one iChamber is in danger of
descending to the controversial level of Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney.
Saying that* “cold arithmetic” condemned
it, Slater, the Vie. Minister for Agriculture,
declined to comply with a Cocky party
request for a wheat guarantee of 3s. a
bushel at rural stations. Assuming that the
harvest reached sixty million bushels,
the State, Slater said, would stand to lose
£3,000,000 or more, and it couldn’t possibly
find the money. Dunstan, who is now Allan’s
offsider, tried persuasion, but Slater held out
no hope,
British Labor’s fanatical devotion to Free-
trade has cost it another by-election
l oss _i u Yorkshire this time. Freetrade,
or Revenue Tariffism, had certain points
when the United States, France (under
the futile Napoleon III.) and Germany
(before Bismarck’s conversion) gave the
same article in return; but now the
position is changed. J. Bull can’t bargain
for concessions in repayment for concessions
when he gives the concessions gratis. The
position is akin to that of a Quaker, urging
disarmament. The obvious answer in that
case is that the Quaker is disarmed already,
and doesn’t count.
The law in Melbourne continues to be an
unwilling accomplice of General Depression
and his myrmidons. A zealous constable of
Oakleigli saw a carter carrying a load of
material out of town on Saturday afternoon.
The carter explained that he was taking some
of the stuff to relatives, some to friends and
some to his own home. He was charged with
carrying goods after noon on a Saturday, and
the beak reluctantly inflicted the usual fine.
Federal Minister Beasley finds the going
rougher than he bargained for.
Seddon made it a settled practice to staff
the M.L. Labor Department with the most
energetic and intelligent of trade-union
officials, and the traditions thus established
have endured. One result of the vigilance
and aggressiveness of the department’s
officers has been a willingness on the part
of organised Labor to tolerate a waiving of
rules and regulations in cases where the
public interest seemed to demand some re-
laxation. An instance in point is the rule
relating to chemists’ shops. When the phar-
maceutists came under the earlyvclosing laws
there cropped up cases in which sick people
died because drugs could not be obtained late
at night. Now, by a special dispensation
which has everyone’s approval, there is in
every city and large town an “all-night dis-
pensary,” which opens as soon as the regular
chemists shut and does not close till they
re-open. These are co-operative concerns,
run by the Pharmaceutical Society, and
the profits, which are considerable, help to
defray the cost of the society’s many help-
ful activities.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Adman” : I’ve often wondered why seaside
municipalities didn’t do some advertising.
The same bright idea has now struck the
Randwick (Sydney) Council, whose Town
Clerk signs a panegyric published in the
city newspapers calling attention to the dis-
trict’s “Glorious Beaches” and “Nineteen
Miles of Wonder Sea Coast.” Getting down
to details he invites the world to “Come to
Coogee, the Pearl of the Pacific”; refers to
Clovelly as a “Piccaninnies’ Paradise”;
throws in a word for “Mighty Majestic
Maroubra”; stresses the “Picturesqueness
and Tranquillity” of Long Bay, and dubs La
THE SUM.
YOUNG IKEY ( doing his homework) : “If you lent a hundred bounds for three months
at fife per shent. per annum, vat vould it be, fader?”
Isaacs : “Charity, my poy.”
Perouse “The Birthplace of Australia.”
Bondi’s retort will be worth watching for.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Percy Leason had a gratifying
experience on his motor trip to Adel-
hide. It has been asserted that the types
of countrymen he depicts no longer exist,
But while the artist was mending a punc-
ture a Ford stopped to offer assistance, and
good old Dad beamed on him from the driver’s
seat. Dad had plenteous whiskers, bright
red at the temples aud iron grey elsewhere;
Mum was sitting at his side holding the
youngest, and in the rear seat were five
individuals forming a complete set of Leason
characters. To cap it all, their vehicle,
which was badly down by the stern, had
recently been given a coat of tar.
* * * * *
“ J.1.M.” : When that Sydney bridge-worker
made his recent involuntary descent into the
harbor, 175 feet below, one of his mates, named
Moore, had to be forcibly restrained from
diving after him. Sixteen years ago at Cocka-
too Dock I saw a young boilermaker strip
to his trousers, climb the framework of a
cantilever crane, walk out along the jib, and
calmly jump 100 feet into the water for a
lunch-time wager of ten bob. It was the
same Moore.
* * *. *
“Ben Gunn” : “Community of interest” is
supposed to be a point that must be kept
in mind when electoral boundaries are fixed.
That being so, it is a little puzzling to find
the Ma State’s lone dependency, Lord Howe
Island, included in the constituency of King,
which is the heart of Sydney, for voting pur-
poses. If there is one part of N.S.W. with
which the islanders have less in common
than any other it might be suggested that it
is Pitt-street; still, they had
to ,be put somewhere, and the
fact that their Kentia-palm
seeds come to Sydney for
sale may have determined
the choice. It is not on
record that any politician
ever voyaged to Lord Howe
in quest of votes —there are
only 100 people or so there
—but presumably the inhabi-
tants are furnished with
propaganda at election times,
and are exhorted by post to
cast their votes for Tweedle-
dum or Tweedledee. But
what issues can be expected
to count in a place where
there are no taxes or civil
servants or public works or
basic wages, or even a police
court where a negligent elector might be
prosecuted for failing to vote, is matter for
conjecture.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The big section of the com-
munity which avoids the trained medico
and seeks relief from its ills in patent medi-
cines might consider a Melbourne case
wherein a company was fined for selling a
cure-all of which the constituents were not
set forth in the label, as is required by the
Victorian Health Act, An analyst found
that the stuff consisted of Yan Yean water
and saltpetre. The value was estimated at
4id. a bottle, bottle included. The pro-
prietary had been doing a brisk trade at
£1 Is. a bottle, so the £2O fine couldn’t have
made much of a hole in the profits.
* * * *
“P.X.”: One of the several Smiths of the
world who has been helping to put out
Broken Hill’s fires for 25 years past has just
been moved on to Sydney ; and the mine man-
agers called on him first with a case of
peaceful cutlery. The man who rules over
the Broken Hill brigades has to be a special-
ist more or less in underground fires ; and
they are awkward things to tackle. Millions
and tens of millions of feet of _ oregon are
piled underground in all these mines: in the
old days especially, they built solid bulk-
heads of this timber to support overhead ore
or “country.” The first time there was an
outbreak of fire in the Big Mine—4o years
ago or thereabouts—men cheerfully rushed
in -with hoses and the like, only to be met
and laid out by an enemy they couldn’t see.
Before distracted ladies had gas stoves to
put their heads into when seeking suicide,
they used to light a charcoal fire, stuff up
the chimney and the keyhole and await re-
suits, the most important of which was
usually a funeral.. What happens when one
of these heavily-timbered mines gets on fire
is something like that: there is soon a mass
of burning charcoal, with the chimney and
the keyhole blocked up, and deadly pyro-
ligneous gas rolling along the drives and
other passages to smother intruders. Against
this enemy the ordinary smoke helmet is
useless; as a rule, all that can be done is
FAIR EXCHANGE.
“You know, Belle, I told your confidentially, and you promised me you wouldn’t
give it away.”
“But, Billy, I didn’t give it away. I got a better one for it if you’d only listen.”
to either smother the smouldering fire with
some very heavy gas—which is rarely effec-
tive —or wall off that part of the mine, cut
off its supply of air and wait for the fire
to choke itself. But it’s a slow process : one
fire in Broken Hill’s Big Mine lasted cer-
tainly over a quarter of a century.
sf: ❖ * ❖
Adelaide City Council has celebrated its
00th birthday. It assembled, with Hurtle
Fisher as its first mayor, within four years
of the new S.A. “province” being established,
and was the first of its kind in Australia.
But its record is not continuous, for it got
into low water in the early days and abol-
ished itself for a period.
* * * #
“Strict Vcg.”: In my youth I lived in a
suburb where every second householder was
a Freemason or a Druid, and I grew up in an
atmosphere of conjecture as
to what dark rites these
middle-aged business men
trotted off to of evenings in
their plain sac suits. Some
said they rode goats around a
pagan altar. Then Elijah
Dowie suddenly tore away the
veil in his famous campaign
against Freemasonry, and I
learnt even more fantastic
practices allegedly performed
by my prosaic-looking neigh-
bors. In time I settled down
to the uninteresting conclu-
sion that these esoteric preten-
sions cloaked nothing more
than a desire on the part of
honest citizens to get away
from their wives and smoke a
pipe and drain a mug of beer
in an atmosphere of simple
male companionship. Hence
I was enormously surprised
when the “Argus” came
to light in its illustra-
tion section the other day
with a photo, of an initiation
ceremony of the United
Ancient Order of Druids,
Anglesea Lodge No. 2. There,
unmistakably, was a candi-
date in workaday clothes sur-
rounded by brothers of the
order in hoods and white
robes, each with an indubit-
ably false beard hanging from
his chin. There, also, was
Arch-Druid Bro. Shellnack,
similarly attired, standing be-
fore what looked like a baptis-
mal font, backed by a black-robed figure
grasping a lance and flanked by two
white-robed figures holding staves tipped with
effigies of the new moon. So it is all true.
* <c * *
“Sixenate” : In the Sydney Divorce Court
last week was unfolded the story of a pair
of newly-weds who arrived at Katoomba for
their honeymoon and suddenly discovered
that their joint wealth was ninepence, with
the result that her trousseau had to be
pawned. I know of a happily married couple
who started with even less than that —and
the bride had no trousseau, either. Broke to
the world, the young man had gone to a
registry office, but found nothing offer-
ing but a position for a married couple.
Immediately he thought of a girl, known to
him for some time, who was as penniless as
himself, and had walked in with him on a
similar job-seeking mission the : same morn-
ing. H'e found her at another registry office,
they got the position, a friendly parson
united them on tick, and that night they
started up-country by train, neither having
had anything to eat until their new employer,
who travelled with them, turned on a feed
at Penrith. It was their wedding breakfast,
but they kept that to themselves,
* * * *
“Shep”: I disagree with “Flagwagger’s”
assertion (B. 5/11/’3O) that the A.I.F. out-
shone all the other forces in uniform deco-
rations. The Yanks were certainly incon-
spicuous, but the French brightened them-
selves by what King’s Regs, wouldn’t stand
for—wearing of war medals away from the
line. As for the Tommies, thousands of them
wore color badges, often patches twice the
size of ours. They loaded their tunics with
the same service and wound chevrons,
and with good-conduct chevrons. Their
n.c.o.’s wore their insignia on each arm, and
their officers paraded their stars on tunic
cuffs with elaborate braid, while ours were
content with far less prominent shoulder
stars. Nevertheless, I admit that I heard
an A.I.F. band playing in Trafalgar-square
whose glory, from kangaroo plumes down to
outsize spurs, would have out-dazzled Solo-
mon’s. Fritz had the most dismal of all
the uniforms, barring possibly the Portu-
guese. Almost the sole relief from drab
field grey and unshiny boots were the droves
of black and white Iron Cross ribbons.
* * * *
“Bow Street”: A Glasgow immigrant
appeared at a Sydney police court last
week on a charge of butting a watchman on
the nose. That he earned every minute of
the two months handed him will be agreed
by all who have seen samples of a butter’s
work. An expert butter can do more
damage than any bottle-wielder. The prac-
tice, which for some reason has never gained
ground in Australia, originated in Man-
chester, and was becoming popular amongst
London’s racecourse “boys” shortly before
the war. Then the city and suburban P.M.’s
fell on it as one Solon, and wiped it right out
by imposing the limit sentence in every case.
“Lex”: The N.S.W. Full Court’s recent
decision that it is illegal to supply liquor in
clubs on Sundays, and after 6 p.m., drives
another nail in tlie coffin of the respectable
social club, an institution already hard
hit by motoring, which encourages members
to live far from the city, by golf, and by
the rise in servants’ wages. Now that drink-
ing after 6 p.m. is barred there will be
little or no bridge (for what is bridge with-
out occasional drinks?), and fewer patrons of
the dining-room, while such things as
ceremonial dinners will become functions
of the past. Golf clubs with licenses
have been making most of their sales after
6 p.m. and on Sundays—particularly on
Sundays. In view of the new decision many
of them will probably find it safer and more
profitable to let their licenses go. Para-
doxically, the heaviest drinking often goes
on in unlicensed golf clubs, where members
can legally repair to their private lockers
'at any hour of the day or night. Golf clubs
don’t miss the drink profits as social clubs
do. They make up the loss of revenue by
charging heavy green fees to members, and
extortionate ones to members’ guests.
* * * *
“Chev.”: Sydney’s traffic regulations are
confusing enough to a visiting motorist,
but they would appear clarity itself to a
Sydney driver who attempted to enter Mel-
bourne via Victoria-parade. On the south
side of this wide thoroughfare only one-way
traffic is permitted, while two-ways traffic is
in order on the north side, except on the
section between Nicholson-street and Spring-
street, where one-way travelling must be
returned to. The pattern weaved by a
motorist ignorant of these restrictions is a
•sight to witness. The determination of the
League of Nations to regard the problem as
a domestic matter between the city councils
of Fitzroy, Collingwood and Melbourne
accounts for the phenomenon.
THE SERVICE PUNCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The cloud of gloom that hung over the N.S.W.
Civil Service had been lifted,’ said the president of
the P.S.A., ‘by Labor’s victory at the polls.’ ”
Lang’s legions came down like a wolf on
the fold,
And the welkin just rang with the tales that
they told,
And the din of the combat suggested a fray
When pugilists mix it at Rushcutters Bay.
That they’d much better luck than Senna-
cherib’s men,
Is needless to state —there were miracles
then.
And the Angel of Death, as the figures
disclose,
Reserved his attention this time for their
foes.
Like blooms of the garden, all golden and
green,
The cohorts of Bavin at morning were seen;
All over the garden at eve they were strown
Like blooms when a southerly buster was
blown.
The Service was waiting to damn and to
blast
The hopes of the Ins with the vote that it
cast.
A heavyweight wallop it kept for the crow
Who would lengthen its hours and diminish
its screw.
There are faces on ’Change that look frown-
ing and wry;
The blitheness has gone from the street that
is Bligh;
But the gloom one observed o’er departments
to hang
Has vanished like smoke at the advent of
Lang.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Strict Veg.” : When the Discovery sailed
from Port Melbourne it was discovered that
one of the complement was missing, and it
is darkly suspected that he was absent on
some amorous adventure. It was not the
first time he had left the ship. On the
vessel’s last voyage he fell into the
Antarctic, being rescued with difficulty
by the boatswain, Martin, who, with rare
heroism, dived into the icy waters. So
keenly is his absence felt that Mac-
Plierson Robertson, the sponsor of the ex-
pedition, has offered a reward of five pounds
for his arrest and recovery. If found, there
is still time for him to rejoin his shipmates
at Hobart. . It is said that some of them
object to sailing without him. He is a
black-and-white cat, and is the ship’s
mascot.
* * # #
“Percy Pawnticket”: A new piece of evi-
dence of conjugal infidelity was introduced
into a recent Sydney divorce case. The
couple, it was mentioned, were living apart,
and it was alleged against the husband that
he had feminine company in his flat
when raiders descended upon the premises
about midnight. “I seized some of her gar-
ments,” said the petitioner triumphantly,
beginning to unwrap a parcel in the wit-
ness-box. To the Court’s hurried inquiry
as to the nature of the exhibit, she replied
shortly “Pair o’ bloomers.” Hastily ’Sonah
assured the lady that the Court had no
desire to see the garments—it was prepared
to take them as read, so to speak.
$ $ $
“Fernie” : The benign paternalism of the
M.L. Government sometimes has unexpected
results. A recent instance arises out of the
fireworks regulations. After it had been
represented to a Minister, probably by one
of those deputations of elderly ladies of both
sexes who infest Wellington when Parlia-
ment is in session, that every year about
10,000 little Maorilanders get their eyebroAVs
singed by letting off crackers, it was
ruled that intending purchasers of fire-
works must “satisfy the police that dis-
plays will be given only in suitable
places and with adequate precautions to pre-
vent accidents.” Before that ukase was issued
the Board of Trade had made a regulation
that fireworks brought to M.L. from the
U.K. must come by an explosive-carrying
THE REAL SHOW.
COMEDY: “Great Scott! You don’t mean to say that’s poor old Billy’s funeral?”
TRAGEDY: “My dear fellow, what do you think it is—a full-dress rehearsal?”
ship. Only one or two such ships arrive in
a year, so importers had to place their orders
Avell ahead of such festivals as Guy Fawkes
Day and Christmas, and when the permit
regulation was imposed they reckoned that
BOTH BEAT.
NINA: “Well, do you know, though he’s been engaged to me for a month he’s still a
riddle to me?”
MONA: “I know, dear. I don’t mind telling you I’m giving him up, too.”
nobody would take the trouble to secure a
permit; consequently English orders to the
amount of £6OOO were cancelled. Then the
Government had some second thoughts, and
toned down the permit clauses. Immediately
the Chinese merchants saw their opportunity.
Pyrotechnical stuff from Asia doesn’t have
to travel by special steamer, and this year
it holds the field without competition.
* * # *
“Wellow”: Since Mussolini rattled the
sabre, even more loudly than is his wont, in
Italy the other day certain English (and
other) newspapers have been pointing out
that these outbursts on the part of the Duce
mustn’t be taken too seriously. The Italian
language, one learns, lends itself to pic-
turesque exaggerations ; translated into Eng-
lish or French or German these convey a
meaning far in excess of anything attached
to them by natives. This may be so, although
a thing could be said more plainly and
pithily in Latin than in any other tongue
that has ever been evolved by mankind, if
it is so, one begins to get a glimmering of
why Italian is called “the language of
lovers.”
“Adelaide” : A man in a South Aus. coun-
try town put a 2d. duty stamp on a letter
addressed to a girl. Whether it was a per-
verted sense of humor, or just carelessness, it
cost him £ll 17s. 6d. The P.O. refused
to recognise the stamp, and the addressee
refused to pay the surcharge. So the depart-
ment opened the letter to find the sender, was
pained to find in it “words of an indecent
character,” and laid a charge with the above
result. The only moral appears to be that
indecent communications should always be
either (1) properly stamped, or (2) anony-
mous.
* * * ;]!
“Nero”: For months a next-door neigh-
bor gave me a lift in his car when-
ever we were starting for town at
the same time. For months we dis-
cussed politics, business, sport and
what not, until it accidentally came
out one day that Ave had both been
passengers on the ill-fated Arabia,
torpedoed outside Port Said in
November, 1916. An even more curi-
ous instance of the smallness of the
world came my way when I was
stationed on the Indian frontier. I
was mess secretary of the R.F.C.,
and as such had to take part in the
welcome to a visiting brass-hat. He
looked at me so intently that I began
to feel almost uncomfortable; then
he remarked that he felt sure we had
met before. I said I had no recol-
lection of any meeting. He studied
me again, and inquired if I remem-
bered on the Oxford-Gambridge boat-
race night of 1909 taking a joy-ride
on the bonnet of a private motor-car
from Leicester-square to Oxford
Circus. I admitted I remembered
the incident quite well, all the .
more so as I had spent the re- /
mainder of the night in a police f
station. “I was the driver of
that car,” said the brass-hat; “I
thought I remembered your face!”
“Chevroford”: One unexpected conse-
quence of the slump is the unusual
safety of the roads. Not only are there
fewer vehicles about, but those that still
survive the increasing load of taxes are tra-
velling at a much more moderate pace. This
is due not to the low spirits of their
owners but to propaganda, in the press point-
ing out the saving in petrol and tyre wear
wli'en a car is driven at low speeds. It is
a tolerably safe estimate that a reduction
in speed from 40 to 25 m.p.h. reduces
petrol consumption by one-third and doubles
the life of the tyres. There is a cumulative
effect, too, in the lessened wear and tear
on the roads, not to mention the nerves of
motorist and pedestrian.
* * * H:
“A.M.R.”: “Nakhoda” says that the in-
habitants of Kissar, the small island between
Timor and North Australia, are descended
from eight Dutch soldiers dropped there in
1665 and forgotten (B. 20/8/’30).. This is
so far correct in that a garrison of
one corporal and six men was placed on
Kissar by the Dutch East India Co. in
1665. But they weren’t all Dutch. Their
descendants on Kissar to-day number 300 or
more, and the European names to Avhich they
cling to are Scots, German and Swiss, as
well as Dutch. The fact is that the Dutch
co. recruited its East India army chiefly
from other European nations. Some of the
islanders have black skins, black hair and
clear blue eyes ; others white skins, fair hair
and black eyes, and many other strange com-
binations abound. Although for a centui y
and more they married only among them-
selves, they show absolutely no trace or
physical degeneration.
% * # *
“Fitz William” : It was a hot afternoon,
and we came through Sydney together m
a Castlereagh-street tram. He dropped on
as the tram neared the terminus, and flea
across the Quay as if 40 devils were after
him, dodging the traffic like an expert. I
took my own time, and presently found
myself on the same ferry Avith the hustler.
He climbed on the rail as the boat drew in
on the other side, jumped when within six
feet of the pontoon, and tore on to the rail-
way station. I took things easily, as be-
comes my bucolic temperament, caught the
train, and. glancing at my nearest companion,
found him to be the same man I had been
watching, now streaming with sweat. I
noticed that he showed a yearly ticket to the
conductor. He must have known that the
tram would catch the ferry, and the ferry
connect with the train. I can only con-
clude that he runs for the fun of it, and
the excitement of risking his life. But you
will see him and his like in swarms during
the morning and evening rushes at the Quay.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : The admission of Abyssinia or
Ethiopia to a place (however small) in the
sun reminds me that I was at school with
an Abyssinian or Etliiop of high degree. You
get all kinds of ethnographical curiosities
like that in an English public school. This
chap was a son or nephew of King Theodore
111. of the African realm, the monarch who
defied the might of Britain, and after seeing
liis army defeated committed suicide, oyer
60 years ago. The young sprig of Ethiop
royalty—the English climate killed him
within a few years—may have been a descen-
dant of King Solomon and the Queen of
Sheba, but I don’t think we had ever heard
the legend in those days, and, if we had, we
should have given him no extra respect on
that account. He was among us, but hardly
of us. There was a Jap in the same house,
just as remote and aloof and inscrutable to
the youthful Caucasian in those days. But
the Jap absorbed book-learning readily,
whereas the Ethiop learned nothing except
how to play football.
* * * *
“Huffin-Guffin”: Last week I attended an
agricultural show in a Vic. country town. I
was at the same function in the same place in
1885, and the main difference I noticed was
in the means of transport. The attendance
was roughly the same —about 1500. Forty-
five years ago those who hadn’t walked to
the show came in perhaps 100 buggies,
gigs and other horse vehicles; last week
there were approximately 500 motor-power
conveyances about the ground. In money
terms, the value of the rolling stock had
risen from about £5OOO to £lOO,OOO. Yet
I am sure that this year’s 1500 people are
not 20 times as rich as those of 1885.
One explanation, of course, is that the last
generation invariably owned its means of
transport, while the present one is mostly
paying for the same by instalments.
* * * *
“Nikko”: As souvenir hunters the Dig-
gers weren’t in it with some civilians I
have in my mind’s eye. At Wanganui
(M.L.) the celebrations in honor of the
BAD STAFF WORK SOMEWHERE.
“How many fish was it you caught on
Saturday, Jim?”
“Six, darling!”
“Yes, I thought it was. And that stupid
fishmonger has charged you for eight.”
Prince of Wales Avere held in the local art
gallery, and after H.R.H. had been escorted
aAvay the crowd began systematically to loot
the ‘building. Table silver (mostly lent by
public-spirited toAvnspeople), crockery and
other appointments disappeared as if by
magic, a woman and her young daughter
staggered out bearing a three-tiered ornamen-
tal cake, and hundreds of tumblers were
pocketed. The climax came when a man
and woman were observed struggling to
detach a huge painting from the wall. It
was a distressing exposition of how an
ordinarily honest and intelligent community
can become utterly demoralised by the aura
of royalty.
VIEW MAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“P. Hurry’s Sheila in blue.” —Bulletin Art notice.
As poet to portrait, dear Sheila in Blue
(Though you’ve never seen me, and I’ve
never seen you,
’Tis little that matters—
We’re all mad as hatters
We bards and bedaubers, a Bedlamite crew!).
I offer you homage, where homage is due!
I picture you lissome and lovely to view.
A poem of pulchritude, Sheila in Blue.
Whether Celtic or Saxon,
Red-headed or flaxen,
Not a notion have I, nor would care if I
knew.
Since either you might be, and very nice too !
Now here’s the good oil —and it’s fair
dinkum, too;
Though sorrows are many and shekels are
few.
Yet, darn the depression,
Here’s open confession:
If you’re game for a chance, I’ll take tickets
on you,
Put me 'through to the studio, Sheila in Blue.
QUEENSLAND.
J.HOLLOWAY.


THE GUILLOTINE GETS TO WORK.
“The first deputation to the new Premier of N. S. Wales was headed by Jock Garden, who demanded the immediate removal of Justices Street and Cantor from the
Industrial Commission.”
“Two wigs in that basket for a start, Citizen!”


“Wild Cat” Monthlj
November Issue
Now on Sale
CONTENTS:
Government Stock: What Caused the Recent Recovery?
Outlook for Government Stocks Position of France
Can the N.S.W. Government Borrow? The Whisky Merger
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. The Outlook for an Aus-
tralian Paper-making Industry Southern Cross Insurance
Farmers and Graziers’ Co-operative Australian Drug
and Recent Changes in the Drug Trade Dunlop-Perdriau
Kandos Cement Australian Gypsum Australian
Shale Prospects Mt. Isa etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Senator Daly and State Attorney-General
Denny have dissolved their law partnership
in Adelaide. They announce that the move
is a quite friendly one, and has nothing to
do with politics. ' Obviously each of them,
while engaged in saving the country, needs
a business partner who is content to stick
to the office.
“Wai-hoi”: Re long-lived explorers (B.
22/10/’3O). The other day I had a
yarn with W. ll'. Tietkins, the only sur-
vivor of his own and Ernest Giles’s expedi-
tions to Central Australia in the ’seventies.
At S 6 the veteran keeps fit by looking after
a big garden in a Sydney suburb, and
though his hearing isn’t good enough for him
to listen-in he reads everything he can get
hold of.
Few Parliamentarians can show such a
long record as Harry Gregory, who has had
334 yeax-s of legislatures, with a break
of 18 months. Gregory has only once
lost an election, although he had several
desperate fights to keep his Menzies (W.A.)
seat when he was a State member. Labor
outed him at last in 1911, and was respon-
sible for diverting him into Commonwealth
politics, where he has found the going easier
at election time under the C.P. banner’. But
Federal office has never come the way of
Westralia’s sometime Minister for Mines —
he held the portfolio for nearly 10 years
in all.
Died recently at Lightning Ridge (N.S.W.),
B. J. Francis, reckoned about the best judge
of black opals in Australia. Known as “Ber-
liner” to the opal world and as “Papa” to
the locals, he w r as a keen and able buyer
and whenever the hat went round for
anyone in need “Papa’s” contribution was
always in fh’st. All hands, even to the
youngest child, followed their old friend to
the little grave in the mulga at the foot of
the Ridge.
“Andy” Lysaght, the new Attorney-
General in N. S. Wales, scraped into the
Ministry by the skin of his teeth: Caucus
voted him out, but Lang, getting permission
to nominate a fourteenth Cabineteer,
promptly named Lysaght and made him
Attorney-General. He is easily the most
experienced lawyer in the party; for over
N.S.W. Attorney-General LYSAGHT, who
accompanies Lang to Canberra to
address the Loan Council.
20 years he was a solicitor at Wollongong,
where he had one of the largest country
practices in N. S. Wales; then he moved up
to Sydney and got himself struck off the roll
of solicitors and admitted to the Bar. Two-
thirds of his colleagues don’t understand
him, and regard him as a pompous old bore.
But he isn’t; all that is the matter with
him is that if he met a snail in his garden
at Campbelltown he would address it like a
public meeting, mostly in polysyllables, and
courteously beg it to go somewhere else, and
it is doubtful whether he could bring himself
to kill it, even if it refused to shift. Among
other things he studied art for a while in
Europe (he was born and grew up among
the N.S.W. South Coast miners), and is his
party’s best judge of a picture.
Robert Howe, who was about the oldest
inhabitant of Rylstone (N.S.W.) at his
death the other day, was a great-grandson
of the pioneer newspaper man of the same
name who established the “Sydney Gazette” ;
Howe himself was born in the “Gazette”
office in George-street. On two sides he
came of pioneering stock; his maternal
grandmother, Sarah Bloodworth, was the
daughter of Maria Lee, who was born at
Norfolk Island in 1796. The Howe family
relinquished the “Gazette” after running it
for three generations.
When Wintlirop
Hackett endowed a
Chair of Agricul-
ture in Westralia’s
brand-new U n i.
there was an idea
that the first occu-
pant would be the
agricultural editor
of the Hackett
publications, Cat-
ton Grasby, who
died the other day
in Perth. But the
U n i. authorities
regarded a Scot-
tish professor with
a vast deal of Ger-
man experience as
having superior
credentials, and
Grasby had per-
force to swallow
his disappointment
and stick to his
journalistic work.
He was a kindly
soul; although he
participated in
many controversies
the harshest thing
lie was ever known
to say about a
rival expert was
when he hinted a
doubt if the other
fellow “knew bar-
ley from bearded
wheat.” Viticul-
ture was Grasby’s
strongest suit.
H. C. Cornforth, head
of the Vacuum Oil
Co. in Australia.
N. S. Wales is credited with having sup-
plied a contribution to Uncle Sam’s new
legislature in the shape of a Democratic
Congressman for Nevada. His name is
Frederick Serle Aylward, and he was born
at Tamworth something under 40 years
ago. Young Aylward started his wage-
earning career as a telegraph messenger, but
at 14 he went to live with a grandfather at
Salt Lake City, and became an acclimatised
American. He served in the war, and took
to the law after it was over.
The Cocos-Keeling Islands, where Aus-
tralia’s first naval battle was fought 16
years ago last Sunday, run a royal family
of their own. Their first king was John
Clunies Ross, son of a Scotsman of some
eminence in his clan and a Norwegian
woman. He met his wife in strange cir-
cumstances. While on a visit to London
he was chased by the pressgang, rushed
into the first doorway and found himself
face to face for the first time with Elizabeth
Dymoke. Four generations have descended
from their union, the eldest sons succeeding
to the island throne, the other members of
the family; scattering all over the Empire.
Ross I. reigned from 1827 to 1854; Ross 11.,
who codified the laws, from 1854 to 1872,
and Ross 111., during whose regime the
Cocos domain was extended to include
Christmas Island, a mountain of pure guano,
from 1872 to 1910. The present incumbent,
Sydney, was Governor when the. Emden
drew the eyes of the world to the tiny atoll
in the middle of the Indian Ocean. All
the Rosses but the first married Malay
women.
W. J. Duggan, who succeeds M. B. Duffy
(recently made a Commonwealth Bank
director) as sec. of Melb. Trades Hall
Council, has been president of the Austral-
asian Council of Trade Unions, sec. of the
Building Trades’ Federation, organiser for
the Plumbers’ Union, vice-president of the
Federal Labor Party and Mayor of Coburg.
He gave H. S. Gullett a tight go for Henty
at last year’s Federal elections. It is un-
likely that Duggan will be content to remain
T. H. sec. Former holders of the billet were
the late Senator Stephen Barker, Holloway.
M.H.R., and Duffy, all of whom found it
a stepping-stone to something better.
Mrs. Annie Ray, dead in Mareeba (N.Q.),
took part with her husband in Williani
Lane’s attempt to found the ideal State in
Paraguay. More fortunate than some, the
Rays were able to return to Australia, and
found North Queensland a better place than
the greenest distant fields.
Curiously, the secretaries of Australia’s
two foremost racing clubs, the Y.R.C. and the
A.J.C., both learned the elements of their
trade at Kalgoorlie, and both C. W. Cropper
and A. D. Kewney went to the Westralian
goldfields first as attorneys for mining com-
panies. Cropper is a N.S.W. native, who
was a tennis-player of note in his younger
days; Kewney is an Englishman. Cropper
seeretaried the Kalgoorlie Race Club from
about 1903 to 1909; Kewney dropped into
the job just before the war and held it for
some years.
W. G. Randall, dead in Adelaide at S 4,
was mainly known as a Government expert
on fish, especially oysters. He was good
with a rifle, in a yacht and at all games, a
stalwart Anglican churchman, prominent in
anything to do with St. Peter’s College, and
an inveterate letter-writer under the old-
fashioned press-name “Thomasina Ruffinus”
—the Tommy-ruff being a local fish.
William Watson, the poet, is destitute
at 72. Watson, like Swinburne, scorned
fools and hypocrites, and was never afraid
to make enemies in high places; the differ-
ence was that Swinburne could afford to do
it and Watson couldn’t. His
She is not old, she is not young,
The woman with the serpent’s tongue,
was taken to be Margot Asquith ; the lines
damaged his prospects in the same way
that Bottomley was damaged by his plea-
santries in Parliament on the subject of
Lady Astor’s divorce. Powerful women are
very powerful in England, and they remem-
ber. Watson was bitterly disappointed when
Alfred Austin was appointed Laureate in
1896 —the year, appropriately enough, in
which he published his “The Year of Shame”
—and some of his most viperish sayings were
inspired by the little journalist, whom he
had known as a boy in Yorkshire.
“D.”: A cable mentions that Ellison,
who has charge of the social activities of
Australia House, will be one of those to be
sent back to Australia. It isn’t mentioned
why the young man should be shifted from
a necessary job which no one in sight is
capable of doing half so well. Some people
may cherish the erroneous idea that Ellison
only looks after rich Australians; _ actually
the rich have no need of his services, and
indeed are seldom seen at Australia House.
Ninety-five per cent, of Ellison’s wrnrk con-
sists in arranging to have uninfluential back-
blockers shown over institutions like Scot-
land Yard; getting them places at Royal
processions, etc.; telling them how to do
Henley, Wimbledon or the Grand National
cheaply, and so on. He is. a champion invi-
tation-wan gler, but how and then too big a
strain is put on his talents, as when a lady
■who has been black-balled at the local golf
club demands to be presented at Court, or
a pony-owner thinks he has a right to tickets
(“me and the missus”) for the Royal enclo-
sure at Ascot. The sequel is usually a series
of letters in the Australian press calling for
the abolition of Australia House as a lurk-
ing-place of snobs, upstarts and fools, with
particular reference to Ellison.
Dr. W. 11. Russell, dead at Port Adelaide,
was a man who made his mark wherever he
went. In early days he was a champion
runner for St. Peter’s School. Taking his
M.B. at Adelaide in 1905, he went into
the country, and for six years was Yorke-
town’s mayor. Then he moved to near the
city, and became known professionally for
his kindness to the poor, and socially as a
prominent supporter of racing.
The world’s oldest C. of E. bishop died in
Melbourne at the week-end, aged 94 —J. D.
Bishop LANGLEY.
Langley, who
was rector of
The Bulle-
tin’s parish of
St. Philip’s in
Sydney before
he went to Ben-
digo to wear
his late brother’s
apron. The
Church was only
his second
choice: for
nearly 20 years
he toiled in the
Bank of Aus-
tralasia. and he
was 37 before
he left the man-
ager’s chair at
Maitl and to
change the
shape of his
collar. His ex-
perience of the
wrnrld made the
lovable old
Irishman always
very human,
and he was the
trusted friend
of “The Rocks,”
on the edge
of which St.
Philip’s and
The Bulletin
office are both
built, for 24 years: during a great part of
this time he wore the rig of an archdeacon.
The latest centenarian to go across the
border is Mrs. Johanna Hogan, who notched
101 before she died at Bendigo. She was
born in Cork, coming to Victoria in the
early days.
“Lance-Corporal” : The late William Spooner
(B. 29/10/’3O) was always interested m Aus-
tralians. When I was at 0.T.C., Oxford,
in 1917 he and his wife would ask batclies
of us to tea every week. His books ana
treasures were well worth seeing. Amongst
them was a collection of pewter plates, one
of which is struck after a warden dies or
retires, to be held in trust for the college.
Spooner, who was New’s 14tli warden, told us
of a bright young thing who, when shown tne
collection, remarked: “Thirteen plates; what
a pity it’s not fourteen!” “She didn't real-
ise,” he commented drily, “that I was much
more interested in thirteen than I could pos-
sibly be in fourteen.”
If he hadn’t been a rabbi Francis Lyon
Cohen, of the Great Synagogue, Sydney,
might have been world-famous musician.
Even in his student days he couldn’t let
theology push out his first love altogether,
and as soon as he was settled in a charge
Chief Rabbi COHEN (Sydney).
lie published his “Rise and Development of
Synagogue Music.” That was 43 years
ago; and since then he has used up tons of
paper with his writings on music, _ mostly
ecclesiastical. The rabbi was born in Eng-
land and had a 68th birthday last Friday.
Edward Stevens, who passed out at Mal-
vern (Vic.) the other day, was a prominent
figure in Melbourne’s commercial life ' for
years, and a generous benefactor to the
University.’ He was one of the pillars of
the Henry Berry firm of wholesalers,
“Adelaide”: iCan any other city equal
our group of 80-year-olds? Lancelot Stirling
is still president of S.A. Leg. Council; Her-
bert Phillips still chairman of the State-
Savings bank, and Langdon Bonython still
at the “ ’Tiser” office till the small hours of
every moniing. Josiah Symon, K.C.; Lewis
Cohen, former politician and city mayor;
and Edward Hawker, pastoralist, are taking
things more easily nowadays, but are con-
stantly in the city and seem to enjoy life.
Hawker, who touched 80 only this year, is
distinctly junior to the others ; incidentally,
he is the only one of the six without a title.
Brigadier C. Knapp, after 46 years’
Salv’army service in N. S. Wales, has
reached the retiring age. He has done a
lot of good prison work, and has a good
word for the inmates as well as the warders
and officials. Knapp in the last four years
has conducted 135 prison concerts, the
attendances, which are quite voluntary, aver-
aging a couple of hundred. He is a merry-
eyed pastor, with a heart as stout as his
body.
General Bryan Mahon, whose death was
reported recently, was a distinguished Irish
soldier who ended his days as a Free State
Senator. A cavalryman, he led the force that
galloped through the attenuated Boer lines to
relieve the farcical siege of Mafeking. For a
brief period he commanded a composite brigade
in the 0.F.5.; it was hurriedly made up
of all sorts of mounted details when Bruce
Hamilton’s column was flung together to
meet De Wet’s first break-through, after
Pretoria had been occupied. Those who
knew Mahon then found him a likeable chap
with a thorough appreciation of the military
outlook of the “Colonial.” In the Great
War he commanded troops at the Darda-
nelles and later at Salonika, being appointed
to the touchy job of G.O.C. in Ireland
in 1916. When he was outside Mafekinsr.
Barnum Powell sent a message asking the
strength of his force. Fearing to write en
clair and having no cypher, he replied.
“Numbers, Naval and Military Club multi-
plied by 10; guns, number of sons in the
Ward family; supplies, O.C. 9th Lancers.
To the sophisticated this read: “940, 9 and
little.”


THE UNEMPLOYED GENERAL.
COMRADE ROUBL ESKI: “This is my friend General Inflation. He ruined Russia; Germany and France have kicked him out, and England won’t let him in. How about you Aussies giving him a show?”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion “This Thing Called Love”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR .COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Cingalee”
Comedy (com. Saturday) “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli “Happy Days”
State Movies and Talkies
*
On Fridays nowadays, from noon till two
pip emma, Sydney Town Hall is so crowded
that its walls show a perceptible bulge. It
is the rendezvous of thousands of citizens
who barge along to indulge in com-
munity singing. Many, still champing
cheese, salmon or ham sandwiches, are foiled
of entrance, but they cluster round purlieus
and cloisters and porches. Inside —this Show-
man managed to get a peep inside the
door one Friday—there’s Charlie Lawrence,
who takes a stance up by the organ and
decides what is going to be sung. It really
doesn’t matter very much what he decides,
because he generally picks on something
evei-ybody knows, and when it is a case of
singing something everybody knows there is
no east, no west, no north, no south, no
political or denominational barriers. These
are the most popular concerts the Bridge
City has ever seen. Lawrence, who capers
about behind three loud-speakers which are
confronted by a mike, is backed by a choir
—the bell-wether of the multitude —and a
pianist; his job is to get everybody sing-
ing, but old inhibitions are hard to
overcome. Up towards the front there
are a few layers of hardened hab-
itues who expand their epiglottises, lungs
and larynxes with abandon, but behind them
are rows and rows of folk who have just
come in to investigate. They look at each
other suspiciously. For a while they sit
like deaf mutes, carefully erasing from their
countenances all attributes of sentience. But
—well—this Lawrence chap has a liking for
old-fashioned songs, of the sort that the
somebody or the other who said he didn’t
care who made the laws so long as he wrote
the ditties must have had in mind : Stephen
Booster’s plantation songs', Scottish ballads,
the immortal hymns, lyrics from “Maritana”
and “Bohemian Girl,” songs of the Great
War, such as “Tippei-ary” and “Pack Up
Your Troubles” and “The Long, Long Trail.”
The back half of the big hall is mostly occu-
pied by bald-headed men, hard-bitteix battlers
with no sentiment about them. Everybody
knows that sentiment expires at the age of
40. But does it? Not by a whopping long
chalk! Watch these middle-elderly chaps
as they sit trying to look bored and sophis-
“Hardened habitues who expand their
epiglottises, lungs and larynxes with
abandon.”
ticated. A strange noise emanates from a
tough-looking old person who sits beside
one. Not a movement of his lips, but lie’s
humming—crooning almost —while the choir
and the vocally-inoculated vanguard of the
mob chant “SOFT o’er the FOUN-tain,
LING-rin’ FALLS THE SUTH-ern
MOOOOON.” Bless his dear old heart,
he ■ thinks nobody knows he’s joining
in. And the man three seats away,
who suggests a combination of Torque-
mada and St. Anthony, nods his grim head
to the tune of “ONE littul girrl in BLOOOO,
lad, who won your FAR-ther’s heart, BE-
came yore mother, I MARRIED the other,
hut WE have DRIF-ted a-PART.”
But though there is a bald-head parade
that puts to shame the front stalls of a
leg-show, the principal ingredient of the
mob is women and girls in felt hats —those
close-fitting little nut-covers that reduce all
femininity to a common denominator when
looked at from behind. According to the
fashion experts this sort of headgear is
going out, but the ladies who attend commu-
nity sings don’t care. From the back of
the hall, as seen from the visual altitude of
a tail male, they look like a lot of little
pills, colored cheese, salmon, ham, lettuce—
nay; this lunch-hour atmosphere is distract-
ing—orange, pink, red and green are more
seemly terms. Creeping along the side of
the wall as unostentatiously as a panther
stalking a parrakeet, the Showman enfiladed
a few rows with a searching eye. What had
appeared from the rear to be rapt attention
was disclosed to be a scene of busy industry.
Knitting and crochet needles made a
cheveaux-de-frise at lap level. There was
a gentle champing of jaws on chocolates,
which explained why so many sweet voices
were not being used to assault the welkin.
These beings had three ways of enjoying
the hour —audial, manual and gustatory. A
marvellous race is the female of the species!
There are diversions and variety. That
indefatigable chap Lawrence cheers the crowd
up after a lachrymose item. Suppose we’ve
just sung, hummed or listened to “Old
Black Joe,” he chirps up something like
this: “Now we’ll have one of the Diggers’
songs. I was talking to an old Dig. the
other day. He had a hard time in France.
All sorts of trouble. But was he down-
hearted? Nod I said to him, ‘I don’t sup-
pose you’ll go to the next war?’ ‘Too right
I wall,’ he said, ‘me an’ two others.’ ‘Ah !’
said I; ‘and who are the two others ?’ ‘The
two blokes that’ll have to drag me there!’
says lie. Now we’ll all sing ‘Tipperary.’ ” As
axx addition to the diversions there are the
usherettes, about a. thousand of them, in
green, red, blue, beige, puce—any old color —•
but all draped in red-and-w T hite sashes that
girdle the shoulder and fall to the hip. They
sell you books of words as you go in and
rattle collection-boxes as you go out, but
they’re a sonsy lot o’ lassies, and this
Showman, though of Scottish extraction,
left ninepence in their keeping. Also, there’s
“The principal ingredient of the mob is
women and girls in close-fitting little
nutcovers.”
Raymond Beatty, the basso, who drifts on
occasionally and sings either an old-timer
that antedates Noah or the latest lilting
lyric from some Sydneyside song-manufac-
tory. There’s a jazz band, too, conducted
by a young fellow in a grey suit who genu-
flects at angles hitherto considered impos-
sible.
Indeed there is no knowing what may happen
Last Friday, right in the middle of the melody,
as it were, up came a coaeh-aiid-four with
wild prancings and much cracking of whip
—an apport from the era of 1860 with an
ultra-modeim cargo. It disgorged (a) Gladys
Moncrieff, (b) Elsie Prince, (c) Gus Bluett,
(d) 1 doz. assorted chorines (with legs
attached) from the State talkie theatre.
These rushed on to the platform and carolled
that very catchy tune “Tat-a-ra; tat-a-ra;
tat-a-tat-atterata-ra,” otherwise the “Stein
Song.” Then Miss Moncrieff warbled
“Love Will Find a Way,” one of the plates
of soup in Somerville’s most popular light
opera. The baldlieads were strangely stirred
by the choral item. The felt-hatted section
of the audience dropped stitches and missed
chews as Gladys discoursed. A great show,
my masters, and admission is free. You
don’t even have to buy a book of words if
you don’t want it.
# * #
The Sydney Bushwalkers’ Club is an
organisation devoted to the great open spaces
where men are men and women are women
and miles are miles and mountains are moun-
tains. Its members toddle forth every fine
week-end, each carrying a pack containing
a tent, a portable boat, lcwt. of pemmican
and a pot of marmite, and walk all over
uninhabited portions of the landscape of
N. S. Wales, returning, as their most literary
member once very aptly put it, “tired but
happy.” Almost anyone would be tired after
toting and eating all that pemmican, and
there breathes no soul so dead that it
wouldn’t be happy to be able to do it. This
is by way of introductory atmosphere or
prelude to an account of the club’s concert,
which was Sydney’s most remarkable show of
last week. Thei'e probably isn’t another
athletic club anywhere in the world whose
membei’s can all sing, act, dance, write plays
and play instruments, but apparently the
great open spaces of N. S. Wales —or, per-
haps, it is the pemmican—are productive of
super-versatility.
A very welcome feature of these entertain-
ments, which happen annually, is that they
offer a lot for the money and plenty of
variety. This year there were three one-act
plays: “Hamlet in Hollywood,” Barrie’s
“Half an Hour” and Tarkington’s “Ghost
Story”; also a dance in which five sweet
young girl membei-s of the club, rigged out as
flannel-flowers, drooped and swooned upon
beholding a wicked pei’son pick flowers in
the bush. They later revived, and, after a
hearty meal of pemmican, appeared as rab-
bits and capered blithely, enraging a male mem-
ber who announced bitterly that he had mis-
laid his gun. Another male member sang the
“Volga Boatmen.” There’s nothing unusual
in that, but this chap sang it in Russian,
and beautifully. Then there were a sweet-
voiced soprano, a pretty young thing who
turned out to be a male ; and; a l’obust baritone,
who brought down the house by declaiming
a song about “rounds of good beef and pud-
dings and pies” (there was hardly a dry
mouth amongst the pemmican-eaters). Ex-
“They rattle collection-boxes as you go out.”
cerpts from Beethoven and Gounod proved
that the club does not lack erudition. There
were about 37 other items that there isn’t
space to enumerate, but enough has been
said to show what pemmican and open spaces
can do for the culture of a young nation.
No matter in what direction one goes in
Australia these days one runs into General
Motors. There doesn’t seem to be any essen-
tial connection between charity, cricket,
Clievs. aixd ’cellos, but all these things were
brought into relationship at Sydney Town
Hall the other night, when there was a con-
cert in aid qf the United Charities’ fund.
General Motors supplied most of the music,
per agency of its orchestra, well trained by
Howard Carr, its octette and its two quar-
tettes. There were a lot of soloists, too, but
whether they w-ere myrmidons of G.M. too
this Showman can’t say. Anyway, the
music, good as it was, taken generally,
wasn’t what most of the crowd went foi*. The
hei’o of the evening was Don Bradman, with
his nice boyish smile, who was stood up on
the stage while Chief Secretary Gosling
spoke a sporting panegyric in which he in-
voked the sacred name of Pliar Lap, and
wound up by handing young Bradman the
key to a two-seater Chev. of the latest model
on behalf of G.M. Bradman in reply brought
down the house by declaring that Sydney
Cricket Ground is the best in the world,
which was a bit rash, considering he hasn’t
played on the one at Budapest, but
awfully diplomatic. Then Lud Mayor Marks
got some limelight, the first since a recent
political eclipse, and received at the hands
of the cricketer a key to an exact replica
of the Bradman Chev. which is to be art-
unioned for United Charities.
V- *
Assailed as they are on one hand by the
talkies and on the other by General Depresh,
these be difficult times for buskers, but the
flag of vaudeville is kept flying at Sydney’s
St. James, where Clem Dawe and some asso-
ciates on Saturday produced a new T revue
called “Rain or Shine.” It is an impromptu
kind of affair that might be called anything.
Jay, June and Collette throw their weight
about in a surprising manner; there’s a very
funny little sketch, starring Dawe, which
deals with the little ways of the gallant lads
who mend gas mains, and an interesting
attempt to find out how far microphone
amplification can be carried before it blows
the audience right out of the house. Colin
Crane goes on raising the ghost of Eugene
Stratton, Roy Rene goes on being Mo, and
pretty girls caper energetically. Greg Ivan-
off pushes a deff bow over a sweet-toned
fiddle.
* * *
It is customary to describe all amateur
shows for charitable purposes as creditable,
“Raymond Beatty, the
basso, drifts on occasion-
ally.”
whether they
are or not;
the Mosman
Comedy and
Dramatic So-
ciety’s presen-
tation of
“Straight
Crooks” at the
local To w n
Hall last week
is here-with
awarded the
adjective on
its merits. The
girls were
sparkling, the
male actors
hadn’t the
least resem-
blance to Bot-
tom, Snug,
Quince and
co., as ama-
teur male
actors so
often have,
everyone was
letter - perfect,
and the make-
u p of the
characters
suggested a
master hand at
the grease-
paint. It
wasn’t t h e
fault of. the performers that “Straight
Crooks” is as full of jarring Yankee argot
as a Christmas pudding of plums.
¥ # *
Ibsen takes a lot of understanding.
‘ Iledda Gabler,” as performed by Sydney’s
Community Playhouse troupe, didn’t convey
what the most authoritative commentators
say that Henrik was driving at, but it was
an interesting essay all the same. Therese
Desmond, as Hedda, used an expressive voice
and face with effect and was as vital as any
Ibsen character could be expected to be.
Edward Howell, as Tesman, expressed
emotion by a sort of foxtrot —four paces one
way and four paces the other —and Mollie
Ivirwan, who was Mrs. Elvstead, played the
part as though she were Mrs. Cheney.
Richard Dowse’s Lovberg, the repentant
person with a lurid past, was so pussy that
the audience was convinced that his was
but a bubble reputation.
* * *
When Noel Coward’s “The Queen Was in
the Parlor” was staged in London the
author told the audience that the play w r as
nothing—a very bad play indeed—but that
Madge Titheradge, who impersonated the
Queen, was so lovely that he felt sure the
people, wouldn’t mind’. It really isn’t much of
a play. The Independent Theatre co. at
St. James’s Hall, Sydney, dressed it
admirably, but the actors planted only one
foot in the Central European kingdom and
left the other in Sydney. In the opening
stages some of them delivered their lines
like radio-set salesmen anxious to work off
their patter before a bored householder
slammed the door in their faces, and the
later acts were spoilt by inability to seize the
spirit of the fantasy. Still, as the Queen who
sacrifices love for the welfare of her king-
dom Doris Fitton had her moments, especi-
ally in the middle act; she was ably
supported during her peak period by Handon
Wilson. Alathea Siddons, as the Grand
Duchess, made a valiant struggle to keep
.the thing from falling to pieces. Dorothy
Lowe, as Miss Phipps, overdid the comedy.
# * *
Father O’Brien’s historical play “The
Hostage,” which has just completed a short
season at the Australian Hall, Sydney,
is adapted from his book “The Dawn of
Catholicism in Australia.” It is devo-
tional and instructive l-ather than entertain-
ing. The rising of the curtain discloses
a discussion in progress in the house of Wil-
liam Davis on Church Hill, Sydney, where
the householder and a group of his friends
are bemoaning the hostility of the authori-
ties towards their faith. There follows the
arrival of a priest, who, however, is imme-
diately banished by Macquarie on the ground
that his actions" are against constituted
authority. The Irish settlers protest un-
“A young fellow in a grey suit who genu-
flects at angles hitherto considered
impossible.”
availingly against the deportation, and a
glimpse is afforded of the sorely-worried
Governor, bound to carry out the policy of
the British Government yet endeavoring to
deal fairly with the colonists. Alfred Race,
Eric Howell and Vera Keogh, in the respective
roles of Macquarie, Dermott and Mrs. Dwyer,
were easily the most outstanding members
of a large cast, some of the minor mem-
bers of which couldn’t get their words dis-
tinctly across the footlights. The Society
of St. Vincent do Paul is distributing the
proceeds among the distressed in the metro-
politan area.
* * *
Frank Harvey’s “The Last Enemy,” put
on in Sydney last week by the Players’ Club,
defied all the efforts of a not untalented cast
to make it either logical or interesting. The
central idea, the revisitation of the earth
by dead men, is promising, but the promise
is not fulfilled. All they have learned on
the Other Side is the hackneyed old theory
of affinities, and the action of the play is
confused, diffuse, and in parts ineffably trite.
Naomi Waters as a cocktail-drinking flapper,
Jack Appleton as a male of the same species,
and Rita Humfress as an aunt made the
best use of the very tangled material at their
disposal.
# *
Flesh-and-blood drama in Melbourne is
looking up. Excellently played, ela-
borately produced, wittily written and
-handsomely assisted by the moral reproba-
tion of the “Argus,” “The Road to
Romance,” at the Comedy, is presenting
Edith Taliaferro in the best light hitherto
thrown on her. Hindle Edgar will cease
smashing the crockery at the Royal on
Saturday, when a revival of “The Cingalee”
will succeed “Mr. Cinders.” Shorn of some
of the more tedious features exhibited at the
public rehearsal, the Tiv. show is meeting
with general approbation. Wirths’ Circus
rolled up its tents and silently stole away
from Olympia a few days ago.
Melbourne having given to that intelli-
gent play “The Road to Romance” the sort
of reception Melbourne gives to intelligent
plays, Edith Taliaferro will turn, no doubt
in disgust, to “Peg o’ My Heart,” at the
Comedy, on Saturday. Thus is the stage
made safe for half-wits, children between
the ages of 17 and 70 and the more virtuous
members of the Legislative Council. There
is no truth, how r ever, in the rumor that the
management has arranged for the legs of
the chairs and tables to be draped.
¥ H- *
Something new in theatrical entertain-
ment will hit Melbourne at the King’s on
the 13th and 14th. Pictures by Old Masters
will be copied by local artists, using Jennie
Breaan’s dancing
pupils for pigment. A
one-act ballet, “Lend,
the Toymaker,” will
be included.
* * H-
An unusual show in
Adelaide was an
Anglo-French evening
for charities, organ-
ised by Violet de
Mole. The mixed bill
was a clever trifle by
a local man, Alex.
Symons, a harmless
French comedy, and
the Eden Phillpotts
farce, “Something to
Talk About,” of a
burglar made actually
welcome by his bored
aristocratic hosts.
The French accent
varied from that of
Paris to that of Strat-
ford - atte - Bowe. A
pleasant evening, with
Iris Thomas taking
chief honors.
And Adelaide Royal
is just breaking out
into one of its weeks
of highly - organised
amateur musical
comedy. The old
“Runaway Girl” this
time.
it. tp #
Clem Dawe, who
keeps the vaude-
ville flag flying at
Sydney’s St. James.
Last week at Brisbane Theatre Royal
Nellie Bramley changed over from vaude-
ville and produced “Give and Take.” The
comedian of the show was Bert le Blanc;
the other notables were Lou Vernon, as the
old proprietor; Richard Fair, as the pro-
prietor’s son who had the kink for “industrial
democracy,” and Miss Bramley as the old
man’s secretary.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens 9 Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Buildings, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
Buy Belting on a Service Basis
There are two important factors which enter into the . purchase of Leather
Belting—what you pay—and what you get for your money.
With “Pioneeer” Belting you pay no more than for ordinary belting, but you do
buy guaranteed, uninterrupted service over a term of years under the most difficult
conditions. That is why there are more “Pioneer” Belts in use in Australia than
any other make.
LEATHER LASTS LONGEST.
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE *B5B
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
Queensland Agents: HOEY, FR"V LTD., Edward Street, Brisbane.
INSUR.IL WITH THE
1
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 I 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
The WILD [?] AT
COUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
Written
June, Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
p r £, £,
1921.. 5,068 257,623
Charged to Development account, £45,777 303,400
Debenture Flotation Costs ..£29,860 333,260
Profit.
1922.. 105,593 29,000 256,667
Charged to Development .. £8,343 ) „„ r nol
Debenture Costs .. £ll j 260,0zi
Pref. Shares.
1923.. 398,073 8 p.c. = £149,116* 92,304 108,367
Vote to Risdon Co-op. Council, £7,500 115,867
All Shares.
1924.. 461,953 9 p.o. = 169,131 212,020 f 35,065
Reserves.
1925.. 542,109 10 „ „ 216,269 148,536 142,240
Charged to Development, £7172 .. 135,068
1926.. 557,029 12 p.c. = 311,845 133,205 247,047
1927.. 544,607 12 „ „ 312,000 150,145 329,509
Charged to Development, £1369 .. 328,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,452 384,420
1929.. 513,660 12 „ „ 312,000 138,828 447,252
Charged to Development, £lB4l . . 445,411
1930.. 428,156 12 p.c. = 312,000 137,532 424,035
‘lncluding arrears.
tlncluding special amortisation reserve, £lOO,OOO.
That table is a fine testimony to the skill
and zeal of the management in building up
an industry which in pre-war days was
mainly in the hands of Germany and Ger-
man-controlled plants in Belgium. High
prices encouraged production, and quality—
the zinc is 99.95 p.c. pure—ensured ready
sales at a premium, and that in competition
with zinc from other producing countries.
Thus the div. quickly climbed to 12 p.c.,
and that rate was paid with comfort for
the four years to the close of accounts in
1929. It was repeated again last year,
though it took £28,985 more than the
board claimed as net profit. Since the
books closed the distribution has been
reduced to 8 p.c., and, until conditions
change, there are doubts whether that rate
can be maintained, as will be shown pre-
sently. The £283,015 of profit claimed is
reconciled with the higher figure in the table
in this way :
Profit and loss balance . . . . . . £283,015
Unexplained addition to sinking fund .. 7,609
Net addition depreciation, etc., reserve.. 137,532
£428,156
The net additions to the depreciation, etc.,
reserve are then shown as written off. Hence
this reserve (£1,247,888 at June 30, or 31.1
p.c. of the book value of the, mines and
plant) is not included with the lay-by above.
The fall in metal prices was responsible for
the contraction in net earnings; spelter
averaged £2O 15s. sd. for the 12 months
to June 30 as against £25 14s. 9d. the
year before.
However, better recoveries helped to soften
the blow: —
Cad-
Zinc Silver Lead mium Copper
Tons. Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1923.. 31,283 691,062 4344
1924.. 44,768 890,500 6805 154 257
1925.. 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1926.. 46,583 1,179,000 8000 180 261
1927.. 48,605 1,134,000 7620 150 243
1928.. 49,117 994,000 7340 162 229
1929.. 50,001 806,000 6889 176 212
1930.. 54,150 669,800 5466 218 179
The zinc output was the best yet, . and the
improvement was due entirely to increased
efficiency. The extra 42 tons of cadmium
came mainly from precipitates shipped from
the smelters at Port Pirie. Advances in
recoveries made by the Barrier cos. have left
less lead and silver in the zinc concentrates.
Acid production (68,968 tons) improved
a trifle, and super, sales (24,163 tons) were
9QQQ ton*? TlPflVlPl*
But the whole outlook for the co. has
changed completely since the books were
ruled off. Spelter has become a drug in
the market. The price has sunk to £l4 15s.
per ton, demand has slackened and the
co.’s metal stocks are accumulating, thus
placing a severe strain on the finances.
The position at June 30 was as follows: —
1921. 1929. 1930.
Debentures and interest Nil £404,033 £404,033
Sundry creditors . . £38,604 114,085 144,348
Deposits and interest.. 177,150 203,294 530,756
Overdraft • ■ • • 158,079 68,523 33,204
Mt Read-Rosebery mines 357,673 442,205 446,677
Properties, plant, etc... 1,030,523 3,298,540 3,557,333
Book debts . . . . 87,654 310,277 270,294
Shares . . . . . . 48,859 68,311 215,3*9
Stocks 420,427 459,335 546,632
Cash, etc 20,320 405,887 382,934
Stocks were then only £87,297 heavier than
at the previous balance. The extensions to
the Risdon plant, to enable it to give 30
p.c. more output, had added £258,793 to
the property, etc., item, while the book
value of share holdings, mainly in allied
industries, increased £147,068. To do all
this the board gathered an extra £327,462
of deposits, making the total £530,756; how
much of that can be withdrawn at short
notice is not visible in the published accounts.
There was thus an abrupt contraction of
£298,125 in the more or less liquid surplus,
leaving it at £87,519, including stocks but
excluding shares in other cos.
It was largely to surplus earnings during
the next couple of years that the board
looked for the additional funds to see the
Risdon and West Coast programmes to com-
pletion. Of course a halt has had to be
called. On the West Coast the co.’s mines
have been brought to an advanced stage of
development, and the mill, at Rosebery, and
all necessary equipment are practically at
the point of completion. The co. has
had no return from the large expendi-
ture involved, but to commence min-
ing and treating the ore with the market,
prices and costs as they are would jeopardise
its future by placing too grefit a strain
on its resources. Incidentally, the Barrier
cos. ceased producing zinc concentrates when
the price of the metal fell below £lB per ton.
The board's immediate problem is to main-
tain the structure, built up with capital and
labor, with metal prices as they are and a
definitely limited demand for the co.’s
output. The solution lies chiefly in the reduc-
tion wherever possible of production costs.
There is nothing in sight to suggest a sharp
recovery in metal prices. Meanwhile the
temporary locking up of funds' in unsold
zinc will make it difficult for the co. to pay
a div. in January next.
A year ago the prefs. fetched 345. and the
ords. 335. in the market; they are now at
18s. 3d. and 13s. respectively. There are
1,500,000 prefs. in a paid capital of
£2.600,000; they carry a cumulative 8 p.c.,
follow the ords. in any distribution beyond
that, and have priority as to capital. Ex-
cluding the depreciation reserve, the net
tangible backing is 40s. 4d. for the prefs.
and 275. 6d. for the ords., mainly in |*lant,
mines, etc., worth what they can earn.
Farmer and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends ~
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profits. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 12$ p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 98,049 12,000 14,331 32.500 49,218
10 p.c.
1921.. 77,561 12,000 19,570 33,816 61,393
Reserve for war-taxation and contingencies
taken in, £50,542 .. .. 111,935
1922.. 78,304 12,000 19,570 33,816 124,853
Premiums on new shares, £2250 . . 127,103
1923.. 84,552 12,000 23,059 36,292 140,304
Premiums on new shares, £124 .. 140,428
1924.. 85,164 12,000 28,000 39,441 146,151
1925.. 93,530 12,000 28,000 39,442 160,239
Premiums on new shares, £2268 .. 162,507
1926.. 98.413 12,000 28,000 39,721 181,199
Discount on debentures, £17,500 .. 163,699
Insurance fund appears, £13,983.. 177,682
1927.. 102,506 12,000 28,000 40,000 200,188
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28.000 40,000 215,331
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40,000 227,351
5 p.c.
1930.. 64,167 12,000 28,000 20,000 231,518
To see the George-Market streets section of
its fine new building to completion, the co.
issued a round half-million 6 p.c. first-mort-
gage debentures in 1927. Thus freehold, plant,
etc., grew from £573,762 in 1920 to £1,411,100
at July 31. But before earnings could get
much benefit from the new structure cir-
cumstances conspired to lighten the public’s
purse, increase the cost of importing and
restrict turnovers generally. Also there has
been a steady fall in softgoods prices, with
the trend still downwards, and capricious
fashion and discriminating demand have
increased the difficulties.
The alert board took prompt action to
meet the changing conditions, but deep cuts
had to be made in most lines to ensure quick
clearance of stocks, overhead remained obsti-
nate, and, of course, the weight of the
debenture debt made itself felt, as it always
does in such circumstances. Thus there was
a sharp drop of £27,853 in the year’s net
profit. After allowing 6 p.c. and 7 p.c. on
the respective prefs.—together they called
for £4o,ooo—there was enough to show 6 p.c.
on the ord. capital as against 13, 13.7, 15.6
and 14.7 p.c. back to 1926. The div. was cut
in halves, reducing it to 5 p.c., and only
once since the public became interested in
1896 has less than that been paid. Most
of the slip was in the second half of the term;
assuming that earnings for the ords. in the
first half were at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., then
the figure fell to 4 p.c. p.a. for the second
half.
Moreover, the acute position in the ex-
change market, tariff increases, import pro-
hibitions, the sales tax and stinging increases
in other levies have strewn fresh difficulties
in the path of traders. Staple articles are
displacing novelties, more attention is being
given to local manufacture, and retailers are
being compelled to make a closer study of
family budgets and price ranges. But the
vagaries of politics have made the future
very obscure and uncertain.
Here is the co.’s position, with compari-
sons, as balance-sheet figures disclose it: —
1914. 1924. 1929. 1930.
Capital . . £400,000 £994,415 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Debentures 500,000 500,000
Other
creditors 204,740 129,792 159,958 206,608
Freeholds
and plant 431,778 627,950 1,343,155 1,411,100
Leaseholds 14,356 1,700
Stock .. 174,659 467,002 360,847 365,571
Book debts 37,470 101,718 102,939 84,549
Cash and in-
vestments 56,048 91,708 94,368 84,906
At July 31 the more or less liquids exceeded
the floating debt by £284,742, which was
£303,758 less than at the previous balance.
The drop was due to the outlay on the new
building, now practically complete, and the
addition of £27,980 to shares, etc., in other
cos. Stocks, as usual, are conservatively
valued. Fixed assets is the item which
catches the eye; it was 72.5 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total at July 31 as against
51.2 p.c. four years earlier. That means a
very lively turnover if satisfactory results an
to be won.
The ords. fetched 275. 3d. a year ago,
they are now around Us. The return
at that figure is 7.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis. There are 200,000 first cum. 6 p.c.
and 400,000 second cum. 7| p.c. prefs. with
priority as to capital. The firsts are priced
at 18s. 9d. and the seconds at 12s. 3d., return-
ing 6.4 p.c. and 12.2 p.c. respectively. The
net tangible backing is £6 3s. Id., firsts,
£2 11s. Gd., seconds; 31s. 7d. ords.
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
, Dividends \
Pref. To
Sept., Profits. (64 p.c.) Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
Co. reconstructed. Pref. rate lifted
to 64 p.c. ; three new ords. issued for
two old, absorbing £125,000 .. 103,540
Additions to reserves, £29,937 .. 73,609
64 p.c. To Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 80,872 8125 13S p.c.= 51,250 21,497 52,112
Premium on shares, £12,500 .. 39,612
Reserves.
1926. .191,858 8125 16 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,496
1927. .201,194 8125 23 „ ~126,500 66,569 127,065
1928. .219,245 8125 25$ „ ~140,250 70,870 197,935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 „ ~154,000 103,712 301,647
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275,000 26,647
1930. .223,578 8125 22 p.c.=156,367 59,086 85,733
The one-for-two gift to the ords. came
along in February, when the outlook was less
clouded than it is to-day. Another 275,000
new £1 ords. were issued at par for cash.
Thus paid capital became £1,390,594 in
325,000 64 p.c. cum. prefs. and 1,300,000
ords. at June 30; there was still £34,406 to
come. In Dec. last the ords. fetched as
much as £5 9s. in the market, equal to 595.
Gd. after exercising the rights to both new
issues, but the price has since receded to
31s. Gd. Allowing for the final div. and
bonus (Is. 4sd. per share), the investor at
the lower figure who looks for 6.6 p.c. on his
holding counts on the co. paying a 10 p.c.
div. The last final div.. was at the rate of
14 p.c. p.a., but the board calls only 10 p.c.
of each year’s distribution dividend, and has
regularly reminded shareholders that the fat
bonuses paid are appropriate to successful
periods only.
The pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the ords will
call for £115,125, when all the money on
the last issue is in. Including an unex-
plained addition of £40,000 to reserves, and
allowing for the pref. requirements, the
balance of last year’s net earnings was 19.5
p.c. on the ord. capital now issued.
The £42,259 drop in the final profit figure
was due to shrinkage in advertising revenue,
which has become much more pronounced
since the books closed. Also to be reckoned
with are the mounting primage duty the
high cost of exchange and the louder de-
ir ands of the taxgatherer. However, all
the co.’s publications, including those of the
two subsidiaries, are reported to be “doing
well.” The “Herald,” the chief money-
spinner, continues undisturbed in its mon-
opoly of the evening field. Nevertheless, the
co.’s success is a constant temptation to
others to enter the field, and nobody can be
certain what the effects of such a contin-
gency might be.
The new cash-paid capital (£240,594) and
the year’s surplus earnings show up in a net
increase of £84,595 in more or less liquids,
and a reduction of £126,880 in the outside
debt, which was more than covered by
debtors’ balances and cash alone at June 30:
1920. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Stock .. £108,087 £155,391 £146,364 £138,854
Debtors, etc. 56,890 320,847 188,034 87,752
War Loans 70,389
Shares in
other cos. 100 151,037 339,083 451,712
Cash .. 27,621 115 156 79,914
Liquids.. £263,087 £627,390 £673,637 £758,232
Liabilities 91,782 285,239 262,241 135,361
Surplus. £171,305 £342,151 £411,396 £622,871
Freeholds,
etc. . . 73,645 192,765 312,539 328,373
Machinery,
and plant 45,796 278,143 377,526 435,513
Net assets £290,746 £813,059 £1,101,461 £1,386,757
An important development was the recent
extension of the co.’s interests to Adelaide,
where a- “substantial interest” was bought
in Advertiser Newspapers, Ltd., which pub-
lishes the “Advertiser” and other journals,
including the “Register,” a morning pic-
torial. The deal is reflected in the addition
of £249,362 to the book value of sharps in
other cos. during the last two years. A
“satisfactory” return was received on the
Adelaide investment last year. The growth
in fixed-asset figures over the last three years
is due to the remodelling of the co.’s Flin-
ders-street premises and the installation of
practically new plant throughout. This has
resulted in a reduction in overhead, and has
otherwise strengthened the co.’s position.
The Federal Deposit Bank (Brisbane).
To Be- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 6,913 12 p.c. = 3,CSS 3,225 10,964
1921.. 10,594 12 „ „ 6,096 4,498 15,462
1922.. 11,618 12 ~ 6,525 5,093 20,555
1923.. 14,027 12 „ ~ 7,794 6,233 26,788
1924.. 18,277 12 „ „ 10,548 7,729 34,517
Additions to reserves, £7OOO .. 41,517
1925 . 23,487 12 p.c. = 13,272 10,215 51.732
1920.. 26,921 12 „ „ 17,863 9,058 60,790
1927.. 34,161 12 „ „ 24,354 9,807 70,597
1928.. 41,816 12 ~ „ 32,123 8,693 79,290
1929.. 41,980 12 ~ „ 34,845 7,135 86,425
1930.. 38,109 10 „ ~ 30,280 7,829 94,254
The Federal is principally a building bank,
but it does a considerable general business
within Brisbane, too. The co. borrows on
fixed deposit, at 5_J and p.c., and credits
3 p.c. on the minimum monthly balances of
current accounts. It lends, mainly on subur-
ban homes, at mortgage rates. The manage-
ment has been coached in a hard school;
there was a long lean period after the crash
of the ’nineties, and 7s. Gd. a share was
jettisoned. The div. climbed to 12 p.c. in
1918, and then remained steady for a dozen
years. Part of the lost capital was restored
in 1919. It has been a creditable performance;
at Sept. 30 visible reserves amounted to only
ss. 9d. for each £1 of paid capital, and the
eo. was holding no more than £2 7s. sd. of
the public’s money for every £1 of its own
funds.
The ■ drop in the div. was foreshadowed
in the previous report. In view, of the
bank’s remarkable growth (paid capital now
is over six times the 3922 figure) the board
became more cautious, and decided to build
up reserves. The co. of recent years has
been leaning less on outsiders, and while
that means added safety it usually means
smaller returns. Last year’s interest earn-
ings, etc., were £l4lB better at £99,321. But
exes. (£63,211, including an extra £3OOO
provided for taxation) were £5289 heavier ;
so the net result was 32.6 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 14.5, 16, 16.8, 18
and 21.2 p.c. back to 1925. The co. has only
the expenses of two offices to carry: a branch
was opened in the busy Valley in 1928.
Balance-sheet figures continue to show a
strong financial position :
1921. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Capital . . £52,725 £299,177 £319,580 £328,025
Deposits, etc.. 303,562 1,040,465 1,064,225 1,001,486
Debentures . . 12,500
Advances . . 245,089 989,804 993,437 992,682
Premises, etc.. 13,431 58,000 57,000 56,500
Govt, securities,
etc 60,657 202,100 258,500 218,905
Cash, etc. .. 69,195 185,898 178,890 170,931
Last year deposits, etc., dropped £62,739;
advances were only £755 lower. Thus,
though an extra £5445 was put up by share-
holders in advance of calls, the co. had to
draw on its wad of Government securities
for £39,595, and on cash, etc., for £7959.
Still, at balance-day, depositors and others
could see 38.8 p.c. of the amount coming
to them in Government securities and cash.
It is a satisfactory position. Shareholders
can be called upon for another £173,975 if
need arises.
Much depends on the security for advances
and the solvency of borrowers. It can bo
said definitely that the co. in recent
years has had a very satisfactory experience
in both connections. Advances are mostly
for moderate periods, and on the board are
men who have had long experience in Bris-
bane real estate. In Queensland the sea-
sonal outlook is better than it has been for
some years, but the natural trend of prices
is still downward.
Just before the close of accounts in 1927
the board took a long look ahead, and issued
a quarter-million £1 ords. These are called
to 2s. 6d., and are priced around 3s. on
the market. For the fully-paids buyers offer
21s. without attracting sellers. The return
at that figure is 9.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
, —Dividends —^
Pref. Ord. Towards
July, Profits. 9 p.c. 20 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 25,466 7428* 11,111* 6927 35,143
Flotation exes., £569 .. .. 35,712
1929.. 33,179 8179 18,216 6784 28,928
1930.. 31,981 9378 20,850 1753 27,175
*lncludes distributions on Vendor cos.’ shares.
About five years ago the Cox Bros’, drapery
and home-furnishing business in Vic., S. A us.
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step J
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PEE ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* # 4* ♦
Gruelling tests, designed to definitely prove the
efficiency of Pioneer Wood Pipes, have recently been
carried out, and the results have more than justified
the confidence put in these excellent pipes by experi-
enced engineers. Pioneer W T ood Pipe gives definitely
efficient service—is durable, strong and non-corrosive.
It is easily and cheaply laid —and costs considerably
less than metal pipe. The Australian W r ood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footseray, Victoria.
—Advt,
Sc S-- * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
Australia’s Greatest Investment —
“GOLD”
South Coast (Yalwal) Gold Reefs, Ltd.
CAPITAL: £20,000
Divided into 400,000 shares of 1/- each.
Payable 3d. on application, 3d. on allotment and two calls (if necessary)
of 3d. each.
Read Mining Reports on Yalwal.
C. E. Andrews, 8.A., Geological Surveyor to N.S.W. Mines Department;
Ernest W. Spencer, late general manager Consolidated Goldfields
of N.Z. and of South Africa; John Drayton’s report, “Smith’s Weekly,”
August 23, 1930, page 19. They say with modern equipment Yalwal should
be equal to any of the big gold-producers in the world. Assays from the
Mines Department show 3oz. 16dwt. sgr. from a face over 10ft. wide and
still making bigger.
Write at once, or call for a Prospectus. The list is filling rapidly.
HELP YOURSELF. HELP AUSTRALIA TO WIN GOLD.
Sydney Selling Brokers:
SCOTT—DELAMAR,
Ground Floor, 258 George Street, Sydney. ’Phoney 85644.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
and Tas. was split up into three separate
concerns in order to attract fresh capital.
This the public put up in 9 p.c. cum. prefs.
A central holding and finance cov, Cox
Investments, Ltd., took over all the ord.
scrip. The various floats having served their
purpose, the present co, was formed in
January, 1928, to amalgamate the activities
of the three traders, thus eliminating useless
overlapping and duplication of interests. It
kicked off with a paid capital of £165,068 —
£42,070 of it represented goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein—which has since
advanced to £208,500, one-half prefs. and the
other half ords. All the ords., of course,
are owned by the Investment Co. In Oct.,
1925, the 30-year-old furnishing business of
Sayers and McEvoy, Perth, was bought.
The undertaking has been developed
mainly on a t.-p. basis, and thus far has
shown very satisfactory results. Turnover
last year was the best yet, despite adverse
conditions. The net result slipped £1198;
still it was sufficient, after handing the
prefs, their 9 p.c., to show 21.6 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital as against 27.5 p.c. and 21.8
p.c. for the two preceding terms. And the
board repeated the very generous 20 p.c. div.,
notwithstanding the lack of support for
capital and the size of the debt.
Look at these figures:—
1928 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £164,767 £207,542 £208,500
Overdraft .. .. 14,666 32,118 34,657
Mortgages, etc. .. 4,000 26,477 26,423
Deposits 91,896 149,693 163,956
Creditors .. .. 23,789 17,564 50,756
Freeholds, etc 24,846 56,399 59,387
Plant, etc 16,562 21,349 23,805
Stocks . . 4 . .. 45,893 68,789 70,761
Debtors 195,122 279,531 331,875
Cash, etc 253 415 - 255
At the close of last accounts the debt was
£67,292 in excess of paid capital. But the
position is not quite so bad as the bare
figures suggest; all but a trifle of the
£163,956 of deposits at July 31 represented
advances from Cox Investments, which was
free of debt itself. Obviously everything
depends upon the soundness of the book
debts, which are mainly hire-purchase agree-
ments. Last year’s bad-debts experience
was favorable, and provision has been made
internally for contingencies. However, the
growth of unemployment and other economic
troubles have increased the risks enor-
mously.
The market sums up by paying 13s. for
the prefs., which have priority as to capital.
On paper the net tangible backing amounts
to 345. 9d., and for the ords. 14s. 9d.
Cox Investments, Ltd.
At Sept. 30 paid capital was £224,901
iu 123,750 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and a like
number of ords. —there was 10s. to come on
45,198 of the latter. A tax reserve of £406
and p. and 1. balance of £15,909 brought
the balance-sheet total to £241,215. The
104,250 fully paid ords. in the trading co.
figured at £76,250 (cost) ; deposits, £161,472 ,
cash, £517; preliminary exes., £2976.
For the 12 months to the close of accounts
£20,850 was received in divs. and £3005
in interest. Exes, took £849, and the pref.
div. £10,626, the balance (£12,381) being
12.2 p.c. on the ord. capital. But a couple
of points were chipped off the div., reducing
it to 8 p.c., the final distribution being at
the rate of 6 p.c. pia. Apparently the trad-
ing co. pays only a nominal rate on the
deposits, which explains the fat return on its
ord. capital and its high rate of dividend.
On the market sellers ask 14s. for both
classes of paper without attracting bids. The
net tangible cover (book value) is 335. 9d.
for the prefs:. and 16s. lid. for the ords.
Placer Development
Headquarters are at Vancouver, but chief
interest in the scrip is in Sydney. Formed
as a prospecting and gold-dredging concern
in 1926, Placer investigated areas in Alaska
and S. America, but met with nothing that
attracted much attention until it tested
4i miles of Bulolo River flats, New Guinea,
a couple of years ago. It is this area with
which the market is now principally con-
cerned. To work it a subsidiary, Bulolo Gold
Dredging, Ltd., was registered in June last.
Its paid capital is £750,145 in five-dollar
shares. Placer took £345,000 for the leases,
etc. —£224,000 in paids and the balance cash.
There are over 40,000,000 c.y. of 2s. Id.
dirt, which two dredges, each capable of
handling 1,700,000 c.y. annually, are expected
to turn over in 13 years. The first is
scheduled to begin early in 1932. Divs. of
10 p.c. for the first year and 28 p.c. p.a.
thereafter are mentioned, after- providing
for return of capital out of accumulated
profits.
On the basis of figures at April 30, and
allowing for known changes since, including
payments to vendors, etc., Placer’s present
position is as follows : Paid capital, £BO,OOO
in five-dollar shares ; cash surplus, £52,375;
shareholdings, £177,148 —£169,148 Bulolo co.
and £BOOO Clu'tha Development. A 28 p.c.
div. on the present holding in the Bulolo
co. would bring in £45,682 p.a., or 22.3 p.c.
on £204,500, the figure at which the market
capitalises Placer at 51s. per share.
In New Guinea Placer is at present testing
the Watut leases, consisting of some four
miles of river flats adjoining the northern end
of the area now being equipped, and encour-
aging results are reported. In addition there
is Arnold,’s lease of about 1| mile of flats
adjoining the present area on me north,
which Placer intends to work on its own
account. The co. also has under considera-
tion other properties in New Guinea and
elsewhere. A working agreement on a profit-
sharing basis in connection with a property
on the Trinity River, California, is expected
to show a profit of about £40,000 over the
next five years.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
The co. has proved the existence of pay-
able ore for an aggregate length of over
8000 ft. on the plateau, which is 7000 ft. up
in the mountains and about 25 miles from
Salamoa on the coast. But neither the
extent of the ore reserves nor the nature of
the stone at depth has yet been proved; all
that can be said definitely at the moment
is that prospects are encouraging. Esti-
mates are that the oxidised zone will yield
182,000 long tons of a gross value of
£765,000 per 100 ft. of depth. Where the
sulphides have been reached assays are said
to support Mr. Kingsbury's theory of the
existence of bonanza ore in a zone of second-
ary enrichment. In the lower area, 3000 ft.
below the plateau, over 100,000 tons averag-
ing 110 s. have already been measured up in
one ore-body alone. This ore, it is claimed, can
be mined and milled cheaply; the co.’s en-
gineers are now considering the design of
the plant. Alluvial production promises to
come largely from the recently discovered
gold-bearing gravels of old buried river chan-
nels, which can be worked fairly cheaply on
a large scale by hydraulicking. These old
channels are believed to be the principal source
of gold gravel now being got in the creeks.
Large-scale operations will not begin until
the question of transport, now under con-
sideration, is decided. Paid capital is
£4,273,411, and Mining Trust, Ltd., can be
called upon for a further ‘ £356.000 if re-
quired. A month ago the co. held £174,000
in cash. Development will call for about
£9OOO a. month; but the profit from alluvial,
now being worked on tribute, is expected
to turn in £4OOO monthly from January next.
The co. has ample funds to see its present
programme of development to completion.
The handful of mines left working at
Broken Hill are making tremendous efforts
to reduce costs —tlieir only hope now that
zinc is no longer of , any real value to-them.
The central power plant is one example of
the • sort of cost-reducing job in” hand ;' an-
other is the main southern shaft at the
South. This is in six compartments,
two of them 9ft. 6in. x 3ft. Bin., the others
smaller —practically six lift-wells going down
over 2000 ft. and accommodating not only
the cables, pipes, etc., which have to be led
underground, and of transporting the explo-
sives, timber, tools, etc., but of raising 8000
tons of ore a week from the 2070 ft. level.
It is expected that the equipment will be
completed about August next year.
He He $ j|c
Another success is' claimed for the N. S.
Wales Government’s; prospecting scheme. One
of the assisted parties h'as happened on good
gold at Highland Home, near Tenterfield.
A sample of stone from a depth of 2ft.
assayed 4oz. 18dwt. gold, with 13dwt. silver
and 2.73 p.c. bismuth, according to the local
warden’s report. Whether it is a permanent
formation or just a chance floater cannot be
determined . until , further development has
been undertaken.
* * * Sit
Australian platinum mining is on the peg,
owing to the heavy fall from £l5 to £7 Bs.
per ounce for the refined metal. Alluvial
ore averaging 70 per cent., which accounts
for most of the Australian output, is worth
only about £5 per ounce London, and at that
figure it is no longer payable to work it.
Heavy dumping of Russian platinum on the
market is largely responsible for the collapse.
* * * *
Opal to the value of £95,000 has been won
in South Australia since 1920, mainly at
the Goober Peby field out from Kingoonya,
on the E.-W. line. Just at present there is
a very spirited market for the stones, and
the buyers on the field are taking all the
material offering. The opal, which occurs as
thin stringers in sandstone, is really silica
that has been taken into solution and re-
deposited along slight fractures.
* - * * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) has again halted
in its search. This time the cause is a
tool stuck in the bottom of the bore at
3264 ft.; also the rope broke and coiled up
on top of it. The chances of recovering
either are slender. The bosses at the bore
have been recalled to Perth, and whispers
have been heard that the board may decide
to drill in another place. The market for
the scrip has collapsed, of course. Altogether
the co. has spent over £lOO,OOO in stabbing,
and has only a few thousands left now.
Lake View and Star reports good pro-
gress in reconditioning mine workings and
installing new equipment. Results from the
new flotation plant have encouraged the
board to increase treatment capacity from
5000 to 20,000 tons a month, and a further
enlargement to 40,000 tons a month is
tipped to take place later. Something is
also said about ore of much better grade
being treated, and a consequent expansion
of the yield before long.
* * * *
The South End at Kalgoorlie, little heard
ot lately, now talks of the possibility of
rich stuff being found below the surface of
Hannan’s Lake and adjoining flats. There
is a chance that it will. Some Ivalgoorlieites
believe that another Golden jSlile will event-
ually be found by boring in that part of
the field, but results obtained from past
prospecting there do not encourage extra-
vagant hopes.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
With note-inflation in progress hoto would
(1) Government stocks, (2) mortgages, (3)
pref. shares, (4) ordinary shares, (5) landed
property and (6) pensions or annuities
stand? —9989.
(1) When a loan repayable in Australia
fell due it would be repayable in inflated
paper; the interest would be paid in the
same paper. (2) Ditto; the gain would
obviously be with the man whose property
was mortgaged; (3 and 4) Pref. shares
would suffer. If a man held, say, £lOOO of
7 p.c. pref. shares, "lie would be paid with
£7O no matter whether the £ was worth
ss. English or 20s. English. If the value
fell to ss. English, plainly his div. would be
worth £l7 10s. English instead of the old
£7O. If the real business turnover and profit
was unaffected, there would thus be an addi-
tional £52 10s. for holders of ordinary shares.
(5) Landed property should not be directly
affected provided there was no encumbrance of
any kind over it. If it was subject to a
mortgage, and the mortgagee had let the
mortgage run on at the old valuation, the
relesme would be to the advantage of the
mortgagor. (6) Pensions and annuities
would be payable on the assumption that the
£ was still worth. 20s. English. But it might
be open to the paying authority, to make good
some of the loss which this would involve.
(1.) How would a central reserve bank
differ from the present Commonwealth Bank
or private trading banks and what would be
its specific functions? (2) Names of present
directors of Commonwealth Bank and what
line of business they followed before becoming
directors? (3) Are any'of them now con-
nected with private commercial undertak-
ings?—99Bl.
(1) A central reserve bank’s main pur-
pose is to hold a fixed substantial propor-
tion of trading banks’ reserves, using this
fund to assist any member bank under
Stress-; the funds therefore >to be held in the
most liquid form possible, and not risked
in ordinary banking business. (2) Robert
Gibson (chairman), formerly hardware
manufacturer; and Messrs. McComas, inter-
ested in wool and pastoral products; Mac-
kenzie Lees, formerly general; manager Bank
of Queensland; Drummond, wheat-farmer
and grazier; Reading, tobacco manufacturer;
Duffy, Trades Hall secretary; Riddle, gov-
ernor of the bank; Heathershaw, secretary
to Treasury. (3) Yes.
(1) What caused the 1893 smash? (2)
Which section (apart from the laborer) suf-
fered most? (3) Why did the banks fail?
(4) What ivas the main factor in helping
Australia to recover'? —12.
(1) and (3) Banks, etc.,- borrowed heavily
abroad, and the money lent out in Australia,
caused a boom. Overseas creditors became
uneasy because prices were falling; and
they wanted repayment. The banks pressed
customers, properties were forced on the
market, values collapsed and repayment be-
came impossible. (2) Hard to sav; people
like architects suffered very much. (4)
Thrift, a great increase in production of gold
and certain other metals, an increase in
the area under crop and a steady improve-
ment in the price of wool (until 1899) and
other products. The Australian gold output
in 1890 was £5,261,217; in 1899, £14,533.190.
The area under crop went in the decade from
5.430,221 acres to 8,812,463 acres (N.S.W.
alone from 852,704 acres to 2,445,564 acres) .
Anything known of Hanlons Reward (Jcr-
vois Range) ? —9760.
A small party is now opening up lodes.
One is a copper show with some silver;
the second silver-lead. The co. has to cart
its ore 300 miles to railhead at Alice Springs
for shipment south. Prices of base metals
are so low that only three mines at Broken
Hill find work profitable.
Are diamonds found in N.S.W., and where?
largest diamond found, color of diamonds
found and weight? Are diamonds cut locally?
How are diamonds recognised? —94s7.
Up to the end of 1929 diamonds to the
value of £144,964 had been produced in N. S.
Wales. They occur in alluvial material at
several widely-separated localities. The
largest of which there is authentic record
weighed ,61 carats. Generally the stones are
colorless, but some tinted yellow, brown, light
and dark green have been found, and the size
ranges from 0.2 carat to two carats. _ Some
diamonds are cut in Sydney. The diamond
is most easily recognised by its hardness,
which is greater than that of any other
mineral, its extraordinary lustre and its
crystalline form.
Prospects of Ormildah Oil Development
Co., Ltd., and Aitape Oilfields, Limited? —
9526.
Ormildah Oil and Aitape have combined
to work a large area in Mandated New
Guinea, the former co. having abandoned
previous ventures. The new area was care-
fully inspected by the Anglo-Persian Oil
experts and pronounced most promising.
Boring on sites selected by the A.-P. Co. is
to commence shortly.
(1) Demand for magnesite in N.S.W. and
buyers? (2) Price? —962o.
(1) Demand limited, as the two principal
users obtain supplies from their own de-
posits. Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.,
Port Kembla, and Mineral Earths, Ltd.,
Botany-road, Alexandria, may purchase. (2)
About £2 10s, per ton on trucks country
stations for mineral containing 95 per cent,
or over of magnesium carbonate.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.L.G.: It would probably like to go into liquida-
tion. But liquidation isn’t half so simple as it
sounds. .. .T.P.M. : (1) The Government has no con-
trol. (2) Nothing is “safe” ; but it has better
chances of recovery than most. (2a) Probably go
lower. (3) If there should be note inflation, your
position would be bad. (4) Depends on what sort of
crash it is D.1.R.: Many better A.T.L.: Assum-
ing safety is not all important, 1,3, 2 and 4....
R.T.Q.: Through any bank. If money was lately-
put to your credit in London and you didn’t get
any exchange when it was transferred to Australia,
you were swindled. What were the circumstances'?
D.E.G.: Forward a sample to Queensland Mines
Department, Brisbane, and a free test will be made.
See Queensland “Govt. Mining Journal” (August,
1930, p. 339), for simple tests for detection of gold
in ores... .Nevarie: (1) Depends wholly upon how we
are governed during the next year or two. (2)
Prospects good; seems well handled.


r ~\ L cg=3» ©
i
■
■
IS
r
if
\W
'///I
111/lltl
iiilL
■Jin'll
lill
//
Uh
a
f
111,
m
ijl'TiP
nil' 1
fog
\
%
'm.
'//
tff,
S
1 / '///////
m.
! //^wi
/// /
//,
urn
>••>»••!!!••»<•!!!!!!!!!»:
■isiffliaffiiiiSj ! si
bSSMBS""!!!!
sSffiSi;;; „„:... sugia Se
immaStSSSSSS
Sail
sxiiisiljipiiii
i
Ha
b.v...'EjEM
a v
MB
iililllliuiiuiiiH'nMti
■■
.
iiSi! ;;;•!!-
>'!!<<>
-
8.G.7M.29.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
Si!!
m.
ilJi
pH
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/• 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast . . 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
INVESTIGATE-INVEST.
There may be a few who get rich quickly and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do not “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest, to do the investing
for him. .' •'
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town.
fcmonweali Savings JBankof Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
ABORIGINALITIES
“Cadong'a”: “Dave,” began a neighboring
cocky’s wife, “your sister Sarah and Bill
Cogley have been keepin’ company a long
time —must be about seven years now. When
d’yer reckon they’ll get married?” “Well,”
explained Dave, “I reckon they never will.
Yer see it’s this way: Sarah won’t say ‘yes’
when he’s drunk and Bill won’t ask her
when he’s sober.”
•I s
“Mr. Cato”: The talkative man in the
hash-house made several attempts to open
a conversation with Bluey. At last, after
staring through the street-door at the heavy
rain, he said, “Terrible rain this, ain’t it?
Like the flood.” “The flood?” Bluey’s
tone was polite but inquiring. “You know,”
A HUNDRED PER CENT. RETURN.
MARY: “Mine tinkit black Scotchman make-it first boomerang!”
BILLY: “Whaffor that one?”
MARY: “Whaffor? ’Cause that one always come back for more.”
the garrulous one explained, “the flood. The
flood that landed the Ark on Mount Ararat.’’
Bluey gave a blank look and shook his head.
“I haven’t seen a paper for a week,” he
mumbled.
“Dingbat”: Christmas Hill, a
township in the ranges within 30
miles of Melbourne, was the loca-
tion of the only goat farm I ever
saw. A man named Foley many
years ago acquired a 100-acre block
served by a little-used bush track.
He took off a lot of timber, but the
second growth came up so fast
through incomplete grubbing that
Foley struck on the stout idea of
buying goats to deal with the young
shoots as they came up. And buy
them he did —in great numbers. The
goats sneered at the scrub-shoots,
ate up all the grass on the 100
acres, and then went foraging
farther afield. They foraged so far
and so fast that the farmers in the
district appealed to the shire
authorities for permission to kill
all wandering goats, and for
months after the request was
granted the ranges were haunted
by whiskered natives, shotgun or
rifle in hand, breathing slaughter
and vengeance, Now' all the goats
arc gone, and so is Foley; but the
second growth remains, three times
as tall to-day as the tallest barn
in the neighborhood.
* * *
“Pick”: The most remarkable
transformation that takes place in
bird land happens when the male
bower-bird arrives at the age of
seven. Up to that stage of his
career he w’ears a speckled coat
of greenish-yellow and brown, in-
distinguishable from the dress worn
by the ladies of his tribe. With his
clan he attends daily to chortle over
and play among the treasures col-
lected from afar to decorate his
bower, and he is never found apart
from the company of his fellows.
But at seven he undergoes a com-
plete change. His feathers become
a shining blue-black, and he says
farewell to his curios and play-
grounds. He becomes a recluse
travelling and roosting alone and abandoning
practically every characteristic of his kind.
* * * *
“Joe Cose”: Larry (often mentioned in
The B.) was in the chair at the Bullanka
Club’s depression dinner the other night. He
touched on his war experiences. “I was
pretty raw when I joined up,” he admitted,
“and I mucked up the first big job I was
given in France. The head serang told me
to go over and get a machine-gun that was
causin’ a terrible lot of trouble. He was
waitin’ for me when I got back an hour
later. ‘Jer get it?’ he asks. ‘No,’ I sez,
‘they was usin’ it.’ After the boss had
torn down the dug-outs in disgust, it dawned
on me that I shoulda pinched the bloomin’
thing!”
NOTHING TO SKITE ABOUT.
DAD: “‘Last seven days’! Well, mawther, I’d want pair boots to last braave deal
longer’n that ’foor I made juss ’bout un.”
“FY7”: Attention is being again called
in Queensland to the brumby menace, the
descendants of domestic horses gone wild
having increased tremen-
dously within the past
few years, especially in
the south-west of the
State, where settlement
is still far-flung. The
principal reason for the
increase is the abandon-
ment of many holdings
durinsr the drought,
when many lessees rode
off their runs and left
what remained of their
stock to fend for them-
selves. When the good
seasons came again the
surviving brumbies pro-
ceeded to increase and
multiply unchecked,
until there are many
thousands to-day rang-
ing over a wide area of
the West and playing
havoc with the grass re-
quired for sheep and
cattle. Shooting has so
far done little to thin
their numbers, though
many professional kan-
garoo-shooters are tak-
ing to the game for the
sake of station bounties
and the . hides. It is
difficult to make much
impression with the rifle
until a dry spell comes
round again. Then the
waterlioles can be pic-
keted and the horses
shot as they come into
drink. Years ago
graziers had to battle
with the same nuisance.
Many thousands were
shot, and thousands
more trapped in the
great long yards wflth
mile-long wings, the
ruins of which still stand on many s.-w.
Queensland stations.
* * * *
“Fernie”: It is a common belief among
Maorilanders that the giant wingless bird
known as the moa belonged to an antiquity
as remote as that of the pterodactyl and the
dinosaur. That is not the scientific view.
Von Haast marshalled evidence to show that
the moa was extinct before the Maoris came,
but Hector, who relied on Mailing, Uio
“pakelia Maori, for corroboration, was con-
vinced that the bird was exterminated by
the Maoris within comparatively recent
times. A surveyor named Thomson, who dis-
covered large quantities of moa bones in
Otago in the late ’fifties, found some so
fresh that he estimated they could not have
lain in the ground for more than 30 years,
The Maoris, whose oral records ot most
other matters in their history are most
detailed and circumstantial, have not been
very helpful concerning the moa. It would
seem that during the earlier years of the
white invasion the subject was tapu to
some degree. It has in later times been
fairly well established from Maori testimony
that the moa, which was called by the
Morioris “poua” or “pouaki,” meaning a
glutton, was * hunted by the first Maori
colonists, and there are-men still living, who
say their fathers saw the great bird alive.
The name “moa” was substituted for ‘ poua
by the last Maoris to come to the country.
They saw the bones lying about and applied
to them the Polynesian name which signifies
the domestic fowl, or, in some districts, the
cassowary. Some old tohungas (priests) say
the moa was a nuisance and was extermi-
nated by incantations. Other native authori-
ties say a great forest fire killed most of
the birds.
* * * *
“p.s.” : p r0 f. Wood Jones, of Melbourne
. , , , ’ ... f
Uni., is concerned about the vanishing at
the rarer members of our marsupial family.
and in order to get their physiognomy on
record he has engaged artist August
Cornehls to paint those that can be got
hold of. One of Cornehls’s jobs was to put
on canvas the likeness of a tiger-cat which
roamed the room that has been placed at
his disposal at the ’Varsity. Cornehls is an
ex-student of Meldrum, and Wood Jones
considers the paintings the most convincing
he has seen in the way of animal portrait-
ure. They will form' the illustrations of
a book on the marsupial when the Professor
finds time to write it.
* * * *
“Ngatik”: The Maori ia always a humorist.
At the Maori by-election to fill Pomare’s
place, the Opposition candidate was elected.
Here was a chance for the Government can-
didate’s supporters. _ They showered tele-
grams of congratulations upon the leader or
the Opposition, and every one was marked
'Collect.
WANTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That jobs are few and far between,
There’s not the slightest doubt.
The thing to do, it’s easy seen, >
Is wander further out.
If I could get a spotted pup,
No longer would I bide;
I’d go in search of penning-up
Along the Lachlan side.
There’s dogs about of every breed,
And any size and kind;
But just the sort of tyke I need
Is mighty hard to find.
A novice any hound will sool
On sheep when penning-up;
We experts, as a general rule,
Prefer a spotted pup.
No matter if the spots are large,
Or only here and there,
I’ll gladly pay whatever charge
The owner reckons fair.
If I can buy a little dbg,
One with a spotted hide,
To look for penning-up, I’ll jog
Along the Lachlan side.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


This
Fellow
Needs
Meat
dśfd
sfd
For his size the English Bull is
the strongest of all dogs, but he can’t
thrive on bread and milk. He needs
—and must have—a meat ration.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme—
is full of clean red meat. It consists of grain,
fresh vegetables, red meat (and plenty of it)
and just the right proportion of cod liver oil.
Buy a tin today. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRE
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
EISESI
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's vdell-known Harbor Hotel
A
OOQ
m
Mq
Him
m
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 44 Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
“Nakhoda” : The Malay serang handed me.
the wheel of the launch, and I held through
the night the course which he had indi-
cated. Knowing that there was no land
for miles around I was half dozing over the
job when I was startled by the apparition
of an island, complete with cocoanut-trees,
light under our nose. When I recovered
from my surprise I recognised it as one of
the floating islands that the rivers of Borneo
are constantly sending out on unscheduled
ocean voyages. They are one of the main
factors in stocking desert coral atolls with
their varied flora and fauna. The tens of
thousands of cocoanut-trees which form the
mainstay of the Ross family, of Cocos, are
descendants from such ocean-born immi-
grants. The Eastern Extension Co. fished up
a submarine cable hundreds of miles from
land and found banana-trees and portions of
native houses mixed up with it. These could
only have got there per medium of one of
the floating islands, and the various Atlantis
legends probably had a similar origin.
# * * *
“Mundowie”: Most of the
few good waterholes along the
roads to the north-west of
N.S.W. are noted for disasters
of some kind. A hole in Won-
naminta Creek, for instance,
has the record of the biggest
smash in N.S.W. droving annals.
It was drought time, and Bruce
Taylor, with weary horses, was
travelling to Wonnaminta -with
1300 bullocks belonging to
Donelly Bros., of Gourntah
(generally known as Cobham)
Lake. The mob, which had been
five days without water, broke
away and swept in a packed
mass over the steep bank of the
waterhqle. Over 600 were
smothered. The owners had to
remove the carcases from the
hole, and paid men 2s. 6d. a
head to drag them out with
horses;. The dead beasts were
left in long rows on the plain,
and for years afterwards they
were an interesting spectacle to
travellers. Drifting sand cov-
ered the bodies, leaving the
udiitened horns sticking out, and
in the moonlight they suggested
rows of crouching soldiers with
gleaming bayonets.
“Pawang”: I wonder if the pumice irom
Krakatoa is still touring the oceans. In
1910, 27 years after the great Javanese vol-
cano blew up, it was still coming ashore
with every tide at Cocos, It was easily dis-
tinguishable from another consignment with
which the beaches were littered. This was of
a darker hue and was probably from the
eruption of Tomboro in Sumbawa, one of the
stopping-places on the aerial route to Aus-
tralia. Tomboro coughed for 12 days in
1815. Parts of Java were buried eight inches
in ashes, 12,000 persons died of suffocation
and 200,000 from exposure.
THEY SIMPLY WOULDN’T BE TURNED AWAY.
PICTURE POTENTATE: “Ah, Hamlet, a full house at last!”
HAMLET: “You’re right. It’s a meeting of mah creditors.”
A TRIUMPH OF ECONOMY.
MRS, BROWN: “It’s a pity to see your ’usband wasting ’is money like that, Mrs. McNab.”
MRS, MCHAB: “Lor bless ye, Mrs. Brown, McNab ain’t wasting no money. ’E went
out without a ha’penny.”
“Hydraulicus” : Has anybody actually seen
a man or an animal completely, engulfed by
a quicksand? I suggest that it could not
happen. A man can float in water, and
a dense mixture of sand and water such as
a quicksand must have relatively greater
sustaining power. Another theory is that
iron ships that sink in deep waters don’t go
right to the bottom, but remain suspended
at a depth where pressure becomes so great
that they can fall no further. How can
that be when the pressure is the same in
every direction? No degree of pressure will
make water heavier than iron.
* * * *
“Lone-Piner”: “Talkin’ of sport,” said
Ned, “reminds me of a meetin’ us navvies on
an irrigation job had. The
main event was the Govern-
ment-stroke race. On the
word ‘Go’ navvies had to lift
their picks above heads an’
hold them as if about to drive
them into the ground. The
one holdin’ his pick up the
longest was to get a good Gov-
ernment job, an’ second prize
was a year’s supply of chewin’
terbaccer. Everyone entered,
an’ when the judge called ‘Go’
67 navvies, lifted picks, each
determined to hold his pick up
till Doomsday if necessary. At
lunch-time three hours later
they was as set as statues, an’
the judge allowed onlookers
to handfeed ’em. Two more
hours passed, an’ Angus
McAngus complained that Pat
Murphy was not supportin’ his
pick. The judge told him not
to be silly, but McAngus ex-
plained that Pat. with 30
years’ experience as a pick-
an’-shovel navvy, had discov-
ered how to make his pick
remain in the air without
human support. This made
Pat wild, an’ he shouted ‘Mc-
Angus is a dirty liar-r.’
McAngus got wild, too, an’
yelled back. ‘Ye’re a lear yer-
sel’.’ Pat rushed at him with
fists swingin’, leavin’ his pick
balanced six feet above ground.
He an’ McAngus rolled down
the gully locked together, an’
the judge had to tug at Pat’s
pick for 10' minutes before
loosenin’ it from its socket in
the air.”
“M.G.S.”: When “Mercedes” says (B.
22/10/’3O) that Malay is a simple language
with a limited vocabulary he can only be
speaking of the crude patois in which the
white overlord communicates with his (usually
Chinese) servant. Actually Malay prolongs
refinement of definition to far greater lengths
than most European languages. “Mercedes”
probably makes shift with the single expres-
sion “bawa” for “to carry,” but there arc
at least 20 words to convey such distinctions
as “to carry on the head,” “to carry at
arm’s length,” etc. A language can hardly.be
described as simple when it has such specific
terms as kclibat, the wriggling motion with
which a leech gets over the g|nound, and kosak-
kasek, the sound of a restless man fidgeting
on a couch. The Malay may have been
stumped when asked to find words for bever-
ages introduced from Europe, but, a keen
observer of Nature, he lias never been at a
loss to find the appropriate terms to express
the phenomena of his native habitat. In
that respect it resembles our abo
THE NEW IDEA.
“You know, Geoffrey, Norma is nearly
twelve years old, so to-day I had a frank
discussion with her about the facts
of life.”
“Ah! Did you learn anything new?”
TATTUMBAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prom travelled ways it stood aloof,
And forests hid its shingled roof
Prom passing team and car;
A home where laughter echoed nightly,
While yarran logs were burning brightly,
Por cares were few and weighed but lightly
Those days at Tattumbar.
Outside we heard the mopoke call,
While picking splinters off the wall;
And through the doors ajar
The flitter bats came in to flutter
About the rooms ’hove beam and shutter,
And ’possums romped o’er roof and gutter
All night at Tattumbar.
Upon the cap when morning broke,
The kookaburras perched and woke
The echoes near and far;
The magpies in a fluting chorus,
Called from the grass and greenwood for us,
While parrots wheeled and whistled o’er us—
All part of Tattumbar.
The homely swallows with the spring
To bide with us came twittering
From winter haunts afar.
They built their nests on beam and rafter;
Tlieir joyous chirps were linked long after
With those bush days of peace and laughter
We knew at Tattumbar.
N.S.W.
E.S. SORENSON.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7ho Standard oi Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
m
EVERY CAR...EVERY LORRY
Should be lubricated every 500 miles
with
AJLEMITE
Lubricating Systems
and Lubricants
ADELAIDES Best Value Hotel
Courteous Service
from a staff of sixty
'W
M.
Pi
m
i
Prompt, efficient,
courteous attention is
assured at the Gros-
venor from the time
you enter until you
leave. A staff of
sixty people offers
service with a smile.
300 rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Yale locks on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
k
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LIHSEED MEAL
STOGK ON THE WHEAT FARM.
“Bar K.”: During the past cropping
season many Australian farmers, influenced
by the “Grow More Wheat” slogan, put
practically the whole of their arable land
under wheat. Many others cropped from 50
to 75 per cent, of their total wheat area.
In the Vic. Mallee and other parts, as a
result of droughts, the land was in good
heart to support a bumper harvest. But
with such a large proportion of it under
crop, fallow area is greatly reduced, and so
is stock-carrying capacity, and so also is
the farmer’s ability to stock up again, in
the event of this year’s wheat returns show-
ing a loss.
In such cases, next year’s crop will, for
the most part, have to be put in on unfai-
lowed land. Smaller yields must be then
expected, a circumstance which will offset
the saving effected through not having to
work the fallow.
It is, of course, impossible to forecast the
market two or three years hence, but the
indications are that wheat-growing will have
to be associated with more systematic stock-
rearing. Wool, meat and fat lambs suggest
themselves. These can only be successfully
fostered by growing fodder crops, such as oats
or barley, on the_ stubble for winter feed,
Sudan grass and millet during the spring, and
(most essential of all) lucerne for grazing
purposes. Improvement of grazing lands
by top-dressing with super, and planting of
suitable_ grasses and clovers is also of the
utmost importance if stock is to be success-
fully carried through a dry spell.
To the foregoing may be added the grazing
of pigs. Pigs must never be allowed to fall
away through a drought, hut when pastures
fail , they will, at least, repay the cost of
hand-feeding on crushed wheat and lucerne-
hay, with bone-meal and linseed meal added.
In short, farmers should be able to stand
even a period of low prices for wheat pro-
vided they give greater attention to stock-
rearing. Many settlers will necessarily have
to be financed on these lines; but finance is
a matter I do not propose to discuss.
FODDER CROPS FOR WESTRALIA.
“Wescocky”; This has been a wonderful
year for stock in the Westralian wheat belt,
and the dry fodder will sustain them long
into summer. However, too little thought
is given by wheat-belt farmers to crops grown
for stock feed alone.
The common method is to rely on the
natural grasses and weeds during winter and
early spring, and then to turn the animals
into the stubble as the harvest proceeds. After
a fortnight or so all the gleanings have been
consumed, and a diet of straw not infre-
quently has painful results to horses, cattle
and sheep.
For the eastern portion of the wheat belt,
oats is by far the best fodder crop. Used
as a winter feed it recovers quickly when
eaten down, it is a better hay yieldef than
wheat, and if fed as hay or ensilage can
supply ample roughage to offset the compact-
ing effects of the dry stubble feed. Moreover
it is a fine crop to rotate with wheat, being
a sturdy parasite-resister, and a prolific
yielder if grown on land that has had a heavy
wheat crop the previous year—a thing which
cannot be said of wheat. Though of no great
marketable value it is a very economical crop,
and one that our Westralian farmers will
find they cannot do without.
Rye grows well on the poorer sand-plain
and wodgil soils, but seems to attract little
attention, as a fodder crop, though it should
do excellently as a factor in ensilage (abo
sadly neglected in the wheat belt) once the
stock have become used to it.
Wimmera rye and other fodder grasses
do not seem to fare very well in an average
season, but it may be too early to pass judg-
ment on them. Government experiments
with fodder grasses must be keenly watched.
These times are putting us farmers to the
test.
MILLET FOR SUMMER FODDER.
“Science III”: Given reasonably good
country with a satisfactory water supply,
Japanese millet is easily and cheaply grown.
Fifteen pounds at twopence a pound will
sow an acre thickly, and 901 b. of super, will
be plenty. If you are in a hurry, don’t be
over-particular about grading; as long as
your check banks are high enough to hold
water you will do all right. A perfectly
levelled plot would be better, but the extra
expense is not justified for such a tem-
porary crop. Drill in the seed, if possible,
but broadcasting will do, provided you run
a brush harrow over it.
The most important thing to remember is
not to let water lie on the ground for more
than a day after the first watering, as it may
kill the seed. Once the millet is thoroughly
established overflooding will not harm it;
in fact, I found it grew like wildfire when
covered with water on scorching days. A
week after the first watering it will come
through. Give it a light watering about
a week after that.
Millet is shallow-rooted, so wait until it
is seven or eight inches high before putting
the stock in. That will be five or six weeks
after the first watering; but don’t let them
graze it down too closely. Take them off
when you think it is cropped enough, and
water immediately. You will find it stool
out a great deal after that.
It is best to divide your area into foui-
equal blocks and rotate them so that the
stock are on one block while the other three
are spelling. Make sure your division fences
are stoekproof. Keep stock in a small shaded
and well-watered paddock when they are not
on the millet; they will do no good roaming
about a big bare paddock. Put them in the
crop for about three hours a day—say, an
hour and a half first thing in the morning,
and the same in the afternoon. There is no
danger of poisoning at any time, but do
not let stock that are weak or starving stay
on too long at first. That applies to any
green feed, of course.
Japanese millet is excellent fodder for
cows and breeding ewes, as it increases the
milk supply and cream content. I have seen
cows gallop half a mile after being six
weeks on a good stand of millet, whereas
before they were walking skeletons, scarcely
able to stand. I have grazed it down four
times in a season and then let it go to seed.
Once it drops its seed you will have millet
until kingdom come, but that won’t do you
any harm.
What will it carry? On the grey clay-
loam western Riverina soil I have carried
500 grown sheep on 20 acres for nearly five
months. One block of five acres carried
them all for a fortnight. After they were
shifted the crop seemed to be ruined, but
I watered it again in roasting weather, and
it grew so profusely that I had to put 750
sheep on at the end of a fortnight to prevent
it going to seed. It lasted them 10 days.
I tried a small plot of Sudan grass, but it
gave a very poor crop by comparison,
although it may have been that the soil did
not suit it.
If you have trefoil country, water in
April, and you will probably have a growth
which will give you great feed through winter
and spring, provided you water it occasion-
ally. Strange that all the heavy watering
you give the millet in the summer will start
very little trefoil, but a late autumn flood-
ing or heavy rain will bring it away quickly.
THE VALUE OF TOP-DRESSING.
“Strathbogie”: Arresting pasture-improve-
ment tests have been carried out at the
Rutherglen experimental farm and are
recorded in the October number of the Vic.
“Journal of Agriculture.”
An area of poor virgin pasture (carrying
capacity being reckoned at one breeding-ewe
to 14 acres) was divided into five plots of
3f acres each. No. 1 was top-dressed
with lewt. of super, and 10cw T t. of lime
per acre; (2) with lewt, of super, per acre;
(3) with lewt. of Thomas’s phosphate per
acre; (4) with 2cwt. of super, and lewt. of
nitrate of soda per acre. These plots were
manured every year from 1014 until 1920;
since then the practice of manuring only every
fourth year has been followed, the last
manuring being in 1928. The remaining
plot has received no manure. Every year
marked differences in the quantity and qual-
ity of the pasture provided in the several
plots have been observed, notably increased
numbers of early grasses and trefoils in
the manured sections. This type of pasture
has largely replaced the tufty root grasses,
which may still be seen in the unmanured plot.
As' a general result it has been noted
that the number of sheep to the acre has
been increased approximately 60 per cent,
on the plot treated with lewt. of super., and
rather more where lime and super, have been
applied. Further, the sheep on the manured
plots have shown a higher gain in live
weight per head than have those on the un-
manured area.
Rutherglen experiments also have shown
that well-established paddocks of subter-
ranean clover respond to top-dressing with
super, in a remarkable way. The quick
response obtained, even in dry years, is par-
ticularly valuable for fattening lambs in
the winter and early spring. Compared
with unmanured pastures, the increased
growth obtained by applying super, was
measured at 36.7 p.c. from Acwt. per acre,
51.6 p.c. from lewt. per acre and 54.3 p.c.
from llcwt. per acre.
TREATING FLYBLOWN SHEEP.
“Atriplex”: Zinc sulphate, 51b.; water,
lOgal.—this is the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture’s latest recommendation for
treating flyblown sheep. Being colorless the
solution cannot stain the wool, and its astrin-
gent property drives out the maggots and
closes up the wound. The wool with which
it comes in contact is rendered less attrac-
tive to the fly. ,
The department adds that it is very diffi-
cult to find a completely satisfactory dress-
ing. But why waste time and money seek-
ing one? Killing maggots is the easiest part
of the game; any sheepman can name
a dozen substances that will do this and aid
healing. If the wool is closely clipped off
the crutch of every sheep caught and one of
these substances is applied that jumbuck
won’t be any trouble for a few weeks.
Regarding prevention of strike, I don’t
believe there is any satisfactory repellent
known. In each case the active principle is
too volatile. But Ido feel confident that the fly
will never be controlled by dressings, and
that as long as the department spends money
adding to the list of effective ones known
that money is being wasted.
Why don’t these departments start at the
right end and launch their attack through
the blood-stream of the animals? A turps
and salt lick recently advocated in The
Bulletin is one of the finest suggestions I
have ever heard of, and the results claimed
for it should open up a wonderful field for
research.
CATTLE AND BEEF PROSPECTS.
A correspondent asked The Bulletin's
Service Department (1) What are the pros-
pects of the cattle market in N. S. Wales
after the New Year? (2) What prospects
has Australia in the beef export trade? The
matter was referred to the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture (Stock Branch) and
the Metropolitan Meat Industry Board; and
from Mr. J. B. Cramsie, the chairman of
the board, the following very interesting
summary and forecast has been received:—
(1) With regard to the prospects of the cattle
markets of this State after the New Year, under
present conditions of stringent finance, which may
force a larger number of cattle into our markets
than would usually come, it is extremely difficult
to forecast the position, but under ordinary cir-
cumstances the market after the New Year should
be in a much stronger position than just at present.
The price for beef to a great extent is governed
by the quantities of mutton and lamb coming for-
ward into the market, as naturally in these days
of strict economy the public attention is attracted
to the cheaper article. The value of mutton and
lamb is ruled by export parity immediately the
supplies become greater than those necessary for
loeul requirements, and the record supplies of mutton
and lamb which are arriving now and being sold at
export parity are having a detrimental effect on the
present value of beef.
I would anticipate that the heavy supplies of
export lambs will have been cleaned out before the
end of the year, and the supplies of mutton should
be greatly lessened by that time; therefore it is
reasonable to expect that cattle values in the be-
ginning of the year should be reasonably firm,
dependent to a great extent on what numbers are
being railed down from Queensland to our market.
N. S. Wales depends on Queensland for approxi-
mately half her supplies of fat cattle, and values
ruling throughout the year are generally dependent
on the seasonal conditions and the numbers coming
forward from the northern State.
(2) Australia has excellent prospects in the beef
export trade. It was unfortunate that recently
Germany placed an embargo on the importation of
Australian beef, which naturally had the effect of
depreciating cattle values paid by the Queensland
meat export cos. during the past season ; but for the
past four years the prices had been steadily in-
creasing and had placed the cattle industry of
Queensland on a very sound and profitable basis.
A careful study of the world’s cattle production
shows a decline in nearly every cattle-producing coun-
try ; on the other hand, populations are increasing,
and in the case of the United States they must in
the near future become large importers of beef to
assist their own production, as well as the Canadian
surplus, in providing a meat diet for their people.
With proper organisation and improved and in-
creased production, there is every reason to believe
that the prospects of our beef export trade are excel-
lent.
BANANA-GROWING.
“E.H.M.”: If you propose to try your
luck at it, choose for your plantation land
with a north-easterly aspect so as to get the
first and last peep of the sun on it. The
banana is a tropical fruit and when grown in
sub-tropical districts a suitable aspect is
essential.
Don’t import disease and pests into your
plantation. Select suckers from areas free
from buncky-top and beetle-borer.
Plant out suckers in November. They
then have six months of good growing
weather, and moreover will bear the first
fruit during the winter months (18 months
after planting), when market prices are
highest. Set out the plants 12 x 12. Light
and air are necessary for the proper develop-
ment of the banana, the ends of which should
be pointed and unblemished; planting too
closely usually results in the bunches de-
veloping “cigar-end” bananas.
Plant suckers lOin.; any deeper is a waste
of time, as the plant is a surface-feeder.
When keeping the weeds in check don’t chip
deeply or the hoe will cut the roots.
During the first winter grow a, crop of
beans or peas between the banana plants,
and after the crop has been picked hoe in
the stalks for fertiliser.
BIRDS IN THE ORCHARD.
“E.S.” : The orchardist usually looks sus-
piciously on birds that pay him a visit at
fruiting time, especially when he sees them
frequently among the laden trees. But most
them are there for caterpillars, scale, fruit-
flies, moths, bugs or beetles. Others, in
situations where their native bush has been
cleared away from the surrounding area, are
intent on nesting. There are birds that mix
a bit of fruit with their insect diet —for
example, the friar-bird, the kurrawong, the
wattle-bird, the blue-face honeyeater (or
banana-bird), the miner, the black-faced
honeyeater and the musical little silvereye.
The silvereye has a bad name, and I admif
that it is troublesome for a month or two
among small fruits. But during the rest
of the year it does good service in destroy-
ing aphides, case-moths, codlin-moth grubs
and other pests. The honey eaters prefer
nectar to any other food ; when that is un-
obtainable they will fall back on ripe fruit.
At other times they subsist on various kinds
of insects.
Several very useful birds occasionally
taste fruit, but none of them can be looked
upon as a nuisance. In any case a bird
that does good work for the fruitgrower
through the greater part of the year is surely
worth its tucker. Because a sprinkling is
found on the ground and a small portion
pecked on the trees, the feathered visitants
should not be condemned indiscriminately.
Some birds in places are now and again
forced to tackle cultivated fruits when un-
toward circumstances have caused a scarcity
in their natural food. While insects and
berries—or honey—are obtainable in suffi-
cient quantities they leave cultivated fruits
alone. But, having once been detected rob-
bing an orchard in their time of famine, they
are condemned as enemies for all time. A
bird that may be a nuisance in one place
under certain conditions may be not only
harmless but continuously useful in another.
The small fry are always good police, and
even it some of them are responsible for a
little loss in fruit, they are cheaper in the
long run as pest-destroyers than sprays and
other methods of combating insect invasions.
Every fruitgrower should study his feathered
visitors closely—of course, he knows the
common thieves—before hunting them away
or using more drastic measures against them.
Instead of being inimical, as appearances
might at first suggest, they might be worth
pounds to him.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
suitable soil for kikuyu grass? —
9800.
It will give capital results in any good-
quality soil. At Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
Agricultural College and in other localities
it has been provpd that it grows exceptionally
well on sandy soil, but not on heavy pipe-
day land. Allow the grass to become well
established before grazing it, or cut the first
growth with a scythe or mowing machine
when about two feet high.
(1) Will saltbush grow in gullies in auri-
ferous and reefy country? (2) Most suit-
able fodder varieties to grow in such regions?
(3) Where can seeds be obtained? —o662.
(1) Although especially adapted to
droughty areas it is claimed that saltbush
will grow in almost all soils. In auriferous
and reefy country, however, successful growth
is problematical unless there is some surface
soil. (2) Rhagodia nutans, Atriplex num
mularia, a trailing variety, and Atriplex
semibaccata, “old man” saltbush. (3)
Brunnmg and Co.; Gill and Searle; Law.
Somer and Co.—all of Melbourne. Seed and
plants are expensive, so it would be advis-
able to sow a small plot before attempting
large areas.
Gan other crops be grown on the same land
in succession to rice? What would be a suit-
able rotation of crops tvith' rice for the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area? —9B3o.
It is not practicable to grow other crops
on land that has been under rice for a number
of years, but on a mixed farm of 500 acres
or more, by not overcropping from the start
(Continued on page 25.)


auasni^^sipsa
w
o o o
© o ©
©OO
SY
<s^o
sfd
sfd
sfd


WHY IMPORT
Finish is Olive Green, and where office
furnishings are to be matched, true grain
Maple, Oak and the other wood finishes
can be supplied.
“OLYMPIC”
STEEL VERTICAL FILING CABINETS
Write us about your requirements; there is no
obligation.
FORSTER’S BEDSTEADS, LTD.,
Mary Ann Street, Ultimo, Sydney. ’Phone: M 4247.
Here is an All-Australian
Steel Filing Cabinet
—equal in quality to any imported
Cabinet and only half the cost.
OU need not look further than the
A Australian-made “Olympic” when
you require a steel filing cabinet. In this
handsome unit of the “Olympic” line you
will find every quality to meet your require-
ments —permanent rigidity and great
strength in all parts—beauty of finish and—
In addition to these essential features,
“Olympic” vertical cabinets can be fitted
with a patent automatic locking device and
steel filing rods—they can be made to
any specification and in letter or foolscap
size drawers as desired. A fireproof com-
partment in lieu of a top drawer can also
be installed.
We are specialists in steel furniture and
can quote you for work to any specifi-
cation. We will show you how to save
money with steel furniture, from desks to
card cabinets.
1— Fire resistance through closely fitting
parts and welded joints.
2 Compartments which glide smoothly
and silently on ball-bearing extensions.
The greater the load the better they run.
3 Handles are of attractive cast brass,
and Index Card Frames are large
enough for all needs.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of wood and metal
furniture since 1859 —the largest plant of its
kind in the Southern Hemisphere.
Of Special Interest to Country Radio Users
THE BATTERIES YOU HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR.
The New
Triple Duty
B Batteries
sfdfs
śfd
sfd
fds
śfd
ďsds
fds
The New
4 y 2 Volt Flat
Torch Refill
No. 909—FLAT TYPE
Dimensions: Bin. x 6j|in. x 4Jin. high.
Tappings: 3ov., 45v.
Weight: 131 b.
Price 25/-
m
No. 1010—UPRIGHT TYPE.
The same Battery as No. 909, but made
in the following dimensions:—
8 3-16 in. x x 7 7-16 in. high.
Tappings: 22£v., 45v. Weight: 131 b.
Price 25/-
BATTERIES
Diamond Batteries have proved themselves the most economical power supply for
Radio Receivers. They afford finer reception—greater distance—more powerful volume
—and, above all, considerably longer life. And' the Triple Capacity is the Battery
required to meet Country Conditions.
DIAMOND
Triple Capacity “B” Batteries.
It takes PHENOMENAL STAMINA to standi up to
the gruelling service of Receiving Sets of four or
more valves, operating under country conditions,
reaching out for distant stations.
The “Triple Capacity” has characteristics that meet
this condition —it is built for endurance—built to
give all the volume you need —greater distance —
filled with unflagging force—-and silent to the last.
The Ideal Battery for Country users, and the
cheapest.
DIAMOND
4£-volt Flat Torch Refills.
The indispensable convenience of an Electric Torch
is now universally recognised—hut this conveni-
ence can be marred by inferior Refills. The
“Diamond” 4|-volt Flat Torch Units have been
perfected by long and determined research. They
ensure a clear, brilliant light for long hours of
service, and possess marvellous power of recupera-
d
tion. Their spring connections allow
their use in practically all makes of
Flat Pocket Torches.
No. 6565. —Size 2 9-16 x 2 7-16 x
13-16 in. Price 1/-
For your Round Torch Cases employ Diamond
Units also for the maximum of service.
One of these two types will fill your needs.
There are Diamond Batteries for Every Purpose
AT ALL DEALERS.
1701717 Tliere is a fine> illustrated Catalogue
A HHHi Free for the asking. Write for your copy.
Direct Factory Distributors: ____
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY,
Ground Floor, Whitehall. Bank Place, Melbourne. ’Phone: F 4952.
Interstate Representatives:
N.S.W.: REG ROSE & COMPANY
S.A.: NEWTON McLAREN, LTD.
LOUIS COEN (S.A.), LTD.
A. G. HEALING, LTD
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
ADELAIDE
ADELAIDE
QUEENSLAND. J. B. CHANDLER BR “
S S o g™ k v'ptV.;'Ltd: :::::: uo «%n»
T Si ' OLIVER & OLIVER PTY., LTD HOBART
W-McF.


S»9
f
M 1
i-i
:
A
■ '
A Lightweight, Pliant,
Easy-fitting Boot.
Adapted exactly to the natural
shape of the foot, this Abbey
Boot has an upper built in a
curve over the instep. And, at
back of ankle it is cut lower to
eliminate bulging and to fit
more comfortably. There’s no
strain anywhere. The sole is
made of the most durable
leather and is yet perfectly
flexible.
Order by post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and half
sizes. Specify width when ordering
and ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF 45/-
BLACK CALF 45/-
PATENT LEATHER . . 55/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 202
Get your Christmas publicity into
THE BARRIER MINER
before all the Christmas Presents
are selected. A booming Christ-
mas coming at Broken Hill and
the sheep district around.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Ace. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
Velum horn Europe
" via the -
All RED
ROUTED
Mx
r mm
%
iS.' —.'' ' ■ ■:■' •".■• **t V,
S Hi .
Across Canada—through scenery
found only in the Rockies—lakes
swift rivers, jade forests, glaciers
mountain parks lovely Lake
Louise and Banff—the Great Lakes
and Mighty Niagara. Canadian
Pacific Hotels at all resorts and
cities assure welcome and comfort.
The joyous route to and from
Europe is via C.P.R. Write for
illustrated literature.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
rrlPtt!
AT*
Am'
mm'
IfpU^ggi
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS • STEAMERS HOTELS
fd
Si&f
/
CM.
Ja^
Buy a PLUM RAZOR— it will save
you money —no fresh blades to buy,
the first expense is the last—given
fair usage the PLUM will give you
5,000 satisfying shaves!!
With the addition of a PLUM guard
it can be converted into a superior
class safety razor, giving the correct
diagonal shaving stroke.
Guaranteed and kept in order FREE
OF CHARGE for two years.
THE PLUM RAZOR.
Sizes fin. or fin. Is set ready for
use. In strong grained leather hinged
case. POST FREE, 12/6.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD.
Fits f, f and fin. razors. POST
FREE, 2/9.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 CEORXVE; €>T. SYDNEY
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
as
6ft. wide x Bft. drop
17/6
9ft. wide x Bft. drop
25/6
12ft. wide x Bft. drop
32/6
VERANDAH BLINDS
This Special Line of standard size Blinds, made of English White or Green
or Brown blocked Striped Duck, complete with fittings—top batten, heavy
bottom roller, single and double pulley straps, cord and staples..
Note.—We cannot supply this line in other than those quoted above.
Prices for other sizes and materials on application.
m
cy/te, BIGGEST HARDWARE-MOUSE, IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
and with systematic working, it should be
possible to grow profitable fodder crops of
wheat, oats or barley. A suitable rotation is
rice, winter fallow, wheat, short fallow’,
winter legume, short fallow. The rice is
sown in October and harvested the follow-
ing April. The land is then winter-fal-
lowed and an early-maturing variety of
wheat sown in April or May. The wheat is
harvested in December and the land is short-
fallowed and a crop of winter legumes, such
as barley, vetches or field peas, sown in
March to be grazed off by sheep. The after-
math is ploughed under in August, and the
land given a short fallow in preparation for
planting with rice again in October.
Is pollard a good food for horses? —9BlB.
Although ' it furnishes more nutriment
than bran, pollard is not a desirable food
for horses, because of its heavy character.
It should be mixed with bulky feed and
given in a relatively small amount, other-
wise there may be digestive trouble.
(1) How many Angora goats can be kept
to the aci'e of brushland pasture? (2) Do
they need running water? (3) Do they
need warm stabling in the winter? (4) Is
it troublesome to make the does look after
their kids? (5) Is it hard to keep them
within a fenced pasture? —9B32.
(1) If there are plenty of weeds, herbs,
small trees, brush and other thick under-
grow’th,' about five to the acre, but they
should not be kept too long on the same
range. (2) Running water is best, but dam
water will do if it is clean. (3) They don’t
need stabling, but a good shelter in cold,
rainy weather is necessary, and they like to
keep their feet dry and clean. They like
petting, need a little salt twice a week and
appreciate a few kernels of corn when they
come home at night. (4) Does that are soon
to mother kids should be kept in a separate
pasture until the kids are a few days old. If
handled in this way mothers generally show
great affection for their young. (5) They
are not so easily fenced in as 'sheep, but a
straight upright rail, board or wire fence
Hift. high will hold them if there are no
holes large enough to crawl through.
(1) What class of land is the Roper
River country in N.T.? (2) General living
conditions, climate, etc.? (3) Prospects for
cattle-breeding there? (4) Nearest markets?
(5) Is the country subject to cattle tick
and buffalo f1y? —9603.
(1) Fair cattle country, timbered with box
gum, iron-wood, wattle, paperbark, ti-tree,
etc., fairly light to open on the flat, moder-
ately thick on the hills. The soil in the flat
country is dark clay of a friable nature,
hard loam in parts; the hills are composed of
quartzite, sandstone and ironstone, and all
are accessible to stock. The country is
well grassed along the river flats for varying
widths. (2) The climate is sub-tropical. The
wet season extends from about the middle of
December to April and the dry season from
May to December. The living conditions are
similar to those which apply to any out-back
grazing country. (4) Principally Queens-
land. (5) YeS. _____
llow to construct a blowfly trap? —9647,
Take a kerosene or petrol tin, and at one
end make a round cut about 6in. or 7in.
across. Into this hole a gauze funnel is
fitted, the tapering end going into the tm
and becoming of a smallness to just admit
a blowfly. Cut a hole in the other end of
the tin, say, 6in. x 6in. square, and turn the
edges so that a piece of glass may be slid
into place. From the corners run two tie-
wires. To the intersection of _ these wires
putrid bait is attached. The flies attracted
are killed by boiling water. The object
of the glass is twofold. It forms the
door by which the bait is entered, and the
light opposite the funnel attracts the fly.
In some cases the glass is put in the top
of the tin when lying on its side.
My seven-year-old cow calved in the middle
of May, and gave about four gallons of milk
daily till last month, when the yield fell off
and, the cow could not get up. She did not
seem in great pain, but spasmodically threw
herself straight out, and at other times
turned her head towards her flank. Was this
milk fever, and what’s the cure? —9767.
Symptoms are those of milk fever. Best
treatment is inflation of the udder with
air. A specially constructed pump may
be secured for this purpose from any
instrument-maker. Great _ care should he
exercised in the sterilisation of the appa-
ratus before and during use, in order to
prevent the introduction of organisms which
cause mastitis.
(1) What is meant by the term “occupa-
tion license” in Queensland to-day? (2)
Is a holder compelled to pay half cost of
boundary fences? (3) Has a selector any
priority over the outside, public? (4) .Is
there any specified time in which adjoining
neighbors must apply for their half-sha/re in
existing boundaries to occupation licensees?
—9604.
(1) It is a license issued for a year on a
prescribed rent. It may be renewed from
year to year at the Minister’s discretion, and
the Minister can terminate the license by
giving three months’ notice. (2) and (4)
The Fencing Acts of Q’land do not apply to
land held under occupation license. The
licensee is, therefore, not liable for payment
of half-share of the boundary fences nor can
he claim for a half-share of any fencing
erected by him. (3) The possession of an
occupation license does not give the licensee
any claim to priority of application in the
event of the land being opened for pastoral
lease or selection, but should the land be
opened for pastoral lease the Minister may
in his discretion grant priority to the
licensee.
A method of preparing a sample of oats
from seed that has not been thoroughly
threshed (containing too much tail, or oats
not separated) where a not very extensive
area is to be sown? —9B23.
Put one bushel of seed in a bag at a time,
choosing a warm day. Tie the mouth and
beat the bag a few seconds with a flail or
heavy stick. When sufficient seed has been
so treated, put it through a blower or win-
nower.
(1) Best district near Brisbane for grow-
ing strawberries? (2) Minimum living area
for one man? (3) Price of land? (4) Value
of annual yield per acre? (5) How many
crops in a year? (6) Amount of capital re-
quire d to start? (7) Literature on the sub-
ject ? —9597.
(1) Cleveland, Redland and Wellington
Point. (2) About three acres. Assistance
would be required during packing season.
(3) £5O to £lOO per acre. (4) £6O to £75.
(5) One, extending from early in April to
November. (6) Purchasing a property on
terms, about £350 to £4OO. (7) Free pamph-
let obtainable from Agriculture Department,
Brisbane.
How to get rid of aphis attaching cab-
bages?—9476.
Spray with a nicotine sulphate solution
(“black leaf 40”). The formula generally
recommended is | pint of nicotine sulphate in
100 gallons of water, to which 41b. to 51b. of
soap is added.
(1) What are the prospects of making a
living by breeding ducks for the table? (2)
Would milk supply sufficient protein for
mashes? (3) Any literature on subject? —
9780.
(1) Very poor prospects. Some people
make it a profitable side-line, but breed only
small numbers and cater for private cus-
tomers. On prices obtained at auction dur-
ing the last six months it is improbable that
much profit has been made by the breeder.
(2) Mash mixed with milk is very satis-
factory for fattening, but for breeding stock
better results are obtained when meat or
meat-meal is used. (3) “Ducks,” Robert-
son and Mullens, Elizabetk-street, Mel-
bourne ; 2s. 9d.
Would it be possible to make a living
from 50 acres of land in the Liverpool
(N.S.W.) district at poultry-farming or
tomato-growing ? —9602.
Five to seven acres of well-drained land
would be adequate to keep and maintain
a sufficient number of layers to make a
living. The Liverpool district is suitable
for poultry-farming. It would not be advis-
able to depend solely on tomato-growing, as
results vary considerably and are dependent
to a large extent on seasonal conditions.
Better to start in a small way, and allow
future policy to be guided by the results
obtained.
It has been stated in The Bulletin that
ipecacuanha wine will keep young turkeys
ir-r from blackhead. How is it used? —
9741.
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
recommends it. As a preventive, the
dose is one dessertspoon of the wine placed
in each quart of drinking water one day per
week from the time the poults are one week
old until they “shoot the red.” They should
not have access to other drinking water
whilst being given the ipecacuanha wine. As
a cure, give ten drops twice daily.
(1) Would the use of an Essex car with a
universal power transmitter for driving a
pump, circular-saw or chaff cutter be an
economical arrangement? (2) Lower re-
quired to operate Sin. centrifugal pump, and
could sufficient power be obtained from an
Essex car for the job? —BS22.
(1) Yes. (2) 10 h.p. should be more
than ample, and much more can be obtained
from the Essex.
A contractor is milling pine on my pro-
perty (N.S.W.). He pays me for the pine
and pays all other expenses himself, itichid-
ing the insurance of employees. He and a
partner will not insure themselves. Have
I any responsibility for the insurance of the
contractor and Ms partner, or of their
employees? —9663.
You are not liable. The contractors are
responsible both with regard to themselves
arid their employees.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Science III”: Most newcomers are
puzzled as to the extent of country that may
be watered by centrifugal pumps of various
sizes. It depends on hours per day worked;
if run only in daylight, a 3in. pump will
irrigate 10 acres, a 4in. 15 acres, a 6in,
30, an Sin. 70, a lOin. 100, and a 12in.
130-140 acres.
“Nemo”: To the ordinary method (the
prismoidal formula) for finding the con-
tents of tanks or dams with sloping sides
and ends, and that advocated by “Kuluma-
doo” (B. 13/2/’29), may be added a still
more compact one. Multiply top length by
bottom breadth; add to result top breadth
multiplied by bottom length; divide sum by
two. To this add the areas of top and
bottom. Then multiply the total by one-
third of the height.
“Odd Job”: Give all the rugs a good sun-
bath after their winter use. Mend all tears
and broken straps, and dust the insides with
naphthaline. Fold them away flat, or hang
them folded, and they won’t get out of shape.
“Wescocky”: On many Westralian pro-
perties the dam is in the middle of a large
open paddock, and as the winds blow almost
incessantly during the long summer there is
fearful waste of water. Again, you can see
stock lying against the fences trying to get
a bit of shade. Australian trees planted
round the dam make a first-class wind-break
and stock-shelter; one of the Government
nurserymen will be only too pleased to sug-
gest suitable varieties. A small fence will
be needed to protect the young trees.
“KrippleV : Should a length of shafting in
the shearing shed or elsewhere be running out
of true, it can be straightened without remov-
ing it from its bearings. While the shaft
is revolving hold a piece of chalk close up
at the point of defect —the centre, if it covers
some length—and allow the high side to
mark. Stop, and bring the marked point
to underside. If near a bearing remove the
cap. Arrange a fulcrum and with a lever
applied at the chalk mark spring the shaft
up a little. While sprung give the top side
over lever a few sharp blows with the flat
face of an engineer’s hammer— not a sledge
hammer —and set shaft revolving again. In
a shed a simple fulcrum can be fixed by nail-
ing a strip of wood to the plank at the point
required.
“B. Sting”: Where a valuable queen has
been newly introduced keep a careful watch
on the hive for some days. When she
emerges from her cage reluctant bees may
form a ball surrounding her. jostle her out-
side the hive and eventually smother her.
If signs of rebellion are displayed rescue
and recage the queen. Then thoroughly
examine the swarm. A young queen might
have been overlooked when the old one was
sacked. Put the new czarina through a
second period of caging within the hive, and
keep watch again.


Our Service Depatment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell”' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Digger wants position as personal attendant to
gentleman travelling, or any position of trust. Go
anywhere. Refs. —9840.
Wanted an investor to take over mortgage ( £500),
or to purchase or float cocoanut plantation, New
Hebrides, 2500 acres.-—-9744.
Young man (22), dairying, sheep and cattle exp.,
wants job at anything, anywhere; can drive car.
—9729.
Young man, fitter, turner and draughtsman, exp.
with locomotives and heavy-duty oil engines, wants
job on Nauru or Ocean Island or anywhere outside
Australia. —9903.
Sydney Uni. student of agriculture will give
services in exchange for keep during long vacation,
preferably On mixed farm. —9824.
By chef, Sydney, exp. in Sydney hotels and clubs,
position anywhere.—9B2l.
Timber-dresser (39), Vic., shaft level, rock-drill,
popper and hand steel exp., wants position. W.A.
preferred.—992B.
Trained nurse (English), wants position as com-
panion or nurse to person travelling, at beginning of
New Year.—9933.
Motor driver-mechanic (37), single, 20 years’ exp.,
knowledge tractors, pumps, mills and sheep, wants
job anywhere. Refs.—9B93.
Trained nurse wants position as nurse-companion
or children’s nurse. Refs. —9918.
Terms wanted for typing author’s MS. at per
1000 words, also carbon copies. Exp. essential.
Sydney.—99l9. .
Whereabouts of John Edwin Johnson, last heard of
working for fruitgrower on Waikerie irrigation area.
Brother at Pahiatua (M.L.) inquiring.—9843.
To buy Prout’s “Sydney Illustrated,” Fowles’s
“Sydney in 1848,” Westmacott’s “Sketches in Aus-
tralia” and any early views of Australia. —9829.
To buy book on reading blue prints.—9BB4.
To buy “Saturday Evening Post” from January,
1930, onwards.—9BBB.
To exchange correspondence courses on salesmai:-
ship, jiu-jitsu, confectionery-making, Angora rabbit-
keeping, etc., for books of any kind.—97B2.
To exchange or purchase, Scott’s novels (in three
vols.), or any other three-vol. novels.- —-9769.
Words of recitation, “The Irish Fire Brigade.”
-9796.
Words’of comic song “Waiting at the Church,”
also poem “I Forget.”—9749.
Words of verses “Stonv Broke in No Man’s Land.”
—9895.
Information Supplied.
(1) Is the present:; world-wide fall in .
prices of commodities in any fiway connected •
with the hoarding of gold by the JJ.S.A. and
Continental nations? (2) What are approxi-
mately the values of the gold reserves of
(a) U.5.A.,, (b) Britain, {a)- France? (3);
What advantage is to be gained by a nation
through increasing its gold reserves beyond
9855 norrn al needs of currency backing? —
(1) Many authorities on economics and
currency say there is a connection. (2) On,
an average for'this year' (a) Federal Reserve'
Banks, £800,000,060 ;- (b) Bank of England,
£160,000,000; ‘(c) Bank of France,
£400,000,600. - (3) If is a means of pro-
vision for foreign investments. France seems
to be aiming at becoming a creditor nation.:
Britain and the U.S.A. have already reached'
that position,
(1) Is there a good demand for wattle-
bark at present? (2) Where can it be sold?
—9576.
(1) No. Yery poor. Tanners are not buy-
ing more than sufficient to supply immediate
needs. The price is falling and seems likely
to continue to do. so. (2) ; At the auction
rooms of such' firms as the Farmers and
Graziers’ Cooperative Co., or Pitt, Son and
Badgery, Sydney. .
(1) Who invented the British “tank”?
(2) When were tanks first used against the
Germans and with what effect? (3) How
long after the appearance of the British
tank did the Germans use tanks?— 97s9.
(1) The caterpillar system of propulsion,
an essential feature of the tank, is embodied
in a series of patents taken out'by English-
men, dating back to 1770. 11. G. Weils in
1903 described fighting machines like tanks.
A British officer, Capt. T. G. Ttxlloch, .devised
such machines in .1908, and L., E, De Mole,
an Australian, who later backed up his ■
ideas with a ipodel, put before the War Office
in 1912 a design th'at authorities consider is
in some respects superior to the- type
eventually .adopted.' Howtever, ' the W.O.
rejected De Mole’s ideas rand the actual
introduction of the tank in warfare is credi-
ted to Colonel .E. T. Swinton, who put his
proposals before the WO. in Oct., 1914.
(2) In September, 1916, during the Somme
offensive. They ‘captured trenches, and - did
other valuable work, (3). In March, 191 S.
There were not more than 20 German tanks
built when 'the war ended, whereas Britain
and France between them had about 3000
in the field.
(1) Which way does the propeller of an
aeroplane turn? (2) Would the ’plane fly
if the propeller was reversed? —9562.
(1) Some turn clockwise and some anti-
clockwise, according, to the type ;of engine.
(2) Not unless the propeller is put behind
the engine. Even so it would be very in-
efficient, owing to the leading edge being
reversed.
Why do whirlwinds always revolve from
left to right? —9497.
That law applies only to the Southern
Hemisphere. In the Northern Hemisphere
they revolve from right to left. As the
earth revolves on its axis from the west to
east, winds in the Southern Hemisphere are
deflected to the left, and in the Northern s
Hemisphere to the right. Hence winds mov-
ing from a high pressure to a low pressure
(cyclone) reach the latter at a point to the
left of the centre in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and move in a clockwise spiral
towards the centre.
(1) Are Mark VII cartridges suitable for
use hi a long-barrelled .303 rifle? (2) If
not, why? (3) What cartridges should be
used? —9s24.
(1) Yes, if the barrel is Mark VII. (2)
They will tear the rifling out of the ordinary
steel or Mark VI barrel. (3) Should the
rifle carry a Mark VII barrel it may be
used for either Mark VII or Mark VI car-
tridges, but if it is built with the Mark VI
barrel only Mark VI cartridges should be
used.
What is the “Paterson scheme”? How does
it affect the cow-farmer and the genei'al public,
and is it likely that an attempt will be made
to abolish it when the sugar embargo contro-
versy is over? —9536.
Producers of butter pay a levy of lfd.
per pound on all butter produced and receive
from the profits on local sales a bonus of
41d. per pound on all butter exported. The
plan helps the farmer by enabling bim to
compete in the world’s markets with other
suppliers and increasing the domestic price
of his products. The benefit to tbe general
public is the indirect one of the promotion
of the Commonwealth’s foreign trade. We
can’t prophesy about the future.
What causes the “southerly busters” that
visit Sydney in the summer-time, and what
are the chief characteristics of the wind?
—9629.
They are peculiar to the N.S.W. coastal
regions, south of the Clarence River chiefly,
and invariably follow hot-weather periods
from August to May, causing a tempera-
ture-fall of from 20deg. to 40deg. in 24 hours.
They are usually associated with “V”-shaped
depressions, though occasionally relatively
high barometric pressures in Vic. cause them.
Thunderstorms sometimes accompany them,
and if the high-pressure centres travel in
high latitudes good rains occur. During
the last 20 years the strength and number of
southerlies have diminished. This is due,
it is believed, to the extension of primary
industries in the N.S.W. interior.
(1) Is there a demand for poultry shell-
grit hi Sydney? Where can it be sold, and at
what price? (2) Would I have to peg out
a mining claim to collect it on the foreshore?
—9047.
(D Yes, for grit of suitable size and
quality. There are many firms which deal in
it, and it is mostly sold delivered direct to
poultry farms, at approximately £2 10s. per
ton. (2) The area desired should be indi-
cated on a sketch and information sought
-from the Mines Department. Sydney.
Approximate value of motor vehicles
{private cars, lorries, ’buses and motor-
cycles) in use in Australia? —96B6.
At June 30, 1929, there were registered
in Australia 474,359 motor-cars, 71,851
commercial vehicles and 88,049 motor-cycles
In 1928-29 the average value of assembled
chassis imported was £200; of unassembled
chassis £l3O, and of bodies £lBO. In each
case duty and a freight allowance of 10 p.c.
on invoice value are included. It may be
taken that the average value of each car
sold in -Australia in that year was at
least £3OO. Allowing 50 per cent, for deprecia-
tion the value ot tne cars could be assessed
at about £70,000,000. Motor-cycle values
are not ascertainable from the import
statistics, but they may be assessed at £lO
apiece, or £8,800,000.
What are the internal and external
national debts of (1) Great Britain; (2)
Canada; (3) British Columbia? —-9706.
(1) At March 31, 1929, internal,
£6,510,823,896; external, £1,084,684,258. (2)
At March 31, 1928, internal, 1,870,049,325
dollarsexternal, 490,109,350 dollars. (3)
At March 31, 1929, tbe net debt was
79,074,025 dollars,’
(1) Within what period must letters of
administration be a/rplied for in Vic.? (2)
Cost of obtaining same, employing a solici-
tor? (3) Amount of duty on an estate of
a value less than £lOOO where the next-of-
kin are children of deceased? —9626.
(1) Six months.,, (2) Depends on work
involved. It is'fixed by scale. (3) Where
’ shares of children do not exceed £5OO, no
duty. , Where exceeding £5OO but not exceed-
ing £lOOO, 2 per cent.
What was the first mechanically-propelled
vehicle .{other than locomotives and traction
engines) to run in Australia, and when?
, What, was its speed? —97o9.
Mbtor-tricycles were ; imported and used
in Sydney and Melbourne in 1896. A year or
iso later a Thompson steam-car ran irorn
Bathurst (N.S.W.) to Melbourne, ‘ a dis-
tance of almost 500 miles, in 58 hours. The
motor-tricycles had a speed of from 25 to 30
m.p.li.
{!)-It has been asserted that the Austra-
lian Government is paying the cost of Sir
Otto Niemeyer’s visit, and in other quarters
that the British Government is flaying.
Which is correct? (2) Cost of Mr. Sculltn’s
visit {with parti/) to the ImveHal Confer-
ence, and will they be the guests of the
British Government during their stay in
England?— 97oB.
(1) Beyond expenditure on transport and
courtesies extended to Sir Otto Niemeyer, the
cost of his visit was not borne by tbe Com-
monwealth Government. So far as is known
the British Government is not bearing any
of the cost. It has been stated that the Bank
of England is footing the bill. (2) JNot
yet available. It will be shown in the
Estimates for 1931-32. The Prime Minister
md some members of the party are the
guests of the British Government during
part of their stay in England.
(1) Most suitable top-dressing for a bowl-
ing-green and croquet court, put down last
year? (2) When should the work be done?
(3) Suitable manures? (4) Ann objection
to bone-dust?i— B349.
(1) Three or four inches of surface loam
from an old pasture paddock, mixed with
thoroughly decomposed manure of horses,
cattle or sheep and fine sand, in eoual parts.
A mixture of 5 per cent, of finely ground
bone-dust (by weight) could be incorporated.
A supply of this mixture should be prepared
at least one year ahead of being required,
and receive several turnings during that
period. Before being used on the lawns,
it should be passed through a fine riddle or
screen to eliminate all small pebbles and
hard lumps. (2) Late winter for the first
dressing, just before the couch grass starts
into activity, with several subsequent and
lighter dressings spread and brushed in dur-
ing the summer. (3) Apply light dressings
of blood manure or sulphate of ammonia at
intervals of four to six weeks. These should
be applied to wet land, and be dissolved in
with a sprinkler immediately they are sown.
(4) Should only be applied in the top-dress
ing compost as described in reply to (1).
(1) What is tliQ significance in Con-
tinental drawings, etc., of the pair of horns
given to a deceived husband? (2) Has this
any relation to our modern expression
‘‘bring the goat” as used to devote a butt?
—9397.
(1) Horns are mentioned as the insignia
of the cuckold as far back as the ancient
Greeks. (2) Probably not. “Being the
goat” was most likely a colloquialism for
being the, scapegoat of Mosaic ritual.
(1) How are tennis rackets made? (2)
How re-strung? (3) Where is material
obtainable?— 92Bl.
(1) Frames are made of ash sawn into
the required sizes, and bent, sometimes dry
and sometimes after steaming or boiling,
after which it is allowed to set in the moulds
on which it has been bent until it will retain
its shape. The handle pieces must be of
some lightweight material, and tnese are
glued firmly to the shaft of the racket, after
which the whole is moulded and sanded to
the correct shape and weight. Small wedge
pieces must be glued in at the base of tin
bow, and many Australian players also like
to have the shoulders of their rackets
strengthened with overlays of lightweight
timber or of rawhide. These additions must
be firmly glued and allowed to set in place
before the final moulding. Machines are fre-
quently used for marking the position of
the holes through which the gut is to .be
strung, and these holes are bored with atten-
tion to the size of the gut and the direction
of the strain. (2) It is a matter of decid-
ing the tension best suited to the type of
frame, and also to the particular grade of
gut used—a job for experts. (3) Ash from
England or Canada. Good quality gut is
manufactured in Sydney.
Method of removing old paint from wood-
ivork other than by burning? —9s6o.
You can use one of the prepared paint and
varnish removers, which are packed with
full directions. Another method is to apply
a solution of lib. of caustic soda to 2gal.
or 2-§gal. of water. This is painted on
freely, and the paint film is subsequently
removed with a scraper, after which the
surface must be cleaned with oxalic acid, and
traces of the acid removed by washing with
plenty of water. Caustic soda is nasty stuff
to handle.
(1) What would be the cost of a patent
covering a safety-chair? (2) Is it a fact
that an inventor cannot obtain a patent
after having his invention on the market for
six months? —9544.
(1) Provisional protection for nine months,
£5 55.; full patent, about £22. (2), Yes; a
patent if obtained may be invalidated if it
is proved that invention was not novel at
date of application.
What kind of plant is .the cunjevoi, used
by abos. as a food, and how do they prepare
it for consumption? —9747.
It is the green arum- or spoon-lily (Colo-
casta ' macrorrhiza ), and grows in dense
clumps on river banks and in moist brush
forests of eastern and tropical Australia.
For food abos. use young - bulbs. They
scrape the bulbs, divide each and place
under hot ashes, leaving for half: an hour.
The pieces are then pounded - between a
large and a smaller stone, all watery-looking
fragments being thrown away. The re-
mainder, worked into lumps by the pounder-
stone, is again placed under hot ashes. This
is repeated many times and' the result is
a greenish-grey lump which is eaten when
it is hardening.
At a concert in Rockhampton (<)A
recently Mendelssohn’s “I Waited for the
Lord” was sung by a boy of seven. Has it
ever been sung by a child of the same age in
Australia. If so, when and where?- —7062.
Can’t say for certain, ’but in church choirs
soprano and alto parts are frequently taken
by boy choristers who commence ac a very
early age, so that it’is. not improbable that
the performance, has precedents.
In running ■ a • N.B. W. boarding-house
with 10 boarders, what, are the conditions
governing the employment■ of domestics? —
9509.
If eight or more paying guests per week
are provided with food • and accommodation,
the wages and conditions prescribed by
the Boarding-house, etc. (State),' Award
must be complied .with. Government Printer,
Sydney, sells copies.
(1) Cause and ' treatment ' of eczema in
dogs? ■ (2) ■■What diet? • (3 ) Is cure perma-
nent ? —9642. .. .
(1) Wrong feeding is . the usual cause,
blit it may also be hereditary. Affected
parts should be washed with soap and
warm water, dried 'thoroughly and then
dressed with a mixture of loz. sulphur, loz.
oil of eucalyptus and Boz. fish or olive oil.
Leave on for three days, then-wash off and
reapply. (2) Feed on meat, milk, green
vegetables and gravy; no cakes-or bread.
(3) If diet is regulated the trouble may dis-
appear.
Does Anybody Know?
Words of an aboriginal war-cry suitable
for a sports club? —9916.
Brief Answers.
W.T.: “National life” embraces every
phase of the habits, customs, motives and beliefs of
the people. The newspapers tell you all about it,
day by day.... Yeronga: The use of “loaned” in
place of “lent” is sanctioned by Webster and other
authorities. .. .H. 8.5.: Assuming the cost of the
fencing wire to be included, £2 10s. is due to A
J.F.R.: Write Secretary, Naval Board, Defence Dept.,
Melbourne. .. .J.P.: (1) Twenty ' years’ continuous
residence. (2) Sixty-five. (3) £52 p.a. (4) A
single man is allowed to earn up to 12s. 6d. per
week in addition to pension. (5) So long as the
house is occupied by the pensioner and is not a
source of revenue, possession of it would not affect
pension. (6) Absences amounting to one-tenth of
the total period of residence do not involve dis-
qualification... .E.F.P.: See “The Australian and
N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book”. (2s. fid.)....
R.H.G.: “For Sale” notices are not admitted.
. ...S.P.: The Governor of N.S.W. receives a salary
of £5OOO p.a.; salaries, etc. of staff at Government
House amounted to £4560 in 1927-28, and other
expenses for the same year totalled £1493....
E. : Write Dryice, Ltd., 18 Martin-place, Sydney.
....1114: Your memorandum is not a legal agree-
ment. Wisest course' would be to get a solicitor to
put it in order. .. .L.S.N.: As far as is known, no
aboriginal population ever occupied Lord ’ Howe
Island. No implements, rock carvings or any other
traces of an aboriginal population have been dis-
covered... .F.G.M.: The particulars, which are
printed in a rule-book issued only to employees,
are not available to the general public. Write to
the Secretary, N.S.W. Govt. Railways, stating the
purpose for which the information is required, and
he may obtain it for you. .. .W.W.L.: Write
Public Library, Brisbane... .E.H.M.: Information
not obtainable from head office. Write to the man-
ager at each mi11....A.M.K.: Consult Merritt’s
“Optical Shop Practice,” Washington’s “Business
Side of Optics” and Wiseman’s “Building Optometry.”
.. . .H.L.M.K.: Can find no authority on six-handed
ci'ibbage, neither the English nor American editions
of “Hoyle” referring to it. For rules, see “Hoyle’s
Games Modernised,” Angus and Robertson, 4s
L.W.: Prospects are not bright, even for experienced
men. Try the shipping cos 5.11. C.: (1) Cut out
your contributions and forward them with claim
for payment. (2) Ye5....11.C. (Dunedin): “Bestway
Second Arts and Crafts Book” and Sandford’s “Art
Crafts for Beginners”... .H.C.: Write Director, Civil
Aviation, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne, Vic
A.D.H.: Write R. J. Smith, logging contractor,
Oakleigh-terrace, Hill End, South Brisbane, Q.
... .G.W.M.1.: Sir Alan Cobham was born in
London, May 6, 1894. . . .S.W.D.N.: N.S.W. Public
Library, Sydney, has a few Parliamentary papers on
the subject. Write Research Officer for particulars.
. ...T.J.: During the year to June 30, 1929, four
steamers were wrecked off the N.S.W. coast, involving
a loss of six lives. .. .R. 5.1.: Freight on cocoanut oil
between Australia and U.K. is 70s. 9d. per ton
weight, unrefined tallow 70s. 9d. per ton weight,
beeswax 635. per ton measurement (40 cubic feet)
and dripping 70s. 9d. per ton weight or 635. per
ton measurement... .F.H.: No four is scored in
either case. See note on boundaries, Laws of
Cricket... .A.S.H.: Information not available....
F. : Write Manager, Municipal Baths, Singleton
(N.S.W.) ... .S.H.: When, there are trumps the joker
is the master trump and must be played to the suit.
When there are no trumps the joker is the master
card of the pack. The holder can play to a led suit
or not, as he thinks advisable... .C.F.H.: It
is a eo. handling a reference encyclopedia
and giving a research service in connection with it.
It is in no way connected with the Federal Govern-
ment. .. .A.R.11.: The goodwill would not be worth
more than £lOO or £l5O. In N.S.W. and Queensland
the minimum population to support a chemist is 2000.
. ...W.G.: Payment to you out of the estate can
be made by the executor only. Write to him....
C.F.S.: Shark Fisheries, Ltd., 17 O’Connell-street,
Sydney... .A.G.8.: Send full particulars to Lyster
Ormsby, 235 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .H.C.:
Helium is heavier than hydrogen and is a chemically
inert gas. It is a constituent of the atmosphere of
radio-active minerals and of natural ga5....8.C.:
Fort Denison is under the jurisdiction of the Sydney
Harbor Trust Commissioners, from whom permission
would have to be obtained to visit it D.C.S.:
Not much chance unless you have had seafaring ex-
perience or know somebody with influence....
E.N.8.: “St. Luke’s Summer” is a term for a short
period of mild weather in England that usually
sets in about St. Luke’s Day, October 18. It cor-
responds to the “Indian summer” of North America.
. ...K.8.: The bird is a Blue Mountain lorikeet, and
probably died of convulsions caused by wrong feed-
ing. Mr. Kinghorn, ornithologist, Australian Museum,
Sydney, says this species does not talk and is
difficult to keep in captivity... .J.W. A.: “Australia
Will Be There” was published by Allans, Melbourne;
“So Long Letty,” by Alberts, Sydney; “There’s a
Long, Long Trail” by Chappell, London (Sydney
Office, National Buildings, Pitt-street) ; and “It’s a
Long Way to Tipperary” by Feldman, London
(Sydney agents, Chappell and Co.) .... J.H.A.: There
is no award operative in N.S.W. regulating the
wages to be paid to a man or boy engaged in
milking and doing odd jobs about a farm....
J.H.W.: Queensland Agriculture Department has no
record of any investigation of the control of lice
in sheep by the use of sulphur in a salt lick
R.V.H.: The possibility of obtaining work in M.L.
is remote. Large numbers of men are engaged on
relief work. Real wages in M.L. compare favor-
ably with those in Australia D.S.: (1) Present
catalogue value is 6d., mint and used. This stamp
will increase in value. Retain all you have. (2)
Wilcox, Smith and Co., Liverpool-street, Dunedin
(M.L.) (2s. 6d. per dozen used), and Kelson and
Baker, Block-place, Melbourne, C 1... .E.H.N.: It
would be wise to advertise. In view of its wide
circulation a Bulletin advt. should be useful, but
you might also advertise in a newspaper circulating
in a locality where he has been known in business.
Your solicitor’s advice is sound P. 8.: The widow
is under no legal obligation to discharge the debts
of her deceased husband, and money collected on her
behalf should not have been taken for that purpose.
C.S.E.: (1) The dog will not be allowed to
land in Australia, but may be transhipped direct to
the oversea vessel under the supervision of a quaran-
tine officer. (2) Most overseas lines carry dogs
which are accompanied by owners, subject to con-
ditions. (3) The charge from Sydney to London is
£l5 plus a fee of 10s. 6d. for attention, including
feeding. (4) Kennel must be supplied by owner.
(5) Application must be made to the Minister of
Agriculture, London, before arrival of the vessel
for permission to land the dog... .W.H.S.: As you
are in receipt of a 50 per cent, disablement war
pension, should you marry a widow with four children
the dependants would be granted pensions at the
following rates: Wife, 18s. per fortnight; first child,
10s per fortnight; each other child, 7s. 6d. per
fortnight J.N.M.: Probably the temperature of
the cream was too high, in .which case the butter
would not separate from the milk serum. Follow
the directions, given in the leaflet “Buttermaking for
Home Consumption,” obtainable from Queensland
Agriculture Department.... (Many others mailed.)


Be wise in your choice
Orient Line!
Qonsider the points that are vital to
a comfortable and happy voyage!
Spacious decks, comfortable cabins,
attractive public rooms, excellent
catering you will find them all in
the Third Class of an Orient Royal
Mail Liner. The Fleet includes five
20,000-ton steamers in which every-
thing has been designed to promote the
comfort and happiness of passengers.
'J'he route is the most interest-
ing of all to England, visiting,
after leaving Australia, Colombo,
Port Said, Naples, Toulon, Gib-
raltar and Plymouth before
reaching London. At the various
ports, excursions to places of in-
terest are available at reasonable
rates.
|TO ENGLAND
/
. •
''
PI
rAVM
■gmm
#
II
*ar
✓
■ : •'
If
a
’A
i
W‘
v-
Tt &
W
r
a«
«
ss
1
/ZsJ?-
S/&
m
C
£r :
■^/:
/•• ... ..x>r
' s
:- f
a®
vS*.
3F.
m
w
°L
ORIENT LINE
THIRD-CLASS FARES: —From New Zealand and Brisbane: Single from £39
to £5l; Return from £7O to £92. From Sydney, Hobart, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Fremantle: Single from £3B to £5O; Return from £6B to £9O.
To Ceylon and
back—in a few
weeks!
Australians are beginning to appreciate
the fact that Ceylon is well within their
reach —even though only a very few weeks
can be spared for the holiday. From
Sydney, for instance, allowing for four
days on the Island, during which time
much may be seen of its beauties, the
return need oecuply only six weeks.
Under the conditions of the Special Holi-
day Excursion offered by the Orient Line,
the ticket has a validity of one hundred
days, so that, according to the time at the
disposal of the individual traveller, the
stay in Ceylon can be extended.
Wherein lies the attraction of this
Excursion? The answer is that it includes
all the factors of the ideal holiday—a
delightful sea voyage which, apart from
its interest and enjoyment, is the great
tonic and restorative; next, a sojourn in
an island so beautiful that it has ex-
hausted the superlatives of even the most
blase of travellers; next, the first glimpse
of “foreign parts,” the East, vivid with
the colorful life of the picturesque
Asiatics. Let us take these points in the
order written.
The Sea Voyage.
A voyage on a 20,000-ton Orient. Royal
Mail Liner will be, for those who make
one for the first time, a quite unforget-
table one. Over fifty years’ experience in
handling the Australian passenger traffic
has fruited in a remarkable organisation
for the pleasure and comfort of the pas-
sengers. Whether in the huge decks or
the pleasant public rooms, in comfortable
cabins or excellent cuisine, the provision
for creature comfort is complete.
Whether the traveller prefers exercise,
or sport, or to read, or talk, or is bent
simply on a course of plain “loafing,”
here is scope and opportunity. Out of a
five-weeks’ tour, 38 days are spent on ship-
board, in a care-free environment, which,
while it lasts, is a sort of moratorium of
all else but pleasure and contentment.
Next, the intrinsic beauty and charm
of Ceylon. Time was when in order to
reach and observe natural beauties and
the works and doings of mankind much
had to be foregone in the way of modern
convenience. Not so to-day! Ceylon is
as advanced and as well equipped as most
of the pleasure centres of the old and new
worlds. The hotels are first-class, and the
benign circle of “More motoring, better
roads; better roads, more motoring,”
makes land travel in this exotic setting
a continuing delight.
A Delightful Climate.
You can order your climate almost as
you would a dish from a menu. That is
to say, it is a mere matter of hours (and
a few hours at that!) to exchange the
not-too-oppressive warmth of Colombo and
the seaboard for the cool of Kandy at
1600 feet, or, further on, to rest at
Nuwara Eliya, nearly four times as high.
Tea gardens, ricefields, jungles, ruined
cities (where life throbbed in 500 8.C.),
native villages, bazaars, the grace of the
cocoanut palms, the quiet and solemnity
of mosque and temple—what a remark-
able and ever-changing pattern!
The Mystical East.
Though not geographically our “East,”
nevertheless tradition and usage have in-
vested the word with a magical quality
that loses nothing in the first intimate
contact. If “the proper study of mankind
is Man,” here is material unstinted. It
is hard for the Australia newcomer to
sate himself with the sights and scenes
of Colombo. To the closely observant,
incident crowds on incident. It seems
almost like a huge scenario, stage-managed
and acted for the edification of the on-
looker.
Then follow the interests of the interior.
To visit Kandy, the former capital, is
to make what has been called “the most
beautiful motor trip in the world.” Opin-
ions will differ on the absoluteness of such
a statement. But, if it is only one of
the most beautiful trips the traveller will
be well repaid. The way lies through
magnificent scenery, along dustless roads
with tarred surfaces, through the villages
of the low country, past Tea and Rubber
Estates.
Motor Tours.
Tourists who are intending to stay a
limited time in Ceylon usually take advan-
tage of the well-organised motor services,
which plan for set runs of four to
eighteen days. The itineraries are care-
fully arranged in order to avoid any
retracing of the journey, and the adher-
ence to plan and schedule makes for a
great economy of time. The cars are
good, and the English-speaking drivers
careful and reliable. Whatever variation
of the set itineraries may be required is
easily arranged for, but the safe plan of
“trusting one who knows” takes all the
kinks and anxieties out of the tour.
And the Cost?
Naturally, all this time you have been
thinking, “Oh! yes. Very interesting and
all that —but, how 'much?” Meaning, of
course, that this seems a jaunt for the
wealthy, or, at any rate, the near-wealthy.
It is nothing of the kind. Jt is the tour
for Everyman, as the following facts
and figures will show:—
Let us keep to the trip first mentioned
—six weeks to go from Sydney and back.
First Saloon on an Orient Line 20,000-
tonner costs only £65 return. Remember!
That is for board and residence and de-
lightful transportation; for amusement,
and, don’t forget, education ! On a daily
price basis it is not so much more than
you would pay at a hotel in any way com-
parable in living conditions and service
to the Liner. And the hotel would give
you no more than “board and lodging.”
If the money which you can spare does
not cover a First Saloon passage, the
excellent Third Class will meet your
need. The return fare by Third Class
from Sydney costs £32 return, and the
expenditure on your sightseeing in Ceylon
can be adjusted proportionately to square
with your budget.
The Fares from the Various
States are as follow:
FIRST SALOON RETURN : From Bris-
bane £67, Sydney £65, Melbourne £63,
Adelaide £6l and Fremantle £59.
THIRD-CLASS RETURN: From Bris-
bane £33, Sydney £32, Melbourne £3l,
Adelaide £3O and Fremantle £29.
VALIDITY OF TICKETS: Tickets are
valid for the following terms: Brisbane
114 days, Sydney 100 days, Melbourne 90
days, Adelaide 86 days, and Fremantle
78 days.


G3i
7hp een/ne of Queen s/onc/$
' c/isL'ngu/sfecL Socicr/ Life.
Cwti-I
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 83211 —6 , Line•
d
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £498,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers , Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office ...... Kembta Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
- Java, Hong Kong and-Shanghai.
c
■ ■
m
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, d
la carte , from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
SMOKE-OH!
The prosperity of Australia depends more
ou the Rudds than the Reds.
* *
Few can own a Phar Lap, but anyone can
have a shot at it,
* *
When women go in scant attires
The men with ribald laughter scoff ;
No doubt the chief of their desire’s
To see the women take them off.
* #
Lang considers he would be quite all right
if the banks would only give credit where
credit is due.
* *
Taxpayers complain that while some public
servants are required to reduce their salaries,
officials in the Taxation Department are
allowed to put the screw on.
* H-
THE SPURNER OF CONVENTION.
He was pointed out in the streets. The
“Sun” wrote a leader about him. A “News”
gossip-writer recalled a remark he was said
to have made at a Millions Club lunch in
1913. Children begged for liis autograph
and society journalists for his photograph.
In short, he had achieved fame, his distinc-
tion being that he was the only Sydneyite
who had an airless and otherwise insani-
tary cellar in liis place of business and had
refrained from turning it into a midget golf
links.
ANOTHER DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE.
“J. 0. Anderson, one of the greatest tennis players
Australia has ever produced, wants to rejoin the
amateur ranks. ’ ’—“Guardian.”
The depression again. He can’t afford to
remain a pro. any longer.
* H-
“Mr. Lyons’s idea is to impose a super tax on all
incomes throughout Australia which have not been
reduced.” —“Labor Daily.”
It had to come. Children in arms could
hardly have expected to be left untaxed
indefinitely.
# ¥
ELDORADO.
All recognised that the returned hero
deserved well of his country. A bank:
honored itself by giving him a wad of scrip
and a directorship. A steamship co. issued
a special ticket entitling him to travel free
on its vessels for ever. Several great retail
shops allowed him the pick of their choicest
goods, together with free pantechnicons m
which to remove them. But the climax came
—a climax which brought such names as
Rockefeller and Pierpont Morgan to every
lip—when the Governor announced at a
crowded Town Hall meeting, amidst thun-
derous applause, that the A.L.P. intended
to do its bit by nominating the nation’s idol
for a safe seat at the next Civic elections.
*
“The imprisonment of a man named Peese in Spain
has caused Britain to send a note to- the Spanish
Government.”
Let’s hope there won’t be another war for
the sake of Peese.
* «
“London has its Henley on Thames; Melbourne
rivals it with Henley on Yarra.”— “Argus.”
And Sydney licks both with Henley on
Rome.
* * .
“Evidence showed that Brown sold a bag of wood
to a woman, who found on weighing it that it
was several pounds short.”— “Herald.”
That’s the worst of women. They will
have their own weigh.
* *
FABLE OF TILE GOOD LABORITE AND
THE DOMAIN ORATOR.
“ ‘New South Wales is entering upon its golden
age,’ declared Mr. A. D. Kay, in Sydney Domain.
‘The people’s bank will be used by the people’s
representatives to make money plentiful.’ ”
A Good but Discontented Laborite (“Good”
because he had been Voting Labor for
Twenty-five Years, “Discontented” because he
could only earn £5 a Week) was Hailed by a
Domain Orator. “Rejoice!” cried the
Orator. “Labor has decided to introduce the
Golden Age.” “How?” inquired the Laborite.
“By Making Two Notes Grow where One
Grew before,” replied the Orator. “The
Note Issue will be Doubled, and with it Your
Wages.” “Suppose my Landlord Doubles
my Rent?” “The Party of Sane Democracy
will Double the Note Issue again,” “Sup-
pose the Price of Food is Doubled?” “The
Note Issue will again
be Doubled.” “You’re
sure there’s No
Catch in it—sure
that Labor can make
me worth a Hundred
Quid a Week merely
by printing New
Notes ?” “Abso-
lutely.” “Have you
coves known about
this All Along?”
demanded the Good
Laborite, and there
was a Note of
Menace in his Voice.
“Of Course.” “Well,
Take That!” And
so speaking he
Knocked the Orator
Senseless.
Charged later with
Assault, the Labor-
ite explained that
suspecting that
Labor’s Failure to
introduce the Golden
Age in liis Youth
llad Robbed him of
over £lOO,OOO in
wages he had Lost
his Temper. He
Knew Better now.
The Magistrate, in
Fining him £1,000,000
and £250,000 costs
(for the Golden, or,
as some called it, the
Paper Age was al-
ready in Full
Swing), said that in
Future Cases of the
Sort, which were get-
ting all too Common,
he would have no
Hesitation in imposing Sentences of 48 hours,
Without the Option.
Moral. —Things are not always what they
Seem —particularly Financial Things.
10-2-4.
* ¥
“Vic. Railways Commissioner Clapp prophesies
that Australians will yet go back to horses.”
Yes, they’ll never learn; the fools went
back in droves only last week.
THE HUNTRESS.
The modern maid religious is,
Whatever sneerers say.
In fact , she makes her faith her his.;
Her creed is “Watch and prey.”
* *
A PROBLEM SOLVED.
Dear Mr. Scullin, —Inspired by the finan-
cial originality and enterprise of Messrs.
Beasley, A. D. Kay, etc., I have decided to
give you the benefit of my musings on the
economic problem. Why discriminate as
regards taxation? Drop such unbusinesslike
methods, and adopt as your new slogan the
stirring cry “Tax everything.” The estah-
lishment of more and larger taxation depart-
ments will absorb the unemployed, whose
wages would be paid from the money received
in taxation Of course the taxpayers would
soon go broke, lour next move would be
to tax the members of the new taxation
FREQUENT STUDY.
“You women never think!”
“Nonsense! Every time I see a mirror I pause and reflect.”
departments. Thus you would be enabled to
give a welcome dole to the broke taxpayers,
and make all hands contented and prosperous.
- —Yours helpfully, Cedilla.
* ¥
THE ANNOUNCER LETS HIS HEAD
GO.
Hullo, you brats. Here it's 6.15, you little
devils, and I’ve had to miss a round of
drinks through this blanky bedtime-story
stunt. Why the blazes don’t your old men,
tell you tales instead of drinking in low
bars between five and six?
Anyway, here’s birthday greetings for
Willie Smith, aged 10, and old enough to
know better. Don’t forget, Willie, when
you’re gorging yourself at the party to-night,
that I had to miss a round of drinks through
you.
I have to announce that there’s nothing
doing so far as little Lizzie Brown is con-
cerned because lier old man
tried to pay us with a crook
half-dollar. Just the sort of
thing he would do. I’ve never
known him to shout.
Will little Horace McTav-
ish please inform his parents,
if they aren’t listening in,
that this broadcasting station
won’t cut rates for anybody,
and that his father can have
back his ninepence by calling
at the office. He ought to
know that beer is tenpence a
pint now —in the saloon bar,
anyway.
As to all you other little
pests who are expecting a
fairy tale, you’re going to be
disappointed. Listen at the
door to-night when your old
man comes home and explains
why he was delayed at the
office, jf you want a fairy tale.
The only decent announce-
ment I have to make is that
next week will be Self-denial
Week, and all you kids will
be expected to loosen up witli
your Caulfield and Melbourne
Cup profits to give Uncle
Charlie a treat for his birth-
day, which will be held be-
tween five and six every even-
ing next week. Don’t try to
work off any Russian roubles
or Swiss centimes, because
our hotel won’t take them.
Put any dud stuff of that sort
in the missionary box on
Sunday.
_ Get your money in every
night by five o’clock, because
poor old Uncle Charlie doesn’t
want to choke himself. Re-
member that he missed a
round of drinks to-night and
let your heads go. Good-night,
and God help you all.
Angus O’Cohen.
SPORT OF THE FUTURE,
From “Screaming Scarehead,” Nov. 4, 1940 :
Sensational developments regarding the
forthcoming Midget Golf Championship led
to the mobilisation yesterday of the Austra-
jjan Defence Forces. The entire national
army, consisting of 27 generals and 6 n.c.o.’-S
are now guarding the Royal Midget Golf Club,
w h e re the champion. Tom Topoff, is staying.
Tom’s victory will take over 90 billions
sterling from the Ring, or, in pre-inflation
currency, £3. Threats made to blow up the
Central Railway Station, Parliament House,
and Government Note Factories are treated
seriously. Laten
Topoff won the championship in fine style.
Spectators noticed that his boots were un-
polished, despite which the courageous player
retained his nerve. The secretary of the
R.M.G. club explained that Frank Brushem
(32), valet, had been killed by the explosion
of a bomb placed in one of Topoff’s boots. This
afternoon Jack Urger (28) was arrested on
a charge connecting him with the crime.
Ike Levistein, the Leviathan penciller,
was found to-day with a bullet in what used
to pass for his brain. He had been laying
Topoff heavily. His liabilities are believed
to amount to over 30 billions sterling—
roughly 21s. 6d. in real money.
H. M.
UP TO SPECIFICATIONS.
“They say she tore through five thousand of his in six
months!”
“Well, that ought to suit him. He told me before they
were married she was just what he wanted —a
perfectly ripping girl!”
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
When I had a job and not much sense,
I treated my girl at vast expense;
Now I’ve lost my job, and I’m short of. pence,
And she’s treating me with indifference.
P.C.


*>«•
m
m
It*/.
%
4
1
••. w
mm;
'Pfo:h ■■•
3
VMM.
w
is the right time for a nip of Johnnie
Walker.,. whenever you have the oppor-
tunity or the inclination to make it.
Any hour, any place, in any company
. this fine old Scotch whisky is
appropriate, enjoyable, and .i
beneficial.
m.
*s*
ts&ii
•mm
VS’,
*»»
111 Hi
'ill!
X
I S&*
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK


Ct)rislmus
is incomplete without
a boX of
HILUERS
CHOCOLATES
The Famous Red Box.
ďs
Mailed to you direct from
the factory the day they
are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-,
12/6, 20/-, 30/-, 37/6
Post free to any address in
Australia.
dfg
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And at Melbourne.
DAGENITE BATTERIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 15 6
6 VOLT 15 PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Fit a “Dagenite”—Save Sales Tax.
f
Type 3GHXI3.
The Battery which knows its job—and does it,
GENEROUS AND CONTINUOUS POWER,
NATIONAL
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
London and Sydney.
Amalgamating Peto & Radford and Hart Accumulator Co., Ltd.
Representative - - - JOHN ARNOLD
386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl.
śfdsfd
sfd
sfd
Face Blemishes
disappear
□OR disfiguring
spots, rash and
pimples, apply
Zam-Buk, the soothing
herbal, balm. It pene-
trates the tissues and
results in rapid and
perfect healing.
There s nothing “just as good.”
'Tam-Buk
w HAIR.
£ *“>
here's
sfd
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPCdLwiS CMEXICAN)
UkUnut Stain
♦-REMOVES THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (.i/6), 6d. being postage.
fp
See them
Now or
Write for
Full Details
fdsfd
p
Answering
To-day's Demand for Modem
Twenty-Two Caliber Rifles
Before you buy a rifle, look over these Stevens .zz Caliber rifles—
there are no finer values.
No. 65
Bolt Action Repeater
Lowest priced, all-steel repeater made. Tubular magazine gives
you more shots. New design stock makes perfect balance. Lyman
Ivory bead sight. British type Walnut finish stock. Steel butt
plate.
No. 70
Slide Fore-Arm Repeater, Visible Loader
With zz-inch round barrel. Slide fore-arm action. Solid frame.
Lyman Ivory bead front sight. Walnut stock and steel butt plate.
No. 49
Bolt-Action, Single Shot
The high-grade sighting equipment, safety firing pin and accu-
rately-rifled barrel, make this an unusual rifle for the price.
Lyman Ivory bead front and sporting rear sights. British type
stock. Steel butt plate.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD. P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS COMPANY
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street New York, N, Y., U. S. A.
STEVENS
9 •
'"k '
•0
9 •
I;
©©
@
FREE TO BOYS
A new Meccano Book
Write today for this Book. We
will send you a copy, post free,
in re urn for the names and ad-
dresses of three of your pals.
This attractive book entitled
"Known all Round the World”
illustrates Meccano products,
models and other interesting
items.
You can build
612
Working Models
with Outfit No. 2,
Who can hope to have as many toys
as a Meccano boy ? He is a real
engineer—and his playroom is an
engineering workshop. When he
wants a truck, a crane, a bridge, a
motor car, or a locomotive he builds
one with his Meccano Outfit. He
can build any model he wants —
there is no limit to the possibilities
of Meccano.
All Meccano parts are standardised
and interchangeable and can be used
to make hundreds of different
working models.
Make sure you get Meccano this
year 1 You will find it the most
thrilling hobby in the world.
Prices of Meccano Outfits
from 4/- to 780/-
MECCANO
Wholesale Agents in Australia:
E. G. PAGE & GO. (DEPT. 42) 52, Clarence Street, SYDNEY
(P.O. BOX 1832 K).
Manufactured by Meccano Ltd., Liverpool, England.


sx.
ma
r
v*.’lvv W.'.'
v. v -
~vS^v;^sv:;!;M
i v
They'll weave you a
basket with designs
that are centuries old .
Prehistoric life
is shown to you
A rare experience
as you cross
America to ENGLAND
HE ages roll back when
X you see the Indian
pueblos of America’s South-
west. Just as it was in the
beginning, the Indians still
do their weaving, their corn
grinding, their turquoise
polishing. Even in design
their baskets and rugs are un-
changed, and the ancient sym-
bols of Eagle God and Sun
God appear on the pieces you
buy, just as on the priceless
specimens in museums.
It’s easy enough to
visit the Indian coun-
try, the National
Parks, and the tower-
ing cities of America
on your way to England.
The new American Railways
Travel and Information
Bureau of the Matson Line
will gladly submit you an
itinerary.
Across America to England,
starting from Sydney on a
swift Matson Liner, is your
shortest, fastest route back
home, with a good climate all
the way. The cost is moderate.
Ask for free booklet, “To
England Across America.”
Write to Dept. M 27,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
a„d INFORMATION RUREAIJ
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ft
The “Maxim” is a new Lamp.
It supersedes all others because
it gives an intense, steady light
through a mantle by burning
KEROSENE. No more fear of petrol
explosions. The “Maxim” is absolutely
safe under any condition, even if tipped over.
Only a little KEROSENE is needed to produce
the gas, so that the “Maxim” is extremely eco-
nomical to use. The container holds If pints, and
this will last for 1 8 hours. Positively rain- and storm-
proof. Cannot smoke. Strongly made of nickelled steel.
Supplied ready for use, with mantle, accessories and
full directions. Price 35/-
An enamelled shade can be supplied, so that lamp can be
used as a table lamp, for 2/6 extra. Extra mantles 1/-
each. Lamp weighs 4^lb.
McPherson’s
PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE: SYDNEY:
582 Collins 51 Bathurst
Street. Street.
ADELAIDE:
116 Way mouth
Street.
PATRIOT
fmRECTM^^WOME^
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFJS*
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
Poverty
Point
“ J.D.”: Pitt-street, Sydney, is offering a
striking example of the modern change in
entertainment values. On the east side is
the Lyceum,'which used to be given up to
Methody revivals and unpleasant Sunday
afternoons. Now it has a State-wide repu-
tation for picking the pick of the talkies,
British and American. “Disraeli,” the
Mawson film and “Holiday” are some recent
examples. Almost opposite is the Palace
Theatre, which used to stage the pick of
Sydney’s comedies, British and American.
It has opened as a midget golf course.
“Craiser” : Further to the revival of legit.
The Firm is contemplating another G. and
S. season, and in addition will burst into
panto at Christmas for the first time since
1925. “The House That Jack Built” is . the
treat selected. Josie Melville will be the
girl; the delightful Stigant will Dame.
“C. 8.”: Hindle Edgar, who_ breaks
crockery to the alleged value of £l5 a week
in “Mr. Cinders” at Melbourne Royal, is a
sort of distant connection of this country.
His father, Marriott Edgar, was Dame to
several of the Firm’s pantomimes. At
present he is one of the leads in London’s
“Co-optimists.”
“S.T.S.”: South Aus. cannot understand
the outcry for a missing Australian national
anthem. .We have had one for quite 60
years, “The Song of Australia,” words by
Mrs. Garleton, music by Carl Linger, and it
finds complete acceptance. The lines are
not great literature, but then what n.a. is?
The tune, easily picked up, and with three
long-drawn “Australias” at the end of each
verse, is just the thing for community sing-
ing.
“R”: Stuart Doyle has also been caught
up in the vaudeville revival wave. To help
along the State’s talkie bills, vaudevillains
from Europe and U.S. will shortly descend
upon this part of the world. Those already
listed include Long Tack Sam, Hackenbach’s
Circus, Joy and Lazzeroni (sensational
skaters), Hilton’s Siamese Twins, a doll
worked on the robot principle, which' made a
stir overseas, and a mouth-organ band of 20
performers. There will also be jobs for Aus-
tralians, beginning with Gladys Moncrieff.
“C. Ma”: The Australian composer is the
most neglected of the artistic tribe, but a
morsel of encouragement is in future annu-
ally to come his way. The Melbourne Uni.
Con. Old Scholars’ Association is offering
a yearly prize of five guineas for the best
original piece of music by a student. It
will be known as the D. J. Coutts Memorial
Prize.
“Cauboy” : There have been many attempts
to found State orchestras in Melbourne;
perhaps the most ill-fated was Maurice
Guthridge’s. The first public appearance of
the organisation was fixed for the Town Hall,
where it was to accompany a Rudolph
Valentino picture. Guthridge arrived late
for the rehearsal, but dismissed his band
with a few well-chosen words on the possi-
bilities of their development as a future
national organisation. At the matinee the
hall was crowded. The overture was “Tann-
liauser” and the entr'acte “The Chocolate
Soldier.” The music got mixed, however;
half the musicians received one selection and
half the other. Guthridge stood up before
the house, resplendent in Beaufort coat and
white gloves, and gave the signal. After
the first bar he realised that something was
wrong and made frantic signs to the players
to rectify matters, so both sides of the
orchestra turned over simultaneously. The
section which had “Tannhauser” before it
now had “The Chocolate Soldier,” and vice
versa. Guthridge dropped his baton and
clapped his hands over his ears, and, amidst
roars of laughter from the audience, the
lights went out and the show started.
“Craiser”: Hope springs eternal in an
actor’s bosom. Several of the disbanded
Allan Wilkies will shortly invade the Speck,
led by the excellent Alexander Marsh and
the robust Lorna Forbes. “Interference,”
“Bird in Hand,” “The Unfair Sex” and the
grisly “Dracula” are in their ammunition
chest.
“L. de R.” : “Right You Are—lf You Think
You Are” will be one of Gregan McMahon’s
pieces in his next season at Melbourne Bijou.
McMahon has already made a good fist of
a Pirandello play. His staging of “Six
Characters in Search of an Author” at the
Royal was one of the finest bits of theatre-
craft seen in Melbourne. Beatrice Day will
be in the new production.
“Cauboy”: Latest indication of a revival
in legit, is the proposal of the Firm to stage
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” on a scale of un-
paralleled magnificence at Melbourne King’s.
Little Eva will ascend to Heaven to the
strains of celestial harmony, music being
an important feature of the show. Dancers,
singers and real negroes will be required for
the large cast.
“Shoot, Darn Yuh” : F. D. Thring is re-
ported to be contemplating a screen version
of Norman Lindsay’s “Redheap” as one
of his first Australian talkies, and the author
is said to be at work on the scenario.
Moreover, Thring announces that the film
will be issued under an assumed name, and
that everything that shocked the censors in
the book will be excised from the screen. It
is difficult to think of the author of “A
Curate in Bohemia” and “Creative Effort”
bowdlerising his own book. Such an achieve-
ment would be unique in literary history.
Anyhow, “Redheap” without its frank atti-
tude towards sex would simply not be “Red-
heap” but a rather tame and ordinary story.
The book’s chief merit was its courageous
attitude towards aspects of Australian life
which no previous author had had the pluck
to touch on.
“Cine Ma”: A lot of nonsense is talked
about the taste of the film fancier. Because
“The White Hell of Pitz Palu” was taken
off after a short run at Melbourne Capitol
the “Argus” waxed scornful over the popu-
lar preference for the “foolproof productions
of Hollywood” over such examples of
Teutonic superiority as this. As a matter
of fact, “The White Hell,” though very well
done, is from a human standpoint dull. It
is a lineal descendant of the old heavy Ger-
man school of symbolism represented by the
paintings so popular with our grandmothers
in which Hope, Faith, Charity, Lust and
such-like abstractions figured so tiresomely.
Watts’s one-time famous pictures of witless
females drooping over the world with harps
in their hands were Anglicised versions of
the same sort of thing. The stage equivalent
was plays like “The Sign of the Cross.”
Hollywood, with all its faults, concerns itself
mainly with life, and the public has a praise-
worthy passion for life.
“I. Temple”: Clara Butt’s cable confes-
sion that she “often goes to the talkies twice
a day” means that the new entertainment
has attained a status inside 12 months that
the poor old “’Alls” took over a quarter of
a century to reach. When I was a small boy
in London the intelligentsia used to refer
to vaudeville in much the same blighting
language that the average highbrow Aus-
ralian uses in reference to the talkies now.
One day Max Beerbohm wrote in the “Satur-
day Review” of Dan Leno as a genius. At.
about the same time Shaw (I think) hailed
Chevalier as a genius. Within a few months
a dozen other geniuses had been discovered— r
Marie Lloyd, George Robey and Gus Elen
among them —and the smoky, whisky-sodden
old Tiv. had become as much of a craze
amongst the self-consciously cultured as
Epstein and the Corsican players were when
I was last in London. Clara Butt has no
doubt been a secret film-addict for years.
Being a pro., however (and ipso facto con-
ventional-minded), she would never have con-
fessed to the vice if a number of important
Londoners hadn’t given her a lead.
The Palette
Old and tried recipes are favored by most
of the eminent chefs in the Australian Art
Association’s exhibition at Melbourne Athe-
naeum, and a large proportion of the recipes
look as if they came from the National Gal-
lery cookery-book. Most of the landscapes
are variations on the theme of hash, but
there is interesting stuff amongst the figure
and portrait work. Miss Bale’s “Margaret”
is a piece of living flesh, but the A. E. New-
bury portrait of an unknown lady is a
trifle overdone; the color looks too rich to be
quite palatable. L. Bernard Hall provides
the problem picture of the year with “The
Yellow Dress,” a study in his best manner of
a girl dressed in green. Norman Carter’s
“Lady in Black” would have been a more
delectable dish if the values had not been
forced so far. The portrait by A. D. Colqu-
houn, an invitee, of a woman tying on a
Chinese skirt stands out of the ruck because
of the naturalness of the pose, its solidity
of tone and the absence of artifice. It makes
George Bell’s neighboring nudes look flat.
The brilliant characterisation displayed in
Charles Wheeler’s “Mr. P. M. Carew-Smyth”
does not carry as well as it should because
of the general sombreness of the tones.
Mclnnes’s portrait of Nellie Stewart is on
view.
“F.S.”: There is an early-Victorian flavor
about the terms of the Grace Joel scholar-
ship competition, valued at £5O, for the first
award of which art students all over Vic-
toria are now spoiling good canvas. Com-
petitors must be students attending the Nat.
Gallery School or some other school approved
by the trustees, must be under 28, must have
been domiciled in Australia or Maoriland for
the past seven years, and must submit a
half-figure life-size painting of the nude. The
sex of the sitter or stander isn’t stated, nor
whether it is the top or bottom half of. the
figure which is taboo. There is no artistic
objection to either moiety being chosen, since
both present the same problems of color,
form and tone; and a. student of my
acquaintance says he is going to please him-
self.
Despite depresh., Roy Parkinson’s very
modestly-priced pictures sold almost fiercely
in Brisbane recently. Only two pictures_ at
more than eight guineas, the majority being
at five guineas or less, were included in a
rake-off of 229 guineas. It is not much for
either the quantity or the quality of the
work, but at least it represents sales at a
time when such things are scarce.
“C. 8.”: In an early stage of his success-
ful career, W. B. Mclnnes shared a room
with Percy Leason in Bourke-street. The
problem of paying the next week’s rent hav-
ing suddenly presented itself in an acute
form, they conceived the project of sketch-
ing passengers on the boat which then ran
daily from Melbourne to Sorrento, 40 miles
down the bay. Arthur de Tausseau had
exploited that pitch very profitably, subse-
quently making a handsome living doing the
same thing around the Isle of . Wight.
Mclnnes and Leason duly paid their fares,
stepped on the boat, and, feeling very ner-
vous, started on their first portrait jobs.
The doubtful looks flung at the results moved
them to reduce their price by half, but, pos-
sibly because they had 'not learnt the art
of flattery, they left the boat after a terrible
day poorer than they went on.
The Inky Way
“L.D.”: When Captain Peters, Robertson
and Mullens’s energetic chief, learned that a
youthful applicant for a job was named
Charles Dickens he engaged the lad on the
spot. He already has a Henry Lawson on
the staff,
“S.T.S.”: The bi? change that popularises
Adelaide “Register” has had the unexpected
result of bringing Ernest Whitington to the
top as a Personalities writer. Every day,
his “Rufus” page tells of good things
that Clem Hill and Penfold Hyland or other
cronies said at lunch; or reprints letters
from old friends up-country recalling a quail-
shoot, or Nellie Stewart’s earlier days, or
the flood (or drought) of 1805. It is first-
class stuff, and is read with delight by anyone
over 40, but it goes oddly with Mickey the
Mouse, and fortune-telling, and “This kettle
Girl Loves Her Doggie” snapshots that repre-
sent supposed modern tastes in the rest of the
paper.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital •• 1 •
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
THE
IIMITCn INSURANCE
U H I I £ U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsuranceseffccted on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on „Wool Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately .by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
a
m
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
* • * • •
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
Che Brisbane Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 8299.1.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S,
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I.JII
P®-.
9 I-
-1 11111
USA* CANADA" EUROPE
Travel round the Sunny South Seas and
enjoy, not some, but every possibility of your
overseas trip. U.S.A., Canada, or Europe
may be either reached, or happily rounded off,
by a tour through the South Sea Islands, and
splendid accommodation on Royal Mail Liners
obtained with the expert assistance of Union
Company Officials.
Offices: Sydney—Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL NAIL LINES
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Agents, Brisbane—Perth.
is
BURNS PHILP TOURS
¥
GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE •
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
£Bl
BURNS, PHILP & 00., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS, PHILP &-C?,L T . D
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDNELY, AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
lieserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
sdfs
śfd
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadjieedle St., E.C.2.
088 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT, loreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
©
pail
MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS!
QUEENSLAND
IS CALLING
TTHfi great northern State beckons to your product these
difficult times, for Queensland is the bright spot in the
Commonwealth just now. If you would exploit the splendid
market offered by the Brisbane metropolitan area you must
advertise in
THE SUNDAY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT WEEKLY.
This journal of' character and distinction goes into the homes
of the people at a time when they have leisure to read, and
circulates mainly in the metropolitan area. It is read by a
majority of the‘readers of the several dailies published during
the week in Brisbane, and is companion journal to
THE DAILY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST NEWSPAPER.
Rate cards and particulars from
RRTSBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane; and
N.S.W. BRANCH: 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes y.our fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius , . 11,000 tons, Nov. 25
tThemistocles 11,500 „ Dec. 3
HJlysses . . 15,000 „ Jan. 19, '3l
*First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH AND LONDON, .
VIA SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS —CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32-
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel • 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parkerl!^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steani3lii|>3
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
nonius Street. Melbourne; BrUitfe Slmat, Sydney.
In Dally Use
over all the world
ďs
Thousands of women have come to
regard Cuticura as the true natural aid
to a lovely skin and attractive hands
and hair. Regular daily use of Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment
when required, purifies and beautifies
the skin, cleanses the scalp and keeps
the hair live and glossy.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
"V Z TROTTING CONFERENCE
NZ HUNTS ASSOCIATION
NZ* GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
NZ. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in tbis desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any at the World's Drilling
Advertising Agen .lies.
fdfd
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
ON SALE AT (i The Australasian”
ALL '
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians appreei-
EACH WEEK, ate, and their friends overseas, too!


sdsf
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
&
UNSEEN
PROTECTORS
MOTORING
PLEASURE
NOTHING is more unpleas-
ant than to find a tyre
deflated when you want to
use your motor car—or to
have a tyre become gradually
deflated when on a trip.
Genuine Schrader Valve
Cores in good condition offer
utmost assurance against loss
of air through the valve.
Replace Valve Cores fre-
quently. Be sure that you use
only genuine Schrader Valve
Cores in your tyres. Five in a
box—one for each tyre.
For sale by tyre and acces-
sory suppliers everywhere.
Be Sure It’s a
SCHRADER/
e
'o’
*
O'4
*
rAvVy
K&&W
Aw%=
V V /
9
Look
for
the Name
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
i
ty
M
ONARCH
■ Cigci/y.
■ Craig rAitken
l| . Wholesale
§■ I ft Distributors
I sqdneij N SW.
d
ďs
BANK
(Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.)
Head Office, 48-50 Martin Place, Sydney.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
opened for Individuals, Firms, Companies and Institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS
accepted at the following rates:—
No. limit to amount. Interest commences from date of deposit.
192 BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE STATE.
world-famous fiw ReuabiUTv
PA 7>
A/
47
Siv
£
1
Sty
■*#§?**
s»
cfrotv
‘S^ atl £d c °'° o*
*C?des ? g ß.eco^ aV Vy
*S*®£ cVva^?,'veat 80 „ »ftd
*S to
. p ftt e .. dl
■S£V» 8
\T|o
*»**£
7P
ftotP
fto’q'-
pefl c
Se \^ aV '^
•pet lB
'l'll
■?//
o
5/
"til
■k
e>
S.F. 230 C
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30/-
f
Lapis Lazuli
with
Boiled Gold
Bauds
30/-
ft
d
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.l,
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd., 181. Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
D(A.)
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Raffles,” at Sydney State Theatre, is a
disappointment. B. W. Hornung’s aristo
cratic burglar was a more or less sympa-
thetic character when he first appeared.
Theatregoers were ignorant of many things
besides war a quarter of a century ago, and
much was overlooked in a member of the
ruling class who played county cricket. More
value is attached to property and less to
position these strenuous democratic days;
and thousands know by bitter experience
what pestiferous nuisances “gentlemen”
crooks are. Ronald Colman, who plays
United Artists’ talkie version of the part
in which Du Maurier took London by storm,
suggests a pre-war suit; he is shabby. Mor-
ally, that is; his clothes are radiant. How-
ever attractive he looks, however beguilingly
he makes love, however elevated the motives
are which impel him to pinch the jewels
of his trusting old hostess, the uneasy im-
pression remains that he is a thoroughly
dirty dog. His escape in the last few feet
of the film dates as badly as he does. At
the beginning of the century it might have
been possible for a well-known criminal to
bolt from the London police and live happily
! ever after in a foreign land; though many,
such as Jabez Balfour, made the attempt
and failed. Under modern conditions it is
absolutely impossible. Even if the abscond-
ing Raffles had reached his ’plane he would
have stepped out of it into the grip of the
law.
Taking the picture b$ and large, it is
another bad advertisement for poor old Eng-
land, both as regards its ethics and the men-
tality of most of the characters, and notably
the Scotland Yard ones. Some redeeming
features are the easy finished acting of
Ronald Colman and Kay Francis, and the
dialogue, which is bright throughout.
* # *
Despite his international reputation, D.
W. Griffiths has not succeeded with “Abra-
ham Lincoln” (Melbourne Capitol) in pro-
ducing a picture as dramatically sound as
Doris Egerton Jones’s “Governor Bligh.”
It is more of a rambling chronicle. Never-
theless, it is interesting as probably the first
attempt to deal with a historical character
biographically upon the screen. The story
opens on a slaver with dead negroes being
heaved overboard. That, one would expect,
would be the dominant motive in the play,
especially as it next casts a glaface at U.S.A.
politics in the South and North. But Griffiths
then drops this topic where a better artist
would have skilfully woven it into the main
fabric of the plot. The next chapter con-
tains a reference to Abe’s birth; in the next
he is grown up, a hefty backwoodsman who
plays on a harmonium, throws his enemies
over his shoulder and drinks beer from the
keg. He woos Ann Rutledge; she dies, and
he is shown in the pouring rain lying across
her grave. The narrative passes on to the
second of Abe’s matrimonial adventures with
the somewhat acid lady he ultimately led
to the White House. Considering Griffiths’s
method of narration one feels that it was a
good thing Abe did not have 10 wives.
So it proceeds like a series of references
to the great American statesman culled from
the columns of the contemporary press.
Griffiths’s trouble is his inability to general-
ise. The story gains little momentum from
the approach of the Civil War, the growing
menace of that ghastly conflict hardly being
couched on at all. Nor are the actual hos-
tilities particularly impressive to audiences
accustomed to the titanic screen offensives
launched by Hollywood since the last war.
Comes peace. Abe attends a gala evening
at the theatre, the crazed actor Booth creeps
into his box, kills him at point-blank range,
and shouting “Sic semper tyrannis!_” jumps
on to the stage and escapes. This futile
tragedy touches the heart, showing that if
Griffiths lias failed to make a dramatic story
he has succeeded in rousing the sympathy
of his audience for one of the loneliest and
most likeable geniuses in the history of
statesmanship. Walter Huston’s Lincoln is
a triumph, not only of quiet, forceful act-
ing, but of make-up ; and the facial appear-
ance of all the other generals and politicians
has been studied with the care Hollywood
invariably bestows on non-essential things.
¥ #
“Whoopee,” at Melbourne Princess, is an
adaptation from the stage musical comedy of
the same name, which in turn was an adap-
tation of “The Nervous Wreck,” a straight
comedy which Frank Neill presented to the
Australian public. The screen version had
the benefit of the genius of Florenz Ziegfeld
and the ballets are notable. Eddie Cantor,
the leading man, is another of the Hebrew
comedians so popular on the other side of
the Pacific. He is mercifully immune from
the mother-complex which makes _ such a
nauseous infliction of his co-religionist A 1
Jolson. He makes admirable fun out of the
part of the hypochondriac afflicted with 101
ailments.
The whole film, which is by United Artists,
is in technicolor, and it is interesting to
note that no attempt has been made to make
the colors look like reality. The effect has
the success of appropriateness. There _is
no more reason why an artificial song-’n’-
dance show on the screen should imitate the
hues of Nature than that a stage musicomedy
should be performed in direct sunlight.
# * *
“So This Is London,” at Sydney Regent,
was noticed by The Bulletin’s Melbourne
critic last month, but its Fox Movietone
Bradman talkie was a new feature. The
much-advertised picture, a lot of which has
evidently been cut, is not particularly inter-
esting in its present form. The weakness of
the strokes-demonstration is the absence
of the ball. Any cricketing veteran could
have made the correct motions in the circum-
stances. The item was preceded on the
night the writer attended by a chant of
welcome to Woodfull’s braves, modelled, as
regards music and versification, on the
ghastly songs of sentiment which some movie
houses import from Hollywood, with colored
stills complete, and use as fill-ups. The
singer beefed the sorry stuff out as if he
i liked it, but the effe.et was painful.


r*
%
\
\
\
s
i
O/ course ~
You don’t want
your wife to do it
Cranking a heavy engine
is no job for a woman
who drive cars need a
dependable battery ready at all
times to do the heavy work of starting.
Exide Batteries are built with a reserve
of power and stamina far beyond the
normal needs of actual service—a
margin of safety that ensures unfailing
reliability.
Drive in serene comfort, with an Exide
to supply the power for starting, lighting
and ignition, sure that it will not fail you.
Exide is economical, too ; lowest in cost
per month or mile of service.
There is an Exide Battery to suit your
car. Buy from your local dealer. There
are Exide Service Stations throughout
Australia.
C 2
iinn
ir
* Under the same conditions
of service, an Exide will
outlast any other battery you
could buy .
♦
♦
The
FOR CARS, RADIO and HOME LIGHTING
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Exidc Battery & Delco-Remy Service
(Gibson Battle & Co. Ltd.),
Hunt and Commonwealth Streets (off Wentworth
Avenue), Sydney
1 Alexander Street, Crow's Nest, North Sydney
VICTORIA :
A. P. Sutherland,
Queen's Bridge, 2 Maffra Street,
South Melbourne
QUEENSLAND :
Exide Battery Service (Q,) Ltd.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Stanley Street, South Brisbane
Sturt Street, Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd.,
97 Currie Street, Adelaide
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
! M. J. Bateman Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan- Street, Perth
TASMANIA:
Medhurst & Sons Pty. Ltd.,
141 Collins Street, Hobart, and
59 Brisbane Street, Launceston '
A 3
►y
-THE LONGER LIFE BATTERY
-IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA


AA LEIPZIG SPRING M
I*\ TRADE FAIR, 1931 F\
(GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig.
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer.
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-'
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
Authorised Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, C. N. KEPPEL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
(’Phones: 84006 and MW2201)
Britain's best pump gives
double pressure with
„ .„, „ f , , Jialf the effort
Recognised to be the “Master”
Foot-pump by all motorists. Two
pumps in one, with a patent super-charged action; a
push-on connector that fits all valves, and an accurate
direct-action pressure gauge. These are the unique fea-
tures which make the British KISMET-DUPLEX the r-
best tyre-pump in the world. j
KISMET
DUPLEX “MASTER"
FOOT PUMP
ďs
PRICE, WITH
GAUGE, 84/-
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Phar Lap’s Melbourne Cup win was the
easiest since Artilleryman’s. The great
chestnut did not come right away from his
held as did the ill-fated son of Comedy King
111 ?929, but he could have done so had Pike
desired. In some of liis late tliree-year-old
races Pliar Lap took charge of his jockey,
and though he put up startling times lie
came home dog-tired. “He’s a wonderful
horse, said old-timers, “but he won’t last
long at that rate.” Pike, with his fine hands
and seat and understanding, has restrained
tins ruinous propensity. In the Cup race
public saw Phar Lap running soberly in
fifth or sixth place, with no inclination to
beat himself, as he had done on the luckiest
day of Nightmarch’s career. He even lost a
fittle ground, but methodically made it up.
a mile from home lie was fourth, be-
hind Temptation (pacemaker from the begin-
nin&), Muratti and Carradale; another two
furlongs and he was in front; with a fur-
long to go he was out by himself, and it
all over. He finished, full of running,
three lengths ahead of Second Wind, who
had come fast from the ruck but never looked
like catching the top weight; Shadow King
was another three-quarters of a length away;
Donald and Veilmond were a close fourth
and fifth respectively, and then came First
Acre and Trogilla ; Carradale cracked up and
came in last. Shortening from 5 to 4 to
II to 8 on, Phar Lap went out the hottest
Cup favorite in history, and he must now
be ranked with Carbine. The time was
comparatively slow, 3min. 27fsec., but it
had rained, and the going was a bit dead.
Telford must be accorded credit for the
manner in which he has trained Phar Lap,
who never has been sick or sotry. His lease
of the son of Night Raid expires in March ,
but the owner, D. J. Davis, wisely intends
to leave the chestnut in his present hands.
Telford’s action in secretly transferring Phar
Lap from Caulfield to the St. Albans stud
at Geelong on the morning after his Mel-
bourne Stakes victory was characteristic of
the man. From that time until possession
va S resumed at 12.30 p.m. on Cup day,
Harry never clapped eyes on Phar Lap, who
m the interim had been cared for by 11. G.
Raymond, proprietor of the St. Albans stud,
lelford journeyed to Geelong in the motor-
float, which experienced engine trouble on
the return journey. Geelong is 50 miles from
Melbourne, and if the engine trouble had
been very bad Phar Lap might not have
reached Flemington in time for the Cup.
But he did, and made turf history.
(( On Thursday Phar Lap was somewhat
toey” and sweated rather freely. Telford
took him to Flemington, resolved not to start
him in the Linlithgow Stakes unless he
sobered down. Phar Lap was as dry as a
bone when 'the time arrived and he cantered
in, four lengths in advance of Mollison,
covering the mile in 1.37, which is only
three-quarters of a second outside the course
record, established by The Il'awk. Evidently
Amounis has gone to pieces, for he whipped-
in the field.
Bookmakers refused to operate on the C.
B. Fisher Plate last' Saturday. Only Second
Wind and Lineage opposed the champion.
Their jockeys made no attempt to hurry
Phar Lap, who sauntered along, taking
2.481 for the 11 miles, which is farcical. If
the A.J.C. stewards were justified in repri-
manding Roy Reed for not being more
vigorous on Nightmarch in opposition to
Phar Lap, what ought to have been done to
the riders of Second Wind and Lineage?
Though Phar Lap travelled at a snail’s pace
in the first half-mile, Second Wind was
eight lengths behind him and Lineage four
lengths farther back. Small wonder that
spectators laughed in derision.
♦ « • • • •
Telford’s gelding goes into retirement until
the autumn as the winner 0f~146,842 in
stakes. A late foal, he actually has just
turned four years old. Gloaming raced until
he was nine; Amounis is in his eighth season.
If he lasts till he is old as Amounis, Phar
Lap will be the richest stake-earner in his-
tory.
First and second money in the Melbourne
Cap of 1929 went to horses owned in Maori-
land. History did not repeat itself this
year; but A. D. Webster, who hails from
the Dominion, annexed a valuable juvenile
event, the Byron Moore Stakes, on Oaks Day
with Hunt the Slipper, and the V.R.C.
Handicap on Saturday with First Acre,
now eight years old and very plain, but ail
grit. First Acre scored in fine style, clipping
three-quarters of a second off the course
record for If miles, 2 min. 57-§sec., which
stood to the credit of Bacchus. Six to one
was the price.
Miss Arrow, the favorite, failed badly in
the Oaks, and so did the Sydney represen-
tative, Homedale. Left a dozen lengths at
the barrier, A. P. Wade’s filly Barbette
(Top Gallant—Columbia) made up her
ground remarkably and won by a head from
the second favorite, Mira Donna—and she
went out at 15 to 1. Barbette is the filly that
beat Income in the Easter Stakes at Rand-
wick. Homedale is no stayer, but she ran
a good mile in the Batman Stakes on Satur-
day, for which she went out favorite at
threes; Miss Arrow ran second. Followers
of Marsden’s stable went for a killing on
Pentheus in the Final Handicap; they
backed the Rossendale stallion from 6 to 1
down to half those odds. The 9.4
anchored Pentheus, who was narrowly
beaten for third honors by the original
favorite, Taisho. An exciting finish ended
in Spang (10 to 1) and Pinnacle (8 to 1)
making a dead-heat. For winning over a
similar distance on Thursday, Pinnacle had
been raised 81b. He is by The Welkin—
Ethne, and has struck fine form.
* * * *
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Armadale Handicap : Taisho ; next, Prince
Viol.
Rosstown Plate: Mollison; next, Girou-
ette.
* * *
A couple of seasons ago Lord Kennaqu-
hair gave promise of turning out a good
horse. This Page can remember suggesting
him a.s a Sydney Cup possibility. But lie
disappointed his admirers by a series of poor
performances, and came to be regarded as
BY EAR.
Battered Boxer: “Me second eye’s closin’. I can ’ardly see ’im.”
Second: “Well, carn’t yer listen for him?”
just an average suburban neddy, and erratic
at that. Of late, however, the chestnut, who
is not unlike his sire, Kennaquhair, has been
picking up, and on Saturday he captured the
Moorefield Handicap in a style which sug-
gested that the earlier estimate of his capa-
bilities was by no means extravagant. Two
outsiders, Promara and Leisure Hour, had
the race to themselves for seven or eight fur-
longs : emerging from the ruck with fine
dash, Lord Kennaquhair caught them in the
short straight and went on to win by two
or three lengths from Leisure Hour, who
beat the favorite, Spearshot, by about the
same distance, Promara being fourth. The
mile and a quarter was traversed in 2min.
7sec., which is good time for Moorefield.
Lord Kennaquhair went out at 7 to 1; he
was ridden by Roy Marsden.
The bookmakers did well at Moorefield.
Rosebranch, who races in Hugh Denison’s
colors, gave them a skinner in the first division
of the Three-year-old Handicap, and Golden
Grist another in the Flying Handicap; the
nominal price in each case was 20 to 1.
Golden Grist is old, but can still gallop a
bit. He beat the favorite Greenloch, for
the lead, taking all the go out of that speedy
squib; Prince Verderer was gaining on him
towards the finish, but had lost his chance
by running wide at the turn.
Golden Grist is a half-brother to Anti-
cehus, being by Grist —Sabadilla; Antiochus
owns Demetrius for sire. R. C. Stanton
trains the pair at Rosehill. Antiochus is
much the better of the two. Very unlucky
at Rosehill —he was second to Aorangi, losing
on a protest, and then to Voleuse —he
made no mistake in the Hurstville Mile,
trailing Marshon to the turn and then com-
ing away; the unlucky Gleaner passed Mar-
shon in the run home. Black Douglas was
favorite; backers of Antiochus got fives and
9 to 2.
* * * *
For Randwick on Saturday:—
Tliree-year-old Handicap : Pasticcio ; next,
Rowan Berry.
Flying Handicap: Richfield; next, High
Disdain.
November Handicap: Papatu ; next, Flin -
ders.
Ilighweight Handicap: Voleuse; next,
Shrill Trill.
* * * *
The Nightmarch party made no mistake
when they took their horse back to Maori-
land instead of breaking his heart by racing
him against Phar Lap. On Saturday he won
the New Zealand Cup with 9st. 61b. up.
Concentrate (Sst. 101 b.) being second, and
In the Shade (Bst. 21b.) third. Nightmarch
was a hot favorite; but publication of prices
is not permitted in M.L.
* * * *
The Night Patrol could not stay, but
with Poyferre, a sister to Poitrel, for mate, he
has produced a Queensland Cup winner in
Poy Patrol. Second to Monash Valley, who
is by Valais —La Neive, in the Derby, Poy
Patrol won the Cup in good style from an-
other three-year-old in Vain Prince (he did
not run in the Derby, but won a handicap
the same day) and Derryvale, the time being
3min. 28fsec. Poy Patrol is from the
Downs, and is owned by Mrs. Murray; she
went out at 4 to 1. Prince Seremond, the
favorite, was fourth.
* * * *
“Nada”: The most worried man in Vic-
toria in the early part of last week was
Guy Raymond, who looked after Phar Lap
for Telford. He had no sleep for three
nights. On Monday night there was a
thunderstorm, and the electric light and tele-
phone services at St. Albans failed. Ray-
mond served as an officer in the Great War,
and that experience may have induced the
fear that enemies of Phar Lap, under cover
of dense darkness, would creep through
boundary hedges and bomb the stables. He
enlisted the aid of a mounted constable who
had served under him in France. Everyone
at St. Albans w r as under arms that night,
but no bombers came along, or gunmen.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The attempted, shooting of
Phar Eap recalls a .similar incident in
Shanghai a few years ago. The hot favorite
for an important race in a meeting on the
Chinese course outside the International
Settlement was owned by a wealthy silk
merchant. His most immediate rival was
another Manchurian semi-pig pony belong-
ing to a Pong general then terrorising the
district in the interests of law and order.
While the favorite was being ridden along
a narrow road to the course for his morning
waddle a motor-car filled with Chinese sud-
denly drove up, swung round broadside on,
and discharged a burst of machine-gun fire
at the animal’s haunches. Before the gunner
had time to find the bull’s-eye, horse and
mafoo had taken a flying leap into the
ditch beside the roadway and the stream of
bullets buried itself harmlessly in a load of
cotton being pushed to market by a barrow
coolie, who joined the favorite and his rider.
The car then drove away. Onlookers asser-
ted that one of its crew wore the uniform
of the general’s bodyguard, but it was felt
at the time that it would be bad for the
health to mention the fact too publicly.
* * * *
“F.L.”: Even in the atmosphere of the
Sunday schools the Australian child is well
in touch with the things that matter. The
other day a South Australian teacher asked
her class to name three blessings for which
this country had recently good reason to
thank Providence. One youngster named
the rains which had broken the drought.
Another was thankful for the splendid S.A.
sunshine. The kid that bore away the bell
nominated as the crowning mercy the fact
that the blokes who shot at. Phar Eap on
the eve of the Melbourne Cup did not get
their objective.
The Ins and Outs
South Australia, well pleased to get rid
of N.S.W. on Sydney Cricket Ground for 228
(Bradman 61, Fairfax 62), collapsed them-
selves for 124. Hooker taking 5 for 28. In
again, the N.S.W. total of 396 was largely
due to Bradman (121), Ivippax (104) and
Allsopp (93). Deverson. with 4 for 60 and
4 for 86, was the star S.A. trundler. The
visitors, with 501 to win, had made 152 for
4 wickets (Nitschke 70 n. 0.) at the tea
adjournment on the third day.
* * * *
“Ilillite”: Sydney Cricket Ground trustees
have announced that the prices of lunch,
etc., at the big matches this year will be
reduced to meet the times. While on the
subject of reform, they might see to it that
the refreshment stalls, bars and other conveni-
ences for the hungry and t-hirsty are made
more accessible. At present, even with a
small crowd, it is almost impossible to get a
drink or a sandwich during the progress of
an innings.
# * • * #
“Swan”: Westralian cricketers are still
hurt at the abrupt refusal of manager
Kelly to allow the Australian Eleven to
play a one-day match at Perth' on their way
home, though permission had been granted
by the Board of Control. As a sweetener,
the board proposed to send a composite side
from the Eastern States early next year, but
Groperland is of the opinion that the visit
wouldn’t be worth the expense and trouble.
* * * *
“Tenalcoe”: Maoriland’s cricket authori-
ties are dumbly regarding the balance-sheet
for the tour of Gilligan’s English XI. The
profit taken is only £7, for though the net
surplus for the tour was £lOO7, an arrange-
ment was made with the M.C.C. that £l6OO
should be divided among the English
pros. M.L. seems to find it hard to
collect satisfactory cricket attendances, where-
as in the case of Rugby football the difficulty
is to keep them away. Still, even £7 is better
than a loss on the tour, like that which
faces the N.S.W. Rugby Union unless the
M.L. terms for the British footballers’ visit
are lowered.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar” : J. B. Hobbs’s trip to India,
where he is, with Sutcliffe, to be the
guest of au East Coast rajah, is to be
something of a ’busman’s holiday. He told
a Bombay interviewer that though he would
be playing while in India, his stay
would mostly be devoted to coaching. Also,
he said definitely that there would be no
more Test cricket for him. If Hobbs sticks to
this he will have added another to his many
records, public performers being notoriously
prone to change their minds under such
circumstances. In any case, he has had a
long run. Counting South African and
West Indian games he has had 102 Test
innings, averaging 56.94 for them.
(Continued on next page.)


G»ert :"Vour friend Browin is
A. WONOERPUL SWIMYER
Bert "Ves, me mm<e& quite a*
Study of \t V
G*ert DIUG,ENT PEU.OW ”
6>ert ',‘Vou notice he evem
WALKS DUCK-TOED.”
The Ins and Outs
.. „ , , . . , n
Queensland started the Sheffield seas
well with a handsome win by 7 wickets from
uw - I be Wheatfieldei s reached 304
in their second essay, Oxenliam this time get-
ting the best average with 3 tor 00, though
fast bowlers Gilbert and Thurlow were again
Biggs once more batted well in
and s second at empt sco nit, a om.-
Thompson ’to get the'required Zm! after
R °"' e a " d
naa lun tnemseives* out. *
“Popping Crease”: Reference to Queens-
land’s new abo. bowler (B. 29/10/’3O) re-
calls Jack Marsh, of N.s'w., the best of all
our abo. cricketers, and one who, if the fates
had been kinder, might have gained Austra-
lian honors. He had all the essentials of a
high-class speed merchant, and helped them
with an admixture of bowling brains rather
unusual for one of his type. He was doing
well in Shield games when Bob Crockett
settled his big cricket career by persistently
no-balling him, though other umpires of note
found no fault with his delivery. Marsh
carried on in Sydney club cricket, and later
went to the country, where Archie Mac-
laren rubbed it in by refusing to allow him
to bowl at his 1901-02 side in a match in
Bathurst (N.S.W.). A sprinter of the
highest calibre in addition, poor Marsh
deserved a better fate than the premature
death that overtook him as the result of a
hnr.rnnm hrnwl
‘‘* * *
“Gabba” : The larger stumps, used for the
first time in Sheffield Shield cricket in the
Queensland-South Australian match at Bris-
bane, did not seem to affect either batsman
or bowler, as far as could be seen. Up to date
the only unusual happening to be attributed
to them occurred in one of the Melbourne
pennant matches. The manufacturers of the
new stumps had forgotten to make them
thicker in proportion to the increased width
of the wicket, with the result that a ball
from fast-bowier Morton went between two
of the sticks without disturbing the bails,
The batsman shook hands with himself, for,
of course, he was not out. What Morton
said or did has not been chronicled.
* * * *
“Fitzeray” : Macartney is the latest with-
drawal from Jack Ryder’s team for_his bene-
fit, match against the Australian Eleven in
Melbourne, beginning November 29. As the
Australians will practically field a Test
side, Hornibrook being the most important
•absentee, the King of Collingwood s collee-
tion of veterans looks like having a tiring
time m. the field. .Jack is himself in good
form with the bat, having knocked up a
characteristic 120 for Collingwood. the other
3ay. II he. can manage to do likewise against
Clarne Grimmett and Co., Melbournites will
be prepared to forgive even the Australian
selectors who cut their idol out of the last
toiir - * * # *
„„ „ ' ... , . * ~ . .
Hotham : George Alexander, who died in
Melbourne last week, was one of the few
remaining links with old-time cricket He
was a member of Murdoch’s 1880 team,
and played in the solitary Test at the Oval,
this being the first of the long senes. On
tae tour he averaged with the bat
or to England again
m 1884, but did little. His last appeal-
ance in a Test was at Adelaide against Y} aw
and Shrewsbury s team of 1884-8 o Alex-
ander’s Test-match average was 14 for 4
IJ i n !,o gs ’ wb ße he took two wickets at a cost
ot 46 runs apiece—highly expensive figures
for days. * *
..1 cat u
Tenth Slip: One result of the recent
decision of the N.S.W. cricket eads
resume the practice of covering the wicket
has been, the evolution of a cover which w
not. like those of the past, sweat the
wicket, and thus produce effects as bad as
if there had been no cover at all. The new
gadget is a tarpaulin-covered frame .on
wheels, which, is ponderously pushed into
the arena and anchored over the wicket, the
peaked roof . being some feet fiom t .
ground. The thing looks like a cross between
a railway porter’s trolley and a market-
gardener’s pottmg-shed, and is likely to give
the Hill much opportunity for g 1 J
comment when its guardians fiist t o
out ’ * * * *
TT'r.Qnk
Ileimit Park . Frank Side , 1 J
put up a record by being chosen at 16 to
represent Queensland in Sheffield Shield
cricket, learnt the game at Townsville Gram-
mar School, where he was for four years. His
coach was “Tommy” Whight, now a master
„t Sydney Scot*. Thomas, himself learnt
bis cricket as a boy at the sam c N.Q. sc 100 ,
where he was afterwards a mastei.
t-, , D 1
Kacquet and tSawl
“Kooyong”; The Australian tennis pan-
jandrums have had another perplexing pro-
blem set before them. Some of the Sydney
clubs asked that Crawford, H’opman and
co. should be allowed to give public talks
on tennis, demonstrating strokes the while,
Though there seems to be no cash considera-
tion involved, the request has been refused
on the ground that anything of the sort
would be a breach of the amateur regula-
tiong. go many holes have been torn in the
ga j d regulations by leading tennis amateurs
- n the pas t few years that another one or
t wo wou i^ n >j. (] 0 us a ny harm,
* * * *
, (Rey Knucklebone” : Though the return of
om . i) av j s Cuppers is getting near to ancient
history, there is one item in manager Jim
IfMg*
throwing “way
against the opponent by the umpire, who, in
the °P ini ™. ° f * he U P’”
Willard notes that the Continental
»> yers ’ s®B 5 ® 8] [l l thi FnS
. ie gain I, 10 , ia *?
P-layers, with the ci cket trad tion behind
bhem ’ A tlie . llm P- s , w .? ld as '
Some of the Americans set the new fashion,
The is not only rotten bad sports-
manship—though curiously enough some per-
vel,ted mentalities look at it the other way
~ bot ™ calculated insolence to the officials,
~ a tj,
, T°P • The annual N.S.W. o at J
? a , 1 ' l ! lva 011 January 0, and
will finish np with the city-country mate
on January 10. The programme has been
considerably extended, and will include open
events for men players not graded in the
brst 3- by the country selectors, and o
w omen not ranked in the first 20. The c ty-
cciuntry match will be between teams,
half a dozen of six a side being selected for
the men’s matches, and four of four a side
| or the women. Iwo junior teams each of
boys and girls will also figure. #
‘ „ , „ w ,, , ,
Miramar : A. G. M allace, who has
recently been elected president of the Maori-
and Tennis Association, has won Ins spurs
as a ,P ,^ yer ', as W-Ij. singles champion
1913 and doubles champion with G. J.
Ihclue the same year,, and in 190< also,
U e represented the Shivery Isles on many
occasions, and his keen personality will be
remembered by those who met him when lie
captained the MX- team which came to Syd-
ney in 1926. lie was an. outstanding playe
? n bis day—indeed, outside Anthony Wi d-
ing, Maonland has produced few better. As
in the case of many other good players, that
“Jay” was not always at call,. or he might
have ranked high m world tennis,
“
The Nineteenth Hole
“D.”. Tbe Lakes, which is Sydney’s newest
go ]f e lub, has one feature that can give
po fots as regards aige to any club in Aus-
tralia. The footbridge connecting the Kith
and 2.7 th holes is made of wood taken from
jj eury Parkes’s old shop in Hunter-street,
The supports, which are like iron, had been
j n use f or the beS f par t 0 f a century when
the Lakes Club acquire( ] them,
* * * *
“Bloggs”: A friend who is a novice at the
ancient pastime of turf-ruining joined a new
club, and used it constantly. Then he was
o ] ec t ed to an older club and promptly forsook
b j love, though, as a links, it promises
ghortl t 0 be miles ahead of the otlier.
Char d with snobbishness, he laughed,
» gnobbishness be i iange d! It’s a matter of
comfort At the club I’ve just resigned from
don’t play the game, and no one seems
to - be interested in making them play it.
Q n three successive Saturdays I struck (1)
a dead-slow match that wouldn’t let anyone
through; (2) a threesome that claimed the
rightg of a three-ball match; (3) a pair
bat cut a head of my partner and me at
Rie 2.2 th hole when we were struggling to
finish before dark. You don’t have such
experiences at the older clubs; the members
may nQ be tter, but they know better.”
There’s a lot in his point of view. A badly-
disciplined club is like a badly-disciplined
regiment—an uncomfortable shop that a sen-
man gets out ag goon as , be can .
* * * *
“J.” ; These midget courses may give amuse-
ment but to c ] a i m tliat they help to improve
lfar , s tti ig bunkum . All the holes
backe d>ith boards, and 80 per cent, of
tbem are reac h ed by cannoning off something,
« Touch „ the „ pu t t er’s chief problem, is
entirel ’ elimina te d . There would be useful
praeti^_ Ilot to men tion money—in a midget
jinks that resembled an ordinary club putting-
green, except for a rolling surface and a
ring °f sand-bunkers calling for the use of
a mashie. I wonder it isn’t given a fly by
someone before the new craze falls dead,
* * *
“jv; vnt Tjjowr” •An English eolfing iour-
n j bag be en investigating the matter of the
h - h ft k ovpr r,i| ve d for in golf and has
J; that the £K)00 mit un bv Walter
Shelf in IngfanY two
Qr tbree years ago fills the bill. It may do
gQ ag £ ar ag tbe pro f ess ional players are con-
cerned, but some of the amateurs have gone
much higher. Perhaps the record is the
match between Lord Kennedy and plain Mr.
Cruickshank at St. Andrews in 1868. The
match was over only three holes, but a £5OO
stake depended on each hole. Cruickshank
won all three. If reports are correct, what
is probably the highest of all was the first
prize in the Agua Caliente tourney .in
Mexico at the beginning of this year. This
was given as 10,000 dollars, which works
out at £2OOO, Gene Sarazen, the American
professional, collecting.
H» H* H*
“Miramar” : The M.L. amateur golf cham-
pionship this year was notable for the fact
that tw r o brothers fought out the final. The
winner was Harold Black, who beat
brother Jack 6 and 4. The pair have been
setting each other for donkey’s years, and
this is the first time that John lias , been
headed in big games by his younger brother.
The loser, who was a popular member of one
of the Windeyer Cup teams to come to Aus-
tralia, is something of a Jonah, all the same.
In the last 12 years he has been in the semi-
finals for the amateur title eight times. The
other four he was in the final and took the
knock on each occasion.
Hs Sjs * *
“Shirley”: “Miramar” (B. 5/11/’3O) has
got his account of the M.L. women’s golf
championship slightly mixed. It was Miss
Gaisford —not Miss' “Garsford” —who was
beaten in the final by Olive Kay, and the
runner-up was not the title-holder. That
honor belonged to Mrs. Dodgshun, of Otago,
who was cut out in the third round by Helen
Barnett, of Wellington. This last damsel,
with the Gaisford girl, promises to bulk
largely in M.L. associate golf of the near
future. The pair may be seen in action in
the Australian championships next year.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The only recent golfing event
of importance in Victoria was the
open championship of the Commonwealth
Club. This event was over 36 holes scratch,
and was won by the Royal Melbourne pro-
fessional A. Le Fevre. There was a _ good
entry, and the young ex-amateur champion of
the State, W. A. Edgar, gave the experi-
enced pro. a close run, their cards reading
161 and 162 at the end of the two rounds.
The winner won the Australian Open in 1921
and the Victorian professional title two years
later.
Car and Cycle
“Trembler”: Norman Smith, of N.S.W.,
may reconsider his intention of trying for
the world’s speed record on the Ninety-mile
Beach in Maoriland. The other day he went
up to Goulburn (N.S.W.) to have a look
over a stretch between Collector and
Bungendore, which provides the necessary
straight run of 12 miles or so with a hundred
yards width. The track will need some pre-
paration by a gang of workmen, and could be
topped off by some of the Main Roads
Board’s rollers, which are in the. vicinity.
If this can be arranged, Smith will prefer
to make his trial there in preference to
undertaking the long and expensive trip to
the Shivery Isles.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The N.S.W. Automobile Club's
annual reliability run to Kiama and the
subsequent beach racing at Gerringong pro-
vide for five classes of car, from under
1000-c.c. capacity to over 4000-c.c., as well
as supercharged cars. The course for the
trial will be from Sydney through Liverpool
and Bowral, through Albion Park to Kiama,
a run of 130 miles. The trial candidates
start on November 21, the cars to be fully
loaded with passengers, no luggage or other
dead weight being allowed. The beach events
will comprise handicaps for each class of
car, and the usual 12-mile club champion-
ship.
He H* H* H*
“Kick Starter”: Stuart Williams, who
represented Australia in the Isle of Man
Tourist Trophy race for motor-cycles and
the six-day International Trial race in the
European Alps, returned to Australia last
week after many interesting experiences on
the other side. Though he did not score
a winning bracket, the Australian made a
very creditable showing. H’e is full of ad-
miration for European riders, who have had
much experience in this form of racing over
mountain country, a phase of the game
practically unknown in Australia. The six-
day event through the Swiss, French and
Italian Alps was a revelation, with its steep
and narrow roads, often along the edges of
precipices. In this several British women
riders took part, and held their own with
most of their he-man competitors.
* * * *
“Swan” : One of Australia’s leading dirt-
track motor-cyclists rode his last race the
other day, in the person of “Sig” Schlam,
of Westralia. Riding in the final of a race
at Perth, he crashed in to the fence
when travelling at 70 m.p.h. and died from
the injuries received. Schlam held the Aus-
tralian solo title for some time, and also all
the Westralian championships, his brother
Cecil being his only serious rival in Groper-
land. Some time ago he joined the ranks
of Australian riders in England, and met
wdth fair success there.
* * * *
“Tank” : A quaint motor-cycle contraption
has been attracting attention in England in
the shape of an ordinary high-powered
machine fitted with is practically a
motor-car body, with windscreen and all com-
plete, including a wheel for steering, and disc
wheels. The owner of the unique contrap-
tion is Verdon Roe, the pioneer of the famous
Avro airplane factories, who claims that it
gives infinitely more protection to the rider
than the ordinary motor-cycle. He has
already covered over 30,000 miles on his
weird-looking gadget, which has much the
appearance of a baby car that has been
dropped by its nurse in infancy.
t- ■v. * *
“Sprocket”: The N.S.W. amateur cycling
authorities have disqualified Duncan Gray,
the Australian Olympic representative, for
“bartering in open orders,” and, though the
decision is subject to appeal, it is not likely
to be altered. One unusual feature of the
case is the reported decision of the Goul-
burn Club, of which Gray is a member, to
go over in a body to the professional ranks
if their champion is put on the ice. Goul-
burn is a noted centre of amateur cycling,
and a change-over by the club will be felt
by the State body. At the same time, it is to
be hoped wiser counsels will prevail. Disci-
pline of the sort is essential to the well-being
of any sport, and should be accepted unhesitat-
ingly*. There is nothing new in the position,
either. Percy Mutton, one of the finest
cyclists Australia has produced, was passed
out 20 years ago on a similar charge.
:[: * * *
“Roller” : Victoria’s biggest amateur road-
race for cyclists, the 100-mile run from Colac
to Melbourne, held concurrently with the
professional Warrnambool-Melbourne event,
is to be lengthened. Next year the amateurs
will ride the full course from Warrnambool,
165 miles. The longest road race in which
amateurs are catered for in Australia is the
Goulburn-Sydney event of 131 miles, and
as a rule the lilywhites have performed as
well over the longer distance as the profes-
sionals who ride the same course with them.
The principal difference between the two
races is that the Victorian fixture is prac-
tically on the level the whole way, while,
the Goulburn-Sydney race involves some stiff
hill work.
Miscellaneous
“Bumpkin”: There is little likelihood of
the yacht race from Queenscliff to Maori-
land coming off this year. After a fruitless
trip to Sydney to beat up interest in the
venture there, Skipper Bennell had to con-
tend with opposition from Isome (of the
clubs in Melbourne. Finally the Canterbury
(M.L.) Yachting Association pronounced
the two Shivery Island entrants, Yvonne
and Thelnia, unfit to cross the Tasman, and
asked for a postponement till next season
to permit of the right type of vessel being
built. However, Bennell is determined to
take the little Oimara across at Christmas
just to show that it can be done. His inten-
tion is to sell his craft in M.L. and build a
new one for next year’s race.
* t- * *
“The Gaffer”; The N.S.W. amateur ath-
letic authorities have discovered that two
grounds on which they have been holding
their big events for years have such a slope
that records made on them are not legiti-
mate under the recognised rules. Dozens of
important records have been put up on
Sydney Cricket Ground and the Sports
Ground, and all these will have to be wiped
out. Some of them, like Nigel Barker’s, times
up to 300 yards, rank with the best in the
world, though they were put up 25 years ago.
The whole business is a shocking testimonial
to the carelessness and incapacity of those
responsible.
# # * *
“Ilotham”: The annual athletic meeting
of the Victorian Great Public Schools saw
Melbourne Grammar School hang on to its
title of champion school, won last year, the
point score being 82V Scotch College was
second with 71, and Geelong third with 554.
No records were broken, though E. Cohen,
of Scotch, ran a good 100 in 10 l-ssec.
This is Grammar’s 13th win since the meet-
ing was instituted.
$ * * *
“Spike”: Australians made a good show-
ing at the Oxford University sports last-
week. Three of them scored firsts and
another a second. Lee Steere, of Adelaide,
took the freshmen’s 120 hurdles, and O. M.
Davies, of Geelong, the freshmen’s 220
over the low sticks. S. M. Wansey, late of
the King’s School, also won his heat in the
senior mile, and Westralian Iv. L. Cooper
came second in the senior low hurdles. Alto-
gether, it looks as if there will be another
Australian blue or two in the side to meet
Cambridge. Wentworth, of the Armidale
(N.S.W.) School, was a member of the
Dark Blue distance-events string last year.
* * H! #
“Green Chequer”: Queensland Homing
Society wound up its season the other day
with a 600-mile flight from Bowen (N.Q.)
to Brisbane. Only two birds finished within
the allotted time, the wanner, a black
chequer cock owned by J. Amenhauser,
covering the distance in 33hr. 51min. 30sec.
Velocity was given as 510 yards per minute,
which is on the slow side, even for such a
long flight. Still there is some excuse in
the fact that the fovds kicked off from
Bowen, which is proverbially the slwwest
town in Queensland.


MICK SIMMONS
for all
SHOOTING
EQUIPMENT
mi
H'M
Tph
JJUi
SPORTING
RIFLES
that bring down
the big fellows
No. 24—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE, 1892
MODEL, 25/20, 32, 38, 44
calibre, central fire, full or half
magazine, 24in. barrel; length
over all 42£in.; weight about
71b. Octagon barrel . . . j£,7/7/"
Carriage Paid.
No. 25—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 53. 25/20 or 32
W.C.F., 22in. round nickel steel
barrel, lever action similar to 1 892
Model, handles the ordinary cart-
ridge, also the special Hi-speed;
weight about 61b. <§LB/™/
Carriage Paid.
No. 41 —SAVAGE SPORTER
REPEATING RIFLE, MODEL
23A, 25/20, or 32 W.C.F. cal.,
25-inch barrel; weight
6ib. £.5/101-
Carriage Paid.
3
Low-priced
Dependable
Rifles!
FAMOUS F.N. SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
22-cal., take-down, with safety bolt,
21 in. barrel, weight about 2l /«•
(Post Paid.)
THE MAINE SPECIAL BOLT
ACTION RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down,
with safety bolt. For short, long or
long-rifle cartridges; 21 in. round
barrel; weight about 25/"
Postage, 1/6; other States, 2/8.
MOSSBERG BOLT ACTION RIFLE,
22-cal., takes short, long or long-rifle
cartridges, bead front sight, ladder
rear sight, weight about 4 -^lb.. 3 O/"
Postage, 1/9; other States, 3/2.
Simplicity! Efficiency! R apidity!
This New Automatic Shot Gun has
them all. Absolutely the very last
word in Automatic Shot Guns.
No. 4.—BROWNING
AUTOMATIC
SHOT GUN,
12G
śd
Slide grip,
steel barrel,
take-down system ;
magazine holds five
cartridges. All mov-
able parts are inside
a receiver closed at rear, which
device affords absolute security to
the shooter. Great rapidity and
accuracy of shooting are obtained
with this gun. Weight about
Biib ..£9/10/-
Carriage Paid.
Detailed Profusely Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on Request.
All Letters to Box ISB, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
So many good middleweights are now at
the Sydney Stadium match-maker’s command
that, with proper pairing-up, they should
bring popularity back to boxing. But it is
necessary that verdicts should give satis-
faction. On top of the draw decision in
the Palmer-Haines contest, a week earlier,
another bad ruling was delivered on Satur-
day night, when Tony Tuzzolini (11.1|) was
adjudged to have knocked out Jimmy
Pearce (11.1 J) in the last round. Pearce
put up a great display and dropped Tuzzolini
in the fourth and fourteenth rounds. The
visitor then surprised by upsetting Pearce,
with a left flush on the point, in the fifteenth-
The local man apparently arose, as Tony
had done in the 14th round, before the
count expired. Referee Wallis thought
otherwise.
ft * ft *
“Mitt Shover” : Fidel la Barba, whose fine
showings in couple of years
did much to revive the dry bones of boxing
in this country, was heard of again the
other day, when he out-pointed the Cuban
“Kid” Chocolate in a ten-round go at Madi-
son-square Garden, New York. The gentle-
man with' the Spanish title showed himself
to be an accomplished ringman while here,
and a scrupulously clean and fair one to
boot. In these and in a|l other particulars
he was in striking contrast to some of the
scrubs being imported from America at that
time.
ft ft ft ft
“Tom Cribb”: A profitable or otherwise
medium of speculation in America is a
boxer’s contract. These are often sold—•
with boxer attached, of course —by the
holder to some other manager. Leon See,
for instance, is said to have sold Camera
to another promoter for 50,000 dollars. Kid
Chocolate was for sale some time ago for
£5OOO, pony-class boxers not bringing prices
as high as the big fellows. It is a tricky busi-
ness, but some men have made fortunes at
it—notably Jack Kearns, who bottled up
Dempsey early in his career.
ft ft ft *
“Double Cross” : American boxing journals
have been rehashing the story of how Jess
Willard won his “world’s championship”
from Jack Johnson. Jack agreed to take
£30.000 to lie down, but stipulated that it was
to be handed to his wife at the ringside by the
end of the first ten rounds. If it wasn’t,
John said, something was coming to Willard.
No signal came from Mrs. Jack up to the
eighth round and the negro proceeded to
give Willard such a lacing that he refused
to go up for the ninth, one of his seconds
getting him on his feet by the simple expedi-
ent of sticking a knife blade into him from
behind. As Willard bounded wildly into mid-
ring-, Mrs. Jack made the agreed-on signal.
John thereupon carried his opponent to the
25th round, and then, after handing him one
final wallop which nearly outed him on hi 3
feet, slid to the canvas himself and was
counted out.
The Watermen
“Stretcher”: The first title race of the
N.S.W. rowing season is set down for
November 15, when the two-mile spin for the
championship fours will be held on Lane Cove
River as the chief attraction of the North
Shore Club’s regatta. Six crews have nomi-
nated, Mosman and Sydney each boating two.
On performances for the season, as far as
it. has gone, the race looks a good thing for
the first Mosman crew, which accounted for
Sydney’s best at the Nepean Club regatta
at Penrith lately. If a dark horse should
come to light it may be the Glebe combina-
tion, which is being tipped by the shrewdies
as likely to spring a surprise.
H* ❖ *
“Blade”: The Oxford-Cambridge boatrace
has been fixed for March 21. Cambridge has
had a great run since 1914, when it broke an
Oxford trot of five years, having lost only once
since then, the war years being left out of
the reckoning. Nevertheless, the score is 40
wins to each university, with one dead-heat
in 1877. Morphett, of Geelong, was the
Australian representative in last year’s
Oxford boat. The only one in sight this
time is V. G. Fairfax, of Sydney, who has
already been given a spin in the trial
eights.
ft ft ft *
“Huon”: Herbert Nicholls, president of
the Tasmanian Rowing Association, and a
great oarsman in his time, spoke a note-
worthy piece at the annual meeting of the
association in Hobart the other day, when
he advocated the shortening of oars. For
some years past rowing experts in Britain
and the Continent, as well as America, have
come to the conclusion that too much out-
board is being used in the length of the
oar. This, in combination with the short
length of the oar inboard, entails much un-
necessary bullocking by the man in the boat.
Opinion is swinging to the idea that with
the shorter oar less body work is involved,
and body work, however well co-ordinated,
aiwmys contributes to the stopping of a boat’s
run after the stroke is finished because of
the long recovery necessary. Backers of the
shorter outboard oar claim that a quicker
and shorter stroke with higher speed coun-
terbalances the greater leverage of the long
car. Australian Steve Fairbairn, once of
Cambridge, has been working on similar
theories some years, and crews coached
by him have been notably successful.
“Stretcher”: Following on recent defeats
by Mosman, Sydney Rowing Club has made
alterations in the personnel of its first eight
which is to figure in the Grand Challenge
Cup at Henley-on-Yarra, on November 29.
The most important change is the substitu-
tion of A. C. Lambert for M. C. Mackenzie,
who stroked the club crew in the last King’s
Cup race at Adelaide and in the Henley
event last year, the Welshmen taking a
close second in each race. The crew will
leave Sydney on November 26, which will not
give it much time to get the feel of the
Melbourne water.
ft ft ft ft
“Sturt”: An interesting eight was seen
lately on the Torrens Lake in Adelaide. It
was stroked by Grayson, behind whom were
Gosse, Fred Porter, McEwin, Ken Milne,
Luxmoore ; Acraman and Faulkner. Famous
oarsmen in their day, they are now city
magnates of varying tonnage, both social and
bodily; and they wisely attempted no racing,
but just revived memories of how an oar
felt in the days when this century was young.
* s|c
“Shell”: Two N.S.W. scullers have entered
for the Challenge Sculls at Melbourne Hen-
ley in J. A. Goulding, of Sydney club, and
H. E. Ricketts, of Glebe. Goulding is one
of the fastest scullers in the State and has
many good performances chalked up. Ricketts
won the Walker and Hall Cup in Sydney
this year and recently carried off a ten-
mile marathon in Melbourne. He also
figured in the Australian championship sculls
in 1925, but was unplaced. J. R. Scott,
another Welshman, who w T on the Australian
and Henley title last year, is not an entrant
on this occasion.
Miscellaneous
(Continued from page 86.)
“Splosh”: The swimming authorities of
N.S.W., the same who invited a visit to
Australia of that renowned “amateur” Arne
Borg, came out the other day with the amaz-
ing proposal that Johnny Weissmuller, the
American professional who worked the
amateur stunt as long as his compatriots
would stand it, be invited to give exhibitions
in xlustralia. The ostensible idea was that
Australian swimming would benefit by seeing
the champion at work, but gate considera-
tions probably had even more to do with it.
The Queensland and Victorian associations
turned the suggestion down, the latter re-
marking in a catty way that, since there is a
professional swimming body in Australia,
the job of importing professional swimmers
might well be left to it.
ft * ft *
“Splash” : The latest swimming flapper to
catch press publicity is an eight-year-old
Hindu girl named Anupama Sil. The young
person took part in a race across the Hugh
at Calcutta, and though she did not win
the event, which went to K. P. Rakshi the
Indian long-distance champion, her perform-
ance was thought worthy of a special prize.
Anupama Sil is not likely to be heard of in
the future, since she is now old enough to
be married, in Hindu estimation, and after
that happens frivolities of this kind must bo
cut out. The incident has its interest as
showing how the increasing vogue of sport
in India is breaking down the barriers of
caste and convention. A few years ago, no
female, even of the lowest caste, would have
been permitted to exhibit herself in this
fashion. .
* * * *
“Navau”: For some seasons past endeav-
ors have been made to bring over to Aus-
tralia a team of New Caledonian water-polo
players. The Islanders are pre-eminent in
the game, and perhaps because of that fact
the Australian W.P. authorities, while
coquetting with the idea, have never got
down to talking real business with the jingle
of the guinea attaching thereto. Brown
Brother is desperately keen on coming across,
and has offered to pay half the cost, and
that in cash and not in cocoanuts. Even
that has not softened the heart of the Aus-
tralian Pharaohs.
* ft * ft
“Backwoodsman”: Another attempt has
been made to get the N.S.W. bowling authori-
ties to permit the payment of travelling and
housing expenses for touring teams.
The diehards have long fought the idea as
opening the door to professionalism, which
is simply nonsense. The Olympic Federa-
tion, to go no further, permits this practice,
and there is no more fiercely amateur body
in sport. As matters stand, only well-to-do
players can go on tour, with the result
that touring teams are never representative
of the State’s best. As an instance, in 30
matches against Victoria in Melbourne,
N.S.W. has won only 6, while the Victorians
in the same circumstances in Sydney
have won only 6 of the lq§t 26 games played.
Matches against Queensland are in a similar
category. However, a change of heart is
foreshadowed, the association having agreed
to submit the question to the affiliated clubs
and abide by their decision.
ft ft ft ft
“Fourth End”: Sydney bowling circles
have for months been watching with feverish
anxiety a case which ended disastrously
—from a bowler’s point of view—in the
State Full Court the other day. It con-
cerned a bowling club’s right to sell alcoholic
drinks to a member on the Sabbath. The
club was convicted in the first instance, but
this was upset in the higher court. Another
prosecution also ended in a conviction, and
this time the Full Court upheld the find-
ing. There still remain the High Court of
Australia and the Privy Council to go to,
but whether their offices will be sought is
not known. Certainly every true bowler is
in favor of carrying the case on to the steps
of the Throne itself.
ft ft ft ft
“Old Q.”: Brisbane is the latest centre to
be disturbed over the Sunday sport question.
Recently a bowling club proposed to play
on Sundays on a green which is portion of
one of the municipal parks. After much
argument the Council agreed to continue the
lease, while pointing out that the city regu-
lations did not permit games in the parks
on the Sabbath. There seems little need for
alarm, however. The Queensland licensing
laws are very strictly administered nowadays,
and the supposition that any bowler will
indulge in his obsession on a day when the
dispensary of liquid refreshments is under
lock and key is too ridiculous to be enter-
tained for a moment.
ft ft ft ft
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum has been
styled the Bradman of billiards, but it looks
as if the whole family could come under the
category. In Melbourne the other day
Horace Lindrum, an 18-year-old nephew of
the champion, ran up a break of 1324. His
previous best was 998, while a snooker score
of 103, which is claimed as a world’s record,
also stands to the youngster’s credit. In
spite of his success, one hardly envies the
lad his accomplishment. A billiard prodigy,
like the musical ditto, can only excel by
taking unlimited pains. Hours of practice
daily are imperative even when in top form.
Walter himself has said that for years his
regular dose was six hours a day, and the
probability is that he has to keep this up,
save, perhaps, when playing in a long
tourney.
“Dedans”: The final of the amateur tennis
championship of Australia —not the lawn
tennis variety, be it noted, but the historied
game which Shakspeare used as a metaphor
in Henry V. —was decided on the Royal
Melbourne court; the winner was Todhunter,
who beat Todhurst by 3 sets to 1, thus annex-
ing the title and the miniature golden racquet
that goes with it. Tennis is only played
in Victoria and Tassy. It is not likely to
extend its orbit, either, for the elaborate
walled court necessary for the game w T ould
cost a film star's alimony these days.
Hs $ :’c
“Cash Amateur”: An interesting side-
light on professional football in England is
afforded by the case of Jonathan Parkin,
one of the stalwarts of the Rugby League,
who is as well known in Australia as in
the North of England. Parkin has dropped
liis form, and, consequently, his club has
no further use for him. It put him
on the “transfer” list, and rubbed it in by
asking the paltry price of £lOO for the one-
time player-without-price. Much annoyed,
Parkin countered by buying himself, and
is now busy trying to find a purchaser for
Ms latest acquisition. He is free to nego-
tiate under the circumstances, but can claim
no signing-on bonus under the rules of the
Northern Union, as he could have done had
he been disposed of by a club instead of by
himself.
* * *
“Cash Amateur”: The draft constitution
of what is to be known as the N.S.W.
Football Commission, which is being fathered
by- the Ma State Rugby League, contains a
clause which roused the wrath of the Cricket
Association. It announced that the commis-
sion was being formed to prevent, among
other things, the N.S.W.C.A. from taking
long leases of grounds for cricket and then
sub-letting them to football bodies at a profit
during the winter. This elicited the
information that the Cricket Association
only leases its grounds for the summer and
has nothing to do with their use in the foot-
ball season. If all the aspirations of the com-
mission are founded on quicksands like that,
it hardly seems worth while going on with
the joke.
ft ft ft ft
“Colombes”: A split has occurred in the
French Rugby Union, easily the largest in
the world, counting its auxiliaries outside
France. The big Parisian club, the Stadc
Francais, has broken away and been fol-
lowed by a dozen of the leading South of
France clubs. The secessionists contend that
the game needs reforming in the direction of
brighter and better football. This was one
of the claims made by the Northern Union
in the North of England when it seceded
from the Rugby Union in the 1880’s, but
the alteration resulted in no appreciable
change. In any case, if France alters the
rules without the consent of the Interna-
tional Board she will automatically cut her-
self out of international Rugby.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Though Victorian football
would not be the same without him, the
barracker has been treated with scant con-
sideration in the past by those who have most
cause to bless him. That is to be changed, if
Minister for Lands Bailey is to have his |
way. He insists that the proletariat shall I
be provided with seats from which they J
can launch, their verbal lightnings at ease, j
It is a pious aspiration, but the writer, \
with some knowledge of the Melbourne bar-
racker, feels compelled to make one sug
gcstion. That is that the seats to be pro- I
vided weigh at least a ton apiece.
* * * *
“Bung Hi”: There has been a violent j
controversy in the Shanghai press arising !
from instructions issued to the iChinese
Soccer referees by their association that it J
was unpatriotic for them to use foreign
expressions and that Chinese equivalents for
“Shoot, mon, shoot!” and so on, must be
found. A committee to draw up a list of
these has been formed, and is now wrestling
with the problem. Meanwhile the foreign
devil press is asking why, since Soccer itself
is a foreign game, it should be played by ;
the patriots instead of a Chinese equivalent.
* * * *
“Blue Water”: Among what may be called I
freak sportsmen, the man who sets out by
himself to navigate the world in a tiny
craft ranks high. There have been a good
many of them at one time and another, a
recent instance being the once-famous tennis
player Allan Gerbault, who was supposed
to be nursing a heart broken by Suzanne
Lenglen when he went down to the sea in
the Firecrest. A still later edition is one
Robinson, of N’Yark, whose yacht, the
Svaap, was last heard of in the’ Solomons,
and cleared for Samarai in Papua. As he
failed to turn up there the underwriters
were beginning to compute liability when
news arrived that he had been discovered
500 miles up the Sepik River, which is
some hundreds of miles north of Samarai.
No doubt the young gentleman is absent-
minded, but these irregularities are confus-
ing to the insurance companies and pros-
pective heirs, to say nothing of the compilers
of records.
ft „ ft * ft
“C.Q.” : The latest aspirant to Amy John-
son honors is Rebe Griffiths, daughter of
W. O. Griffiths, of Point Nepean-road, Aspen-
dale (Vic.). At 18 the damsel has secured
the Goulburn Aero Club’s “A”-class certifi-
cate. She proposes to compete in the club’s
round-Australia flight in January, the prize
for which is £lOOO. Besides being the
youngest woman pilot in the Commonwealth
she is a champion in various forms of femin-
ine athletics, and an excellent mechanic to
boot.
* * * *
“Brilliant Deeps”: A sportsman with an
enviable record is veteran Harry Motton,
now of Sydney, who rode as a ’ youngster
in the Melbourne Cup of 1876, his mount
being W. Field’s Bella, which met a much
better one in Briseis, winner of the
V.R.C. Derby, the Cup and the Oaks. In later
years Motton became renowned as a rifleman,
representing Australia at Bisley, while he
was also prominent in cycling and football.
He was a fine cricketer to boot, and was
one of the best wicketkeepers in Queensland,
playing for Charters Towers with success in
the annual matches with Townsville, which
then rivalled Test matches in popular esti-
mation in N.Q. Nowadays he has fallen back
on bowls, a game in which he has done well
for the City Club of Sydney.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
What Sugar Is Worth to Us
The other day at Townsville, Mrs. Swan,
for the Country Women’s Association, told
the Inquiry Committee into the Sugar
Industry that there were 7000 women and
some 20,000 children entirely dependent on
the business for subsistence, most of them
dependents of small growers, whose lot was
hard and their means small. The prospect of
throwing them on to the State by the with-
drawal of the Federal embargo on imported
sugar was one of the serious possibilities
which would have to be considered.
Admittedly a high price is charged for
Australia’s domestic supply of sugar. Still,
Australian manufacturers of all goods con-
taining sugar obtain their supplies for their
export trade at world’s parity. The industry
represents permanent assets valued at 50
millions sterling. Eleven million pounds’
worth of machinery is at work in the second-
ary sections, the mills and refineries, and
70 per cent, of this is manufactured in Aus-
tralia. Australia supplies the bulk of the
farming implements used in the primary sec-
tion, and the industry directly employs
80,000 people drawing wages amounting to
£6,000,000 annually, the A'ast proportion of
which' is spent again in the country.
Much has been made of the advantage to
the community if the importation of “cheap”
black-grown sugar were permitted. But:
how cheap would that sugar be! if the
Javanese monopoly were not offset by the
home-grown article? In 1920 Australia im-
ported a considerable quantity of raw sugar
from Java. The landed cost was £5B 12s. 9d.
per ton. The Federal fixed rate for the same
quality of Australian raw sugar the same
year was £3O 6s. Sd. per ton.
Admittedly also the cost of producing the
surplus we export is greater than the price
we get for it; still, though a firm hand must
be kept on the surplus lest it grow too large
and reduce the average too low, the money
realised is not to be despised in these days
when it is so difficult to maintain the level
of our exports.
The Metal-mining Industry
In 1913 the wages of surface workers
(unskilled) at Broken Hill were 9s. 6d. per
.shift; they are now 16s. 7d. Underground
truckers’ pay has gone from 9s. 6d. to 16s.
7d.; miners’ pay from 11s. to 21s. Bd. And
working hours have been largely reduced.
There have been corresponding increases of
pay throughout the mining fields of Aus-
tralia. But since wages have been fixed
without regard to the ability of the poorer
mines to pay them, there has been a startling
reduction in the number of men employed.
At the end of 1913 the metalliferous mines
of Australia employed 64,419 men; 15 years
later the total was only 36,667.
Thus the law nearly doubled the pay of
16,667 men: but in the process 47,752 lost
their jobs. And even the 16,667 didn’t get
much benefit out of their rise, because the
cost of living ran up to take most of it
from them.
The Burden of Industry
Dear Bulletin, —With the clamor for
lower costs by the Nationalists on one side,
and higher wages by the Labor party on
the other, a most important aspect of the
position is being lost sight of altogether.
Even if wages and similar production costs
were cut, many in the primary industries
could not pay their way. The present bug-
bear of the man on the land is interest and
other fixed charges.
With wool at its present price, interest
charges are crippling the industry at a time
when it is most important to encourage pro-
duction and right our trade balance. One
has only to look at the balance-sheets of our
pastoral agency cos. to realise how much
primary producers depend on outside finance.
And in addition to that there is all the
assistance given by ordinary trading banks.
Some people suggest improved marketing
methods to make prices payable, and quote
the success of Bawra. But conditions are
mostly opposite to those of 1917-20. That
was a period of rising prices, and there was
only one buyer—the Imperial Government.
The present is a period of deflation in nearly
every country in the world, and the British
Government lost heavily on our recently-
expired zinc contract. It is no time to con-
sider restriction schemes of any kind; nobody
could finance one, and our trade balance is
bad enough as it is.
The most feasible solution so far is sug-
gested by two recent articles in The Bul-
letin. The price of wool and other com-
modities in Australia, it was suggested, might
be stabilised at a payable local price by
means of a managed exchange rate. It was
also pointed out (B. 15/10/’3O) that, so
long as an external price level is unstable,
a country has a choice between stabilising
its domestic price level or its exchange. If
it would stabilise its domestic price level
its exchange rate must be manipulated. In
our present crisis that seems to be the most
hopeful compromise. After our long period
of artificial prosperity, a sudden plunge to
world’s parity means the wiping out of
equities, heavy interest charges, and the
disorganisation of industry. Even the mort-
gagee stands to lose in the long run. —Yours,
etc., Bringelly.
Real Estate
The real-estate market is lifeless, but
quite a business has sprung up in exchanges.
Many men with properties carrying mort-
gages are seeking to sw T ap tlicir equities for un-
encumbered properties. They are for the most
part men who dread having unlet houses,
etc., on their hands, knowing that the in-
terest bill will come in whether the pre-
mises are productive or not. Also, of course,
there is the possibility that the mortgage
may not be renewed, and that a sale may
be 'forced in a dead property market. Few
people are, however, prepared to take on
additional mortgages at present, so that
large concessions are demanded where unen-
cumbered properties are. exchanged for
equities.
Note Inflation
In 1922-23 The Bulletin had a special
commissioner in Europe. Returning from
Germany on one occasion he found he had
a roll of notes, representing 170,000 marks.
Before the German currency was inflated
a mark was worth Is., so his little bundle
stood for £SSOO. He tried to cash them, but
the best offer obtainable was 30s. in English
money; and he thought they were worth
more than that as shocking examples. Later
they were not worth even 305.; in other
words, instead of one mark being worth Is.
it took more than 5000 to pay a bill of that
size. You paid 1000 to ride a few blocks.
To *the thrifty German worker note-infla-
tion meant this. For years he had been put-
ting mark to mark in his savings bank. Then
the issue of new notes started. Of course
it was not intended to go far. Just a little
stretching of the paper currency was all that
was needed, it was said, to tide the country
over its post-war distress. The printing
press was therefore set to work, and, as they
say in these days, credit was released. Prices
certainly were maintained. That is to say,
the man who got, say, 100 marks a week
continued to get 100 marks a week. But
the mark began to buy less. Soon, instead
of the workers’ wage being merely sustained,
This is a Russian 100,000-rouble note . Before the inflation such
a note was worth about £ 10,200. After the inflation its
value fell to Is. 3d.
An Austrian 10,000-kronen note used to be worth £-420- The
country was deluded into adopting a policy of inflation, and
the value of this note fell to Is.
This German thousand-mark note, worth £50 of English money
before the note inflation , shrank in value until it was used
to buy ’papers in the streets.
it had to be increased. The 100 marks was
made 200. Then began a queer race between
prices and wages, until, as we said just now,
a 5000-mark note, which had been worth
£250 to begin with, was no more than enough
to pay for a meal. The roll of thousand-
mark notes from which the one in the illus-
tration was saved had been used to pay tips
and buy papers.
But meantime what had happened to the
thrifty worker who had made some provision
for his or his wife’s old age through a savings-
bank deposit? He had been told that this
note inflation was really done in his inter-
ests: that the worker was to be the gainer
by it. So for the most part he said, ‘ Oh.
very well, then; I must let things run on.’
And he let things run on, until when lie went
to draw his 2000 marks, which lie knew had
been worth £lOO in English money, he ivas
handed 2000 marks that were now worth less
than £2O in English money. In plain words,
inflation had robbed him of £80; and if he
had not drawm his money ivhen he did it
wmuld have robbed him of still more.
There was an old man at Mayence. on
the Rhine, who was dependent on an annu-
ity or pension which he had bought out of
his earnings. It was to have brought him
and his old wife the equivalent of £l2O a
year: that is 2400 marks. After the note
inflation he continued to get the 2400 marks
a year; but so little could be bought with
it that the old man went to a larger Rhine
city hoping to find some light work. His
relations in Australia learned subsequently
that he had died there of starvation.
Tlie same thing happened in Austria. There
the krone, which had been worth between
9d. and 10d., fell and fell in value as the
paper currency was inflated, until, when the
business was cleaned up, it took 20,000
kronen to equal the new 2-schilling (silver)
piece. The TO,OOO-kronen note illustrated
on this page, originally equal to about £420,
depreciated until it was worth approxi-
mately Is.
The tragedy in Russia was even greater;
although there it is suspected that it was
not so much tragedy as swindle and crime. The
old paper rouble was worth a little over 2s.
The printing press was clearly seen to be
a means by which the lender could be rooked
and the borrower benefited, and by whien
debts of all kinds could be paid without
discomfort. The presses rattled off notes
until the 100,000-rouble note, illustrated
herewith, was one of a roll which had been
used for paying petty expenses on a journey
out of Russia. It was at the time worth
probably Is. 3d. In pre-Revolution days a
100,000-rouble note was worth about
£10,200. Thus the policy of inflation
made it possible to discharge an internal
debt of £10,200 with a scrap of paper worth
fifteen pence!
Meanwhile the workers got nothing out of
it. Their wages never kept pace with the
rise in prices. A shrinkage of values—the
process in which a £l-note buys more of an
article this month than it did last month —
is a very disturb-
ing thing. Natu-
rally it means that,
unless he is forced
to, the man will
not buy to-day
when he thinks he
will be able to get
more for his money
to-morrow. Conse-
quently trade is
depressed and em-
ployment unc e r-
tain. But at least
the worker on a
more or less fixed
wage usually gets
the advantage of
falling prices weeks
or months before
he is called upon
to accept a reduced
wage or salary;
which is why thou-
sands of men on
wages and small
salaries in Austra-
lia are better off
to-day, by reason
of deflation, than
they have been for
several years past.
On the other hand,
because their wages
will move up as
slowly a s tho' y
move down, infla-
tion will rob them ;
and _ the swiftest
possible form of
robbery is through
the cheapening of
the note Issue.
Western Samoa
I am asked many
questions regarding
Western Samoa
and the Samoans
(a Maoriland
authority writes to
The Bulletin).
What chance has a
white man there?
—and it is gener-
ally bachelors who
want to know.
It’s best to be
candid ; I’d hate to
send fellows down
there under false
pretences. Samoa
and its natives are
all right so long as
you leave them
alone—the natives
especially. T h e
climate is tropical,
of course, but it is
not unhealthy,
especially if taken
in moderation. But
insects are a
plague, and outside
of Apia life is not
very comfortable.
If the white man
goes a little bit
native —all for the
love of a lady—
and gets bitten by
a mosquito in the native quarters, he is
likely to get inoculated with the germ of
that dread island disease elephantiasis.
Samoans are the easiest of all the South
Sea Island natives to get along with—so long
as the white remembers his whiteness and
keeps aloof. But the desire of every native
woman is to marry a white man. Woe to
the fellow who falls for it, because he will
be sponged upon by all her relations.
It is a very common impression that the
Simon pure Samoan is a simple child of
nature. Not he—even less she !
Queensland has only about half as much
ground under cotton as it had five years ago.
The area for 1929 was 27,659 acres, of
which 12,656 were not bearing. This acre-
age was a trifle larger than for the previous
year, but the production was only 8,024.5021 b.
of unginned cotton in 1929 compared with
12.290,910 for the 3928 period. Queensland’s
best year was 1925. when 19,537,2741 b. of
cotton was produced. The situation may
alter for the better now’ that tariff imposts
on imported cottop goods have been raised
so high. Already overseas cotton firms are
arranging to manufacture in Australia, and
established local manufacturers are increas-
ing their plants.
# * * *
Signor Mario Melano, acting-Consul for
Italy in Queensland just now, made a state-
ment before the Sugar Committee in Queens-
land last week which calls for contradiction.
This was that the Italians were the pioneers
of the sugar industry in Queensland. Sugar
was being grown profitably around Brisbane
by British people in the ’sixties, and the
industry was extended to Buudaberg and
later to Mackay, Townsville, Cairns and the
Johnstone River country before any but an
occasional Italian entered into the business.
Certainly the labor in those days was mostly
South Sea Island. When this source was
closed, the Britisher carried on by himself,
and it is only in recent years that the Italian,
admittedly a desirable citizen in many ways,
managed to establish himself in force in the
sugar country.
* * * *
Another of the Queensland State enter-
prises is calling for burial. This is the Gem
Pool founded by the Ryan-Theodore Govern-
ment, under which an expert buyer was
appointed, the miners receiving up to 9o
per cent, of the value of the gems won, which
were marketed by yet another expert. Pri-
vate buyers, witli better offers wrecked the
pool, but not before the State found itself
saddled with unsaleable stocks. These have
been realised wherever possible, but, accord-
ing to Auditor-General Beal, the total out-
lay to June 30 last had been £93,310, and
receipts from the sale of gems £51,734.
Stocks in London are valued at £19,291 and
in Brisbane at £19,870, and the size of
the direct loss will depend upon the luck the
pool has with the liquidation of these left-
overs.
* * * *
For a long time Australian graziers have
nursed an inferiority complex in the matter
of growing lambs for export. Spasmodic
efforts were made to build up the necessary
type of sheep, but the general tendency has
been to admit Maoriland supremacy and to
trust to the wool and mutton trade. In the
last few years, however, there has been a
change. The decline in wool and meat prices
has called fresh attention to the side-lines
of the sheep industry, especially the freezing
lamb. The British market demands a com-
pact, well-covered carcase, weighing from
321 b. to 301 b., and the M.L. growers have been
producing this type for years from various
British crosses, Southdown, Romney Marsh
and Border Leicester being the favorites,
while the equable climate and uniform pas-
ture conditions of the country have made their
task a simpler one than that facing the
Australian grower. Nevertheless, it can only
be a question of time before the Australians
find the right sort of sheep to suit climatic
and soil conditions, and begin to invade the
European market with bulk shipments.
Already small lots, mostly from Victoria,
have found favor at Smithfield, prices rank-
ing with the best that Maoriland can show.
* * * *
If matters proceed on the lines of recent
developments, Australia may one day find
itself riding on the pig’s back, as well as the
sheep’s. The recent drop in export freights
for poi’k and bacon has brought many
inquiries from British buyers, and space for
several heavy shipments has already been
booked, one of these from Sydney running to
£6600 worth of hams and 500 carcases of
pork. America has hitherto supplied most
of the pork demand of Britain outside the
local article, though a few years ago large
consignments of Chinese frozen pig found
a ready sale at Smithfield. The civil wars
in China have cut off this rather dubious
source of supply, to what may be our own
benefit. In a country so given over to
dairying, pork-growing, so profitable a side-
line to milk and butter production in other
countries, deserves far more attention than
it has received in the past.
* * * *
Twenty-three bodies concerned with butter,
including the Australian and M.L. Dairy
Produce Boards, have approached the British
Minister for Agriculture with the request
that dealers in “blended” butter be compelled
to mark their product with its actual consti-
tuents. Much rubbish is being blended with
high-class butter and sold as prime quality
at prices equalling those for the genuine
nrticle. A comparatively small quantity of
Australian or M.L. butter is used by these
fakers, but some 85 per cent, of the Russian
and other inferior European sorts is mixed
with better qualities in this way. Definite
marking, stating that the stuff was 85 p.c.
Russian, 5 p.c. M.L. and 10 p.c. Austra-
lian, could be relied on to cramp the style
of these unscrupulous market exploiters.
* * * *
Here is a sign of the times in the Mel-
bourne city property market. A fine blue-
stone warehouse in Little Collins-street,
formerly occupied by Price, Griffiths and Go.,
wholesale grocers, with a frontage of 133 ft.
by a depth along Church-street of 99ft., was
passed in at £123 a foot. The place is nearly
opposite Gordon and Gotch’s new ware-
house, and the price offered is the lowest
recorded in that locality for many years.
As it shows a downward step in valuations,
it reflects the precarious position of all
city rates and Government taxes.
* * * *
It is often said that grapes cannot be
grown north of Cooktown (Q.), but Wil-
liam Turnbull, who runs a nice little copra
and fruit plantation on Hicks Island (150
miles from Thursday Island, on _ the east
coast) has some fine healthy-looking vines,
and last year produced excellent grapes. An
irrigation plant does the watering with the
aid of native labor. Cotton is another pro-
duct of which some good samples have been
-shown at this little tropic isle,* which the
steamers pass at close quarters when they
run up inside the Barrier. The next neigh-
bors, Lockhart River mission station, 30 or
40 miles further south, are also producing
some nice specimens of cotton, and the
workers there, after introducing the abo. to
the idea of growing his own bananas and
kumalla with considerable success, are
experimenting with fig-trees and othei
plants.
* * * *
“Geoloin”: The success of the Falkiner
cane-harvester, again mentioned in the
cables, won’t help the N.Q. cane-growers in
their campaign for the continuance of the
sugar embargo. The plea is that the sugar
industry holds population in the North, which
is so nationally important that it is worth
some sacrifices'from southerners. But if the
industry can do without most of its field
labor, then at least half of the argument
goes crash.


ďs
Cash’s Ribbons are
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
ds
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable in a variety of
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash’s
J.&J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond, Melbourne.
1
Children’s Hospital No. 2 ART UNION
(ROYAL ALEXANDRA),
DRAWN ON DECEMBER 20, 1930.
Tickets 1/2
POST FREE.
Books of 12
can be had on
application.
Send at once.
Buy NOW!
■ J2<
By -permission of the Honorable the
Attorney-General.
Lighten the
dark times of
the little kiddies
who are in
hospital. They
depend on your
sympathy.
FIRST PRIZE: Wonderful Necklace of Diamonds valued at £5OO.
SECOND PRIZE: Morris Minor Saloon Motor Car (1930 model), £246 10s.
THIRD PRIZE: Beautiful Trousseau valued at £lOO.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES OVER £lOOO.
Apply to Hon. Sec., Box 4200 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.
tinder
Royal
Warrant
śfd
To H.M.
Ivin*
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE \
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company LimitsJ
SYDNEY.
champagne
'-«aiiesllcidsie<>
Reims
PELLI3SOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrsncs—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
WOMAN S
LETTER.
Sydney is in the grip of the Budget blues.
Quite a number of the population, poor
darlings, have been down south draining the
Cup that was expected to clear to-day of past
regrets and future fears, and hasn’t done it.
Even the parties this Letter frequents are
populated a good deal by the wives of gentle-
men who were Ministers of the Crown last
week, but now are Ministers no longer.
Every second brow is but a hatrack for
gloom.
All roads led to Woolloomooloo last Thurs-
day, and quite one of the jolliest parties of
tlie week was gathered on the Orient
Company s wharf to greet the Australian
cricketers and help them land the Ashes.
Ihe Oronsay fairly snorted with pride as
she brought her cargo of heroes home.
Mothers and wives and babies got the first
embraces, and soon Oldfield had his liands
tull of gurgling nine-months’-old offspring,
otan McCabe’s people came from Grenfell
ror the occasion, and mother fielded his first
kiss beautifully. Good-natured Ivippax was
caught almost at once by the young auto-
graph fiend. Queenslander Alec Ilurwood
was still wrapped in his cloak of friendly
silence. Alan Fairfax was another whose
family turned out in force to welcome him;
young Archie Jackson, who had arrived
home the day before, dashed down to greet
his pals, and Don Bradman was one of the
notables in the waiting group. After the
landing came the wild enthusiasm of a Town
Hall reception. Here Lud Mayor Marks did
the conquerors proud, and flappers, male and
female, again rushed to glean autographs.
In the evening the team dropped into Her
Majesty’s to sample “Sons o’ Guns,”
Mayoress Hilda Marks should have a
monument erected to her as a public bene-
factor. Her kettle-drum last week was the
one oasis in the social howling wilderness.
It was a party of large dimensions and wide
hats. One lid that completely ambushed its
wearer suggested a training ground for Phar
Lap, so big and round was its brim. Mrs.
Ilorsefield, whose husband is secretary of
the National Association, went to the other
extreme and sported a hat with no brim ; but
this was balanced by a flowing black veil
that fell backwards over it. Mrs. Sep Levy
was another of the wide-hatted who mounted
the civic stairway. Mrs. Garlick and Mrs.
Fleming both came to the party, and had
the joy of viewing their portraits added to
the gallery of past Town Hall hostesses. The
Mayoress wore chiffons patterned in ethereal
pinks and blues, and stood against a bank
of pink November lilies to do her reception
act. Near by stood Frank Crane, who is
to the Town Hall what a Michael Arlen
hero is to Mayfair. Town-Clerk Layton,
too, added a touch of courtliness to the
gathering of brunette and blonde ladies.
Railway Commissioner Cleary’s wife was
among those who sought the coolness amid
the palms and the monster flags of the
balcony. Mrs. Harrie Yale with her pretty
daughters, Mrs. Harry Dransfield, Mrs.
Alfred Lee, Mrs. J. J. Rouse, Tlieo Cowan,
Dr. Kate Knowles and May Mitchell were
a few who juggled the savory of content-
ment to the accompaniment of an orchestra
that was at once soothing and invigorating.
From No. 20 Martin-place, where they have
hitherto existed in a merely Australian
atmosphere, the fabulous-looking rainbow
trout and swordfish and the best-looking of
the Maori poster girls from the walls have
been moved to No. 10. Here, within a
gleaming casket of rimu, kauri and silver
beech, at the corner of Pitt-street and Martin-
place, the new Government Tourist and Trade
Bureau has its being. The walls are decked
with a frieze of Maoriland scenes, which
include glaciers, snow-topped mountains,
lakes like jade, glow-worm caves, guides and
geysers, West Coast roads that run between
surely the highest trees in the world, tracks
carpeted in fern v that lead to that slowly
moving river of ice the Franz Josef glacier,
and Lake Wakatipu gleaming in the sun—
for, unbelievable as it may seem to the
macintoshed and goloshed resident of South-
land, Maoriland has only 100 hours less sun-
shine a year than Australia. This Letter
liad the figure from an Enzedder, and the
same statistician declared that, call them
Rickety or Shaky Isles, or what you will,
Maoriland stages strictly well-conducted
earthquakes. In 80 years only 20 or so
people have been killed in its upheavals—
or something less than a quarter of a person
per year.
The new premises are certainly on one of
the city’s brightest corners—an army of 10
millions, they say, passes it every year. The
staff is rolling up its sleeves to sell tours
in large numbers daily. Part of the furnish-
ings will be Maoriland newspapers and a
writing-desk for the use of homesick travel-
lers. The opening of the new rooms last
Monday by Lud Mayor Marks was the occa-
sion for a great Kia-Ora tea at Miss
Churcher’s tearooms upstairs. Over this the
genial M.L. Government Commissioner and
his lady presided. Ten-minute films portray-
ing the charms of the Islands were the star
item.
Roy Agnew and Kathleen O’Connor were
wed last Saturday in St. Mary’s. Kathleen
is. the youngest daughter of the late Justice
O’Connor and a musician of some note. She
sings, plays and composes, though she has
so far confined this last gift to the making
of songs. Roy is one of Australia’s most
successful composers, and has caught and
retained the notice of London music pub-
lishers. The two hope to depart once more
for Europe, after their Newport honeymoon.
The Ambassadors was musical with liquid
vowels and vivid with happy gesticulations
one night last week, when Italy in Sydney
foregathered to celebrate the anniversary of
tlie Italian Armistice and that of the Fascist
march on Rome. The date of the first is
November 4, and the second happened on
October 2S. so the committee of the Lit-
torio Ball linked the two events; and more
than 300 enthusiasts stood up to Italy’s
National Anthem, as Consul-General Gros-
sardi and his lady stepped into the ballroom.
Mrs. Stassi, who was the night’s hostess,
handed red roses to Donna Grossardi, and
was in turn presented with red roses by the
committee. Learning and enterprise were
encountered on every side. Dr. Baccarini
and his wife, Dr. Marie Bentivoglio and Mrs.
Fiaschi (who still keeps an alert eye on the
Fiaschi vineyards) were among the jocund,
as were Prince Del Drago, the medical Moran
couple (whose gift to the Uni. is still remem-
bered), Greece’s Consular couple, and Mrs.
Ferrari Passmore, handsomely sheathed in
gold sequins.
Beatrice Taylor, the widely-known matron
of St. Luke’s Hospital, became Mrs.
Archie Gibson, of Newcastle, last week. St.
Philip’s on Church Hill, Bishop D’Arcy
Irvine and Padre Arthur Tillworth were
concerned in the gyving. The bride was
enveloped with ivory satin, Limerick lace,
magnolias and two bridesmaids; the Went-
worth spread the meats of rejoicing. Bride’s
mother, Mrs. George Taylor, formerly of
Maitland, hostessed, and an unusual feature
of the wedding procession was a guard of
honor of 12 trainees of the hospital in their
snowy-white caps.
Sir Hugh Poynter has collected a slim
booklet of such of his wife’s poems as were
yet unpublished when death claimed her, all
too soon, early this year. The late Lady
Poynter wrote verse of real lyric beauty in
many lands,
Star ting in
Turkey, where
her father was,
in her child-
hood, U.S. Am-
bassador, she
kept up the
habit wher-
ever she and
her husband
had travelled,
which was the
world over.
Her poems had
appeared fre-
que n 11 y in
such high-class
publications as
“LI arper’s,”
“C entur y”
and the “Morn-
ing Po s t.”
Some were
published i n
book form, the collection best known to Syd-
ney being, “Along the Winding Road.” In
the booklet., published for distribution only
among the dead poet’s friends, there is all
the crystal-clear thought and the sweetness
of note that her admirers have learned to
listen for. The Poyntere wove themselves
into the pattern of Sydney social and artistic
life completely and swiftly, and after a bare
three years’ residence in Australia had a
circle of friends nearly as wide as the con-
tinent. Lady Poynter brought friendship,
and she found friendship in nature as well
as in humans. In her early days among us
she wrote: —
I’m new to the land, and it leaves me free
Virtue or fault to find ;
But I feel it is going to be kind to me,
As I in measure am kind.
Vinia De Loitte’s musical party at the
iEolian Hall had to put up the shutters after
the one performance. This was merry and
bright, and one of the gloom-chasers of last
week. But even at the modest prices which
the company of unemployed artists put on
their night’s work, the Aeolian Hall was
not half full. So Vinia has reluctantly
decided to be satisfied with the first loss —£20.
At a time when most of the city’s clubs
are being slugged with resignations the Girls’
Secondary Schools’ Club holds something of
a record in being compelled to move into a
larger home. The club has now 700 mem-
bers, and from December it will change from
its present address in Castlereagli-street to
the third floor in Gowing’s Buildings in
Market-street. There will be a real dance
floor laid in the main lounge, which has a
stage at the top large enough for any play
that doesn’t want to produce a Melbourne
Cup or a chariot race. Card-rooms, dressing-
rooms, dining-rooms, decorated in vivid prim-
rose, green and amethystine tones, will be
other attractions. This year, incidentally,
this woman-run club has shown a profit in
every department.
Are free Sunday picture shows losing their
allure for Sydney? There were few notables
at “Old English,” which was pre-shown at
the Prince Edward, and plenty of empty
seats. On the other hand, the gala first night
of “Monte Carlo” at the same theatre was
packed. The MacCormick lady, the mili-
tary Heritages, the Sep Levys, that inveter-
ate talkie-patron Langloh Johnson, Justice
James and family, the T. A. J. Playfairs, the
Harry Budges and many others of social and
financial tonnage were present; and there
were literally herds of smart young Allens,
Hangars, Stephens and Osbornes, not to men-
tion Don Bradman. The first nights of the
best of the talkies are beginning to attract
audiences that are as representative in char-
acter as the old-time grand-opera crowds.
The good-looking girl in this Howard
Harris picture is Velia Ercole, whose clever
pen is responsible for The Bulletin serial
“No Escape,” which will follow “Break o’
Day.” Velia
hails from
Grenfell, where
her father is a
well - known
doctor. From
him she gets
her Italian
looks, and from
her mother a
touch of
French and
Irish. For a
few years the
authoress was
on the staff of
the “Sun” and
was a writer
of many short
stories, some
of which have
appeared in
the “Woman’s
Mirror” an d
this pap e r.
The Bulletin’s Novel competitions directed
her mind to more sustained works, and
though she did not pull down a prize her
novel was among the highly recommended.
At present she is journeying in Europe.
There are men who simply can’t stay mar-
ried, and Lord Inverclyde is evidently one
of them. The House of Lords record for
changeableness is • held at present by the
Duke of Westminster and the Earl of Ross-
lyn (sometime father-in-law of Sydney's
Sheila Chisholm), with three wives apiece.
However, the young Scottish shipping mil-
lionaire, with a marriage, divorce, re-mar-
riage and another divorce in the offing in-
side three years, isn’t doing badly. His first
wife was a Sainsbury, grand-daughter of an
old couple who began life’s struggle with a
ham-and-beef shop in London’s Mile End-
road, and developed it into a multiple store
business which is famous from one end of
Britain to the other for its bacon and
sausages. “June,” the lovely musical-comedy
star who is now applying for a divorce from
her Lord, was one of the Prince’s favorite
dancing partners before her marriage.
She was a tall woman, her iron jaw pro-
tected from the searching westerly by a
fence of fur. She sported two diamond rings,
ditto earrings, and carried a gold-mounted
handbag, and had obviously stepped into
the corner ham-and-beef shop to secure the
evening’s provender. She ordered lavishly,
and the proprietor was
genial. He asked in detail about the health
of the customer’s family, and was assured
that they were “good-o,” “bonser” and “ali
right!” Then he touched on the delicate
matter of commerce. The lady replied em-
phatically that her “old man found business
as usual —‘Lang or Bavin,’ ” he had said to
her only that very morning, “ ‘the turnover is
just about the same.’ ” The two out-of-work
young women waiting to be served with “a
quarter cooked meat and two penn’orth of
sweet pickles, please,” couldn’t restrain their
curiosity as the opulent one departed. “What
does her husband do?” they asked together.
“Oh, lie’s an undertaker in a fair way of
business?” replied the ham merchant.
A Sydney bookie who parted company with
his wife some time back got hold of an ori-
ginal alternative to paying her alimony. He
gave her a couple of unimpeachable servant’s
references. One which she produced in the
Divorce Court last week ran:—
To whom it may concern. This is to certify that
May Parker has been employed by me as a domestic
for the past three years, and I have found her to be
strictly sober, honest and reliable, and a willing
worker. It is with great regret that I have to dis-
pense with her services. Personal references can be
had by applying to me.
Bertie Pilcher’s wife divorced him in
Sydney last week. A son of the K.C. and
one. of the Bathurst McPliillamys, he created
quite a flutter in the corseted bosoms of the
Sydney maidens of the ’nineties when he got
back from Oxford and was called to the Bar.
Matrons who are now snowy-haired and
over-weight still talk appreciatively of his
roller-skating—the equivalent, 35 years ago,
of midget golf. He soon abandoned the Bar
for apple-farming in the Speck. Then he
abandoned apple-farming and settled in
King’s Cross. A brother died some years
ago, and two sisters, Mrs. Herbert Marks
and Mrs. Jay, are living in England.
Gladys Owen is now battling in the cause
of Bach. She and Basil Burdett are organ-,
ising two recitals of this composer’s works,
the first of which will happen on November
27 and the second on December 4 in the
small hall of the Con. On both dates
Laurence Godfrey Smith will preside at the
piano, and will illustrate and explain the
music-writer. And if enough people like
their music this way early French, Italian
and Russian composers wil be temptingly
set forth as later attractions.
Enid Denning, of Ryde, chose St. Ann’s
Church for her wedding with John Broome,
of Rockhampton (Q.). Ivory satin crusted
with pearls and a veil of old rose point which
had been worn by her great-grandmother
were notable items in the bridal raiment.
Enid is a daughter of the G. A. Dennings,
of Ryde, and the reception overflowed the
local Masonic Hall. Here three ’maids
in cornflower blue satin and wide blue hats
helped Mrs. Denning keep the hours as
sparkling as the wine.
The Queen Victoria Homes for Consump-
tives have become one of the popular chari-
ties of the hour. Last week an outsize
bridge party for their benefit snared half
the matrons in Sydney (or so it seemed)
amid the futuristic upholstery of the May-
fair lounge. And every afternoon from Dec.
1 to Dec. 8 dramatic entertainments for the
same cause will be given in the David Jones
auditorium. The Gordon lady, Grace Staf-
ford, Mrs. R. C. Tobin and Jean Cheriton’s
pupils will arrange programmes.
The Hostel for unemployed women is a
credit to the Association of Soldiers’ Mothers,
Wives and Relatives, which is handling its
affairs. When all the rooms at No. 5 Bligh-
street are furnished it will accommodate 30
girls and women who are out of work. Among
its temporary guests at present are several
destitute young wives with their babies. The
search for employment is, of course, the
vital part of the day’s round, but before she
sets out job-hunting, each woman gives a
hand with the housework. In this way the
expense of running the establishment is kept
down. All the residents are women who have
registered at the rooms of the National
Council of Women, and many of them obtain
a day or two’s work in each week at the
sewing depot of the Unemployment Relief
Council.
Wagga rejoiced the other day at the cele-
bration of the golden wedding of Mr. and
Mrs. George Bruce. The pair were married
at Gundagai, where the bride lived —the
’groom hailed from Adelong—by the late
Rev. Robertson, of the Presbyterian Church.
They received many warm congratulations
and good wishes.
On Friday afternoon Mrs. Jimmy Ashton
will be glad-handed by the Victoria League.
The rally will be housed in the reception-
rooms of the Women’s Club, and Mrs. Ashton
has promised to tell all about her recent trip,
when she accompanied her polo-playing sons
on their tour of Eugland and America.
The St. Albans will on next Saturday
carry away three charming Sydney girls,
Molly, Delia and Nell Fitzpatrick, lately of
Tilberoo, Illabo. They go to have a look at
Asia, and will return by way of Java some
time in the new year.
Talk about husband-beaters ! What spine-
less, devitalised females of the species we
are compared with little brown sister of Sama-
rang! According to Mrs. Stephen Davies,
wife of the Bishop of Carpentaria, just back
from England and Asia, there are 300
women in gaol in Samarang most of them for
murder —and in nearly every case a man
stopped the bullet, blunted the kris or ruined
the bread-knife. Little brown-skinned women
with black hair, the traveller describes them.
Doesn’t that lay the fetich of the passionate
and temperamental red-head? What gaol m
the world could trot out 300 ginger-tops
who had, in the term of the drama, “got their
man”? The ladies live apparently subdued
as well as sequestered lives in the gaol, spend-
ing their time making Batik (a nice thought
to wear around your throat with the next
Batik scarf your friends bring you out of
Asia).
Roland Foster is hoping to see what is fast
becoming a unique sight in these musically
degenerate days—a full house on the loth
of November, the date of the compli-
mentary concert, to Raymond Beatty. Ray-
mond goes to England with the intention of
conquering the concert platform, and the pro-
ceeds from the Town Hall function are to
help provide food and raiment while the
siege is being carried on. He is a genial,
good-natured fellow, whose breezy per-
sonality, in addition to his voice and his-
trionics, should be an asset to him on the
other side.


ď
/ '
r^n
TRUE ECONOMY
IS MORE THAN PRICE DEEP
Dodge Brothers’ oft-repeated statement,
“The first cost is practically the last,” to-day
means more than ever before. For every
fine feature of Dodge cars is even finer
in the Dodge Sixes and Dodge Eight-in-
Line of to-day. And modern engineering
advancements, including weatherproof
internal hydraulic brakes, add still more
to their long life, low upkeep costs, lasting
dependability and high resale value.
Luxury, beauty and brilliant performance
are yours in Dodge Sixes or Eight-in-
Line . . . the greatest satisfaction at the
lowest cost per mile.
UPHOLDING
BV&RY TRADITION OP DODGE- DE-PE-NDADILITY
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS;
New South Wales ........ Harden and Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia .... Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., 131 Collins St., Hobart


A Perfect aloss
'
A GLOSSY, healthy-
looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
I hair.
FIRST
SOLD
1792
sfdsf
land’s
Macassar Oil
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only from 10/- per day
Single Room only, with Private Bath from 15/- per day
Room and Breakfast ■ from 12/6 per person
Inclusive Tariff . from 20/- per day
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath from 27/6 per day
Private Suites quoted on application.
Luncheon 3/6 or a la carte. Dinner 5/*
Meals served in rooms, 1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM COURT LINKS
Open from 11 a.m. till midnight—lB Holes for 1/-
Golf and Morning Tea or Coffee I/-
Golf and Afternoon Tea 2/6
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
&/> e WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH HILL —SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
Amusements,
CYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
** J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION:
THIS THING CALLED LOVE.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE CINGALEE
(Commencing November 15).
COMEDY THEATRE:
PEG O’ MY HEART
(Commencing November 15).
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
HAPPY DAYS,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Pric-cs.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckely's
Clizabethan
Tea Rooms
P[?] Contral 800[?]
Buckley[?]
[?]
Flemington on Cup Day was rather drab,
apart from Phar Lap’s history-making vic-
tory. After the previous night’s wind and
rain, which followed a dust-storm of the
Mallee variety—a sirocco of fine red gidme —
the weather looked unsettled, and the dress-
ing ran the scale from fur coats to organ-
dies. Hats ranged from airy fairy wide-
brimmed creations to closely-swathed knitted
woollen or silken toques. .Seen from the
stand the fair puntei’s strolling among the
roses looked like a mannequin parade of
fashions of all seasons. After the first race
those who had brought coats or brollies
extolled their own wisdom, for there was a
heavy shower mingled with rain and hail.
Out in the betting-ring there was a mighty
scatter, and the bookies paraded their pre-
science by an unfurling of capacious um-
brellas. The lightly-clad were soaked in no
time, for the entrances to the stands became
blocked with people trying to shelter beneath
the narrow roofing over the gateways, and
much fine plumage became bedraggled. The
attendants of the ladies’ rooms came nobly to
the rescue; they found means of drying wet
frocks and millinery and furs that suggested
drowned cats. Beneath the thin bodices of
many gowns were carefully pinned face-
towels marked “V7R.C.,” pi’ecautions against
pneumonia that wei-e gratefully returned
when the sun came out. A couple of further
showers disturbed the afternoon’s comfort,
but having learned their lesson patrons were
not caught napping a second time. The
seventieth race for the Cup was run in the
brightest sunshine. Such was the public faith
in the favorite that there was not the wild
enthusiasm over his win that would have
evinced if it were not so much a case of
Gulliver dishing the Lilliputians.
The Acting-G.-G. and Lady Somers cut
out the usual entry-in-State and arrived in a
motor-car, making their way immediately to
the membei-s’ stand. The Savage Club
members adhered to their custom of coming
to the Cup in eoaeh-and-four, but otherwise
there were signs of depresh.—no picnics
under the elms for instance. Lady Somers
had a beige lace frock beneath a cocoa-lxued
coat collared with matching fur and topped
by a felt hat. Her little daughter Elizabeth
was permitted to view the classic race. The
Governor of S.A. and Lady Hore-Ruthven
were in the v.-r. party, the lady wearing a
figured silk frock with a black satin coat
and small hat. Lord Beauchamp and Sir
Otto Niemeyer looked benignly on the pro-
ceedings, other notabilities present being
Lieut.-Governor Irvine and his lady, Pre-
mier Hogan and his wife, Lud Mayor and
Mrs. Luxton and Knight Sam Hordern, of
Sydney, with his daughter Audrey.
The powers of endurance of the so-called
weaker sex were exemplified on Thursday
at Flemington, when the breeze blew chilly.
There was a big attendance and the lawn
was well sprinkled with dresses of the coolest
and airiest of materials. The sleeveless
mode of attire was much in evidence, and
though long gloves are now worn they were
poor protection for bare arms. A striking white
organdie frock of this nature was mounted
on a pink slip and scattered over with oak
leaves of black velvet. Puffed sleeves or a
cape, or both, were features of most of the
flimsy gowns, and the hems, even or scal-
loped, swept satin shoes. Very vivid blend-
ings or contrastings of hues were seen in
the patterned materials. A positively gor-
geous result was achieved by a frock of
royal blue and old-gold satin, with matching
transparent straw hat.
Lord and Lady Somers, with their house-
party, were there, her Ex. in an ensemble of
navy and beige spotted ninon with plain
georgette coat of navy, topped by a mastic
straw hat. Lady Hore Ruthven wore a
figured frock in which cherry red and fawn
were mingled, and a beige straw hat. The
Lawford lady chose black-and-white figured
chiffon and straw millinei-y. Her sister, Mrs.
Pomeroy Green, was also in chiffon, blend-
ing brown and amber. Adrian Knox’s lady
had a black hat shading a frock of pussy-
willow spotted in black and biscuit tones.
Mrs. Harry Whiting sported black-and-green
chiffon. Betty Fairbairn, not long back
from England, wore a distinctive gown of
fawn crepe de Chine. Mrs. A. Chirnside,
jun., was in champagne-toned organdie
embi*oidered in posies of wool. Nancy Hew-
lett and Joan Dowling (N.S.W.) displayed
the charm of linen, the first being in mush-
room pink and the other in buttercup. A
recent bride, Mrs. J. Fitz Gerald Fairfax,
looked handsome in China blue-and-white
foulard and a large white hat. Mrs. Barry
Thomson, Mrs. W. Mitchell, in fawn and
brown patterned frock and a hat with a
dash of pink, Mrs. J. Merrillees, Mrs. A. V.
Hiskins and her sister Miss Cox were other
well-dressed folk.
Some more Mallee dust came to the city
on Saturday, floating on a wind that turned
from hot to cold, and conditions therefore
were far from ideal for the last lap of the
Cup meeting. The summery clothes worn so
gaily at the Government House garden party
were donned by but few, and those few
didn’t look comfortable. The general pano-
rama was rather dull, and the course and
its surroundings wore a jaded look. The
roses and the bright horticulture of the
window-boxes about the stand were wilted ;
and the calceolarias were surrounded by
fallen petals. The v.-r. pen was full, though
Lord Somers’s house party had lost Earl
Beauchamp, Miss Crowdy and a couple of
other N. S. Wales visitors. Her Ex. wore
a smart hat of red straw with black felt
brim, topping a navy suit, and Lady Hore-
Ruthven’s three-piece frock was of navy-and-
white spotted cihpe georgette, with a black
hat. Lieut.-Governor Irvine and his lady
had with them a family party that included
the lan Haywards, of South Australia, and
the James Morrisons. Jacqueline Mackin-
non, whose folk have a squattage in N. S.
Wales ‘ and who is on her way home from
foreign travel, was in the v.-r. circle. Her
sports suit featured very wide stripes in
dull green and lime, worn with cloth mil-
linery of the yellow tint. Mrs. Geoffrey
Heath, in a crepe-de-Chine frock spotted
in brown, blue and rose on pale green, had
a shady hat, also green, with a pale-yellow
edge. Betty Fairbairn looked smart in a
platinum and brown net frock that radiated
over a nigger tone of silk. Mrs. Neville
Fraser, of the Western distinct, combined in
her light attire brown and fawn hues. Mrs.
Rogers Thomson chose magpie hues, as did
Joan Chirnside, who mingled black satin
and white chiffon with a large black hat.
Mrs. Richard Linton’s wear was brown
georgette and lace, with millinery in tone.
This is Dorothy Brunton, who stepped off
an ocean-liner at Prince’s Pier the other
day. Slim and looking younger and prettier
than ever, she
is becomingly
sun - tanned.
After eight
months of
playing lead
in “The White
Camellia” in
London and
the provinces
the actress
found the
climate of
Blighty had
played up with
her vocal
organs, so she
spent the last
few .months in
France and
Germany, with
a holiday visit
to Ireland.
She’s wearing
a handsome
diamond ring, but the identity of the lucky
man isn’t disclosed. Miss Brunton’s present
intentions are to dodge the winter in Eng-
land, and to return in February, or March.
At present she is staying with her mother in
Melbourne and will visit Sydney later.
The lightest and daintiest of diaphanous
fabrics had an outing at the Government
House garden party. Never within the
memory of this Page was there a day more
perfectly suited for such wear. There was
a great flaunting of flower-scattered designs,
some of which introduced blooms and colors
that have no parallel in botany. Against a
background of trees of every shade of ver-
dure and a lawn like green velvet, these
frocks looked very effective; and sunshades
of dazzling hues were gay as butterflies in
the sunlight. A tribute to the idyllic weather
and the care with which the v.-r. host and
hostess had provided for the comfort of their
guests was the fact that no one seemed to
wish to leave the scene, but lingered long list-
ening to the band. The afternoon repast,
which included lots of cold fruity drinks,
strawberries and other nice things, was
served in the ballroom, where there was
accommodation for all without screwging and
a genial friendly atmosphere. The only
uppish person was the Somers’s black
spaniel, who took his chocolate eclair off to
the dais and ate it under the throne.
Lord and Lady Somers stood for well over
an hour shaking the hands extended from a
human caterpillar that passed slowly by.
Her Ex.’s flounced frock of chiffon was
embellished with a floral design, and she
wore a contrasting hat of currant-red straw.
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s gown was of ficelle
lace. The Irvine lady joined the ranks of
the floral-patterned gown-wearers, her pink
roses and gentians being traced on black.
Mayoress Luxton sported a design in green
and flesh tints. Archbishop Head brought
his wife, who likewise was in figured material
—brown chiffon with blooms in green and
blue, topped by a nutmeg straw hat.
Among many striking parasols was one of
white satin edged with swansdown. Another
was as a sunflower, and Doris Moore had
a dinky little blue pagoda-like ’shade to
match her ninon frock. Mary Murray, who
was almost poured into a filmy lace frock of
sandalwood brown, worn over chiffon of the
faintest pink, was the smartest dresser
amongst the girls. Alexander Peacock’s lady
chc-se black and white, her gown being of the
pin-spotted variety. Mrs. J. J. Daly wore
black, with a floral design in blue and beige.
Mrs. Percy Blackbourne’s mole liopsack
gown, with a matching large straw hat,
struck a restful note in the kaleidoscopic
scene. A lady, otherwise all in black, ex-
hibited originality by wearing red kid gloves.
Menfolk who didn’t sport the uniform of
Navy, Army or Air Force were mostly frock-
coated and top-hatted; only a few were
sac-suited. Sir Otto Niemeyer, who evidently
likes to be comfortable, stuck to an every-
day suit and an Akubra, and one hero
rakishly topped his navy attire with a straw
boater.
Gordon McKeown, a teacher of the piano-
forte on the staff of the Uni. Con. and a
member of the Examination Board, has re-
turned from Germany, where he lias been
brushing up his technique for tw T o years
under Max Pauer, the famous maestro who is
director of the Leipzig Con. Much of Herr
Pauer’s teach-
ing is done in
small classes
of seven or
eight students,
who play in
turn once a
week the works
allotted to
them for
stu d y. Mr.
McKe o w u
was the only
Briton in
his class,
which included
two Russians,
a Mexi can
and a Dane.
The student
in Leipzig
has the bene-
fit of a grand-
opera season
that lasts for
11 months of the year, and innumerable con-
certs and recitals. Last year the New York
Philharmonic Orchestra, under the baton of
Toscannini, played at the Leipzig Gewand-
haus, the first occasion on which a body
of instrumentalists from abroad has per-
formed there. The Gewandhaus has great
traditions. Mendelssohn conducted the
orchestra concert at the opening, and the
desk at which he stood is a cherished pos-
session. Among Mr. McKeown’s fellow-
students at Leipzig were Audrey Anderson,
of Brisbane, and Rosa Pinkerton, of Mel-
bourne. Lafayette made the picture that
looks out of this window.
Their tenancy of Federal Government
House and its ballroom enabled Lord and
Lady Somers to stage their race-week ball
on a bigger scale than was possible in the
narrow confines of Stonington. The hop,
at which nearly 2000 danced, was pro-
nounced one of the best held in the historic
residence. Her Ex. supervised the decora-
tions. In the big drawing-room were
mounds and groupings of pink and white
azaleas and ferns, while in the ballroom
palms and other foliage were fringed with
pink blossoms. The music was of pre-war
vintage, a refreshing change after years of
Yankee jazz.
There was the time-honored formal vice-
regal entrance to the ballroom to roll of
drum. Her Ex. wore black chiffon, straight
and graceful of line, with a few sparkling
rhinestones brightening the frock. Diamonds
rippled upon cherry-red velvet about her
coiffure, and she wore strings of pearls, a
green feather fan completing the picture.
Lady Horc-Ruthven’s gown, shaded down-
wards from pale grey to black, was scat-
tered with glittering paillettes, and pearls
and diamonds banded her hair.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine was accompanied
by his lady, whose gown of black Chantilly
lace melted into a train. After the first
dance the debs., 17 or 18 in number, were
marshalled into line and made their bows
to their Exes, very gracefully. Members of
this all-in-wliite bevy, most of whom carried
posies of lily of the valley, were the twin daugh-
ters of Robert Best and his lady, Roberta
and Helena, slim and good-looking. Alice,
daughter of the F. E. Luxtons, of Brisbane,
was another of the buds, her white brocade
frock being inlet with ruchings of tulle. Dr.
and Mrs. Stephens’s eldest daughter, Mar-
gery, was also in the bunch, dainty in lace
flounces bordered with tulle. Prof, and
Mrs. Osborne introduced to society their
second daughter, Yrsa, wearing Limerick
lace and georgette. Cynthia, the Norman
Brookes’s eldest, sported silver lace soft.-
ened with georgette, and a perfectly lovely
cobwebby-lace frock was worn by Jean
Weatherby, lately back from travel in Eng-
land. Margaret, daughter of Lennon Raws
and his lady, was in chiffon.
Lace gowns and feather fans were out-
standing features of the dressing; and black
and wine and garnet tints of red were much in
favor. Mayoress Luxton chose georgette of
cornflower blue. Mrs. G. Chirnside, recently
returned from a visit to London, was in
powder-blue lace draperies, which made an
effective contrast to her white hair. Mrs.
W. J. T. Clarke donned a tiara, thus giving
a bright note to a trained gown of black
georgette. Rear-Admiral Evans’s wife wore
tourmaline-pink moire. Elizabeth Knox
waved a white feather fan against her lapis-
lazuli-hued lace gown, and Mrs. Norman
Brookes, in lace of ficelle tint, carried a fan
of ostrich plumage. Mrs. Andrqw Chirnside,
.tun., looked attractive in pale-blue chiffon.
Mrs. H. Creswick introduced an Oriental
touch in her glistening silver gown and
white-feather fan. Mrs. Alec Russell was
wrapped about in lime-colored chiffon.
Among the misses Mary Murray was out-
standing in multi-colored tapestry brocade
fashioned with flared flounces.
A knot-tying of last week was that of
Freda, youngest daughter of the F. W. Nor-
mans, of Glen Iris, who wedded Neville,
second son of Mr. and Mrs. F. Smith, of
Caulfield. The bride was clad in lace
with a gleam of faint pink beneath ivory
chantilly, and her veil of tulle. H’er two
maids provided a background of pale green
gowns and millinery.
At St. John’s, Toorak, Bishop Stephen,
who was aided by Dr. Law, gave an epis-
copal hitch to the knot between Dulcie,
only daughter of the late Charles Rawdon
Cunningham and Mrs. Cunningham, of N. S.
Wales, and Noel, youngest son of the late
C. Cox and Mrs. Cox, of Jacamunda. Parch-
ment satin draped the bride, whose veil of
old Limerick lace descended froni a halo
of orange blossom. Betty Barton and Audrey
Cox attended in frocks of two blends of
pink, and there were two trainbearers in
Kate Greenaway frocks of the same tint.
There were after-rejoicings at No. 9.
Kathleen, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Eugen Hirschfeld, of Brisbane, has become
the wife of Colonel Gerald Mumby, who
served in the Great War with the Army
and in the Air Force, and now pursues a
civilian vocation in this city. The links
were forged at Scots’ kirk. The bride, who
held a posy of roses, wore silk net of ficelle
tint and her tulle veil was attached to a
circle of orange buds. June Joshua was
the attendant maid, wearing deep red georg-
ette, and her dark hair was wreathed with
roses of the same hue, which likewise
formed her bouquet. The bride and bride-
groom met about a year ago in Los Angeles,
when the lady was returning to Australia
from a world tour. Mrs. Hirschfeld, with
her daughter-in-law Mrs. Otto Hirschfeld,
came from Brisbane for the ceremony, which
was followed by a dinner at the Windsor.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes staged a
dance at their home on Oaks night to further
celebrate the debut of Cynthia, the eldest
of their trio of daughters. Kurneh, South
Yarra, glowed with fairy lights and flowers,
and the party was honored by the presence
of the Acting-G.-G. and Lady Somers and
the Hore-Ruthvens. Lady Somers wore ninon
embellished with a design in green and
russet, and Lady Hore-Ruthven chose pat-
terned material in green and grey. Mrs.
Brookes was attired in velvet embossed georg-
ette in fawn and brown. Pink silk net,
fashioned with deep flounces graced the deb.,
who carried a posy of pink-and-blue blossoms.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton’s gown was of black
chenille embroidered chiffon.
The arrival of Kingsford Smith after his
dashing flight from England was shorn of
a good deal of glory that otherwise might
have surrounded it by the fact that the
flier dropped in on a race day. The next
big event in the aviator’s career is to be his
marriage with Mary Powell at Scots’ Church
on December 10. Already the bride-to-be
has selected her quartette of ’maids, whose
dressing will essay a “night in June” effect
in blue and silver.
Lady Somers was the winner at the
Animal Week Ball of an order entitling her
to a free gift of millinery at a leading atelier.
She forfeited the claim, and the privilege was
put up to auction, bringing a few more
pounds to the cause.
On the pocket-handkerchief stage of the
Proscenium Club on Saturday night Lucy
Ahon’s Student Theatre Society was seen
in an amusing Spanish play, “The Women
Have Their Way,” preceded by an Irish
sketch, “Friends,” by Herbert Farjeon. In
the Quintero brothers’ little comedy the
ladies were able to revel in gorgeous lace
mantillas and the other trimmings of Span-
ish attire. Pianist Madge Sissons provided
a programme of numbers that admirably
suited the atmosphere of the plays.
After two years of study in Germany,
pianist Rieke Parker is wending her way
homewards. She is due to arrive by the
Ville d’Amiens towards the end of November.


THINK oftSfie LAKES
NOW . . . .
.... Think of the boating, the fishing, the surfing....
of the mirrored reflections in the placid blue waters of
the lakes....of the golden sunshine and the fragrance of
the green bush....of the tinkling music of the bellbirds
.... of the muffled roar of the Southern Ocean along the
white curving sweep of the Ninety-mile Beach.
Think,.,,and then ACT. Plan your next holiday
at the GIPPSLAND LAKES, the moot picturesque
chain of lakes in Australia.
A fast and comfortable train service from Melbourne connects at
Sale or Bairnsdale with steamer or car services to the Lakes.
And the accommodation is excellent.
Booking and all information at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY ;OR QUEEN’S WALK. MELBOURNE. ______
■ *
1
mz
*S
1 9k!
sd
Two Exclusive Features.
First: the perfect site, the convenience of which
contributes so much to the comfort of our
guests. Second:
Reduced Tariff —“Room Only” Rates.
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room .. from 22/6 per day
Breakfast,
2A and 3/6; and ala carte.
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
The
Australia
Hotel
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
BREAK O'DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scorfield
Synopsis : Dan Digby, a giant of a
man, is transported to Tasmania for
smuggling. He escapes to the main-
land, and is again in flight when an
assault he leads on the sheriff in South
Australia fails. Captured at a whal-
ing centre, he refuses, when part of
the way bach to Adelaide, to go any
further, and is chained to a tree. At
night, exhausted from his endeavors
to break loose, he is saved from dingoes
by Tom Hawke and Jem Hales,
two other fugitives from justice.
He takes command of them, and
leads back to the whaling centre where
he formulates a scheme for them to
take a cutter and sail to New Zealand.
He believes it is necessary to include
Sam Morgan, another escapee, in the
party. Morgan lives in a hut in the
bush, and the desperate three wait
until it is dark enough to interview
him.
Chapter V.
EVENING had barely darkened into
night when the fugitives, fearful of
losing a precious minute, led by Digby,
carefully descended the hillside. In less
than an hour they were in sight of Morgan’s
hut, a light from, which blinked at them
through the branches of the trees. Digby
halted the party by taking his companions
each by an arm, and motioning them to sit
down and await his return. Having
advanced cautiously to within a dozen
paces of the htit, the door of which was
ajar, he sat and waited to get a glimpse
of his friend, or to assure himself in some
way that Morgan still occupied the hut.
Presently there floated through the gum-
scented air Morgan’s musical baritone voice.
He was singing a Welsh song as he pre-
pared his evening meal.
Digby strode to the open door and called
huskily, “Sam, it’s me, Dan Digby. I’ve
escaped.”
The song was broken midway as Morgan
leaped for the gun beside his bunk.
“Hold hard, Sam,” called Digby. “It’s
Dan Digby. I’ve escaped, Sam. Da.n
Digby.”
“Come up to the light till I have a look
at yer,” commanded Morgan, standing ready
with his piece.
Digby complied, and the light of a rush-
lamp played upon his features. Morgan
dropped his weapon on the bunk and
boomed, “Sink me if it isn’t Dan Digby!”
and taking Dan’s hand in both of his he
led him under his roof.
“Blast me, Dan, so you’ve given ’em the
slip!” he exclaimed when his survey was
finished. “But you look worn out, man. An’
what’s this? Handcuffs? Darbies, be God!
And broke! An’, O God! look at his
wrists!”
“Easy Sam, easy!” cautioned Digby.
“You’re a good way back here; but voices
carry a night like this.”
Sam closed the door and turned to his
friend. “Sit down, Dan; sit down on the
bunk. How th’ Hell did you do it? Tell
me all about it. But O my God! look at
his wrists! Hold hard, Danny me boy!
I’ve got some tea and summat to eat, an’
I got a new file here in the tool-box. Let’s
get the darbies off and bind them wounds.
You tuck in, and I’ll file.”
Digbj' hastened to tell Morgan about his
mates and of their urgent necessity to get
to sea that very night and shape a course
for New Zealand. “And, Sam,” he con-
cluded, “I want you to join us. It was you
and me that worked out this idea in the
first place. How say, will you come with
us to-night?”
“O’ course I will,” agreed Morgan,
“though it’s easier said than done. Yet
we’re lucky in a way. The manager sails
to-morrow to Port Phillip with two men.
The cutter was victualled to-day; but, man,
we’ll want a lot more grub than is put on
board.”
“What about the store?” urged Dan.
“Terrible risky,” warned Sa.m. “Since
you were here they’ve fixed up a new door.
There was a lot of stuff goin’ missin’
They’re off!” exclaimed Morgan, changing
the topic, and wrenching back the filed ends
of the second manacle, which, he presently
slipped from Digby’s wrist. “Now, Dan,
me lad, we’ll just wash them wrists and bind
’em up.”
While Morgan performed his good offices,
Digbj' ate, drank, winced with pain, and
listened to what Morgan had to say anent
the idea of sailing away that night in the
stolen cutter. “I’ll tell you what it is,
mate,” explained Morgan. “If we sail to-
night we’ll have to take our chances with
the grub that’s in the boat now. If we go
rummagin’ about the store we’ll likely get
caught. You never know who’s about there
at night; and, as I said before, there’s been
a lot o’ thievin’ goin’ on here lately. Even
as it is, we might have to scrag someone
before we get the boat out. How far is it
to New Zealand, Dan?”
“About sixteen hundred miles,” replied
Digby. “With luck we ought to do it in
a month or six weeks. I’m willin’ to risk it
with the grub that’s aboard, if you are,
Sam.”
“Lord!” said Sam, “I’ll risk anything
that’s got a ghost of a chance of getting
me out o’ this. There’s a couple o’ fishin’
lines aboard, so we shouldn’t starve. You
go now and get your mates and bring ’em
into the hut here. There’s plenty o’ tea for
’em and some grub. It wants a quarter o’
ten o’clock. There’s plenty o’ time. We
won’t, make for the jetty before one o’clock.”
Chapter VI.
At one o’clock in the morning the four
men moved silently from Morgan’s hut in
the direction of the jetty, and by making
a detour through the bush, avoided the
habitations of the whaling station. They
.passed close to the storehouse and involun-
tarily slackened pace. The contents of the
storehouse, could they only lay hands on it,
might one day tip the scales in their favor.
For a moment they paused and regarded
the store, not a stone’s-throw away; then
Morgan shook his head and they passed on
to the jetty. Silently they dropped one
by one into the cutter and Daniel Digby
took command. His experience as a
smuggler enabled him to navigate the craft
from her moorings in the quickest possible
time and with the least possible noise.
When fairly headed seaward, Digby and
Hawke took an oar apiece and pulled
steadily from the bay to meet the breeze.
They hoisted mainsail and foresail to a
fair breeze and shaped a course that would
carry them south of Tasmania. With a sigh
of relief they threw off the load of anxiety
that had for days corroded their minds, and
found themselves made new again by the
open sea and the salt breeze. And Jem
Hales, whose emotions always called for
expression, began to sing.
For ten days the voyage was as uneventful
as the stealing of the cutter. The wind was
mostly favoi’able and the sea kindly. An
inventory had been taken of the provisions.
There was sufficient for the four men to
keep body and soul together for twenty-two
days. Thus they were rid of the fear of the
hangman’s rope only to be assailed by the
dread of starvation. Their lives hung on
the weather, so they lived with their faces
upturned to the sky, seeing in every change
their death warrant.
Digby was in undisputed command. His
wounds were healing well,' and his being
responded to the element that had nurtured
him in boyhood. He had stamina and
strength of mind much above the average.
He planned day by day to forestall disaster
should the elements become hostile, and his
companions readily obeyed his commands
and relied on his experience and his strength.
One fishing-line only had been found and
one fish-hook. Every day they tried for
fish, and though they caught but few, every
one was hailed as a possible saviour. But
on the tenth day a tragedy occurred. Hales
caused the fish-hook to be lost in the sea.
The better to guard the hook from loss,
Digby ordered Hales to secure it on the
line at a fresh place. He obeyed the order,
but, inept as usual, managed to attach the
hook to the old place, which was badly
frayed. At the first cast something con-
nected with the hook and it promptly
parted company with the line. When the
hookless line was drawn in to the boat
there was a silence which broke in blistering
anathemas, befoi'e which Hales recoiled
cowering to the vessel’s bow. Morgan and
Hawke followed him with threats of vio-
lence, but Digby, who had said nothing,
ordered them aft.
When Jem had hauled in the line hand
over hand, and stood amazed, with the hook-
less end in his hand, he looked up into
the face of Dan Digbjq as if in mute appeal
to his leader for an assurance that his eyes
were playing him false; but he had found
there something colder than contempt,
deadlier than hate. It seemed to Jem in
that moment that all his life he had stood
thus, transfixed by compelling eyes, blue
and bitter; and the hookless line in his
hand! Digby never spoke. He consulted
the compass and relashed the tiller.
The hook had been lost soon after dawn.
All day long the cutter sought the peaks
and valleys of the Pacific. The sun
mounted to noon and fell hour by hour
down the western sky till it slipped into
the heaving waters; but not a word had
been spoken among the four from the
moment that Digby had saved Hales from
his assailants. 1 A silence, sinister and brood-
ing, was imposed upon the outcast crew.
The losing of the barbed steel hook, worth
more to them than the wealth of the Indies,
they felt as a portent of foul days to come.
And now they began to avoid each other.
For three days they spoke only when speech
was necessai’y to work the boat.
They sat about with lowering faces, avoid-
ing each other’s eyes. The meagre ration
and the confinement within the narrow space
of a thirty-foot cutter was taking toll of
their vitality. Digby was least affected, but
Hawke had sunk into melancholia, and his
face was not good to look upon.
The evening of the twelfth day saw the
good weather break. Two nights and three
days had passed since Hales had lost the
fish-hook, and during tha.t time each man
had been alone with his thoughts. Digby
outwardly calm, was consumed with a desire
to visit on the other a retribution commen-
surate with his crime, but he also strongly
desired that some benefit should accrue to
himself. Being eminently practical, and
highly acquisitive, Digby considered all pro-
posals throughout his life from one angle
—the gain, if a.ny, that would be his. He
was a fighter and a stayer, but he would
not lift a hand until he could clearly see
some personal gain from so doing. Wholly
devoid of generosity he could never be
guilty of gainlessly making a sacrifice for
another, and he never forgave one who,
however innocently, caused him to be
thwarted of his desire. What use, then, to
punish Jem Hales except by death? None
whatever!
Digby had brooded on the matter. Wasn’t
Hales a useless, white-livered fool? And
wasn’t he eating a full quarter of their
rations every day he lived? And wasn’t he
a danger to his mates? Didn’t he lose the
fish-hook? Ay, ay, he must give up his
rations to his mates. He must die—but
how? Not he, Dan Digby, would knock
him on the head, or throw him overboard,
with two witnesses to prove it against him
later on. Morgan and Hawke!—he trusted
neither of them. He would cut adrift from
them as soon as maybe, after landing, if
they ever landed at all. Those two would
always remain what they were. That was
no good to him. The past had got to be the
past. If ever he ran against the law again
it would be for something worth while. But
it would be best not to run against it at.all.
He took in his belt a couple of holes to
stay the gnawing at the pit of his stomach.
He hadn’t been really free of the pangs of
hunger since they stole the cutter.
Hawke would have to do it, he concluded.
Didn’t he bring the rat-faced little midget?
Hawke was responsible for Hales; he should
never have made a mate of such a dolt.
Yes, by God! it must be Hawke who must
rid the cutter of this curse. As for Hawke
himself, he wouldn’t be surprised if in a
day or two he was raving mad. Yes, let
Hawke do the deed, and do it quickly. No
time like the present; he would talk it
over with Sam and Tom.
“Tom! Sam!” shouted Digby.
Hawke and Morgan started, looked at
each other and began making their way
towards the leader.
Hales, who had been lying in the bows,
sat up to see what was afoot. When he
saw Hawke and Morgan going aft he
scrambled to his feet and made after them.
He had reached amidships when Digby fixed
him with his eyes. Paralysed with fear, he
stood stock still. Digby did not. speak; he
extended his right arm and nointed towards
the bow. Hales turned like an automaton
and faced the bow. He straightened up.
Something beckoned on the horizon, right
ahead. He put his hand to his forehead to
shade his eyes. A bright smile lit up his
face a.nd lent to his features for the first
and last time in his drab life a touch of
beauty. With his body erect and his head
thrown back, he stepped firmly across the
thwarts, his eyes on the horizon, right ahead.
Over the coiled rope in the bow he
marched, and along the bowsprit—straight
ahead to the beckoning horizon, his right
hand to his brow, shading his eyes.
Chapter VII.
Under a bare pole the little cutter ran
before the gale. The wind had risen quickly
from a stiff breeze to a pandemonium of
howls and shrieks. The little craft was
hurled over hills and valleys of maddened
water. The giant waves raced after her,
each a thundering, seething menace.
Dan Digby held the tiller; grim but
mighty efficient, he kept her clear of the
terrif3ung maned monsters that reared them-
selves at her stern, while Hawke and
Morgan baled for their lives.
For two days and two nights the storm
did not abate. Without sleep, and eating
only as they could snatch a mouthful of
sea biscuit, sodden with sea water, they
labored unceasingly to keep their vessel
afloat. On the morning of the third day
the wind dropped with the dawn, and there-
after the seas gradually ceased their menace.
Hawke and Morgan, so soon as they saw
it was no longer necessary to labor, slumped
exhausted to the bottom of the boat and
slept. Digby stuck to his post at the tiller,
and tried to arrive at some conclusion as
to their position. He made it about two
hundred miles south of their course.
Having allowed his mates about an hour’s
sleep, he cuffed them awake to run out the
mainsail; then he set a fresh course, into
the wind, and handed over the tiller to
Hawke while he snatched a rest. Hawke
settled himself in the stern and grasped
the tiller, while Morgan busied himself
making some repairs to the rigging. Sud-
denly, much to Hawke’s surprise, Morgan fell
across the thwart amidships, and slipped to
the bottom of the boat. “Have a good
sleep while yer about it, mate,” advised
the steersman, who was not made of the
same stuff as Digby.
The wind fell rapidly, and they were now
climbing unbroken rollers and sliding into
smooth valleys. Hawke leaned heavily on
the tiller, his whole being crying out for
rest. He was feeling very comfortable, his
chin resting on his chest. The seas rolled
on, and the little cutter drifted, lifted to
the crests, lowered to the hollows, at the
mercy of the elements, which dealt gently
with her through all the hours that the
helmsman slumbered.


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
mm - *
r
IP
d
Food
Rerd. Tradr Mark,
“I don’t like Milk.”
Many mothers have this
trouble with the very children
who need milk most.
In nursing homes, hospitals,
etc., they have a way of
making everybody like milk.
The doctors call it Bengerising
the milk —this is really making
fresh milk into delicious
Benger’s Food.
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Digby was the first to rise. He awoke
with the dawn, chilled to the marrow, know-
ing that something was wrong. He rubbed
his eyes and stared aft, and saw Hawke
at the tiller—asleep. Numbed with cold,
and aching in eveiy bone, Digby made his
way to the stern. He grabbed Hawke by
the scruff of the neck, and with a hoarse
curse pulled him from the tiller and threw
him forward, as the cutter lurched steeply to
port; and Tom Hawke, still asleep, went
head-first over the side.
Digby brought the boat’s head up to the
wind, but he never gave the place where
his mate had disappeared a second look.
“That’s none o’ my work,” he excused him-
self. “But perhaps it’s just as well.”
Digby looked out over the bows of his
tiny ship. His emaciated jaws, covered with
a shaggy beard, were clamped together. He
was hating his lost mate, who had en-
dangered his life by falling asleep at the
steering post, and he was hating dead Jem
Hales, who had lost the fish-hook, and he
thanked his stars that in both cases a happy
fate had intervened to end the lives of two
men whom he had murdered in his heart.
He did not know then that Sam Morgan,
lying under the thwart amidships, had
dropped there, exhausted with the agony
of a weakened heart, and that very soon
he, Daniel Digby, would be the only human
thing in all that rolling immensity.
Chapter VIII.
Dan Digby was fortunate in that Nature
had bestowed upon him, with both hands,
not only rare physical qualities, but an
indomitable courage and an iron will. Four
days had passed since Sam Morgan died,
and Digby was sailing alone—sailing with
the wind from the south-west. As well to
take the course of least resistance as any
other, for he had but the vaguest notion of
his position.
Morgan had died where he had dropped,
below the thwart, amidships. He had lain
there through a day and a night. Digby
did not know when he died. He was too
much concerned to keep his little craft
afloat. When the dawn broke on the morn-
ing of his twenty-first day at sea Digby,
huddled at the tiller, peered through the
driving sleet in the direction of his mate.
He could barely make out the shadowy
form beneath the thwart, but he knew that
his mate was dead. It was characteristic of
the man that he was unshaken when, having
lathed the tiller, he bent over Morgan’s
dead body, and, having stripped it of its
clothing, toppled the corpse over the side.
Carefully he scraped up the briny mess
that had been the sea biscuits, and put it in
a bailing-tin. Then he took a dipper of
water from the water-butt, and made his
way back to the stern, where, having put
on Morgan’s clothing, he huddled down
beside the tiller to await the pleasure of
fate.
He was conscious of the fact that these
last exertions had made him very tired,
and when he saw, as he drew on Morgan’s
sodden drawers, how wasted were his limbs,
he wondered vaguely how long he would
last. He suffered no regrets for embarking
on the desperate journey. Much better to
waste away in the unknown, or be drowned
there, than to hang from a rope’s-end in
Adelaide gaol. He tried to eat some of the
biscuit mess, but the brine of it tortured
his lacerated mouth. The water he could
have drained at a draught, but he dared
not.
The sea was kindly, and the wind was
steady in the south-west. Through the long
hours of daylight he hugged the tiller, sipped
water from the bailing-can to quench the fire
in his throat, and repeatedly told himself
that on no account must he lose his sanity.
Through the dark hours he dozed fitfully,
waking with a start when the vessel’s motion
indicated that she had broached to. But so
inured had his mind and body become to
the single idea of keeping the cutter before
the wind that not until his mind became
a total blank would his arms cease to
function.
He found it increasingly difficult, as
night wore on, to stave off oblivion, but
with the approach of daylight wakefulness
returned to remind him of the fire in his
throat and the agony in his stomach.
He entered on his fourth lone night with
the wonderful discovery that there was
a half-way house between waking and
sleeping at which he received all the refresh-
ment of sleep, and at the same time con-
sciously steered the boat. The half-way
house was his Nirvana. He had never ex-
perienced in his life such a sense of power
and comfort as was his while he dwelt at
the half-way house; but he could not hold
himself there. He must slip either into the
deep of oblivion or be jerked back to reality
and horror. The last visit he made to the
delectable spot ended in his slipping into
the deep end of forgetfulness. The sun
was high in the heavens when he got back,
but he did not rouse himself. He was feel-
ing good—painless and warm.
The strong waves of the Pacific made
game of the little cutter, catching her up
on their necks, then rolling away from her
to let her slide down into the green gullies.
Digby felt very comfortable. He would
right the boat—but not now. He would
first sleep.
He felt himself rushing along at a terrific
speed, the darkness growing less palpable,
and shot through with points of light.
What was going to happen to him? Ah,
3res, of course, he was waking up!
“My God! How’s her head?” and he felt
for the tiller. But there was no tiller.
The surprise of it jerked him awake, and
he looked into the eyes of the sailormen
“When, later, Daniel came face to face, with the singer he found Margaret Cameron no less attractive than ner voice.
who stood by his bunk on board the whaler
that just in time had rescued him.
Chapter IX.
Had the whaler not sighted the little
cutter Daniel Digby would have died in
sight of his promised land. As it was, he
made a smart recovery aboard the whaler,
and within a fortnight of his rescue he was
able to go ashore and take stock of his
new surroundings. He gave his rescuers as
much of his story as he considered prudent,
mentioning nothing at all of events which
might cause the whalers to regard him as a
person of doubtful character. The purple
scars that encircled his wrists he attributed
to his capture by Australian blacks, who
had bound him to a tree, from which he had
escaped. The captain of the whaler, struck
by his splendid physique, offered him a
berth; but Dan refused the offer, with many
thanks, saying that he was led to believe
there was good business to be done in
trading with the settlements in New
Zealand and with the natives, if one had
the means of transport, and that was why
he had purchased the cutter in Australia,
and sailed her across the Tasman Sea at
the risk of his life. The skipper congratu-
lated him on his pluck and enterprise, and
hoped he would fall in with him again on
his subsequent visits to the station.
Digby’s first employment in the new
country was as a hand at the whaling-
station. His belongings consisted of the
cutter—a fine asset—a musket, a fowling-
piece, two pistols, and the clothes that he
stood up in—his own and Morgan’s.
So well did Digby conduct himself in his
employment at the station that before
twelve months had gone by he found himself
the working boss, and he had found time,
too. to explore the country that lay in his
vicinity, and to follow the river some miles
towards its source. He became a welcome
visitor and occasional trader at the Maori
pa, situated five miles north of the whaling-
station, where his weapons were regarded as
the most desirable things in the world.
It was during his first visit to the pa
that he was obliged to part with one of his
pistols. The chief had clapped a ravenous
eye on it, and to secure the weapon for
himself had torn a piece from his flaxen
covering and fixed it to the pistol. That act
made the weapon tapu; thereafter it became
a crime punishable by death for any other
than the chief to handle the artic e a
the chief had made sacred. Digby, le uc -
antly at heart, but outwardly with a gi
show of generosity, presented the nieaim to
the chief, to immediately discover that He
had made a splendid deal. The cHiet, in
consideration of his receipt of the pistol,
gave Digby a tract of land on the side
of the river farthest from his pa, a held
of pigs, and three beautiful marriageable
maidens. Thus in one good trade Digby
became a large landholder, a farmer and
the master of a harem,
Unwilling to depend on the chiefs w Ol /*’
Digby set about taking possession of the
country traded to him. Accompanied by
the manager of the whaling-station and the
chief, with his retinue, Digby ascended a
hill that overlooked the country the chief
had granted to him, and before those wit-
nesses the boundaries were fixed—a pro-
cedure similar to that used for the passing
of land under the feudal system. .Not
many yearn later Daniel Digby received
from the Crown a grant which included this
tract of country, and many another valu-
able tract.
Digby reconditioned his cutter and
decked her, and with a man loaned him by
the station manager, the season being a
slack one, visited the settlement about two
hundred miles to the north of the whaling-
station, with a view to inaugurating a trade
between north and south. the result of
his travels was successful enough to induce
him to devote himself entirely to trading,
and thus began that which daecame in after
years the well-known Digby Meet,
At the beginning of his trading career
Digby was careful not to neglect the natives,
He invariably returned from his voyage to
the north with a stock of spirits, weapons
( Continued on page


8
M
k
tear
PLATE
V
fy(J
R?
VVARE
important occasion
is four years old to-day,
and four little friends arc
coming to tea. The special nursery
tea-set will be used, in honour of
the occasion; and how the gay
little party will laugh at Mabel
Lucic Attwell’s delightfully funny
Shelley China ! They’ll love the
jolly tea-cups, the Mushroom
sugai basin, and the jolly hob-
.gobhr, milk-jug—Fairyland China,
yet, through inherent toughness
of substance, fitted to stand
nursery handling.
TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attwell
oHiida Cowham
DomesticWarje
Jelly Moulds
B R.ITISH MADE
IN CASE OP ANY DIFFICULTY (N OBTAINING
WR.ITE TO
sd
“DELOFORD”
PORTABLE
SAFETY BOATS
PRICE
16
GUINEAS
S3 l
OF CAR
HAPPY DAYS ON SEA,
RIVER OR LAKE.
Weighs only 451 b., and is easily
carried on any car.
Ideal for camping, fishing and
duck-shooting on any water.
SAFE and UNSINKABLE
MADE IN SUNBEAMLAND,
WOLVERHAMPTON,
ENGLAND.
The mechanism is simple, ingeni-
ous and fool-proof.
No longer need you hire a boat.
Take your own wherever you go.
A XMAS PRESENT FOR THE
WHOLE FAMILY.
It can be folded or erected by
one person in a very few
minutes.
DIMENSIONS OF THE “DELOFORD”- BOAT.
Overall length when fully extended.. 9ft. liu.
Overall width at top when ready for use 2ft. 3in.
Overall length when folded .. .. sft.
Overall width when folded .. .. Ift. lOin.
Weight complete with oars .. .. 451 b.
Seating capacity .. .. .. 2 persons
Fo-r further 'particulars apply to
Australian Agents:
W. S. COOK & SON PTY., LTD.,
Merino House, 59 York Street,
Sydney.
fd
ILL?
Take
(Mfc /9/lw
ream </ Yeast
T 0...
LOS ANGELES
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
... over the delightful southern
route direct from ...
HONOLULU
A
ALL the attrac-
tions that make
Southern California
one of the world’s
favorite playgrounds
spread themselves
immediately before
you when you enter
through the port of
Los Angeles!
Regular through pas-
sage fares can be ar-
ranged to Honolulu via
Canadian - Australasian
R. M. Line or Oceanic,
[Matson] Line, with a
stop-over of any length
you desire for a visit in
Hawaii... and then in a
LAS SCO liner direct
from Honolulu to Los
Angeles over the de-
lightful southern route.
For full particulars ap-
ply at any steamship
ticket office or travel
agency, 0r...
7A-9
LASSCQ
LOS ANGELES STEAMSHIP CO
HAROLD C. SLEIGH, Agent
55 Pitt Street . Sydney
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Sidelights on Queen Victoria
By the Rt. Hon. Sir Frederick
Ponsonby, G.C.8., G.C.V.O.
With illustrations. 21 s. net.
John, Lord Montagu of Beaulieu
By LADY TROUBRIDGE and
ARCHIBALD MARSHALL. With
portraits and other illustrations.
2 1 s. net.
The Life of Robert. Owen
By G. D. H. COLE, author of
“The Life of William Cobbett,”
“The Next Ten Years in British
Social and Economic Policy,”
etc. Second Edition. With por-
trait. I 2s. 6d. net.
A NEW VOLUME OF DOG STORIES
Thy Servant a Dog
By RUDYARD KIPLING. With
illustrations by G. L. STAMPAi
the well-known "Punch” artist.
ss. net.
***The first two of the stories have only
recently appeared in magazine form, and the
third is now published for the first time.
Heroes of Asgard
By A. and E. KEARY. Child-
ren’s edition. With 1 6 plates in
color and headpiece and initials
in black-and-white by C. E.
BROCK, R.I. Pott 4to. 6s. net.
The Collected Poems of
Katharine Tynan
With a foreword by A. E.
(GEORGE W. RUSSELL). 10s.
6d. net.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
fc:
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.;
The Little Sisters
Tennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenstands
Distingushed Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin went to
Eddie Cahill’s concert. The pianist played
Chopin, Liszt, Mozart, Schumann and
Brahms.
Roses and white lilies decked St. Thomas’s,
Toowong, for the marriage of Hubert Frazer-
East and Enid J. Howes. The bride, in
ivory duchess satin with a veil of Brussels
lace, was given away by her father. Kitty
and Ruth Howes ’maided in gold net oyer
gold tissue. Pink roses decked the gold-room
at the Hotel Carlton for the feasting.
Arum-lilies and jasmine decorated the
altar in All Saints’ for the wedding of Arthur
S. Jones and Olga Wilkin. The bride, in
ivory silk with a veil of Limerick lace, was
given away by her father. Roses and
jasmine decked the Wilkin home for the
reception.
Harry Ramsay Leffner, chief engineer on
the Moreton Bay, donned his mercantile
marine summem uniform for his wed-
ding to Madge Clark in the Ann-strect
Presbyterian Church. Charles Clark gave
his sister away; she was in raisin
brown with a mastic hat. Annie Clark
’maided in floral muslin silk and brown
hat. The ’groom’s brother officers formed
a guard of honor to the car. The
bride’s mother hostessed the feasting at
Atcherley, where the decorations were gold
and white, a white wedding bell and crim-
son roses and daffodils.
At St. Patrick’s, Toowoomba, John Quirk,
of Rockhampton, married Gertrude Florence
Warren. The bride, who was given away
by her brother, was in ivory celanese with
a girdle of hand-made roses and a ’broidered
net veil fastened with tiny pink buds. Vera
Redpath ’maided in lemon brocaded taffetas.
This smiling
maid is Beryl,
daughter of the
late W. H.
Overell, whose
widow married
Lex Mac-
naugh'ton.
Beryl an-
nounces her
engagement to
Henry Alex-
ander, only
son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. H.
McDonald,
of Malvern,
M e 1 b ourne.
Her home is
in Florence
street, Ascot,
Brisbane.
The first day of the Cup meeting brought
out many pretty summer frocks. The Gov-
ernor was the guest of the committee for
luncheon, and Lady Goodwin came to after-
noon tea. She wore rose-pink floral chiffon
with an ash-rose coat and hat of rose straw;
Mrs. Barnes was in geranium-red, with black
and white spots and black hat; Mrs. Cadell
Garrick wore mushroom-grey. Lime mariette
with tiny black flowers and a black picture
hat was worn by Mrs. F. K. Brodribb ; Mrs.
Gilbert Wilson was in black with a touch of
yellow ; Mrs. A. H. Wliittingham’s beige turn-
out had a scarlet hat; Leith Graham was
in a harlequin frock and blue hat; Jean
White, of S'tanthorpe, wore green.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Westminster Glee Singers drew
good houses every night at His Majesty’s.
The tenors and basses were more popular
than the male altos, and the merry-eyed
boy sopranos sang like little angeis.
Comedian Albert Greene’s pieces about the
dragon with the 13 tails and the time when
Richard I. sat on the throne met with great
success, especially among the rows of younger
fry in the audience.
Golfers swarmed out to Mt. Yokine for
a whole Sunday of open mixed events, the
wind-up of the W.A. Golf Club’s season.
There were IS- and 9-hole competitions,
clock, miniature and one-club golf, a long
drive, approaching and putting, a crazy com-
petition, and a freak event where you drove
off from various tees on to greens belonging
to other holes. Harry Godden, G. Stewart,
Mrs. Bennett, Mrs. Wingrove, W. Hall and
O. Williams were among those who took
home spoil. President A. C. Kendall made
the presentations and patted the club on the
back for making such a success of its first
season.'
News comes from Singapore that Gwen
Williams, who went up there several months
ago to visit her sister Mrs. Bob Hawson, is
wearing a five-diamond trinket on her finger.
The man in the case is a Scotchman, James
Scott, one of three architects in the
Singapore municipal service. Bells tinkle in
January. The couple will live in Adam Park,
Singapore.
Last week-end saw the jubilee of the lay-
ing of the corner-stone of St. George’s
Cathedral. A luncheon in St. George’s Hall
and a garden party in the Cathedral grounds
took up most of Saturday, and religious ser-
vices filled up Sunday. His Ex. made a
speech at the luncheon, reminding those
present of Perth’s first Anglican church, a
structure of bulrushes with, a jarrah-tree as
belfry on the site of the Irwin-street Univer-
sity buildings. During the garden party
the Dean’s wife, Mrs. H*. A. Moore, served
tea in the Burt Memorial H'all, where mauve
and gold watsonias glowed brightly. The
Archbishop and Miss Le Fanu were among
the guests.
An interesting journalistic pair passed
through here on the Triton, bound for the
south of France and afterwards the Cold
Land. They were the Max Murrays, and he
at least had a backward look for the Lyg-
nern, a fine ship until two years ago, now
wedged c.n the reef outside the South Mole.
Mr. Murray once worked his passage as
steward on the Lygnern, and on a P. and O.
branch liner he once signed on as able
seaman. These trips provided him with
local color for a novel. He has a job on the
London “Daily News"’ and Mrs. Murray has
been appointed special correspondent for a
Melbourne newspaper.
6WF’s manager, Basil Kirke, has a date in
Ins engagement book for November 15. At
5.30 p.m. on that day he will take a stroll
under the Swan at Fremantle, broadcasting
an account of the submarine inhabitants that
he encounters on his adventure.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
About 150 were present at the golf gym-
khana at the Mount Osmond Country Club
organised by Dr. G. H. Burnell and Dr.
John O’Brien. Beautiful flowers decorated
the lounge and dining-room. Quite a number
of the crowd stayed at the club for dinner,
and the subsequent dancing and bridge.
Mrs. G. H. Burnell presented the prizes won
at the gymkhana,
Mr. and Mrs. Walter E. Hill entertained
a number of Don Bradman’s admirers at
the studio of station SAD Adelaide, after a
dinner at the Hotel Richmond. Clem Hill
and Bradman both spoke over the wireless,
and dancing concluded the programme.
Two young Victorian dancers, Mr. R.
Hillis and Miss D. Waglan, came top in the
ballroom dancing competition at the Palais
Royal. In addition to a gold cup valued at
£l5O they received a cheque for £5O. The
runners-up were South Australians, Mr. «J.
Carlisle and Miss L. Cuell, and these were
awarded £25. Queensland, represented by
Mr. J. Hill and Miss O. Schafer, won the
third prize of £l5. More than 1400 dancers
watched the competition.
In the beautiful moonlit garden at the F.
Villeneuve Smiths, Springfield, Mrs. Vivienne
Powis-Stuart’s pupils performed an act from
“Midsummer Night’s Dream.” It was an
enjoyable evening, but the audience needed
their furs and rugs. Elsie Woolley sang,
and there were dances by Nora Stewart’s
pupils on the lawn. Proceeds go to the funds
of the Shakspearean Theatre, which, like
everything else, is feeling the pinch.
Members of the English-Speaking Union
met at the Wentworth on Thursday evening
to hear Dr. D. S. Davidson, of Pennsylvania
Um. lecture on the study of aboriginals Presi-
dent George McEwin and Mrs. Mellis Napier
received the guests. Supper followed the
lecture.
The Australian Squadron arrived on
Friday, and the social round began the same
afternoon with a reception given by the
Mayoress at the Town Hall to enable Adel-
aideans to meet Rear-Admiral Evans and
officers. The floral decorations were lovely,
and the hostess had secured as many pretty
girls as possible. In the evening the Mayor
and Mayoress gave a large dinner party in
the visitors’ honor at the Queen Adelaide
Club, followed by a dance at their residence,
St. Corantyns, East-terrace.
On Friday evening the president and com-
mittee of the Lyceum Club entertained
Madame Hornemann, of the Copenhagen Con-
servatorium, and her daughter Mrs. David-
son, whose husband is a professor at the
Adelaide University.
TASMANIA.
mT rr, ~ . Hobart.
The T.R.C. meeting at Elwick was held
in fine though blustery weather. His Ex. was
present, with Miss O’Grady, N. E. Somers
and Captain and Mrs. Stoyles, and during
the tea interval chairman Thomas Lyons,
who w r ith Mrs. Lyons entertained a throng in
the pavilion, proposed the health of the Gov-
ernor, who has always been a keefii supporter
of the club’s meetings. Dressing was fairly
summery, though in Tassy we “wear more
wool” than mainlanders, and seldom venture
far in “ninon over none-on.” Mrs. Lyons had
a flecked woollen ensemble; Margaret
O’Grady wore red crepe wool made with
three-quarter-length coat and white satin
blouse. Black-and-white was much in evi-
dence, while red of every shade was popular.
In the crowd were the Russell Ibbotts. the
Prout-Webbs, Elliott Lewis and his lady.
Dr. and Mrs. James Sprent, the Alan
Walkers, Mr. and Mrs. Agnew, Mr. Lloyd
Oldmeadow, the Edwin Websters, the J. E.
C. Lords, Mrs. M. D. Williams, the Alan
Millers, Mrs. Cottrell-Dormer, Mrs. Tom
Fitzgerald, the Gordon Blews, Captain and
Mrs. 11. W. Strutt, Dr. and Mrs. V. R.
Ratten.
The Naval and Military Club gave an
enjoyable evening at the Masonic Hall and
the clubhouse. Col. and Mrs. Humphris
(he is president) received the guests. Full
uniforms lent plenty of color, and dressing
was very smart among the women. His
Ex. and Margaret O’Grady were there; Miss
O’Grady was a graceful figure in amber
georgette, very long and flowing. Mrs. Hum-
phris sported pale green soft satin and tulle,
Mrs. Stoyles was in pink moire and Mrs.
Arndell Lewis "was in two shades of yellow.
The younger guests danced in the ballroom,
while others had the run of the clubrooms
for bridge or sitting out. The supper was
excellent, and Knowles’s orchestra made,
attractive music.
Professor Taylor’s lecture on “Dramatic Art
through the Ages” deserved a better —at least
a bigger—audience than that which it drew
to the Town Hall. It was given under the
auspices of the Repertory Society.
Among returned travellers from the Big
Smoke and elsewhere are Col. and Mrs. St.
Clair Cameron, and the Percy Grubbs, of
Launceston.
Pretty Yvonne, second daughter of the
H. B. McChristies. walked down the aisle
of St. George’s as Mrs. Hallam Rivers Black-
low after a morning ceremony. The wedding
garment was an ensemble of crgpe de Chine
and wool crepe in gentian blue, with blue
baku hat. Mrs. Angus Hean, the bride’s
sister, attended as matron of honor, and a
small party sat down to breakfast at j
Hadley’s. I


Missing Friends.
nro FRANCIS CHRISTIAN HAMPSON
formerly of Huntly No. 7 The Avenue
Strathfield near Sydney in the State
of New South Wales but now of parts
unknown Woolclasser.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EILEEN
MARY HAMPSON has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground of
three years’ desertion. Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne within 21
days from this date the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs A true copy of the Citation
herein a sealed copy of the Petition a true
copy of the Order for Service upon you in
the State of New South Wales and a true
copy of the Order for Substituted Service
herein have been personally served upon your
mother and true copies of those documents
may be inspected at the offices of MAR-
SHALL & LUPTON, Solicitors, 2 Martin
Place, Sydney; and JAS. RICHARDS,
Solicitor for Petitioner.
Jas. Richards, 433 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitor for Petitioner.
Missing Friends. ,
Re AUBREY VERNON SAUNDERS,
Deceased.
\Y/ILL JEFFRIES CURTIS or his wife,
” parents of Maude Angelia Saunders,
nee Webb, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart.
Patents.
’“PIIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patents
1 Nos. 20650/24, for an invention
entitled “An improved thermal relay on the
bi-metallic principle,” 20651/24 for an inven-
tion entitled “An improved adjustable
rotating resistance, more particularly for
polyphase induction motors with centrifugal
starters” is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its rights in either of the above, or
for the granting of a license or licenses to
make, use and vend the inventions or either
of them within the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia. Particulars of the invention obtain-
able from Griffith, ’ Hassel & Griffith,
Asbestos House, York and Barrack
Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L, G.P.0.,
Sydney.)
fpIJRDOCHS i
Bihthdm[s^\LE
e
Sensational X
Suit Offer!
fast approaching
—its attendant round of joy-
ous festivities calls for clothes
perfection—here’s where Mur-
doch’s help you.
Choose from Pure Wool
Worsteds in latest tones, Thorn-
proof Tweeds and Pure Indigo
Dye Serges. Faultlessly tai-
lored to your
individual mea-
sures.
£3/18/9
ALSO: £6/6/- Suits for
£7/7/- Suits for
£4/15/-
£5/12/6
Send for Patterns
m
i
Desk R,
Murdoch’s Lid.,
Box 3875 TT., C.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly forward me complete range of Suiting Pat-
terns of the above 3 Sale Specials.
Name
Address
Some of the other Bargains:—2l/- Men’s Shoes for 14/9; 6/6 to
11/6 Men’s Golf Shirts, 4/9; 14/6 to 19/6 Men’s Trousers, 9/6;
25/- to 27/6 Boys’ Suits, 15/11; 7/6 Boys’ Hats, 4/6; 6/6 Boys
Pyjamas, 4/3, etc.
Postage Paid to Your Door.
RG E s 6
DO yvor EMPLOY ANY AGENTS OR TRAVELLERS!
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
and trinkets, in return for which he con-
tinued to accumulate thousands of acres
of land.
While he was thus occupied the news
came to him, through the home papers,
files of which had arrived at the northern
settlement, that a project was afoot in Edin-
burgh to settle the most southern part of
New Zealand with Scottish emigrants.
Thereafter he became the most rapacious
landgrabber in the two islands. Absolutely
fearless, he rode roughshod over whites and
natives alike.
The Maoris did not dare to make a meal
of him, because they considered him a pakeha
Rangitira, and a son of the Devil, if not
the Devil himself; wherefore they called
him Taipo. Nevertheless there was one in
the pa who had conceived for Daniel Digby
an implacable hatred. He was the chief’s
son Te Hori. Tall and powerful, handsome
and intelligent and as lithe as a panther, he
viewed with disgust his parent’s puerility in
trading his heritage for garish trinkets to
adorn his paunchy person, and he longed
for the day when he would be the one with
whom Taipo would have to deal. He
dreamed of the day when he would have
the white devil’s head, nicely dried, on the
end of a pole decorating the door of his
whare. But that was a dream that never
came true, fon Daniel Digby was strong and
stayed strong; and he became a power in
the raw land that yearned to feel the
strength of the raw and rugged pioneer.
Chapter X.
Five miles from the mouth of the Rewa-
Rewa River, on an upland facing the east
and the manuka-scented plain, where the
flax blades shot up like green swords to
burst at midsummer into clusters of flowers,
bell-shaped and red-streaked, like goblets
smeared with blood, and from where could
be seen the waves of the Pacific, listlessly
at dawn lapping the sands, tired with their
thundering efforts of the night to extract
toll from the frowning frontiers, Daniel
Digby had built a house and called it
Maxwelton.
Digby had been married for more than
a year, but he had not mentioned the fact
at the whaling-station. Unless there was
some benefit to be derived he never volun-
teered information. He had learned quite
early in his tough career that words, appa-
rently harmless when launched, could be
very dangerous on the rebound. Wherefore
he put a bridle about his tongue, but gave
full play to his eyes and ears.
During his first visit to the northern settle-
ment he was invited to the home of Cap-
tain Cameron, an elderly Scot, who had
retired from the sea in comfortable circum-
stances to turn storekeeper in the new
settlement. He and Digby were in the
store, negotiating a deal in bacon, when
there floated from the adjoining residence
the most delicious sounds that had ever
fallen on Daniel Digby’s ears. A fresh
young voice was singing:
“Maxwelton’s braes are bonny
Where . lightly fa’s the dew.”
When, later, Daniel came face to face with
the singer he found Margaret Cameron no
less attractive than her voice. The daughter
of generations of sailors, she had whole-
somely about her the tang of the seven seas.
Her clear face, sweetly handsome, was
crowned with escaping auburn locks.
Digby, sponsored by the captain, towered
into the kitchen, where Margaret, singing;
prepared the evening meal. Digby took
Margaret’s hand in his, and for an instant
looked deep into her eyes; then he dropped
her hand and turned his head lest shq
should know that a picture of his past life
had loomed up in his mind. He felt the
heat of shame, and he dragged the cuffs
of his coat-sleeves down to hide the purple
bracelets on his wrists.
The Camerons were contented folk, con-
stant and hospitable. They had taken their
share of buffetings in life’s stream, but had
kept clear of the backwash. They accepted
Daniel Digby for what he looked, the force-
ful and enterprising pioneer, and they
secretly wished him to succeed 'in his
courting of Margaret, which he carried on
in the most patient manner. All that was
best in him he put into his lovemaking,
and never in all his life did he know a joy
comparable to that which sang through his
being when Margaret consented to marry
him.
Five months after the betrothal Daniel
returned to the northern settlement, when
Margaret and he were wed. It was arranged
that the bride should continue to live with
her parents until her husband had built a
home for her in the south. The captain
and his wife, because Margaret was their
only child, tried to persuade Digby to
settle down with them, but he would have
none of it. He was launched on his own
career, and could not turn aside.
During the year following his marriage
Digby’s business increased to an extent
•that necessitated his procuring another
boat. He was becoming well known along
the coast as a shrewd trader, and his stock
was in the ascendant. That year was
assuredly the happiest of his life. He
lavished on Margaret a sincere and deep
affection—a love such as he never dreamed
he was capable of; and when he learned that
Margaret was about to become a mother he
hastened back to the south to select on the
banks of the Rewa-Rewa River the most
beautiful spot in that beautiful country on
which to build a home. And when the house
was built he carved on the log that was
above the door the word “Maxwelton,” the
name that the pioneers a few years later
gave to the township that sprang up around
Digby’s log cabin.
When the house was ready to receive his
loved ones, Daniel cleaned and painted the
cutter. The brave little vessel had never
borne a name, but now the omission would
be remedied; henceforth she would sail with
the beloved name Margaret blazened on the
oows.
Digby sailed north to fetch liis bride to
the nest he had prepared, that his cup of
joy might be filled; but that cup he never
wasted. When he reached Margaret’s side,
;t, was but to watch by her deathbed. A
daughter that was to cost the mother her
life had been born to them.
They gave Margaret back to mother
earth, and Daniel was bereft of his happi-
ness and high hopes. He sat alone with his
face in his hands, brooding on the cruelty of
Nature, and cursing the fate that had taken
from him the only thing he had ever loved.
His wonderful Margaret had evoked every
good instinct that was in him—instincts that
he had never dreamed were his; and now he
knew he would slink back to be the grace-
less thing he was before she called up that
which enabled him to walk the earth as a
king in his kingdom. And, as always when
he was overwrought, the circled scars on
his wrists purpled angrily; but no longer
was he concerned to hide them.
So Digby returned to his home with
Margaret’s mother and his child. He was
not afraid to return alone; but anyone, any-
thing that belonged to Margaret lightened
the gloom in which he walked, and he
wanted his child to be always with him as
a constant reminder that his loved one had
not been but the shadow of a dream.
Chapter XI.
For himself and his daughter Daniel
Digby had devised a motto: “Get and
keep.” Her mother, the only being he had
ever loved, had slipped away from him.
His impotence to stay her incredible de-
parture had amazed and shattered him. He
had called to her to come back. He had
lifted the sheet that was about her face,
crying “Margaret, you aren’t gone, my lass;
oh! my lass! You’re all I’ve got! You
mustn’t go!” But Margaret stayed where
she had gone, and Daniel clutched his hair,
his great shoulders heaving, and, falling to
his knees, tried to make a bargain with God,
offering the child in return for his beloved
wife. But God was in his Heaven and made
no sign.
Overwhelmed with his grief, Daniel had
fallen into a silence, which he maintained,
with one break, until he was aboard the
cutter with his child and Margaret’s mother.
He had broken his silence at the christening
of his daughter. The clergyman had asked
for the Christian name, and Mrs. Cameron
had replied, “We’ll call her Margaret after
my poor child.” At the sound of the name
he had risen from his chair and said
“No.” So they named the babe Elizabeth,
and she became Bess.
The bereft father clung to his child in an
attempt to recapture something of that which
he had lost; but as time passed he found
that he could give to his daughter a part
only of his affection. The other and greater
part he gave to “getting and keeping.” For
Margaret he could have stifled the prompt-
ings of a doubtful ambition, and curbed
every desire unworthy of a just man. With-
out her he was free to pursue that other love,
“Get and keep.” And he pursued her with
the relentless urge of a bird of prey, work-
ing and scheming that he might attain two
ends—to make himself the richest man in
his adopted country and his daughter the
most desired woman.
Wherever he travelled, and he travelled
much by sea and land, he took Bess with
him. Wherever money was being turned
over he and Bess were there. And when
at long last it became certain that the
Scottish emigrants were about to sail, he
devoted his days to scouring the country,
spying out with a shrewd eye the points of
vantage and the desirable tracts. He had
three vessels plying the coast from his home
in the south to Hokianga in the north, and
the trade was increasing. He devoted his
profits and his talents to the acquirement
of acres and more acres. At that time no
mission of his was fulfilled until he had
alienated from the natives another slice of
their country; and Te Hori, the fat chief’s
son, still waited for the day when Daniel
Digby would dare offer him a worn-out
musket and a bottle of bad whisky for a
thousand acres of rich pasturage.
For five years after the death of Mar-
garet Mrs. Cameron lived at Maxwelton,
making periodical visits to her own home
when Digby sailed that way. The good
woman was devoted to her grandchild, and
would gladly have reared her in her own
home, but the father would not be separated
from her. At five years Bess was a well-grown
healthy child, with a shock of red hair,
and freckled features that already gave
promise of a handsome woman.
From the day that she had been able to
toddle beside him her father had treated
her as a grow T n-up. Every evening he took
the child on his knee, not to dandle her, or
ride-a-cock-horse, but to explain to her his
plans for extending his operations, and the
means by which he proposed to deprive the
old chief of another thousand acres or so of
his real estate, the-while Bess tied his long
blond beard into fantastic bows. With
everyone but his daughter he was severely
incommunicative, but with her he was
(Continued on page 50.)


Sale of Selected “Bulletin” Drawings
A Chance to Get One for 15/-
i- I
m
For over 50 years the best drawings made in Australia
have come to “The Bulletin,” and a collection of a
hundred of the choicest examples of this country’s black-
and-white art is now offered for sale.
Though the prices at which they have been marked are
exceedingly low, “The Bulletin” makes a large offer in
addition. To every purchaser of a drawing who sends a
12 months’ subscription to “The Bulletin” or the “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” a rebate of 25 per cent, on the price of
the drawing will be made. To every subscriber who
sends a renewal order, a rebate of 33 1-3 per cent,
will be made.
Thus a reader who sends a 12 months’ subscription to
either “Bulletin” or “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” can buy a
picture marked at 20/- for 15/.-; and a present subscriber if he sends a renewal can get a 30/- drawing for 20/-.
Readers who send two years’ subscription can get a 25 per cent, rebate on the price of one drawing and a 33 1-3
per cent, rebate on the price of a second drawing; or they can get a rebate of 58 1-3 per cent, off a single
drawing, making the price of a 20/- drawing 8/6.
Of course you can buy without sending any subscription; and you will still get something worth a good deal
more than the price you will pay.
Following is a list of the drawings included in this unique offer:—
fdfd
GEORGE LAMBERT.
s. d.
“Geography of the Backblocks” . . 40 0
“Satisfied with the Road” 80 0
“My Boardinghouse-keeper’s Niece” 60 0
“Mother, Will You Get One?” .... 50 0
“Giddy Giddy Gout” 40 0
“Girl Logic” 40 0
FRANK P. MAHONY.
s. d.
“Up to Specifications” 20 0
"And Scotland Scored One” .... 25 0
“No Faults.”—Another horse draw-
ing
30 0
f
dsds
śfd
OSWALD PRYOR.
s. -d.
“The Way of It” . . . 25 0
“Any Port in a Storm” 20 0
“A Good Year’s Work” 30 0
“Another Optimist” 20 0
“And His Riverence Didn’t Know” 20 0
NESSIE TINDALL.
s. d.
“A Common Complaint” 20 0
GEOFF. LITCHFIpLD.
“Willing to Try” 20 6
“Brains in Crime” 20 0
B. E. MINNS.
s. d.
“Wanted, a Paying Guest” 30 0
Abo. Studies —
“The Monarchist” 20 0
“Cash and Carry” 20 0
“Long, Long Ago” 20 0
“HOP.”
s. d.
"A Touch of Nature” 25 0
“A Cheerful Bridal Tour” 25 0
“Ask the Driver” 20 0
"Dishing Parkes” 30 0
“Ask the Driver” 20 0
The “Heathen in His Blindness”
Series —
“Influential Convert” 20 0
“In Anticipation” 20 0
“Posthumous Consolation” .... 20 0
“A Fragment” 20 0
LIONEL LINDSAY.
s. d.
“A Reasonable Objective” ...... 20 0
DAVID LOW.
s. d.
The Billy Hughes Series—
“W. M. Hughes’s Tariff Wall . . 40 0
“Peace on Earth” 40 0
“Strenuous Times for Cartoon-
ists” 40 0
The Digger Series—
“ Times Are Changed” ........ 30 0
“Encouraging Recruiting” .... 20 0
“Willing” 20 0
G. K. TOWNSHEND.
s. d.
“Not Like Bradman.”—A golfing
subject 20 0
"Safety First” 20 0
“Gilded Meals, Too 30 0
PERCY LEASON.
s. d.
"An Apt Pupil” 20 0
“Mud Flat Holds a Fair.”—One
of Leason’s best country-life
Studies 45 0
“Billy the Sport.”—Another Billy
Hughes Series of six in one
drawing 40 0
"Trying to be Funny” 40 0
“Finding Things Out for Himself” 30 0
“If Princess Mary Came to Aus-
tralia” . 30 0
COLIN COLAHAN.
s. d.
“French Polish” 20 0
"Not in the Least Particular” .... 20 0
“The Wine and the Wit” 35 0
“Defined” 20 0
“No Spoil Sport” 25 0
DENNIS CONNELLY.
s. d.
“No Excuse for It At All” 20 0
“Cabby Gets a Tip” 20 0
“He Knew It Wasn’t Smith’s Fault” 20 0
NORMAN LINDSAY.
s. d.
“The Subscription Habit” 25 0
“Real Courtesy” 25 0
“Under Compulsion” 40 0
“The Hope of His Side.”—One of
Norman Lindsay’s brilliant war
pictures 42 0
“A Gentle Hint” 40 0
“Teddy Bear” Series—-
“ ‘Teddy’ at His Ease” 25 0
D. H. SOUTER.
s. d.
“Fact and Fiction” 25 0
“When the Southerly Came Up” . . 20 0
“The Indirect Method” 20 0
"In Strict Confidence” 25 0
“You Must Keep Your Balance” . . 25 0
“Included in the Award” ........ 20 0
TED SCORFIELD.
s. d.
“Right Turn” . 20 0
“Confession” 20 0
“A Prodigious Success” 20 0
“Unexpected Philanthropy” ...... 25 0
“It Might Come Off Once” ...... 30 0
BERTHA BENNET BURLEIGH.
s. d.
"The New Rule’’ 20 0
“Jimmy’s Done For” 20 0
“Opportunities Ample” 25 0
“After the Quarrel” 20 0
“The Treasure” 30 0
“The Humbug” 30 0
“In the Reign of King Jazz” .... 20 0
PERCY LINDSAY
s. d.
“Inhuman Almost” 20 0
“A Matter of Figures” 25 0
“The Homing Done” 25 0
“Trade Measurements" 20 0
“Taint” 20 0
ALF VINCENT.
s. 'd.
“His Panacea” 20 0
“The Iron Cross” 40 0
“Underpriced” 30 0
“The Accident” 20 0
“The Mission Woman” 25 0
AMBROSE DYSON.
s. d.
“Consolation” 20 0
“In Push Society” I 20 0
“In Push Society” II 20 0
“In Push Society” 111 20 0
“Excluded” 35 0
“With View to Above” 25 0
C. H. PERCIVAL.
s. d.
‘The Flapper Knows” 25 0
‘Dignity and Impudence” 40 0
‘Great Changes” 20 0
‘The Martyr” 25 0
BETTY PATERSON.
s. d.
‘Confidences” . . 20 0
‘Something New Ahead” 20 0
‘Judging by Appearances” 20 0
‘Any Soil, Any Climate” 20 0
‘They Ought to Be Marked” .... 25 0
Mik
® 11 T
V
MAB TREEBY.
s. d.
‘Could Easily Outshine That” ... 20 0
‘At the Garden Party” . 20 0
ESTHER PATERSON.
s. d.
“Exclusively His Domain' 25 0
“Considerate Child” 20 0
“Biding His Time” 20 0
RUBY LINDSAY.
s. d.
“Standing Forth” • • 30 0
“Fully Covered” 30 0
“No Disqualifications” 42 0
“Indiscriminate Youth” 35 0
“His Wife Had One Too” 40 0
'V O ci
BT
US!
m
m
yy
m
rm
'Ar
rf
1 !
fni'iin
/
3S»)
These and other drawings are now on view at The Bulletin Office, 2 1 4 George Street, Sydney.
The drawings, which are mostly unmounted and unframed, will be sent, securely packed, co any address in Australia, post
free, on receipt of remittance. To addresses outside Australia, Bd. must be added to cover cost of packing and postage.


AS WE SAID BEFORE.
Thi* Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one*
A Coonabarabran youth, in a letter to
his sweetheart produced in the police court,
describes his heart as being “rolled out flat
like a pancake and folded round hers.”
The forced or hot-house variety of fool
sometimes gets down a mine by misrepre-
senting the poverty of his intellect and dis-
guising the fatness of his head in a. clay-
smirched hat, and when he does it is deemed
advisable to “look up below” and watch for
flying splinters, slips from the “hanging
wall,” and other falling bodies. A few
THE LUSTS OF THE FLESH.
(Overheard recently at a certain “opening.”)
LORD CARINGTON : “And I suppose you are not sorry to go?”
BISHOP BARKY: “In many respects I shall be glad to return
to England—to again visit the scenes so dear to every
Englishman. I am looking forward to once more Seeing
the British Museum, the Tower, St. Paul’s, Westminster
Abbey, the — the”
LORD CAKINGTON: “The London Gaiety Company! How I
envy you!” [B. 6/4/’89.]
years back an uncouth chunk of humanity,
with a water-logged head and ‘ an expression
of absorbing simplicity, struck the boss of
a quartz-mine near Avoca (Vic.) for a job;
he described himself as an old faceman, and,
despite the palpable fact that he had never
mined for anything more valuable than the
floury spud or the succulent onion, he was
ordered to come on with the afternoon shift
and go into the face of No. 2 level. The
potato-expert was on hand at four o’clock,
and accompanied his mate, an experienced
Cousin Jack, below with airy confidence,
and during the course of the half-shift the
platman was vastly edified by gusts of
violent profanity and other explosions of
wrath, which re-echoed through the long-
drawn aisles and were borne to his ears
from out the bowels of the earth. The
Cousin Jack was having a high old time with
his new mate, who handled a pick as the
proverbial bull is said to grapple with a
musket, and knew as much about the duties
of a faceman as a hog knows of table eti-
quette. Just prior to crib-time they put in
a shot, started her going, and the Cornish-
man left., He had gone 50 yards along the
drive before he discovered that liis mate was
not following him. Horrified, lie drew his
knife and rushed back to the face where the
onion-cultivator was complacently surveying
the smoking fuse. A quick slash severed the
fuse from the charge not one half-second
too soon, and then the Cousin Jack treated
his mate to a display of his powers as master
of English and foreign profanity. “Why the
blankcty, blankety, blue blankety blazes
didn’t ye run?” he concluded, pale to the
gills. “Run?” replied the murphy-miner,
cheerfully. “Why, I had to blow the plaguey
thing to keep it alight!”
“No noose is good news,” said the re-
prieved prisoner.
Judge Perrin, of the Irish Queen’s Bench,
often suffered terribly from gout, and on such
occasions his temper was none of the
sweetest. At assizes in Cork his temper
happened to be at a very low ebb when a
constabulary sub-inspector, with creaking
boots on, persisted in parading the gallery
with “Hush-h-k !” “Soilence !” “Keep quiet I”
etc., when not needed. At last, Perrin,
breaking down, roared, “Sheriff! Sheriff!
Remove that policeman and take him to gaol
for 24 hours for disturbing the Court. He
is making more noise than all the people
put together.”
The State teachers of Victoria are moving
for authority to whale unruly girls, and the
question arises at this stage of the proceed-
ings—is there an Australian miss who will
suffer corporal punishment in peace while
there is an ink-bottle to shy anywhere within
ten miles? We don’t think so. At present
the Victorian Education officials do occa-
sionally thrash a young lady when things
get absolutely despe-
rate, but it is a form
of exercise at which
the girl of this con-
tinent generally gets
square in the end.
In one case, however,
of which we have
heard, it remains an
open question to this
day whether the
pedagogue or the
pupil came off best.
Some three years
ago a Victorian
teacher bestowed his
heart and his cane
and his salary on
the biggest and pret-
tiest girl in the
school, and as the
marriage was kept
dark he enjoyed for
a little while the
novel sensation of
teaching—and boss-
ing—his own wife.
The scheme worked
well for exactly a
week, and then the
lady got tired of her
anomalous position,
and demanded that
the dignity of her
new position should
be recognised. The
young husband de-
clined to do any-
thing rash until he
had made matters
right with her
parents, and his im-
patient bride then
endeavored to hasten
things by breaking
out into open insur-
rection. She solemn-
ly tore up her books
and threw the tat-
ters at his feet,
stated, with the
firmness of a stone
pavement, that she
would learn no more
lessons and obey' no
more orders, and
asked him with a
saucy laugh, while
the petrified school
preserved a flabber-
gasted silence, what
he meant to do about
it. There was an
awful pause, in the
course of which the
teacher saw that he
must crush this ris-
ing or lose his autho-
rity for ever, and then he grappled
with the girl and the situation. He
caned the astonished bride on both hands,
and as she still maintained her attitude
of defiance he caned her also about, the
shoulders and made her stand on a form for
two hours. When these proceedings were
over, the bride, finding a favorable opening,
landed him on the head with some more books
and struck for home. Ultimately affairs were
smoothed over by the united efforts of 18
friends and 127 relatives, and it is supposed
that they lived happily ever afterwards,
though this latter point has never been
cleared up satisfactorily.
The leader of the very best society in
’Possum Shoot is a painful dude, who is
so lucky as to be the eldest son of the biggest
local squatter. Now, recently there arrived
in ’Possum Shoot a new public-school
teacher, who, being an agreeable and all-
round man, was soon taken up by the
haughty bong-tong of the district. The
leader of society resented this. “It’s bad
enough to have to meet a private tutah; yet
a tutah fortunately is sometimes a gentle-
man, don’tcherknow. But a public-school
teachah fellah, bai Jove it’s howwid.” The
lowly distributor of wisdom, however, con-
tinued to make headway with the aristocracy
despite Jumbuck Junior Esquire’s dislike to
his degraded calling, and the latter deter-
mined to effectually squelch the teachah
fellah. One day, seeing the corrector of
childhood talking to some of the local big-
wigs, young Jumbuck swaggered up with:
“I believe Mistah a—er Teachah that you
are doosid clevah?” Pedagogue: “I am
indeed flattered, sir.” A. 8.: “Aw! I want
you to aw—er teach a laughing-jackass to
whistle!” Ped.: “All right—lo guineas a
quarter in advance, and come for your first
lesson to-morrow at 4.30 p.m.”
The price of gas per 1000 cubic feet is in
Brisbane 55., in Sydney ss. 3d-, and in
Manly, a few miles from Sydney, 10s. In
Liverpool, England, it is 35., and shale, out
of which the gas is there made, is imported
from N.S.W. [B/12/’BB.]
Common report asserts that the next statue
of Victoria will represent her Gracious in
her nightgown. Princess Louise is reported
to have hacked out a figure faintly resembling
her august mother as that sovereign lady
appeared on the June morning when she was
summoned out of bed, without time to dress,
in order to learn that she had inherited the
British crown; and this atrocity is to be
erected somewhere in Kensington. So far
it has not been exposed to the public eye,
but if it may be judged by other royal efforts
in art it will principally resemble a mud pie
which has been assaulted with a boathook.
The figure is to be put up some time in the
summer in order that it may get acclimatised,
but all the same it is likely to assume a par-
ticularly shivery aspect on frosty mornings,
and possibly it may be found advisable to
apply a hot-water bottle to its cold stone feet
in the winter-time. The hair, it is under-
stood, will be partly hanging down and
partly standing up straight owing to the
suddenness with which her Majesty had got
out of bed, and the image will probably be
made to look just half awake. According
to rumor, this half-dressed outrage will be
ready for exhibition at an early date—unless
Victoria orders it to be sent back to have
some more boots put on it, which is more
than probable. [23/3/’B9.]
A Sydney lady whom I [Sappho Smith]
know got into a ’bus the other evening on
her way to the theatre with her husband
and a party of friends. It was her house-
maid’s night out, and as soon as
my friend and her company had
settled themselves comfortably in
their seats in got a fair creature
arrayed in pink satin and with a
colossal spray of choice flowers
extending from one shoulder right
down to her waist. It was
Bridget. When she perceived her humbly-
attired master and mistress was she discon-
certed? Not a bit of it. “Ah, Mrs. de
Montmorenci,” she said, “did yez manage to
get the baby to sleep before you came out?”
Mrs. de Montmorenci smiled daggers and
closed her eyes in a deliberate, not to say
cold-blooded, manner. “Ah, Mr. de Mont-
morenci,” Bridget went on, “will yez kindly
pass my ticket to the box for me?” Mr.
de M. adds: “I did pass her ticket for her.
Had it been anyone clse’s servant common
politeness would have compelled me to per-
form that slight act of courtesy. But there
was another reason —you can’t nowadays
afford to quarrel with a young lady who
consents to get up at 8 a.m. conditionally on
your giving her 17s. a week and tucker.”
Mrs. Mona Caird says: “Women are natu-
rally truthful.” Especially when they are
talking about the other woman.
Dr. Morell Mackenzie, for attending the
German Emperor Frederick, got, up to
October, £6000; after that he was paid £lOOO
for each journey and £75 a day. This isn’t
regarded as much. Sir Andrew Clark lately
declined a fee of £5OOO from a private person,
and Dr. William Playfair not long since
got £lOOO for one week’s visit to the late
Archbishop Vaughan. [4/8/’BB.]
A Wellington (N.Z.) domestic employed
by a friend of mine [writes Sappho Smith]
takes the cake for style. Her mistress com-
plained of the number of glasses broken
while passing through her hands. The maid
at last explained matters. “You see, Mum,”
she explained, “when I put my hand in the
glass with a towel to dry it and turn it
round quick like this, me diamond ring cuts
it.”
Mr. Benjamin Lee, P.M., of Bathurst —
“Benny,” as the busliies affectionately term
him—is an old-time politician and sup-
porter of Sir ’Enery, who in 1874 appointed
him to his present position. Mr. Lee and Mr.
Daniel Mayne of the “Bathurst Sentinel” are
warm —very warm—friends, Mr. Mayne hav-
ing had to answer legally for some very hot
articles on Mr. Lee. Some years ago the
Bathurst P.M. was the victim of a Theodore
Ilookish practical joke, which at the time
caused much amusement in the City of the
Plains. A certain lengthy pressman, who
then edited a Western newspaper, was sus-
pected of being the author, Mr. Lee, in his
official capacity, having mulct the lengthy
one in certain coins of the realm for dis
orderly behavior. While Mr. Lee was
engaged one morning in the arduous duties
of his office, his pretty villa on the Vale-
road was besieged by an army of baggage-
waggons. Men attended with loads of coal,
wood, hay, vegetables, meat, bread, beer
whisky, drapery, furniture; in fact, nearly
every tradesman in Bathurst had orders
from Mr. Lee on that eventful morning.
Every furniture-van man in the city had
an order to remove Mr. Lee’s furniture to
another homestead. Every cabman had inti-
mation that Mr. Lee wished to be conveyed
to the railway station. Every undertaker
had instructions to come out and measure
some one for a coffin. The Vale-road was
blocked; the police were called out to clear
away the obstructionists, who were now
loudly demanding compensation for loss of
time. Mrs. Lee and her family were nearly
driven mad. Mr. Lee was sent for in hot
haste, the Court hurriedly adjourned, and all
Bathurst, the thing having got wind, turned
out to witness the fun, the only persons
who did not see the fun being Mr. Lee and
the “sold” ones. The jokist was never dis-
covered, but if you ask Mr. Lee he know-
ingly closes one eye, affixes his right fore-
finger to his nasal organ, and quietly hints
that he believes a certain gentleman who has
since made a name in our political history
knew at least a little about it. [4/8/’88 —
A. G. Taylor, afterwards M.L.A. for Mudgee,
was the “certain lengthy pressman.”]
“Modern Society” (London) points with
indignation to the beastly custom, followed
even by “merchants and professional men” in
Scotland, of living in a “flat,” which consists
only of two rooms and a kitchen. The Scotch
“BETTER NOT” WALLINGTON—A
GOVERNOR’S GOVERNOR.
[B. 8/10/’B7. The subject was private secretary first
to Lord Hopetoun, Gov. of Vic., then to Lord Brassey,
Sir T. F. Buxton, Lord Tennyson and again Lord
Hopetoun; returning to England he became private
secretary to the Queen, and for several years past,
as Groom-in-Waiting, has been in confidential attend-
ance on the King.]
“merchant and professional man,’’ according
to the same authority, has a box-bed in
each room, parlor included, and he washes
himself at the kitchen sink. So do his wife
and his daughters, for the Scotch merchant
never even saw a washstand. Every bed
holds as many human beings as can be
crowded into it, and “one or two members
of the family sleep in the kitchen along witli
the servant.” This is an awful picture, but
the London journalist in his innocence and
ignorance lias failed to do anything like
justice to the horrors of existence among
the upper and middle classes in Scotland.
Even in the highest circles house accommoda-
tion is miserably scanty, and people sleep
anywhere. A well-known Scotch duke of
long descent admitted in the Lords that he
had slept for upwards of 20 years in the
area in front of his house and hung his
clothes on the railings, and even then he
didn’t sleep much, for he had to sit up and
watch lest his attire should be stolen. He
had also to get up at four o’clock in summer
and six in winter in order to get dressed
before it was light, and he had to hire a
special constable to watch over him, and
once or twice he was removed by the dust-
men when he had fallen asleep, and was only
found when the ashes were sifted at the
depot. Ultimately the cinders settled on
his lungs, and he died of consumption—a
victim to an awful shortness of house accom-
modation. The daughters of the family gener-
ally slept up the chimney. They all washed
themselves in the kitchen, except when the
tap was frozen, and then they had a dry
polish. Their house consisted of two apart-
ments, but as one was completely blocked by
the family plate and the armor of the
Duke’s ancestors, it was not available for
general use. Ultimately this family removed
to a smaller residence, and it has since been
lost sight of. These simple facts are suffi-
cient evidence of the terribly insanitary con-
ditions of life even in the highest circles.
Of Scottish artisan population, 18 families
generally live in one room, while the stairs
are let out to single men, who have to tie their
personal effects to the railings. [l/9/’BB.j
President Kruger, of the Transvaal, said
at a banquet that those who blame him for
the deterioration of the local gold-mining
industry remind him of his monkey. “The
other day a fire was kindled' in my yard,
and you must know that my monkey is very
fond of me. So when I stood near the fire
my monkey clung to my leg. Presently, in
twisting himself round, he got his tail into
the fire. Well, and what do you think he
did? Why, instead of blaming the fire, he
actually turned sharply round and bit me.
Yes, the people who blame me about the
depression in gold-mining in the Transvaal
are like my monkey.” [l6/8/’90./
WHEN THE DAY IS AS DARKNESS.
The . morning tide is fair and bright,
With golden sun up-springing;
The cedars glow in the new-born light
And the bellbird’s note is ringing;
While diamonds dropped by dusky Nighc
Are yet to the gidyas clinging.
The morning wanes—the sun is high
O’erliead, until ’tis seeming
But a dazzling disc, and the fiery sky
Like an opal sea is gleaming;
And languorous flowers—of morn gone by,
And coming eve—fall dreaming.
Arid now the moon above does creep
To laugh at red Sol sinking;
While, wakening from their sunlit sleep,
A few wan stars are blinking,
Arid thirsty, drooping flowers deep
Of evening dews are drinking.
The birds will soon their carols cease,
And crows ar§ homeward hieing;
The. gloaming deepens, stars increase,
The weary day is dying;
Its requiem, murmurous of peace,
The vesper winds are sighing.
This night is near! Are you waiting, friend,
That night ? —we’re drawing nigh it —
When we to the Restful Land shall wend,
And leave life’s feverish riot—
When the gods to each tired soul shall send
Eternal, dreamless quiet.
THE BREAKER.


.3
40,000
30,000
£O,OOO
iO'QOO
X
k
000
i 00,
90,000
So,ooo
%0,000
The fight
for aim Ufe
is partly won
7
n
60,000
m
50,000
$
m
l-JRX
/SSS
&
OSearS 5 10
15 20 25 30 35 40
'-At forty
thp
7 is hardest
7 The average Life
ends at
fifty-five
■N
Steeper \
Steeper
slant# the TAne
m
•0 ' - J :i: ’"la S" 7075 SO t) ‘JO 95 >OO 105
'♦ears' iO 20 30 40 50 60
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40.
“turning point” or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may be ex-
tended; 5, 10—or more—years
of life being gained by timely
attention to the symptoms of
disorder.
Why Age 40
is often the turning point in health
Start at 20 to guard against these insidious “After-40 Ailments
that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women..
ACCORDING to averages, you and I will
die at fifty-five—or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Average. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy—maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder —prostate trouble —begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100 — though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in too-
concentrated a form. The delicate, over-
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Backache begins; pains down the groins;
swollen joints, limbs and feet; dizziness; pos-
sibly severe inflammation of the bladder and
urinary tract; rheumatism, which, in turn, may
seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
“After-40 Disorders.”
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is. probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed —by taking Harrisons Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement m
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful healthy
activity, five, ten —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-, and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
sdf
HARRISON'S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of AJeing/che* ■*. Pains
Make You QUICKLY Young * Well Again !


Hornby Train Week!
THE 1930 HORNBY
BOOK OF TRAINS
The 1930 edition of this
famous book contains a store
of interesting railway articles
in addition to full colour
illustrations of all Hornby
Trains, Rolling Stock and
Accessories.
Get a copy from your
dealer to-day, price 6d., or
send six penny stamps and
the names and addresses of
three chums direct to us for
a copy, post free.
Now is the time for every boy who is
keen on model railways to see the Hornby
Railway System. All this week the new
Hornby Locomotives, Rolling Stock and
Accessories are being shown in the shops.
Go and see them ! Take Dad with you—
he will be easily persuaded!—and show him
the wonderful range of Hornby Trains.
Hornby clockwork and electric trains
are the best that you can buy. The
Locomotives are built for heavy loads and
long runs ; the Rolling Stock is strong,
smooth-running and durable ; the Acces-
sories are realistic and correct in proportion.
If you do not yet possess a Hornby
Railway, now is the time to start —now,
when Hornby Trains are better, stronger,
and more powerful than ever before 1
Prices of Hornby Trains from 10/- to 160/-
!.
k^.oad-
A
j/mr
iu
A
Or
Uj
a:
A
k
r
lneß
jJ
Wholesale Agents in
Australia for
Hornby Trains:
E. G. PAGE & Co,
(DEPT. U),
52, Clarence St.,
SYDNEY
(P.O. Box 1832 K)
MANUFACTURED
BY
MECCANO LTD.,
LIVERPOOL,
ENGLAND.
The Brothers of Ah-Lee.
S.STEDMAN.
A RUSSIAN WHO CAME TO AUSTRALIA FROM SIBERIA,
GIVES HERE ANOTHER VIVID PICTURE OF LIFE IN HIS NATIVE
LAND AND ITS FRONTIERS.
WALKING noiselessly on his tiptoes,
Ah-Lee stepped across the sleeping-
figure of Wong, and, opening the door
slowly inch by inch, left thd lodging house.
Outside he smiled to himself thinking of
the fuss Wong would make when lie dis-
covered the loss of 10 cents Ah-Lee thus
avoided paying for the night.
The morning breeze brought a pleasant
smell of grass from the vast steppes which
surround Manchouli, and Ah-Lee inhaled
large draughts of the fresh air. In the dis-
tance rose green, treeless hills with the blue
skies resting on their tops. Before him
spread Ma*nehouli —a mixture of Chinese
mud-brick houses and large Russian buildings.
For some time Ah-Lee stood irresolute, then
went towards the markets. It was very
early and the few streets were deserted, but
on a corner of the main thoroughfare, which
bears the name of the Russian poet Pushkin,
he met Sung the night watchman.
“You are out early, Ah-Lee,” Sung greeted
him.
“Hunger disturbs one’s sleep, Sung,”
answered Ah-Lee.
“True, Ah-Lee, very true,” agreed Sung.
“Hunger is responsible for my trouble, too,
though I myself have enough to eat. Every
night there are robberies,” Sung complained,
“Yet I have not the heart to shoot when
I see the thief, knowing it is hunger that
drives to crime.”
Then he began to shake the large wooden
rattle which he carried in his hand, making
a loud noise to frighten those who had evil
intentions a*nd reassure the wealthy of his
ceaseless vigil on their behalf.
“Times are bad, Ah-Lee,” said Sung; “ever
since the Russians ceased to be masters in
Manchouli things have been had for the
Chinaman.”
“I know it too well, Sung,” put in Ah-Lee.
“When the Russians were here I earned
enough by carrying parcels for them to keep
myself and my people in Che-Foo; but now
I do not earn enough to buy myself bread.”
“How can you?” exclaimed Sung eagerly.
“How can you, when bread is costing fifty
kopeks instead of five, and onions a«re thirty
kopeks a pound, and the rain has washed
away all gardens?”
They were silent for a while, walking
along; then turning into a side street they
saw a> large placard posted on the wall.
Large red' letters shrieked from the white
Russian paper calling upon “Our Brothers in
China” to unite against the capitalists.
The two men stopped before the paper,
reading it, then Sung began to pull it off
the wall.
“They ask us to unite,” he murmured,
“when they themselves kill each other. Only
the other da*y a Russian was kidnapped in
Manchouli. A big motor-car came and men
seized him and nobody has seen him since.”
Sung spoke as he pulled strips of paper off
the wall, but Ah-Lee hardly heard him ; and
wishing Sung good-bye, lie departed. Before
his eyes danced the large red letters, and
his lips repeated the words "Our Brothers
in China.”
“Our Brothers in China!”
Suddenly he found consolation in the
words. It seemed to him that he was no
longer hungry and destitute. There were
people who cared for him and who called
him “brother.” He thought of his unhappy
country where thousands perished yearly
knowing not why. .
Ah-Lee felt a great desire to go to the
Russians, tell them that he had read the
paper and brought them brotherly greetings.
“How wonderful it would be,” he thought,
“to sit in a small garden in Che-Foo know-
ing that no enemy would come to disturb
one’s peace, that all men were brothers.
Thinking thus, Ah-Lee forgave the Rus-
sians the insults he bad endured, the ill-
treatment he had received from them. lie
was willing to overlook everything and begin
anew.
Passing through a: narrow lane among
small dilapidated cottages, he found himself
near the high fence of the City Gardens.
The few trees which were planted only a
few years ago had grown tall, their blos-
soms adding a little beauty to the otherwise
drab appearance of the small border town.
Near the gate he met Ali-Poo, his brother,
who, because he was employed as a “boy
in a hotel, brought food to him every morn-
ing. Ah-Poo was very young, 'and the fact
that he had to steal worried Ah-Lee; yet
the food kept him alive, and Ah-Poo had
to steal it if Ah-Lee wished to live. So
Ah-Lee ate in sorrowful silence, sitting under
the fence; and then they parted.
Ah-Lee crossed the railway line just be-
yond the Customs House and walked towards
the Russian side. Mile after mile he passed
along the line, stooping to pick up pieces
of coal which had fallen off the engines.
With every mile the sugarbag grew heavier,
and, while bending under the weight, Ah-
Lee felt gladder, because the coal meant a
bed in Wong’s lodging-house, and the heavier
the load the more cents to spare.
The sun was now high overhead and it
seemed to Ah-Lee that all the heat of the
sun was concentrated upon himself. There
was not a tree to offer him shelter and his
shirt clung to his wet body. Yet Ah-Lee
was used to heavy loads. For years during
the Russian occupation of Manchouli he
earned his living as a carrier. After the
Revolution, when the Soviet Government
handed Manchouli back to the Chinese, he
fared badly. The Russian population began
to dwindle, and those who arrived from
Russia —refugees fleeing from the new
regime—were poor and could not afford to
hire Chinamen to carry their parcels. There
was a time, too, when Ah-Lee was a trapper,
earning much money selling skins to buyers
of all nations who came to Manchouli. But
now one had to travel hundreds of miles into
Mongolia to find the marmot and one could
not do it without a Russian passport. No
longer did caravans of camels come to .Man-
chouli bringing wool, hides and skins. Com-
merce was at a standstill and one could not
earn a living.
With the change of conditions Ah-Lee’s
hope of returning to Che-Foo began to grow
faint. It was no use going there without
money.... As he walked he missed noth-
ing ; no piece was too small, and even chips
of wood went into the bag. A loud chorus
of cicadas filled the air. From the distance
came the noise of an approaching train.
Ah-Lee came to a small creek, and put-
ting his bag under the railway bridge he
bathed his face in the cool water, then sat
leaning against the wall and closed his eyes.
Pictures of his old home floated before his
inward vision, then became mixed with other
scenes. His brother Ali-Poo came bring-
ing a parcel of food; but Ah-Lee felt too
tired to eat. And then he saw large red
letters. They were just in front of him, and
were whispering to him softly: •
“Ah-Lee, you are our Chinese brother!”
Ah-Lee woke with a start. For some time
he looked in bewilderment at two Russian sol-
diers before him, believing them to be part of
his dream.
“What are you doing here?” they
demanded.
Ah-Lee suddenly recollected everything,
and, smiling broadly, answered in broken
Russian:
“I am your Chinese brother!”
The soldiers laughed, and Ah-Lee joined
them. ITe felt pleased with their presence
and reassured by their laughter.
“Come on,” one of the soldiers com-
manded ; and Ah-Lee, picking up the heavy
bag, was ready to follow.
The soldiers examined the contents of the
bag, then bade him leave it behind. But
Ah-Lee did not want to do so, for it meant
a great loss to him. “Well, take it later,”
they told him ; so Ah-Lee put it away care-
fully, covering it with grass. Then he walked
between the two men, who joked and
laughed; and, though Ah-Lee understood very
little of their conversation, he felt light-
hearted and smiled most of the way.
“We found him asleep under a railway
bridge,” the soldiers reported to the officer.
“Who are you ?” the officer asked Ah-Lee;
and the latter answered him: “I am Ah-Lee,
your Chinese brother.”
There was a consultation among the Rus-
sians ; then he was asked: “Can you cook V”
Yes, Ah-Lee could cook ; so he was led to the
kitchen.
“But watch him, Stepanoff,” the officer
said; “one can never trust these Chinese!”
Happy days followed for Ah-Lee. He
cooked the tastiest dishes he could think of,
and did it with a pleasure he had never ex-
perienced before. The Russians treated him
well, too, calling him “the Chinese brother.”
Thus the days passed and Ah-Lee lived in
utter contentment, worried only by the
thought of his brother Ah-Poo. He wanted to
let Ah-Poo know how well off his elder
brother was, and to share some of the high
hopes which had begun to rise in his breast.
It was only when train-loads of Russians
began to pass on their way to Chita that Ah-
Lee suspected something had gone wrong in
Mancliouli. He watched the trains go by
carrying away people that he knew in Man-
chouli; yet, though the distance was only a
few miles, he had no means of finding out
why these people were leaving their homes.
Stepanoff, who was always near Ah-Lee, ex-
plained that there was trouble over the
railway and that people were leaving Man-
chouli, the poor going into Russia, the rich
taking train to Harbin. Ah-Lee understood
little, but he knew danger threatened his
brother Ah-Poo and he wanted to warn him.
There were drills and parades daily now.
.Some aeroplanes, too, were brought, and
everything was permeated with feverish acti-
vity. But Ah-Lee remained calm and went
about his work in the usual way. Only at
night, when he was left alone in his room,
he formed plans for getting in touch with
his 'brother. He even thought of running
away; but fear of starvation prevented him.
He watched soldiers departing towards the
border, and one day he saw them bringing
back wounded Russians and Chinese pris-
oners.
Suddenly Ah-Lee was confronted by a pro-
blem he could not easily solve. The large
red letters called the Chinese “brothers,”
yet now they were killing each other over a
piece of railway which neither of them
owned. There was something very strange
in the whole affair. Here was he, Ah-Lee,
cooking for the Russians, himself quite
happy, and one day they might kill him be-
cause he was Chinese. He wandered about
the camp, looking at the prisoners from a
distance. They, too, noticed him and shouted
filthy words at him, calling him a traitor.
He went back into the kitchen, feeling
ashamed, alarmed. Was he really a traitor?
Whom did he betray? And all the time
Stepanoff was about the kitchen as if watch-
ing or waiting for someone.
The roar of many engines brought Ah-
Lee out of the kitchen, and he stood staring
upwards to where many ’planes hovered like
huge birds. Twenty-two Ah-Lee counted as
they flew in perfect formation, circling over
the camp.
“Pretty?” asked Stepanoff.
Ah-Lee smiled, nodding his head.
“They will make a mess of Manchouli if
they drop a few bombs each,” the soldier
added.
Ah-Lee, still smiling, looked at the Rus-
sian, and thought of his brother Ah-Poo.
“When do they go to Manchouli?” he
asked.
“Maybe to-morrow, maybe another day,”
Stepanoff answered.
Ah-Lee went inside, his mind working
furiously, though outwardly he remained
calm. He knew now it was his duty to warn
Ah-Poo. He was responsible for his young
brother. If anything should happen to him,
Ah-Lee would never be able to return to
Che-Foo.
He cooked the dinner, listening to the
drone of the engines, and after dinner he
sat outside smoking his pipe. The long twi-
(Continued on next page.)
THE SUGAR EMBARGO
Has It Cost Australia Anything?
As the result of a prolonged campaign of
misrepresentation and abuse waged against
the Queensland Sugar Industry by its Free-
trade enemies, many good Australians have
been led to believe that the sugar embargo,
from the moment it was first imposed in
1915, has continuously operated as a heavy
tax on the consuming public, and has cost
consumers up to date a total amount of up-
wards of £50,000,000. This charge was
originally made about a year ago by Mr.
J. M. Fowler, and it has been repeated
incessantly and broadcasted throughout the
Commonwealth by a number of Freetrade
bodies ever since.
Let us examine the facts and see if there
is any truth in this indictment.
It will be admitted that £50,000,000 is a
very large sum of money. If the Queens-
land Sugar Industry has really cost Aus-
tralia so dearly it would surely be easily
possible to prove it. It is equally obvious
that it would be impossible to disprove such
a statement —if it were true. No nation,
however rich, could wastcfully expend
£50,000,000 in the short space of fifteen years
without knowing it. Indelible records of its
extravagance would be in existence, readily
available to all inquirers. Why, then, are
these records not produced by the enemies of
Queensland Sugar to support their grave
charge and confound once and for ever 4 the
greedy industry” which, as they allege, has
levied such a dreadful tribute from the people
of this country? .
The answer is plain. There are plenty of
records in existence, but they are never cited
by the Freetraders because these records,
instead of showing that the sugar embargo
has cost Australia £50,000,000, prove, on
the contrary, that it has saved Australia
many millions sterling.
The following facts speak for themselves:
(1) The Commonwealth Government’s sugar
control accounts officially record that
during the first seven years of the
embargo period (1915-21, both years
inclusive) the average landed cost price
Australia had to pay for foreign raw
sugar which had to be imported to
make up a local shortage aggregating
476,000 tons, was upwards of £36/5/-
per ton, as against £25/2/101 per ton,
the average price of Queensland raw
sugar during the entire embargo period.
(2) Australia’s consumption of sugar dur-
ing those seven years amounted to
1,888,791 tons.
(3) If the whole amount required for con-
sumption had been imported the foreign
sugar would have cost Australia at least
£68,468,000. Actually, indeed, it would
have cost very much more, for the world
was short of sugar during the whole
of that term, and if Australia had been,
a larger buyer the price must have
greatly advanced.
(4) Much of the raw sugar we did import
from 1915-21 actually cost us upwards
of £9B per ton.
(51 The aggregate difference between the
average cost price of 1,888,791 tons, of
foreign sugar (less 476,000 tons im-
ported) and the Australian price foi
the same quantity of local sugar is in
round figures £15,680,000. That is to
say, the Queensland Sugar Industry
from 1915-21 (inclusive) saved the Aus-
tralian people £ls,6Bo,ooo—exclusive ot
duty. . ,
(6) During the next seven-year period
(1921-28) Australia consumed approxi-
mately 2,064,298 tons of sugar. The
average landed cost price, duty f r ®®> ot
foreign raw sugar during the period fell
from £36/5/- per ton to about £2O/10/-
ner ton, as against the average Aus-
tralian price of £25/2/101 per ton. In
this period, therefore, there was a dif-
ference in favor of the foreign sugar,
and if we had purchased abroad the
whole of our requirements the imported
sugar, if landed duty free, would have
cost Australia approximately £9,600,000
less than the local product actually
cost us.
(7) If we deduct this £9,600,000 from the
£15,680,000 which the embargo saved
Australia during the first period, we get
a balance of £6,080,000, which repre-
sents the amount the embargo actually
saved Australia over the two periods
ending 1928 —not counting duty.
(8) Hitherto we have assumed the possi-
bility of importing foreign sugar duty
free, but since the duty must have been
imposed by virtue of the law (if the
embargo had been removed) the im-
ported sugar would have cost the Aus-
tralian consumer not less than
£28,000,000 in addition to the landed cost.
(9) It is clear, therefore, that the Queens-
land sugar industry, from 1915 up to the
end of 1928, instead of costing the con-
sumers of Australia £50,000,000, actually
saved them a net total amount of up-
wards of £34,440,000.
(10) During the past two years, 1929 and
1930, owing to vast over-production of
sugar abroad, the price of foreign sugar
slumped heavily, and it might have
been landed here, duty free, at an
average cost of approximately £lO per
ton. With duty and other unavoidable
charges added, it might have been passed
into consumption unrefined at about £l2
per ton less than the wholesale price
of Australian refined sugar. If we
assume an average local consumption
of 300,000 tons, the consumers might
have saved £3,600,000 per annum, or a
total of £7,200,000 from the end of 1928
to the end of 1930. Deduct this amount
from £34,440,000 —the saving actually
effected by the embargo from 1915 to
1928 inclusive —and we get £27,240,000
as the net sum actually saved the con-
sumer of Australia by the Queensland
Sugar Industry over the whole term of
the embargo from 1915 up to the end ot
the current year.
The answer, therefore, to our question,
“Has the Sugar Embargo cost Australia any-
thing?” is plain for all who run to read.
The embargo has not only cost Australia
nothing; it has saved the consumers a net
total of £27,240,000.
It is true that the people of Australia
would begin to lose some of that vast saving
if foreign sugar should keep at a low price
after the end of the present year. But no
man can read the future. Foreign sugar
is selling at under the cost of production by
cqolie labor to-day because of a huge accumu-
lation of surplus stocks abroad. These con-
ditions, however, are unlikely to last long,
and when they change foreign sugar prices
will rise again. Australia has been ruth-
lessly exploited by foreign sugar interests
in the past. As mentioned above, we have
often been compelled to pay up to £9B per
ton and over, when, owing to a local short-
age, importation became necessary. History
lias a knack of repeating itself. Were we
to destroy the Queensland industry for the
sake of a temporary cheapness we should
be at the mercy of foreign producers, and
we can be very sure they would not fail to
take advantage of the situation.
All told, the only possible way to insure
ourselves from being exploited in the future,
as we have been in times past, is to maintain
the vigor of the Queensland industry during
the present world sugar glut—which canno,t
last indefinitely and which will most likely
be followed by a world shortage.— Advt.


sd
The
Supreme
Baby Car
fds
Again demonstrates its Reliability
.. Endurance.. Speed—by Smashing
13 International Records
AT Brooklands (England) on October 15 and 18, a
Baby Austin broke all International Class H Re-
cords .... From/the Flying Kilometre at 89 miles per hour
to the Twelve Hours at 81.71 miles per hour.
Austin
Costs
Less Than
One Penny
per Mile
to
Operate
Call and inspect similar models at our Show-
rooms. You’ll see you cannot buy better than
The 100 p.c. British !
AUSTIN
AUSTIN DISTRIBUTORS Pty. Ltd.
460 Bourke St., Melbourne, C.l.
Showrooms open till 9 p.m. * Friday.
’Phone: F 4641.
J.W.S.D.
Prices
from
£199
Completely
Equipped
(Subject to Sales Tax)
positively garrulous. His red-letter days were
those when, in the .early morning, he would
mount his horse, with Bess striding the
saddle before him, to canter in the direc-
tion of the pa to make another land pro-
posal to the old , chief, and, after hours of
bickering,'which usually ended the one way,
to return in the evening, the pair of them
in-high feather ; .the hills, flinging back the
deep boom that \ was Dan’s laughter, and
accepting • without ' comment the chortles
of Bess. J
It was at-daybreak on a summer’s morn-
ing that Bess, who rqse with the dawn
scampered into her father’s bedroom, piping,
“Daddy, come quick, a big ship in the
sea!” • ■ •
Digbjr picked up his telescope and made
for the front door.- He expected to see a
whaler, but - the first glance of his naked
eye assured him that , this was something
much rarer than a w r haleboat, and when he
had applied the telescope he made out a
full-rigged ship, her decks alive with men,
women and children. He lowered the tele-
scope and looked down at the excited child
with a kindling eye.
“By goom, lass,”.he cried, “they’ve coom.”
And when he had searched the vessel again,
“Lass, you’ve heard me tell of the news
that was abroad this long time, that it was
likely this country would be settled soon by
people from the old land? Well, that’s
them, sure enough.” :
“Is they white, daddy?” Bess asked, her
blue eyes wide : with', wonder.
“Ay,/ ay, they’re - white, lass, just like
you and me; and if I’m not much mis-
taken this is a great day for us.” 1
Daniel Digby stood;before his open door,
facing the purpling east. He was clad in
shirt and trousers, his head and feet bare.
Like a statue he stood there a long time,
looking out at the ship. The opened shirt
revealed the quickened rise and fall of his
breast. The square head was thrown back,
and the eyes were riveted on the ship.
His mind was leaping forward, stabbing at
the veil that hid the future. The night and
the false dawn had gone. Here was the
beginning of day—a great day. -
The sun, coming up out of the sea, glori-
fied "the moving waters, and extended the
tips of its golden fingers to bless the prow,
of the good ship riding at anchor; and
from the branch of the tallest tree in the
evergreen forest a tui gave homage to the
God of Day, by sounding two notes of
molten gold.
Something of what was passing was com-
municated to little Bess. She slid her left
hand into her parent’s right, and with her
right hand she caught up the long white
nightdress from her bare, dew-soaked feet;
and thus father and daughter assisted, not
unworthily, at the birth of a nation.
(To be continued next week.)
light had oeen replaced by night. Stars
shone in a black sky, and, though it was
time to go to sleep, Ah-Lee continued to
sit and smoke. From somewhere came the
sounds of a balalaika on which someone was
playing the ‘ Marseillaise,” the melody float-
mg on the still air, the notes clear and sharp,
A few daik clouds drifted over the camp,
casting dark shadows everything. Ah-
1 juddering with suppressed
excitement and apprehension, sat as a stone
image, immovable.
nnri fi®^ B - 1 *? 8 - died down
and silence enveloped the camp. Ah-Lee
waited; he wanted to be quite certain that -
lmmp b C rni I? 6 thought of Ins
father and thewomamlm married whence
was a mere child. It was many years ago;
still, if things improved, he woH go ba'ck!
Not much money was required to give him
comfort in old age. He rose and moving
silently over the soft grass, walked towards
the open steppes.
For a while he stood considering his
action. Would not his Russian brothers
misunderstand it? Then the memory of the
’planes came to him and Stepanoff's words
Resolutely though cautiously he moved on!
In the gloom he saw a sentry coming, and
he lay flat on the moist earth waiting for
the man to pass. , Then he crawled on his
hands and knees, keeping as close to the
ground as possible. Every minute he ex-
pected the soldier to turn back, but he dis-
appeared in the darkness and did not return,
It worried Ah-Lee a little. As much as he
feared the sentry he wanted to see him con-
tinue his regular march, for then Ah-Lee
would know that everything was in order
and that his absence was not noticed.
Farther and farther he crawled from the
camp, until a slight rise in the ground hid
it from view entirely. Then Ah-Lee stood
up and commenced to run. He knew there
was danger of being shot by Chinese soldiers
if they saw him running; but the thought of
reaching Manchouli before the morning, when
the aeroplanes would drop death from the
hp* °™iY;a U IT 1 , * n V- 1 ‘l’ , oth f r an d
he realised that his love for his Chinese,
greater than even his love of
himself. Somehow the danger that threat-
did n °t S( / e l f 1 T) ‘ SO terrible as that
which thieatened Ah-Poo and all other
Chinese in Manchouli. He was happy to
live amongst the people who called him
brother, ready and willing to serve them, but
he could not allow them to injure Ah-Poo
and old Wong and Sung because somebody
quarrelled with someone over a piece of
railway.
The thought put new energy into his tiring
body. Somewhere in the black distance lie
s aw a few flickering lights, probably of the
Chinese front positions,
-
per; and just then his ear caught the sounds
0 f horses’ hoofs quite, near, and a powerful
torch cut through the gloom. Ah-Lee stopped.
He knew it'was useless to'continue running.
brother!”
n^nv^w 10 ?' r / a,w uys .suspected he .was
ne'’’"he added FuSfX "
- DoastmuJ-
-lam 110 spy ’ A h -Lee protested. “I only
" ant to tell my brother Ah-I 00.
“You have too many brothers,’’ Stepanoff
answ eied him. You can t have both Rus-
Slaa and Chmese brothers - .
Ah-Lee wanted to remind him of the
Placard which called all -men brothers, but,
realising the futility of it, he only smiled.
Back at the barracks,, he heard a sleepy
officer ask many questions which Ah-Lee did
not understand. . He heard Stepanoff tell
something about the prisoner’s escape and
capture. Once Ah-Loe endeavored to explain
that he was only going to warn ’Ah-Poo, his
brother, but this only seemed to make the
officer more angry. Some more men came
in and spoke about him a long time; then
they led him outside, where a squad of sol-
filers with rifles waited,
Ah-Lee knew then that his end had come
—ffi at l ie would no more see his native
village nor his brother Ah-Poo. Yet he felt
no aa ger against the Russians ; only a curi-
ous desire to explain to them that he wanted
to fie their brother, that he meant no harm,
They marched some distance from the
camp, and Ah-Lee watched the birth of a
new day as they walked.
“Do you want to say anything?” Ah-Lee
was asked.
Suddenly hope revived in Ah-Lee’s heart,
“I like Russian brother and Chinese brother
too,” he said, truthfully and earnestly; but
the officer said nothing.
Hi.s eyes were tied with a handkerchief,
and the soldiers levelled their rifles; but
Ah-Lee did not hear the word “Fire!” be-
cause of the loud roar of the engines as the
’planes passed on their way to Manchouli.
Let Us Go Out.
There is a splendid vessel by the shore.
Tall are her masts and silver are her sails.
O come with me, beloved! Come before
The sea-wind fails.
Let us go out from the vex’d and the woeful
land.
Where dark is on the heart and in the
mind:
Smoothly, as a child goes, hand in hand,
The ship goes with the wind;
And like the clouds that race above the
moon
We shall go swiftly, where the lemon-
trees
Are over beaches, finding always June,
Dreaming past capes in hyacinth-blue seas.
LONDON.
D.P.McGUIRE.
Reclaimed.
Men stole this plot of land from the sea,
Filling it in long years ago,
And walling it up with tiers of stone
To make a garden where roses grow.
White roses, white as the driven snow,
Roses red as the cheeks of brides,
Now hold this seafront, loved of the winds,
That once was the playground of the tides.
For hither the tides came flooding in,
Sweet and fresh from the sea of old,
Awhile to fondle the tressy weeds,
Or roll and ripple on sands of gold.
And here, like children that pry and seek,
Crevice and cave they rummaged in,
While now and then at their coming leapt
Fish a-glitter of tail and fin.
As, flooding in from the Mother Sea,
Saving gifts to her folk they bore,
The silver gulls on the reef grew glad,
And glad the cranes on the weedy shore.
Around the garden so fair, so green,
Glowing with roses of red and white,
The tides still seek what was theirs of old
By dawn and sunset and noon and night.
Though now bereft of their place of play,
Robbed by the will and the work of men,
Perchance —who knows?—in the tide of time
Some day they’ll come to their own again.
n.s.w,
RODERIC QUINN.
On the Moors.
Here nothing is but peace, grave and pro-
found.
The clear sky, innocent of wind, enfolds
The world; the valleys’ secret deeps are
drowned
In purple till the highest beacon holds
Purple again; and the clouds’ gossamer
shapes,
Floating o’er moor and shadowy woods,
are tinged
With the rich, lovely hue of sun-warmed
grapes.
The bees hang over hollows half-asleep.
The hares lie moveless by grass-tangled
rills,
Where through the mist of heather, passing
sheep
Have wound white ribbons on the little
hills.
No sound of troubling earth comes any more.
Here deep among the bracken stems am I,
Alone as I have never been before!
Lost in this boundless place—anxious and
> small!
Strange that I feel not awed and impotent,
P.ut thrilled with a new force that touches
all-
Strong with a quick, clear vision swiftly
sent!
Courage is mine, and mine the power to
wrest
From the hard world all that I yearn
for most.
I shout and sing with joy, and .bent my
breast!'
Yet I shall go down to the vales of men.
And feel myself once more a stumbling
thing,
And know old fears and swarming doubts
again,
While wondering how I dared to shout
and sing;
And walk forgetting how one day I trod
The purple moors, and felt myself to be
: Only a-little-lower-than a god ! ,
ENGLAND.
MYRA MORRIS.


wmm
is
S
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, DEAKIN & CO„ LTD., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street?, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDEB, SMITH & CO., LTD.. Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE ”
Established 185!f.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper, that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.,
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States’ or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
fKje Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICE.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) v
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.;.
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
m Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements,
Copies o] “THE ADVERTISER >’ may be
obtained at all inter-state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
ft
“The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE #
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
•The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
P:
HI
: X
HEALTH..
IP&tenWP
PILLS
PRICE Is. oa
Sold by the Proprietor!
ST. HELENS
Health matters 1 On Health depends youf
physical well being—that bright, cheerful,
optimistic outlook on life. But health, happi-
ness, beauty, depend on a clean system. If
fioisons linger in your system, trouble starts,
rritability, languidness, sickness, headaches
soon spoil the wish to enjoy and denote auto-
toxication. Beecham’s Pills do much to keep
your system free from waste and poison.
Purely vegetable they do their work promptly
and thoroughly. To keep smiling and healthy
keep Beecham’s by you.
BEECHAMS
Worth a Guinea
a Box
PILLS
A
cr/V
FOR 87 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-7 S Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered ‘‘The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l*2 months, 24/-; 6 months, .12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
fd
s
JCP c
0°
S e V* 6
s®
e
r&JP
$<V»
,<v cv*
•' ..••• e6 o^>
••' oA 0 “%^ 0
i‘\'<


śfd
Announcing
the manufacture in Australia
of Goodyear Belting and Hose
AS further evidence of
Goodyear’s faith in the
future of Australia, equipment
and personnel have been
installed to manufacture
Mechanical Rubber Goods in
addition to Tyres and Tubes.
A Mechanical Rubber Goods
department, including the
most modem machinery and
the very latest processes
of manufacture, has been
installed in the Goodyear
factory, at Granville, N.S.W.
Transmission, Conveyer and
Elevator Belting, Garden
Hose and all types of Indus-
trial Hose are now being
produced in the Australian
Goodyear plant.
Precisely the same high
quality of materials, the
same manufacturing processes,
and the same painstaking care
in manufacture for which the
hitherto imported Goodyear
Mechanical Rubber Goods
have always been famous, are
embodied in the Australian-
made Goodyear product.
And because of its Manufac-
ture in Australia,
Goodyear world-famous high quality now
costs you no more than ordinary grades
GOOD
BELTING AND HOSE
Now made in Australia
30-76 D
