

p
u
A \
7A
• a
,1j
BBS
Si.
fern 1870-
Still going Strong
THE ORDER OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE -
’ANOTHER JOHNNIE WAIKER /
aco**
m\
jfc?sr
w.
m
«S&2£g
x¥i9lGMm>£tasi
> :
' /- ■
A rare distinction you can confer on your
friend... make him a companion of this
inspiring order. The accolade is a touch
on the shoulder with a friendly hand—
the investiture, a glass and a bottle of
Johnnie Walker Whisky placed before
him. Pledged to knightly hospitality,
he’ll return the courtesy with “Another
Johnnie Walker”. . . the order of the
British Empire wherever men foregather.
The flavour and purity . . . the mellow
maturity . . . of Johnnie Walker
Whisky gave it the largest sale of any
whisky throughout the world.
WALKER
SONS
LTD., SYDNEY,
AND KILMARNOCK
MELBOURNE,
The Bulletin
r )fhuD / fiaAWi> JujcAaazjo owl 'ike, lwrf-uvihe w&ttoL.
Vol. 51.—N0. 2627.
Wednesday, June 18, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


•"THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
* now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Dame Nature must the needful gift impart
To make*the matchless masterpiece to be—
In every sphere of literature and art,
The sad obtrusion of inepts rye see
When “backblock bards” their doggerel rhymes
indite,
The Crude results are painful to endure;
Genius alone to ease our colds should write
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
w
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College >
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
Mil Address ;
5.8.316
ŵ
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw.
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE C A H T d~*W<
$ *
si Ji
H 8
WvWvV^
:i;SS?:W
S :
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says :
“ A few drops
of my Worcest-
ershire Sauce
served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
unexpected
guests.”
f.v
s
&
to
tA
Also ask about other
Winchester Flashlights
~ serviceable, durable,
dependable and adap•
ted to every use.
Light Wherever You
Turn Your Eyes
COMFORTABLY fastened to your hat ot
forehead by a wide web elastic band,
this unique Winchester Flashlight turns
with your head, tilts at any desired angle
and throws its light wherever you turn
your head. Current is supplied through a
flexible cord connecting with a standard
Winchester Flashlight Battery in a special
case that slips into your pocket or clips to
your belt, thus leaving you both hands
free. An ideal light for farmers, mechan-
ics, doctors, dentists, bandsmen, motorists,
sportsmen and all others who need l’ght
while using both their hands.
WINCHESTER REPEATING
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.. 19
ẁ
ẃ
THE PATRIOT
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHGLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medicai supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744. -
The Red Page
Back to Carolus 11.
The row over “Redheap” will not have
been in vain if it draws the attention of
Australians—traditionally casual people—to
what the politicians are doing to them.
Book censoring, as it is being practised
here, both by Federal and State Govern-
ments, was turned down by the people of
England over 200 years ago. Macaulay
mentions that when the House of Commons
refused to renew Charles ll.’s- Licensing
Apt it gave its reasons in a memorandum to
(he Lords:—
The Act is pronounced mischievous because....
it empowers Ihp agents of the (Government to
search houses under the authority of general warrants;
because it confines the foreign book trade to the
port of London because it detains valuable packages
of books at the Customs House till the pages are
mildewed.
Norman Lindsay, and Dymocks, who im-
ported 16,000 copies of his novel, no doubt
knew their Common Law position. Odgers
(Libel and Slander) says:—
Our law permits anyone to say, write and publish
what he pleases ; but if he makes a bad use of this
liberty he must be punished. If words be written
or printed, and immorality be thereby inculcated,
the offender can be tried for the misdemeanor .either
by information or indictment.
What is the Briton’s right to freedom of
expression on questionable subjects? Dicey
detines it in his “Law of the Constitution”
as "the right to write anything which a
jury consisting of 12 shopkeepers think
it expedient should be written.” “Redheap”
and many far more outspoken works are
on sale in Britain now because no Govern-
ment official or private individual has
undertaken to prove they are indecent to
12 shopkeepers. Here we are abandoning
the British principle of the rule of law in
favor of the droit administratif , or “govern-
ment by hierarchies of officials,” which
has led to one revolution after another in
Continental countries. The element of un-
certainty is the essence of that kind of
control, and it is economically ruinous, as
Australian industry (which is having a
taste of it in the form of hieratic control by
Trades Hall officials) has reason to know.
It is useless to expect the politicians to
give up the powers which they have seized
behind the backs of the people without a
struggle. Thousands will remember how
the war-time powers had literally to be
torn from Mr. Hughes and his officials
years after the last shadow of an excuse for
hanging on to them had vanished. The
electors will have to take similar action in
regard to the censorship; and they will
when they realise that interferences with
liberty by departments extend in proportion
as they are exercised. The upheaval may
occur here when the public finds out that
a Government has suppressed an edition of,
say, a hostile daily on the allegation of some
obscure and irresponsible civil servant that
it, contains matter which, in his opinion,
should be withheld from its subscribers.
J.B.D.
Kendalliana—(2)
In Kendall two streams of vigorous race
united. Through his father, a clerk, the son
of a schoolmaster, he inherited the habit of
English scholarship, with stubborn English
driving power. From his mother he drew
his poetical faculty, the spirit of the bard.
Ivendall is a place-name; from Ken-dale,
the dale or valley of the river Ken or Kent
in county Westmoreland. England. The
chief local town has the same name,
Kendal, formerly Kendal-Kirby, or Kendal-
kirkby, meaning the church town injhe dale
of the Ken. Kendal has a long history of
religion, learning and industry.
McNally is equivalent to O’Neill, a
famous north-Irish tribe with apparently a
part-Danish origin—pei'haps from the wide-
spread Scandinavian Nils. There is a story,
insufficiently corroborated, that William
Blake, the famous English poet of fantasy,
was an O’Neill. In Australia we have Shaw
Neilson.
The story that Kendall’s great-grand-
father was Leonard McNally, historically
notorious as a clever Dublin lawyer and
a “Castle spy” at the epoch of English and
Irish Union, was preserved by Kendall’s
mother; and seems warrantable. The in-
genious Matilda appears to have had a
wavering mind as to whether Leonard Mc-
Nally was or was not a creditable ancestor
to claim for “Melinda Olivia Leonora”
McNally. In one way he was; and then
ag’in
Kendall’s maternal grandfather, Patrick
McNally,- had served with the British
Army; and Mrs. Hamilton-Grey has recov-
ered a legend that he assisted at the burial
of Sir John Moore at Corunna, 1809. This
service was recognised by grants of Gov-
ernment land at Wollongong to two of his
children. In those agreeable early days,
New South Wales was settled by grants of
land galore. Everybody aspired to a grant
of land and the service of a convict or two
or three to cut the timber or cultivate it.
Thomas Kendall, the paternal grand-
father. had a grant of 1280 acres at Ulla-
dulla. confirmed to his eldest son in 1840
under the name of Kendal Dale. There
were other land-grants, adjoining, to mem-
bers of the Kendall family. The woods of
New South Wales are'still full of Kendalls
and McNallys—valiant descendants of the
old families. The Kendals come with or
without the added L. Joseph Kendal, pos-
sibly a relation of Thomas, was with us as
early as 1812, The McNallys have lost
their land at Wollongong; but Kendalls
still hang on at Ulladulla, Westmoreland
dalesmen-are a tough breed.
The original Kendall grant, was shared
among the sons and daughters of old
Thomas; and Basil, father of our Henry,
held his share long enough to put. up a
humpy for the. birthplace of his left-
handed twins, Basil and Henry. Then he
fell to rum, and is declared to have sold
his birthplace for a song, to “the red
marauder.” He was evicted to the Clarence
River as a shepherd with rations and a
pound a month; and died there miserably
in-1850 or 1851.
Henry Kendall’s “curse of drink” from
1869 onwards, till he was saved from the
worst depth by those good men the Fagan
brothers, was a common curse in the early
days; and more violent because the hard
British, in the hard times, drank hard
liquor instead of the timid ales that suffice
most, of our weaker generation. He was-
cursed on both sides; for his mother—cor-
rectly described by Mrs. Hamilton-Grey,
following P. J. Holdsworth, as “powerfully
intellectual, generously impulsive, ardent in
her attachments, and passionately fond of
her son Henry”—felt herself entitled to lie
back when Henry got his Government, job.
and went “on the spree” (Kendall’s words)
on her own account.
But she had kept a boarding-school at
Newtown for nearly a dozen years, rearing
her three daughters, and making a home for
her young poet to come back to from his
wanderings; so»she is to be judged tenderly.
She had the constitution to stand a drop or
two, or a gallon or two; they made ’em
strong in the early days before city life,
food preservatives, and ham-and-beef shops
had weakened many of the breed. Henry
Kendall was vigorous—he could ride a
horse and sail a boat; he was no weakling ;
but he was never hearty in the fashion of
Biddy McGee, who was “ahlways free and
hearty.” Kendall is to be judged tenderly,
too.
Tilly McNally lived to a green old age;
and Louisa Lawson, when she brought to
Sydney in 1884 her own Henry, carefully
trained on the Mudgee selection to fill
Henry Kendall’s place as “Native Austra-
lian Poet,” was greatly attracted by her
vivacious and venerable predecessor. Louisa
was a smart woman; but Matilda was more
than her match.
Sydney rose to the defence of the family
of the dead poet in 1882. A public subscrip-
tion of £l2OO was made for a beginning;
and presently positions in the Government
service were found for his widow and his
three sons—two of them held to the present
day. When the Commonwealth Literary
Fund was established, his widow was granted
a pension of £52 a year for the last 16 years
of her life—now continued to her daughter
Persia Evelyn. She outlived her poet by
more than 40 years.
A.G.S.
"White Cargo" Again
Moving-picture interests are waxing in-
dignant over the censoring of “White
Cargo” in Australia. There is a rumor that
if the title is changed to “Tondeleyo” the
piece will be reconsidered by the censors.
What, difference this could make isn’t obvi-
ous to an ordinary person, though Michael
Aden’s “The Green Hat” became morally
unexceptionable as soon as it was renamed
“A Woman of Affairs,” and there are other
examples. The screen version of “White
Cargo” is said to follow the stage play
closely, and if so art will not suffer greatly
by its, suppression, while there will be cer-
tain benefits. These, of course, do not
justify the action of the censorship, but
they provide a new angle for looking at this
and similar productions.
As I pointed out in The Bulletin when
Leon Gordon first staged the perspiry melo-
drama in Australia, “White Cargo” is anti-
white and pro-nigger propaganda. If it
told some of the truth about the relations
between paleface and colored in the tropics
there would be some justification for it,
but. it is really a sentimental stereotype.
The white men are all degenerates com-
pletely floored by their unusual surround-
ings, while the negroes, by the inevitable
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING 99 gives added importance
to every word of Anthony Horderns 9 announcements .
For Warmth and Endurance
w
“JUMBUK"
\3^DERWf4/>
ft
Mi
it ’s Australian through and through
—and 1 u)e f re proud of it! — it’s the finest produced in Australia , and will give you
more satisfaction than any you have ever worn. Its fleecy warmth and comfort-
able fit will be a pleasure to you throughout its long life. “Jumbuk” is obtain-
able only at Anthony Horderns. It is available in both Undershirts and Underpants. The
cold weather is now definitely with us—let the stored up sunshine in “Jumbuk” keep you
comfortable however low the thermometer. It is guaranteed unshrinkable.
Medium Winter Weight
Natural all pure wool in a delightfully soft finish that
comes in the following styles, sizes and prices.
Undershirts (half sleeves), each—-
Warm Winter Weight
This is in a natural wool and cotton mixture of fine
wearing quality.
Undershirts (half sleeves), each—
Extra Warm Winter Weight
In natural pure wool with an exceptionally soft and
velvety finish.
Undershirts (half sleeves), each—
The above lines are also stocked in sizes up to
50in . at a slight advance in price .
(Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carriage.)
“Jumbuk” is obtainable only at
(THE SENIOR STORE)
'Phone: M 21,01
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
V
m
1
I
X
s>
v
F


m.
U
m
; ... Hi
Ha
rv
H • SI &
: •
s
41
|VAC:uiH« m.
.
1
iqwpf 773
m
!#>>
*
fl
jys
&
liiilii
: .
ii* m
m
Right— Lead miners recover from Australian
soil lead ore for building Australian batteries
—of which General Motors Australia are tne
largest purchasers in the motor industry.
Scene at Broken Hill Associated Smelters,
Pty. Ltd.. Port Pirie. South Australia.
Refuelling aeroplane at Essendon aerodrome, using General Motors truck.
In the last eight years Australia’s airtransport has grown from nothing
to 8,000 miles of regular air lines. Demand for aeroplane fuel transport
by motor truck in Australia has correspondingly increased.
linked
with a mighty group
Australian Industries
Australia’s leading motor organ-
isation 1,400,000 a year
on Australian-produced materials.
Measure a car’s valuein the Common-
wealth to-day not only by what it will
do for you, but also by what it does
for Australia.
Does your car strike root deep into
Australian Industry? Weigh the pro-
ducts of General Motors Australia by
this standard. You will find them
important to the nation —as well as
first in choice of over 100,000 Aus-
tralian owners.
For they are sponsored by a great
Australian organisation, that brings
employment to more Australian work-
men than any other car builder.
And that uses Australian - built
machinery and equipment in its
five great plants at Brisbane,
Sydney, IVlelbourne, Adelaide, and
Perth.
Buying in Australia
General Motors Australia requires
more Australian tyres and batteries,
more Australian materials for uphol-
stery, and more Australian Duco,
than any other maker of cars.
Timber from Tasmania and Victoria
is fashioned into the Australian-built
bodies of General Motors cars by
skilled Australian craftsmen. General
Motors Australia requires yearly
more Australian bodies than any
other car builder.
And so every General Motors car and
truck is a link in a great chain or
Australian production, drawing upon
the labour and skill of 20,000 Aus-
tralians. In a score of Australian
industries which produce these basic
materials you will find 16,000
workers. At the General Motors
plants, approximately 1,5°° tnore-
And among dealers and mechanics
who sell and service General Motors
cars, over 3,000 others.
A Policy of Australian
Production
Steadily pursuing the policy of buying
all possible Australian materials for its
cars and trucks, General Motors
Australia has since its beginning in
November, 1926, expended over
' jT 13,000,000 in Australia. Its annual
wages bill alone is over 000.
With vast on-the-spot facilities for
production, it is only natural that
General Motors cars have taken and
kept the lead. Already
over 100,000 now serve
Australian business and
Australian homes, and
by furnishing dependable
transport add to Aus-
tralia’s national wealth.
Measure General Motors
cars and trucks by their
contribution to Australia
as well as by their per-
formance. They are
built in Australia by and
for Australians.
ffl&m
Australian Oak, Ash, and Blackwood from Tasmania and Victoria, ready for shaping into
passenger car bodies for General Motors cars.
Tyre builders in an Australian tyre factory. Thousands of Australians
find employment in the rubber industry—and the bulk of the rubber and
fabric used comes from Empire sources. All tyres for General Motors
products are Australian-built.
Style is demanded in to-day’s cars—with gleaming,
colorful finishes in Duco produced in Australian
plants. A portion of the Duco Filling Floor at the
Duco Factories of British Australian Lead Manu-
facturers Pty. Ltd., Cabarita, N.S.W.
r
I
I . fen
;
■ m
Hen
m
a
■
m
Wool from Australian sheep is woven into upholstery for General Motors cars.
And in the transport of sheep from station to rail, the motor truck is proving a
valuable ally of Australian railways.
CHEVROLET
MARQUETTE
VAUXHALL
PONTIAC
OAKLAND
LA SALLE
OLDSMOBILE
BUICK
CADILLAC
also
Chevrolet Trucks
Pontiac Express Deliveries
General Motors Trucks
General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
More Wealth for Australia - - - More Jobs for Australians


MCC*
SHIRTS
PYKMAS&SOFT COLLARS
Clean, Cool and Comfortable.
Anight spent in “ luvisca ”
Pyjamas is a night of sustained
rest. The texture is pleasingly
smooth, and each garment is tailored
for wear as well as for comfort.
“ LUVISCA ” Shirts (and soft collars)
keep their smartness and ease,
and all colours are fast to washing.
Sold by Leading Stores.
w
Look
for the
Registered
Tab .
rtaULDS
cOU
If any difficulty in uotaining,
please write
THOROLD. HARPER & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
308 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE :
181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
f
r
m
!sas
i
Ql
7/
HIS
2
J
<d>
1 1.
©
4
;J
> t 7«
r ■
Vv\>»
W
*«
comparison, appear as noble savages, living
in tune with their environment. The im-
pression given the unsophisticated observer
is that scattered about the hot and black
areas of the globe are sundry little groups
of dirty, disreputable and spineless English-
men hemmed in by superior colored men
who are only waiting for the propitious
moment to kick them out of it. One equa-
torial colony of Britain produces more than
half the world’s rubber, most of its tin and
a good deal of its copra under white super-
vision; Singapore, almost on the equator,
is a modern city of close on half a million
people, with up-to-date power installa-
tion, fine buildings and modern sewerage,
all run by white men; Kenya Colony, on
the equator, is being rapidly turned into
a white man’s country by British farmers,
and in most British settlements in the
tropics Mr. Gordon’s collection of bare-
footed wastrels would cause as much aston-
ishment as a nude man in George-sti*eet.
All these things are suppressed in favor of
a picture of the crushing inferiority of the
white man in face of the primitive ad-
equacy of the childlike natural savage. That,
as soon as the white man arrives, the
superior savage begins to multiply exceed-
ingly owing to better sanitation and the
destruction of mosquitoes and tigers, isn’t
stated.
The matter goes deeper than the mere
question of the banning or otherwise of
“White Cargo.” Practically all the plays,
films and novels written on the subject of
the white man and the brown are tackled
from the same angle, and most of them
come from America. Why the White
American writer should be so anxious to
fix an inferiority complex on his fellow
countrymen is something of a mystery. Pos-
sibly he finds it easier to work up sym-
pathy for the enslaved negro in the cotton
field than for the enslaved white man. in
the pork-packing factory. But there is no
reason why he should be allowed, without
protest, to make a gift of the thing to
Australia, which is conquering its tropics
without the aid of the colored man and
where the chief form of slavery is that of
the trades unionist to his bosses.
FENG-SHUI.
A Lord at Large
Lord Birkenhead has written a book of
prophecies which the cables describe as
startling and amazing. Lord Birkenhead is
like that. His introduction to The Hundred
Best English Essays (Cassell; Angus and
Robertson) is the most startling and amaz-
ing piffle that I have read in years. As
essayists, Lord Halifax, Lord Shaftesbury,
Sir Joshua Reynolds, are to be preferred to
Lamb, Steele, Addison, Hazlitt. Good
Lord! “Sour as thin claret” describes
Montaigne. Mon Dieu!
But even this Tomfool striving to be
different is not the “startling and amazing”
thing about the book. The startling and
amazing thing is that it is a very good book.
If any notice could be taken of its title,
every Great Name in English prose has
written essays. There are 100 of these great
names, from Hugh Latimer, Raleigh, Bacon
and Jonson to Lynd, Chesterton, Guedalla
and Neville Cardus. Perhaps one item in
40 is an essay; the rest are addresses, con-
troversial papers, didactic articles, literary
criticisms, biographies and the like. I have
no quarrel at all with these documents as
such. Saintsbury on Carlyle, Carlyle on the
diamond necklace that Cagliostro went after,
Bennett on the writing of novels, Wells on
the psychology of Karl Marx, Birrell on
Borrow, Wilde’s “The Soul of Man Under
Socialism,” Gosse on Swinburne, Macaulay
on Pitt, Scott on SteAie—all are good. But
doubts must arise over an editor to whom
all these are essayists and essays, beside
which the “professional essayist [i.e., a
Charles Lamb or a Beerbohm] strikes a
reedy note.”
Lord Birkenhead wants to have it both
ways. He acknowledges Montaigne as the
father of the essay, but he also wants to
broaden out the literary meaning of the
word to its literal meaning, to embrace any
essay (meaning attempt) in prose composi-
tion apart from the narrative. He is not
alone in this. He belongs to a school, com-
posed wholly of practical minds, which
simply cannot appreciate prose that is
written without objectivity; prose that
deals in unconsidered trifles that yet have
an importance or a quality of their own;
prose that appeals to head and heart to-
gether; prose of which Florio-Montaigne
said: “I desire therein to be delineated in
mine owne genuine, simple and ordinary
fashion without contention, art or study;
for it is my selfe I pourtray.” Without
contention! That is what the Lord Birken-
heads cannot understand. There is in this
book a sprinkling of true essays—Lynd’s
“Fear”; Beerbohm’s jewel of the art, “Hosts
and Guest i”; Chesterton’s “A Piece of
Chalk”; Belloc’s “The Mowing of a Field”;
Thackeray’s “De Finibus”; Lamb’s “Dream
Children”; Stevenson’s “The Lantern
Bearers.” But these appear as waifs and
strays. Lord Birkenhead has an implied
contempt for them all. Still, though its
introduction must madden those who believe
that a contentious article is no more an
essay than a tomtit is a toucan, the book
spreads a fine intellectual feast, and is well
worth a place beside other portmanteau
volumes on the shelf.
CECIL MANN.
Famous Australian Trials
The Law Book Co. is doing for famous
Australian trials what Britain and America
have already done for theirs—issuing them
in book form, with a main eye on the
popular-appeal side, but a watch on the
law side also. The editor of the first
volume in the series, The Trial of Ronald
Geeves Griggs, is doubly qualified for the
job. He is A. J. Buchanan, barrister-at-law
and journalist.
Whether or not it accords with British
ideals of justice to thus drag into the lime-
light a man who ivas acquitted and is still
alive, the book is excellently done. The
“introduction,” which contains the whole
story, makes gripping, even exciting read-
ing. The writer sits aloof and outlines the
setting, characters and dramatic trials in a
briskly moving and graphic narrative. Fol-
lows the' evidence taken at thse trials,
counsel and Judge’s addresses, with an
appendix of statements and letters. There
are also pictures of the leading figures.
In view of the still live interest in the
strange drama, the book should be some-
thing of a best-seller, though the decep-
tively austere binding is not likely to
help it.
A Satchel of Books
A Short History of Scotland, by George
Malcolm Thomson (Kegan Paul; Dymocks).
Differs from all other short histories in that
it is short. Into barely 300 pages of large
type is compressed Scotland’s story, lightly,
even breezily told, with a good eye for the
greater things and a discriminating blindness
for the lesser. The writer places “The House
with the Green Shutters” as the best modern
Scottish novel.
The Memoirs of General Wrangle (Wil-
liams and Norgate; Dymocks). Plainly
written, loaded with official documents, and
yet a fine, stirring story, with the Russian
White Army rising heroically a<bove its defeat.
It is a book that cannot be missed by anyone
who wants more than one side of the greatest
event in modern history, nor indeed by any-
one at all interested in the evolution of
Europe, and, consequently, the world.
Stable and Saddle, by Lieut.-Col. M. F.
McTaggart (Methuen). As English as roast
beef, yet applying generally wherever horses
are used. The writer deals with practically
all points of horse-treatment and horseman-
ship, and may have surprises even for those
who have lived longer in the saddle than
out of it. In any case, he makes thoroughly
engaging reading, and the illustrations by
Ludwig Koch are as diverting as they are
faithful.
R. H. Croll, of Vic. Education Depart-
ment, 'is a curious anachronism. As in
most other human beings, his lower extremi-
ties—very long ones—end in two blunt
objects specially adapted, as everybody
knows, for depressing the clutch pedals and
accelerators of motor-cars. Croll persists
in using them for locomotion. They have
taken him to most of the accessible spots
in the State, and to many that are nowa-
days regarded as inaccessible. In “The Open
Road” he professed an irrational joy in thus
using them. In Along the Track (Robertson
and Mullens) he continues to assert a per-
verted pleasure in liis chosen form of exer-
cise. A gentle lover of Nature and a keen
observer, he hasn’t allowed much to escape
him.
Joan of the Pilchard, by the Australian-
born Mary Gaunt (Benn), is nominally the
romance of a Cornish waif with a secret
passion for Daniel Reynell, who loves an-
other. But the book’s claims to serious
attention, which are high, consist in accounts
of the mutiny of the Bounty, of Bligh’s
epic open-boat voyage with the castaways,
and of Reynell’s lone journey to Sydney
after being marooned by Bligh on the Great
Barrier Reef for disobedience. The writer
says of her brother, the Admiral, in a dedi-
cation : “Had he not sailed the Bounty’s
boat from Tahiti to the Great Barrier, and
had lie not told me what the Great Barrier
was like, I could never have written the
book.” The knowledge of seamanship which
she displays is certainly amazing, and there
is a wonderfully realistic picture of Sydney
under Governor Phillip.
Theatre Street, by Tamara Karsavina
(Heinemann). Karsavina did not follow her
countrywoman and co-performer Pavlova to
this part of the world; she “was prejudiced
against Australia by the loose phrasing of an
alarmist geography book.” Mostly she per-
formed in her own country, with triumphant
invasions upon Paris and London. Her book,
introduced by J. M. Barrie, is the autobiog-
raphy of an unswervingly moral woman, the
complete opposite to the Duncan lady. It is
very well done, and its early chapters, descrip-
tive of the great Russian training schools
for dancing, are interesting and revealing.
They might be read by any flapper who
aspires to be a- Karsavina; after reading,
she could go quietly back to munching
peanuts in the movie-palaces. To call that
training as rigorous as prison discipline
would be to earn the just resentment of all
decent inhabitants of Long Bay.
William T. Tilden’s Glory's Net (Methuen)
lodges an objection against “amateur” sport
which has the advantage of coming-
straight from the horse’s mouth. When
David Cooper—an indigent lad from a
“hick town” in the Middle West—becomes
tennis champion of America, the wealthy
Mr. Harker pays him 14.000 dollars p.a.
for doing nothing, and the Vanderbilt Hotel
gives him _ and his family “tennis terms.”
David’s wife is “a little disappointed” to
find the U.S.A.’s social stars “human like
herself.” However;—
She was thrilled at meeting Flo Zeigfield and his
beautiful wife, Billy Burke, while Fanny Ward,
Irving Berlin and Irene Bordoni filled her week at
Palm Beach with just one big kick after the other:
The style is all as naif as that, “Big Bill’s”
ranking on the literary courts being some-
where in the “Girl’s Companion” class. The
yarn ends happily with David shamed by
the charge of being “a tennis gigolo” into
earning a self-respecting living as a garage-
owner.
Answers to Correspondents.
w
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ernest E.: Well enough done ; but we can’t
find a place for it.... E.L.M.: ■ Get down off those
stilts. People really don’t talk like that Loch L.:
Can t, help it. They are official figures. See Age
30/4/’21... .Leon B.: Dramatic, credible; good end-
ing. Now simplify it—few readers would finish it
in its present f0rm....H.A.0.: When you write
with your tongue in your cheek, the art lies in
keeping attention away from your face Tock-
Tock: Nobody suggested there wasn’t virtue in super-
annuation schemes. What was suggested (B.
21/5/ 30) was that in the fierce competition for
business, too much was being made of past figures.
Keg: You should have put it in a flask
A.M.N.: Writer has solemnly pledged himself to
print all future jokes in red ink M.R.McC.: That
brand of verse is centuries old C.C.T.; Sonnet
form is a lure and a snare Wayfarer: Better send
it to the lady personally ; she must be getting used
to that sort of thing by now D.D.H.: You might
do the same 1.M.: No; not for a girl of 14....
R.C.D.: Not very hopeful A.J.: One of those
little affairs that just go on and on W.D.:
New light on the unemployment position:—
Married women take the place
Of young girls fair and slim,
But then 1 know you cannot blame them,
As their husband’s out of work ag’in.
M.D.P.M.: Our sympathy is with “Amy of the
Atmosphere.” Another poet called her an albatross.
. ...P.G.: Published this column’s appreciation of
her last week.... J.T.8.: That fits you, too 1.K.:
Swell the pouch of the kangaroo
By buying an Aussie hat or shoe.
Well, that might do it J.A.E.: The color is
better than the verse A.D.8.: Good twist, but
that’s about all L.K.N.A.: No thrill in “Storm.”
. ...R.H.: Try another tack E.G.M.S.: Not for
this taste at all J.G.: “Superfluous” it was....
I’m In: You’re not, but you nearly were.... Billy
O’Bier: Rambles... .A. St. J.: Agreed; but the verse
won’t d 0... . J.N.: Try one of the dailies; they’re
publishing worse about the young lady.... Eldorado:
Came a header at the second jump.. . . J.11.D.:
Prattles a>vay quite well, but misfires here and there.
.... Bellerive; Zoological Inspiration No. 2:—
WATER RATS.
In sheltered nooks
Among broken rocks
The water rats breed
In huddled flocks.
Swamps and streams-
Are the known resorts
Where wantonly frolic
The aquatic sports.
(Next week: “The Porcupine.”)
. ...F.A.S.: All heavy... .K. 8.: No use for abstract
generalities. Try something concrete... .J.P.8.:
No more space for it at the moment... .T.A.N.:
Good; come again... .R.L.C.: Could not squeeze it
in.... Thorton: “The Elusive Art of the Musician”
isn’t popular... .J.I. r Topic has had its day....
T. 5.8.: You’re another on it... .H.W.D.: Sorry; an
article on Lambert was already in print. .. .L.R. (Lon-
don) : You should have been able to get better stuff
than that out of him.... L.W.: Interest restricted.
. ...M.L.: Verse which merely describes a string of
familiar objects no u5e....C.T.: Verse also went
“hiking”... .Pom: Has stuff in it, as usual, but falls
down, also as usual... .E.J.8.: The wooing of the
widow ended in the basket. .. .H.E.: It droned out
again.... Blackboy: Promising bit of work, but not
there yet.... J.J.S.: “Gambler’s Luck” dead 0ut....
P.E.S.: Story of basher and belle over the odds'... .
P.M.: Coldly reject “little thing I’ve wrote, for
‘ln Memoriam’ column”.... J.J.T. : And only three
murders!.... K.M.S.: Good description, but storm
stories are a glut. .. .F.H.C.: No room on the shelf
for “The Shelton Goblet”.... 8.W.: If facts authen-
ticated, might interest Historical Society.... F.A.8.:
N0....X.D.: Obvious holes in it... .G.C.D.: Excites
expectation but leaves it unsatisfied. .. .E.A.P.: Sour
beer of petty scandal... ..J.8.: Too much of it and
too little in it.... 5.8.: Nearly H.J.M.: Turned
down by the office censor... .G.E.G.: “One out of
the Box” put back and sent home... . J.A.8.F.:
Webster’s Dictionary defines “wowser” as one who
is censoriously hostile to minor vices; one Who
disapproves of certain forms of,popular amusements,
as Sunday sports—used, contemptuously, of any
obtrusively puritanical person. (2) John Norton
is generally credited with having coined the word,
but it was used in the N. S. Wales Parliament
long before Norton gave it a journalistic airing.
. ...A.J.R.: Gray used several Greek metres,
more or. less effectively. Sapphics and Alcaics
have morn often been employed in lighter verse.
The best-known example of English Sapphics
is Canning’s “Needy Knife-grinder.” See' “Prin-
ciples of English Metre,” by Egerton Smith... .
S. : Warrigal is another name for the dingo.
It is also applied metaphorically to wild horses
(properly called “brumbies”), to wild aboriginal
tribes and occasionally to outlawed blackfellows.
The early variant spellings such as “warragal” and
“worregal” have died 0ut.... Don E.: You do a
murder very well ; but the opening is weak....
William S.: It reads like a tale....Tui T.: Badly
constructed. But there’s promise in it... .T. 0.5.:
Has that sincerity which covers more sins than any
other single quality in writing. .. .Yussif: Yes, but
where’s the story ?.... R.H.C.: (1) Nothing has yet
been decided regarding another Novel Competi-
tion. (2) Tub Bulletin does not publish novels in
book form... .G.M.: No use for burnt damper... .
G. : Milk from “O’Brien’s Cow” not up to standard.
. ...0.E.W.: Knowles’s theory of football being a
potent agency in civilisation open to doubt....
T. : The basket got it. •
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.S.: Barbarous... .N.E.: Too many labels....
H. J.: What are the creatures you tried to draw?
. ...8.J.N.: Showy, but no smile in it....E.K.:
Fair enough as decoration for mortuary parlor....
A.T. J.: Mostly misplaced lines and smudges....
H.M.C.: Litter of unnecessary strokes. .. .R.T.:
Leaden figures and a lightweight joke... .N.0.H.:
Even the liberal use of Chinese white didn’t conceal
all your slips... .T.Y.: Moss-grown gag. .. . J.C.:
Size alone doesn’t impress... .R.R.: Dubious as to
their originality.... C.N.P.: A bit smart with your
pen, but you ignore too many rules....M.H.F.:
You’re a novice but a promising one. . . .W.F. :
No more in that style. .. .D.M.: A course of training
would do no harm.... 5.C.8.: Weren’t you dis-
heartened when you saw what you had turned out?
. ...T.H.: That moke has run before.


ŵ


The Bulletin.
Vol. 31.-—No. 2627.
June 18, 1930.
SECESSION IN A NUTSHELL.
“A minority in Westralia, headed by Premier Mitchell, wants to have done with the obligations of Federation without foregoing its advantages.”
THE CAPTAIN: "Looks to me, boys, like a storm working up. Thank God, though we’ve taken to the boat, we haven’t taken to the water!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21b George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; >.Phone BTJII.
Victoria: ll) r 20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ;
5 months, Is.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.,
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: boz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional f/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: \oz. or part thereof.
Id. elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE CENSORSHIP AND THE LAW—
,By J. 8.1) 2
HENRY KENDALL, by A.G.S 2
“WHITE CARGO” AGAIN, by “Feng-Shui”.. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
THE BASIC WAGE IS A FRAUD . . . . 8
WE MUST HAVE MORE GOLD . . . . 8
THE SIMON REPORT 8
JAVA FROM THE AIR 8
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH CANBERRA?—
By Dr. Maloney, M.H.R. .. .. 9
MR. SCULLIN CONSULTS MRS. SCULLIN . . 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) . . . . . . . . . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . 11, 12
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 13
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
PERSONAL (with drawings) . . . . . . 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..10
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP .. ..17
SUN NEWSPAPERS AND ASSOCIATED
NEWSPAPERS 17
ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER . . . . 17
NICHOLSONS 17
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
THE ANTI-BLOWFLY CAMPAIGN .. . . 22
DROUGHT FEED 22
WESTRALIAN EXPERIENCE OF SUB-
CLOVER 22
DON’T WASTE WOOD-ASH 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY RACING . . 35
TEST CRICKET 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER . . . . . . 39
THE NEW SEASON’S MILLINERY .. ,'.39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
The Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer.. 42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE—With drawings by Phil
May and “Hop” .. . . .. .. 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“MAXWELLTON’S MURDERERS”—
By Osmar E. White.. .. .. 49, 50
VERSE. —By Frederick T. Macartney, Dulcie
Deamer, “Bill O’C,” .. . . .. 45
ffie'fyitlldz/fi
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 18, 1930.
THE BASIC WAGE IS A FRAUD.
Presumably it will be admitted even by the
Federal Labor Government that we ai’e on
the edge of financial and economic disaster.
That admission was in fact tacitly made
by the Government when it commandeered
the gold in Australia, prohibited its export
and stopped cashing Australian notes
abroad. And, further, it acknowledged the
immediate cause of the trouble when, in
support of the measures already taken by
the banks to cut down payments on Aus-
tralian account abroad, it put a super-tax
on many imports and an embargo on othei’s,
at the same time encouraging production of
exportable goods by bonuses and other-
wise.
There could indeed be no difficulty in
arriving at the immediate cause of our
trouble. In seven years our exports fell
56 millions short of paying for our impoits,
and our interest payable on foreign debts
over the same period was another 179 mil-
lions; so that during these seven years we
lived 235 millions beyond our means, an
average of nearly 34 millions a year. And
during a part at least of that time our
staple products were bringing very high
prices abroad, which should have made tlie
business of living within our means much
easier than usual. At present prices of
wool, wheat and metals our average annual
deficit would have been at least twice 34
millions, and they are the prices we have
to consider in providing for the future.
All this being so, there can be only one
conclusion from the facts: we were living
in the clouds. We were enabled to do it
temporarily by borrowing to pay our bills;
and the lenders have ceased to oblige us.
We must therefore now face the realities.
We have been so wrong somewhere that
we cannot afford to accept a single thing
that we have done during the past 10 years
ẁ
WE MUST HAVE MORE GOLD.
A delegation of mining men from West-
ralia is touring the Eastern States to enlist
support for the proposed gold bonus before
going to Canberra to place the miners’
case before the Prime Minister himself.
Its arrival in Sydney and Melbourne—it has
bisected itself—coincided with the announce-
ment that the Commonwealth Government
was distributing another £1,000,000 among
the State Governments for “immediate
assistance to the unemployed.” It was stipu-
lated that the first million should be spent
on roads, and that nowadays means
speedways on which, besides the swarming
pleasure vehicle, motor-’buses and -lorries
ply in competition with insolvent State
railways; moreover, the million was addi-
tional to the 20 millions to which the Com-
monwealth was committed by the Bruce-
Page roads scheme. The second million is
to be granted unconditionally, which means
that it will be principally used for hastily
improvised pick-and-shovel .jobs, the com-
pletion of which will be followed by a
clamor for more. And, though most of it
may be wasted, some of it is bound to
make the difficulties of the States’ railways
still greater.
As the Westralian delegation will doubt-
less point out, a gold bonus of £1 per fine
ounce would be less costly than these piti-
ful makeshifts, even if it led to last year’s
output of a little over 400,000 fine ounces
being doubled in 1930-31. And it would,
above all, provide productive work on a
large scale. The leader of the delegation
ẃ
THE SIMON REPORT.
The first volume of the Simon Commis-
sion’s report on Indian conditions, regarded
from the point of view of India’s fitness
for Dominion status, endorses a point fre-
quently stressed by The Bulletin —that
the vociferous section which gets so much
publicity in the press of the world as
representing the people of India is an in-
finitesimal item in the vast hotch-potch that
comes within the Raj.
India’s population is something over 320
millions. Of these only two and a half
millions are literate in English. In the 220
vernaculars spoken by the teeming millions
of that vast country the proportion of
literates is even lower. Indeed, many races,
such as the aboriginal Bhils, have no written
language at all. It is significant that of
all the tongues spoken in India, from the
Himalayas to Comorin, the most widely
understood is English.
Of all that mass of humanity only 10
per cent, dwells in urban areas. The balance
consists of rural workers who have never
heard of India’s claims to Dominion status,
and would not care a tinker’s dam for it
if it were to do so. And of that urban
10 per cent, only the inhabitants of cities
north of a line drawn roughly across India
from Calcutta to Bombay have the slightest
interest in political agitation. Among these,
again, the lead is taken by the half-baked
swarm of lawyers and journalists which the
fostering care of British rule has brought
into existence. From that minority must be
deducted the Moslem element. There are
70 millions of these in India, and save for
a short period when it was feared Britain
would join the Greeks against the Turkish
Caliphate after the Great War, these have
repudiated any allegiance with the Hindu
intransigeants.
An interesting though disturbing element
of the report is the conclusion that, though
Russian propaganda has helped to encour-
age the offensive against Britain, the Babu
movement has derived considerable sup-
port in cash and publicity from America,
where a large section of the community
is always ready to listen to tales of British
perfidy and oppression. There still linger,
possibly, memories of the iron hand with
which Britain was forced to suppress the
Great Mutiny in Northern India 73 years
ago. But that iron hand has long been ex-
changed for a glove stuffed with sawdust,
a fact which the Hindu has been quick to
appreciate and translate, like all his kind,
into a confession of weakness.
Years of systematic coddling, and the
prating by politicians and propagandists of
India’s right to self-determination, have
raised the present hornet’s nest, which is
none the less irritating because its activi-
ties are circumscribed. There are indica-
tions that a return to sterner measures may
be necessary before the situation clears.
To return to the Commission’s report, it
may be said that, so far, it commits the
Commission to nothing on the final ques-
tion of whether or no India is fitted for
admission to Dominion status. But it seems
inevitable from what is said here that the
Second Section will declare the difficulties
in the way of accomplishing anything of
the sort to be practically insuperable—for
the next hundred years, anyway.
JAVA FROM THE AIR.
A SULKY wall of mist hangs perpetually
round the horizon. Into it the sun drops
bloodily, leaving a thin edge of tarnished
gold about the clouds; and night comes
down with no twilight. The moon rises
huge and distorted till it clears itself of
the sanguinary stain of the fog bank. Then
it shines clear enough on Lombok peak
curving beautifully to a pinnacle. Bali
peak appears’ through shifting cloud in the
early morning—another lovely curve that
drops slowly and then swells and sweeps
up to a second peak in another gracious
line, feminine in its beauty. Java is a suc-
cession of towering peaks over which threat-
ening clouds and sodden mist hang always.
A cloud of sail is pouring up the channel
into Sourabaya—sampans, pulled by little
Javanese, or sailing with triangular sails
turned upside-down; narrow-gutted cata-
marans, with their graceful canvas goose-
winged, driving their bamboo outriggers
through the yellow water; strings of barges,
of heavy- Dutch architecture and full of
yelling infidels, dropping down on the
running tide; and there is the pukka
Chinese junk, elevated poop like a Spanish
galleon, painted, carved, knobbed and
fretted like a pagoda-roof, huge lanterns
forward, dragons twisting round the prow,
and for a mast a short, square post, to
which the immense mat sail is lashed, and
from which it peaks skywards and wobbles
like an old lady’s headdress.
Landed, we double and turn about the
native quarter looking for the Dutch part;
but the Dutchman is conspicuous by his
absence. He holds in absolute subjection
this densely populated city by telepathy
apparently. Half the white or semi-white
faces and all the finest women are Eurasian.
We push our way through a mellifluous
packed bazaar, stuffed with rice bread, pat-
ties, piles of durians and pawpaws, trays
of gambir, betel-nut and raw tobacco, bril-
liant-colored rugs, sarongs bedecked with
horses—or are they cows?—rampant; little,
if anything, that looks European. Certainly
not the kris which we buy, and which turns
out afterwards to bear a Birmingham trade-
mark.
Two-horse shays to the old Dutch quar-
ter. The houses verandahed all round,
their thick walls supported on massive pil-
lars; wide, airy spaces inside; polished,
tessellated floors; broad halls, and alcoves
separated from the body of the building
only by these cool-looking pillars. When
the green blinds are up you can seemingly
see right through to the kitchen, and walk
in from the street and play the grand piano
in the drawing-room. The old Colonial
Dutch house, Orientalised, is a thing of
beauty and a joy for ever. And so, more
or less, are the Orientalised Dutchmen and
Dutchwomen who are rocking themselves
on the verandahs, sipping onggor kina and
discussing the latest upheaval of Commu-
nism amongst their 45,000,000 helots.
Back through an ugly' and aggressive
modern suburb of the latest German archi-
tecture, along a canal reminiscent of the
Netherlands. Evening, and all the native
population seem to have descended into the
yellow stream and are washing golden
bodies, the family rice or their master’s
shirts and collars indiscriminately. The
stench arises almost in waves of color.
Off Samarang, next day, above a fleet of
junks. A more modern city. Broad streets
and big cool buildings, all silent and empty.
The natives at their little trades seem to
bear no relation to their surroundings. As
if a lower race had inherited a city deserted
by supermen and didn’t know what to do
with it.
Now Batavia. The Dutchman has dug
canals all around and through the city, and
the natives have obligingly filled them with
Dutch-looking barges. It is the only means
of transport that really appeals to him.
He feels homesick without them. Batrvia
is the metropolis of Java. In its social life
it apes the Continent. Its layout in the
new business section is free and open; but
industry still clusters round old and malari-
ous-looking Batavia. The shops are unique,
and so are the prices. The Arab quarter
is as prosperous-looking as the European,
the Chinese even more so. A Chinese sugar
magnate invites us into his Georgian-cwm-
Grseco-cwm-Spanish mission residence, and
shows us his just-to-be-married daughter’s
14 frocks from Paris, his electrically-driven
pianola, his Australian racehorses, his motor-
cars —one for every member of the family
—and his radio set with which he picks up
London, Paris, ’Frisco and 2FC sometimes.
Wandering back to our hotel, we come
on a Javanese gazing at all that remains
of Pieter Erberfeld, the rebel against Dutch
power whose skull has been nailed up in
a public place for two centuries as a per-
petual warning to the native not to do
likewise. The intent Javanese seems to be


finding inspiration in it. Perhaps he is a
member of the latest revolutionary society
founded to replace the last one suppressed
by the Government.
But we are tired of Eurasian cities, and
we motor into the country. The swamped
ricefields, like innumerable mirrors, spread
from the roadside towards the rim of dis-
tant mountains, and there rise up in gigantic
steps halfway towards the summits. Little
mounds of soil, tufted with tiny villages
nestling under their plumes of cocoanuts
and mangoes, lie here and there like float-
ing islands. A water-buffalo,' with a skin
as pink as a baby’s, a primitive beast left
over from a vanished epoch, standing belly-
deep in mud, turns its head to look at us;
then, as the alarm dies out of its eyes,
stares mindlessly through us. Half-naked
figures move slowly in rows across a field,
planting out rice shoots; a small boy,
perched in a basket-work pavilion on stilts,
taps haunting notes out of a gamelang
while he languidly operates with his toes
a system of bird scares which extend over
the crop around him.
Stepping gingerly along the narrow dykes,
we make our way to one of the floating
islands and engage the village elders in
converse. Happy people who know no-
thing of joy-sticks, fountain pens or the
League of Nations; they are occupied at the
moment in preparations for a circumcision
ceremony at which a Hindu drama w'ritten
2000 years ago will be the piece de resist-
ance.
RICHMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
What Shall We Do with Canberra?
HOPE.
“Carol of Roumania, having repented of the course of life which caused him to be deposed and exiled, has returned to Roumania and been proclaimed king amongst
scenes of popular enthusiasm.”
W.M. HUGHES: “I wonder is it possible?”
From Dr. Maloney, M.H.E.: —
In my opinon it would be wise to follow
the advice tendered me by every business
man I have asked; without exception they
have advised closing Canberra and removing
the capital to Albury or to Sydney itself.
Many years ago there. was a feeling in
the Parliament that a large area, say a
couple of hundred acres, should be resumed
from the North Shore of Sydney Harbor
under the Federal Act which permits re-
sumption based upon the land valuation-
Had the idea been adopted, and £12,000,000
(the money thus far poured out on Can-
berra) been spent on fine buildings on the
North Shore of Sydney, it would have added
greatly to the beauty and the value of the
lands facing Sydney Harbor. However, we
let that opportunity pass.
I am convinced that, had tlic capital been
made at Albury, situated between the two
great centres of population, there would
have been a city of 100,000 people, paying
rents to the Commonwealth Government.
Albury has splendid advantages. The best
and quickest railway in Australia passes
through it. Australia’s noblest river flows by,
and at a distance of some 10 miles there
will soon be a freshwater lake containing
more water than Sydney Harbor itself.
In answer to the question, “What should
be done with Canberra?” it seems to me it
would be best to make it a sanatorium for
Australia for certain diseases; and as all
Australia has contributed to the cost of
Canberra, arrangements should be made
with the State Governments for the convey-
ance of patients suitable for treatment free
over their railways.
I am convinced that if a referendum of
the people could be taken on the question of
stopping or continuing Canberra, the place
would be closed down in the same way as
any great business company would close
down a branch that did not pay and had no
hopes of paying. In the case of business
men it would be a short shrift.
Let the citizens of Australia rule by the
referendum, initiative and recall, and waste-
ful extravagances such as this would soon
be ended, along with the appointment of
many commissions, etc.
4
Mr. Scullin Consults Mrs. Scullin.
Priminister Scullin addressed Australia
through the radio stations on Sunday night,
and got along quite well while he was
merely describing this country’s financial
vicissitudes. But when he came to sug-
gesting remedies his blood turned to water
and he exclaimed:—
“The standard of living is something of
which we in Australia are very proud. Shall
we, because of temporary depression and
difficulties, throw up our hands in despair
and declare that this great country is no
longer able to maintain conditions which,
we believe, are the envy of many peoples of
the world less fortunately endowed with
God’s gifts?”
Unfortunately what have been the richest
of “God’s gifts” during the last 10 years
have ceased to reach us. As Mr. Scullin
admits, we have been giving our lOU to
the foreign moneylender and the foreign
merchant for 30 millions a year. And now
they won’t take our lOU. Moreover, the
prices of our wool, wheat and metals with
which wc used to pay part of our bills have
fallen horribly, so that our difficulties have
enormously increased. When he gets to
London later on this year, Mr. Scullin
will find more people pitying us than envy-
ing us.
In the meantime, he had better consult
Mrs. Scullin. Let him put it to her this
way:—
“My dear, as you know, last year we mort-
gaged the cottage and gave a bill of sale over
the furniture; and we bad a very good time
on tlic proceeds. Now the brute who lent us
the money on the mortgage and on the bill
of sale won’t let us have any more. Also,
the price of speeches lias gone down; and,
as you know, too, speeches are the only
things I’m any good at making. Last year
I did very well out of them: this year I’ll
either have to make many more—and that
seems hardly possible—or we’ll have a third
less coming in from that source. So between
that and the end of the mortgage money
and the bill-of-sale money, we’ll have a lot
less to spend this year. But our standard of
living, my dear, is something of which you
and I have been very proud. Shall we,
because of temporary depression and diffi-
culties, throw up our hands in despair and
declare that we are no longer able to main-
tain conditions which, we believe, have been
the envy of all our neighbors?”
The Bulletin can hear Mrs. Scullin
coldly telling Mr. Scullin, with that direct-
ness which is the privilege of wives, that
he is a silly ass, and the sooner he either
talks sense or gets work the better.
Canada and Australia.
From “D.5.G.,” a young Australian draughts-
man, whose job carried him to America and
who is now settled temporarily in Toronto:
For a country of such tremendous area,
sparsely populated, with a long and severe
winter, and where communications are com-
paratively slow, Canada’s position in the
world is remarkable. She is fifth on the list
of world’s exporters, not in ratio to popula-
tion, but in volume. This position was not
attained only for one year. It is steadily
improving.
The reason is easily explained. The fact
that the people will work has all to do with
it.* There is no place in Canada for the
man who won’t work. A strike is practically
unknown. Public opinion—a lazy and dor-
mant thing in Australia —will simply not
stand for anything that will upset industry.
Trade unions are not allowed to control the
country, yet the worker in Canada is more
content than in any other country, the
United States included.
The standard of living is high and wages
are good. The working man has his own
house, liis radio, and almost invariably his
own car. Everyone does a good day’s work;
consequently goods can be marketed at a
reasonable price, which fact, in turn, creates
the demand for the same, and, therefore,
more employment.
There is no reason why a similar posi-
tion should not be reached by Australia.
Under the present conditions, however, it is
impossible. Whether an improvement is
brought about depends entirely upon the
people.
♦
How Darwin’s Unemployed Do It.
“J.S.L.”: Men out of work in the south-
ern States can move from one place to
another in search of a job. Those in North
Australia have few possible avenues of
labor open to them; and it is not easy for
them to go elsewhere.
They have a very real grievance against
the Government, for they see money wasted
like water on non-essentials, yet when they
apply for help are told there is no money
available. They know that the North Aus-
tralian Commission has cost the Common-
wealth over £40,000, and that the return
in value is practically nil; they see the
Government offices staffed by men who, in
the main, obtained their easy, well-paid
positions through political patronage, two-
thirds of them being totally superfluous:
they see these things, and they see also that
they dm obtain nothing.
So, partly out of bravado, partly in exas-
peration, the unemployed picketed the Gov-
ernment buildings, forcing officials to go
and come by the back door, while they
themselves took possession of the front
verandahs; they slept there by night, and
danced by day to the music of an accordion,
till the officials could stand the racket no
longer, and a policeman was deputed to
clear them from the premises.
Darwin is in urgent need of a water
supply; there is no money for that work.
Darwin needs better wharfing facilities; there
is no money for that either. Better facili-
ties are needed for the passage of stock,
for the convenience of selectors in getting
their goods to market ; there is no money
for any of those things. But there is money
always available for the Commission, for
new cars, for travelling allowances, for
holiday trips, for an extra secretary or two,
or a clerk or so, at added expense to the
Government. There is money available
when a clerk goes away on leave for three
smaller clerks to fill the absent one’s place.
When the clerk returns, these will not be
dismissed, as not wanted; they will be
drafted into other departments, which are
already overstaffed.
So, too, there is no money available in
the Department of Mines for bona fide
prospectors. Formerly when the Northern
Territory was of importance in the mining
world, one official, with a clerk or two,
was able to transact all business. To-day
four officials, with a dozen or so clerks,
clutter up the offices, and have nothing to
do for two-thirds of their time. The re-
maining one-third is occupied with filling
in forms.
Naturally a few scaremongers got to
work, and wild rumors flew round the
town. Schools were to be burnt, business
premises looted, and red ruin was to reign
rampant. So a few timid spirits cleaned
up pea-rifles and shotguns, and prepared
to sell their lives dearly. And the unem-
ployed grinned amiably and whispered a
few more tarradiddles into the ears of those
who would help to spread the scare, and
generally enjoyed the humbug. Naturally
they did foolish things. They antagonised
the returned soldiei*s by raising the red flag
beside the Soldiers’ Memorial in Liberty-
square. But they have had a good time for
a week or two; they have had people’s
attention. And now the Government has
offered them land for peanut-growing, with
sustenance while waiting for their first crop;
and many of them seem inclined to accept
the offer. It is a pity they had to
make. a nuisance of themselves to get
this much; but they know—and we know
—they would have got nothing if they
hadn’t. Which is a shocking thing to have
to say about any Administration.
»
Labor on the Canefields.
In spite of the agitation for preference to
Britons at the opening of the cutting season
on the North Queensland canefields, most
of the labor picked up for the important
Goondi Mill near Innisfail was foreign—
chiefly Italian. The fact is significant,
because it was the Goondi growers who
suffered so keenly from the don’t-care-a-
damn-ness of Australian cutters a while ago.
On that occasion a general strike was de-
clared, and the millhands themselves were
practically imprisoned on the premises, while
picketing and intimidation was general.
The simple truth is that the N.Q. sugar-
grower is sick to death of the don’t-care-a
damn type of worker. He recalls money
lost from cane spoilt by standing while the
gangs argued the ethics of unionism, and
the necessity forced upon him of loading his
own sugar on the south-bound steamers
under a police guard. The Italian cares
for his job a great deal, and growers and
shippers have been forced to realise the
fact, even at the sacrifice of sentiment.


Thousands are
changing
—changing
to Chesterfield
because
my way
mmSßmmmi
mSSSBmmr
. ' ■
m
- H
m
mm
■■
■
.-. hh
hi m
smxst
mm
m
B Wm
u
mm
I :
11
HH
H
■
H
I
;
n
■
H
w
Sateh/
put a\ring around
that word and /
don’t forget it •
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vote-splitting may determine the result of
the municipal election that Sydney didn't
want; and it looks like hurting Civic Reform
more than Communist Labor. It could have
been prevented by a preferential-voting pro-
vision, but the Bavinshaw Government
didn’t think of that, or didn’t think it neces-
sary. It has a poor memory. The Labor
aldermen who made the Town Haul a den
of thieves were started on their career of
rottenness by a split vote.
This will be the Federal legislators’ first
winter at Canberra; at least, they expect
to remain till early in August, which is
enough to be a revelation. It may also
be their last winter ,there, for the place
doesn’t improve on acquaintance.
It has been decided to close the naval
college at Jervis Bay and shift the remnants
to the old site at Flinders, where it can die
unobtrusively if required. This means the
abandonment by the Government of the
smaller of the two hits which make up the
Federal Capital Territory. The worst suf-
ferers arc the unfortunates who bought build-
ing allotments near the bay under the impres-
sion that a great seaport would rise there
through the combination of deep water and
Federal enterprise.
The voice of Dr. •Maloney has been heard
again in the House of Reps, pleading for
the initiative, referendum and recall; and
it was like a voice from another age. Im-
measurable is the coil tempt of the Sculli-
dores and their followers—the Little Doctor
excepted—for popular sovereignty. In one
NEW-STYLE LABORITE “He believes in the
Referendum! Haw, Haw!”
of the bills that the Senate threw out, the
party proposed to do away with reform of the
Constitution by referendum. In its arbi-
tration measure it strikes out the pi’ovision
for secret ballots of trade-unionists. “Trust
the people,” was the cry once: now it is
“Truss the people”—tie ’em up so they are
helpless. *
At the last Cabinet he attended before
going into hospital Premier Bavin did a
generous thing. He sent for Childs, head of
the Ma State’s excellent police force, .and
said his Government was satisfied with the
police arrangements made for Miss Amy
Johnson’s visit to Sydney, and objected to
the mud thrown at the police on that score
by catchpenny newspapers. Miss Johnson
has also paid a warm tribute to the police.
N. S. Wales was lately indebted’ to the men
in blue for the swift and resolute action
which broke up menacing mobs and made
mass-picketing merely an evil memory. It is
a poor return for that service to be black-
guarded by the underclothing press.
Curtin, the member for Fremantle, de-
lighted the rabble of note-inflationists the
other day by delivering an impassioned
attack on the banks. He had a ffill house
for his philippic, and it is now said that,
as a sop to the paper-money and national-
isation-of-credit cranks, the banks are to
be specially taxed. Their profits are small
compared with bank profits in Britain and
America; nevertheless those that have man-
aged to survive have done pretty well, and
their success has excited the envy which is
the vice of commonwealths as well as repub-
lics.
Faced with the prospect of a £3,000,000
reduction in revenue this financial year,
Forbes, Maoriland’s new Priminister, pro-
poses to retrench in most departments, and
to have the railway system overhauled with
a view to further economies. He deserves
some credit for resisting the temptation to
borrow, since the Dominion’s credit is good
in London.
The agitation against Italian labor on the
Queensland canefields broke out afresh last
week, and the Italian
coat of arms was stolen
again from the subiCon-
sul’s office at Innisfail.
Simultaneously Green, the
beaming Minister of De-
fence, announced that the
personnel of the E.A.N. is
to be reduced by 700, and
that all officers and non-
coms. on the permanent
staff of the C.M.F. will,
next year, have to take
from five to eight weeks off
without pay. It is tragic
that so many efficient
naval men, whose training
has necessarily been expen-
sive, should be turned
adrift, and in-
famous that the
soldiers should be
sacrificed, notwith-
standing their great
and successful at-
tempts to recruit
the volunteer army,
while the Defence
Department clerks
escape. This is
preference to union-
ists in a most
iniquitous form.
When the Queens-
land Industrial
Court extended the working week on the State
railways to 48 hours the A.R.U. executive
howled for a strike. Support among the
rank and file was so lukewarm that the
work-stoppers thought better of it, and asked
the Full Court to issue a writ of prohibi-
tion. This the Full Court unanimously
refused to do, and unless the earth opens
and swallows the Moore Government the
44-hour week will go. Those who don’t
realise how desperate the situation is regard
this as a- calamity, but Queensland could
experience worse.
With the return to work of the northern
(N.S.W.) coalminers and the reduction of
prices, orders are coming in briskly; one for
6000 tons has arrived from South America.
This trade, once very profitable, was wrecked
by work stoppages. The Scullidores will give
three cheers if it is regained.
Hogan has warned his colleagues that
before introducing any bill involving more
expenditure they must consult the Vic.
Under-Treasurer. There is too strong a
tendency, he has found, to count the cost
after the legislation is passed. In 1922,
for instance, the Lawson Government pro-
vided for a prohibition poll in 1930, and
£3OOO a year or so should have been set
aside to meet the cost. This wasn’t done,
so Hogan has to find £23,000 or £24,000 at
the worst possible time. He may ask for
leave to lift the amount from the Licensing
Fund surplus of £447,000.
One result of the South Brisbane-Kyogle
railway, to be opened presently, will be that
much of the trade of the 120,000 N.S.W.
people living between the Clarence and the
Queensland border will gravitate to Queens-
land. Already Brisbane houses are making
special efforts to secure business, quoting
plus rail freight for about 100 miles com-
pared with the 500-mile charge from Syd-
"How do you like it?"
ney; and Ipswich has landed a municipal
coal contract. Adelaide, which had to meet
fierce Sydney competition for the Broken
Hill trade from the moment the western
line reached the Barrier, will watch the
conflict with glee.
The Loan Council has met again and
defined the position so far as a meeting of
borrowers only can do so. Loan expendi-
ture was 44 millions in 1928-29. What
it has been in 1929-30 will be known in
a few weeks, but it has been all that could
be got. For 1930-31 it is to be 24 millions
if the money is findable. A beginning is to
be made with a trial loan of 10 millions at
6 per cent., but as the seven Treasurers are
nine millions or so short in their accounts
the money won’t do more than put them
RATIONED WARRTOR: “It’s all right, Bill —he’ll save the country.”
about straight. Theodore warns the Trea-
surers, including himself, to pay their way
out of revenue in the future, because these
shortages are embarrassing. They are will-
ing to do it —if they can get enough revenue.
Hopes are entertained that J. Bull, despite
his difficulties, may advance some cash about
the end of 1930, but the sum expected isn’t
large, and it isn’t certain, and it is all
wanted to pay off bank overdrafts and such
like abroad. It is no secret that banks
abroad are clamoring for their money.
None of them offer to take Canberra in full
satisfaction. In the circumstances refuge
may be found in a parable. When a man
has been living luxuriously at the rate of
£2OOO a year, which is all he can earn and
all he can borrow, and his income drops to
£lOOO, the reasonable idea is to reduce the
value of the things imported into his house by
one-half. And that is what the Scullidores are
endeavoring to do with the national house.
Theodore put it to the Loan Council that
Australia must “secure an excess of exports
sufficient to meet its interest and sinking
fund payments abroad,” which was a simple
way of putting it and easy to spell.
Opposition-leader Lang, who is doing what
he can to help Garden and his friends to
capture municipal Sydney, asserts that
“city beautification has always been a feature
of Labor’s policy.” This is humorous, con-
sidering, first, that the Labor regime was
notorious for preserving slums on resumed
property, so that the votes of the inhabitants
would not be lost; and, second, that the
present crowd proposes to build public baths
on Farm Cove. The lawns and walks about
Farm Cove are among the real beauty spots
of Sydney, and its waters are the mooring
place of the nation’s navy and aircraft. It
would be an outrage to make the place
hideous with baths, especially as the Domain
baths are only a quarter of a mile away. Yet
the outrage is planned, though little can-
vassed and mentioned publicly; propaganda
has been chiefly by dodgers and stickers
distributed in the ward.
Victoria, has two or three more plans on
hand for small settlement. Grief is expressed
at the tendency of small-farmer Brown to
sell out to the more affluent Smith next
door, and at the way the latter afterwards
absorbs or is absorbed by Jones, thus tend-
ing to undo the good work achieved at so
much expense. At the same time the com-
bined skimpy areas will support one family
and one set of implements much better than
three, and if sales were forbidden the result
might be that too many allotments would
be abandoned, debts and all. No Govern-
ment could attempt to make farm-desertion
a crime like wife-desertion, and hope to sur-
vive the next election.
Argyle’s ambition to be Premier of Vic.
is one of the obstacles to the six city Nats,
agreeing to form the tail of a united Oppo-
sition. The six have all had Cabinet experi-
ence, and five of them (ex-Premier McPher-
son is the other) are eager for more. The
country Nats, want a leader of their
own, together with power to negotiate for
an arrangement with the Country party.
Knox, who was sec. to McPherson’s Cabinet,
would be as good a leader as any other. He
is making a strong bid for a place in the
front rank of State politics.
Commonwealth and State industrial laws
have been in conflict once more, with great
profit to Costs. A N.S.W. shearer was
fined under the State Master and Servant
Act for leaving his job. He pleaded that
the Act did not apply, being overborne by
an award of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, and in the usual roundabout fashion
the matter was carried to the High Court,
where it was decided in favor of the shearer.
Conviction quashed accordingly and seeds
of further trouble planted.
Jean Daley, who opposed Latham once,
has been inquiring into one of the pet argu-
ments of the Prohibitionists, that drink is
responsible for more destitution amongst the
workers than any other agency, and is satis-
fied that it is not true as far as wards of the
State are concerned. She makes the astonish-
ing statement that of 4000 Vic. children
thrown on the public purse in 1928 only
six got there through their parents’ fond-
ness for the corner pub. In the vast majority
of cases death or the invalidism of one or
other of the family supports was the cause.
The Postal Department made a loss of
£230,663 in 1928. N.S.W. and Victoria
showed a profit of £123,153, while the other
four States lost £353,816. Westralia has
been the most consistent loser; in 1919,
1920, 1921 and 1922 it was the only one.
Gross earnings have always increased
throughout the Commonwealth, but latterly
expenses have increased like the very deuce.
Still, in the last year when the States ran
their unfederated post offices the loss was
£60,000 more than in 1928, and about twice
as much in proportion to population. Separa-
tion won’t be all that Jeff Davis Mitchell, of
Perth, cracks it up to be.
Vic. police-promotion regulations, as re-
vised by Chief Sec. Tunnecliffe, create five
boards, which are to deal with appeals
against district recommendations, draw up
promotion lists, conduct exams, and make
selections of officers for the two highest
grades when those of the head of the force
(Blarney, or whoever it may be) are chal-
lenged. A little latitude is allowed the C.C.,
but he has to give reasons when he departs
from the rules, which are about a mile long.
Hogan refused to meet a monster depu-
tation of the Cold Tea party at Melbourne
Town Hall, and 300 of it tried to crush
into his sanctum at Parliament House. Some
of the demands presented went beyond what
public opinion said it _ wanted at the late
referendum, but there is a case for severer
application of the existing law. The bona-
“Bonyfieds.”
regulation was invented before
Sunday motoring became an almost univer-
sal pastime. Now any crowd of dry-throated
citizens can hire a vehicle, cover 20 miles
inside as many minutes, get drunk in an
hour and roll home with a possibly intoxi-
cated driver.
Optimists of a stupid sort, are fond of
telling Australia that Britain and the
U.S.A. arc burdened with unemployed and
haven’t started to prohibit non-essential
imports in the way that Scullin and co.
have done. The difference is that Britain
and the U.S.A. have no foreign debt, except
Britain’s war liabilities, and have surplus
funds to lend. Australia has borrowed every
copper it can raise abroad, and has had
to resort to extreme measures to send gold
to its outside creditors. Other Governments
have burst and bidden their- creditors go to
Slieol. Australia is trying to avoid that,
and its Freetraders aren’t helping.
The All-India iCongress, which is conduct-
ing the campaign of civil disobedience dur-
ing the absence of Gandhi, was, ironically
enough, founded by an Englishman, a retired
civil servant named Hume. For many years
it was moderate and Liberal, during which
time it was consistently snubbed by official-
dom. Nowadays as many as 20,000 dele-
gates attend the Congress, and any speaker
who does not lead off with a torrent _of
abuse of the British Raj is denied a hearing.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bildad”: King Carol, of Roumania, has
come back to claim his throne—the first
unthroned monarch to come home by aero-
plane. Carol the Skittish, then Crown Prince,
married a lady of private station in 1918.
He renounced the throne, and renounced it
again later on. The pair being divorced, he
married st Greek princess in 1921, but in
1925 they were divorced owing to a third
lady, and Carol renounced the throne for
the third time and fled with the third lady.
He seemed capable of renouncing anything.
His father died in 1927, and Carol’s eldest
son succeeded at the age of six. The infant
was supposed to be motherless owing to
the divorce, but it is alleged that there was
a< legal hole in the divorce, so that he was
only half-motherless. As the little Sovereign’s
father was parading the hotels of Europe
with another man’s wife, his uncle was
appointed guardian, and history suggests
that boy kings with uncles for guardians are
generally unlucky. Now Carol has returned
to dethrone his nine-year-old son, and the
Supreme Court has declared his half-divorce
from his Greek wife null and void so that
she can be Queen again if she wants to.
Her own father has lost his job, and as
she is now only the daughter of a republic,
she may ultimately be attracted by the
chance of a crown, even though it carries
the burdensome attachment of Carol the
ANY SOIL, ANY CLIMATE.
“Who’s the man?”
“Calls himself a gentleman farmer. You know, grows wild oats.”
Skittish. The lady who led to the second
divorce five years ago has been left by the
wayside somewhere-, and all the military,
naval and air services of Roumania are to be
employed to keep her out of the country; but
fears are entertained that she will be back
soon if she isn’t back already, and that
Carol may again divorce his Greek wife, the
daughter of the republic, and try to plant
his best girl on the throne.
“ Jeames”: The case of Carol of Roumania
proves that a divinity still hedges kings.
Consider his record. During the war he
did his fighting many miles from the front,
with Madame Lambrino, whom he married
in 1918. He dropped her later, disowned
his son, and went' to live with Madame
Lupesco. While he was in England with
Madame Lupesco—staying at the villa of
his fellow-countryman Jonescu —the police
ordered him to leave the country. Before
doing so he told the press that Madame
Lupesco and he were “soul-mates” and that
he never wanted to see his wife or Roumania
again. Now the gentleman is back in
Roumania and seeking a reconciliation with
his legal wife, Princess Helene. Some autho-
rities say he has jettisoned the Lupesco,
others that he has only returned on condi-
tion she is allowed to join him. During the
last 12 years he has shown a lack of nerves,
an instability of character and a habit of
breaking his word that would bar him from
the humblest job in civil life. Yet the cable
mentions that he got “a rousing welcome
home, not only from politicians, but from
the public,” and that the local Parliament
expects him to make a good king!
* * *
“Mulgo”: These days the king business
has no charms for the N.S.W. South Coast
Binghi. When King Hughie, of the Peak-
hurst mob, died two years ago, bis successor,
Joe Anderson, abdicated in favor of his
brother George, who was found dead a few
days ago at the rear of a Punchbowl church.
George had never liked his job, and had been
a wanderer up and down the coast most of
the time, leaving his mother, now aged 90,
to act as queen. Now Joe finds the throne
thrust at him again, and he considers it a
nuisance. “I don’t want to be king,” he
declared when lie was approached on the
subject. “I want to knock around, and not
worry about everybody else.” Incidentally,
the settlement at Peakhurst 20 years ago
mustered over 600 blacks. It has now only
30.
* * *
■ “O. W. Waireki”: When Lord Bledisloe,
M.L.’s new G.-G., was duck-shooting with
a party of Auckland sportsmen recently, old
Dad Wirewhiskers wandered into the pic-
ture, watched the shooting for a while, and
then asked one of the party who the little
joker with the white mo was. “Oh, lie’s
Bledisloe,” was the answer. “Bleddy slow,
be .sugared!” Dad roared. “I’ve bin
watchin’ ’im, an’ ’e’s th’ quickest shot of
any of yer!”
$ $ * *
“Exhibit” : The hidden will of melodrama
would have a poor show in Darwin. In
Melbourne the other day Macfarlane, J., had
to adjudicate on a claim for £250, money
lent. Nothing very remarkable in that, but
the documents on which it was based had
been eaten by white ants at Darwin. After
some hard thinking, ’Sonah decided tha*t the
plaintiff’s story was good enough without the
papers that furnished tucker for termites.
Verdict, with costs, accordingly.
if * . !i= *
“P.X.”: Tregilgas, at Broken Hill, is try-
ing to scratch out of his forehead an answer
to a very awkward question his neighbor
Tresize has put to him. For every one of
the 31 fortnights of the coal trouble Broken
Hill sent away between five and six thou-
sand pounds to its comrades at Maitland —
a total of something like £160,000. This
was one-eighth of all its earnings; anyhow,
it was supposed to be. Now the bottom has
fallen out of the markets for all the metals
that Broken Hill lives on, and one mine
after the other is closing down, not because
there is no ore to break, but because it
can’t be broken and treated cheap enough,
though it is admitted that a 10 or 15 p.c.
reduction in wages might make all the dif-
ference between paying expenses and work-
ing at a loss. In the circumstances Tregil-
gas has plenty of time to discuss with Tre-
size whether they are not fools to refuse
to be as kind to themselves as they were
to the coalminers. They docked themselves
12J p.c. to keep the Maitlanders going;
should or shouldn’t they accept a reduction
of 12| p.c. to keep themselves going? The
fierce argument is still in progress, and
probably will still be in progress when the
auctioneer drops in to sell off Tregilgas’s
few sticks of furniture.
* =l= * *
“Pinkenbah”: One of the relics sold
during the dispersal of the Johnsonian
Club’s effects in Brisbane (B, 11/6/’3O)
was a summons issued against three mem-
bers under an Act of Charles 11. This, duly
framed and glazed, and occupying a place
of honor, arraigned the sinners for that
they had been found shooting for pleasure
on the Sabbath, to the detriment of the
King’s peace and the imperilment of his
Crown and dignity. Edward VII., who
was then on the throne, did not enter the
complaint in person, and probably never
heard of the crime. That did not prevent
the trio from being convicted and cautioned,
with a warning not to appear before a King’s
justice again.
BOCKS AHEAD!
YOUNG HSBAND: “Why are you crying, darling, if you have balanced your household
accounts and have a whole shilling to carry forward?”
BRIDE: “I’m worrying about the future, pet. We won’t be able to keep too many
children on a shilling.”
“Si Anu”: Next to the American film,
the American tourist is doing more to under-
mine the white man’s prestige in Asia than
any other single agent. A couple of years
ago the Sultan of Jogja, in Java, a human
deity, had to forbid his kraton being in-
cluded in the itinerary of massed tours
because of the unveiled
contempt shown to-
wards “this king busi-
ness” by the trippers.
There was also a pro-
posal to put the 1300-
year-old Hindu ruins
of Boro Budur under
lock and key on account
of the visitors’ habit of
souveniring bits of an-
cient bas-relief and
knocking off the
noses of Buddha images.
And a complaint came
from Bali that the
damage done to national
monuments by one
“personally conducted”
tour was greater than
that of the 1917 earth-
quake. Now the King
of Siam has issued in-
structions that people
who visit the palace, the
Temple of the Imperial
Buddha and the Throne
Room must be pro-
perly dressed. Hitherto
people from Oshkosh
and Kalamazoo have
been in the habit of
romping through the
royal courts clad in plus-
fours, shorts and open
shirts, with their coats
over their arms; and
the most enlightened
and tolerant sovereign
in Asia feels that the line ought to be drawn
somewhere.
“Jermyn Street”: A Sydney paper said
recently that George Lambert “once arrived
at the Union ,Club in full rigout of evening
dress” and impressed “the steward” by his
resemblance to the Saviour. It is an in-
teresting yarn marred only by the facts that
the Union Club hasn’t got a steward, and
that Lambert wasn’t a member and was
never seen there. Clubs like the Union
and Melbourne ignore artists as such—and
also writers, musicians and actors. Lam-
bert belonged to a leading London club.
Longstaff belongs to one. Norman Lindsay
was put up for the Savile by the late Lord
Balfour’s brother, and was extremely popular
there while he was in England. David Low,
wiii went to London from The Bulletin,
joined the principal Liberal clubs and the
Garrick. All four were ideal club members
from the time they began- to work—witty,
amiable, sober and solvent—but none could
liave found a proposer and seconder in
Sydney or Melbourne. In this respect Aus-
tralian cities resemble New 'fork when
Dickens first saw it.
“O. Pip”: The cabled report that “a
British soldier in India has been sentenced
to IS months’ imprisonment for accidentally
shooting two Sikh children” reminds me of
an incident at Mt. Kemmel, Belgium, in
1916. The place was full of observation
posts, and a party from one of these, in-
cluding several Diggers, was practising
revolver shooting with a biscuit-tin as target.
A gunner pointed the revolver at the target
and pressed the trigger—a misfire. As he
brought the weapon down to his side it went
off and the bullet entered the body of an
observer standing by, killing him. At the
court-martial the gunner’s adjutant, acting
as prisoner’s friend, advised him to plead
guilty to manslaughter and the verdict was
eighteen months. The Army doesn’t permit
“accidents.”
“Piecrust” : Church work in out-back Aus-
tralia lias its hardships. Several denomina-
tions now run motor-vans, fitted with bunks
for the travelling missioners, and carrying
hospital necessities as well as requirements
for the soul. A regular programme is
adhered to where possible; centres in the
Par West of N.S.W. and in eastern Gipps-
land get their religion once every three or
six months. Baptisms and marriages are
saved up for these visits, and on one occasion
recently a burial service was read over a
month-old grave. Driving through roadless
country is apt to become exciting. An
Australian Board of Missions car, after
receiving two bad punctures, did 300 miles
with the tyres stuffed with grass.
$ :j:
“D”: I used to buy Havana cigars of a
well-known brand for lOd. each. I found a
shop last month where they were on sale at
9d. each. The lOd. establishment, on learn-
ing the news, said it couldn’t be done at
a profit, and parted with my custom. -Then
I struck a shop which sold the same cigar
for Bd. and threw a box of matches in.
And yesterday I was offered a box of 100
for 635., or 7id. each. All this in spite of
the new duties on tobacco. Evidently, for
many years I have been swindled out of at
least 2d., and probably more, whenever I
have bought a cigar. It is doubtful if the
overcharging for which Sydney was becoming
notorious when the inhabitants suddenly
discovered that they hadn’t the money to
pay the outrageous prices asked was even
good business. Take Turkish baths. When
one w Y as to be had for ss. (with
tips), which is about the tariff in
Paris and at London’s famous Northum-
berland-avenue baths, I partook every 1 week or
so. Now it costs the best part of £1 and I
refrain. So do many others. A Turkish
bath in Bligh-street did well for nearly
half a century at a reasonable tariff until
a skyscraper went up on its site; a costly
one which was started in Pitt-street last
year expired inside six months. Employers
blame sky-high wages, but my view is that
a lust for sky-high profits is also involved.
Look at the Sydney dailies’ recent attempt
to grab that extra ha’penny.
* * * #
“Fleming”: Cargelligo (N.S.W.) wanted
another pub. Jones, giving evidence in sup-
port, stated that Hillston, a smaller town,
had three hotels, and therefore iCargelligo
.should have three. “Will you swear that
Ilillston is smaller than Cargelligo?” thun-
dered counsel for the drys. Jones hesitated,
and then dived for his pocket. “No,” he
said, “I won’t swear, but I’ve a tenner to
say it is.” Cargelligo now has three pubs.
JUNE IS CHILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wooed you once upon a day
That summer decked with blossom sweet;
I wooed you once, I hear you say,
With warmth and ardor indiscreet.
And now you find a fainter beat
In ardor’s pulse, and take it ill —
But summer runs to reckless heat
And June, my dear, is damp and chill.
No warm, young morning went its way
Then but I sought your shy retreat;
No afternoon could miss the play
Of glances kindling as they meet;
No evening bright but urgent feet
That feared no road and shirked no hill
Turned hotly to you. Time’s a cheat,
And June, my love, is dull and chill.
Alas, although the thought dismay
That temperature (how cold the sleet!)
O’er temperament should hold such sway,
I must confess that when the wheat
Is gold and glowing flowers greet
The wooing sun, then faints the will
In loving warmth, and life’s complete.
But June, my own, is chaste and chill.
Envoy.
Lass, had you suffered summer’s heat
To warm you, I had loved you still;
Now I see wisdom in defeat—
For June, my dear, is wise and chill.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


E .R. 0.”: Timmins, the. cow-cockv. was
bewailing the prolonged drought to Beatem,
the stock-agent. Beatem was sympathetic.
' 1S the average rainfall of this district.
Mr. Timmins?” lie inquired. "It’s 1.5 inches,
Mr. Beatem, but we never git it /” was the
despondent reply.
* * * *
“Clarence (Cafeteria”: Many Melbourne
citizens, hitherto accustomed to taking a
four-courser at the midday meal, now econo-
mise in cash and gastric juice by lunching
on sandwiches and a pot of tea. They can
get the lot for sixpence at a shop in Swan-
ston-street from the fair hands of girls in
blue pants. Incidentally, I asked one of
these maidens what her costume was meant
to represent, and she told me she supposed
it was a tea-picker. As far as my observa-
tion goes, none of them dress that way in
Ceylon or Java. Cafeterias are also spring-
ing up like wildfire. At one of these places
I saw a stout dowager with a pearl necklace
round her-throat waiting patiently in the
queue between a carter and a typist.
* * * ' *
“Sulphur”: How’s this for mixture of
localities? At Dunedin (M.L.) the other
day I met an old friend who is revisiting
the place after many years. Born in South
Maoriland, he married a girl from Nova
Scotia at Hongkong; they spent their
honeymoon in the Philippines, and their
child arrived in Sumatra. They now live in
the Malay States.
“S.T.S.” : Adelaide’s was the, first Austra-
lian city to establish a cremation plant; a
society did the job in 1902, and later handed
it over to the State. Now the fact leaks out
QUITE AGREED ON THAT.
“I’m attached to the Naval Reserve, you know.”
“I simply adore them, too.”
that for three months there have been no
cremations, however much testators may
liave declared for them. The furnace is
onrnt out, and a Government grown econo-
mical all of a sudden jibs at the expense
ot reinstating. At first, bodies were sent
to Adelaide from other States; the position
will now have to be reversed. The Sydney
establishment, the newest of the three, already
disposes of an average of well over one
corpse a day,
“Spare Corp”; A chap with my unit
refused to realise that he hadn’t the stomach
for the business, although others suspected
it. While brawnier speci-
mens were swinging the
lead he shoAved liirn-
se 1 f in every wa y
anxious to reach France.
He got into the line near
Borre. A shell dropped
over a quarter of a mile
away, and that was the
end of our friend ; he lost
his voice as well as his
nerve. When I met him
in London, months later,
he Avas under treatment
as a neurasthenic and
could only stammer, and
that painfully. Ytet he
contrived to explain the
steps he was taking to
convince authority that
the “shell-shock” brought
on by a distant missile
should not be taken as a
criterion of his general
incapacity to face the
Avar; and he asked me
to help him in his .suit.
The poor devil must have
had courage of a sort in
spite of liis rocky ner-
vous system.
“Strict Veg.”: Vic.
Railways Commissioners
have had to pay a girl
£72b damages for falling
off a horse. She was a
member of one of the
personally-conducted tours
to the Buffalo highlands
which the department has
been booming. The Com-
missioners guaranteed to
carry her safely to the
summit of Feathertop.
and provided her with a
steed which, though certi-
fied as tractable by resi-
dents of the town from
which it came, threw her
off; result, a broken leg.
The jury decided against
defendants because they
had omitted to inquire as
to . the suitability of the
animal. The lady owned
that she couldn’t ride.
Rupert Robot”: Desiring to import
teachers of Hebrew from Palestine, Perth
Jewry fell foul of the Federal Government.
the setting up of schools of foreign
thought in Australia” was objected to,
although the teaching of Italian, French,
Spanish and German is not discour-
aged _in our schools. The necessary
permission was eventually granted, and
now the tqacher’s arrival has created a Gil-
bertian situation. It is a toss-up whether
lie will learn English before his pupils learn
Hebreiv 1
* * -f *
“Der Jong”: Old Afrikanders will be
interested in the account of a police raid on
Pretoria gaol which resulted in the dis-
covery of a printing outfit, used for turning
out lottery tickets and other documents
likely to be useful to friends outside. The
“Tronk” must have grown up with Pre-
toria, for when I knew it—from the out-
side—it was a circumscribed collection of
mud shanties surrounded by an easily-climb-
able wall. To Australians its chief interest
lay in the fact that within that wall one
morning Morant (who wrote Bulletin
verse as “The Breaker”) and Ilandcoclc
were shot by a squad of the Cameron High -
landers.
“Sturt”: Adelaide is acquiring a country
club on the American plan. Golf is the
main feature, but there will be ample side-
SPEAKING UP TO JOHN.
MUM: “And how’re you getting along with him now, me dear?”
ALICE ( married, as you can see ): “Oh, pretty well. I speak up to him like you told me
to He come hack to me this morning. ‘ls my collar soiled,’ he says, ‘or is it
just my imagination?’ ‘Your collar’s clean enough,’ I says; ‘you know best
yourself what yer imagination’s like.’”
lines when the £12,000 contemplated has - all
been laid out. The first wing, with dining-
room and lounge, has just been opened. The
way to it doubles back sharply from the
Mount Lofty-road, and the club-house has
a glorious view over foothills, plain and sea
—rather like Bulli Pass with the precipice
left out.
“Morita”: A Waac, or a Wren turned
author is reported to have written scornfully
of the A.1.F.; why it is hard to fathom. Ours
was probably the only base
in France which did without
female help. Around us at
Havre every other depot had
its Staff of skirted cooks,
waitresses, clerks and the
like. Red tape gave the
girls about as much freedom
as the Clioav road-builders
got, penning them behind
barbed-wire and Tommy sen-
tries, marching them to their
job of a morning, and back
to the pen for the night ;
but they had tw T o glorious
hours daily. And there was
a Waac camp at Abbeville
where Australians were
popular. When leave started
at 6 p.m. the Waacs bustled
out of their enclosure into
the crowds of Diggers keep-
ing tryst in the roadway,
and when the bell clanged
for the girls’ tattoo at eight,,
leave-taking reminded one of
Sydney’s departing troop-
ships.
“Sharpshooter”: No dogs
were available, but as his
city guest was particularly
anxious to shoot quail, Wool-
bales. who had learned liis
sporting etiquette in the Cold
Country, lent him his prized
Boswell and took him out
across some paddocks where
there was every likelihood
of waking up a few birds.
Presently Woolbales dis-
cerned a movement in the
stubble a few yards ahead,
and pointing to the little
brown bird as it made its
way with quick feet from
eov’er to cover, he whispered:
“There—just ahead; do you
see him?” Excitement lit
up the eyes of the city-
dweller, and instantly the
muzzles of the gun rose and
covered the fleeting quail.
“You’re not going to shoot
him running, are you?”
queried Woolbales in scandalised tones. “No
darn fear.” was the prompt retort. “I'm
waiting till he stops!”
*-* - * *
“Shep” : Now and then staff officers had
to rough it when jobs took them away from
the batmen. of lI.Q. mess. A trio, still in
scarlet headgear, were nosing around sup-
ports in Polygon Wood when tucker canm
up from the cookers. As all they seemed
to be dining on was cigarettes, a non-com.
invited them to wade in to what was left,
apologising for the shortage of silver plate
and Dresden china. Squatting in the trench
the red-tabs were gobbling away, when
Ginger, with a good shot of rum aboard,
bumped into them, and noticed their greasy
fingers. “ ’Struth! Wliassup with the
staff?” he mumbled, retreating to his
dug-out. Minutes after he was back, an
empty biscuit-tin in one hand and a bayonet
in the other. “ ’Ere yar, blokes,” he chir-
ruped ; “tear into this ’ere tin and carve out
a set o’ forks ’n’ spoons fer yerselves ter
match the family heirlooms.” Ginger got
first swig at the flask one of them passed
round after the feast.
“Ben” : A bit of Tasmanian history dis-
appeared with the burning down of the
Travellers’ Best, a few miles from Laun-
ceston. Built by convict labor in the thir-
ties of last century, it Avas a popular house
of call in the coaching days, and of late
years a gay rendezvous for sparks from the
city. Ockerby, the prohibitionist M.H.A.,
is not among the mourners. He lives just
across the road, and roysterers winding up
their carousals made his house a target for,_
their empty bottles.
“G1Y”: They say Cloncurry (Q.) isn’t
fit for a white man to live in. But listen
to this. Becently an automatic weighing
machine was installed at the post office, and
the. first four tickets showed weights aggre-
gating 67 stone lib. Here’s the record:
Walter Rose, 16st. lib.; Adam Scott, 16st.
71b.; Mick Casey, list. 101 b. ; Dinny
O’Dwyer, 19st. 11b.
“X.S.”: The worst excuses yet advanced
to melt a magistrate’s hard heart were offered
by a Melbourne youth charged with furious
driving of a motor-bike. His first plea
was that he was hurrying to meet his girl
before the pitchers went in. That failed
to move the Beak, but the second one did.
He said he thought the motor patrol pur-
suing him was a friend with whom he liked
to race. Three pounds and costs.
“Diba Tau” : The dispenser of justice in
Papua has to consider some quaint problems.
A gambling debt contracted at the national
game of “King In, King Out,” a variation
of “Beggar My Neighbor,” Avas squared by
the loser Avith a bottle of love medicine. The
winner took it to his Adllage, Avhere \e fell
foul of liis village constable, who, after one
look at the contents of the bottle, haled
him before the magistrate on a charge of
sorcery. The Court found the bottle to
contain centipedes’ bodies and legs immersed
in water. “Suppose you rub him along hair,
all women love you; suppose you put him
along woman’s betel nut, she come to you
one time,” pleaded the accused. Case dis-
missed.
“Barangkali”: Some years ago I was at
Pontianak. on the south coast of . Borneo.
One Sunday morning a Dutchman arrived
for the swimming in company with his three
daughters. His hair then was a rich golden
brown. Ten minutes later I noticed them
on the springboard. The daughter was
standing on the board preparing to dtec
while her father stood immediately behind
her. The daughter dived and immediately a
piercing scream rang out, but Avas muffled
a fraction of a second later by her entry to
the water. The father was balanced on the
end of the board, and the water Avas rapidly
becoming a dull red. Next second the father
dived and frantically sought to drag his
daughter from the jaws of a 14ft. shark.
He was successful, but it was only a badly
mangled body that was recovered. When
I offered my condolences half an hour after
the tragedy liis hair was almost white except
for a small section near the crown.
A PARDONABLE ERROR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Sheep baa’d by radio for the first time in Aus-
tralia during the broadcast by 3DB of a stock sale
at Newmarket.”
‘ in to hear the prattle
r Of livestock on the air,
The talk of sheep and cattle,”
I heard a voice declare ;
Greetings straight from the yards we bring
And broadcast to a nation;
Hear how the giddy jumbucks sing—
h irst time from any station.”
That noise inane repeating,
The ’phones upon my head
Kept booing, baaing, bleating,
Till sense and reason fled
Before the stupid sound’s assault—
Of all the dins wo number,
The silliest beneath God’s vault,
I thought, and sank in slumber.
I woke. The clock accused me
Of one full hour foregone.
A while my ears confused me;
A while I pondered on
The senseless uproar that I heard,
Now fading, now renewing;
And “This,” I thought, “is most absurd,
lhis bleating, baaing, booing.”
But soon the sound recalled me....
Still 0n!.... An hour! Those sheep
W hose stupid baas appalled me
Before I took to sleep.
Then the announcer’s words came through
Confounding that impression:
‘This last half-hour you’ve listened to
Our Parliament in session!”
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
THE FIGHT FOR OFFICE.
“Labor has been fighting a capitalistic conspiracy for two years now. It is still fighting.”— J. S. Garden.
JOCK (bottle-holder in Lang’s corner): “Fight on, Jack! It’s the only way to make these poor mugs forget the jobs that you and I have lost them.”
“Hell Harbor,” at Sydney Haymarket,
has hardly any sex interest despite the pre-
sence of bewitching little Lupe Velez. • It is
just plain healthy assault, battery and mur-
der for the most part. Boys with piracy-
complexes will love it. Hell Harbor is a
township on an island in the Caribbean Sea
where the inhabitants keep the home fires
burning by dancing in a bar and singing in
the moonlight, with robbery and swindling
as side-lines. The flapper Anita, played with
sinuous grace by Miss Velez, is a sufferer
from arrested mental development, whose
chief aim in life is to visit Havana. The
LUPE VELEZ,
in “Hell Harbor!"
type is univer-
sal ; here she
would want to
go to Holly-
wood. Her
father a de-
scendant o £
Morgan, the
buccaneer, who
behaves an d
looks like it —
wants her to
marry a fellow-
m a 1 e f a c tor.
The customary
seafaring
American, with
a gift for
sera p p i n g,
blows in. Her
father stabs his
friend, a one-
eyed Irishman
shoots the
father, and the
path is cleared
for the trip to
Havana aboard
the Yank’s schooner.
The photographic effects are original. Most
of the action takes place in misty twilight.
Anticipation as to which undesirable will be
bumped off next is thereby heightened, and
the squalor of the landscape is toned down.
Commonplace noises are exploited as aids to
realism with great success. For example, the
barking of a dog as the foreshores of the
harbor are unfolded by the camera. Hitherto,
most tropical villages in the talkies have
been dogless, birdless and without farmyard
sounds.
* ¥ *
“Blackmail” (British International),
deodorised in accordance with the oddly
inconsistent requirements of our film cen-
sors, arrived at Sydney Capitol on Satur-
day. Its chief charm is that it recreates
the grey yet exciting atmosphere of London
more effectively than any film since “The
Lodger.” Scotland Yard, Whitehall, Picca-
dilly Circus by night, and other scenes cal-
culated to bring reminiscent aches to every
emigrant Cockney’s heart are shown, and
also some realistically drab interiors.
An absurd feature of a not very credible
story is the pursuit of the villain
through the British Museum during busi-
ness hours. The museum, as a storehouse
of the nation’s treasures, swarms with hefty
attendants, and all but ticket-holders are
kept out of the reading-room, which is
crowded from early morning till late after-
noon. The blackmailing Tracy not only
bolts from the police through the galleries
on the first floor without being headed off,
but gets back to the ground floor, evades
the numerous attendants in the _ hall near
the reading-room door, and miraculously
finds the place empty. The writer, who
knows the reading-room well, declines to
believe a word of this.
Alice White, after quarrelling with her
policeman-lover Frank Webber, is picked up
in a Lyons Corner House by a rakish
artist. The artist takes her to his studio
with dishonorable intentions, and when he
looks round a screen and finds her in her
cami-knickers the censor reaches for his
scissors. Alice is next shown stealing aw T ay
from the corpse. Her lover finds one of
her gloves at the studio, and a criminal with
a record at the Yard has the other. Webber
is ready to see Tracy hang for a murder
he hasn’t committed, but Tracy hurls him-
self through the glass dome of the Museum.
The moronish Alice hurries to the institu-
tion on the Embankment to confess, but
learns of Tracy’s death and decides to keep
her mouth shut. The picture fades out a
little disconcertingly to the sound of eerie
laughter.
The action is delayed just where a Con-
tinental director would have speeded it up
by a series of shots showing Alice looking
stony-faced, not to say idiotic, as she
broods over her unfortunate situation.
Anny Ondra, who plays the part, is more
satisfying in her lightsome moments than
she is when registering agony. The Aus-
tralian Cyril Ritcliards dresses and phil-
anders flawlessly as the artist. Donald Cal-
thorp’s Tracy gives the film whatever artis-
tic value it possesses. The blackmailer-
cocky when things seem to be going his
way, abjectly frightened when danger threat-
ens—is a mean London crook drawn by a
master.
The other feature at the Capitol is “The
Aviator,” starring Eddie Horton. He has
a congenial part as the 1 lionised author of
a book about flying who has never flown,
and doesn’t want to. The trick pictures of
his stunts in the ’plane which he is forced
to take up are as • sensational as any that
have been shown on a screen.
* * *
The seductive Greta Garbo speaks for the
first time from a screen in “Anna Christie”
at Sydney Plaza.
The proceedings begin with a maundering
argument about'her imminent return to the
parental barge between her gnome-like
father and his besotted paramour. The old
outcasts booze voraciously in a cabin, and
eventually stagger down the. gang-plank and
continue the orgie in an adjacent bar. Enter
Anna. A little
too girlish, not
quite flamboy-
ant and disre-
putable enough
as regards
dress, but in
voice and man-
nerisms the
embittered har-
lot to the life.
More especially
in voice. Miss
Garbo’s much-
boomed voice
is a husky
contralto, and
she has a Swe-
dish accent.
Her future as
a talkie star
will depend
largely on
whether' or no
her natural
accent is as
plebeian as it
sounds in “An-
na Christie.”
GRETA GARBO,
in “Anna Christie.”
If so —and it seemed to this critic that she
was speaking without artifice —then the last
has been seen of her as an enslaver of men
of fashion. She will be confined to the
world of lost women as strictlj T as males
like Bancroft and Bickford are to pro-
letarian parts.
She presents a knowledgeable and reso-
lutely adramatic study of the prostitute
who, under the combined influences of domes-
ticity and love, acquires a kindlier view of
humanity. But just because she underplays
so conscientiously she is acted out of the
picture every time Marie Dressier comes into
it. As an irreparable human ruin Miss
Dressier achieves heights which she has not
approached in any other screen-perform-
ance. The women get their effects without
the obscenities which are used in the col-
loquial talk of their kind—another tribute
to their artistry. Charles Bickford is
admirable as the violent Catholic sailor who
has no suspicion of Anna’s past till she tells
him of it; and so is George Marion as the
barge-owner who hates the sea and the inter-
loping Irishman with equal malevolence. A
great dramatic film, with all the grisly
comedy of O’Neill’s play.
Laurel and H'ardy, who are pantomimic
geniuses, appear in “Blotto” during the first
half of the Plaza show. No pictures so
funny and human as theirs have come out
of America since the early Chaplin ones;
and they might as well be silents, since the
emotions of the players are all revealed by
subtle gestures and facial expressions. It is
the fault of prohibition, presumably, that
most of their humor advertises the allure of
drunkenness.
* * *
Anybody who wants to know what fine
films were kept out of Australia by the trans-
pacific monopoly during the silent era should
see “Faust,” by the German U.F.A. people,
showing at the Melbourne Strand. The sub-
titles are models of clarity and dignity, and
the. accompanying music has an unexpected
appropriateness. Murnau, the brilliant
German producer, is responsible for the
direction, and Emil Jannings—the - real
Jannings, not the shoddy sentimentalist that
Hollywood made of him —appears as Mephi-
stopheles. Gosta Ekman is Faust, and Camilla
Horn is a bewilderingly beautiful Marguerite.
There is some fine photography when
Mephisto takes Faust for an air tour of the
principalities of Europe. The dramatic light-
ing, the richness of the shadows and the
beautiful arrangements show that the pic-
torial side of cinematographic art has not
advanced since the advent of the talkies.
After Faust’s metamorphosis the tale be-
comes an intensely human drama, with
Marguerite the sport of her innocence and
passion, and eventually the victim of a
society which scarified its victims by burning
them at the stake, the divorce-court weekly
not then having been invented. The last scene
is queerly reminiscent of a modern movie in
which the hero rushes to the rescue of the
heroine per motor-car, express train and
aeroplane. Faust steps on to Mepliisto’s
cloak and is carried through the air to the
scene of liis mistress’s execution. An appro-
priate moment for a happy ending. Instead,
his Satanic Majesty deprives Faust of the
gift of youth, and a white-headed old man
totters impotently up to the foot of the burn-
ing pile. One goes out thankful for a
producer who refuses to sell his soul to the
Devil.


7?>p cvn/ne or Queens/onc/s
<3S
cf/sttnpu/sheet Soc/ot Life.
<2S
<T)
BRISBANE
jz- Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
— \\\
ŵ
DIAMOND RINGS
Distinctive in Quality
Reasonable in Price
Good, sound value in diamond rings of exclusive designs!
Diamonds specially chosen for brilliance and blue-wliite
color, and mounted in hand-fasliioned rings of gold,
platinum, or gold and platinum.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Garlick, whose term as Chief Com-
missioner of Sydney will virtually expire
to-day, when the aldermen are to be elected,
spent portion of his boyhood in a court not
far from the present Central Police Station.
His father was a municipal contractor. The
court was surrounded by two-roomed tene-
ments, with conveniences common to the lot,
as was the communal water-pump. These
old courts and places, once numerous in the
heart of Sydney, have nearly all disappeared.
In Hoskins-place, which had a theatrical
flavor. Nellie Stewart and Walter Baker
were born.
The handsome Claude de Bernales, one
of the gold-bonus delegation to the Eastern
States, is the sartorial Mussolini of Perth.
If he should walk down Hay-street with
the bottom button of his vest undone, un-
buttoned waistcoats would forthwith become
the local stamp of fashion. All the same, De
Bernales is no stranger to roughing it, and
unwary goldfielders found out long ago that
“the tall Johnnie with the raining-in -London
pants” could use his fists. He is a fluent
speaker and a born diplomat.
Sir Gerald Strickland, whose quarrel with
the Pope is causing no end of commotion in
slalta, was one of the most devout R.C.’s
that ever occupied N.S.W. Government
House. But he always loved a row, and
LORD (formerly Sir Gerald )
STRICKLAND.
could find occasion for one pretty well any-
where. What he carried round in his little
handbag nobody ever knew, but he hung
on to it as though it contained all the in-
criminating documents in the w’orkl; and
everybody that ever came much in contact
with him fell under suspicion at some time
or other —though generally they never knew
what it was they were suspected of. Gerald
is interested in slalta through his father, a
naval man, marrying a slaltese heiress. The
Strickland family is a very ancient one in
England, and it used to be said that Charles
Cameron Kingston’s family was connected
with it. His father was George Strickland
Kingston.
The rationing of work in the Defence
Department does not spare Tom Dodds, the
Adjutant-General, who starts on his un-
wanted spell next month. Tommy's old
cobbers of the A.I.F. will indulge in a quiet
grin at the notion of a brass-hat's paybook
being marked with a red-ink “stoppage”
entry.
In the little office of a little factory at
Evans Bay, Wellington (51. L.), sits Hugh
sliller, the last
of a famous
family of sail-
makers. The first
of the line start-
ed business in
Sussex in 1630,
and the family
carried on, the
concern passing
from father to
sou. Alillers made
the sails for Nel-
son’s Victory and
many another
stout ship of the
line, and for
revenue cutters
an ;1 smugglers’
smacks as well.
Hugh Aliller, fol-
lowing a family
tradition, went
to sea till his
father retired ;
returning to take
over the business
he found that
steam had put:
sailmaking off the
map. So he. went
to sea again,
always in wind-
jammers, till he
was ripe for a
snug job ashore,
which he found
as head sailmaker
for the Union
Co. But h e
doesn’t make
sails —just super-
DICK KEANE,
M.H.R. for Bendigo,
the -new president of
the Victorian Labor
party, who is giving the
campaign for a gold
bonus his enthusiastic
support.
intends the fashioning of tarpaulins and
canvas boat-covers. He is childless, and the
line dies with him.
Bundaberg (Q.), which already claims as
its own Bert Hinkler, the writer 51ary
Hanna Foott and Vance Palmer, the singers
Gladys 51oncrieff and Molly de Gunst, and
censor-politician F. M. Forde, also declares
a lien on Lieut.-Commissioner Mackenzie,
now restored to Australia after a strenuous
time in China. Though Scotch by birth as
well as name, “Fighting Mac” spent his boy-
hood at the sugar town and is reckoned there
as good as a native.
R. W. Chenoweth, Deputy-Commissioner
of Taxes (Vie.), who will succeed R. 51.
Weldon as Commissioner on July 1, had a
taste for law early in his career, and friends
say that had he left the service and prac-
tised he would have run a close race. with
R. G. slenzies, now a K.C. As it is, he
will, at 44, have a job worth £1250 a year—-
£9OO from the State and £350 from the Com-
monwealth. Weldon drew £1450 a year, of
which the State found £1100; and a trip
to England was thrown in for his last year.
Duncan Allen, of Lawson, Blue Moun-
tains, who was 79 the other day, is claimed
to have been the oldest man to enlist in the
A.I.F. He wasn’t; Captain Marriott, a Boer
War veteran, enlisted in the New Guinea
expeditionary force at 67; he was subse-
quently at Sydney Repat. But Allen was
probably the oldest Digger in France. He
fought in the same unit as his grandson ;
the old man was wounded and the lad was
killed.
On the gold-bonus delegation from West-
ralia is George Klug, Australian represen-
tative of Bewick, sloreing and Co., who used
to have Hoover for a colleague. Klug, who
does a lot of travelling, visited the U.S.A.
recently and found his way to the White
House, where he and the President swapped
reminiscences of old days on the Westralian
fields.
It was at the instance of Sydney mer-
chant-knight slark Sheldon that Woodfull’s
cricketers had their spell at Downside, the
R.C. College near Bath (Eng.). Sheldon,
who was educated at the sister-college of
Ushaw, presented Downside with a sports
pavilion. Downside has old associations
with Australia. Father Ullathorne was in
residence there before he set out for Sydney
a century ago to take over the Benedictine
settlement and become Australia’s first R.C.
bishop. His successor, Polding, the first
Archbishop of Australia, was at one time
prior of Downside.
Frederick Toone, who accompanied three
teams of English cricketers to Australia as
manager, was not spared to see the Test
matches against Woodfull’s lads; he died
the other day, at 62. Toone was that rare
bird, a man from outside Yorkshire who
gets a good job in Yorkshire and hangs to
it. For 27 years he was secretary of the
Yorkshire county cricket club, and it says
much for his personality that the Tykes
long ago forgot that he came from Leicester-
shire.' In his day lie was a fine Rugby foot-
baller and runner.
Don Cameron, the new president of slel-
bourne Trades Hall Council, is a freelance
scribe for Labor publications. Perth was
his home for years, and he had an animated
time there during the Great War; his sud-
den arrival in the Weld Club, where he took
refuge from a hostile pro-conscription crowd
on the adjacent Esplanade, is still talked
of at that haunt of squatters. Pacifist
though he was then and is now, Cameron
served in the Boer War.
Tom Keating, who has celebrated his 75th
birthday in Brisbane, tried a number of
roads to affluence before he hit on the one
that suited him—baking, lie saw much of
Stanthorpe in the splendid days when 30,000
men were mining the tin deposits. “They
were the happiest lot I ever saw,” he says;
“there were 46 pubs.” Keating was one of
the original members of the Queensland Turf
Club, and is the oldest survivor of them.
The Lachlan Valley (N.S.W.) took a day
off to greet Denis O’Kennedy when word
came from Rome that the veteran had been
promoted to the archdeaeonate, and pressed
a cheque for £lOOO into his hand. Bishop
Quinn, of Bathurst, was in Ireland looking-
oyer likely subjects for the Australian mis-
sion, when lie picked O’Kennedy out of the
Limerick seminary for St. Charles’s in the
City of the Plains. Ninety days in the
ship John Duthie brought O’Kennedy to
Sydney; another passenger was Patrick
Vincent Dwyer, now Bishop of slaitland.
Young Denis was soon ordained, and he has
been in charge of Cowra since 1889.
Dr. George Pearce Baldwin, dead at Auck-
land (M.L.), was a cousin of Stanley Bald-
win and Rudyard Kipling. Born in Wolver-
hampton in 1856, he was medical superinten-
dent of Auckland Hospital 1895-1900, and
assistant-director of medical services at
Christchurch during the Great; War.
George Deiliridge, Chief Judge of the
Federal Arbitration Court, who these days
is taking most of the clods that used to
be flung at learned brother Lukin, knows a
great deal more about' the struggle for a
crust than some of his critics do. He
wasn’t born with any silver spoon in his
JUDGE DETHRIDGE.
mouth: he began his working life appren-
ticed to a trade, and when he reached the
Bar it was in the days of the crash of
the slelbourne land boom. Still he steadily
built up a solid practice, until he rather
unexpectedly went on to the Vic. County
Court Bench in 1920.
A Vic. family which numbers Scotch-
byterimi divines among its shining lights
is rejoicing over the success in another field
of one of its cadets, George \\ hitecross
Patou, who has been appointed lecturer-in-
law 'at the London School of Economics.
Departing from the family tradition, while
a student at Ormond College, Melbourne
Uni., Paton took first-class honors in philo-
sophy and sociology, and annexed the Rhodes.
After two years at sla*gdalen, lie bagged
Oxford’s B.A. (Jurisprudence) with a first-
class and came out near the top of the tree
in the English' Bar examinations. He was
a long-distance runner in Australian mter-
’Varsity contests.
George Peacock, chairman and managing
director of Prestige, has seen the enterprise
develop in seven years from a puny intant
GEORGE PEACOCK.
into a vigorous adult. In the same time
the staff has grown from a mere handful
to 1200; the place that houses them in
Brunswick, Melbourne, covers G.| acres, and
its products cover a large proportion of
female Australia’s extremities. Peacock is
a good Australian whose father founded
Melbourne’s long-esteemed emporium of
Robertson and Moffatt, now merged in
Myer’s.
Wentworth (N.S.W.) Nats, are talking of
getting out W. H. Kelly, their former 5J.11.1t.,
to nurse the constituency against Wally
Marks. Il'e is the type of candidate they
approve of, being an Old Etonian who looks
like it; A. G. Manning, who opposed Marks
as a Bruceite at the general election, was
too agricultural for Wentworth’s taste. Kelly
has plenty of brains, and is as aggressive
in controversy as a bull-ant, but his health
is poor. He is making Paris his h.q. at
present, and writing plays to work off his
superfluous mental energy. He inherited his
considerable fortune from Tin Kelly, the
mining magnate, married Olive Morrell, the
actress, and has a daughter.
Dr. Arthur Murray Oram, who died before
the wind of adversity blew on Macquarie-
street, Sydney, left estate valued at £162,000,
chiefly to his widow. The State and Com-
monwealth Treasurers will get about £44,000
of it.
From “Jermyn-street”:—
Hundreds of globe-trotting Australians will be
grieved at the death of “Luigi” of London’s Embassy
Club. Luigi Naintre was an Italian who started
Giro's, near Leicester-square, during the war. He
was the born night-club director, being on friendly
terms with every pleasure-loving celebrity in England
from the Prince downwards, and with the leading
millionaires of France and the U.S.A. He had the
uncanny memory for faces of a Colombo moonstone-
peddler, as many Australians can testify who, on
returning to London after years, were greeted by
him by name. His tact was ambassadorial. This
quality was needed when the Prince, Gordon Self-
ridge, the Duke of Westminster and others who
reserved tables at the Embassy every night blew in
unexpectedly to find their favorite positions allotted
to others. Luigi had been well in with the police
since the days when he ran Romano’s in the Strand,
but he crashed under the Home Secretaryship of
“Jix,” who was another Forde. To the amazement
of West End London, an order for his deportation
was issued in 1927. No reason was made public.
He was soon back in his old haunts, arid the
Embassy, which was company-owned, survived,, unlike
an equally well-known Grafton-street club which
closed down for good when its proprietor was asked
to leave the country.
OUT O’ WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Sergeant: ‘You are what is known as an
“urger” on the racecourse—a bookmakers’ tout?’
“Defendant: ‘I am out of work at present.’”
—“Sun.”
Yairs, times is bad an’ trade is gorn to pot;
There’s nothin’ doin’ anyways you look;
A man carn’t earn enough to ’ave a spot—
Seems all the world is findin’ business
crook.
You got no chance to do an honest whack
sVhen ne’ss’ry jobs like urgin’s runuin’ slack.
O’ course I sympathise with them pore
mukes
What’s lorst their jbbs through music
cornin’ canned;
The unemployed—l shakes their honest
dukes;
But ’ere’s the thing that beats the bloomin’
band:
Times is so bankrup’ now, or on the verge,
A man carn’t get a charnce to do an urge.
I’ve worn me boots orf ’oofin’ to the course,
But everywhere the answer’s jest the
same:
The books ’as got no pity or remorse,
They say to-day there’s nothin’ in the
game.
I ain’t a bloke to cadge or do a shirk—
’Struth, things is crook when urgers carn’t
git work.
n;s.w.
HAROLD HARDUPP.


SSf
fA
cA
i
f
v
9
m
V?
§
v
i
i
1
a*
E
u
ft'
&
ft
/,/
u
r
a
>4
//
/
K
'!
m
m
m
7
*
i,
m
m
m
in
lH
«s
i
A
l,i
Endurance
BRITAIN’S PRIDE—HER NAVY
To the foresight of her earliest statesmen Britain
owes the foundation of her navy—to the brains,
inventive skill and engineering ingenuity of today/
Britain owes her Sea Supremacy—won in a thous-
and battles by the Endurance of bet men and guns.
Barnet Glass


COMMONWEALTH 6 PER CENT. LOAN, 193*
AMOUNT ASKED FOR £10,000,000
w
The Loan is issued by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the
Governments of the Commonwealth and the States.
Subscriptions may be paid in full at the time of application, or by instalments,
the last of which is payable on September 1, 1930.
Interest at 6 per cent, per annum will be paid from the date of lodgment of
moneys, and the first interest payment will be made on November 15, 1930.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth Income Tax, but free of all State
Income Taxes.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office, or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Commonwealth Treasurer. Edward G- Theodore, Treasurer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow”
Criterion “The Garden of Eden”
state Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal ‘‘The Belle of New York”
New Comedy “Lord and Lady Algv”
Kings “This Thing Called Love”
s Movies and Talkies
' STATE Movies and Talkies
«
Those who sec it ought to be satisfied
with Ihis Thing Called Love” at Melbourne
King s. Staunch Leonisers have the pleasure
ot once more observing Mr. Gordon surroun-
ded by beautiful women in various attitudes
of adoration. Those ladies who go to the
theatre for the same reason that they go to
a mannequin parade at Myer’s are solaced
with a first-rate millinery display. Old-
fashioned theatregoers, to whom the play’s
the thing, are mollified with a rattling comedy
containing some flashes of good writing.
Some of the costumes mentioned above remind
present writer of the garb of Hindu divinities
just a nude figure with' a wavy line drawn
somewhere between knee and ankle. The
figures are lovely in the extreme, and he
might have been embarrassed if he had not
read so many press reviews of banned novels
lately.
The plot concerns the desire of Tice
Collins, an ex-Peruvian mining man, to seek
domestic felicity on his return to London.
Ihe Bertrands—Harry and Florence—give
him some inside information on the subject at
a dinner party, during which Florence slaps
the face of Miss Alvarez, suspected of being
her hubby’s mistress. Concluding that Eros
and the green-eyed monster are first cousins,
the miner decides to eliminate love from
marriage by engaging Anne Marvin as his
wife on a salary basis, the marriage lines to
be a license to carry on all business con-
nected with matrimony except love. At this
point, hardened samplers of Mr. Gordon
may glance at their watches and wonder at
exactly what, o’clock the great international
star will demand his conjugal rights, with
trimmings.
To be precise, he does it at 10.10, and the
play could end there without anybody being
the unwiser. Edwin Burke, the playwright,
however, provides a third act with an un-
expected twist in it. Mr. Collins becomes
jealous and so does Mrs. Collins. Nothing-
can now bring them together in time for the
audience to catch its last tram but a Great
MARJORIE PROCKTER, of the Prockter trio of Melbourne,
who is taking her violin to Budapest for further study.
Experience, and this is supplied by Normie
De Witt, a disappointed lover, who points an
automatic at Mr. Collins but pots Mrs.
Collins, who has devotedly thrust herself in
front. It is only a flesh wound, however,
and the curtain descends on the chastened
husband lavishing the healing ointment of
his kisses on his wife’s slightly damaged
cuticle.
Mr. Gordon is as fond of painting self-
portraits a<s Rembrandt. His Tice Collins
was not in the least like what the playwright
intended him to be, but he was very like
Mr. Gordon, and anybody who expects other-
wise nowadays doesn’t deserve to get his
money back. Mary Macgregor gave a brilliant
account of herself as Anne Marvin, though
there was a* faint shadow of the producer
behind her archness and her sophisticated
unsophistication. Another brilliant per-
formance was that of Dulcie Cherry as the
hysterically jealous Mrs. Bertrand. Nancy
Gordon ivas amazingly good as Dolly Garrett,
a wife who prepares her mind for intellec-
tual communion with her husband by study-
ing the “Encyclopaedia Britannica.” Harvey
Adams, Rowena Ronald and Pirie Bush were
well in tlie picture, and an excellent cast
was rounded off by Frank Bradley as a
butler. His sole business was to announce
callers and feed them with cocktails, and
in this simple enterprise lie several times
carried away the principal part bodily from
Mr. Gordon, though he generously gave it
back again.
Backhaus, who has as many arms as Siva,
concluded a personally-conducted tour of
Beethoven at the Town Hall, Melbourne, by
playing the sonatas, Opus 106 and 111. Com-
pared with his previous programmes, noble as
they were, it was like fetching up in front
of Rheims Cathedral after a circuit of Salva-
tion Citadels. Musicians contemporary with
Ludwig used to say that these sonatas were
unplayable; they were not to know that the
womb of Time would one day bring forth
Backhaus.
Opus 106 had the privilege of a programme
note by G. B. Shaw, which was mainly dis-
tinguished by being a little more blitliersome
than the usual comments that appear on
programmes. According to G. 8.5.. the last
movement describes a "dance of radio-active
electrons, the discovery of which was antici-
pated by Beethoven. However that may be,
Backhaus gave coherence to a sonata which
is nearly twice as long as the next longest in
existence. A dead, almost frightened, silence
gripped the audience after the completion of
both pieces, just as if the pianist had sud-
denly risen 100 feet in the air and re-
mained suspended there without any physical
agency. It was a tribute on the part of some
to a miraculous performance, and on the
part of others it was probably surprise that
anything so long should ever finish. When,
by way of encore, Backhaus played the
“Moment M'usicaux” of Schubert it was like
bringing up a steam-hammer to crack a pea-
nut. Both Op. 106 and 111 have a gigantic
slow movement in which an intense vision
of > ideal beauty is
painted in great,
sweeping washes on
a canvas that seems
to stretch on and
on into eternity.
The little man
with the humorous
tuft of hair in the
centre of his fore-
head held both
ends and the
middle of the pic-
ture in his unfal-
tering fingers.
After that acliieve-
men t, expressing
the mounting exul-
tation of the ini-
tial movement of
Op. 106 and the
grim tragedy of
Op. 11l was mere
child’s play.
¥ #
“Lord and Lady
A 1 g y,” William
Faversham’s latest
insult to the Mel-
bourne theatre-
goer’s intelligence,
opened at the
Comedy on Satur-
day. The spav-
ined farce is 30
years of age, and
has been kept alive
largely by the
efforts of Mr.
Faversham himself,
who has played the
leading role more
than 1180 times,
and is proud of it.
At least, he has
allowed the fact
to be printed in
the papers. Men
were transported
for less than that
in the early days. The play was
well staged and richly dressed, and the
music in the intervals was excellent.
Gerald K. Souper, Ambrose Flower, Wil-
liam Faversham, Norman Lee, Frank
Leighton, Reginald Wykeham, William
Darnley, Leslie Laurier. Geoffrey Gunn,
Oscar Lansbury, Frank Foster, D’Arcy Kel-
way, Ivan Squirrell, Ann Davis, Beatrice Day,
Beth Mackey, Molly Brennan, Mary Plimmer
and Nellie Mortyne were amongst those who
wasted their talents on the production.
Gregan McMahon’s performance of Syl-
vanus Heythorp in Galsworthy’s “Old
English” at Melbourne Bijou was a portrait
by a serious painter hung amongst a show
of comic-strip art. No higher compliment
can be paid to the actor-producer than to
say that he kept a jaded and drama-saturated
critic rooted to a draughty position until
eleven o’clock merely so that he could see wha<t
happened to the charming old stoic who de-
cides to go gloriously to death lined with
sherry, port, champagne, oysters and a rum
souffle rather than admit that life has beaten
him. With the
exception of F’red
Drew, David Reid
and Joy Gwyn, the
rest of the cast
should be pr o-
ceeded against by
the Dramatists’
Union for aiding
an rl abetting a
lockout. Keith
Johns was a non-
sensical hero, Hal
Porter was a ridi-
culous clergyman,
Ruby May was
a tournament of
over-emphasis, and
Betty Barber deli-
vered her lines
with the appalling
regularity of a
vanishing shop
sign. She also
appeared to be
laboring under the
impression that
her audience were
inmates of a deaf
a s y 1 u m. “The
Doctor’s Dilemma”
will be elucidated
to-morrow.
# *
“T li e Met r y
Widow” is the
latest old-timer
put in to hold the
Sydney Majesty’s
fort pending the
arrival of “Mr.
Cinders,” a parcel
of fresher goods
which has done
well in London.
Gladys Moncrieff
is singing admir-
ably as Sonia, and
Herbert Browne as
Jolidon. There is
the poetic justice of a revival within
a revival in the reappearance of Andrew
Higginson, still wearing as well as
the piece itself. Arthur Stigant, Gus
Bluett and Romola Hansen are other good
spots in the bright entertainment.
Otherwise things could be rowdier on the
theatrical front. “Let IJs Be Gay” has had
a fair, but only fair, run at the Criterion.
It comes off this week to let Eve Taliaferro
stray in “The Garden of Eden.” “Love
Lies,” after rattling along for a few weeks,
ends also this week; from Saturday the
Royal will be a talkie house again. Nellie
Brainley, who was surprisingly rumored to
be shutting up her season at the Opera House
and retiring on the coin she won in Bris-
bane, is ahead until further notice with
a hew show a week. “The Creaking Chair,”
a thrrrriller, is the current offering. The
Palace is cold and empty of royalties ; even
the dismounted postilions ha ye left.
* * *
St. James’s Hall, Sydney, was filled three
evenings last week when the Players’ Club
turned on “The Women Have Their Way,”
by Serafin and Joaquin Quintero, and
“Danger.” by Richard Hughes. “The
Women,” which occupied most of the pro-
gramme, is a comed,y of Spanish village life.
The hamlet contains an over-supply of
women, chiefly occupied in scandalmongering
and matchmaking. Enter, from Madrid, a
presentable, affluent young bachelor, one
Adolfo. On business concerning a deceased
aunt’s estate, he displays little interest in
the local misses, but gossip soon credits him
with a flaming passion for one, Juanita,
though, the pair have not even met. Adolfo
puts up a gallant struggle, until he meets the
young lady, when, of course
Despite stiltedness in some of the minor
feminine roles and the customary intrusion
now and then of the prompter, the acting
was good. Frank Carswell gave a sparkling
portrayal of Adolfo; Alice Gould caught the
right note and was a charming Juanita. S.
R. Irving and Caroline Forsyth did well
enough among the others.
* * *
“Danger” was chiefly remarkable for its
being played in complete darkness, with the
actors stationed behind heavy curtains (the
scene was a gallery in a Welsh coalmine).
But it was a feeble study of the alleged emo-
tions of three trapped persons. The off-stage
noises were the most satisfactory part of the
business.
Kubelik and Backhaus are taking turns
in Adelaide Town Hall, which is so cold
these times that music-lovers have at last
struck for radiators to reinforce their rugs,
“Journey’s End,” finely acted all round, is
at the Royal, and audiences pay it the finest
tribute by sitting thrilled and forgetting to
applaud,
* * *
The gi’eat artistic and theatrical event in
Melbourne last week was the appearance for
the first time in his distinguished career as
a public entertainer of Jim Gerald in black-
ELSIE PRINCE, to partner “Mr. Cinders’' at Sydney Majesty’s
on July 5.
face. At any rate the Tivoli was absolutely
packed when this paper looked in one even-
ing. His indigenous talent shone through
the burnt cork on the honest face of Jim.
who looked as much like a negro as a eucalypt
covered with imitation snow looks like a
Christmas-tree. Amongst his staunchest
supporters is Sadie Gale, who is fortunate
in having other great natural • resources
besides her dancing.
The Palette
A bit of still-life by R. W. Phillips, a
self-portrait and one or two other items by
lately dead A. Marriott Wood-house, some
landscape by W. Oates and a drawing or two
by Walter J. Dowman, and not much else
matters in the Australian Art Society’s exhi-
bition at the Education Building, Sydney.
The show is neither good nor bad. It is
simply unspeakably dull. The Henry Rusli-
bury show at the Macquarie Galleries is a
wonderful antidote. There are real archi-
tectural gems in the dozen exhibits. In all
there is careful craftsmanship. The impres-
sion is that the artist lingered lovingly over
every job, whereas the other show gloomily
hinted the desire to do any sort of a job
provided it did not take long. The Mac-
quarie is also hanging half a dozen beauti-
fully designed small carpets. Even they might
be pointed as examples for the heavyweight
canvas spoilers of the other exhibition.
The veteran Frederick G. Reynolds has a
show of color prints at the Beaux-Arts,
Melbourne, most of them produced by the
laborious lino, process. It says something
for Mr. Reynolds’s persistence that in his
landscapes the result often justifies the
means. In “The Meandering Stream” and
“Kalorama Moonlight” there is some of the
sparkle of real light, and they are pleasing
decorations as well. In his figure studies
he is not so happy. “The Three Graces”
are a trio of nudes whose heads are several
times larger than Nature usually makes
them. In this case the lino, would have
been better left to serve as kitchen-floor
covering.
If money could be made out of mild
weather A. E. Newbury’s pictures at Mel-
bourne Athenseum would tempt a lot of
unemployed city people to go on the land.
The serenity of the climate is the dominant
feature of the display. Newbury is still
the poet of the tiny lyric or the four-line?
verse, and when he aims at an epic he usu-
ally misses by a yard.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting your Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,200,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment bv which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the view
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £37,345,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R.
COPLAND
LETHBRIDGE, Managing
Director.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ŵ
A.H.I. Training
Not Only Pays—
It Pays Promptly!
you will understand this
better when you read
“Forging Ahead in Business”
—the book which tells you
concisely and clearly' whia't
A.H.I. Executive Training
gives the business man in six
months, in twelve months, in
eighteen months, in two years.
Send for this book—which
will be sent y 7 ou free by
return.
Every man who believes that
it pays to think and plan
ahead owes it to himself and
his family to spend one even-
ing with it.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Controlled in Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank
Place, 410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street. PlO
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
We have had such a large trouble of our
own lately that we have almost lost sight
of the fact that the whole world has a dif-
ferent. sort of great trouble in hand. And
since that world-wide trouble must have a
large effect on the investment market, and
may affect it for a long period, it demands
to be thought over.
Our own particular trouble, of course, is
that we have been an extravagant loafer,
living far beyond our means. The world-wide
trouble is that something or other has sent
prices spinning.
In a general way Australia knows that it
isn’t getting as much for its wool as it did ;
also, for some reason or other, metals are
low, and wheat too. What most of us don’t
seem to realise is that this reduction of
prices has been very general and is per-
sistent.
Very complete social surveys are made by
the United States Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics—the finest in the world, probably. Tak-
ing the average wholesale prices of 550 com-
modities in 1913 as the index number 100,
there was, according to this Bureau’s tables,
a swift rise to 225 in 1919, followed by a
quick fall to 140; and the figure for January
of this year was 133. This means that the
commodity which was worth 20s, in 1919
had fallen, on the average, to about 11s. 9d„
and was still falling—in September it was
139, in December. 1.35, in January, as we
have seen, 133.
But what are the chances of a recovery?
We can only get an answer to that by
looking at the previous history of prices.
The level of 1913 had not been reached
previously since the ’seventies, according to
the U.S. Bureau’s statistics. In the ’nineties
the level liad got as low as 68; in other
words, the average of wholesale commodity
prices had 30-odd years ago been less than
one-third of what they were in 1919.
In 1924-25 the average got per bale of
wool at the Adelaide sales was £32 4s. Id.
The average for six sales of the 1929-30
season has been £l2 2s. lid. That is bad
enough, but this is far more disturbing: in
14 out of the 15 years from 1900 onwards
the price was less than the present £l2 2s.
lid.; for the three years 1901-03 the aver-
age was £7 15s. 3d;
To show how steadily prices have been
falling ever since the great post-war slump
(1921-22), look at this little table: —•
Jan.,
1925. 1928. 1930.
Britain (150).. .. 160 140 131
U.S.A. (550).. .. 148 140 133
What is the cause of it nobody knows for
certain. J. M. Keynes, the English econo-
mist, lately wrote: “The fall in the whole-
sale prices of raw materials has now taken
on the character of a world-wide disaster”;
and the London “Economist” put it almost
exactly as The Bulletin put it a few weeks
ago: “The statistical position of individual
commodities such as wheat, coffee, tin and
cotton may be advanced to explain the fall
that has taken place in the prices of these
commodities, hut the downward trend of. .. .
other commodities unquestionably reflects the
influence of the monetary factor.”
Gold supplies, international monetary co-
operation, business stabilisation and a dozen
other things have been suggested as factors
in the reduction of prices. But that is not
our business at present. What has to be
stressed is the great and general fall in
prices, and the improbability of early re-
covery, if of recovery at all.
As J. M. Keynes said, the shoe will pinch
hardest “the great producers of raw materials
overseas.”
It does not follow that there will be no
prosperous enterprises in Australia. But
the producers of raw materials look to be
in for a very thin time, and so are those who
are dependent on them. Meanwhile very
great readjustments will be called for; and
thus far it is very doubtful whether the com-
munity realises how widespread and painful
those readjustments must be. This probably
means a good deal of industrial and social
unrest.
In all the circumstances the only thing
to do is to repeat the advice given so often
lately: “Play for safety. And especially
he cautious of investments dependent wholly
or largely on the primary-producing indus-
tries.”
Sun Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney).
Towards
Re- Re-
Mar.. Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Q £> £r ■ £f
1919.. 24,526 12Jp.c.= 23,750 776 11,280
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up and goodwill
assessed at £245.633. Three £1 shares paid to
17s. 6d. each issued tor every £1 share previously
held. Goodwill is not treated as an asset hereafter.
Deficit.
245,633
Add new co.’s Dreliminary exes., £3,048 248.681
1921.. 56,910 11.1 p.c.n 50,576 6,334 242,347
Goodwill transferred to Mel-
bourne co., £25,000.. .. .. 217,347
1922.. 103,100 13 3 p.c.= 77 922 1 s 178 214 ,i69
Written off, £22,000 J ’
1923.. 105,440 11.1 p.c.= 72,274 33,166 181.003
Goodwill items, £15,097 .. .. 196,100
1924.. 82,109 11.1 p.c.- 80,978 1,131 194,969
1925.. 116,655 11.1 „ „ 97,316 19,339 175,630
1926.. 136,827 11.1 „ ~101,487 35,340 140,290
Reserve disappears, £12,600 .. .. 152,790
Reserves.
Realisation and removal reserve,
£297,059 144,269
1927.. 148,581 13.3 p.c.=122,553 26,028 170,297
1928.. 157,224 13.3 ~ ~ 123,267 33,957 204,254
1929.. 182,840 15.5 „ ~143,360 39,480 243,734
Unexplained reduction of realisation
and removal reserve, £225,409.. 18,325
1930. . 185,514 11.1 p.c.=102,800 82,714 301,039
The year has been full of incidents. On
Oct. 1 last this co. became the chief operat-
ing conceru in Associated Newspapers, Ltd.,
a holding co. promoted by Sun Newspapers
to amalgamate its interests with those of
S. Bennett, Ltd.; the business was carried
through by a generous exchange of scrip.
Also, early in the term, the Sun Go. moved
into the expensive new premises it had built
for itself, the old ones having been resumed
by the civic authorities, and the claim for
compensation in connection with the resump-
tion was settled. And the co. became sole
owner of the “Daily Telegraph Pictorial.”
With the help of a long run of favorable
years the “Sun”, has been exceedingly pros-
perous in the past, and circumstances were
kind for most of the last term; so recent
figures are fatter than those which it is
reasonable to expect in the immediate future.
For the 12 months to March 31 the board
claimed as net profit £187,129, or £4288
more than for the previous term. This is
reconciled with the profit in the table by
taking into the reckoning an unexplained
reduction of £1615 in the provident, etc.,
fund. The 2 p.c. bonus sent out at the
close of accounts in 1929 was dropped, and
the div. was cut back to 8.8 p.c. p.a. for
the latter half of the last term, making 11.1
p.c. for the year. Reserves are shown less
goodwill (£225,000), and do not include the
plant, machinery and building reserve
(£249,989. up £129,117 during the year)
and the provision for contingencies and taxa-
tion (£102,488. after being drawn upon for
£5586 net).
The claim in connection with the resump-
tion of the old property previously stood in
the books at £592.810: it was settled by
arbitration for £265,325. The published
figures do not show clearly w’liat adjustments
were made on account of the difference,
most of which related to machinery. This
apparently has been transferred back to the
plant account, and appears to have been
responsible for at least part of the reduc-
tion and increase respectively in the real-
isation and plant reserves. What trans-
fers took place between these reserves and
the p. and 1. account and other sources
during the year, and the cost of the change-
over to the new premises, are not disclosed ;
but, combined, the two reserves show a net
reduction of £96.292.
Now look at these figures :—•
1919. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £196,910 £900,000 £900,000 £900,000
Liabilities . . 37,197 G 8,485 273,175 437,572
Premises .. 61,370 178,778 379,182 516,90 S
Plant, etc. . . 79,784 269,997 384,659 803,279
Stocks . . 86,703 82,393 70,839 112,528
Book debts . . 34,347 151,698 178,590 192,198
Cash, etc. . . 18,968 989 1,161 677
Investments . . 35,500 59,723 166,838
Goodwill . . 225,000 225,000 225,000
City Council claim 592,810 592,810 -
Apart from the claim on account of the
resumption, etc., the year’s net increase in
the book value of tangible assets was
£718,272, of which the compensation pay-
ment and the year’s addition to the debt
account for £429.722. It looks, therefore,
as if over half the £415,620 added to the
plant item represents mainly old machines
for which compensation was not allowed,
and whatever was spent on plant out of
earnings and charged to capital. The growth
of £107,115 in the book value of investments
reflects the purchase of the D. T. Holding
Co.’s interest in the “D. T. Pictorial” for
£56,658 cash and £50,000 in Associated
Newspapers’ prefs. Incidentally, the Sun
Co.’s reserves should have benefited by
£50,000 from this deal. No mention is made
of how the “Pictorial,” a lame duck of the
flock, is getting along; the result of its
trading is hidden in its own accounts. Alto-
gether the debt exceeded the more or less
liquids by £132.169 at March 31, and that
was £109,584 more than the excess a year
earlier.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
This co. handed out in scrip 51s. for each
“Sun” share and 30s. for each share in
the Bennett Co., which publishes the “Even-
ing News” and some periodicals. Presently
it bought from Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd.,
the goodwill of both the “Daily” and “Sun-
day Guardian.” The price paid is reputed
to have been £575,000, of which £400,000 was
in fully-paid pref. shares and the balance
in cash. All this and the scrip issued in
connection with the “D. T. Pictorial” deal
made paid capital £3,544,058 in 1,473,029
7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 2,071.059 ords.
If Sun Newspapers continues to pay 2
p.c. quarterly it will send along about
£77,000 p.a. (some of the Sun shares, it
will be observed, have not been converted),
so the “Evening News,” the two “Guardians”
and some small fry will have to find about
£26,000 of profits between them to satisfy
the pref. requirements. Another £103,553
will be needed to pay 5 p.c. to the ords. S.
Bennett netted £57,874 for the year to Oct.
31, 1928, and is probably earning less profit
now than when it was taken over. And it
is doubtful whether the two “Guardians,”
which are being printed now on the Bennett
co.’s machines, are turning in much in the
way of net earnings.
On the basis of the last published accounts,
and including the Sun Co.’s provision for
taxation, etc., but excluding its plant, etc.,
reserve, over 18s. of each pound of Asso-
ciated ord. capital is represented by good-
will, a very mercurial element in a news-
paper co.’s accounts. Altogether it is diffi-
cult to find much brightness in the outlook
for the ords.
The scrip has had a very lively market.
On their first appearance in Dec. the ords.
sold around par. Then the general outlook
began to bristle with difficulties, and as
information about the purchase of the “Guard-
ian” leaked out. quotes widened, and the
price fell precipitously to Bs. 6d. following
the short-lived attempt to tack an extra
|d. on the selling price for the co.’s evening
papers. The figure for the shares has since
recovered to 10s. Gd. and remains fairly
steady. The prefs. at 18s. 6d. return 7.5 p.c.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney).
Writ- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1919 . . 38,598 8 p.c. = 19,868 7,610 6,565
1920 .. 42,987 8 „ .. 20,488 8,454 20,610
1921 . . 37,403 10J „ „ 27,259 10,000 20,754
1922 . . 45.597 10 „ „ 32,473 12,500 21,378
1923 . . 58,655 10 ~ „ 39,207 13,000 27,826
1924 .. 55,303 10 ~ „ 43,704 16,000 23,425
Premiums on shares, £ll2 .. 23,537
1925 .. 72,413 10 p.c. = 53,513 18,000 24,437
1926 . . 89,526 10 „ ~ 57,937 26,150 29,876
1927 . . 90,515 10 „ „ 61,375 27,700 31.316
1928 . . 102,446 10 „ „ 65,336 33,100 35,326
Pref. Ord.
(7 p.c.) (10 p.c.)
1929 . . 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
An extra ss. was got in on the quarter-
million of scrip issued shortly before the
close of accounts in 1929. That made the
new shares paid to 10s., added £62,500 to
capital, raising the total to £575,000; and
increased the year’s div. requirements by
£9466. But there was an all-round expan-
sion of the business: —
Working
Consumers. Revenue. Expenses.
1912 . . 1,203 £20,564 £9,463
1916 . . 3,648 47,844 23,139
1920 .. 7,596 80,496 31,456
1924 . . 15,032 147,086 78,533
1926 . . 19,310 187,719 83,693
1927 . . 21,267 207,509 97,994
1928 . . 23,125 226,183 104,237
1929 . . 24,928 243,373 117,553
1930 . . 26,239 270,005 126,420
During the year an additional 1311 cus-
tomers were put on the books, takings sprang
£26,632. while the growth in exes, was
£11,867, nearly half of which was on account
of increased fuel costs, due to the stoppage
on the Maitland coalfields.
After striking off an extra £4300 for de-
preciation, shown as written off in the table,
and attending to the pref. requirements,
enough was left to show 10.2 p.c. on average
ord. capital compared with 10.2, 10.6, 10.2
and 10.9 p.c. back to 1926. So the 10 p.c.
div., which has been an annual event for the
past decade, was repeated, though there was
little to spare, as usual. Whether the pro-
fits claimed are the true profits depends
largely on whether the allowances for de-
preciation prove to be more or less than is
necessary. These allowances are taken into
consideration when fixing the price for cur-
rent, which is controlled, the aim being, to
ensure a “reasonable return” on the capital
invested in fixed assets. So the probabili-
ties are that the provisions are no more than
a fair thing. There was a marked decrease
in the sale of current toward the close of
accounts, especially for industrial purposes,
and the board takes a serious view of pros-
pects for the current year. The possibility
of the 10 c. div. being interfered with
depends largely upon the extent to which
sales fall off, and whether costs can be kept
in hand. As conditions become more settled
industrial activities should liven, and the re-
opening of the northern coalpits should
hasten events in this direction, and greatly
assist in reduction of costs.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
1921. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Capital . . £262,426 £601,250 £812,500 £875,000
Debentures . . 50,000
Other liabilities 59,873 50,390 172,319 126,096
Fixed assets.. 413,875 818,196 1,252,826 1,312,605
Stocks, etc... 24,952 19,129 23,914 21,072
Book debts .. 15,403 13,088 11,015 11,289
Cash, etc. .. 15,868 3,563 5,359 0,182
The new capital that came in, with an extra
£28,474 from sundry creditors and the 'year’s
surplus earnings, including provision for de-
preciation, enabled the board to wipe out
the mortgage (£42,000 at April 30, 1929),
lop £32,697 off the overdraft, reducing it to
£8057, and add £59,779 to the book value of
fixed assets, chiefly mains.
The market prices the fully-paid ords. at
28s. Cd. as against 325. 6d. a year ago.
Allowing for the final div. the return at the
current figure is 7.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs., paid to 10s., are priced
at 10s. 6d., at which figure the return is 6.6
p.c. They ca*rry a fixed cumulative 7 l>-c.
and enjoy priority as to capital. Including
the uncalled capital the net tangible cover for
the prefs. is £6 4s. Bd., and for the ords. 21s.
The div. is practically limited to 10 p.c. ;
so it is to new issues, which are made at
par., that shareholders have to look for
sweets, and no further requirements in that
direction may be anticipated for a while.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., ’21.. 11,184 10 p.c. = 9,641 1543 5,780
Sept., ’21.. 10,413 10 „ „ 9,622 791 6,571
Mar., ’22.. 10.748 10 „ „ 9,603 1145 7,716
Sept., ’22.. 10,654 10 „ „ 9,622 1032 8,748
Mar., ’23.. 10,703 10 „ „ 9,622 1081 9,829
Sept., ’23.. 11,714 10 9,641 2073 11,902
Mar., ’24.. 12,097 10 „ „ 9.641 2456 14,358
Sept., ’24.. 12,493 10 „ „ 9,641 2852 17,210
Mar., ’25... 12,569 10 „ ~ 9,641 2928 20,138
Sept., ’25.. 13,138 10 „ „ 10,167 2971 23,109
Mar., ’26.. 13,003 10 „ ~ 10,956 2047 25,150
Sept., ’26.. 12,134 10 ~ „ 10,956 1178 26,334
Mar., ’27.. 12,983 10 ~ ~ 10,956 2027 28,361
Sept., ’27.. 12,547 10 ~ „ 10,956 1591 29,952
Mar., ’28.. 9,086 8 „ ~ 8,764 322 30,274
Sept., ’28.. 8,909 8 „ ~ 8,764 145 30,419
Mar., ’29.. 7,240 6 ~ „ 6,574 666 31,085
Sept, ’29.. 5,730 5 „ ~ 5,478 252 31,337
Mar., ’30.. 2,016 Nil 2016 33,353
This and other musical instrument retailers,
trading largely on a t.-p. basis, did well
while plenty of money was being scattered
and credit-buying was the craze. But now
that the scattering has ceased and spending
is restricted, dealers in more or less luxury
lines are the first to feel the pinch. More-
over, competition in the piano trade is excep-
tionally keen, the scond-hand instrument is
a problem, prices have been cut, and forced
sales of stocks by small importers and the
rise in popularity of wireless have aggra-
vated the troubles.
So from one cause and another Nichol-
son’s gross profits stepped down from
£113,297 for the 12 months to March 31,
1928, to £69,399 last year, when the slip was
£26,012, and the figures continued to ease
over the second half of the term, for which
no div. Was paid. The net result was a
mere 3.2 p.c. on capital compared with 7.3,
9.8, 11.4 and 12.1 p.c. back to 1926, so
shareholders who received a regular 10 p.c.
for the 10 years to March 31, 1928, had to be
content with 21 p.c. for the year and pro-
spects for the current term are not bright.
The only pleasing feature of the accounts
is a- substantial reduction in the outside
debt: —■
Mar.,’2s. Mar.,’2B. Mar.,’29. Mar.,’3o.
Paid capital. . £192,820 £219,114 £219,114 £219,114
Mortgage . . 28,500 105,000 99,500 94,500
Overdraft . . 43,499 3,243 73,298 68,917
Other liabilities 152,548 191,439 117,660 58,897
Stocks, hire
a g r eements,
book debts 325,518 343,733 312,458 269,578
Plant, etc. .. 5,056 2,475 1,888 1,715
Freeholds . . 94,199 197,523 219,017 190,556
Sundry assets 22,873 14,604 14,367 13,434
Last year the amount coming to creditors
was reduced by £58,763, the overdraft by
£4381 and the mortgage by £5OOO. To do
this stocks and hire agreements—an untidy
entry—were worked down £42,880, but
whether by actual repayments or discounting
is not clear from the published figures. Also
the co. sold its Pitt-street freehold and
bought a new one in George-street, the net
result being a reduction of £28,461 in the
book value of property; any profit there
may have been was not disclosed. Much,
of course, depends upon the soundness of
the hire agreements and the figure at which
stocks have been taken into the sheet. The
more or less liquid surplus (£48,426 ex-
cluding shares) was £24,331 stronger than
at the close of accounts at March 31, 1929.
Incidentally, the co.’s interest in the Con-
cord Piano Co. Pty., Ltd., makes it largely
independent of imported pianos.
But the market is not impressed; for the
pound shares, which have a net tangible
backing of 225. Bd., it pays only 7s. 6d. as
against 225. 9d. a year ago.
(Continued on next naae.i


Watch
Your
Step
Anything may happen to
your investments in these
days.
If you want to protect
yourself read
“The ‘WildCat’
Monthly”
JUNE NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or 'Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Svdney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—A dvt. * „ *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
:j: ❖ H*
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. —Advt.
* *
Whatever class of liquid it is necessary to convey,
even the strongest acids or alkalies —Pioneer Wood
Pipe mav be used with outstanding success. This
economical conduit is absolutely non-corrosive and
unaffected by frost or heat. Light, strong and
durable —it is easy to transport and instal and
incurs practically no upkeep cost. Full particulars
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.V.;
and at victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth.- —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
Quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
*
*
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Aforee. Advp.
* * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE. —Prices and
oarticulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT fTREET, SYDNEY.
branches in various states.
&
p BOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence Si
Sydney T! 1
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office : Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office i*v Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc.. Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Prinicipal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
INVINCIBLE
Marine Motors are stocked in
12 popular sizes: to 60 h.p.
“The World’s Best
Since 1906.”
All Spare Parts always
available.
Write for 30-page
illustrated Catalogue.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED
Sydney Showrooms:
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET
(Near Harbor Bridge).
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd.
Writ- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. v ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 36,535 224 p.c. = 21.31 S 2,960 17,361
1927.. 46,575 35 „ ~ 35,423 2,651 25,862
Goodwill written up £93,367, and that Deficit.
amount capitalised .. .. .. 67,505
1928 41,421 15 p.c. = 31.034 11.855 68.973
1929.. 40,182 15 „ ~ 31,322 3,724 63,837
1930.. 38,270 llj „ „ 23,659 3,617 52,543
This co. owes much to the very favorable
circumstances of its birth. Buckingham’s,
retail drapers in Oxford-street, virtually
made a present of a fine cash-order connec-
tion to some of its employees 10 years ago.
Thus the present co. began, and. with the
sudden leap to popularity of credit buying,
turnover bounded along and the manage-
ment was able to keep every penny of the
funds constantly employed. This, substan-
tial trade discounts and apparently a fairly
favorable experience so far as bad debts
are concerned have produced glittering results.
Of the £206,895 of paid capital £133,609
has been handed out in bonus scrip since
1922. The last gift was about three years
ago, when £93,367 of water was pumped into
capital by writing" up goodwill, making it
£112,087. The intangible, by the way, is
not treated as an asset herein. One immedi-
ate effect was that profits and divs. wore
a less, corpulent look in relation to capital
than formerly. Still the £38,270 netted last
year was 18.5 p.c. on capital as against 20
p.c. in the previous year; but the board,
not certain how things are going to shape
in the future, knocked 3f points .off the div.,
reducing it to 11J p.c. for the year, the final
distribution being at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
The success of R. H. Gordons and this co.
brought a litter of cash-order concerns into
the field, thus putting an edge on competi-
tion, which promises to get keener. Also
spending has become more restricted, and
turnover threatens to be difficult to hold,
while overhead and the bad-debts question
are growing more acute. Further, 2-1 points
were recently snipped off the discount given
cash-order cos. by retailers, and further cuts
are likely. Those concerns with experienced
managements, an established goodwill and
comfortable finances are likely to suffer least.
Balance-sheet figures exhibit the co.’s
position in this way:—
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £98,774 £198,446 £200,753 £206,895
Liabilities . . 52,589 53,099 80,808 64,624
Freeholds . . 39,065 39,135 39,135 39,135
Furniture, etc. 2,038 2,545 2,706 2,761
Book debts, etc. 135,028 142,490 171,503 167,306
Loans on
mortgage . . 14,000 20,000 20,000
A good deal depends on the soundness of
the book debts.
The public is interested in 167,068 fully-
paid £1 B shares, which have priority as
to capital. In addition there are 18,700 A
(vendor), 19,315 B paid to ss. and 16,308
O (employees’) shares. All scrip ranks
equally for dividend. For the B shares
sellers ask 255; the return at that price
being 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Another 6 p.c. Loan.
The Commonwealth Government is offer-
ing at par. on the local market £10,000,000
of 6 p.c. bonds, redeemable November 15,
1938. Interest, payable half-yearly, is free
of State but subject to Federal income tax.
The money, which is to be split up amongst
the Federal and State Governments, except
Queensland, is wanted for public works. The
amount should be within the capacity of the
market; and, since the return is about { p.c.
better than the average return oyer the
whole bond section on June 5, the issue is
undoubtedly attractive.
One of the outstanding features of the
market during the past month or so has been
the attention given to Government bonds,
with the result that the average return over
the whole group, excluding the 5 per cents,
maturing in December, eased from approxi-
mately 6 p.c. at May 1 to 5f p.c. at June 5.
But quotes again eased to accord more
closely with a 6 p.c. return following an-
nouncement of the present issue. What hap-
pened is clearly shown in this table: —
Price after allowing for accrued interest
A
Loan. l/5/’3O. 5/6/’3O. 14/6/’3O.
5 p.c. 1948 .. £94 6 10 £96 12 7 £96 9 9
r,| , t i<)3l .. 98 15 4 99 6 6 98 12 6
51 „ 1934 . . 95 19 4 97 11 6 96 16 0
sj. ' 1938 .. 94 5 8 97 8 4 96 15 3
5} „ 1943 .. 94 13 2 97 010 96 15 3
54 1931 .. 99 011 99 16 7 98 17 6
54 „ 1936 . . 96 10 11 98 0 8 97 17 6
6" , 1937 . . 100 9 3 101 0 7 100 0 6
6 „ 1934 . . 100 011 100 10 6 100 12 7
The lift of prices followed on the heels of
an improved seasonal outlook, and was
strengthened by foreign corporations invest-
ing in short-dated issues owing to difficulties
in the exchange position. Whether the
transference of these water-logged credits
later on will affect prices in the investment
and exchange markets remains to be seen.
Much will depend upon the way in which
the investments are liquidated and exchange
bought.
Owing to the recent rise m prices it was
thought that the Government might seize the
opportunity to make a fractional saving in
interest, though it is doubtful whether the
time is yet ripe for easier money rates. Cer-
tainly the Government could not afford to do
anything that would increase the risk of its
paper hanging on the market.
Crushing is now in progress at Mt. Siza,
in Misima, off Papua. There have been one
or two goodish reefing shows on this island
in the. past, though, as in the case of Murua
(Woodlark), the run of the reefs has been
very patchy, the country being much dis-
turbed. Misima (otherwise St. Aignan’s)
is one of the oldest Papuan mining-fields,
and has turned out a lot of gold from allu-
vial ground.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: Professor Bartoli, an
Italian chemist, has been telling the
Jo’burg experts that their process of
gold extraction —which is first and last
an elaborated cyaniding system—does not
account for gold alloyed with other
metals or in the form of salts. He states
that a new process of his own for treating
refractory ores will double the gold recovery
of the East Rand by extracting 20dwt. per
ton where now only lOdwt. is won. The
professor’s process is for sale,, of course,
so Jo’burg, while greatly doubting, is pre-
paring to give him and if a trial.
As W.A. wheat-farmers advanced east to-
wards the goldfields, it was expected that
clearing operations would disclose ore bodies.
This has happened at Bu-rracoppin, on the
Perth-Kalgoorlie railway, 182 miles east of
Perth. Two farmers, Bennett and Burgess,
have forsaken the tractor for the windlass,
and sunk a shaft 45ft. deep on a lode forma-
tion 2ft. wide. Eleven tons railed to the
State mill at Coolgardie yielded 290 z. bullion
plus Gdwt. gold in tailings—an encouraging
start for Perth’s nearest gold centre.
* * *
Thomson’s Find, Edjudina, is responding
well to surface operations. Gold can be
seen freely as the ore is broken, and from
this it would appear that a satisfactory
yield may be expected from the first parcels
which are to be treated early next month.
So far as surface developments go-, there is
little doubt the show is the best made in
W.A. for years. Prospecting is proceeding
on a number of leases oufside the main
areas, but nothing of value has yet been
disclosed. ,
*.* " * *
Boulder’s well-known landmark, Horse-
shoe’s tailings dump, is being slowly flattened
by the co. formed to re-treat it with cyanide
solutions. During May 36,632 tons went
through the new plant, leaving behind bullion
valued at £6524; working exes, were £3587
and working profit £2937. But net figures
are what shareholders want.
Great Boulder treated 8650 tons ore- last
month, including some from tributors and
1627 tons old tailings, for a gold yield ot
£24 029 • exes., including ore purchased from
tributors, took £22,527. The £1502 profit
seems very modest. +
Latest report of directors of Freney ' Oil
Co. contains little to cheer shareholders. The
brightest spot—and it is not very bright—
is that “oil was unquestionably met at
2100 ft.,” and “it is always possible that fur-
ther sands may be encountered before 3000 ft.
is reached.”
* * * *
Austral Malay, the oldest Australian hold-
ing and prospecting co. operating in Malaya,
is out with the report of the activities of
itself and its six working subsidiaries for
the 12 months to Dec. 31. The co. s own
income for the year was £9198, and the
£5436 19s. lid. brought forward made the.
total available £14,635. Of this a 10 p.c.
div. took £lO,OOO and exes. £2248, leaving
£2387 to go forward. During the year £49,058
was advanced to the Pungah and Puchong
subsidiaries to enable them to complete then
development and equipment programmes.
Both subsidiaries are well into the produc-
tion stage. Prospecting activities have been
curtailed owing to the drop in metal prices
and the decision of the Malayan Govern-
ment to suspend alienation of land for min-
ing purposes until further notice. . Austral
Malay’s paid capital is £lOO,OOO in £1 shares,
which fetch around 355. in the market, rhe
directors are not optimistic concerning divi-
dend prospects for the current year.
Among the subsidiaries themselves, Ivam-
pong Kamuriting netted £27,223, and paid
4s. per share in divs. Paid capital is £<o,ooo
in 10s. shares all f.p. From registration in
1913 to the end of 1929 the co. paid oyer
£650,000 in divs.. in addition to distributing
free shares in subsidiaries. A.sam Ivumbang
showed a profit of £18,845, and paid divs.
totalling 2s. Gd. a share. Since the ground
ahead promises to be richer, dividend pay-
jy,o"l-s ipay be continued. Flu Yam came out
£7536 ahead of it. The new ground for the
current year is not up to previous standards,
and at present metal prices divs. are un-
likely. Thabawleik's profit was £21,555.
Divs. of Is. Gd. were paid and £6266 was
carried forward. Costs are always high with
this co.. and prospect of poorer ground ahead
here also cast a shadow on prospects. Both
the new shows, Puchong ,and Pungah, had
to waste time in development. For the year
the former was £2555 behind, but increas-
ingly good recoveries since January indicate
that hopes of a profitable year may be real-
ised. Pungah, the baby of the bunch, was
£26,133 to the bad when the balance was
struck. So far its No. 1 dredge has shown
satisfactory recoveries, and when No. 2 is
in action by the end of the year the debit
should soon be overtaken, for the area is
of proved richness.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Location, of W.A. coalfields? Extent
and annual production? (2) Jjocation of
IV.A. iron deposits and estimated tons of
ore in each of the principal deposits. —7oBo.
(1) The only field at present worked is at
Collie. Area occupied by the coal measures
is approximately 50 square miles, and the
coal seams total 137 ft. The production
from the seven collieries at Collie has aver-
aged in recent years half-a-million tons; the
yield could be considerably increased if de-
mand warranted it. (2) W.A. has very
rich deposits of iron ore, but, owing to their
geographical position, the most extensive
fields are practically unexploited, the pro-
duction in the State being confined chiefly
to that needed for fluxing purposes. Import-
ant high-grade deposits are at Yampi Sound.
Kimberley division, estimated to contain 97
million tons of very rich ore; Wilgie Mia,
ore in sight estimated at 27 million tons;
Gabanintha, near Nannine, over a million
tons above surface level; Mount Gibson,
s.-w. corner Yalgoo goldfield, about 10
million tons of ore suitable for steel
manufacture by the acid process: Tai-
loring Range, western Yalgoo goldfield,
where the deposits amount to several mil-
lion tons; and Koolyanobbing, near Southern
Cross, where there' is a very large deposit of
high-grade micaceous hematite.
I am a farmer, and, though I see from
my Bulletin that city trading firms have
overdrafts of tens of thousands, how is it
that I and men in the same position cannot
get an advance, of a few hundreds from the
banks on the security of our farms, although
we are producers of real wealth? —6936a.
A bank lent a sum of money on a prop-
erty in the Canowindra district (N.S.W.)
three years ago. It has not had a- penny of
interest since; the advance has thus steadily
increased; and last year, in order to protect
its security, the bank had to spend some
hundreds of pounds. It could not sell the
property for anything like the sum originally
advanced; yet most of the money used by the
bank has been borrowed by it for short
terms only. A large number of “frozen”
securities like that, and this bank would
be unable to repay its deposits, and there
would be a smash. In some countries trad-
ing banks are not permitted to lend any
money at all on land mortgages, so liable
is this class of security to “freeze.” An
advance to a trading firm is usually secured
by book debts, merchandise stock, etc., which
can generally be realised at some price
within a few months —part of it within
a few days and weeks. The only
institution which can safely lend freely on
mortgage of country lands is one whose
capital is either fixed or assured to it
over a great number of years.
/ took a probate policy with the 'National
Mutual. Since then I have married. In the
event of my death could my wife obtain the
use of that money at once, or does it remain
with my estate to await the usual legal per-
form a nee ? —6960.
The probate endorsement on National
Mutual policies is as follows: “If at the
death of the assured during the currency of
this policy the Association shall have re-
ceived no notice of anything affecting the
assured’s absolute ownership of this policy,
the Association shall, if so requested by the
executors or administrators of the assured,
pay the amount assured, or such smaller sum
that may be required, for duty when probate
of the will or letters of administration to the
estate of the assured have been granted.” In
other words, it merely provides for payment
to the Stamp Duties Commissioner on re-
quest. If such payment is not desired, the
money is paid in the usual way to the trust-
ees on production of probate.
(1) What progress has been made in the
manufacture of the All-Australian automo-
bile for the production of which a
co. was formed within the last year
or two? (2) To what extent will this
industry benefit by the recent tariff adjust-
ments? —6763.
(1) None; but efforts to raise sufficient
capital have not been abandoned. (2)
Recent tariff increases have helped various
branches of the accessories trade.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.G.G.: May come out right, but so far
a gamble M.W.R.: (1) and (2) Not if safety of
capital is important; in any case, half the interest
ought to be put by to cover possible losses of capital.
(3) N 0... .M.W.R.: You are liable for the unpaid
balance and may be sued for calls in arrears. Divs.
are a long way off. (See B. 19/3/’3O) ... .H. 8.8.:
Government Printer, Canberra.... G.R.: Tobacco
looks right; the other risky. (2) Yes; probably
0 p.c P. 0.8.: Leave it on deposit... .P.K.: (1)
Thoroughly sound. (2) On such a policy premiums
must be bona fide paid by somebody else; it needs
careful handling H.L.: Comparison could not be
usefully made because new policies are not being
issued by A.W.F. or M.L.A. and their large bonuses
are due in great part to the fact that those societies
are. spending nothing in the costly pursuit of new
business. A couple no doubt have more to spend
on themselves if .they have no children; but if
every couple had no children the race would soon
die out. Same with life offices... .8.N.: Now you
are in, better wait for battery results. See mining
pars.. ...Tom D.: Died a couple of years ago; as
far as can be ascertained, there was nothing left
for shareholders. C. A. Cooper, 42 Hunter-street,
Sydney, might be able to give further information.
E.A.S.: A gamble: see “Investment Tip” B.
11/6/’80..0.C.: Sorry, a letter of inquiry went
astray. Matter is now having attention A.8.W.:
One inquiry at a time, please, to prevent confusion
in filing and search... .J.H.T.: (1) A gamble. (2)
Immaterial; scrip is merely a certificate of title.
You are liable for calls, no matter when made.
(3) If earned outside Australia, not taxable.
. ...D.W.T.: Quite hopeless.... Fillim : Can’t under-
take to tip market winners. You’ve got to draw
your own conclusions from our facts.... Tips W.:
(1) If it’s a share in a limited liability co. you’ve
bought the co. can sue you ,for unpaid calls. You
can’t escape liability by forfeiting. (2) and (3)
Both gambles. See “Investment Tip,” B. 11/6/’3O.
. ...8.N.T.: Quite sound... .T.F.: Alum is not pro-
duced commercially in Queensland. Forward a sample
of the alunite rock to the Department of Mines,
Brisbane, when its value will be tested, and, if satis-
factory, information will be given as to treat-
ment. „


10l
•n CAPSTAN S
V
/
%ji»
Z'
l
f
A
1
■
V
m
6
o
ti
r>
v>%
¥.4
lA
-O
THERE’S NO BETTER CIGARETTE!
YOU don’t pay for
special tips or fancy
packages when you buy
Capstans. The full value
of your sixpence is in
the eleven satisfying
cigarettes that you ob-
tain in the familiar blue
and white carton.
Capstans are made by
Wills —that means cleverly
blended and mellow-mat-
ured fine Virginia tobacco
in every cigarette. It
means you can’t buy a
better cigarette. That is why
it’s perfectly safe to bet —
“10 to 1, it’s a Capstan”
li/,4k
CAPSTANS
11 for 6d., 22 for 1 /., and in tins
and boxes of6o. Also oval heavy-
weights in tins of 25 and 60.
iparatteA
CAPSTANS are made by W. D. & H. O. Wills at the Garden Factory, Raleigh Park, N.S.W.


ẁ
Take care of the Pennies
The Pounds will take care of YOU
The greater number of our people are wage- and salary-earners
who can look only to thrift to establish a competence in later life. For
them there is no better means than the Savings Account.
The less you earn the greater the necessity for saving, and regular
deposits, no matter how small, will build a banking account at a
surprising rate. Don’t be ashamed of saving pennies—they soon make
pounds.
Branches of the Commonwealth Savings Bank are to be found
in the principal towns, and every Post Office is an Agency.
Cbirnnonwcaltl) Bavmcis JBank of Australia
C Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government ).
LON 6 LIFE
%
Owing to special
process in manu>
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Med.um, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. ft C. HAiIDTMUTH, of “ KOH-I-NOOR" Pencil fame.
London Office—29, Kingsway, W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGALL,, P.O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Pick”: Cockatoos,
wood-ducks and star-
lings never alight to
feed without first
posting somewhere
aloft a few of their
number to look out
for intruders. From
a high tree or emi-
nence overlooking the
tliistle-flats the senti-
nels watch all avenues
of approach, and they
take frequent flights
to survey surrounding-
covers. At their
warning cry, the ban-
queters simultaneously
rise in flight. Lyre
birds, d neks and
cranes trust to the
watchfulness of other
birds. When on their
dancing mounds the
lyres depend upon the
vigilanee of the coacli-
wliip. At a call from
the volatile little fel-
low in the branches
overhead, the dancer
streaks for the
thickets. Ducks and
cranes are guided by
the movements of tree-
perching divers. When
cormorants or shags
fly from the branches
to splash into the
stream, or simply to
change their location,
the water birds below
remain undisturbed,
but should the diving
brigades fly away at
the sight of gunman
or dog, the ducks and
cranes under the banks
also dart off in head-
long retreat. It is a
marvel to the hunter
how the birds so un-
erringly judge between
a flight that means
nothing and one which
signifies the approach
of danger.
* #
“Mullarula”: One of the bush traditions
that seems to havei been forgotten in these
degenerate days is that of the ring of beer.
When I was in north-western N. S. Wales
20 years ago the ring was the recognised way
of beginning a spree. A man who had a
cheque to knock down would arrive in the
bar and call for a ring. Mr. Publichouse
immediately set nine full mugs in a ring
on the counter, and - the drinker started to
work round the ring. After the third mug
was empty the publican also started round
the ring, filling the empties, and then it
became a pursuit race to see whether the
drinker could overtake the publican or the
publican overtake the drinker. The loser
had to pay for the beer consumed, and it
FAIR WARNING.
SHIPWRECKED GIANT (to small mate ): “Stop yer wining, carn’t yer? If we go on
like this, before the week’s out I’ll be fed up wiv yer.”
was admitted, even in those days, that a
man had to be pretty good to beat a publi-
can who knew his job.
* * *
“Pick”: The furry denizens of gum-tree
land differ in homing habits. Possums
occupy the same hol-
low spout through life.
They may journey afar
by night to feed from
willows or an orchard,
but always amble back
to their home tree be-
fore dawn. Ring-tails,
springing from tree to
tree, are led from one
location to another,
and any bunch of
hanging bark or shel-
tering leaves does
them for a daytime
shelter. At breeding
time they build nests
of fuzzied bark, but
the temporary abode is
abandoned when the
family affairs are com-
pleted. Flying squir-
rels, the waifs of the
bush, never frequent
the same tree on suc-
cessive nights. Con-
stantly volplaning
through the jungles
they know no home,
but seek a handy rest-
ing place when their
foraging is done.
Koalas, too, are wan-
dering nomads. They
inhabit a fancied feed-
tree till they have
eaten it bare of upper
leaves; then they
travel on, often many
miles over plain coun-
try before their next
halt. Though clumsy
swimmers they often
attempt the passage of
wide stretches of water to reach a forest
beyond.
Hi * ❖
“Vil N.”: “The rummiest water ever I
struck,” said James Plaster, who was once
a missionary and therefore entitled to
respect, “was in a place called Cullgunga-
gong. which I and my comrades struck m
the middle of a large desert, 2000 miles
from the nearest habitation. It was icy cold
arid sickly sweet. After drinking it we
became exhilarated and dashed out in our
nightshirts to round up the desert cattle.
Returning, feeling no need of sleep, we used
to sing hymns, one of our number supplying
a harmonium-like accompaniment with a
comb over which was placed a fragment
from the ‘War Cry.’ We were happy—so
happy that the desire for beer left us.
Reports of our condition brought out a
Man of Belial, the keeper of a pub. He
looked at us mid swore profanely. We
blushed, and fled horrified with our fingers
in our ears and our nightshirts flapping
discreetly round our knees. He collapsed.
We forgave him his sins, that being our
condition, and rushed to the well for water
to bring him round. But the well no longer
yielded the life-giving fluid. Six buckets
we drew up empty, and in the seventh was
a very young boy tethered to a pair of
wings. ‘Go home,’ said the boy. ‘The well
is closed, for time is up, and the ungodly
must perish.’ Saying this he flipped a fag
from behind his ear, placed it between his
lips, and soared away puffing clouds of
pearly smoke. Now how do you explain
that?”
* * * *
“ J.G.”: The police had raided the local
two-up school, and as each defendant was
called in court he pleaded guilty. Came
Jerry Malone’s turn. Reading from the
information, the clerk said: “Gerald Aloy-
sius Malone, you are charged with that at
Bulaloo on June 9 you did play an unlawful
game, to wit two-up ; how. do you plead ?'
“Not guilty, your Worship,” said the indig-
nant Jerry. “The sergeant’s double-bankin
me. I was in th’ school all right, but I
know nawthin’ av this owl business!”
* t- * *
“E.C.R.”: The horse-breaker had started
operations on a N.S.W. out-back station,
and had found a prad that was too tough
to handle. A swaggie had been watching
the contest and when the breaker gave it
up he said lie thought he’d like to have a ride.
So he mounted and stayed there, yelling "Bet
the rails down ; he can’t buck properly here .’
The rails went down and off went horse
and rider, a wild flurry of flying heels and
hooves. As they didn’t come back a search
party was sent out. The dauntless rider was
discovered two days later, 80 miles away, fast
asleep in the saddle. The horse was still
bucking.
GUNGOANDRA CREEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tween Cooma and Canberra town
They’ve set the wa-tercourses down,
That he who goes by car or steed
The local names of such may read;
Which is, we guess, a Main Roads’ wile
To lighten thus the weary mile,
Or else the traveller’s mind distract,
With well-devised official tact,
From ruts and holes and sudden stones
That try his temper, tyres and bones
On bleak Monaro’s hills, unrolled
From Cooma to Canberra cold.
It so befell, one recent week,
We came to Gungoandra Creek.
There’s nothing in a name, they say,
But still it haunts us night and day;
There’s nothing in that trickle small
Except the name, but (curse it all!)
Wherever since we ride or walk
It slews our thoughts, diverts our talk;
We sit at table, go to bed,
But still the name is in our head,
And with it runs this fool refrain,
Persistent as a month of rain:
‘Her cow was fat, her cow was sleek,
A modest cow, uncommon meelc;
The milkmaid milked her all the day,
She milked and milked and milked aivay
Till she grew tired, and thin, and iveak
On Gungo-andra, Gungo-andra
Gun-go-andra Creek!”
From “Gungo-andra, Gungo-andra,
Gun-go-andra Creek”
There’s no release and no redress.
We’ve tried all things in our distress:
We’ve counted sheep; we’ve held our breath.
For worse than certain forms of dearth
It is to have this mad refrain
For ever ringing through one’s brain!
A tireless milkmaid, turning grey,
She milks and milks and milks away!
This bunyip of a name! ’Twill wink
And leer our sober soul to drink!
We cannot eat or sleep or sweac,
But cow and maid and creek are there.!
’Tween Cooma and Canberra cold,
God only knows how much ’twill hold,
This ghostly bucket, which to fill
That ghostly maid milks with a will;
OFF HIS HANDS.
VISITOR: “It must cost you a lot to feed and clothe all your family, Jacky.”
JACKY: “Not so much, Boss. Most of ’em able to cadge for ’emselves.”
Nor yet how long the spotted, sleek
And ghostly cow, so mild and meek,
Sans bones or blood,
Will chew the cud
On Gungo-andra, Gungo-andra,
Gun-go-andra Creek!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


STOCK FOR MARKET
Every Head Full Value
MM
SSJte
If those are the figures you want to secure
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs, Pigs, to
Winchcombe,Carson
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney; or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
OFFICES:
Winchcombe House, 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney. 1 Brisbane.
M Leipzig Trade Fair AA
J’r GERMANY
THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS
(TWICE YEARLY.)
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Engineering and
Building Fairs, starts AUGUST 31, 1930
INQUIRIES INVITED, INFORMATION GLADLY GIVEN BY:—
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
C. N. KEPPEL,
C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd.,
Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
“Germany invites the display of Australian Primary Products
for presentation to the World’s Buyers.”
ill
Book your accommodation at the Chalet,
mt. buffalo, national park,
for the snow sports season NOW!
Information and advice at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney; Queen’s Walk, Melb.
“Sea Queue” : Founded 73 years ago and
named in honor of banker It. A. McKenzie,
Aramac station (Q.) passed into the limbo
of closer settlement the
other day. One of the
two original owners
was Dyson Lacey, father
of May Lacey, the 16-
year-old survivor of the
Quetta wreck, who
owed her life to mar-
vellous powers of en-
durance. Thrown into
the water at 8.30 p.m.
on Friday, she was
rescued at 8.10 a.m. on
Sunday, still swimming,
though unconscious.
Blacks were bad in the
ranges round Aramac
in the early days, and
the murder of a travel-
ling jeweller and his
wife, and the subse-
que n t discovery of
partly-eaten portions of
their child in a gin’s
dilly-bag, led to rough
and ready reprisals.
Harried by the police
the offending tribe
sought refuge in lios-
tile country, and precipitated wholesale
tribal warfare. Mountain caves still yield
skeletons of victims of the fray.
:j: $ *
“Bad Australian”: The family of new-
chums who took up Joe White’s abandoned
selection were always borrowing something
from the neighbors, but they never seemed
to recognise that they were under an obli-
gation to return the borrowed article. One
morning one of the barefooted brood, wear-
ing a sugar-bag suit and an ingratiating
grin, sidled up to Flaherty’s kitchen door
and delivered his message: ‘lf yer please,
Missus Flarrity, me muwer sez kin yer
lend ’er a little ’cu.” “A little Inn?’ queried
Mrs. Flaherty. “An’ pliwat wud yure
mother be wantin’ wid a little bin, Tommy.
me b’y?” “I think as she wants it t’ heat,”
replied Tommy. “An’ don’t you think it
a quare thing, me b’y, that yure mother shud
] J( , s j n din’ you ’round the counthry borryin’
hips t’ ate?” retorted the astonished lady.
Recognising that lie had foozled his approach,
Tommy promptly changed his ground. “Ho
no, Missus Flarrity, she don’t reely want
it fer t’ heat,” he explained. “She wants
it fer t’ lay heggs, becuz she cawn’t abear
t’ heat that ’ere salty bacon wot she bor-
rowed orf you lawst week —-not wivout a
hegg or two, she cawn’t.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A big fox has been shot within
a mile or so of Adelaide G.P.O. It had
been terrorising the hen-roosts of North
Unley, and was tracked to a den in a small
vineyard. The district is thickly populated,
and the fox must have come miles along a
dry creek-bed from the Hills.
THE STICKY BEAK.
PATIENT: Doctor, is there any danger of the operation proving fatal?"
DOC: “Really, my good man, considering that wo are doing it quite free of charge,
your curiosity seems rather bad taste.”
“E.S.”: I have known several barefooted
men. They were not dress-reformers like
the late Chidley, neither was there anything
the matter with their feet —except that they
were bigger than necessary. One was a
farmer near South Graf-
ton (N.S.W.), who had
never worn a boot in his
life. Another was a
young man on the Daw- '
son (Q.), -whose feet
were nearly as broad as
they were long. The
most impressive figure
was Barefooted Harry,
well known to the Abo.
Council. His usual dress
consisted of a striped
shirt, dungaree pants and
a felt hat; but once he
appeared in Broke n
Hill in an evening-dress
suit and a silk hat, hav-
ing rigged himself out
for a special occasion.
As lie strolled down
Argent-street his appear-
ance shocked the police,
who insisted those feet
should be covered. After
a lot of barney Harry
went into a store . and
bought a huge pair of
carpet slippers. But he
threw them away when
he left the Hill. There
is a legend that Harry
used to wear boots in his
youth. One day he was
crossing a flooded creek
with a girl when the
girl’s horse stumbled and
threw her. Harry tried
to leap from the saddle
to plunge in after her,
but his boots caught in
the stirrup-irons, and he
was dragged to the top
of the bank before the
stirrup-leather came off.
He tore the boots off and
threw them in the creek
• —the last he ever wore.
“Awani” : A girl of my acquaintance who
lives in an out-back district, a member of a
family of ha*lf a dozen boys and girls, for
12 years refused to speak to her eldest
brother, though, with their parents and
brothers and sisters, they lived in the same
house. The girl never went out anywhere,
save to church, held in the local village
twice a month. But if the eldest boy was
late for dinner she would forego her outing
and stay home to give him his meal, which,
of course, was eaten in stony silence, lhe
falling out was over a young man who used
to pay attention to the girl, but of whom
the brother did not approve. After some
years of courtship the suitor turned his
affections elsewhere, and the brother and
sister became reconciled. The girl married
another man, and to-day she and her eldest
brother are on the friendliest of terms.
* * * •
“E.H.S.”: After demonstrating the pos-
sibility of driving a buggy across the moun-
tainous country between Tallangatta and
Mansfield (Vic.) (B. 4/6/’3O), Henry
Peacock made an attempt to repeat the
performance with a heavy “Yankee waggon,
and all went well until he had negotiated
about two-thirds of the long, steep, precipi-
tous-sided spur leading from the valley of the
King to the Wombat Ranges. Just when the
enterprise looked like succeeding, the outfit
went overside, where the wreck of the
waggon remained, a*n object of wonder to
travellers, for years after. Some idea of the
difficulty of the undertaking may be gained
from the fact that the trappers, kangaroo
WHERE DREAMS WERE DREAMS.
“I euc-can swab more bub-beer’n you ever dreamed of."
“You can’t. I was in the Ligh’ Horse in Pal’shtine.”
shooters, prospectors and others who after-
wards used Peacocks hpur a*s a snort cu-
between the King and iolmie made a point
of dismounting and leading thiurna»s
the section where the w aggon came tc » •
But 1 eacock was a man who wou y
anything once.
“HOW’D IT BE?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My neighbor Snagg, jus’ down the creek, lias
got it bad in all liis joints,
What you might call the crook disease
of passin’ on and workin’ points.
He’s full of oily plots an’ schemes, intended,
as you might expect,
To dodge his dues an’ put the boil upon the
other fellow’s neck.
But you look out, let loose the dog an’ turn
yer heart to one of stone,
When he approaches by degrees a form of
question all his own.
Don’t be too ready to agree when he arrives
at “How’d it be... .?”
t
“Now, how’d it be,” he’ll say, “to put my bit
o’ wool inside your bales,
An’ you could pay me half you get? Mine’s
coarser, p’raps, but at the sales
The buyers mightn’t notice that, nor yet
that my stuff’s mostly black—-
They ain’t so dam’ particular. And if you
paid me now my whack
I could get Brown to rig that fence (he’s
gettin’ old but ain’t too slow),
Or Smith to do what I agreed, or Jones to
work off what I owe.
It makes no odds, fur’s I kin see —you’d
come out right. Say how’d that be?”
And “How’d it be,” he says one day, “if
you an’ me should keep a cow
On sorter shares an’ halve the milk? No
trouble, George—l’ll show y’ how.
You keep her in yer paddick here. You’ve
whips o’ hay an’ grass to spare
(I’m savin’ mine against the time my
country will be lookin’ bare).
She’s handy here for milkin’ too. Your
boys could do that twice a day
An’ leave my share down at my place--it
really ain’t much off their way.
I’ll find the cow, o’ course,” says lie; “the
main thing that. Well, how’d that be?”
“Oh, fine!” I says; “but, pardon me, you
ain’t got cattle, fur’s I know,
An’ where’s she cornin’ from? Per’aps y’
mean to buy one at the Show?
Or from that mob from Muttonbone that’s
in fer sale? They’re well-bred stuff.
Well, pick a good ’un; cows is cows, an’
some is wild an’ some is tough.”
THE ODDS.
“What will you bet I don’t win the egg-laying competition?”
“I’ll lay you two to one.”
“I can’t afford them luxuries,” lie says,
“Still, I will get the best;
But don’t you worry on that score—you feed
an’ milk, I’ll do the rest.
The cow’s my share—it’s good as done. I'll
horrer her from Ferguson."
. ,
Well, whip the goats if that amt steep
“Look here, I says, you vc filled me up.
As bland as any Chinaman, as innerceiit
as any pup.
He starts the old familiar yap, but I hops
in an stops him quick.
“Hold hard a bit, my schemin’ friend, sup-
pose you cheese that ‘how’d it’ trick
An’ tell me what I’d like t’ know. How
would it be if you went straight
An’ dropped that cadgin’, pointin’ game, got
down to work an’ pulled yer weight,
Or get t’ Hell (the road is free), and worked
points there? How would that be?”
S.A.
Bill O’C.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Ifflp
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES—For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for Illustrated Folder
THE THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
THE ANTI-BLOWFLY CAMPAIGN.
“Jackpot”: I wish graziers would follow
the example set by Capt. Westlaiuls, in his
letters to The Bulletin, and make public
their observations on the habits of the blow-
fly and their pet theories on the subject.
If they did the pest would take the count
much more quickly. Research workers draw
a lot of conclusions from practical tests,
and may often turn a seemingly irrelevant
idea to good account. Here is my contribu-
tion, and I have no doubt that many more
could bring forward better ones.
Over a number of years I have noticed,
when working a mob of lambing ewes for
fly, that those which have lambed seem to
enjoy a comparative immunity. That pregnant
ewes form the majority for a time does not
wholly explain the distinction, for dry sheep
in the mob appear to share the freedom of
the wet ones.
Now it has been suggested that Some sub-
stance in the blood of certain sheep, appear-
ing in the sweat, yolk or urine, causes those
animals to be more prone to attack than their
mates. The excretions of a pregnant ewe
must differ from the normal, for the urine
of the foetus has to gain exit via the dam’s
excretory organs. Again a common enough
complaint of pregnancy is the occurrence of
albumen in the urine. Egg albumen in a
coagulated state is very attractive to blow-
flies, as any housewife knows.
If the matter were investigated closely it
might be found to 'have some bearing on the
problem. What about it, sheepmen?
DROUGHT FEED.
“Booraby”: Any selection or small graz-
ing area can have a good stand-by of natural
fodder for the worst droughts by judicious
planting along the boundaries of paddocks,
beginning with old man saltbush on the fences.
This plant grows thick and high', and forms
an excellent wind- and fire-break. Shrubs
that can be grouped anywhere are hop
bush, wild cotton bush and blue bush, which
are great drought-resisters, fattening at all
times, and relished by stock. The best small
trees are mulga, kurrajong, bottle-tree, belar,
myall and wilga, which are always good feed,
but should be planted on the driest parts
of the run. Kurrajong and quandong do well
on low, sandy mounds —places where cattle
like to camp—and these trees, besides being
ornamental, provide the necessary shade.
All the trees named can be lopped, while
the matured trunks of mulga and belar pro-
vide straight and durable material for
fencing and shed-building—which is often re-
quired, and, in many places, hard to get.
The waste pa*rts are among the best fuel
in the bush. The wood of the bottle-tree, as
well as the foliage, is eaten by stock, but
unfortunately the tree can’t be grown every-
where.
Along creeks and gullies, weeping willow
and river oak prevent bank erosion and
was'haways, besides supplying timber and
sustaining foliage. Cotton bush, mixed with
oak and mulga foliage, has been cut into
chaff, and bullock teams have been kept in
good condition on this alone for consider-
able periods. Nearly the whole of the
cotton bush is used.
Other drought-resistiing and ornamental
fodder trees and shrubs are leopard wood,
lapunia, bauhinia, cattle bush, emu bush,
na<tive jasmine, motherimbung (Acacia
cheeli ) and mustard bush.
Crow’s-foot, a deep-rooted perennial herb
that will stand the hardest drought and
makes good hay as well as green feed, can
be grown nearly anywhere from broadcast
seed.
Many of the shrubs mentioned are easily
propagated from seed. In planting or trans-
planting the others, the usual method of the
grazier or dairyman who looks ahead is to
put out a few at a time in suitable weather
and on slack days. To establish them at
once and eliminate watering, the roots are
set in a puddled hole —in liquid mud. Many
planters sow the seeds in jam-tins or pieces
of small hollow limbs, and when the young
tree is a couple of feet high they set the
pot in the ground. The tin or wood rots
away, and the tree is not checked when
shifted to the place where it is wanted to
grow.
WESTRALIAN EXPERIENCE OF
SUB. CLOVER.
‘‘Dixie” : Touching a question put to The
Bulletin’s Service Department (7/5/’3O).
I should say subterranean clover will do well
on the Darling Downs (Q.) ; it will grow
almost anywhere, provided it gets manure
and a fair rainfall. Jarrah loves ironstone
ridges; sub. thrives on them also. The crux
of the position is in the sowing or first lay-
ing down of the pasture. A number of
farmers in starting off make the mistake of
harrowing or cultivating the seed in.
Our experience in the south-west of West-
ralia suggests the following methods as
desirable. Fallow, if possible, but if the
land is clean get on with the preparation
by harrowing two or three times to bring
the soil to a fine seedbed. If you have a
T-bar roller, put that over it, and then set
about the sowing. But don’t sow until all
the hot, dry weather is gone. If the seed
germinates, and then you get a iveek or two
of hot weather, bang go all your efforts.
When you are satisfied that there is plenty
of rain brewing, mix your seed with the
manure, putting on about 2cwt. of super,
per acre. If you are just making a* trial plot
of an acre or two, mix about 81b. of sub.
seed to 2cwt. of super. You can either broad-
cast this in the old-fashioned way or put
it through your wheat drill (or, rather, the
manure portion thereof), but don’t let tines
or discs go into the ground, except just the
smallest fraction. Next put the roller over
it again to firm it down.
Don’t put mixed grasses with the sub.
as that will choke them out in a year or
two. Keep stock off the first year. After
the flowering season the burr forms and
tends to bury itself in the ground. After
the second season perhaps you could get
100 bags of burr, and using about four bags
to the acre (broadcast the burr, of course)
you could lay down perhaps 25 acres. From
then on your activities would be unlimited.
The contract price for gathering burr in
Westralia is 2s. 6d. per bag; value for sale
purposes from Bs. to 10s., according to
demand.
After a pasture has flowered and the seed
set, you can feed it off right down to the
ground when green, in Sept, or Oct., accord-
ing to your season. If you let the stuff die
off and don’t feed it down, put a fire through
it and burn all. the straw, leaving the
burr exposed; it can then be swept up
with a stiff broom and bagged up. If you
don’t put a fire through it, you will have
to ra*ke all the straw off, which is a tedious
process. Old pastures seed themselves.
If you want to plough this ground up
again, do so in the summer; plough shallow
and then harrow. There are three seeds in
each burr, and they don’t all germinate at
the same time. With the first rains you get
the first germination, followed on by others
with later rains.
I once tried to get some country free of
sub., as I wanted it for intense culture. I
ploughed the ground in late March, again in
June before the ground got boggy, and again
in late Sept., but the sub. was there just
the same. The burr I turned under in June
I turned up in Sept., and it at once Struck.
FROM POOR TO PRIME.
“W.D.M.”: As one-time manager of
Tarwin Meadows station (Vic.), I can
endorse all “Buckwong” (B. 7/5/’3O) says
about the value of strawberry clover as a
fattening pasture. A concrete illustration.
On Oct. 18, 1927, I put 20 working bullocks,
poor and old (some of them were 16 years
old), in a paddock of 30 acres. They remained
in that paddock till they were sold in April,
1928, by the Australian Mercantile, in Mel-
bourne. They averaged £2O a head and
were bought by a butcher to truck to
Adelaide. I never heard any complaints
while there about poor germination of the
seed. Bees are the important factor in
ensuring fertility, and Tarwin Meadows is
the greatest place for bees I have ever seen.
A SELF-CONTAINED FARM.
“Mudgee” : Mr. G. F. Gray, of Hawthorn,
Wee Waa (N.S.W.), is an example of w'ha«t
a farmer can do in the way of making every
acre pay. He has just won the R.A.S.
Fodder Conservation championship. His
holding consists of 1876 acres, and he had
195 acres under crop last year, while the
property carries 1600 sheep, 12 horses and
39 cattle. His stock of fodder, for which he
-carried off the coveted prize, consisted of
378 tons of baled oaten and wheaten hay,
48 tons of hay in sheaf and five tons of
loose hay—enough for 1149 sheep.
Mr. Gray had a wonderful exhibit of pro-
duce at Wee Waa show. In addition to
samples of fodder there were fruits (fresh
and preserved), vegetables of many kinds
and home-gristed flour. Surely an object-
lesson to farmers in general.
A COW’S BEST YEAR.
“Alf Alpha”: The variation in the pro-
duction of a dairy cow from the heifer
stage until she reaches the age of maximum
production has frequently been argued. The
milk yield rises through successive calvings
until the sixth lactation, when it begins to
show a decline; the quantity of fat obtained
per annum shows a similar variation.
Usually the maximum yield is obtained
whilst Strawberry is on her fifth calf. On
the other hand the fat percentage is invari-
ably higher when the cow is on her first calf.
Generally the milk from the second lac-
tation Shows a drop in the test. During sub-
sequent calvings the test is fairly even until
the cow reaches the age of 12 years, when
the fat percentage rapidly declines. Dairy-
men generally accept the fifth to the seventh
lactation as being the most productive. They
regard the subsequent years as profitable,
but when the cow’s record commences to
show a marked decline a*t, say, 12 years their
thoughts turn to the butcher.
In well-informed circles it is usual to apply
a correction to milk records depending on
the number of lactations. Generally speak-
ing, beyond the sixth lactation no correction
is necessary, as the yield in milk and butter
fat is fairly even. A dairyman may com-
pare a heifer on her first calf with her
mother on, say, her eighth calf by multiply-
ing the pounds of milk and butter fat. shown
by the heifer by the figure 1.16. For example,
suppose a heifer on the first calf, having a
record of 64001 b. of milk and 2501 b. of fat,
is to be compared with her mother, who
on her eighth lactation has a record of
75001 b. of milk and 2831 b. of fat. Then 6400
x 1.16 = 74241 b. of milk and 250 x 1.16 =
2901 b. of fat. This, the approximate record
of the heifer at eight years of age, shows that
the daughter will be every bit as good a cow
as her mother.
TICK-PROOF CATTLE.
<f FY7”: Dr. Gilruth, the vet. who was
once Administrator of the Northern Terri-
tory, has been delivering himself of opinions
as to cattle-breeding in that part of Aus-
tralia, and his opinions are entitled to re-
spect. He thinks a new breed of beast will
have to be evolved, and suggests a cross
between the Brahmin or Zebu cattle and the
polled Angus. The Brahmin is practically
immune to the diseases which the tick brings
in its train, an immunity which is con-
tinued in subsequent crosses. He is quite a
decent beef sort himself, and in combination
with the stocky and meat-carrying Angus
should furnish a very good type. For milk, a
Brahmin cross with any of the well-known
milking strains should also fill the bill.
Some years ago, I advocated the introduc-
tion of Brahmin strains to N.Q. and the NT.,
basing my advocacy on the success attained
with the introduction of Brahmin blood to
the beef herds in Texas. The tick played
havoc there, as it was to do in Queensland
and the NT. later, but with the Brahmin
cross in the Texas herds the danger became
negligible. In a decade or so, the Texas
cattlemen were able to produce a beast
which, by careful elimination of Brahmin
faults, was well up to standard beef quality,
yet retained the disease-resisting powers of
its Asiatic ancestor.
,What can be done in Texas should be
possible in Australia.
PIGS IN CLOVER.
“Bendee”: Pig grazing has many advan-
tages over sty and yard rearing Properly
carried out, it is more profitable and far
less laborious than intensive hand-feeding.
From the time he is born the sucker
learns to root and fossick for himself, and
thus naturally becomes hardy and healthy;
above all, he will be less susceptible to
swine fever. And the mother will, as a
rule, throw bigger litters and rear more of
the youngsters than when confined in small
spaces for a long time.
It is advisable, however, to move the sow
into a sty, with the protective beam five
inches from the ground, a few days before
farrowing, and leave her there for a week
after the young are born. This ensures
protection from possible bad weather, and
from interference by other pigs during
farrowing. If this is done, care should be
taken not to change her diet too suddenly,
and not to over-feed her.
Pigs will put on weight more quickly when
fossicking in good pasture, such as lucerne
or clover, rape and barley, or even in good
paspalum, but growing or fattening pigs,
especially the latter, should be given an
additional grain ration of, say, crushed oats,
wheat, maize, barley or peas; charcoal and
old bones should also be fed. All grain food
should be crushed —feeding whole grain is
wasteful—and a plentiful supply of fresh
water should always be available whether in
yards or pasture. Shelter sheds should be
provided in the paddocks, and shade trees are
precious in the hot weather.
It will be obvious that where pigs are
grazed far greater numbers can be raised
with the same man-power than when in
confined quarters. Feeding costs are greatly
reduced, the ba<con or pork will be firmer,
with more tendency to streak; the necessity
for milk is eliminated, though' milk is
always a valuable food, and the stock, when
fit for market, can, if taken quietly, be
driven quite long distances to the trucks
without hardship.
CONTROL OF GUMMING DISEASE.
“Coolibali”: Reports that gumming dis-
ease is making headway in the canefields
of the Clarence (N.S.W.) are causing some
concern. In southern Queensland this dis-
ease has made it impossible to grow old-
standard varieties successfully. A blow to
the industry was the practical loss of D 1135,
a heavy cropper and a good standover. Sugar
Bureau experiments have, however, shown
that by ploughing out all susceptible
varieties and concentrating on those known
as highly resistant, it is possible to eradi-
cate the gumming trouble.
Gumming disease is carried on the wind,
and enters the plant through abrasions in
the leaves. Its spread is most marked dur-
ing windy, wet weather. Evidence of infec-
tion is soon noticeable, in the form of yellow
streaks extending down to the junction with
the stem. Any variety of cane may mani-
fest this symptom, but in the case of QBl3
it is not likely to go beyond the leaves, and
when these fall, since the organism lives
only on the growing plant, the crop becomes
clean again. In susceptible varieties the
infection enters the stem and eventually
permeates the whole stool, which frequently
dies right out. In thoroughly infected cane
the gum, resembing clear amber, will ooze
from the cut ends of the stem.
The Queensland Bureau is experimenting
with West Indian canes and that famous
Java cane, P0J2878, besides numerous
seedlings of its own propagation, and is
hopeful of definitely beneficial results with
some of these. Meantime planters in
affected districts would do well to confine
their attention to QBl3. The drawback
with this variety is that it is not a parti-
cularly good standover, being apt to fall
down and become very crooked in its second
year.
DON’T WOOD-ASHES.
“Hortus”: Of course they are hard to
get hold of in some cases, but anyone using
large boilers, or living nea*r bakeries or
brick-kilns, is in a favorable position to
store up a good supply. A little goes a long
way too. I was agreeably surprised at a small
experiment made on a natural lawn of thin
grass, growing on poor, hard soil. I got
some ash from a la*rge boiler, used for inter-
nal heating, a fine, whitish ash, the residue of
burnt stringy bark and red-gum, and lightly
top-dressed the lawn with it. The sprinkler
was then put on, and rain fell shortly after-
wards. The lawn this year is dotted with
clover roots. There was no clover before,
and as the place is shut in on three sides,
there is not much chance of wind-sown seed.
This ash probably contained four or five
per cent, of potash, two or three per cent,
of phosphoric acid and a little lime.
The ash of young wood is especially rich
in potash. Collect clippings and primings
of hedges, grape-vines and fruit trees and
use the resultant ash. Wood-ash is parti-
cularly valuable in the case of anything that
produces potash-containers, such as the
majority of fruit trees and l root crops.
Orchardists can do nothing better than burn
their prunings in small heaps, scatter the
ash, and turn it under lightly with plough or
harrows. Gardeners can rid small plants of
aphis by scattering the ash over the infected
growth, after watering or rain. The seed of
root crop's comes up much more quickly and
uniformly if the! bed is covered lightly with
fine wood-ash. I have had great success with
the parsnip—rather difficult to germinate—
by this method.
‘Poultry-raisers should all find time to
make an ash bath in each yai’d. It is better
to have it under cover (a piece of iron set
on four short pegs) on the high ground so
as to keep it as dry as possible. This dust
bath is Nature’s remedy for getting rid of
vermin.
The pig farmer ought to make more use
of ashes. Pigs are often seen picking up all
sorts of rubbish, and afterwards are found
to be suffering from stomach trouble. This
habit points to some deficiency in the food
scheme; the animals are looking for some-
thing to balance the ration. Those fed largely
on maize will particularly develop a craving
for rubbish. The remedy is a heap of ashes,
placed in a dry spot handy to the pigs.
Pigs love ashes, and the younger they get
the habit of eating them the better. There
will be no indigestion then —no signs of con-
stipation. There will be no pig-eating if
the sows have been brought up on ash. It
is a good thing to mix a little salt with the
ash now and again.
(Continued on page 25.)


Xv~
r
—-~-Q
\w
r<
C
nnouncing
the sensational new
that delivers more power per pound weight
than any other car of its size
News about
OAKLAND V-8
Ninety-degree V-type en-
gine. Over 70 actual miles
per hour. From 10 to 25
miles per hour in 5.6
seconds. From xo to 35
miles per hour in 9.8 sec-
onds. 85 horsepower at
3,000 R.P.M. Petrol mile-
age equal to the Oakland
Six. Down-draft carbure-
tion. Full pressure oiling.
Fully enclosed 4-wheel
brakes. Hydraulic shock
absorbers.
m
i
MORE “pound power” .... Three words
that hold the secret of speed and flight
.... that measure all performance .... that
make the Oakland V-8 something entirely new
in motor cars.
For this sensational new car develops more
power per pound weight than any other car of
its weight and size ever built—racing cars alone
excepted.
At the wheel, you command one full horsepower
to every 37 pounds of car weight. Every ounce
is and looks alive. The pledge of eager power
sparkles in its smart silhouette —from sleek prow-
pointed radiator, through deep-crowned fenders,
to long low sweeping lines. Power that means
performance never before known in cars up to
double its price.
Skim, when you will, at 70 miles an hour and
more. Eight powerful cylinders —eight silky-
smooth overlapping power impulses—take the
StubborneSt hill without a pause in their Stride.
In tense city traffic, glide smoothly out and
ahead. On the open road, fear nothing on
wheels. Take the lead. It belongs to you, when
you’re driving an Oakland V-8.
Oakland’s marvellous V-type 8-cylinder engine
is the biggeSt news in the motoring world. It
was created by engineers who pioneered in de-
signing General Motors’ first 8-cylinder car six-
teen years ago. Its extra large wearing surfaces,
low piston travel, and rugged construction make
Oakland V-8 as remarkable for low upkeep as for
brilliant, spectacular performance. Petrol mile-
age equals that of many six-cylinder cars, includ-
ing Oakland Six.
And the price is amazingly low. The new
Oakland V-8 Stays in the price range of the
Oakland Six.
You owe it to yourself to know Oakland V-8
performance, beauty, value,. Your local dealer
will be glad to arrange a free demonstration.
Take the wheel yourself. Drive it—on the ride
you will never forget.
Sold under General Motors One-Year Standard
Warranty, the new Oakland V-8 can be pur-
chased under the liberal terms of the G.M.A.C.
Time Payment Plan. Oakland service available
everywhere. Buy from your local dealer.
Something to do today.
There’s an Oakland V-8 dealer nearby
who will gladly show and demon-
strate the new Oakland V-8 to you.
See this car. Drive it —today.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
”More Wealth for Australia—More Jobs for Australians


v
v
i
n 1
i
There
Is No Teacher
Like Experience
remember this
when you decide
to purchase a new
tyre. And remember
that out of the teachings of experience
more people, the world over, ride on Goodyear
tyres than on any other make! Could any
finer tribute be paid the quality of Goodyear
Tyres? Yet after all, perhaps the greatest
reason why you should fit Goodyear Tyres
is contained in the long, trouble-free service
you receive as a Goodyear user.
GOO
30- 380


m
\
m
V
Choose your exact width
Every full and half size of this glossy
black Abbey shoe is made in four
different fittings—narrow, medium,
wide and extra wide. That guarantees
maximum comfort. And, because the
shoe fits without strain, it naturally
wears longer. Low-cut at sides—with
special arching over instep—it allows
fullest muscle freedom. The sole is
tough and flexible, the upper supple
and close-fitting.
ORDER BY POST.
Specify width as well as length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 191.
ẃ
Little Giant
Sash Support
A set for any. size window
can be sent anywhere
for 5/-, post paid. So
strong, two (one on each
sash) will support a
pair of sash weighing
161 b., or four a pair of
sash weighing 321 b.
Use Solid Frames,
stronger and less costly.
The Old
Window Prop
may be good enough
for the humpy,
but it’s out of place in the modern
country home. It is untidy, unsafe
and unnecessary.
No matter how far out back you may live,
you can now have the comfort and convenience
of box-frame (pulley and cord) windows, with-
out the expense, freight, difficulty of instair
lation, or cost and trouble of renewal.
And no matter how near town your home,
it will pay you better to specify, instead of the
clumsy and perishable cords and weights, the
“Little Giant Sash Support.”
Fit the LITTLE GIANT yourself
with a screwdriver.
Write jor particulars to the
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.,
10 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Sayers
a
Seal
Green
Remedy
FOR
ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
ẅ
CHANDLER
Farm Gates
Made in Our Own Factory Under
Skilled Supervision.
CHANDLER FARM GATES
are made from the best quality lfin.
diameter steel tubing. All joints are
electrically welded.
Gates are fitted with our own patent
hinge, which brings the gate within iin.
of the gate post; also patent latch. By
means of our special pipe-bending
machine we are able to turn the
corners, thus avoiding breaking the
frame and providing a solid, one-piece
structure of enormous strength.
All gates, unless otherwise stated, are
made 3ft. lOin. high. All gates are now
covered with Chandler Ringlock Fencing.
Sizes. —We send gates to suit open-
ings, allowing for space taken up by
latch and hinges.
Wire-netted (Rabbit-proof), 6d. per
foot extra.
w
Fig. RLIOB.
Very strong tubular Steel Gate, braced and
welded. Our cheapest farm gate. Prices: —
10ft. lift. 12ft. wide.
24/-
26/-
28/- each
ŵ
Fig. 181.
Is extra strutted for wide widths. Prices:
12ft., 40/-; 13ft., 41/6; 14ft., 44/-; 16ft.,
46/6; 16ft., 50/-; 17ft., 53/6; 18ft. wide,
57/- each.
Send for free copy of our Fence and _ Gate-
Catalogue, which contains a complete list of
our Farm Gates.
Prices are F.O.R. or F. 0.8., Melbourne.
OQSWS
234-236 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Start your fortune
nf mu uy-gßfeS^
Ask for Literature
regarding our Plans
Get the banking habit. The most
fascinating game in the world is
to watch small deposits grow into
large. Start now with a small
deposit.
Have a Bank Account —Keep It Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
TOMATO SEED.
“Noah Fraid”: A few years ago a friend
obtained a tomato from an immigrant's
garden. The immigrant had brought a packet
of seed with him from Scotland, and my
friend noticed that the plants were singu-
larly strong and healthy, without a sign of
wilt. He grew the seed on, and this year
a leading nurseryman, after inspecting the
plot of some 80 plants, contracted to take
all the seed he could supply at five shillings
per ounce.
My friend’s method of harvesting the seed
may interest “Eleven” (B. 21/5/’3O). The
tomatoes, which are of the round type, are
squeezed, and the juice, which practically
carries all the seed, is permitted to flow
into a 30-sieve —that is, a sieve having 30
holes to the linear inch. Water under pres-
sure is run into the sieve from the hose
nozzle; the juice is washed away and the
seed, which is fairly clean, is transferred to
a milk dish and dried in the sun. Finally,
it is rubbed up between the hands, as you
would a pipeful of tobacco, once again trans-
ferred to the sieve, and rubbed with a paint-
brush.
THE FARM WORKSHOP.
“Minto”: Select a shady tree for the site,
and use bush timber for lasting strength.
Make the roof the best job possible, and if
you can’t close in all the sides at once do
those in the worst-weather quarter. Iron is
the best all-round material. Leave openings
wide enough to run in your heaviest
machinery for repairs, and don’t forget ample
provision for light. A rack along one side
for timber is needed, or it can be stored on
the rafter tie beams. A few big packing
cases with doors fitted make tool chests, and
old tins are good containers for bolts, etc.
If you haven’t a separate forge, build one
at one end, or aim for a portable one. Above
all, have a strong work-bench, fitted with a
vyce and a grindstone. Keep all the tools in
good nick, giving them a rub up on a wet day,
and an occasional drop of oil on a rag. You’ll
soon pick up enough to make a decent kit
at clearing-out sales. Have the scrapheap
handy to the shed, and make a point of
throwing all the old bits of steel and iron
you see on to it. A well-stocked scrapheap
means many a repair at little cost.
A few rows of pegs and hooks are useful,
and a few feet of piping and a tank are more
so. Water on the spot is often needed on
a job, especially if it’s with the forge and
anvil. /
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(.Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Best W.A. districts to commence
sheep-raising? (2) Will any suitable new
country be thrown open in the near future?
(3) Price of properties and where obtain-
able? (4) How is the industry shaping
there? —62o9.
(1) Try to obtain a mixed farming pro-
perty in the south-west division, extending
from Northampton in the north to Albany in
the south. (2) In the near future a con-
siderable area of virgin country may be made
available for selection, but anyone acquiring
it must be prepared to carry on for a year
or two with little or no return, whereas
if an improved holding is obtained something
is coming in annually. (3) Prices vary,
according to the class of country, water con-
servation, fencing and general improvement,
from £2 to £4 10s. per acre on at walk-in-
walk-out basis. Clearing of the land in the
wheat-belt areas costs 255. to 355. per acre.
Get in touch with Dalgetys; Elder, Smith
and Co.; Westralian Farmers; and Golds-
brough, Mort and Co. —all of Perth. The
Agricultural Bank, Perth, and Midland Rail-
way Co. also have land for sale. (4) W.A.
is practically free from diseases in sheep, and
many farmers there are getting excellent
returns from combining sheep-raising with
wheat-growing.
In my district (Strathalbyn, S.A.) the
use of shell grit lias been advised for drill-
ing into land that sets tight after a heavy
rain toJceep it more open. How much would
be needed, and would it pay at 3s. 3d. per
super bag? —6B9B.
In the Salisbury district, further out
from the city than yours, considerable areas
have been treated with shell grit to loosen
excessively heavy soils. To do the job pro-
perly 10 tons of shell to the acre were neces-
sary. The poor mechanical condition of
the soils has been corrected, the effects have
been lasting, and much better crops of all
kinds have resulted. In the district men-
tioned it has proved worth while because
deposits of shells are near the farms, and
it was carted by the farmers in their own
drays and waggons, but at 3s. 3d. per bag
it would be too expensive. The same im-
provement could be brought about by appli-
cations of slaked lime or gypsum at a much
lower cost.
(1) How many cows can be run to the
acre on well-grown lucerne? (2) Will a
good cow return £1 per week per year? (3)
Best fodder? —6737.
(1) One cow or, in exceptional cases, 1-J
cows all the year round, under irrigation or
conditions approximating irrigation. In sum-
mer when the lucerne is,growing three cows
per acre might be kept, but there would then
be no feed available for the winter. (2) A
good cow, well fed, can be expected to pro-
duce 800 gallons of milk in 10 months. At
Is. per gallon this would give a return
averaging 16s. Sd. per week for the year.
Exceptional cows, particularly Fi’iesians, will
produce well over 1000 gallons, and even up
to 2000 gallons per year. (3) Good mixed
pasture, consisting of clovers and grasses,
and in addition sufficient concentrates to
enable the cow to reach her maximum capa-
city. A good concentrate is made up of 1001 b.
crushed oats, 1001 b. bran and 201 b. linseed
mixed together and fed at the rate of lib.
of mixture to each 41b. of milk. If a cow
- gives 401 b. of milk per day, she should have
101 b. of concentrates per day. If the milk
flow increases, the concentrates can be in-
creased to a maximum of about 11b. to 31b.
of milk in the case of Jerseys and Guernseys,
and lib. to 311 b. of milk with other breeds.
Too much concentrates will cause indiges-
tion. Green lucerne can take the place
of green pasture if available. The main
thing is to give the cow as much green
stuff as she will eat, a>nd if necessary sup-
plement it with lucerne chaff or liay in
preference to cereal chaff or hay. In the
case of very high producing cows, a mineral
lick should also be made available.
(1) Will lucerne and subterranean clover
thrive if sown together? (2) Can you sug-
gest a better combination as horse fodder?
—6690.
(1) Lucerne, properly cultivated, would
dominate, and suppress subterranean clover.
(2) Italian rye grass mixed with lucerne
lias given fair results, and the practice of
sowing oats through the lucerne in autumn
is a common one.
Best method of destroying heavy standing
green timber? —6734.
To kill large gum-trees, frill them with
a sharp axe and apply a* 20 p.c. solution of
arsenic pentoxide around the frill, with an
old enamelled teapot if nothing better is
available. This is a suitable season for
this work. As you are in Q. you can obtain
arsenic pentoxide at 3d. per lb. on applica-
tion to the acting secretary, Prickly Pear
Land Commission, Executive Buildings, Bris-
bane.
(1) How to kill paspalum when prepar-
ing land for cultivation? (2) How to kill
blady grass? (3) Best time to market
tomatoes and cucumbers on Sydney market?
(4) Best method of growing tomatoes for
early market? —6627.
(i) If paspalum is general, plough the
ground shallow, clean off and burn; then
cultivate for the first crop of paspalum seed
germinating, and scarify in. If the pas-
palum is isolated in clumps or tufts, apply
chlorate of soda, lib. to a gallon of water.
(2) Treat the ground as for paspalum. It
will probably take more than one ploughing
to bring all the roots to the surface. (3)
During winter, when locals are not abundant,
for tomatoes; cucumbers, about September
and October. (4) Write Dept, of Agri-
culture, Sydney, for pamphlets.
Any land available in North Australia
suitable for peanut-growing? Size and
rental of blocks and amount of capital
required to develop same? —6705.
Yes, a considerable quantity. Land may
be taken up on perpetual leasehold. Areas
range from 200 to 400 acres, and rental,
which' is fixed by the North Australia Com-
mission, is generally from £2 to £5 per
annum per block. A fair amount of capital
would be required in order to cultivate the
land, and tide the settler over the period
before i*eturns can be expected. Strongly
advise you to inspect land before selecting.
How can lime be given to White Leghorn
hens to harden the shells? —6735.
Keep constantly before the birds some form
of shell-grit, such as oyster-shell, sea-sliell
or coral crushed to suitable size. If many
thin-shelled or soft-shelled eggs are laid,
this would suggest overfatness of the layers,
and the feeding of shell-grit would not rectify
the trouble.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“5.N.0.”: In damp parts of the hold-
ing it is a good idea to plant willows, which
grow quickly, give shade, and can be relied
on for an emergency fodder supply. A
Manilla* (N.S.W.) farmer lias a line of
willows, planted five years ago on a creek;
they are now 40 feet high. Last year they
were lopped, and the proceeds from every
three trees provided sufficient to keep 500
sheep for one day.
“Rotom”: For a camp light, fill an old
pint with tallow and over it fit the lid of a
tin, or a piece of flat iron flanged over the
rim. Bore a hole in centre of lid, a*nd insert
into the fat a length of rolled cotton rag,
or the furry cone of a honeysuckle bottle-
brush. The gleam will be superior to that
of a candle and less liable to blow out.
“J.11.A.”: The quickest and cheapest
method to collect primings is to rake the
rows both ways with a horse hay-rake. Ten
acres per day can be done in this manner
and the few’ cuttings left W’ill not affect the
plough or cultivator.
“Hortus”: Land that is getting overrun by
coudi grass should be ploughed up now, so
that the frost can kill as much of the grass
as possible. It is a good thing to plough and
cross-plough; it loosens up more of the roots.
“Armidale: N. S. Wales coastal farmers
should study their paspalum paddocks at
this time of year. The interlocking of the
roots after several years’ growth prevents
easy passage of air, and so brings about
deterioration. Go over with some disc
implement, and by cutting through the grass
allow air to enter.
“J.T.”: “Fysh’s” method of cementing a
galvanised-iron tank (B. 21/5/’3O) by fast-
ening wire-netting round the inside and over
the bottom and then cementing is unneces-
sarily troublesome. Scores of worn-out
tanks in my district (Tenterfield, N.S.W.)
have been cemented without using netting.
The outward-bulging rungs are first filled
with cement, and when this has set a second
layer is spread smoothly over the. first, so
as to entirely cover all the inside iron; the
bottom is also cemented. Tanks thus treated
have held water for 10 years. For a time
the water has a limey taste, but this will
disappear.
“E.H.M.”: Now is the time to tackle the
aphides which transmit bunchytop. Spray-
ing is not justified. In the summer of ’2B
I sprayed two acres of bananas with black
leaf 40; next summer aphides were as
numerous as before, and 35 per cent, of the
plantation went “bunchy.” Last winter
I cut away all dead leaves under which the
aphides hibernate, leaving them exposed on
the base of the stool. The cold weather
settled nearly all of them. This summer only
10 per cent, of the plants had aphides on
them, and bunchytop was reduced to 2 per
cent.
“W.R.”: To square the corner when plot-
ting out the site for a paddock or building,
lay a 4ft. straightedge along one line from
the corner peg, and another of 3ft. along
the adjacent side. Then bring their ends
exactly sft. apart, and you will have a
perfect right angle. From the height and
base of the angle the sides may then be lined
out.
“0. Ma”: A quick way to fatten fowls is
to give them ground rice well scalded with
milk, wflth some coarse sugar added. Feed
them with this in the daytime, but not too
much at once; let it be pretty thick.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Station manager (35), sober, lifelong exp. stock
N.S.W. and Q., wants position same capacity, or
with stock and station agents.—69os.
By mechanic, 32, married, work on Q. or Northern
N.S.W. station, traction engine, pumping, caterpillar
tractor and book-keeping exp.; wife, household
duties. —6991.
Maorilarider (28), Public Service Exam, pass, Govt,
officer, has managed large farm properties, totalisator
exp., wants job in Australia as station book-keeper
or bookmaker’s clerk. Teetotaller.—69Bo.
Man (28), Vic. general store and post office exp.,
car license, wants job anywhere. Refs.—696s.
Married woman, N.S.W., wants position in country,
housemaid on station or housekeeper to elderly
c0up1e.—6975.
English girl (17), N.S.W., wants domestic work
on farm, care of children preferred.—69s9.
Wanted partner, banana-growing North Coast
N.S.W. Must have £2OO to £3OO and must be a
grafter.—6942.
Young man, Sydney, pastoral and grazing exp.,
mechanical knowledge, Hawkesbury Coll, dip., wants
j0b.—6941.
Youth (19), N.S.W., wants job on station or farm.
Used to dairy work and cattle. —7020.
Motor mechanic wants capable man to join him in
an established service station on main road, N.S.W.,
small capital under own control. Refs, exchanged.
—7013.
Two young Scots, Queensland, former engineering
students, with farming exp., desire dangerous occu-
pation or to take part in hazardous expedition.
—7005.
To buy back numbers of “Art in Australia,”
Ilassall’s “In Old Australia,” 1902 ; Bonwick’s “Last
of the Tasmanians” 1870 ; Louis Becke’s novels.
—6906.
To buy, or exchange for others, Kipling’s “Light
That Failed” and Trollope’s “Can You Forgive
Her?” (2 vols. 1864-65). —6997.
To buy Rowcroft’s “Tales of the Colonies,” Barron
Field’s “First Fruits of Australian Poetry,” Tomp-
son’s “Lyre of a Native Minstrel” and any numbers
of the “Sydney Gazette.”—69s9.
To exchange “Stock Breeding,” by Brunt, good
condition, for any volume of the “Australian Stud
Book.” —6961.
Exchange - corres. courses on confectionery, jiu-
jitsu, salesmanship, correct speaking for war books
or American romances.—7ol9.
Spanish reader would like to exchange books,
magazines, photos., stamps with Australians. —7029.
Whereabouts of Reginald W. F. B. Wright, English
boy resident in Wee Waa (N.S.W.) district some
time ag0.—6976.
Whereabouts of Elsie Johnston, last heard of at
Geelong (Vic.), about 12 years ag0. —6953.
Whereabouts of Frank Landgvoit, last heard of in
Melbourne about 10 years ag0. —6954.
Resident Cape York Peninsula would like to cor-
respond with Bulletin readers.—69B4.
Young out-back schoolteacher (W.A.) would like
to correspond with Bulletin readers. —6940.
Words of Bracken’s “Not Understood.”—7o2l.
Information Sought.
Are there any authentic records of sea
serpents occurring in Australian waters? If
so, where and when, and what did the crea-
tures look like? —6871.
On June 8, 1890, James Alsbury and
William Lees, lighthouse keepers at Sandy
Cape (Q.), saw in shallow water near the
island an animal with a turtle-like body, a
long neck, a head with the mouth full of
teeth and a scaly tail, 12ft. long, with choco-
late-brown, semi-transparent flukes and a
thick fleshy fin about 3ft. in from them. Its
color was silver-grey, shading to white. Five
other witnesses signed the report which gives
the description. For furtlier details see
Saville-Kent’s “Great Barrier Reef of Aus-
tralia” (pages 323-36). In 1901 a sea
serpent of the more usual type —a long snake-
like creature swimming in open sea—was
viewed off Cape Naturaliste (W.A.) by the
masters of the Nemesis and the Perth, 12
hours intervening between the two appear-
ances. On February 2, 1925, a creature
about 60ft. long and 2ft. thick, dark yellow
in color, was seen asleep on tlie surface of
the sea about a mile off the Port Stephens
lighthouse in N.S.W.; it had a turtle’s head
and a fin like a shark’s along the middle
of its back. A record of the creature was
made in a log of the St. Francois Xavier
on a voyage from Noumea to Newcastle
(N.S.W.). Less well authenticated records
relate to appearances of two sea serpents off
Suva, Fiji, in 1889, and of one said to be
53ft. long and 12ft. in girth cast up on a
reef in the Paumotu group at some indefinite
earlier date.
Who was “The Flying Pieman” and how
did he earn the nickname? —43881.
An Englishman named William Francis
King who migrated to Sydney in 1829 and
became in turn schoolmaster, clerk, tutor,
barman and pieman. He chiefly depended,
however, upon remittances from England.
His well-known nickname was acquired by a
remarkable series of walking feats, one of
the first being a walk of 1634 miles in five
weeks and four days for his own gratifica-
tion. On two occasions he beat the coach
from Windsor to Sydney (34 miles) by
several minutes; he walked from Sydney to
Parramatta (15 miles) and back twice a
day for six consecutive days, and for three
consecutive days from Parramatta to
Windsor and back miles) in times
ranging from 7hi\ 25min. to Bhr. Among
many other feats he carried a dog weighing
701 b. from Campbelltown to Sydney (33
miles) between 12.30 a.m. and 8.40 a.m., and
a live goat weighing 921 b. from Sydney to
Parramatta in 7hr. He died in 1874 in the
Liverpool (N.S.W.) asylum for old men.
Docs a photographer hold copyright in a
photograph taken by him, irrespective of
registration ? —6922.
Yes, if lie can show that he took it for
his own use, without order or payment from
another person. Registration of copyright
is optional, but in cases relating to “literary,
dramatic, musical or artistic work” the
summary remedies provided by the Act can
only be taken advantage of by the registered
owners. This does not, seemingly, exclude
the non-registered copyright holder from the
exercise of civil remedies for infringement
and might be worth testing.
I have built a fish-pond of stones and
concrete. What time should I allow before
putting goldfish into it? I had one before,
and think I must have put the fish into it too
soon, for they sickened and died, —6858.
After the construction of a fish-pond in
which cement has been used, the water must
be frequently changed oyer a period of about
three weeks before the fish are introduced.
This time may be reduced by dissolving
about three or four pounds of lump-alum
in a gallon of water and stirring this into
the water in the pool. At the end of about
a week the pool should be thoroughly washed
out, when it is ready for the fish. It is advis-
able to try tadpoles in the water for a day
or two before the introduction of fish, for
tadpoles are more easily killed.
Are there openings in N.S.W. for land-
scape gardeners? How is the profession
learned? —6742.
We do not recommend anyone to spend
money on the study of landscape gardening
as a profession at the present time. Many
of those now practising are struggling to
make a living, Some of them learned their
profession from apprenticeship, the subjects
studied including practical quantitative sur-
veying, drafting and plant knowledge.
(1) How is wine made? (2) Books on
wine-making understandable to the layman?
—6677.
The processes involved are the crushing
of the grape, fermenting, either off or on the
skin, allowing the ferment to become com-
plete, or, in other words, cease, then racking
off into wood, and some month or so after
that, according to the type of wine, again
racking off into clean wood. Some makers
prefer to allow natural yeasts to take their
course, others introduce a cultivated yeast.
“Alcohol, Its Production, Properties and
Application,” by Charles Simmons, deals
fairly comprehensively with fermentation,
but works of a practical kind are highly
technical.
How to prevent ivood-borers attacking sea-
soned timber? —7023.
If the timber is not painted, varnished or
otherwise coated, the best deterrent is creo-
sote applied liberally to the surface. Creo-
sote stains the timber, and if this is undesir-
able, either corrosive sublimate or arsenite
of soda may be used. If the timber is
painted or otherwise treated, it is not prac-
ticable to prevent borer attack. Consult
“Wood Borers Damaging Timber in Aus-
tralia,” by Roughley and Welch, obtainable
at the Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney, Is.
What bounty does the Federal Government
2)ay Lysaght and Co., the corrugated-iron
manufacturers? Does it work out at £?/ per
employee per week? —6725.
The amount of bounty paid for the finan-
cial year 1928-29” was £102,650. The num-
ber of employees shown on the annual re-
turn for the same period was 547, so that
the bounty averaged £3 12s. 2d. per em-
ployee per week.
(1) What steps should be taken by man
(28) with knowledge of algebra, geometry,
trig, and arithmetic to learn surveying? (2)
Length of course? (3) Prospects in the pro-
fession? (4) To whom to apply? —674s.
(1) and (2) To become a licensed sur-
veyor you must pass the Sydney Uni.
matriculation exam, or the N.S.W. Leaving
Certificate exam, in a minimum of five sub-
jects, including English and mathematics.
Then you must serve four years under regis-
tered articles -with a licensed sux-veyor, before
you can sit for the licensed surveyors’ exam.
(3) Not very bright just now, owing to the
general depression, but there is always room
at the top for the best. (4) N.S.W. Insti-
tute of Surveyors.
What is the standard time in each of the
Australian States? —6963.
N.S.W. (except Broken Hill), Q’land,
Vie. and Tas., 10 hours ahead of Greenwich ;
S.A. and Broken Hill (N.S.W.), hours
ahead of Greenwich; W.A., 8 hours ahead of
Greenwich.
How can a youth secure appointment as an
assistant at the Sydney Municipal Library?
Educational qualification? Commencing sal-
ary ? —6848.
Vacancies are advertised. Applicants must
not be over 19, and must hold the Leaving
Certificate. Commencing salary is £169 per
annum.
My neighbor runs a stallion in his pad-
dock which is divided'■ from mine by a wire
fence. Can I make him remove the stallion?
—6983.
Not unless you can prove that your life
or property is endangered.
(1) Docs a 10-h.p. motor consume more
power driving a 2-h.p. load than a 2-h.p.
motor would? (2) Would a 10-h.p. motor
consume the same power driving a 2-h.p.
load as it icould driving a 10 -h.p. load?—
6925.
(1) Yes. (2) Motors always operate with
the greatest degree of efficiency on the loads
for which they are designed. Coupling a
10-h.p. motor to a 2-h.p. load would result
in a lowered efficiency, which would be
equivalent to consuming more power.
Who was the first man in Queensland to
inoculate cattle against pleuro? —6o9B.
Can’t say definitely. In 1562 Alexander
Bruce, Chief Inspector of Stock, Sydney,
superintended the killing of 10,000 cattle
with a view of stamping out the disease, and
in connection with this carried out inoculat-
ing experiments with the assistance of P. B.
Gordon. Gordon was appointed as Chief In-
spector of Stock in Queensland in February,
1868, and probably introduced the practice
of inoculation to Queensland.
(1) Name of the powder which is used
for making gramophone records? (2) Price
per ton? —6924.
(1) Thermo-plastic material. (2) £25 to
£6O, depending on quality.
What class of hawkers must he licensed in
Vic.? Procedure necessary to obtain license,
and cost? —6s67.
A person hawking victuals of any descrip-
tion or agricultural produce within 13 miles
of the G.P.0., Melbourne, requires a Metro-
politan license. Outside 13 miles hawking of
these articles is under control of tin local
municipalities. License fee £1 per year or
pro rata. The hawking of goods other than
newspapers and goods made by seller himself
requires a foot license, £1 per yea*r, or a
vehicle license, £2 per year. Licenses are
obtainable at the Court of Petty Sessions,
Melbourne, on the second Tuesday of each
month, and seven days’ notice is required.
Application forms obtainable at office of the
Clerk of Petty Sessions, Melbourne.
(1) Duty on glacd kid, patent and enam-
elled leather? (2) Where is the hulk of it
imported from? (3) Is much fancy leather
manufactured in Australia? (4) By whom?
6999.
(1) Glacd kid, 9d. per sq. ft., or 25 p.c.
(U.K.) and Is. per sq. ft., or 35 p.c.
(general) ; patent and enamelled, 3d. per sq.
ft., or 25 p.c. (U.K.), and 6d. per sq. ft., or
35 p.c. (general), whichever is the greater.
(2) From the U.S.A. (3) Yes. Large
quantities. (4) Principally by tanners in
Yic. and N.S.W.
I have an “All-Electric” receiver and a
Jewell HT and LT voltmeter 0/71 and
0/150 volts. Is it possible to check the HT
and LT voltages with this instrument? —
6939.
No. The heating elements of your valves
are operated by alternating current, and
whilst an alternating current voltmeter will
register direct current, a D.C. instrument
cannot read A.C. The meter will show a
reading when checking the H.T. voltage,
which is D.C., but this voltage in most elec-
tric sets sets is in excess of 150 volts.
Furthermore, large errors will be introduced
due to current passing through the voltmeter,
thereby reducing the supply voltage.
I have recently replaced a Radiotron
screen-grid valve by a Philips, but cannot
get results. Why? —694s.
The socket connections on a Radiotron
UX222 are different from those of the Philips
A 442. In the latter valve, the plate
connection is on the top of the valve; the
control grid goes to the “G” terminal of the
valve socket, and the screening grid to the
“P” terminal. The filament connections on
the socket remain unaltered. The Philips
valve will function after these alterations
have been made.
How is the height of an aeroplane above
the ground registered? —672B.
By a delicate aneroid barometer. The
aneroid is set at zero before taking off, and
as the aircraft rises the atmosphere becomes
more rarefied. The instrument registers the
decreased pressure on a scale of heights.
The instrument cannot register height above
the changing contour of the ground over
which the aeroplane flies, but only height
above the ground from which it took off.
(1) Who deals in crocodile skins and
teeth? (2) Prescription for tanning them
with mangrove bark? (3) Correct way of
skinning for market? (4) Price of Crock-
ett's “Practical Leather Manufacture” and
where obtainable? —679s.
(1) Skins are offered by fishermen direct
to tourists at Cairns or Townsville (Q.).
Easiest selling sizes are from 3ft. to sft. at
£5 to £S. Teeth, made into matchboxes by
the addition of a gold band and lid, costing
75., are similarly sold for £1 and £1 55., or
through jewellers on commission. (2) To
tan, a concrete pit is required, and the usual
tanning mixture plus a kerosene-tin full of
mangrove bark. (3) Cut along centre under-
neath from tail to head. After skinning rub
inside of hide with an arsenic paste to pre-
vent being fly-blown, and then peg out to
dry in sun prior to tanning for six weeks.
(4) 305., Dymocks, Sydney.
(1) What is known about grass-tree gum,
reputed to be obtainable in the country
near Hawkesbury bridge (N.S.W.)? (2)
Addresses of Sydney buyers? (3) Possibility
of making a living getting the gum? —6Bl9.
(1) It occurs in scattered localities
throughout the County of Cumberland, but
operations have generally been confined to
the neighborhood of Sydney at Long Bay,
French’s ‘Forest and Holdsworthy. (2)
Robert Bryce and Co., 414 Ivent-street,
Sydney. (3) Gathering the gum is not easy,
and only where gum of good quality can be
obtained within fairly compact areas could
a living be expected.
(l)/s there a good market for oil of euca-
lyptus in N.S.W.? (2) Price? (3) Would
it be a profitable enterprise to engage in
with a small plant capable of being worked
by two men?-— 6688.
(1) No. The demand is poor at present.
(2) Industrial oils bring about lOd. per lb.,
and medicinal oils from Is. to Is. 4d. (3)
Under normal conditions, but, this is an
inopportune time to engage in the industry.
Communicate with the Curator, Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney, who will
give you a lot of useful information.
By what freak photography did the Monte
Luke photo, of Sir Philip Came (B. 4/6/’3O)
represent the Governor with the pilot’s wings
and decorations on his right breast? —6936 a.
Quite simple. The photo, engraver saw
that in the original pictures Sir Philip
would be shown with his back turned to
the lady; and, determined to save the new
Governor from seeming rude, he reversed the
film, and photographed it, as it were, through
the back. It saved Sir Philip’s manners,
but made a wreck of his orders.
Brief Answers.
Peter: (1) Debt is not now punishable by
imprisonment. Crop failure does not bar a creditor
from his right to recover. (2) The lien is on “the
growing crop or crops” of the holder of the land.
(3) In the event of the lienor failing to pay off
the whole of the advance with interest, the Act
empowers the lienee to enter into possession and
sell the crop. (4) You must satisfy the judgment.
The return of the super, is not a satisfaction. (5)
An assignment to trustees for the benefit of creditors
is an act of bankruptcy. A certificate of discharge
protects you. .. .F.N.8.: Not if the property is the
wife’s own separate estate. Without any proof ’of
collusion between them to defraud the insolvent’s
creditors. .. .K.8.J.: Apparently A sold the sheep to
B unconditionally, leaving it to him to find the
grass. Into that agreement no implied condition of
reservation from sale in the event of rain falling
within a given time could be read. It should
have been specifically stated... .A.M.M.: If
totally and permanently incapacitated for all
work, an invalid pension might be granted.
Application forms can be obtained from the nearest
Registrar of Pensions.... M.F.: Obtainable from
N. Bookstall Co.-, Sydney, Is. 3d. post free....
R.S.L.: (1) Write Commonwealth Copra Co., Milne
Bay, Papua. (2) See “All About Cocoanuts,” by
Belfort and Heyer. Also, write Research Officer,
Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney, for further refer-
ences. .. .F.N.T.: See articles “Combustion Smoke”
in “Journal of Industrial J\ti Engineering
Chemistry,” April, and “Screening Smokes”
in same journal, October, 1925 ; also “Chemicals for
Smoke Screens” in “Chemicals,” February 22, 1926
—all in N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney... .A.W.8.:
Some of these may be suited to your needs: “Furni-
ture Manufacturer,” the “Cabinet Maker,” “Good
Furniture and Decoration” and the “Furniture
Journal.” Gordon and Gotch, Sydney, could get
them for you. .. .T.E.T.: The subject is dealt with
on page 1017, Dyke’s “Automobile and Gasoline
Engine Encyclopedia”. .. .T.C.: Better get the widow
to take a fresh lease of the premises on the con-
ditions embodied in the one granted to her late
husband... .M.M.T.: Write Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Labor, Pretoria, Transvaal, S. Africa.. . .
O. : Yes, if such damage is due to any defect
that could reasonably be known to, or be ascertained
by, the person inviting the public to use his rink.
... .H. (Artarmon) : Process of making cement-
coated nails is described in “Scientific American,”
October, 1921; the “Iron Age,” January 29, 1920 ;
“Work,” October, 1916. All on file at N.S.W. Public
Library, Sydney... .W.P.: (1) For U.S.A. conditions
write to Chamber of Commerce, San Francisco, or
Chamber of Commerce,' Los Angeles. For S. African
conditions apply to Dalgety and Co., Ltd., or
Australian Mercantile Land and Finance Co., Ltd.—
both of Sydney. (2) California is now one of the
leading wool-producing States of the U.S.A., ranking
fourth in 1928. (3) Before making plans, consult
the nearest American Consul... .P.C.: Write Prime
Minister’s Department, Canberra, F.C.T., or any of
the large Island trading firms LS.The son in
possession has only a life interest in the property,
and that is all he can dispose of. He is not the
owner of the estate and cannot sell it. Apparently
on his death there will be an intestacy, and the
Court could then be applied to as to the disposition
of the property.... E.S.G.: P. and 0. Steam Navi-
gation Co., and Ellerman and Bucknall Steamship
Co., are the principal cos. operating in the vicinity.
Perth agents should be able to quote rates. .. .
J.M.: If you mean “Vulcare,” get in touch with
Stokes and Co., Nelson-street, Sans Souci, Sydney.
.... S.A.P.: Can’t advise unless you state definite
case L.R.J.: The Bank of the Manhattan, New
York, will be, when constructed, the tallest office
building in the U.S.A. It will comprise 65 storeys
with a height of 838 ft.; the Chrysler Building (68
storeys) is 808 ft. high, and the Woolworth Building
(60 storeys), 792 ft D.W.: Write Dr. J. W. S.
Laidley, hon. sec. Ski Club of Australia, Buck-
hurst-avenue, Edgecliff, Sydney... .S.L.: “Tops” is
the name given to wool after it had been scoured
and combed W.8.J.: The Aberdeen-White Star
iron clipper Samuel Plimsoll was in the Aus-
tralian trade till 1899, when she caught fire in the
Thames and was scuttled. When repaired she ran
to New Zealand till 1904, when she was sold and
converted into a coal hulk at Fremantle. .. .A.S.V.:
Morrell, brush box, water gum, tulip wood, grey
mangrove, mararie and bottle brush are all suitable
for mallets K.8.J.: Members of the Pastoralists’
Union of Southern Riverina are bound by the
Federal Shearers’ Award. Federal awards are binding
only upon respondents to the award and members
of the claimant union. The Graziers’ Assoc, of
N.S.W. is a respondent to the A.W.U G.R.W.:
No openings in N.S.W. for optometrists. Salaries
from £7 to £8 per week... .N. 8.: No method
known of prolonging the life of gut lines... .J.T.:
(1) Sports mistresses are employed in all the prin-
cipal girls’ schools in the cities mentioned. (2)
and (3) Get in touch with the Teachers’ Guild, .58
Margaret-street, Sydney. .. .W.A.8.: An official share
list is issued by the Sydney Stock Exchange and
distributed by brokers... .R.D.: A full set of examin-
ation papers may be obtained from the Government
Printer, Brisbane (65.) .. . .A.A.: (1) Average age
at death of persons dying in Queensland in 1928
was 47.54. (2) Average age at death of railway
workers who died in Australia in 1928 was 57.79.
. ...B.B.: (1) A. G. Webster and Sons, Hobart. (2)
August. (3) and (6) Too early to quote for this
season. (4) Ten to twelve dozen. (5) Yes... .T.A.W.:
The Act referred to was Dr. Lang’s Act, and the
position as stated to you by the solicitor is correct.
It has been held that where the ultimate devise
in a will was to the testator’s “heir,” the personal
representative of the testator was the person desig-
nated as “heir” and he held in trust for the
testator’s next of kin. .. . J.A.L.: So far as we can
trace, none ai'e made locally. .. .R.H.S.: Make in-
quiries from H.M. Eastern African Dependencies’
Trade and Information Office, Cockspur-street,
London, S.W.I M.C.: The lucerne-tree will grow
15 to 20 feet high without pruning N.D.: No
openings for young men on Malayan tin-dredging
mines 6X9: Write Senior Instructor in Agri-
culture, Department of Agriculture, Townsville (Q.),
stating locality and type of 50i1... .E.S.: Consult
“Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry,”
June, 1920 (page 558), April, 1921 (page 346),
Dec., 1925 (page 1291) ; “The Spice Mill,” Jan.-
June, 1927 (page 329) and “Henley’s Book of
Formulas” (page 329) —all on shelves of N.S.W.
Public Library, Sydney C.R.M.W.: Either wharfs
or wharves is correct. The latter is the U.S.A.
spelling C.R.: Try Swain and Co., 123 Pitt-
street, Sydney U.T.: Trafalgar holds the Aus-
tralian record for three miles, smin. 22Jsec., at
Randwick in April, 1911 8.H.L.: See Davis’s
“Bricks, Tiles, etc.”; Dobson’s “Bricks and Tiles”
and Searle’s “Modern Brickmaking.” It may be
possible to borrow them from the Country Reference
Section, Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney D.T.:
“Pen Drawing,” by Maginnis (7s. 6d.), Angus and
Robertson, Sydney R.A.C.: Get “Pigs,” by Potts. . .
L.E.S.: Having erected the fence at your own expense,
you can take it down at your own expense. If
subsequently you desire to re-erect it, you should
see that notice is served on your neighbor and
wait the interval of six months, if necessary....
(Many others mailed.)


A FAMOUS N
■
.V-
-■
m
m
A
ER CAR
A famous name
Pontiac’s reputation for depend-
ability and sturdiness is equalled
only by the good opinion people
have of its performance and its
good looks. Over three years of
proof on Australian roads—and
also where there are no roads!—
have established Pontiac firmly as
a thoroughly desirable car to own.
A finer car
Now comes the Improved
Pontiac Six, with a host of ex-
clusive features. Designed for
long life on a simple engineering
principle built with just that
extra strength, that extra weight
which means the difference be-
tween performance and lasting
performance .... saving wear
and vibration every mile you
drive
A better buy than ever
Small wonder that experienced
motorists, having always acknow-
ledged Pontiac’s good points, now
consider it a better buy than ever.
Pontiac popularity grows by
leaps and bounds. Its price is
moderate. Its long-life design
and construction, secured at no
sacrifice of power, acceleration
or speed—its appealing lines and
colours —its charm of interior
finish and appointments—all these
contribute to its standing in the
motor world.
Whatever car you now own-
take the Improved Pontiac Six
ŵ
for a trial run. Get your local
Pontiac dealer to explain the
G.M.A.C. plan of purchase out
of income. Let him tell you
why Pontiac sells fewer repair
parts than other cars. Never-
theless, there are service stations
throughout Australia to guaran-
tee satisfactory motoring. The
General Motors’ Warranty ap-
plies to Pontiac, of course.
In four beautiful models , at prices
from £299.
ẁ
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE:
Wickham Street, Newstead
SYDNEY:
Carrington Road, Marrickville
MELBOURNE:
City Road, Melbourne
ADELAIDE :
Birkenhead, Port Adelaide
PERTH:
Cottesloe Beach, Perth
More Wealth for Australia
More Jobs for Australians


w
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
s N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
a Agency Co., Ltd.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney’s well-known Harbor Hotel
I
m
m
urnrrci
M
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4i Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
ŵ
SMOKE-OH!
THE DIPLOMATIC ANSWER.
“What you want now is a nice little wife.”
“Yes; what a pity you’re not married!”
Most Sydney Laborites are spelling A.L.P.
E.L.P.! these days.
# *
“No Bed-clothes. Prisoners in Lock-up Go Cold.”
—“Sun.”
The police might at least have given them
a few pairs of charge-sheets.
* #
“Girl Objects to Letter-writer’s Attentions.”
— “News” heading.
She frowned on his daily love letters;
They frequently caused her to curse.
But gosh, why the squealing, I ask you?
The man might have sent her much verse!
* *
From Sydney “Sun’s” Australian XI
results table:—
Oxford, 406 for 2d.
Cheap runs, certainly.
* *
“ ‘Snow’ puts an indelible mark on its victims.”
, — “Sun.”
The Hall-mark of co-Caine!
* #
“Gandhi has committed no crime; he has been
arrested under a regulation for ‘indiscreet language.’ ”
Merely a* case of impropagandlii.
“He was at breakfast when he discovered that
his money had gone.”— “Sun.”
Someone had grabbed his roll.
* *
MEETING THE PIONEERS.
“I recognise that I am now among women who
have been brave and courageous, and pioneers in
the real sense of the word.” —Amy Johnson at
Sydney reception given by Feminist and Nationalist
Women’s Clubs.
First Pioneer (with brave smile) : “We
just do our duty, my dear. No more.”
World Flier: “How I should love to hear
of your thrilling adventures! I mean so that
I can tell all my friends in England about
your fearless pioneering work.”
First Pioneer: “Well, sometimes I go to
stay on a station. Friends of mine own
one where you have to drive, oh, miles, out
into the lonely bush, past ’possums and
native bears and wombats and all sorts of
animals that you never have to face in
sheltered England except in zoos. Quite
an hour in the car from the railway over
a road—well, you’d be horrified at it in
England. No concrete—just primitive mac-
adam. My friends only have two maids,
and they’re always threatening to leave.
Would you believe it?—no gas! The cook-
ing is done over wood fires —just like the
savages. I went there one summer, and
never shall I forget it. They had no
ice”
Second Pioneer: “I fancy our guest would
prefer to hear more of our city hardships.
So few of us live in the wilds, after all.”
Other Pioneers: “Hear! Hear!”
First Pioneer: “Perhaps you’re right.
Well, my dear, I’ll try to give you a picture
of one of my own days, and I fancy it will
surprise England. I
get up early and
have had to cook the
breakfast more than
once owing to
domestic troubles be-
fore bundling my
husband off to his
office. Then for my
Committees. My pet
Causes are the
Kenso Kiosk for
Bust Backers, and,
my City Club for
Decrepit Frontiers-
men. However, I
get press publicity
out of about 27
others”
Second Pioneer:
“Her hubby calls
her Ida the Inter-
Ha! Ha!”
F ir sf, Pioneer
(frigidly) : “Then
lunch. After luncn
I relax. An hour or
so at the pictures.
A game of bridge.
Tea. The eternal
struggle that we
women have to wage
-—the provision of
an evening meal for
the voracious male.
And after it all
perhaps further
committee work,
parties for worthy
objects, interviews
with publicity ex-
p e r t s, telephone
messages to the
newspapers. And
at last, worn out in
body and mind,
bed.”
Flier: “Well, I think it’s just wonderful,
and I don’t know how to thank you for tell-
ing me of your really heroic struggles, and
I just love it, and I love you all, really
and truly I do. And when I get back to
England I’ll be sure to tell them about
you.”
10-2-4.
# *
•'John Casey Stealing a £ 1-note, one month.”
—“Sun”
Quod pro quid.
* *
THE THREE HATS.
A Novel of Passion.
Publisher’s Note: This remarkable work was in-
spired by a Melbourne news item: —
“Mr. Maxwell said he had never been wedded
politically to Mr. W. M. Hughes, as stated by the
latter, and was in no way responsible for the Aus-
tralian party. He was faithful to his old love,
Nationalism.”
Chapter I.
“Love of Power at CG is a very intoxicating
brew.” —Ruffini (slightly amended).
The dear old Lindfield vote-farm basked
in the warm glamor of an Australian sun.
One or two party hacks grazed on its pas-
tures. There were also a few cows (silly
and otherwise) and some goats, skunks, jays,
miserable worms and dirty dogs. Wilhelmina
Hews, the loveliest girl that ever drove
through Sydney wearing three hats at once,
had finished her task of gathering lemons,
and, as she carved the name “Wally” on
one with her stiletto, she dreamed—of Love?
Of Hate? God knows.
Came an impressive figure striding along
NO HELP NEEDED.
“The woman I marry must be truthful, for a start."
“M’yes, I see—you want to do all the lying, eh?”
the road from Melbourne. ’Tfs Maxy, the
Fawkner Sheik. He deliberately gives the
innocent (! ?) girl the Glad Eye.
[Five, red-hot pages excised here by the
Censor.]
Chapter 11.
“Oaths are straws. Holdfast’s the only dog.”
Henry V.
Two aristocrats (political variety) sat in
the Gnat Club.
HE DIDN’T KNOW A LITTLE THING
LIKE THAT.
“Say, why do you wear those flesh-colored
stockings?”
“Because I’ve got flesh-golored legs, I
suppose.”
“I love your ward,” whispered Maxy.
“How about the girl friend at Lindfield?”
objected Sir Archie Parkill.
The other flicked the ash from his Perfecto
Horribilo, with a cynical leer.
“Bah!” he laughed. “I’m done with her.
She has no Fund —only a paltry £25,000,
and she won’t spend a bob of it on anyone
but herself.”
“What have your—er —relations been with
her ?”
[Remainder of chapter seised by police.]
Chapter. 111.
“My child is my wealth.” —Danish proverb.
A frightful verbal storm was raging as
usual. It rained howls, yells, insults, libels,
curses and disgraceful innuendoes. Through
the hellish din staggered a frail form bear-
ing a Tiny Child. The latter appeared to
have whooping-cough; anyhow, it never
stopped whooping. On its little Welsh cloak
the mother had embroidered the monogram
A.P.
•Hush, dearie,” whispered Wilhelmina.
“We are going to have it out with your
father —if, indeed, he is your father.”
[Eleven pages submitted to Crown Law
authorities .]
Chapter IY.
“The incontinent are ever in the wrong.”— Ovid.
Maxy the Sheik shook Wilhelmina off, and
laughed callously.
“Married!” he jeered. “We were never
married. A mere week-end affair. I have
done with you.”
“But what of your child, Maxy?”
“My child ! Ha! Ha ! Who are you to
talk of affiliation orders? Remember your
innumerable liaisons. Your
notorious affair with the
man in bowyangs, conducted
at a time when ypu were
carrying on shamelessly with
the late Cobden! How long
did you live in shame with
the draper—the one who
played golf in spats? Ha!
Ha! What about the old
Sydney K.C. who sent you
a lawyer’s letter and then
'- £asr abandoned you?”
[Remainder of chapter, containing Wil-
helmina’ s reply, banned as blasphemous .]
Chapter V.
“There are as good fish in the sea as ever came
out of it.” —English proverb.
Once more mother and child face the ele-
ments.
“Ah well,” and Wilhelmina gazed at her
precious burden, “I expect I’ll be able to
get even with most of ’em before I m
finished.”
She examined her vanity-bag of under-
ground engineering tools to make sure they
were all in order. Then humming the old
lullaby, “Blithering Blazes,” she proceeded
philosophically on her way.
[The End.]
J.D.
THE WORD OF POWER.
I can answer the question ‘What is a Wowser ?’
He rs one who puts coins in the collection-plate
that banks won’t take.”— Methodwt preaches- in
Sydney “News.”
What is a Wowser? Who is he
lliat all the world should at him rage?
I—if you ll leave the job to me—
xour thirst for knowledge will assuage.
A Wowser, if you love strong liquor,
Is one whom words like “boose” and
shicker”
Lash to a Rechabitingi fury;
While, to a novel-reading jury,
A Wowser simply means a Censor, '
Much lilce a wav one, only denser .
Exhibitors of naughty pictures
Invariably counter strictures
With some such argument as “Now, Sir,
You’re proved yourself a d —d old Wowser.”
But here we get a contradiction
That frequently gives rise to friction.
Teetotallers call drinkers Wowsers.
Drunks, they aver, are Joy’s chief dowsers;
The same is said by the abusers
Of pornographic film-producers.
Wageplugs and their employers; clerics
Damning agnostical hysterics ;
The Comrade and his Bolshie brother,
All hurl the charge at one another —
So, Wowser, you may safely take it.
Means anything you care to make it.
MAX F.


■—Bi mmmwumrn
■
i
■ms
FORSTER'S STEEL
GARAGE SHELVING
STORE YOUR STOCK IN
FORSTER’S STEEL SHELVING
PROVIDES GREATER SPACE STRONGER THAN WOOD
Many business houses are now installing Steel Shelving for greater storage
efficiency, and Forster’s Adjustable Steel Shelving is playing a leading part
in this progressive trend.
Steel Shelving gives increased storage space, is fire-resisting, more attractive,
has double the strength and life of woodwork, and its first cost is the last cost.
Whatever your line of business, consider the many advantages of storing
your stock in steel.
Forster’s Steel Shelving can be made to your own design
and specifications. Plans supplied free after consultation.
Let us know your requirements.
FORSTER’S STEEL
CLOTHES LOCKERS
P Pai'no'PC The illustration above shows Forster's All-steel Garage
Shelving. This is but one of our stock designs. Others are
for STORES; BANKS, LIBRARIES, HOSPITALS, OFFICES, MUSIC SHOPS, ETC.
For Clubs, Schools, Theatres,
Offices, Factories and Homes.
Supplied singly or in rows; handsomely finished in olive green baked enamel.
Ensure cleanliness. Save fire risk, and provide security against theft. Every
locker fitted with a thief-proof lock. Supplied with base, or legs as desired.
The sloping top design, as illustrated, ensures tidiness and prevents articles
being placed on top.
Forster’s Steel Clothes Lockers will set a good example in your business.
FORSTER’S STEEL PRODUCTS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA—THAT*S THE POINT
Shelving, Closets, Bins, Cupboards.
For every storage need.
WRITE NOW, OR CALL, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.
r
FORSTER’S
STEEL CLOTHES LOCKERS.
FORSTER’S BEDSTEADS LTD.
MARY ANN STREET,
ULTIMO, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines)
.
mmmm
m
iil
m
ggmggpg
'mm!
t <,
mmwi
\ ' - ■W"
:
r
s&
m
\. y '
ẁ
In World-Wide use for 35 years
Hudson’s “Eumenthol” Jujubes are so convenient that they can be taken
anywhere at any time. Pleasing to the taste, they immediately soothe
the tender and inflamed throat membranes.
ENDORSED BY THE MEDICAL WORLD.
The “Lancet” (London), the “Practitioner” (London), the
“Australasian Medical Gazette” all recommend these health-giving
Jujubes.
HUDSOti^r
UIIBEt
1/6 at all Chemists
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., BAY STREET, GLEBE, SYDNEY.


Royal Hawaiian Hotel and Waikiki Beach
The Smart Winter Throng is Gathering
at Waikiki, Honolulu
Lovers of the sunshine have discovered that the true
luxury of Winter is to 101 l on the sandy, coral beach of
an almost tropic isle—to revel in warm sea waters —to
play golf on verdant courses where the “rough” is a coior-
drenched border of exotic blossoms—to go cruising,
motoring, or walking among the beauties and wonders of
the dreamland islands of Oahu, Maui, Hawaii and Kauai.
Hawaii charms with its endless variety of things to do—
and with its countless ways to do nothing at all. Spend
the Winter in this island Eden.
Special excursion fares now available, £75 first class return; £55 second
class return; available for 3 months. 33 days inclusive tour (covering
all expenses), £B5 first class, £65 second class.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
77ie Oceanic Steamship Co.
NATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
&ocal Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd. ( Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Agents: Dalgety & Company Ltd. i Albany.
Dalgety 8C Company Ltd., Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write for descriptive
folder, "A Holiday
in Hawaii"
Name
Address
m...
M
m
C -v / ;
it with Hillier's/
Tested the. day they are made
yfie famous
JfecLßoKOp
Chocolates
HILLIER'S
ADD H£S5~
CHOCOLATES
f %./)(}• .162-166 Pitt Street
P R_t C E S
34 5/6. IO/. 12/6.
20/; W. 30/
XPATON)
Chronic Backache
Unfit for Work or Play
TIRED-OUT, PAIN-RACKED WOMEN-HERE IS THE
WAY TO SPLENDID HEALTH AND STRENGTH.
The woman who, through over-work, worry or neglect of so-called
minor health-troubles, has become a “ bundle of aching nerves,” unfit
for work or play, “ worn-out and weary,” perhaps a martyr to
sleeplessness, constant shakiness, dizziness, chronic backache, etc.,
has been the puzzle of specialists.
To-day it is agreed that the majority of these “ bordering on
breakdown ” cases have proved to be due to kidney troubles, body
poisons and harmful bacteria that have found their way into the blood
and set up a state of nerve-irritation, which causes chronic pain
and terrible weariness. Do not try to get back all the old strength,
health and happiness by “ doping ” your body with heart-exciting drugs.
The only possible means of ridding the body
of the pain-giving poisons which are ruining your
health, making you look and feel too old, is to
prompt the kidneys to purify the blood —that is
their all-important work. Definite evidence sup-
plied by a host of women suffering “ untold
agonies,” proves that there is a remedy that will
effect this health-restoring purpose. For forty
years this tried and tested remedy has been
known all over the world as De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are no mere purgatives or
heart-exciting drugs. They are a medicine which regulates the urinary
system and cleanses and heals the kidneys, gently helping them
to filter off poisons from which backache, rheumatism, pains and
weakness in limbs and muscles arise. They cannot possibly harm
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are
invaluable in all cases of Kidney T rouble,
Pains in the Back, Bad Complexion,
Nervous Weakness, Uric Acid Troubles,
Tired Feeling, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Headache, Bad Nights, Lumbago, Bladder
Weakness.
m
>y
Vv
K
vr f
o 0 o
the weakest and can be taken by women at all
times. After even a few days with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills you find yourself
sleeping better, and you are able to w r ork harder
and certainly enjoy the pleasures of life much
fuller.
It is just wonderful to find day by day the old
strength coming back, hew vitality and vigour
pulsating through the blood. It is splendid to
feel that you want to enjoy the old pleasures once again, to play,
work and sleep soundly and well. Get your supply of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills now —they cost you only 3/6 (or the larger
more economical size 6/6). With every bottle sold comes the guarantee
to prove (from colour of urine) that they do act directly on the kidneys.
If not, return partly used bottle and your money is refunded in full.
DeWITT’S PILLS


All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING
SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
I
can be serviced by
ẃ
a
n
'n r
tv
1778
1950
ATestthats
lasted over/
150 years
A “test” lasting over 150 years has
definitely established the outstanding
excellence of GUINNESS as a health-
giving beverage.
Generations of men and women have
proved its splendid nutritive and recup-
erative properties—sportsmen through-
out the world rely on Guinness as a
strength giver and body builder. More
recently over seventeen thousand Doc-
tors have tested Guinness, and their
testimony confirms the general opinion.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
N.B. —One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo-
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GF/A/K6 (
Poverty
Point
“C.B.”: Leon Gordon is said to be en-
gaged on a drama to be played entirely by
women. What the public is waiting for
is a play to be played entirely by actors.
“Craiser”: Convent schools don’t produce
only prima donnas and child pianists. Six
months out of such an academy, Joan Graham
helps to push along Jim Gerald's show at
Melbourne Tivoli with song-'n’-dance stuff.
She is a daughter of Ben Fuller.
“Hops-and-Scotch”: The Chinese giant,
who began to sicken of show life at Mait-
land, threw up the sponge after his Sydney
season, and has gone home. No wonder!
I saw the poor devil on a platform bare
of anything but a chair and a copy of the
“Daily Guardian.” Giants, as a. matter
of fact, are hardest of all freaks to handle.
A basin of chop suey and a set of mail
jongg might have gone a long way with the
Chinaman, but then it mightn’t. One time
I tried a Russian giant with what I thought
was vodka, and he ordered me out of his
tent. He had promised his mother (5ft.
Sin.) that he would be a good little boy.
“B. Swax”: Two tributes to Muriel
Starr’s t personal popularity. The J.C.W.
firm were creditors to the tune of £2300
out of Muriel’s total liabilities of £2600, but
it put its whole resources behind the recent
matinee on her behalf. And the musicians,
usually absolutely against giving their ser-
vices as a body, tootled cheerfully and freely
for the cause.
“Isaac Email”: Some whiskered old bit
of obscenity will probably call Acting-Cus-
toms Minister Forde’s attention to the fact
that manuscripts of naughty plays could
be read and banned by one of his clerks in
spare time. Then we’ll have a play licensor.
Mayhap like England’s Gfeo. Colman. who
considered the term “My angel” applied to
a woman as profane, lie also cut “Oh, Lud”
as irreverent. His successor, William Bod-
ham Donne, always cut references to God.
Colman, by the way, wrote some pretty
tasty dialogue in his own plays, and, when
this was commented on, remarked: “Ah, but
then I was a playwright; now I am the
examiner of stage plays.” And that will
always be the attitude of any professional
censor.
“Stephen Sink”: Henry A. Lytton, the
Gilbert and Sullivan comedian knighted in
the latest birthday honors, began a romantic
career at 17 by truanting from school. While
receiving the father of a hiding from the
h.m. upon his return, with true theatrical
instinct he suddenly stopped the flogging.
“Desist,” he cried. “You cannot flog a mar-
ried man.” While wagging it he had actu-
ally wed a chorus girl, who, after his school
had turned him out, took him into the pro-
fession. They travelled as brother and sister
till D’Oyly Carte found them out. Years
later, when Lytton was playing leads, Carte
occasionally • made the kindly inquiry;
“How’s your sister these days, Harry?” The
school- and chorus-kid match turned out
trumps.
“Cine Ma”: The achievement of First
National, Aus., in combining with the Ger-
man Admiralty to produce tha*t fine record of
a piece of Australian history “The Exploits
of the Emden,” suggests other possibilities.
Why could not the concern recreate the
story of Pelsart in conjunction with the
Dutch Government? On June 4, 1629, Pel-
sart’s ship was wrecked on the Abrolhos, off
the coast of nor’-west Australia. The next
day the census of the lonely rock rose from
nil to 180 persons. Pelsart set off in a ship’s
boat to find water, while Jerom Cornells,
the supercargo, proceeded to set up Aus-
tralia’s first European monarchy. He formed
his own household troops, with uniform, pro-
vided himself with a queen and a harem and
within a fe\tf weeks occurred this country’s
first civil war and naval battle. Cornelis
massacred 40 of his revolted Subjects, and
spread his empire to the neighboring islands,
where a rival had set up liis court under
Lieut. Weybhays. Finally Pelsart returned
in a Dutch frigate from Java and hanged
Cornelis and 39 of his companions. Then
the Abrolhos wars left for another three
hundred years to its seabirds and its turtles.
“N.K.C.”: One result of the talkie cen-
sorship is to exclude Mum, Dad and the
kids from practically every picture theatre
in Melbourne. The other Saturday after-
noon I tried to take the family to a talkie
show, found we were excluded from pra*c-
tically every picture theatre in Melbourne,
and finally yanked the angry party homq. I'm
not wishing to push my family from' the
censor’s path of virtue, but surely pictures,
if they can do harm, are more likely to do
it to adolescents than to school children.
Anyhow, it is a striking moral indictment
that 90 per cent, of the city talkies are
unfit to be seen by children.
“Aix-Les-Coogee”; Con Colleano and his
brothers and sisters weren’t a Fuller dis-
covery. Jack Musgrove and Archie Martin,
now of J.C.W., found them touring N.S.W
Martin named them the Akabah Arabs and
they had their first metrop. showing at
Sydney Tivoli. Then Musgrove booked them
to the London Coliseum. Con’s somersault
on the wire was more spectacular but less
dangerous than his brother’s double forward
somersault from the ground. The incredible
feat went for nothing till slow-motion pic-
tures showed liow close the acrobat
approached Heaven with each leap. This
Colleano practised by running down a sand-
hill. He gradually eliminated the hill. I
believe there are only two men in the world
known to have managed the trick and both
of these eventually came to permanent rest
in hospital. The Colleanos have pluck. At
New York Palace, some time ago, Con, somer-
saulting on the wire, missed a full dozen
times. He was successful at the thirteenth
try and found he had broken his toe during
the twelve falls.
“Craiser” : The usual air of mystery sur-
rounds the selection of a successor to Dr.
Price as City Organist in Melbourne. There
is no question that the best man available
should be chosen for the job, but judging
from past experience the claims of Aus-
tralians are likely to receive scant attention.
Whether it’s an archbishop or a musicomedy
soubrette that's wanted, there is a strong
bias amongst persons of authority in favor of
the imported star. The chances of getting
an eminent stop-puller from abroad is suffi-
ciently remote, in any case. The salary is
£800, and the' engagement only _ for a
year, after which the nominee is liable to
be sacked if he fails to suit.
“Cauboy”: “Belle of New York” revival
at Melbourne Royal recalls Musgrove’s con-
nection with the piece. When he saw the
play in its natal town lie realised its value
at once, and asked Williamson to join him
in taking it to London. His partner refused,
so Musgrove took it there himself and made
£70,000. While it was running he returned
to America, where he received a cable stating
that Edna May, the leading lady, demanded
a rise—something in the neighborhood ot
£170 per week. Musgrove put the cable
in his pocket and forgot all about it. Re-
turning later to London he asked for Miss
May, and was told that she had departed
long ago in a cloud of indignation. The
show was going all right. It always has
been pretty well actor-proof.
“C.R.” : Wilma Berkeley, who went to Eng-
land with much assistance from Victorian
admirers five years ago, has. made good.
Critics declare her the outstanding feature oi
the new London production “Damask Rose,
which was written by an Australian, G. H
Clutsam. Before she left Melbourne Wilma
had a voice beautiful enough to move Melba
to murmur, “If she should be my successor!
Later, however, the ebullient Dame forgot
all about her, and it remained for her more
obscure supporters to help hold her hands up.
“L.H.P.”; Dramas without women are
now the rage. New York’s latest sensation
is “The Last Mile,” a prison play by John
Wexley. The scene is the death house of
an American prison, and the first act shows
all the horrible details in preparation for an
execution in the electric chair. There is a
mutiny of convicts and sundry shootings, and
the play is described as a show not to be
recommended to nervous people.
The Inky Way
Vance Palmer has slipped away quietly on
a business trip abroad and to do some work
for The Bulletin. Among other things
he will arrange the book publication of “The
Passage.” This is his fifth trip overseas —
the last time he went in khaki, but before
that he had spent years in Fleet-street, where
he freelanced successfully.
“Lao-dah” : Another example of the tripe
with which cable correspondents fill up theii
dispatches (B. 4/6/’30) appeared in Mel-
bourne “Argus” of a recent date concern-
ing the opening of the Empire Press Con-
gress in London. While the delegates were
listening to McDonald their -wives witnessed
the pageant of the trooping of the colors on
the Horse Guards’ parade. “If this could
be staged in India we would bear no more
of her troubles,” one of them was made to
say. It is the sort of foolish remark any
unthinking person might say, but was it
worth sending 14,000 miles?
“Cauboy”: It takes a wise man to make
a fool, and the wisest man at the Disarma-
ment , .Conference in London was Will
Rogers, the famous American vaudeville
clown, who was sent over as special corres-
pondent for an enterprising New York
journal. Some of Rogers’s remarks con-
tained more political prescience than the
dispatches of the regular correspondents.
Here are some of them:—
Well, the whole thing was nothing but a Demo-
cratic convention with a silk hat on. The King
made the best speech, then showed his intelligence
by leaving.... When he went out he happened to
think, so he sent four men back and they carried
the gold throne chair out. That will go on record
as the first lack of confidence shown.... What we
want is parity in speeches and limitation of oratory.
....We stood through one speech, sat through eight
and slept through 12 ; three solid hours of com
pliments and not a single row-boat sunk.... When
Mr. Stimson said, “We will stay here till the world
disarms,” his wife said, “O Lord!” and the rest
of the wives shook hands with me, and bid me
farewell for ever.... We won’t really know what
happened at this conference until we read one of
the delegate’s memoirs after the next war.
The epitaph of journalist Jack Davidson,
as given by an old friend and rival in Adel-
aide “Register” :—
My word, he was a fighter! The extremists at
Broken Hill went to him once and said, “If you
don’t call your dogs off, you will go out of the Hill
in a coffin, or else carrying your swag.” He replied,
“I like to meet men who lay their cards on the
table. I will not go out either in a coffin or
carrying my swag; but I will put you chaps in
gaol.” They called his employees out and he brought
out a little fighting sheet. And, true to his word,
he put two of those three in gaol.
Davidson had the good luck at the Hill to
be associated with John Smethurst, whom
he found in charge when he took over the
“Barrier Miner,” and whom he never dis-
turbed. Smethurst is a little bull-ant who
used to be in a large way as a building
contractor before he discovered that he was
born to be a journalist and newspaper
manager.
Dr. James Booth, president of the Australian
Literature Society, which gives local writers
a mild push by occasionally offering small
prizes for plays and books, is asking for
£750 with which to purchase A. L. Gordon’s
last home in Lewis-street, Brighton. It
was from this little white cottage that the
poet walked out into the tea-tree with a gun
and settled his last account. Near by is
a modern oddity. A resident erected an up-
to-date mansion, and, the war fever being
at its height at the time, constructed his
fence of immense empty shell cases. It was
not long before the small boys of the neigh-
borhood discovered that the hollow tubes
gave forth a musical note —in fact, one
boy with a musical bent discovered a whole
octave and was able to render “God Save
the King” with variations and effects. After
being driven nearly off his head by mid-
night recitals, the owner was constrained
to dismount the entire arsenal and fill the
shells with cement.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
ẅ
w
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
‘‘Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
AN INTERESTING TRAVEL ROUTE
r T"'HE ideal route to Canada, United
States or Europe traverses the
Sunny South Seas, carrying you via
Auckland, Suva and Honolulu to
Vancouver, or by Wellington, Raro-
tonga and Tahiti to San Francisco.
You may then cross to Europe, plan-
ning the whole trip in advance with
the-
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melb. Cl.
/ CN. p
„VS=S-«_* /
- '. Ojfil.
£l.-rci*CSi:
MW/
im r <
I
,<<?//L f>
fail
Ktfft
libras n
l^o
tuZfyhSi*
M\
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION Royal Mail Lines.
olid*/in fitfwnw Couth jw
E
'X'S
Winter Tour to Papua
To those people who are in search of an
ideal Winter Holiday Excursion of a duration
of three weeks, the opportunity-
now presents itself of an excel-
lent trip to the Sunny South Sea
Islands by the Burns, Philp Line.
A trip to Papua (British New Guinea)
is one that can be strongly recom-
mended.
Next sailings from Sydney and Bris-
bane, June 25 and July 26, and monthly
thereafter.
Fare: £4O and £44 Return.
Apply for descriptive Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Read “B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color, 96 pages of
Travel, Story and Pictures, 1/-
Copy, all Newsagents.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ŵ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297,
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world!
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Dvvcctovs *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYETJRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
■ . Magtiiftoeu
lllg F aB t Passenga
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobar
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUrDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker L
RAVOVAC
jh<
Dependable
Glectric
J~orck
da
“°SL
Whe '°tZ? 9eS ' »h W u*’
/rr°^ o^<c
Wc T °rch ß £ Y '°' V AC f,
6eo m r f . e/ ®c-
“‘e «, en) 9ash '!gh ts
I?/I
e^er.
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821 G P. 0., Melbourne, Victoria.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A.
■ K 2
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —— .think of
ẁ
r SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuta
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
z\ LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, Avhere they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Zhe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.


V ,
CSV
i \v\
ss
k
£555
as
A
Wl
%
m
m.
m
22
18m
There’s no depression
in the yield, and there’s certainly nothing you could
term lean-looking about a crop that has been fertilised
with Sulphate of Ammonia.
Depression, in the crop sense, usually implies a
nitrogen shortage, and this can be remedied quite
easily by using a liberal dressing of quick-acting
nitrogen in the form of Sulphate of Ammonia.
There is scarcely a crop —be it grown on farm, orchard,
vineyard or garden—that will not respond readily to
this rich plant food. Sulphate of Ammonia fills and
fattens a crop and imparts those deft touches which
give it the hall-mark of quality.
Early spring is an excellent time to use it. Do not
forget to get some then and see how it bucks up the
growth, improves the color and fills out the crop.
Interesting free booklets on this “big crop” producer
will be mailed on application to
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PTY., LIMITED.
SYDNEY ADDRESS:
Box 481 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
MELBOURNE ADDRESS:
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ẃ
BARE rubber tires—a wet slippery
pavement and danger ahead!
Without Weed Tyre Chains, you are
almost as helpless to control your car as
a man bound hand and foot.
Weed Tyre Chains prevent skidding
accidents. They insure safe driving
always —in mud, sand, or slippery clay
—wherever road conditions are treach-
erous or uncertain.
Weed Tyre Chains grip and hold on
any road. They provide sure traction so
that every turn of your motor is trans-
mitted into actual mileage. For all pas-
senger car, truck or bus tyres in regular
or “Weed American” patterns.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
TYRE CHAINS
If you drive an American car fit
LODGE
PLUGS
as recommended below.
ẅ
All priced at 6/-
each.
In sealed metal boxes.
m.
o
V
Stocked by
all garages
throughout the
Commonwealth.
LODGE PLUGS LIMITED,
Rugby, England.
%
"llllllla
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Deano”: In the days of big loans the !
Niagara usually brought 400 passengers and
5000 tons of cargo from Vancouver. On a
recent trip she had but 100 passengers and
about 1300 tons of cargo, and for the first
time for many years there wasn’t a* car on
board. -A curious item was 500 cases of
eggs for Maoriland. Surely Maorilanders
have no need 1 to send to North America for
that commodity.
M: * * *
“Huffin-Guffin”: The folly of importing
wattle-bark instead of growing our own has
often been commented on, but there is another
side to the question. A Vic. farmer friend
who has some ideal wattle country decided
to strip his trees, and wrote to Melbourne tan-
neries for quotations. They all quoted him
£7 a ton. Forty or fifty years ago similar
bark was worth £8 or £9 a ton. Then, and
until recent years, the price was given in
the market reports. One never sees the item
now.
* * * *
“FY7”: Australian cattlemen a*re up
against another hurdle. Germany, never a
great grower of beef, has been accustomed to
fill its requirements from overseas, and Aus-
tralian frozen beef had a fair market there.
From June 30 the German outlet will be
blocked, only forward contractors being per-
mitted to import, and they will have to shut
down by September 30.
* * * *
“Rice Cocky”: “Canfac” (B. 14/5/’3O)
complains of the handling charges in con-
nection with our Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area’s rice crop. On a total of 23,228 tons they
amounted to 15s. 4d. per ton, the net return
to the grower being £lO 3s. 9d. per ton. 1
say the Rice Marketing Board has handled
the crop economically and efficiently. It
refused an offer made by the Ricegrowers
Association to do the job for £1 per ton, and
the event has justified it.
* * *
“Towkay”: Sydney papers assert that an
electrically-worked dredge built at Walsh
Island for the N. S. Wales P.W .D. is the first j
of its kind made in Australia, the Butch
having “jealously guarded the secret” of. their
manufacture. Australia, which first intro-
duced the mining dredge to Malaya, lias built
a number of electrically-operated dredges,
and four, to my knowledge, are going strong
up there.
* * *' *
“Disc Harrow”: Neglected markets for the
Australian fruit-growing industry lie in
Java, China and Japan. Recently Cali-
fornian growers chartered a vessel and sent
it on a propaganda tour with samples of
hundreds of different products, skilled sales-
men and demonstrators and a staff of scien-
tists. Some of their places .of call were
near Australia’s front door.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” A careless pen stroke has made
worthless a South Aus. Traffic Act regula-
tion. This provided for a* maximum speed of
15 m.p.li. “when passing any. school at any
time when children are going into, or coming
out of, or playing in the vicinity of such
school.” The last clause was found to be
too vague, and was deleted, but somehow
“such school” was cut out as well as “playing
in the vicinity.” Thus the sentence now-
ends at “coming out of” and a stipendiary
has refused to convict until it is officially
completed.
* * V * !
“Bendee” : You can’t beat the Australian
factory-girl for packing cigarettes. I put
the watch on a Sydney team of 29. L* e y i
packed fags at the rate of three seconds a I
box of 11, and five seconds a box of 22; j
50,000 to 60,000 a day. A girl had to
make up each box, bend it into shape,
pick up the required number of cigarettes
and reject any that might be damaged or
blemished with almost imperceptible oil
stains. Eleven or 22, as the case may
be, are picked up with one hand by sense
of touch, and are never counted. The girls
arc on piece-work, and a healthier and more
contented familv would be hard to find.
* '* * *
“Chevroford”: Andrew Hamper, an ex-
Ozarist naval officer whom the Bolshevik
Revolution drove to Melbourne, is the in-
ventor of an automatic change-speed gear
which seems to have overcome the disabilities
of all previous attempts at this important
improvement in motor machinery. It changes
from low to high gear or vice versa in accord
with the compression of a spring in response
to variations of the torque required to
rotate the motor axle. Once the car is put
in low gear the pressure of the foot on the
accelerator governs the ratio of gears to the
speed, and the vehicle will run up and down
hill, slow up in traffic and turn corners with-
out’the driver having to remove his hands from
the steering-wheel. Several of Melbourne’s
foremost experts, including Prof. Kernot, of
Melb. Uni., believe the invention is all that
is claimed for it. Hamper had the need of
automatic gear changes forced on him by
his first job in Australia, driving a heavy
lorry for a timber yard. He is one of the
three naval officers mentioned in General
Wr an gel's memoirs who seized a Bolshevik
destroyer in Yladivostock, imprisoned the
drunken crew (landing them later on a
desert island) and brought their capture
into a Japanese harbor.
* # * *
“Chev.”: With the growth of motoring in
Australia, getting rid of old cal's is becoming
the problem it already is in America. In
that country the popular method has been to
leave Lizzie on a parking area. Many cities
have stopped this by demanding a deposit of
40 to 150 dollars on cars suspected of being
no longer wanted by their owners. Another
ruse, harder to prevent, is to take the rattle-
box out into the country and leave it on the
roadside, returning in a friend’s machine.
But so many cars are abandoned on vacant
blocks in the cities that their removal is
allowed for in the contracts for new build-
ings.
* * * *
“Dover”: The Canadians and the Yanks
have just completed an underground burrow
between Detroit and Windsor. The dive is
under a narrow arm connecting Lakes Huron
and Erie, and is only a mile and a half
long, but it is the world’s first international
tunnel. For vehicular traffic only, it will
carry 1000 caravans per hour each way.


“/ use Spalding ”
531 of Australia’s Golfers
FULL powered drives ~. perfectly
placed pitches «... smashing
explosion shots. . , . Good golf
not only tests the qualities of the
player —■ it demands the best in
equipment,
To-day another truth is generally
recognised—that the best is really
the cheapest That is why 53%
of Australian Golfers say. “I use
Spalding.”
Kro • Flite Will Halve
Your Golf Ball Costs
By scientific methods of manufac-
ture, Spalding has produced in the
Kro-Flite a ball which has accuracy,
controllability, balance and distance
that come up to the most exacting
standards of modern demands —plus
a hide like a rhinoceros.
You can’t cut it. Top it! Hammer
at it with a niblick! Bang it! You
won’t hurt it. It alone survives the
Guillotine , and has been hale and
hearty at the end of 828 holes of
play : It halves golf ball costs .
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
T)0 you have to change your swing and
balance for each club you use ? If so,
your game suffers. Let Kro-Flite Regis-
tered Woods and Irons help you. Every
club in a set swings in absolute rhythm,
with pendulum-like regularity. The rea-
son is that they are matched—for balance,
“swinging weight” and feel.
Every Iron —chromium plated, rust and
stain proof—has the “sweet spot” marked
on its face; is shock absorbing, non-
fatiguing. By quoting the registered
number of your set, you can add or re-
place clubs as you wish and they will
match up perfectly with your others.
Three woods Driver, Brassie, Spoon
£6/6/-; 5 Irons, £B/8/-; Single Woods, 40/-;
Single Irons, 30/-.
The “Crescent,” a medium priced club,
has many Kro-Flite Features. Woods, 25/-
each. Irons, 17/6 each, or £4/4/- for a
set of 5.
In the “Thistle,” Spalding offers genuine
club economy. The finest clubs obtain-
able at the price. Woods, 17/6 each. Irons,
10/6 each.
ŵ


A B S7 -THE
UEApS T» y * r
--SBS - ( QUADRUPLE
Price, 45/
a double-acting u pwa
a doubles-jfSirf-;
draws m air a The inner hig
downward •*■*£•*,., the test.
-Sr tf gtWSgS»,
procurable from h ar . 9 l
7
(HWt Gauge,
5/- extra .)
HW fuUv inflate the average motor tyre in
one minute.
Tf unable to obtain
to o ? r Factory,
iSo. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
A great drink this
resch’s d. a.
The famous DINNER ALE
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Carrying list. 61b., 201 b. more than when
he was beaten by Grosvenor in the big race
on the first clay of the meeting, Songift
(7 to 4) captured the A.J.C.’s Second Hurdle
Race, worth £6OO. He gave a dashing exhi-
bition, running the two miles in Jmin.
384 sec., and will be a worthy representative
of “N S. Wales in the Grand National, with
only lOst. 21b. On Songift’s form the un-
penalised Grosvenor had only to stand up
to win the three-mile Steeplechase. He
lumped well for nearly two miles, but hit
hard when the pace was put on, unshipping
his rider. Home Made (5 to 1), a hurdler
from Maoriland, won after a neck-and-n ok
struggle up the straight with Ego (12 to 1) ;
Prince Arim (8 to 1) was third. The
A.J.C. must now be tired of giving £2661)
for this steeple; it would get fields as good
—or as bad—for a fourth of the money.
Though it is upwards of five years since
Fuji San won the Doncaster, he can still
hold his own with the sprinters. This lie
proved by carrying 9st. 91b. to victory in
the Flying Handicap and getting over the
six furlongs in lmin. 11 j sec.; and Matthews,
his bookmaker-owner, did not neglect him
at eights and sevens. Pike contributed to
the achievement by sneaking a run on the
rails and making the most of it; Vcrtoy
(16 to 1) was going faster than the ancient
at the finish but did not get out in • time.
This sturdy mare has been racing over a
distance, and punters went off her on that
account. She is good, and should win a
decent handicap in the spring if not over-
raced in the meantime. Casque d'Or (7
to 1) was third —his tenth minor position
since his last win 13 months ago. The owner,
a lady, is going to try another stable. Rac-
ing men, a cynical breed, predicted that this
would happen after seeing the unlucky brute
run second to a stable-companion at War-
wick Farm.
William Kelso, who had been out of luck
for many months, has saddled up three
winners in the last fortnight; Alpen, a
two-year-old by Valais —Eulita which he
trains for Robert Miller, was the latest or
them in the Second Nursery Handicap, and
was at the nice price of 10 to 1. The
veteran accepted for two, Loquacious and
Bacchus, in the Winter Stakes, but depended
on Bacchus. The old horse, however, failed
once more, and so did Murillo, who was also
backed. Two outsiders, Frances Cyllene
(14 to 1) and Eden Hall (16 to 1), had the
finish to themselves, and once more a mare
prevailed. She is by Cyllene. More —My
Lady, and has done very well this season, as
have Gwillian G., Venetian Lady and so
many others of her sex. And the time, -min.
46see. for 13 furlongs, was very good, in-
(lncement, who won the Winter Stakes last
year, was favorite, and ran third.
Crown Area (5 to 2), from the .Booth
stable at Rosehill, landed a big stake in the
Exeter Handicap, having been backed from
eights. But it was only in the last stride
that he disposed of Aorangi (12 to 1), and
a lot of people expected Aorangi’s number to
go up first. Poitiers (6 to 1) was next.
* . * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday : —-
Flying Welter: Vertoy or Leisure Hour;
next, Magnetic.
Three-year-old Handica*p : Gleaner; next,
Rebate. TT „
June Handicap: Vcrtoy or Eden Hall;
next, Eubul.
Granville Stakes: What About It; next,
Stock Boy.
* ij: ❖ *
Only five horses competed in the M in-
darra Hurdle at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. Success rested with Flavedo, to whom
Dookie, Gipsy Verse and India’s. Hope were
preferred in the betting. The trio exhausted
themselves by galloping too fast in the first
mile on a soft track, and Flavedo won easily
from Gipsy Verse and Tresolaus. who came
home well after beginning badly. Flavedo,
by All Black from a Flavus mare, belongs
to A. T. Creswick, who landed the Austra-
lian Hurdle and Steeplechase of 1928 with
Sir Alogy. A stablemate, Carwoola, has
been backed for the National, but the owner
may have to depend on Flavedo, as Car-
woola is suffering from a. cold.
Charles Quinn, who trains the G. N.
Steeplechase candidate Adit, appropriated
the Travancore Steeple with his own horse
Giff. Punters went bald-headed for Reviser,
who was to. have been sent over for the
A.J.C. £2OOO Steeplechase, but met with an
accident at his last Moonee Yalley outing,
and had to be put on the easy list. Reviser
races in the same colors as Sandhurst, and
is a dashing fencer; but Gift’ deposed him
five furlongs from home and won running
away. Gift' started at 10 to 1, and never
put a foot wrong. He is a recruit from the
ranks of brush steeplechasers. Glentronie
was third. Poor form was revealed by Fred
Brown, Chaumont, Ancient Mariner and
Blarwyn.
Punters expected the Marne Jumpers’ Flat
to afford some line as to the prospects of
G. N. Hurdle aspirants. Trilacre, on whom
Bob Inksoft registered an easy victory, is
not engaged in the big race on July 7, but
Solo Flight (second) and Announcer (third)
are. Under his burden of just on list.,
Announcer acquitted himself splendidly con-
sidering the state of the going. He com-
mands a great number of admirers for the
National. There were few inquiries on
Saturday for Bay of Biscay at 20 to 1. It
was the Adelaide horse’s first appearance in
-Melbourne since last winter, when he ran
third in the G. N. Hurdle. Kentle handled
list. 71b. courageously in the mud, and lost
none of his G. N. Steeple friends.
Blematic lost the Chandos Handicap by
a head to the Claro filly Melanie, but would
have won by lengths if he had not swerved
towards the judge’s box 20 yards from home.
Spectators blamed the little jockey on Ble-
matic for the occurrence, but the stewards,
absolved him, taking the view that Blematic
had tried to get over to the gate through
which he w 7 ent on to the course. In the
middle-distance Deep Creek Handicap a
Westralian triumph was recorded; the
winner, Bessemer, is owned by E. B.
McKeon and was ridden by Neville Perci-
val. Both parties hail from Perth, where
INITIATIVE.
“Wouldn’t yer think the fool ’ud clinch?’
“No bloomin’ fear. We rubbed Jacky down with a dead goanna!”
McKeon trained for the late Bob Fhillips,
of Abundance fame. McKeon had charge of
horses in Melbourne for T. M. Burke, and
when the string was disposed of Ernie
acquired Bessemer at auction.
Harold Jones, w r ho rode with such success
at the autumn meetings in Adelaide, piloted
Rex Aurantic in the Greenvale Welter, and
his mount show 7 ed a clean set of heels to the
opposition, winning as he liked from Alli-
gator and Elanor. In his last seven starts
Rex Aurantic has registered five firsts and a
second. Alligator also has performed very
consistently of late.
•4: * 4= *
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Toolambool Hurdle : Rakwool; next, Moss-
trooper.
Wanda Steeple: Adit; next, Invincible.
* * *
“Thormanby”: The Sydney sale of the
blood stock which the late John Brown
had allowed to accumulate at his stud farms
of Wills Gully and Darbalara attracted a
lot of interest among the racing fraternity.
Many of the lots w 7 ere fairly well-tootlied,
but the Wills Gully contingent was on the
young side, and 23 of them sold for 2740
guineas, a pretty decent average for untried
voungsters, even though they had been
polished up a bit. The Darbalara lot were
mostly as rough as bags, but one shrew r d
bird bought a five-year-old which has never
faced a barrier, by March Along (imp.)
Duchess Dear, for 200 guineas. The nag
should be worth watching when he is ready.
There was a carefree atmosphere about the
sale, and all sorts of buyers from pony
shrewdies to owners of milk-cart rounds were
there. Some of the purchasers on the blind
will probably collect good dividends. For
once in a way, Australian sires were popular,
as compared with the imported variety.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Middleweight champion Jack Haines out-
pointed Larry Brignolia, of America, over
15 rounds at Sydney Stadium, but Larry
proved a tough, game and awkward cus-
tomer, willing to take a wallop in exchange
for one of his own. And he is a born show-
man. Crouching almost to the floor in the
opening round he puzzled Haines for a while,
but the latter introduced a couple of weighty
right uppercuts. Then Larry began to take
a hand himself, and, bustling Haines, nailed
him with some solid rights to the face and
scored well with both hands in close. In
the ninth a tremendous right uppercut nearly
lifted Larry’s head off, and in the eleventh
a right brought him to his knees, bur
lie was going like a circular saw 7 before the
round ended. Haines won the concluding
rounds well, his straight lefts to the face
piling up a lot of points.
* s!: * *
An alleged fight for the world’s champion-
ship has gone for the first time to a beaten
man. Stacked up against Sharkey, who is as
temperamental as a Davis Cup tennis player,
Max Schmelling made a miserable showing
until the Yank fouled him with a low; punch
in the fourth round. The ref. decided in
favor, of the German. When Sharkey did
the same thing to Phil Scott, at Miami,
the verdict w\as given against the English-
man.
The McLeod-Cantonwine affair at Mel-
bourne Stadium was a crude burlesque on
wrestling as Australia knew it in the days
of Miller and Dinnie. Mac. scored a fall
shortly after the opening gong, which is
surely a breach of union rules. After that
the pair made clumsy attempts to. instil a
little “brutality” into the proceedings, but
the crowd refused to take these efforts seri-
ously. Cantonwine secured falls in the
fourth and fifth rounds respectively with
what lie apparently imagined were ferocious
dumps. ' He weighed 15st. 81b.; McLeod,
15st. 21b.
The Fifteen
Woodfull’s Wanderers started off splen-
didly in the first Test at Nottingham by
dismissing eiglit of the opposition for 241 on
a perfect w’icket. Next morning, on a wet
pitch drying under sun and wind, the score
reached 270. Hobbs got together a painstaking
7S, but a brilliant bit of hitting by Chapman
(52) and another by Robins, who scored 50
in his first Test, saved the home side from
disaster. Grimmett bowded wonderfully to
take 5 for 107, while Fairfax (2-51),
McCabe (1-23), Ilornibrook (1-30) and
Wall (1-47) all did tlieir bit. The Aus-
tralians’ first knock on the drying pitch
began disastrously, as w T as to be expected.
Tate at once developed venom, and in no time
Woodfull, Ponsford, Bradman and McCabe
had gone for 57. Robins taking the youngster’s
wicket. Fairfax, sent in early, hung on
doggedly while Allan Kippax got among the
runs and mastered the bowling. Fairfax
played -an invaluable, if tedious, 14, and was
succeeded by Richardson, w 7 ho hit up 37 in
short order, going to Tyldesley just as he was
shaping for a big score. Oldfield and
Grimmett went cheaply, and Australia was
left at stumps with 8 gone for 140. Kippa*x
w r as 60 n. 0., with Ilornibrook and Wall to
bat. Tate took 3 for 20 on a pitch made for
ẃ


■. Hallo! going away, Bert."?'
Seßt: Yes, to Kosciusko for
a. OAV OR TWO y
*, rt VVH"f CSO TO KoSCIUSKO ? ' >
'Meu_,C-H\EEL.Y’ ©ECAUSe
THE DARNEO OLD Place
"NomY come to Me.”
Footbrawl
I' itzcray ”: Here in Melbourne we may
overlook trifling details in regard to infringe-
ments of the football laws, such as the for-
bidden practice of buying and selling players
which goes on merrily, but we are strict
on the really important aspects of the game.
The other day the supervising potentate
reported that Fitzroy had been three seconds
late in coming on the field at half-time in
their match against'Melbourne! The Maroons
were fined a fiver, and not all their tears
could wash out a quid of it.
**. * , *
“Huon”: Tasmanian football lias just
lost a stalwart by the voluntary retirement
of ‘‘Leisha” Smith. The veteran started in
big League games with the Lefroy club in
J 915, , and has never missed a match since,
playing with his club in 188 consecutive
games. A fine winger at his best, he was
shifted to the back division last year, and
though he badly wanted to notch his 200
games, he has taken the hint, and pulled out.
Sfiiith has never been injured in a< game, a
fact which will explain to aW footballers
his reputation of being one of the fairest
of players. It is usually the “dirty” lad
who becomes a cot case sooner or later—
usually sooner.
•v * * *
One of the most attractive features of
football in N.S.W. for many years has been
the meeting on Sydney Uni. Oval of teams
from three Australian Universities playing
under the amateur Rugby Union code.
Sydney, as might have been expected, came
out ahead in the triangular tournament. It
beat Melbourne, which in turn overset
Queensland. Nevertheless, the Banana-
landers, playing their first Union game out
of Brisbane since their University was
founded, managed to finish ahead of the
Sydneyites in flic final match of the scries.
Teams that can beat Sydney University do
not grow on every tree, and the new club
from the North has every reason to plume
itself on its performance. The climax of
the week was the defeat by Combined Uni-
versities of a really strong N.S.W. .second
15, 16-14. Half a* dozen of the Combined
Uni. side must be considered as. possibilities
for Australian honors. . Sturtridge, of
Melbourne, who already has an Australian
cap, is one, and a clinking -forward in Clark,
of Queensland, is another. The Westralians
ha<ve announced their intention of having a
shot next year.
* * *
The British team in MX. scored their
fifth win in seven matches by beating West
Coast 34-11 at Greymouth. The visitors
should now be well tuned up for the first
Test against the All Blacks at Dunedin on
June 21, and may win, in view of the team of
veterans chosen to represent MX. Only two
men new to international football have been
picked, the balance including players of long
standing like Nepia, Porter and Mark
Nicholls. Many of the side were in Aus-
tralia last year.
“.Witch”: The G.O.M. of Otago (M.L.)
Rugby, Harry Harris, has been brought back
to the presidential chair this year, which
will bo a big one in the Scotchbyterian
district’s Rugger circles. It marks the
fiftieth anniversary of the introduction of
the code into the province. Harris has done
great service during his 33 years’ association
with the 0.R.F.U., having been president in
10 consecutive years and treasurer for 13
years, the in-between periods being filled
as vice-president or as a mere committeeman.
He also was one of the managers of the last
Maori team of Ruggerites to visit England
and France.
2,i i\i i|c • :J:
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. Rugby
League is up against the trouble that faces
all promoters of professional sport. It finds
itself unable to control the serpent it has
warmed in its buzzum, so to speak. It had
great difficulty in persuading Weissel, the
Kangaroo five-eighth, to play for the State
against Queensland, that young gentleman
being tied up to a country team which
desired his services for a local match.
When Weissel was selected to represent
the returned Kangaroos against the rest
of: the N.S.W. League, the people who
guaranteed his fees as a paid coach for
Tcmora announced that they simply couldn’t
allow him to play—lie was needed for another
inter-town game. The League swore hard
while considering the question in committee
the other night, but did nothing. With the
Rugby Union gaining ground every day, it
dare not offend the country districts which
follow the professional code.
The Fifteen
Australia had an easy win from Cam-
bridge by an innings and 134 runs. The
cheerful feature in the Australians’ score
of 504 for 8 wickets was the bright form of
McCabe for 96, while Woodfull belted up
216. McCabe and Bra*dman did most of the
bowling, each getting his share of wickets in
the two Cambridge innings. Averages to the
end of this game show Bradman at the
head of the batting with 111.81 per innings,
and a total of 1230. Grimmett heads the
bowling with 66 wickets costing 11 .IS each,
Hormbrook’s tally being 50 for 12.62 apiece,
liwrlax and Wall have taken 19 and 18
wickets respectively.
* * * *
“Fenner’s”: A batsman who did himself
no harm-in the eyes of the English selectors
in the Cambridge match against Australia
is E. T. Killick, who also plays for Middle-
sex when not at the University. His double
44 was the . only performance, that , resembled
batting on the Light Blue side, and he may
yet _ catch his English cap against the
tourists. He lias already figured with the
Gentlemen against the Players, and in two
Tests against the Africans. Like A. E.
Knight, of Leicester, here with Warner in
1903-04, Killick plays in spectacles.
* * ij:
“Old Trafford”: One of the surprises of
the provisional selection of the English
Eleven was the inclusion of big Dick
Tyldesley, who was here with Gilli-
gan. Over 30, he is a
and as far as his Australian tour is concerned
was a failure, playing in only one Test and
taking no wickets. Richard was not chosen in
England next year, or against the West
Indians or South Africans subsequently. His
right-hand slows put him at the head
of the county averages last year. The fact
that lie bowled Woodfull, Walker, a’Beckett
said Richardson for 36 in the recent Lanca-
shire match must have given him a leg-up.
Racquet and Brawl
“Top Spin”: There was a general sigh
of relief from Australian tennis players
when the news came through that Crawford
and Hopman had eliminated England in
their Davis Cup fixture. The Australians
won all four singles, but the Englishmen,
greatly heartened by their victory in the
doubles, gave them a tough run jn the second
two, Hopman only defeating Lee after five
sets, while Crawford took four to stop
Gregory. However, Moon is recovering from
his injury, and there will be a lot more
confidence. in the side when he is on deck
again. No one is ever sure of Crawford,
while Hopman has also shown signs of
developing the off-day habit of late.
.** * *
“Hotham” : The Australian tennis autho-
rities in Melbourne put up a mild kick the
other day at the necessity forced on the Aus-
tralian Davis: Cup team to travel all the
way from England to Italy to meet the
Italians at Milan, and talk of trying in
future to have such matches played on
neutral ground. It would be a very hard
matter to arrange. For instance, if Aus-
tralians in England had to play Americans
situated in Yankeeland, about the only half-
way house would be Bermuda or perhaps
the Azores.
❖ $ $ :J:
“Cut Shot”: Apart from South Austra-
lian Kitty le Mesurier, Australia will have
no woman player of note at Wimbledon.
A pity, for the feminine entry will be a
cosmopolitan one, including, in addition to
the American and European performers, the
much-discussed Jenny Sandison from India.
The girl from the coral strand showed at
Wimbledon last year, but did not get very
far. She is reputed to be a very high-class
player, however, when in form, and has
several victories against Elizabeth Ryan to
her credit.
❖ i'fi sfc
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Those English tennis
flappers (B. 11/6/’3O) are not the only ones
inclined to uppishness. Recently Bobby
Heine, the South' African championette, had
a row with the Afrikander tennis authori-
ties over a failure to appear in an important
fixture. Papa Heine then rose in his wrath
and announced that he would see the tennis
heads in the Kalahari Desert before he would
let his lass represent them in England. The
S.A. association has countered by scratching
Bobby for a]! engagements, at home and
abroad ; so there!
The Nineteenth Hole
“Ilotham”: Melbourne has a knack of
producing youthful golf champions. The
other day a* 15-year-old named Williams
won the important Riversdale Trophy from
a strong field which included such champions
as Alex. Russell, M. J. Ryan and L. E.
Schwartz-. The play was against par over
36 holes, and the lad finished only five down.
Ryan, la»st year’s amateur champion of Aus-
tralia, was two strokes worse, and Russell,
one of Australia's most formidable golfers,
was in third place, three behind the winner.
Par for the course is. 72 at Riversdale.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The amateur foursomes
championship of N.S.W., played on the
N.S.W. club’s course at Kensington, was
won by S. A. Keane, of Cammeray, and G.
Thompson, of Bonnie Doone, after some re-
markable golf. The pair returned a carl
of 68 for the final round, a record which
has never been approached in Australian
foursomes events. The score lowered the
course record by two, and the previous ama-
teur best by three strokes. Indeed, it has
only been excelled by Walter Hagen, who
recently went round in 67. Keane, a Win-
deyer Cup and inter-State rep., is one of
the most brilliant of the younger Australian
golfers, but he was soundly backed by his
partner, as the score testifies
* * * *
“Brassey”: Walter Hagen and Joe Kirk-
wood were last heard of in Japan, where
they were due to play a game on the Im-
perial Palace links at Shinjuku against mem-
bers of the Imperial family, though it was
not stated whether Joe would insist on the
ss. admission fee which caused more than
one contretemps in Australia. Walter has
a set of clubs to present to the Emperor.
When he did the same thing by the Prince
of Wales some time ago, that personage was
staggered to subsequently receive a bill for
£25. Of course it was a mistake, but a simi-
lar bloomer in Old Japan might, lead to
Walter being politely requested to commit
hara-kiri—a messy proceeding.
❖
“Kongoni” (Kenya) : Can any of the
Aussie golfing fraternity beat this perform-
ance? Here in Nairobi one enthusiast woke
one morning feeling in gOod form, and started
oft by doing nine holes on the local course.
After that he motored to the next course
at Giegil, and then to Nakuru and Eldoret,
repeating the nine-hole game at each course.
He played altogether 36 holes, motoring 240
miles in one day. Incidentally, this golf
fiend is over 50 years of age, and crossed
the Equator during the performance.
* * * *
“Baffy”: America, the mother of freak
golf clubs since the days of the Schenectady
putter, has been considering several new
varieties submitted for official approval. A
putter with adjustable weighting in the head
has_ been banned, and so has one with a
“built-out grip for the right hand on a curved
shaft,” which sounds weird. Swan-necked
putters, designed to produce the effect of
centre shafting, have also gone into the dis-
card. Most players are satisfied that the
present varieties of club are sufficiently un-
suitable to the purposes for which they are
intended without going to further extremes.
❖
“Cranoustie”: Curious how the Americans
continue lifting British titles in golf under
conditions which are supposed to be unfavor-
able to them. The recent win of Jones in
the amateur championship is one victory of
many scored within the last few years. ' On
the other hand, apart from matches between
professionals, British players have done no
good at all in the land of the dollar. It is
disturbing to remember that John Bull’s
last outstanding success was Ned Ray’s win
in the Yank open championship at Toledo
in 1920.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: Reginald Brearley and A.
E. Elliott, two racing motorists, of Mel-
bourne, came to a sudden end in trying to
lower the Sydney-'Melbourne record the other
night. The attempt was kept secret for fear
that it might be stopped, and only three
persons certified to the departure from
Sydney G.P.O. Near Gunning, where an
Italian driver abruptly ended his career as
a record-breaker a couple of years ago, they
ran into an embankment with fatal results
to both. Brearley was one of Victoria’s
leading speed drivers; he came second in the
Grand Prix at Phillip Island in 1929. Per-
haps the traffic authorities, w 7 ho have so
long winked at these speeding stunts on
the public highways, will now move to action.
* * * *
“Whizz”; Norman Smith and his faithful
offsider Don Harkness are to make that
attempt on the world’s speed record in their
aeroplane-engined car (B. 11/6/’3O) in Feb-
ruary next. One of the problems confronting
them on the last occasion, when they put
up 144 m.p.h. on the Ninety-mile Beach in
Maorila<nd, may not be troubling them this
time. This was the presence of numbers of
tohera shellfish in the beach sands, the danger
of their sharp-edged shells puncturing the
tyres being a serious possibility. For some
reason, however, the creatures have died in
millions recently, and few are now 7 to be
found. As the new car will be fitted with
single-tube silk tyres sprayed with a thin
solution of rubber, perhaps this is just as
well.
H? iji
“Buzz”: Kaye Don didn’t ta*ke the break-
ing of his Brooklands speed record lying
down (B. 11/6/’30)., A few days after the
new figures by Birkett in his Bentley, the
Sunbeam pilot equalled his rival’s 135 m.p.h.
He is talking of doing better than that, but
the Brooklands authorities may not let him
try.
* jjt * *
“Disc Clutch”: The Indianapolis 500,
America’s principal race for motor-cars, has
been won this year by B. Arnold, a Chicago
driver who has come to the front quite re-
cently. His machine Avas a front wheel
drive Haftz-Millar, the first of its typ_e to
figure in this event. In addition to collect-
ins' £ll,OOO for his win, Arnold averaged
104 m.p.h., thus eclipsing the record of
101 tn.p.h. put up in 1925 by Paul de Paola.
* * * *
“Exhaust”: Next week should see the
famous Tourist Trophy race for motor-cycles
run off on the tricky Isle of Man circuit.
Australia will have an official representative
in Stuart Williams, of N.S.W. There are
three events, senior, junior and one for
lightweight cycles. Williams will ride three
different machines in these races, and has
already established himself on the scene of
operations, where lie has been riding over
the course.
“Toe-clip”: On Wellington (M.L.) there
recently descended a much-bandaged indivi-
dual who said he was E. Wadsworth, of
Perth, which city he had left on January
27 last year in an endeavor to “cycle round
the world.” He related terrible stories of
privations in Westralia*, where, lie says, hi*
went a day and a half without water; claimed
to have received burns and scars in fires and
brawls in Queensland pubs, and exhibited a
bicycle round which was wrapped 1301 b. of
impedimenta, including a radio set, blankets
and firearms. Why Mr. Wadsworth overlanded
from Perth to Brisbane taking 17 months
for the journey and then skipped to Maori-
land is not explained, nor is there any ex-
planation of his colossal swag, which
shouldn't be needed in M.L., where there is
a pub every 10 miles or so, right down the
route from north to south. But the leading
Dominion newspapers have given liim space
for a< recital of his tribulations and have
swallowed without a gulp the story that he
intends to make Alexandria, South Africa,
the British Isles and France the next steps in
his weird itinerary.
Miscellaneous
“Bumpkin”: Australian Jewry is per-
turbed about sport on the Jewish Sab-
bath. Rabbi Mestel made some remarks
endorsing the permissibility of organ-
ised sport on Saturday. Rabbi Israel Brodie,
of Victoria, chairman of the Beth Din,
countered by announcing that, whatever
might be done by individuals, Jewish law did
not permit Sabbath sport. The Jewish
“Herald” settled the matter by cabling to
Chief Rabbi Kook, of Jerusalem, who
replied that cricket and football on
Sabbath and holy days were forbidden.
Chief Rabbi Hertz, head dignitary in
the British Empire cabled approving this
statement. Being forbidden to take exercise
by his own religion on Saturday, and by
the Gentile to play on Sunday, the Je'w’s
week-end becomes a dull one. Some of
Australia’s most noted athletes are con-
scientious Hebrews.
* :> $ H=
“Swan”: The 48th race for the Oxford-
Cambridge Cup for an eight-oar tussle be-
tween Australian universities was a triumph
for the Westralian crew for the third time
in four starts. There was a head wind and
an opposing tide over the three-mile course, so
the time, 19min. 57Jsec., wa,s necessarily
slow. The winners showed fine staying
power, and won comfortably, with Adelaide
three-quarters of a length away. Sydney and
Melbourne followed, the Victorians having
bad luck in swamping when showing well.
4: $ - $ $
“Ivaigona” : Australian hockey players are
to invade Suva in the Fijis, where reside
the rich uncles, the side leaving in August
and paying its own travelling expenses.
The game is very popular in the sugar
isles, and especially among the considerable
Hindu population. It may be as well to
warn the tourists to abstain from kava. The
stuff, which tastes much like warm soapsuds,
is not heady, but affects the drinker’s legs
in a most peculiar manner. A hockey team
which is unable to stand up, much less
walk or run, is not likely to meet with
success.
Sfi * * *
“Dropper”: Britain is staggering under
a bitter disappointment. This year’s run
of that mysterious fish the salmon in the
rivers has not eventuated. Not only have
the gourmets been saddened, but many thou-
sands of people who pay exorbitant rents
for a mile or two of water on the famous
salmon streams are realising that they have
been sold a pup. Even worse is the plight
of the nobility and gentry who are living
in terror of having to cancel their leases
and return the rents.
* * *
“Hydro”: A curious happening marked
the first trial of Miss England, the motor-
speed boat with which Henry Segrave
will attempt to win back the world’s cham-
pionship from the Americans. She is fitted
with a 4000-h.p. engine, and when her pilot had
hit her up to 100 m.p.h. the propeller blades
crumpled up like cardboard. The propeller
was made of specially tested steel, it being
considered that the usual phosphor bronze
w r ould not be equal to the tremendous torque
likely to be developed. A nice problem con-
fronts the craft’s designers if they persist
in their attempts to achieve abnormal speed.


1
z
On the way to the Eastern Coast
you can choose from many differ-
entrailway routes across America
from San Francisco.
You’ll find all the comforts of a good
hotel on America’s transcontinental
trains —including hath, barber shop ,
buffet, card tables, library!
A new, free service
in planning jour trip
YOUR
ANSWERS
ARE READY!
"I’ve heard so many things
about travel in America. Can
you really cross the continent
with only one change of
trains?”
"My Matson Line ship from
Sydney to San Francisco
stops at Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii. Will l have time to
swim at Waikiki?”
"Do the railways actually
handle my luggage across
the continent without bother
to me?”
"Of course, I want to see
the National Parks. Please
suggest a schedule within the
time 1 have to spend.”
"Since my whole trip is
planned right here, does my
one ticket cover everything?”
U
"What does breakfast cost
in New York?”
■
"What do tips average for
each kind of service?”
B
"Is it true that a nice hotel
room with bath costs only
12 shillings?”
"Where do the cinema stars
lunch in Hollywood?”
across America to ENGLAND
American travel expert arrives
to head information bureau .
TUST ask anything you want to know about
travel in America. Your answers are
ready! The new American Railways Travel
& Information Bureau of the Oceanic
Steamship Company (Matson Line) can
give you the facts about every detail of your
journey. There’s no charge for the service!
This new and unusual bureau is headed
by an expert, just come out to Australia,
who has had many years of experience with
American railways. In advance, before ever
you leave Australia, he can arrange every
step of your trip across America to England.
f Fares? Schedules? Places of interest?
Living costs? Tips? He knows them all!
And he is ready to give you this helpful
information. Never before have you had
travel service like this! More than ever
now, you’ll he anxious to see America on
your next trip home.
First off, you’ll want our free illustrated
booklet, “To England Across America.” It
answers many of your questions. For this
and any other service you may need, call
on or write our Railways Travel
& Information Bureau.
i(hiMi(SnmHir(A.
MATSON LINE
Dept.. Ml 2, 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 87981.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
Mcliwraith, McEacharn, Ltd.
Melbourne, Adelaide.
Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., Brisbane and Queensland Ports.
lii the lounge car you'll find big ivindows,
writing desks, magazines. Every convenience
that modern travel offers is at your hand.
Sleeping cars in America have deep, restful
seats for daytime use. Comfortable travelling
both for night and for day is always assured.


IDEAL WINTER TOUR
m
m
:'
■■ ■ ■
i*»ga»ii
;
v ■
'.:
m
S B
v ■ ■ ■■■
i
mam
mm
i-, ••
i
.
■; 'i
mi
■>-y
w
HMH
lilitl
.
! 1 .1
m
Wm
Iggfigg
% ■
mmßSm
Swim
-i
m
1
"t
B!Li
&
SSS
S3*
is?
1
l
I
-
IS
*
■
ii Sri S
1U
ss
n
■■HI
■ ■■ ..
ML
■:7-*
mm »»» J
n ■
H m
s*s
m
i
%
m
A
Wm
I
it
X
w
y
■
»««
I
N
■
m
m
m
m
■ i
x:- •': - ; --
m
a
. pp
■■
■
iiiP ■
mm
. •■:
I
|::f
til - ■ ~ v " '*' '
....
*A
m
■
V
N
m
■
B
: .VL
■
_
TRAVEL TO CAIRNS
BY SEA
“CANBERRA”
“ORMISTON”
“MANUNDA”
“ORUNGAL'V
SAIL,NG FROiW MELBOURNE EVERY SATURDAY—Round Trip 2® Days,
SAILING FROM SYDNEY EVERY TUESDAY—Round Trip 20 Days.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS, PAMPHLETS, ETC., APPLY
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY. LTD. ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO. LIMITED
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED
A.U.S.N. CO. LIMITED
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4 /-
Phone M 4 I 3 1 for your reservation.
Write for booklet to BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
In the Crisis
of Illness
as well as during temporary
sickness or digestive de-
rangement, Bengers Food
is always the safe food to
give.
Whenever special nour-
ishment is required use
Benger’s also as an extra
“between-meal” Food.
Food
K«rd. Tn» UK Mark.
Under'
Royal
.Warrant
Vintage 1920.
A 39-1039
9UI>I
RH °1
CH AIVIPAGIME
c hampacks
Qiailesllcidsieci
REIMS
Australasian Agent*
S wift fc Company Li initai
SYDNEY.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
The small flat and its corresponding baby
furniture are doomed if the summer
hats of which this Letter had a view last
week persist. Wardrobes of the old size
will be required to accommodate the sweep-
ing .brims with their flower decorations. One
advance crinoline model was of periwinkle
blue, and had two flowers of soft mauvey
tone perched right on the centre-front of
the brim. A smart modified mushroom shape
in black ballibuntal was ornamented with a
plain band of pique, with two conventional
flowers of rolled pique, for this is to be a
cotton summer. There are exquisite garden-
party hats made of layers of organdie with
lineii between the layers. In some of these
the organdie is stirelied all over in a pattern
of small squares. Home are flower-trimmed
and some are wreathed in ostrich feather to
tone with the hat. A slightly-mushroom
shape in baku of a* dark beige had multi-
colored flowers around its crown of lacquered
cretonne. These big hats will be worn with
a difference. No longer will they make us
look neckless and earless. The crowns are
very shallow and the brims take a becom-
ing and intriguing angle. Cotton flowers,
plain or varnished, are the only horticulture
a fashionable lid will wear, and a garland
of white cotton violets on a lilac crinoline
was, judging by the price ticket, the supreme
creation.
Sky blue is the coming shade for the
semi-sports frocks and coats to which Syd-
ney women are addicted, so says the girl
just back from Paris and London. In
Paris, when she left, the woman in black
was everywhere: in the cafes, on the. streets,
at Longchamps. By day her skirts re-
vealed nearly as much leg as of old, and at
night her absence of hat showed hair as
short as ever. Small jetted caps are a
vogue for evening wear. They conform to
the line of the head, and are complete with
flat knot at the back, just as though they
were shiny hair smoothed flat to the head
and 'finished at the nape of the neck with a
Grecian knot. For blondes, these are made
in gold lace, and at a distance it is impos-
sible to know where the hair ends and the
cap begins. A thin black jersey pullover,
following the waistline, which has an ivory
Peter Pan collar wmven ijato it and is Avorn
with a thin cream jersey-cloth skirt and a
velvet cap lacquered black and white, is
one of this creature’s smartest Parisian
pick-ups. Her metal-thread evening coat,
so finely woven it looks as though made
from bits of the Arts and Crafters’ prize
enamels, finishes just below the hips, after
being caught rather snugly to the waist
Avith a great crystal and gilt button. Spots
are to dance before the gaze on silk and
ergpey materials. Capes or boleros are on
every second dress. Voile, silk and cotton
will appear in our best frocks, and some
of the prettiest floral silks, she says, are
those which bloom with our own wattle.
Net shawls, artificial flowers and fans are
again among the night’s impedimenta. For
day wear, calf handbags, shiny, flat and of
a serviceable size, are the thing. Blouses,
not jumpers, go Avith coats and skirts, and
the newest way of putting a fur collar on
a coat is to attach it loav dowm at the back,
so that it looks like a fur stole that has
slipped doAvn over the shoulders.
Sydney turned out to laugh with Sir
Philip and Lady Game at Edith Taliaferro
and Ethel Morrison in “Let TJs Be Gay”
at the Criterion one night last week. The
play is all cocktail, h&rs-d'ceuvrc, olives and
savory. It brought to mind the story of
the De Maintenon who had unexpected
friends to dine. She was entertaining them
AA r ith gay and brilliant De Maintenon con-
versation, when the faithful servitor leaned
across her chair and Avhispered fervently in
her ear: “But one more story, Madame, and
they Avill not notice the absence of the
roast.”
Funny how her choice of perfume places
a woman. To the left of the writer at this
Criterion show came the scent of Quelques
Fleurs. That meant a nice woman, thirty-
ish, who’d never had her hair shingled, who
looked on the world with serene eyes, had
happy children and a contented husband.
A glance proved the guess correct. The lady
is one of Sydney’s happiest matrons. A
Iqdy with a ravishing shoulder-blade and
jade earrings dangling from impeccable ears
had the same touched with Black Narcissus:
Vogue de Molyneux was wafted in the pass-
ing of a willowy creature who walked in
apple-green suede shoes edged with silver —
the six-guinea kind. And then and then,
O Watson, this Sherlock Holmes covered her
head with confusion! A sweet, simple breath
of lily-of-the-valley assailed the nose. It
should have emanated from a tulled deb.;
actually, it came from one of the wittiest,
most up-to-date divorcees in the city!
The clothes are the most fascinating
Sydney has seen since “Lombardi and Co. 1 ’
Edith Taliaferro appears first in an orange
linen outfit, a two-piece, the skirt made high-
waisted and surmounted by a primrose-
yellow blouse, a fur slung across the shoulder
as negligently as King Billy might wear a
freshly-killed snake. In the evening the lady,
in the company of the entire house-party,
wears an off-white satin frock that in spite
ol long loose panels fits her fluent little body
like a postage stamp. It is backless, has
a wrap-over front and panels that hang
loose to the ankles after being stitched down
the body as far as Nature has supplied
curves. It’s a frock to dream about, but
one that the home dressmaker should never
try to copy. A pink rest gown, with a waist-
deep cape (cut in a V) of ivory lace, the
same fabric cascading over its front, equipped
the lady to fend off one attack on her virtue
or her affections (you decide for youi’self
which, according as you are post- or pre-war),
a too hasty reconciliation with a roaming-
husband, and the recital of a poem to her
eyes by an amorous verse-writer. So much
for the dazzling Taliaferro. But Ethel
Morrison is the play—arrogant, ruthless
beneath a seeming rough good-humor, coarse
of tongue, consciously rude, trampling every-
body’s sensibilities in tjio maintenance of
her family pride.
The fiovcrnor and his lixly were boxed
opposite Miss Crowdy and Philip and David
Game. Lady Game’s Burgundy chiffons were
gold, topped by a coal of lame, and Miss
Crowdy was grey as a twilight cloud. There
was bunting on the boxes and on the circle,
and Charlie Westmacott unleashed his best
vintage-port tones for the vice-regal greeting
and speeding. A mellow voice in middle age
is as grand a possession for a man as a pair
of finely carried shoulders for a woman.
“A committee woman who is always cour-
teous,” this letter would .say if asked to
give an impression of new T knight Alex-
ander Gordon’s sparkling little wife. Any
committee that
secures her
help finds
itself moving
surely to suc-
cess along the
smooth lines
of amiability.
She has ideas
—a quick
brain full of
them —and she
infuses with
her enthusi-
asm even the
blase press-
woman; so
that publicity
is ready to
attend what-’
ever task her
hands find to
do. .Tust now
she is busy
helping the
production of “Berkeley Square” in the
interests of Karitane. This promises to be
the big- amateur theatrical success of the
season. Good-lookers like Mrs. George
Vivers (she’s cast as a Duchess) and Mrs.
Oscar Paul occur with a regularity that
suggests a Mr. Cochrane’s revue'; and
people who had thought the play too ambi-
tious for amateurs are now changing their
minds. Ann Gordon is playing the part
taken by Jean Forbes Robertson in the
London production. Alan Row made this
photo for The Bulletin.
The women graduates of Sydney Uni.
made Amy Johnson their guest of honor at
the association’s annual dinner. This was
held at Beaumont House, and as the young
woman is a B.A. of Sheffield it wasquite
a family affair, so to speak. But beyond
applause and a good dinner the only thing
she garnered from this gathering was an
armful of flowers and a Margaret Preston
woodcut. Dr. Constance D’Arcy, president
of the association, made the welcoming
speech. The Millions Club gave the flier
a lunch, and the Masons had her at rheir
ball. In fact, such a. reception did the
Worshipful Brothers give her that at one
time it looked as if she were going to be
initiated into the mysteries.
Talking of Masons recalls that Aubrey
Halloran has been made Grand Master for
N. S. Wales. Well, that’s quite appropriate,
for as one of the heads of the histoi’ical
society no man knows more about the foun-
dations and structure of the State than this
most amiable lawyer.
People in the sports trade will tell you
that its most remarkable development of
recent years is in the material for women’s
games. The chief sport is hockey; almost
every big firm- in Sydney now has a girls’
hockey club. The earnestness of these sport-
ing girls can be judged by anyone who wan-
ders through the Domain at 8 a.m. or there-
abouts, and has a look at the flappers hard
at a practice game before getting to their
work in the city. But the sports enthusiasts
have no less devotion to lipstick and face-
powder than the rest; when the time comes
to move on to their jobs a big tree serves
as a dressing-room, and some of the players,
careful to wear old stockings and shoes for
the game, have to make extensive changes.
They do it with a celerity that upsets one
old fable; but how shocked Grandma would
have been at the flashing of bare legs!
Whenever this Letter sees its friend Mrs.
Leahy it sees behind her that fine, hospital
the Mater Misericordise. This lady—M.B.E.
since the King issued his Birthday Honors
list —was the first social worker in the
interests of that great institution. When
she and Dr. Dan Kelly first made the Mater
their pet, it
was a tiny
cottage hospi-
tal in a large
garden. In the
interests of the
comm unity’s
health that
ga r den has
gone, but Mrs.
Leahy remains,
staunch and
ardent money-
raiser for its
n e e d s. In
addition the
Mosman Red
Cross, which
has raised a
fort u n e for
soldier needs,
owes mncli of
its inspiration
to Mrs. Leahy,
who has been
its secretary since its foundation. She is
Irish, and she is witty. Once when show-
ing a house with a gorgeous view of the
harbor to an Anglican bishop,. > she turned
(they were on a small balcony) and, “Your
Grace,” she said, “it’s just as well to catch
a glimpse of Heaven while you can, isn’t
it?” The Bishop twinkled. He took the
house.
Harry Tighe, whose play “Open Spaces"
is to be read on Thursday night at the party
given by the Fellowship of Writers at the
Lyceum Club, is an Australian long domiciled
in England, where he met with success first as
a novelist —his output in that field being 17
novels —and then as a playwright; three ot
his plays have already been produced in
London. As he left Australia in his very
early days to go to Cambridge, and stayed
away for nearly 80 years, it is not surpris-
ing that his reputation is that of an English
novelist. But that he has not entirely for-
gotten his young days here is shown by the
setting of “Open Spaces.” He will lie helped
in the reading by Doris Fitton and Mrs-
Reginald Suttor, from the Independent
Theatre. The play is unusual in more than
one way. It is a four-act drama with only
three characters, and is said to demonstrate
something new in the old triangle, the wife
playing the part of Delilah.
The Arts Club and the Queen Victoria
Club joined forces to the glory of pianist
and composer Carl Budden Morris last
week. Instead of the usual afternoon tea-
drinking, they made their party an evening
rally, and invited Lady Game and Miss
Crowdy. Both turned up, and the Arts Club
was filled with members of both clubs m
fine array. Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, president
of the Queen Victorians, covered her white
lace frock with a coat of cameo-pink lace,
and looked small but full of dignity as she
welcomed the guests and pleaded with Syd-
ney to recognise its own artists* generally
and gifted Carl Budden Morris in particular.
President of the Arts, Mrs. Florence Taylor
was co-partner in the reception, and walked
on in pictorial black and white a black
chiffon dress covered with a Chinese shawl
of black embroideries on a white ground.
Lady Game isn’t so sure of our weather
being always kind. She warmed her peacock-
blue satins with a fur coat, and Miss Crowdy
wrapped her emerald and black satins in
peltry. Of the musicians, Constance Burt,
Gladys Hart, Virginia Bassctti and Daisy
Richards represented the. female of the
species, while Harry Twigden, A. E. Y.
Yates and Lance Fairfax were the male
support.
If Athens in the classic days had owned
a cinema, ancient Greeks would have
crashed the gates in their eagerness to see
such a film as “Atlantic.” This is an all-
British talkie (though one or two of the
accents sound synthetic), and deals with the
cosy topic of a collision between an iceberg
and a great liner. First you see life on the
floating palace, the men and women therein
splashing comfortably in their sins, then
vanities and their loves. You see the great
engines, their sinuous steel arms carrying
the vessel through the sly, half-frozen waters;
you see the captain on liis bridge, monarch
of liis world. And then the ice god looses
his bolt. After which, there being not
enough boats to go round, the doomed sing
“Nearer My God to Thee!” The picture is
superb; yet the world is going to say once
again: “These English, how they do love to
take their pleasure sadly!”
Westralia and Strathfield were linked up
last week when Margery Maitland Brown,
daughter of the Maitland Browns, of the
eastern suburb, married Godfrey Walsh,
heir of the F. R. Walshes, of Egaline station,
Northam (W.A.). Canon Charlton snapped
the. gyves, and the bride’s ivory georgettes
scintillated with diamente like stars on a
frosty night. Father led her up the aisle
of St. Philip’s, two ’maids in pale gold and
blue sleuthed the tulle train, and Clive
Goyder best-manned. Petty’s poured the
wine.
Leslie Ramage has taken back a bride
to Canonbar station. Before her marriage
she was Chris. Allen, of Mosman. Padre
Hugh Paton blessed the vows at St.
Stephen’s, and bride’s sister, Mrs. Arthur
Brown, of Willabilla, Collarenebri, was
matron of honor.
The third Grace has announced her
engagement. She is Beryl, and actually the
second daughter of glad-rag merchant Grace.
Away from commerce the family lives its
life at the Villa Igiea on the heights of
Vaucluse. The home with the spreading
view was festooned and garlanded with a
small fortune in berry and autumn shoots,
specially gathered by Fred Sear] from Mace-
don for the party at which this further
triumph of Cupid was announced. Gordon
Ross, of Strathfield, provides the platinum
ring with an oval-shaped blaze of diamonds.
Ivaritane will soon be looking for a new
matron. Its present head, May Richardson,
with the splendid nursing record, has become
engaged to Gerald Morriee, son of Mr. and
Mrs. W Morriee, of Murranumbla station,
Dalgety.
Malaita, in the Solomons, is about to wel-
come a new bride. She is Mrs. James Fran-
cis Ralston, who until she made her vows in
the Methodist Church at Strathfield was
Jean Gale. The ’groom’s family belongs to
Stanthorpe (Q.).
Phyllis MeLachlan, the Alec McLachlans’
only bud, married Lieut.-Oommander John
Collins, of H.M.A.S. Australia, and brother
of novelist Dale, in the late sunshine of a
winter’s afternoon, St. Mark’s at Darling
Point provided the setting, Canon Langley
blessed the vows, and brother sailors pro-
vided an arch of steel under which the satin-
and lace-clad bride and her tall ’groom
passed to their car. Then tin; Garden Club
supplied the reception. ’Maid Elsie McWil-
liam suggested a chrysanthemum in her yel-
low chiffons, and bride’s mother was charm-
ing in hunting-green chiffons.
And two weddings which must not be
overlooked even in this busy week were those
whose principals were respectively Peggy
.Tones and John McCathie, and Frances
Morgan and John Robert Dundas-Smitli,
only son of the Consul-General for Chile.
An Austral-American romance has ended
in tragedy through the death of Laurence
Victor Morris, a young Sydney engineer
who was on the point of departing for a
job in the United States, where, besides the
job, a bride awaited him. Three years ago
Morris advertised for relations in America,
and found a distant cousin, Eloise Mcßride,
of Alston, Georgia: correspondence resulted
in an engagement, recently arranged,
although the couple had never seen one an-
other. Morris looked for an American
appointment and found it; but when every-
thing seemed straight sailing, death inter-
vened. ,
Marjorie Quinn, the secretary of the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers, is a live wire.
A good deal through her urging, the Fellow-
ship is offering a prize of 20 guineas. for
the best Australian short story of not more
than 3000 words. The competition closes
on November 17.
Amy Johnson’s role was more spectacular,
but Miss Breckenridge, B.Sc., was a pioneer,
too, when she stood up before the Dairy Con-
ference held in Sydney, the first woman to
address such a gathering. It took courage;
but she had the backing of brilliant successes
in her science classes.
Artist Constance Paul, who dashed off
with visions of a long trek through Arabia,
had bad luck. She caught a chill in Mel-
bourne, and was in bed all through the
journey, and her first glimpse of Egypt was
through the window of the Mena Hospital.
She thinks of contenting herself with
Morocco and Palestine this trip.
OVERHEARD.
Novelist Wipe: “Her rich husband is paying- two
of his minions to shadow her. Shall I call them
detectives or private-inquiry agents?”
Husband ( yawning ) : “Oh, call them dough
minions.”


m
M~*r
m»
-,,,
Every Car User
Every Car Owner
Every Repairman
Every Auto Salesman
and Instructor
NEEDS TH/S
BOOK
PRICE
301-
Postage
Extra
1/8
Dyke’s Automobile and
Gasoline Engine Encyclopedia
ISth EDITION.
FORD SUPPLEMENT FREE
A big new supplement, with 40' illustrations on the NEW FORD, checked
and marked “0.K.” by the Ford engineers, included free with every copy
of the 15th. edition of Dyke’s.
A FEW FACTS ABOUT DYKE’S 15th EDITION
1271 fact-packed pages.
4300 valuable practical illustrations and diagrams,
15,000 subjects listed in handy reference index.
86 Special instructions, covering every angle of automobile construction and repair.
Written in simple, everyday language.
Special instruction on testing and adjusting every part of the automobile.
Specifications of gasoline passenger cars, trucks and tractors.
Specifications for replacements, accessories, interchangeable parts and equipment.
Large colored combination chart showing working principles of the automobile.
New section of “Trouble Shooting Charts” in colors to enable you to locate quickly any major
or minor trouble on any car.
Special sections on Ford care and repair, motor trucks and tractors.
Hints on how to get most mileage arid service out of a car.
Complete instructions on carburettor adjustments, ignition, starting and lighting, changing of
tires, installing new parts, etc.
Full descriptions of new auto accessories; Stewart Vacuum Tank, Alemite system, Skinner Oil
Rectifier, Air Cleaner.
Four Wheel Brakes —hydraulic and mechanical, Engine Balancers, Ricardo Cylinder Head, Balloon
Tires, etc.
Shop equipment and its use —-complete directions for installing and operating a repair shop.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP, <
MARKET & CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY
BMUMMONB
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (30 DIAMONDS) £26-5
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (26 DIAMONDS) £.30
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH 1,36 DIAMONDS) £3O
Never has the firm teen able to offer
such a lar£e and varied ran£,e of Wristlet
Watches. The selection includes many
new and distinctive designs, and it can be
confidently stated that nothing of finer
quality and value can beobtained anywhere
in the Commonwealth. Mail inquiries
receive prompt attention. Fully-illustrated
Catalogue post free to any address.
WM BMUMMONO .6 CO
344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigans and Sweaters are
snug-fitting and very comfortable to wear. They are knitted
from fine Australian Wools which give the natural warmth that
is so essential in protecting the body in changeable weather.
Rameno Brand "Merino-Knit” garments are beautifully
knitted, distinctive in style and colour, and altogether desirable
as an adjunct to the every-day attire of particular men.
•Lt/m/MO-jewr’’
CARDIGANS and SWEATERS
STOCKINGS
m
i
MADE EXCLUSIVELY BY
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLINGWOOD, VIC
Ask Your Mercer for
"Rameno" Brand
"M^rino-Knil”
Cardigans.
Sweaters, m
Half Hose 4m
1
- MMm
V.
Ml
■
T
M 46
w
<7
•••»!
llll'!
tint'.
lUf.
iIIHUS
Brichle
iii«!
ini !
lllilisiil
Frocks
for kiddies
weor
SPECIALLY designed for Children’s
garments, “80-PEEP” PRINT
wears well, washes perfectly, and is
absolutely color-fast. There are no end
of different colors and designs from
which to choose.
“80-Peep” Print is 36 inches wide, and is obtainable in
many styles, designs and colorings. Sold by leading
Drapers and Stores.
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline” —the equal to silk.
'Looks good—
is good'.'
for Childrens Wear.
ŵ
If anv difficulty in obtaining, please write,
H. G. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original


Legal Notice.
]N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 132 of 1930.
BETWEEN IDA FLORENCE ADA FINNEY
Petitioner
And FRANK SELMAN FINNEY Respondent.
To FRANK SELMAN FINNEY late of 86 Paraween
Street Cremorne near Sydney Salesman.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Ida Florence Ada
Finney has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of maTriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards, habitual drunkenness and non-
support and habitual drunkenness and cruelty.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
eighth day of August next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit; be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge.
Dated this twenty-ninth day of May, 1930.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Neville W. Montagu and Lapthorne, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel’s New Policy.
These are difficult times through which we are passing, and the Wentworth Hotel, Ltd., are
endeavoring to meet these altered conditions by drastic reductions in tariff, consistent with
their usual high standard of efficiency in service, cuisine and quality. The new rates as outlined
below will operate till further notice, and the management commends them to your attention.
Single Rooms, with Breakfast only, from 12/6
Single Rooms, with Bath, Breakfast only, from 157-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, from 207-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, from 22/6
Double Rooms, per day, Breakfast only, two persons, from . . 25/-
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive, two persons, from ...... 35/-
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, two persons, from 407-
Double Rooms, per day, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from ';.... 50/-
Double Rooms de Luxe, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from . 55/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY
Use CASH'S RIBBONS
for Shoulder Straps
-and this just
CAN'T happen
\
/
Cash’s Ribbons are most
durable., and never break
oc fray, once threaded,
you. don't remove them
from the Garment—as
(as
[Washing RIBBONS
took like new. after repeat
ed washing: Made in
daintiest fadeless Pastel
Shades, with Brocaded or
Floral Effect itv variatt*
width*
Ask your Draper
« for Cash’s.
J. & J. Cash
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 200for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited
So[?] so M[?]
This State put on the dirtiest sort of
weather of which it is capable on the occa-
sion of Amy Johnson’s arrival. Those who
waited at Moonee Valley to welcome the
young lady were deluged with rain, and the
Moth ’plane in which she flew from Wan-
garatta, piloted- by Major de Ilavilland,
encountered so much mist and fog that it
got off its course. Miss Johnson was
expected to reach the Valley racecourse at
noon, but it was close on half-past two
before her aerial chariot was seen in the
skies. It was a chilly business up till then,
but the Yorkshire lass had no reason to
be disappointed with the warmth of the
welcome she received from Melbourne.
There’s no keeping us women down where
the welcoming of Amy Johnson is concerned.
Not only have we, organised a whole orches-
tra of our sex with a woman conductor, and
made Elsie Bonnet a leader of community
singing, but we have unearthed a lady
organist, who will be the first woman to
play the new organ at the Town Hall. She
is Elizabeth Campbell, L.A.8., who studied
here under W. F. Steel and the late Fred-
erick Mewton and later had training at Lon-
don R.C.M,
At two or three functions to do the flier
honor no men will be admitted. The
women’s sports societies have combined
forces for a feminine welcome at the Town
Hall, when all members will wear the togs
of their game. About HO organisations will
be represented, and several hundred girls will
form a guard of honor. Speaking parts will
be allotted by drawing slips from a box in
which the names of all members are cached,
and the proceedings will be short. A penny-
a-head subscription will provide a gift for
the visitor, and profits from ticket sales —
admission costs a shilling—will go to the
women’s unemployment fund.
Though the skies looked lowering the
weather luck of Moonee Valley proved as
invincible as ever on Saturday. It was not
until the last race that the rain pitter-
pattered down, and by that time the punters,
who were there in myriads, didn’t care if
it snowed. Feminine attire, though limited
to tweeds and face-cloths, with some fur,
was far from dull, and there was a cheerful
air about the course. The Premier was
there with Mrs. Hogan, who sported a tweed
suit and hat. Others on the lawn were
Mayoress Luxton, with Mrs. V. J. Nicholas;
the Rogers Thomsons, with Mrs. Sam
Maekay, whose coat was of Persian lamb
and sable ; General Chauvel and his lady, she
in dark fawn; Mrs. H. Bundock, in an
ensemble of light brown; the Percy Black-
bourns, Mrs. S. Ferguson and Mrs. J. B.
McArthur.
The strains of jazz came from the Man-
unda, moored at North Wharf, on Thursday
night, when 150 couples gyrated on the deck
to rake in some shekels for the Caulfield
Auxiliary of the Association for the Advance-
ment of the Adult Blind. The Adelaide
Steamship Co. showed sympathy with the
cause by giving the party, and was accorded
the hearty thanks of the organising com-
mittee. .Mayoress McCulloch of Caulfield,
president of this body of helpers, was aboard
wearing a flame-colored frock with gold
embellishment. The hon. sec., Mrs. A. M.
Kuring, had Mrs. F. Nutting as her lieu-
tenant, and Mrs. J. Kermode, whose son is
chief electrician of the Manunda, was the
treasurer. She it was who enlisted the
interest of the shipping firm.
The red and black of Xavier hung about
the palms and shaded lights that decorated
the St. Kilda Plaza one evening last week,
when ex-Collegians danced. President T. B.
Rowan and Mrs. Rowan, she in glimmering
wheat-colored taffeta, welcomed representa-
tives of other schools, among whom was
Lud Mayor Luxton, accompanied by Mrs.
Luxton in cherry-hued chiffon of petal flounce
formation. Leg. Councillor H. I. Cohen,
who was with Mrs. Cohen, was another of
the special guests.
The revival of “Lord and Lady Algy” by
William Faversham, at the Comedy, brought
back memories of the Brough co., and of
Violet Paget and Hugh Buckler a few years
later. The piece is nicely staged, and the
ball in the second act is an elaborate spec-
tacle. Ann Davis sports in one scene a
backless modern gown of pale gold satin
that clings to the figure and is worn beneath
a long wrap of orange lined with dull green
and embroidered in gold thread. She looks
ravishing in a green velvet riding-dress and
white-plumed hat; and Mary Plimmer, in
the dance scene, is a picture made up of
powder and patches, pale blue brocade and
rose-patterned silk. Beth Mackey makes a
fleeting appearance in equestrienne attire
of strawberry colored velvet, with dangling
Plumes. There is a great display of spats in
the other two acts —-the ankle-warmers seem
to be regarded as the distinguishing mark
of the male aristocracy. The principals, who
include Beatrice Day and Nellie Mortyne,
shared stacks of flowers on the first night.
At the Uni. students’ dance in Melba Hall
Helen Speeding, in gleaming blue and silver,
was president of the committee. Dorothy
Cust, Avho danced in phlox pink, was lion,
sec., and Nancy Trahair, in plumbago blue,
with a glimmer of crystal and pearl, held the
purse. Prof, and Mrs. Agar, Prof. Heinze
and some other dons joined in the frivol.
Captain David Mackey, one of our brass-
hats, linked up with Estelle Dennis at
Christ Church, South Yarra, last week, and
brother officers rolled up in full regalia and
put a gable of swords over the pair. Bishop
Stephen, a cousin of the bride’s mother,
welded the clamps. The bride, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Dennis, of South
Yarra, trailed yards of ivory velvet, and
strands of orange buds clung about her
Limerick veil. Her bridesmaids were Alison
Clark, Chris Maekay Sim, Ruth Good and
Edith Cooke, all in pale-green taffeta sprayed
with delicate pink blossoms, with bonnet-
shaped headgear of ecru lace. The small
son of Colonel and Mrs. George Stevenson
was trainbearcr. The home of the bride’s
parents was the scene of congratulations.
Margery, daughter of Mrs. and the late
W. M. Hodgman, formerly of Hobart, entered
into life partnership with Austin Bram-
well Smith at St. John’s, Toorak. The bridal
gown was of dead-white satin, with veil of
Hon if on lace, lent by Mrs. Frank Andrews.
The skirt flowed into a double train at the
back. Marjorie Bromell and Margaret
Fraser crossed over from the Apple Isle to
attend the bride, and the bridegroom’s sister
Phyllis' also officiated, all three in pale
apricot georgette with long skirts, “bustle”
bows, and straw picture hats of the same
shade. A reception was held afterwards at
the house of the bride’s guardian, Kingsley
Henderson, in Malvern.
This is Elsie Bonnet, who supervises the
sports side of the Y.W.C.A. and is president
of the society which regulates the recreations
of bnsin ess
girls. She is
Mel hour n e-
born, and com-
menced a busi-
ness career as
a designer in
a city ware-
house. Going
to Geel on g,
she became
interested in
the organisa-
tion of sports
clubs for girls,
a n d the
Y.W.C.A. util-
ised her ser-
vices in this
branch of its
activities for
some years.
She took a
leading pa r t
in arranging the welcome given to Amy
Johnson by the girl sports of Melbourne.
Congratulations are being bestowed upon
Valmai, only daughter of the W. Wilson
Whalleys, Kew, and Pilot-officer Frank N.
Wright, R.A.A.F., whose intention to marry
has just been announced. The happy man,
who is the elder son of Mr. and Mrs. W. V.
Wright, of Kalgoorlie, is one of the flying
men of the Albatross.
The Footscray Hospital benefited as tin l
result of a dance at the Williamstown Civic
Hall. Mayoress Paine, in powder-blue with
a sprinkling of sparkles, headed the com-
mittee, and Mrs. G. S. Robinson, in black
lace, was the lion. sec. The Mayoress of
Footscray, Mrs. A. M. Hansen, danced in
oxidised lame clouded with black lace.
The Women’s National League enter-
tained country delegates the other night.
The president. Mrs. Claude Couchman, in
black and pink chiffon with a sprinkling of
rhinestones, gave a handshake, and the
Weedon lady, president of the League club,
in whose rooms the shivoo was held, joined
in the welcome, garbed in moire and ninon
of cherry hue. There was music.
The latest Aveek -end jaunt of the Legacy
Club, with John Barnes as cicerone, was to
Marysville. The party put up at Kooringa,
a hostelry de luxe, run by a legal light and
his wife. Though snow lay on the sur-
rounding hills, and the weather was not of
the finest, the outing was found enjoyable.
Marysville, which is over the rises beyond
Hoalesville. is one of the prettiest bush resorts
around Melbourne. In the neighborhood is a
wolfram-mine and the most picturesque of
golf links. Players have to cross a creek
10 times to do 18 holes. Among those who
took part in the trip the club’s chair-
man of committees. Rex Hall, and his wife,
known professionally as Dr. Margaret
Anderson. Major Joynt, V.C., and Colonel
Burrett w r ere others of the party.
Ex-students’ reunions of the'week included
that of the Old Lauristonians, who met in
the dance beneath the twinkling rose, blue
and amber lights of Ormond Hall. The
present principals of the college. Miss Irving
and Lilian Irving, were guests. The president
of the O. L’s., Mary Ivirkhope, wore taffeta
of sunset hues that set off her presentation
posy of Duchess of York pansies. Joy
Downer the lion, sec., had soft covering
of the tint of Iceland poppies, and treasurer
Betty Thompson contrasted green shoes with
a parchment-colored frock. The gold and
blue of the old school figured in the badges
of committee members and in the decora-
tions.
Revisiting Melbourne is the widow of Sam
Mackay, owner of flocks and herds in many
parts of Aus-
tral i a. She
has brought,
with her. an
18- year-old
son, Peter. It
is many years
since, as Fanny
Dango, sh e
made her last
bow here with
the Firm in
“T h e Waltz
Dr ea m,” i n
which she
pla y e d the
leading role,
but, as the
Brootborn pic-
ture of her
shows, time
has dealt very
lightly with
her. Hef home
is in South
Kensington, London, and she. has returned
to Australia partly on business and partly
to show her lad a bit of the world before he
buckles down to study for his profession.
Marjorie Derum, dressed for her recital
in lengthy draperies of white satin, changed
during the interval for creamy lace over coral
pink. Assisting Miss Derum, who is a
reciter with a flair for comedy, was Bernard
McCaffrey, a promising young baritone
singer, anti Mary Davine, a solo pianist, who
hails from Gippsland.
A recital was given one afternoon last
week at the Artists’ Galleries by pianist
Violet Ewart (Mrs. H. E. Spry) and
violinist Gertrude Ilealy. Sonatas by
Handel and Ernest Bloch figured on the
programme. The concert was one of a series
arranged by Mary Campbell, of the Albert-
street Con.
The Housewives’ Association is still a
house divided against itself. It has a presi-
dent in London and another in possession
of the throne. But it carries on, and its
latest project is the establishment of soup
kitchens, which will be run at Port Mel-
bourne, South Melbourne, Collingwood ana
Fitzroy for the hungry unemployed. Mrs.
Percy Russell, the president-on-the-spot,
managed Red Cross kitchens in war time, so
she knows something about it.
Dorothy Keogh, a Melbourne songbird who
had her soprano voice polished in Milan, has
returned after a sojourn in England, where
she has been doing the singing for talkie
stars at the Elstree studio—a job known as
“ghosting.”
Byrl Walkley, the good-looking Newcastle
songbird who has made so many successful
.stage appearances under the Firm’s banner,
is back after two years spent in Britain
and the U.S.A. She was only a. month in
England when she got a congenial rale as
Julie in “The Show Boat.” the co. touring
Scotland for nine months. Later she was
cast for principal boy in the “Old King
Cole” pantomime in Birmingham. Then she
went to New York to sing in “Jew-Suss,”
in which Moseovitch was starred. While
there she received news of her mother’s
death, and decided to return to her native
land. Miss Walkley’s engagement to J. G.
E. Carew (mostly known as Joe), who sells
real estate at Coburg, was recently an-
nounced. The bridegroom-to-be is a brother
of Molly Carew, song-composer for Chap-
pell’s in London, who in private life is the
wife of Heaton Smith, a Surrey medico.
Miss Walkley spent some time with the
Smiths at their home between tours.
Mrs. D. J. Mackay Sim said au revoir
to friends at a kettle-boiling at her Toorak
residence on the eve of her departure for
Sydney. The hostess, wearing a ruby-toned
gown, with a felt hat of the same hue, had
a trio of daughters to assist her, and. a
string orchestra provided a pleasant accom-
paniment to chatter.
Mrs. Carlyle Smythe has just returned
after three years in Europe. She lectured on
the cause of peace in Vienna, Berlin and
other Continental cities.
Thelma Burness, who left Australia to
pursue a theatrical career two years ago, is
likely to look in on her old friends again
shortly. She lately returned to London after
a tour of India and the Orient in “Rose
Marie” arid other musical shows.
As a contribution to the city’s architecture
the new wing of State Parliament House ia
disappointing. Whether viewed from Gis-
borne-strcet, flanking St. Pat.’s Cathedral,
or from Albert-street, through the newly-
improved triangular reserve,, the squatty-
looking “extension” fails to make any im-
pression, and one wonders how it managed
to absorb £50,000. The interior consists
mainly of a kitchen, a corridor and a dining-
room. The Commonwealth Legislature paid
the money in recognition of its 201 years’
free tenancy before it went to ’Berra.
How times have changed! A portion of
the western annexe of the Exhibition Build-
ing, once the holy of holies of the Leg. Coun-
cil when the State Parliament was housed
in the structure, has a counter in it and
is used by the Police Department for the
registration of motor-cars. It’s a wonder
the shades of Henry Wrixon, John Mark
Davies and Walter Manifold, three notable
Presidents, do not shoo the invaders away.
Phyllis, the fair-haired daughter of
Robert Best and his lady, is making head
way on the English stage. She is to play
the leading role in “The Calendar.” a racing
thriller, on its canter round the provinces.
The Firm has the same script in cold
storage here, waiting for a company to play
it.
The lady whose husband died suddenly
of heart trouble a few weeks ago at the
wedding feast at Malvern, an hour or so
after the marriage ceremony, is to be rein-
stated as a State-school teacher. She re-
signed her job to become a wife, but Fate
mocked her, and made her the bride of an
hour.
Mrs. C. R. Bidgood, of Staghorn, who
recently passed over at 50, was a lover of
birds, over which she exercised an almost
uncanny influence. Birds waited in sur-
rounding shrubs for the opening of her
dining-room window, and then flocked on to
the table for a meal, being scolded by their
hostess if they fed out of turn. They
perched on her shoulder as she took bush
walks, showed her their nests and whis-
pered their secrets, which she passed on
to others in verses and stories.
In cosmos mauve chenille embossed georg-
ette poised on crSpe de Chine, Mrs. W. E.
Bates extended a greeting hand to many of
the fair sex who called at her home at
Balwyn for a game of bridge on a recent
afternoon. Among those who dealt the
cards w T ere Mrs. P. T. Kelynack, a daughter
of the hostess, Mayoress Luxton, Mrs. Harry
Emmerton and Mrs. Edmund Collins.
Wearing cyclamen-pink draperies, Eileen
O’Keefe’s verse-speaking choir was heard
at Kelvin Hall last week. Several Biijle
excerpts were given and sonnets by Chaucer
and Spenser. Ernest Bloch’s suite for the
violin, “Baal Shem,” was played by Ger-
trude Ilealy, with Harold Smith at the
piano.
The chap who said there is no sentiment
in business was over-pessimistie. When the
Returned Soldiers’ Woollen MilLs at Gee-
long were destroyed by fire the other day
two rival firms, Godfrey Hirst and Co. and
Collins and Co., offered the use of their
drying-sheds and scouring plant so that the
R.S.M. output could be maintained.
Our Uni. is pleasurably agitated at the
moment over a lady who remains anony-
mous under the initials “A.N.T.” The
authorities know she is feminine because of
the handwriting in which she conveys from
time to time the intelligence that a cheque
is enclosed. The latest benefaction from
the fair unknown was for £250, which Regi-
strar Bainbridge found in an envelope beside
his plate of morning porridge. Her dona-
tions over a number of years now amount to
nearly £2OOO.
Australian soprano Marie Narelle’s hus-
band, Harry Currie, has got into the head-
lines of the American papers. Mr.
Currie is chief electrical engineer of
the New York Central Railway, with head-
quarters at the Grand Central Terminal,
New York, and lie has just completed there
the installation of the largest power sub-
station in the world. The former sub-station
had to be abandoned, as its site will be
occupied by the new Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
The work of construction and installation
had to be completed in 10 months, and the
change from the old to the new was made
without disturbing the flow of current. Marie
wants her Australian friends to clash the
cymbal with her in praise of her genius,
who, incidentally, also had charge of the one-
hundred-million-dollar terminal at Cleveland.
Ohio. The father of the wizard was Dr.
John Currie, professor of Hebrew, at Pine
Hill College, Halifax. Marie’s son Reg is
also holding his own; he is president of the
Atlantic Lighterage Corporation, which has
swept up half of the lightering concerns of
the port of New York.


You’ll Need One Soon!
THE
“STANLEY”
Hot Water Bottle
Made of aluminium, with
screw top and rubber
washer—it will not leak.
Far superior to the ordi-
nary rubber variety, as it
retains the heat for a long
time. Flat and round in
shape. Supplied with
blue flannel jacket.
Price,
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act. 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N T . S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ẃ
15,000,000
MOTOR VEHICLES ARE
LUBRICATED EVERY
500 MILES WITH
ALEMITE
The Universal Lubricant
ROOM 300
PLEASE"
The comfort and success of your
visit to Adelaide, whether for a
week or a year, is assured when
you stay here. Yale locks on all
doors, fireproof, hot and cold
water in every room. Bed and
Breakfast, from 6/6.
Finest Unlicensed Jiotel
Opp. Railway Sin. North Terrace. ADELAIDE
THE PASSAGE
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
Synopsis : His father, Boh Cal-
laway, drowned at the bar of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough with the life, hut slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
He resents the determination of his
mother (Anna) not to allow Hughie
to become, a fisherman. But Hughie,
Lew admits to himself, has brains; it
was Hughie TJncle Tony called when
anything was wrong with his hoat; so
when Kunkel offers Hughie a job at
his store Lew agrees that he should
take it. Hughie buys a motor-lorry,
and soon is running a car service. lie
docs so well that he goes to town to
set up -in car business. Anna had been
disturbed over Lew’s attachment for
Clem McNair, daughter of a man
who made money out of patent medi-
cine and has sold a large area of land
on one side of the Passage to Osborne,
'a speculator, who has started a young
township) upon it. Levy’s diffidence
prevents closer relationship, and Clem.,
disappointed, decides to go abroad.
Lew then marries Lena Christensen,
who. had been keeping company with
Craig, a surveyor, but had assured
Lew that affair was “all off.” A
seven-months’ baby boy is born to
Lew, who, in the next year or so,
becomes entirely wrapped up in the,
little fellow. The marriage, however,
is not a.success: Lena becomes irri-
tated %mth Lew and his interest
in his work, and he grows weary
of her tired, bored smile. A letter
Clem writes from abroad makes him
do some hard thinking.
CHAPTER XXII.
In Toavn.
HUGHIE had established his family at
the Hamilton, in a bright little
bungalow that smelt of fresh paint
and new suites of standardised furniture,
and had a garden full of flowering shrubs
overlooking the river. He had had a hard
struggle during his first three years in town
and had made some bad ei'rors of judg-
ment, earning the enmity of other men in
the game through his efforts to cut down
fares and pick up custom in the streets.
But now he had learnt the limits of com-
petition and become more cautious in his
dealings with his rivals; he had also changed
his partner. The new man, Fenner, brought
very little money into the business, but
he had a shrewd head and, what was better,
American experience—an asset that counted
heavily with Hughie, who had never found
time to travel even as far as Sydney.
Fenner and Callaway’s had now a garage in
the busiest part of the towii, and half a
dozen taxis on the streets.
Yet there was a restlessness about
Hughie that made him dissatisfied with the
pace of his progress. Whatever profits the
firm made seemed always to be swallowed
up in substituting new cars for old, so that
they had little chance of branching out in
fresh directions. For a time the building
of his own house had absorbed all Hughie’s
surplus energy; he was proud that he Avas
able to dispense Avith an architect and yet
work all the conveniences his mother
wanted into his design; but now that it was
finished his thoughts were pouring into
business channels again. The house he had
been so enthusiastic about till it was built
was a poky affair, after all, not big enough
for a gi'own family such as theirs! When
someone played the pianola, there was no
getting away from the sound of it in any
remote corner, and if they were all at home
in the evenings they seemed to be living on
top of one another. He had inventions he
wanted to apply his mind to, but he had
no Avorkshop except the garage in a comer
of the back yard, and no leisure except
the fag-end of his evenings.
Yet what a lively home it seemed to
Lew when he came down on the boat to
bring Peter to see his grandmother! There
Avas as much babble as ever when they
gathered round the meal table, though the
dining-room had not the cloistered inten-
sity of that ship’s cabin by the Passage.
It glittered with the reflected light in
bevelled mirrors; through the open windows
came the fragmentary sounds of a summer
evening, the whirr of a neighbor’s lawn-
mower, voices of children playing in the
next-door garden, the clang of tram bells
from the road along the river; everything
spoke of a cheerful urban life, and Marnie,
coming home late from work, stood at the
door like an actress making a stage entry,
and then advanced on Lew with a little
rush:
“Why, Lew, I hadn’t an idea you were
down! Didn’t bring Lena with you, did
you? What’s she got against the lot of
us that she gives us all the cold shoulder?
And this is Peter, is it? Goodness,
I’d imagined him still in baby clothes!
Not going to be scared of your unknown
aunt, are you, Peter?”
For Peter had already found the excite-
ment too much for him, and was slobber-
ing over his food, dropping tears into his
plate. He didn’t know any of them except
Auntie Dot, who often came up to stay
with them at the Passage and took him for
long walks, through the bush. They all
talked so fast, even Granny, rapping out
questions he couldn’t answer, one after
another!
Marnie monopolised most of the conver-
sation when she sat down. She had a
modiste’s business of her own in a Queen-
street arcade, and her compact little figure
had grown more solid and concentrated, in
keeping with her face. Her voice had a
slightly metallic clatter, and she plied Lew
with questions without listening to his
replies. Was Kunkel still keeping on at
the store? Did Tom Rahilly ever go on
the booze now that he was in charge of
the new boat? Hadn’t Osborne and his
syndicate found that the hotel was a white
elephant with all the advertising they were
forced to keep up? How many new houses
had been built at Lavinia in the last
couple of years?
“I’d love to go back and see the old
place,” she said sentimentally. “But when
Vic and I have holidays together he always
wants to go somewhere where there’s a
decent road.”
Dot explained that Vic had a new sports
car that had won two recent hill-climbing
tests.
“But it would go to pieces on anything
rougher than a billiard table,” she added.
“Oh rot!” retorted Marnie. “He’s taken
it to places where there’s hardly a goat-
track. I like a bit of comfort when I’m
on a holiday, though.”
There were arguments about reliability
tests in which Hughie joined, and jokes
were flung across the table that had no
meaning to Lew. He had never met Vic,
the young fellow Marnie was to marry
when she could make up her mind to give
up her business, yet the very mention of
his name roused a vague hostility in him.
How unreal Marnie had become lately, with
her perky hats and powdered face! Didn’t
the way she chattered about Vic show that
the only feeling he stirred in her was a
pride in his family connections? She
seemed more impressed by the biscuit-
factory his father owned and the number
of people he employed than by anything
individual in the fellow himself! Lew had
a sense of his family having grown away
from him. He was as much out of this
quick, light talk as Peter, who sat propped
up with a pile of cushions beneath him and
stared at his grandmother with wide-
pricked, a.we-filled eyes.
Anna looked as though she had steadily
grown younger, though there was a slight
vacancy about her face, as if the effort to
keep up with Hughie and the girls put a
secret strain upon her. She belonged to
a croquet club; she wore her skirts nearly
as short at Dot’s; there were signs that
she played with the skin foods she had
once despised. It wouldn’t do for Hughie’s
friends to think he had an old frump for
a mother! But her character was too set
and hardened to be poured easily into
fresh moulds, and she was beginning to
realise it. While the girls washed up and
Hughie poked about the garage -with a
lantern, she walked with Lew in the strip
of garden, trying in an awkward way to
establish friendly relations with Peter, who
clung to his father’s hand or the leg of his
trousers. She was worried by Peter’s lack
of robustness and by the way the tears
lay close to his eyes.
“He don’t look too strong. Lew,” she said,
eyeing Peter’s thin legs. “You were twice
the size at his age, and so was Fred. Hasn’t
got much appetite, has he?”
Lew winced. He had heard the same
thing said so often about Peter and he
didn’t like the boy discussed before his
face.
“Oh, he’s never missing when meal-time
comes,” he fended. “Why should people
be always weighing-up a youngster as if
he was a prize bullock? Peter’s small, but
he’s wiry enough. Never snuffling about
with continual colds like the Haigs.”
Anna was silent for a while.
“And Lena? Settled down to the life
there, has she?”
“Middling well. She’s got everything I
can give her.:.. Why don’t you come’ up
sometimes and see the old place, Mother?”
Anna gave a dry smile, the sardonic look
coming back to her eyes.
“I’ll wait till Lena asks me. That’ll be
when the cows come home, most likely.”
Lew flushed under the tan.
“I don’t think Lena ever guessed you
were waiting for an invitation, Mother.
She’d take a visit from you as a matter
of course, like she takes most things. You
didn’t get along badly together.”
“We didn’t see too much of one another,”
Anna told him. “Lena took good care of
that. I don’t blame her. I couldn’t have
stood your father’s mother near us when
we were first married. A woman’s house
ought to be her own.”
She began to talk of Fred, who hardly
ever wrote home now that he was working
on oversea boats, and a slight cloud came
to her face. It didn’t seem as if he accepted
any responsibility for the family, or that
he had any interest in them. Not that
they wanted money from him! Marnie
and Dot were doing well in their business,
and Hughie succeeded at everything he
touched, but it didn’t seem fair that Hughie,
the youngest, should have to bear the whole
weight of keeping up a home. He might
be wanting to marry some day. As it was,
he had let Mona Bailey drift away from
him through being wrapped up in his own
family. And he was fond of Mona.
There was the old enthusiasm in her
voice when she talked about Hughie; it
seemed as if the thought of his career
touched some nerve of emotion in her.
While Dot danced out to take Peter in
to hear the wireless and the sound of
Hughie’s whistle came cheerfully from the
shed at the back, she sat on the lower
step in the dusk, looking straight ahead of
her at the lights on the river below. Yet
she seemed to be talking less to Lew than
to herself.
“I can’t begin to tell anyone the com-
fort that boy’s been to me. Never makes
a song about anything; never lets people
know he’s doing anything'for them! He’d
put off some girl or other to take me out
for the day if he' thought I needed a whiff
of fresh air, but he’d try to cover it up so
I wouldn’t know. And the way he works
—awake half the night, I do believe, think-
ing of fresh ways of improving the business.
No wonder he’s got on! It isn’t as if he’d
had better chances than anyone else, either;
he’s made his own chances.”
How was it, Lew wondered, that when
his mother started talking of Hughie he
felt conscious of the old resentment lurk-
ing in her, a resentment against him! The
things she said didn’t make him, jealous of
Hughie, but they roused a memory of past
conflicts and kept him from feeling at
home with her. He knew she had never
talked as easily to him as to Hughie;
they had always been a little awkward and
constrained together, and there was the
same stiffness of spirit in both of them still.
Yet they had shared common cares and
anxieties while Hughie was still a young-
ster!
It was no good chewing over this lack
of contact between his mother and him-
self, though! Nothing he could do or
say would bring them closer. With one
part of him he could understand his
mother and feel with her. Hughie’s career
was a novelty and adventure in which she
shared, while his own had been a mere
plodding along the beaten track like a
working bullock. That must be the way it
seemed to her, anyhow!
“What’s this idea of yours about starting
a Tourist Service, Hughie?” he asked as
they lounged on their beds in pyjamas,
smoking a last smoke together. “Looking a
good way ahead, aren’t you?”
“Too far for my capital,” said Hughie
lightly. “That’s what always hobbles me.”
“But you’re doing well enough, aren’t
you?” Lew persisted. “More than paying
your way. This home and what’s in it—
they’ve all come out of the business,
haven’t they?”
“Out of its future,” Hughie told him with
a twisted smile. “You don’t think I’ve
paid them off, do you? Good Lord, no—
things aren’t done that way in town. Time-
payment, from the iron on the roof to the
carpet on the floor! And it’ll be a damned
slow business. That’s why I want to get
out of the rut.”
“What rut?”
“The one I’m in now. Plugging along
from day to day with half a dozen taxis.
Fenner and I planned to start a Tourist
Service with decently-equipped ’buses
running to mountain-resorts and seaside
places. Beginning gradually, of course, and
working up. We’d mapped out the routes
and designed posters that would empty
every suburb at the week-ends. Nothing
in it, though! You can’t get Capital to
take a risk in this town on anything but
a sporting writer’s tip for Saturday’s races.”
He lay on his side with his arm propping
up his head, the light showing on his fair,
curly hair and irregular features. To Lew’s
eyes he was the same boy as ever, excited
and voluble when talking of his plans, yet
slipping into lethargy when they received
a check. Externally he had altered a little,
though. For business purposes he had built
up a glib, aggressive Hughie Callaway,
downright in his speech and gesture, and
he was never quite sure, even with Lew,
which of his two selves was speaking. This
gave him a slight unreality.
“No, it’s hard to get capital,” Lew agreed.
“Precious little lying around loose.”
“Except for gambling,” insisted Hughie.
“Wild-cat mines or flutters on the turf.
Our venture wasn’t a gamble. Not even as
much as Osborne’s hotel scheme. It’s as
big a necessity as bread and meat in a
town that’s growing. Someone else will
hop in and jump the claim if we don’t.”
He had a bit of a grudge against the
world, Lew felt; it wasn’t good to hear
that faint snarl in his voice. Hughie ought
always to be on the bubble, enjoying the
stir he was making. And yet he couldn’t
expect to keep up the same pace all the
time!
“Don’t you want to go too fast, Hughie?”
he said. “Why not start with one ’bus as
part of your ordinary business. Take a
step at a time.”
“Like the crab did on the edge of the
crevice.... But even one ’bus costs money.
We’re working without a margin.”
They were silent for a while, Lew ponder-
ing.
“Most likely I could help you there,” he
said slowly.
In a moment a light kindled in Hughie’s
eyes and his lethargy slipped away.
Dropping his cigarette he felt for his
slippers and wandered over to a cabinet
where he kept a bottle and glasses.
“Sorry to be troubling you about my
affairs, Lew,” he muttered boyishly. “But
they’re not just my affairs. They concern
Mother and the girls as well. The whole
bunch of us, really. I’ve had a hell of a
time trying to put a roof over their heads.
And if you’ve any capital that isn’t earning
its oats”....
Lew hadn’t. He saw he had awakened
expectations in Hughie that he couldn’t
satisfy and began to draw back.
“I’ve only been plugging along, too,” he
explained. “Just paid off the debt on the
new boat a couple of months ago. But
they’re there—good, solid assets. I could
probably borrow a bit on them.”
“We could pay a decent dividend from
the start,” Hughie was saying. “It isn’t


s
eoige ;
STO
-the Paste with
the Ovster flavour
f
Made from the world-famous,
luscious Stewart Island
oysters, St. George “OYSTO”
is a daintily flavoured oyster
paste that will provide, as a
relish dr for sandwiches, that
‘something different' for which
you are eternally seeking.
Just try it. From all grocers.
Delicious Oyster Soup, too,
can .be easily made from
‘OYSTO’ paste. Instructions
on wrapper.
i
s£C? r
Irvine & Stevenson 9 s St. Qeorge Co.
Ltd. Dunedin , New Zealand. 4
w
YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
just flying a kite to see which way the
wind’s blowing, I’ve never missed my step
yet, since the day I first bought that truck
from Wally Reardon. Remember what a
young fool you thought me then, Lew? But
I knew what I was doing.”
He poured out a stiff nip for each of
them and sat down on the edge of Lew’s
bed, as intimate, suddenly, as when he was
a small boy. There was a melting of the
adult stiffness he assumed in daytime, a
relapse into the role of young brother. An
extraordinary glow shone about him as he
sat there in his pyjamas, his face boyish
and responsive, his sea-blue eyes at once
reflective and full of light. As if he had
at last formed a clear vision of the track
ahead!
Lew felt he was committed to some-
thing, he hardly knew what. It didn’t
matter, though! He believed in Hughie
and was ready to back him to the limits
of his own resources. Wasn’t there an inner
light in Hughie that was lacking in him-
self? A power to see his proper goal,
“‘You!’ was all she said?"
and go straight towards it without fumbling
or veering aside! When had the boy ever
failed in anything he set out to do?
CHAPTER XXIII.
On the Island.
Through the smooth water on the inner
side of Rathbone Island, Lena was rowing
lazily, looking for a small, sandy cove
where she could beach her boat. Tangled
bush and blossoming shrubs came close
down to the water’s edge, the purple
hovea' and the white, heatli-leaved dill-
wynia, while, a little way behind, the dark
cypress-pines threw down heavy masses of
shadow that made the thin island, with its
scrubby ridge of a backbone, seem an im-
penetrable jungle. Booming of surf sounded
from the outer beach, each wave falling
with a dull thud; but the sheltered water
had the stillness of a lake. Clear and
unruffled it lay, so that the eye could see
the grey slugs on the sandy bottom and
the half-buried flathead spurting off as the
boat disturbed them, leaving small clouds
of sand in their wake.
A jewel of a day! Over on the big
sandbank Haig and the Wiegerts were
drawing in their nets, lazily enjoying the
wash of sunlight after days of wind.
“Out on your lone, Lena?” they had
hailed her. “When’s the Boss coming
home?”
“Whose boss?” she had flung back. 4 1
don’t own 0ne.... If you mean Peter, he’s
Waiting down there to be fixed up by the
dentist.”
Their laughter, responsive and sea-fresh,
had followed her.
“Oh, it’s the youngster, is it? Well,
that’s all right. Nothing much wrong with
a home when the youngster’s a.t the wheel.”
The flashing oars took her .out of hear-
ing. She didn’t like theip calling her Lena,
didn’t like their easy familiarity; it made
her feel cheap. They were a bit too free
with their tongues, though she could never
keep from tossing their own kind of banter
back at them. Funny how differently they
approached her when Lew was around!
Butter wouldn’t melt in their mouths then,
they were so respectful. It was always:
“That’s so, Mrs. Callaway.... No, don’t
trouble, Mrs. Callaway.... The wife was
wondering, Mrs. Callaway, if you could
lend her that big preserving-pan of yours
to make a bit of jam?”
She drove the nose of the boat into the
sand and slipped off her shoes, dragging
out the anchor and carrying it up the beach.
How warm and sheltered it was in this
cove that held the sunlight like a shell!
And how different the handful of cottages
on the mainland looked, now you were far
enough away from them! She could see
the strip of green where the fishermen
mended their nets, the beach-myalls trail-
ing their fine hair over the water, the
dark-red of the roofs, the filmy outlines ol
Lamont’s boat rocking at anchor near the
jetty; but everything was touched with
glamor, E/ven the house she had come to
loathe as a prison seemed mysterious and
attractive, with its deep verandahs and
its cool bananas drooping their fronds over
the tank. All the ragged ugliness that filled
her with an obscure exasperation was
hidden—the Wiegerts back yard, littered
with rotting tyres and jamtms, the broken
palings of the fences, Dora Wiegert her-
sell4, padding about m a pair of Alberts
old boots, hanging out her rags of washing,
And then the strip of beach, with its
smashed punts and rusty kerosene-tins that
had been used for bailing!
“Lew don’t notice anything, she was
thinking. “He’d stick in that old house
till the roof fell in on him. Never an idea
in his head, day in and day out, but to keep
the boats loaded and running up to time!”
She slipped off her clothes and lay down
in the shallow water, which was motionless,
transparent, warm as. her own blood. What
had come over Lew, she was thinking,
that made him so heavy-footed, so content
to plug along in the old groove? He must
be putting by money now, and yet they
lived hardly better than the Haigs or the
Wiegerts, never entertaining, never making
friends with the people who came down to
Lavinia. Lew himself didn’t want to meet
anyone but the crowd he was bred among.
He found all the diversion he needed in
wandering up to Kunkel’s on Saturday
nights for a yarn with the fishermen, or
in taking a punt and going out over the
bar after snapper. And if she talked
about wanting a change he packed her off
to town to buy some frocks for herself, as
if that ought to keep her quiet for months!
A lot of good it was to have new frocks
when there was no one to see them! Lew
himself wouldn’t notice if she was dressed
in a gunny-bag.
A hardness, even a hostility came into
her mind when she thought about Lew.
She knew quite well what she wanted of
him. There was no reason why they
shouldn’t build a modern little bungalow
at Lavinia, have a car, belong to the golf
club and get anew crowd of friends
around them. There would be something
for her to live for then, instead of spending
her days lying on the verandah in a
wrapper, watching that Peter didn’t cut his
foot on a broken bottle or get into trouble
with the Haigs. It would wake Lew up,
too. He wouldn’t be so inclined to take
her for granted if he saw other men around
her, paying her small attentions, asking her
to go fishing with them, treating her as a
woman who wasn’t tied to the leg of the
kitchen table. She saw herself in the
short plaid skirt she had bought when last
in town, but never worn, her golf clubs over
her shoulder swinging over the cropped
grass on the’headland beside the bronzed
masculine figure in plus-fours she remem-
bered from some railway poster....
“Men are all alike,” she told herself.
“Only want a woman when they’re not sure
of her. Lew was crazy about me as long
as I held off.” . .
Chugging of an engine, the intermittent
sound of strident voices, and a motor-launch
swept round the nearest point of the island,
making up the Passage. It was a party
from some of the week-end cottages at
Lavinia, Lena guessed, and she lay low in
the water, feeling humiliated when a yout i
in a maroon blazer called attention to tne
boat, and the bits of clothing fluttering
from a dead mangrove. Such patromsin o
curiosity there seemed to be in that bat-
terv of alien eyes! And only country
people most of them, down from the hills
for a couple of days! When they had
passed she stole out and dressed, lighting a
fire and keeping it going with little piece,
of cypress-pine. A change came o\ ei
thoughts as the crackling heat crept throug
her slightly chilled blood, spraying hei
with a drowsy mist. It wouldn t be a
thing to live on an island, far away Iron
everyone! Seeing no one, sleeping
naked in the sun, finding your own iooa
when you wanted it in much the same way
as the animals did. Yes, there would
some pleasure in that!
She lay in the sand in front of the fire,
eating her sandwiches and sniffing in tne
resinous scent of the cypress-pine. t ®
figures of the fishermen on the far edge oi
the sandbank were hardly bigger than crabs,
and their movements had the same bac
ward shuffle. Noon had brought a lumipous
haze, that steeped the houses of the settle-
ment in a deeper distance, and so still was
the air and the tide that a look of burnished
steel had come over the face of the water.
Once or twice there was a scurry of small
fish around the roots of the mangroves, as
some sand-hugging ray broke in upon their
quiet feeding, and Lena watched the ripples
spread till they became lost to the eye; bhe
was suddenly aroused by a crashing, like
that of a heavy animal, in the brittle under-
growth behind her: yet was any animal so
blundering and bull-headed as that ? A
gleam of expectancy lit up her face as she
rose.
Through the tangle of prickly shrubs a
man came struggling with a creel on his
back, guarding his fishing-rod against being
caught in the vines and branches, and
bending almost double in the effort to get
through. His tweed trousers were wet to
the knees and his loose-fitting felt hat was
banged down over his eyes, while his soiled
and torn shirt, open nearly to the waist,
exposed a hairy chest, burnt shrimp-pink by
the sun. He was on the bank, level with
Lena’s head, before he noticed her, and
then he pulled himself up straight, staring
at her a moment, and giving a half embar-
rassed chuckle.
“You!” was all she said.
Craig slipped down the high
bank, bringing a rush of sand
with him. He was clumsy and
heavy-footed with his load and
his unlaced boots, and his eyes
were vacant from the sun-glare.
“Yes, it’s me, all right,” he
said easily. “Been fishing for
whiting in the gutters on the
other side of the island, and
had a hell of a job getting back.
Nice little tangle of scrub, that,
for a man who wants to
take the curve off in front! Like making
your way through a mile of shellholes and
barbed wire.... Well, how are >ou Lena
Had you m mind ever since I came down.
“You had?” she flashed sardonically.
“That’s more than I can say of you. I
haven’t thought about you for God knows
how long. Since you cleared out, to tell
the truth.”
He c ] luc kled amiably as he swung the
creel ( } own anc l began to shake the sand
f r p m his boots.
that's comforting,” he told her. “I’m
sort G f man that doesn’t bear thinking
ak)oU j. better on the spot than in the dis-
t£m an( j some thing to forget altogether
when j> m over t fi e skyline Lord, you’re
looki well Lena!”
a ■
lt<Jb •
(Continued on page 45.)


Stuart Crystal is made hy hand —slowlyy lovingly
and with masterly skill. If the name STUART is
etched on a piece of glass that piece will delight you
all your days with its exquisite beauty. Morey your
children and their children will share
your joy/ with gratitude and pride in
your taste/ knowing that they have
an authentic product of Stuarts of
Stourbridge.
m
m
■ 35 «
a «
Mi
English HAnd-ma.de Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
-Van ion
OVENWARE
English Manufacture.
English Manufacture.
WHO WORRIES
IF THE
FOOD IS COLD?
O need to say just who—
-1 no need for worrying!
With food prepared in
CARLTON OVENWARE,
served straight from the
oven to the table, everything
is piping hot—and stays thus
so much longer!
FREE Illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes , Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Smedley Service.
‘‘The Barrier Miner,” Broken Hill, wants
every advertiser to ask every news-
paper the questions suggested by the
National Association of Advertisers, viz.:
How many Readers have you got?
How did you get them?
Where do they live?
Because of the true answers to those
questions, “The Barrier Miner’’ is the
medium for YOU.
Missing' Friends.
FHUGH KIRKPATRICK, son of the
late Hugh Kirkpatrick and Sarah Kirk-
patrick (formerly Milligan), born at Aird-
wall, Mains, Dumfriesshire, Scotland, Bth
June, 1862, and who lived in Logan district
hear Brisbane about 40 years ago, will com-
municate with the undersigned he will learn
something to his advantage concerning an
inheritance in Scotland. —NICOL ROBIN-
SON & FOX, Solicitors, 334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
D URNS-MACDONALD. —EWAN BtTRNS-
MACDONALD, second son of Archibald
and Ellen Caroline Burns-Macdonald, form-
erly of Glencoe, died at Auckland, New
Zealand, on 13th February, 1929. His heirs,
or anvone with . information about them,
should send details to S. H. HENDERSON,
Solicitor, 2h Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. *
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
i— m tv O o > tv
w
u
Bruises, sprains,
muscle soreness
NEW Remedy Proves a Boon to
Athletes, as well as to Mothers of
active Children.
Gives Safe, Reliable Ease from Pain.
Now comes a new remedy that clears up bruises, cuts,
abrasions and scratches as nothing else can. It is
“Vapozone,” a glow-creating salve that draws out
inflammation and breaks up congestion “like magic.”
More positive and powerful in action than liniments
and embrocations, yet so soothing and harmless that
mothers of small children may use it confidently.
Unusually antiseptic, no danger of germ infection
can exist where “Vapozone” is used. Wherever
“Vapozone” touches the body a peculiar stimulating
glow of warmth follows that drives out pain and
loosens up aching joints and muscles. A jar of this
remarkable home remedy costs only 2/3 at any
chemist’s —everyone should keep “Vapozone” handy,
for, apart from its value in overcoming aches and
pains, it is the fastest remedy for Coughs, Colds.
Congestion, Inflammation, Bronchitis, Hay Fever and
Catarrh in existence. Note the name carefully: —
“VAPOZONE”
Just Rub it on—
and get INSTANT Relief!
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE MERRY WIDOW
CRITERION: THE GARDEN OF EDEN.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
LORD AND LADY ALGY.
With WM. FAVERSHAM, ANN DAVIS
and Special Company.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THIS THING CALLED LOVE.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
1 * MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
BESSIE LOVE in
THEY LEARNED ABOUT WOMEN,
ALSO
JAMES MURRAY and KATHRYN CRAWFORD in
HIDE OUT.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is required by the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of J.
SMALL and JOHN RUSH, who resided at
Bennett Street, Surry Hills, in 1878.
GREENWELL, SHEPHARD & YORK,
Solicitors,
21 George Street, Parramatta,
And 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The last day of the Brisbane Cup meeting
was beautifully sunny and the public rolled
up in thousands. The lawns were brightly
green and the orange bignonia venusta in
the paddock made patches of golden glory.
Lady Goodwin, in bright grey, was there
with Mrs. E. K. Tully, who sported fawn
and white fox. Mrs. Donald Cameron, in
wine-color, and Mrs. A. H. Whittingham, in
black with touches of white, were other
patrollers of the lawn.
The C. of E. Grammar School chapel was
adorned with crimson roses and poinsettia
for the marraige of Ernest, son of Mr. and
Mrs. T. W. Biggs, East Brisbane, to Edith,
daughter of the Nicol Jeffreys, Highgate
Hill. The brode was in ivory crepe satin.
Mrs. Lewis Finney lent the embroidered
veil. Lyle Jeffrey, Joyce Macmillan and
Jessie Archbald attended in leaf-green, with
picture hats of stitched tulle and bouquets of
deep yellow roses. Atcheifey saw the feasting.
Marie, daughter of Glen Massy, gave a>
pre-wedding reception in her home, Glen-
ville, Auchenflower. She is to be married
to G. Perkins. Her father helped with the
entertaining.
Miss H. M. Campbell and Kathleen Lilley
received the guests at the Grammar Old
Girls’ reunion in the school hall, Beryl Steed-
man being a guest of honor. She left the
school, after 15 years on the teaching staff,
at the end of last year. A posy of jonquils
and cream roses was handed to her, and
there was music and reciting.
Brisbane women worked hard in the
interests of the Art Fund, formed to bring
a collection of pictures from Sydney and
Melbourne Art Galleries next month, the
first exhibi-
tion of the
kind here for
2 0 years.
Another use
for the fund
will be the
purchase o f
objects of art
for our own
Gallery and
the general
encouragement
of the pictorial
an d plastic
arts. Mrs. H.
If. Henchman,
wife of Mr.
Justice Hench-
man, of Hamil-
ton, pictured
here, is the
president of
the committee,
and she intro-
duced Lady Goodwin, who launched the
Eastern Carnival held for the fund on the
roof of the City Hall, turned into an Oriental
bazaar for the occasion. Mayor and Mayoress
Jolly were there and Daphne Mayo was one
of the advertising supervisors. Arabian and
Moorish' stalls were arranged, and there
were brightly painted mosque doorways,
groups of ladies of the harem, a fresco of
white elephants and Turkish maids, who
served tea in a Persian garden. A reader
of cups was posed under a. Sahara umbrella,
Mrs. E. M. Ralph and Mrs. Lorenzo being
in charge there, with the Blair lady assist-
ing. Mrs. B. Robin worked a Punch and
Judy show. In an open-air theatre Mrs.
Henchman made a success of six tableaux.
Pinero’s “Playgoers” was produced by Mrs.
E. J. Symes.
Premier Moore and his wife paid an in-
formal call to Somerville House, Misses
Darker and Jarrett receiving and giving
them afternoon tea in the study, which was
dressed up with vases of African daisies.
The Gatton branch of the C.W.A. had a
dance in the School of Arts. Mrs. Farmer,
president of the southern division, was there,
m emerald green, with a green coat, and
received a bouquet of sweet-peas.
Various experiments have been tried at the
Theatre Royal since Nellie Bramley vacated
it. Fullers had a not-very-suecessful vaude-
ville season, and now Richard Bellairs’s
stock company is producing comedy and
farce to fair houses.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Choppy water at the start and a silver
mirror at the finish, where the Swan flows
under the lee of Mt. Eliza, was the river’s
mood for the inter*Uni. boatrace. A swarm of
launches chugged about Mill Point or fol-
lowed the boats, and the slopes of King’s
Park were thronged with excited spectators.
His Ex. and his retinue saw the race from a
balcony on the brewery, and the Valdana and
the Ivanhoe each had a cargo of Uni. profs,
and their wives, with a mingling of other
citizens. The Oxford and Cambridge Cup
is the spoil of the home team for the third
time in four years. At a dinner that night
Prof. Beasley) who coached the Perth eight,
presided, and his Ex. was among the
speakers.
Four debs, spread their wings at the
Catholic Ball in Temple Court. Silver cob-
webs on white silk net fluttered about
Eveleen Campbell; ivory georgette and a
posy of rosebuds were Mary Birt’s choice;
Pearl O’Halloran wore frothy white lace;
and Clare Flynn was in white tulle allied
to parchment satin. Mrs. L. Dwyer, wife
of the president, was in black satin; Mrs.
Walter Dwyer had a sprinkling of wee pink
beads among her silver-grey laces; Mrs. P. J.
Maxwell chose black lace and ninon; and a
dash of jade brightened Norah Monaghan’s
black gown. Pale pink clad Mrs. Raphael,
and China blue and ecru lace was sported
by Mrs. Brcndon Cavanagh.
An audience in the Karrakatta Club Hall
which included their Exes, had a taste of
the music appreciated by the ladies and
gentlemen -of sixteenth-century England.
Elizabethan madrigals, sung unaccompanied,
formed the backbone of the programme.
Gwendolyn Bray played some pianoforte
arrangements of virginal music of the period,
and David Powell fiddled tunes of the same
era.
A two-piano band was one of the attrac-
tions that lured dancing youth to Temple
Court on a recent cabaret evening. The
band performed upon a dais, and a- ballet
did calisthenics and eurhythmies on the stage.
Bobbie Nichol, in a flutter of mignonette
greens, was guest of honor in a loge of young
folk; Nell Manford, in the same party, wore
eau-de-riil, and Mrs. Norman Temperley nos
in black; Stella Meagher, who was being
farewelled in another loge, chose sunset
chiffon for her last dance before sailing north.
Moonbeam-blue georgette was worn by
Gladys Hadley, filmy black lace over shell-
pink by Mollie Beck, red poppies nodded
upon Mrs. Ilex Nome’s chiffons, and tiny
flowers embroidered Gwenyth Ambrose’s blue
taffetas.
A troth has been plighted between Mrs.
E. M. Cusack’s only daughter, Belle, and
Dr. and Mrs. Ambrose’s second son. Bill.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
D’Auvergne Boxall’s exhibition of oils and
water-colors at the Society of Arts Gallery
was launched by Mrs. Francis Fisher, an
admirer of the painter's work, who first pur-
chased one of his pictures eight years ago.
The Fine Arts Committee has bought a
pencil sketch of Pont St. Benezet, Avignon,
and a water-color of a castle in Ghent.
Last year E. J. Gravestock told us we
could no longer claim to be the city of cul-
ture, as our interest in imported musicians
and vocalists seemed to have evaporated.
Profiting by that terrible rebuke, we have
positively rushed Jan Kubelik, cramming the
Town Hall at each of his three concerts.
When the seats were all full, people sat on
the stage at the player’s feet.
A reception to Kubelik arranged by
Mayoress Bonython in her room at the Town
Hall was a cheery affair. The hostess looked
smart in black ring velvet and beige lace.
She welcomed Kubelik in one of her witty
speeches, and he responded briefly.
The Legacy Club’s ball at the Palais
Royal was a recent society function. His
Ex., with Lady Hore-Ruthven, went along
after Kubelik's concert, and took the violinist
with them. Brigadier-General Leane’s
daughter Betty was a deb. Her Ex. danced
the first foxtrot with the Legacy Club’s presi-
dent Yeal.
The E.S.U. last week entertained three
officers and 20 cadets of the Australia at
luncheon at the Hotel Richmond, and after-
wards motored them' to the obelisk at Mount
Lofty. Mrs. Mellis Napier, the new presi-
dent of the ladies’ committee, organised the
outing.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Race meetings cannot be included in the
category of pleasures on days such as dawned
for the Brighton Jockey Club’s fixture. The
cold was intense, but punters rolled up in
good force, and the fleet of cars was the
largest ever assembled at a country meeting.
A large contingent from town went up,
Among them the A. J. Millers, the James
Sprents, the R. A. Clives (Old Beach), the
Geo. Canns, Mrs. Fred Grant and party, Mrs.
Shaw Moody, Mrs. L. E. Thomas and the
Eric Johnstons. Among country patrons
were the Russell Ibbotts, the John Swans
and daughter Jean, and the Alan Bisdees.
The Newnham winter meeting was blessed
with fine weather, and the womenfolk looked
wintrily smart in big coats, furs and small,
close hats. Fields were good, and dividends
high. In the throng were the Cliff Headlams,
the Geoff Martins, the Roy O’Connors, the
Bruce Gibsons, the Charlie Martins, Mr.
and Mrs. R. R. Field, Mr. and Mrs Alee
Boyes, Mrs. Leeming and daughter Nancy,
the Herbert. Dowlings. Mr. and Mrs. 11.
Von Steiglitz, Mr. Tulloch Scott, the Frere
Youls, the H. P. Harrissons, Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Webb and the Guy Merediths.
This is Jessie Wakefield, only 18. and
already entitled to add L.A.B. and A.Mus.A.
to her name.
She is a
pupil of Mary
Corvan, and
has a long list
of successes in
com petitions,
for which she
has entered
since she was
five. Two
years ago she
won the
R.A.M. gold
medal, and
she has passed
with honors
in every sub-
ject for which
she has en-
tered. A move-
ment is afoot
to send her
abroad for
further study.
Hadley’s hummed like a hive of bees on
the night of the big bridge drive for the
Child Welfare Association. Every available
room was occupied by tables, and some folk
who were unable to come to the main dentre
of the activity had three or four tables
in their own homes for the same good cause.
Mrs. Basil Crisp and Mrs. Chandler organ-
ised the affair, which was very competently run.
The in ter-’Varsity women’s tennis tour-
naments created a lot of interest, and some
fine play was seen. Melbourne defeated the
Speck’s team by 12 rubbers to nil in the
finals, and recovered the cup which they
lost to Sydney in Brisbane last year.
The Repertory Society’s production of
“Mrs Moonlight,” Ben Levy’s fantasy, ran
for three nights to full houses. Beattie
Jordan and Fred Brough, as the “Moon-
light” couple, gave very striking perform-
ances; and staging and dressing were true to
period. His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady
smiled on the third performance,..


MODEL FLYING AEROPLANES
A FASCINATING SPORT AND HOBBY
ŵ
THE WALTHER
“SWALLOW”
A sturdy flying model that will
give good performance and satis-
factory service. It is a spruce
model, with 23in. silk-covered
wing. Neatly Boxed, with full
instructions how to assemble and
fly. Price 12/6
Postage: N.S.W., 1/3; Q’land & Vic., 1/9
THE WALTHER “WASP”—A
similar model, with 18in. span
and full instructions. Price, 7/6
Postage: N.S.W., 1/3; Q’lanil & Vic., 1/9
No. I Kit—to build the “Wasp”
—with full-size plan and instruc-
tions how to build and fly. Easy
to make no soldering glue and
a few simple household tools all
that are needed. Price . . 4/-
Postage: N.S.W., 1/-; Q’land & Vic., 1/3
Croid Liquid Glue, 4d. and 9d.
tube.
now isn’t that
marvellous /
<4\Y/HO would have thought that one new
W valve could have made such a difference?
I used to think it wasn't possible to interchange
different makes of valves, but I find that by
substituting an Osram I can always improve
reception.
“I've just fitted an Osram MHL4 Valve . . •
listen to the result.. now, isn't that marvellous?
I must fit Osram all through, straightaway.
If you cannot obtain MHL4 or any other
Osram Valve you need, it will be sent direct,
safe delivery guaranteed. Ask for “The Osram
Valve Guide”— a helpful booklet free on reauest
ẁ
M.H L 4.
A radio frequency or audio
frequency amplifying valve,
and is also recommended fot
use as a detector valve.
SPECIFICATIONS:
Filament Volts 4-®
Fil. Current 1.0 amps, approx.
Plate Volts .. .. .. 200 (max.)
Amplification Factor .. .. 18
Impedance 8,000 ohms.
Normal Slope .. 2.0 ma/volts
Equivalent .• • .• u B *l®
Made in England
VBf
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co. Ltd.
Head Office & Public Showrooms: 104-iu Clarence Street, Sidney,
Branch Offices and rubiic Showrooms at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle and N.Z. cities. Sole Agencies at Brisbane and Hobart.
“No, I mean it. That short hair suits you
right down to the ground—makes you look
like a boy. I’ll never look like one again,
worse luck. I’ve got fat.
She eyed him up and down with stony
aloofness—the swarthy, unshaven face, red-
dened on the cheekbones by the morning
sun, the brown, aggressive eyes, the bulky
figure with its bare feet thrust into unlaced
boots.
“Yes, you’ve got fat,” she agreed. “Any-
one might have guessed you would.”
He laughed, gauging the feeling that lay
behind her thrust, and not at all nettled.
“Well, now you’ve said the worst, Lena.
Got it all off your chest in the beginning,
like you used to. Let’s have a drink of tea
together and be cobbers again.... Didn t
see my boat anywhere around here, did
you?”
She hadn’t. If she had seen a strange
boat lying moored there, she told him, she
would have taken good care not to come
within a mile of it. There was something
that tickled him in the spiteful intensity
of her tone.
“Good job I planted mine, then, Lena.
Planted it so well I’ll have trouble in find-
ing it myself! Yet it can’t be a hundred
yards away from here. I marked that
broken cypress-pine coming over.”
He went off to look for it, skirting the
edge and poking about among the man-
groves. Presently she saw him coming back,
dragging the boat by the anchor through
the shallow water.
“Got it!” he shouted cheerfully. “How
about putting the billy on?”
Lena made no response. There was a
darkness on her face, a warring of contra-
dictory feelings in her mind, as she lay
watching his big figure stumbling among the
mangrove roots and sagging a little at the
waist-line. The lurking devil in her longed
to stab him at the very nerve-centre of
his pride and make that self-satisfied smile
wither on his lips. He had let her down;
she couldn’t forget that! In the most
casual way he had gone off, taking for
granted she had no claim on him, and not
caring whether he ever met her again. Oi
perhaps he wasn’t as casual as he seemed ;
perhaps he had deliberately covered his
tracks behind him! She felt anger and
resentment swell in a black cloud around
her heart.
“I’ll show him he’s come to a dead finish
as far as I’m concerned,” was her thought.
But as he neared her the bluff good-humor
of his face dissipated this black cloud,
making her feeling against him seem
pumped-up and unreal. It was absurd to
pretend she had any deep grudge against
him; they had never made any bargain
about sticking together! And she couldn’t
let him think she was still smarting about
being left. He was getting his things out
of the boat, making jokes over his shoulder,
and she was conscious of the stiffness melt-
ing out of her spirit. There was nothing
you could strike at in Craigie, even if you
wanted to! He was just Craigie, the same
old Craigie, to be taken for what he was.
She felt at home with him, always would.
“This is good-o!” he said, wandering over
from the boat. “There’s only one person
in the world, Lena, I’ve found better com-
pany than myself on a day like this. You and
never guess who it was, though.”
He squatted- on the sand beside her,
taking out his sandwiches and tossing little
bits of wood on the fire a few yards away.
In a way he hardly seemed conscious of
her, yet his very casualness showed that
something in him wag stretched out at ease,
basking in a secret warmth. The tide lapped
gently against the flat bottom of the boat;
sunlight poured down on the white strip
between the scrub and the water; small crabs
rustled among the bark and drying weed.
Lena sat with her profile turned to Craig,
looking over at the mainland and letting
him do the talking. His little quips and
the lively challenge of his warm, brown
eyes roused the play-instinct of sex in her,
but deeper down was a desire to gather
in upon herself, to keep him at a distance.
She wasn’t sure she was glad he had turned
up again. . .
“I’ve been putting my back into it the
last few years,” he was telling her. “One
job after another, with not as much as a
week’s breather between! Living out at the
back of runs, too, on wells and potholes.
Now that I’ve pulled out for a holiday, I’m
going to take a good one. Live easy at this
new pub for a while, and only look at a job
when it comes to me on its knees How’s
the world been treating you, Lena?”
Her eyes took on their stony look.
“Just like it always did. Promising a
lot, and then backing down when the time
came for putting the figures in the cheque.
now.”
“So they were telling me. Lew’s cutting
out a nice little living, I hear, running an
extra boat and getting the people on the
range to send their stuff down by water.
Lucky for him old Tony passed out when
he did. It gave him his chance.”
“Oh, Lew didn’t snap at it. He’d have
been just as content to go on with the fish-
ing. Plug along in whatever boat you
happen to find yourself—that’s Lew.”
Craig chuckled as he took the billy from
the fire and helped himself to another
pannikin of tea.
“But it’s not Lena.”
She flashed round at him.
"How do you know what Lena is? A fat
lot you ever found out about me. The
ẁ
Nostalgia.
The aspens tremble against the sky
Like birds a-flutter and fain to fly,.
But I yearn for a she-oak’s silken sigh.
Here blossoms bedeck park, garden and
room,
Fields are fragrant with heather and broom.
(This is the month Cootamundras bloom.)
The graceful waters come down at Lodore,
But behind and beyond their tumult and
roar
Is the singing surf of a southern shore.
The nightingale’s trill at the even’s fall,
The thrush and the lark’s cloud-music pall,
For the magpie is fluting liis florid call.
Bowered in beeches and hazel nut
Homes give welcome to wanderers, but....
There is welcome, too, in the .shearer s hut.
Feminine voices arc smooth as the pearl.
Do they set the pulse dancing or senses
awhirl
Like the merry-mad mouth of a sun-kissed
girl?
LONDON.
BILL O'C
Moonshine.
What, little moon,
Back again so soon?
But that was May
(A month away!)
And this is June.
The season’s rain
Had gone again;
Head-high or more,
Green grasses wore
Pretended grain;
Big dragonflies,
Dredging late skies
For color, left
No trace of theft
To lovers’ eyes.
And then, while we
Watched quietly,
This young moon stripped
And shyly slipped
Into the sea.
New sunsets gowned
No moon. “Gone !”—“Drowned,
Perhaps?” The nude
Full moon seemed lewd
Though more profound.
But, false or true,
That old moon knew
Too much: he died
Although she tried
To save him. Who?
If I should tell
Or try to —we 11....
Leave me alone.
Fancy a grown
Man weeping ! Hell!
N.T.
FREDERICK' T. MACARTNEY.
The Vision of Liberty.
There, where the red rock-walls uprising—
Dark red marble against the sky—
Are great as works of a god’s devising,
Lifting a thousand cubits high,
Trumpet-blossoms of white and yellow
Flood gold scent on the valkyr-wind,
Each a-swing by its crowding fellow
High o’er the cleft-hoof, antlered kind.
Oh. and the birds of phoenix-wonder—
Wings that rustle like stiff brocade—
Seeking day’s wheels of bright, mute thunder
Up from the fern-green gulfs of shade!
The wild lawns slope steep to the glassy
Mirrors that lie at the marble’s base;
The unicorn—as the dawn-clouds pass he
Lifts a white, rein-free, bearded face.
Oh, his hoofs, by the violets deadened—
Quick, soft drum-beats beneath the dawn!
Where pools by shade of rocks are reddened
His hornless mares come down the lawn.
Drowned in tangles of nameless flowers
Blind-man statues and foot-worn floors
Yield a mute shell-murmur of powers
Whose dreams were bound where shut-
tered doors
Broke the rhythm of gold and sable,
Waves alternate of night arid day;
Less their fears than a rootless fable.
Under this light what place have they?
Clear and clearer the wind is singing
“Crystal spirits! The heights—the
heights!”
Loud the unicorn’s hoofs are ringing
Where marble mirrors its terraced flights.
Life and delight are one, and danger
Warrior shadow-twin of joy:
In .sweet blue grotto, from rose-heaped
manger,
Laughs to the lions the Virgin’s Boy.
N.S.W,
DULCIE DEAMER.


/' | 4
Ih
e majority of Buick owners
have owned "Buicks before
5*
k
he
□
The all-round
dependability of the car
keeps Buick owners loyal
year after year ....
THERE is no measure of the value of a car half
so good as the experience of owners. And
there can be no more definite expression of
what owners know about Buicks than what they
do with their money when they are ready to buy
a new car.
They buy Buicks. The majority of present Buick
owners, investigation shows, have owned Buicks
before. This is all the more significant because the
total number of Buick owners is growing so steadily.
It is the all-round dependability of Buick and the
confidence people have in it which puts Buick in
its unique position of leadership.
From 10 to 60 miles an hour in less than half
a minute
As never before in the 26 years of Buick success,
the Buick for 1930 combines exceptional perform-
ance with new and classic beauty.
From 10 to 60 miles an hour in less than 30 seconds
means perfect control and adaptability in city traffic
and in any driving crisis on the road. Even on 11
per cent, grades, top gear will take you from 5 to 25
miles an hour, and powerful 4-wheel internal brakes
cushion you to a safe quick stop from all speeds.
Sxceptional Comfort
Owners emphasise the comfortable driving qualities
of Buick. New double-acting shock absorbers
check excessive bound up or down, and with the
semi-elliptic springs compensate for rough road sur-
faces, and prevent sidesway. Non-glare windscreen
kills headlight glare from rear or sides. Steering
Road Shock Eliminator absorbs shocks before they
can pass through the steering gear to the wheel*
Adjustable driving seat adds its quota of comfort.
Service Everywhere
Three hundred Buick dealers all over Australia
provide a high standard of service for the Buick
owner. Buick is warranted for one year. Con-
venient payments can be arranged on the liberal
G.M.A.C. terms plan. Arrange with your local
dealer to drive a Buick.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
It’s a General Motors
car
Buick
More Wealth for Australia —
More Jobs for Australians


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3 <3.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE.
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The tale of a ruined household comes from
Maoriland, where a distracted bride is weep-
ing in an empty house and refuses to be
comforted. It is a very short story, and
so simple that it is a wonder the dodge wa.s
not tried before. They had got married and
gone away on their honeymoon, leaving the
house locked up and nobody to look after
it. All the new furniture was inside, and
so were all the wedding presents. Then some
Sir ALFRED STEPHEN, Chief Justice of N.S. Wales.
unknown individual came along and fitted
a key to the front door and got in. If he
had been a common artist he would simply
have bolted with a few electro-plated cruets
and things, but, being a man of genius, he
took possession of the house and calmly
hanging a red flag out of the window lie
auctioned the whole outfit. There was a
horrible frigidity about him which disarmed
suspicion, and when the job was finished he
had traded off even the bride’s clothes and
the supply of coal in the yard. Then he
locked the door and went off serenely with
the cash. And when the happy pair came
back there was absolutely nothing to sit
down upon except the floor, which was
muddy with the footprints of the plebeian
horde who had bought up everything for a
song; and the day was wet and cheerless,
and all their savings had vanished in that
accursed auction, and there was no comfort
anywhere. So they went out drearily and
bought two wooden chairs and a table on
time-payment, also a plain, hard bed and
some pots and pans, and then made a nre
with a bit of the back fence and settled
down amid general desolation.
With the Queen’s birthday at hand, one
wonders if Premier Parkes is going to dine
with the Vernon reformatory-ship boys again.
An amusing anecdote has survived of the last
feed he gave them. After swallowing a plate
of soup, three plates of roast beef, six enor-
mous potatoes, half a plum-pudding and as
much fruit as you could cram into an ordi-
nary Chinaman’s basket, one little chap, fall-
ing victim to a species of physiological
earthquake, addressed his diminutive stom-
ach in the following well-merited words of
contempt: “Umpli! So ye’re beginning to
ache, are ye? I’ll give you something to
ache for directly.” And accordingly passed
his plate for more.
When the American baseballers were in
New Zealand they distinguished themselves
by talking loudly and often in nasal tones of
the natural features of ’Murca —of the Falls
of Niagara and the big trees of Cali-
fornia. On one occasion when in a par-
ticularly boastful mood they were driven
out to the pretty little village of Otahuliu
and taken in to see “Kelly the Barge,” a
burly Hibernian who presides over the village
pub. The Barge is impressed with the idea
that Ireland and New Zealand are the best
countries in the world, “the Ould Sod,”
indeed, being but a neck ahead of the land
of his adoption. So when the Yanks began
to draw Kelly out about his experiences as
a bushman, and when he'had romanced to
them of kauri trees that had “a girth of
50 feet with four tons of gum hanging out
of the main fork,” the baseballers pooh-poohed
these circumstances as items of small
moment alongside the giants of the forest in
the Yosemite Valley. They
told him of stumps on which
50 couples could waltz, and
of a hollow tree through
which a roadway wended.
The Barge went outside, had
a little “special reserve” out
of his private cupboard, and,
having composed himself,
returned to the attack.
“Luck here, gintlemen,” said
he, “whin Oi was wurrukin’
for Pierce Lanigan, him as
built the big dockh in Auck-
land beyant, he kem to me
and sez he, ‘Kelly, me bhoy,
•Tack Gibbons, of Kihowha-
karirei, has bet me a hun-
dthred that he’ll foind a
bigger kauri than Oi can.
It’s to be decoided be the
number of fate of thimber
in it. Now, Oi’ve a bit of
a kauri in me bush forninst
Maurice Kelly’s place at the
Wade, and I want yez to
take the gang down an’ scarf
it.’ Well, gintlemen, we
thravelled to th’ Wade an’
found th’ three, and a divil
of a sthick it was, too. Be
th’ holy Moses, it tuk yez
half a day to walk round
one side of it. Well, Oi
started th’ bhoys and we
wur three wakes puttin’ in
tli’ scarf, and one Sunday
Oi walked down to a crik
that th T kauri grew on, and
bedad Oi met some of .Tack Gibbons’s
men. ‘Phwat are yez doin’ here?’ says
Oi. ‘lt’s a saycret, Misther Kelly,’ sez
they, ‘bnt phwat are yez doin’ here
yerself, Misther Kelly?’ ‘lt’s a saycret,
too,’ sez Oi. ‘Have some whisky, Misther
Kelly,’ sez their gaffer. ‘Oi will,’ sez Oi,
an’ we got cozy and comfortable. Prismtly
'the gaffer sez: ‘That’s a good bit of a sthiek
of kauri on the gully beyant.’ ‘lt is,’ sez
Oi. ‘Whisper,’ sez he, ‘Oi’m scarfin’ it for
Jack Gibbons to ba*te a tree that ould Lani-
gan is backin’.’ ‘Whurroo,’ sez Oi, ‘it’s
Lanigan’s three.’ An’ be the mother av !
Gintlemen, if I wuz sthruck down this
minnit, it turned out that Gibbons's min and
my push had been scarfin’ th ’ same, kauri
for three wakes unbeknownst to aick other.”
The Yanks, of course, admitted that this
knocked the stuffing out of any other tree
that grew, but Kelly having got fairly on the
job. continued: “Whin you go to Maurice
Kelly's lie’ll show yez the holler sthump. He
uses it fur a, sthockyard, and Oi’ve seen wid
me own blessed eyes 30 tames of bullocks
yarded in it. ould Maurice just druv ’em
through a bit av a knot hole and put a
shlip-rail acrost it.”
A Waverley (N.S.W.) domestic was left
a legacy of £12,000 the other day. Her mis-
tress, on receiving the retainer’s joyous and
instant warning, congratulated her with “I
am glad to hear of your good fortune,
Bridget.” At which all the fiery scorn of an
heiress flashed into the boiled eye of the
hireling: “If you plaze, Mrs. Blank, me
name is Miss O’Hooligan.”
That remote and historical dependency of
N.S.W. —Norfolk Island —has now a popula-
tion of about 800 souls, all descended from
the celebrated mutineers of the Bounty, and
almost all bearing their names. Nearly
everybody is called Adams or Quintal or
Christian or Buffet, and Norfolk Island is
almost the only place on the face of the
earth, barring the Great
African Desert, where the
Smiths haven’t got a good
hold. The original muti-
neers, after seizing the ship,
visited Tahiti, and bore
away a number of dusky
m aidens whose habits
were of primitive simplicity,
and the descendants of these
have been marrying and
inter-marrying ever since,
till nearly everybody is his
own grandfather and the
relationship can’t possibly
be sorted out. The bronzed
virgins from Tahiti handed
their color down to their
descendants, and many of
the lovely girls _ of Norfolk
Island aren’t quite white by
a long way. Also they are
very hard-up for husbands.
Their ancestors had to go
round and cadge with
violence for wives with sea-
weed bustles, and were glad
to take inferior and damaged
females at full market rates,
but the scarcity has long
since passed away. The law
which prevents strangers
settling on the island is
rough on the young ladies;
it is invariably relaxed, it is
true, in the case of a man
who married a Norfolk
Island girl, but many a pro-
mising youth who might wed
one of them if he were only
allowed sufficient time to think is bounced out
by the remorseless law before he gets so far.
Still, Norfolk Island isn’t half a bad place
for a hard-up British nobleman to go to.
When a girl marries she gets 21-1 acres of
land, which is always worth something, and
the island grows the most innocent race of
heavy fathers on record. Many of them at
the age of 40 or 50 have never once been
outside their own little settlement, and they
are just howling for some impecunious swell
to come along and take them in.
A story of a very staid and solemn Aus-
tralian M.P. has been given us. Domestic
dissensions, more or less serious, had deter-
mined the “guid wife” to leave the connu-
bial home, and in order to prepare for the
journey she secured 500 sovereigns and
placed them in charge of a feminine friend.
Husband and wife, however, made up their
little differences and agreed to wade through
the balance of life together. The wife imme-
diately waited npon the “friend,” who, how-
ever, had by some extraordinary lapse of
memory forgotten all about the £5OO, and
her memory has continued a blank to this
day. But a certain pub in an inland town
had a new storey put on it, and the landlady
thereof flourishes.
Here is a little romance. An ancient
masher not long ago went into a Sydney
shop and there saw a very pretty girl. Of
course he went in again and again, and
then he went in once more, and after making
hot love to the sweet creature for a whole
fortnight, lie discovered she was his niece,
the daughter of his only sister.
Lot’s wife looked back to see how her
bustle hung.
I | Sappho Smith] had a chat with a
Melbourne lady doctor the other day—
don’t you want to hear all about it? You
could trace the woman even in the wait-
ing-room, with its little gypsy tables and
their fancy-work covers —a piano in one
corner, with a text above it, “He that
believeth in Me hath everlasting life” —put up,
perhaps, as a delicate insinuation as lu
powers of the doctress. I went early, bi
the throng of afflicted was so larges that
endured s> dreary wait ere I could be s e
10 minutes’ tete-a-tete —so you see ,
women doctors are not going to starve yt
awhile. I found my quarry seated m »
surgery got up like a boudoir with tans <
fancy-work—as different as possible from the
depressing leather furniture and calf-bot
books of the average medical mans tan.
She was a tall, good-looking woman, with
dark hair and piercing eyes with a mascu-
line strength of expression in them, »nd si
was neatly gowned in dark blue .braided
serge. Eighteen months’ practice m Mel-
bourne has been rewarded by nocks or
patients, mostly women, although several
men (most of ’em parsons) have come to
have their pulses felt by her slim, white
fingers. She has been invited to consult
with leading medical men, who have given
her every encouragement. One brought his
MORAL PHILOSOPHY.
“After allsays a moral philosopher, “after all, it is
the small things of this life that trouble us most.”
daughter to her for treatment; could con-
fidence further go ? And. in short, she finds
the practice of her profession a pecuniary
success.
A lady who has set up in London as a
fashionable beautifier says that when a new
female client comes along the, first thing
she does is to get her face clean, and, as
a rule, it takes a week of persistent labor
to do it. There is an old, forgotten incrusta-
tion of paint and powder and enamel that
is as hard and tough as the shiny exterior
of an ancie'nt rooster’s legs, and for years
the patient has been washing the mere outside
of this alluvial deposit under a mistaken
impression that she was washing her own
skin. As to what kind of a woman will be
found underneath that is all toss-up ; the out-
side may be a faded harridan of 50, and the
inner surface a person of 30; or, on the
other hand, she may start to wash a com-
paratively young lady and unearth a Methu-
selah who seems to have been left over from
the Deluge. But, anyhow, she always washes
her clients and keeps them washed, and
her whole after-treatment consists in giving
them bottled water in order to prevent
them using other cosmetics. They pay
immense prices for this process, too, and yet
if they only met together and pumped on
each other the result would be just the same.
Miss Gladys: “You appeared very abruptly
with your errand a while ago. You must
not come so suddenly into the room when
Mr. Smithers: is spending the evening with
me.’’ Bridget: “Suddent! And is it sud-
dent ye call it, and me at the keyhole a
full three-quarters of an hour!”
ON THE BAY.
Up with the jib and slip the moorings,
Let her pay off till the canvas fills, so;
Now she is feeling it, haul in that sheet
there;
More, now belay; and then off we go.
Out on the water flashing with sunlight,
Out on the glistening rollers of green,
Down in the hollows with wavepeaks around
us,
Nothing but cloud-dappled blue to be
seen.
Up to the sky again, on to the crests of
them,
Giddily reeling; then the down plunge
again.
Everything drawing, ropes taut as muscle-
cords,
Humming wind-music, so tight is the
strain.
Eyes on the sail-hem; carefully feeling,
Nearer and nearer the wind’s eye she
creeps;
While over the bows of her, into the skin
of us,
Bubbling and soaking, the showering foam
leaps.
All is the fun of it, all is the joy of it!
Oh, for the rush through the salt-driven
spray!
The rolling, the wet wind, the splashing,
the tossing!
There is no joy in life like a sail on
the bay.
J.H.G.
THE STOCKMAN’S GRAVE.
A sighing breeze as the wattles wave,
And a wild, low cry of pain ;
A weird, dank spot round a sandy grave
Unsheltered from sun or rain.
A sta<in of blood on the arid ground
And the sign of a murderer’s ban —
All these in Australian verse I’ve found,
But seldom a living man.
W.A.S.


v
■
%
Ei
A
m
m
\Q
O
A:
A
CS
y
rftfM
new shaped holes allow
17°( 0 extra weight • heavier
two-edged blades that can
never pall or drag • buy
PROBAK BLADES
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR CO., LTD., 197-207, CITY ROAD,
LONDON. ENG.
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & COMPANY, 181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Vastly Better Than
Your Old Sweeper
BISSELL’S
Improved “Hi-Lo”
SWEEPER
fX
BV
Blssell Carpet Sweeper Co., Grand Rapids.
Mich., U.S.A., Exp. Dept.. 46 West Broadway,
New York, N.Y.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Maken W
—has doubled brush
range
—sweeps inch thick
carpets or linoleum
—twice as easily
—no hard bearing
down
—the handier, easier
to empty, econom-
ical broom-and-
dustpan on wheels
—the best sweeping
device for daily use
At leading merchants.
Booklet on request.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Danks’ Australian Power
Pumps Stand AH Tests
w
They are made in our own works
under severe tests, and are cheaper
than foreign-made pumps. They
are more suitable to local con-
ditions, and are cheaper.
“BILLABONG”
IMPROVED DOUBLE-
ACTING PISTON PUMP
FOR LIFTS UP TO 200 FEET.
This is a medium-priced pump for use with
petrol or kerosene engines, and combines power
and capacity in a most compact form. Supplied
also direct coupled to electric motor. Made in our own works under severe tests.
Pump will exert a pressure of 751 b. to the square inch. Sizes from 2£in. to 6in.
Write for leaflet.
■■’iitrjtmr: -p' r
«
* m
,■ ... -
“BILLABONG”
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
This rotary pump,
operated by belt-power,
delivers enormous quan-
tities of water. It has
large waterways, and a
steel shaft supported in
long journals of ample
size for cool running.
Fast and loose pulleys
are provided for kero-
sene or petrol engines’
use: also supplied either with electric motor attached, or with baseplate for
attaching your own motor. Made in sizes from lin. to Sin.; also in gunmetal for
use with water containing corroding agents. The larger sizes have been driven
with great success by tractors in various parts of the State.
Write for particulars now.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
mm
THE
GREAT
HERBAL
BALM
&
y
f.
A
■*\
Y
djgr
\
x
«r
Rub it in
COLD-ON-THE-CHEST
NEURALGIA ♦ CATARRH
BRONCHITIS ♦ LUMBAGO
RHEUMATISM ♦ SCIATICA
SORE MUSCLES & JOINTS
ACHES AND STRAINS
tl6 box & 316 family size. All dealers.
ŵ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original-


Were
)u on time
morning?
you
this
Westclox'
m
fWi
A
11
Big Be
10
Model
Base
m
8
wr
Baby Ben Base Model /9/g
World-famed for
Trustworthiness
Big Ben’s name stands
as an emblem of good
timekeeping. Millions
rely on him to get them
up on time.
Big Ben’s precision built movement with needlefine pivots
of polished steel reduces friction to a minimum ... his dust-
proof case safeguards timekeeping efficiency... his felt-
cushioned base lessens the likelihood of tipping ... these are
features that insure accurate timekeeping service and
longer life.
There are many other WESTCLOX ... alarms in nickel
and colors, a new model Pocket Ben watch and a good
looking Auto Clock. Prices range from 8/6 to 25/-.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY • PERTH - BRISBANB
w HAIR
*}
HERE&
•umy-
u
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPCrfl&ris cmexican;
UfcUtudS&wn
’removes the grey'*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
IJ unobtainable locally, posted
direct U!6), 6d. being postage.
fp
ẁ
He’s planning for the
future by using
Cnticnra
Ointment and Soap
By using this combination
regularly he is making sure
of a healthy scalp and good
hair —both now and in later
life. You can be just as sure
as he is! Start today!
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and Zs.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: “R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S.W.”
ẃ
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, perr tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each .. . 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle , . . . . . 27-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
Maxwellton’s Murderers.
OSMAR E. WHITE
GOES SHARK-FISHING WITH TWO BRAVE MEN.
IT was in the yellowish light of tropical
dawn that I first saw th,e wooded hills
of Scapel’s Island rising grandly over a
grey horizon. The air was limpidly clear
and the sea so calm that it was devoid of
even those tiny, faceted ripples which go
with windless weather. When sunrise came,
we ran in through the reef channels and
skirted great banks of foliage, which fell
sheer almost to the water’s edge, and the
slanting rays of the sun gave the glades of
green a strange, stereoscopic effect. So
beautiful it was on every hand that I be-
lieved, honestly, a man might live his life
there and die content.
So I came, in that romantic frame of
mind, to the Inlet, swung the wheel hard
down and yelled to the boy for’ard to slow
the wheezy auxiliary. We slipped up the
narrow estuary into a fairyland of green
and gold and brown; and the roof of the
residency flashed back its brilliance from
the opposing hill.
Wheeling wide to mid-stream, I brought
the ketch about and drew her alongside the
spindle-legged pier, and waved to the lone
white man in draggled drill who watched
me motionlessly.
He cast the cable I flung with a dexterous
twist about a huge gum-stump, and came
aboard with a queer, eager dancing step,
then grinned and held out his hand.
“Name’s Maxwellton,” he said pleasantly;
“I’m glad to see you. You ain’t supposed
to land here. Ko” —turning to the filed-
tooth, grinning savage behind him —“catch-
em runalong missus and tell her make
stingah one-time.”
“Sorry I can’t land,” I said. “But why?”
“Penal settlement,” he said .succinctly. “But
you refuse to notice my warning. I’m power-
less. Er—’scuse me seemin’ to rush you—
but have you got any newspapers on board?”
“Sure,” I said; “you’re welcome. Come
below and look ’em out. But I say—a penal
settlement ?”
“Nice place, you’re thinkin’, eh?” he said.
“You’re wrong. But you’il like my mur-
derers. I’m super., you know.”
I have never liked a man more quickly
or more decidedly. From the top of his
greying head to the big, white mosquito-
boots pulled on over spindly ankles he was
a bundle of friendly, nervous eagerness. He
came down into the stuffy cabin with me
and collected a prodigious bundle of news-
papers, even stripping the wrapping from an
extra suit of clothes without apology, then
hopped ashore cautiously, lest some mis-
chance should cause him to drop his precious
burden into the green water. I followed him
up the narrow path, which led windingly
between tall tamarinds, on to the broad,
vine-festooned verandah of his bungalow,
while he chattered excitedly all the while.
It appeared that he had been there seven
years with only two breaks of leave, and that
he was fed up. But, on the other hand, his
murderers were all decent sorts and they
understood him. The doctor would be glad
to see me and so would the assistant. And
the missus was going to fall in love with me.
The missus liked it and the murderers under-
stood her too.
“A decent lot,” he said ruminatively.
“Indeed, a magnificent lot —the best of their
race. All murderers. None of them stonkered
a white man, of course- —or it’d be a ceme-
tery. They piqued the Administration by
stirring up tribal shindies or organising head-
hunts. They deport ’em to make the civili-
sation of the. less courageous easier. I
never did hold with civilisation. Sort of
speedin’ up the mills of the gods. Ivo, now,
the cook-boy you saw, he’s a fine fella, but
a nuisance. He made a dry mask of his
father-in-law’s face, and some mission-bred
blighter in the village pimped on him. Yester-
day he pinched an axe and hid it under
his mat. I guess he must have it in for
Moki, who’s been sendin’ yams to his Mary.
Yes, the Marys are here too —in the barbed-
wire compound. I whipped Ko an’ lie’s got
it in for me now. " That’s what I like about
them, they’ve got spirit.”
I would have liked to hear more about
Ko of the filed teetlr, but at that moment the
missus put in an appearance. She wag a
girl of some twenty-six or -seven years, with
an open, tanned face and merry eyes—eyes
as blue as her husband’s were black. She
shook hands with a cool, firm grip and sat
down oil the other side of the bamboo table
with a grace rare even among women who
are reputed to study such things.
“Bob’s been telling you about his family,
of course,” she said whimsically, smiling.
“That and collecting scraps of paper with
print on them are his chiefest pastimes.
How long are you staying, Mr. ?”
I rose hurriedly.
“Terribly sorry,” I said. “My name’s
Carson. I’m just wandering around in hopes
that I’ll drop on a bed of shell. Since I’m
not supposed to have landed without a
permit” r
Maxwellton waved his hands deprecatingly.
“My orders,” he said, “are not to let any-
one land. If they do land, there’s nothing
in my blueys about kickin’ ’em off again.
You’ll stay?”
I looked at Maxwellton’s twinkling eyes
and at his wife’s slightly wistful ones and
said that I would stay. He rose briskly
and finished his whisky standing.
“Fine, fine!” he said, smacking his lips,
“we’ll have a beano, Cassie. We’ll have a
beano, won’t we?”
She smiled and nodded; and turned to me.
“You’ll like our beanos,” he continued,
chuckling. “One thing the Administrator
gives me carte blanche on—that’s tucker.
Otherwise, bust the Administrator! Eight
courses and a dozen wines. Oh, you’ll like
our beanos!”
Somehow or other I laughed uproariously.
Have you ever met a man you liked so well
that the sight of him tickled you under the
fifth rib?
“Hop in and have a shower,” he went on.
“Then we can have a look round. To-
morrow we might go fishin’. Fine lishiu’
about here.”
Maxwellton, his wife and I had tiffin on
the verandah an hour later, and when the
somnolent heat of midday was over we
Strolled down to the settlement, with its
rows of palm-thatched huts and the big
copra-drying sheds, for, as Maxwellton said,
a little work is as sure a sedative to a
spirited native as too much work is a tonic
to his homicidal predispositions.
The village—for village it really was —
was surrounded by a double barbed-wire
fence, though there were four gates which
did not appear to have been closed for years.
The soft earth had banked up about the
lower frames, wedging them fast.
I saw there every type of New Guinea
coast boy, from stocky middle-sized fellow's
one sees about the mission at MOresbj to
great, lime-haired giants from the Samarai
and Rabaul littoral, who champed their
rations of betel-nut, staining their mouths to
great, bloody gashes. Maxwellton knew their
histories and their weaknesses, and paraded
them one by one. They grinned at him as
they passed—a wonderful variety of pleasant,
impersonal, contorted, normal, sarcastic or
murderous grins, according to their nose
ornaments or their natures.
He told me with open-hearted intimacy of
his first problems and impressions and his j
subsequent experiences. The man was a \
practical anthropologist of unprejudiced in- l
sight, lie knew their natures, their quali- ;
ties and their failings as well as I know'
the inside of my diving-kit. His grasp of
the psychology of the superstition-ridden
Melanesian was incredible. He loved his
work and his life. He had to.
I met the doctor, an Anglo-Pole, Slavin-
ski. He was a fat, greasy little man with
none of his race’s characteristics; and he
was cheerfully and resignedly bored. He
knew all about malaria, small-pox, spru,
beri-beri, blood-poisoning, snakebite and
knife wounds. He told me so in the first
minute of our acquaintance and elaborated
on the statement. His experience of tropical
diseases and mischances seemed almost as
extensive as his repertoire of venereal anec-
dotes. He did not appear to be nearly as
pleased to see me as Maxwellton had been,
but brightened considerably when we told
him there was going to be a beano. He re-
marked that it would be his first decent
excuse for getting drunk in nine months.
He and a Maorilander named Green com-
pleted the white population. Green, I
gathered, was “up country, shooting pigs."
To enforce the edicts of Taubada Max-
wellton were ten very vain native police-
men in crenellated lavas, who were heartily
hated by brown and white alike. And there
were one hundred and sixty-seven murderers.
When I learned this I asked Maxwellton if
he were not afraid that his charges would
get out of hand some time. He merely
grinned in a way that made me feel ignorant
and half apologise.
I had been wandering around the Pacific
for ten years, but I enjoyed Maxwellton,
his missus, the doctor and the murderers as
keenly as if I had been a tourist gaining my
first intimate glimpse of the heart of the
tropics. I went to sleep on the verandah
when we returned, for all that, and was
aroused by Mrs. Maxwellton to be informed
that the beano was ready.
The night—for darkness had fallen while
I was asleep—held a quality of velvet calm.
The great silver stars burned in a deep
heaven; and the moon, a scimitar, shone
behind a rustling curtain of palm fronds to
seaward. Within the house the air was
heavily redolent of food, and the high-
swung kerosene lamp was dimmed by a
buzzing veil of insects. From the compound
a single drum throbbed wistfully.
There were three men standing about the
table when I entered —Maxwellton in a
tennis shirt, dress trousers and a huge
cummerbund ; Slavinski in a starched patrol-
jacket and shorts, with red welts showing
on his fat, white calves where he had
scratched insect-bites; Green in khaki and
unshaven. He was a boy and came forward
to shake hands with me shyly.
The little missus had slipped on a green
evening frock and pinned a pink hibiscus as
a shoulder knot. I saw the white marks of
benzine on the bodice under the arms. And
it had been neatly darned.
They greeted me with ironical yells and
handclapping. Maxwellton, flourishing a
spoon, gripped my shoulder and propelled
me ahead of him to a long cupboard set in
the wall. “Behold the secret of Scapel’s
Island,” he announced. “I’m the inventor—
and the artist.”
From floor to ceiling the recess was
stacked with gleaming bottles. Liqueurs,
wines, brandy, gin—every variety of liquor
under the sun, both rare and common. That
cupboard was Maxwellton’s pride. He had
reason to be proud of it.
The doctor, having made a speech in.
which he stressed the point that it was the
duty of every well-bred guest-of-honor to
eat and drink twice as much as anybody else,
clapped his hands loudly, and Ko, showing
every tooth in liis head to his blaickeried
wisdoms, marched in, bearing a huge wash-
basin. I gazed at it blankly. In all my life
I had never seen such a heterogeneous mass
of dainties —tinned turkey t chicken, olives,
pickled onions, crabs’ claws, green walnuts,
truffles, and 20 other un-namable meats,
nuts, fruits and concoctions.
“Hors-d’oeuvres,” announced Maxwellton
qalmly, ladling out a tremendous plateful
and handing it to me. “Fall to.”
I was weak with laughter—divided be-
tween astonishment and gastronomic doubt.
But I was not in doubt long. Provided One
did not mix the contents of the hors-d’oeuvres
in the mouth, ill-advisedly, the dish was
singularly toothsome and satisfying. It, was
a perpetual surprise packet and eating; it
was positively exciting.
Then Maxwellton and I, under the
influence of four “pops”—vintage 1902 —dis-
covered that we had been to the same school
in (Sydney and bad mutual friends— at least
(Continued on next page.)


'€very picture
a Story'
.■s \
\to\K_
>sr\
ss:
$ !
o
ft*
dnwiini
Heed that
Backache!
Too often it indicates kidney weakness
VV/HY risk kidney breakdown? Those pains in
W the back, dizzy attacks, rheumatic twinges,
and annoying bladder irregularities warn you of
kidney weakness. Never neglect such symptoms;
they are often the start of stone formation; in-
flamed bladder, rheumaism, dropsy, sciatica or
lumbago. Be healthy! Strengthen the weakened
kidneys with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Thousands owe their good health to the curative
and preventive properties of this kidney medicine.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
Mr H Holder, 44 Chiltern Road, Willoughby, Sydney, says:—
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are indeed a wonderful kidney
medicine. I have proved this. For a long time I suffered agony
from backache and kidney trouble, and only those who have been
afflicted in this way have any idea what I went through. My
limbs swelled considerably, the kidney secretions were thick and
cloudy with a red sediment, ahd I had agonising pains in my back.
X was treated by a doctor, and tried all sorts of remedies, but
nothing gave me the slightest relief. I was naturally very worried
about the serious state of my health, and when Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills were brought under my notice I decided to try them.
It was a grand thing for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles
cured me completely. I cannot speak too highly of Doans 1 ills
and recommend them with every confidence to other sufferers.
Ten years later Mr. Holder says:—“l have still the same good opinion
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured me of kidney disorder
10 years ago, and I have had no return of the complaint since.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
D CAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
TWO RESIDENTS OF SYDNEY CURED OF
PILES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mre. A. Craw, 107 Day Street, Leichhardt,
Svdney, says: “About two years ago I used
Doan’s Ointment for a bad attack of piles,
and I am pleased to tell you that it cured
me and I have had no return of that dis-
tressing complaint since. I suffered terribly
before I used Doan’s Ointment, the pain and
irritation being often very trying. Different
preparations 1 used failed to give me any
relief but Doan’s Ointment soon fixed me up
and I am very glad to have an opportunity
of saying, a few words in praise of this fine
pile remedy. I always keep a tin in the
house now, and find it very useful at times.”
Two years later Mrs. Craw says: “I have
had no return of piles since Doan’s. Ointment
cured me about four years ago. My experi-
ence proves that Doan’s Ointment is a
genuine remedy for piles.’
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Isaac Swales, S 9 Fitzroy Street, Moore
Park, Sydney, says: “I used remedy after
remedy trying to get a cure for itching piles,
but nothing did me any good until I applied
Doan’s Ointment. This wonderful ointment
cured me in a very short time and I have
been free from the- torture of this complaint
ever since. Only those who are tortured
with piles know what -the irritation is like,
but, after my experience with Doan’s Oint-
ment I am sure no one need suffer with
piles. I wish I had known about this remedy
years before; it would have saved me a lot
of trouble.
Fourteen . years later Mrs. Swales says :
“My husband has had no. return of piles
since Doan’s Ointment cured him fourteen
years ago.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and storekeepers.
Foster McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
But, be sure you get DOAN’S.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
four women among them. The doctor
related his less risqud yarns, Green opened
up on his favorite poet, Whitman, and the
missus and I sang snatches of a two-year-
old musical comedy. Finally she abandoned
the conquest of the hors-d’oeuvres to tinkle at
the ant-eaten piano and sing in a bell-clear
soprano.
It was nine o’clock before we saw the
bottom of the wash-basin. Maxwellton
leaned back, sighed and clapped his hands.
Ko trotted in with a sucking-pig, roasted to
a gold-brown, and bordered with asli-baked
yams and taro. Greatest luxury of all
there was a tiny dish of apple-sauce made
from evaporated apples.
Maxwellton, Green, the doctor, the missus
and I stared at the appalling feast aghast
and then looked guiltily at one another.
The doctor, who had been deputed carver
by reason of his supposed knowledge of
anatomy, picked up the knife determinedly
and gave it a preliminary flourish; but the
determination wilted and he laid it down
hopelessly. We were full —full in every
crevice; full to the very back teeth —With
hors-d’oeuvres.
“Well, have another drink, anyway,” said
Maxwellton.
For ten interminable minutes we bore the
sight ;■ of that perfect sucking-pig. Then
Maxwellton called weakly for Ko —called
again, but no Ko came. He rose a little
unsteadily and walked to the door, yelling
down the garden-path. No Ko.! But another
house-servant came scuttling—a yellow
Morobe boy.
“Where’s Ko?” snapped Maxwellton iras-
cibly.
“No catchem, Taubada. No catchem.”
Maxwellton hesitated. “All right,” he
said hopelessly. “No catchem: See that?”
He pointed to the perfect sucking-pig.
“Catchem runalong Mary belong Ko. Mary
belong Ko plenty sick. Good kai that one too-
much. And,” he added, “if you eat any of it
yourself, you yellow blighter, I’ll— Iloppit.
One-time.... Ko’s' Mary,” he said, turn-
ing to me apologetically, “is the particular
property of the missus. A good girl. She’s
just presented us with an addition to the
population—a little tawny devil who’ll make
a fine murderer.”
At midnight I turned in, sodden with a
final rainbow of liqueur. I had scarcely
closed my eyes when there came to my ears
an unholy racket of “pidgin” from the
verandah, Maxwellton’s voice snapping in-
cisive questions. Then I heard him stamp-
ing off yelling, “Doc! Hey, Doc!”
I leapt out of bed and ran after him.
“What in the name of blazes is wrong?” I
asked.
“Ko’s Mary—got pains pretty bad,” he
said thoughtfully. “Now I wonder if that
blighter Ko did anything with that suck-
iug-pig and then hopped it. I wonder.”
We found the girl doubled up on her mat,
groaning horribly, and I glimpsed a trace
of red at the corners of her mouth. Slavin-
ski rolled her over and straightened her
cramped limbs with passionless efficiency—
glanced at her eyeballs and the contracted
muscles of the abdomen.
“I’d say thorn-apple,” he muttered as he
forced the clenched teeth open and''adminis-
tered an emetic.
I nodded to the two men and went out.
Maxwellton called to me as I was creeping
out of the hut, “Don’t forget we’re fishing
in the morning!”
His nerve was unshakable.
When Maxwellton aroused me five or six
hours later I could detect no trace of
tiredness in either his face or his voice—
and he told me that he had had one hour’s
sleep! Strangest of all, Ko grinned imper-
turbably in the background. I stared at him
so hard that his grin faded slightly and
Maxwellton gave me a sharp nudge.
At our hurried, half-hearted breakfast no
one made even a vague reference to the
night’s happenings'; but Maxwellton said
to me rapidly, when we were going down
to the water, “Tell you the whole yarn later.
His nibs here is going to do duty this
morning. He’s the only boy I’ve got who’s
useful in a motor-boat.”
T nodded as if I fully comprehended.
The missus, of course, had joined us at
the meal and was cheerfully normal. Some-
how it didn’t occur to me to pity Her,
marooned here in this exotic gaol. One did
not pity Cassie Maxwellton —one rather
admired and envied her. She was young-old,
piquant—and happy. And she was game.
Green had drawn up a half-decked launch
astern of my ketch. The little vessel was
a trim enough craft which had been well
looked after in regard to both hull and
engine.
I sprawled on the engine cowling while
we made the entrance, talking to the missus
and Avatcliing Ko jag a huge chunk of “salt-
horse” on an equally huge hook, and coil
the heavy, oiled cord. Maxwellton had taken
it for granted that I understood his fishing
to be for shark. This was my tackle. He
was fishing with an elaborate though effici-
ent looking rod, fifteen feet from butt to
tip; but the hook, to which he fastened
the half of a small, odorous barainundi,
appeared a ridiculous implement by which
to hold one of the great grey monsters of the
reef.
“Never thought to ask you if fishin’ would
amuse you, Carson,” he said, “because it
amuses me so dam’ much. And the missus
likes it. She’s collectin’ teeth.”
The morning mists were rising over the
landward hills as we skirted the-inner:: reef
and the light of sunrise tinted the pearl-
shell grey with little running edges of flame.
In an hour the nosing craft was clear of the
jagged out-tlirusts of coral and splashed up
and down the long, rippled swell. Maxwell-
ton, poised in the sternsheets, flipped the
decomposed baramundi far out over the
water and signed to Ko to open the throttle.
I cast my lump, of flesh, overboard with
something approaching enthusiasm and paid
out endless fathoms of line.
We wheeled in ever-widening circles.
When the first thrill of the morning and
the motion had worn off I fell to ruminating
on the chances of a bite, for reef-sharks are
usually well enough fed; and while I was
still ruminating the bite came —a bite that
yanked me two feet along the cowling on to
the planks and made the cord whistle through
my fingers till the skin was on fire.
Green, who had been talking to me, whipped
tlie wheel over with a* yell, and the line j
slackened, so that I found time to throw a
hitch about a cleat. Two hundred yards
astern, the great silvery body ot' the shark
broke water and thrashed the blue surface
to a welter of white froth. The line stood
out as stiff as a- bar of iron, vibrating, whip-
ping little tufts of spray where it broke the
waves.
“Hammernose, hammernose!” yelled Max-
wellton, almost crazy with excitement.
“Hang to him, Carson, hang to him!”
Green swore softly in my ear; Ko grinned
and opened his mouth cavernously : the missus,
evidently an old hand at; effacing herself,
rolled, up into a very small ball in the cock-
pit and watched, eyes smouldering With
excitement.
In the end we beat him, a giant brute
fifteen feet long from distorted snout to
arrow-tail; a long, sinuous, snapping tiger
of deep water. The pinky blood poured from
great gashes in-his sides wdiere the cannibal
killers had snapped at him as he became
exhausted. Inch by inch, arms shooting
needles of fire with the merciless wrenching,
I coaxed him alongside, and we were circled
by the darting fins of the smaller sharks
which had gathered to the feast of blood.
Green, deserting the wheel, dived below to find
the rifle and make a finish.
Then it happened. Maxwellton, still
gripping his rod unconsciously, was watch-
ing my manoeuvres eagerly, almost whisper-
ing his advice. My eyes were glued to the
great body, awash ten yards away. The great
hammernose was suspiciously quiet, and I
brought every ounce of my strength to bear
on the line, hitching each inch of slack over
the iron behind me. I must hold him quiet
until Green brought the rifle, and then cast
loose for the death flurry.
There was a startled gasp and a faint
splash. The woman cried out. Maxwellton
was gone! Then I saw his head bobbing ten
yards behind, among the hurrying little fins,
and I saw the shadow of fear pass over the
startled, streaming face.
The missus reached the • clutch at the
same time as I reached the wheel. But
thank God she had enough presence of mind
not to use it; instead, she pushed the throttle
wide open. We turned in a narrow circle —
so narrow that the port gunwale dipped
into an oncoming wave and the water
sloshed about my feet.
And now for the first time I noticed that
Ko was gone. Sweeping the water, I saw
his black, frizzy head rise alongside the yell-
ing, splashing Maxwellton, and at the same
instant there came the flash of a white belly,
the frizzy head disappeared, and a slow, crim-
son stain drifted upwards.
I gripped Maxwellton’s hair and yanked
with all my strength. A moment later Ko’s
head appeared again— and I saw that he was
grinning! As he leapt high, pulling heavily
on my hands, I heard the snap of jaws
behind him and a gurgling of water.
For all that, he came aboard without even
so much as a scrape, though he left his
bush-knife buried in the bowels of a six-
foot “whaler” which had darted at Maxwell-
ton.
We were hardly a talkative party on the
way back to the spindle-legged pier. The
missus was a trifle white and quite silent.
Maxwellton kissed her and shook hands with
me. To Ko he said not one word.
I strolled out on to the verandah after
lunch, at which the matter was discussed
for ‘ the first time, though Maxwellton con-
fined himself to remarking that he wass
damned lucky.
When I went inside again I wondered why
Maxwellton had donned a topee and patrol
jacket to sit at the end of the dining-room
table like a graven image. Then I saw Ko,
scared to a state of palsied shivering, stand-
ing between two police boys at the other end.
Maxwellton, glancing sideways, motioned
me to sit down. He put a few questions
in the dialect and nodded to Ko’s chattered
replies; then, evidently for my benefit, lapsed
into pidgin.
“Why- you putem tapa [a species of thorn
apple] along kai belong Taubada, Ko?”
Ko was still shivering. “No catchem,” he
; stammered.
“Ko liar! You catchem that —liuh! Tau-
bada friend belong big-fella devil-devil”—
Maxwellton pointed vaguely upwards—“Alli-
same Christ. Big fella devil-devil tellum
Taubada. Catchem?”
Ko was literally quaking. It no more
occurred to him to doubt Maxwellton’s
familiarity with God than it occurred to
him to doubt the taubada’s intention to hang
him.
“All right,” continued Maxwellton deci-
dedly, “Ko catchem. Now why you runalong
swim kill big-fella shark this mornin’?”
The ghost of a grin flitted over Ko’s big,
scarred mouth. “No big-fella shark,” he
said shakily. “Little-fella shark.” He held
out his hands in a gesture that struck me as
pathetic in the circumstances.
Maxwellton did not bat an eyelash’. “All
right,” he said. “Why you kill little-fella
shark —-huh’?”
stammered for a minute before he
said, “Taubada fixem Mary belong Ko all-
time sick along belly—so.” He doubled up,
illustratively, and contorted his face.
Maxwellton nodded, never once relaxing
his gravity. “Ko savvv damfool?” he queried.
Ko nodded agonisedly.
“Now,” finished Maxwellton, turning to
the police boys, “take Ko out and we’ll sec
about giving him a hell of a hiding. Wait for
me.”
The police boys grinned delightedly ~ and
Ko commenced moaning. He had quite for-
gotten about his conviction that he was
about to be hanged.
When they had gone Maxwellton turned to
me. “Well,” he said, “funny, wasn’t it?”
“I think you’re a brave man, Maxwellton,”
I said, downright. Maxwellton blushed like
a schoolgirl.
“Tripe,” he said off-handedly, “tripe. Ko’ll
•be a good boy now. The touch about the big
fella devil-devil did that. You only require
to understand them. Besides, I • like that
beggar. And my murderers are all dam’
fine‘boys.’ They’re utterly simple. Ko tried
to give me a dose of poison because he
resented me giving him a hiding. Next morn-
ing he saves my life because I saved his
Mary—to whom I’d inadvertently passed on
the poison intended for me—for us. Simple.
It’s the only word. But 1 wish there were
more white men like him, Carson!”
Maxwellton meant that.


!P-
-s
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency-
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 4 1 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. CONCORD WFXT N S WALES
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. vUHLUKU HWI. >». WAUC*
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. KLPEK, SMITH & CO., 1/TH,, Adelaide, S.A.
FOR 84 YEARS QUEENSLAND’S LEADING DAILY NEWSPAPER
The
BRISBANE
COURIER
The largest and most widely spread
Home-delivered morning newspaper in
Brisbane and Queensland. For 84
years the “Courier” has been the most
outstanding advertising medium of
Queensland, and still enjoys the
supreme confidence of all local and
national advertisers.
inches
The “Courier” during 1929 exceeded
its morning contemporary’s total adver-
tising space by 220,5 71 inches.
Published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
COURIER BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE’’
Established 185Jt.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
“THE AGE” publishes over one million adver-
tisements annually. A newspaper advertising
record for the British Empire.
This achievement is definite proof that_ “The
Age’' has moved forward with irresistible
power to its objective—public confidence.
When formulating your advertising pro-
gramme, link up with “The Age.”
Your confidence will not be misplaced.
AUDITED NET DAILY SALES,
123,533.
Advertising rates on application to the
principal Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Che fldomiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may he
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 11 d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, I.isgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL. “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life,
in Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3fis Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Clk mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA.
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
80 Carrington Street,' Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in **THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
d diyedtive
coVuctive,lMtotative,
and aftatwe
medicine
©
i-’fe
TCZ
Worth a
Guinea
a Box,
& Ai
&
96
S
87
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPII & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne;
W. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from .........
for ichich I enclose
NAME ...
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/.
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
rf
a
k
(V.
I**
OO'*
„
jC\* (S 6 ®


w
IT is on the quality of the material and the
engineering design built into a car that
depends almost entirely the number of
trouble-free years of service it will give its
owner.
Consider for a moment Full Force Feed
Lubrication, which ensures the proper oiling
of all working parts in all conditions. The
High Compression ratio, 5.4 to 1, the Small
Capacity, High Efficiency Engine, 2.7 horse-
power of every 10 cubic-inch displacement.
Silent Timing Chain, Invar - Strut Pistons.
These are not customarily low-priced features,
and the Whippet is unique in offering them in
the low-priced held.
These important features appear in all high-
priced and high-quality cars, and their use
results in longer life, less wear and better
performance. Just as the Whippet was one
year ahead of low-priced cars in the adoption
of 4-wheel brakes, so it is still well ahead in
the quality of its engineering design.
Arrange with your nearest Whippet, Willys-
Knight dealer for a full demonstration of this
low-priced car.
that mean
carefree
motorinp
A
wik
n
sm.
K
x
'f. \
4/j/rn
m
<./ 'K
m myj/
<s
m
f
u
0
»
H
r
IX
ivl w^
(NOXVd)
VJt V
-vt-f
:
<£7fce
1930
Whippet
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
