

BLACK & WHITE
afgSß. sga&j
MiPH ?
a if 1 ....;;
tin
V.>v '
I
ill
Isa iiilll
......... '"Jhr.i
aSS
a#
v
HI
s
: ■ ■
a a
i§
:S: ;;
m
ws&w
■am.
m
WM
■■■■ .
■
S :■
m
I i
.
■
s:-
P
. la
'f J'A K
s
a-,--
H
.: a
m
11
y' v
i
HI
a/-
;■
■
■ a
v • ,
'
"V ■
'
«
mmm
-a
Si
■
B
a
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
The Bulletin
Qex/w ?— s*s4* $ -
Vol. 51.—N0. 2624.
Wednesday, May 28, 1930.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THK New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Beauty is chief charm of life,
Beauty in both child and wife.
Beauty in fair maid or man,
Nature’s Subtle Pairing Plan.
Beauty is the seal of ’ health,
Beauty owes no source to wealth,
Beauty need not colds endure,
Choosing Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Learn
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Pool-let, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mn Address 7.
5.8.316 7.7.
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
w
WORCESTERSHIRE
THE SUPPER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ Good evening
merrie gentlemen !
Your supper awaits
you.
W ith the lobster,
salad and cheese I have
served my Worcester-
shire Sauce. Ah !it is
indeed a delicious
relish.”
St
f
3
GENTLEMEN! I ask you
to join me in a u spot”
of McCallum’s Perfection,
a Whisky that has been
in front for 120 years.
Distributors for the House of McCallum
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Goklsbrougli, Mort: &ICO.
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Goklsbrough, Mort & ,Co.
Wool Exchange,- Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
Goldsbrotlgh, Mart & Co.
(Jnr. B-"”'*?'' M'illiarn Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for IV.A,:
Lionel Samson & Co.,
FREMANTLE.
Sole Agents for S.A.:
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents for Tasmania:
MsicFarlaiie Bros.,
117 Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
IT STANDS ALONE
the
ROLLS
RAZOR
The British-made hollovV-ground
ONE - BLADE
SAFETY RAZOR
"The Aristocrat of the Bathroom."
The Ideal Gift for a Man
It will please him beyond any other
gift, and will save him every week
the cost of new razor blades.
Imperial Model No. 1 45/-, No. 2 35/-.
Prom all high-class stores throughout
Australia.
THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney
-SToKSKteT
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 100)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’-ns’ House.
Days, *l5/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 10/- or 98/-
BAtn
p
101
ZMtBUK
In Your Home
At home and at work Zam-Buk is
needed every day. Children are always
cutting their heads and knees, house-
wives have their painful burns and
scalds. Workers in a score of trades
run daily risk of blood-poison, players
in vigorous games have their bruises
and strains Zam-Buk is marvellous
to soothe and heal.
Pain and inflammation are quickly
allayed by Zam-Buk. It kills bad
germs, prevents festering and blood-
poison, and grows new skin, Soothing
healing and antiseptic Zam-Buk is
useful for a hundred-and-one skin
troubles. Never be without Zam-Buk
Keep a box in a handy place !
This great herbal ointment never turns
rancid Uis unequalled for eczema, pim-
ples, bad legs, ulcers, poisoned wounds,
ringworm, boils, abscesses, scalp disease,
piles, etc. 1/6 & 3/6 box. Zam-Buk Med-
icinal Soap 1/- a tablet. All chemists.
GET A BOX TO
The Red Page
Honoring a Laureate
“Hullo, hullo. Scullin, Australia, speak-
ing. My dear John Masefield, I congratu-
late you. You little know how we who ride
easily upon the back of the underdog in
Australia appreciate all you have done for
the downtrodden, the so-called dregs of
humanity. But it is genuine, I assure you.
We recognise you not only as a fellow-
democrat, but as Democracy’s own voice.
How could we forget at a time when one
of our own number has achieved this signal,
this unique honor, the Laureateship, those
stirring lines of your credo which you
called “Dedication”? I am sure, my dear
John, you will not mind if 1 read them—
or, hem, some of them—back at you:—
Not of the princes, and prelates with periwigged
charioteers
Riding triumphantly laurelled to lap the fat or the
years,
Rather the scorned- —the rejected—-the men hemmed
in with the spears ;
The men of the tattered battalion which fights till
it dies,
Dazed with the dust of the battle, the din and the
cries,
The men with the broken heads and the blood
running into their eyes.
Not the be-medalled Commander, beloved of the
throne,
Riding cock-horse to parade when the bugles are
blown,
But the lads who carried the koppie and cannot
be known.
Not the ruler for me, but the ranker, the tramp
of the road,
The slave with the sack on his shoulders pricked
on with the goad,
The man with too weighty a burden, too weary a
load.
Of the maimed, of the halt and the blind in the
lain and the cold —
Of these shall my songs be fashioned, my tale be
told. Amen.
“How stirring, how true, how idealistic,
bow Kiplingesque—er, I mean, picturesque.
And here I find it again, this—shall I call
it ?—-this peculiar reason why I, as Prime
Minister of our Labor Commonwealth,
should spend a few shillings in a wireless
telephone call even though we are passing
through a period of dreadful financial de-
pression, from which nothing can lift us
unless Bradman makes a score. Have you
seen him yet? Damn shame they left
Ryder out. I think, and it's a thousand
pities Streplion has gone amiss. If they get
him right, put your .socks —I mean, your
sherry—on him. You do get a keg of sherry
or something with the Laureateship, don’t
you? Of course, I don’t think Strephon
is the horse Phar Lap is, but he’s a regular
poem in movement.... H’m; oh, yes, that
reminds me. This other reason why I, as a
Labor Prime Minister, have rung you up
I have here beside me. I mean your great
narrative poem, “The Everlasting Mercy”:
But you, you minds of bread and cheese,
Are less divine than that dog’s fleas.
>ou suck blood from kindly friends,
And kill them when it serves your ends.
Double traitors, double black,
Stabbing, only in the back.
Stabbing with the knives you borrow
From the friends you bring' to sorrow.
You stab all that’s true and strong-.
Truth and' strength you say are wrong,
Meek and mild and sweet and creeping,
Repeating, canting, cadging, peeping.
“H’m; I seem to have opened it at the
wrong place. I know you will excuse me;
I had no intention, I assure you, of intro-
ducing party politics. However, my dear
John, I recognise that that poem as a
whole, together with much else that you
have written, forms an inescapable reason
why I should tell you how we, as, so to
speak, jockeys of the underdog, appreciate
what you have done in that line. There
is another reason—peculiar to this ’great,
though young, country—why I should have
given you a tinkle. Les, I’ll take an exten-
sion, thank you. That girl cutting in on
the line, John. Well, I should like to say
that, we as a country which venerates Anzac
will never forget your magnificent saga.
“Gallipoli.” Its golden words are on all
our tongues. We surely would be cold in
our ingratitude if ever we forget to honor
the man who wrote: —
The Australian and New Zealand Army Corps
and the Royal Naval Division, who together made up
more than half the army, were almost all men who
had enlisted since the declaration of war, and had
had not more than six months’ active, training. They
were, however, the finest body of voting men ever
brought together in modern times'. For physical
beauty and nobility of bearing they surpassed am-
nion I have ever seen; they walked and'looked like
the kings of old poems.
“I might say that we ourselves tried in
our own way to thank these noble fellows
the other day by removing the stigma of
preference in employment put upon them by
a previous Government. They, however,
preferred to be given opportunities to work.
But that is by the way, and I’d better read
you another chapter from your book,
“Gallipoli.” to take the taste out of my
mouth:—
No such gathering of fine ships has ever beer-
seen upon this ..earth, and the beauty and the exu!
tation of the youth upon them made them like sacred
things as they moved away. All the thousands of
men aboard them gathered on deck to see, till
each rail was thronged. These men had come from
all parts of the British world, from Africa, Aus-
tralia, Canada, India, the Mother Count rv, New
Zealand and remote islands in the sea. They had
said good-bye to home that they might offer their
lives in the cause we stand for. In a few hours at
most, as they well knew, perhaps a tenth of them
would have looked their last on the sun, and be a
part of foreign earth or dumb things that the
tides push. Many of them would hare disappeared
for ever from the knowledge of man, blotted from
the book of life, none would know how—by a fall
or chance shot in the darkness, in the blast of a
shell, or alone, like a hurt beast, in some scrub or
gully, far from comrades and the English speech
and the English singing. And perhaps a third of
them would he mangled, blinded or broken, lamed,
made imbecile or disfigured, with the color and the
taste of life taken' from them, so that they would
never more move with comrades nor exult in the
sun.... They went like kings in a pageant to the
imminent death.
“We should be dull indeed, my dear John,
if we did not grasp the significance of the
book which contains these and other pas-
sages, both in their application to Anzac,
which we honor—once a year—and for their
own intrinsic qualities as great literature.
I need not recall to you your early
basking in the' Celtic twilight, your
temporary servitude under the Kipling
influence, nor perhaps the bathos which
drips from your pen less freely now than it
used to. But I must not forget your fine
novel ‘Multitude and Solitude,’ even
though you once did say of your novels,
‘They are all, I hope, forgotten by now.’
In conclusion, my dear John, permit me
to say—
“ Hullo, hullo! Blast the girl! Oh,
well, I suppose it doesn’t matter much.”
CECIL MANN.
A Lesson from America
lew questions have produced so much
iqlse reasoning as the so-called “menace
to education’ involved in the encourage-
ment oi an Australian publishing industry.
One opponent told the Tariff Board that
the standard of culture in the Common-
wealth was below that of the U.S.A. be-
cause the youth of Australia already did
not get, enough books to read.” He argued,,
in other words, that Australia would retreat
still more, culturally, if it followed the
example of a country which has made
notable advances in literature since it
started to print its own books! Could
anything be more idiotic?
All that is proposed by those who are
accused of wanting a "book duty” (a mis-
representation in itself) is legislation' that
will cause novels to be printed here. Every
other civilised country prints all but an
infinitesimal proportion of the novels it
reads. America distributes about £20.000.000
P-a- in dividends and wages out of the
business. When Dickens paid His famous
visit, the Americans were importers of
novels, and were looked down on by the
British in consequence. Now literary
Americans deride Australia.; for being satis-
fied with the inglorious position which their
country occupied before Congress decreed
that copyright in an overseas book could
only be secured in the U.S.A. by its manu-
facture in the U.S.A. The point of view
was stingingly expressed in a reference to
Australia in the literary supplement of the
New York “Herald Tribune” (30/3/’3O) -
'here still is not a single book publisher in the
whole benighted laud, which prefers to import its
books from England and its pei iodioals from America.
1 he effect of a. copyright law similar to
the U.S.A.’s, far from injuring Australia
culturally, would considerably improve the
position. Novel jvriting would be stimu-
lated as it has been in America. When
there was talk of censoring “Redheap” last
month, Norman Lindsay said in a press
interview:—
I will let you into a secret. Because of the
dumping of English 7s. (id. novels in Australia at
•75., Australian authors get no return worth speaking
of from Australian sales of their works. On that
account, I suggested to the English publishers that
it would be hardly worth while bothering about an
Australian edition.
Of course the publishers differed: If this
pre-ordained best-seller gets past Mr. Fordo
and the police, the publishers will make
a small fortune. The author, on the other
hand, will have to be satisfied with 3d. a
copy—that being regarded as adequate by
overseas writers whose real markets are in
England and America.
There is another direction in which
writers of books with an Australian appeal
suffer. Assume an edition of an Australian
novel is put on the local market and sells
out. Under existing conditions it takes six
weeks before further supplies can arrive,
and in that time the demand for the most
popular of books is liable to fail. Any big
local firm of booksellers would have been
delighted to print, say, “A House Is Built,”
or any other Bulletin prize-winner—as
they would be to print thousands of other
books by British, as well as Australian,
{Red. Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—one of the foundation-stones on which this firm is built.
Anthony Horderns
(THE SENIOR STORE)
ŵ
(B
G
saK K*j3
ẁ
ẃ
c/mi canqet a £l9|l9|-
J HOOTER
At Anthony Horderns , for
ẅ
What a reduction! It’s an economy price for a real
labor saver. Work becomes a pleasure when you use
the new standard model 543 “Hoover” Electric
Suction Sweeper, for it lightens and speeds the
heaviest household task. Its thoroughness has
become a byword—it gets far beneath the surface
dirt and draws away all deeply embedded grit. We
offer a remarkable reduction of £5/5/- on this splendid
machine. If able to call in, see the special demon-
strations in the Electrical Department and Furniture
Department—Ground Floor. But if unable to call,
you may order with complete confidence, knowing
you are buying the finest electric vacuum cleaner on
the market and that our guarantee of satisfaction is
back of your purchase.
“It beats—as it sweeps—as it cleans ”
Buy on our “ D.P.S.” if more
convenient.
Don*t let this remarkable opportunity slip because it
may not be convenient to pay cash. With our Deposit-
Purchase System you pay a deposit on the machine —
it is put by for you, and on completion of payments
at your convenience, it is delivered in the usual way.
Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
9
'Phone: M 21,01
Day and Night,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O


UNCLE TOBVS OATS
a REAL mmkfast f
* c r
Y\
r
S: :
x;
V
m
m
3fe
m
9*ije
<s
0^
r
XpL
«
*
"Pi
•fiv
Ki
A/
TEMPTING /
' WHOLESOME /
ECONOMICAL/
Send 3d. in stamps to our
Sydney office for a book of
tried recipes, showing how
Uncle Toby’s Oats may bo
used in many delightful
ways.
WHEN you serve Uncle Toby’s Oats for breakfast, you have
the satisfaction of knowing that you are providing, not
only the most ECONOMICAL, but the most DELICIOUS
and WHOLESOME breakfast you and your family can eat.
AH the goodness contained in the choicest sun-ripened grain
comes to you INTACT in Uncle Toby’s Oats. It is not a “dried”
or “prepared” product in any sense of the word. Served at
approximately blood heat, with fresh milk and a little sugar,
Uncle Toby’s Oats is a magnificent food for growing children,
and an invaluable, well-balanced diet for adults.
Serve it every morning, Winter and Summer, for the whole
family.
Sold everywhere. Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO., LTD.,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “YORKSHIRE HOUSE,” QUEEN STREET.
TOBY’S
OATS


"WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
Make Sure of Your Game
WINCHESTER shot guns and Winchester
weatherproof shot shells are great game
getters.
Whether you are shooting for
game or at the traps, you will find a
Winchester Shot Gun a dependable
team-mate. Perfect balance—Safe-
Strong—Hard'hitting. Their satisfy-
ing shooting qualities have
made them favorites
the world over.
w
-1
ismm
a
*£««£"*
Model 12. Light,
strong, the "perfect
repeater.” Hammerless
take-down, 12, 16 and 20
gauge.
Model 97. A six-shot hammer
repeater of world wide-popularity.
12 gauge only.
Model 41. Single Shot. 410 bolt
action shot gun.
With Winchester perfect pattern shells
they make the ideal sWooting combination.
Leader —Repeater Speed Loads —Repeater
—Ranger—Nublack.
For sale by dealers everywhere.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
ŵ
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
W inchestcr Arms —they are made for each other ,
ẁ
writers that every man of business recog-
nises as certain sellers. The only reason
they don’t is that the overseas publishers,
who want the profits for themselves, would
naturally object. If novels sold In e had
to be printed here, the following advant-
ages would accrue, as the experience of
America has shown:—
(1) Increased employment for local workers.
(2) Increased profits for local booksellers turned
publishers. (That books can be produced as well
and as cheaply in Australia as elsewhere has been
demonstrated repeatedly by firms like Angus and
Robertson, of Sydney.)
(3) Better (because steadier) sales, and bigger
percentages on sales for local writers, who, for the
first time in history, look like finding a lucrative
public in their own country.
The only sufferers would be the overseas
dumpers, who at present are sending to
Australia thousands of worthless book-;
which would otherwise be unloaded on the
London remaindermen.
JOHN DALLEY.
Another Neglected Australian?
It has become a general rule to accept
Lawson as our foremost prose-writer, and
to forget that he ever wrote verse at all.
,Change of fashion is the predominating
cause. Any style or method, any material
or workmanship is first of all a novelty,
afterwards the recognised thing and later
demoded. It may finally become extinct.
The Australian balladists, the Bush Bards,
of whom Lawson is too often regarded as
typical, have reached the third stage. Law-
son’s verse, which rose when they rose and
flourished when they chiefly flourished,
now shares their exile from fashion, where-
as his prose, besides its other excellencies,
is sufficiently unique to remain always a
novelty.
That identification with the balladists
provides the real secret of the lapse from
favor of his verse. Much that the ballad
school produced (and much that Lawson
produced also) had the worthy-enough in-
tention of pleasing or amusing, and that
only. The product was definitely Austra-
lian in spirit, honest in tone and masculine
in character, defining admirably a genuine
phase of our life. But little of it had intrin-
sically any pretensions to permanent worth
as poetry. It is a page that lias now been
turned: Lawson’s work was accidentally
inscribed on the same page. Yet, as a
matter of fact, Lawson had hardly a trace
of the superficiality which marked that
school. Seen in perspective against the
background of the English language’s great
creative masterpieces, his best serious work
is by no means that of a great poet. Indeed,
it has very primitive aspects. But it is
too sincere to be of only transient worth,
and even in such light pieces as “Andy’s
Gone with Cattle” and “The Free-selector’s
Daughter” has too much of the real dignity
of art to be dismissed as having been writ-
ten merely to entertain. At its worst his
work has a tendency to whine; at its best
it displays thought and vision, and has an
admirable simplicity too often mistaken
for crudeness. Even David McKee Wright
followed this last error, in his preface to
a selection of Lawson’s poems, when he
spoke of the “axemarks” as being every-
where apparent. Actually within its nar-
row limits Lawson’s' technique was a splen-
did example; his powers of conception and
construction were uncommonly good, and
his sense of form was sound. His verse
used, for what it was required to do, the
most suitable tools (not merely the best
available), and used them excellently. That
can be seen in such verses as, say, “The
Roaring Days,” “Genoa” and “Gypsy Too.”
His poetry’s reputation has suffered also
from the reaction against over-emphasis
on the importance of Australianism. There
still survives in some quarters the idea,
rampant a few years ago, that poetry writ-
ten in Australia must be Australian poetry,
branded with local color, and, even in its
most lyrical moments, tasting strongly of
eucalyptus—an idea carried too far, but
evolved from the sound-enough principle
that a man should know what he is writing
about and write about what he knows. In
antagonism to the narrowness of that Aus-
tralianism-or-nothing view, there grew
recently among a younger generation, tired
of an enforced diet of gum-leaves, a dis-
trust of anything resembling provincialism,
any tint of locality. There was consider-
able justification ,for this reaction, but, like
many another reaction, it over-balanced and
had a fatal tendency to put poetry out of
touch with external environment, and hence
out of touch with the impetus of experi-
ence.
It is unfortunate that Lawson felt so
much of the force of this reaction. Unfor-
tunate, because he has proved himself time
and again a true prophet, an oracle to be
consulted. Unfortunate, because his work
represents an aspect of Australian life which
will not reappear. Unfortunate, above all,
because he was a poet. Not a great poet,
but a true one. His is the song of dawn
breaking on unexplored plains. The primi-
tive quality of his poems is not to be dis-
missed as uncouth; it is the primitive-
ness of mankind, and of the old simplici-
ties which have been sung since the
morning of verse. There is in his work
the true depth and sincerity of folk-poetry.
In point of genuineness “The Roaring
Days” might be set alongside an acknow-
ledged masterpiece like “Sir Patrick Spens.”
Such work is important as a landmark, and
important in its own right, and should not
be allowed to drop out of sight, hidden
behind its author’s prose-writings. It will
not drop out of sight altogether, but even
if it be only temporarily put by there will
be a loss.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
A Short Story Competition
The Queensland Authors’ and Artists’
Association is proving that such organi-
sations can encourage literature. It offers
a prize of £lO for a short story of not more
than 2000 words, submitted to it at Box
678, G.P.0., Brisbane, on or before June
30. The offer is more generous than it may
seem, because the story remains the pro-
perty of the writer, to market anywhere he
may choose. The association merely
reserves the right to have the winning story
(or any other submitted) read at its annual
meeting in August. The MS. must be sub-
mitted under a pen-name, with a closed
envelope containing inside it the name, and
address of the writer: There are no other
conditions, except that the; story must be
typewritten on one side of the paper only.
A Satchel of Books
Unknown Warriors, by K. E. Luard
(Ohatto and Windns). If the dismal ness of
war books has anyone on the threshold of
the goofhou.se, he might as well read this
one and go indoors. Miss Luard spent four
years nursing in France, and these are her
letters . home. They give a true enough
picture of the life: as a book, they are a
wet blanket festooned with garlands of lead.
Everyman's Library goes on towards the
000-yol. mark. It now holds ' more than
840 vols. by more than 400 authors. Latest
additions are “Bevis,” Richard Jefferies;
Marx's “Capital” in two vols.; the Polish,
epic . novel “Pan Tadeusz,” by 'Adam
Mickiewicz; an anthology, “Minor Poets of
the Eighteenth Century”; Sturlasoirs Norse
King sagas, “Heimskringla,” translated by
Samuel Laing; Lessing’s “Laocoon,” trans-
lated by W. A. Steel; “Jacobean and
Restoration Shorter .Novels” (vol. 2 of the
“Shorter Novel” series) ; and Smollett’s
“Peregrine Pickle” in two vols.
Mystery Island, by Palmer White (Chap-
man and Hall), is about a man “who had
proved himself to be one of the biggest
menaces to peace and good order that had
ever existed in New Zealand or Australia.”
Karnoff by name, and a criminal Bolshie by
nature, he has sown an island off the ML.
coast with explosives in pursuance of his
damnable schemes against the Empire. For-
tunately a devoted little band of loyalists
frustrate him at every turn, and eventually
have the pleasure of seeing him hoisted by
one of his own lines. A romance that will
be appreciated by patriotic and not too
sophisticated schoolboys.
The Process of Literature, by Agnes Mure
Mackenzie (Allen and Unwin). The author,
herself a novelist and writer of other books,
inquires into the process by which any given
person, having had an experience, gives that
experience to others and so “creates” litera-
ture. Rightly, she emphasises the import-
ance of the actual conveyance of experienct :
it is not enough to express himself; the
writer must convey that which he. expresses
to others—an apparently platitudinous pos-
tulate, but one that most would-be writers
and not a few critics fail to grasp. The
book is carefully reasoned, thoughtful; but
when it is all said, Dickens’s “I thought of
Mr. Pickwick” is the last word that can be
written on the matter.
The Man Who Was There, by N. A.
Temple-Ellis (Methuen) , is a detective story
founded on a classic model. The uncannily
efficient Arbuthnot, who insults his faithful
offsider. King, and patronises the police, was
a drug-addict in a dressing-gown 30 years
ago. Owing to the-chance presence of Mr.
Arbuthnot and his assistant on the Isle of
Wight, a corpse is discovered in a* cottage
on the Downs, and a fine brood of black-
mailers and assassins is dealt with in an
exemplary manner. But for works of this
kind society would never know what it owes
to its private detectives, who, unfortunately
for the criminal classes, have unlimited time
and money to devote to their investigations.
The Rocklitz (John Lane) is by George
Preedy, who wrote “General Crack.” Del-
phicus Liineberg de H'averbeck is a soldier
of fortune too, and he becomes a world-
famous general at an absurdly early age in
one of those seventeenth-century German prin-
cipalities which arc popular with novelists
and scenario-writers just now. The Rocklitz
is Madelon, the girl he wanted to marry but
who preferred to become the mistress of
an Elector. After many stirring excursions
and alarms all ends disastrously, as invari-
ably happens in this type of romance. There
is no reason why The Rocklitz should not
sell as well as its predecessor ; its characters
are as stagey and its history as imaginative.
But it is as a talkie, with Madelon a vir-
tuous. or at worst misunderstood, heroine
happily united to Delphicus in the last scene,
that this book is likeliest to score. It has
every ingredient demanded by makers of
screen costume-dramas.
Hogarth Living Poets. Vols. 9-12 inclu-
sive are Transitional Poem, C. Day Lewis:
King's Daughter, V. Sackville-West; The
Family Tree, William Plomer; Cawdor,
Robinson Jeffers. King’s Daughter, the
writer’s latest poem since “The Land,” has
much higher and purer poetic quality than
the others. It begins beautifully:—
If I might meet her in the lane,
Riding a raven horse
That tiailed his golden halter loose
And snuffed the golden gorse.
And, though a trio of sonnets are a trifle
forced, there is much more of the opening
charm. The others have claims, if only as
irritants, to the poetry-reader’s attention.
They suffer on the whole from a too patent
striving after smartness, but. they have their
poetic surprises as well. The series might
well be looked into by Australia’s publishers,
a leading one of whom dates his last profit-
able book of vers'c back 10 years or more,
Books like these, with their colored board
covers and all-round simplicity, must be very
clieaply produced. Also, they are handy and
handsome, which most of the Australian
verse tomes are not.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken ve contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.S.M.: Try it on Marjory.... J.P.W.:
You may do. better later 0n....J.Y.: Well off the
track to the pay-office.’..Mulga Mick: No good.
... .A;E.W.: Thin... .E.E.: May place it elsewhere.
... .N.R.: Like matter more direct for that page....
F.K.: Sorry; no more space for those things than
they already fi11.... L.M.T.: Your Australia is in
England... .A.A.: No job for the pack mules....
■ M.P.S.: Fined a million for the rhymes.... V.P.:
Idea that the time to smile cheerfully is when a
chap hits you in the solar plexus seems all right as
a theory. Ever really tried it ?.... Ex-patient:
Sorry; send it to them personally... .T.E.8.: No
market here for so-called vers libre 3 which is mostly
a foreign term for loafing. .. .HAY.: Just missed.
. ...T.A.C.: The best advice is to read as many
short stories as you can.... P.D.: Why not try to
answer the arguments ?... .D.P.: It might be verse,
but sounds suspiciously like highfalutin prose.. . .
Francis: Descriptive of a woman:—
Cold as a frozen iceberg,
Warm as the summer sun ;
It’s when you think you’ve got her
Your troubles have just begun.
Fancy you’ll correct that impression when you do
get her.... Peg: Not bad in its way, but the appeal
is very limited.... M.C-W.: Verse some distance off.
....A.W.: Worn-out idea"... .5.8.: No Milton, but
Australia could do with many more of your spirit.
. ...8.W.: No .space for rhymed list of the things
you 10ve.... J.M.: Coloring first-rate; close
altogether.. . .H.U.A.: Nothing new in “Nocturne.”
'"....R.D.: Chief defect is that they don’t say any-
thing. .. .P.R.J.: No pay for “Dreaming” J.
Masefield: Congratulations on the Laureateship and:
Young Will, the son
Heard his sister shriek;
He took a gun
Quick as a streak. *•
‘' lie/ said: “Now, Dad,
Stop, once for all!”
He was a good lad,
Good at kicking the ball.
His father clubbed
The girl on the head.
Young Will upped
And shot him dead.
“Now, sister,” said Will,
“I’ve a-kjlled father,
As I said I’d kill.
0 Sis, I’d rather
“A-kill him again
Than see you suffer.
O my little Jane,
Kiss good-bye to your brother.”
K.D.U.: Don’t mind a little copy written with
a eliaffeutter, but a bundle like that is a bit stiff.
.. . . P.McK.C.: Trouble is that few care where
aspiring poets sleep when they’re dead. . . .R.T.:
No thanks....H.L.W.: Yes, the topic isn’t hack-
neyed ; yet you don’t say anything fresh on it... .
Decani: No strength in it... ,C.L.: The Borgia
passes;.. .P.W.8.: The spirit is strong, but the
verse is weak... . J.S.G.: Variations on an old
theme... .R.1.W.: Not a very interesting drunk.. ..
G.R.H.: “Where Are the Bowlers of Yesterday?”
Rocking -it into other bowlers in the newspapers.
. ...K.S.: Fair enough.... Chelsus: Those fond
recollections again 1.... Syd S.: “Bullockin’s Dan”
fell at the second water jump M.R.W.: Pretty
little verse and meritorious for one so young... .
C.Y.N.: No desire to explore your Centralian cave.
. ...C.N.A.: Can’t believe that the listeners were so
easily bluffed.... 1.V.M.: We, too, were bored....
W.K.D.: No sanctuary here for man who was
snapped up by a croc, while running away from
his wife.... Lydia: Your benevolent horticulturist is
rather tame. .. .M.S.: Nonsense... .M.R.E.8.: Not
for us H.T.G.: A variation of an old fish yarn.
. ...M.H.: Not enough in it, though pretty well
told. .. .C.G.: Better groomed, it might appeal to a
sporting paper.... L.P.J.: No perch for excitable
silver wyandotte... .G.R.I-I.: Wearisome introduction,
stilted dialogue and weak finish... .8.M.: It may be
original, but it’s no g00d... .G.M.S.: Off our beat.
... .8.T.P.: Try it on a Melbourne daily... . A.H.N.:
Not a bad adventure yarn; might suit a boys’
magazine... .J.A.K.: Good idea badly mauled....
K.A.D.: Six thousand words about the loves of a
’bus-conductor !.... J.D.K.: Missed.... R.S.C.: Give
it another preparation and enter it again... .N.H.:
So many words on so trifling a theme!... .L.S.: A
nasty little story.... S.W.T.: Effort to make a
romantic figure of an Afghan camel-driver fails.
. ...E.F.: Basketed... .M.J.8.: Incredible and
humorless.... M. 8.: It wasn’t worth the trouble you
took. .. .C.J.8.W.: Except for the setting it might
be the twin brother of a recent story in an Ameri-
can magazine.... R.G.: Livingston Hopkins (“Hop”)
died at Sydney on August 21, 1927, aged 81. His
first. Bulletin drawings appeared in 1883....
f'.M.A.: Jack McLaren was born in 1887, the son
i t a Melb. Presbyterian minister. He lived on a
cocoanut plantation at Cape York for eight years.
Among his books are “Spear Eye” (1925), “The Isle
of Escape” (1926), and “The Sun Man” (1928).
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.W.: A bit uneven as yet, but don’t cork up your
ink bottle... .If.C.: Birdnesting monkeys might
interest an urchins’ monthly... .A.l\.: Offer it to
the publican for a frieze... .0.L.5.: Not bad of its
kind, but not what we want....W.J.15.: Few Aus-
tralians would understand the terms.. . .F.W. (Vie.) :
A down-at-heel pair. . . .E.S.M.G.: Unacceptable....
F. 8.: Still on the wrong side of the fence....
P. 8.: Too rough and ready.... 8.T.: Both homeward
bound... .M.G.P.: Far-fetched. .. .C.A.8.: A hopeless
couple... .J.N.K.: You greased the slide yourself.
. ...A.S.: An ancient schoolboy jest... .H.C.W.:
Been done before. . . .ILL.: Improving. . . .D.C. :
Don’t fancy your abos W.T. : Very poor.. . .D.G.:
Distorted ladies in a mudbath... .E.S.M.G.: You’re,
no artist... .A.E.M.: You’ve reached the fashion-
plate level T.S.: Painfully green.


w
/
I
1
... ,
&
/
m
up*
«i
*1
i
■
m
■
ll*
. *
j
V
\
\
: \


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2624.
May 28, 1930.
AN INDETERMINATE SENTENCE.
“Though overseas borrowing is out of the question and only a limited fund can be raised by taxation, Labor politicians insist that all the unemp loyed shall be paid
union rates, and not a penny less.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; >Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : S 6 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
8 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.,
6 months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lQoz., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: ltjoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Rlsewliere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
red page LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
HONORING A LAUREATE 2
A LESSON FROM AMERICA 2
ANOTHER NEGLECTED AUSTRALIAN . . 5
A SHORT STORY COMPETITION . . . . 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
CAN WE SAVE ARBITRATION ? . . . . 8
THE GOLD BONUS MUST COME .. ..8
A NEW FEDERAL CAPITAL 8
FINANCING NEW INDUSTRIES . . . . 8
LINDSAY AND THE CENSORSHIP .. ..9
THE HIGH PRICE OF SPEED .. .. 9
BALFOUR’S LEGACY 9
EMPLOYING THE UNEMPLOYED .. .. 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with eartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. .. .. ..10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 13
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with drawings) .. .. ..14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . . 16
FLORENCE AUSTRAL AND AMADIO . . 16
A NEW COMEDY ACTRESS . . . . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . . . . 17
NATIONAL BANK 17
BURNS, PHILP (SOUTH SEA) . . 17
YOUNGHUSBAND (MELBOURNE) . . . . 17
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND .. .. .. 22,25
THE WOOL OUTLOOK .. 22
STRAWBERRY CLOVER IN VIC 22
THE POULTRY TICK 22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. . . ..26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. .. 35, 36
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY FOOTBALL .. 35
THE FIFTEEN 36
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
The New Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer. . 42, 43, 45
“As We Said Before”—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“MARCHITA,” by J. B. Cooper ~ 49, 50
VERSE. —By Cecily Little, Roderic Quinn,
Eileen Prince .. .. .. .. 50
NEXT WEEK.
“TWELVE-INCH BILL,” one of J. 11. M. Abbott’s
best stories.
JTuTtfeulleiz/n
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28, 1930.
CAN WE SAVE ARBITRATION?
Last month a carload of shearers and
shed hands were brought out of the mulga
into Broken Hill and punished severely for
“doing something in the nature of a strike.”
They hadn’t approved of some of the con-
ditions at a shed 175 miles or thereabouts
behind Nowhere, had declined to go on with
their job and had been charged and prose-
cuted accordingly. At the same moment
over 12,000 men had been idle for 13 months
on the northern coalfield in the same
State, and whether it was a lockout or a
strike, or a lockout to begin with and a
strike to go on with, doesn’t' matter a bit.
Anyway at the back of Nowhere the law
is mighty and will prevail; in the large
centres of population, where the votes are,
the law is told to run home and take a
soothing powder. And the law runs home,
though as to whether it takes the soothing
powder The Bulletin has no information.
Occasionally it is proposed that, since,
so it is said, it is impossible to enforce the
arbitration laws of the country, the whole
lot should be scrapped. The whole lot
might veiy well be scrapped if it was
beyond doubt that no arbitration law can
be enforced. We have failed mainly be-
cause we have assumed when legislating
that any arbitration law can be enforced.
The absurdity of this has been obvious
long enough; but it has suited the party
politicians who govern us to maintain the
absurdity, because it has permitted them
to enforce the law against their political
opponents and declare enforcement impos-
sible or inexpedient when their friends are
concerned. One party has been just as bad
as the other. Though there was over-
whelming proof that the coal trouble was a
lockout to begin with, the only action taken
by the Nationalist Government against any
owner was withdrawn on the ground of
expediency; and afterwards, when a Labor
Government succeeded the Bruce-Pages
and it was certainly a strike if it wasn’t a
lockout, no action was taken against either
side. In an industrial trouble of any con-
sequence no action ever is taken against
either side. True, the employer still has
rather the worse of the deal; for though
at the back of Nowhere the valiant law
may drop upon a small handful of bush-
workers and punish them for “doing some-
thing in the nature of a strike,” in the
cities it is far easier to collect a fine against
an employer for a breach of an award than
from either a union or a number of mem-
bers of a union.
“Hand it all over to one authority,”
some counsel us. No doubt that would do
some good. It would purify the atmo-
sphere, to some extent: hitherto, seeing
that inter-State disputes have been faked,
and the proceedings have been fraudulent
from their very birth, the atmosphere could
not possibly be anything but bad. But
there is nothing in the past to suggest that
the handing of all authority in industrial
matters to the Commonwealth will remove
all the weaknesses that have been disclosed.
Where the State has failed in a purely
State dispute there is no reason to expect
that the Federal authority would succeed.
Indeed, since the State has police and gaols
behind it, it might reasonably be expected
to be the greater success. Mere transfer-
ence of authority to do impossible things
will not get impossible things done.
The best hope lies in giving the parties
—the employees in particular—some privi-
leges in return for standing by arbitration
and accepting its awards and faithfully
observing them, and withholding the privi-
leges implacably from all others. This is
where the community comes in. In such
matters the community should be supreme.
It is sometimes referred to as the third party
to every dispute. But it is no more the
third party than Constable McJones is the
third party to the fight which he interrupted
on the busy sidewalk. Nevertheless, it can
afford to make terms of a sort with the
combatants or with possible combatants.
It may say to these belligerents, “You
who will undertake not to fight, but to
let McJones settle your little differences,
may have the sole use of this sidewalk.
All others will take the other and the
bumpy side.” That indeed was the founda-
tion on which industrial arbitration was
built. The State is no more justified in
“recognising” the member of the Hebrew
Hod-carriers’ Union than, the member of
the Theosophical Society. The one is
just a citizen the same as the other. If
there is work to be done on a wharf or a
building or in a factory or anywhere else,
the State has no right to ask whether this
citizen is a unionist and that one a non-
unionist—unless it has got something in
return. Only on the basis of getting this
something in return is the State justified in
offering any preferences whatever to union-
ists.
What the unionist can offer in return is,
among other things, acceptance of awards
and entire dependence upon arbitration tri-
bunals. There should be no compulsion
whatever about it. If any body of men
think they can do better for themselves by
keeping unbound, by all means let them
keep unbound. But we should make it
quite clear that no body of men should
“have it both ways.” It is not only
anomalous, it is monstrous, that the union
of law-abiding citizens should be worse off
than the union of law-defying militants;
and until that condition is rectified arbi-
tration must be both a fraud and a failure.
WHY THE GOLD BONUS MUST COME.
Gold differs tremendously from every other
commodity. When it is “cheap” all other
commodities in the bulk are necessarily
dear; when it is “dear” all other commodi-
ties in the bulk are necessarily cheap.
Before the great gold discoveries of Cali-
fornia and Australia, commodities were so
cheap—that is to say, you got so little gold
for them—that sheep were boiled down for
their fat; it did not pay to market the
meat, or the hides, either, in many cases.
The “golden days” were days of gold, not
only because Ballarat and Bendigo and the
other fields were pouring out the yellow
metal, but also because prices for everything
we had to sell at home or abroad were
extraordinarily high. The Rand and West-
ralia likewise saved the situation in the
’nineties, not by their gold output only but
by lifting world prices—for our wool and
meat and base metals in particular.
In lifting those prices the gold-mining
industry lifts them against itself. Nomi-
nally it always gets the same price for its
product: gold, being the standard of value,
does not fluctuate at the mints. But while
the industry gets the same it must pay more
when prices are high. And it is a large pur-
chaser. The Commonwealth Statistician
has produced “manufacturing production-
prices index-numbers” for 20 years past:
he shows that what cost the Australian
manufacturer £BB6 in 1908 cost him £1967 a
score of years later. The Australian manu-
facturer has passed that increase on to his
customers, of course; and his customers
have passed the extra cost on to their cus-
tomers. • All except the goldminer : he has
had to pay the higher prices for everything,
but has not been able and still is not able
to pass a penny on. His production, of
which the Australian community has had the
benefit, has put up prices against himself.
It is quite true that by over-production
other producers reduce prices to their own
loss. But in the vast majority of cases the
over-production—as of wheat, for instance
—is only temporary, and within a few’
months the position is righted. But of
gold there is very little actual)consumption:
it remains in use, of exactly the same
intrinsic value that it was the day it was
won. And that is chiefly how it happens
that the prices of everything which it has
to buy remain high long after a once-great
mining field is past its zenith. In connec-
tion with our own once-great goldfields the
tremendous wealth of the Rand has main-
tained commodity prices (which means
working costs) at a high level long after
the fields of Victoria, Queensland and West-
ralia have skimmed off their cream.
It is these and a score of other con-
siderations which mark the gold industry
for distinct and separate treatment in the
matter of a bonus. The reign of high prices,
from which every other Australian industry
has benefited, has been to it a. handicap and
nothing else. No other industry can so
quickly respond to stimulation. No other
industry has such important reactions. We
might double the production of wheat
without benefiting in the slightest degree
the market for wool, butter or base metals.
On the other hand, every addition made to
the output of gold strengthens by some-
thing the markets for all other commodi-
ties. No other industry holds out such
high hopes for the adventurous; no other so
promotes the pioneering spirit, of which
Australia so badly needs a revival.
A NEW FEDERAL CAPITAL.
The remark that Canberra should be shut
up and closed down becomes a dirge, like
Cato’s observation about Carthage. A
recent exponent is Maloney, M.P., of the
disordered hair and the 41 years’ Parlia-
mentary experience, 26 years being Federal.
The member for Melbourne told that city’s
Constitutional Club recently that for rob-
bery and bribery the little capital holds
the bun so far as he has seen in his 76
years’ pilgrimage; but its melancholy rather
than its embezzlement is the outstanding
characteristic. Even the Prime Minister’s
residence is deserted now, Scullin preferring
to hang out in a hotel—one of those which
remain open. He is the reverse of a drink-
ing man, but he is of a sociable turn.
A good idea (which should have been
considered long ago) would be to make the
Commonwealth an offer of Sydney and 1000
or more square miles of territory as a
ready-made metropolis for the continent,
the area to rank as a State with full repre-
sentation in both Houses of Parliament, and
not as a disfranchised spot like Washing-
ton. That is the way things have been
arranged in Brazil, Argentina and various
other Federations, and it works well enough.
Then N. S. Wales (minus the Federal Dis-
trict) would have to find'a new State capital,
but that has been managed elsewhere with-
out difficulty. There wouldn’t be enough
population with the Federal District elimin-
ated to make much of an argument. One
result would be that this continent would
have a political centre worthy of it, whereas
the hope of making Canberra fitted to be a
continental metropolis, even with oceans
more expenditure, has gone to the scrapheap.
Then Sydney would rise from being a mere
State city, and the home of a provincial
Legislature which is mostly Slangwhang, to
be the governing centre of one of the great
divisions of the globe. Nothing short of
insanity could make the inhabitants hesi-
tate as to 'which possibility to grasp at,
for in addition to the glory there would be
a considerable expenditure of public money
in the city by the harbor where the effect
would be visible advertisement. That
would be better than its being wasted on
Canberra among the hills, where the aver-
age temperature of the three winter months
is 44 degrees, and only a few stray travel-
lers scuttle through like comets, a comet
being defined as a thing which travels very
fast, and doesn’t stay long, and does no
good in its passage.
The other States would probably view
the proposition with horror for a moment,
but the horror should pass at a second
glance. A Federal capital is common prop-
erty, and Queensland or Victoria, in a
sane mood, would rather own one-sixth of
Sydney than one-sixth of Canberra.. And
some N.S.W. town would profit in the
shuffle round, for the Ma State would want
a new State capital of its own. Of course
it could have Canberra, which would lapse
to its original owner like a forfeited pledge,
but it is doubtful if any Legislature would
want to use Canberra as a permanent resi-
dence of any sort. It appears to me that,
when the matter was fully explained to
the nation, everything would turn on the
vote of N. S. Wales, and Sydney, with its
environs, cheered and intoxicated by the
prospect of becoming the one continental
metropolis on earth, would be the vote
of N. S. Wales for all business purposes.
It wouldn’t have been so 30 years ago, but
in the interval Canberra has been a liberal
education.
Just now there is an agitation for con-
stitutional change, and it would be an
appropriate time to add this question to
the stew. The position is that an immense
amount of money has been spent, is being
spent, and is yet to be spent, and through
its being laid out in the wrong place no
return worth mentioning accrues to any-
body. With better judgment a big return
should accrue to many people.
SOL MALAPROP.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Financing New Industries.
If, instead of playing about with a Central
Reserve Bank, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment took a hand in organising an
Industrial Bank, it would be doing not only
more practical work for the community, but
also something well in line with its policy.
In the hope of killing two fine birds
with one stone the Government lately put
super-taxes on some foreign goods and
embargoes on others. The double-barrelled
idea, of course, was to correct the trade
balance, which had reached a dangerous
angle, and to provide work for the tens
of thousands of Australian unemployed.
The articles chosen for repression were,
therefore, those which most clearly could
be manufactured or produced locally. But
there are few things you can manufacture
without a considerable outlay for plant;
and when you have your plant you are in
most cases about a third of the way through
with your financial troubles. For now you
have raw materials to purchase; and though
you are almost certain to have to pay cash
for them, you will find that a variable
quantity will be “in process of manufac-
ture,” another lot in stock and a third lot
delivered to merchants and not yet paid for.
It is a very fortunate manufacturer who
has not four months’ total turnover in
material unmanufactured and in process of
manufacture, in stocks sold but unpaid for
and in wages and other costs of production
of goods in stock or partly manufactured.
In normal circumstances it is generally
possible for a manufacturer to get assist-
ance in carrying his stocks and book debts;
by taking a mortgage debenture over the
entire outfit, a bank may in normal circum-
stances be found that will do general financ-
ing up to a certain point. But the bank
will say that it is not its business to lend
money for long terms —in other words, to
become a sleeping partner in any . sort of
enterprise whatever. And that is quite
true, inasmuch as by far the greater part,
of its resources has been lent to it either
on demand or for short terms —two or three
years at the veiy most.
And unfortunately our present circum-
stances are not normal, so that the banks
can do less even than they might do at
most times for such factory industries as
the Federal Government is anxious to
bring into being. Local manufacturers arc
therefore finding great difficulty in financing
even those extensions which they believe
would bring them a quick profit. Indeed,
the only considerable movements of which
anything has been heard since the super-
taxes and embargoes arrived come from
overseas manufacturers. It is a greaJ
pleasure to welcome these English, Ameri-
can and Continental industrialists to Aus-
tralia, but it would be a greater pleasure
still to see extensions made to those indus-
tries whose cradles have been bought with
Australian money and rocked by Australian
hands.
How the Commonwealth Government
could effectively come into this business
might well engage the attention of Minis-
ters, who no doubt would have the counsel
of the Board of the Commonwealth Bank—
a body that should, from its composition,
be very capable of handling the matter.
4
Fifty Millions a Year Waiting.
As regards employment, some figures taken
from the Federal annual volume dealing
with production have an interest: —
Persons Employed in Primary Industry.
1914-15. 1927-28. Increase.
Pastoral .. . • 89,187 90,982 1,795
Dairying .. .. 121,760 125,756 3,996
Decrease.
Agricultural .. 248,372 205,872 42,500
1913. 1927.
Mining .. .. 92,262 52,332 39,930
Decrease.
551,581 474,942 76,639
The male workers employed in the agri-
cultural, pastoral and dairying industries in-
creased by 22,512 in 13 years, the slump
being in women workers. Taking the four
great primary industries, the decline in
male workers and breadwinners was roughly
30,000. Yet there were 1,300,000 more in-
habitants needing support in 1927-28 than
in 1914-15, and about £85,000,000 of loan
money was spent between the two dates
under the heading of “purchase of land for
settlement and advances to settlers.” The
value of the output of primary products
was much greater in 1927-28 than in 1914-
15. This, however, was much a matter of
price instead of quantity, and it was to a
great extent counterbalanced by the growth
in the price of imports.
Secondary industries, despised by Free-
traders and other theorists, show the fol-
lowing record:—
Persons Employed in Factory Industries.
Males. Females. Total.
1914 .. .. 250,618 81,110 331,728
1928 .. .. 345,878 118,318 464,196
Increase .. 95,260 37,208 132,468
That was far from sufficient to provide (1)
jobs for the new population; (2) work for
the people discarded by primary industry;
and (3) employment for the luckless mass
who lost their billets on loan “develop-
ment” undertakings when loans ra.n short.
All the same, secondary industiy was a
bright spot, and it struggled against the
fact that the average factory wage (men,
women, boys and girls) rose from £lO7 Bs.
in 1914 to £205 10s. in 1928.
The Australian has _ a distinct turn to-
wards skilled artisanship. With more Pro-
tection, which is promised, and more violent


AVENGED.
AUSSIE: “There she goes, Choom Amy Johnson, you little wonder!”
CHOOM: “Ay—one o’ them pommy girls.”
repression of professional conspirators and
strikemongers, which should be promised,
the position is full of hope.
There is 50 or more million pounds’
worth of work to be done annually, and
that much money to be saved, when Aus-
tralia replaces non-essential imports with
products of its own.
ŵ
certain —no matter how intensively children
and others are schooled in safety principles
—that the casualties from road accidents
will be doubled in a few years.—Yours, etc.,
F. I. A. T.
♦
Balfour’s Legacy.
Lord Balfour died recently full of years
and experiences, and left behind him as
awkward a little legacy as could be imag-
ined. It is 10,000 square miles in area, or
over one-third the size of Tasmania, and it
is 3851 years long in a historical sense. It
is always getting longer, and may do so
indefinitely.
Away back in 1917 Balfour, as Foreign
Secretary, announced that Britain “views
with favor the establishment in Palestine
of a national home for the Jewish people,
and will use its best endeavors to facilitate
the achievement of that object, it being
clearly understood that nothing shall be
done which may prejudice the civil and
religious rights of existing non-Jewish com-
munities in Palestine, or the rights and
political status enjoyed by Jews in any
other country.” Why the elderly gentle-
man rushed into such an undertaking it is
impossible to say, but somehow the one-man
pronouncement was accepted as a public
obligation, and when the Old Man in Lon-
don took up the spiky burden of the Pales-
tine mandate six years later he also assumed
the responsibility of making a perch or
roost or resting-place for a race which may
be said to have ruled Canaan from 1451 b.c.,
or at least from 1095 b.c., when the first
king began to reign, till 586 B.c. That
allowed 509 years for the Hebrew kingdom,
though there were really two kingdoms, and
the bigger one lasted only 372 years.
Now the problem is how to make a resi-
dential site in Asia for people who live
almost entirely in Europe and North
America, and to do this without crowding
out a vastly more numerous people who
have been in Canaan for 1200 years and
have no other place to go outside Asia and
Africa; at least they haven’t settled down
in the rest of the world. Then the Hebrews
don’t want to go home in the Balfourian
sense of the term, and if they did go it
would be like trying to put 40 or 45 million
inhabitants in Tasmania, even if all other
races were expelled. Palestine at the very
best might be to the Race a very small
and historical outpost or garrison or winter
residence a very long way off from the
nation itself. The population at latest count
was 70 per cent. Mohammedan and 17 per
cent. Hebrew, the rest being Christian and
mixed. II the Hebrews gradually grow to
be even a microscopic majority the little
agricultural kingdom may be a rather suffo-
cating spot, and a slum.
Each of the two principal crowds has a
high opinion of itself. One regards all
outsiders as Gentiles, and the other de-
scribes them as infidels. Christians used to
class them alike as dogs. The Mohamme-
dans consider the Jews as intruders because
they are corning back to Canaan, and the
Jews consider the Mohammedans the same
way because they burst into the country
1200 .years ago and have stayed there ever
since. The British rulers try to make
brotherhood and loving-kindness out of this
muss, and having partly cleaned up the
debris of last year’s row they consider that
the late Balfour left them a unique job.
Employing the Unemployed.
The unemployment problem is worrying
every Government and every party in Aus-
tralia. It was reserved for Mr. Baddeley,
deputy-leader of the N.S.W, Labor party,
to make the most idiotic contribution to
the discussion. Mr. Lang’s lieutenant sug-
gested another royal commission and more
loans. This is the sort of crass, stupidity
that gives point to the comment of Prof.
Brigden that the Australian Labor party
hasn’t evolved anew idea for 20 years.
As everyone but the Langs and Baddeleys
realises the situation precludes borrowing,
and since money must come from some-
where there is no escape from special
taxes on earnings, oppressive as they must
be. The public has a kindly feeling towards
the unemployed, and even the harried
middle-class family man is prepared to
tighten his belt a bit more, though he may
well feel that part of the burden he is
carrying should be transferred to the
shoulders of film magnates and overseas
trippers. But the fund raised will be
small compared with the annual loan, now
a thing of the past, and its expenditure
will have to be carefully considered. Thus
far in Sydney, men mostly unfit for navvy-
ing have been employed at shifting sand—
the sort of work that should be done with
steam shovels, if there is any necessity for
it to be done at all.
Any really helpful scheme of unemploy-
ment relief must aim at putting skilled
tradesmen back into their trades. The seven
Governments are all large purchasers of the
products of skilled labor. They could prepare
lists of the sort of supplies or services the
trades most affected by unemployment can
provide, and give orders within their capa-
city, though it means stocking up for some
time ahead. The money will not be wasted
and skilled workers will be given employ-
ment at which they can honestly earn the
full rates secured to them by industrial
awards.
As for the manual laborers, who consti-
tute the biggest battalion of the unem-
ployed army, they will harm to be put on
works of proved necessity. In this cate-
gory come sewerage works, of which N. S.
Wales, at least, hasn’t nearly enough—
many Sydney suburbs and country towns
are still unsewered—and which give some
financial return, beside their other advant-
ages. The Metropolitan Water and
Sewerage Board has an accumulated surplus
on sewerage account, and with this it has
been able to reduce rates all round. The
rebuilding of antiquated schools, particu-
larly in the country, would also be im-
measurably more useful than the making
of railways from nowhere to nowhere, to
be run at a heavy annual loss, and the con-
struction of extravagantly expensive motor
roads.
Norman Lindsay and This Censorship.
The younger the man the surer he is of
his judgments; and it is exactly the same
with the community. So it comes about
that, in Australia, criticism is, on the
whole, resented, and the man who does not
agree with us is in politics too often re-
garded as a fool or a rogue, and in art
and literature is thought of as personally
unfriendly. Out of this cocksureness—out
of this attitude that the view which we do
not share is certainly wrong and most likely
vicious and dangerous—comes the Austra-
lian censorship, first of moving-pictures and
now of literature.
The question is not whether we like
Norman Lindsay’s “Redheap” or not.
Certain people who are trying to earn
their pay by reading books and passing
judgment upon them say it is “obscene” in
places. But who knows what obscenity
is? Norman Lindsay would certainly
regard as obscene many of the habits and
much of the language of some of the
Federal Ministers. The whole purpose of
this book of his which has created so much
discussion, and which has been now banned,
is to pour contempt upon certain habits
which he believes are bad for the country
and its people. Here, then, are two censors
of morals; and which of them is right?
Is it a question of intelligence? There are
not many who will say that this brilliant
inan is likely to stand second to the others
in the matter of intellect. Or is it a matter
of taste? But what is taste? And what
right have politicians to impose their canons
of taste upon the citizens? They may not
like Lindsay’s drawings. He would simply
loathe the oleographs which probably em-
bellish their parlors.
This, The Bulletin insists, is not a
matter of either approving or disapproving
of Norman Lindsay or anybody else. It is
a matter of repressing or cultivating indi-
vidual thought, of encouraging or discourag-
ing individual opinion and judgment. We
have already reached the point in politics
when each party would gleefully censor the
other out of existence, and when, in con-
sequence, the atmosphere of almost every
Parliament is filled with personal hatred
and bitterness. We carry the same spirit
on into the affairs of our industrial life,
and have cultivated it till to the one “side,”
as we call it, the other “side” is composed
mainly of thieves and take-downs: the
employee is a loafer and the employer a
rook. And our country suffers.
Those who have no message to deliver,
who set out to make a few shillings by
obviously wallowing in muck, are the great
enemies of free thinking and ought to be
pushed aside and no fuss made about it.
For the rest, that there is something that
offends ourselves in an honest production
of literature or art ought not to bar it from
others. We want more censoring, not less;
but we need to do it for ourselves. The
idea that youth and adolescence will rush
the pornographic to their hurt need not
worry us in the least so long as the porno-
graphic is not branded as pornographic.
There are passages in Holy Scripture which
Norman Lindsay would not want to write.
But how many children in a million have
ever troubled to turn them up? And that
is simply because they are no more hidden
than the Sermon on the Mount.


\ \ v
The Spirit" for Happij Motoring
<z
y
a
*
y % /’
s' X
' /
ẁ
SHELL
s ioas.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland railway workers received the
blessing of the 44-hour week in 1925, and
next year’s figures showed that working
expenses had jumped by over a million, from
£5,425,167 to £6,459,792. Also the staff
increased by 2100. Now that the gift is to
be withdrawn at the instance of the Indus-
trial Court there will be 2100 more unem-
ployed than if the thing had never hap-
pened. Or if the railwaymen all take a week
off in turn without pay to avoid sacking the
2100 they will get less wages apiece than
if it had never happened. Some of the union
executives want another strike, but the last
strike was enough for the rank and file.
The Clerks’ Union has concocted a new log
for N. S. Wales. A general rise of about 33l
per cent, is asked for. Clerks of 17 varieties
and some sub-varieties are specified, and wages
proposed are from
£6 12s. to £l2 per
week; three dif-
ferent species of
clerk are on the
£l2 mark, while
only the “filing
clerk” is put down
at £6 12s. Working
“Wot? No cake?"
hours are to be 35 per week spread over five
days. Saturday work, if any, will be overtime
(double pay), if it doesn’t rank as holiday
work (treble rates). No member of the union
is to be sacked or suspended without the
matter being reported to the union, whereupon
a busy official will come along to investigate
and possibly order his reinstatement. Morn-
ing and afternoon tea is to be provided by
the boss. Three weeks’ annual leave on full
pay and 13 weeks’ leave on full pay in the
11th year of service are also specified. The
hearing will probably be long and agitated,
and while it is hanging fire there will be a
tendency to keep clerical staffs down to a
minimum, it being hard to say what a day
may bring forth.
After having witnessed the shelving or
rejection of a score of bills to legalise the
tote, Speacock read to Vic. Assembly Gov-
ernor Somers’s message intimating that the
measure passed recently had become an Act.
Diehards point out with a certain gloomy
satisfaction that his Ex.’s message followed
immediately after the prayer.
A confused story is circulated that some
medium-sized financial people here, acting
on behalf of large-sized parties in New York,
offered the Scullidore Government a loan
of £20,000,000, but the terms were so repel-
lent that the offer was turned down without
hesitation. Possibly these terms will never
be known. But if Uncle Hoover asked for
8 per cent, interest, preference over all other
creditors, and the free admission of cars
and films into Australia, he was certainly
asking rather much.
When Vic. Labor Ministers were told the
other day by Lionel Hill, Premier of South
Aus that he expected a deficit of £1,800,000
tor the year, they considered they were in
Christopher Billumbus Cook-Hughes makes another discovery.
clover compared with him and his new
Cabinet. Vic. will have a debit balance of
£BOO,OOO or thereabouts.
Slipshod insurance has got another adver-
tisement. A recent N.S.W. law made some
effort to protect the grower of produce by
requiring city agents to lodge with the Agri-
cultural Department an approved bond for
£5OO apiece. Apparently the department
approved any kind of bond without inquiry,
or else it inquired and some other depart-
ment gave it insane advice, for one of the
approved concerns which did a considerable
business has broken up. Agents have been
notified that they must pay for new bonds
in some approved company which may go
the same fishy road, and they say the
department should stand the loss. Pending
a settlement the farmer with onions to sell
takes his chance in the old way.
The N.Q. police have gathered in a
Japanese fisherman from Borneo who sailed
his small craft to Thursday Island and sank
her there after landing. Local people are
wondering how many others have done the
same thing or something like it without being
caught. It is their firm belief that a con-
siderable nu,mber of unauthorised immi-
grants land on the unguarded coasts.
After Labor Minister Thomas had made
some depressing remarks in the Commons
last week there was the deadest silence since
1170, when the Speaker announced that the
King had killed Archbishop Becket, and the
House at once adjourned. Nobody cheered
or groaned or barked or even snored. Thomas
said that revenue was diminishing, that un-
employment was growing, and that he expected
another 27,000 to be chucked out of work
“to-morrow.” Next day came the resigna-
tion of Minister Mosley. He was a party
to a memorandum which was served on the
Cabinet urging a loan of £250,000,000 to pro-
vide public-works jobs, and the pensioning
of workers over 60 at a possible extra cost
of £21,000,000 a year. This may be the only
substitute for protected industries, but Ram.
Mac. and Snowden refused.
After all, the Scullidores got their Cotton
Bounty Bill through the House of Reps.,
though they had to modify their proposal
for regulating the wages of pickers. The
growing motor-tyre industry may solve part
of the problem of finding a market for the
manufactured article. Our cotton staple is
a long one—equal to the best Egyptian.
Dunlops alone use up the cotton from
160,000 Egyptian acres every year, spinning
it into cord in their own mills; incidentally,
Amy Johnson’s machine has Dunlop tyres.
Hitherto the Australian concern has used
imported cotton cord in the tyres it makes.
There should be a solid demand for Austra-
lian cotton cord.
It seems now that there is “a working-
claus balance sheet,” too: according to the
ex-parson Garden, who proposes to introduce
it to Sydney City Council, it consists only of
actual receipts and expenditure. You can’t
fake that, St. John says; it’s through “profit
and loss” that you do your little faking.
' Well, there are not many things about faking
that they don’t know round at the Trades
Ilall. You certainly can fake a profit and
loss account. But as a record of your posi-
tion what a glorious fake a statement of
receipts and expenditure would be, seeing
that it obviously wouldn’t mention anything
about such things as unpaid bills! The ex-
parson is either a callous leg-puller or a
very ignorant gasbag. He may be both.
Christopher Billumbus Coo’k-Hughes has
made the find of the century. He has found
that the reason why we are so darned poor is
that we are so dashed rich. “S. M. Herald”
reports the shocking situation: —
Mr. W. M. Hughes
attributed the existing
financial and indus-
trial depression to a
surplus of wealth in
Australia. This had
formed a glut, and
the normal channels
which led to pros-
perity and contentment
had become clogged.
Production had in-
creased to such an
extent that the diffi-
culty was to find a
sufficiently large
market to absorb our
produce.
There ..is a diffi-
culty in finding a
sufficiently large
money market to
supply cash to pay
for all the imported
produce which ab-
sorbs our market
in preference to our
own goods. But
the great Billum-
bus reckons that
Australia is over-
loaded and sinking
with the native out-
put, and because
the people do far
too much produc-
tive work a terrible lot of men and women
have no work to do. Overtime and Sunday
labor are dragging the Commonwealth to an
early tomb, where its surplus riches will be
buried with it.
If the Garden party wins at the city
election it is understood that Sydney is to
be renamed Moscoviska, and the Town Hall
rechristened the Kremlin.
Cullen, ex-Chief Justice, and Cleary, of
the N.S.W. railways, had a little mild spar-
ring at a Sydney Uni. dinner the other night.
Cleary wants the Uni. to teach its young
men their political responsibilities; Cullen
is fearful of results. So is The Bulletin.
The trouble about politics in a university
(Sydney had lashings of it a few years ago)
is that youngsters commit themselves to doc-
trines which they only think they have in-
quired into, and thereafter spend years try-
ing to frame or fake reasons for the faith they
have proclaimed. It isn’t safe for any young
man to commit himself to any side in polities
until he is 25 or thereabouts. And it is about
time, too, we left off regarding a man who
openly changes his opinion as a renegade and
probably a ruffian. Heaven only knows why
we talk and write so much if it’s not to get
men to swing our way.
In an argument with Smuts, Prime Minis-
ter Hertzog claimed a right of secession for
South Africa and all the other Dominions:
the thing could be done, he contended, by
Act of Parliament. But if South Africa may
disown the sovereignty of the House of
Windsor without reference to Britain and
the other Dominions, the provinces of the
Union and of Canada and the States of the
Australian Commonwealth must logically be
allowed a similar right. And if States and
provinces, why not cities or parishes?
Vic. country Nats, are annoyed because
the Cockies’ central council has . decided to
contest all country seats in the Assembly.
As the next poll is two years off, and many
things may happen before then, there is not
much to worry about. For five months nego-
tiations to bring the rural Nats, and the
Cockies closer together have come to no-
thing, though the Nat. 11 have really more
in common with the Allan group than with
McPherson, Argyle and Menzies.
At Adelaide the Labor Ministry supplies
meal-tickets to the unemployed, and there
have been virulent protests that the food is
unfit for bears. Two Ministers dined at
the meal-ticket restaurant, and said the
dinner was equal to that at the Parliamen-
tary refreshment-room, which is clean and
tidy but not of the Roman-Emperor sort.
At Lithgow (N.S.W.) the Trades Hall
shouted the unemployed 30 picture-show
tickets per week, while there was a free
distribution of fruit and vegetables by kind-
hearted residents. The outcome was an
infuriated protest from a new “One Big
Union of Unemployed” that the seats were
too close to the screen, and they “were not
accustomed to occupying this position,” and
that the fruit and vegetables were “not good
pig food.” Ingratitude was described by
Sliakspearc as a marble-hearted fiend, but
it is also a very ridiculous fiend.
A Canberra conference of ladies from all
the States has decided that men should
receive the old-age pension at 55, that the
employment of “youths and young women”
should be prohibited (they will thus learn
habits of industry rather late in life) and
that those who are left after the industrial
army has been abbreviated at each end
shoidd work no more than 44 hours per week,
those who aren’t working to be paid the
basic wage. The conference was headed by
Miss Holman, M.L.A., from Westralia, and
purported to represent the aggregate Labor
woman of the Commonwealth. It was fol-
lowed by an inter-State conference of Labor
men, some of whom propose that the vote
should be given to infants of 18, and others
that what the Scullidores have left of the
defence system should be scrapped.
There is a great deal of missing informa-
tion about wheat. It is estimated, however,
that the world grew 3214 million bushels in
1920, when Australia got an average of 9s.
per bushel; that, encouraged by high prices,
it progressed till the crop was 4241 million
bushels in 1927, when the Commonwealth
collected ss. 6d.; and that neither quantity
nor price for this year is known yet. The
Yankees, however, have an immensity of
grain hoarded up, the Government having
bought and stored it in an effort to boost
prices by means of an artificial scarcity,
and it will have to break loose some time,
unless it is burned, in which case the smell
will be surprising.
There is something • quaint in the reflec-
tion that the first practical protest from
Labor’s own ranks against the Ramsay
Mac. Government for not progressing fast
enough along the paths of Socialism should
have come from the wealthy baronet Oswald
Mosley, and that after Oswald’s resignation,
“Lady Cynthia Mosley, M.P., hurried
through the central lobby of the House of
Commons, choking back her tears.” The
Mother of Parliaments is becoming a funny
old place.
The Sydney municipal Labor party’s dis-
covery that there is “a working-class balance-
sheet,” which isn’t a bit like the thing that
ordinary accountants produce, these last
being chiefly fakes, reminds The Bulletin
that it has long known the working-class
dog. At home it is a liighly-respectable
dog, possessing all the domestic virtues; but
whenever it meets other dogs of the same
breed it is liable to lift its tail aloft and
imagine that it is a lion. On .such occasions
it loves to take up a position near the
tradesmen’s entrance of the boss’s house,
holding up all traffic, and it has been known
Who’s the fool?
to stay there for as much as 15 months
doing a semi-starve in the hope that the
boss will be doing the same or worse. Then
suddenly one day it makes up its mind along
with the rest that the joke has gone far
enough, so the others go off home and they
all sneak in by the back way to their several
domiciles, and proceed to smell around for
a bone in the old way, and just as if nothing
had happened. Later, however, when it has
a chance to compare its own wasted frame
with the boss’s well-maintained corpulence,
the working-class dog generally begins to
wonder who it is that has been the fool.
ISSUES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It seems in these days a convention or
fashion
For people—some calmly and some in a
passion—
From platform or armchair or just through
the hat.
To talk of the issues of this and of that.
We have issues of price-lists of grocers and
drapers,
Issues of morning and evening newspapers.;
Shares, orders and rations, debentures and
stock
Are issued like water from Moses’s rock.
All Diggers remember the issue of bread,
And that sad, final issue, the issue of lead.
And note the political issues that jostle
Each other, as shrieked by some one-eyed
apostle.
Real national issues—defence and security—
Are stifled by “issues” of “Drink” or of
“Purity,”
Of gambling, blue Sundays, compulsory pools
And such-like obsessions of faddists and
fools.
“All other proposals are flimsy as tissue,
Tfie thing that we’re putting in front is
the issue”—
That’s the clamor that greets you from ev’ry
direction
In the gaiters and gas of a gen’ral election.
When shouting is done and the counting is
over
Some good men are missing, some others in
clover.
A wowser’s elected, a wowser is slain;
Mo is elated, or Mo has a pain.
“Reformers” still clamor and bang at the
door;
The bookmaker carries on just as before.
Victory’s claimed by Cold Teas and Bungs,
And nothing’s achieved but confusion of
tongues.
So chosen and beaten both fervently wish
you
The curse of the season, O vote-splitting
“Issue”!
S.A.
BILL O'C.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bildad” : Amy Johnson developed a grouch
at Rangoon, possibly the result of weariness
and a lonesome life in the upper atmospheric
strata. She complained of being unappreci-
ated in early youth, the same as a budding
poet; this was carried to such an extent
that she found it difficult, as an unknown
maiden, to raise money in England for her
expedition, people being possibly afraid lest
she might flop into the Channel. When she
got as far as Rangoon appreciation began to
pour in, wherefore Miss Johnson realised
that there is a tendency among her own folk
to appreciate only “ready-made success.”
Many people have suffered the same Avay.
To quote one instance.- nobody thought of
making Arthur Wellesley a duke Avlien he
was only an ambitious minor officer and a
member of the Irish Parliament, but ’ after
he achieved his ready-made success against
Bonaparte, Britain Avas lavish enough. Yet
he Avould probably have enjoyed his titles
more if they had come to him in his frisky
youth. There is probably no one happier
than a schoolboy who is suddenly created a
peer.
* * *
“Nakhoda” : At this time of the year the
area of ocean between Timor and Darwin
is almost windless. Small local storms may
occur but they hardly penetrate the upper
atmosphere. According to Dutch records
taken in Timor, the average strength of the
Avind is between 8 and 10 m.p.h. Except for
a gentle swell from the Indian Ocean, the
shallow sea lies as flat as an inland lake. On
one occasion 1 crossed it in the St. Albans.
An open-air bath of canvas was slung on the
INSULTING MINX!
AFFABLE PASSENGER: “Your husband’s a poor sailor, I believe?”
IMPOSING DITTO: “Indeed he’s not — he’s a rich produce merchant.”
deck forward at Cairns and it remained there
until the ship reached Sourabaya. After pass-
ing through an almost continual shower
bath in India and the Malay Peninsula, Amy
Johnson struck Java at the beginning of the
season of minimum rainfall —May to August.
If she had got there a month or so earlier
she would have found it one of the world’s
dampest islands. During the wet monsoon in
Java it is no use waiting for the rain to
stop. We took our daily walking exercise
and bath at one and the same time with all
our clothes on.
* * S: *
“Percy Paw’nticket” : We understood from
the sounds coming from the flat over the
way that the lady was reproaching her
husband Avith extravagance, but her accents
were comparatively subdued, Avhereas his
voice rose into a passionate shout of “I
paid the milkman.” The feminine chant
grew louder, but we could still hear the male
chorus of “I paid the milkman; I paid the
milkman!” There were occasional stage
effects, too, as of pots being thrown and fur-
niture overturned. Finally doors banged,
and a disheA'elled man rushed into the street,
followed as far as the verandah by an
equally dishevelled woman. Seeing us, he
crossed to our side to explain matters. “You
heard the missus,” he said, with a jerk
of his thumb towards that lady, whose jaAvs
were still working. “The ole girl reckons
I wasted the fiver I got yesterday on booze;
but I paid the milkman.” As a triumphant
vindication of his honesty, he produced a
milkman’s account, duly receipted, for our
inspection. It Avas for one and nine.
“Bygones”: I was having a spot in a
Sydney hotel when two woolbuyers, unmis-
takably German, lined up alongside. Their
guttural accents must have caused one of
us to lift an involuntary eyebrow, for the
fatter of the pair raised his voice in a
valiant attempt to establish himself as one
of the Bulldog breed. “Zo,” he said, “choost
as I vos dellin’ you, I vos left on mein
I'adt Malone, hein?”
* * Jjc *
“Bildad”: Why shouldn’t the memory of
Charles 11. (B. 21/5/’3O) be rehabilitated?
C. Stuart commanded an army at the age of
15, and another army at the age of 21, when
he made a brilliant fight against hopeless
odds and the best general in Europe. In
later years he was a forbearing husband
to a small, ignorant and disagreeable wife
Avlio was incapable of being a mother. He
left none of his 10 or 12 mistresses in the
financial lurch, except perhaps Nell Gwynne,
and then death interrupted him. Like
Napoleon 111. he had a careless tolerance
for people who attempted his life, and pre-
vented them being hanged whenever pos-
sible. Charles was a scientist and a patron
of art and literature. Also he had an endur-
ing gratitude for the people, with one excep-
tion, who helped him in his hungry days
of exile, and rewarded them —at someone
else’s expense whenever possible.
;lj *J* #
“Lex”: The secretary of the Redfern
(Sydney) Bowling Club was fined £5 by a
stipe for selling liquor on a Sunday. Higher
authority has reversed the decision because
“the liquor being- the property of the whole
of the association a member avlio took some
of it put back into the club, not the liquor,
but its equivalent in money.” (Mr. Justice
Darling in Graff v. Evans.) In other words,
there w r as no sale. The classic defence of
this type was put up by Walter Watts at
the Old Bailey. Watts had taken down the
insurance company which employed him (at
£2OO p.a.) for £70,000. H'e bought a£l
share in the co. and was assured by Cock-
burn (afterwards L.C.J.), who defended him,
that he Avould be acquitted, as he could not
legally steal what belonged to him as one
of the owners of the concern. The law got
round this by charging him Avith the theft
of a piece of paper valued at Id. —namely,
a cheque form. Guilty; 10 years.
* ife * ❖
“Iford” : The death of Sir William Gordon-
Cumming, at SI, recalls the Tranby Croft bac-
carat scandal of 30 years ago and the sen-
sational court case that disclosed its details
to the public. The then Prince of Wales
and some of his intimates were having a
little flutter at a country house when the
baronet —a colonel in the Guards and a
Avealthy landowner —was seen cheating, it
was averred, by some of the other players.
To avert a scandal in which the heir to the
throne would be implicated they undertook
to say no more about it if he would sign
a paper undertaking never to touch a card
again. H'e consented—weakly, he asserted
afterwards, and without for a moment admit-
ting his dishonesty. The matter might have
ended there had not the women talked. This
resulted in Gordon-Cumming bringing au
action for defamation, at which the Prince
was one of the witnesses for the defence,
fie lost it and dropped out of society, smart
and otherwise, therewith. Yet there were
many who could never bring themselves
to believe that he hadn’t been the victim of
some extraordinary mistake coupled with his
own foolishness or ultra-Quixotism.
“Quandmeme”: As we were unloading
flour in our South Aus. port wc noticed an
unpopular foreman clambering from deck to
wharf by way of the net. Up went the
sling of flour, in mid-air it hung for a
second, and then something gave way. One
after another, with gathering force, the
bags bumped on to the net below, jumping
ANOTHER PARIS MODEL.
DAPHNE: “What, another new frock!"
DORA: “Yes, my dear. A Paris model!”
DAPHNE: “Goodness! I wish I was as clever as you are with the needle!”
the foreman up and down like a dancing
jack. He clung on by his hands and front
teeth, with bags bursting over him. There
was flour all over the place. W e had an
impromptu pantomime of a ghost hovering
between Heaven and ocean. It was a near
thing, but it was funny.
* * * *
“Punt Road”: Came the other day to my
flat (s.c., all mod. cons.) a poor old soul
with a commodious suitcase and a sniff. 1
was Mrs. Punt Road? Ah, that was good—
she had friends who were friends of mine;
well, acquaintances of mine, anyway. Very
rich they were; perhaps I didn’t know them
very well. Most of her friends were rich ;
this, she said, with a
disdainful gesture to-
Avards the suitcase,
was merely a hobby.
She had been showing
a friend of hers —I
would have seen her
name often in the
papers some _ very
wonderful Oriental
silks. My friend Miss
Golden-Fleece simply
adored them. And the
lady with the case
thought I might like
to see them. No?
She wasn’t of course
suggesting that I
might buy them —she
knew they were only
for rich people. And
even well-to-do people
weren’t in these days
disposed to spend
much money in this
country, seeing that,
whatever you spent,
worthless Govern-
ments took most of it
to spend on now
Avhat did they spend
it on? Think, she
cried, as though some-
thing particularly
\dcious had crawled
out of my perfectly
respectable s.c. flat
(all mod. cons.) and
bitten her —think of
that purrr-son Scullin
going to appoint au
Australian Governor-
General ! Scandalous!
“Well,” she said,
picking up the still unopened case, “you
may take this as final. If that purrr-
•son does anything of the sort, I for one
will refuse to go to Government House.
So that’s settled.
* *
“V.L.” : Bill looked thoughtful when I met
him in Pitt-street: and he told me the
story. He has a pal, Tfed. an ex-hotelkeeper,
who in jaggy moments delights to attempt
negotiations for the purchase of any pub
he happens to hit upon in his wanderings.
Usually a request for something tangible
brings him to his senses. A chance meeting
led to Bill and Ted adjourning for drinks
to a place that looked as if it couldn t
dodge the Reduction Board much longer.
Ted began the usual palaver, and the land-
lady took him seriously—so seriously that
her arguments and a quantity of house
whiskv resulted in his handing over a cheque
for £5O. Early uext morning he dug BUI
out and demanded to know what sort of a
pal Bill was tq have let him do it. Mrs.
Ted had discovered the receipt for the cheque
and packed him off to get it back; and he
wanted Bill to come with him. On the way
they talked it over, and Ted made up his
mind to tell the truth, blame the booze,
and if necessary pay a tenner to get off his
bargain. In the pub they found Mrs. Land-
lady with two customers; but she came over
at once and greeted Ted and Bill smilingly.
The men she had just left, she said, were
an agent and a buyer, and if Ted wanted
to make a little on his bargain it could be
done. She introduced them. Did Ted want
to drop out? No, he didn’t think he did.
No. £2O was no good to him, but he might
let it go for £so—and he did, departing with
his own cheque and another. “An* what
d’yeh think he says to me as we were cornin’
away,” Bill concluded. “ ‘Bill,’ he says,
‘honesty pays best after all.’ ”
* * * *
“Karaway”: Some people’s hobbies are
more of a mania than anything else. There
is a woman in my Sydney suburb who is
always looking for a house. She has a snug
home of her own, and is well provided for
in every way; but she never passes an
empty place without inspecting it inside and
out and inquiring about the rent. Some-
times she says to the old man on a Sunday
afternoon: “It’s lovely weather for an out-
ing; let’s go and look for a house.” It is
her only recreation, and she tramps miles
looking for empties and hunting up the
keys. What she collects provides gossip over
the fence —and that’s about all she gets out
of her peculiar obsession. To agents she
is known as “The Empty House.”
“Sol Malaprop” : The Federal and N. S.
Wales Governments are to be approached,
but with caution lest they should bite, to
finance an air expedition to what is vaguely
mentioned as “the heart of Australia.” The
object of the search is a gold reef 10 or
12 miles long, 10ft. wide and averaging 3oz.
per ton. It is supposed to knock Kalgborlie
into a ruined belltopper. Thirty years ago,
the narrative runs, a young man of 18 left
Townsville to cross the continent on foot
and alone. H’is compass bearings are uncer-
tain. Somewhere on the track, at a spot,
“hundreds of miles from the nearest water-
hole,” the traveller had the luck to arrive,
not yet dead, at the wonderful find, and
with still enough fluid in his bag, also suffi-
cient provisions, to keep him alive while
he inspected the property, and afterwards
while he walked back with unerring stride
to the waterhole. On the back journey,
he' had an oatmeal bag full of gold to add
to his burdens. Assuming that the nearest
water was 200 or 300 miles away, say to
the east, then a drink was more remote
to the north, south and west, so tin-
great find must lie in a dry spot 400
miles across as a minimum, and pos-
sibly both larger and drier than that.
Three years later the prospector and a mate
from Westralia made an unerring landfall
at the same reef. One of them presumably
rolled in front of him a galvanised tank full
of water, while the other humped 40 or 50
days’ rations for two and some necessary
tools. Instead of putting all their energies
into boring for water to make the- place
accessible they seem to have pottered about
the reef, with the riches of which they were
already acquainted, and then made their
escape with the usual unfailing luck. Twenty-
seven years of repose followed, but it is
alleged that there will be no serious difii-
culty in finding the old spot if someone
finds the money. The western sun shining-
on 10 or 12 miles of sovereigns will be on*'
indication. Another will be the track left
by the galvanised-iron tank when the pros-
pectors rolled their water supply over the
hills and. plains in 1903.
THE LAMENT OF ADONIS.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The palm for good looks must be awarded to the
boj's.”—Bulletin 7/5/’3O.
I am a very pitiable chap.
Publicity denied to Thomas Mix
Pursues me. Every flapper begs a snap.
I cannot move for constant camera clicks.
I cannot spend an evening at the flicks,
And marvel at some adenoidal star,
But all the opera-glasses swerve and fix,
And maidens moan “How beautiful you are.”
When Carlton stoushes Richmond, or the
crew
My fancy backs is beaten in a race,
Or Avins it by a canvas, thousands glue
Their ravished glances on my blushing face.
There is no time, alas! there is no place
Where my refulgent beauty has the luck
To ’scape the rapturous comment on its
I*£lC6 —
“Myrt!” or “Oh, Polly! Isn’t he a duck?”
I go to buy a cake of soap, a pad,
Or else some cigarettes, as may betide.
The boss exclaims “Oh, what a priceless ad !
“Give me a photo. Let the money slide."
I dare not take unto myself a bride,
Although I have in mind a peerless tart,
Lest fifty girls should promptly suicide.
And yet you think I’m lucky? Have a heart!
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


WHAT ELSE COULD SHE DO?
“My dear, I went in to buy half a -pound of corned beef and that hoy who polled me
out of the undertow yesterday came to serve me.”
“That was awkward."
“Yes —I had to buy a pound.”
“Flicker” : Perth’s Traffic Department has
had a quiet laugh at the expense of a lady
who lives in the very swish King’s Park-
road. She complained that motorists were
using the street as a speedway. A con-
scientious copper was sent to the spot, and
he wasted no time in pinching a young man
who was doing well over the limit. It was
the lady’s own son.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Residents of Creswick
(Vic.) raise the same objection against
Norman Lindsay’s “Redheap” that resi-
dents of Hong Kong raised against Somerset
Maugham’s “The Painted Veil.” They main-
tain that, instead of using his youthful
memories as the starting-off point for .an
original work of fiction, Lindsay has retailed
actual events or gossip about them so undis-
guisedly as to make the dramatis persona;
easily recognisable to present Creswickians.
When the “Herald” first published, a resume
of the plot a resident of the mining town-
ship dropped in on a Melbourne bookseller
who had an advance copy of the novel and
asked whether the author had allowed one
of his characters to have her illegitimate
baby. The bookseller said he had. “ ’Struth !”
said the iCreswickian.
* * * *
“Smilax”: No precedent was established
by the Queensland P.M. who caused a warn-
ing notice to be displayed in the bar of a
whisky-watering publican (B. 14/5/’3O).
For years the Queensland Liquor Act has
contained a clause providing for . bar publi-
cation of the date and nature of such trans-
gressions, and the melancholy task has
devolved on many a Bung.
* ■ *.' •* *
“Chauffeur”: The oth.er day one small
girl was killed by a car which had toppled
over Sublime Point (Bulli Pass, N.S.W.)
and fallen 400 ft. down the almost perpen-
dicular precipice; and seven other little
picnickers, who had just begun their school
holidays, were injured more or less, chiefly
by falling rock and broken timber. . At the
moment it happened the youngsters were
looking at the ruins of many cars that have
toppled over at the same point: 10 of.them
can be counted. In not one of the 10 cases
has there been loss of life, so far as local
records show. It means that 10 drivers
have pulled their cars up when running
downhill, and because the brakes have held
they have left the ’buses with the wheels
unchocked. Most times the brakes are hot,
and when they cool they contract, and
though the hand-brake will often hold,
oftener it either is not on or is too weak
for a job like this. And especially with an
open car it is nearly always possible for
a youngster to climb aboard and accident-
ally set the ’bus going. The other day two
mites under five climbed aboard a car stand-
ing in a street running down to a cliff over-
looking Sydney Harbor. They set her going,
and .she ■ got on such speed that she broke
down six yards of stone wall —fortunately
she ran diagonally across the road instead
of along it. On a street with a kerb there
is no excuse for not chocking your car:
where there is no kerb it ought to be done
if there is a declivity. And, incidentally,
the chock should be thrown out of the fair-
way : the average motorist isu’t a hog; but
the motorist who is a hog is so hoggish that
he seems much more numerous than he is.
* * * *
“Oran”: Belief in charms? Yon don’t
need to go beyond Darlinghurst if you want
to accumulate evidence of it. When I
attended Mrs. Backflat’s last poker party
play was seriously hampered by the array
of mascots the women insisted on bringing.
At my left elbow Mrs. Upstairs had mar-
shalled a zoo, consisting of two lucky black
cats, a teddy bear and a china duck; she
said she always lost when they were not
beside her. The lady opposite had a swas-
tika, a greenstone tiki and a bog-oak pig,
over which she muttered incantations during
each deal. Others sat upon their handker-
chiefs and turned their chairs at regular
intervals. My neighbor McTavish and I
became unpopular. because we objected to
the incense-burning Buddha introduced by a
superstition-ridden damsel who said it
always brought her fours. McTavish and I
ridiculed all these bids for fortune, but I
felt 1 stood alone when I caught sight of
a speck of withered vegetation on the inside
of the McTavish coat. It was a sprig of
white heather.
* * * *
“Pawang” : Melbourne high society is no
more exempt from superstition than the deni-
zens of a Centralian wurly. Teacup-reading
was started by an enterprising restaurant
proprietor and his success was such that
dozens of shops have copied him. For a i
change the clairvoyantes are usually young
and occasionally beautiful. Some of the
cafes are obliged to employ several dam-
sels to cope with the rush of clients and a
system of checks obtained at the counter has
been introduced, or a waitress places a
mystic obelisk on a table to indicate the
order of preference. What the seers read in
the tea-leaves is the stereotyped rubbish
which anybody can learn by buying a shil-
ling book on palmistry. But their clients
are so thrilled to learn that they are mis-
understood, and not loved as they ought to
be, and are going to take a sea voyage and
meet a - romantic dark man with whips of
money that the restaurants are raking in
the shekels as if there were no depression,
and the sale of coffee has sunk to zero.
NO SPEED MERCHANT.
BILL: Poor old Hilda’s pretty' slow, isn't she?”
MAUD: “Yes, one lap an evening is as much as
ever she can do.”
“X.S.”: A Melbourne prophetess has hit
on a bright method of impressing clients.
She keeps a small snake of a harmless
variety, and the reptile is usually to be
found coiled up on a chair in the crystal-
gazer’s consulting room. When a visitor
arrives it is quietly turned off its perch and
wriggles out of sight under the sideboard.
“R. Volt”: The successful opening of the
radio ’phone reminds me of an occasion 25
years ago when telephonic communication
with Maoriland was attempted via the sub-
marine cable from La Perouse, Sydney. An
individual with a vague light in his eye came
out to La Perouse station with credentials
from the P.M.G. of the time, certifying that
that authority on
submarine t e 1 e-
graphy ha d in-
spected his inven-
tion and had confi-
dence in its value.
The superintendent
gave permission to
the inventor to go
ahead provided lie
didn’t use a high
enough voltage to
endanger the core,
and the cable was
opened especially
for him one Sun-
day, the other end
being instructed to
assist. Ho rolled
up with a wonder-
ful array of appa-
ratus and linked it
to the cable, -while
the station staff
stood around look-
ing as respectful as
it could in the cir-
cumstances. When
all was ready, the
incipient genius,
trembling with ex-
citement, rang■the
bell, placed the
receiver to his ear
a nd shouted
“H ell o, \Yaka-
punka !” iu a voice
almost loud enough
to cross the -Tas-
man without any
electrical assistance,
He nearly fell back-
wards when a voice
soft but clear re-
plied, “Hello, La
Perouse; Waka-
puaka : speaking!”
A roar of laughter
came from the
staff, while the
station electrician emerged grinning from
the superintendent’s office. The inventor’s
circuit had been tapped and leads taken to
a local instrument. That was the only
answer he got, though he continued to call
Waka for the rest of the morning.
* * » *
“The Ghoul”: While on a visit to the
State which Mr. Statistician Wickens says
is “too poor to govern itself,” we went to
see the. electrolytic zinc works at Risdon.
Our guide told us that the co. had spent
over three millions in Tas., and was now pro-
ducing about 5000 tons of zinc per week.
"Fancy all that money and fuss,” our flap-
per interposed, “just to make zinc ointment!”
* * * *
“R. Volt” : It is asserted that Australian
telephonists have had difficulty in putting-
calls through to Berlin, Paris and other
places because the operators in those cities
were ignorant of English. There is a dubious
air about the story, since the capitals of
Europe have been in telephonic touch with
London for ever so many years, and the
whole world converses in our mother tongue
per cable and wireless, although the Berne
Convention stipulates French as the medium
of ( international communication. The only
time I attempted to use that language as a
cable officer I received a tart request from
Paris to try English. During a variegated
career as a telegraphist I have worked with
Dutch, German, French, Russian, Chinese
and Japanese administrations and have never
felt the need of Esperanto. The argument
that a foreigner might be able to write Eng-
lish but would be vocally unintelligible
applies also to synthetic languages. I under-
stand that local accents are common amongst
Esperantists.
* * *
“Yardean”: “Bluecoat” (B. 14/5/’3O)
knows little about the Victorian public
schools of which he writes. Not one of them
is “palatially appointed,” and for the most
part they find it diffi-
cult to meet the demands
for accommoda«tion made
upon them. Geelong
Grammar, which is cen-
sured for prodigality, has
never had any money to
spare. Apart from the recently-completed
chapel, which was a gift, mid some minor
and necessary extensions, no building •lias
been erected at Gorio since Cuthbertson
House was rebuilt after the fire of 1925.
The £29,000 dining-hall exists only in
“Blueeoat’s” imagination ; the present dining-
hall has stood since 1914,
“Finchley”: About the most remarkable
sale of Crown land that ever took place in
Australia was staged at Bullfinch (W.A.)
early in 1911, when central lots in a town-
ship that never materialised were disposed
of by a Government auctioneer. So widely
diffused was the notion that a new Kai-
goorlie was destined to arise in this parti-
THE CHARM OF CHANGE.
“Old girl, I don’t feel like myself at all to-night.”
“Fine! Let’s go out—we might enjoy ourselves for once.”
cular section of saltbush that hard-headed
business men with no time for precarious
speculation in potential goldmines wer rt
found bidding briskly for Bullfinch quarter-
acres. At least four banks secured a corner
lot apiece, and Perth and Ivalgoorlie com-
mercial houses repeatedly outbid embryo
publicans and storekeepers for choice blocks.
A year later a man might have bought the
whole townsite for less than was offered
for a few feet of frontage before the bubble
burst. The purchasers were never held
to their bargains; a benevolent Government
even returned the first payments they had
made.
“Philm” : A Jewish maintenance case was
the reason for the unusual spectacle of a
rabbi mounting the witness-box in Mel-
bourne. The point at issue was the “get”
(divorce document),Which, like the scrolls
of the Law, must be written by hand. The
most minute mistake or alteration renders
it invalid; in Perth recently one scribe made
seven attempts at drawing up a “get” before
the rabbinical eye was satisfied. The
“sephers” (scrolls) arc even more difficult.
Their compilation is the work of a lifetime.
The introduction of a Gentile marriage
license on the lines of the “get” might steady
the increase in decrees nisi.
“Rufus Bagges”: From now on without
being a road hog you’ll be able to run up
from Sydney to Newcastle and back in a
day; and bang will go another trifle of Mr.
Cleary’s revenue. Chiefly because of the in-
truding Hawkesbury, which is not so. much a
river down in these parts as it is wide-
flung arms of the sea, the most direct route
northward from Sydney has rarely been
followed; even the road by way of Wise-
man’s Ferry means a long detour, and
people who value their vehicles and like
their comfort have struck west as far as
Mudgee to reach the Northern Tablelands
and Queensland. Next month, unless you
want to take in the Blue Mountains, you
will shoot across the Harbor and go north
to Peat’s Ferry, where one of two new
punts—3s-vehicle capacity apiece—will carry
you across the ’Oxberry. It may be George
P. who will carry you or it may be Frances,
his wife; the Government has done a proper
thing in thus perpetuating the names of
two good pioneers. And some of the best
that Australia ever had planted themselves
up and down the
’Oxberry, Austra-
lia's granary for
the first half-cen-
tury of its life. In-
teresting little bits
of history that
now seem very old
are recalled as you
wander over these
very beautiful
lower and middle
reaches of the
Hawkesbury. Here
at Pittwater is
the third grant
that was made to
Philip Schoeffer.
the first man of
any class ever to
get a grant of land
m Australia ; £md he w a s a Germ a n! Britain
h a an t long lost the American colonies —
°w 8 matter of 10 ye a rs—when Captain
Phillip sailed out of Portsmouth, and how.
having Virginia no longer, it was going to
fill its pipe it didn’t know. So it sent
Philip Schoeffer to Australia to grow
tobacco and anything else that might flourish.
Alas, poor Schoeffer! He could cultivate
no more than a prodigious thirst; and so
lie lost his first grant. Incidentally, recall-
ing that Schoeffer, this First Fleet agricul-
tural superintendent, was a German, per-
haps the choice was more or less influenced
by the leader’s own parentage. Jacob
Phillip, father of our first Governor, was a
German, of Hamburg, who settled in London
as a teacher of languages.
AN IDYLL OF THE SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I’m only a landlubber, but, I believe, in spite
of the stories told about them, that sailors are the
most faithful of men.” —Sydney parson.
His dad made him a sailor
Because his name was .lack;
lie sailed the whole world over
And portions of it back.
A lass named Lucy loved him,
And he adored her too;
On London docks he bade her
A passionate adieu.
Poor, simple-hearted sailor,
He vowed with purpose grim
He’d marry none but Lucy;
But Nita married him.
He still was true to Lucy
When leaving Callao,
Where Nita lived, for Capetown;
And there he wedded Flo.
From ’Frisco to Calcutta,
From Rio to Port Clare,
He linked his changing fortunes
With stray wives here and there.
But who can view with censure
The little, careless slips
Of free and easy sailors
Who wander round in ships?
Through all the years for Lucy
His heart beat fond and true,
And back he went to claim her—
When he was sixty-two.
Though almost broken-hearted
About the news he met,
Her daughter’s lass he married
To show he loved Loo yet.
I’m but a poor landlubber:
It hurts me none the less
When mariners so constant
Are charged with fickleness.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
“Young Eagles” (Pax-amount), at Sydney
State, is about the most preposterous thing
in the war-fable line that has left Holly-
wood. It discloses that those responsible
not only saw nothing of the war, but have
no idea of what any war is like in fact or
in spirit. The story is based on the bringing-
down of Von Baden, a. German airman, by
Lieut. Banks, of the IJ.S.A. —a nation, inci-
dentally, which hadn’t exported a single
’plane to Europe by the time the last Ger-
man push began. ; Von Baden isn’t sent to
a concentration camp; he sits about smok-
ing cigarettes and drinking at an open win-
dow overlooking the American aerodrome.
An anti-aircraft gun surrounded by a low
wall, of sandbags (completely useless, of course,
as a protection against bomb-splinters) is
a feature of this resort! Lieut. Banks goes
on leave to Paris, taking with him Von
Baden (in mufti) and “Pudge” Higgins, a
weirdly oafish brother-officer. They arrive
in a taxi (“Pudge” very drunk) at the pala-
tial home of Mary Gordon, whom the lieu-
tenant loves. There is a binge on—a demo-
cratic affair at which a blithered Scotch
private dances with the officers. While her
friends arc revelling, Mary draws Von Baden
aside and makes the secret sign which shows
him she is a German spy. They drug Banks
and Higgins, steal their uniforms, return to
the Yankee ’drome, and (without reporting
to the C. 0.) are given a ’plane in which
they fly to Germany. Mary is a double-
erosser. She gets Von Baden to drop a
note to Banks over the American lines,
which, when decoded, reveals that a Ger-
man attack is coming. The final scene shows
Banks and Von Baden in the garden of a
hospital, racial and war prejudices forgot-
ten, and Mary approaching graciously
through the trees.
This rubbish is adequately interpreted by
Charles Rogers ( Banks), Jean Arthur
(Mary) and Paul Lukas (Von Baden). The
pictures of air-figliting are magnificent, and
there are a couple of wonderfully realistic
crashes.
¥ # *
Paramount’s “The Virginian” put in an
appearance at Melbourne State Theatre
last week, along with the new “National”
orchestra of 40, under Hamilton Webber’s
direction. Owen Wister’s novel has been
done so often on the silent screen that every
theatregoer knows what is coming next. The
interest lies chiefly in the method of pre-
sentation. Gary Cooper is the long, lantern-
jawed, sentimental hero. He is superbly
mounted, and not even a knowledge of the
arts of the photographer throws doubt on
the quality of his horsemanship. How the
producers succeed in including a whole
township, a sweep of prairie and a range of
mountains in a setting without allowing a
single Ford or an aeroplane to stray into the
picture is one of the marvels of movie stage-
craft.
The items purveyed by the augmented
orchestra belonged to the minor classics and
were nicely selected not to give audiences
too great a shock after the wheezing of the
Wurlitzer. They comprised the “Peer Gynt”
suite and Delibes’s “Coppelia” ballet. The
“Tannhauser” overture was sterner stuff. It
was intelligently played. The stormy finale
only lacked volume because 40 musicians, blow
as hard as they list, can only raise a small
hurricane. But some of Melbourne’s finest
performers were on the whale’s back —violin-
ist Tarzynski, Hubert Clifford and others.
And Webber is known amongst musicians to
be a far cleverer conductor than a visitor
seeing him direct the usual programme
might imagine.
¥ * *
“A Son of the Gods” (First National),
at Sydney Haymarket, is a long-winded
talkie in which the audience is asked to
take a lot for granted. As Shm Lee Richard
Barthelmess is a Chinese until the moment
when America’s prejudice against miscegena-
tion makes it necessary for him to be de-
clared a Caucasian. This is when the heroine
• —an intensely color-conscious soap-boiler’s
daughter—announces her intention of marry-
ing him, Chow or vio. The Society girls
who meet Sam never suspect him of being
an Oriental till they are told, and then they
treat him like a dog publicly, and try to
get round him on the telephone later. The
soap-boiler’s offspring vindicates her racial
dignity by horsewhipping him at a crowded
Monte Carlo restaurant. This puts Sam
right off the white race, and he retires to
the IJ.S.A. and the palace which his puta-
tive father has left him in a New York slum.
Anyone might be forgiven for accepting this
burly, wide-eyed young man as a white; the
miracle is that the Chinese should accept him
as one of themselves.
Richard Barthelmess is without charm as
the despised Mongol, and he is too well-
nourished to be effective in all-lugubrious
parts. It is hard to feel anything but
acute impatience with Constance Bennett as
a neurotic who first vamps Sam, then casts
him off with loathing, then takes to drink
for love of him, and finally abjures her color-
religion, and pursues him to Chinatown.
Much money has been spent on the picture,
and some of the sets—notably the Riviera
scenes and a Chinese funeral in technicolor
—are very effective.
* *
“Dangerous Paradise,” at Sydney Capitol,
is a modern island thriller based on an early
Conrad model. The social life of these
dream-places is standardised. Nobody works.
The centre which attracts the moneyed mem-
bers of the community by day and night is
a boozing-ken run by a ruffianly foreigner,
with a jazz-band of white slaves as a side-
attraction. The natives put in their time
doing ballet and chorus work by the palm-
fringed sea. Most of the characters live by
crime, and meet violent deaths.
In the circumstances bizarre characteri-
sation is demanded rather than acting. The
requirement is supplied in the case under
NANCY CARROLL
in “Dangerous Puradise.”
notice by a
remark ably
well - chosen
cast. The most
s e n s a t ional
figure of a hor-
rifying lot is
the Mr. Jones,
Gentleman Ad-
venturer, of
Gustav von
Sevffertitz. His
A.D.C.’s, Ri-
cardo (Fran-
cis McDonald)
and Pedro
( George Mot-
sonaros), are
also calculated
to give imagi-
native child-
ren night-
mares. Warner
Oland, who
plays Schom-
berg, is one of
Nature’s dis-
orderly - house
proprietors as regards appearance, and Clar-
ence H’. Wilson is well equipped to represent
the slinking, lustful Sangiaeomo. Nancy
Carroll (Alma) and Richard Arlen (ILeyst)
seem colorless in this radiant gallery of
criminal lunatics. The scenic photography
is not up to the high standard set by pre-
vious island ; films, but Hollywood’s one and
only island bar set is satisfying, as usual.
* *
Sydney Regent is showing “Devil May
Care” and “The Ship from Shanghai” this
week. The difference between them is the
difference between life and death. None of
the sensational and romantic events of the
first-named show ever happened, or could
happen, in war or peace, and Satur-
day night’s audience said so in the
form of cynical guffaws more than
once. ' When Ramon Novarro, as a lieu-
tenant of Napoleon’s Old Guard, is about
to be shot by the Royalists after his fallen
leader’s departure for Elba he puts the other
ranks of the firing party through some ele-
mentary drill as a prelude to giving
them “about turn” and bolting over a wall.
When not hiding in bedrooms from his pur-
suers, he spends his time as a footman at
a Royalist chateau making tuneful love' to
Leonie (Doi’othy Jordan) and registering
the arch and toothy allure of a pantomime
boy. This production presents the most
improbable-looking Napoleon on record. A
meritorious feature is the beauty of the
interiors, and the knowledge and good taste
of whoever was responsible for the fur-
nishing.
“The Ship from Shanghai” (which is
Hollywood’s senseless talkie-substitute for
Dale Collins’s descriptive book-title “Ordeal”)
is better art than the novel. The produc-
tion is magnificent. Film addicts are get
ting used to miraculously-faked storms at
sea, but this one should thrill the most
sophisticated. The scrap put up by the
sailors' on the yacht is a pleasing innova-
tiqn. This lumbering, clawing, kicking, all-
in scuffle is the genuine article; it is the
first time the writer has seen a rough-and-
tumble on a screen that didn’t teem with
impossibilities.
But the story is the thing; it affords great
scope for emotional acting. Lady Daley
(played with distinction by Zeffie Tilbury)
is less prominent here than in the novel.
Kay Johnson, as Dorothy Daley, has more
opportunities than either of the other women,
arid she makes effective use of them. The
star is Louis Wolheim, who plays the mega-
lomaniacal steward. He has the face and
head of a comic-paper pug, and his sinister
appearance is intensified by a silken voice
and a hideously cringing manner. Melodrama
invades his admirable interpretation only
when his tottering reason is overturned by
Dorothy’s jeering reminders that he is no
superman, only a crazy servant who has been
beaten spiritually by his betters. The epi-
sode, which is overplayed and over-prolohged,
ends a period of suspense at a moment
when it threatens to become tedious. Con-
rad Nagel and Howard Vazey have rela-
tively colorless parts. Dike Miss Johnson
they sacrifice verisimilitude on the altar of
vanity, retaining their ironed-out com-
plexions and neat, coiffures through all their
agonies.
¥ # ¥
“The Sky Hawk” (Fox), which alighted
at the Regent, Melbourne, last week, has a
romantic story allied to amazing shots of
a dirigible dropping bombs on London and
the subsequent immolation of the intruder.
The psychological effects of the visitation
are illustrated by views of children in hos-
pital, prisoners in their cells, mobs in the
streets and amusement-seekers in the
theatres. The version given may not be
exactly according to observed fact —Lon-
doners as a wK-le maintained excellent dis-
cipline, and tj -.ted the business as some-
what of a ragllaen the Zeppelins left their
lethal visiting cards in the late shindy—but
the dramatic purposes of the film are _ well
served by the various spectacles. Reginald
Dandy makes his appearance under the
screen name of John Garrick. He is the
inevitable hero, bearing up nobly under the
inevitable accusation of cowardice. He
mounts his hobby ’plane, rises above the fly-
ing sausage, gives it his dirty left, so to
speak, and returns to the arms of Helen
Chandler, the thin and excitable heroine.
Billy Bevan provides some comic relief. The
picture is worth seeing for its photography.
THE MILITANT SPIRIT.
"Militant leaders, resentful of the northern miners’ decision to resume work on the November compromise terms, are urging the picketing of pits.”
A.D.C.: “Don’t worry about them, General. After all, it’s the fortune of war.”
GENERAL: “Who’s worrying about them, you fool? I’m wondering how I can get them to attack again."


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/0.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
...the finest flavoured
oysters in the world/
From Stewart Island ot New Zealand
come to us the world’s most succu-
lent oysters in cans that beat the
label St George ' Carefully chosen
and immediately canned in their own
liquor —thus is preserved the luscious
flavour of each ot the 2 doa oysters
that are found in the large tins
Served straight from the can. they
are as succulent and tasty as the
finest oysters freshly gathered— yet
infinitely cheaper All leading
grocers sell ST GEORGE OYSTERS
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, New Zealand.
LONDON.
THE FOUR HOTELS WHICH GUARANTEE
LUXURY AND REFINEMENT, WITH
CUISINE OF THE HIGHEST STANDARD.
ALL BEDROOMS HAVE RUNNING WATER
AND EXCHANGE TELEPHONES, GAS
FIRES AND CENTRAL HEATING,
PASSENGER LIFTS TO ALL FLOORS,
GARAGE AND NIGHT PORTER.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
90 Rooms. Terms from 4-3 guineas.
Telephone 9901 Park (5 lines).
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
100 rooms. Terms from 4 guineas.
Telephone Padd. 9121 (3 lines).
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
26-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
75 rooms. Terms from 33 guineas. Double, 6 guineas.
’Phone Padd. 9712 (3 lines).
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
55 Rooms. Terms from 3-3 guineas. Double 6 guineas.
’Phone Padd. 8022.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT AND LANCASTER
COURT HOTEL ARE IDEALLY SUITED FOR
RECEPTIONS AND AT-HOMES.
The above are personally supervised by Mrs. J. F..
Stevenson. Keep these addresses for future references
and friends, £142
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Arnold Wienholt, who has been asked to
stand for the Fassifern (Q.) by-election on
Commodore A.G.
RYMILL, of the Royal
S.A. Yacht Club, and one
of his State’s best-known
wool men.
June 28, is a
scion of one of
the original Dar-
ling Downs
pioneer families,
and something of
an original to
hoot. He has sat
both iif th e
Queensland and
Federal Legisla-
tures, and in each
case has thrown
( in his hand with
some outspoken
comment on the
life political. His
real life interest
is big-game shoot-
ing, and he lias
done a lot of it,
mostly in East
Africa, where he
served with
Smuts in the
war. Wienholt
is running true
to form, for he
told a Country-
Nat. deputation
the other day
that if he stood
it would be as a
candidate free to
follow his own sweet will. However, he has
such a pull in the district where his interests
now lie that his endorsement seems certain.
Some June birthdays:—
Dr. Alexander Leeper (Melb.), 82, on 3rd; W. B.
Propsting (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.), 69, on 4th;
Bishop Radford (Goulburn), 61,' and Mrs. tineas
Gunn (“We of the Never Never”), on sth; Senator
Major-Gen. Glasgow, 54, Justice Inglia Clark
(Speck), 48, Arthur H. Adams, 58, and W. M.
Marks, M.H.R., 55, on 6th; Bishop Gilbert White,
of Sydney (late of Carpentaria and Willochra), 71,
Dr. Prescott (Newington Coll., Syd.), 73, and S.
D. Gardner, M.H.R., 46, on 9th; Alec. Peacock, 69,
on 11th; J. Lane Mullins, N. S. Wales M.L.C., 73,
on 12th; J. H. Prowse, M.H.R., 59, on 16th;
Bishop D’Arcy Irvine, 68, on 17th; R.C.
Bishop Barry (Goulburn), 55, Prank Tate (Vic.’s
ex-Director of Education), 67, and T. L. Axford,
V.C. (W.A.), 35, on 18th; Senator Brig.-Gen. Elliott,
52, Dr. J. H. Cumpston (Director-Gen. of Federal
Quarantine), 50, and S. Aus. Speaker E. J. (“Jack”)
Shepherd, 36, on 19th; J. M. Fowler, ex-M.H.R., 65
on 20th; Major-Gen. Walter Coxen, 60, and Prof.
Cleland (Adel.), 52, on 22nd; Capt. Dyett (pres.
R.S.L.), 39, on 23rd; R. O. Blackwood (Vic.), 69,
and S. Aus. ex-Minister G. F. Jenkins, 52, on 24th;
Frank Moulden (Adelaide’s former Mayor), 54, and
T. J. Roseby (Sydney Board of Water Supply), 64,
on 25tb; Captain William Cope (N.S.W. Soudan
Contingent in 18.85), 73, naturalist Chas. Barrett
(Vic.), 51, and pastoralist E. A. Brooks (S. Aus.),
53, on 26th; General Monash, 65, J. Nevin Tait, 54,
Dr. Fred K. Watson (editor of Historical Records),
52, and geologist Dr. Frank Stillwell (Vic.), 42,
on 27th; Dr. S. S. Cameron (Vic. Director of Agri-
culture), 64, on 29th; and Prof. Hudson Beare, of
Edin. Uni. (first S. Aus. Scholar), 71, on 30th.
The amiable Dr. Cullen, now, among other
things, Lieut.-Gov. of N. S. Wales and Chan-
cellor. of the Sydney Uni., was very nearly
a Uni. professor instead of a Chief Justice.
There was a vacancy at Adelaide; he applied
for the job and luckily didn’t get it. Yet
he would "have riiade a first-rate law pro-
fessor, and certainly would never have
shocked the holy city as one of the most
brilliant of its law-school teachers later did.
Australia’s most: venerable ecclesiastic
must surely be John Douse Langley, who kept
his 94th birthday in Melbourne last week,
lie was born at Ballyduff, Ireland, his father
being a prebendary of Waterford Cathedral,
and arrived in Australia in 1853. But he
didn’t take orders till 20 years later. For
nearly a quarter of a century he was rector
of St. Phillip’s, Sydney, and he was Bishop
of Bendigo from 1907 to 1919.
Cecil Hartt, who drew the Digger as well
as he lias been drawn, was found dead last
week in the N.S.W. South Coast bush with a
shotgun beside liim. He came into the light
first with drawings of down-and-outs in
The Bulletin, a*nd capped some good work
with his collection of Digger sketches
("Ilumorosities”), which was published in
London. A good Digger himself, ho received
two issues from the Turk at Lone Pine which
confined him to London headquarters for
the rest of the war. Then “Smith’s Weekly”
found him a job. He fitted the popular idea
of the typical Australian perfectly. A shade
over six feet, a cheery smile, and, if any-
thing, a> bit; too good-hearted.
Donald Mackintosh, of Pittswortli (Q.),
who celebrated his 90th birthday recently,
is one of the many Hielan’men who helped
in the beginnings of the State. When he
landed in the ’forties he knew no language
but Gaelic. On the Downs the lad from
Lochaber worked among sheep for a few
shillings a week until time and hard toil
brought good fortune. As M.D.A. for Pitts-
worth he was for long a feature of the State
Parliament, his pawky humor being a wel-
come relief from the usual political badinage.
.T. F. Millington, wdio contributed several
exceptionally good short stories to The Bul-
letin a quarter of a century ago, is dead at
65. Millington was born at Liverpool (Eng.),
practised as a solicitor in London, came to
Australia in 1895 and had various bush and
journalistic experiences in this country a<nd
Maoriland. In Brisbane he took over “Steele
Rudd’s Magazine” from the inventor and
gained a 15,000 circulation, but newsagents’
credits came in too slowly to meet the
printers’ swelling bills. He was afterwa*rds
a well-known solicitor in Sydney for about
a score of years. He leaves an unpublished
book of short stories.
George Forbes, Ward’s successor in Maoi’i-
land, is the twenty-third man to hold the Pre-
miership. Like Coates and the late W. F.
Massey, he is a farmer. Son of a Lyttelton
ship-chandler, he was in his youth a mighty
footballer and a fine oarsman. When Jock
McKenzie bought and broke up the Cheviot
Estate, young Forbes drew a good selec-
tion in the ballot and farmed it profit-
ably. He went into Parliament for Ilurunui
in 1908 and has held the seat ever since in
the Liberal interest. He led the Opposition
during the greater part of the Coates Admin-
istration, and loyally effaced himself in favor
of his old leader Ward when the pendulum
swung his party back into office. A stocky,
genial man with a merry eye, popular with
everyone in the House, he has many of the
qualities that make a good leader.
Passed out at 60, Robert Cook. M.H.R.
for Indi (Vic.) from 1919 to 1928. Cook was
a kindly soul and an accepted authority
on butter and cheese and all that pertains
to the dairying industry, but he wasn’t
much' of a politician. Yet one act, or omis-
sion, of his altered the course of political
history. At the 1928 elections he unaccount-
ably forgot to hand in his nomination until
it was too late, thereby presenting a safe
C.P. seat to his Labor opponent. The loss
of a single vote didn’t seem to matter much
to the Bruce-Page Government at the time,
but a bit. later, when Hughes saw his chance
of stabbing in the back the Government he
had been returned to support, it mattered
everything.
“Avon”: N.S.W. Railway Commissioner
Cleary has been telling the public how he
■worked 14-1 hours a day when he first tackled
his job. The biggest whale for desk work I
ever knew was Dick Seddon, who thought
nothing of 18 hours at it on end. At 53,
after five years of the M.L. Premiership, he
looked 70, a*nd he died at 61 literally worked
out. One of the few patches of pathos in M.L.
“Hansard” is the passage that records the
last of his 200 speeches during the 87 hours’
sitting in committee on the Old Age Pen-
sions Bill. I can see him now, as he made
it, his huge bulk slumped over his desk,
his face like wax, his eyes bloodshot and
nearly closed with weariness. He had not
left his seat for more than a few minutes
at a time for three and a half days. “All
I want is to do something for the old
people,” he muttered huskily. It isn’t only
in war that men die for their country.
BILL
CAMERON,
member, for the
Upper Hunter
in N.S.W.
Assembly.
Dead at Mount Gambier (S.A.) in her
94th year, Millicent Glen, eldest child of
Dr. Short, first Bishop of Adelaide, and
widow of squatter George Glen. The town
of Millicent was named after her. Her
father chartered the Derwent, 362 tons, to
bring, his family and several clergymen from
England to Australia in 1847.
Dr. Keith Ward, S. Aus. Govt. Geologist,
has been awarded the Clarke Memorial medal
by the Royal Society of N.S.W. for his out-
standing contributions to geological research
and his services in connection with artesian
water problems generally. The brilliant
Keith is the elder son of the Dr. Ward who
edited' the old Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
for many years.
Killed through being thrown out of a
trap, Charles Beaumont Grubb, of Strathroy,
one of the Speck’s leading pastoralists. Son
of a Launceston lawyer, he made a name as
a breeder of merino sheep and Devon cattle.
Strathroy merinos took many prizes at Mel-
bourne and Sydney Shows, and used to top
the market at the sales before Tasmanian
sheep went out of fashion on the mainland.
C. B. Grubb helped to make the Launceston
Show’the biggest in the island and was
chairman of directors of the Tasmanian
Woolgrowers’ Agency. He sat in the House
of Assembly for a good many years. He was
79.
“Jack” Shepherd is the thirteenth S. Aus.
Speaker since the granting of constitutional
government. He is 36. Shepherd was study-
ing at Adelaide Uni. in 1915 when he en-
listed with the A.I.F. He served in Egypt
and France, and got a commission before his
return to Adelaide in 1920. H'e has sat in the
Assembly since 1924 as representative of
“Gordon’s country.”
Farewelled by Adelaide School of Mines,
after 40 years’ service, John Dalby, a York-
shireman who came to Australia in 1882 for
health, and found it. A highly trained
teacher, he lectured in physics and mathe-
matics at the School of Mines from its start.
Latterly he has done Commonwealth service
as examiner for the Public Service and for
the Military Forces.
With the retirement of Stephen Smith on
reaching the age-limit, G. R. Thomas becomes
the third Director of Education in N.S.W.—
Peter Board was the first. Thomas, who
has a wide knowledge of the State’s out-
back acquired during wmnderings as an in-
spector, started with the department 39 years
ago as a boy in his ’teens, under the old pupil-
teacher system, his. first charge being a* new
school “in the bush” at Tempe—now a
thickly populated suburb. Within 20 years he
was deputy-head at the Sydney High and his
advancement has been steady ever since.
Some baronets, beyond those men t ion ml
in recent paragraphs, residing i n " y l! k
tralia: Sir Hugh Edward Poynter, third
baronet, son of the eminent Pointer; u*
Robert Gordon, eighth baronet; Sir
Durrant, sixth of the line; and bJr
Ivellett, fourth baronet —all living m S>yd • ’
Sir Lionel Broun, eleventh baronet, ot oo -
amble, N.S.W.; Sir William Macartney,
fourth baronet, of Jolimont, Mackay (wd' >
and Sir Patrick Goold, fifth baronet, or
There have been five or six distinctly -Aus-
tralian creations, and the present holder's or
the titles reside in England; these include
the Nicholson, Cooper and Lucas-Tootli fami-
lies, whose first baronets were Sydney not-
ables, and the grandson of Sir William Clarke,
of Vic., who was made a baronet nearly
half a century ago. William was the
father of Rupert, who died in 1926, when
William’s grandson Rupert, now in his eari.v
teens, became third baronet. Chief Justice
Way, of Adelaide, the fourth Australian t<>
be raised to a baronetcy, died in 1916, when
the title became extinct.
J. Bell Ferguson’s term as t.b. expert
for Vic. Health Department has been ex-
tended for three years. Dr. Argyle picked
Ferguson, and the present Labor Govern-
ment was unwilling to let him go, so he must
be regarded as one of the State’s. success-
ful importations.
Hall-porters don’t usually find themselves
in the position to take a six-months’ holi-
day and a trip to England, but Johnnie
Madison, of the Australian Club, Melbourne,
is an exception. He has removed the hats
and coats of members for 45 years past,
and in gratitude the club recently granted
him the necessary vacation and slipped a
cheque in with it:.'
Gone below for the last time, at 78, Jim
Pollard, a well-known mine manager in his
day and a pioneer of the Chillagoe (N.Q.)
field. When the slump in northern mining
took place he forsook levels and stopes for
cane-farming at Babinda.
Joseph Ward’s decision to stay in the
Maoriland Cabinet as an Honorary Minister
under his former subordinate, Forbes, is
not without precedents in Australia. Jack
Murray resigned the Vic. Premiership in
1912 to play second fiddle to Willie Watt,
who had been Treasurer. Hal Colebateh,
the present. Senator, took the same course in
Westralia in 1919, when he stood down in
favor of James Mitchell.
Rev. Dr. Bor-
land, the now
Moderator - Gen-
eral of the Pres-
byterian Church
of Vic., was born
in the Land o'
Cakes, and is a
much - educated
man. He not
only stud ie d
theology at Edin-
burgh Univer-
sity, but also at
those of Jena
and . Berlin. He
thumped various
pulpits in Scot-
land until he
came to Scots
Church, Mel-
bourne, in 1913.
“Avon”: It
would be hard to
find in any coun-
try a man so
wedded to the
idea of stimulat-
ing the aesthetic
sense in future
generations as 11.
G. Ell, of Christ-
church (M.L.).
Perched fantasti-
cally on the rim
of the Canter-
bury Plains, and
Rev. Dr. BORLAND.
jutting out into
the ocean, is the knob called Banks
Peninsula, a mound of high but gently-
undulating mountains of volcanic origin.
From the summits the view is superb,
embracing the whole terrain of the plains,
the great glacier-fed rivers, and the “notched
Kaikouras.” Ell claimed the tops of the
Port Hills, as the Canterbury folks call them
(Lyttelton being nestled into one of the deeji-
eleft fiords), as a national reserve, and
throughout a chequered political career that
included a brief term as Postmaster-General
he fought for dedications and reservations —
and got them. He was one of Seddon’s Old
Guard, a foundation-member of the pioneer
Liberal-Labor League of Maoriland. There
have been many attempts to deprive Ell of
his wardenship of what he calls the Summit-
road—there’s now close on 60 miles of it —
but they haven’t succeeded. He lives on
the road, and will protect it till, lie dies.
When that happens Maoriland, if it has any
sense of gratitude, will raise a big monu-
ment to him on Mount Herbert.
TO LET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mi*. Scullin having adhered to his decision to
live in a hotel, the Federal Government has been
vainly trying to lease the Prime Minister’s residence
at Canberra, which costs £26 a week to maintain.”
There’s silverfish upon the books,
Their furtive meals beginning;
And spiders in sequestered nooks
Industriously spinning.
Insidious moths will soon be there.
It’s reasonably certain,
To browse on carpet rich and rare,
And chic and costly curtain.
The home where Bruce could 101 l at ease
When week-ends brought a lull in
Political amenities
Is not the crib for Scullin.
Nix!
It’s too dc luxe for Scullin.
Those rugs in which one’s feet would sink,
Those chastely chiselled ceilings,
Would jar and grate, one’s led to think,
Upon a tribune’s feelings.
The banquet board aside they shove
Or in brown holland sheath it,
No luscious legs of lamb above.
Or human legs beneath it.
The rooms that, pulsed with life of yore
There’s silence grim and dull in.
It might have suited Theodore.
It’s not the shop for Scullin.
Straight!
It’s vanity to Scullin.
If such indifference endure
It yet may reach the wreckers,
Our little blend in miniature
Of Downing-street and Chequers.
“To Let” the fading flowers call.
The shuttered windows creak it
In mournful tones, but, dash it ail!
None cometh to bespeak it.
And all (except the mounting bill)
Is sort of void and null in
That swanky bower on the hill
That holds no lure for SNrllin,
None. f \
An inn for me, says. Scullii
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Garage records have proved
Pontiac’s reliability ......
. . ♦ and its
low cost of
maintenance
«UP
L'
W
V
ft)
OERVICE men influenced only by cold facts and
figures, and swayed by no personal motives,
have everywhere praised Pontiac as a car of un-
usual reliability.
The daily experience of these men in handling
cars of all makes has shown them how few, in com-
parison, are the adjustments that Pontiac re-
quires, and how little is the attention that it needs.
Inspection has demonstrated how slight is the
wear of Pontiac’s vital parts, and records prove
that sales of replacements are extremely rare.
Most convincing of all, garage accounts hear
witness how little Pontiac owners pay for main-
tenance over a period of months, and even years.
The recommendations of practical service men,
coupled with the splendid performance, luxurious
comfort and distinctive beauty of the car are
selling more and more Pontiacs every day. There
is an enthusiastic dealer near you who would be
pleased to demonstrate and to let you note for
yourself its fine qualities. He can also acquaint
you with the advantages of the General Motors
Warranty ,and the easy terms available under
the G.M.A.C. Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA)
PTY., LTD.
Brisbane ■ Sydney . Melbourne ■ Adelaide • Perth
w-
Big car features
combined in no
other car of its price
1. A 200 cubic-inch L-head engine.
2. The Harmonic Balancer.
3. The G-M-R cylinder head.
4. The cross-flow radiator.
5. Automatic Temperature con-
trol.
6. Fully counter-weighted crank-
shaft.
7. Aeroplane-type interchangeable
bronze-backed bearings.
8. A 1£ inch carburettor, includ-
ing an internal economizer
and an accelerating pump.
9. A petrol pump, in place of
the conventional vacuum tank.
10. Special patented expansion -
type piston pins.
11. Full-pressure lubrication.
12. Crankcase ventilating system.
13. Internal - expanding 4 - wheel
service brakes of the most ef-
ficient type.
14. Special moulded, non-squeak
brake bands. Positively no
squeaking when stopping.
15. Smart, specially designed
bodies.
16. Flaring mudguards—7o inches
between outer edges.
17. Unusually high radiator of
distinctive design.
18. VV type windshield on closed
models.
PONTIAC
it’s a GENERAL MOTORS car look inside and note the difference


S 3
m
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Virectort; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon, J A BOYn
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand). ' ’
Total Assets exceed ....... £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
*ha Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3). Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) in the event of loss of eye or limb through acciaent, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manaerer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesties (com. Sat.) “Maid of the Mountains”
Criterion “Let Us Be Gay”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Sat.) “The Belle of New York”
New Comedy “The Prince and the Pauper”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
Sta te Movies and Talkies
♦
If anything short of a civilised heating
system could have cheered Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night Florence Austral’s
voice would have done the trick, for it is
full of golden warmth that blazes up fiercely
when occasion demands. As it was, the
audience forgot its frozen toes while she
was on the platform, and applauded so vigor-
ously that it didn’t have to worry about its
fingers.
Madame Austral has not taken her coun-
try’s name in vain. She has personality, a
most beautifully flexible and expressive voice
and a clear articulation. As was to be
expected from one who had impersonated
such warlike ladies as Briinhilde and Aida
before European audiences, she has also at
her command notes of clarion quality. In
obedience to a convention that isn’t quite so
absurd as it seems, .since music written to
fit words can never very smoothly carry a
translation, her most notable offerings were
sung in foreign languages. Aida’s aria
“Ritorna Vincitor” and Briinliilde’s weird
battle cry, the last-named an electrifying
study in interval-leaping, were magnificently
declaimed, and equally impressive was the
"Hymn to the Sun” of Georges. Less tur-
bulent emotions were pleasantly portrayed
in Strauss lieder, “Morgen” and “Caecilie,”
the “Tes Yeux” of Rabey 'and a group of
English lyrics.
As a tribute to the Empire Day anniver-
sary Elgar’s “Land of Hope and Glory” was
given to Ernest Truman’s accompaniment on
the _ organ, which ruthlessly drowned the
soloist. Nils Nelson, who prattled away on
the piano during the other vocal numbers,
was much more considerate. Flautist John
Amadio proved himself a very accomplished
virtuoso of his chosen instrument, demon-
strating his scholarship in a fine reading
of a Bach sonata, his poetic feeling in
Debussy’s “Pipes of Pan” and his digital
ROM ALA HANSEN, to ho will be with the Moncrieff “Maid of
the Mountains”, at Sydney Majesty’s.
ability in Ivrantz’s pyrotechnical “Tour-
billon” and a whirlwind performance of
the “Minute Waltz,” in which he did better
than even time.
New comedy actress Edith Taliaferro was
introduced at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night with the aid of a play called “Let Us
Be Gay” and some noise that wouldn’t. A
gentleman dressed in purple hoops and sand-
stone earrings came round at the first inter-
val and gave everyone three guesses at what
was making the noise. This Showman was
unable to await the announcement of the
prize-winning guess, but he guessed a con-
crete-mixer three times, and will be most
disappointed if he does not collect the prize
--a row of free seats at the Tivoli, kindly
donated by *T. 0. W illiamson's. However,
even if the neighboring occupant of the dress
circle who guessed a gramophone won the
prize, that will not prevent present writer
from heartily congratulating the Firm in
spite of its gruesome economy. It could
have gone in for a mighty Ilowlitzer.
If it did nothing else, the ghastly noise
proved the mettle of the Taliaferro pasture.
No mean accomplishment to come on after
it had done its worst, get hold of a con-
temptuous audience, make it laugh heartily
and eventually send it away thoroughly satis-
tied. The Taliaferro is a vivacious lady—
rounded face, sparkling eyes, average height,
smooth lines as to chassis, and just that
touch of twang in the voice that is more an
inflection than an accent, and as far removed
from Bowery as Oxford is from Bow. She
is said to have a fairly large repertoire, and
it should need a large one to exhaust her
talent. In this play she is quite over-
shadowed by Ethel Morrison, whose part of
? , C i Cery old ty rant is the best the piece
holds, and i.s given the acting it deserves.
But Miss Taliaferro has a sufficiently good
part to make most wish to see her in another
role. She is an ex-wife who, since her divorce
alter a husbandly infidelity, has been “experi-
menfing, and has won such a reputation
that she is sent for by the bright old lady
when that dame’s modernish and engaged
grandda-ughter starts throwing herself at a
handsome guest. She arrives, is duly primed
for her job, and then meets in the male
attraction—her ex-husband. The rest is the
customary complications, leading through
spicy commentary on current feelings
towards sex relationships to a satisfactory
ending*. All the male roles are nincompoop,
nitwit or plain imbecile, but J. B. Rowe, as
the ex-husband, is a better actor even than
wheu he was here before, and Reginald Dane
has stepped out of the “Journey’s End”
colonel’s boots into another pair that fit.
Danalda Warne is a most convincing
modernish girl.
V- ¥ *
The proscenium at the Melbourne Town
Hall would dwarf anybody. It would even
make Danny Duffy, the Australian giant,
look undersized. When Backliaus popped out
from the folds of the gigantic curtain on
►Saturday night and sat down at the Bech-
stom he looked like one of the Tivoli’s Lilli-
putians about to
play on a musical
box. When he
started on Bach’s
gre a t Chromatic
Fantasia and
Fugue and passed
on to Beethoven’s
Op. ill sona t a,
however, things be-
ga n to assume
their right propor-
tions ; and when
he slammed out the
ii na 1 chords of
Ludwig’s majestic
Wahlstein sonata,
which seem to open a
door on to infinity,
one felt that the
Town Hall archi-
tect was really a
niggling person
who had failed to
rise to the
occasion. The
audience numbered
at least 3000, and
included a lady
who had brought a
hacking cough in-
stead of the cus-.
tomary baby. The
cough had much
the same effect on
the music as the
glass on Streeton’s
pictures has on his
paintings. The only
difference is that
Baekliaus didn’t
invite the cough-
ing lady. Mention
of painting sug-
gests the clue to
Backhaus’s mastery
of his medium. He
has control o f
every sha d c of
color from pianis-
simo to fortissimo. He mixes the exactly
appropriate volume of tone and lays
it on with the absolute dead sureness of
a Velasquez or a Rembrandt. He makes
Paderewski —especially the later Paderew-
ski- —appear like a mere showman.
* * *
Actors like William Faversham, who
claims to have done Miles Hendon in “The
Prince and the Pauper” over 1000 times, are
fond of remarking that every fresh perform-
ance is a fresh act of creation; they never
come to the end of its possibilities. “My
goodness!” remarked the ribald person next
to the present writer at the Melb. Comedy
on Saturday, “but the audience does.” There
is nothing much of Mark Twain’s delightful
book except the title in the present per-
formance, which may see the co. through a
fortnight if there are enough pass-demanding
h ederal politicians in Melbourne at the
moment. With Miss Mary Maegregor as the
principal boy, the piece would make a fine
Christmas panto, for the youngsters if a
few rousing ballets were thrown in and there
. was a nice scene
depicting the fairy
queen’s grotto in
the depths of the
ocean. Somebody
must have told Mr.
Faversham t: li a t
Australia was a
young country, and
he took the state-
ment literally when
he was selecting
his repertoire. As
the Princess Eliza-
beth, sister to King'
Edward the Sixth,
Ann Davis gave a
performance which
■was only compre-
hensible on the as-
sumption that she
regarded the part
ns an insult to a
leading lady’s in-
telligence.
The Community
Playhouse, Sydney,
has just run a
tou r n a ment of
Australian o n e-
acte rs, w r li ic li
brought in 18 en-
tries, and such a
big house for the
finals night that it
had to emerge from
its horse-box of a
basement under a
church hall into
the hall itself.
Even that was
crowded to suffoca-
tion, with seats
jarnhed so close
together _ that it
was a misery to sit
in them.
“Yeast,” a one-act modern domestic
comedy by Llywelyn Lucas, was considered
the best acting play. Set in an average
suburban drawing-room, it held crisp dia-
logue and a strong illusion of actuality. But
this Showman was surprised when the cur-
tain fell. The piece appeared to be just get-
ting into its stride, and stopped in that
attitude, like a racehorse in a photograph,
with one or more legs in the air. It is not
a one-act play at all, but an admirable
first act to a play of two or more acts. It
approximates to a one-act play as a narra-
tive sketch approximates to a short story.
It is not an entity, but a fragment. You
are taken so far very capably, but you get
no sensation of having arrived anywhere.
It proves, however, that Miss Lucas has a
keen dramatic sense, a better idea than most
of the requirements of the stage. The offer-
ing was x-ather badly acted, with May Wilds
the only one at home —-so much at home that
she sat and sewed and acted and was the
prompter all together.
“Dexterity,” by Gustavus Ward, won the
Adrian Consett Stephen cup awarded for the
best literary play. With an Early Aus-
tralia setting and enshrining a charming
little fairs’- story told by the principal charac-
ter*, it got closer to the rounded complete-
ness necessary in a qne-acter than did
“Yeast.” But it had none of that play’s
credibility or brightness, and its dialogue
was so longwinded that it is a wonder Frank
Carswell remembered half his lines. In fact,
the play is a monologue, with occasional
interjections. Adeline Taylor also helped to
give it a better chance than “Yeast” was
given.
The results of the Competition should not
be at all discouraging to the theatre, which
proposes to run another tournament on moi’e
general Australian lines a little later. It
also intends to stage another full-length
Australian play shortly—this time a war
piece.
A surprisingly good show is “The Honey-
moon Girl,” Jim Gerald’s very own. musical
comedy at Melbourne Tivoli. The music,
wherever it came from, is tuneful and some
of it finds a fine channel to the eai*drums of
the audience per James Foran, the romantic
hero. Sadie Gale is sprightly and attractive
as a* Russian dancer with a stage-French
accent, and there is some good dancing by
Ray McLean and the Ramon, Madeline
and Pedro trio. The eminent author laughs
heartily at his own jokes and the amdience
laugh's with him, despite the fact that his
primest jest of all, the famous rhinoceros-
hide suit, is temporarily out of commission.
“Love Lies,” the froth-and-dance m«si-
comedy, which the Melbourne Showman
galled “the best disli of the land served in
f ° V < .“f tin ! C U Ol £ohhv Gordon
ney Royal on Saturday night. Bobby Gordon
the *““** Sl> m
In these dull times* Adelaide Bowl wel-
comes a bright show produced by Kenneth
BETTY ELEY, in “Love Lies,” at Sydney Royal.
England has already seen. The revue
would be better for a thread of story to
hold it together. As it stands, it is what the
title promises, a mixed grill with something
for every taste, and capable of being sauced
and seasoned at will. Frith gets a dozen
chances of contrasted oddity (especially as
an ex-plumber now a surgeon), Tui Black
shines in very-English sketches of girls of
the Lower Orders being cheeky, Leo Darnton’s
fine voice rec&lls his “‘Desert Song” success
in Adelaide, and the dancing is really good.
So is the music, under Ernest Oram and
Jack Wright.
A. A. Milne’s charming fantasy, “The
Ivory Door,” was well received by patrons
of the Melbourne Repertory Society at the
playhouse. Produced by Frank Clewlow, the
piece was artistically staged and tastefully
acted.
* # *
Having given most of the suburbs the
chance of hearing him as a platform per-
former, Steele Rudd will continue his
tieklesome story-talks at St. James Hall,
Sydney, on Friday. Steele Rudd is a generous
entertainer. As well as reading from the
“Selection” and other stories, he gives an
insight, none the less sound for being funny,
into the way a writer goes about his job,
and also autographs his books for his audi-
ences.
The Palette
One picture, “Nymph and Faun,” lifts
Percy Lindsay’s landscape show at the Ben-
nett Galleries, Sydney, out of the ordinary.
Apart from being a piece of sheer beauty
achieved with a minimum of color contrast,
mi as , dramatic and even mystic qualities.
Ihe shrub and stone landscape in misted
light is a place made for haunting; a place
111 which, if a faun had never climbed
stealthily on to a pedestal after a nymph
poised in imminent flight there, he surely
ought to have done so. It is as lovely a
thing, in conception and execution, as present
viewer has seen from Percy Lindsay’s brush.
If 11. Walter Barnett’s show of contem-
porary French art at Melbourne Fine Arts
is representative, Australian painters have
nothing to reproach themselves with. A
meagre degree of substantiality is attained
in Miron Duda’s and Fernand Majorel’s
figures. Most of the water-colors are weak
to the point of pernicious anaemia. Daille's
cats were hardly worth sending across the
ocean. Color rampant and tone couchant are
the chief features of the landscape painters.


DO YOU WANT TO ENTER
PROFESSION?
4m
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are . advised
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply■» not.equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month recene a SPECIAL,
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Conklin endura
Pens and Pencils
AH Repairs FREE including
Accidental Breakage !
V©£KM:N«>TO!V tr* WKI BE' •» factory Eepresen tativys
14rl Clarence St-Sydney
SSnrw»u v
X's
Vi'i
i,:IMIVim\
Jvi\ :t
MAY’S
Fertilizer
Spreader
Now is the time
for Top-dressing
and here is the
ideal machine
for the job.
Send for leaflets
or call and
inspect.
AGENTS:
Guthridge Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown,
New South Wales.
’Phones: L 2715-16
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
What are debentures? Are they a safer
investment than preference shares? Thti
“Wild Cat” is invited to answer.
As generally understood nowadays, deben-
tures are a mortgage split into small deno-
minations. They therefore come in front of
preference shares for both capital and in-
come, and have the advantage of being more'
readily marketable than an ordinary mort-
gage, which catmot be transferred without
legal formalities' and considerable expense.
A number Of industrial and other concerns
make debenture issues part of their financial
programmes, and where these issues are
adequately secured and have a free market,
they mostly yield a slightly better return
than is to be had from Government bonds, with,
perhaps, less risk than attaches to preference
shares. The Australian, Metropolitan and
Colonial Gas Cos. have, all raised substan-
tial sums by the issue of debentures, which
have an active market at prices now return-
ing the investors between G| p.c. and 7 p.c.
The Adelaide Electric Co.’s 7£ ■ per cents.,
repayable in 1983, recently sold at £lOBl,
at which price the immediate return to the
investor is 7.2 p.c.
The purchase of debentures, however, is
not a matter to be undertaken with one’s
eyes shut. The two prime points for con-
sideration are (1) the nature and margin
of .security for the debenture capital, and
(2) the extent to which net earnings exceed
interest requirements. The cover offered by
a co. may be the whole or any part»of its
undertaking, and may be secured by a fixed
or floating charge, or a combination of
the two. Since a floating charge does not
prevent the co. trading in the asset con-
cerned, it is the fixed charge for which
the investor needs to keep a sharp eye open.
This is generally given on freehold or other
assets of a permanent nature, with the. object
of preventing their sale, thus anchoring the
debenture-holder’s security. A case in point
was the issue by Farmer and Co. (Sydney)
of £500,000. 6 p.c. first mortgage debentures
about three years ago. These are repayable
July 31, 1939, and are secured by a mort-
gage over the co.’s premises, valued at
£976,000 when the issue was made. _
The property mortgaged is vested in trus-
tees for the debenture-holders. The trustees
are endowed with powers very similar to
those of directors, and in general they look
after the interests of the debenture-holders.
There* are two kinds of debentures, regis-
tered and bearer. The former are ti’ans-
ferred from one holder to another in much
the same way as shares are, but no record
is kept of holders of the latter, ownership
of which passes by just handing them across
like a pound note. One of the disadvan-
tages of bearer debentures is the difficulty of
getting holders together should any ques-
tion concerning the surrender or modifica-
tion of their rights arise, such, for instance,
as the creation of a prior charge.
Occasionally debentures are issued without
any specific security whatever, in which
case the holders have only the same rights
as other unsecured creditors. Another
class of debenture is that now being
offered by Amalgamated Coffee Planta-
tions (New Guinea), Ltd. These are to
be redeemed by converting, them into ordi-
nary shares four years hence.
The investor who seeks safety had better
see that, his debentures are redeemable at
a definite date, in cash, either at a discount,
at par or a premium. It is also important
that they should have a free market by
being listed on the Stock Exchange.
National Bank of Australasia.
Dividends Writ- To
Mar Profits. (8 p.c.), ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ ■ *>
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,016
(94 p.c.)
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,000 126,610 1,376,62t>
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares, £163,164.. 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares, £14,739.. L 676.646
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,678 1,806,3^4
Premiums on new shares, £191,823.. 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares, £167,529. . 2,315,8/1
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414.704
1926.. 568,254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,908
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2,644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577. . 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 500,000 50,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
Notwithstanding altered conditions, which
are reflected in a growth of £1,387,001 in
advances accompanied by a net contraction of
£1782,152 in deposits and a reduction of
£3,205,428 in liquids, the board considered
the position sufficiently understated by dis-
closing a spring of £22,833 in gross profits .
Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1921.. £2,000,0U0 £ 1,3<0,625 £802,102
1993 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 6 <2,-14
1995” 4,000,000 2,414,704 1,321.419 782,58.
1927 4,000,000 2,644,603 1,444,329 862,684
1928!.' 5,000,000 3,148,495 1,548,480 079
1929 5,000,000 3,257,773 1,602,091 942,818
1930.. 5,000,000 3,362,907 1,624,924 969,790
That was after whatever provision was con-
sidered necessary had been made for con-
tingencies, and it is likely to h ave
been much more liberal than usual. Exes,
took all the visible increase and £4144
besides. Still the net result was a robust
13.1 p.c. on paid capital compared with
13.2, 12.8, 14.5 and 14.2 p.c. back to 1920,
so the 10 p.c. div. was repeated with as much
comfort as usual.
This, combined with other factors, heart-
ened the market and the price for bank
scrip generally firmed. The National s ilu
fully, paids, which fetched £l9 16s. in Septem-
ber last, strengthened from £l4 17s. Od. to
£l5 ss. The £8 shares paid to £5 advanced
from £7 to £7 10s.; they stood at £9 14s.
eight months back. At current prices the
return in each case is approximately Oj P-c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, and that is a very
satisfactory yield on a sound bank stock.
The net tangible backing is visibly
£l6 14s. 6d. and £8 7s. 3d. per share
respectively, and the inner strength is be-
lieved to be substantial.
Now that lessened trade activity threatens
to affect exchange and other earnings, in-
vestment interest centres chiefly in the ques-
tion whether the 10 p.c. div. is secure. Earn-
ings are derived mainly from the difference
between advance and deposit rates and the
spread between buying and selling prices in
the exchange market. At the moment
advances are abnormally high, because many
primary producers have been unable to
liquidate their overdrafts, and some accounts
will have to be carried until the proceeds
of another harvest or wool clip become avail-
able. On the figures at March 31 advances
could be worked down by over £5,00,000 and
deposits remain steady before the tw T o would
stand in what is usually considered normal
proportions to one another. Meanwhile. pros-
pects are that secondary industries will be-
come busier, and the immediate seasonal out"
look is satisfactory. Moreover to pay a 10
p.c. div. capital and reserves combined at
the close of last accounts need turn in only
5.9 p.c. clear; last year 7.8 p.c. was netted
on average funds as against 8 p.c. in the
previous term. . ,
How the bank came to the assistance ot
clients during a difficult period, and other
things, are visible in the next comparison:—
1920. 1929. 1930.
Notes .. £49,809 £47,899 £47,853
Bills etc . . 962,908 1,534,686 1,432,135
Free’ deposits . . 11,926,167 13,555,906 11,075,424
Fixed deposits . . 11,472,035 23,785,559 24,483,890
Liquid assets .. 13,194,160 13,991,072 10,782,644
Advances •« 13,903,139 32,127,196 33,514,79/
Premises, etc, .. 643,636 1,313,556 1,354,<6/
The scarcity of money shows up in the
shrinkage in deposits, and it may be a while
before it becomes plentiful again. Notwith-
standing the contraction in liquids they were
still 29.1 p.c. of liabilities to the public, and
the position in this and other respects should
improve as the balance of the wool clip is
sold. When the books last closed the bank
was holding £4 Bs. 6d. of the public’s money
for every pound of its own, and that is a
strong position.
A dozen years ago the National attracted
not much attention outside Vic. and S. Aus.
But the management’s vigorous policy of
expansion, by amalgamation and otherwise,
lias advanced the institution to third place
amongst the associated banks in Australia.
Meanwhile £3,000,000 of fresh capital has
been gathered, but it has brought with it
£948,832 of shaa-e premiums, so it is costing
the co. on the average only p.c.
Burns, Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dec Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920 . 102,846 10 p.c. = 75,000 27,546 27,546
1921.. 57,549 7i „ „ 56,250 1,299 29,145
1922 4,192 Nil 4,192 33,337
1923" 37,791 5 p.c. “ 37,500 291 33,628
1924" 51,272 6 i „ „ 46,875 4,397 38,025
1925 60 806 6| „ 50,000 10.806 48,831
1996 56 725 -6s .. ~ 50,000 6,725 55.556
1927.'. 64,104 7.1 „ „ 53,125 10,979 66,535
1928.. 65,141 71 ~ ~ 56,250 8,891 70,426
1929.. 62,995 74 ~ „ 56,250 6,745 82,171
This is the co. that was launched 10 years
ago to take over the extensive island pro-
duce and shipping business of 8.-P. and Co.
It paid a round half-million in shares for
assets, and 8.-P.’s shareholders put up
£250,000 in cash. Goodwill did not figure
in the deal. The post-war boom was then
at its peak; presently prices for island pro-
duce began to ease, and they have continued
to do so. Partly because of this share-
holders have not had much out of the business
thus far —an average of G. 4 p.c. since the
beginning, and £82,171 (14.6 p.c. _of the
aggregate net earnings) has been visibly put
by.
Owing to the cost of repairs, overhauls,
etc., shipping contributed loss to the pool
last year. Also a volcanic eruption caused
the loss of one of the co.’s trading stations,
and the hurricane in Fiji damaged stocks
and premises at another: both losses had
been provided for, the chairman says. There
was no faltering in the progress of the busi-
ness; the board wrote gross profits £10,553
in excess of the previous year’s, despite dis-
abilities :
Gross Exes. p.c.
Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1923 .. .. £124,909 £87,118 69.7
1924 .. .. 103,783 102,511 66.7
1925 .. .. 169,632 108,826 64.1
1926 .. .. 163,457 106,732 65.3
1927 .. .. 161,785 97,681 60.4
1928 .. .. 181,584 116,443 64.1
1929 . . .. 192,137 129,142 67.2
Exes, took all the increase and another
£2146 besides; hence the final figure eased to
8.1 p.c. on paid capital compared with 8.6,
8.5, 7.6 and 8.1 p.c. back to 1925, and the
div. was kept at 7$ p.c. Exes., by the way,
include an unspecified amount struck off
for depreciation, etc., and the careful con-
trol —it is the same as in 8.-P. and Co. —is
not likely to understate the risks.
During the last seven years the co. has
bought five steamers —one was recently put
out of commission—a coal hulk and an auxi-
liary ketch. It has also taken over Mere-
dith’s business at Samoa, and the Samoa
Shipping and Trading Co., and bought the
freehold of Nassau and Sophia islands and
a lease of the Phoenix group. A little over
a year ago the freehold of the co.’s Suva
premises was purchased and a new con-
crete-and-steel building has since gone up on
the spot. All this for an increase of £245,150
in the book value of properties, etc.: —
1921. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 226,027 91,424 67,286 85,092
Prop erties,
shipping and
investments 176,345 261,554 332,955 435,890
Merchandise &
produce .. 717,162 503,026 398,149 287,613
Book debts .. 133,764 155,436 176,242 189,962
Cash .. .. 34,151 41,070 41,616 60,048
Last year in order to spend £102,935 more
than was written off on fixed assets, and
carry an extra £13.720 of book debts, the
board worked down the book value of mer-
chandise by £110,536, reducing it to
£287,613, the lowest figure yet; only
£17,806 w T as added to the outside debt. Alto-
gether the more or less liquid surplus
(£452,531, including stocks) was £96,190
lighter than at the previous balance.
The outlook for the co. is one of expanding
turnover. The market expresses its confi-
dence in the management and the future by
paying 265. for the pound shares. At that
figure the return is 5.7 p.c. on a 7£ p.c.
diy. basis; the backing is 225. 2d. in net
tangibles.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne),
Net To
Mur. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 29,183 15 p.e. — 10,473 18,710 82,595
1921.. 12,140 10 „ „ 8,491 3,649 86,244
1922.. 11,382 10 ~ ~ 10,000 1,382 87,626
Surplus from sale of property 3,750 91,376
1923.. 23,640 15 p.c. = 15,000 8,640 100,016
1924!. 25,405 15 „ „ 15,000 10,405 110,421
New share premiums .. 12,500 122,921
1925.. 32.534 15 p.e. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
199(5 28,598 15 „ ~ 22,500 6,098 139,353
1927:: 30,484 15 „ „ 22!500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares .. 75,000 222,337
1928.. 41,762 16 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 280,141
1929.. 52,141 15 ~ „ 37,500 14,641 244, 1 82
1930 .'. 29,064 12£ „ ~31,250 242,596
The collapse of wool prices and the weak-
ness in the hide, skin, livestock and produce
markets affected the co.’s earnings, ot
course ; but they were not wholly respon-
sible for the .sharp contraction of £23,077 in
last year’s declared net profit. To begin
with, the 1929 figures were swollen by a
windfall from 8.A.W.R.A., the amount of
which was not disclosed; it was included in
the reserve appropriations, which were
visibly £7OOO heavier than the. previous
year’s. Then, owing to the extension of the
Wool-selling season, the co. put 17,937 fewer
bales under the hammer during the last
term: —
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1924 . 48,968 90,073 71,668 79.6 „
1925.. 39,242 107,812 74,978 69.5 „
1926.. 73,562 108,061 79,463 73.5 „
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76.732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 „
Gross profits were £27,505 lighter, while the
business was handled at only £4428 less
cost. Thus the net result eased to 11.6 p.c.
on average capital compared with 20.8, 18.4,
20.3, 19.1 and 21.9 p.c. back to 1925. But
there were still 25,711 bales in the store, when
the books closed, as against only 4354 a
year earlier; and since wool prices appear
to have touched their lowest level, the
board chipped only 2$ points off rate
of distribution, reducing it to 12J p.c.
called for £2186 more than the declared
profit, but reserves are substantial, and tne
figures were written after making whatever
provision was considered necessary tor con-
tnTheCco!’ has gone deeply into the pastoral-
finance business of recent years, but tn .
is nothing uncomfortable about the positio .
1922 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £150,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 149,271 223,196 258,095 364,582
P piS* “ d >7,8.9 110,352 139,361 1«,235
Book debts, etc. 235,652 408,487 624,200 722,07.
Investments, „ An , „ nfV r
cash, etc. .. 30,526 11,218 0,006 9,005
Merchandise.. 3,380 5,476 «>,310 ,
Last year the amount coming to sundry
creditors (now £69,891) was reduced
£68,011, due mainly to the withdrawal ol
deposits. The heavy carry-over and the
difficult conditions in the industry are re-
flected in the growth of £97,877 in the
book value of advances. Thus the co. had
to go to its bankers for an extra £174,49«,
raising the overdraft to £294,691 at March
31. There was then 14s. lOd. of outside
money at risk in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders, against
10s. sd. when the books closed in 192,). Lut
the position in this respect can be expected
to ease as the balance of the clip is sold,
und it is expected that it will be sold by the
end of June. . „ .
Earnings in the immediate future are not
likely to be on the same scale as of recent
years; still 121 p.c. on capital as it now
stands will call for only 6.8 p.c. on total
funds (capital and reserves combined), and,
given normal seasons, that does not appear
to be beyond the co.’s capacity. Recent
rains have greatly improved the seasonal
outlook, and there has been an encour-
aging spring of from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c.
in the prices for wool. This may be due
partly to the high premium for London
exchange, but the stiffening of quotes tor
Bradford tops is reassuring.
On the market the pound shares, tor
which the visible backing figures out at
395. sd. in net tangibles, fetched 525. a
year ago; they are now at 335. Allowing
for the final div. (Is.) and bonus (6d._),
the return at the current price is a shad' 1
over 8 p.c. on a 121 p.c. div. basis.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney).
r Dividends. To Re- De-
Dee., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, fieit.
1920.. 11,392 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 9133 2259 468
1921.. 10,614 8 „ 16 „ 9650 1 _ 504
Staff bonus .. ..£lOOO )
1922.. 6,085 8 p.c. • 8 p.c. 6440 859
Reserves.
1923.. 13,237 8 „ 10 „ 8910 ) 3562 2,703
Staff bonus ... .. £.765 )
Property reserve, £17,641.. .. 20,344
1924.. 13,686 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 9160 1 3526 23,870
Staff bonus, .. ..£lOOO 4
1925.. 20,789 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 96161 9922 33,792
Staff bonus . . .. £1250 )
1926.. 18,935 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 1.1,663 ( 6122 39,914
Staff bonus . . • • £l2oo )
1927.. 12,247 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 13,459 38,702
1928.. 10,262 8 „ 8 „ 11,472 37,492
Trade-marks, etc., £55 ••
1929.. 8,436 8 p.c. Nil 3,200 a 236 42,673
Since the public became interested 11 years
ago capital has advanced from £60,000 to
£143,398. The new capital, and a lot, ot
borrowed money besides, was used to liven
output at the producing end and to buy
licensed premises. After a temporary set-
back in 1922, the figures stepped along
nicely, reaching their peak in 1925, the
year following the one in which the bederai
Government granted the industry an export
bounty of 4s. per gallon.
Production has since .continued to increase,
while local consumption has remained fairly
steady at less than a gallon per head of
population. Meanwhile the export, bounty
was reduced to Is. 9d. and then Is. With a
fixed price for grapes to the grower, costs
were stubborn; thus it became difficult to
squeeze any profit at all out of the. export
trade. On the local market stocks piled up,
and, of course, competition sharpened and
retail prices suffered. More recently, gen-
eral financial debility has aggravated the
country’s economic ills, and the wine-arid-
spirit business, in common with others, has
felt the pinch. • , , ,
So from one cause and another there has
been a steady recession in this co.’s net
earnings over the last four years. The latest
accounts show a slip of £5lBO in gross
profits (£47,633), and a cut of only £945
in exes. (£37,587). After paying the previ-
ous year’s tax bill (£3610), and taking into
account £2OOO added to the reserve against
licenses, the net result was £8436. The
prefs. took £3200 of it, and the balance
was 5 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
6.8 p.c. in the previous term, but owing to
the uncertain outlook no div. was paid. The
lay-by was thus advanced to £42,673 111
excess of goodwill (£25,000) ; that is count-
ing as reserves £26,056 the board has
set against the bonus value of licenses, most
of which were acquired when the co. bought


Life and Fire
Policies
You are being asked to
insure with offices which
are on the verge of bank-
ruptcy.
If you want to protect
yourselves read
The “‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”
MAY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt. -
❖ * ❖ 4: . .
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
*l* $ sgc
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood storage tanks are used for the safe
storage of the strongest acids or alkalies, wine,
water—in fact any type of liquid whatever. Their
great strength and durability, together with their
ease and cheapness of freighting, handling and erect
ing, are winning universal popularity from users.
Full particulars will be gladly furnished on appli-
cation to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.8.W.; and at Footseray, Victoria.— Advt
* * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens ’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded, 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.O. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its'range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the. fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed *by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlerpflr'
Street and Martin Place. Svdnev
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 42 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH THE
1
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd,
fire, marine, accident,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 1 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGEMS I VAN TED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
heavily in freehold and leasehold premises
in 1924.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures disclose it:—
1922. 192 G. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £80,500 £125,000 £143,398 £143,398
Deposits .. 12,820 21,358 31,588 29,198
Mortgages, etc. 35,543 19,551 19,687
Overdraft . . 24,855 20,190 23,735 24,543
Other liabilities 16,631 29,966 13,811 22,660
Properties, plant,
etc. .. 45,773 161,795 157,763 162,309
Book debts . . 28,449 64,183 45,977 49,459
Stock . . 65,469 50,497 51,307 50,311
Cash, etc. . . 551 3,621 5,500 2,781
Shares in other
COB 13,233 18,900 18,900
The extra £7403 added to the debt during
the year pulled the more or less liquid
surplus down to £6463 at December 31. The
net increase in the book value of fixed assets
was £4546. No hint is given as to what
provision, if any, has been made for depreci-
ation, but plant, etc., was valued at £lB3l
less than the £21,965 at which it figures in
the books.
.The export and marketing of Australian
wines abroad are now better supervised, and
the bounty has been lifted to Is. !M. a gal-
lon again. But the sharemarket notes the
co. s heavy outside debt, is not impressed
with the genera] outlook for the industry,
and pays only 14s. for the ords. as against
us. 6d. a year ago. The backing, including
lho bonus reserve, amounts to 28s. 3d. in
net assets. For the prefs.,,which carry a'
fixed cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as
1o capital, 19s. is asked. The return at that
figure is 8.4 p.c.; and the backing £4 13s.
in net assets.
Victorian Motor Traders’ Finance Co., Ltd.
Phis. co. was launched in Melbourne about
tliv middle of 1928. The promoters, the
Finance Underwriting Co., Ltd., took £lO,OOO
in paids for flotation services, 2s. per share
brokerage, and agreed to pay preliminary
was offered 50,000 prefs. and
i 4<),UUO ords. But the field was overcrowded,
and, owing to the failure of most of them to
live up to their gaudy prospectuses the
market lost what little love it ever had for
these finance cos., so the response was poor.
At June 30, 1929, only 22,855 ords. in-
cluding the promoters’ 10,000, had been
issued, and on the 12,855 taken by the public
£3157 had been gathered. Paid capital was
thus £13,157, and there was £2l coming to
creditors. To represent tlie lot there were
£!1,462 of intangibles and £1716 in cash.
During the 11 months covered by the first
accounts no discount business had been done.
Interest on fixed deposits brought in £ll, and
£F4) was paid in salaries, etc. On paper
£2257 was struck off the promotion and
share-selling accounts, so* a balance of £2434
was struck on the wrong side of the p. and 3
account.
W ith more than half its subscribed capi-
tal gone down the sink, money tight and
conditions in the trade becoming increasingly
difficult the co.’s position looks pretty hope-
less. The board is asking shareholders to
put up more capital, hut performances thus
tar do not justify the appeal.
Moreton Bay (N.S.) Brewing Co., Ltd.
This is the new co. which is being pro-
moted by the Bond Underwriting Corpora-
teoll; Ltd., to make beer at Brisbane with a
Nathan plant. The public is asked for
£250,000 in pound shares. The promoters
take £35,000 (£25,000 cash and £lO,OOO in
paids) for their rights in the Nathan process
for Queensland. A beer-making plant is to
be bought from the Nathan people at Zurich,
Switzerland, the estimated all-in cost being
£118,000; freehold, buildings, etc., are ex-
pected to run into £65,000, and the cost of
£!^ an l, other equipment is set down at
£20,000. The promoters come into the picture
for 74 p.c. brokerage (£18,750 on
_oo,ooo shares) and a refund of preliminary
exes, not exceeding £2500. Only £750 is
thus provided for working capital. The board
may go to allotment when 150,000 shares
have been subscribed.
Including £lOOO from the sale of by-pro-
ducts, takings are figured at £296,650 on a
yearly output of 972.000 gallons of lager at
3s. 9d. a gallon, and 648,000 gallons of ale at
3s. 6d. per gallon. Exes., including £BOOO
for depreciation and £16,067 for taxation, are
put at £248,447, leaving an estimated net
profit of £48,203. That is equal to 18.5. p c
on a paid capital of £260,000.
The Nathan people' are to provide techni-
cal supervision in connection with the instal-
lation of the plant, and 11. W. Haenggi has
a live-years’ contract as manager. He recently
managed the new Richmond Brewery, Mel-
bourne. This co. has been very successful in
winning a market for its beer; it installed a
Nathan plant’in 1928, but it has a lot of
other plant besides.
The new system alone is no guarantee of
success. In Tasmania the Cascade and Co-
op. cos. each installed the Nathan system,
but competition sharpened, prices were cut
and the Co.-op. recently put up the shutters,
while Cascade has paid no div. for the last
two years. Also, in S. Aus., the Walkervillo
Co-op. Brewery, which is operating on the
Swiss system, registered a loss of £5799 last
e; Vv, ll ‘ ,^ le Northern State the Queensland
and Castlemame, Perkins cos. share most of
the trade; they are well entrenched and c-om-
tortably financed. For the newcomer much
will depend upon the course of competition
and the efficiency of the control.
On the board are Col. D. E. Evans N S
Catts T R. Hall. H. A. C. Douglas and
S. C. W ebb.
Iv. K. Lalkaka, Commercial Pine Forests
Ltd., writes: —
As one vitally interested in the afforestation
business, and in the bond-selling connected with
it, I heartily welcome your suggestion that the
Australian and Maoriland Governments should
take steps to place these companies under supervision
and have their accounts and affairs independently
audited. This would go a long way towards break-
ing down the prejudice against such concerns which
lurks in certain quarters, and would help a great
industry to progress on healthy and desirable lines.
*** * .
Aileron : Placer Development’s scheme for
transporting heavy gold-dredging machinery
to the fields in the New Guinea mountains
by aeroplane has aroused a lot of attention
ill Britain and elsewhere. The “London
mining Journal” sees in the new method
grea*i, possibilities for the gold-bearing areas
m the interior of Venezuela, where they are
tenced off from the sea by difficult mountain
ranges. It is indubitable that reef forma-
tions exist in these areas, but their inacces-
sibility lias hitherto prevented any serious
exploitation. In Ecuador, Columbia and on
the head waters of the Amazon f similar
possibilities exist, which may be developed by
the aeroplane in the near future. Some of
these areas have the ' advantage of wide
stretches of river water which could be used
by flying boats.
* * * -' ■ *
Oakey Creek Tin Co., which has been
opening up low-grade shows near Mt. Garnet
(N.Q.), recently built two concrete dams in
this dry area. Enough water has beep con-
served to run a 20-head mill, the erection of
which is already in. hand. The directors say
they have sufficient payable ore in sight to
keep all the stamps' busy. At the Excellent
several faces over 16ft. in width have been
opened up on different ore bodies, samples
bulking 4 p.e. tin. The battery is about
quarter of a mile away, and, the stone is to
be mined by the open-cut method. A pros-
pecting shaft on another show has been sunk
50ft. in ore, and a cross-cut has shown the
ore body at that depth to be 35ft. wide,
bulking 3 p.c. tin. When the price for tin
looks up more may be heard from this co.
* sS * • , :ji
“Ben”: Most of the alluvial tinmines on
the oast coast of Tas. are showing signs
of petering out. The Government is now
boring for deep leads in the Ringarooma
Valley, but old hands have more faith in
the lodes; some of them close to Ben
Lomond have opened up remarkably well.
Here Storey’s Creek mine, the biggest pro-
ducer of tin and tungsten ores in Tasmania,
is still turning out rich metal regularly, and
appears to liave many years’ work ahead yet.
The Aberfoyle is putting in a treatment
plant, but others are lying idle waiting for
the price of tin to jump.
* =!= *
If Westralia gets the gold bonus, the
Lancefield at Laverton, the Yuanmi, Inglis-
ton Consols, Erasers and some shows at
Kalgoorlie and elsewhere are mentioned as
sure to bo resurrected. A representative
deputation will shortly visit Canberra.
* * * jf
Kimberley Options Co. has decided to test
at Yarri State mill a parcel of ore from its
leases at Edjudina (W.A.). The sample is
from reef “fall over,” and the only debits will
be loading, transport and mill charges. In
addition, there is a considerable quantity
of high-grade ore in Patricia South lease,
where the reef cap projects 40 inches above
the lake floor. All this ore is showing gold
freely, and crushing results are awaited with
interest. The 6d. call, payable this month, a<nd
the sale of bullion from early crushings
should keep the wolf from the door for a
while.
* * $ :!:
Ore at Edjudina (W.A.) is being broken
for treatment at the State Battery, Yarri,
20 miles off, but work there is held up
pending repairs to the plant As usual in
the circumstances, a number of lease-peggers
on the field arc spoiling their chances by
adopting a policy of greed too early.
Although option-hunters are inclined to take
the bait readily when on the bite, they are
easily shooed.
* * * *
Patience in mining is rewarded sometimes,
Sam Lang, who for 20 years has been en-
gaged mining near the Radio (W.A.) with
indifferent luck, has struck it pretty rich.
From his Radio Deeps lease he has" milled
16S tons for 672 oz.
❖ * * *
The Collie (W.A.) Power Co. is erecting a
new electric power station close to the mines.
It promises to be an up-to-date job; pulver-
ised coal, blown into boilers, will be used
as fuel, and geared turbines will drive the
generators. The plant is expected to be
operating in three months. The job promises
to be an expensive one, with provision for
extensions, but the board is confident about
being able to make it pay.
* * SJS *
According to cabled advice, Changkat
netted £6,73® last year. It brought £24,401
into the accounts, paid four divs. of Is.
each (£26,000), struck off £10,199 for depre-
ciation and carried £54,939 forward. Costs
were 6gd. per c.y. Production, even under
the restriction scheme, was' well up
to previous averages during the first four
months of the current year, which explains
wiiy buyers offer 245. 9d. for the pound
shares—there are 130,000 of them. Kundang,
a more modest producer, with £125,000 of
capital to feed, came out £9940 ahead of
it. There was £12,843 brought into the
accounts, and £12,500 was paid in four 6d.
divs.; the balance remained in store. During
the 12 months to Dec. 31, spot tin averaged
a trifle over £2OO per ton London. Takings
promise to be leaner when the next balance is
struck. Sellers ask Bs. 6d. for Ivundang’s
scrip.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: An American statistical
fiend has been amusing himself with estimat-
ing the world’s total production of gold
since Columbus’s discovery. He gives the
total recovery at 1,007,500,0000 z., and has
arrived at his figures, he says, by study-
ing available records in North and South
America, Africa, Australasia, Asia and
Europe. From 1493 to 1850 South America
headed the list with about 80 p.c. of the
total output. _ From 1850 North America
and Australasia forged ahead, contributing
between them 76 p.c. of the world’s pro-
duction, Australasia’s share being 31 p.c.
Early in the present century South Africa
took the bit in its teeth and bolted, produc-
ing 42 p.c. of the world total. During this
period North America was responsible for
29 p.c. and Australia for 13 p.c., mostly
from W.A. The Transvaal, which practi-
cally means Johannesburg, is easily the
largest South African contributor.
“Ajax” : A few> tips for those who insure
property against fire. (1) Always be honest
and aboveboard with the co.; misdescription
or omission of facts may invalidate your
policy. (2) Beware of over-insuring; you
cannot get back more than you lose. (3)
If your policy is marked “subject to aver-
age” see that you are insured for full value.
(A) If you are carrying hazardous goods or
are near anyone who is, have the “explosion
clause” endorsed upon your policy. (5) If
the property is insured proportionately with
two or more companies, see that the policies
are worded similarly. . (6) Advise the com-
pany in writing and obtain their sanction
if you move, or change your occupation, or
alter the nature of' the risk, or if your
premises become unoccupied and remain so
for 30 consecutive days; if you don’t and
your place is burned down on the 31st day
you will have no, claim. (7) If you have
a fire, advise the company promptly; the
time limit is 15 days. (8) If you can’t
agree with the adjuster as to the amount
of damage, state your case direct to the
company. (9) If you are forced to go to
law, remember that your action must start
within three months of the rejection of
your claim.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from- Service Department .)
The A.M.P. is spending in Melbourne alone
many ■■ thousands of • pounds on premises.
Why does it thus lock up so much of our
funds instead of giving us larger bonuses? —•
6731 A.
The A.M.P. .has only between 1 and 2 p.c.
of its funds in premises—an exceptionally
small proportion. Investment in premises
does not necessarily affect the bonuses at all.
Two valuations are made —one of the liabili-
ties under policies; the other of the net
assets, including premises. The surplus of
assets is the amount available for bonuses.
What fire or other insurance co. insures
against damage to residences by aeroplane
crashes or fire caused thereby? Does the
ordinary fire policy .cover the latter contin-
gency?—63o2.
A house-owner’s comprehensive policy,
issued by most ofllces, will cover both risks.
A fire policy will only cover the loss by fire
through the crash. Premiums depend on
location and structure of dwelling, those for
comprehensive policy (which covers fire)
being slightly dearer than the fire policy.
I have shares in a limited liability co., about
half called up. Can I be, compelled to pay
future calls if I am satisfied to forfeit the
shares? —67o6.
You are liable. Forfeiture will not save
you. That is where the limited liability co.
differs from the no liability. The latter
cannot, however, be a general trading con-
cern.
A committee in a N. S. Wales country
town wants to erect an, ambulance station.
So many calls haring been made for charity,
ice think it would he better to isue 5-J P-c.
debentures. How would we proceed? —-6692.
First there must bo an issuing authority.
The easiest way might be to register a small
eo. with power to issue debentures. The
eo. would manage the concern (the deben-
ture-holders might have the majority repre-
sentation on the board). There would be
then some authority to hold surplus earn-
ings and thus regulate payment of interest
and possibly retire debentures by drawings
as money is available.
Will the N.B.W. Probate Office accept
N.B.W. Government stock at par in satis-
faction of death duties ?<— 6693.
No. The trustees must realise the stock
and pay cash.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Diaphragm : Quite sound and well handled.
. ...T.S.A.: Not strong and prospects only fair.
But don't lose a poor policy until you are sure you
can get a good one. .. .8.W.: On present market
price the return is a shade under of p.c. ....
Branxholme: The co. is having a hard struggle and
at the best bonuses are not possible for many years.
. ...L.A.F.: (1) Excellent. (2) The net premiums
(premiums less bonuses) are among the lowest in
the world. (3) See reply to 6731 A A.S. (Quarry
Hill): No co. of that name is listed, nor is it known
to the sec. of Sydney Stock Exchange. The N.S.W.
Mines Department states that no leases have been
applied for by or granted to a co. of that name....
Ll.Ji.: An English eo. of very high reputation....
Tasmae: The sugar industry was assisted in this way
because of what was regarded as an urgent national
necessity to attract population to the empty north.
Without price-fixing and a tariff, the industry could
not last more than a year or two... .Citizen: (1)
Still very speculative. (2) If safety is material,
stand on what is already in.... Muriel T.: (1) Many
safer. (2) Don’t know what will happen in the
next six months.... Degardo : Prospects poor.


There’s more
Reserve Strength i n
Take the Dunlop tyre part by part
and you know why it has the greatest
reserve strength.
The Tread —deeper—wider—clean
cut for better traction and long life.
The Cords —super strong —positively
non-heating through complete insula-
tion with heavy rubber.
greater shock absorption and protec-
tion of casing.
The Sidewalls balanced to distri-
bute road shocks and load over bigger
area.
The Rim Strip— tougher, extra
cushioned for added protection.
The Bead heavy steel wire em-
bedded in special Dunlop structure.
The Cushion
Rubber thicker
more elastic
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER
CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIA ALL STATES
MANUFACTURERS OF
GARDEN HOSE RUBBER BOOTS
WATERPROOF COATS RUBBER BOWLS
RUBBER MATTING
AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF RUBBER GOODS
Buy Dunlops for
better motoring—
greater mileagel
p
t .1 I A
“MOKE MILES IN
“nr
■
every


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
Duy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD,
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
A WAR MEMORY.
THE VILLAGE RECTOR (getting some first-hand information about Australia): “I suppose
you have quite a number of clergymen out there?”
BUSH-BRED AUSTRALIAN: “Yes, but we’ve got rabbits and prickly-pear up our way—
they’re our worst pests.”
“St. Valery”: Bobby Rand, an old-time
Riverina squatter, used to swear the man
wasn’t born who could take him down, but
he had to admit at last that there were
some people cleverer than he was. Two stal-
wart young fellows turned up at the station
looking for work. Rand put them on,-and
they proved to be treasures. They completed
one small contract after another in record
time; and as they gave out that their object
was to save up £lOO each before leaving,
he looked forward to getting a good few
more jobs out of them. But when their joint
credit balance stood at a bit over £lOO they
announced that they had quarrelled, and had
decided to leave. They were paid off at their
own request with a cheque drawn in their
joint favor for £ll2, but half an hour after-
receiving it they brought it back to the
station office, saying they didn’t want to
have anything more to do with each other,
and were going away different roads, so
would Mr, Rand take back the cheque and
give them each one for £56? Rand could,
and did, and, careful soul, he tore up the
£ll2 cheque and burnt it. But when the
quarterly audit of the station accounts was
made, it appeared that all three cheques had
been cashed at the bank the day after they
were drawn. The bank produced the cheques,
all undoubtedly genuine. The cheque Rand
took back was a forgery. The hard-working,
honest-looking young men were never traced.
* * * *
“Clement R. d’Uppe” : The bow-legged old
gentleman still had the brine on his whiskers.
Our talk got round to burials at sea,
and I suggested that he had seen many
impressive ceremonies of the kind. “As a
matter of fact,” he said, “I ’ave seen only
one, and that wus impressive only up to
a point. It wus when I wus second mate
of the Mary Ellen, whalin’ three days south
of the Bluff. Not a smell of the oily stinkers
did we ’ave for a whole fortnight, and it
wus blowin’ so ’ard that the bos’n’s whiskers
wus disupated inter the atmosphere. All
’ands wus as grumpy as could be, when, just
as if Providence ’ad ordained it, the nigger
cook overdosed ’eeself with ’ees own culini-
ariosities and died. To give the crew a bit
of entertainment like, the Old Man decided
on a slap-up burial. We sewed the black
heathen up tight, weighted ’im fore and aft
so as ’e wud ’ave no chance of gettin’ back
to the galley, wrapped about ’im a Union
Jack made out uv ’ees own dungarees, dish-
clouts and blankets, and set ’im balanced
nicely on the port rail. I steadied ’im at
the ’ed, ready to tip ’im up when I got the
word, and the Old Man, drawlin’ like a
parson, began to read the burial service. ’E
’ad just come to the bit: ‘Therefore unto
the deep do we commit this mortal body’
when the look-out cried: ‘She spouts on the
starboard bow!’ The Old Man dropped his
saintly look and sanctimonious tone. ‘Dump
that dam’ nigger,’ he yelled, ‘and lower the
boats!’ ”
“Hamer”: While I was in the cake shop
a dog entered with wagging tail and a
piece of paper in his mouth. He let
the shopman remove the paper, which
was wrapped round a penny. The
shopman gave the dog a couple of small
cakes which it demolished with great enjoy-
ment ; then it made off. “An intelligent
animal,” I remarked when I heard that this
was a regular programme, the dog being the
pet of a lady down the street. “Intelligent?
HIS CANDID OPINION.
JABEZ: “ What’s ’ee think (in that little university chap been put on to be works boss,
’Lijah ?’
’LIJAH: “Think av ’e! Well, boay, ef all the brains av un was ink, there wouldn’ be
’nough t’ write a full stop.”
I should say so!” he replied. “I decided to
test it one day, so I gave him only one
cake. He a*te it and waited for more, but
when I shook my head he barked at me and
made off. You won’t believe me, I know.”
he concluded, “but that dog came back a
coupler minutes later, pulling in a policeman
by the skirt of his coat!”
* * * *
“Don Kee”: The champion scrapper of
the ant tribe is the tiny black sugar-ant.
Although a featherweight, he can mix it with
the big fellows. You can prove it for your-
self. Take two pieces of meat, place one
portion where the
blacks are plentiful and
the other among red-
heads. Leave them
there until well covered
each with a different
clan, then pick up the
piece cbntaining the
blackfellows and drop
it on top of the reds.
In a few minutes sev-
ered legs, feelers and
dismembered bodies will
be strewn everywhere;
they don’t belong to the
darkies. Now bring on
a bulldog ant. Lasso
him with a fine thread
and hold him on a pad
frequented by the sugar-
ant. You may have to
wait some time, as
dozens of ants will pass
without evincing any
interest, but presently
one, more embittered
than the rest (married
pei’haps), will shape up
to the intruder. He’ll
circle round once and
inspect the monster
from all quarters, then
dart in to attack. It
may take the little black demon four hours
to complete the job, but Bully will surely die.
*I :
“Avon”: In 1851, a landholder in Nelson
province (M.L.) imported some red deer from
the Scottish Highlands. Ten years later,
doubtless in response to plaintive complaints
from highly-connected exiles that the wild
boars were getting scarce and that there was
a scarcity of big-game shooting, Albert the
Good and Lord Petre sent over a gift of
live deer, and they were liberated in the
maze of mountains thai; makes up the back-
bone of Wellington province. In 1871, the
young sportsmen who constituted the Otago
Acclimatisation Society bought and paid for
a consignment of deer from Scotland. All
went well. The deer took to the country,
which was wild and desolate, and they were
not seen save when highly-gilded tourists
were shown a bit of sport by almost-a*s-well-
gilded scions of local sheep-farmers, brewers
and auctioneers. In 1897, the Acclimatisation
Society of North Canterbury, disregarding a
murmur in agrarian circles further north
and south, purchased some lovely little bucks
and does from one of the beautiful deer-
parks of England. Nothing happened. It
seemed to be a popular and innocuous sort of
importation, and the Government, fully alive
to the fact that a richi tourist pays for more
than his keep, brought in moose in 1900,
wapiti, chamois and Virginian deer in 1905,
and Indian thar in 1907. Up till a few
years ago if you wanted to shoot any of
those creatures you had to be rich enough
to pa<y a big license fee and take a long
vacation. Now Maoriland, beginning slowly
to realise that farming and big-game breed-
ing are incompatible on islands of the same
area as Grea*t Britain, hast got almost to the
verge of lifting the Game Laws. It has been
conceded even by the people who imported
the nuisances that a landowner ought to
be allowed to shoot them on his own domain.
Possibly when wapiti are found nibbling away
the steps of the new Parliament building
and thar and chamois chase fat citizens down
main streets, these dear little creatures
(the wapiti, thar and cliamjois, not the
citizens) will be deprived of all protection.
❖ iji * #
“Eureka” : Jacky had been trying to sell
the commercial traveller a mongrel dog.
“Has he got a pedigree, Jacky?” the tra-
veller asked. “No fear, Boss,” Jacky
answered. “H'e bin scratch ’isself a lot, but
that’s just fleas.”
:*« lie
“Underslung”: The Yeulba-Surat Cobb
coach, the last to be taken off the roads, is
now preserved in Brisbane Museum. There
are quite a few old Cobb coaches scattered
throughout Australasia, preserved as relics.
One is used to lend tfie right atmosphere to
the annual reunions of Cobb coachmen in
Melbourne, and, though an invalid, it will
stand being hauled by horses. Another is
in the grounds of Wentworth’s old home at
Vaucluse, Sydney. A coach proprietor in
Vic. renovated and fitted one of his coaches
to a Ford chassis, and for years it plied
between Bendigo and bluntly. Nearly three
years ago old Frank Smiley drove a six-
horse Cobb coach through the streets of Colac
(Vic.) on the occasion of a Back-to-Colac
drive. The coach still lives.
THE GOLDFIELDS YARDMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These Bungs,” said Bill —at Reidy’s Rush,
I think it was, or Simpson’s Soak—
“ They’re sweet as sugar when you’re flush
and hard as granite when you’re broke.
But when the doors are first unbarred, before
the regulars appear,
I’ve very seldom found it hard to bite the
vardman for a beer.
“The boss is ’tween the blankets still; if
lie was down he’d give you scowls ;
Ydu’ll mostly find him short,” said Bill, “of—
what does Scripture call it? —bowels.
But he who plies the mop and pail, when
nothing but a thirst you’ve got,
Is apt to listen to your tale, and strain
a point to draw a pot.
“It’s not.” said Bill, “till after brek. you’ll
see the barmaid, fresh and trim,
And even if she were on deck I’d sooner
take my chance with him.
Some girls have hearts and some have not,
but mighty few know what it means
To wake with coppers sizzling-hot and vainly
dredge your kick for beans.
“There’s ministering angels run in lots of
shapes,” said Bill, “no doubt,
But never have I come on one, when I’ve
been stiff and down and out
And spitting chips and aching for the morn-
ing quencher that revives,
Like him who swabs the bar-room floor—
before the publican arrives.
“The locum tenens with the mop, who sees
you’re dying for a drink,
Will mostly from his duties stop and draw
your wallop with a wink.
It’s on the house, his gesture says, without
the tanner in the till.
On many a morning, spare me days, a yard-
man’s saved my life,” said Bill.
N S.W.
T. THE R.


EIGHT-DAY TOURS
from Sydney to
MT. BUFFALO
NATIONAL PARK.
“The finest holiday resort in
Australia.”
£l4/17/-
covers all travel costs and
accommodation tariff for May
and June.
Book now at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney;
or
Melbourne Tour Reservations,
Government Tourist Bureau,
Melbourne.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire «
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwuiia Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
I Bed an d
Breakfast
Tariff
i{ desired I
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
“C.Q.”: The Digger has done something to
break down the bad habit of giving an Old-
Country name to Australian holdings—farm
or selection especially; the early squattage
oftener took a native name. Yet there are
enough bad cases even among the big runs.
Heaven only knows liow many Avondales
there arc—l’m acquainted with four —and
of Pine Hills and Springvales (or valleys)
there are dozens. About the saddest sight I
ever saw was the departure of the fine old
warrior who had tried to make a fortune
out of Sturt’s Meadows, in the West Darling:
his wife he had buried alongside, his years
the. locust had eaten, and all he had in the
woi-ld (except the affection of those who
knew him) he carried away in a bag.
Sturt’s Meadows! It had been a parched
desert for years. Out in the mulga, where
you’d not expect the conventional to be
deeply rooted, almost the only streak of
originality I ever met at a christening was
owned by a selector, who called his place
“Bit Late.” “Yes,” he said, “that’s right—
the eyes had been picked out of the run
before I got here.” A little closer in, around
HIS PARADISE.
“Can’t understand old Mac committing suicide. He can’t spend his money on the
other side.”
“No. That’s why he suicided.”
Nynga*n and Nevertire, you meet some pretty
good ones—Bucking Barney, for instance,
And now into the wool sales at Geelong
come two little lots, one branded “Dryazell,”
the other “Kumathud.”
“3X”: The New Guinea native still cher-
ishes some gruesome and insanitary customs.
In the Gasmatta district, on the south coast
of New Britain, if a man dies his wife is
buried with him ; but I prefer that custom
to that which prevails in parts
of New Ireland, where the de-
ceased is buried just a few
inches under the soil forming
the floor of his hut, and his
widow, after plastering herself
all over with filthy black or red
mud, sleeps over the body, on
the ground, for a period graded
according to the deceased’s im-
portance. The stench arising
from the decomposing body per-
colates upwards through the
soil, and is the cause of much
sickness. In the Morobe dis-
trict one frequently encounters
a native woman with a human
skull under her arm, to which
she croons and talks as she
walks about. This is the skull
of her husband, cleaned by plac-
ing it on an autlieap, and it is
carried about by the widow
until she marries again, when
it is given a place of honor in
her new home. She uses the
skull as a drinking bowl. On
the Sepik River the head is re-
moved from the corpse and the
skin and hair removed. After
the bones have been picked clean
by ants and animals, they pro-
ceed to build up the features of
the dear departed with clay.
Shells are placed in the eye-
sockets, the original hair re-
placed, and the finished product
is painted in natural shades, and
then stored away. These skulls
were at one time much sought
after by collectors, and the trade
was responsible for many mur-
ders.
* * *
“Bilmug”: Yorky Joe and
Bill Jones agreed to swap
horses, Joe to receive £2 to boot.
Joe mounted Bill’s horse to
canter him along the road a bit.
He had nearly .returned to the
pub when the horse fell with
him. Bill expressed concern.
“Yer can cry the deal off
if yer like, .Joe.” “No,” said Joe brush-
ing himself, “he’s got a better style of gettin’
up than my feller.”
“E.S.” : Mt. Lindsay, under which the
new Kyogle railway line is tunnelled, was
at one time known as the Pinnacle of Free-
dom, though it never freed anybody. When
the border line was being surveyed some
Moreton Bay prisoners in the party were
offered a free pardon if they planted a flag-
pole on the summit. Most of them at dif-
ferent times had a go at it. They tried
from every point that showed a gleam of
A MAN MIGHT GET SKITTLED ANY MINUTE DOWN THERE.
YOUNG BOB: “What’s Dan doing ridin’ that colt? I thought he was down to the
Sydney Show?”
DAD: “No, he jibbed at the last minute — he’s too scared of gettin’ hurt down there.”
hope, climbing up and down and round the
beetling cliffs; but on every course they
were baffled and beaten. It was a heart-
breaking task that laughed at strong men,
and a heart-breaking failure that made
strong men cry. Yet there was a way up,
a narrow, winding, precipitous way,, that
would have led them out of bondage had
they found it. Part of that way was by
means of long vines, trailing down from a
ledge. Long afterwards the passage was
found by a man who had nothing to gain
save the honor of accomplishing the feat.
“Oran” : During the past few weeks extra-
ordinary happenings on the Ninety-mile
Beach, North Auckland, now famous as a*
lacing track, have been puzzling the M.L.
fishery experts. The valuable toheroa beds
not only provide food for the Maoris living
along the coast, but also keep the pakeha
canning factories going. Recently the bur-
rowing shellfish began to come to the surface
in vast numbers, where they opened and
promptly died. The disaster is stated to be
an “act of God.” The winds have not car-
ried the toheroas’ food supplies ashore, and
in the absence of the marine organisms on
which they feed the creatures arc dying of
starvation.
“Runa” : The latest proposal put forth in
M.L. is the introduction of foxes. The
silver-fox, of high fur value, is to be imported,
and the enthusiasts Avho advocate the
scheme declare that a thriving industry in
skins can be worked up in the Dominion.
As just at present the deer and the ’possum,
in common with many other animal and
vegetable importations, are in extreme dis-
favor the proposal has been coldly received,
one nark observing that as foxes were not
likely to sit still and grow fur it was fairly
safe to assume they would take a little
exercise on sheep country and in fowl-
runs during the growing.
“S.S.S.”: The little Japanese ladies were
all dressed in their best —some in European
garb of black alpaca blouses and flared
skirts and big feathered hats blown awry by
the trade wind; others in their beautiful
national attire. One I shall never forget.
She was an exotic poem in a dark purple-
grey kimona* lined with flame color; the obi
was’ black, tied with an apple-green cord.
One and all were waving big bunches of
paper flowers and laughing and chattering.
The men, some in houris, some in trousers,
were waving saki bottles and seagrass sticks
inlaid with pearl and tortoiseshell. In the
centre was the hearse, covered with a mag-
nificent hand-embroidered pall. Over the
hill went the cavalcade to the little ceme-
tery, where they laid Ngoro Narita the diver,
brought up from the deeps of the Strait, dead
in his diving dress. On his coffin they placed
rice and saki and little sweet cakes. After
the funeral the guests went round the graves
WILLIE’S DILEMMA.
OLD GENTLEMAN (a little bit shocked ):
“You’re too young to swear!”
WILLIE ( exasperated ): “An’ Mum says I’m
too old to cry! Wot is a kid of my
age to do when he hurts himself?”
chipping little pieces of stone from the tombs
of distinguished folk buried there. It was
to bring them luck and good shelling, my
friend Mr. Maysliiba said.
GEN’RAL RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From coast to Cunnainulla,
From Longreach down to Hay,
The babble of the waters —
The singing, rain-fed waters —
Is gladdening the day.
The patter of the raindrops
Is like the tramp of feet
As a ,relieving army,
A flagged and bannered army,
Comes marching down the street.
Glad voices are uplifted
For greeting once again
The hero of the Outback,
The good old Gen’ral Rain !
The hurrying, swirling waters,
They have a song to sing,
How green will grow the grasses,
Lush-green will grow the grasses,
Where Drought was tyrant-king.
The wet trees wave a greeting
Like to a cheering throng
That with a wild exulting,
A manifold exulting,
The victor sweeps along
From coast to Never-Never,
Where gladness smiles again,
To greet the Outback hero,
The good old Gen’ral Rain!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
WOOL’S UP 10%
r I 4 HE outstanding features are that wools in
* good condition and high quality are in the
strongest demand.
The constant application of Vita - Lick ensures
good gowth and condition.
VITA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
THE WOOL OUTLOOK.
Winchcombe, Carson’s annual review of
the _ Australian wool situation for the year
ending May, 1930, strikes a rather depres-
sing note, which is relieved by the firm ad-
vance in prices since the report was issued.
The year was unprofitable for growers, not
only because demand and prices dropped, but
because costs of production remained on a
scale fixed when the staple was selling at
double the price available during the period.
The world generally was chary of buying
save for immediate requirements. There
was no sign of building up stocks in anti-
cipation of higher selling values, as in former
years.
The reduction of daily offerings by 25
per cent, from last October is defended as
having helped to stabilise prices. It is
argued that if this had not been done a com-
plete collapse of the Australian market
would have followed. France and the Con-
tinent generally, apart from Russia, were
responsible for the best of the buying. The
Japanese demand lessened. There was a
gratifying increase in purchases by Austra-
lian mills, and a further increase may be
expected in all branches of the home indus-
try, from the handling of raw materials to
the finished fabrics.
• tew nota W° exceptions the clip
in N.b. \\. and Queensland was not equal
m quality to that of previous years. This
was largely due to the droughty conditions
prevailing in both States, conditions which
are now a thing of the past.
An important feature of the report deals
with the inequitable nature of rail and over-
seas freights on wool. From a centre 300
miles from Sydney wool pays £4 14s. 6d.
per ton on rails. Wheat in two-ton lots
is charged £2 11s. Bd.; with a truck-loaded
to full capacity, 17s. Id. per ton, less 2i
per cent. This while wool is now selling
at pre-war rates, and wheat is still realising
above the 1914 basis. Wool freight from
Sydney to London is £9 18s. 6d. per ton •
wheat is being shipped to London this season
at -Os. per ton. Similar distinctions are
made m other commodities, such as ores, in
comparison with wool. The situation calls
urgently for remedy.
The summing up of the report is that the
world looks capable of absorbing all the
wool it is now growing, but “at a price.”
Whether Australian growers can produce
with profit m the future depends entirely on
what that price is.
“GET UP” YOUR WOOL.
“YYilga”: Shearing will soon be commenc-
ing in early districts, and flock-owners should
make every endeavor to “get up” their wool.
As a rule, the small owner pays too little
attention to the classing of his wool. His
method is to class fleeces according to sex
instead of fineness of fibre.
To determine the fineness of fibre, take a
sample of fine wool and one of coarse and
compare the crimp in the fibres closely. You
will notice that the fine piece has, perhaps,
from 25 to 50 crimps per inch of fibre, while
the coarse piece has only about 15. The more
crimps per inch the finer the wool —the
most important item in classing.
Never fail to examine the crimp. Pick
out samples of wool, compare them and class
into fine, medium and strong. Do it fre-
quently, and you will soon be able to tell at a
glance whether a fleece should go into tlie
fine, medium or strong bin. Have plenty of
light on the wool table and don’t be afraid
when they are of the one type to mix the ewe
and wether fleeces. Class according to
fibre and not sex.
I will admit that ewes have a tendency to
wear finer raiment than their males. The
same thing applies to that particular sex
among ourselves. But you will find plenty
of wether fleeces as fine sls the best of the
ewes. Class out matted, short staples, dis-
colored and broken flee/ces; brand them
mixed fleece.” Always keep the wool of
rams, hoggets and lambs separate.
STRAWBERRY CLOVER IN VICTORIA.
“Trydit” : In the Western District of Vic-
toria, where the land is nearly all volcanic,
strawberry clover (B. 7/5/’3O) is only worth
growing in one class of soil. I refer to
strong blacksoil flats adjacent to stony banks,
or along creeks and drains where the soil is
deep. Occasionally a few plants are to be
seen in lighter land, but the growth is not
vigorous nor is there any tendency to spread.
The deep, blacksoil flats are. generally, in
their natural state, wet and sticky in winter
and dry and full of cracks in the autumn.
Strawberry clover has effected a great im-
provement in the grazing and fattening pro-
perties of this land. But sowing or plant-
ing in light or clayey soils is a waste of time
and money. The thing may be tried on a
small scale as an experiment; but it would
be long odds on a negative result.
NEUTRAL SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
“S. Quire”: Sulphate of ammonia is a
fertiliser which is only now coming into its
own in Australia. Until recently it was
produced here in the acid or crude form
only; now neutral sulphate is being manu-
factured. Both brands available have
approximately the same content of nitrogen
at the same price per ton.
While in South Gippsland lately, I was
surprised to find farmers refusing to take
neutral sulphate and demanding the acid
ma t e £i a l or none at all. I have used both
and find no difference in the resulting yield.
Neutral sulphate, in fact, is being produced
to overcome the drawback caused through
the acid sulphate crystals segregating into
hard lumps—a particular nuisa<nce when the
fertiliser has been carted into a paddock
where no boulders or other means of pul-
verising exist.
the harm dirty crops do.
“Will Seer” : Dirty crops are one of the
means by which weeds are spread. You can
see this illustrated at almost any port where
wheat is shipped. While at North Geelong
recently I was amazed at the growth of wild
oats, drake, stinkwort, Paterson’s curse and
various thistles about the area which had
been utilised for storing wheat.
Australian wheat, as a general rule, is
fairly clean—more power to fallowing ! —but
the fact remains that some crops are har-
vested dirty and the rubbish spreads to other
parts. Another reason why bulk handling,
with its local grading and cleaning plants,
should be installed.
A MAORILAND WEED-KILLER.
‘‘Avon” : Maoriland pastoralists are rejoic-
ing over the discovery made by W. Hooker, a
Taranaki farmer, of a< spray that kills rag-
wort, docks, thistles and other large-foliaged
weeds, but has no injurious effect on pastures
or stock. The spray is made by dissolving
a big teacup of sodium-chlorate crystals
in a kerosene-tin of wa«ter, and is applied
to the weeds with a knapsack spraying
outfit.
The results have been checked by an
expert from the Cawthron Institute, who says
the spray absolutely destroys the weeds. The
stalks wither, mid a few weeks after applica-
tion the whole plant can be crumbled to
dust between the fingers. Germinating powers
are absolutely destroyed. The reason that
grass is not affected and big weeds are is
that a considerable area of foliage is neces-
sary before a plant can absorb enough of
the chemical to destroy its sap.
SAFFRON THISTLE.
"Hortus”: Notices have again been pub-
lished in N. S. Wales regarding the destruc-
tion of “the noxious weed, saffron thistle.”
Why noxious? The thing is a terror to
spread, but no sheep-farmer need let it.
On a large holding in the Armidale dis-
trict the thistle was rather thick in parts
and the owner put some sheep on it. The
sheep grew to like it, and although they could
have easily got out of the paddock* to an
adjoining grass area, they preferred to stay
where they were.
The thistle must have good food value,
for those sheep put on condition quickly.
To show that they must have kept the weed
under control, there are no signs of thistles
anywhere about the surrounding paddocks.
The station-owner in question considers the
weed a great standby in a bad season.
FACTS ABOUT MILK.
“Alf Alpha”: The richer milk is in butter-
fat the quicker the fat separates. Therefore
it is not advisable after milking to let the
milk stand for any appreciable time. Take
it to the creamery as soon as possible. Once
the fat globules separate it is not easy to
get them re-mixed.
Fresh milk may be safely left for half
an hour; if the milk is cooled, this time may
be extended to an hour at least.
Milk showing a 4.5 per cent, test in the
uncooled condition was allowed to stand for
half an hour. A sample was then taken from
the top of the can; it tested' 8.7 per cent,
butter-fat. A separate portion, which had
been cooled and allowed to stand for half
an hour, showed only 5 per cent, fat in
the top layer. Milk testing 3.3 per cent, fat
was allowed to stand for 23 hours; the cream
test showed 15.9 per cent. fat. A milk test-
ing 4.4 per cent, fat gave a top layer of
cream testing 38.2 per cent, fat after standing
only 12 hours.
It is better for the farmer’s wife out back
to have a cow giving, say, two gallons of
high test milk daily than two scrubbers pro-
ducing twice the quantity of low test milk.
IN HOLDS WITH DENNIS.
“Bendee” : Catching and handling pigs in
the yard is no difficult matter, if the catcher
knows the game. A pig should be caught by
his front foot; if he is running, he will pro-
bably stumble, and can then be easily rolled
on his back.
A hind leg is harder to grab and harder
to hold, and there is a risk of the stifle
being wrenched out. If the pig is not thrown
in the first action, reach under him while
holding his foot up, grab the front foot
farthest from you, and pull it back and
towards you, at the same time giving him a
heave away from you with your knees. Once
on his back, he is easy money, and can be
held by the front foot, which can be pressed
into his ribs without risk of being kicked
and scratched by the hind feet. When it is
necessary to hold his hind legs, as during
castration, grip them just above the liock;
this takes a lot of the power out of his
kick.
Never pull a pig out of a cart hind legs
first, for if he falls the loins may be injured.
If possible let him jump out. He will never
hurt himself from a height of three feet or
so, unless he is excessively fat. If you must
drag him from a cart or lorry, do it by
the ears or front legs.
When making a race for loading, make a
long one, and save a lot of needless knocking
about of your stock. It is a good idea to
have a light hurdle, a little wider than the
race, which can be pushed in behind the pigs
as soon as they enter the race. This can
be jambed up with one knee, to prevent
them from coming back in the, race. As they
move up, follow them up with the hurdle. A
full corn cob pushed into the orifice is a
fairly popular way of coaxing refractory
swine to move up a race.
When travelling pigs in a spring cart, it
is advisable to slip a couple of boxes about
the size of a bushel fruit-case into the back
of the cart to keep the brutes up in front.
WOODS FOR TOOL HANDLES.
“Booraby”: Farmers and selectors com-
monly replace broken handles with anything
that is ready, often with’ round, young timber
of the required size, which saves cutting
and shaping, and consequently fresh handles
are frequently wanted. Yet there are plenty
of excellent woods in different parts of the
bush, some of them superior to the imported
article, and a little trouble in obtaining the
right material a*t first not only saves time in
the end, but gives more satisfaction to the
worker.
_ Water-gum, which grows along creeks and
rivers, is considered by many expert choppers
to be superior to American hickory for axe
handles, and no tool is more exacting in
regard to its handle than the axe. Wa<ter-
gum is suitable for many kinds of handles,
including pick and shovel, hammer and
tomahawk, adze, mattock, maul and mallet.
Very few men will whittle down a handle
for the maul, and the best round sticks are
black myrtle and wild lime.
For chisels and such tools requiring
handles that will withstand severe shock,
white liandlewood (Pseudomorus lirunoniana)
and grey liandlewood (Apliananthe philip-
pinensis) are two of the best when properly
treated. Marara, crowsfoot elm, Queensland
hickory, yellowwood and Queensland spotted-
gum are also good material and much used
For mallets, another necessary farm tool,
some of the best woods are woollybutt, white
and grey handlewood, spurwood and brush
box.
For shafts, poles and swinglebars, the parts
of farm implements and vehicles that occa-
sionally get broken, and can be repaired or
replaced at home, spotted-gum is usually
preferred, though lemon-scented gum, grey
ironbark and yellow box are suitable among
others for heavy work.
PUMPING IN DRY WEATHER.
“Cam”: Pumping for stock in dry weather
takes up a lot of time when one has to wait
until the trough or tank is full. This idea
may be of use to some readers in that
position.
A piece of ordinary fencing wire insulated
from earth contact is run from the engine
to trough or tank, having its end perpendi-
cular. facing downwards and about 4in. or
less from the “full” level. Attach a piece
of insulated wire to the spark plug and then
on to the fencing wire.
When trough or tank is full a spark will
be seen to jump from wire to water, xuis
current earths and stops the engine. xou
may have to earth the engine also to com-
plete the circuit, but this rarely requires
to be done. If necessary, push a Piece
of fencing wire into the ground and attacn
to the engine. An engine can be started and
left to do its work if there is sufficient oil
in the cup to last, but one generally knows
how much oil would be required to pump a
certain amount of water. _ .
Alone, I worked eight engines in this
way when otherwise the thing would have
been impossible.
WHITEWASH.
“G.D.M.”: Whitewash deserves more
attention from the farmer than is usually
bestowed on it. It is cheap, easily applied
and sanitary; it brightens dark interiors
and tends to preserve the wood to which it
is applied. If it is desired to relieve the
monotony of whiteness, there may be added
to the wash some pigment tlm*t is not affected
by lime; for instance, yellow ochre, raw and
burnt umber, and raw and burnt sienna.
The surface to be treated should be
thoroughly cleaned as for ordinary painting,
all grease, dirt, dust and scaly formation
being removed by application of scraper and
stiff brush, and just before applying the
wash the surface should be damped.
Get large pieces of fresh lump lime, place
these in a large bucket and over them pour
hot waiter. The lime will start to boil and
break up, and it will be necessary to keep
it covered with about half an inch of water.
If the slaking lime is allowed to rise above the
water, it will “curdle” and thus become
inferior in quality. Before the lime begins
to boil fiercely, add tallow or common fat in
the proportion of about lib. to 21b. to 71b.
of lump lime. This makes a good binder
which will prevent the wash from rubbing off.
If desired, a little ochre may also be added,
which will give a cream or buff tint accord-
ing to the quantity used.
When the lime is thoroughly slaked, it
should be stirred and sufficient water added
to make the mixture a little heavier than, say,
milk, after which it should be strained. The
mixture may be applied hot if desired.
By following the directions given, the user
will get a preparation which will look as
good as paint and no fault will be found
as regards its wearing qualities.
THE POULTRY TICK.
“Lucerne Flea”: Some people will tell
you they have no tick in their fowlyards,
because they have planted wormwood hedges
which keep the pest away. I’ve found live
tick living in these hedges; I’ve seen them
in almond-trees, in wheelbarrows, ladders
and even in a crack in a hayfork-handle.
The proper way to search for tick is to
explore every crack in the shed timbers with
a piece of thin, stiff wire. If blood appears on
the end of the wire you may be sure it’s tick.
Then if you have straw- or bough-thatched
fowl-sheds set fire to them. Save the iron
or wire-netting if it is worth saving, but
burn everything else. Don’t leave a single
tree standing in the yards; root out old
stumps, clear them of loose stones, and burn
every log.
Give all the new yard-posts and rails a
good coat of hot tar before erecting them.
When putting up the new sheds, make them
tick-proof by putting the rails inside the
posts, and the iron inside that again, so
that all the timber, except the purlins to
which the roof-iron is hailed, is on the
outside. Give all these timbers a couple
of coats of hot, freshly-made whitewash into
which a couple of handfuls of sulphur have
been stirred. Treat the iron in the same
way before nailing it on.
Now for the perches. Good tick-cups can
be bought from any big hardware store, or
good ones can be made by soldering tobacco-
tins halfway along stout eight-inch nails.
The head of the nail is cut off, a washer is
soldered an inch from the head end, and the
nail is driven into the top of the perch
posts. A quarter-inch hole is bored in the
end of each perch* the nail-head goes into
this hole, and the perch rests on the, washer.
An inch of oil and kerosene mixed is put in
these cups, and renewed when necessary. It
prevents tick from reaching the roosting
chooks.
In future, spray all joints and the inside of
the sheds with a good liquid insecticide once
a month, forcing it well into every crevice,
and keep the yards and the inside of the
sheds clean. Then you won’t need to fear tick
any more. Tick-free, healthy hens pay; the
other sort don’t.
LOOK TO THE INCUBATORS.
“Jack Point”: There is a busy time ahead
for the incubators, so see they are in first-
class order to avoid wasting time and eggs.
Wash them out with a good disinfectant and
warm water. When they are dry put some
permanganate of potash crystals in a saucer
(a dessertspoon will do a 120-egg- size), and
pour over it a teaspoon of formalin. Shut
(Continued on page 25.)


x
UA
3
HavcYOU tried
the MobUoil?
Motorists every-
where are proving
these claims:
per quart
f
bulk
in
hei
riidhtry
iiiv luoiu
nluj dimi
cou
1. It stands up better and lasts
longer.
2. It gives up to 20% more
power.
3. It gives as much as 20% more
oil mileage.
4. It provides the necessary
margin of safety for modern
motoring conditions.
Hie fL
r
“The World’s Quality Oil”
OM6
VACUUM OIL
COMPANY PTY. LTD.


W
if
L::
■*?
•51M0N12
Enamel
w
—
Makes
the Finish
Last Longer
Keeps Colors
from Fading
r New cars appear only
to require ordinary care
to keep them spotless and
bright, yet the finish soon
becomes dulled and the new-
ness of appearance vanishes.
Therefore the sooner you
Simoniz your car —the better,
i Every car needs Simoniz.
s For in addition to providing
L a luxuriant depth of lustre,
>. one Simcniz application
- provides months of„
protection that makes the
finish last longer and keeps
colors from fading.
It saves time, energy and expense
in keeping cars looking clean and
bright, for all dust and dirt can be
iviped off a Simonized finish ivitliout
danger of marring or scratching —
and washing is seldom necessary.
If your car is dulled and worn looking
f Simoniz Kleener will quickly
and easily remove all dirt,
r scum,trafficaccumulations,and
restore it to its original beauty
—then, apply Simoniz.
Buy a can of Simoniz and
SimonizKleener today fromyour
hardware or auto accessory
dealer.
I
ft
SIMONIZ
Insist on SIMONIZ.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans,
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
1 J
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
w
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
PROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
.* ro*
AM
Apply with a cloth
■
m
mM
'XW ; s: :
wB
m
IS
I 1
■■
■
SIS
1
■ ?
■
I—i
i ..
iffi
!i
lifl
■
M
1!
C 56
wßmm
, T , eY e Vs f f YC e
TKoHSJ ° veY a *
f lcpet' od - c o«^ e t
A\etA s
">f i£gS»
t^*Si£ns.
deP AM*e P f e f e
$ £«•« -*■
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by THE CLYDE EN*
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.S.W., largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
FOR CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
avrJOil
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street,
Sydney.
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer.
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering
Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
Limited, Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
So-ton
\Cb
TQ
*
A pictorial
guide to
America
FASCINATINC tills new booklef
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write foe
your copy*
® Oct AMiC SIEAMSHBPCa
NATSOIN LINE
Dept. MO, 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
Racing.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
Warwick Farm Races
SPRING MEETING, 1930.
THE CAMPBELLTOWN HANDICAP—
£SOO added. For three-year-olds and
upwards at time of starting. Six fur-
longs. (Entry fee £l.)
THE WARWICK FARM SPRING HAN-
DICAP —£500 added. For three-year-
olds and upwards at time of starting.
One mile and three furlongs. (Entry
fee £l.)
Races for Now Yearlings.
(Entrance Free.)
THE KIRKPIAM STAKES, 1930—£1000
added. Five furlongs.
THE HOBARTVILLE STAKES, 1931
£lOOO added. Seven furlongs.
Entries for the above races close with the
Secretary, V.R.C., Melbourne; Q.T.C., Bris-
bane; S.A.J.C., Adelaide; W.A.T.C., Perth;
W.R.C., Wellington (N.Z.) ; T.RC., Hobart,
Tasmania; N.J.C., Newcastle; or the under-
signed, at 4 o’clock p.m. on TUESDAY,
June 3, 1930.
6 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
C. W. Cropper,
Secretary*
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
Randwick Racecourse.
OWNERS AND TRAINERS are hereby
reminded that ENTRIES for the undermen-
tioned races close with the Secretary, V.R.C.,
Melbourne; Q.T.C., Brisbane; S.A.J.C..
Adelaide ; W.A.T.0., Perth ; W.R.C., Welling-
ton (N.Z.) ; T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ; N.J.C.,
Newcastle; or the undersigned, at 4 o’clock
p.m. on TUESDAY, June 3, 1930.
SPRING MEETING, 1930.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP—£3OOO added.
For three-year-olds and upwards at time
of starting. One mile. (£1 first forfeit
must accompany each entry.)
THE METROPOLITAN—£6OOO added.
For three-year-olds and upwards at time
of starting. One mile and five furlongs.
(£2 first forfeit must accompany each
entry.)
Races for Now Yearlings.
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, 1930—£1500
added. For colts and geldings. Five
furlongs.
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, 1930—£1500
added. For fillies only. Five furlongs.
THE DECEMBER STAKES, 1930—£2000
added. Five furlongs.
THE A.J.C. SIRES’ PRODUCE STAKES.
1931 —£5000 added. Seven furlongs.
THE CHAMPAGNE STAKES, 1931
£3OOO added. Six furlongs.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, 1931—£8000 added.
One mile and a half.
THE ADRIAN KNOX STAKES, 1932
£l5OO added. For fillies only. Oue
mile.
THE A.J.C. ST. LEGER, 1932—£2000
added. One mile and three-quarters.
Nomination of Sires for Sires’ Produce
Stakes, 1932 —Entrance fee £lO.
Programmes containing full particulars
and Entry Forms may be had on application.
6 Bligli Street,
Sydney.
C. W. Cropper,
Secretary.


m
m
K\
t> m
K 3 g
I*. '
..
Hi
. ■■ ■
i m
Hh
1
m
■
I
-1
■•Si
1
Four Widths
Narrow, medium, wide and extra-
wide fittings are made in both full
and half-sizes of this hard-wearing
Abbey Shoe. That assures made-to-
measure comfort, since the special
design of Abbey shoes eliminates
strain and tightness. The sole is
extra thick and durable. It is flex-
ible. . . .no breaking-in is needed.
ORDER BY POST—State both width and
size, and ask, also, for a supply of Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF ... 35/-
TAN CALF . . 35/-
Sports catalogue post jree on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St., Sydney
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
kJk
Well Worth
Looking At
because she uses
Cuticura
It is not to be wondered at that
her skin is clear and healthy,
and her hair lustrous. She has
found the secret of beauty in
CUTICURA OINTMENT
and CUTICURA SOAP.
Her secret is yours! Follow
her example today!
Soap la. Ointment Ib. and 2*.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: “R. Towns * Co.,
Sydney, N. R. W."
Green
Sayers
wdfj
Seal
Remedy
«* ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains lcc. Carbon Tetrachloride per sce. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixlev Brisbane
Dalgety & Co Melbourne
Gollin & Co Adelaide
Gollin & Co Perth
Auckland, N.Z.
King Lawless, Lt«.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding scc. and acting as
Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
Chandler
Ringlock Fencing
The Original
RINGLOCK FENCING.
D. & W. Chandler Ltd. pioneered
the manufacture of Ringlock Fenc-
ing in Australia, and this has now
superseded all other forms of farm-
fencing. Our Chandler Ringlock
Fencing is recognised as the strong-
est fencing on the market.
Chandler Ringlock Fencing is a
wonderful improvement on the ordi-
nary five- or six-line fence, as it
is a combination of droppers and
laterals. All the wires are crimped,
and the special Ringlock Knot is
formed around the cross wires, thus
making them absolutely non-slip-
pable. The fence is, therefore,
sheep- and cattle-proof.
Style RLS is an ideal sheep or farm
fence. The droppers are 12in.
apart. Five lines spaced from the
bottom 5,6, 7 and 8 inches
to a height of 26in. The top and
bottom wires are 10-gauge; the
three other laterals, droppers and
all ringlock knots are 12-gauge gal-
vanised-wire.
Prices:—
5/9
per chain for 5-chain
rolls.
Special heavy Chandler Fencing (10-gauge
throughout). Prices for ELS are 6/3 per
chain for 5-chain rolls, or £22 per mile.
NOTE.—The prices quoted are
strictly cash with order.
We also stock Waratah “Hinged-
joint” Fencing. Send for particulars.
Send for list of the new REDUCED
Prices of other styles. .
Manufactured at their Fence and Gate
Factory, Greeves Street, Fitzroy, by
D.SW. CHANDLER LTD.
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
AND AT WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO.
HORSHAM, BALLARAT AND PORT-
LAND.
£l9/15/-
per mile.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particular*
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTIL
ŵ
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
\A-Zl
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed),
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board oj Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
the machine up for a few hours. The gas
given off will penetrate every crack and
crevice and kill all germs.
Open the machine and expose the interior
to the sunlight for a few hours. Test the
thermometer and see that the regulating
gear (including capsule or thermostat) is
working smoothly. When everything is
nil right run the machine empty for two or
three days before putting in the first batch
of eggs.
REMOVE FALLEN FRTJIT.
“Disc Harrow”: Before the orchard is
given its autumn ploughing, a day or two
spent in picking up all fallen fruit will
return good dividends next year. The opera-
tion need not take long, as the fruit may be
handled roughly; if necessary, you may
simply rake it together and throw it straight
into the cart.
A big proportion of fallen fruit is grubby.
If the apples are turned into the ground
the pest is provided with an ideal home until
spring, when the next ploughing brings it
out in full force. If the collected fruit
cannot be fed to stock, it should he either
burnt of boiled. The latter method is pre-
ferable, and the resultant mass should be
tipped on any stray patch of blackberries
or couch grass.
I once worked at a large packing-shed
the end of which was entirely covered with
blackberries. All rotten fruit was carried
out and tipped on the plants, and in a short
time they began to wither. They are now
dead, and have not reappeared.
OVERDOING THE PLOUGHING.
“Bonzo”: Some citrusgrowers are never
happy unless they are following the plough.
Then they wonder why their crops don’t
compensate them for the labor and fer-
tiliser. Too frequent ploughing is very bad
for citrus trees, which are purely surface
feeders. Humus is destroyed by too con-
stant exposure to sun and air.
Although I say it as shouldn’t, I have
as good a bed of Emperors as can be found
in my N.S.W. district. I have never found
it necessary to plough more than once —
preferably at the beginning of winter so that
frosts will sweeten the turned soil and kill
pests in it. I rely, for the rest, upon the
spring-tooth cultivator.
GLASS-HOUSE PESTS.
“XSA”: The extension of glass houses
has given otherwise innocuous pests the
opportunity to work evil. Fumigation will
effectively deal with all above-ground pests
and insects, and, in view r of the fact that
our glass houses are seldom totally air-
tight, may be used fairly heavily. Great
care, however, must be taken to avoid injury
to the plants, whilst the danger to human
life demands exceeding caution when carry-
ing out the treatment. The best time to
fumigate is in the evening, avoiding the
time when dew is on the leaves. Fumigation
will account for aphis, scales, white fly and
other pests, but is no good for fungus
diseases.
Rust or, more correctly, white mites are
best controlled with sulphur smoke. A mix-
ture of this and lime in equal parts should
be dusted over the plants immediately the
mites are noticed. They spread very
rapidly if not attended to at once.
Eelworms cause great havoc amongst the
roots of plants and are difficult to deal with
because of the great trouble in destroying
the eggs. Soil sterilisation is the only cure,
and that should be thorough. Either cyanide
or steam is necessary to make a good job.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is the Q’land Government opening up new
country shortly for settlement ? If so, in
what district, and 'what is the nature of
the country? Would the land suit a person
with a good knowledge of stock and about
£l2OO capital? —629s.
A large area of agricultural and grazing
land in the Upper Burnett and Callide
Valley districts is being opened for selec-
tion. Full particulars may be obtained from
Dept, of Lands, Brisbane. An experienced
man with the capital you mention should,
with ordinary luck, make good.
(1) What is a hogget? (2) Must a sheep
12 months old have two teeth showing before
it can be classed as a hogget? (3) When
does a lamb cease to be classed as such? —
6228.
(1) A hogget, in Australian parlance, is
a sheep of either sex up- to 11, 12 or 13
months of age which has not been shorn as
a lamb. (2) Not necessarily. On good pas-
tures these teeth frequently appear when the
animal is 15 or 16 months of age. (3)
Strictly speaking, a lamb is called a weaner
when taken off f he mother, and continues
to be known as such until called a hogget,
thus: Lamb, say up to four or five months;
weaner, from five months to nine months;
hogget, with full fleece and lamb’s tip.
I am told that scrub-feeding of breeding
ewes is liable to deteriorate their breeding
capacity. For what period, after mating
has ceased, could such ewes be fed on scrub
with safety in this regard? —6s26.
Scrub is harmful to breeding ewes princi-
pally because of its low feeding value and
the amount of fibre present, which is liable to
cause constipation. Ewes during pregnancy
are required to provide an increasing amount
of food for the growth of the young lamb,
besides sufficient for their own bodily needs,
so something more palatable and with more
food value than scrub should be given, at
any rate for the last two or three months.
A ration of lib. lucerne (or other) hay and
4oz. grain per head per day is a minimum for
satisfactory results.
(1) Would passion-fruit growing adjacent
to Sydney be profitable? (2) Area required
to 'make a living? (3) How long before
vines bear? (4) Best districts?- —6164.
(1) Prospects are not favorable unless a
well-protected situation on well-drained
sandy soil is obtainable. (2) Can’t say.
Seasonal conditions upset calculations by
favoring development of brown spot and
woodiness at times. These diseases baffle
control. Successive planting of small areas
is preferable to larger plantations. (3) The
vines begin to bear at six months from plant-
ing and are in full bearing in 18 months.
(4) Fairly frost-free, well-drained locations
near the ocean from Sydney northward.
Glenorie, Mangrove Mountain, Moorland and
Goff’s Harbor produce the bulk of N.S.W.
supplies.
(1) My custard apples have developed a
thick, white scale all over the fruit. Remedy?
(2) Do these trees require pruning and if so
how is it done ?— 43039.
(1) Probably due to a mealy bug, in which
case spray with nicotine sulphate. ( A leaflet
dealing with insectides is obtainable from the
Dept, of Agriculture, Brisbane. (2) At
planting, the young tree should be topped
at about 24in. from the ground, and a single
fork formed by two lateral branches allowed
to grow for the first season. These jn turn
are shortened to within about 9in. (depen-
dent on the vigor) of their bases. This is
usually followed by two or more shoots from
each arm, two being allowed to remain, and
these in turn being shortened to about 12in.
the following season. Similar treatment —the
duplication of branches from short arms —is
applied the following year. Subsequent
shortening is less severe and lateral branches
may be encouraged, but these should be
shortened sufficiently to ensure rigidity and
thinned to the extent of preventing over-
crowding. Early pruning is considered
detrimental, consequently pruning is not
entered upon until the first rise of sap in
the spring is perceptible. The habit of
fruiting differs from that of most deciduous
trees in tha*t the fruit is produced on the
current year’s as well as previous growths.
My polo pony has a skin disease that
appears in isolated spots of hard seal) on
the shoulders and wethers, hut is worse under
the belly. It is not irritating and doesn't
trouble him, but is disfiguring. Cure? —
6412.
The trouble may be dietetic in origin. Give
the pony a mild physic ball and follow with
teaspoon doses of sulphur and saltpetre
three times a week in the evening feed. The
grain portion of feed should be lessened. Wash
affected parts with soap and water, dry, then
rub in a lotion made up of one part kero-
sene, one part oil of tar and eight parts
fish oil. Leave on for three days, then
repeat.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”: As soon as a green shoot of
grass shows up after rain many owners cease
feeding. The first growth of grass is a laxa-
tive, ahd sheep get weak on it, losses being
thus incurred. It pays to give the sheep a
heavier ration of oats or nuts during this
period.
“R.G.”: When feed is beginning to go off
in the autumn it is a good idea to top the
maize—cut the stalk off above the cob and
feed to cows. The stalk at this stage is
still green, and stock seem to like it better
than young maize.
“Tumbe Munda”: “S.N.R.” (B. 30/4/’3O)
says my methods of dealing with urinary
stoppage in horses are too drastic. Well,
they are recommended by a veterinary sur-
geon with a first-class reputation, and I
have found them effective.
“Bonzo”: “G.H.W.” (B. 7/5/’3O) is
wrong when he says poultry will eradicate
nut-grass. The chooks will keep surface
growths in check, but the roots go feet into
the ground. The only way to kill nut-grass
is to cover the area to be cleared with coarse
salt to a depth of four or five inches and
leave for three or four months.
“W.R.”: Temporary fences, or permanent
structures built low, soon spoil horses, and
cattle. They readily learn to push through
or jump over, and afterwards no paddock
will hold them. So see that all fences are
substantial and at least 4-J feet high.
“Grunter” : If you paddock your pigs, build
’em a decent shelter. A grass roof is cheap,
cool in summer and warm in winter. Don’t
lay down a concrete or even a board floor;
but don’t leave it unfloored, or they’ll ex-
cavate a covered-in dam. Put a slab all round
the shelter and fill in Sin. or a foot of sand
or loose earth. The pigs can root in this
and still be above sea level. In the winter
straw is welcome but not essential.
“Limpy” : When poisoning suckers, cut as
low to the ground as possible and swab
while the cut is fresh. A mixture of 21b.
arsenic pentoxide to the gallon of water will
give excellent results. Fine weather during
winter months is the most suitable time for
the job. Don’t cut too soon after rain when
the sap is running. A handy mop can be
made by binding strips of canvas into a ball
around the forked end of a light stick about
18 inches long.
“Mei”: A use for wool too little exploited
is the making of padded quilts. Almost as
light as down, lighter than cotton, as cheap
as kapok and far more durable, the padded
quilt can hardly be beaten as a winter
covering. It can easily be made up on the
farm. The wool should be cleaned and well
teased, and the padding done from the middle
of the covering, a panel at a time.
“Jack Point”: Those who are going to
heed the advice to grow more wheat should
also give a thought to growing some eggs.
Fowls living on free range on a wheat farm
require little feeding. White leghorns do
well in localities where no elaborate hous-
ing is necessary.
“Gardener”: To scotch the slugs with a
cheap dusting compound, try slacked lime
and soot, equal parts, and a third more of
tobacco dust and fine salt. Do the job in
the evening when the dew has fallen.
“Ivlondyke”: Pruning equipment should
now be overhauled. If buying secateurs,
select a heavy pair with thick handles; a
solid implement does better work, and is far
less tiring. The handiest ladder for use on
medium-size trees is a three-legged one,
which can be set up on any uneven ground;
3in. by 2in. or a< similar size is suitable for
the uprights, each of which is sft. 6in. long.
Give the bottom step of the ladder a spread
of 2ft. 6in., and join the two sides at the
top by a good bolt. The remaining upright
swivels on it by means of a stout door-hinge.
“Disc Harrow”: Be wary of buying
kerosene-cases for fruit packing; if there is
the slightest taint about them the fruit will
pick it up. The trouble is often not known
till the first customers begin to make com-
plaints, and by that time the damage is
done. A year’s exposure to the air is
necessary to sweeten the wood.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” - ' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
A.I.P. pensioner, N.S.W., wants job book-keeper,
camp cook or useful, station or farm.—6571.
Cultured married lady, Vie., child four, wants
position in refined home, country.-—6618.
Highly educated man (28), N.S.W., wants position
as subsidised teacher, assist other duties.—6617.
Dairy-farmer, N.S.W., wants dairy on snares,
anywhere, four adults in family, all life exp. dairy-
farming.—6619.
Business man, 20 years’ exp., wants whole- or
part-time employment.—6621.
Tutor for two boys (11 and 9) wanted for sheep
station, 400 miles west ‘Of Townsville (N.Q.).
Would have to work about home. £2 per week
and keep.—6585.
Mechanical engineer, N.S.W., wants job as
station mechanic. Refs.—6593.
By Englishman, 31 (married), six years’ Aus-
tralian station exp., mechanical and book-keeping
knowledge, • wife housekeeper, position on station,
a nywhere.—-6591.
Smart active , man (53), ex-ship’s' cook and
steward, good baker, wants job, station or hotel,
anywhere.—6509.
Young man, Sydney, wants to spend vacation on
farm or station, N.S.W., as paying guest.—6620.
Young man • (26) ; single, -Hawkesbury • Coll, dip.,
exp. all branches agriculture, now on banana plan-
tation, wants position as overseer on rubber plan-
tation, Malaya preferred.—6538.
Bush worker, N.S.W., own tools, wants contracts
to clear land. —6553.
Young lady, S.A., 41 years’ exp. tool and shoe
machinist, three years’ exp. machinist motor-body
building, wants work Perth or Fremantle. Will go
as companion-help.-—6505.
Young woman, Sydney, domesticated, with know-
ledge of massage and haircutting, wants position as
maid.—6544.
To buy Regal record 6959, “The Flowers of
Edinburgh,” and “Sterling Castle.”—6531.
To buy vol. 77 (June-Nov., 1888) i “Harper’s
Magazine.”—6566. ■ , -
Wanted to . buy second-hand “Encyclopaedia
Biblica,” Driver’s “Samuel” and Burny’s “Judges.”
—6592.
To buy 20,000 smooth-leaf pineapple suckers,
stripped and trimmed, no bits or butts, price and
particulars, Queensland purchaser.—6579. ,
To buy “From Sunrise Till Sunset.”—6580.
To buy “Brisbane Courier,” Brisbane “Telegraph,”
May 22 and 23, 1901, also “Flashes,” “Figaro” and
other Queensland papers, with reports of children’s
demonstration, Duke of York’s visit, 1901.- —-6614.
To buy Booth Taxkington’s “Seventeen.” —6616.
Whereabouts of Robert, Athell' or Mrs. M. Kil-
goui, formerly of Waterloo, Sydney. Athell was
in Junee (N.S.W.) in 1926.—6570.
Name and words of song,-chorus of which begins:
“Will you help a poor old nigger who is crippled
and bent low.” —6575.
Information Sought.
Under what conditions arc gun and pistol
licenses issued in Vic. ? —-6469.
There is no law respecting the issue of gun
licences, but no person may purchase a
pistol unless he can satisfy the Chief Com-
missioner of Police that he has good reason
for requiring it. All pistols must be regis-
tered with the police; permits are good for
12 months but are renewable. No person
under the age of 18 years may possess, pur-
chase or carry a firearm, and no person
may sell a firearm to anyone under 18 years
of age. ! ■
“Wild Cat” (B. 19/2/’30) says of an ore-
dressing plant: “Dirty water with
the adjustment of the jigs.” What is the
principle on, which the jigs work that makes
clean water essential?— 5397.
The difficulty is purely mechanical. The
jigs, working with a pulsating; movement,
need delicate adjustment for efficiency. The
deposited mud clogs the adjustment, with
the result that recoveries suffer.
(1) Has the line between Oodnadatta and
Pine Creek been completed? (2) If not, is
the work of laying lines proceeding? (3)
When is its completion expected? (4) To
wliat place and distance beyond Oodnadatta
has the line already been laid? (5) To what
plade and distance south of Pine Creek has
the line been laid? (6.) Approximate dis-
tance of the uncompleted section? —6186.
(1) No. (2) No. (3) Not known. (4)
Stuart ( Alice Springs) , 293 miles north of
Oodnadatta. (5) Birdum (316 miles south
of Darwin, or 170 miles south of Pine
Creek). (6) 630 miles.
What are the prospects for a boy taking
an Agricultural High School course with a
view to entering the Uni. and qualifying as
a Forestry expert? Would a Government
appointment be available on graduating, and
would good openings be probable outside
the Government service? —6326.
Appointments of the nature sought are
made to the N.S.W. Forestry Service from
holders of the Diploma in Forestry awarded
by the Forestry School at Canberra.
Students are accepted by that school pro-
vided they are Uni. graduates or under-
graduates ’ nominated by the Forestry Com-
mission who have taken two years in science
at a* Uni. Openings for holders of the Dip-
loma in Forestry outside the Government
service will depend upon the success attend-
ing the operations of the various commercial
forestry understakiugs.
(1) Is is compulsory to furnish an income-
tax return at the age of 21? (2) Are
Federal and State income taxes payable
together? (3) Is it always in June each
year that income-tax papers are sent in? —
6269.
(1) The question of age of a taxpayer
has no bearing on the taxability of the
income. (2) Not in N.S.W. One return, but
separate assessments. (3) The returns are
for the year ended June 30, and should be
submitted by July 31, in case of salaries,
etc., and by August 31 in the case ot a
business.
1 have a lawn sown with English rye and
clover. Part of it is shaded by trees next
door. On the shaded 'portion the grass is
very patchy, and although it has been re-
sown it does not thrive. What is a suitable
grass for sowing under trees? —5769.
The roots of the trees are probably robbing
the grass growing in their shade of moisture
and food. Dig a ditch 2 to 3 feet deep along
the boundary fence, cutting through the tree
roots which run under the lawn. This can
be filled in again. Water the part shaded
by the trees more frequently to make good
the lack of moisture in the soil. If rye grass
and clover will not grow after this treat-
ment, sow Cliewings fescue and Poa pra-
tensis mixed.
(1) When, how and by whom was the
theory that light has a fixed rate of speed
evolved? (2) How is the spegd of light
measured? (3) What is the latest estimate
of the speed? —6449.
(1) Galileo propounded the theory in the
sixteenth century but was unable to prove
it. Roemer, a Danish astronomer, in 1675
explained an apparent irregularity in the
movement of one of Jupiter’s moons, which
was 16min. 36sec. too early at one time of
the year and the same time late six months
later, by postulating that: light took this
amount of time to cross the r earth’s orbit
of 186,000,000 miles, which gave a velocity
of 186,740 miles per. second. (2) Light,
passed through holes in a rapidly revolving
disc, is reflected by. a mirror back to the
source of light, where it is observed. At a
certain rate- of rotation the-returning ray
impinges on obscured parts of - the disc,
between the holes. -If the rate of rotation
is increased the returning ray comes in
through the next hole’to the one from which
it was emitted, arid a simple arithmetical
calculation based on the speed of the disc,
distance between apertures, and distance be-
tween light and mirror gives the speed of the
light. (3) The measurements made by
Michelson and Newcomb are generally ac-
cepted, giving a speed of 299,860 kilometres
(160,330. miles) per second, with a margin
of possible error of 30 kilometres.
Jloio to keep paint-brushes in condition
while not in use, other than by suspending
them in a mixture of linseed oil and turps?
—6227.
The only alternative we can suggest is to
thoroughly wash the brushes in turps., then
wa<sh out with' hot water and soap, rinsing
with cold water and allowing to dry. When
thoroughly dry, the bristles should be mois-
tened with tallow or vaseline. Before using
wash with turps.
(1) What is the name of the parish,
county and land district where the road to
the Caves leaves the main Westei'n-road at
Middle River, N.S.W.? (2) From ivhat
land board office could I get a map? —6239.
(1) Town of Hartley, Parish of Hartley,
County of Cook, Land District of Lithgow.
(2) The map of the parish is at present, out
of print. A new edition will be issued in a
few weeks, when it may be purchased at the
Map Sales Branch, Department of Lands, or
from the Crown Land Agent, Courthouse,
Lithgow. . .
(1) What quantity of zinc shavings . is
required for 20 gallons of cyanide solution
when.it is run off the. ore vats? (2) How
long must the ore be left in the solution to
deposit all the chloride of gold? (3) What
quantities of sand, carbonate of soda and
borax are required to smelt and purify the
shavings? (4) How long must the ore be
in the furnace to complete smelting and
purifying? —6lB9.
(1) About 51b. (2) Depends on the
strength of the cyanide solution, richness of
the precipitate and quantity treated. (3)
The dry slimes are fused with about half
their weight of borax, a little soda carbonate
and sand or fluorspar if necessary. The pro-
portion of the fluxes must be determined in
each case by experiment. It is necessary
to form a fluid slag. (4) Depends on the
time taken ,to obtain a fluid slag. Get
detailed expert advice before tackling the
job.
What broadcasting stations should it be
possible to receive at Vaucluse (Sydney),
using a good six-valve receiver?— 63B2.'
2FC, 2BL, 2GB, 2UE, 2KY and 2UW, of
Sydney, and, under favorable conditions,
3AR and 3LO, of Melbourne; SCL, Adel-
aide ; 4QG, Brisbane; 6WF, Perth, and
2YA. Wellington (M.L.). Doubtful stations
are 3DB, Melbourne; and 2HD; Newcastle.
Am I compelled Jby N.S.W. daw to have
my name and occupation painted ; on the
side of my car? J carry neither goods nor
passengers. —64l3.
If the car is a passenger vehicle, 'no. The
law refers only to motor-lorries. If your
ear is a lorry you must have your name and
address on it, no matter what purpose you
use it for.
(1) Address of Sydney Bushwalhers’ Club?
(2) Conditions of membership? (3) Annual
sub.? (4) How often and how far do they
go out? (5) Average expenses per member
pei- week? —6414.
(1) 258 George-street. (2) Open to persons
of either sex over 16 who have attended at
least two club walks, and have then been
nominated by one member and seconded by
six others. (3) 10s. Badge, 2s. 6d. (4)
Walks held every Sunday, also week-ends,
and longer walks up to three weeks, either
according to schedule or privately arranged
between members. No limit on range or
locality. Camping out on tour is an un-
written law. (5) On long tours food costs
about 30s. per week. Kit equipment is a
first cost only. Only other expense is tram
fare to and from starting point.
What pension is payable to old-age pen-
sioners who are inmates of public hospitals
and benevolent asylums? Are public asylums
recompensed by the Federal Government for
the upkeep of old-age pensioners?- —6555.
While a pensioner is an inmate his pen-
sion is suspended, but when he is discharged
within 28 days he is entitled to the pension
for the period of suspension. If a pensioner
remains in hospital for 28 days, or if he
is an inmate of a public benevolent asylum,
he receives while in the institution an allow-
ance of ss. 6d. per week. In the case of a
person who applied for a pension before
entering the institution, the Federal Govern-
ment pays to the institution an allowance
of 14s. 6d. per week for maintenance. If a
person is already an inmate when he applies
for the pension, he receives an allowance
of ss. 6d. per week, and nothing is paid to
the institution.
(l)-What is the minimum fioic of wader
required to develop 1 h.p. from a %in. pipe-
line 60 chains long with 250 ft. head, ami
to what diameter would it be necessary to
reduce the outlet? (2) Given tivo lines of
equal diameter,' length- and head, one having
the outlet reduced and the other not, which
would develop the most power, using a tur-
bine? (3) Fame of some elementary work
on the subject of water power? —s924.
(1) You need a flow of 1300 gallons per
hour, and a fin. pipe would be inadequate.
Provide a 2|in. pipe with an outlet nozzle
5-10 in. diameter. (2) The line with the
outlet reduced would develop the most
power in an impulse turbine. (3) “Elements
of Hydraulics,” by Merriman (Dymocks;
9s. Od.).
I have just made a horizontal photographic
enlarger of the condenser type, taking 2 jin.
by 'Min. negatives. Maximum extension,
15 in. from lens to negative. Electric light
is used. (1) What is the most suitable
lens? I want- one that can also be used in
a %-plate field camera. (2) Must the lens
be an anastigmat to give very sharp enlarge-
ments? (3) Would an R.R. lens stopped
down to Fll give as sharp enlargements as
an F 6.3 anastigmat at full aperture? (4)
The enlarger is now fitted until a Beck “sym-
metrical” lens and gives good results at full
aperture. Would a' more expensive lens give
sharper enlargements ? —6369.
(1) A Cooke or Aldis anastigmat of F 6.3
or F 4.5 aperture, 7 in focus. (2) Yes. A
rectilinear lens gives an image a little fuzzy
roimd the edges at full aperture. (3) Defi-
nition might be as good, but by stopping
down you are liable to form an image of
the light source in the centre of the pro-
jected image. You can avoid that by placing
a piece of ground glass between the light
source and the condenser,_ but that means
much longer exposures, which are not desir-
able with negatives of normal density. (4)
Slightly sharper, owing to the anastigmat’s
greater freedom from halation, and you
would save time in making exposures.
(1) Who controls the distribution of pen-
sions and allowances from' the Common-
wealth Literary Fund? (2) How much
has been expended since 1908? (3) Maximum
pension? (4) What status must an appli-
cant for assistance possess s and under lohat
conditions is assistance granted? —6s2s.
(1) Minister for Home Affairs, Canberra.
(2) £15,173 2s. 7d. (3) £1 per week. (4)
Applications for assistance may be made
by authors who, by reason of age or infirmity,
are unable to support themselves; families of
literary men who have died poor; and
literary men doing good work, but unable
on account of poverty to continue that work.
Pensions are subject to review at June 30
in each year.
I am building an A.G. amplifier with
moving-coil speaker for use with my gramo-
phone. Is it possible to place the amplifier
in one room and the gramophone in another,
and, if so, would there be much loss in quality
and volume? —6524.
Quite practicable. Use No. 22 S.W.G.
twin lead-covered cable for connecting the
pick-up to the amplifier. No loss of volume
or quality will be noticed, but the cable must
not be placed in proximity to any electric-
light wires or an A.C. hum may be heard.
(1) Are there any ravens in Australia, and
where are they-found? (2) What is the
difference between the raven and the croio?
—6556.
(1) One of the three.. varieties of Austra-
lian crows known to ornithologists is known
by them as,the;Australian raven. (2) Bush-
men make no distinction, but according to
ornithologists the crow lias black body-
feathers, snow-white at the base, and hazel
eyes, while the raven —-found in the southern
parts of the continent and the only “crow”
in Tas. —has feathers black throughout or
dusky at the base, the eyes being white in
the adult and hazel in the young. Some of
the throat feathers are elongate and pointed.
I am a linotype operator of -six years'
experience, and wish to become an advertising
.manager. How should I set about it? —6394.
Take a correspondence course in advertis-
ing ,'and a course in, English prose writing.
This, in conjunction with your printing
experience, should equip you for an appoint-
ment in the advertising department of some
large store.
(1) How does a steam or air pressure
gauge work? (2) Is the method protected
by patent? (3) IIov: do I manage if an in-
vention I wish to patent embodies another
patented invention ?— 6438.
(1) There are different types of gauges,
1 operating .on various principles, according
to the pressure to be gauged. (2) There is
no existing patent covering the general prin-
ciple of a pressure gauge. (3) You would
need to come to some arrangement with the
proprietor of the other patent.
(1) What capacity condenser is best for
tuning in a short-wave receiver? (2) Is a
midget condenser necessary for fine tuning?
(3) What value condenser and resistance
should be used for reaction control?— -6527.
(1) .00015 to .00025 MF, the former
capacity giving easier tuning but requiring
a greater number of inductances for a given
wave-band. (2) Useful when a .00025 MF
tuning condenser is used but unnecessary
with a. .00015 condenser. (3) .0005 variable
and a variable resistance of from 25,000 to
G 9 000 ohms. This resistance must be
shunted by a 2MF condenser.
Brief Answers.
J.W.: Royal Ulster Constabulary, Belfast.
C.F.W.: (1) 615. (2) £4OO p.a. (3) April 1,
1911. . . .S.R.H.: Marcus Clark and Co., Sydney....
A.M.F.: We cannot furnish information concerning
sweeps conducted outside the State... .A.R.V.: (1)
Victoria River Downs, N.T. (13,060 sq. miles). (2)
Department of Lands, Brisbane, may be able to tell.
(3) At Blaekall, lying east of Barcoo River (Q.), with
a depth of 7009 feet. (4) No available records....
W.H.C.L.: (1) It is the only one known to us.
(2) Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street; O. T. Lem-
priere, Sirius House, Macquaric-place—both Sydney.
. ...W.D.: Frank Fox was knighted in 1926.
Address, 1a Middle Temple-lane, London, E.C.4....
11. W.: Under the Treaty of Versailles, Germany is
not permitted submarines or naval aircraft. See
“Brassey’s Annual,” available at most public
libraries, for details of its navy.... G.F.: “Canoes,
Dinghies and Sailing Punts” (25.) and “The Canoe,”
by R. E. Pinkerton (65.), Dymock’s, Sydney....
K.M.Iv.: (1) No. At last advices he was a private
in the R.A.F. and stationed in England. (2)
“Journalism,” by Lowell Warren; “The Australian
and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Yearbook”... .W.F.S.:
Try a few days’ rest in bed and then get a spring-
pad fitted under the heel of the affected f00t....
W.W.: Bathe with a mild boracic lotion. If there
is no improvement in two or three days, see a
doctor.... R.C.: (1) Yes, in certain selected cases.
(2) Yes. By mental specialists in Macquarie-street,
or at the Psychiatry Clinic at Prince Alfred Hospital.
(3) Varies with the cases. (4) We do not care
to suggest any particular doctor... .G.A.W.: See
an eye specialist. If you can’t afford private fees,
apply at Melb. Hospital... .L.R.W.: (1) It seems to
assist some people. (2) No. (3) It is highly
dangerous to use it unless under medical instructions
and supervision.... J.W.: (1) Don’t know it. (2)
It might assist your appetite, but at your age it is
not advisable to use it as a routine. (3) Certainly.
Weight is not an important factor in the estima-
tion of health. If you are losing weight it is a
different matter... .G.E.: The usual ointment for
inflamed lids is 1 per cent, yellow oxide of mercury,
rubbed gently in once nightly for a week or two.
. ...J.E.W.: Vegetables won’t harm you. No need
to lie up when having varicose vein injection treat-
ment. Cost depends on nature of the case....
A.P.: (1) Ask your doctor to give you a letter to
a child specialist in Sydney. (2) He can be treated
at the Royal Alexander Hospital for Children, if
you cannot afford private fees. (3) The • usual
Macquarie-street charges are two to three guineas.
No need to send fee with letter... .J.N.A.: (1) No,
requires addition of humus and fertiliser. (2) Not
unless the percentage exceeds 60 per cent, or is of
a retentive nature. (3) No, provided rainfall is
reasonably consistent. .. .A. 5.1.: A large area of
land is open for selection and lease in N. and
Central Q. Maps and particulars from Department
of Lands, Brisbane.... R.D.: Tas. Govt. Tourist
Department, 34 Martin-place, Sydney, will supply
particulars on request.... V.M.: They would probably
consent if you wrote to them. Addresses: Ruby M.
Ayres, Corner Ways, Harrow-on-the-IIiU; Muriel
Hine, 4 Queen’s Elm-square, Chelsea, London, 5.W.3.
. ...P.M.T.: Under the Australian Notes Act, 1910,
ss. notes were authorised, but none have been
issued C.S.H.: An occasional demand for odd
volumes, but they command little above published
price 8.E.F.: (1) At June 30, 1928, 803 acres
in N.S.W. were devoted to tobacco-growing; pro-
duction for the year totalled 5967 cwt. dried leaf.
(2) About 10 per cent, of the tobacco consumed
annually in N.S.W. is grown within the State....
R.J.: Get Farmers’ Bulletin No. 58 (9d.), from
Department of Agriculture, Sydney... .H.J.S.: Lord
Howe Island is 436 miles from Sydney, is seven
miles long and from J to 1| miles wide, with a
total area of 3220 acres. Population, 111. Occu-
pants pay no rent and are tenants on sufferance.
Write Lord Howe Island Board of Control, Chief
Secretary’s Department, Sydney... .N. 8.: The
Federal Capital Territory Liquor Poll was taken on
September 1, 1928. Voting: For prohibition of posses-
sion of liquor, 228; continuance of law prohibiting
sale, 841; sale under public control, 1092 ; sale in
licensed premises, 2218; informal, 34... .S.E.F.:
The right to receive the Victoria Cross was extended
in 1920 to civilians of either sex under the super-
vision of any of the fighting forces of the Empire.
E.N.: (1) Royal Anthropological Institute, 52
Upper Bedford-plaee, London, W.C.I. (2) Communi-
cate with Prof. Radcliffe Brown, Sydney Uni
H.R.: Probably incurable. Get a vet. to examine
his eyes S.J.S.: Blue Ribbon shell grit, Anthony
Horderns’, Sydney.... .Juveneus: (1) A book recently
published by Phillip Morton, care Stewart and
Morton, Berry (N.S.W.), contains full particulars
regarding the Illawarra milking shorthorn. (2) J.
B, Cramsie, chairman, Metropolitan Meat Industry
Board, Sydney, may be able to help y0u.... J.W.M.:
Bottle Agencies. Co., Botany-road, Alexandria.; Cor-
dukes Bros., 93 King-street, Newtown; J. McCarthy
and Co., McEvoy-street, Alexandria; N.S.W. Bottle
Co., 344 Bulwarra-road, Ultimo —all Sydney....
M.J.K.: Watson’s Bay; (Sydney. Harbor) is named
after Robert Watson, mate of the Sirius, who piloted
the first fleet from Botany, Bay to Sydney Cove.
He was the first colonial pilot, and was stationed
at South Head. .. .H.T.K.- and J.T.G.: The course is
highly recommended by experts. .. .P.S. : (1) So few
properties are changing hands that a new man start-
ing without an assured rent roll or clientele, would
find difficulty in clearing expenses. (2) Knowledge
of values, the law on contracts, etc., and a con-
vincing personality.' (3) Just at present can’t say.
(4) Numbers of men are offering at nominal salary
and a commission on results J.H.D.: If the
business in which the councillor is interested is not
a firm but an incorporated company, he would not
be under ■ any disability. Can’t advise as to cost of
proceedings; you would be unwise to proceed without
a solicitor... .8.W.: An officer who holds the rank
of captain on the Reserve of Officers is not now
by reason of having held temporary higher rank
in the A.I.F. entitled to wear badges of a rank
higher than that of captain C.G.: (1) Yes,
but a British subject, of good character and
health, in possession of £3O, can enter the country.
(2) It is in a better position than most countries
so far as employment goes. (3) Very slight.
Openings are mostly for harvesters. (4) 9,658,000.
(5) Quite bearable... .W.W.: Tell us what
weeds you want to eradicate and we will try to
help G.P. : Send us the MS. and we will advise
as to possible markets P. 8.: Can’t say without
seeing it L.N.: See M. Willard’s “History of the
■White Australia Policy” and P. Campbell’s “Chinese
Coolie Emigration”... .A.N.D.: M.L. has a permanent
.Air Force. Write G.0.C., N.Z. Military Forces,
Defence Department, Wellington. .. .H.T.G.: The
generator is designed to operate with an accumulator
and results will be unsatisfactory if it be omitted. A
specially-designed generator would be necessary for
operation under the conditions you mention... .
R.A.8.: Communicate with Mines Department, sup-
plying particulars as to title under which site was
held and nature of the buildings and machinery....
(Many others mailed,)


(jrowing
and helping
with Australia
Australia grow ♦
How Australian workmen
and Australian materials
have put 100,000 units of
ten famous cars and trucks
at the service of the
Commonwealth.
/ ”pHERE’S a dramatic story in these
*■* everyday facts—a story of more
than 16,000 Australian workmen in
six States who help to build a famous
group of cars and trucks. For in line
with the steadfast policy of employ-
ing all possible Australian material,
even the rubber mat under your feet
in a General Motors car is a product
of Australia.
It takes the whole of Australia to
build these motor cars. From busy
manufacturing plants in Queensland
come springs, hardware, commercial
bodies. From New South Wales,
paint and Duco, tyres, nails, gears.
From Victoria, bolts and screws, tyres
and batteries, leather, padding, up-
holstery cloth made from Australian
wool.
More Jobs for Australians —
from Brisbane to Perth
South Australia produces wood parts,
glass, sheet metal, bodies. West Aus-
tralia, metal forgings, body parts, door
handles. Out of Tasmanian and
Queensland forests comes timber for
Australia’s largest 'body building
plant, of whose output General
Motors Australia is the largest
purchaser.
And more than three-fourths of the
machinery and equipment in General
Motors assembly plants represents
purchases made in Australia.
Since its beginning in 1926, General
Motors Australia has expended a total
of £13,000,000 in the Common-
wealth. Its yearly purchases of
Australian material alone exceed
£1,400,000.
More Wealth for Australia
More wealth for Australia with
every car that rolls out of the five
great plants of General Motors Aus-
tralia in five capital cities. More
wealth —to over 16,000 workers in
primary and secondary industries who
produce the basic materials to
approximately 1,500 who serve the
assembly lines —to more than 3,000
dealer employees who distribute and
service these cars in six States.
More wealth, too, as General Motors
cars and trucks travel over Australian
roads in the service of better transport.
Already more than 100,000 of them
are in use here. For the motor car
is the greatest creator of wealth the
world has ever known. It speeds
production in thousands of busi-
nesses, helps thousands more by the
dependable, speedy distribution of
their products. Its widespread use
by Australians is both an index of
national progress and a stimulus to
it. Today Australia stands among the
top four countries of the world in
ratio of car ownership and second
to none in appreciation of motor
car value.
w
mm
More than 100,000 motor enthusiasts viewed
the Sixth International Motor Show - third
largest in the world —at Melbourne, May Ist
to May 10th. The brilliant display of Vauxhall
cars, products of General Motors, created
lively interest.
m
m ■■■ ■' ■■■■
mm
M
IM S
r»l
:
■MRS
HE
mm
I
? ■ I
■ V
■ h m
Four lifts of a handle
shape the sturdy Aus-
tralian-made petrol
tanks for Chevrolet
cars and trucks in
General Motors Aus-
tralian plants. The
finished . tanks are
sprayed with Australian
Duco—the manufacture
of which has grown
into a sizable Australian
industry along with
General Motors
Australia.
Before tanning, Australian hides are split with utmost care in
this elaborate and expensive machine. The grain leather-
after tanning, shaving and setting —is ready for use in up-
holstery of General Motors cars. (Photograph by courtesy of
Howe & Company Pty. Ltd., Melbourne).
& \ f — zM, ~ I .
a
m
mm
m
m
r
m
SJ3J
m
mm
m
m
11 1
■
m
mm
- m
: : : :
mm
WWmWmm
' /
/
K
I
l \
E
t\&S,
s
Assembling Australian batteries in the
plant of the Chloride Electrical Storage
Company Ltd., Sydney.
Four cobbers from
General Motors’
army of 1,500 Aus-
tralian workmen
"get outside” their
mid-day snack.
Australian broadcloth for the exquisitely finished interiors
of General Motors cars is manufactured from Australian
wool in the mills of Foy & Gibson Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
CHEVROLET
PONTIAC
OLDSMOBILE
MARQUETTE
OAKLAND
BUICK
VAUXHALL
LA SALLE
CADILLAC
Also
Chevrolet Trucks,
Pontiac Express Deliveries,
General Motors Trucks.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
"More Wealth for Australia—More Jobs for Australians’*
(


The centre of Queens /onc/s
' cf/s Logu/shed Soc/o/ Life.
WoM
< -0 RDI«P
BRISBANE
w
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking businessj
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret. Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
, .1111/1
iTST
An Excellent “Table”
awaits you here!.
A pleasing Menu, good service and
every convenience awaits you at
reasonable rates at the Grosvenor.
Fireproof, 300 rooms. 100 bathrooms,
yale locks. Tariff from £3/10/-.
Bed and Breakfast from 6/6.
uicamaai uuni D/O,
>GROSVENOR
c Adelaides Finest Unlicetised Fioiel
Opp. Railway Sin. Norlh Terrace. ADELAIDE
SMOKE-OH!
THE REJECTED OFFER.
“One of the glass-bottomed boats used in Florida
for showing tourists the flower gardens of the sea
came to grief on a sandbank and started to fill
with water. A lady passenger took off her skirt and
offered it for use as a signal of distress.” — Cable.
The story doesn’t end there. To proceed:
The skipper descended from the bridge.
“Belay there!” he cried. “Avast! Stop
undressing!” His command caused the
heroic lady to pause in the act of removing
her skirt. “We want something large
enough to be seen,” objected the mariner.
“What about lending us your pocket-hand-
kerchief?”
H. M.
* *
“A thief stole 80 overcoats belonging to Parra-
matta Masons.”
He also got their goats.
CASABIANCA.
The boy stood on his flaming deck
Unflinchingly. For when
Hare players found a flush to wreck
An Ace, King, Queen, Jack, Ten?
HAD TO BE DONE.
“Don’t keep shovin’ me away, Cyril.”
“I got to — l’ve stuffed a couple o' cigars in me breast pocket.”
“He said his wife' had desserted him.”— “News.”
Another version is that she left him in the
soup.
THE WRONG CHARGE.
“I charged him with drunkenness because of the
way he spluttered when he talked.” —Police witness
in motoring case.
If words he clips, he's had more nips
Of whisky than he oughter;
But should he splutter as he talks,
The reason plain before us stalks—
His charge is soda-water.
* #
“Charged with cocaine-selling, defendant said he
had been a teacher in a Sunday school.”
Also, apparently, a member of a Band of
Dope.
SOCIETY CHATTER.
(a.u. 2030.)
“H’m, thinks she’s wonderful because she
can afford a horse. I remember the day
when she was glad to own a Rolls.”
“My dear! Too old-fashioned for words.
She’s going to get married, if you please.”
“My husband never smokes cigars. He
considers it far too effeminate!”
“Doesn’t she dress frowsily! Her skirts
are right down to her hips!”
“See that woman near the door? It’s
Mrs. Brown —the one that’s supposed to have
had a baby!”
“Here comes Winnie! Watch me cut her.
She was fined at the North Pole last week
for flying there from Valparaiso under the
influence of liquor.”
11. W. K.
* *
Where women try to keep their youth
We tend to jeer at their endeavor.
When xve should face the simple truth
That women can’t go wan for ever.
* *
“IN SYDNEY SOCIETY.”
An All-Australian 100 p.c. Talkie Reviewed.
“No fashionable society in the world is more moral
than that of Sydney. It is composed of citizens who
devote themselves to good works.”— Daily-paper
correspondent.
Inspired by the above, that immortal trio of
U.S.A. librettist-composers, Lou Lewi, Mosh Xsmyk
and Wrdslaj Pash, wrote it up for the audible
screen, and Fox-Metro-National undertook the pro-
duction. A famous New York critic has reviewed
their effort as follows:
The drama opens tensely with Sir Joshua
(Big Josh) Ochterlonie in holts with Hon.
Wilbur J. Cashmore, the banker. Josh, who
is President of a Boys’ Brigade, has secret
evidence that his whilom friend, Cashmore,
is luring Brigadiers into the Boy Scouts, of
which he (Wilb) is a Field-Marshal.
The situation is intensified by the fact
that the rival magnates are fellow-sidesmen
at St. Worple’s
C li u r c h, while
Josh’s son Ed is a
Lieat. - Commander
(Ret.) of Boy
Scouts, and an
admirer (on strict-
ly n o n-s exu a 1
lines) of Lena
Caslimore, who is
Hon. Matron of
the Brigade. The
families meet in an
atmosphere of
smoldering dis-
trust at a Lawn
Party given by Big-
Josh in honor of a
visiting troupe of
Zenana Missioners.
Both men pack
District Court
writs.
Sydney’s Four
Hundred are pre-
se n t en masse.
Outwardly all is
holy merriment.
Water flows like
champagne. Buns
are to he had for
the asking. Under
a tree the Vicar of
St. Worple’s dis-
penses sweet music
on a harmonium.
Clerics of all de-
nominations, Pro-
hibitionists, Sun-
day-school teach-
ers, Y.M.C.A. offi-
cials, Empire
Leaguers, lay
preachers, anti-
gamblers and
Iv.B.E.’s pace up
and down. There
is a prayer-meet-
ing by the swimming-pool. Ever and anon
the hospitable cry is heard, “Have another
milk.” or, “Do let me get you a long water.”
But under the surface Something Evil
Moves.
The ballet in technicolor (“The Church
Picnic”), in which 50 vergers figure with an
equal number of deaconesses, is unusual, but
it lacks pep—due, maybe, to the ankle-long
serge skirts and heavy boots of the chorines.
Lena and Ed put it.right over in the,Theme
Song, “Sydney Society.” The haunting
melody, reminiscent now of Moody, now of
Sankey, reveals Lou Lewi at his tunefullest.
The words by Xsmyk (the Hoboken Shelley)
are claimed by our Azerbajan fellow-country-
men (Mosh is, of course, an Azerbajanese,
cthnologically speaking) to be superior to
anything done in the lyric line by the late
Percy Bysshe. The refrain is this gem s
high 'spot:—
Oil it’s Fine to be in Sydney Societee,
Doing Good Works,
No-bahdy shirks.
Oli Boy !
What joy!
All the Boys Brigading,
An’ their country aiding ;
All the Goilies Guiding,
An’ their time dividing;
Selling at Charity Bazaars,
Helped by their Worthy Pa’s and Ma’s,
And how !
It’s - a Wow !
Oh it’s Fine 1 to be in Sydney Societee!
The weak spot in an otherwise convincing
story is the exaggeratedly infamous character
of Van Loon, the racehorse-owner. The man
not only bets on the track, drinks hooch and
A FRAGILE AFFAIR.
“How did you come to break your engagement!”
“I don’t know—I suppose we were both snappy.”
smokes, but goes automobiling on Sundays.
He has spread the injurious canard about
Caslimore with the object of winning Lena’s
hand in marriage. Wilbur’s lawyer, a light-
ning two-fisted shot with any kind of legal
weapon, bumps him off eventually with a
summons for defamation of character.
Amanda Dump (Lena) might, register more
S.A. without her spectacles and goloshes—
still, you never know. Better leave things as
they are. More or less the same remark
applies to Emmanuel Woozer (Ed), who is
co-featured with her. One thing, they are cer-
tainly iii the picture.
This film is likely to have important world-
repercussions ; it will send many tourists,
who might otherwise have visited Sydney, to
Paris.
Max F.
* *
Wives of great men all remind them
Not to waste their hard-earned, cash,
And departing leave behind them
Plenty for their wives to splash.
PHOBIAS.
Premier Bavin, of N.S.W., can’t stand
Gardens. He would clear at
least one right out of Australia
if he could. Shakspeare’s bug-
bears were gastronomic rather
than horticultural. Thus he
hated tripe, and always got
annoyed at the mention of
Bacon. Lord Stonehaven avoids
glass-houses. Hugh Denison
can’t endure the sight of the
“Sun.” He considers it cheap
-—id. too cheap. W. M. Hughes
goes baresark at the sound of a
second fiddle. The moment he
hears one he rushes away, plays
loudly on his mouth-organ and
starts a Party.
* *
THE STAND-BY.
“His health failed, so he left the city and took
up poultry farming.”
If illness comes to spoil your luck
And doctors whacking fees demand,
'Then go, young man, upon the land.
E'en if you rear hut one small duck,
You’ll ahcays have a quack at hand,
* *
The sinister face was close to mine. My
hands were held powerless by the length of
sheeting in which he had enveloped me.
Steel glittered before my eyes and his fingers
ground into my skull. A voice rang doom-
like in my ear. “Chock-full of dandruff,”
it said. “Wotterbout a shampoo?”
“Centuries are a habit with Bradman.’ “Sun.
Bradmannerisms, so to speak.
¥ ¥
“The make-up some of these women use is dreadful;
it would really be better if they didn t use any
at all.” —Fashion note.
Once, “Why, she paints!” teas quite enough
To coolc. a flapper's goose,
While “dreadfully” declared her stuff
Exceptionally loose.
To experts in the deviltries
That cause the righteous shame,
“Her make-up's dreadful” now impnes
A novice at the
THE MOVEMENT REACHES THE
HOME.
Comrade Graball, secretary of the Axe
Grinders’ Union, was in a joyous mood as
he approached his
home. He had just
started a strike for
a 36-hour week and
a 25 per cent, in-
crease in wages.
A seat in the City
Council seemed
certain now. With
a broad smile he
stepped on to his
verandah.
Simultaneously a
bust of Lenin
crashed through
the front window.
It was followed by
his t.p. set of
‘D a s Ivapital.”
The door was flung
open by an amazon
arm e d with the
sacred insignia of
the Soviet, a ham-
mer and a sickle.
He scarcely recog-
nised the gentle
Annie with whom
he had contracted
a companionate
marriage at the
office of the Kosher
Meat Employees’
Union scarce 12
months ago.
“W h a - what’s
wrong?” he quav-
ered.
•‘l’m on strike!”
and .sue waved the
Soviet insignia threateningly., “A 36-hour
week for housework and 25 per cent, more
of ver screw. Them’s me demands.”
“But”
“No jaw,” commanded the liberated home-
plug. “I’m taking me overtime off now.
Mostly at the pictures. A hundred hours
a week for 52 weeks makes 4800 hours’ over-
time at time an’ a half, plus double time for
Sundays. No resumin’ except on a 36-hour
basis. Them’s me terms.” And with a
final flourish of her hammer Mrs. Graball
departed.
That’s why, down at the Trades Hall,
Comrade Graball has lost his grip. They
suspect him of wanting to join the
Nationalists.
A. C.
THE FIRST TIFF.
“Well, I know this—when you married me
all your bachelor friends congratulated
you.”
“More, much more than that, my pet.
Some of them even thanked me.”
“From this retort a. metal is produced that can
be finished in a most polished fashion.”— “S. M.
Herald.”
Evidently a retort courteous.
DEPRECIATED VALUES.
What a shock a man sustains!
What a frightful blow
When he meets the girl he loved
Twenty years ago!
Dazed he views her dumpy form
And outrageous hat,
Till she cries “Why, hullo, Joe!
Goodness, you’ve got fat!”
So before you criticise,
As men mostly do,
Just remember that perhaps
You have altered too!
DORTO.


oOKTED
TW*
m
w
i
sss
%
§§
m
■H
Of course 1 smoke./
—but
only when it's
State Express
333/
or
§T/)Tlr (XPRtSS
CIGARETTE'S
MADE- IN LONDON
A
rwl
1


REPORT
OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED
. Balance-sheet of the Bank as on March 31 last, and the Profit and Loss
Account for the year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
I he Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £121,739/6/8 for
Income, Land and Note Taxes, ’
Amounted to
Add Balance brought forward from previous year
Making available
From this sum the following appropriations have been made
Interim Dividend of 10 per cent, per annum paid in
the Half-Year ended September
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account
(making it £3,200,000)
Reduction of Bank Premises
And it is recommended that a Dividend be paid on the
£lO and on the £8 shares for the Half-Year ended
March 31, 1930, at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum
Carry Forward
£812,907 2 11
Satisfactory progress has been made with the Bank’s new premises in Brisbane,
which are now expected to be completed in August next.
The former Head Office premises of the Colonial Bank, at the corner of Elizabeth
and Little Collins streets, Melbourne, have not yet been sold, the offers so far received
having been below the Bank’s reserve price.
During the period the following New Branches were opened:—
VICTORIA: North Essendon (Sub-Branch) (previously a Receiving Office),
Southern Branch (67 Sturt Street, South Melbourne).
NEW; SOUTH WALES: Bathurst Street (Sydney), Chatswood, Goulburn, Hurst-
ville, and Wentworth Avenue (Sydney).
QUEENSLAND: Ann Street (Fortitude Valley), Edward Street (Brisbane) and
Mossman.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Lake Grace..
The Bank has now 504 Branches and Agencies in Australia and 2 Branches in
London.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Boardroom at the
Bank’s Head Office, 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, May 28, at
noon, when the Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors. Mr. Bowes
Kelly and Sir James A. M. Elder, K.8.E., retire by rotation in accordance with the
Articles of Association, and are eligible for re-election. There are no other candidates.
The Shareholders will also be called upon to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing
year. Messrs. John Bishop and S. J. Warnock, the retiring Auditors, are eligible
for reappointment.
At this Meeting, it is also proposed to submit a resolution making the following
alterations in the Bank’s Articles of Association :
(1) Article 67 to be altered to provide for an increase in the number of Directors
from six to seven.
(2) Article 68, which lists the names of the Directors, to be cancelled.
(3) The Articles after 67 to be renumbered.
Should this resolution be. passed, and confirmed at the necessary confirmatory
meeting convened for June 18, it is proposed at the latter meeting to elect the additional
Director, and to submit a resolution providing for a proportionate increase in the
remuneration of the Directors, raising it from £3soo—now paid to six Directors—
to £4OOO for the seven Directors.
These matters are fully set out in the Statutory Notice convening the meetings.
General Sir Henry George Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C.8., has, at the invitation of the
Directors, intimated his willingness to accept nomination as the additional Director if
the resolution increasing the number of Directors from six to seven be passed.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD,
Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd.,
Melbourne, May 15, 1930.
BALANCE SHEET
OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED
AT MARCH 31, 1930
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital
200,000 £lO
Shares fully
paid up ..£2,000,000 0 0
600,000 £8
Shares paid up
to £ 5 per
Share . . 3,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund
Account . . 3,200,000 0 0
Profit and Loss
Account . . 412,907 2 11
£8,612,907 2 11
Notes in Circulation. . .. .. 47,851 10 0
Bills in Circulation . . . . 616,727 5 10
Government Deposits—
Not bearing
Interest ~ £208,958 7 6
Bearing Into
rest . . .. 795,980 11 9
£1,064,938 19 3
Other Deposits—
Not bearing
Interest . . 10,866,465 9 10
Bearing Inte-
rest . . . . 23,687,909 4 5
£34,554,374 14 3
35,559,313 13 6
Interest Accrued and Rebate on
Current Bills 445,096 2 7
Balances due to other Banks .. 370,311 19 2
£45,652,207 14 0
Contingent Liability, as per contra, in regard to
obligations of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit and Guarantees, £1,450,572 18s. 3d.
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
A u s t r alian
Notes and
Cash at
Bankers .. £
Govern ment,
Municipal and
other Public
Stocks, De-
bentures and
Funds
Bills and
R e m ittances
in transitu. .
Notes and Bills
of other
Banks
Balances Due
from other
Banks
Duty Stamps
5,835,046
2,778,550
1,884,900
104,955
134,361
44,828
18 9
15 8
8 3
18 10
9 3
5 10
—'£ 10,782,643 16 7
Real Estate, consisting of Bank
Premises 1,206,376 11 4
Other Real Estate . . . . 80,004 14 10
Bank Furniture .. .. . . 68’385 5 2
Bills Discounted and Other
Advances, exclusive of provision
for Bad and Doubtful Debts.. 33,514,797 6 1
_ £45,652,207 14 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit, Drafts and Guarantees, as per contra
£1,450,572 18s. 3d.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Expenses at Head Office, 343
Branches and 162 Agencies ..£848,050 13 10
„ Income, Land and Note Taxes .. 121,739 6 8
„ Interim Dividend ... .. 250,000 0 0
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund .. 100,000 0 0
„ Reduction of • Bank Premises
Account 50,000 0 0
„ Balance 412,907 2 11
£1,782,697 3 5
By Balance brought forward .. £157,773 0 6
„ Gross Profits, including Recover-
ies, less Rebate on Bills Current,
Interest Accrued on Deposits,
Repairs to Premises, Rent, etc. 1,624,924 2 11
£1,782,697 3
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Bain nee ..
. . £3,200,000 0 0
£3,200,000 0 0
By Balance Brought Forward ..£3,100,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account 100,000 0 0
£3,200,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager to comply with
the Companies Act (Victoria) appears on the Official Report.
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
ŵ
on the hundreds of things you
use daily in your home, your
factory, office, store or farm.
Price 21/-
POST FREE
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK:
RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition.
TN every can of baking powder or paint you buy—in the hundreds of things you use in
* your home or business —is a goodly profit you can now save and make your own
through the priceless knowledge contained in HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK
OF RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
It places at your finger-tips over ten thousand separate recipes, preparations, formulas
and processes containing the latest scientific discoveries.
In simple, non-technical terms it explains how you can make every conceivable thing
in general use, from inks and toothpastes to asphalt cement and battery solutions. It
contains the discoveries of civilisation itself !
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Here and there in costly volumes and scientific works are some of the rare recipes
included in HENLEY’S amazing book, but no other volume published to-day offers you
such complete authoritative information on so wide a range of subjects as HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK OF RECIPES, FORMULAS and PROCESSES.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for the first time —
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European scientists
and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think what it would mean
to have ten thousand to choose from!
AH Yours for a Small Sum.
The _ housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it the factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams or boiler
compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on fertilisers, cheese
making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this remark-
able one volume encyclopaedia to-day?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
ẁ


IT ISN'T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN'T A
. DYNAMIC
(With • bow to KodakJ
THE ORIGINAL DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australia’s Fastest Selling Speaker A Leader in All States
Dynamic Unit A.C. Model
£7/15/-
Dynamn
Unit D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker”
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
What of £145,000,000? Think of that
figure these bad times. That is what
Broken Hill has produced since “The
Barrier Miner ’ was started to help it
along. And still going strong.
Have you got anything good to sell?
Let these million-makers know about it
through “The Barrier Miner.” They
have just spared about a quarter of a
million for the coalminers.
w
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Orescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
if any illustration in '‘The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ŵ
m
a
i
CIGARS
Tender and carefully cured, the
mellow leaf used in Club Reil
Cigars possesses the mild mellow
flavor best suited to Australian
taste. Obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists, or at addr<
ORDER BY POST.
10 Cigars 5/6
(Posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/-
(Posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/-
(Posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/-
(Posted 46/-)
CRAIG AND
AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
6
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
* and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
Poverty
Point
“Philm”: The limit in publicity stunts
comes from Perth, where a theatre' manage-
ment is offering numerous prizes to flappers
whose rouged lips leave marks on a piece
of paper nearest in shape to the impression
of a passionate kiss registered by a talkie
star. Our deliverance from Hollywood must
still be afar off.
“Ashmead” : I was agreeably surprised the
other day when passing a Perth cinema
theatre. From within came the rich, in-
comparable, unadulterated tones of real pipe-
organ music. A girl sat in the empty theatre,
practising in apparent ecstasy. Not since
the mighty Wurlitzers became a craze in
Australian cities had I heard one played
without the murderous effect of unrelent-
ing vibrato. I had concluded that it was im-
possible to get dinkum pipe-organ music from
these costly contraptions. Since* the great
bellows can produce music, why on earth
don’t they?
“Cauboy” : Hoyt’s de Luxe recently offered
a free trip to Europe, plus gifts of travelling
bags, deck-chairs, cameras, etc., from various
firms, for the best 50-word answer to the
question, “Why did they?” applied to a pic-
ture called “They Had to See Paris.” The
winning effort ran thus:—
Democracy envies aristocracy and desires to imi-
tate it. Fortuitous wealth is often unwisely spent
by those untrained to its responsibilities. Maternal
ambition for children may result in folly unless
feminine sentiment is tempered by masculine discre-
tion. These psychological tendencies, brilliantly
combined in the film, provide the answer required.
The author of this collection of cracker
mottoes is E. A. Mann, formerly M.H.R.
for Perth, and at the moment the most sur-
prised Mann in Melbourne.
“Craiser” : The visit of the Gonsalez opera
company under the Fuller management seems
to have increased the population of Australia
more than any other theatrical venture. One
of its baritones now serves fish over a counter
in Fitzroy and a tenor drives a taxi cab in
Sydney. I was passing a seaside store in
Vic. with a friend the other day w’hen a very
beautiful voice singing one of Gilda’s arias
from “Rigoletto” was wafted through the
fly-net. My friend said it was a loud speaker
but I bet him it was human. And so it proved.
The owner was a pretty little 18-year-old
Italian maiden who had entered domestic
service, and whom I had last seen across the
footlights. Many of the co. were anti-Fas-
cists, which may account for their non-return
to Italy.
“Ypex” (London) : Oscar Asche’s “Inti-
mate Revue” at the Duchess failed badly on
the first night, when stage hands made im-
promptu appearances at odd moments ; in fact,
it was a night for scene-shifters’ debuts. The
critics unanimously asserted that these mis-
fortunes were the only bright parts of the
show.. They were so unanimous that the
revue was taken off, “for further rehearsals.”
Oscar blamed the stage-manager, the stage-
manager blamed Oscar, and the stage staff
blamed both of them and anyone else near
at hand; even the theatre was blamed. After
“further rehearsals,” the revue appeared
again. This time the critics lamented the
absence of mishaps to enliven the show.
“C. Ma.”: Coburg (Vic.) council has
found a unique method of keeping the wolf
from the municipal doorstep. It proposes to
instal talkies in the local town hall. The
apparatus will be 98 p.c. Australian, though
it isn’t expected that the same proportion
will apply to the pictures exhibited—at any
rate for the present.
“Harnfat”: Frank Harvey now has two
plays running in London, and, having written
the sort of part he likes for himself, is
appearing in the second, “Cape Forlorn,”
which has its setting in a Maoriland light-
house and a background stage effect of moan-
ing waves. Tom Walls is again the pro-
ducer; he seems to have hitched his waggon
to this star. Walls is a casual chap with
a hobby for hunting; when Harvey’s first
piece, “The Last Enemy,” failed to hit at its
opening, he went off into the country to
ẃ
“Spare Sub”: The cabled story of a sub-
merged wreck discovered by an airman off
the South African coast, and supposed to
be the Waratah, lost in 1909, recalls a jour-
nalistic turn-up in Brisbane in which the
missing ship had a part. Brisbane “Daily
Mail,” suspecting another paper of pinch-
ing its stuff, faked a cable announc-
ing the discovery of the Waratah in
the Antarctic, whither she was said
to have been wafted helpless by south-
ern-tending currents. It was added that
crew and passengers were all well, having
lived on the quantity of frozen meat carried
by the ship. Two copies with this were
run off and sent round to the other journal,
which came out with an enthusiastic re-hash
of the “news.” Then the “Mail” struck
home.
“Gad”: The grant of a coat of arms to
the “Times,” the first to be conferred on a
newspaper, reminds one that the “Times” is
the only paper in the world w r hich publishes
a Royal edition, which, though it is limited
and printed on special paper, can be pur-
chased by anyone at 4d. a copy, or by
regular subscription at 13s. per annum.
The news-sheets »in this edition are guaran-
teed to last two centuries.
Bill Atack, whose reign as manager of
the M.L. Press Association reaches back
to 1886, has resigned, and Sandy Lane
takes over the worrying job. Lane, after a
long career as a reporter, was for a while
editor of Christchurch “Star,” then news
editor of the “Times” in the same office.
He’s a well-liked chap and a good disci-
plinarian, two things that don’t often go
together. He will probably be, as Atack was,
a much-cursed man, but that will be the
least of nis troubles.
THE SIEGE OF THE SENSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The ‘smellies’ have arrived in New York, an
apparatus having been invented to synchronise smells
with scenes and speeches in motion pictures.”
— “Argus.”
Once in more seemly, silent days,
When movies neither moaned nor mut-
tered,
One’s eyes protectively could glaze
Or, by dropped lids serenely shuttered,
On calm and inward visions dwell;
And thus incontinently vanished
Such ghosts as wove a banal spell
Upon the screen. So were they banished
At will, and decently, I think —
Just wiped away upon a wink.
With progress in its wild career,
Which works too oft to our confusion,
These talkies took us by the ear
And added sound to sight’s. illusion;
And some were such as hearing fain
Attends with mild delight, but others
Just trumpeted aloud a pain
No inattention soothes or smothers.
Yet, finger-stopped, my ears, I found,
Could miss the massacre of sound.
But now —kind Heav’n, can it be. true
Another sense they’d be assaulting?
Content not with the avenue
Of eye and ear (when not defaulting),
They now must grab me by the nose
And souse me with some rank confection.
There’s only left then, I suppose,
A gas-mask for my last protection.
But in some madhouse soon they’ll hutch me,
If e’er they teach these mimes to “touch”
me!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
A CHEERING ITEM
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lives of us who woo the Muses show
Full fifty failures to one lone success;
For poesy, alas! one must confess,
The mere pecuniary quid pro quo
Is often so dishearteningly low
That it becomes apparent in your dress.
Which made one bard record the bitterness 1
Of spirit “when your pants began to go!” j
But modern business lends a helping hand.
An item in the news has cheered me up.
It makes me think that Snips may under-
stand
How bitter ofttimes is the poet’s cup
When an advertisement like this I see:
“Five-guinea suits —with extra trousers
free.”
VICTORIA.
THE DEMOCRAT.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock ~ .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
UAiUUO L'iVAriJ Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS LV'TfMSS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
lIMITCn
U II I I CU
insurance
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances
.effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. O. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
mp
ẁ
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d,
'• A C - - .... ..„ ..
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
WINTER IN SUMMER SEAS
UNION CO- Excursions to South Sea Isles
offer a triple choice to Winter Holidayers.
Sydney —— Auckland Suva Honolulu
—Return (£75 First Saloon; £55 Second).
Auckland Fiji Tonga Samoa and
back; or Sydney Noumea ■— Suva.
Further particulars and fares from—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney; 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
Excursions to Hawaii
BURNS PHILP TOURS
k
PtOK
S 4
u
a
jtw^
The Garden of the East.
Seven weeks’ wonderful tour,
including about two weeks’ Lux-
urious Motor Trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney by the magnificent
liner,
T.S.S. MARELLA, July 7, 1930.
Smooth water voyage via the pic-
turesque Torres Strait.
First-class inclusive round fare,
£l2B.
WRITE FOR PAMPHLET No. 11.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Storj
Read the B.P. Magazine, 1/- a copj
All Newsagents and Bookseller;
BURNS, PHILP &C?,LTP
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDNEY,AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ẃ
ẅ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
688 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
FOR 84 YEARS QUEENSLAND'S LEADING DAILY NEWSPAPER
The
BRISBANE
COURIER
The largest and most widely spread
Home-delivered morning newspaper in
Brisbane and Queensland. For 84
years the “Courier” has been the most
outstanding advertising medium of
Queensland, and still enjoys the
supreme confidence of all local and
national advertisers.
220,571 inches
The "Courier” during 1929 exceeded
its morning contemporary’s total adver-
tising space by 220,571 inches.
Published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
COURIER BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . . 10,000 tons, June 18
sEuripides . 15,000 ~ Aug. 2
*Nestor .. . 15,000 „ Sept. 15
fCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 20
*First class only.
fCabin class. {First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
) Joint
| Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerLyH l
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Siresc, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Slreet. Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.G.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. _ Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
NZ. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CUUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
TOTE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Of to any of the World’s Dcatling
Advertising; Agencies.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.


a sic
with
wafer output
f
for
SETS
m
SPECIFICATIONS:
Filament Volts 4-0
Fil. Current 1.0 amps, approx.
Plate Volts. . 250 plus 250 R.M.S. (max.)
Impedance 220 ohms
Max. rect. ) 75 m/amps.
Current ) unsmoothed
Equivalent ... [»i.i 506
A VALVE of the 506 type
specially designed for use in
all-electric sets with the new ad-
vanced design Osram A.C. Valves
(“M” series) and similar types.
Delivers a current of 75 Milliamps
unsmoothed. Its sturdy filament
is able to withstand any possible
fluctuations of supply mains voltage.
Fit this new Osram Rectifier and
note the immediate improvement.
If your local dealer cannot supply
this or any other Osram Valve you
need, it will be sent direct safe
delivery guaranteed,
“The Osram Valve Guide” a
useful book detailing all Osram
Valves is free for the asking.,
fhe, Hi
ew
I \^^ / Made in England
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co. Ltd.
Head Office and Public Showrooms: Magnet House, 104-114 Clarence Street, Sydney
Brunch Offices and Public Showrooms at Melbourne, Adetaide, Perth,
-Newcastle and N.Z. cities. Sole Agencies at Brisbane and Hobart.
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children
Golden Jubilee No. 1 Art Union.
DRAWN June 28 in Sydney Town Hall at 3 p.m. Closing June 14.
Tickets:
post free.
Books of 12 and
25 tickets can be
had on applica-
tion. Send now.
r
Vn*
X'..
Spend 1/- and
Kelp to maintain
the little kiddies
who are depend-
ent upon your
sympathy.
By permission of the Honorable the Attorney-General .
FIRST PRIZE De Soto Sedan De Luxe, Value £471
SECOND PRIZE. . Chevrolet Six De Luxe Sedan, Value 310
THIRD PRIZE .. . Glory Box and Trousseau, Value .... 100
TOTAL PRIZES VALUE OVER £lOOO.
Apply to HON. SEC., BOX 4200 XX, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE L.I.J .. 301 ••
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“1.C.”: Queensland railways, whicli made
un experiment some years a*go with a couple
of American-built rail motors, are going to
try again. By the end of the year it is
proposed to have four of these motor-driven
cars running over short distances on tbe
(Government lines, two of them being capable
of accommodating 150 people.
“Fernie”: Despite recent large additions
to hydro-electric power resources Maoriland’s
coal production is increasing. There was
a record output in 1929 of 2,535,864 tons,
which is 99,111 tons more than the previous
best in 1928. Compared with that year
exports increased by 79,632 tons and im-
ports went down by 32,205 tons. The result
: s mainly due to the discovery that better
gas can be made from a mixture of locally-
mined coals than from imported bituminous
coal.
* # # *
“Sturt”: A fool-of-an-Act has caused
Emile Mazure, one of S.A.’s best-known vig-
nerons, to be lined for selling wine—which
is his business. The law used to bar an
unlicensed wine-shop trade by making the
minimum five gallons; but the Supreme
Court has decided (on appeal) that "the
Legislature had taken away the former right,
except in selling to a licensed person. ‘Quan-
tity’ now means any quantity.” Fine nomi-
nal.
# *
“Oilman”: From London comes word that
the Crozier retort at the Goliath Portland
Cement Co.’s works at Latrobe (Tas.) has
worked smoothly, having produced about 50
tons of high-quality crude petroleum. At
300 gallons to the ton, this means about
15,000 gallons of oil. The success will de-
vote renewed attention to the possibility of
establishing an oil-extraction industry to
treat the large bodies of oil shale and brown
coal, as well as black coal, now lying idle
in the various States.
# $ * *
“Piecrust”: A recent mention of sun-
downers with unusual jobs reminds me of a
man who told me he was a piano-tuner.
“Not much trade round here, is there?” I
asked, gazing at the thinly-populated grazing
country. “No,” he admitted, “but still they
know me now, and I. manage to make a crust
straightening up and tightening barbed-wire
fences.”
* * *
“LjC.” : A year ago the British fishing
industry was on the down-grade. The trade
imposed a levy of a penny on every pound’s
worth of fish landed in Britain, the money
to be utilised in advertising the benefits of
a fish diet. The result was that in 12 months
the consumption of fish jumped 37,000
tons, and trawler companies increased their
revenues by £1,100,000. Laid-up boats are
in full work, and 73 new ones have been laid
down. Coal burned by the fishing fleets
increased by 150,000 tons. There is a lesson
here for Australia.
* * * *
“Electrode” : Tony conducts a fish business
in a W.A. seaport town and has tried hard
to popularise mullet and flathead from the
estuary and river. Said Tony recently: “Da
Oostralians is verra extravagan’. I put da
river feesh in da winder, an’ people come
in an’ say, ‘How mooch da feesh, Tony?’
I tella dem seexpence da poun’. Den dey
ask how mooch da snapper, an’ when I say
one an’ six da poun’ dey sing out, ‘Orl-
riglit, sling us da cuppler poun’s of da snap-
per.’ Eet is verra foony. Da snapper no
tree times as gooda other feesh.” And Tony
shrugged his shoulders hopelessly.
* * * *
“Uramao” : A Yankee company with some
millions to spend on a hydro-electrical scheme
for the manufacture of nitrates is satisfied
that Doubtful Sound (M.L.) offers the pros-
pects it has been looking for. It is pro-
posed to pierce a tunnel 20 feet in diametey
for seven miles (in places running under a
mountain 4000 feet high) that will carry
water from Lake Mauapouri to Deep Cove,
in Doubtful Sound. This tunnel will drain as
much water from the lake to the power-
station as the present volume flowing into
the Waiau River. It is estimated tha<t the
work will take three years to complete.
* $ * *
“Nduindui”: “Shagreen” (B. 14/5/’3O)
thinks that it is leg-pulling to suggest that
four men, properly equipped, might catch
100 sharks per day near Lord Ilowe Island.
While assistant supercargo on the Makambo
during December, 1920, I saw four men
(two mates, an engineer and a seaman)
catch and laud with improvised tackle (one
of the most successful devices was a meat
hook on a length of heaving line) 34 sharks
in three hours. They were mostly of the
grey nurse type, and some were nine-
footers. I have no interest in Pacific
Fishing Industries, but in choosing Lord
Howe Island as their headquarters they will be
working waters with more sharks to the
acre than any I have ever seen, and I
speak from observations made in most Island
groups, Java, and right round the Australian
coast.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Amalgamated Wireless is now
manufacturing and installing an apparatus
which will help to solve one problem for
the owners of small trading craft operating
in Australian waters. It is a box smaller than
a kerosene-case, which will enable a master
to send out appeals for help although ignorant
of the Morse code. It can be worked from dry
cells, and a clockwork device pours into the
ether the longitude and latitude of a dis-
tressed vessel, and a continuous SOS, the
signals being capable of reaching a shore
station or other vessels over a reasonably
long distance. In the event of the crew
abandoning the ship the box will continue its
alarums for a couple of hours, until the
mechanism runs down. It is the invention
of L. A. Hook, one of A.W.A.’s employees.
* % * *
“P.W.”: In the matter of railway records
Britain still leads the world. An express has
streaked over the 176 miles from Wake-
field in Yorkshire to King’s Cross (London)
in 167 minutes, which works out at 63.2
m.p.h. It was all in the day’s work, but
nothing like it has previously been achieved
over such a distance. The faithful structure
of British permanent ways is largely respon-
sible for this and similar speeds.


11l
■
. J
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY
RAZOR CO., LTD., 197-207, CITY ROAD, LONDON, ENG.
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
18!, CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., LTD., AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON & CHRISTCHURCH.
Old-fashioned two-edged blades
vibrated and dragged because of
wafer thinness. New shaped
holes in Probak blades distribute
bending strain and make 17%
extra weight possible. Extra
weight reduces vibration to the
minimum. Made from continu-
ous ribbon of steel, so that every
blade must have the same perfect
edge. Probak blades fit all two-
edged safety razors. Sold every-
where at fixed prices, 2/- the
small packet, 4/- the large.
new shaped holes
make 17 % extra
weight possible*
result no
vibration, no
drageask for
PR«BAK
BLADES
fe
///
WHAT’S ahead? Will you get
through—if roads are deep in mud
or sand? Will you skid dangerously—if
pavements are wet and slippery?
You can drive with confidence with
Weed Tyre Chains. (They grip and hold
on any road—provide safe, sure traction
always. They protect you, your, passen-
gers and your car against skidding
accidents.
Weed Tyre Chains have been stand-
ard throughout the world for more than
a quarter of a century. Always look for
the name “Weed” on every; hook and
demand the genuine.
a*
%
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y.. U. S. A.
K
X
%
A
M&
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
r
MIW 7
M
A
1
■ w
is Calling You
Answer her, and the most glorious experience of a lifetime is
yours. Arrange to stay at least a week. Fascinating Honolulu
with its varied native life and colour, surfing at countless beaches
where the waters are always warm, Kilauea Volcano and
enchanting inter-island cruises, are but a few of the wondrous
adventures that this Paradise of the Pacific holds for you.
Honolulu, the Capital of Hawaii, is only a fortnight from
Sydney. Special return excursion fares now available. First-
class accommodation from 15/- a day, including meals.
Hear Hawaii’s "Aloha!” (Greetings).
Send us your address and we will forward to you descriptive
booklets of the Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in colour.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept. 1 7
Box 1627 8.8., G.P.O.
SYDNEY


ẁ
ẃ
(4 s
Ac®
etvs
,a* e
9 <es sv
usv*"r “isw*
Vo ?' jt ° Ip "cvV' tv^ e 'w
1\
\tA eV *
ur ers>
*<*k- ; sol eM^^P
.*KS
c^ dei \ s ° l K
~ s*#*
Will fully inflate the average
tyre in one minute.
THE \
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
V
Price, 45/-
{With Gauge,
5/■ extra.)
y
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Dookie, who visited Sydney for the autumn
meetings, but failed twice over the battens
at Randwick, met with' heavy support in the
Kororoit Hurdle at Williamstown on Satur-
day. Early betting revealed Tirade favorite
at 7 to 2, with Dookie half a point longer,
but Jim Roche’s gelding was backed down
to 9 to 4. India’s Hope (6 to 1) disputed
control with the topweiglit, Lord Bounty, and
settled his chance; Lord Bounty was con-
ceding his rival almost 3st. Supporters of
India’s Hope chuckled with satisfaction when
the Lucknow gelding led into the straight,
but Cockcrow, always handy, finished with
a rattle and scored by three-quarters of a
length, Dookie being half a length farther
off. It was Cockcrow’s first essay as a
hurdler, yet he started at 7 to 1. Joe Mul-
cahy, who was foreman to W. S. Ilieken-
botham in the Carbine era, trains the son
of Crowdennis for H. N. Leonard, whose late
father, William Leonard, was one of the
pilla*rs of Victorian racing,
Gus Powell, former Indian horse-trader,
is cutting a big figure in Victoria as an owner
of jumpers. Last season lie carried off the
Australian Hurdle and Australian Steeple-
chase with Mosstrooper, who had been
runner-up to Sandhurst in the V.R.C. Grand
National Steeple. Mosstrooper is in com-
mission again, but so far has been produced
in fiat races only. Powell sprang a sur-
prise on Williamstown patrons by annexing
the Autumn Steeple with Bhopal, a five-year-
old mare by Bardolph, who had not been
worth' the proverbial pinch of snuff as a
sprinter. Her previous jumping experience in
public consisted of an outing over brush
fences and 1 odds of 15 to 1 could be had at
barrier-rise. Leading throughout, Bhopal
reached the judge more than a length in
advance of Valbroy, who came home well.
WiHanjie, a ’chaser of really good quality,
fell at the third fence and broke his neck.
Fighting Top, a winner in open company
at the Warrnambool Cup meeting, and
Ermine, another Western District youngster,
were produced for the Juvenile Handicap
and led for a good part of the journey.
Fighting Top, a* son of Top Gallant, petered
out, but Ermine (by Beau Fils) struggled
on gamely; however, she had no chance
against the favorite, Yaropian. Konald
Evans, the midget jockey who piloted l err jP'
tation to victory in the Adelaide Cup, did
not ask Yaropiam for a real effort until they
entered the straight; then Yaropian brilliantly
overhauled Ermine and won by three-quarters
of a length. Yaropian. is by Ethiopian,
whose progeny have distinguished them-
selves on the Victorian turf, one noted. per-
former being the 1927 Oakleigli Plate winner
Baringliup.
.MeShortodds smiled expansively when
Sartaress (14 to 1) rolled home in the Bay
View Handicap and Paquin (12 to 1) m the
second division of the Beach W elter. Sar-
taress had recently failed in Purse company.
He belongs to and is trained by a son of
V. G. Benyon, who used to be located in
Sydney and won an Australian Steeple with
Algous. After getting away badly in the
Bay View, a*nd being third last at the back
of the course, Second Wind finished won-
derfully well to make a dead-heat with
Glynylln for third place.
Jack Holt, who trains Second Wind, owns
Lord Essex (6 to 4), winner of the first divi-
sion of the Beach Welter. He leased the son of
Ilizzio to Claude Goodfellow. Handicappers
have been kind to Lord Essex, and it required
no great effort for him to dispose of a
comparatively weak field. Blematic was a
good thing beaten in the Gellibrand Handi-
A PARTING INJUNCTION
FIVE-EIGHTH (giving instructions to half): “I„ want all them passes to-day waist high.
Not your blooming waist; my waist.”
cap. Jafoeroo (7 to 1) was advantaged at the
start, and Neville Percival managed to keep
him in front all the Way; Blematic came
from the middle of the field to secure second
honors. Tasmanian trainer G. H'. Cann had
the misfortune to run second in the prin-
cipal event with Tarapunga, second in the
last race with King Mart, and third in the
Gellibrand Handicap with Swifden, a brother
to Brockwood.
;!♦ i\i S$C Jp
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Commonwealth Steeplechase: Bhopal;
next, Valbroy.
Mount Alexander Handicap : Tarapunga;
next, Myarin.
* * * *
A trip to the country has improved Green
Loch, who gave the impression last year
that she was squibby. In the Flying Handi-
cap at Moorefield on Saturday the daughter
of Greenstead —Cushla came home gamely
enough when tackled by Nolens \ olens and
the favorite, Ila Tait, and got the best of
a very close finish. She went out at 8 to 1;
Nolens Volens figured at 33 to 1 and his
tote backers received £lO 13s. fid. for 10s. —
over 20 to 1 for a place. Another improved
neddy is Mr. Whiz (7 to 1), who won the
Moorefield Handicap nicely from Eubui (14
to 1) and Clear Flight (8 to 1). Last
season Mr. Whiz had a disheartening “trot”
of seconds, but his victory, at Moorefield fol-
lowed one at Randwick, and that should be
consistency enough for anyone.
Success returned to the Price-McCarten
combination, very unlucky of recent weeks,
when Habit, also from Maoriland, captured
the Carlton Welter. Habit was favorite at
twos; second (Gleaner) and third (Yam-
baeoona) were also well backed. A feminine
punter who gets a lot of publicity backed
Vambacoona. The ringmen grin at the
things they read about the lady’s wonderful
winnings, and hope she will keep at it.
sjt * =!=
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Farm Stakes: Starlike; next, Merryland.
Prospect Handicap: Killarney; next, Ila
Tait.
Farm Handicap: Vertoy; next, Yoleuse.
Casula Handicap: Habit; next, Gleaner.
Si! * *
In the race for the £ll5O hung up for the
Newcastle Cup mares added to their impres-
glyg record in important handicaps this
season. Vertoy (8 to 1) won from Bosmina
(20 to 1), a local filly, and Frances Cyllene
(10 to 1) in the good time of 2mm. 201 sec.
Kavalli was favorite, but lie once more
refused to do his best, and Patadawn and
Stormy, who were also well backed, ran
poorly. Vertoy is a four-year-old mare by
The Verderer —Toinettc, and now that she
has shown she is no mere sprinter she will
receive some consideration for the spring
handicaps. She was third in the .last Epsom.
Closing dates for entries for the Epsom
and Metropolitan, and for the V arwick
Farm spring handicaps and various A.J.C.
classics, have been advanced a day, and
now read June 4 instead of June 3.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wrestlers Charles Struck (lost. 81b.) and
“Scotty” McLeod (15st.), both Americans,
were entrusted with, the job of luring the
public to the reopening of Melboui m
Stadium on Saturday night. Evidently well
primed as to the taste of Melbourne crowds,
the massive pair put on an entertaining
turn, with just sufficient “brutality to thrill.
Charles, whose work was punctuated with
agonised grunts, was the first to score ; and
Mac’s turn came in the sixth rounu. in
the next, Churles pushed his fellow-counti a ■
man on the chin and, as the latter gave every
indication of being “out, the culprit was
disqualified.
:|: :J: #
Alby Roberts, a hard-hitting abo., scored a
clear-cut victory over “Dealer” Wells in their
contest at Sydney Stadium. His timing was
perfect, and he took full advantage of vA ells s
poor defence. Wells mixed it gamely, hut
the black knocked him nearly out of the
ring early in the twelfth, and settled the
dispute beyond question shortly after.
Roberts, lOst. 21b.; Wells, lOst. 41b.
Footbrawl
This is apparently going to be a season
of surprises in Vic. League hoofbai). Most
people felt so sure that Oollingwood on its
own ground would smother Geelong that a
bare 15,000 attended to view the rout. _ It
was Geelong that did the routing. Right
from the bounce the Seasiders were faster,
quicker in anticipation and —whisper it
gently-—better organised than the opposition.
There were two or three new cogs in the
Collingwood wheel, and the machine didn't
work smoothly. At one stage the ’Woodmen,
who have tasted defeat only once since ’2B,
were 28 points in arrear; they pulled up
a bit in a desperate finish, but Geelong wont
home rejoicing and uproarious, victors by
90 points to 72. Hawthorn visited Essen-
don, and drew a 20,000 crowd, but found
the home side too fast and clever, and so
lost by Cl points to 90. Time was when
the collision of South Melbourne and Carl-
ton drew a huge mob to the big oval, but
South is not what it w*as._ By half-time
Carlton had piled up 93 points to 35, and
the ground began to empty. At the end
Carlton owned 138 points to 84. Melbourne
collected 123 points to North Melbourne’s
102; St. Ivilda put it all over Fitzroy with
a tally of 108 points to 58, and Richmond
scored its first win by downing Footscray
in convincing fashion —91 points to 64.
* if -f *
The Sydney Rugby Union clubs are
a very level lot this year, only a
couple of points separating the first
four. Randwick paid the penalty of
inferiority in the forwards on Saturday
at Sydney Cricket Ground, when Northern
Suburbs, last year’s runners-up, beat .them
16-11, scoring 4 tries to 3. Towers played a
very fine game at centre for the losers, but
was unlucky enough to break a collarbone,
which means he will not be available against
the British team. The Northern pack played
hard football, with Hyndes always con-
spicuous in the rushes. Eastern Suburbs
won from St. George at Uni. Oval by 17-5.
and to the general surprise outplayed the
Saints’ powerful pack. Farleigh was again
excellent as the Saints’ fullback, while a for-
ward named Bottomley, from England, gave
a very satisfactory display in the Eastern
Suburbs vanguard. Manly had to go down to
a much improved Glebe-Balmain side at the
Village by 16-8. The game was hard all
through, with G.-B. a shade the better in all
departments. Parramatta saw a Union game
for the first time for many years, when
Western Suburbs scratched home from Uni-
versity by IS-17 in a fast and open game.
Each side scored 3 tries, but W.S. found the
goal oftener.
* * *
“Stand OH”: The British Rugby Union
side had a comfortable win against Wanga-
nui in the opening match of the tour, lead-
ing 14-0 at half-time, and finishing with
the score-hoard 19-5. Combination is' said to
have been excellent, and the scrumming
capacity of the visitors impressed the M.L.
critics, who are good judges of that phase
of the game.
N.S.W. Rugby League competitions were
suspended at the week-end, the metropolitan
first-grade clubs meeting eight teams from
country districts. Football on the part of the
countrymen was not up to the high standard
seen last year, though Southern Districts pro-
vided an exception; these lads gave the
formidable South Sydney club the run of its
life, though beaten 25-22. York, an inter-
state rep., was in groat buckle for the visi-
tors, while Kadwell was at lushest behind the
South Sydney scrum. Eastern Suburbs, with
Hardy again in fine fettle, easily accounted
for Far North Coast by 37 to 5. University
scored one of its infrequent wins from Uln-
warra, the Sontli Cowsters going down 16-11.
Newtown (30) was too solid for Western
Districts (10), but Balmain had to go all
out to beat Far West 37-28. Other winners
were North Sydney (19) v. North West (14),
St. George (with Frank Burge back) 21 to
9 by North Coast, and AVestern Suburbs,
which towelled Newcastle to the tune of 29-9.
(Continued on next page.)
EXERCISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There is no exercise that develops fleeter limbs,
stronger bodies or more enduring hearts.”*—jlfei-
bourne “Sun” lauding football.
Talk to me not of hockey, golf, lacrosse;
Spare me your tales of tennis, cricket,
bowls!
I count them one and all as so much dross
Compared with this. When Richmond
gathers goals
Despite ’Roy’s raging backs, when South
assails
The citadels of ’Wood, brother, there starts
The game that fosters where another fails,
“Fleet limbs, strong bodies and enduring
hearts.”
Strong bodies! Fifty thousand strong they
stand
Around a fence through trying afternoons
Of winter raw, a dour and dauntless band,
Athletically bellowing at loons
lh muddied knickers murderous behests
To “Tear ’im down” and Sink the boot”
... . such cries
As surely prove the strength of—throats and
chests,
Equal to this so virile exercise.
Enduring hearts! Aye, how they have
endured
The blight of futile umpires who display
The feeble working of a mind obscured
In ev’ry fresh decision on the fray.
A vile and venal crew these umpires be,
And biased, as the mounting din imparts
Against both sides —-ah, surely you’ll agree
That here are fifty thousand stoic hearts!
Fleet limbs! When hungry hordes depart
the match
With thought of dinner and a picture-
show,
And waiting trains and trams are there to
catch,
The seats are to the swift, straps to the
slow.
The strenuous day is done; the glories fade;
From fifty thousand athletes now arise
Tired murmurings. The thirty-odd that
played—
They, too, no doubt, have had some
exercise!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
Sb^
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405*07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
i rV “
Leipzig Trade Fair
GERMANY
A
THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS
(TWICE YEARLY.)
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Engineering and
Building Fairs, starts AUGUST 31, 1930
INQUIRIES INVITED, INFORMATION GLADLY GIVEN BY:—-
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
C. X. KEPPEL,
O/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd.,
Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
‘Germany invites the display of Australian Primary Products
for presentation to the World’s D *—”
w
K
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps doge erf all kinds in
the pink of condition.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W r C. SCHWAB
P. O. Bsk 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T : Ration
Bert Well, get the ashes
THIS TRIP, I THINK
Sert/ But \ w/xs told the
English \nickets are
VERy treacherous, 1 ’
DIPEERE-NT
from ours”
<3i&rt : <f Weu_, why didnV our *-
Boys take their own
with them ? ”
F ootbrawl
“Kiora”: That decision of the M.L. Rugby
Union to play in all white instead of the
historical all black (B. 21/5/’3O) has pro-
voked an upheaval in the Shivery Isles the
like of which has not been seen since the
Tarawera eruption. .When the tumult and
the shouting was at its highest, James Baxter,
president of the English Rugby Union, who
is managing the British side, came forward
with a graceful gesture. The visitors will
waive their customary right and will appear
in the Tests in the white jersey which is the
uniform of the English international sides.
I n the matches against the M.L. provinces,
any necessary changes in colors will be
made by the home teams.
* * * *
“New Blood”: That lament about the
inability of several prominent N.S.W. Rugby
Union players to go to Queensland (B.
21/5/|3O) is out of tune. Much as we love
the, Waratalis, some of them are getting into
the stage when the waistline is fading, and
their dropping out is all for the good of the
game. The Ma State selectors have picked
a side full of virile youngsters, and some
of them, like that clinking Manly forward,
Hodgson, should figure for Australia against
the British visitors. One man passed over
is Farleigh. the St. George fullback. On
last and this year’s form this lad is the!
best in sight, with the possible exception of
K. Burke, of Newcastle. Good player and
deadly place kick as Mick Stewart, chosen
to fill the place left vacant by Alec Ross,
may be, he is not in the sa<me class as the
two mentioned as an all-round custodian.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The Victorian and South Aus-
tralian League football authorities are again
casting at each other aspersions of the sort
no real lady should permit to pass her lip's.
The troiibic, which has been brewing for
a long time, has arisen from the Victorian
League’s insatiable appetite for absorbing
promising players from other States, an
appetite which the recent regulations cur-
tailing payments to players by Victorian
clubs docs not seem to have affected. One
gentleman about whom the storm centre
of the controversy rages has admitted that,
while he was a truck driver in Adelaide,
kind friends have found him a more lucrative
job in Melbourne as a silver polisher.
$ * * *
“Fitzcray”: Some Victorian Football
Leaguers are far from satisfied with the
independent umpires board, appointed at the
beginning of the season to select the umps. for
the big Saturday games. When the club
delegates used to choose the 37th man, there
were insulting insinuations to the effect that
they were prone to choose men thought to
favor their own clubs. The board’s work, so
far, has not been pleasing to the delegates,
who are endeavoring to curtail its powers.
The board says it intends to stand on its
rights as laid down at the time of its appoint-
ment, so a bright scrap is in prospect.
The Fifteen
The Australians made another unenter-
prising draw of their match against Maryle-
bone at Lord’s. Though Jackson went for a
duck in the first over, Woodfull (52) and
Bradman (66) did well, Ponsford back-
ing them with 82 not out. Victor
Richardson contributed 34. The last five
men went for 16 runs, with 285 up on
the board. Allom, a mediocre fast-medium
trundler when here with Gilligan’s side last
year, was hard to play, taking 5 . for 67.
Kennedy, of Hampshire, got 3 for 60, a«nd
slow-bowler Peebles, a Scot of whom much
is expected, outed Kippax and Hornibrook at
a cost of 87 runs. Fairfax came into his
own in M.O.C.’s first knock of 255, taking
6 for 54. Wall at last got going, with 2 for
66, and Hornibrook collected a couple for
44. Duleepsinhji played a fine shot for 92,
while Stevens’s knock of 48 also stood the
home side in good stead. Australia’s second
try yielded 212. Jackson getting 64. The
ex-N. S. Welshman, Allen, took 4 for 28.
With only a few minutes to go, Chapman did
not send his men in for a second innings.
* * * *
The Australians were able to register a
10-wickets win over Derbyshire, a result
mainly due to the batting of Ponsford and
Jackson and the bowling of Hornibrook.
The midland shire, though it hasn’t a poten-
tial Test player in its ranks, is by no means
to be despised; it finished seventh in last
year’s county .championship table. The
homesters, batting first -on a slow wicket,
put up 215, Storer (65). Worthington (79)
and the ex-Oxonian Ford (33) contributing
most of the runs. Hornibrook showed him-
self in fine form with the ball, taking 6 for
61, but HYirwood and McCabe were ineffec-
tive. Wall had 3 for 48 and Bradman, in
his first appearance at the bowling crease,
secured the other wicket. Ponsford and Jack-
son gave the visitors an excellent start; the
tally was 127 when , the latter went for 63.
Ponsford went on to score 131 in a sound
and solid 3$ hours’ innings, but the others
except Bradman (44) did little, and the later
batsmen pottered about when there was no
need for caution. The total reached 348,
with Worthington and Mitchell the-most ,suc-
cessful bowlers. The county’s second inn-
ings realised 181 (Ford 48, Alderman 38,
and Townsend 38). Hornibrook was again
to the fore with 6 wickets for 82—12
for 143 in the match—and Wall dismissed a
couple of batsmen cheaply. This left Aus-
tralia with 49 to win, and Ponsford and Jack-
son, with two hours to do* it in, compiled
them carefully in something over half the
time.
* * * * :
“Shrewsbury”: With the first Test at
Nottingham barely a fortnight off, interest
is centring on the selection of the' English
side. Hobbs and Hendren may be counted
as certainties, and Duleepsinhji has made
his marble good with his fine innings against
Australia at Lords. Walter Hammond has
at last emerged from his seclusion with a
clinking score .of over 200 for Gloucester-
shire, and J. C. White is batting and bowling
so Well that it is hard to see the left-hander
from Somerset left out, selector as he is.
Another veteran well in the running is
grandpa Wilfred Rhodes, while among the
new bowlers Allom has made a good start
on. English wickets. Chapman looks like
being skipper, in spite of the fact that he
has done little with the bat so far. His
work in charge of the M.C.C. side has gained
him a lot of press support.
* * * *
The Watermen
“Stretcher”: There were hopes that a
Maoriland eight would be seen in Australia
this year, an invitation from this s'de being
overdue,. but it is not to be. The All Blacks
are sending an eight to the Empire Games at,
Hamilton in August. It doesn’t say much for
Australian rowing enthusiasts that M.L.,
with its small population, can find money
for such tour, while Australia is content
to moan that it is broke to the wide.
* * * *
“Toowong”: It is just possible that a
great oarsman was lost to Australia when
Arthur Davis, otherwise “Steele Rudd,”
retired from, the old Commercial Rowing
Club in Brisbane and substituted a pine
penhandle for an ash oar-shaft. The Aus-
tralian chronicler of the cocky had made
some impression in the Brisbane of, his day
as a polo player, but he evidently found
rowing rather wearing on the nerves and
other portions of his anatomy, and gave it
best. Nevertheless, he owes the second part
of liis pen-name to the sport. One of his
earlier efforts was signed “Steele Rudder,’’
the idea* having come to him by watching
his cox manipulating the little gadget that
has _so much to do with winning or losing
rowing races. A sub-editor or a compositor
shortened the second word to “Rudd” and
so it has remained to this day.
Racquet and Brawl
“Top Spin”: Australia got jvell away
with the Davis Cup match against Ireland,
though Jack Crawford was defeated by
Rogers in the second batch of singles. The
next game will be against Britain on June
6. Gregory, who did so well in Australia
a couple of seasons ago, is reported to be
in rare buckle, and will constitute our chief
danger.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Davis Cup results to date
indicate that the TJ.S.A. will be one\of the
contenders in the final for the right to go up
against _ France in the challenge round.
France is rather in the dumps. Lacoste is
definitely unable to play, and Cochet’s form
has been disappointing. Borotra and Brug-
non are still the best of the others, but what
Bill Tilden has been doing to both of them
on the Riviera has almost obliterated the
memory of Sedan.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Contrary to expectation,
Helen .Wills that was, now Mrs. Moody, has
turned up in Europe to take part in the
big Continental tourneys and the Wimbledon
meeting. She is to partner .Elizabeth Ryan in
doubles events, and will probably play in the
AH England singles. Wisely she lias brought
along 26, tennis racquets arid left her hus-
band at home. .
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: The Walker Cup, a pot of
contention for some years past between
English and American amateur golfers, ended
in the usual hiding for the British Lion,
who has never yet been able to claim the
trophy. The match was played on the Sand-
wich course, which gets the full benefit of
the delightful English Channel weather, and
is reckoned to be the windiest on earth.
This was supposed to favor the home players,
few Americans being at home under such
conditions, according to popular ideas. This
lot was, the only men to win for England
in the singles being the usually, erratic
Cyril Tolley and Edgar Torrance.
* * * *
. “Lancs”: The female of the golf species
in England seems to be of tougher fibre than
her brothers. While the lads were getting
hideously towelled in their match against
the Americans at Sandwich', the lasses came
home on the bit at Formby in the race for
the British women’s championship. Glenna
Collett, probably the best woman player of
the day, has had hard luck in her several
attempts to win this event, the most impor-
tant in women’s golf. The great American
player won all the way to the final, when she
was outed bv Diana Fishwick, an English
flapper of 18. Several Australian girls
figured in the match, the most successful
being Miss Hay, of Barwon Heads (Vic.),
who made her way into the semi-finals.
* * * *
"The Mellaggis”: I am pleased to note
that another eminent authority on golf.
Bobby Jones, agrees with my oft-reit-
erated contention that beginners are over-
instructed by well-meaning teachers. Jones
quotes the dismal list of “don’ts” to which
so many neophytes are asked to conform,
and sums up by advising his readers to
ignore it. Everyone who has been ass
enough to con for no to the academical school
of golf knows how paralysing to every sense
of free movement and effectiveness these
instructions arc. As Jones says, beginners
are so tied up with thinking of rules and
conventions that -none of them have a hope
of playing a decent shot. After a*ll there is
only one rule for all ball games outside the
kicking variety. That is to keep your eye
on the ball and hit it.
* * * *
“Brassey”: An interesting golf win was
that of .T. Borrowman, who lifted the Moore
Park (N.S.W.) club’s A.I.F. Cup the other
day. Borrowman has been playing for only
two years and has only one arm—the other
is somewhere in France, where he served with
the Black Watch. His net score was 72,
uncommonly good going. In spite of his dis-
ability he gets great length from the tee,
and his work with the irons, especially in
approaching, is first-class. Curiously enough,
another member of the same regiment,
Colonel Sutton, has recently been featured
in an English golfing journal as a one-armed
golfer.
* # * *
“Divot Digger” : N.S.W. golfers are over-
joyed ' to hear that Ivo Whitton will cross
the Murray to defend his title as amateur
champion of the Ma State in June. The
great Victorian player has picked Up his
form of late, after some lamentable displays
against Hagen and Co., as his win on the
long Kingston Heath (Vic.) course, with
rounds of 75 and 78, shows. Alec Russell
and A. Sclilapp are included in the Victoi’ian
contingent, and the home players will have
to go their hardest if the amateur label is
to come back to N.S.W.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz” : Amy Johnson’s epic flight lends
additional interest to another feat of the
flappers—the first “women only” reliability
run from London to Land’s End. The equiva-
lent annual event for men only and for
all classes of cars is rightly considered
one of the most exacting road tests in
Britain. It means 20 hours’ continuous driv-
ing, and the roads when Devonshire and
Cornwall are reached are no speedways. The.
girls started 34 strong and only 11 of
them failed to clock in at the finish. The
percentage of success was greater than in
the men’s event. There may be a catch in the
statement that most of the women drivers
carried males as passengers.
* * * *
“Tin Liz”: America is taking steps to
deal with the rapidly increasing nuisance of
abandoned cars. In that country, where no
one walks if he has the price of a gallon of
petrol, vacant lands are being piled up with
derelict cars, even the quieter streets being
utilised. The National Auto Club has
now engineered an agreement under which
a lot of the big firms will undertake to
buy back the derelicts as scrap iron—
Ford, for instance, will pay £4 per wreck on
delivery at Detroit. It is a great idea, but
in Australia we have a better one. We sell
the scrap iron to mugs as “used cars.”
Evidently the crop of mugs in America is
running low.
* * * *
“Differential”: It looks as if American
car designers have solved the problem of
adapting the Diesel heavy oil engine to auto-
mobiles. Experiments in France and Britain,
directed to the same end, have not yet pro-
duced a<ny concrete result. Recently a
Diesel-engined car built by the Cummins
Engine Co. was given a spin on Daytona
Beach and kicked up to 78 m.p.li. On the
road the same car was tried in a long trip
from Indianapolis to New York and back,
and did the journey on 102 gallons of fuel
oil costing 38s. Alterations in the gear ratio
are said to have solved the problem of inflexi-
bility. which has always been the handicap of
the Diesel principle. A governor is employed
to regulate the engine to 1300 revs, per
minute, its maximum working output.


\1
111
c lhe
Security
of a
Bank and
return:,
awMwL
The operations of the Company are
subject to the provisions of the Banks Act.
6% monthly interest
on current accounts
£5 only required to open this account.
Practically all investment plans which credit or pay interest
monthly require much larger initial payments than £5.
Add any amount at any time.
This is advisable for those who do not wish to contract
to invest a definite amount at stated intervals, and especially
attractive for the business or professional man whose income
is received in odd amounts at irregular intervals. <
No discounts, no charges.
No charge is made to open this account, and no part of
the principal or interest is discounted when withdrawn.
A Form of Investment for Large
or Small Investors that holds firm
against Financial Tides
To-day’s need is for a safe investment that will return a substantial income.
Bank interest is sure enough but not sufficient. Among the dangerous tides
of finance to-day the Merron Estate, Ltd., stands out like a solid rock of
security. Its business is built on the soundest form of finance in existence—
the advancing of money against approved securities.
Your money, no matter how much or how little, is secured by loans on
solid securities made on conservative valuations by men of expert capacity
and judgment.
COMPLETE PROTECTION AGAINST LOSS.
No money is advanced without ample security. Moreover, the securities
themselves are insured against loss, destruction or default. Also, the Share
Capital of the Company is a substantial guarantee to investors.
You can place your money in our hands for safe and wise invest-
ment and be assured of a guaranteed return of 10 per cent. This
is a higher rate of interest than any bank has yet offered .
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ


w
li
Mid
Winter
Greatest of all Bargain Events commences May 29
Some of the
thousands of
Bargains
35/- Men’s
Hats
24/ 9
Smart “Snap Brim” shape
in new Fawn, Beaver and
Grey shades. English
models. Silk lined.
8/6 Golf
Shirts. .
6/6
Men’s striped Cambric
Golf Shirts, with collar to
match. Neat attractive
colored stripes.
12/6 Men’s
Pyjamas. .
g/7
Cosy “Knightwear”
Flannelette Pyjamas for
Me n. An attractive
range of striped designs.
15/6 Men’s
Pullovers .
12' 11
ŵ
3/11 and 4/6
Socks
I' 11
Men’s Fancy Artificial
Silk Socks. Splendid
quality and in latest color-
ings.
ẁ
Big Tailoring
Bargains
■
m
i
in
£6/6/- Suit
to measure
ẃ
This offer comprises a selection of new full-bodied
Worsteds, in tones of Blue, Brown, Fawn, Grey and
Navy. Also fine twill and herringbone Pure Wool
Indigo Serges. Sac Suit, tailored to your measure.
Wonderful value! £4/19/6
Other Suitings at Sale Prices—
£4/5/6, £5/16/6, £6/15/-, £7/13/-, £B/11/-
If writing, kindly address your letter to Desk “R,” Box
3875 TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
More Bargains
from huge
stocks
ẅ
w
Men’s D.B. “Prince or
S.B. “Austin” Overcoats,
in Fancy Tweeds.
ŵ
ẁ
Men’s Grey All-Wool
Sports Trousers. Side
straps, belt loops, etc.
ẃ
ẅ
Black Box Calf Bals.
Square toe shape.
w
ŵ
Winter quality all-over
check design rugs. Size
60 x 80 inches.
ẁ
ẃ
Solid Cowhide Leather
Kit Bags, Nickel-plated.
Size, 14 inches . . 15/11
Sizes 16in. 18in. 20in.
Usually .. 21/6 24/6 27/6
Sale Price, 17/11 19/11 21/11
Send this Coupon
for actual Free
Patterns!
G
ne
PARKfrGFQRGF Streets
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”
Desk “R,”
Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
Kindly send me a complete
range of Suiting patterns at special
Sale Prices, including the £ 4/1916 offer
featured in this Advertisement. Also include
simple self-measurement form —all free of cost!
NAME ....
ADDRESS


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 1 3 1 for your reservation.
TOWN OF ROMA
An Estate already subdivided into 197 allotments from 32
pers. to 40 pers. each, situated on HOSPITAL HILL and
adjacent to the main SIGNAL HILL OIL BORE an
MAIN STREET.
On the flow of oil these blocks will be worth £lOO each.
A SNAP for an INVESTOR or for a SUBDIVISION-
ALIST.
FOR SALE as a whole at £6OO, on £2OO deposit and
balance over 3 years at 6% interest.
R. G. OATES ESTATES LTD,
BOX 917 G.P.O.
Commission Agents - - - Brisbane.
Under
Royal
Warrant
w
Tom
Km£>
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
ism
Australasian Agsnts—
swift fc Company LiinitaJ
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Q*arlesHeidsiecC
Reims
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEA"S OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Three cheers for Amy Johnson, safe and
sound and smiling at Darwin! It would
require a Homer to sing the Odyssey of that
flight. This Letter feels it can’t do justice
to such a theme in cold type, but it defies
anybody to feel more jubilant. Sydney
stands tiptoe with excitement, waiting for
the winged Britannia’s arrival next Monday.
A long—too long—succession of banquets,
speeches and introductions is on the pro-
gramme. After our flying girls have es-
corted Miss Johnson in triumph to Mascot
and a civic welcome has been boomed at her,
why not let the little woman rest, shop or
enjoy herself as the spirit moves her?
Fourteen hundred grads., undergrads.,
friends and countrymen invaded the Palais
at Moore Park last Thursday, and made
loud and jocund noises to represent the music
in the Gommem. songbook. The words came
over the ether somewhat blurred, but were
undoubtedly of a mirth-raising nature judg-
ing by the loud ha-ha’s they evoked from
the initiate. It was a great night. The
Palais held its old sides and chortled till
the official loge trembled again. Host of the
night was Dr. F. W. Bayldon, and he had
tue help of Nance Connolly in welcoming
Premier Bavin, the Chief Commissioner Gar-
lick couple and the chiefs and chieftain-
esses of the undergrad, world.
■ Earlier in the week the undergrads, had a
jamboree of theatricals in the Union Hall
as part of their Comment. festivities. It
was mostly a songandance production, the
ballets being composed of the male of the
species—and not such dainty types, either, as
pirouette in the popular war revue
“Splinters.” “Suppressed Desire,” “Light
Cargo” and a cutting satire in which the
students of St. Andrew’s depicted an opera-
tion in shadowgraph were head-liners on a
bill which included a sketch of Leacock’s
by the students of Sancta Sophia.
Decorated with a beautiful crop of face
wool, the riband of the Legion of Honor and
a pair of sparkling, intelligent eyes, Captain
Francisque Filh'ol, of the Cephee, arrived
at the Registrar-General’s midway through
last week. The handsome girl of his choice,
Myra Richardson (daughter of the Stuart
Richardsons, of Wahroonga), came along
smiling on father’s arm almost as soon as
her ’groom. The wedding was the culmina-
tion of a friendship which started five years
ago in France. Solicitor N. C. Laurence
(once the model for Hop’s famous “Little
Boy from Manly”) was best man in the
afternoon and host in the evening at
a reception given in the _ Laurence, home
(Mrs. Laurence and Mrs. Filhol are sisters)
to celebrate the wedding. The two sail by
the Cephee for France, where their address
will be Bordeaux.
Florence Austral, whose voice blew
through the Town Hall on Saturday like
banners and trumpets and a whole pageant
of spring, summer, autumn and winter, is
an impressive young matron of heroic build.
For her opening she was girt about in a
frock of husband John Amadio’s choosing.
John, it appears, when Florence is too busy
wrestling with orchestral concerts and Wag-
nerian parts to keep an eye on her wardrobe,
sleuths around and badgers Paris and New
York shop ladies into producing genuine
Chanel, Worth and Reville models
real women with human figures, and not
herring-bone outlines. When he Sees the
thing that he would like Florence in he
arranges an interview between his songbird
and the frock. (Prinrn donnas, please
note.) While they are in Sydney the pair
inhabit a flat in Onslow Gardens. This is
completely overrun with wardrobe trunks
whose brass locks and brass-bound corners
suggest Spanish chests filled with golden
moidores. Opened up they turn out to be
upholstered in silver and gold brocade. Other
trunks are filled with music.
How did Florence Austral succeed in hop-
ping into front rank at Covent Garden? Well,
Fritz Hart gave her a letter to Aylmer
Bucsst, the Australian conductor, who heard
her sing “Elizabeth’s Greetings,” and said
he thought she could get a chance in the
forthcoming Covent Garden production of
Wagner. So he sent her on to the casting
director, who said “Oh, yes, you’ll, do for
Brunhilde; please sign here!” It’s just as
easy as that when you have a wonderful
voice. Gladys Coles, the .Amadios report,
is coming on. well, and promises to be
a head-liner in opera on her own account.
Mrs. Patrick .Campbell, who recaptured
London in “The Matriarch,” is considered by
the Australians one of the most elegant-
looking women they have met. Chicago and
New York audiences are more warm-hearted
than those in London, but Dublin ones are
the most critical of all. • Florence, when not
breasting the high seas of Wagner, is, John
assures the world, a champion at braising
steak.
Probably the dance success of the week
was that of Sydney High. Into the Ambassa-
dors for the yearly frisk came distinguished
men from all the professions, including David
Maughan, K.C., Chief Commissioner of Rail-
ways Cleary and Dr. O. Diethelm. Educa-
tion Minister Drummond and school head-
master Saxby were also at the feast. The
frocking was strikingly rich in tone and im-
pressive in architecture. The girls, too, at the
party had paid their escorts the subtle com-
pliment of putting their best foot forward.
Mrs. Percy Stewart Dawson attracted the
gaze, her head swathed in a silver head-dress
rising above a flowing frock of peony-red
lace. Secretary C. A. Fairland and treasurer
11/ C. Wilson viewed the gathering with
satisfaction. The school rowing club and
sports ground will benefit.
In these hard times a wedding present of
£IQOO is worth a line to itself. The bride
was Doris Boyle, only daughter of E. _VV.
Boyle, of Sutherland. It was at the wedding
feast after she. had become Mrs. 'l'. L.
Stapleton that her father handed her the
gift*
St. Vincent’s Hospital, the great pile in
Darlinghurst, can’t keep still. It grows and
grows until now it has slipped around the
corner from Victoria-street into an out-
patients’ department. To-morrow St. Vin-
cent’s will hold its yearly ball in David
Jones’s, and when this writer looked at the
bookings she decided it would be a bad night
to want one’s appendix removed, for the list
looked like most of the medical directory.
Backs flashing a black velvet note of inter-
rogation created an Edgar Wallace atmo-
sphere at the Oriental Cafe the other night.
The new arrival felt impelled to search for
the dead body or the missing will as mem-
bers of the committee dashed back and forth
presenting the conundrum. The dance was
to benefit the Ellen Desailly Free Kinder-
garten of North Sydney. This kindergarten
proves a haven of joy to 50 kiddies, aged
from 18 months to five years. While the
mothers of many are out working the babies
are well looked after. I3lue chili. 011 s
swirled about Maisie Williams, the president
of the committee; Nancy Fleming, the secre-
tary, was striking in persimmon-liued clnf-
fons allied to black; treasurer Molly Scott
caught a shining shoal of shekels in an ivory-
net frock; and roseate laces were the choice
of Peggy Walsh, the dance’s publicity expert.
The Langton Clinic, the first section of
the N S.W. Hospital for Women and Child-
ren stands very new and efficient opposite
some very old and efficient. Moreton hays in
Moore Park.
It is named
after that
staunch friend
of St. Mar-
garet’s, Dr.
\V. D. Lang-
ten, and tin:
a c companyillg
])hotograph is
(hat of his
widow, wh o
keeps up a
keen interest
in the hospi-
tal’s activities.
The clinic is
largely model-
led on the cele-
brated Mayo
clinics of
America. Built
by the trustees
of St. Mar-
garet's, the
old-established maternity hospital, it is
designed not only to assist in bringing healthy
children into the world,_ but to minister to
the ailments of women in the most compre-
hensive manner, and for fees which even the
poorest will not find formidable. When com-
pleted the hospital - will be 10 storeys high,
and will be surmounted by an imposing-
cupola. The present building is a pleasant
place of white walls, high ceilings and
smooth wood panellings, the last rich and
warm in coloring. Each ward is furnished
like a bedroom in your own home—only more
so being complete with a telephone, micro-
phone and a radio. Each room is pitched
in a different color note, and the doors open
on a succession of primrose, lilac, blue, rose-
red and leaf-green curtains and bedspreads
gay as a field of spring flowers. Every room
bears the name of the donor, such as Dorothy
Rrunton, Lee White, Marie Burke, Joan
Norton, Mrs. J. C. Williamson. Next door
to the Langton is St. Margaret’s outpatients
department. The seats in this waiting-room
are all rubber-covered, and there is a drink-
ing fountain that jets water iced and filtered.
In th*e retiring rooms towels are replaced by
a patent hand-drier which does the work in
a moment if you press a lever under the
basin with your foot. There’s a long room-
ful of cubicles, divided from each other by
metal partitions, but open in the. front.
Here patients, after undressing in tiny
rooms which load direct to the cubicles, can
lie on their metal stretchers screened from
their neighbors, but under the observation of
nurse or doctor walking up and down tin;
corridor. There are a well-equipped path-
ology department and a chemistry lab., and
a, sign outside which tells the hours
of consultation, with a reminder in big
letters that “Cancer is Curable.” This note
of hope is characteristic of the whole insti-
tution.
The girl in this picture is Lorna M.
Lowe, of the North Shore, who is blaz-
ing the trail for the scenario-writer of the
future. Lorna has just returned from an
extended tour p
of Europe and
th e U.S.A.
with over
10,000 feet of
travel fi 1 m.
This, in addi-
tion to months
of study in
the directing
and filming of
scenes, w a. s
t h c founda-
tion on which
the Australian
Cine in a t o-
graphers’ Club
was started.
Its headquar-
ters are the
third floor of
the Victoria
Arcade, Castlc-
rcagh - street.
To be a mem-
ber you do not need to be an active film-
lmnter armed with a movie camera and a
keen eye for rural and ocean views. Many,
of course, are such, but others are more
interested in acting or writing for the
films, :wid it is with regard to the latter that
the club promises to be of greatest service.
Hitherto there has been no group to take
a writer’s story, build it into a scenario and
then act and produce the thing in its studio.
The little club will make everything clear for
the experimenter in screen drama, struggling
with the terms “long, medium and gyro
shots.” Already one comedy “short” has been
acted and shown. Now the club is busy
hunting among. its own talent for a long
and powerful scenario with which, possibly,
to capture a Commonwealth film prize it
any is granted next year.
Wah Taylor, Who was in-charge of the
Society of Artists’ winter show, was prowl-
ing about the Blaxland Galleries last week
with a look of deep contentment on his
face. Sales, even' in these dull times, were
mounting to the 300-guinea mark, although
the dearest picture in the show was priced
at 25 guineas. Gruner loses nothing
of his reflective charm by being moderately
priced, and Gordon Esling, his new protege,
shows the same quality of painting land-
scapes in a pensive mood. Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor Cullen, who opened the show, secured
a typical oil-painting by his old friend
Julian Ashton,' the Gallery bought John
Moore’s “Mt. Wilson Forest,” and Then
Proctor’s* decorative “Women with Fans”
was an early seller. Still, the general feel-
ing seems to be that the society, is rather
overdoing it by holding two exhibitions in
the year; though this doesn’t apply to such
work as Robert .Johnson’s “Hayshed,” an
exquisite glimpse of Cassilis country, painted
in the homestead of the popular Reg Stafford
couple.
At four o’clock the other morning sur-
geon Dan Kelly, of Kirribilli, was wakened
by the persistent w r hirr of his telephone-bell.
Stretching out a hand he grabbed the re-
ceiver. anticipating a call to an urgent opera-
tion. In answer to his “Hello!” came a mas-
culine voice, slow and distinct, “Is that Dr.
Kelly—Dr. Kelly, of Kirribilli? London call-
ing. Mull you have the message now, or
wait ten minutes?” The doctor said he’d
have it now, whereat a mellow contralto said
with crisp softness, “London calling. Mrs.
Kelly wishes to speak to you!” And so,
comfortably in his bed at Kirribilli, the
doctor spoke across the world to his wife in
London. Mrs. Dan had rung to tell him her
plans for the journey home. She will come
by way of Canada and the States, picking up
her aunt, Miss Coffee, in New York, and
• arriving here in .July. Son Kelvin, who has
been studying the wool business at Bradford,
is returning with his mother. For three
minutes the conversation lasted, and every
word came clear and unblurred.
There was a Hollywood atmosphere about
the. Ambassadors last week when the mem-
bers of the Cinematographers’ Club foregath-
ered for their first ball. To begin with, every
one went as a screen star; then there was
a screening of them in the Empire Room,
which was fitted up as a movie studio, lhe
ballroom was decked with photographs ot
Hollywood queens and sheiks, and ot
scenes in their most famous films. Ena
Quinn, whose sister Myee is one of the
club’s high lights, was entrancing in an
apple-green satin frock and a make-up that
represented Norma Shearer. With a young
gentleman who purported to be Lewis Stone,
she plucked a first prize, and this same Mr.
Stone, winning the hunt, became the pos-
sessor of a bottle of fizzy beverage which
certainly was not stone ginger-beer. Another
excitement of the evening was the snowball
dance. Two small girls, dressed as ice
maidens, sold snowballs from baskets of
green and tangerine, the club’s colors.
When everybody held a glittering sphere
the battle commenced, and the room was
a melee of softly-thudding whiteness. Mrs.
Llewellyn Rees was the president of the
dance committee; and an important person
of the night was Lorna Lowe, the founder
of the club, who went as Julia Fay.
The Palais Royal is getting a polish like
ice on its dancing-floor for June 17, when
Sir Philip and Lady (lame will glide over
its surface. The occasion is the ball of the
combined 150 insurance companies in Syd-
ney. This is an effort by good-natured lads
and lasses in a job to help the wives and
children of those who are out of one. The
gate-money goes to the Benevolent Society,
which records that the number of appeals
from destitute women lias increased over
100 p.c. during the past few weeks. Tickets
are on sale at all insurance offices.
This year again Josephine Marks was the
organising secretary for the ball which benefits
the Hospice for the Dying. Clothed in rose-
du-Barry velvet and lace Miss Marks acted
as hostess to an outsize in parties at the
Wentworth. Mrs. William Macleod, president
of the committee, was not present, but Mrs.
Norman Macleod, with just-grown-up daugh-
ter Esna, understudied her; while such firm
friends of the Hospice as the Harry Bur-
rells and black-haired Myrine Collins were
among the early on deck. Secretary Mrs.
Ewen Gore allied ink-black chiffons and
sunset moire, and Win McCarron, another
secretary, danced in rose-red chiffons.
Last week Maxine Foy married her cousin
Mark McGahey in Penang. Mark Foy, who
had made the trip with Mrs. Mark Shelagh
Foy and Sylvia Macken, gave away his
daughter. The bridegroom, who is an ex-
soldier, ig managing a rubber plantation in
Penang. The rest of the family will tour
Japan before returning to Sydney.
There was no question in the minds of ye
Empire builders of old of the proletariat
ruling from the sea*ts of the mighty. It was
as far back as 1842 that Sir George Gipps,
the first tenant of the turreted M'acquarie-
street. house, took possession; and there is
still room to blazon four more coats of arms
in the hall. For each Governor hoists his
arms aloft —in spite of the cynic who as
far back as 1850 suggested that one sign
and legend would do for all time: “The Sign
of the Bores’ Head.” In the intervening
years Sydney has been served by Governors
with some physically satisfying names: Duff,
Beauchamp, De Chair, Game. The names
conjure up a vision of full and plenty,
though, to be sure, the right place for
Beeciiam is after Game and Duff.
This Letter has often pondered on the
width of the staircase that leads from the
hall to the upper regions of the house.
Built for Governors whose ladies would bo
crinolined, the stairways, of course, demanded
width.
Journalist Theodosia Wallace is a proud
mother, for her only boy Wilfred has gradu-
ated in science with first-class honors in
mathematics and second-class in chemistry.
He has won his own way through the Uni.,
starting from iCranbrook with an exhibition.
Various plums in the way of scholarships
and prizes have been plucked by the young-
highbrow, who, besides tennis and cricket,
plays a sound game of chess, as might be
expected of one whose father was chess cham-
pion of Australia. Sister Althea, who is
what the films describe as an ash blonde,
graduated in arts with distinction and won
the Frank Albert prize for anthropology.
The grandfather of the clever pair was Alex-
ander Britton, an early-day journalist and
later Government Historian.
Lute Drummond meets friends in Milan: —
X am here with Lady Armstrong (La Mizza), an
opera singer, wife of Admiral Sir George Armstrong,
a former proprietor of London “Globe.” We hare
dropped right into a Wagner season at La Scala,
where Siegfried Wagner is conducting “The Ring.”
The night we arrived Angelo Minghetti—you re-
member Minghetti—was singing in “La Tosca.”
He sent us tickets, and we were thrilled with his
Mario Cavaradossi. Luise, his wife, is preparing to
sing again, and Angelo goes to Covent Garden for
this season. “Bill” Sydney (who was born and
christened during Sydney’s last opera season) is a
beautiful little boy. We met Sehiavizzi at lunch
yesterday; she was looking very vivid. My sister
Jean, by the way, sang at the reception given
to the Italian Art experts who convoyed the treasures
from Italy to Burlington House.


-v
s'y?
tx
r
QUALITY
beyond all previous standards
A NEW EIGHT-IN-LlNE—
unmatched at its price for power,
speed, comfort and safety.
Unparalleled in its field for quality,
distinction and style.
Unequalled in value among popu-
lar-priced eight-cylinder cars —with
Down-Draft carburetion, weather-
proof four-wheel hydraulic brakes,
double-action hydraulic shock
absorbers, air cleaner, oil filter.
The Eight-in-Line, with its com-
panion car, the Dodge Six, is now
on display by Dodge Brothers
dealers everywhere.
□□□BE BROTHERS
SIXES AND EIGHTS
UPHOLDING EVERY TRADITION OF DODGE- D EPE-NDABILITY
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS ;
New South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle dr Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .... Austral Motors , Limited, Brisbane and Townsville
South Australia . . .
Western Australia .
Tasmania
. Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
, . . Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
„ Tariff- Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 1(38/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/. 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
Wentworth Hotels New Policy.
These are difficult times through which we are passing, and the Wentworth Hotel, Ltd., are
endeavoring to meet these altered conditions by drastic reductions in tariff, consistent with
their usual high standard of efficiency in service, cuisine and quality. The new rates as outlined
below will operate till further notice, and the management commends them to your attention.
Single Rooms, with Breakfast only, from 12/6
Single Rooms, with Bath, Breakfast only, from 157-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, from 207-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, from 22/6
Double Rooms, per day, Breakfast only, two persons, from . . 257-
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive, two persons, from 357-
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, two persons, from 40/-
Double Rooms, per day, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from 507-
Double Rooms de Luxe, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from 55/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY
A Perfect aloss
■
A GLOSSY, healthy-
looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s _ no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
FIRST
SOLD
in
1792
w
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
land’s
Macassar Oil
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] [?]00f[?] P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimted.
Bo[?] M[?]
The Office Flapper has been motoring
again, this time with George, who took her
to the wild Outback. She writes: I have
always longed to sec Ballarat, where the
gold used to come from, but now doesn’t, and
where they give a girl who has a voice
a chance to show that she is wasted as a
typist and really ought to be Lucretia Borgia
or Manon Lescaut. So when George said
that he’d staved off the instalment collector
for :>t least another week and had been
enabled by the courtesy of a really noble
garage proprietor to give the tank, a drink
of eight gallons, I readily consented to help
him to find the place, my new leather coat,
which is Geranium Red, being more suited
to motors and taxis than to movies and
talkies. This became clearer and clearer
as we slid silently out of the sordid city
and came among Green Fields, which are
due, so George said, to the awful lot, of. rain
we are having this winter, which' I had
noticed, (or otherwise no new coat). Once
we sighted a mushroom and would have stayed
to pick it, but there was already a* Dense
Crowd of motorists on its trail.
The next thing we saw was a Ploughman
plodding his weary way over acres and
acres of earth the color of chocolate. He
had horses pulling his plough and George
said a tractor would have saved him a lot
of time, but the Ploughman didn’t seem to
care, and I thought it was just beautiful to
see him tilling the soil just like a hero in a
book by Zone Grey. He was quite near
the fence when we passed and one of the
horses stepped over a trace and we heard
Language. George said he reckoned Steele
Rudd knew more about Agriculture than
Zame Grey, if not so good at Fishing.
Well, we went on and on till we came
to the lovely avenue of poplars at a place
called Bacchus Marsh. All golden and
glorious they stood there in the sunlight,
a most ennobling sight, which, as I said to
George, should teach us to lead better lives,
but he said it taught us to go after the gilt.
We had lunch then, but I never did like
gherkins, and when George pointed out the
rises and gorges of the Great Dividing
Range I kept my mouth shut.
Ballarat, which we got to at last, is a place
with a Lurid History—the Eureka Stockade
and things like that. We saw the monu-
ment, and my word, if they used cannons
like that on the poor miners it’s no wonder
gold-digging languished around those parts.
I got George to go down South-street. Avliere
they hold the singing competitions, and we
saw the place where they are held. It gave
me a thrill. Then we went along to
see the piece of statuary, “The Flight from
Pompeii,” which is in a garden by Lake
Wendouree, where wild birds mustn’t be
shot. Those people who rushed out of Pom-
peii took mighty little clothing, which, shows
how urgent it was that they should go some-
where else. The Italian Government, so
George said, has offered thousands and thou-
sands of pounds to buy back that sculpture,
but Ballarat stands firm, though it could do
with the money.
One of the Sights of Ballarat is the Old
Curiosity House, which used to be occupied
by Jim Warwick, who was a Bricklayer in
his lighter moments, but a Decorator by
Instinct. Every time .Tames found an un-
decorated spot around his home lie got.
busy with his trowel and mortar and stuck
shells, bits of glass and broken crockery on
it. He did this for 40 years, and where lie
got all those busted cups and plates and
bottles from is beyond me. George, said it
might have arisen out of Matrimonial Dis-
putes, but, as I pointed out to him, that
wouldn’t account for the hundreds of china
dolls’ heads stuck on the walls, and if he
had to Dodge Things all the time he wouldn’t
have been in the Frame of Mind to do his
name and the date of his arrival here in
Oyster Shells in the Garden, and Mrs. War-
wick wouldn’t have had time to do such an
awful lot of Crochet- and Wool-work,, as well
as Papering the house. We saw their Life’s
Work, as it were, for sixpence.
Then we parked the car and went for a
ride on the trams, which George says are
Electric. Certainly they give one Shocks.
The tramears are very Venerable, and covered
all over with Advertisements. There are no
Guards. You drop money in a Slot as you
go in, and if you don’t and the Motorman
notices it, you don’t go in. But if you do
put the money in he is most Polite and will
tell you how to get to Anywhere.
Of course we went and had a Gaze at the
Mother Hubbard Cupboards, the joke about
which is that they are not Bare, but full of
Food and Coal and things to tide poor people
oyer a hard winter. The town isn’t the
biggest in the world, but it has a Large Heart,
and is ennobling to look upon. Travel, as 1
said to George, Enlarges the Mind. He said
it also Enlarged the Thirst, and went away
for a while. We got back all right, but
petrol was low, and I understand now how
Amy Johnson felt when it seemed there
wouldn’t be enough. If she hadn’t met a
friendly planter she would have had to
walk miles and miles.
The Newman Society’s ball introduced 42
debs to the social whirl. These young people,
clad in white and carrying pink posies, made
curtsey to the lately consecrated Bishop
Collins, of Geraldton, W.A., who was 'accom-
panied by Father Murphy, Rector of New-
man College, Dr. J. G. Hayden, president
of the society, and Mrs. Hayden, she having
a gold and white brocade coat over a
geranium-pink gown. Hon. secs. J. P. Ogge
and Dr. T. M. Gilbert, with members of the
women’s committee and Mayor and Mayoress
Robinson, of St. Kilda, were in the
offing. Mrs. F. C. Coffey and Mrs. D. Barry
drilled the comers-out in their salaams.
Nancy Baird wore a triole-flounoed skirt of
white tulle depending from a pointed bodice
of white satin that sloped off the shoulders.
Gay Hill sported a bunchy frock of white
taffeta and tulle, and Phil Prowse rang the
changes with deep frills of georgette moored
to a satin bodice. Among the visitors were
the Registrar of the Uni., J. P. Bainbridge,
and his wife. Mrs. Maurice MacGillicuddy,
who waved a white feather fan over a black
velvet gown; Mrs. D. P. Mackey, in pale
green moire, and Mrs. F. J. Corder, who
blended black georgette and lace over white,
were some of the executive committee
members who danced. Mrs. E. Downey’s
sequinned robe mingled a pink rose design
with black and crystal beads.
Saturday’s blue skies and warm sunshine
coaxed a large crowd to Moonce Valley race-
course for the Aero Club’s pageant, but
there were plenty of folk left over to watch
the gee-gees at Williamstown.. whose pro-
gressive club has considerably improved the
approaches to its course. Among those who
watched an interesting afternoon’s racing were
Mrs. Leslie Aldridge, in a brown and fawn
tweed ensemble with a green hat; Mrs. F.
Bishop, Alderman and Mrs. F. Stapley and
the Rogers Thomsons. The chairman of the
V R.C., L. K S. Mackinnon, was there;
also V.R.C. secretary A. V. Ivewney, who
goes off this week in search of the best
totalisator to instal on Vic. racecourses.
Defence Minister A. E. Green led his only
daughter Emily Evelyn to the altar at the
Wesley Church, Lonsdale-street, last week,
leaving her in charge of Richard, only son
of Mrs. J. W. Marum, of Perth (W.A.).
Two ’maids wearing white moire with a
touch of lime-green and lace hats waited
on the bride, whose white satin had a back-
wash of pink-lined train, and was seen
through a filmy lace veil. There was speechi-
fying at the Windsor afterwards.
One of the outstanding figures a<t the inter-
state conference of Labor women at Can-
berra was Jean Daley, organiser of the distaff
side of the Vic. Labor party. She. is one
of Australia’s
best women
speakers. Fed.
O p p o s ition-
leader Latham
owed his seat
in the House
of Reps, to her
second prefer-
ences when
.s h e opposed
Robert Best
for Kooyong.
She is a
daughter of
one of the
founders of the
A.W.U. Bob
Daley brought
his' offspring
up on large
doses of Ilan-
sar d, which
was the chief
literature of
her girlhood. Miss Daley opposes proposals
to give women special privileges, arguing that
to get them they should earn them.
An Empire Day wedding was that of
Edith, daughter of the late T. B. Connell and
of Mrs. Connell, of Tunbridge Wells, Eng-
land and Rupert, son of Dr. and Mrs. R. W.
Hornabrook, of Malvern. The bride, who
is a niece of Dr. J. C. Behan. Warden of
Trinity College, came from England recently
with her mother. All Saints’, Kooyong, was
chosen for the knot-tying, the bridal array
being of deep cream crepe romaine cut on
long lines, with a tulle cascade. Joan Horna-
brook attended wearing frock and felt millin-
ery of pale green.
Premier Hogan’s wife turned the key in
the door of new buildings at the Alfred
Hospital last week, after her husband had
congratulated the institution on its enlarge-
ment. Dr. and Mrs. A. V. M. Anderson
presented the entire furnishings of the
nurses’ home section, which contains a room
for nursing demonstrations dedicated to the
late Matron Mann, to whose memory a tablet
has been erected by the hospital’s Nurses’
League.
In a black coat beneath which was a
black-and-white frock, topped by a felt hat
that bore a jewelled ornament, Lady Somers
launched a show of wood-engravings at the
Arts and Crafts Society’s depot. The collec-
tion of prints, representative of the work
of English craftsmen, was transported from
the Redfern Gallery in London by Eveline
Syme, who lately returned to Australia.
Some of the prints are from blocks cut by
artists, among them Eric Gill, who did the
bas-reliefs in Westminster R. C. Cathedral,
Eric Daglish, who specialises in animals
and birds, and Robert Ribbings. The name of
Gladys Owen, of Sydney, figures in the cata-
logue. Lady Somers received the usual tri-
bute of flowers. Miss Syme, who is one of
our artists, went to London to study paint-
ing at the Grosvenor School, and also sought
instruction in Paris.
Lady Somers met the wives of Uni. pro-
fessors and the women lecturers and teachers
at the “shop” when she had luncheon at the
Uni. cafeteria on Wednesday. Womenfolk
connected with the seat of learning have
formed a Staff and Distaff Association,, .and
meet occasionally over the midday meal.
Mrs. Ernest Scott, president; Mrs. W. E.
Agar, vice-president; and Mrs. Alexander
Gunn, hon. sec., were there, along with
about 70 members. Lady Somers. Alice
Smith, of the Teachers’ Training College
staff, and Mrs. J. C. V. Behan made speeches.
This very competent-looking young man is
Cecil Bois, who
sits at the key-
board of a large l ,
black grand
piano in one
of our theatres
—the Comedy
—which has
sot a very
good example
by collecting
some worthy
troubadours to
make music
for it in the
intervals. He
has studied
his profession
earnestly a t
the Uni. Con.,
where he won
prizes and
afterwards was
a teaclie r.
V e r brugglien
held him in esteem, and included him in his
State-subsidised orchestra. He has com-
posed a sonata for violin and pianoforte
which will l>e played on the 29th at a recital
by the Sisserman quartette.
The hillsides around the Ivinglake dis-
trict, which is but » short motor-run from
the city, are sprinkled with roseate-kued
heath', with here and there a stray sprig of
white. Motorists on the Sabbath, if they
can’t find mushrooms, gather heath. But the
low damp paddocks where the fungus lurks
are not the lia*unts of the flowering shrub,
so the souvenir-seekers get a lot of walking
and some variations of neck-exercise. Mush-
roomers prowl with heads downcast; but
the flower-pickers assume the far-away up-
ward expression of seekers for the Grail.
The Uni. Con.’s reception to Backhaus and
his wife was held in the Tallis wing,, which
was crowded with students, who had among
them a sprinkling of dons. Medical-knight
James Barrett and Prof. Bernard Heinze
did the hand-shaking and speechifying, and
the guest, replying, talked not about himself,
hut about Beethoven. Mrs. Backhaus, who
smiled her thanks to Helen Speeding for
some flowers, wore a squirrel coat over her
nattier blue gown. The only music was a
two-piano piece, with John Simons as the
soloist and Lorna Trist at the second key-
board.
Though our Town Hall is well heated
feminine dressing at the opening Backhaus
recital was a matter of coats, among which
some white fur wraps—a few were ermine
—stood out in a sea of sombre apparel.
Beatrice Day and Charlotte Hemming, Mrs.
Llarry Emmerton, the Ivan Gutmanns, Dr.
and Mrs. Felix Meyer, Mrs. Alexander Gunn,
Mrs. W. Merry and all our very best musical
people were there, and the pianist added
some gigantic laurel wreaths to his collec-
tion of vegetation.
E. J. Gravestock escorted Wilhelm Ba<ck-
liaus and Mrs. Backhaus to a reception by
the Music Club at the Lyceum Club rooms
on the eve of the pianist’s opening recital.
President Fritz Hart said words of welcome
and a bunch of violets was passed to Mrs.
Backhaus, who shed an ermine-collared sable
coat to reveal a black georgette gown with
pink blossoms tumbling over one shoulder.
Mrs. Fritz Hart’s emerald-green satin and
silver-traced frock showed under a bridge
coat of gleaming lame, and lion. sec. Mune.
Campbell was g'arbed in chiffon of sand
hue. Mrs. George Tliirkell bound her brown
hair with a chaplet of green velvet leaves,
her lengthy robe exhibiting two tones of the
verdant hue. A group of songs composed by
Fritz Hart was sung by Lilian Stott, and
Dawn Harding, in draperies of sea green
and gold, lifted her mezzo-sopra<no voice in
German and English lieder. The Spencer
lady, Mrs. W. Mortill, the Harold Sprys,
Dr. and Mrs. Felix Meyer, and Mrs. Charles
Gmmerton were there.
The Oaklands Hunt Club was the first to
raise a “tally-ho” this season, and the Fin-
don Harriers followed closely with a meet
near Wollert on Friday. A foggy morning
ushered in an ideal hunting day.
“The Prince and the Pauper” performance
at the Comedy on Saturday night was handi-
capped by the non-arrival of the scenery, but
the stage staff did some good improvising
and earned William Faversham’s warm praise.
Mary Macgregor, in the double rob; of ragged
urchin and boy monarch, wore her doublet
and breeches of worsted or satin with
aplomb; and Ann Davis trailed brocade in
tones of green and navy, topped with a red
wig, as the Princess Elizabeth.
A demonstration of the versatility of a
piano that is a veritable box of tricks was
given at the home of the Walter Carnegies
at Fernhurst Grove on Thursday night. The
nicely finished upright combines the uses of
piano-player, radio and phonograph. It is
the invention of Walter Carnegie and F. J.
Henderson, and is claimed to be proof
against static. Miss ITattenbach was
heard over the air playing a written-for-
the-occasion ’cello solo composed by her
father. A baritone on the spot sang a couple
of songs to a player-roll accompaniment:
and Helen Speeding, tucking her cornflower
blue draperies under the keyboard, played
a couple of solos. Lastly, some gramophone
records were reproduced, the discs being
placed in the stool and the sound amplified
by the sounding-board of the instrument.
The ballroom of Kinnaird was decked with
masses of hydrangea, and some 50 or 60
people drawn from musical and artistic
circles expressed approval. Mrs. Carnegie
hostessed in black moire velvet.
A bright green door and a couple of minia-
ture cypress-trees at either side, with a
quaint hanging sign, mark “The Chintz
House,” an interior decoration venture of
Collins-street. Mrs. C. Rodwell. who has
lately returned from England, brought
back many samples of the latest designs in
glazed chintzes and linens for household fur-
nishing. For her opening she has added
pottery by Charles Drew and an array of
pretty lamp-shades, with wallpapers and
coverings fashioned by Inez Hutchison, who
has built up a thriving .business for such wares.
Marie, daughter of the Donald Mackinnons.
of South Yarra, is due back in a« few days
after a lengthy stay in Britain. She is an
ardent follower of the hounds and has been
sampling that kind of sport in Ireland.
Tote-inventor George Julius, chairman of
the Research Council, was roped in speak
at a Victoria League luncheon at Windsor
last week.' The Allen lady controlled the
orderly gathering, the Maudsley lady pro-
posed the toast of George Rex, and Mrs.
James Alston thanked the knight for his
words.
The Ambulance fund will benefit through
the generosity of Miss M. L. Mcßae, of
the Botanical Hotel, South' Yarra, who lent
the lounge and dining-room for a bridge
party last week, and provided the half-time
tea and cake. Mrs. Cleve Pratt, Jo Stirling,
Mrs. Dan Taylor and Rose Paterson engi-
neered the effort.
Botanists are shy, gentle souls and not,
as a rule, of a clubbable nature. A common
interest, however, lia«s drawn 50 of them into
a little society, which will meet occasionally.
Dr. Ethel McLennan, senior lecturer in
Botany at the Uni., is lion, sec., and Dorothy
Dixon, of the staff of the Botany School, will
tot up the subs. Prof. Ewart is the first
president.
A parent with ardent prohibition views
and a mania for driving his heirs and
heiresses to the spoken and written French
word got the shock of his life the other
evening. The youngest heiress, stone-deaf
and a boggier at even the words of her
mother tongue, has been bored for a long
time with the pleasantries in the Latin ver-
nacular with which the dinner-table was sup-
posed to be enlivened. The family with one
exception was already seated around the
board when they heard the front door slam
and the young lady pranced into the dining-
room. She had in her hands two suspicious-
looking parcels. Very flushed and convivial,
she unwrapped them and disclosed one large
bottle of red wine, one large bottle of white.
Father almost swooned at this desecration
of his home; then, in reply to a fusillade of
questions, the youngster calmly announced
that she had read in a French newspaper
that the typhoid baccilli are killed in 20
minutes by a white wine, and in two hours
bv a full-bodied red. The young lady has
been allowed to discontinue her French
studies.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
F
Jk.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
j Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine.
Billiards,
Daneine
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
m
EVERY CAR...EVERY LORRY
Should be lubricated every 500 miles
with
ALEMITE
Lubricating Systems
and Lubricants
By Special
ŵ
Appointment
LADIES’
MOCCASINS
For Boudoir wear, these
pretty and comfy mocca-
sins are ideal. Made of
softest leather (soles and
uppers cut in one piece),
beaded fronts, and
trimmed with fur collar.
Tones of Saxe, Mauve
and Salmon.
All sizes. Price,
13/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And, at Toowoomba, Longreach and Townsville.
THE PASSAGE
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
Synopsis : His father, Boh Cal-
laway, drowned at the bar of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough with the life, hut slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
He resents the determination of his
mother (Anna) not to allow Hughie
to become, a fisherman. But Hughie,
Lew admits to himself, has brains; it
is Hughie TJncle Tony calls when any-
thing is wrong with his boat; so when
Kunlcel offers Hughie a job at his store
Lew agrees that he should take it.
Hughie soon buys a motor-lorry, and
it is tacitly agreed that he is the
“hope of the family.'” Anna is
disturbed over Lew's attachment for
Clem McNair, daughter of a man
who has made money out of
patent medicine and has just sold
a large area of land on one side of
the Passage—to Osborne, a specu-
lator. . Anna believes Clem, who
lives in the city and comes to the
Passage only occasionally, is out of
Lew’s class. Lew’s diffidence, however,
prevents closer relationship, and Clem,
disappointed, decides to go abroad.
Meanwhile , Lew falls under the,
as yet, scarcely-felt influence of
another girl, Lena Christensen. Lena
has. been keeping company with
Craig, a surveyor, but, questioned by
Lew, declares the affair is “all off.”
CHAPTER XIV.
The Rise of Lavinia.
EVERYONE was talking about the way
the settlement along Sully’s Beach was
growing. From a straggle of varie-
gated bungalows set at odd angles among the
scrub-covered sand-dunes it had gathered
itself together till it took on the character
of a modern holiday resort, with its own
hall, its fruitshops, its planned streets,
and its numberless devices for getting
money out of visitors. A small permanent
population had gradually drifted there
and stuck, like sea-growths to a rock. Even
the name had. been changed. Originally it
had been called after some seaman who
had been marooned there sixty years
before when a boat had gone down; but
none of the new inhabitants remembered
the incident or wished to have it recalled.
When the place was officially renamed
Lavinia it was felt that something prac-
tical and definite had been done'to send
it ahead.
The man responsible for the change was
Osborne. Ever since he had acquired
McNair’s forty acres for subdivision and
sale he had been interested in the place,
and had been busy in devising schemes for
making it widely known. He had built a
green-roofed bungalow near the bathing
beach, and there he brought politicians,
mayors of small towns, newspaper editors,
anyone who could give a fair return in
publicity for his whisky and week-end
hospitality. His big touring-car could often
be seen shooting along the sandy tracks
among the tea-tree; almost daily a new
sign of his blossomed from some cleared
allotment or stretch of rising ground. And
his pudgy figure was a familiar sight on the
headlands jutting out into the water, his
hat tilted over his eyes and a cigar between
his fingers as he pointed out the beauty
of this or that view to his guests’.
“There’s not an old pot in the country
he hasn’t brought down here, now,” the
fishermen told one another, “and all he
says they swallow—hook, bait and sinker.”
There was no hostility on their part to
Lavinia’s growth. It was amusing to
watch, and it was hard to see how it could
do the Passage any harm. Not unless the
anglers who came down in such numbers
began to protest against the netting among
the sandbanks, as old Tony Callaway used
to say they would, bringing their influence
to bear on the people in power! And as
yet there had been no threat of that.
It was Osborne who formed a syndicate
to buy the old hotel on the headland, at
the further side of Lavinia. For twenty-
five years it had slept in obscurity behind
its guard of planted white cedars, attract-
ing few visitors ana hardly selling enough
drink at the bar to pay for its license; but
Osborne saw the possibilities of the sixty
acres of sloping sandy ridges around it.
He had not done well out of the McNair
allotments, but this was a different kind
of proposition. A week after the sale had
been concluded he had an expert marking
out positions for greens, and was marshal-
ling an army of workmen to build tees and
plant grass. It was his plan to erect a
new modern hotel on the site of the old
one, and to open the links with such a
flourish that the noise would be heard by
every man in the country who played golf
and owned a car. As he watched the axes
swinging among the banksia and tea-tree,
slogans chased one another through his
brain:
“The Holiday Hotel that is Different
Lavinia for Gold and Good Fishing....
Have You Dreamt of the Ideal Golf Links?
They are being designed for you at Lavinia.
Golf, a Good Hotel, and God’s Own
Pacific at your feet.”
To achieve his ideal, mechanical shovels
tore at the sandy ridges; there was a con-
tinual ringing of axes; blazing pyres of
drying wood lit up the night. All one
summer and the following winter Lavinia
took on the aspect of a mining camp. There
were tents among the
undergrowth, workmen
coming and going, lorries
making new tracks for
themselves among the
timber. Money began to
flow freely. There was talk
of a light railway being
bir u oa +r> p hotel
“Behind sat Lew and a girl
in white.”
was opened to connect Lavinia with the
main line, and everyone had a different
idea about the route it would follow. There
was even a rumor that Lavinia had been
chosen as a landing station for the aerial
mail going north.
Tradespeople, the solid tradespeople of
Eumerella, had begun to appear, though
tentatively, buying allotments in the area
Osborne had marked out for business sites,
but not making any movement toward
building till their prospects looked more
certain. Osborne’s advertisements were
already being published far and wide, but
what response was being made to them?
And did the syndicate possess enough
capital to push its schemes to a successful
end? These were questions that hadn’t
yet been answered. So many holiday resorts
had been advertised like patent medicines,
yet had somehow failed to become widely
popular! The business people in Eumerella
held off, and waited for the cat to jump,
though confidence in the future of Lavinia
was increasing daily. Where else within a
hundred miles could rich pleasure-seekers
find golf, a good hotel and God’s Own
Pacific at their feet?
“T’at Osborne,” said Kunkel, watching
the big green car sail past his door. “He
could sell coal to der Devil if he make
up his mind.”
“Yes, and bulldoze him into paying
half a dollar a ton over the market price,”
added Dave Wiegert with a grin.
Kunkel was one of the few people who
looked uneasily upon the growth of Lavinia.
Originally he had chosen the position of
his store so that it would serve both the
fishermen and the visitors at Sully’s Beach,
and he had profited by every develop-
ment. But life was moving away from
him. Osborne’s business sites were at the
further end of Lavinia, near the new golf
links, and it was at that end that all the
building was being done. When the time
was ripe, Wonderley and Co., of Eumerella,
were ready to open a new up-to-the-minute
store, and then where would he be? He
couldn’t shift his store up to that end of
the place and compete with the interlopers.
They were too enterprising and had too
much capital behind them, while he had
nothing on which he could count, not
even Mina’s energy. For Mina had been a
little peculiar Since her operation, and
often went to sleep on the sofa for an
hour or two in the heat of the day, so that
he had to shout at the top of his voice
when anyone came into the shop. Some-
times he had even to get up from his
chair and serve behind the counter him-
self.
“Dis climate,” he told people, “it thins
der blood. Anyone born here, like what
Mina was, dey can’t' keep up wit’ people
from der 01’ Country.”
And he puffed out his little kettledrum
of a chest and peered aggressively through
his glasses with his near-sighted eyes.
Yet it wasn’t cheering to feel that he
himself couldn’t keep up with the new
developments at Lavinia! In the future
he would have to rely more and more on
the handful of fishermen at the Passage,
and cut his expenses to the bone. It
grieved Kunkel to think of being left m
the rear of the Progress he idealised, like
the old lean-to at the back of a modern
farm. For the Passage wasn’t going ahead;
nothing had happened since old Tony Calla-
way had died. It was a bad setback to
have a slow-moving fellow like Lew step-
ping into his uncle’s shoes, a fellow who
saw no further than the end of the day’s
work and had a head on him like a mule.
There had been no talk of putting a new
boat on the run, as Tony Callaway had
planned; no movement towards building
storing-sheds at the jetty and persuading
the fruitgrowers and dairymen to send
their produce down by water. When any-
one spoke of these things to Lew his
jaw shut like a trap. Time enough to
think of developments when he had a bit
of capital, he said brusquely; at present it
was a hard enough job to make ends meet.
And there the matter rested. Now, if
Hughie was in charge of things, .Kunkel
repeated
A touch of lyricism came into the old
man’s voice when he talked about Hughie,
for Hughie was a bright spot in the life
of the Passage. Ever since he had sold his
truck to Lew and invested in a car there
had been the radiance of prosperity about
him. It shone around his silk motoring-
coat, his polished shoes, his fair, curly hair
that was rarely covered with a hat. Then
there was his smile, no longer a nervous
grin but positive as sunlight. People liked
to have Hughie driving them: he made
the sandy twenty-mile journey from the
station seem like a social occasion, and
fitted in their piles of luggage as neatly
as if his car had been specially designed
for it. At the Callaways’ back gate now
there was a modest notice:
The Lavinia Car Service,
HUGH P. CALLAWAY.
Trips Arranged for Visitors.
It was the one evidence of development
at the Passage; and, even so, it looked a
little out of place. Hughie and his car
service belonged really to Lavinia, which
gave them most of their custom. He had
plans for building a new garage there near
the hotel, and was only held back by a


BENGER’S
FOOD
ẁ
Food
Ke*d. Tbadk Mark.
At Bedtime!
Benger’s Food makes a
delicious supper dish, soothing,
sleep-inducing and very
nourishing. It is also the best
light diet for all digestive
troubles.
From a Doctor: —
“Bengers Food is tlic finest thing
to go to bed on.”
Write for booklet to: —.BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times have you promised someone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
Cbnmionwcaltb Savings JBank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government ).
sentimental loyalty to the old home. He
liked the smell of tarred nets and mullet-
weed, liked to get into his canoe after a
dusty day on the roads and paddle about
among the sandbanks, liked the' fuss his
mother and the girls made over him now
that he was a man with property and a
position in the world. Even Osborne had
taken notice of him; he was a young
fellow with a future, he told people. And
Hughie, skimming backwards and forwards
in his car, had himself no doubt of that,
though there was no more side about him
than when he had plodded round for orders
in Kunkel’s cart.
As far as most people were concerned,
Lew had slipped into the background.
True, he was responsible for running the
Dugong and looking after Tony Calla-
way’s interests, but these things had buried
him rather than brought him into public
view. From the very beginning he had had
trouble on his hands. Old McEvoy, who
was crusty and cantankerous, had not
relished the idea of his stepping into Tony’s
place.
“Take orders from a youngster like
that?” he had snorted. “Why, I was
running the boat when he was catching
bullfrogs in jamtins! I’d rather ship as
deckhand on a coal hulk than have him
over me for a boss.”
It, had taken a lot of tact and sheer
flattery to make him stay on; but Lew
would have been hard pressed to find a
man to take his place. No one knew the
channels between the sandbanks like he did.
He could have found his way up, without
running aground, if every stake had been
shifted overnight, he often boasted.
But there were things other than the
practical running of the boat to bring lines
of thought to Lew’s forehead. Uncle Tony’s
finances were in a mixed' state when he died,
and the books he had kept were not meant
for any eye but his own, so there was a
bad tangle to straighten out. The old man,
as everyone knew, had no sense of money;
if one of the boys asked for ten pounds
he would send twenty, and he was just as
careless in ordering supplies, keeping large
stores under his house till they perished
of blue mould and had to be dumped in
the Passage. Lew, sitting up at night in
the office at the end of the verandah,
struggled with dockets and figures in lead
pencil, till at the end of months some sort
of order was resolved out of chaos.
He moved about the breakwater with a
moody, absorbed gaze and the look of a
man carrying a weight. The other fisher-
men were aware that he had been let- in
for something. He hadn’t really inherited
old Tony’s interests! Every penny of
their value had to be paid off to Aunt
Rachel, who was living with Essie in town.
It meant work such as old Tony himself
had never known. He couldn’t give up the
fishing altogether, yet he had to be on
hand when the boat came in, unloading,
checking bills of lading, seeing that there
was a full cargo for the return trip. The
technique of running the boat was a thing
he had never bothered about in Uncle
Tony’s day, so now he had to learn it
from the beginning. It filled his mind to
the exclusion of everything else. Rarely
was he seen at Kunkel’s store, or at the
many little dances and picture shows that
were held in the hall now that the Lavinia
workmen were looking for entertainment.
And his reputation for being close, for
nevei* talking about his own affairs, grew
more definite as the months passed. He
didn’t, take people into his confidence like
Hughie did!
There was an independence about him,
too, that was so great as to seem bull-
headed. When a neap tide and flood rains,
coming together, bit into the banks around
the breakwater and caused them to carry
away, destroying the slow work of years,
he refused to await the results of petitions
to the Shire Council.
“They didn’t build it and they won’t
mend it,” he said. “A bridge over a gutter
at Lavinia counts more with them than the
things we live by. What’s the use of wait-
ing on a ten-to-one chance of their taking
action?”
And he was up well before dawn, morn-
ing after morning, carting stone in the
truck from the quarry, five miles out, till
the rest of the men joined in from very
shame at seeing him do the job single-
handed. It was true enough, they knew,
that the Council wouldn’t do the work, but
they wanted a chance to make a noise
about it. Lew would be stirring them up
to mend the roads next!
They liked him well enough, but they
had lost touch with him. He always seemed
to be wrapped up in somp cloudy dream
of his own, hardly remembering to pass
the time of day with people, and never
sitting down for a smoke or a yarn.
“Poor old Lew; the job’s getting him
down,” Dave Wiegert said., “Be a hell of
a smash one of these days.”
Yet there was one man who stuck to
him closer than ever, and that was Rahilly.
He had pulled himself together and the
intervals between his sprees had become
longer. Now that the pub had changed
hands and blossomed into a hotel, he wasn t
so much at home there. And since 1 ony s
death he had attached himself to the
Dugong, studying the channel on occa-
sional trips so that he could take the boat
down to town when McEvoy wanted a
spell. In a shed belonging to the old
home he had made a permanent camp for
himself, and was always at hand to receive
cargo for the boat or to help with the
unloading.
Prowling about between the shed and the
jetty in his bare feet and rusty maroon
jersey, turning the sideways stare of a lowl
on everything he saw, he looked a queer,
fugitive figure; but his sense of loyalty
rooted him firmly as a rock. Lew was
going through a bad time. He knew that
well enough, though Lew didn’t talk. Well,
he would stand by him till he got his head
above water again!
And so the days went on.
CHAPTER XV.
The Woman in the Car.
“Lew never had no luck,” Dave Wiegert
was saying. “Everything that’s ever come
to him has had a string tied to it. ‘Don’t
talk about bad luck till you’ve been kicked
by a dead horse,’ they used to say, but
that’s just what’s happened to Lew. Old
Tony didn’t do him no good by making
him take over the whole show.”
“You never can tell till the numbers go
up,” muttered Rahilly. “Anyway things
have taken a turn. Lew’s not
woriying now.
“Ain’t he? Well, you know how
he takes it better than what I do.
Looks to me, though, as if he was
casting round for some way of sell-
ing out quietly. Making a deal
with Tony’s boys, most likely. He’s
never been so long away since I
knowed him.”
“Lew won’t sell out,” said Rahilly
confidently. “He’s not the sort to
let go when once he’s taken a thing
on. Just having a break —that’s all
there is to it. He’ll come back.”
They were sitting in Kunkel’s
store one morning at the end of
winter, speculating on why Lew
had gone off so suddenly in the busiest
part of the season. Over three weeks
he had been away, and no one seemed
to know where he had gone or what was
keeping him. Even Hughie was evasive
when asked about him; it was up to Lew
to take a decent holiday, he said. But
the opinion of the fishermen was that there
was more in it than that. They remembered
that Bob used to throw eveiything over-
board and go for a yearly walk-about;
perhaps, the habit was breaking out in
Lew after all these years spent with his
neck in the collar. And if he once got
away from the beaten track, would he ever
settle down again?
.Rahilly himself was not so confident as
he seemed. Lew had been quieter than
usual the week before he left, and had
answered questions as if he only heard them
through a brick wall. Yet it wasn’t easy
to believe he would pull out of the busi-
ness now when, after a couple of years of
hard slogging, things were beginning to
look up. The fruitgrowers and butter
factories on the range were sending their
produce down to the boat, and even the
tradespeople at Lavinia were asking about
freights. There would be more cargo than
enough in a year or so; they would be
able to put another boat on the run if
Lew could scrape the capital together. And
he certainly wasn’t blind to the way his
prospects were shaping!
Kunkel, behind his paper had been re-
flecting on what they were saying.
“Let me tell you, it would be a good
t’ing if he never come back,” he put in.
“Lew—l don’t have noding to say against
Lew, but he got no head on him. One
day Osborne buy out t’at boat, and den
you see. Everyt’ing about t’is Passage go
ahead like what a fire do in dry grass.”
It was his favorite topic. If only Osborne
had turned his attention to the Passage
instead of Lavinia! They had heard his
arguments so often that the very mention
of Osborne’s name made them bristle.
Rahilly gave a growl like a dog trodden
upon in its sleep.
“Osborne be damned! What the hell
does that old boomster know about running
boats?”
“Or fishing,” Dave Wiegert chipped in.
“Is he going to take that over, too? Have
shifts of men working the nets on a
forty-four hour week and union wages?”
“You’re like one of these blasted jew’s-
harps, Kunkel,” drawled Albert. “You only
got about two notes. D’you think because
a bloke can shoot about in a car and talk
a lot of hot air about development he can
do any damn thing? Who’d do all the
hard work if Osborne did take that boat
over?”
Kunkel shook his head stubbornly, his
small eyes gleaming behind their glasses.
“It don’t matter who do the work; some
day they train monkeys to swing a pick
Osborne.
and steer a boat. A man wit a head on
him don’t need for to bend his back. Dere
are always plenty oder men to do that in
t’is country, so long as you don’t ask them
for to use their brains.”
“Mina! Shop!” mocked Rahilly, in a
high falsetto.
“You’re not chewing over the idea of
selling Osborne your store, are you Kun-
kel?” asked Dave Wiegert, screwing up his
eyes. “He’d know how to keep the weevils
out of the flour. Lord, wouldn’t there be
a change! It’d be better business for you,
too, than letting his flash friends jew you
out of your custom, like they’re doing now.”
Kunkel winced at the personal note
and returned in a huff to his paper.
“T’is Passage need a few more men like
Osborne and young Hughie Callaway,” he
said dogmatically. “I know what I speak
about. Too many people here sit down on
deyre backsides and talk about how hard
dey work. Poke mullock at the men with
brains who keep everyt’ing going. Same
all over t’is country.”
But the other men did not hear him,
for they had drifted to the door. It was
a day of blue and gold, with crystal cur-
rents of cool air tempering the sun. A
full tide was coming through the bar, wash-
ing over the sandbanks in little waves of
foam, and the plumy smoke of a coastal
boat could be seen rising from behind
Rathbone Island. Rahilly was looking up
the road with his sidelong stare.
“There’s young Hughie’s car now,” he
said at last, “Got a load aboard, too!
“It’s Lew!” said Dave Wiegert, “Lew and
some woman or other. Lord, what a stack
of luggage!” .
“Lew’s brought a woman home, grinned
Albert. “That’s what he’s been away tor.
Trust him to keep his head shut.”
“What’s t’at?” asked Kunkel coming up
behind them.
The car flashed by without stopping,
Hughie taking one hand from the whee
to wave a greeting. Behind sat Lew and
a girl in white. So quickly did they spin
past that the men did not at first recognise
Lena Christensen; the car was a couple of
hundred yards away before someone mut-
tered her name. Then they noticed that
Hughie didn’t turn down by the broken
fence and old well to Callaway s, but kept
right on to the big house that had once
been Tony’s.
What was the meaning of it? For the
last, couple of days, they remembered, Anna
Callaway and Dot had been over at the
big house, turning out cupboards and
spreading rugs and mattresses on the rails,
but no one had taken much notice of that.
Anna had given the place a thorough over-
haul every few months since Rachel had
left. But she had never thought of shift-
ing over there herseli; it was Lew’s place.
Some day Lew might be bringing home a
wife, she had said.
Well, it had happened now! Lew had
had something in his mind, after all, when
he had gone off so suddenly! There were
jokes about tin-kettling among the Wic-
gerts as they floated off to their work, and
they speculated on how Lew would take it
if they appeared that night with their
cans; but old Tom was silent, as if the
affair had touched some personal emotion
in him.
“Well, I’m damned!” lie kept muttering
to himself. “Lew and that Christensen
girl!”
CHAPTER XVI.
Felicity.
“Oh, Lew, she’s just lovely!” Dot burbled
as they walked together over the green to
the cottage in the dusk. “I didn’t know
she was like that. Her hair—it’s got little
lights all through it, and the look of her
skin makes me feel freckled all over. I
can’t keep my eyes off her.”
“No more can I,” said Lew with a laugh.
“Never could when she was around... .
Did it give you a shock when you heard ?”
“A bit,” admitted Dot. “Mother was
broody for a day or two. She took a set
against Lena long ago, and she don’t get
over things easy. Besides, you kept it so
dark, Lew. Why didn’t you tell the lot
of us when you were going away?”
“Didn’t know—no more than the rest of
you. We hadn’t seen one another for over
a year till I met her in town.... Things
just happen.”
“It was,really like that?”
“Yes; dinkum.”
Dot was silent for awhile, looking over
at the crowd of gulls settled on the nearest
sandbank.
“I’m glad you’ve got Uncle Tony’s house
to live in, Lew. Ours is such a box. People
can’t help getting in one another’s road,
and chipping at one another about this or
that D’you think Lena’ll get fond of the
life here, like what we are?”
“I think so. If she don’t, it’ll be my
fault. She’s taken to the house already.”
They had been carrying the last of Lew’s
things over to Uncle Tony’s house—his
gramophone records, his violin, his books—
and now were strolling back to where Hughie
and Lena were sitting on the breakwater.
There was already a feeling of summer in
the air. A pearly light remained in the sky,
and from all around sounds came clearly, the
voices of people fishing on the sandbank,
the tinkle of a ukulele, the gride of Wie-
gert’s truck coming in at the back gate,
shouts of children playing on an old punt
near one of the jetties. Life was airy, light
of wing. Marnie, who had been washing up
in the kitchen with her mother, came out
(Continued on page 45.)


h
eney
li I NA i
C
China and character
AMO US hostesses have said
that beautiful China, more
than anything else, uplifts the
character of the drawing room.
It casts a glamour over that
characteristic English institution,
Afternoon Tea, and adds consid-
er ablv to the prestige of the wise
gentlewoman. That is why ladies
buy Shelley China: it is both a
compliment to the guests and a
credit to the hostess. And it adds
sincerity to beauty. It is China
—Staffordshire bone China—
not earthenware.
Ask TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morninc Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
ty Lucie Attweu.
&Hi ida Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• MTiSH MAJ>*
m CASE OP AMY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WHITE TO
ẅ
w
f y HAIR
<o NEEO
HERE'S
•umy-
m
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and iii a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
S(PQjU&ris CMEXICAN)
Walnut Stain
THE GREY**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), fid. being postage.
ŵ
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
(Commencing Saturday.)
CRITERION: LET US BE GAY.
17. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
GREATEST LIVING SOPRANO,
FLORENCE AUSTRAL
“The V'oice Majestic,” in conjunction with
JOHN AMADIO,
World-famed Flute Virtuoso.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
MAY 31, JUNE 3, JUNE 5 (Matinee), JUNE 7.
Melbourne Season commences June 21.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
(Commencing Saturday, May 31.)
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER,
With WM. FAVERSHAM, ANN DAVIS
and Special Company.
JJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ALL-TALKING DRAMA,
THE SKY HAWK,
With JOHN GARRICK.
ATjKO
LEWIS STONE in
WONDER OF WOMEN.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
1 Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To MARTIN JAMES CONNELLY formerly of
Burnie in the State of Tasmania and Sydney in the
State of New South Wales.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of Winifred Alice
Connelly for dissolution of her marriage with you
on the grounds of desertion TAKE NOTICE that
unless within twenty-five days from the publication
hereof you cause an appearance to be entered in
the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart to answer the said Petition
AND unless you attend at the said Court in person
or by your ’ Solicitor at the hearing of the said
Petition the Court will proceed to hear the said
charge proved and pronounce sentence your absence
notwithstanding.
(Signed) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Missing Friends.
FVAVID HADDON HEATON, who was in
Melbourne at the end of 1907 and
supposed to have left Newcastle (N.S.W.)
in January, 1908, in the ship Riversdale and
discharged from that ship at Valparaiso
in May, 1908. Anyone knowing of him
or his whereabouts please communicate with
Malleson, Stewart, Stawell & Nankivell,
Solicitors, of 46 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Re W. G. BROWN—Deceased.
IF HERBERT CONNOLLY, who married
Cecilia Brown, will apply to the Public
Trustee, Hobart, he will hear of something
to his advantge.
Position Wanted.
y r OUNG man, 29 years of age, requires a
position of any kind, anywhere. Mech-
Liiically inclined; can handle any type of
machinery or woodwork. Nothing in the line
>f work refused. N.X.H., c/o Bulletin.
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 61-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices udvertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must he fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Later Years of Thomas
Hardy, 1892-1928
By FLORENCE EMILY HARDY.
With portraits and other illustra-
tions. i Bs. net.
Lord Melbourne
By BERTRAM NEWMAN. 12s.
6d. net.
Tlio “Times”: “After the brilliant appear-
ance which Lord Melbourne makes in Mr.
Lytton Straeliey’s ‘Queen Victoria,’ there must
be many who would like to make a closer
acquaintance with him; and in this volume
they will find that Mr. Newman meets their
wishes very happily.”
Heredity in Live Stock
By CHRISTIAN WRIEDT. With
a foreword by PROFESSOR
R. C. PUNNETT. Illustrated.
7s. 6d. net.
“Live Stock Journal”: “A valuable contri-
bution to the literature on this subject....
A vast number of practical experiments dealing
with the laws of heredity arc in this work,
the findings being presented in such a way as
to carry significance to the lay reader.”
Rogue Herries
By HUGH WALPOLE. 736
pages.
[Dominions Edition.
The “Fortnightly Review”: “The story of
‘Rogue Herries’ is probably the richest (as
well as the longest) of Mr. Walpole's novels.
It has movement, color, humor and drama; it
is robust and full-blooded; and it has the
true flavor of its period, which is the
eighteenth-century.”
Turn Back the Leaves
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
[Empire Libraty.
The “Tatler”: “Undoubtedly the best novel
she has so far given us.”
To be Obtained from ad
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
The Little Siters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Cahill and Brooke gave a concert in the
ballroom at Lennon’s, where a large audi-
ence showed itself appreciative of everything,
from negro spirituals to Chopin numbers. The
Governor and Lady Goodwin, Archbishop
Duhig, just back from Westralia, and Pre-
mier and Mrs. Moore were among those pre-
sent. Cahill and Brooke are now off on a
tour of the State. They return for a con-
cert in the City Hall at Show-time.
The Authors and Artists arranged a
Bulletin evening in the Women’s Club,
ihe speakers were ,E. N. McCulloch
(“O. C. Cabot”), Francis Kenna, “Tar-
boy” Brown, Jack Mathieu, Emily Bul-
cock (who read Kathleen Dalziel’s Anzac
poem), F. Bennett, James Devaney and
Inigo Jones. Mildred Bell arranged the
music, Marion Sanderson Taylor played,
Olive Waterfield sang and Alicie Gillies was
heard on the violin. Round the walls were
hung Bulletin drawings.
Madame Nell Tritton-Nadejine and her
husband gave a dance and supper at Len-
non’s. The hostess was in gold lace and the
guests were Colonel and Mrs. N. A. IT.
Campbell, Dorothy Hawthorn, Nan North,
Dr. Love and Cedric Cleghorn. M. Nadejine
and his wife are off to America by the Ven-
tura.
Harry Bofradale put on “Dorothy” at
the Cremorne for a week for the benefit of
the Mayor’s Unemployment Fund. Jill
Manners in shell-pink and gold was a de-
lightful Dorothy, and Pearl Watson as
Lydia used her clear soprano to advantage.
The ballets were most effective, especially
the gypsy dance. It was about the best pro-
duction of the Brisbane Opera Players to
date.
St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Church was
decked in cherry and crimson and poinsettia
blazed when Harold Percival Foote, of Sher-
wood, took to wife Gwen Morrow, daughter
Of the- 11. C. Morrows, of Indooroopilly.
The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in ivory satin; her veil of hand-
embroidered : Brussels lace was mounted or.
tulle. Phyllis Morrow, Lorna Foote and
Joyce Morrow ’maided in cherry chenille
velvets, with Juliet caps of silver sequins.
Basil Gillespie best-manned. Rowe’s ban-
queting hall was decked for the reception
with palms and crimson roses, and the three-
tier cake was on silver pillars. Mrs. Morrow
received in eau-de-nil mariette. The bride
left in geranium velvet, the coat collared
and cuffed with white, fox.-
This pretty maid is Jessie, daughter of
the Littleton Groom couple, of Hamilton,
Brisbane.
Born in
Q u e e nslund,
she was
educated a t
the Presby-
terian Ladies’
College, Mel-
bourne, an d
studied music
at the Mel-
bourne Coii-
s e r vatorium.
II e r engage-
ment is an-
il ou n c e d to
Cecil Pearce,
who is on the
staff of the
Chu r c h of
England Boys’
School at
Too woomba.
where th o
Grooms lived
for so many years.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Mt. Karrinyup Coif Club opened with a
flourish; Chief Justice McMillan turning the
key before play began. Many visitors from
other clubs were present and the fairways,
stretching like green ribbons round the lake,
were plentifully sprinkled with plus-fours
and smart feminine tweeds. Afterwards the
players changed their sporting togs for even-
ing gear, and dancing in the lounge and on
the verandah followed dinner. Mrs. Reg
Forbes wore royal-blue lace, Mrs. Doy For-
rest’s diaphanous grey ninon had a fur pelt
or two for trimming, Mrs. Ililton Wood was
in black and daughter Peggy in pink satin
with long sleeves; roses bloomed upon Mar-
jorie Beresford’s ivory taffetas, a cobweb of
blue lace floated about Mrs. C. Morlet, Olga
Ainslie chose black and Mrs. McWliae pink.
Isla Taylor, Judge and Mrs. Dwyer, Dr and
Mrs. McKellar Hall and the Waldie-Forbes
girls were among the other players and
dancers.
The Allan Wilkies are finishing their five
weeks at His Majesty’s. Lady Campion
came to the opening night of “Antony and
Cleopatra” clad in misty blue moire, and was
presented with a pink and white bouquet of
roses and carnations. Son Wilfrid and his
wife and Mr. Ross McDonald shared the
v.-r. pews. The John le Tessiers, Mr. and
Mrs. Keith Murdoch and Mrs. S. J. Ander-
son were in the audience.
Pretty Kathleen Walsh has become
affianced to Kevin Sullivan, of Tasmania.
Cwendolyn, daughter of the Rev. A. W.
Bray, has promised to become Mrs. Edward
Kayser, and Darell Harford has accepted an
engagement token from tennis player * Wjl
Lamb. ■-
In honor of Miss Dolly Sullivan from the
Speck, Kathleen Walsh hostessed a bridge
party at the Palace. Miss Sullivan wore
flowered triple . ninon. Robin Ilood green
was Kathleen’s choice for frock and hat, and
sister Alice wore indigo pussywillow flecked-
with grey and white. Mrs. Fred Curran
looked attractive in black velvet.
Mrs. 11. Pope, with daughters Don and
Phil, boarded the Bendigo for the. Cold Coun-
try. The travellers intend to buy a car and
spend the summer months poking in and out
of little green villages in England and Scot-
land.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Black has been very conspicuous at the
races. Lady Stonehaven chose a black
marocain coat, and a black balibuntal hat
with a drooping brim; Lady Somers and
Lady Hore-Ruthven both wore black coats
over black and white figured crepe de Chine.
Mrs. H. P. McLachlan featured a black
ensemble trimmed with black astrachan, and
a black felt hat. The Mayoress (Mrs. Lav-
ington Bonython) relieved the monotony in
a tweed tailored fawn coat over a red
crepclla frock, and a hat of red velour.
Phyllis Bray looked well in a Lido-blue and
white flecked ensemble and blue hat.
Society was well represented among the
audience at the Theatre. Royal when Kenneth
Duffield gave “Pot Luck” to an Adelaide
gathering of relatives and well-wishers, after
only a week’s rehearsal. Next month at the
Royal a comedy entitled “Where’s Puss?”
will be produced to raise funds for the needy.
The play is by an Adelaide woman who
raised over £7OO for patriotic funds in the
same way during the war. G. W. Irvine,
a clever professional now in Kenneth Drif-
field’s show, will be the producer.
The Barr Smith library is being started
at last. Like other recent developments, it
is to be down by the river, at the foot of
the high bank on which the original Uni-
versity buildings stand, and the first definite
breach in the old Jubilee Oval pavilions will
have to be made to find room for it. It is
expected to cost T. E. Barr Smith at least
£oO,O0O; his father long ago found the money
to buy the majority of the books.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
At the autumn meeting of the T.R.G.
chairman Lyons and his wife welcomed
guests to tea in the pavilion, where the
decorations were of blue and gold, the host’s
racing colors. The G. Canns were there to
see their horses earning winning brackets,
Mrs. Cann in a fascinating brown fur coat
and a pinkish hat. Tweeds were much in
evidence, some heavily fur-trimmed, others
touched with cloth or leather. Fashion
allows a wide range of coloring just now,
and warm dahlia reds, deep greens, a few
blues and all the beige shades provided plenty
of brightness on the lawn. Among the coun-
try punters were the Ivo Agnews, the Rus-
sell Ibbotts and the Bruce Gibsons.
E. O. lloppS, to whose camera we owe
much of our knowledge of present-day liter-
ary lights but whose landscape work is less
familiar, has been paying us a hurried visit.
He should have caught some worth-while
scenes, for autumn is always a lovely season
here, with the coloring of our many English
trees and hedgerows.
The R.S.S.I.L.A. engineered a nine-days’
fete at the City Hall in aid of ex-
service men and their dependents, when
a fair sum was realised. MayOr Soundy
opened the show; C. Baldwin, M. Lakin and
W. 11. Gray were the organisers.
Among travelling Tasmanians arc Mrs.
Cyril Lewis and daughter Margaret, both of
whom have made their bow at Court under
the sponsorship of High Commissioner
Ryrifc’s lady. Mrs. D’Arcy Addison, wife of
our temporary Agent-General, was also pre-
sented.
The University students finished up the
somewhat heavy fooling of their mock com-
memoration with a jolly little dance in the
Uni. library. Marcus Trappe’s orchestra
made the music, and about 200 dancers
footed to it. Supper was served in the lec-
ture-room and the staff-room. R. C. Lord,
president of the Students’ Union, Elinor
Hurst, E. Roberts and iC. A. Jillett were
the organising committee.
The City Hall was ablaze with color at
the autumn show of the Amateur Horticul-
tural Society. Chrysanthemums and other
exhibits came from various parts of the
island.
The only surprise in the H’obart City
Council elections was the successful candida-
ture of George Crosby Gilmore, sometime
police magistrate. Mr. Gilmore came out
with a humorous election advertisement, “He
used to try you; now try him.” In
returning thanks he said the electors had
given him four years, which was a longer
sentence than he had ever imposed during
his 20-odd years on the Bench.
AT TILE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
Obit, Carl Jacob Pon, a resident of Aus-
tralia for more than 50 years, who gave his
name to Carl Pon’s Beach, Darwin. He
was for some years in charge of A. E.
Jolly and Co.’s pearling fleet."
Anzac Sunday saw a pilgrimage to the
local cemetery, where a short service was
held and wreaths were laid on the graves of
returned soldiers. The sports on the Oval
in the afternoon and the benefit picture-show
at night were well attended, and the fund fox-
disabled Diggers and their dependents pro-
fited thereby.
Angus and Robertson have accepted for
publication “Far-North Memories,” from the
pen of Mrs. J. S. Litchfield, a Darwin resi-
dent. The book deals with life on the NT.
mineral fields.
The Very Reverend F. X. Gell, Adminis-
trator Apostolic to the Northern Territory,
will open the new Catholic church at Alice
Springs next month. Father Long, formerly
of Darwin, is in charge of that diocese.


THE GOSSARD LINE of BEAUTY
*
a
' -
V.
»■,
i-
m
■ 1111114
Shown above is front-lacing corset, Model 1002. Combined
of French batiste and the wonder fabric-elastic, Charmosette,
which is found only in Gossard garments, it gently grooms
the figure into lines of loveliness.
There Is No Substitute
for Loveliness of Figure
There simply isn’t a substitute for a lovely figure—
well-groomed and well-poised. The smartest of
gowns, the most beautiful of faces cannot atone for a
figure carelessly groomed. Knowing this, Gossard
has produced foundation garments that groom every
type of figure—bring the utmost in loveliness. The
designs are many—Solitaires, step-ins, front-lacing
corsets, girdles, brassieres. Whatever your figure
faults happen to be, among the new Gossard
foundations are garments that will fit you as though
they were individually designed for your needs.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W.
EMp i r
K-AUST-l
MADE
WITHIN
THE
to hang a couple of wet tea-towels on the
fence.
“You there, Hughie?” she called out.
“Osborne wants you on the ’phone.”
“Oh, damn Osborne,” said Hughie good-
humoredly. “He’s always got some flea
biting him.”
But he rose and went inside briskly, for
Osborne had the power of putting business
in his way.
Lew took his place on the breakwater
beside Lena, and soon Marnie and her
mother came strolling out to join them,
chatting easily about the state the house
had got into since Aunt Rachel had left
it, and the way the Wiegerts’ roan cow
had destroyed the vegetable garden. There
were jokes about the stir Lena’s arrival had
caused, and the threats of ti'n-kettling the
fishermen had made, even Anna joining in
the general banter. She was disarmed by
Lena’s simplicity and the air of happiness
that radiated from her: all her pre-concep-
tions about the girl had been bowled over
when Lena had come tripping bareheaded
across the green a few minutes after she
arrived and burst into the kitchen, kissing
her on the forehead. In the frank look
they had given one another after that
embrace a truce had been sealed.
“You don’t like me,” Lena’s eyes had
said, “but you will. I’ll go out of my way
to make sure of that.”
And Anna’s eyes had responded.
“Well, as long as you make Lew
happy”
The ordeal hadn’t been as great as he
expected, Lew felt, as he sat on the break-
water listening to them talk. There had
been a sense in his mind of flinging down
a challenge when he sent the wire asking
them to get the house ready for himself and
Lena; but what a happy family they
seemed, after all! Mamie was excited be-
cause, after playing with casual jobs in
Eumerella and other townships, she had
at last come into touch with a modiste
in town who was taking her on as designer.
A new life was opening up ahead of her;
her hard, compact little personality was
sending out exploring shoots. And stretched
on the couch grass above the breakwater
lay Dot, her eager eyes feasting on Lena’s
shadowed face. She was fifteen now, long-
legged and a little awkward, but though she
was self-conscious about her own lack of
grace all her being flowed out in a devo-
tional flame toward beauty in others. There
was, too, her passionate attachment to Lew,
Avhich never flickered. She felt that this
was going to be the turning-point in his
life, in the lives of all of them, for the
matter of that.
The muffled roar of the surf on Rathbone
Island made the air drowsy, gradually im-
posing a bemused silence upon them. From
the verandah of Dave Wiegert’s house, two
hundred yards away, came the wail of an
accordion, and a lachrymose voice sounded
out, plaintive as the note of a curlew:—
For love it is pleasing, and love ’tis teasing,
. And love is a treasure when first ’tis
new,
But when it grows older, it then grows
colder
And jades erwa-a-y, like the morning
dew ,
Lew looked across to Lena in the dusk,
a slight flush under the dark of his skin as
he rose.
“About time to go, isn’t it?”
She stretched herself lazily.
“I suppose so. It’s been such a long
day Was it really this morning we
came?”
Lights on the water, voices from the open
doors of the fishermen’s huts, bats cutting
dim figures in the air, as the pair walked
home across the green with their arms
around one another! .It was the sort of
timeless night that comes in early summer.
To Lew, in the days that followed, it
seemed that he had achieved a mastery of
his life. There had been times in the last
couple of years when he had felt that his
job was too much for him. He had been
oppressed, even in sleep, by the weight of
the load he was carrying, and dark storms
of unrest had swept over him, urging him
to scuttle all his responsibilities and clear
out. It looked desperately unlikely that
there would come a day when he would
be free of debt, able to feel the boat was
his own and take a pleasure in its working.
He was used to spending his strength and
to living on little, but not to this sweating
of the brain after working hours, planning
small economies, organising dissimilar
things, looking into the future. He had
felt as if his head was being held under
water. No chance to come up for a deep
breath, to look at the sky, to let his body
feel the sun!
But now the worst of the struggle was
over. He had straightened out the tangle
of his finances, and with the extra loading
that was needed for Osborne’s schemes the
store-boat was beginning to pay well; so well
that he had gone a long way towards work-
ing off the capital he owed Aunt Rachel.
She hadn’t suffered from his management,
even though he had had to make every
pound do the work of two! He still kept up
the fishing, but it had taken a secondary
place. Only when the mullet were thick
and there was a chance of getting good
hauls with the nets could he find time to
go out with the others, and he had long
withdrawn from the co-operative system he
had organised himself.
“You’re getting to be a blasted capitalist,
Lew,” Rahilly used to rally him. “Sitting
in a bit of an office half the night pushing
a pen. You won’t know which end of an
oar to put in the water soon.”
“I’ll swap jobs with you any time you
like, Tom,” was Lew’s retort. “Working for
a regular wage would suit me down to the
ground. I’ve never found anyone who’d
pay me one, though.”
Yet new interests were forming to take
the place of the old ones. He found a thrill
in watching for his own boat through the
spyglass as old Tony had done, in handling
the cargo, in sending her off fully loaded
from the jetty, looking natty and trim
enough to weather a gale from the south-
east.
And it was something to be relieved of
the responsibility of looking after the
family. Hughic was shouldering that bur-
den, and doing it cheerfully, for he was
making good money and saw a prospect ol
having three cars on the road by the time ,
the summer visitors came pouring down to !
Lavinia. A sense of prosperity seemed to
glow through Hughie like the light coming j
from the core of rough opal. Everyone j
believed in his future. Although not, yet
twenty he was a man of affairs, and even j
Osborne asked his opinion of land sales or |
council finances when they drank together
in the bar of the Railway Hotel.
“Hughie’s got enough ideas to keep a
whole crowd going,” people said. “Don’t
know where his brains come from, cause
Bob didn’t have any to spare.”
His smile, too! Where did that come
from? The rest of the Callaways, except
perhaps Dot, were a dark-looking lot, with
more thunder on their faces than morning
sun!
Yet no one could complain now of any
lack of responsiveness in Lew, as he worked
down on the jetty, trucking off the building
material that had come in the boat, or
wandered down to help the men mending
nets on the green. His marriage had made j
a world of difference to him, giving him j
back the spring he ought never to have lost.
And who was more aware of this than him-
self? Every morning he awoke to a world
that was dewy, buoyant, young. A faint
thresh of banana-fronds against the rails
of the verandah: the song of a thrush from
the lemon-tree by the tank! Going out
to the kitchen he lit the fire in the big
range arid came back to where Lena was
lying, her fair hair crumpled on the pillows
and one arm curved over her head. A
drowsy charm always hung about her when
she first opened her eyes, but at the sight, |
of his towel she pretended to bury herself
in sleep again, a flush in her cheeks and a
languor about her body.
“Ready for a dip?”
“Not yet. You go down. I’ll come
later.”
“Right! I’ll wait for you at the jetty.”
What a delight to stand still before the |
first plunge, looking down into water so j
transparent that you could see the whiting j
nosing along the bottom, the small crabs j
fastening on floating pieces of weed, an
occasional flathead half buried in the sand! j
Then Lena’s clear voice to break the
silence! She always sang when she was
getting ready for a bathe, and her singing-
voice had the sweetness and spontaneity of
a bird’s. It thrilled Lew, that voice of
liers, coming up unexpectedly like a spring
and flooding his whole being. There seemed
a magic in her throat. Yet when she j
talked it was somehow different: the words j
came out lazily and a little blurred. As if
she didn’t greatly care what she said!
Or what she did, either, if it came to
that! There had been a laughing indiffer-
ence about her in town when she had
weighed the question of whether she would
marry him and come back to settle at the
Passage. It was only his vehemence, the
sheer power of his will, that had forced the
decision. She had quarrelled with her
brother at Glenrowan, and for over a year
had been earning her living in various ways,
trying one thing after another. At the back
of her mind she seemed to be playing with |
the idea of taking a job as housekeeper
on some station out west. Or did she
merely want to tantalise him with the
name of the township in which Craig was
now living?
He wasn’t sure; and, anyhow, the matter
didn’t trouble his mind now that he saw
her accepting the life he had made for her.
She was happy in if; the assurance of that
didn’t merely come from her words but
from the way she moved about, setting the
old house in order, running down over the
grass in the morning for her bathe, walking
about the breakwater in the dusk, arm in
arm with Dot. And the way she could get
round his mother, sitting on the kitchen
table and swinging her legs as she asked
about recipes and the best way of keeping
silverfish out of her clothes!
“I’m a real dud as a housekeeper,” she
confessed. “Anything was good enough for
the boys at Glenrowan. Lew’s so particu-
lar, though. Used to having things done
just right all his life. I feel as if all my
fingers were thumbs when he’s watching
anything I’m doing.”
It was this touch of humility that won
Anna. She hadn’t expected it, and it took
the dryness frorn her tongue. Lew was
content, basking entranced in a bright pool
of sensuous warmth. Life wasn’t treating
him so badly after all! He didn’t either
look ahead or look back.
(To be continued next iceek.)


\
0 .:•.>.
v ' i
?*ss
;;flPfll
>:*:•;>
MW
* •
w v :
PI
s f
m
Now as to f
us women •
Oh you know read that
text below, just put yourself
in the man’s place.
One luxurious revel in a tub
of Lifebuoy lather will prove
it’s all true —and applies to us.
Men like to think they are
dynamic and that we dainty
creatures 101 l around all day.
You know they’d be worn
out by noon if they tried to
do our work.
Our active bodies crave
Lifebuoy’s fresh, reviving
clearness quite as much as
theirs—even more, I think.
Give Lifebuoy a trial.
It’s the soap you’ve been
looking for. You’ll like it.
Your skin will love it. The
odour, which you will quickly
learn to like because it’s so
clean, vanishes at once com-
pletely.
The Health Doctor.
Because he’s so clean
that’s why
Of course she likes him better. The other
fellow dances well a fine chap, but you
know —a bit careless. To be frank, not
pleasant to dance with.
Lifebuoy means a lot to big-muscled,
athletic men. Freshens like a dip in surf.
Gets under the surface. You stay clean.
Lifebuoy’s tonic, deodorant lather positively
does away with body odour. Removes the
cause. Not a substitute for cleanness but
cleanliness itself. . . Great soap—invigorating
snappy keeps skin in grand condition.
Lifebuoy smells antiseptic because it’s that
LEVER
BROTHERS
LIMITED
way. Better be safe than scented. It protects
then the odour vanishes completely
never clings. Lifebuoy is orange-red the
color of its pure palm fruit oil. Get it
to-day and to-morrow’s bath will bring a
new kind of cleanliness.
w
for toilet
and bath
2.98.7


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
dr
FREE PATTERN
every Week
pOR your con-
venience “The
Australia” is set
in the very centre
of things. A quiet
and luxurious
oasis from which
you can, at your
pleasure, step
forth into the busy
whirl of office,
shop and theatre
! : li
•wrjswwtw.:'.... . ~ v >
,~2 — — —-
Single Room, with
Breakfast, from 15/-
per day.
Telegraphic Address:
! Austraotel,’ Sydney.
Illustrated folder and
rate-card posted on
request .
Tiic/Justralia
v
Capital paid-up,
£422,100.
SYDNEY
The Hotel of
the Commonwealth
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published m “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A good old chestnut of the N.Z. Legis-
lature. Hon. W. Rolleston, when Minister
of Lands, made a barefaced bid for the vote
of democratic F. *T.
Moss. The latter pro-
mised to let him know
in writing in the
morning, and when
the morning came the
Minister received a
letter containing the
line “A. Rolleston
gathers no Moss.”
And this reminds us
of another good story.
Moss was leader-
writer for the N.Z.
“Herald” when Sir
George Grey came
from the seclusion of
Kawau to liberate
M aoriland from
the rule of “The
SISYPHUS AND THE ROCK.
(An ancient myth with modern variations.)
SIR HENRY PARKES: “All right, Eddy ? You
boost it up and I’ll see that it gets
down again.”
(Mr. Eddy was tin? Chief Railway Commissioner
who was given the job ,of el wining up the N.S.W.
railway muddle tn Sir Henry Parkes’s day.)
Continuous Ministry.” Wilson, proprietor
of the “Herald,” though a democrat
in politics, was a good deal mixed up with
land rings, etc. One night, during the pro-
gress of an election campaign, Grey delivered
a stirring speech about Ministerial rottenness,
and, as an instance, mentioned that the
Government had recently given a syndi-
cate of its friends a valuable block at a
tenth of its value. Moss, who was at the
meeting, rushed off to his office, and pro-
duced a stinging article against the particular
job mentioned by Grey. Next morning he
met Wilson looking very glum. “What s the
matter, sir?” asked Moss —“nothing wrong I
hope?” “Well, no,” said Wilson —“not much.
That is to say, I have £5OOO in that syndi-
cate you have slated so badly.”
When the Irish nation starts to shift a
pig, that pig lias got to shift, or something is
going to bust. The other Saturday after-
noon a Kerry female entered the Launceston
(Tas.) railway station, and proceeded to
negotiate second-class tickets for herselt,
two good sized swine, one dog and a small
billy-goat. “We don’t issue tickets for
swine,” said the clerk, scornfully. “Then
yez’ll p’raps be good enough to tell me how
I’m to take them pigs, the crathers, wid me
to Deloraine?” demanded the Kerry image,
sternly. “Why, you must engage a cattle
truck.” “An’ phwat’ll be the lxpmse of
that, young man?” “A shilling a mile.
“A shillin’ a mile! Two pounds foive, is it i
Bad luck to the sowl of yez, it’s only two
pound I’m givin’ fur the bastes entoirely,
an’ yez would charge me foive shillings
more than the crathers are worth! Och,
I’ll niver pay any sich proice, ye fur-
therin’ thief.” There was a long hiatus
here, and there seemed to be every pros-
pect of the lady and the pigs having to travel
by the dirt road, but at last an appeal was
carried to the station-master and the dis-
tracted passenger drew such an affecting
picture of herself and the pigs tramping to
their distant home along
the dusty highways that
he gave in. A new
tariff was framed on the
spot, the pigs were
classed as dogs, and
the dog was catalogued
as a parrot, and the
goat was entered as a
cat, and then the whole
menagerie was landed
into the luggage-van.
Or, at least, they would
have been, only the pigs
braced their feet firmly
and kinked their little
curly tails and resisted
all the human machin-
ery of the department.
In sheer desperation
four porters glued them-
selves on to the smaller
of the swine and endea-
vored to hoist its hind
leg off the platform, but
the animal merely gave
a heave and landed the
whole crowd on the
permanent way. Then
the lady threw aside
her umbrella and girded herself up. There
was one tremendous convulsion which seemed
to tear up the roots of the civilised earth,
and a pig flew through the air and landed
in the van. Another superhuman wrench
which made the representative institutions
of the colony totter on their base, and the
second liog was fetched along and loaded
beside his companion; then, with a look of
withering derision, the female from Kerry
put her bonnet straight and took her seat.
'The Department felt small, but it smothered
its feelings and the train started on its way.
The awesome naivete of some women is a
fearful and wonderful thing. I [Sappho
Smith] was on the railway recently, with a
mixed company on board, and behind me sat
two little dears, whose free and gladsome
cackle was audible all over the train. Said
one: “And so Frank and I went and had
dinner, but I didn’t eat anything.” “Why,
weren’t you hungry?” queried her companion.
“Dreadfully! Simply starving, but I just
wouldn’t let Frank see me eat. Didn’t I have
a good meal when I got home, though!”
The death of A. G. Jones, formerly
M.L.A. for the Murrumbidgee, and at one
time proprietor of the Wagga AVagga “Adver-
tiser,” was lately recorded. Mr. Jones was
an ordained clergyman of the Anglican
Church, and a most eccentric individual. He
gave up the Church to engage in squatting
pursuits, and was formerly the owner of
considerable station property. He was an
excellent judge of sheep and a keen hand
at a bargain. At certain times he was con-
sidered fair game for plucking by some of the
“smart” station agents, but could generally
manage to hold his own in any company.
A couple of instances will suffice. Strolling
down Collins-street, Melbourne, one day,
after having had an exceedingly festive time,
he was espied by an agent who had a fine
lot of sheep to sell, such as Mr. Jones had
never had through his hands before, etc., etc.
An adjournment was made to the office, the
matter talked over, and half an hour’s
option given. At the' end of that time
A.G.J- returned, closed the bargain, and
desired the agent to hand over the sheep
to Mr. So-aml-So,. “as he had meanwhile
sold them at an advance' of eighteenpence
THE FIRST PARLIAMENT.—CONSTI-
TUTIONAL GOVERNMENT AT LAST.
(From a rare old print, discovered in “Hop’s”
garret.)
a head.” On another occasion he purchased
at auction in Melbourne station property to
the value of £50,000, and tendered his cheque
on the A. J. S. Bank for the amount to the
somewhat astounded auctioneer, who did not
happen to know his customer. On wiring
to the Joint Stock Bank to know if Jones's
cheque for 50 thou, was good, the answer
flashed back, “Yes, quite good.” And now
he has .passed away, and few so poor as
do him reverence. ■ • ■
This story is most probably a lie, hut
that doesn’t matter much. Most amusing
things in this world are lies —it is only plain
and solemn statements such as sermons and
gas bills and corns and lost dogs that are
absolutely reliable. A female physician
has started business _ somewhere, but her
door-plate doesn’t go into details about her
sex, and thus. the casual visitor is apt to
be taken in. In fact, he is taken in fre-
quently. The last caller at the house was
an itinerant: merchant, and when a tall,
gaunt, female in goggles opened the door, he
Stated that he called round to offer the
highest current price for the doctor’s left-off
trousers, and would also take his old shirt
at market rates. And though it is over a
week since the visit, he doesn’t know yet why
the lady, drove the door up against his head
and left him lying at the foot of the steps,
a dishevelled heap of unhinged intelligence
and bashed hat and broken merchandise.
When it was announced in Sandhurst that
George Lansell, the local' quartz millionaire
(his net income from Sandhurst reefs alone
is, quite £250,000 per annum), was return-
ing to Victoria, the good people of Bendigo
determined to bid him welcome in real West
End fashion. (George has of late been liv-
ing in a £60,000 London house.) So they got
up a requisition signed with 1000 names ask-
ing Mr. Lansell to dine with them at Bur-
ridge’s well-known Verandah Hotel. The
full-fed reefer said “No.” Let them, instead
of feeding him, make a subscription for the
Sandhurst hospital, and, however large the
total might be, he would add to it £ for £ on
the Government-grant principle. So the hat
went round, and the result was 25 shillings,
26 sixpences, 36 threepenny pieces—£2 7s.
in all. Then millionaire Lansell, who dearly
loves a joke and has learned from Mclntyre,
M.P., * and others what banquet popularity
means, added to the subscription his little
£2 7s.—and the hospital was enabled to
purchase two new straw palliasses for the
erysipelas tent.
Modern marriage formula: “Love, honor
and be gay.”
The correct thing now in fashionable
circles in America is for a girl to present
her future husband with plaster-casts of her
hands and feet. It is needless to mention
that, so far as the feet are concerned, these
images are a hollow lie and an imposture,
for the fashionable girl is not yet born who
would deliberately present her betrothed with
a statue of her corns and bunions. ahe
casts all show five perfectly-formed toes, and
a daintily-arched instep, and a skin as smooth
as polished ivory. But sometimes a dubious
lover takes the plaster hoof for a reality.
and marries on the strength of it.; and when
lie finds that the genuine extremity is large
and cold, and horrible on a winter night, he
realises that he has been sold. Then he
skirmishes for a< divorce on the ground that
the lady’s feet weren’t up to sample.
A man convicted of a small theft is about
to be sentenced. He looks very sad and hope-
less, and the Court is much moved by his
AN ’ARRIET OF THE ’EIGHTIES.
contrite appearance. “Have you ever been
sentenced to imprisonment, asks the Judge,
“Never, never.' exclaims the prisoner, burst-
mg into tears. Hunt cry, don t crj, sajs
the Judge, consolingly; you re going to be
now!”
A NIGHT REVERIE.
The wind from the water blows sweetly,
All nature seems hush’d in repose,
Its influence holds me completely,
My soul with a soft rapture glows;
I feel like . I did on the morn of
My doom, when, a very young cove,
Sentimental I wept o’er the scorn, of
My forty-first love.
As one whom his many friends shout for,
The bright waters merrily laugh,
And ’Arry with Hemma is out for
A bit of a ’op at Clontarf;
The stars gleam like jewels deep sunk in
A silver-tinged ocean of blue,
And the bobbies are running a drunk in
At Woolloomooloo.
The moon’s golden crescent is sinking
To sleep in tlie west there, afar;
And the tan-booted bank clerk is winking
At .lane in his pet private bar.
The cat’s gentle laughter comes pealing,
She heeds not the swiftly-hurled boot,
And the boy in the garden is stealing
The Chinaman’s fruit.
Ah, sea, at the sight of thy beauty
What longings, what memories flock!
But the landlord thinks it his duty
To say it’s eleven o’ the clock.
And my head with the whisky is bending,
’Tis time now to bid you “So long,”
For all must, at last have a*n ending,
And so must my song.
R.C.H.
BY THE RIVER.
I lie by the stream, so dismal and dank,
To myself unchanged, yet when strangers
see
My lurking place ’neath the caving bank
They flee in affright from my grave and
me.
Slow at my feet rolls the slimy stream,
’Neath the clustering myalls that line the
shore,
And ’midst the boulders I lie and dream.
Aud the worms arc my guests for evermore.
Over my head the green branches wave
With a hum like the noise of a breaking
sea,
And the carrion birds by my open grave
Sing dolorous songs to the river and me.
It is lonely here in this leafy hall.
But the voice of the gale is loud and free,
And when evening shades on the forest fall
We hold high revel —the Devil and me.
And my flesliless lips wear a smile alway,
While stiff on -the 1 rotten bank I slumber,
And the leaves and I together decay
'Mid tints of gold and funeral umber.
Where I fell I lie, the dark rolling waters
Still whisper the tale of that tragedy,
While earth’s unheeding, sons and daughters
Pass laughingly by my grave and me.
So I lie here and wait —I have waited long—
For the second coming of branded Cain,
And his hated presence shall make mc_ strong,
At his hated voice I shall rise again.
>Jc * * ❖
Then my bony arms shall be round him cast,
And the vengeance of. God shall awaken at
last;
And his corpse will rot by the blackened
shore,
And his face will be seen among men no
more.
And sharing with me my bed of clay.
Tlis bones will be found on the Judgment
Day;
And the carrion birds will join in my glee
Singing dolorous songs to the river aud me.
INA M. WILDMAN.


SHOOTING
EQUIPMENT
High-grade Shot Guns
Sporting Rifles.
Mick Simmons’ stocks, the most complete
in all Australia to-day, embrace the fore-
most English, American and Continental
manufacturers.
Simplicity! Efficiency! Rapidity! This
New Automatic Shot Gun has them all.
Absolutely the very last word in Automatic
Shot Guns.
No. 4.—BROWNING
AUTOMATIC
SHOT GUN,
12G,
ŵ
Slide grip, steel barrel,
take-down system; maga-
zine holds five cartridges. All
movable parts are inside a re-
ceiver closed at rear, which device
affords absolute security to the shooter.
Great rapidity and accuracy of shooting
are obtained with this gun.
Weight, about 8|;lb
£,9/10/-
Carriage Paid.
ẁ
No. I,
HARRINGTON
and RICHARDSON’S
5.8.8. L. GUN,
Top action, automatic self-
ejecting, steel barrel, solid,
case-hardened pistol-grip, walnut stock,
32in, barrel; weight, about
6*ib :
50/
Carnage Paid.
/ i'.; s
No. 20.
CERT D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN,
12 or 20G,
32in. steel barrels, choke, Greener
crossbolt (Anson and Deeley _ _ ,
action) £6/1 5/-
Carnage Paid.
ẃ
No. 2.—THE
MAINE SPECIAL
BOLT ACTION RIFLE,
22-cal., take-down, with safety bolt. For
short, long or long-rifle cartridges* 2 Un-
round barrel; weight, about
Wh 25/*
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 2/8.
ẅ
No. 17.
WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, 1902 MODEL,
22-cal., rimfire, 18in. round steel barrel,
bolt action; peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard; rubber heelplate;
weight, about 31b.
32/6
Postage, 1/6 ; Other Slates, 2/8.
w
No. 42. I
“THE SAVAGE”
REPEATING RIFLE,
1929 MODEL,
22-cal., 24in. octagon barrel, slide action,
pistol grip; handles short, long or long-
rifle cartridges; magazine holds 20 S.,
17 L. or 15 L.R.; length overall,
40 inches; weight, about
s|lb.
£5/ 2/6
Carnage Paid.
Detailed Profusely Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on Request.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS Ln>.
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
Ihe price of a wife in Siberia is eight
dogs. If the police keep up their present
rate of dog-destruction the price of a dog
in Sydney will be eight wives.
i
The English papers are telling a joyous
story about a small, effeminate-looking
burglar who, finding that he was badly
wanted by the police, disguised himself in
female attire, and got a situation as lady’s
maid. He was an affable and lady-like
burglar, and though lie was rather awkward
at first he speedily became invaluable, especi-
ally _ at hair-dressing and similar personal
services. Then the police got on his tracks,
and when the lady-like girl, who had been
treated almost as one of the family, was
run in under the name of Bill Smith, his
employer and her two daughters made three
separate and individual back-somersaults, and
went into frantic hysterics on the floor. They
have advertised for a new maid since then,,
and in the advertisement they state that
A SYLPH’S MALICE.
FAT WOMAN: “Is there any room inside?”
THIN WOMAN: “Ye-e-s. There’s a little room. Room for one,
I think.”
any woman who isn’t provided with refer-
ences testifying that she is a female needn’t
apply. When they take down their back hair
at night they do it with a shudder, for they
remember how, for two dreadful years, that
back hair was taken down for them by a
burglar; and the same lawless housebreaker
helped them to dress for dinner; and they
were wakened every morning by a coarse
and brutal malefactor; and when they were
unable to sleep they used to ring the bell
for a robber and get him to read to them.
And not only do they know these things, but
all their friends know them too, and talk
about them; and when they see two horrid
females laughing together in a ballroom,
they feel as if three separate oysters were
walking up and down their delicate spines.
An American girl with a good figure, who
has an extremely slender waist and laces it:
to its possible limit, at a recent ball wore
a white kid bodice. The kid had been damped
and then sewn on, so as to have no visible
fastening. The result was that after sitting
in a wai'm room for two hours her figure was
as neatly encased as if in a tight-fitting
glove. The same damping process was fol-
lowed with regard to the tiny white shoes,
which were made to fit her bare feet tightly,
and thus ensure a very good fit over stock-
ings. She did not undress for the two days,
resting on a sofa for the night, and wearing
a thin dress over her white kid bodice in the
day. She was “immensely admired.”
A Sydney lodginghouse-keeper was very
thankful the other day when one of her
boarders —who intended to leave next day—
volunteered to fill in her census-paper. Hav-
ing obtained particulars concerning all in the
house, he retired to' his room and described
his hostess as “55, divorced, hashmaker,
of unsound mind.” A swell master-hair-
dresser who resided in the establishment
was put down as a “shearer,” and a* civil
servant who thinks no small beer of himself
was described as “boots and generally use-
ful.” The fraud was only discovered when
the census-collector arrived and started to
check the returns.
In the remote region of Charters Towers
there dwells a sharebroker who combines
with the pastime of broking the business of
spiritualism without injuring his constitu-
tion. The other night he fixed up a s4a*nce
with a darkened room and a good supply
of spirits. They were all gathered round a
table which was covered with a large horse-
cloth. The believers included one or two
bank clerks, an egg merchant, a stranger
who looked like a retired pirate, a woman
of the Bloomer persuasion, and a coalheaver
or two. Messages were rapped with celerity,
and things were going as smoothly as Judas
Iscariot sliding downhill till the conductor of
the show called attention to a materialised
spirit which was about to appear. Then sud-
denly a wild soprano scream rang out, and one
of the ladies told the spirit he was no gentle-
man. The spirit, who seemed to have got fixed
under the table, told her to shut up, and
she kicked out wildly and asked him what
he was going to do with her corns. Then
the spirit gave a mighty heave at the table
and asked who was a-puttin’ of her dashed
big foot in his eye, anyhow. “Leggo, you
wretch,” screeched the lady. “I wish to the
lord I could let go,” said the visitor from the
other world huskily. “Who’s been tyin’ of
me up in knots? Dash you, you’ve got your
feet in my pocket; take them out, you old
vampire!” And then the spirit tore himself
out from under the table, upsetting it on top
of the circle, and breaking the cord that
upheld the concertina which was supposed to
be floating in the air, and letting it down on
the head of the broker, where it concussed a
good deal. There was a rush and two heels
twinkling in the air. Something heavy fell
out of the window, and they heard it tear
through the fence and do a spurt down the
road. Then the light was turned on, and
the sharebroker, holding his ear in one hand,
said that the materialised spirit had unfor-
tunately gone away. These things, he re-
gretted to say, did happen now and then.
There would be another seance the following
evening.
A deadbeat lately called at a shanty
out West looking for work, and was promptly
told there wasn’t any. “Well,” said the sun-
downer, “have you got any rats about this
place?” “Rats!
Hid you say rats?”
asked the shanty-
own e iy “Rats?
Why the place is
alive with ’em.”
“Well,” exclaimed
the deadbeat, “I’m
your man.” “Right
you are then; start
away and clear ’em
out,” said the pub-
lican. “Good,” re-
joined the deadbeat.
All day long he pot-
tered about imbib-
ing gratuitous beers
and getting outside
toothsome grub, yet
made no move to-
wards shifting the
rats. Next morning
the publican in-
ter viewed him.
“Touching the rats,
I thought you were
going to make ’em
scarce?” “Ah, yes,”
said the deadbeat,
“about the rats; I
reckon as soon as I
begin,, a rat will be
a cux-iosity about
hei’e.” “Well, begin
as soon as you like,”
murmured the pub-
lican. “Right,” re-
plied the deadbeat.
Another day passed
during which the
deadbeat absorbed
more eleemosynary
grub and beer, yet
he made no attempt
on the rats. The
.second morning came, and the publican
again interviewed him. “About those rats,”
he remarked. “Ah, yes,” said the loafer,
by rats as soon as I make a start on ’em.”
“That be d d!” said the publican ; “your
game is pretty well played out. Are you
going to begin or are you not?” “Am I
going to begin?—just you get me what I
want and I’ll make those rats d d scarce.”
“What do you want?” said the publican.
“Fetch me a piece of hoopiron,” said the
deadbeat, “so long”—measuring the length
with his ax-m. The publican brought the
hoopiron to him. The loafer weighed it,
straightened it, felt the edge and swished it
about. “That’ll do,” he said. “Now hring
on your rats!”
An English magazine—one of those sad-
dened productions that are published for
female readers only—is issuing an Australian
story by slow instalments, so as to let one
series of surprising statements soa<k in before
the next lot comes along. The scene is laid
in. a mining township, because the writer
thinks that Australia consists entirely of gold
and sheep; and the miners are a> good-
hearted, but dreadfully illiterate crow-d—all
except one god-like individual, who is the
younger brother of a British lord. One old
digger has brought his lovely daughter along,
and when he dies the whole population sheds
tears about his gra*ve as they think of
that maiden’s bereavement. Then, in the
depth of their emotion, they sell her off
by public auction, and the bidding grows
hot between the lord’s brother and a certain
frowsy, unshaven ruffian who wants to get
possession of the girl so that he may whale
her into revealing some mysterious informa-
tion concerning some property. The diggers
all feel bad in a heavy, large-footed way
when they understand his purpose, but they
can’t help themselves, for it is a fixed custom
on an Australian goldfield to trade off any
beautiful orphan who may be about. Finally,
however, the lord’s brother secures the young
lady, and the purchase money is presumably
paid over to the Government —anyhow, it is
paid to somebody, and the author doesn’t
mention where it goes to. The rest of the
story js an account of how the unshaven
one tries to steal the heroine. He does it in
a calm, unruffled sort of a way, for m
Australia, when tlie buyer of a girl dies, or
gets lost, the girl evidently belongs to the
nearest villain, and her only chance of rescue
lies in the fact that the villain is liable
at any moment to be arrested and hanged on
the unsupported statement of a funny man
with broken boots. In the last instalment ot
that story, however, the diggers had just
executed 20 bushrangers without evidence,
and the girl had been saved again by the
tremendous heroism of another lord—the
good men who arc. not lords being all too
ignorant and thick-headed to be of the
slightest use; and the original lord’s brother
was walking a great number of miles with a
broken leg, having been shot by the unshaven
man, after performing prodigies of valor.
It was also snowing heavily, which was bad
for the lord’s brother’s broken leg, and but
for the recollection of the family pedigree he
would give up in despair. We are now
anxiously awaiting further developments.
A confirmed smoker has died of tobaccc
poison at Ashburton, N.Z., at the early age
of 102 years.
Dear Bulletin, —Chinese cooks really are
the mouth-artists that you represent them to
be. I remember years ago, in Melbourne, a
Chinese cook had a remarkable fame for
the artistic manner in which he used to serve
up “thin bread and butter” with the ladies'
afternoon tea. The butter was spread as
smooth as a “glassy sea,” and quite “fetched”
the feminines and their attendant dudes. Oni'
afternoon, when tea was poured out, the
bread and butter wasn’t up to time. Mine
Host himself went down to hurry up (Chow
Wong. He found the latter standing in ,a
pensive attitude in front of the kitchen-range
with puffed-out cheeks, while on the table
near him were thin rounds of bread placed
in single file, ready, apparently, for being
buttered. Mine Host stormed and raved at
Chow Wong, but the latter merely shook
his head and rolled his eyes in agony, while
his mouth worked convulsively with a sort
of dentrifugal wobble. Mine ITost, after
several blasphemies, fell upon the. heathen
with a kick in the stern and an objurgation,
when—a jet of molten butter spurted promis-
cuously over everything, and Chow Wong
calmly replied: “What foh? You spoilec
buttee. Too cold to-day, bnttec no spleadee.
Lose time now; begin all aveh again”—
Yours, etc., The Dipsomaniac.
One of these things which man would like
to know, but. which woman won’t explain, is
how she fastens on her hat. First of all she
sticks the article on her head, where the
great mass of hair is that she bought at the
shop where they were selling things below
cost on account of the establishment having
been struck by lightning, filling the remain-
ing vacancies up with the bag her hat came
home in. Then she tilts it forward and drives
it down over her eyes, where it hangs on
about as securely as a man standing on the
side of a wall. Next she gets out a pin, one
foot long, and drives it right through the
hat and through her head, and brings it
out the other side as if she rather enjoyed
it than otherwise. Then she smiles and
goes away.
“Allegro” tells a story about a shepherd
whose flocks got “boxed” during a terrible
storm. “What did you do?” asked the man
to whom he afterwards narrated his troubles.
“I just prayed.” “What form of prayer
did you use?” “Couldn’t remember any set
form, so I said—‘O Lord, if you’re still in
the miracle line, you’ll never get a better
slant than, this.’ ”- Which reminds us of
the brother chestnut about a shepherd who,
after a visit to “the township,” was. found
one morning groaning on his knees. His
soul outpoured itself thus —“O Lord, thou
knowest all things ; help me to find that holler
log where I planted tlie bottle of rum larst
night so’s Bucky Joe shouldn’t find it, for
I forget the exact place, Lord.”
MY BOY.
His mother cries, “My boy!” and strokes
Her stalwart darling’s hair;
He merely strolls away and smokes,
And doesn’t seem to care.
Her heart may be as good as gold
Without the least alloy,
But Tom is tired of being told
That he’s his mother’s “boy.”
But when the stars, like little lamps,
Are winking fitful winks,
Along a dusty road he tramps
Beside a skinny minx;
She’s selfish, plain—a trifle seems
That damsel to annoy,
But yet she fills his thoughts, his dreams,
Because she whines “My boy!”
They marry, and he settles down
Upon a humdrum plan;
The wife she wears an ugly frown,
And calls him “My old man.”
This is a world of work and pain,
With little left of joy,
Where nothing makes Tom young again
But mother’s fond “My boy!”
EDMUND FISHER.
EL DORADO, 1887.
Westward, westward, and west again,
Leagues on leagues of saltbush plain!
Flooded creek and shining lake
Edged with green for the spring’s sweet sake.
How the leaders strain and swerve
On a last, long, dusty upland curve!
Steady the staunch old wheelers work,
Through the sandhill’s toil and the quartz-
track’s jerk.
Last the lights of the distant town,
And the breath of toil on the hot breeze
blown,
Flare of the furnace —to eager eyes
AVelcome as glimpses of Paradise;
For youth’s quick blood through our pulses
flew
As the City of Silver lay full in view.
Beyond the space of a. few r short years,
Where was it all, with its hopes and fearsV
Flapped the turkey across the plain
Where the grey grass yearned for the fresh-
ening rain.
And the dim box-forests echoed uot
Save the distant sound of a rifle-shot;
While ever an age-long silence kept
Watch o’er the graves where the millions
slept.
Then the whisper of riches beyond a dream !
See the lonely, hills with the camp-fires
gleam,
Hear the creaking wheels of the gathering
band
Who toil and moil in the thirsty land.
Till, quicker than birth of fabled Home,
Spring cottage and chimney, and spire and
dome,
Shriek of steam in the midnight hush,
Hot skies red with the furnace blush,
Flash of wires to the distant town
Where cheeks grow pale and foreheads frown,
And a man’s heart chills or wildly strains
To the delicate pulse of the silver veins.
Beyond the space of a few years more,
What of the City of Silver Ore?
Shall it stand in its pride as a city still,
Or the waste howl again round the magic
hill,
With a sea of graves on its terraced side,
As the sad high-mark of the human tide,
And the wind of the night make ever moan
In the caves whence the silver sprite has
flown V
City of Silver and Sorrow and Sin,
What is the web that the Sisters spin ?
N.S.W.
W.K.M.


SOME LIFE ASSURANCE
MISFITS
No more disgraceful story in tlie history of Australia will be chronicled
by the future historian than the Life Assurance plague of the past decade.
The sacred name of Life Assurance lias been trampled in the mire,
bespattered by the villainy of twentieth century Ned Kellys —with humble
apologies to the shade of old Ned, who was, at all events, game.
A few of the Life Offices which were brought into existence during
the period under review, but very, very few, one is sorry to record, were
honorably initiated. As for the rest —The City Mutual Life Office, perhaps
alone amongst the old institutions, sensed the scandal. Here’s an extract from
the Society’s Balance-sheet of 1922, eight years ago: —
A NOTE OF WARNING.
The signal success of the City Mutual has in some measure been responsible, for
the flotation during the last few years of innumerable Life Offices.
It seems to have been altogether lost sight of that the results achieved by the City
Mutual have been the outcome of 20 years and more of patient building up, of
limiting the expense rate for New Business, of carefully conserving the renewal income,
rigidly selecting the lives that Averc assured, wisely investing the policy-holders’ funds,
and generally making the interests of the Society’s constituents the sole aim and
ambition of the Directors.
There is no royal road to success in Life Assurance. The shareholders in many ot
these ventures will find this out sooner or later, most probably sooner than later.
This in itself, however, is of small moment. If the multiplication of these com-
panies meant, cheaper Life Assurance for the Australian public—and for the bulk of
us Life Assurance is a grim necessity—their energies would be warranted. But
unfortunately it lias exactly the opposite effect. Life Assurance cannot be sold like
a pound of sugar.
The Government of the day looked on with unconcern. The position
grew more and more menacing year by year, and in the Society’s Annual
Report to its members, dated March, 1924, the following significant announce-
ment appeared: —
A SUGGESTION TO THE STATE AND FEDERAL GOVERNMENTS.
The City Mutual offers a suggestion to the State and Federal authorities.
It will not mean the establishment of another expensive department—it need not
cost the country one penny.
During the past few years there has been an extraordinary influx of new companies
transacting Life Assurance business.
Now, a Life Assurance Policy, unlike a Fire or Marine or an Accident contract,
does not expire at the end of 12 months, but runs on in most cases for many years.
It is a matter of grave importance that every Life Assurance Society should have
adequate funds to meet policy claims.
It should be compulsory for every Company, at its own expense, to provide an
independent annual certificate to be filed with the Registrar and published in two
approved daily papers that it has sufficient funds and resources in hand to provide for
the policy liabilities into which it has entered.
Policies aggregating many millions of pounds are taken out year by year, and the
assured members have in many cases no protection whatever in the way of a proper
revenue account or balance sheet or actuarial computation which rvould give them some
idea as to how the Company is conserving the funds entrusted to its care.
The matter is a serious one, and if left unattended to may result in disastrous
consequences.
When that appeared Mr. Scullin, then Leader of the Opposition in tlie House
of Representatives, became interested. He got in touch with the Society,
and was the first prominent public man to realise the danger. He was then,
however, in the cold shades of opposition and could practically do nothing
of a definite nature.
Our complaint was that some of the promoters of such companies were
men whose past records could not stand investigation, and others knew
nothing of the intricacies of Life Assurance, and cared less. Their main
asset was their colossal “cheek.”
We all know how they put it over a gullible public.
They voted themselves thousands of fully-paid-up shares in the Company
which they formed, and nominated themselves into managerial posts for a
term of years, perhaps for life, on a salary greater than that of a Prime
Minister. Their troubles about the Policy-holders or the Shareholders. Both
of these were unconsequential pawns in the game. And some of their
newspaper backing was absolutely criminal. There’s no other word to use.
Over and over again we complained about it, to meet with nothing in return
but abuse and calumny.
Now, a few- of these new companies were honest. They were trying to
play the game. And for these companies the City Mutual always had a word
of cheery advice and encouragement. And practical encouragement, too, at
that, as many of them will testify.
We knew from our own bitter experience the uphill fight that even an
honest Life Office has to get a hearing with the public. We knew only too
bitterly the unscrupulous misrepresentation, the wilful lies, the slander and
the base accusations which had to be met, and so we were tolerant when
we realised that honest action was the mainspring of our young contemporary.
But it is to the lasting disgrace of the Parliaments, both State and
Federal, that, action has not been taken long ago to prevent a large section
of the public from being despoiled of millions of pounds by adventurers who
have about as much sense of honor as the thimblerigger or the Fiji uncle.
Marchita.
J.B. COOPER
TELLS HOW JACOB HOG GEN ST R . I ESS GOT HIS
SPANISH SCENARIO.
A GREAT joss is Jacob Hoggenstrauss.
A wave of his fat hand, a flash of
his jewelled fingers, accompanied with
a guttural grunt, “You’ve been too long
with us—you are fired!” are sufficient to
reduce an actress to tears, or drive a*n actor
to drink. This mortal god is the managing
director of the All Star Cosmopolitan Silver
Screen Cinema Corporation, which has its
offices in New York, London and Paris.
The great joss sat beside me on a sum-
mer’s day at a bull fight in Madrid. His
body overflowed and jellied against my
sparsely covered frame, with a gentle but
enveloping pressure, much, like a feather
pillow might be made to exert. I had the in-
timacy of his sixteen stone of flesh and fat,
and it made me feel rather tepid.
If you are a cinema fan you have heard
of Jacob Hoggenstrauss, for he is what his
friends call him, “a big noise.” Very pos-
sibly you have seen close-up pictures of
him in the “Silver Screen Magazine.” You
may recall that photograph—the one, I
mean, taken at Hollywood in the year 1924
—where he is shown dressed in a white
waistcoat, a black belltopper crowning his
head, his black curls twining about his
large forehead, suggestive of the convolutions
of a laurel wreath. The cocksure look of
a self-made joss seems to lurk about Jacob’s
face. Perhaps the cigar stuffed in his mouth,
and jerked up bv his thick lips, helps to
make that impression. Anyway, Jacob,
whether admiring his big tanned shoes and
his lavender check socks, or the diamond
necklace he selected and placed on the swan-
like neck of his leading lady, is fully sen-
sible that his early vision of reaching the
topmost rung of the heavenly ladder, by
which the dollars are reached, has been
realised.
Hoggenstrauss’s secretary and right hand
in Europe was a war cobber of mine, Joe
Birch, on dress parade Lieut. Birch, M.M.
He came from Sydney-side, and enlisted in
Melbourne in the early days of the show,
dropping a job of press photographer to do
it. His mother was Spanish, and he had
the gift of tongues; he spoke French and
Spanish fluently. After the war he worked
for a time in the branch of an American
bank in Paris which transacted some of
Hoggenstrauss’s business. The Silver
Screen Cinema Corporation’s Paris office
was only a few doors from the bank, in the
Boulevard Haussmann. Through the bank’s
business and visits Joe made to the Cinema
office he became very friendly with Iloggen-
strauss. He often, at the joss’s invitation,
dined with him at Le Prado restaurant. Like
many Jews, Hoggenstrauss had a passion
for music, and he found that the orchestra
at Le Prado was both digestive and artistic.
Hoggenstrauss was keenly interested to learn
.hat Joe had been a star press photographer,
and in the end he landed my friend into a
good job.
It was Joe, thus placed, who persuaded
Hoggenstrauss to let me write the scenario
of a Spanish picture for the Silver Screen.
The seed of this picture had germinated in
Hoggenstrauss’s brain: I was to write a love
story around a Spanish bull fight. Thus
it came about that I was at this fight with
Hoggenstrauss, for the purpose, as he put
it, of sponging up local color.
Much, however, had happened of which
Hoggenstrauss was ignorant since the first
arrangement had been made with me in
Paris, and since the time Joe and I had gone
to Madrid, three weeks ahead of Hoggen-
strauss. Joe was under orders to be with us
to photograph the fight for Pictorial News
Gazette purposes, and to send the film to
Hollywood, with other Spanish travel pic-
tures. But now Joe was missing, and Hog-
genstrauss was steaming, and telling me that
Birch was the damnedest blister he had ever
put on his pay-sheet. In the next breath
he said he would fire him only Birch was
not one of those men that could be picked
up every day. In the space of a minute I
heard Joe damned to Hell as a man and
raised to Heaven as an artist, a linguist,
and a type-getter.
“Gee,” he cried, “the guy is vunderful!
Vunderful! He draws 409 dollars expenses,
and swears hb vants it to find the right types
for the Spanish picture, and then he double-
crosses me, sure! Mein 400 dollars has gone
to honey the dames. I swear he has found
Baby, and iss havin’ a good time vith her.
the piker! Mein Gott, I visli I knew vere
the guy has gone! Yith a eh, you
tinkV You vas knowin’ that, hein?”
I knew, of course. But before I was
called upon to reply things began to happen
in the ring, and Hoggenstrauss’s attention
was transferred from Joe to the moving
picture before him.
Down below us, in the arena, stood Juan
Menendez, the crack matador of Madrid,
facing a wild bull that had in it the power
of a cyclone. Juan’s brain, lithe body, and
the red-hilted Catalan sword he carried were,
as I saw the show, the narrow margin be-
tween him and death. The bull, bloodstained,
foam-flecked, was agonised by rocking barbs
in its flesh. Its bloodshot eyes, orbs of fire,
were focussed on the bareheaded Juan, who
wore his black hair in a roll, from which
emerged the coleta, the bit of a pigtail the
matador affects.
“Mein Gott! Mein Gott! Vot a picture!
And vot a piker that guy iss not to be here !”
Jacob exclaimed.
Juan did make a picture. His coat of
white satin glittered with spangles. He wore
satin knee-breeches, decorated with golden
embroideries, rose-colored silk stockings, and
shoes with silver buckles.
Hoggenstrauss and I were swamped among
rows and rows of Spanish women, all dressed
in black—black dresses, black lace, black
mantillas, black fans, with black combs in
their black hair trimmed with curling fore-
locks. Their faces were thickly covered
with white powder, and to me, keyed up,
they looked like crows waiting for carrion.
The air was filled with the froufrou of
their restless movements; and then sud-
denly they became motionless. 'The gaze of
their lustrous eyes was concentrated on the
matador, that slim figure in white satin 1
He stood beside an orange someone had
thrown into the arena, a sphere of gold that
rested on a thick sprinkling of sawdust, dyed
with the blood of a disembowelled horse. Ex-
cept for the women’s nervous gasps of appre-
hension, there was complete silence. Juan
alone faced the bull!
Suddenly the silence was shattered as if
by a gunshot. A raucous Spanish voice cried:
“Juan! Cuckoo! Where’s your wife?”
I am not likely to see again such a scene,
or to hear such savagery in the voice of a
crowd. The people howled their indignation
in a hoarse roar, but above the roar were
the shrill screams of the women about us,
hurling maledictions against the unknown
owner of the voice, who had chosen such a
moment to insult the matador. In the midst
of the uproar the bull charged. Was it any
wonder Juan mishandled bis sword? The
best bull of the Sierra Morena herd made no
mistake. Juan’s legs danced for a moment
in the air, then he came down with a thud
and the bull gored him where he lay.
The fatality might have been a fake, shown
on a Silver Screen circuit picture, so little
did Hoggenstrauss regard it other than from
a cinema point of view. He turned to me,
and said:
“There you are! There you are! I’ll
fire him! I’ll fire him! Here’s a 10,000-
dollar act fizzled out, and not one damn
foot of film taken for our World’s News
Gazette, or anything else! Mein Gott, it’s
too bad ! That Australian guy would break
any man’s heart!”
Hoggenstrauss was so disgusted with the
whole affair that lie decided to go back at
once to Paris. He would not wait even to see
the public funeral of the matador, given
by the Sociedad de Toreros and the people
of Madrid. As I knew Joe was in Paris, I
elected to return with Hoggenstrauss; I felt
he had gone cold on the idea of producing a
Spanish picture, at least with any aid from
two Australians.
The great man was sulky when we started
from Madrid; but he recovered his good
humor, with a hearty laugh at himself for
suffering Joe to annoy the man whose
jewelled fingers embroidered the film heaven
with stars.
“Ach! I know I should like to fire the
guy, and I would if my interest did not come
before my temper. I don’t know myself how
far he can go with me. No, I don’t! When
you’ve got a star man you must just put
up vitli him as long as his ledger balances
on your side. The interest of the Silver
Screen iss the one thing I’m concerned about,
Sure I can get cartloads who vould fall over
themselves to make his job a grip. Cart-
loads of them! But mein Gott! Vot they
iss! Birch iss one hundred per cent, it
ven the guy’s functioning. He iss the go-
getter. He knows the story, too, that Joseph
Hoggenstrauss puts on the silver screen.
That story has got to hustle some. Action,
Buddy, action! Get that notion now. The
story’s got to be round, not a flat projec-
tion. I’m round! I’m alive! Now your
story’s got to be alive. I vant the best. Get
that notion? Vot I say goes. I’ve got
500,000 dollars saying every time a cinema
show opens that I know just vot gets over.
go I talk quick. Buddy, and tell you right
here that scenario of yours must move slick,
v ith sob stuff too, or you’ll draw no dollar.-
from the Silver Screen Cinema Corporation."
I replied that I had an idea of a gfet-love-
quick story, with an Australian Digger as a
he-man, and a Spanish woman.
H e waved his fat jewelled fingers im-
periously. “I vas not vanting to listen to
your story. Typo a rough sketch of it, and
bring it to me, right avay, do you hear?”
H'e hammered out his words, and I resented
bis bawling. “I can hear you,” I said coldly,
“Don’t get excited about' it.”
pjc came back with a sharp snap. “Get
(-pat bug out of your head ! I vas not get-
t£ng excited about any scenario you can
wr j^ e Scenarios fall like snow on me. I’m
almost choked by them. Vot I vas thinking
a bout vas that guy Birch, who vill turn
up f razz i e( j a ll right ven ve get to Paris,
an< j try to po ison me vith dope about hiss
being held up in some Hell’s corner looking
tvnes ”
' v ;i /‘' ... ...
I hree days after our arrival in Paris
where I had met Joe and told him the state
of. Hoggenstrauss’s pulse, I went to the
office of the Silver Screen Cinema Corpora-
tion with the story for the Spanish scenario,
Hoggenstrauss was a different mannered god
in his office from what he was in the train,
He asked me if I had seen Joe, and I told
him that Joe was calling on him that morn-
ing, and was quite ready to be fired,
“Ach ! He vas asking for it, anyvay.”
I handed him the rough outline of the
story. Il'e tilted back heavily in his offic“
chair, wiped and adjusted his shell-rimmed
spectacles, placed them on his big Semitic
nose, and started to read the screed:
“STORY FOR PROPOSED SPANISH
SCENARIO,
“The war being over, an Australian
Digger, Edward Braxton, V.C., having money
to burn and speaking Spanish, goes to Madrid
seeking romance. When he arrives at the
Plaza at the Puerta de Sol he stands look-
ing at the ten streets pouring their hurrying
people into the square. He gives the glad
eye t 0 gome Spanish women, but when a
policeman comes and stands beside him he
shakes the policeman by the hand, says he is
an Australian, and asks how to reach the
Hotcl Londres. On the way he sees a
poster announcing a forthcoming fancy-dress
g es t a . He smiles; he will go to the fiesta,
All the while, about him is the bright mov-
T ***% ot life- The scene
c i ogeg Wlt b a n attempt by him to drag a
policeman into a waltz, which Attempt the
man ta ]j. eg g 00( j par t regarding the for-
ei . she ll-shocked.
(Continued on next pnye.)


A GOOD LEAD!
Existing members of the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
effected ADDITIONAL ASSURANCES ON
THEIR LIVES in the year 1929
for
£,5,810,000.
All Surplus divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating
members.
ASSETS - - £78,000,000
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
Acting General Manager.
There are seven
reasons why
IS
Si
I
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 7
FOR
SLEEPLESSNESS
If you cannot sleep,
try this simple re-
medy a glass of
Guinness at night.
Guinness brings
natural sleep, and re-
builds the brain cells
which have, through weakness, lost the
power to rest.
GUINNESS is a naturally matured
beverage. It is made from barley,
barley malt, hops and water only, with
the addition of yeast to assist in the
fermentation.
Guinness is not pasteurised and there-
fore preserves its original flavour and
quality. Guinness will keep indefinitely.
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt Car-
bohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GF/A/110
“Braxton has a hectic time at the fiesta
among high-kicking dames. He is love-drunk
with a woman, who is to him the most allur-
ing She that he ever clasped in his arms.
She tells him her name is Marchita; she half
falls in a love swoon into his arms, and then,
recovering, hurries away. She has seen her
husband Pereda Valera standing in an alcove,
watching her with jealous eyes.
“The next scene is set in a garden that
has a round pool of water, a silver mirror in
the moonlight. Marchita and Braxton meet
and embrace. He pushes Marchita’s man-
tilla aside to kiss her, and sees she has been
crying, that her lips are swollen and that
she has a blackened eye. Under sympathetic
persuasion she tells Braxton how her husband
had followed when last they had met, and
had thrashed her. Braxton promises her his
everlasting love and protection, and urges
her to fly with him to Paris. She hesi-
tates. Suddenly she changes her. tearful mood
to one of vehemence.
“Their flight in .an aeroplane to Paris is
a. seven days’ scandal in Madrid. Pereda
may not have cared for Marchita till he lost
her. but he curses the woman for tarnishing
his honor, the honor of Pereda Valera! Those
whom he has scorned laugh and laugh.
Almost everywhere he goes he hears low cries
of ‘Cuckoo ! Cuckoo !’ lie promises all and
sundry that he will knife the.'mad Austra-
lian who has stolen his wife if ever he
shows his face in Madrid.
“Pereda hears jtliat the Australian has re-
turned to Madrid in company with another
of his breed. A gala day is approaching.
Pereda Valera, the matador, is billed to
appear in the Plaza de Toros, and to kill
a Avild Andalusian bull. In the meanwhile
Pereda hides himself, but two days before
the bull fight the two Australians find him
drinking in a bodega near the park of Buen
Ritcro.
“The matchless matador, Avho had bowed
so gracefully to the great ladies in the amphi-
theatre, and then gone home fit night and
beaten his wife, does not appear to have a
surplus of courage Avhen Braxton says to him,
in almost a friendly tone:
“ ‘Well, Pereda Blowhard, I understand
tiiat after I took your wife out of the reach
of your brutality you went, about Madrid
bellowing what you intended to do when
you found me? A couple of inches of good
Toledo steel, was it not? True, noAV it is
I who have found you, but that’s, a mere
accident of no importance. We have met.
Well, what are you going to do?’
“The expectant crowd waited. Pereda
had blown his threats of vengeance loud
enough! Surely he will do something tragic.
Pereda tries to edge away, but Braxton pre-
vents him from doing .so, saying:
“ ‘No, no! My little dancing-master, the
hull lieth not that way.’
“The crowd laughs. One says Avith a
sneer at Pereda:
“ ‘Between saying and doing there is a |
great distance.’ j
“ ‘Quite so!’ replies Braxton. ‘The little j
dancing-master appears to have eaten his
words, eh, Pereda? Come now, I’m not so
strong as a bull nor so weak as a woman.’
“Pereda shows his teeth with a snarl, and
his hand dives into the folds of a broad red
sash wherein is partly hidden a knife. The
top of its ivory handle, chased in silver, is
just showing above the sash and his black
velvet breeches. He grips the knife-liandle.
. “Braxton is satirical. He says Pereda’s
courage as a matador is so great, his skill
with the sword is so superb! Surely it.
would be easier for him to thrust a knife
into a man than to pink his sword beneath
the shoulder of a wild bull? ‘But perhaps,’
continued Braxton, ‘you prefer to beat-your
wife. Ah, you are stung at last!’
“Stung Pereda. is. In a flash he. draws
his knife; but Braxton’s fists iare too quick
for him. Two smashing blows on Pereda’s
face, .one lifting undercut that jolts .Pereda’s
jaw forces his head back. The", man reels,
then sinks, to the floor. The knife falls,
from his fingers.'
“Braxton stoops, down over the, matador,,
picks up his knife, and then cuts off his
colcta and pushes it into a spittoon.
“The crowd gasps, with hands held up in
horror, at the sight of the c'oleta of the
most famous matador in Spain being made
a thing of abomination.
“Pereda, dazed, slowly rises and slinks
away.”
* * * *
Hoggenstrauss placed the sheets of the
story on the table and tapped the MS. with
his fat fingers. “‘Slinks away,’ does he?
Ach! It’s a fade-away, sure! Is that the
finish?”
“You saw the finish, Mr. Hoggenstrauss,
in Madrid.” >
The great man looked at me searchingly.
“Iss this another of that guy’s frame-ups,
eh? I vas not knowin’ vere the film begins
or vere the tale ends—vot iss true and vot
iss false, eh? It has the guts of a story for
the film, but I think it iss a frame-up. I’ll
believe it ven I see the votnan !”
The office door was pushed open, and Joe
entered with a lady, obviously Spanish.
Said Joe, as cool as if he had just stepped
out of a Paris motor-’bus:
“This lady, Mr. Hoggenstrauss, 1 is Mar-
chita, the type we want for the Spanish, pic-
ture. It took some time, and I had some
difficulty in capturing the beauty.”
“Marchita!” the film god said in a great
guttural voice as he fell to her magnetic
power. “Marchita!” again rolled over his
tongue. “You vas a very- beautiful voman!
You vill do veil as the Spanish star of my
screens.” Then turning to me he said : “Vot
I say goes. There iss just one thing about
that story of yours ve can improve upon.
Yen yofi do the scenario,-change-the Austra-
lian Digger into an American doughboy.”
To a Lady.
Laugh, laugh, Annette! Why should you
sigh to see
Another’s pain, another’s misery?
Are you not fair and gay by just decree?
Then laugh, Annette!
For pain is dull, and ugliness absurd;
Grief is not real, love but a charming word;
These things are distant murmurs, faintly
heard,
So laugh, Annclte!
Laugh at my gloom, laugh at my blazing
heat,
Laugh at the bitterness that marks defeat!
Since you arc gay—and since the sound is
sweet —
Laugh, laugh, Annette!
N.S.W.
CICELY LITTLE.
Company.
So brave and bright arc beach and bay,
So lit by gleam and glow,
That work I’ll put aside to-day,
And forthwith roving go;
I’ll go alone by road and track,
Yet I’ll not lonely be,
For I shall have a host of friends
For pleasant company.
Wherever track or river wend
Wherever blows the breeze,
I have a thousand wild-wood friends
To put me at my ease;
On hill and plain, by track and road,
They wait for roving men ;
They’ll welcome me, and I’ll be glad
To greet them once again.
Where breezes blow and waters gush
I’ll seek them out anew,
And say: "Good comrades of tlic hush,
llow goes the world with you?
With man it is a sorry place
And sordid, truth to tell.”
The trees, wind-tossed, shall answer make
“With us the world goes well.”
Then, maybe, I shall sit and smoke
A green while in their shade,
With round about me feathered folk
In every grove and glade;
And these shall tell, with tuneful throats
Uplifted in delight,
Howe’er it be with maid and man
With them the world goes right.
Drawn close to bird and flowered tree
By one enfolding mood,
I sliall so fea*st on melody
That I’ll not crave for food;
Arched fronds shall .brush me as I pass,
And waterfalls shall sound
Their soothing notes; gay sliall I be
With such fair friends around.
And yet, and yet, “Alack,” I’ll ■, say,
“Work waits and must be done!”
And home I’ll turn to beach and bay,
Tired out, ere set of sun;
And then to work .... but, as I work,
At moments I shall hear
The magpies warbling blithe and loud,
The thrushes sweet and clear.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Pleasuring.
I’ve planned to go pleasuring!
Not where the gums their tall shadows are
measuring
From hillside to creek,
Nor yet where' the flocks on the lowlands
are scattered
Like hits of white linen by winds rudely
tattered;
And never I’ll seek
The sea. that resembles a giant heart
throbbing.
Ere swiftly it sinks to a woman’s low
sobbing.
Full stored with old treasure the place
where I'm going,
And back through the yesterdays legends are
blowing;
On a dear, languid day did I drift once before
Through its half-concealed door.
And feared me a voice would cry: “Where
are you hieing?
Not a thing are you buying!”
There a shelf holds a tray edged in gold
filigree,
And wrought delicately
Is the goblet upon it. a sleek, gleamy thing
That had held for a king
A drug for remembrance, its pale bubbles
skimming,
lake fairy fish swimming.
And hooded my ears were had never they
heard
Gentle whirring of wings of the white, flying
bird
On the ebony jar.
And feeble my fancy, a poor, puny thing,
Had I sensed not the scent of a tree
blossoming.
There are earrings and elegant . stickpins
of jade,
Beloved' vanities of a once-docile riiaid.
Hers a gesture so brave
That an Eastern heart lies in a cold English
grave.
Yesterweek only once did I feel a discord —
’Twas my hand touched the blade of a
warrior’s sword!
It passed, and a viol my eager hands
fingered,
And truly within it a love-lament lingered.
Oh, I wept then, and wept,
While a bronze Cupid kept
Guard like a sentinel lest I should lure away.
Out of its slenderness songs of another day.
I.’ve planned to go pleasuring!
Wisps of the past will my glad' arms be
treasuring... .
See my deep purse? By its depth, joy I’m
measuring.
’Tis full to unclasping,
And lies on my lap like an animal gasping'
Gold coins are its teeth, and they’re greedil.\
glowing; •
They know that I’m going
Through the L half-concealed door, where 1
drifted before.
Oh! my feet are a -thrill for its dusky-hued
floor!
n.s.w.
ELLEEN TRINCE.


■ .
m
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
sland A gents—HOLME S & CHURCH. Brisbane
Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER; SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
w
ŵ
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test, results have proved time and again that
DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland •daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"THE AGE”
Established 185- r i.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
“THE AGE” publishes over one million adver-
tisements annually. A newspaper advertising
record for the British Empire.
This achievement is definite proof that “The
Age” has moved forward with irresistible
power to its objective—public confidence.
When formulating your advertising pro-
gramme, link up with “The Age.”
Your confidence will not be misplaced.
AUDITED NET DAILY SALES,
123,533.
Advertising rates on application to the
principal Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Clk fldwtiscr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE A nVEItTISET?” map be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price IJ d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BRDNALL. “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E C. 4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature,
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Pi ica 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Boole, (/icing full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged , will
he forwarded on application.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, s*7, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: "Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
3b Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
B\? 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ẁ
knowing
A/f ANY brilliant and accomplished
people have had grey eyes; and
grey eyes are said to denote a steady,
resourceful and determined character.
Eyes tell about health as well. If the
whites have lost their brightness and
are dull and yelloiV'tinged, it means
you are constipated ; that beauty and
health are being impaired by waste
and poisons, which are spreading all
over your system. The best remedy
is the famous vegetable laxative —*
Beecham’s Pills. One at night gently
\ cleanses the system. Buy a box
to-day.
Worth a Guinea a Box «
$
s
&
N
V
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE. EXAMINER" is the. only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
‘‘THE EXAMINER" has been published in Launceston
for 8 7 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full n: formation copies, advertising rates of ‘‘ The Examiner,’- “Weekly Courier” and
Evening V. .vjiress” obtainable from:
R. Rolnh & Sons Pt.y., Ltd.,
73-7 o Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S, months from ,
for which I enclose £
NAME ....
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Ovsrseas—l2 months, SO/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8,/«
jeS(^!sc;
1* .L/V-l VLr y' t W% _/>0 ..-V,
t*)P ofi
A ce o r>
# s - .•••
’ ..** ~* c*V<>


lilllll
%
*:■,
■ ;' .: ■-
■■
ill
IvM 1
■
■
m
: ..*_ *J
• ••'
■
si
Mi
M
r t \*&» :*#«<*
f l lj-* ;/•*/£/
IgsS iiji«/;
Hill f; fe
*tt| « *8 :
;
m
r»
i ■''?.;£•«s *£ £ •& <*f &,?
' * ' *s*£
*4»* l
iiffli
'ii
K
¥ .
I
f »
mi
■:i-
in
i
It
■
<
ttf if
■ : :i
IJSk -
,
* ' j« - ff^;
jihBPPKy ■ ’.v’^wwSi
- >
Jf ,
ii;;%
SMSPr
II
SS*
aMiMM
C/.
•■■■-■
it
i
►
'«o
BY
appointment TO H.M. the king
Gilbey’s Gin is distilled from the very finest
ingredients, and is the purest spirit made.
The standard by which all Gins are judged.
OUR SIGNATURE IS YOUR SAFEGUARD
GILBEYS
DRi
g i >,
¥
Jr
Don 't sau Gin-say GILBEYS
