

/
{■■l
r£ '•• / *
-
.
■
1
is
; ■:- v!
■
m
: imm
\
m
i
mm
m
■ i
mmm
m
THE man who buys an
Australian-made AKUBRA
Hat for the first time makes
a real discovery. He finds
that, at a reasonable price,
he has obtained an article
of excellent quality, style
and appearance. He finds
also, as time goes on, that
the good looks are matched
by a remarkable wear . . .
that his money bought even
more than he expected.
High Quality Super Quality
(lined)
251- 35j-
s .?*
r *
2ii ■‘V'li
Mv,
The Bulletin
* £.
Vol. 51.—N0. 2634.
Wednesday, August 6, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


■"THE New Library Catalogue for 1030 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, ou
application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George, Street, Sydney.
Space hath no limit, near or far,
Beyond the worlds we see:
One source have all the worlds which are,
And all the worlds to be.
Amid the dust from, whence they sprung
Float germs of harm' to throat and lung.
Preserve your health. “First Aid” assure—
Remember Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Learn
Story Writing
U>l VJ at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ..............
SB. 316 ... I. .
LTYSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
m
THE BREAKFAST
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce stim-
ulates the appetite
for breakfast.
Just a few drops
with the eggs and
bacon ah ! what
a delightful zest.”
,'*//////////"//////'////////////////////////A
.. \
I J—ll/1
AT*
tß.it
IVI -v
S'
71
m
ft
Tractors Under Heavy
Strain Need More Than
Ordinary Lubrication
Bearings, unless properly lubricated, will soon wear out. Proper
lubrication means the prevention of metal to metal friction in bear-
ing surfaces. It is of the utmost importance that grit, particularly
grit which has worked into grease, be removed. Grit acts like
sandpaper and soon wears away the surface of the bearing.
I III!
m
An Economical Lubricating
System
To install# all you have to do is to remove the old
type grease cups and replace them with ALE-
MITE fittings. These can be purchased for a few
pence only. The ALEMITE Gun is then attached
to the fittings and fresh, clean, solidified oil,
otherwise known as ALEMITE Lubricant, is
forced into the bearing under 3000 lb. pressure,
Old, gritty grease is, at the same time, forced out,
leaving the bearing perfectly clean.
Full particulars from:
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives;
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . . . 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd. ..... 894 Hay Street, Perth
E.A.Machin & Co., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie St., Box G P.0.,496 E.Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION
Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT -Chicago
K-WM.
If any illustration in “THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy
write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Red Page
Recipe for a Best-seller.
Philip Hughes’s A Man of Manners
(Hutchinson: Dymocks) is poor stuff, but
it ought to sell even better than his first
novel, which went into 11 editions. It
has nearly all the ingredients that make for
success in its genre.
The Man of Manners is Basil Thyme:—
He was astonishingly handsome. Handsome be-
yond all reality, like a Hermes. How smart he
looked in that fawn homespun. How smart, too,
that striped tie. (Guards? Eton? Anyway, some-
thing appallingly fashionable.)
He accosts Dorothy Ainslie in Piccadilly,
and takes her for a drive in his “huge racing
car of polished aluminium.” Dorothy is
the orphaned daughter of a general. She
is out of a job; the Scala Night Club,
where she was a dancing partner, having
just been raided. She is too innocent to
realise that it was - a house of ill-fame.
Dorothy is as stereotyped as Basil:—
Men were always looking at her. Matikoff, the
coiffeur, late for an appointment at . the Berkeley,
had just time to see a wisp of fair hair under her
blue hat. “Tiens 1 C’cst vfiritable,” he murmured.
When a month later Dorothy went as a customer to
his saloons he recognised the glorious blaze of gold.
Reginald Carfax, the miniature painter, stopped on
his way across the circus, and took a momentary
feast of her beauty,
“AVhat a gem of a face for my ‘Awakening of
Spring,’ he whispered to himself.
Basil marries her, and turns out to have
no money. She gets him (and herself) a
job with a film company and discovers
that he is a liar, loafer and thief. Her
mind reverts sadty to a doctor with whom
she used to dance in the old days. A
good man, though inarticulate. Honest,
kind, reliable, “a dear.” When Basil deserts
her she meets the doctor, and so passes
from shame and poverty to the shelter of
a great and affluent love.
There are significant resemblances be-
tween best-sellers of this kind—whether the
writer is “Ouida” or Marie Corelli or
Charles Garvice or Ethel Dell. All aim at
similar readers—imaginative leaders of drab
lives. All a re,stridently moral, and viciously
critical of their picturesquely immoral char-
acters. The sex war is stressed from the
female’s standpoint, the heroine invariably
being the victim of masculine lust, violence
or guile. The heroine is a blend of nun
and nymphomaniac; cold as ice one minute,
boiling with passion the next. Dorothy has
hardly lost Basil when
She discovered that she loved Dr. Ferrard! Oh,
it was awful J awful! a nightmare of a
crime. She lay awake, tortured by the conflict of
desire and duty: she clenched her fists, driving the
nails into the palms; she bit her lips—-trying in
every way to castigate her aberrant body.
In “Ouida’s” day British suburbia dreamed
of Guardsmen and peeresses. Guardsmen
were going out of date when Marie Corelli
appeared with her ill-used man-scoming
females—miraculously perceptive studies in
the eyes of the sex-starved ladies who com-
prised most of her public. Ethel Dell and
her sheiks arrived during the war, at about
the time Miss Corelli lost caste as a moral
teacher by being fined for food-hoarding.
Nowadays night clubs, the Riviera and “the
pictures” provide the backgrounds for novels
such as A Man of Manners.
What equipment is required to produce
them? Ability to write well, or even gram-
matically, is not essential. But a feminine
gift for splenetic social criticism is, and
so is a smattering of that knowledge which
can only be gained by personal experience.
Air. Hughes has obviously lived on the
Riviera, frequented notorious London night
clubs such as “The 43,” and been on loca-
tion with a film company. But always
probably as an outsider. When dealing
with the West End of London he betrays
himself as “Ouida” did when she wrote of
racing; he always spells Savile-row with two
“I’s,” for example.
His other assets are the narrative faculty
—the rare ability to tell a stray that runs
on—and a passionate belief in his characters.
Here are the chief secrets of the producer
of best-sellers. But they are only to be
mastered by the elect.
MARAUD SAFRAN.
A Schoolmaster Much Abroad
A great deal of flapdoodle is handed out
in these days about education, and “Com-
mends II.” (R.P. 9/7/’3O) has added his
little bit to it. He reckons up the prob-
able cost of beer, bets and other fbrms
of pleasure and puts against that the frac-
tion spent on education. But when we
remember that pretty well the whole com-
munity is on the pleasure racket and that
the cost of education applies only to the
school age of the juvenile portion of the
community, the comparison lacks relativity.
The point is, are we getting value for the
money spent on the State schools of Aus-
tralia? On this branch of the State activi-
ties expenditure has gone up in recent
years by leaps and bounds, largely because
the faddists have attached to education a
meaning and an objective that are entirely
foreign to it.
“Com.” says that education, if it means
anything, is the “moulding of personality.”
How is this achieved, I should like to
know. I have read a fair amount on this
attractive educational theory, but have yet
to discover that education really has any-
thing to do with the moulding of person-
ality. The mould is made and the per-
sonality is shaped long before the school-
master gets to work on the object, and all
his efforts to undo or modify what nature
has done are absolutely .futile. The caddish
boy can be educated in the most ultra-
advanced school in the world and he will
come out a cad, the egotist will remain
selfish to the end of his days, the dirty-
minded youth will be a dirty-minded man.
Human nature is not fluid or plastic—it is
almost entirely static. The perfectability'
of humanity largely by means of a few
Acts of Parliament was the comforting
belief of the large numbers of idealists who
flocked to the banner of Socialism 50 years
ago. The scientist (confound him!) has
shattered that belief. He has traced back
the selfsame humanity into ages long before
our first parents were supposed to have
given their posterity a mighty bad start.
Five thousand .years ago the inhabitants
of Ur of the Chaldees lived and loved and
hated, thought and acted pretty much as
we do to-day. When we talk of evolution-
ary progress we forget that evolution is
a mighty slow worker and that even the
Cro-Magnon man of a remote and only
guessable prehistoric age, whose descend-
ants we are declared to be, had a brain
capacity equal to ours. Certainly we know
more than he did, but it is doubtful if
there has been any considerable change in
personality.
All of which goes to show the foolishness
of expecting to affect the inborn nature of
children during the few hours of their lives
they are under school-teachers. Taught, or
untaught, “moulded” according to the latest
educational fads or left as nature sent
them into the world, children in the mass
show no essential differences in behavior
and character. The Australian aboriginal
is the most primitive of human beings, and.
speaking as one. who has some personal
knowledge of them, I found the native
children in the remote Backblocks just the
same kind of children as go off to school
every day in our big cities.
I believe in education, with a sane recog-
nition of its limitations. A refined mind
cannot be made out, of a naturally coarse
one, and by no process of education can an
inferior brain be improved in quality. Edu-
cation can impart knowledge and do no
more than that in spite of all the high-
flying theories with which schoolmasters
endeavor to add importance to their work.
Personally. I owe much to my schoolmasters;
the memory of more than one of them I
reverence. But what I am in essentials
comes not from them. The knowledge they
imparted has been of great use and given
great pleasure to me, but the man I am
came out of the mould of heredity. This
is the view towards which science points
as the correct one. So I would say in con-
clusion to “Com.”: Don’t worry about
moulding little Billy Smith’s personality;
you will only be wasting time and money
and effort. Give him a- sound, practical
acquaintance with the old-fashioned ele-
ments of education, and Billy will use these
well or badly according to his natural dis-
position and capacity. These his stone-
age ancestors determined for him.
SFAX.
Shakspeare’s “Mr. W. H.”
In Shakspeare, one of the “Heritage”
series of dainty little books "issued by
Longmans, Green and Co. dealing with
things essentially English, John Bailey,
one-time deputy-editor of the “Quarterly
Review,” deprecates the endless and barren
discussion and the fantastic, critical efforts
that have sprung from the famous “Mr.
W. H.” dedication to the Sonnets. “A few
fragments of autobiography are to be found
in the Sonnets,” he adds, “but they are no
foundation for the elaborate structures
which claim to rest on them, but rest, in
fact, on conjectural air.” He goes on to
argue that the people who have read all
sorts of prophecies and acrostics into the
most, ordinary dramatic scenes of the plays,
working to the injury of Shakspeare and to
the wasting of the time of innocent readers,
are the madmen whom books like Shak-
speare’s and the Bible, always attract to be
their commentators.
Then along comes a later volume of the
“Heritage” series—“ The English Inn,” b}’
Thomas Burke, author of “Limehouse
Nights.” Describing the country inns he
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


NS
Everything that Anthony Horderns’ say is based on “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”
BLANKETS! DOWN QUILTS!
Genuine Reductions from Genuine Prices!
f \/\J
Here are some wonderful bargains in
these essential items. No householder
can afford to lose the opportunity
of purchasing such fine quality goods
at these genuine reductions.
SB*
m
m
SL
m
&
m.
m*
mtM
■
/w
e!
a«
K3£
m
m
/Z
&
(i
10
ZrivAl' I
27/11 White Blankets, 23/11 pr.
White Australian Blankets, of superior quality that
will give long and dependable wear. Soft and fleecy.
Sizes, in 54 x7B 63 xBl 72 x9O 81 x 99
Prices, pair. . .. 27/11 37/11 47/11 58/6
Sale Prices, pair . . 23/11 30/9 38/9 47/11
31/11 White Blankets, 28/11 pr.
These are extra high-grade Blankets—fleecy soft
finish. Will keep you warm for years to come.
Si?es, in 54x 78 63x81 72x90 81x99
Prices, pair.. .. 31/11 39/11 49/11 59/11
Sale Prices, pair .. 28/11 36/11 46/6 55/6
35/- White Blankets, 31/6 pr.
Super quality All Pure Wool Australian Blankets.
Sizes, in 54 x 78 63x 81 72x90 81x99
Prices, pair. . . . 35/- 44/- 55/- 69/6
Sale Price, pair . . 31/6 39/11 49/11 63/-
27/6 Grey Blankets, 21/6 pr.
Generous reductions are offered on these All-Wool
Grey Blankets.
Sizes, in 54x 78 63 xBl 72x90 81x99
Prices, pair.. .. 27/6 33/6 41/6 51/6
Sale Prices, pair . . 21/6 26/6 33/6 41/6
25/6 Grey Blankets, 23/6 pr.
Silver or Dark Grey Australian Blankets, splendid
quality.
Sizes, in 54x 78 63x81 72x90 81x99
Prices, pair.. .. 25/6 34/6 42/6 ■ 52/6
Sale Prices, pair . . 23/6 31/9 39/6 48/6
27/6 Down Quilts, Now 22/6
Floral Cambric Down Quilts, with two plain panels.
In Rose or Blue. Well filled with Purified Down.
Splendid value at original prices.
Prices ..6x4 ft., 27/6; 6 x 5 ft. double bed, 32/6
Sale Prices, 22/6 25/6
36/6 Down Quilts, Now 29/6
These are real Down Quilts covered with attractive
Floral Downproof Cambric with two plain panels to
tone. In Rose, Saxe, Black or Mauve.
Prices. ... 6x4 ft., 36/6; 6 x 5 ft. double bed, 42/-
Sale Prices: 29/6 35/6
59/6 Down Quilts, Now 49/6
Floral Sateen Down Quilts —one wide plain panel.
Filled with super quality Down. In Rose or Saxe
Colorings. Prices: 6 x 4ft., 52/6; 6 x sft., 59/6
Sale. Prices. ... 42/- 49/6
£B/10/- Satin Down Quilts, £7/7/-
Plain Satin Down Quilts of extra superior quality. Moss
stitch embroidered centre —one wide goffered panel.
In colors of Rose, Saxe and Gold.
Prices: 6x4 ft., £6/6/-; 6x5 ft. double bed, £B/10/-
Sale Prices: £5/10/- £7/7/-
27/11 Grey Blankets, 25/11 pr.
High-grade Grey Blankets of fine long-wearing quality
—extra cosy finish. In four sizes:—
Sizes, in 54x 78 63x 81 72x90 81x99
Prices, pair.. .. 27/11 34/11 43/11 53/11
Sale Prices, pair . . 25/11 32/6 41/6 50/-
(Dept., First Floor. We pay carriage.)
Anthony Horderns'
’Phone : ■ MS4OI
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box -27UC, G.P.O.


A
'rr
l'
t\>
£
NEW Rapid Way
tO Regain Your Grip on
HEAL TH,
oMYOUTH!
4F 5
-a
Vs
NOTHING TO PAY-
If IT FAILS'
'pHE sensational discovery of modern times is that certain special substances combined
* with yeast will produce the magic change from weakness and ill-liealth to Glowing
Youth and Vigor with phenomenal rapidity —in some cases in a few hours! This same
health-combination will stop aches, pains and depression almost instantly, giving an
immediate feeling of fresh, revitalised exhilaration! It was that such a
discovery should produce numerous “patent” yeast and yeast-vitamine tonics ; but none
of these can compare with genuine ”Cream of Yeast,” which is at once the greatest
tonic-pick-me-up and revitaliser known, giving the quickest, surest results, at the lowest cost.
16 STARTLING EFFECTS
CREAM OF YEAST—
Relieves Headaches and Neuralgia in 4
minutes.
Relieves Influenza Colds, Rheumatism,
etc., within 15 hours.
Relieves Acidity, “Gas,” Heartburn
and Indigestion in 3 minutes.
Gives marked increase of Forceful
Vigor in IS minutes.
Relieves Depression and Brain Fag in 8
minutes.
Clears System of harmful poisonous
wastes in about 12 hours.
Relieves Periodical Pains in 12 minutes.
Steadies the Nerves in 10 minutes.
Clears Boils, Pimples and Eruptions
usually within 2 days.
WHAT CAUSES ILL-HEALTH?
It has been proven that the brain, nerves and blood
need certain vital substances.
These substances, combined with vitamines, form the
foundations of Health and Strength— even of Life
itself! Without this combination, continuous perfect
health is impossible! It is proven that yeast contains an
element of amazing restorative and life-giving power—
but certain types of yeast are almost useless!
The value of the right kind of yeast, in
combination with other substances, is
clearly shown by “Cream of Yeast.” See,
when you take it, aches and pa|ins
vanish; watch sickness disappear; see
how quickly the nerves become steady;
how, instead of being always weak, de-
pressed, lethargic and tired out, you
regain splendid zest, vitality and youthful
vim and good looks!
This Wonderful NEW Regulating Vitamine Tonic.
“Cream of Yeast” ia the result of parent experimenting’ in the
laboratories of the greatest chemical organisation in the world
manufacturing any form of yeast-vitamine tonic. Before achieving
its crowning triumph with “Cream of Yeast,” this organisation
actually made millions of yeast-vitamine tablets! News of the
great “Cream of Yeast” success made others offer hastily contrived
brands of yeast. Tests and public experience alike show that not
one of these brands equals “Cream of Yeast.”
“Cream of Yeast” is the concentrated yeast compound tonic; it
gives the best and quickest results, and is safe! “Cream of Yeast”
invigorates and regulates. It makes aspirin-mixtures, purgatives
and stimulants old-fashioned! in its prompt, sure action in relieving
aches, pains, “run-down” feeling and irregularities. It forms no
habit! IT IS SUPREMELY HEALTHFUL.
No Waiting—QUlCK Results.
No matter what your sickness may be, no matter how long 1 you've
suffered or how much faith you have in other remedies, try “Cream
of Yeast” just once ! Better results are guaranteed, and if you fail
to get them the trial will cost you nothing.
A FIRM GUARANTEE!
BENEFIT FROM FIRST BOTTLE OR MONEY REFUNDED:
You don’t risk a penny trying “Cream of Yeast”! It will give
you brighter eyes, rosier cheeks, clearer complexion, more restful
sleep, a firm elastic step, the fresh lively spirit of Youth. It will
free you from headaches and stomach troubles, from rheumatic
pains and the results of faulty elimination. It will soon make
you a NEW man or woman. All you have to do is to get a
package of genuine “Cream of Yeast”
from the nearest chemist, grocer
or store. Take according to the
simple directions, and then if you doh’t
feel rejuvenated in mind and body—if
you are not perfectly satisfied—the price
will be refunded on application to the
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia
House, Wynyard Square, Sydney. Thus
you are guaranteed a new lease of life
and happiness—or no cost at all! Don’t
delay! Get your supply NOW!
Cream «t Yeast
, FOR YOUTH/
All Chemists: 24 Tablets, 1/11; 48, 3/6; 12S for 5/9.
Australian Machines Save the Rice in Boggy Paddocks.
■' ' 'i 'V
Tractors bogged! Ground a quagmire! But a slow-moving team of bullocks, and a Sunshine
Engine Functioned Header-Harvester mounted on skids, rescued the grain from this ram-sodden
Murrumbidgee ricefield.
No matter how slow the pace, the mechanism of the Sunshine Engine Functioned Header-Harvester runs at normal speed, and the maximum
yield of grain is secured from the crop.
fpfdpkhfh
SUNSHINE HEADER-HARVESTERS
PRE-EMINENT IN WHEAT, OATS, BARLEY, PEAS, RICE.
Successfully harvest crops in any condition, heavy or light, storm-tangled or thistle-infested, on hillside
or level ground.
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE FUNCTIONED SIZES MANUFACTURED:
HEADER-HARVESTER. 1
Sunshine Pea Harvesting Front, attachable to 6ft. and Bft. machines. Enables peas to be harvested as efficiently as wheat.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS %
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Ask for General Illustrated Catalogue o/ all Sunshine manufactures.


■
*V:
COAT SHIRT
with collar attached
and one extra . . .
Vrice
12/6 oAll sizes
Here’s the " Coat Shirt ” with 3-inch peak collar!
It’s tremendously popular with the ’Varsity Students
abroad. Made from fine quality Poplins in woven stripe
designs of pink, blue or helio Each shirt has an
attached collar as well as a spare, which can easily
be sewn on when the first collar shows signs of wear.
Sizes 14 to 17k£ inch neck. Price 12/6
DAVID JONES’
AT OUR EXCLUSIVE MEN’S SHOPS
NEW STORE AND GEORGE STREET
has visited, Burke refers to the Rose and
Crown at Saffron Walden, one of the oldest
of the houses he knows, and tells a tale
about that inn which is the result of the
literary researches of Edmund Dring.
“Shakspeare is known to have visited Saff-
ron Walden with his company of players,
and Mr. Dring, who acquired a manuscript
book belonging to William Holgate, son of
the then landlord of the Rose and Crown,
and himself a minor poet, is satisfied on
the evidence of this book that the W.H. of
the Sonnets was this son of an innkeeper.”
Whether Dring has hit upon the correct
explanation, one cannot tell without any
further evidence than the story provides,
and Burke adds nothing. But it would
indeed be poetic justice, after the scholarly
rebuke administered to the wranglers by
Bailey, to find that the story in the next
volume of this series has cleared up a
mystery that does not really matter a
tinker’s dam, but has become one of those
things resting “on conjectural air,” which
has been so built up by the quidnuncs that
in all probability a simple explanation ii
the right one.
STAN EAST.
Oscar Patronises Adam
A new light on Adam Lindsay Gordon,
from Oscar Wilde of all unexpected people.
Like most London writers, Wilde did a lot
of reviewing before he became famous; and,
unlike most of them, he collected a volume
of his notices later. Of Gordon:—
Australia has converted many of our failures into
prosperous and admirable mediocrities; but she cer-
tainly spoiled one of our poets for us. He owed
nothing to the land of his adoption. Had he stayed
at home he would liav.e done much better work.
He remained thoroughly English, and the best that
we can say of him is that he wrote imperfectly
in Australia those poems that in England he might
have made perfect.
I can see no evidence whatever to support
this theory. Gordon was essentially a
writer of echoes, Swinburnian and other.
If he had stayed at home, he might now
be vaguely remembered as somewhere be-
tween Whyte Melville and “Dagonet”
Sims. Australia did two big things for him.
It gave him a prominent place, through the
comparative lack of local competition; and
—more important, of course, from the
artistic point of view—it put a new note
into his work.
Wilde has been betrayed once more by
his passion for antithesis; to which may be
added, no doubt, the imperfectly-veiled
contempt of his day (1888 is the date of
the notice quoted) for Australia as home ■
of an artistic movement of any sort.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
The Governance of India
Must England Lose India? by Lieutenant-
Colonel Arthur Osburn, D.S.O. (Knopf), is
the latest addition to the present spate of
books on India. The writer makes a smash-
ing attack upon the ex-Public School boy
who rules India according to the ethics of
Eton and Harrow, where the prefect bullies
the fag “for his own good” and to “make
him hard,” and the fag accepts the sys-
tem because when he becomes a prefect he
in turn will have a fag to bully. In India
this system permeates all classes. “What
the Viceroy scorns, and his gilded staff
ridicule, the private soldier will kick; and
kick pretty hard when he is full of beer.”
The civilian Englishman follows suit and
flogs his servants. General Dyer, institut-
ing the famous crawling order and ordering
his soldiers to fire on an unarmed mob for
20 minutes, is “the Prefect—the Head of
the School—the Little Tin-god. He is
naturally scandalised and furious that the
Indians—the ‘lesser breeds’—the lowest
form in the Lower School, should openly
defy his authority. For such outrageous
things surely boiling oil is scarcely bad
enough—but machine-guns! Certainly—
why not!” The missionaries, with their
schoolboy sense of sin, are in the same cat-
egory. To their morbidly puritanical minds
.a harmless phallic symbol is something hor-
rible. With the herd instinct of the school-
boy they endeavor to pollute the stream
of Indian thought as their own has been
polluted. They are the school chaplains,
but the humor of their teaching tolerance
and forbearance, gentleness and humility to
a subject race of fags is not lost on India.
; In West Africa, the writer remarks, it is
illegal to call a native a “nigger,” but
“nigger” is the term universally applied in
India to a race very much higher in the
scale of humanity than the negro. Osburn
suggests that the reason is that the negro
scales on the average several stone heavier
than the Indian. The Indian, owing to
under-nourishment, is usually a weedy crea-
ture; and a weak human being, especially
if he has different habits and beliefs from
one’s own, is a temptation to the sadist,
the bully and the herdman, the type which,
Osburn maintains, the English Public School
system tends to produce in the greatest
numbers. When the type is further saddled
with an almost pathological sex complex,
the fruit of early repression, a governing
class is produced which has a craving to
impose its opinions on others. “They call
this craving for interference their ‘Heaven-
sent mission’ or a ‘gift for governing’—a
very useful reassurance for busybodies and
well-paid officials to have,” although, after
170 years in India, all that the governing
class has done is to “get itself thoroughly
disliked and to imitate the shoddy seven-
teenth century statecraft of some of the
Moghul rulers.” Unless Englishmen them-
selves sweep this class aside, Osburn be-
lieves that not only will Britain lose India
but that the repercussions of that event
will cause a revolution in England.
Col. Osburn is himself a product of the
Public School system he condemns, and he
confesses that during a long official career
in India he committed many of the sins of
which he accuses his fellow-countrymen.
M. G. S.
A Satchel of Books
Captain Cook: His Life and Adventure p,
by Maurice Thiery (Bles). A rattling
good book to give a healthy-minded boy of
15 or thereabout. The opening chapters,
wherein the author transports himself back
into Cook’s time, are the least convincing
as biography, but they set the narrative
off with a swing, and the pace is brisk to
the end.
Balzac: 'The Man and the Lover, by Fran-
cis Gribble (Nash and Grayson; Dymocks).
Specially interesting for the record of
tile recent discovery that an uncle of
Balzac’s was executed for murder. The
author suggests that Balzac must have
known of this affair, and infers that it pro-
bably left its mark upon his work. THc
love affairs of the fat little genius are also
recorded in relationship to his work, and help
to make the biography breezy and alive.
K.B-B.’s Diary, by It. D. Blumenfeld
(Ileinemann). Born in America, Blumen-
ield went first to London to repeu't Queen
Victoria’s diamond jubilee, later settled
there and got to the top of the Fleet-street
ladder. The Diary presents an interesting
picture of London as seen through a jour-
nalist’s eyes up till 1914. IBs August, 1914,
entry, _ “If this country does not stand up
tor Right and Honor she will be for ever
damned,” is interesting, coming from an
American.
The Elizabethan Underworld (lioutledge).
The editor, A. V. Judges, provides a careful
and helpful introduction, notes, index and
glossary. The bulk of the book —it is very
bulky—-is an extraordinary collection of
tracts in prose and verse written by Robert
Greene, Thomas Dekker and others from an
‘ inside” position in the Elizabethan under -
world and flooding that darkness with sharp
light. No amount of speculative writing
could give anything like the picture here
presented. It is a book no one interested in
the seamy side of history can afford to miss.
F. L. Lucas’s Cecils was bracketed second
with ‘The Lost Crusade” in Chatto and
Windus’s Historical Novel Competition. It
deals with France at the period when Rous-:,
seau’s influence was beginning to be felt,
and idealistic Frenchmen were turning sym-
pathetic eyes on the American colonists.
Cecile —a modern flapper in soul and diction
—is an original but unconvincing creation.
Her sister Andree, who falls out of love
with her husband and in love with a color-
less English soldier, an'd eventually drifts
back to the husband is a much likelier mid-
eighteenth century product. There are some
passages of rare beauty in the book—notably
the death of Andree’s earthy, sport-loving
old father-in-law—and British freedom,
which was largely a myth at the time, gets
the usual resounding advt.
Earth, by Frank Townshend (Knopf; Roy-
croft Library). An arresting long objective
verse, in irregular Whitmaman metre. In
the first part the writer describes the earth
through an effective listing of human follies
and foibles, with an occasional virtue in
contrast; it is a stupid and silly place. The
second part is a vision of an earth to be
—an' idealistic creation, possible only when
all men stand in equal purity. The third
part emphasises the earlier arguments with
reiteration and relation of experiences, and'
there is a minor fourth part. Only in the
first is the writer convincing, chiefly because
he observes acutely as in such fragmentary
stanzas as:—
The branches of different religions separated into
sects,
Argued and fought and wrangled.
But I observed that even the poorer representatives
of the Creator of the Universe
Had to pay their third-class railway fares.
From which I concluded that man’s business capacity
Was greater than his sense of humor.
By stringing together less than 100 such
observations the writer erects a surprisingly
real earth. The subsequent parts smack too
much of uplift to be satisfying.
Brief Candles, by Aldous Huxley (Chatto
and Windus; Robertson and Mullens). Hux-
ley here adopts a typically Shavian device—
each of these stories is a fictional exposition
of his humanist philosophy as already fully
developed in his books of essays, epecially
that interesting collection, “Do What You
Will.” But, whereas Shaw’s imaginary
characters often become mere collections of
the writer’s dogmas and prophecies, Huxley's
share in a philosophy which is based on the
acceptance of all sides of human nature, the
sensual, the ascetic, the mystic and the
intellectual. Even so, all one gets in the
present collection of tales is the brilliant
generalisations. The best and longest of
the stories, “After the Fireworks,” describes
the reactions of an enormously cultured
sceptic brought into too intimate contact
with an average lionising flapper. In a
series of biting dramatic pictures and with
ruthless thoroughness Huxley strips the
veils of illusion off both of them, leaving
the cultured sceptic trying to recover the
remnants of his physical being at a spa and
the girl embarking on a fresh love affair with
a youth of her own type.
Men Are Human , by Vance Palmer (Stan-
ley Paul; Dymocks). ' Publication of this
book completes the great success of the first
Bulletin Novel Competition. Its fore-
runners, “A House Is Built” and “Coonar-
doo,” both received the highest praise abroad.
No one reading the comments of the world’s
leading fiction critics could help but feel
that Australian narrative writers had at last
won recognition. The three novels, and the
one with which Vance Palmer won the
Second Competition (“The Passage”) should
be on every Australian bookshelf, on literary
merit alone.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted •
ana no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany . J
P.d E.: Of course property values are
absurd. They have been pushed up because owners
believed the public could pay them. They are falling
now because owners find out the public can’t pay
them S.M.: There will be no Novel Competition
this year at any rate Z.V.: We see it all coming
a great way off Newsboy: How did you come
to leave out the sensation? Pele: Glad to hear
you saw the sea-serpent. It restores confidence in
beer.... The Cynic: One of those things that a
journalist should keep to himself Rita: Failed
to get any of the title part out of “Pleasure”
0.F.: Doesn’t suit A. J.G.: “Haunted House”
didn’t provide the requisite number of thrills....
A.M.C.: Have met the old bushman on that track
before... .R.R.H.: An idea, but thin.... Don E.:
Managed better than many would have done, but
it’s a hard thing to do convincingly M.A.8.:
Need more than thumbnail pictures Office Boy:
No picture money in that effort. Take her for a
walk through the park... .Advance Australia: Didn’t
that verse miss some weeks ago? 8.5.: “The
Bulletin rejected it as poor, and yet” that other
weekly accepted it. Of course, you meant “and
so”....Keg L.: Beat all records to the basket
L.A.S.: The author who, to “get past the reviewers,”
toned down “gripping rawness” and took out “inti-
mate touches” would deserve all that happened to
him M.W.: Nothing to suit in that batch
M H.: Like topics a bit fresher for that page
Q.T.: Scarcely answers his argument. Verse sounder,
but some way off A.A.8.: Should have been
answered in the publishing paper... .W.F.K : Similes
slightly affected by rust Clean Bowled: Dunno
whether you were bowled, but you’re out... .0 K.F.:
Can’t credit the garden flowers with putting up that
sort of ballet performance Kada: Well enough
done, but they hold so little Bellerive: Second-
last instalment of the great Zoological Inspiration
serial:—
BIRDS OF THE WOODLAND.
Birds of the woodland
In beauteous array
Gather for fight
And wantonly play.
They chatter and flutter,
Prepared for a race
O’er mountains and hills,
Through trackless space.
In clusters they frolic
As they soareth with glee,
Birds of the woodland,
Joyous and free.
{Next week: “Grass Hoppers.”)
M.: Both smell of the midnight 0i1... .W.E.E.:
As you so nicely put it, “Are these good enough
for The Bulletin? ' No. I’m not surprised”....
C.C.W.: There is a blight on parodies of Omar
Leuroomba: None misses by very much; all touched
with a bit of the artificial M.F.: Pure catalogue
stuff; no attempt to delivlr the listed g00d5....
L. MacL.: Sorry; but whether they should continue
or not is a matter aspiring writers must work out
for themselves R.C.N.: You put it in a nutshell,
but the shell’s a bit cracked... .W.T.W.: No fancy
for verse description. That is always better done in
prose Digger Wantwork: Quite a good movement
in it; but try something closer at hand. The song
would depend wholly on the music... .Parnus:
Opened well, but broke down.... .5.0. L.: Rather a
straining to say something than anything said....
V. : Fair picture of the swaggie, but he’s a
familiar gentleman S.R.H.: Suit a boys’ paper
best... .Fleur Baix: That Richtofen business has
become a weariness.... Stripper: No ginger in it
A.U.: Rather suggestive of Jarley’s waxworks.,..
H.8.L.: “Thinking It Out”—thought out K.M.:
Sloppy in sentiment and style A.8.g.: “She rose
into the air and floated through the ceiling!” Let
her float... .W.Q.: “The Devil was sick”—perhaps
he read your story C-E.D.: Cheerio; but, really,
the spelling is awful P.D.H.: A melodramatic
shriek.... M.A.8.: Dream stories rarely a success;
yours no exception T.A.W.: Interest too limited.
. ...A.J.K.: Cannot combine teacher with critic....
W. : Chinese cracker a dud... .P.P.C.: More
liquor than laughter E.M.G.: Might suit some
overseas publication ; shows a certain delicacy in
thought and expression P.J.N.: No dish for the
hot cakes with sentimental syrup T.C.: Legend
of “thirteen hundred years ago” a bit belated....
L. : “Magic Pistols” loaded with blank cartridges.
. ...E.P.D.: Can’t find a chair for the professor....
M. : Rather picturesque but not suitable. .. .A.11.N.:
Nothing in it beyond the fact that he hadn’t washed
for 30 years M.C.S.: You ought to have it dis-
cussed in a paper with a larger acreage than ours.
H.R.T.: But, granted it is well said, is it worth
saying at this late hour? Tops: Sorry can’t help
you. There are a few essential things, and The B.
wants to keep the public’s mind on them. And the
Lord knows the public is eager enough to follow
strange gods.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.C.: That’s not a cartoon; it’s a directory....
F. : A maze of splintery lines... .W.N.: Give up
pursuing art; you’ll never catch it L.G.: Con-
tains more blots to the square inch than any drawing
we’ve seen for years... .P.E.D.: No space for lumpy
matron chastising her blotchy young... .V.M.: Pro-
hibition order taken out against maternity-eternity
gag... .R.C.T.: You should have spared yourself the
trouble of sending “the insignificant efforts of an
untrained hand” C. 8.: Good, if the artist is an
infant in arms.... W.M.N.: Joke insufficient excuse
for the picture F.A.8.: Frayed jest and faint
pencil scratching D.R.: It was an abo., not a ,
Chinaman, the last time we heard it....C.L.: At
least you can draw a cigar-box... .M.Y.: Close-up
of breakfast-table brawl declined... .E.N.: Sorrowful
gag and a frenzied drawing P.P.: Sozzled billiard-
players heaved out IC.S.T.: A near relation of
one of the oldest chestnuts... .A.C.: What the hori-
zontal horror said to the vertical freak is merely
dull N.L.: “I’m not a professional.” Explanation
superfluous 8.N.5.: They rejected themselves....
G. : A trace of humor, so there may be hope
for y0u....5.P.: Incomprehensible joke; drawing
p00r... .W.T.: Can’t advise on the evidence offered;
very like copies... .M.K.8.: Unoriginal. .. .V.D.:
Couldn’t laugh at your abo.


f
.
. ,'<;;3!*i ♦>._-•
'•■■ ,
A
I
m
:&
W}MWmO.
w
pqpii
&*g§
wm
amm
m
**rn. ' " *’"* '
31 •- ■ ‘ if '’
■
mBBBSBBm »#»
2J
J
iwl
■
SH
4%1
W
■I
*,.
I
1
' ' :■.;«;?
HH
■:,
n
H
li
■ i
■■
■
1 Mm
■- •'■ '
( ■" /'
: A •
■
Wmgi,
mm 1
IH ■■ 1
• "C'A
. .
■■■
-V; <•■•
l:
m
m
i
■
■: 1
*i«' i
:
;
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Yol. 51.—N0. 2634.
August 6, 1930.
GROUNDS FOR OPTIMISM.
“Premier Hogan has come to the conclusion that, in view of the Federal imposts, it is now hopeless to increase State income tax.”
TAXPAYER (humming gently): “How can a pickpocket pick your pocket if you haven’t got a pocket to pick?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21.'/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: lV)-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
' Westkalia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 56 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
(! months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies, — Commonwealth, New Zealand,
Papua and Fiji: 60z., Id. United Kingdom: hoz.,
Id.; All Sea Poute: 60z., Id. U.S.A.: hoz. or part
thereof, Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 6
RECIPE FOR A BEST-SELLER .. ..2
IS OUR EDUCATION RIGHT ? 2
THE GOVERNANCE OF INDIA .. ..5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
FOR SALE: ONE CAPITAL! 8
WHEN WILL THINGS GET WELL? .. ..8
THIS TALK OF REPUDIATION .. ..8
SPORT MADNESS 9
LET’S CAN SOME FISH! 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) 10
SOCIETY (witli drawings) .. ~ 11, 12
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 13
QUEENSLAND POWER ALCOHOL . . . . 13
QUEENSLAND SUGAR INDUSTRY . . . . 13
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION SCANDALS .. 13
NEW POSTAGE RATES 13
PERSONAL .. . 14
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
A NEW AUSTRALIAN PLAY 16
KUBELIK IN SYDNEY 16
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS , 17, 18
T.-P. COMPANY PROSPECTS 17
COMMERCIAL BANK OF SYDNEY . . . . 17
MERCANTILE MUTUAL INSURANCE . . 17
PETER’S AMERICAN DELICACIES .. ..17
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES 17
POSITION OF MERCANTILE BANK .. ..18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND .. s. .. 22, 25
FORMALIN FOR FOOTROT 22
THE MOISTURE IN THE SOIL .. ..22
POTATOES AND FERTILISER 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY ..31
THE PALETTE 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . .. 35, 36
AUSTRALIAN HURDLE RACE .. ..35
WARWICK FARM RACES 35
INTER-STATE FOOTBALL 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER (with drawings by
Frith) 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
NEW SERIAL—
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover .. ..42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop”) .. .. .. .. 47
TWO COMPLETE STORIES—
“EVERY MAN FOR HIMSELF”—
By W. M. Fleming . . . . .. 49
“THE MISTAKE,” by T. P. Baker .. 49, 50
VERSE —By Jessie Mackav, Norma L. Davis..4s, 50
TO “BULLETIN” READERS.
In common with all other newspapers The Bulle-
tin has been seriously considering the position
created'by the new taxes.
In the capitals outside Sydney the price of the daily
paper that was Id. before the war has continued
to this day to be either 14d. or 2d. The cost of
newsprint paper has never fallen below about 50
per cent, advance on the pre-war price.
The Sydney daily newspapers have now resolved
that they can no longer stand out, and announce an
increase of 50 per cent, in selling price. The
paper hitherto one penny is now three-halfpence.
The Bu lletin, though more heavily hit by the
primage duty than the daily newspapers, because
its superior printing paper costs 50 per cent, more,
believes that the position can be met without raising
the price and thus adding to the cost of living.
There will, therefore, be no increase in the price
of The Bulletin, which will be sold at sixpence
as hitherto. But such further improvements will be
made in the paper as will, it is believed, greatly add
to the circulation; and it is hoped that the large
additional sales which are confidently relied upon
will offset the additional costs.
During over 50 years The Bulletin has built up
between itself and the bulk of its readers some-
thing more intimate than the usual relations between
newspaper and subscriber. It knows that the redemp-
tion of its wartime promise to return to the old
price at the earliest possible moment was greatly
appreciated; and it believes also that its present
efforts to meet the greatly-increased costs of produc-
tion without putting up the price will have the
same general approval.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6, 1930.
FOR SALE: ONE CAPITAL.
It is seven, years since the first spadeful of
earth was turned to make room for the
palatial Parliament House at Canberra. It
is six years since the first sale of leases
took place there, the usual terms being 99
years, subject to eight revaluations within
that period, so that the excited buyers com-
mitted themselves to definite annual rents
for 20 years and indefinite ones for 79 years.
It is three years since the Federal Gov-,
ernment moved into its new quarters. Now
the demand for a moving out is widespread
and fierce, and is growing every day. Some
Federal institutions, such as the military
and naval colleges, have already moved out,
or are in the act of doing so. A great many
more never moved in.
The Australian metropolis began with a
blight, or a variety of blights, on it. As a
concession to the parochialism of certain
N.S.W. politicians, many of whom were
undisguised haters of Federation from first
to last, the capital was to be in N. S.
Wales. But the Constitution, which speci-
fies that it shall be in N. S. Wales, specifies
also that it shall be neither Sydney nor
within a hundred miles of Sydney. The old
“cabbage-tree mob” would have been horri-
fied if it had been suggested that Sydney
should be surrendered as a Federal capital
and territory, following the examples of
Brazil and Argentina, in both of which the
biggest city was transferred to the central
authority as its exclusive domain. At the
same time there was a passionate objection
to surrender any place with a value and a
future, or one which was likely to compete
with Sydney. The ideal political centre was
described as “a large country town.” Can-
berra is that, with the first adjective left
out.
It is said to have been a summer fishing
party of politicians which first recognised
the place and its promising disadvantages.
They saw that it had no facilities for water-
borne commerce, being far from the sea
and unprovided with even the ghost of a
navigable river. It could not be placed on
any route for big land traffic except by
shifting Australia’s principal railway line,
to the great detriment of other towns, and
then it would be only a wayside station
like any other wayside station. It has
neither water-power nor any notable supply
of coal-power for manufacturing purposes,
and it is far from customers. It hasn’t the
materials to make a surf-bathing or fishings
or yachting village as Manly or Cronulla
has. All the calculations are that it is to
live by being a political centre, and the
grossness of these miscalculations should
long ago have been apparent. It would
be absurd to station the standing army
there, for if the whole 1755 troops were
brought to Canberra to camp by the Cotter
it would leave 11,000 miles of coastline
without a military defender. The navy
and shipyards would be out of place 6n
the grass in front of Parliament Housed
And Federal officials are returned as nuriH*'
bering no more than 30,336 all told, not
including postal functionaries, who are natu-
rally hitched to their desks all over the
Commonwealth. A large proportion of the
recognised 30,336 have to be in large and
medium centres of population, where the
public wants to see them in a friendly spix-it
or otherwise. The number available to
be condensed into a compulsory population
for a small cold inland town is few, and
they get extra pay for putting up with it.
Any Ministry which appointed more would
get the sack. The tendency is to reduce
the number.
But, apart from the ruinous expensiveness
of it in a direct fashion, Canberra is an
appalling indirect expense. Nothing for
many a day has more maddened Australia
than the refusal of the present otherwise
quite reasonable Government to reduce either
Parliamentary or public-service expenditure.
More than half the explanation of that
lies in the fact that, isolated at Canberra,
members of Parliament are most of their
time out of touch with the public, while
thrown into the closest association with the
public service. In this association one
reacts upon the other, until a vicious circle
is created: the service tells the politician
what an ill-paid person he is, and the poli-
tician is made to realise the overshadowing
importance of the Federal public service.
So we have each encouraged to magnify
his importance; so we have new depart-
ments and sub-departments created; so we
have extravagance encouraged; so we have
a bureaucracy created and the mere tax-pay-
ing citizen disregarded. When Canberra was
being incubated Australia was told of the
great advantages which would come to the
Commonwealth through its Parliament
communing in the wilderness out of the
influence of the newspaper autocrats and
the great financial institutions. But the
newspaper autocrats and the great financial
institutions can still reach the ears of Minis-
ters and plain members; it is only the great
body of ordinary tax-paying citizens who
are shut out. The result has been disas-
trous. It is hardly too much to say that
if there had been no Canberra there would
have been no need of a Sir Otto Niemeyer.
It is ridiculous to continue to pay so
much extra for seclusion when seclusion
merely produces less than average good
results.
For various i-easons prompt decision is
called for. Canberra occupies a unique
position as a meti-opolis built with loan
money—very expensive loan money, and
largely raised abi-oad. It is lamentably
unfinished because its American designer
planned it on so grandiose a scale that it
requires almost as much finishing as old
Babylon, which isn’t finished yet. The
money with which to do the rest of the
work is unprocurable, loans being off, while
spare revenue is remote. A complete
immediate abandonment is, of course, im-
possible. The cost of evacuation has to be
considered, for the departments which were
bi-ought to Canberra at absurd expense
won’t walk home again at their own charge.
A beginning might be made by deciding
that no more money shall be spent on the
place except out of what it eax-ns in the
shape of rents, railway returns, etc. It may
not be able to pay its interest bill, but it
should pay everything else or go without.
The importation of civil servants should
cease. The Government should make it
clear that it is looking for a new home, but
that it declines to be hustled into lodgings
which might prove unsatisfactory and lead
to more trouble. Without committing
itself to linger for any fixed time it should
do something with the leasehold fads and
any other fads of idealistic Governments
which hamper business. And without
committing itself to go at any fixed time,
it should set about the dismantling of legal
obstacles to a shift. Fortunately Canberra
isn’t in the Constitution, but other matters
are, and they will require dealing with. The
capital should be evacuated decently, eco-
nomically and in order, lest things should
happen that would sour the public creditor,
and he is more than acid enough as matters
stand. But the abandonment should be put
on some big party’s working programme by
way of breaking the news to the nation,
and giving somebody a chance to tender
for the ruins or discover some useful pur-
pose which they can be made to serve.
WHEN WILL THINGS GET WELL?
Why did they get bad? We must answer
that first.
To begin with, we were living beyond our
means to the extent of about 40 millions a
year. We were buying and getting the goods
and giving lOU’s for them. The individual
does not always realise that he was doing
anything of the sort. He knows, indeed,
that he paid cash. But, all tte
community gave the lOU’s. ThermpaidTor
goods were sold and the money, was put into
circulation. r Jtous 40 millions’ of money
which we had npt earned was made avas»
.able to creale * an artifi«A
Almost everybody shared 3|Tt. if paw
wages and salaries and dividends that were
not earned. Out of the artificially high,
wages and salaries and dividends artafhflaHfr •*
high rents were paid. The community was
able to indulge in extravagances which
would have been quite out of the question
without this 40 millions a year which the
community had got in exchange fflk its
lOU’s.
Now Ujose lOU’s are no longer accepted,
ft and what we call the standard of
to be readjusted. Yet it is possible for us,
so far as this branch of the subject at
any rate is concerned, to be as well off as
we were before. We received those 40 mil-
lions and almost twice as much again in
the shape of foreign products. We can
get back where we were (leaving other
things out of consideration for the moment)
by producing the 40 millions of goods for
ourselves. That will put just as much
money into circulation as there was pre-
viously (still leaving other factors out of
consideration). To produce this extra 40
millions there must be a wholesale read-
justment of industry. It is m> use shifting
sandhills. We never imported sandhills,
at any rate in the raw state, and there is
no sale for them when they are shifted.
We shall only begin to recover when we
produce the articles which we formerly
bought overseas with lOU’s; and we shall
not go far in the recovery until there is a
brisk sale for them. Hence the great im-
portance of buying the home-made article
whenever it is on offer: and that implies
also the cultivation of salesmanship—not
always a very brilliant article where Aus-
tralian manufactures are concerned.
, Unfortunately that is not the whole dif-
ficulty. Besides having to pay for our more
or less unavoidable imports we have to pay
30 millions a year overseas interest; and
we can only do it with exports. Those
exports consist chiefly of wool (42 per cent,
of the total), wheat (anything up to 15
per cent.), hides and skins (9 per cent.),
minerals, and butter and other farm pro-
ducts; and they have fallen in the world’s
markets at least one-third in value. That
means a loss of another 40 millions a year
and more. We can make that up and so
get back where we were by increasing our
output by a little more than one-third.
But that is very difficult, because the fall
in price must put many former producers
out of production unless they are assisted
by lower costs. Those lower costs are not,
however, necessarily a matter of lower
wages. It is chiefly a matter of less loafing
time and less parasitism everywhere.
There is another and a more hopeful way
of making up this other 40 millions a year
or a great part of it, and that is by still
further reducing imports and making the
goods ourselves. The mere stoppage of
imports, though it may save us from de-
fault, will not make us prosperous. Pro-
sperity can only come with employment
in making the goods to replace the imports.
And that process will have a double effect:
it will permit labor to be withdrawn from
many of those unproductive activities which
are at present such a crushing burden on
productive industry.
The situation will not cure itself. It will
have to be cured; hence we cannot know
when things will get better till we know
when the cure will be applied. Economy,
though necessary, will not do it; energy is
infinitely more important. The wage-worker
will be the greatest sufferer if the national
sickness is not cured; he is the greatest suf-
ferer to-day, and to-day is not nearly as
bad as to-morrow can be. Much will de-
pend on him. He must realise that his
friend is the man or company that is doing
something or is prepared to do something.
The men who will venture their capital
in new undertakings or in extending old
ones can, with his help, save him and put
him and the country on the w y ay to good
times. Nobody else can.
PROPOSED ROBBERY OF THE (COM-
PARATIVELY) POOR.
“I would do to the bondholders just what the
bondholders have done to others. If I had been
Treasurer of the Commonwealth with the necessary
following when the loan fell due last March, I would
have handed them Government notes and said: ‘There
is your money back. Do what you like with it, but
you will get no further interest.’ It only needs some-
one who is game enough to do it. It should be
done.” — Yates, M.U.R. in the Federal Parliament.
“Mr. James (N.S.W.) said he would repudiate
interest on war loans to-morrow.”
Schemes for the repudiation of the public
debt of Australia fall into two categories.
One idea is to tell the creditor brutally that
he is swindled and let it go at that. The
other is to print hundreds of millions of
valueless notes, and send them to him, with
an intimation that the liability is thus liquid-
ated in full, and that there is nothing to
complain about. There is a tendency to
swindle the overseas lender in particular.
To deal with the domestic debt (between
500 and 600 million pounds) in this master-
ful fashion would make the banks stop
paying their depositors, and would wreck
insurance societies, and might even lead
distracted and ruined persons to shoot the
Ministry. It is, therefore, considered safer
to specialise on looting the overseas bond-
holder who is a long distance away.
It is customary to assume that bond-
holders are wealthy capitalists who can
afford to be robbed, and that to rob* them
is almost a virtue. As regards the united
States bondholders, the view that they
are large capitalists is or was correct;
•tShat is why attempts to estab-
|<liSb a lien on Tljj«ile Hoo vek’sJlpitese, as
it did on the purse,of Father Bull, have
been a failure. It objained some accommo-
dation from Uncle, <m dimcllt
than it was accustomed to, and CQp\igl| to
represent about 9d. in the £ of its total
embarrassments. More,'was badly wanted,
bqt it didn’t materialise. The United
States are a thinly-peopled region; with
30 acres to aifr inhtoitant on which to
grow com and hogs, ißrtead of one acre as
in. England, and. with so much oil and
coal and gold and sund-
ries to invest in, the common or garden
Uncle hasn’t begun to feel a need to put
his savings in the securities of countries
about which he knows practically nothing.
Big bankers did a flutter or two in Aus-
tralian bonds, but there was no general de-
mand, and the big banker got rid of his
dull investment at the earliest possible
moment —usually in London.
Over half the mass of Australian bonds
are held in the British Isles, and mostly
represent the investments of small indi-
viduals, including elderly people, unpractical
people among whom are the widow, the
spinster who is past her first youth, and
the under-aged orphan and the lunatic. The
orphan comes in because Australian bonds
bulk enormously in the list of securities in
which a British guardian can invest the
orphan’s money without incurring un-
pleasant responsibility when it is lost. In
a country where there is only one acre per
inhabitant, and so much of the soil is locked
up in hereditary estates, real estate job-
bery is limited. The nation being wealthy
there is naturally a demand for moderately
remunerative investments which give the
least possible bother, and which have a
glamor almost resembling a British Gov-
ernment guarantee cast over them by the
British Trustee law. Great bond firms like
Nivison and Co., who put their names to
our borrowings, do so for the purpose of
retailing the paper to peaceful parties who
don’t skirmish for themselves on the battle-
field of finance, and for this purpose they
have selling agents all over the country.
They and their kind have no idea of lock-
ing up their business capital, and sitting
on the egg for any time up to 40 years
until it becomes ripe. But for aged par-
sons, retired shopkeepers, insurance and
other benefit societies and such like, the
Commonwealth’s debt to the British
Isles wouldn’t be the gigantic monument
it is.
The attitude of the repudiationist who
doesn’t desire to pose as a common thief
is that wicked billionaires basely bought
Australian bonds, especially during the war
time, and that, because the billionaire
is allegedly a public enemy, it is now advis-
able and moral to confiscate the bonds from
their present owners, whoever these may be.
Sultan Abdul Aziz, of Turkey, had a similar
idea on a small scale in the seventies of
last century, and though his repudiation
isn’t known to have killed any billionaires
it led to suicides among decent, mostly-
elderly people whose means of livelihood
had disappeared suddenly. Incidental re-
sults were the downfall and death of A.
Aziz himself; but as he was bound for the
bottomless pit in any case this was consid-
ered of minor importance.
A question arises whether it is manly or
soldierly or even gentlemanly for politici-
ans who collect £lOOO per annum, and
refuse to share in the general economy, to
advocate wholesale robbery, the same to
be practised on people many of whom
possess but a fraction of the politicians’
riches. It may serve a purpose as a bid
for the votes of the criminal classes and as
a sign of comradeship with Moscow, but
it is a stupid and nefarious advertisement
for the Commonwealth.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Improvement — But Slow.
The completion of the year’s trade returns
to the end of June, 1930, sheds valuable
light on the financial situation. During
June the Commonwealth came within an
ace of meeting its import and interest lia-
bilities out of its current earnings. Foieign
loans having stopped, it is necessary to
meet them that way or burst, and it is
fortunate that a Government has turned up
which realises the fact. One month out
of twelve isn’t many, but it shows the
continuation of a steady movement towards
sanity which commenced as soon as the
new tariff, created last November, had time
to make results.
The following figures are strictly accu-
rate and official up to about 98 per cent,
of the total. For the other 2 per cent,
it is impossible to value to a fraction
the gold dug up and exported each month
as apart from old bank reserves confiscated
and sent abroad, and also to estimate the
exact month’s interest on seven foreign
debts mixed up with overdrafts of all shapes
and sizes. Still an honest effort has been
made:—
Before Definite Slump in Value of Exports.
Exports Monthly
(including Imports and New Debt
1929, Gold Output). Interest, or Shortage.
April-Ma.v . . £21,987,825 £26,982,940 £2,497,557
Growing Slump in Export Values, while Imports
Increase.
June, 1929, to
Jan., 1930 .. 64,560,736 117,928,911 6,670,272
Imports Reduced under New Tariff, but Export
Values Remain Low.
1930,
February .. .. 9,072,690 11,693,830 2,621,140
March ‘ . . . . 8,861,779 12.765,416 3,903,637
April .. . . 7,603,682 11,192,409 3,588,727
May . . . . 8,411,923 10,946,820 2,534,897
June . . . . 8,176,151 8,655,944 479,793
In 1929-30 exports of merchandise fetched
£44,000,000 less than they did the year
before, which was a tremendous amount to
be made good all of a sudden. The stoppage
of foreign loans befell in addition. Where-
upon a practical Ministry remarked that,
although the swift increase of exports was
beyond its power, the almost instant reduc-
tion of imports, which up to a certain point
would answer the same purpose, was quite
within reach. A deafening chorus declared
that any such act was distinctly opposed
to the divine revelation of Adam Smith,
Cobden and Co., but they were wisely
ignored. And unless the Government falters
in its work, or is overtaken by unforeseen
disaster, the prospect looks brighter than
it has done for many a year.
4
“Air Defence Is Cheap.”
The Scullidores have made ruthless cuts
in naval and military expenditure on the
ground that the R.A.N. and the A.M.F.
have been costing a great deal more than
they are worth. They have, however, re-
fused to touch the civil establishment, hold-
ing that its services are more important to
the nation and that its salaries are sacro-
sanct; and, except for “minor changes in
organisation,” they have also spared the
Air Force. They believe in air defence on
the ground that it is cheap. The record of
the Randwick experimental station, as given
by the Federal Auditor-General, suggests
that it may be dashed dear.
In a little over five years this station
mopped up just on £126,000. of which nearly
£52,000 was spent on “production account.”
Its first achievement was Widgeon I. This
first of the Widgeons was estimated to cost
£2500; actual cost was £7lBO, in addition
to which £5025 was expended in “repairs,
modification and conversion of the machine
to an amphibian.” The Auditor-General
drily notes that “experiments were made
with the object of determining whether this
type of machine was suitable for com-
mercial purposes or for instruction; up to
the present it has not been used for either
purpose.”
Next came Widgeon 11. Estimated cost
was £4000; actual cost, excluding overhead
charges, was £9239. The official verdict on
Widgeon 11. was that it was not designed
for any specific purpose, was unsuitable
for naval co-operation work, was of no use
to the R.A.A.F, either as a flying boat or
an amphibian, and of no service to the
Civil Aviation Department. This judgment
was apparently pronounced before the
machine crashed in Port Phillip Bay, the
waters of which closed over Captain Gros-
venor, Lieutenant Briggs and Aircraftsman
Ewen.
Warrigal I. was then constructed, the
idea being to produce a ’plane “suitable for
carrying out all branches of a pilot’s train-
ing in the R.A.A.F.” The cost was “not
to exceed £2000”; it reached £5725, less
overhead charges. And then adverse criti-
cism was made by the officer commanding
No. 1 Flying School, Point' Cook, in regard
to its suitability for training purposes.
Undiscouraged, the station set to work
on Warrigal 11. A 450-h.p. Jaguar engine
was ordered, as well as other improvements,
when it was discovered that “the specific
approval of the Minister had not been
obtained,” neither had “definite particulars
been submitted of the full liability in-
volved.” These trifling formalities having
been observed, the work was resumed, and
at the end of January, when the Auditor-
General left off, the cost amounted to
£1484. . Warrigal 11. has been completed,
but is back in the repair-shop; the engine
stalled during a trial flight, and, though the
pilot made a skilful descent, the under-
carriage was wrecked.
And while money has been supplied with-
out stint for these unlucky experiments, by
Scullin and Grpen ( as well as by Bruce
and Glasgow, and while the secretary of
the Defence Department continues to draw
his £2OOO p.a. and travelling expenses, the
two new submarines have been placed “in
immediate reserve,” Jervis Bay has lost its
naval college, 700 R.A.N. men have been
put off, and the permanent soldiers (even
warrant officers getting £260 p.a.) have been
ordered to take eight weeks’ leave without
pay!
♦
Baal and His Prophets.
One of the most eminent of Australia’s
retired cricketers delivered himself of this
trite sentiment in Sydney the other day:—
“We feel that by sending our team to
Britain we are cementing the bonds of good
fellowship and nationalism and that we are
helping to keep the great flag flying over all
the Dominions and colonies as well as
Great Britain.”
Hardly a year goes by without something
of the kind being repeated and accepted as
a truism by the multitude. Yet it is beyond
doubt that the results of these tours and
athletic contests
are the exact oppo-
site of those claimed
by enthusiasts. Since
the re-birth of the
Olympic Games,
which were to
cement anew the
brotherhood of
nations, not an
Olympiad has passed
without acrimonious
charges of foul play,
sharp practice and
unfair discrimina-
tion between contes-
tants, with the sequel
that homing athletes
have taken with
them a burden of
more or less smoth-
ered resentment. In-
ternational football
tours are invariably
responsible for “re-
grettable incidents,”
and Davis Cup
teams go abroad to
stage unfortunate
exhibitions of the
“t e n n i s dempera-
ment” and return to
complain of the hos-
tility of alien audi-
ences.
Cricket, by tradi-
tion the most gentle
and gentlemanly of
games, breeds more
savage animosity,
perhaps, than any.
English elevens
have been mobbed
on Australian
grounds, and English
critics have likened
the Australian bar-
racker to the beast
that perisheth.
Bowlers are accused
by the partisans of
-the opposing coun-
tries of attempting
to maim batsmen
when they are not
endeavoring to de-
feat them by chi-
canery; and batsmen
are credited with
taking refuge in
every manner of
despicable subter-
fuge. The old spirit
of playing the game
for the game’s sake
—if it ever existed—
has vanished from
international sport,
in which the only
consideration to-day
is to win at all
hazards short of
actual murder.
In the train of
this modem spirit
has come the fiend
of commercialism.
The day has gone
when the athlete
had to work for his
living, doing or
creating something
of use to the nation
at large. Now, if the
money paid for his gladiatorial exhibitions
be not sufficient for his needs, some sinecure
ia found for him by people to whom the
magic of his name is a useful asset—while
that magic lasts. Especially in the Empire
and Dominions has this modern feature of
fP ort . ? rowa to vast Proportions, and no
D°mmion has given itself up more com-
P letely to lts evil mfl ” ences than Australia,
*
Let’s Can a Few Fish.
“Iron Chink”: A few days ago, from
the deck of a S.A. fishing cutter, we watched
a school of salmon drift past. We judged it
to' be big enough to fully load our cutter.
Down in our forepeak was a net capable of
handling a catch like that, but we made
no use of it. There is no market for such
fish! The only way fishermen can dispose
of them is to sail into places like Port
Pirie or Port Adelaide and sell four- or
six-pounders direct to the consumer at a
few pence apiece. For the same reason the
schools of mullet, mulloway and other
similar fish are neglected.
Later I visited an old Swede who has
worked on the Newfoundland Banks, in
the North Sea, and on other fishing grounds.
He opened sample tins—canned in his
own latchen —for me to tiy. I tasted our
own sea-salmon, our South Australian
“Tommy Roughs”—really a true herring—
and whiting and snook. In every case
the article was splendid. I later tried
these same fish kippered and smoked. This
old man has taken his samples to various
wholesale grocers, and they have reported
favorably on them, but he cannot start a
cannery for lack of capital, and he cannot
secure financial backing.
I know that up to the present no Aus-
tralian fish-cannery has been a success.
But I have never heard of one which was
equipped with modern machinery—they
were all little back-yard factories. Would
a fruit cannery or a jam factory pay
under similar conditions?
Was there ever a better opportunity to
start a cannery than the present? We
NO POT-LUCK FOR HIM!
“There has been a strike on the relief work at Maroubra (Sydney) The Salvation Army’s meals for the
hungry in Melbourne have been declared black, the leaders complaining of the lack of variety in the food.”
THE OLD LADY: “I’m tidying up the place; but if you like to step inside and take pot-luck, you’re
welcome to something to eat!”
THE DEADBEAT: “No pot-luck for me, Missus! When you’re ready with three courses and a
toothpick you can ring the blinking bell.”
have, ,Efefven knows! unemployed
men and women of tlie. decent type who
want a job, and wltq* are wilting to do
their .best to keep it. Andrwc!' simply must
cease to import food. Last’, I have spoken
to dozens of experienced fishermen, with
boats and gear, who are both capable o'f
supplying and willing to supply a cannery
with all the fish it needs at a low price—
a penny a pound if necessary. Those of us
who know the waters around Eyre Penin-
sula (S.A.)- have good reason to believe
that they alone could keep the whole of
Australia supplied with canned fish. An
Australian cannery—say, at Port Lincoln
—could be kept going all the year, and iu
establishment would cost far less than that
of the entirely unnecessary steam trawler
which is to be built at Cockatoo Island.
A Lift for Native Timber.
A good lift should be given to the use of
native timbers and to the output of Aus-
tralian sawmills by the new Customs duties.
These embody the recommendations of the
Tariff Board, arrived at after a conference
in which all interests were represented. The
most important change is the arrival of a
prohibitive duty—23s. to 245. per 100 super
feet—on imported baltic floorings, linings
and weatherboards. It is estimated that
this will result in the substitution of an
annual 50 million feet of Australian hard-
woods and 17 million feet of M.L. timber.
The consumers, the board says, will get a
more durable timber at no extra cost, an
extra £700,000 will be earned as wages in
Australia, and the Commonwealth will lose
£502,000 of revenue p.a. In the matter of
Oregon, the board declined to recommend
an embargo, fearing to dislocate the build-
ing trade, but stiffened up the duties on the
smaller sizes of this timber and also on
the smaller sizes of redwood and furniture
timbers, and on box shooks. Substitution
of hardwoods for imported softwoods for
box making is estimated to provide an extra
£66,000 of wages in Australia each year.
The extent to which the Australian timber
industry can be stimulated by protective
measures is a matter of dispute between the
sawmillers and the Government forestry
officers. The sawmillers say they can raise
their present annual output—approximately
500 million feet—to 700 million. The forestry
experts say it can’t be done. The board
estimates an increase in output of 100 mil-
bon The greatest increase is antici-
P a ted m Victoria, with some extra cutting
in •R- Wales and the Speck,
Sawmilling has been a languishing in-
dustry, in the Eastern States, at any rate,
for some years, mostly due to the fact that
Australia has been paying the wages of over-
seas lumberjacks and sawyers instead of
making use of her own timber resources
and her own people. The pressing need of
the moment is to produce more and import
less, and any tariff change that encourages
that tendency deserves a cheer.


Easy Starting For motorists
SINGLE SHELL OIL is specially prepared to meet modern
motoring conditions. Flows freely in cold weather and gives
perfect lubrication under the most arduous running conditions.
For easy Winter starting use Single Shell Oil.
SINGLE SHELL OIL is recommended for the following Cars
during Winter months —
Auburn
Black Hawk
Buick
Cadillac
Chandler
Chevrolet
Chrysler
Cord
De Soto
Dodge
Durant
Erskine
Essex
Falcon Knight
Flying Cloud
Ford (Models
A and T)
Franklin
Gardner
Graham
Paige
Hudson
Jordan
Kissel
La Salle
Lincoln
Locomobile
Marquette
Master (Reo)
Marmon
Moon
Nash
Oakland
Oldsmobile
Overland
Packard
Pierce Arrow
Plymouth '
Pontiac
Rochet
Schneider
Reo
Roosevelt
Rugby
Stearns
Knight
Studebaker
Stutz
Velie
Voisin
Whippet
Wiiiys
Knight
Windsor
Wolverine
Single Shell Oil
for Winter Motoring
51053
POLITICAL
POINTS
Federal Labor has taken to warning the
Senate that there will be a double dissolu-
tion and a premature election if it doesn’t
cease from improving the unspeakable Arbi-
tration Bill, which is the principal grievance.
An election might result in a pro-Scullin
Senate, or an anti-Scullin House of Reps.,
or it might leave both as they are; and
there is little promise either way. If the
electoral shindy brought the old fiscal pro-
fligates and semi-Freetraders back to the
Treasury it would be an unmitigated mis-
fortune.
There are two Scullins. One has done an
extraordinary amount of good work in drag-
ging Australia back from the brink of insol-
vency. The other waves a stupid red flag
at intervals, as in the case of the Arbitra-
tion Bill, it being the custom of his tribe.
The possible loss of Scullin I. before his
fiscal policy has time to fully vindicate itself,
in a shindy provoked because the Senate dis-
likes Scullin 11., is a matter to be avoided, so
there should be no insensate haste about the
double dissolution.
The Hogans have committed themselves
to a Rents Moratorium Bill. With the luke-
warm support of the Rural Progs, the thing
may go through the Assembly, but if it does
it will bo poleaxed in the other place.
In his last days at the Treasury Theodore
shovelled together
a Budget and Scul-
lin adopted it be-
cause he hadn’t
time to do better.
When it was dis-
covered that, the
way our Constitu-
tion is fixed, it
would require nine
separate bills to
drag the sales tax
into existence the
House laughed a
“Bills to the right of him; bills to the
left of him.”
hoarse laugh. Theodore has been reputed a
wizard of finance like the late Joseph Ward
of Maoriland, and each of these whizzy
wizards left a job for his Ward's
successor is already scratching for £3,000,000
to meet his deficit.
In the debate on Theodore’s Income Tax
Assessment Bill Opposition-Leader Latham
said he “viewed the proposals with some
apprehension because the States might begin
to tax incomes derived, not only within their
own boundaries, but in other States.” N. S.
Wales has already begun—the special un-
employment tax is being imposed on income
from other States. The new Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation could begin its career usefully by test-
ing this monstrous departure from the prin-
ciple that the same income should not be
taxed twice, at the same time joining with
the sister societies in demanding that the
sales tax should be accompanied by a re-
duction of income tax, as in Canada.
London papers, the cables say, are dis-
cussing a proposal .that Australian gold
should be shipped to London to swell an
Empire reserve. The scheme was put be-
fore Scullin by Claude de Bernales, who led
the Westralian deputation which sought a
gold bonus. His idea was that the Common-
wealth’s gold reserve might be sent to the
Bank of England and exchanged for British
Government securities, the interest upon
the latter being used as a gold bonus. But
Budget and other worries have prevented
Scullin even looking at the scheme, which
has its attractions.
Tasmania lias only a trifle to spare for the
unemployed and isn’t wasting it on sand-
shifting jobs or the equivalent, after the
absurd N. S. Wales fashion. Farmers are
being asked to put out-of-works on perma-
nent improvements to their holdings, the
consideration being loans at 2\ per cent,
interest. The Agricultural Bank is to see
fair.
Vic. Assembly was not surprised when
Premier Hogan informed it that the deficit
for 1929-30 was just on a million and a
quarter. Up to the third week in June, the
semi-official hints given for publication
showed that a shortage of £BOO,OOO was ex-
pected. Then came
forecasts of a mil-
lion, and finally of
£1,200,000. T h e
railways were re-
sponsible for more
than a million. A
big economy drive is
promised. The
Under-Treasurer, the
Public Service Com-
missioner and the
Railways Accountant
have been asked to
suggest what prun-
ing can be done and
how departmental
revenue can be in-
creased.
Every available
M.11.R. was on hand
when Gullett pro-
posed a 10 p.c. cut
in Parliamentary and
Public Service
salaries, and his
amendment was
routed by 49 to 20.
The Canadian politi-
cians, from whom
ou r £lOOO-a-year
patriots are borrow-
ing the sales tax, set
a different standard.
They get along with
4000 dollars, and
call it not a salary
but a sessional in-
demnity. And the
sessional indemnity
is “subject to deduc-
tions for non-attendance.”
Forbes is pushing up the Maoriland petrol
tax to 7d. a gallon, as in Australia, and
heavily increasing the excise duties on beer
and cigarettes. Primage duty disappears,
but a surtax of 5 per cent, of duty in some
cases and per cent, in others has been
imposed on certain classes of imports; it is
expected that these measures will bring in
another £BOO,OOO. The changes increase the
degree of preference to British manufactures.
Minister Fenton brightly suggests that a
huge slice of the Defence Department’s land
at Liverpool (N.S.W.) should be sold. A
worse time for selling could not be imagined,
especially as the subdivision merchant has
thousands of acres nearer Sydney on his hands.
Moreover the area is unsuitable for factory
sites, being too far from deep water, and
the heavily-scrubbed country in the neigh-
borhood is dotted with abandoned farm-
steads.
The A.W.U. officials played a stupid game
over the new Federal award for shearers.
A large number of men hung round waiting
for instructions whether they should obey
the law or refuse to work. The union
officials also hung round and hung fire.
Meanwhile Reds of one sort and another
pervaded the scene preaching general law-
lessness, and N.S.W. sheepowners considered
ways and means of shearing without the
A.W.U. In the end the A.W.U. executive
returned a verdict that men might obey
THE A.W.U. EXECUTIVE WAY.
“Orders? The orders are to do as you
please.”
the award without being accursed or they
might be grumpy about it and argue the
point. They aren’t told to do one thing or
the other. That kind of leadership leads
nowhere.
No railway boss or Treasurer has yet
proposed an extensive closing of the worst
State railways, but Cleary, of N.S.W.,
was pointing that way when he mentioned
that the Glenreagh-Dorrigo line earns
£lO,OOO in a year and costs £lOO,OOO to
run. Of course a great deal of the loss is
interest, which can’t be saved; still, earn-
ings were falling and expenses, including
the repair bill (which is heavy owing to
the beautiful scenery along the track), were
rising as far back as 1927. If the work
THE MAN IN POSSESSION.
“Mr. Coleman, M.H.K., is still enthroned at Australia House.”
“Bull” RYRIE (to Australia House doctor): “This chap was. a
clerk in the A.I.F. If you could only order him medicine
and duty!”
had been carried through to join up with
the Brisbane-Sydney line at Guyra it might
have. done better, but there is a dread-
fully long stretch of hilly country still to
be covered. Then the stretch (Tamworth-
Wallangarra) on which Guyra stands isn’t
a paying proposition itself, and when the
Sydney-Brisbane traffic is diverted from
it very shortly to feed the coastal route it
is likely to do worse.
A non-co-operation movement has started
in Egypt with a proposal to stop payment
of taxes, the Gyppo being apparently satis-
fied that he can succeed where his Indian
brother has failed many times already. The
only place where non-co-operation has suc-
ceeded is in Hong Kong, but in that case the
whole of China decided not to co-operate
with a small part of itself, held by Britain.
A country going on a general strike to beat
a Government is like the crew of a steamer
pulling the bunghoie out in order to annoy
the captain.
Within a very few years, if N.S.W.
Treasurer Stevens is any authority, the poli-
tical battle in Australia will be between the
bow-and-arrow and the rifle, or between Free-
trade and Protection, which is much the
same thing. According to Stevens, “for any
party to say that we should owe Britain
£700,000,000 and at the same time shut out
her people is nothing but an act of dis-
honesty.” Nobody is such a fool as to say
that we should owe Britain £700,000,000,
and we don’t really owe quite that. And
nobody shuts out British people. Rather
there is considerable effort to keep them shut
in.
Deficit Stevens asserts that Australia’s
share in the world-wide wheat depression is
due to the tariff enacted last November.
Much more probably it and other troubles are
owing to the Sydney Harbor Bridge. Since
the beginning of that expensive structure the
price of everything this* country has to ex-
port, including copper, lead, silver, wheat
and wool, has gone down, and the nearer the
bridge gets to completion the lower they go.
Even our overseas credit has stopped, which
never happened in pre-bridge days. Or it
may be the Spit Bridge. Things were boom-
ing till that was built.
In the hunt for more revenue in Vic. it
is suggested that State high-school fees, now
£6 a year, should be raised, the contention
being that people able to keep boys and
girls at high schools these times are in a
position to pay more. When Irvine was
Premier in 1903 he proposed to charge a
weekly fee to senior pupils at ordinary State
schools. A powerful speech by Theodore
Fink, then member for Jolimont, delivered
in the Assembly between midnight and
dawn, smashed the scheme.
The Canadian Protectionists, led by R. B.
Bennett, a lawyer from Calgary, are back
in power with a solid majority, the Liberal
Government having gone down at the general
election, losing six Ministers. Bennett
served in the Borden and Meighen Govern-
ments and was Director-General of National
Service during the war. Remembering this,
the Quebec “Presse,” which claims the
largest circulation in Canada, came out
with a full-page article alleging that Bennett
would conscribe French-Canadians for ser-
vice in Egypt and India ; the Protectionists
nevertheless captured 20 seats in Quebec.
The scare and the sequel are rather sugges-
tive of “the big march on Sydney” (a Labor
paper’s description) of a few misguided
citizens as a protest against “the murder of
Indian workers,” “Imperialist attacks on
Russia” and other horrible outrages. On
arrival they were run in for obstructin' the
futpath.
Labor-member Yates told the House the
other day that the debt due to Australian
bondholders is £600,000,000, that the interest
is £33,000,000 and that a tax of 10 per cent,
on the said interest, which he highly recom-
mended, would pay off the deficit and render
the sales tax and the primage duties super-
fluous. Yates’s figures were wrong, as usual;
10 per cent, deducted from interest would
yield about £2,800,000 a year, which would
be a few shillings in the £ towards paying
the deficit and replacing the imposts men-
tioned. Interest is taxed already under the
Federal income-tax law, except in the case of
people who are too poor to be liable ; but this
fax hasn’t the smell which would attach to a
confiscation of 2s. in the £, and that to the
Y’ates push is like the odor of mouse to a
cat. A person would pay a sales- or any
other tax as an ordinary matter, but to have
the same sum deducted from the interest on
his Federal bonds wouldn’t be an ordinary
matter. It would be an intimation that the
Commonwealth assumes the right to vary its
bargain and to deduct 2s. or 12s. in the £
at will. In fact, it would start the smash
which the Yateses, wallowing in £IQOO per
annum, seem to crave for.
When Vic. Assembly resumed for the
second part of the session, the Labor Minis-
try was no worse, if no better, off than in
December. Nothing has come of the pro-
posal for the amalgamation of the Cockies
and the country Nats., though the Cockies
and the Rural Progs, are to have a cor-
roboree on August 20. If all the non-Labor
country members combined and the six city
Nats, supported them on a censure motion,
and Forrest and Gray, the two metropolitan
Libs., sided with Labor, there would be a
tie, 32 each, and the Nationalist Speaker
would have to give a casting vote. But there
will be no tie on any straight-out challenge
to the Hogans.
The Westralian secessionists are reported
to have had an audience of 2500 when they
held forth in Perth the other night. Possibly
a, lot of the 2500 went along thinking it
was a send-off to Lovekin, M.L.C., the leader
of the band. Lovekin sold his paper, the
“Daily News,” to the eastern octopus. Can-
berra, as well as Perth, is chuckling over
Seceding.
the story that he invested the proceeds, or
part of them, in British securities, and that
when the interest on these was threatened
under the Scullidores’ new Income-tax
Assessment Bill, he said he would leave the
blessed Commonwealth if the measure went
through—secede, in short.
McGrath, the Chairman of Committees,
gleefully suggested in the House the other
day that the newsprint tax would cost “the
Baillieu group of newspaper proprietors”
£130,000 a year, and apparently it was only
by a great effort that he restrained himself
from adding “Good enough for the cows!”
This is not the spirit in which taxation
should be imposed, and even a McGrath
might be expected to give some thought to
the possible effects on prices and employ-
ment.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Piecrust”: The couple in the next flat
seemed to be drifting apart, and as the walls
were thin we couldn’t help hearing of her
grievances. One evening he took her out
to dinner, and the dialogue when they
AS YOU LIKE IT.
PHOEHE ( examining ultra-modernistic effort): “Goodness, whatever is it supposed to
be—or can you please yourself?”
returned suggested that the entertainment
hadn’t been a success. “That miserable little
joint!” the feminine voice began. “I wonder
you’re not ashamed to take me there, When
I first met you you used to take me to places
where there was decent music. You know I
like a good orchestra. Even on the honey-
moon you remembered it.” “Well,” came the
snarled reply, “things are different now. You
can’t have' a brass band everywhere you
go.” “Can’t I?” came the retort. “I’ve got
one now—on me finger.” There was a long
silence after that.
* * *
“Adelaide” • A prisoner at the “Stockade”
gaol outside Adelaide is out of luck. John
Entwistle who got a technical life-sentence
last year for robbing a bank under arms, was
said at the time to have the finger-prints of
Sydney Day, who escaped from the police
in Sydney in 1914. His Adelaide crime was
a sticking-up case, with threats and a shot-
gun, but without actual violence; and last
week it was reduced to eight years. . That
very day, before he could hear the remission,
he was found on top of the 18ft. gaol wall,
making what proved to be a hopeless attempt
to escape. Still, it may be safer for him
inside. Of four men who got away by the
same route a few days before, two were
shot dead in the pursuit.
* * * *
“Smilax”: There was quite a nice little
collection of “German war souvenirs” out-
side the theatre where they were showing
“All’s Quiet.” The rusty guns and the bullet-
riddled sandbags were full of memories for
me; I never doubted that they were the
real thing until I turned one of the bags over
and found it stamped “Queensland Brick-
works, Ltd. !”
* * * *
“X.N.0.”: The calendar (B. 23/7/’3O)
isn’t nearly as untidy, as our idiotic and
confusing method of divid-
ing the day into two sets
of 12 hours, each of which
must have a distinguish-
ing affix. Think of the
printer’s ink wasted an-
nually in the British
Empire in printing “a.m.”
and “p.m.” and the space
occupied by those letters
in railway and tramway
time-tables and other pub-
lications. The Navy,
where absence of doubt in
the matter of time is a
matter of vital import-
ance, adopted the 24-liour
calendar years before the
war and finds it flawless.
“Annual”: The Stork paid a visit to a
young married couple during 1928. They
collected the baby bonus, but, being well-to-
do, decided to post a £5 cheque to the local
hospital. Last year their name again
figured in the birth notices, and the bonus
went the same way. This year they received
a letter from the hospital secretary with a
reminder that their annual subscription was
now due.
* * * *
“Bay Boo’.’: I am indebted to a friend in
Burma for the following cutting from the
cable page of the “Rangoon Times”
(18/6/’3O) dealing with the first Test match :
A DRAMATIC DAY.
Nottingham, 17th June. —After a final day crowded
with dramatic incidents the chief of which was the
bombshell dropped on the England team in the morn-
ing which robbed them of a barb of their spear of
attack, Australia though the net was always gradu-
ally closing around them were eventually brought
like a mighty fish to England’s landing net. It was
not without many valiant bids for freedom that the
Australians weakened and turned on their side.
Even when the shadow of the net hovered over them
they showed their teeth like a noble quarry brought
to its death but knowing that in death it had earned
glory.— Reuter.
Reuter has a lot to answer for, but to debit
the service with this delectable mixture
seems over the odds.
* * :J:
“Gouger”: The bravest. man I knew in
the war was a little weed of a chap who
fought his native cowardice determinedly for
three years and never let it get the better
of him. On Gallipoli the broomstick bombs
were his especial horror. All day lie was a
bundle of nerves, waiting tremulously for the
night to come. By, sundown he was abject,
but he would stick to his post all through
the night. In the desert fighting and in
Palestine the bursts of shrapnel sent him
nearly imbecile. I have seen him livid,
crouching under the belly of his horse while
the regiment was awaiting the order to go
into action. He would lose all control of
his physical movements except that he
never once ran away. Long after he had
proved that he was no> malingerer, the
squadron-leader tried to persuade him to
accept a job back at the base, but he reso-
lutely refused. He lived through three years
of war without a scratch—and I wonder
how many deaths lie died!
“Ike Hollar”: The Italian cardinal who
attributed the recent earthquake to the wrath
of God occasioned by the immodest dressing
of women has naturally been asked to ex-
plain how it was that the catastrophe did
little damage in Naples, where many women
do have the idea that dressing is the art of
doing without clothes, while its most devas-
tating effects were felt in the little villages
where the old, modest styles of clobber have
always prevailed. Which recalls that in
Sydney a big fire of years ago was ascribed
by a parson to the employees of the firm
having held a picnic on the Sabbath. The
PROGRESS REPORT.
MRS. PETERSHAM: “How’s your new cook doing?”
MRS. ROSEVILLES: “Oh, much better! She was able to sit up and give notice this morning.”
employers were too busy collecting insur-
ance mtmey and preparing for the salvage
sales to take any notice; the people who
complained were the parents of the sole
victim of the catastrophe, he having been a
Sunday-school teacher who, on conscientious
grounds, had refused to attend the picnic.
* * * *
“E.S.R.”: An up-country Vic. publican is
kicking himself hard and wondering if he
will ever get the chance to kick another
person harder. It was race day, and Bung
was running a refreshment booth. Overnight
a man who occasionally stays at the hotel
had asked him to put £2O in the safe for
him. After the third race the depositor
rushed up to the booth waving an urgent
telegram, which demanded his immediate
return to Melbourne. H'e asked for his £2O,
to save him returning to the town. Bung
obliged, and the wily one motored back to
town and repeated the story to Mrs. 8., who
proved equally obliging.
* * # *
“Oxmead” : What’s become of Spahlinger?
For months, or rather years, I haven’t seen
a single mention of the name of the doctor
in whom were once centred such hopes, for
whom such claims
were advanced and
contested, around
whom there beat such
storms of controversy.
There was a time when
those who doubted
whether he had really
discovered a cure for
tuberculosis or couldn’t
understand why, if he
had, he should be re-
luctant to take the
ipedical profession
into his confidence,
were told that he
wouldn’t be rushed,
that he had spent all
his private resources
on his experiments and
needed more, that
there were 50 other
reasons for his uncom-
municativeness. Even
the medical sceptics,
and there were plenty
of them, while con-
demning- Spahlinger’s
unaccommodating atti-
tude to Governments
and their representa-
tives, didn’t always
suggest that he was a charlatan.
But the wait has gone on so long
that if Spahlinger has any cham-
pions left they say nothing about it.
* * *
“XiS.”: A man who had been
unemployed for a long time re-
appeared at his old place at the
bench in a tool factory in Mel-
bourne Presuming he had been re-
engaged, his neighbor thought noth-
ing of it when he asked for some
cyanide, that substance being much used in
one of the processes of manufacture. An
hour later he was found dead with the pot
of poison beside him.
* . $ * *
“Dr. Nil” : When I was at Sinka Pint in
the good old cliain-lightning days, chaps
used to come in from out back after a six-
month's’ perish and start with six whiskies.
Occasionally this brought on an attack of
alcoholic hysteria, in which condition even
small mild men accomplished herculean feats.
Sergeant O’Reilly called me in to deal with
one who was playing with a bagatelle table
like a kitten with a ball of worsted. When
he wasn’t pulling it about by one leg, he was
lying on his back, weeping for his mother.
After a party of his station mates had
groaned in chorus that “Pore Bill would
throw a seven if that crimson doctor didn’t
get a move on and do something,” I adminis-
tered a special cure of my own —never known
to fail. This consisted of a stable-bucket of
cold water poured over the invalid’s head
from a height in a single dose. Pore Bill
gave one deep gasp and sat up—and his
language made the barmaid blush. Then the
biggest of his friends yelled, “Now the
blankard has killed ’im!” and they all came
for me. But they didn’t get me; I was
pretty quick on my feet in those days.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: I don’t know liow an Eng-
lishman in Java succeeded (B. 30/7/’3O) in
converting a request to have his breakfast
served in his room into a demand to have
his throat cut, but I remember an Englishman
in Borneo who regularly asked for “sundals”
(easy ladies) when lie meant “sambals”
( spices for his curry). The average native
servant makes full allowance for the lin-
guistic incapacity of the Britisher, and
between man and master a special dialect
often grows up which is quite unintelligible
to an outsider. The telegraph mess at Cocos
Island had a few years ago, and still may
have, an Anglo-Malay patois created by the
simple process of substituting for the Malay
word its nearest euphemistic equivalent in
English. Thus arnpat (four) became arm-
pit. For a student of Malay to hear a fluent
speaker of this language conversing with a
Cocos Islander was a staggering experience.
* * * *
“Medico”: Medically speaking, there is
nothing wrong with the statement that hair
can go white after shock. It is an accepted
cliniearfact, attributed to the instantaneous
death of the hair roots. Moreover, it has
been established that shock has caused bald-
ness. Amongst other things that it can
cause are (1) vomiting, (2) unconscious-
ness, (3) diabetes, (4) mental trouble, and
(5) temporary and deaf-
ness.
* * * *
“Max F.”: I was at one of Hugh D.
Mclntosh’s Brpome Park house-parties—a
festive hotch-potch of peers, peeresses, movie
stars, generals, writers, M’s.P., dancers
and sundries. Shortly afterwards I
met one of Lord Beauchamp’s kinswomen.
She was large, elderly, beautiful, gentle,
benign, friendly, unaffected —the complete
aristocrat. She asked where I had spent
the week-end, and I said at Broome.
This interested her greatly. (Kitchener had
been an intimate friend and regular corres-
pondent) and she asked how it was being
kept up. I said splendidly, and gave some
details. Later, she sought me out, and
said: “I can’t tell you how glad I was to
have met you and heard your news about
Broome. It is the greatest comfort, to me to
know that Lord Kitchener is looking down
from Heaven, and seeing the place he loved
so much kept up by your friend Mr.
Mclntosh in the manner you hate de-
scribed.” To get the full savor of this re-
mark it is necessary to have lived through
one of H.D.M.’s week-ends, but in any case
I' always recall it as about the most engag-
ing thing I ever heard a woman say.
* * * *
“Runa” : My landlady arrived home in a
state of great satisfaction. “Stamps,” she
said, “are going up to tuppence, so I’ve
bought a pound’s worth at the old price.”
She strongly advised me to do likewise before
the rise, and sniffed contemptuously when
I said I’d think it over.
“Kerys”: The American case in which
two infants born in the same maternity home
are said to have been handed lately to the
wrong parents had a parallel in Maoriland.
A young woman with a week-old baby de-
veloped pneumonia, and when sufficiently
recovered to take an interest in her infant
again she questioned its identity. All the
assurances of the matron and nurses that
the child was her own did not still her
doubts, and as several babies had been taken
out of the institution during her illness she
was convinced that someone had gone off
with her small son and left the wrong one
behind. With the powers against her she
resigned herself to the inevitable and took
the baby home. But when the youngster grew
an amazing crop of bright red hair, some-
thing unknown on both sides of the house,
her doubts grew to certainty, particularly as
Ginger developed unexpected traits all through
his schooldays. The couple brought him up
as their own, and as he was a brainy and
likeable youth they had nothing to regret
but the lingering uncertainty that always
oppressed them when they looked at his hair.
“Near-side” : It was a crisp, frosty night
at Warra (Q.) when a friend and I went
for a two-mile walk across the paddocks to
hear a neighbor’s wireless. Half-way across
my friend climbed up on the top of a strainer
to shout out a message to a house a quarter
of a mile away. On arrival at our wireless
friend’s we found that the performance
proper had not yet started, but, trying to
tune into Melbourne, he had picked up the
shout from the strainer-post a mile away,
and had then listened-in to our conversation
till we reached his doorstep. I’d never heard
of the wireless as an eavesdropper before.
THE CHEESE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Witness; ‘He said he bought some cigarettes for
“Counsel: ‘What do you mean by a cheese?’
“Witness: ‘A .cheese is a woman.’ ”
Poets have ransacked earth, and eke the
waters
Beneath it and the azure skies above,
For similes to shoot at Beauty’s daughters
In lines that pulse with pash and pant
with love;
She was their star of stars, their rose of
roses,
Their pearl of pearls, their —anything you
please!
Now, brother bards, another field discloses
Its treasures for the Lovelace who composes.
Come, sing her as your cheese.
One used to hear of bread-and-butter misses,
And some connection now I seem to touch
Between** the old-time bread-and-cheese-and-
kisses
And musical Chevalier’s “Old Dutch.”
No matter! But I’ll say there’s something
human
And homely in analogies like these:
It doesn’t take too mighty much acumen
To recognise a cheese may be a woman,
A woman be a cheese.
Chant her, my lads, who once were wont to
lilt on
Lilies or violets to match your fair,
As something special in the way of Stilton,
Or Parmesan, or fragrant Camembert.
You may have wooed and won, or loved and
lost her,
Yet there are sonnets still, one guarantees,
Unwrit, in which a lover might ,accost her
In glowing terms to suit a double Glo’ster
Or good old Cheshire cheese.
Come live with me —I seem to hear him
troll a
Stave, the impassioned troubadour ahead—
And be my one and only Gorgonzola,
My slice of Gruyere or my slab of Ched.
Step up, Miladi, all the ages hcired to,
Alike ’neath days that flame and nights
that freeze,
Few vows your eyebrows haven’t been de-
clared to, .
A*nd little waits for you to be compared to,
But will you be my cheese? «
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Pawane”: The establishment of world
air services is going to complicate quarantine
regulations. Yellow fever, for instance, takes
24 hours to five days to incubate, and the
patient is infective for three days after the
appearance of the disease. It is endemic in
tropical Africa and America, and the time
will come when those countries and the Dutch
East Indies and tropical Australia will be
less than five days away. The mosquito
which conveys yellow fever is prevalent in
Australia.
“S.T.S.”: A lawsuit possibly unique is
that of an Adelaide dairyman whose house
had been burgled. He brought an action
against the convicted culprit, for “money
received by defendant for plaintiff’s use. ’
The prisoner complained that he didn’t know
what it all meant, so a kindly s.m. explained
that it was “just the lawyer’s way of being
polite, instead of saying, ‘You stole it.’ ”
Verdict for the amount claimed.
* # * *
“Hello”: In Victoria and Adelaide the
other day would-be speakers on the telephone
trunk line were maddened beyond the ordi-
nary by persistent interruptions and breaks.
Everything was blamed, from the Telephone
Department to statics, until the cause was
discovered in a white cockatoo which had
gone a.Av.l. with his chain hanging from his
leg. With the bird perched on the telephone
wires, the chain tangled up the transmis-
sions, while it frustrated all his attempts
to free himself. In the end Cocky was
rescued and communication restored; the
linesmen who did the job say it was a
blessing that the infuriated fowl’s comment
on his predicament was not audible in the
receivers at either end.
* * * s':
“Huffin-Guffin”: The discussion on “We
Doctors Are Fed Up,” reminds me of the
way an old medico of my acquaintance put
it. “I rather like an evening at the movies
now and then,” he said, “but it spoils my
pleasure when I see so many people there
who have told me they can’t afford to pay
me any of the money they owe me.
* * *
“Lao-dah”: The Bernard Cronin School
of Short-story Writing has just been launched
in Melbourne. The author of nine successful
novels and of one of The Bulletin’s most
notable serials should be peculiarly fitted
to impart the secrets of his craft to pupils.
Cronin’s enterprise has moved me to found
the “Lao : dah School of Smoke-room Story-
telling,” for which I feel there is an equal
need. The course comprises six lessons,
including How to Begin a Story; How Not
to Forgot the Ending; How to Laugh Natur-
ally and Change the Subject when some
more or less Rabelaisian anecdote falls flat
owing to the mhn in the check suit turning
out to be a curate in disguise instead of a
bookmaker or a commercial traveller. In
view of the fact that practically every man
of my acquaintance, from professors down-
BETTER THE DEVIL YOU KNOW.
“This is frightful kai-kai, Kareni—I can’t eat it.”
“No matter, dear. Sinabada gave me some good-o redyes for making up left-overs.”
“No, no! Not that, Kareni — I’ll eat it now.”
wards, tries to tell me a risky story at
one time or another, I expect to have an
avalanche of pupils. If possible, the work
of the best students will be broadcast from
•3LO at the annual break-up.
* * * *
“Elgar” : The whole machinery of the law
is being invoked to suppress one Millane, a
citizen of Ivanhoe (Vic.). Half a dozen years
ago Millane started building a residence out
of kerosene-tins filled with concrete. The
Heidelberg council oi’dered him to desist, and,
when he didn’t, demolished the alleged eye-
sore, and thereby created Australia’s cham-
pion litigant. Since 1924 he has heaved over
200 summonses, processes, affidavits, etc., on
the Heidelberg council, its officers, individual
councillors, a Minister of the Crown, a Gaud
Mayor of Melbourne and a number of other
persons—all ineffectively. Millane is his
own lawyer and seems to enjoy it, but Heidel-
berg council has grown tired of being shot
at, and has applied to the Attorney-General
for a legal process to debar the litigious gentle-
man from going to law except by leave of a
Supreme Court Judge. Millane has taken
a long breath and is getting ready to argue
the point.
$ * * *
“Chevroford”: Last half-year 779 cars
were stolen in Victoria. The most success-
ful thief is one who purloins his vehicles in
Essendon. It is always a sedan and the
time is always Saturday night. The theft
has been repeated regularly for months.
* * * ' *
“Dr. J.”: Slipshod English is heard from
the most unexpected quarters, and you can’t
always blame the films. At Sydney Quarter
Sesions recently I experienced an outsize
in shocks when the presiding Judge told a
jui'y recommending a convicted man to
mercy to “hold on a bit” until the prisoner’s
previous record was read. Had the lapse
come from the lips of a High Court Judge,
or even from the Lord High Chancellor of
England, I might have condoned it. But
the slangy colloquialism came from Judge
Curlewis, of all persons!
* * * *
“X.N.0.”: I doubt if there is anything in
“Shep’s” theory that the soldiers’ tin hats
necessarily led to baldness. I have a brother
who wore a tin hat for as long as anyone
else can ever have done,
and that without losing
a hair. I myself wore a
naval-officer’s cap—re-
putedly a notorious hair
eliminator —for 18 years,
and my thatch remains
as luxuriant as ever.
None of our family ever
goes bald, which sug-
gests that the infliction
is mostly a matter of
heredity. The Diggers
who lost their hair
would probably have
done so in any case; the
tin hat may have merely hastened the process.
* # * *
“Cato”: The censored bookseller some-
times gets a bit of his own back. An enter-
prising Queenslander advertised a book
which every girl over 16 should possess;
price, in sealed packet, 10s. When the police
hurst through the crush of purchasers and
arrested the sinner and his stock, there was
very little of the latter left; however, it was
carted along as evidence. Sealed packets
were opened and found to contain Bibles.
Case dismissed.
❖ ❖ *Js
“Nallau”: The most amazing sign I ever
saw over a barber’s shop—a hessian one in
this case —was “Hair cut while you wait.”
Maltese Charley, who had some tonsorial ex-
perience, decided that there was scope for a
razor and scissors at Paynesville (W.A.),
and, his own English being indifferent, went
round the leases and the dry-blowing patches
appealing for what would nowadays be
called a slogan. It was an English public-
school man, son of a long-ago M.L. Premier,
who finally supplied him with what he
wanted, and Charley lost no time in getting
it emblazoned on a strip of canvas. The
notice had an element of truth in it, I
suppose, but it soon began to occasion so
much sarcastic comment among waiting cus-
tomers that the barber finally took it down
and burned it. And he never could be
convinced that the humorist hadn’t played
rather a shabby trick on an over-trustful
foreigner.
* * . * *
“Fleet-street” : Australia House—the most
conspicuous building, apart from churches,
between the West End and the City—is
worth a fortune to the Commonwealth as
an advertisement, but its two most import-
ant features are entirely wasted. The
cinema hall presents the world’s rottenest
pictures, and it is open only between 11 a.m.
and 5 p.m. anyhow. If I were “Bull” Eyrie
I would offer the hall to a movie magnate
(with the theatres of the Strand, Kings-
w r ay, Aldwych and Drury-lane wfithin a few
hundred yards it is in the heart of Show T -
land), and only stipulate that he should put
on a Fox Movietone Australian Gazette, and
perhaps other Australian pictures, at every
session. The other big hall is used only for
lunches and an occasional ball. I would
like to see General Sir William Furse (the
man w T ho brought the old Colonial Institute
to life as a show-place a few years ago)
commissioned to turn it into a compact advt.
of the Commonwealth’s main products. There
are more people with money and at a loose
LUNCH IDEAL.
"Listen, Sylvia. On Tuesday I'm having
lunch with a poet. Would you like to
have something to cat with me after-
wards?”
end in the Strand than in any other part of
London I know, and thousands would be
tempted to learn about Australia at the
kind of exhibition suggested.
* * * =:•-
“Ibn el Issar”: The periodical agitation
for the abolition of the veil has broken out
again among a section of Moslem women,
this time in Jerusalem. Why, it is hard
to see, since the great majority of them go
unveiled as it is, and that without counting
the Turkish ladies who bared their faces to
the world yeai’s ago. No Bedouin woman
is veiled, and the same holds good of millions
of others, in Afghanistan, Persia, India and
Central Africa. And in any case it is
hardly necessary from the point of view of
feminine freedom. The Moslem is notoriously
under the thumb of his womankind from
birth to death, just as the Kaffir woman was
boss ages before she clamored for the fran-
chise and got it.
* * * *
In Maoriland the bookmaker is outside
the pale of the law. But as the tote eschews
doubles and fails to
meet other require-
ment of punters, many
operators make re-
spectable fortunes by
supplementing its defi-
ciencies, and their
identity is known to
everyone. The head of
the M.L. Taxation De-
partment created a
mild flutter the other
day by stating that the
big bookies were about
the honestest chaps
he had to deal with.
He had overhauled
their bank accounts in
a score of instances
and found they usually
overstated the profits
that could be proved
against them. The fact
that they are bookies,
of course, can’t be es-
tablished, for every
one has a perfectly
legal business —his
brass plate says he is
a “commission agent”
or “estate agent”—and
his ledgers, though
they are works of fic-
tion, tally with his tak-
ings. Money-lending is
a favorite cloak, and
that’s a cul-de-sac for
the police, because
everyone of the debtors
shown on the books is
probably an agent for
the bookie (as a side-
line to an above-board
occupation) and will swear to anything.
*.# * *
“C.Q.”: An Air Force motor-truck occa-
sionally stands inconspicuously in front _ of
headquarters in Melbourne, passers-by being
unaware that officers in the cabin are con-
versing amidst the roar of traffic with bomb-
ing ’planes somewhere out of sight beyond
the metropolis. The pilots speak either with
the microphone strapped to the throat or
with a rubber cap covering their mouths, to
exclude the roar of the engines.
* * * *
“Cafeteer”: Melbourne has had some
famous cafes and restauraunts that have
vanished as completely as Sydney’s (B.
16/7/’3O). The first French dining-room
was opened by Noel Lacaton opposite the
Melbourne Hospital in Lonsdale-street,
where such celebrities as Marcus Clarke,
Garnet Walch, Arthur Patehett Martin,
Julian Thomas (“The Vagabond”), J. L.
P.urves and a host of others would partake
of a midday ordinary costing Is. 3d. Laca-
ton moved down Lonsdale-street to the
Maison Doree about 1886. Then Halasy
and Denat opened a palatial Parisian cafe
near the old “Argus” office, and there Mel-
bourne learnt how’ to dine gracefully and
use finger-bowls. A little before that J. F.
Gunsler opened the old Vienna Cafe on the
Block, and Gunsler has never had a peer
as a restaurateur. Then there w T as Matoo-
rekos’s Grecian Cafe, the home of all the
dead-and-gone sporting writers of the period;
.Tack Heard's famous fish and oyster saloon
in Swanston-street; Calyx Denet’s delight-
ful Bohemian restaurant, first in Little
Collins-street and afterwards in Exhibition-
street; Ernest Morin's estuminet; the Cafe
Florence, and the Cafe Bella. All these
are gone, and only Hotel Fasoli, the oldest
of them all, remains.
* * # *
“M. de Paris”: The cabled account of, a
murderer in France fighting savagely from
his cell to the waiting guillotine revives the
old question whether the French or British
way of arranging these matters is the better.
The Briton gives the condemned man notice
of the date and hour when he is to go off, and
leaves him to his reflections. In France the
convict is awakened one morning by an
official with the formula “Mon ami, prenez
courage"; two minutes later he has “married
the widow.” I have never been able to decide
which method I’d prefer; the agonised count-
ing of day by day and hour by hour as the
appointed time draws near, or the ever-
present dread when lying down to sleep that
the coming dawn will be hopeless indeed.
“Stellsby”: There is a waiting list of
more than 300 public-school boys eager for
®an opening in the savings bank, and the plead-
ing of some of the parents for a start for
their boys is almost heart-breaking. A State
schoolboy generally leaves school round about
14 or 15, and even if he is not- apprenticed
to a trade he can afford a year or so to be
suitably placed. But the public-school youth
is often kept at school until he is 17 or
more, and if he does not go on to the Uni. it
is hard for him to find employment in the
open market straight away,
* * :!: *
“Janus”: I wonder how many place-names
there are in Australia that make the same
word whether spelled forward or backwards.
Glenelg is, of course, the best known and the
trickiest, too, in that its peculiar composition
isn’t realised at first glance. Tumut had
attention called to it when it was in the run-
ning for the Federal capital; indeed, some
of its partisans seemed to consider this an
additional reason why it should be selected.
There is a Nallan in Westralia, or was, but
ir is doubtful if many people ever heard of it.
:j: $ *
“Sucre”: In a Sydney outer suburb there
is a house named “The Result.” I tried to
puzzle the thing out, but, baffled, asked the
owner’s help. “I call it ‘The Result,’ ” he
said, “because it’s all I gutter show for 40
years’ blanky hard work.”
j # # Jfc
“2nd Divvy” : If another war came, and
I wanted to keep an eligible from going, I
would draw his attention to the post-war
careers (1) of those who served with dis-
tinction in the last, war, and (2) of
those who, though apparently fit, stayed
at home. In the first class are a
number of Parliamentarians, all more
or less obscure; some fairly prominent
business men (and a number of prominent
bankrupts) ; a few moderately successful
professional men (and. some prominent bank-
rupts) and a heterogeneous collection of
failures and semi-failures in other walks of
life. The chiefs of the present Federal
Ministry were of an age to fight in 1914,
and didn’t; and it is much the same with
every other State Ministry, Nationalist or
Labor'. Most of the younger leaders of the
N. S. Wales Bar, too, might have served but
refrained. My theory is that in nine cases out
of ten the very impulses which send a man
to a war are ruinous to him in peace. The
race, these days, is not to the strong but
to the wary, and the right outlook is only
to be acquired on home fronts, on transport
service, and in far-back areas. It is an
offence to state this truism while a war is
on, but if stressed in peace-time it would be
more useful as propaganda than all the anti-
war books and plays that were ever written.
A RONDEAU OF SKIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“My skirt is coming down!” she cried,
With sudden hands clasped to her side
In search of lieok or button row.
This happened twenty years ago,
When, sometimes narrow, sometimes wide,
Skirt length and weight were not denied.
To womenkind, well laced and tied,
A trifling shift brought cries of woe:
“My skirt is coming down!”
Fashion and youth ne’er long abide;
To-day she notes a modiste’s guide
Decrees skirts ’neath the knee must flow.
She says, “Let flappers feel the blow
And fight it with their boyish stride;
My skirt is coming down!”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


Business, Robbery, etc.
The Power Alcohol Industry.
The alcohol for Queensland’s alcohol-
petrol fuel, Shellkol, is made by the Aus-
tralian National Power Alcohol Co., at
Sarina (N.Q.). Formed in 1926, this co.
was originally the Plane Creek, its share
capital being contributed by British and'
Australian interests 50-50. Shortly after
incorporation, however, various far-northern
sugar-mill cos. were invited in and the infant
re-christened. Principal object was the
manufacture of alcohol for power purposes,
utilising the residual waste molasses from
the sugar mills.
Germany was the first country to explore
the possibilities of alcohol as a fuel, and it
was found that specially constructed high
compression engines could work satisfactorily
upon neat alcohol. But certain characteris-
tics of neat alcohol prevented its use in the
ordinary petrol engine except when mixed
with petrol or ether or benzol.
The use of alcohol as a constituent for
motor fuel had developed extensively during
the war, notably in Germany and in France.
In S. Africa, too, an alcohol-ether fuel
known as Natalite was marketed with suc-
cess.
In due course the co. erected a modern
distillery at Sarina, having a capacity of
one million gallons of alcohol per annum.
Production commenced early in 1928, and
forthwith an alcohol-ether-petrol fuel was
placed on the market having the same char-
acteristics as its S. African prototype. Just
as the co. was about to launch an intensive
sales campaign throughout Queensland, an
event took place in France which was to
alter all preconceived ideas on the subject of
alcohol fuels; also it was to render obsolete
quite a considerable part of the Sarina
plant. Previously it had not been possible to
make alcohol of a strength greater than
96 per cent.—commercially possible, that is;
the remaining 4 per cent, was water. This
4 per cent, of water had always been the
nigger in the woodpile as far as alcohol
fuels were concerned, because when alcohol
formed an admixture to petrol it tended to
separate into two layers. The only way
this trouble could be obviated was by the
addition of chemicals which acted as
“binders,” and were sometimes impracticable
and costly. Now came word from France
that a new process had been invented whereby
it was possible to manufacture alcohol abso-
lutely water-free, and consequently permit-
ting the blending of alcohol with petrol in
any proportions. The co. acted with decision,
and within six months the new process was
installed at Sarina, and thus the little sugar
town can boast of having one of the most
up-to-date distilleries of its kind in the world.
Meanwhile, as the result of negotiations
with the Shell Company of Australia, both
cos. agreed to blend a mixture of alcohol and
petrol, to be known as Shellkol. After
exhaustive tests it was decided between them
that a mixture of 85 per cent, petrol and
15 per cent, alcohol resulted in a perfectly
balanced fuel, having all the advantages of
each component and none of its disadvan-
tages.
Shellkol was introduced to the Queensland
public in February, 1929, and to-day there
is hardly a town in Queensland where it is
not on sale. The Shell Co. looks after the
marketing end, which accounts for the rapid
extension of the selling field, and sales last
year were sufficient to keep the Sarina
distillery working at its maximum output
for five months. Plans are already drawn up
for another distillery in the Cairns district,
which will be erected when the present plant
is working to full capacity.
The Sale of C.O.R. Spirit.
One of the reasons why Australian pro-
ducts don’t sell themselves is that distinc-
tive trade-names are not adopted for the
same goods all over Australia. Thus a make
of boots sold under one name in Victoria,
and probably well and favorably known
there, _is not available under the same
name in N. S. Wales. Hence the Victorian
settling in N. S. Wales finds himself unable
to get the goods to which he has been
accustomed, and takes another line—probably
another manufacturer’s; sometimes even a
foreign make.
.No doubt there was some excuse for
this in certain cases. Big retailers wanted
to advertise themselves and not the Aus-
tralian manufacturer; often they wanted to
be _ able to sell the Australian goods as
British, American or French, whichever the
customer preferred. So the goods were simply
branded “Made expressly for Boffkins,” or
whatever the retailer’s name was. Some-
times the law professed to forbid this. In
that event —as happened the other day—the
tricky trader saw that the place-of-origin
label was made detachable. But for the
Commonwealth Oil Refinery, in which Aus-
tralia has over a third of a million of
money invested, to adopt this policy of hav-
ing a different brand for the same product
in different States is merely stupid and evi-
dence either of rotten management or worse.
The motorist who fills up with C.O.R. “juice”
in Victoria and is satisfied with it asks for
the same goods in N. S. Wales, only to find
that that brand isn’t known. However, he
digs out another C.O.R. brand, which may
or may not be as satisfactory. If he finds
one to suit him he probably asks for it in
Queensland, only to find that it isn’t known
there ! If the object is to prevent C.O.R.
petrol ever becoming well' known in Aus-
tralia, the policy is serving the purpose
admirably; but in that case it might be
■worth while finding out who was responsible
for »the policy.
If the A.M.P., the greatest of Empire
mutual-life insurance offices, had decided to
be known in different States by six or more
different names, would it have been the vast
institution it is to-day? And would so much
of its business come to it without an effort?
The Queensland Sugar Industry.
Many times during the past 18 months
The Buixetin has warned Queensland that
there was increasing dissatisfaction in all
the Southern States with the existing agree-
ment between the Commonwealth and the
Government of Queensland, which expires
next year. Under that agreement the Com-
monwealth places an embargo on the importa-
tion of sugar from foreign countries, and
fixes a wholesale price (about £27 per ton)
for local consumption, with certain reduc-
tions to jam- and confectionery-makers, etc.,
and the Queensland industry stands the
losses on the export surplus. The export
surplus, as much as 31 per cent, of the entire
crop, is sold at a heavy loss; hence the
larger the surplus the higher the fixed price
has to be in order to give those engaged in
the industry what they regard as an
adequate return.
In the Southern States there is a wide-
spread feeling that Queensland has not done
all that it should have done to reduce the
cost of production : in plain English, that there
has been every inducement for the northern
State to keep the cost high so long as the
South paid more than four-fifths of the bill.
And the feeling was not improved by the
exaggerated reports that the industry had
passed almost wholly into the hands of
non-British people. So far as Labor is con-
cerned, there is also a long-standing anti-
pathy to the C.S.R.
The facts regarding the industry are not
well understood in the South, Avhere on the
whole an inflated idea is held regarding
the profits made by the growers. In
specially favored areas these are no doubt
still considerable; in the less favored parts
—especially of the southern sugar districts
of Queensland —the profits of the actual
growers have for many years been extremely
moderate, and in most districts it is prob-
able that more money has been made by
selling farms than by working them. The
reply of the Southern States is that they
refuse to be penalised in their sugar bilb
to keep cultivation going in unsuitable
areas when more suitable areas could pro-
duce sufficient for home consumption.
In the conflicting circumstances the Com-
monwealth Government has taken the proper
course in ordering an inquiry into the whole
business, under the presidency of John Gunn,
formerly Labor Premier of South Australia
and deputy-chairman of the Migration and
Development Commission. But inasmuch
as a very speedy report cannot be expected,
the Queensland Government is justified in
its request that, in order to prevent the
disorganisation of the industry at this most
inopportune time, the present arrangement,
including the embargo, should be extended
for 12 months.
Australian Canning.
“Canfac”: The standard of Australian
canned fruits has improved so greatly dur-
ing the past five years that it is now success-
fully competing against the Californian
article on our competitor’s very doorstep,
and has a very tenacious hold upon the
Canadian market. The* Canuks are showing
a preference for our products, and each
year sees a decided increase in sales.
As far as grading and color go, in one
class of peach alone there are at Leeton
(N.S.W.) 25 different grades and colors, and
a buyer may obtain a continuous supply of
any one of these grades, from a pale yellow
to the rich golden of the “Golden Queen
Cling.” The dealer has the choice also of 25
labels used in the sales of our products.
The Australian article has so improved
that American operators in London have
bought quantities of our fruit in London,
stripped our standard labels and replaced
them with their “Choice” labels. This prac-
tice has become so objectionable that a
deputation lately approached Parker
Moloney begging to have it stopped.
The New Matson Liners.
The American Matson Navigation Co.,
which some time ago took over the long-
established business of the Oceanic Co.,
between Sydney and ’Frisco, has laid down
the keels of two passenger liners of excep-
tional size and quality. They will have
each a displacement of 25,885 tons, and will
thus be larger than any other ships plying
in the Pacific, with the exception of the
Canadian-Pacific liners running between Van-
couver and China. They will be equipped
with two swimming pools, as well as full-
sized tennis courts, and the passenger accom-
modation generally will be on the very
highest scale, a theatre for talkies being
only one of the many attractions. Guaran-
teed speed is 20J knots, and with this it is
expected to maintain a 19-day Schedule from
’Frisco to Sydney. Each of the big craft
will carry 620 first-class passengers and
217 “tourist” class.
State Licensing Should Mean Something,
From a man in the country:—
I have a Workman’s Compensation Policy with the
Community and General Assurance Co., and an award
has been made against me for £5 per week from
May SO, 1929, “and to continue during the total or
partial incapacity for work of the applicant.” The
Community and General has gone into liquidation,
and the £lO,OOO guarantee deposited by the co.
is considered not sufficient to cover liabilities. In
my case alone, the award will amount to a sub-
stantial sum; it has already run for over 14 months.
I am advised it will be necessary for me to take
certain costly proceedings to get access to this
£lO,OOO. Now, I am a struggling farmer with a
big family, and am not in a position either to take
these proceedings or to meet any portion of the
claim, and consequently I will be forced into bank-
ruptcy. Under the Act I am compelled to insure
my workmen, and surely we are entitled to believe
that a Government license ensures us protection.
Could The Bulletin bring my case under notice
and endeavor to get me some relief from the pre-
dicament I am in?
The man is quite right. Either the Govern-
ment should not issue licenses and take
guarantees at all, in which case the public
would know that it had to look out for
itself, or the license and the guarantee
should mean that the Government had in-
quired and stood behind the concern. What
can be done for the men who have been
tricked by the Government into paying
premiums to rotten offices is not clear; but
a valuation of such claims as this one ought
to be made, and the Government should
take them over. Otherwise what is to
become of the unfortunates who have got
awards from the Commission?
New Postage Rates.
The new rates of postage came into force
on Monday (Aug. 4) :
WITHIN THE COMMONWEALTH.
Letters and lettercards, 2d. oz. ; postcards, ltd-;
second-class .matter (commercial papers, printed
papers, catalogues, patterns, samples, and merchan-
dise, periodicals and newspapers not registered at
G.P.O. —which last means generally all papers and
periodicals printed outside Australia), Id. 20z.;
third-class matter (books, and periodicals and news-
papers registered at G.P.0.), Id. 6oz.
Within the Commonwealth includes Papua, Terri-
tory of New Guinea and many British islands in
the Pacific.
BEYOND THE COMMONWEALTH.
Letters and lettercards: Within British Empire and
to New Hebrides, Banks and Torres Islands, 2d. oz.
(postcards lid.) ; all other places, 3d. first oz.,
2d. each additional oz. (postcards 2d.). Commercial
papers, to N.Z. and its islands and Fiji, Id. 20z.;
all other places Id. 2oz. (minimum 3d.). Printed
papers, all places Id. 2oz. Newspapers: N.Z. and
its islands and Fiji, Id. 60z.; U.K. and Irish Free
State, via France or America, Id. 40z., via All Sea
route, Id. 6oz. ; to U.S.A., Id. 40z.; all other
places, printed paper rate.
Edward C. Dyason is the busy Melbourne
man who was chairman of G. G. Goode,
Ltd., of Melbourne, during the negotiations
which ended in the amalgamation of that
Australian tobacco co. with the great
Carreras firm in Australia. The latter has
for 10 years past been represented here by
K. A. Morris and R. A. Johnston, who will
be on the new board. Goode’s general manager,
N. Cozens, is in London; as soon as he
returns the building of a new factory will
be considered. Carreras’s main line in Aus-
tralia is Craven A; Goode’s put up Stan-
dard and Clubman cigarettes.
* * * *
“Elsie Ghee”: In pursuance of a Wear-
More-Wool campaign we were recommended
to use Australian wool in place of kapok for
toy-stuffing and quilt-making. Whereupon a
few of us made a beginning in the good work
by seeking to obtain the necessary wooL We
were prepared to do our own wool washing,
carding and carbonising; but no wool could
we obtain by the one-pound weight. A ship-
load was ours for the buying, in the raw-
state ; so was a pound of spun wool dragged
from England, or a pound spun into garments
in Australia, but never a pound of plain,
greasy, home-grown wool from the sheep’s
back! A dozen likely places were tried, but
the result was the same; it was as though
one sought to purchase water in Hades!
* * * *
Cairns railway station (N.Q.) has a better
advertising idea than a mere slogan. Perfect
samples ot photography showing surrounding
beauty spots are framed in different kinds
of indigenous woods not varnished or other-
wise doctored up. Each frame has a small
placard, “Queensland maple”—silky oak,
white cedar, bean-tree, etc., as the case may
be—-and the traveller can judge of the suita-
bility of the woods for his purposes.
* * # *
Lae, the aerodrome for the Mandated
Territory goldfields, is growing a larger,
busier settlement every day, thanks to
developments of the Placer Development
Co. Lae was nothing when Guinea Airways
took it over. Now, besides the big ’drome,
and mass of outbuildings and barracks, there
is a workshop which for efficiency would be
hard to beat in Australia. A mechanical
wizard named D. Mullins is in charge.
The ’drome is now being greatly extended,
and the Administration in conjunction with
Guinea Airways is to build a wharf and
tramline for transportation of heavy mach-
inery from the boat to the ’drome. Another
’drome is to be built on the Bulolo, where
Tom Yeoman recently found a nice little
flat on which a runway can be made.
Stan Cross, general manager of Guinea Air-
ways, is now in London, but is due in Ger-
many in August to test the first of the big
Junkers. These are to lift 70001 b. They
cost approximately £30,000 each and are due
at the Lae in November. These two machines
have the task of transporting the Placer
dredges in sections up to the Bulolo. The
dredging co. is not underestimating the mag-
nitude of the job; it expects to (spend
£400,000 before it wins its first gold.
*■■■*♦'*
“Jenny Lintott”: Even with wool at Bd.
and lOd. a pound, the shearing season has
opened with a will in the big north-west
runs. Two southern boats running on the
same tide brought 140 shearers up to the
Gascoyne stations last week, with four union
bosses to see that they come to no harm.
There had been talk of a strike on account
of the reduced award, but after the men got
ashore a mass meeting on a corner decided
for work, and they left for Wandagee and
Minilya. With one group goes Harry King,
a Queensland ex-boxing champion, now one
of Australia’s best shearers’ cooks. King
prides himself on his menus. Two soups,
three or four entrees, a couple of joints
and four or five different kinds of sweets are
a regular thing in his camp!
* * * *
Brisbane trams, run by the municipality,
are feeling the pinch of hard times and
motor-’bus competition. The July accounts
showed £476 less revenue than those for the
same month last year, while the number of
passengers carried dropped by close on
165,000.
* * * *
The gloom of the N.T. cattleman has been
lightened a little by the advent of a Japanese
buyer who has picked up 600 head for a
trial shipment to Japan. If it is successful,
a 7000-ton steamer is to be put on to make a
regular run with cattle between Japan and
Darwin, Wyndham being an alternative port
of call. The move follows on the new
Japanese policy of inducing the people of
Japan to eat more meat. They have been
taking an increasing quantity of frozen beef
from Australia.
* * * *
An important move in the rubber industry
is reported from Amsterdam. Some time
ago British and Dutch growers conferred
on the question of restriction of output, and
recommended a 25 per cent, reduction to the
Council of the Rubber Growers’ Association
in Europe, which has now consented to the
scheme. The British and Dutch practically
monopolise the world’s rubber output, and
the agreement of the latter to a measure
of restriction should result in a rise in
prices. It was the refusal of the Dutch East
liunan growers to participate which wrecked
the Stephenson scheme.
* * * *
From Sept. 12 Melbourne is to have
cheaper gas. The present rate of 7s. 6d.
a thousand cubic feet is to be reduced by
od. when the monthly consumption is 1000
reet or under, by sd. when the quantity used
18 from 1000 to 5000 feet, and by further
cuts of 2d. a thousand as consumption grows
up to half a million cubic feet a month,
ihe pre-payment meter customer will get his
supply at 7s. 6R instead of 7s. Hid. A
Oas Bill regulating quality, price anil pres-
sure has been promised by the Hogans for
this session, but it will be a miracle if it
is passed.
* * * $
“Chevroford”: A. G. Harston, the presi-
dent of the R.A.C.U. in Melbourne, has
started a campaign to induce Victorians to
calculate the speed of cars at so many feet per
second. Most people estimate distance,
not by conscious measurement, but by instinct
and long experience. It always strengthens
my belief in evolution when I note the
ngility, self-confidence and skill with which
toot-sloggers of both sexes and all ages take
their frail bodies through the maelstrom of
modern traffic. The average pedestrian has
a touching faith in the motorist’s control of
his vehicle, and will pass in front of a radi-
ator with as much nonchalance as if he were
passing a lamp-post. It might shake his
faith a little if he knew on what a slender
thread that control rests sometimes. For
instance, the accelerator and the foot-brake
on a model put on the market recently were
in some cases so placed that it was easy to
depress both simultaneously. Still, if con-
scious measurement in feet of distance is of
any use to pedestrians, the thing to do is to
estimate the speed of the approaching car in
miles per hour and add 50 p.c. Thus, a car
at 30 m.p.h. is going at 45 feet per second.
* * * *
An important move in European metal
circles which is likely to have its effect on
Australian base metal production is the
fusion, by an exchange of shares, of the
Amalgamated Metal Corporation of London,
the German Metallgesellschaft, and the
Societe G6n6rale des Minerals, the last a
Belgian group. The new combine will handle
not only copper, lead and zinc, but
aluminium, nickel and other ores and metals.
It is expected that producers within the
group will find the marketing of their pro-
ducts a much less difficult problem, while
smelters will be able to rely on steady sup-
plies. The headquarters will be London;
all parties will have an equal standing. It is
intended to go for raw material to Asia,
Africa and Australia, thus avoiding Ameri-
can influences. Stabilisation of prices is
the aim.
* * * *
Smithfield has been taking keen interest in
a shipment of 25 sides of beef from North
Queensland. The beef comes from a zebu-
shorthorn cross, and has gained high praise
from the experts for its quality. The zebu,
better known as the Brahmin, lias long been
utilised for crossing with British breeds in
Texas (U.S.A.), where it has been found
to make for a smaller and more marketable
type, complying with the modern demand for
“baby” beef. In addition, the Brahmin is
tick proof, and this should recommend the
breed and its crosses as much to the N.Q.
cattleman as the quality of the beef.
* * * *
“Salix Clarkus”: I make cricket bats, and
find imported English willow and N. S.
Wales-grown Salix caeriuea and Salix alba
most suitable. I won’t say which is best, but
I sent two samples to a Government depart-
ment the other day for testing; the English
piece (cut from a high-class English-made
bat) was branded as Australian and the
Australian willow was marked as English.
The department reported that the “Austra-
lian” sample showed the “defects common to
Australian willows—brittleness, greater speci-
fic gravity, greater splittiness,” etc. The “Eng-
lish” piece (actually Aussie) was classed
as being a “particularly fine piece of willow,
first-class in every respect.”
* * * *
Radium and Rare Earths, a Melbourne
co. which holds a show at Olary (S.A.),
and thus far has made only losses, has en-
gaged a German chemist to come to Australia
to treat the ilmeniteore which it is mining
for the purpose of producing pure white
titatnium pigment. The chemist in ques-
tion has successfully experimented with the
ore, and much is hoped of his visit. At the
close of accounts the co. had £3 in cash
and £4244 on loan to Australian Radium
Corp.; there was £1165 coming to creditors.
* * % *
“McG.” (Clermont, Q.) : With all the
talk of attempting to revive the gold-mining
industry, the most important matter from
the prospector’s viewpoint receives no men-
tion. That is his inability to sell his gold
in small lots to enable him to carry on.
It’s the same all through the Eastern
States. The Commonwealth Bank ought to
purchase across the counter as of old in
either small or large hots.
* * * *
Never buy any sort of business, how-
ever small, without getting an accountant
to overhaul it first. A chap arrived with
a couple of hundred pounds and went to one
merchant and placed an order for that
amount of groceries, making himself a cus-
tomer to be encouraged by paying cash.
With the stock thus secured he opened a shop
and sold at very low prices, doing a brisk
trade. With' the money thus got, a second
merchant was visited and the procedure
repeated, although necessarily for a smaller
amount. A second visit was then paid to
the first wholesaler, and another cash order
supplied. So it went on until the cash-and-
carry chap’s marble was good. Then he
gave* a large order from each of the mer-
chants putting up about 25 per cent, of
the value, the balance payable in a couple
of weeks. With a good stock on hand, he
then stepped on it, and induced prices
brought roaring trade. So good, in fact, that
he was shortly able to look at his original
capital more than doubled, and also able,
with figures showing how turnover had
stepped along, to sell the remainder of the
stock and goodwill. He made the mistake
of selling the same thing to three different
purchasers; but that is a mere detail.


I
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directora: Messrs. EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2i In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asflociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue: assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) in the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED EOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIPEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH. General Manasrer.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
South Australia’s travelling scholarship,
which long ante-dated the Rhodes, goes this
year to C. M. Sprigg. It w 7 as founded by
J. H. Angas, and enables the University to
send, every second or third year, its most
promising young engineer to study fine points
of the profession in Europe or America. In
Ins leisure hours Sprigg is a particularly
good tennis player.
In October, 1917, Captain Duncan Men-
zies and Captain L. A. Wliitington hopped
the bags together at Passchendaele. Both
were wounded; Wliitington, reported after
the action as “Missing, believed killed,” was
taken prisoner. Last week the pair re-
appeared together wdien solicitor Wliitington
made application to the Full Court at Adel-
aide for admission to the Bar of Duncan
Menzies. Since his Digger days the latter
has been a master at Roseworthy Agricul-
tural College and Mayor of Clare.
Died in Queensland lately, George Randall,
for 20 years the State’s Emigration Agent
and Lecturer in Great Britain. Thomas
Mel 1 wraith first gave him the job, and he
held it under four Administrations. At the
top of liis activities he secured 25,000 emi-
grants a year for Queensland. Sixteen years
ago he g’ave to the South Brisbane City
Council a collection of 600-odd pictures,
which form what is now known as the Ran-
dall Art Gallery.
Senator E. B. Johnson (W.A.) has had 20
strenuous year.s of Parliamentary life. He
began as a wildly enthusiastic Laborite in
1911. and gave his vote to bump the party
out of office in 1916. Ilis real trial came a
year or two later when the Nationalists
sought to make him Speaker and discovered
that, whatever his old colleagues might have
tolerated, they wouldn’t stand that. For tw T o
days and nights a tornado raged about the
mace in the W.A. Assembly; then Johnson
gave in and resigned his untenable job. He
is the only Westralian native in the Federal
Parliament; his career started in the State
Lands Department, where his father was
once Surveyor-General.
APIRANA NGATA, “ Father” of the M.L.
Parliament.
The death of Joseph Ward leaves Apirana
Ngata the “Father” of the M.L. House of
Reps. Apirana is Minister of Native Affairs
and has represented the Eastern Maori con-
tinuously since 1906. As an orator he main-
tains the highest traditions of his race.
Dr. J. L. Moore, who died in Brisbane
the other day, at 70, 'was long in the public
eye in Queensland as Commissioner of Public
Health. Irish born, he took his medical
degree at Dublin in 1884, and had three
years as a doctor in the mercantile marine
before he reached Queensland. He became
Commissioner in 1914, and did good service
until his retirement two years ago. He was
a fine old boy besides.
“V.” : The late Justice Ewing, of the Speck,
was not the only man to sit in three different
Houses of Parliament in Australia (B.
30/7/’3O). William Henry Carpenter had
a similar distinction. Carpenter sat for
Encounter Bay in S- Aus. Assembly from
3896 to 1902, having King O'Malley for three
sessions as his colleague. Settling in
W.A., Carpenter was member for Fremantle
in the House of Reps, in 1903-06. and for
Fremantle in the Westralian Assembly from
3911 to 1917.
Dr. C. 11. Souter’s father practised medi-
cine and so the son had to, too; but he
would have been much happier if they’d let
him be a pirate or even a peaceful skipper.
For a man who has written more good chan-
ties than any other three Australians put
together he hasn’t really tasted many ropes’
ends. Three voyages he made between Scot-
land and Australia —he was sent to Aber-
deen for his medicine —and when the chance
has offered he has gone as. ship’s surgeon,
which is how 7 he has got most of his “color.”
Dr. C. H. SOUTER.
His good bush verse is mainly a recollection of
his early days, when he ran wild on the
Castlereagh. After he had settled down to
practise it was chiefly where he could say
liow-d’-you-do to a magpie and boil an occa-
sional billy; and in the process lie has made
three books of verse, with enough over to
make three more. He won’t be 66 till next
October.
Perth lost one of its most picturesque
identities when the Count de Bouanate left
for Italy with his wife and family. H'e is
best remembered for annual birth notices
which he inserted in the local press, announc-
ing another heir or heiress to a dynasty
which traced back its descent to the Doges
of Venice, and asking papers all over the
world to please copy. As a sideline lie sold
cigars and watches.
M.L.’s new Minister of Railways, W. A.
.Veitch, is one of the very few railwaymen
who have ever reached this position. Twenty -
year.s ago he forsook the engine footplate
and the oilcan for politics, and he has had
a lien on the Wanganui seat ever since. The
other day he climbed on to a costly importa-
tion in, the shape of a Garratt locomotive
and ran his understanding fingers over its
many gadgets.
Dr. Leonard Redmond, who has been
towelling up the Queensland Mines Depart-
ment in an attempt to have Charters
Towers reconditioned* is a typical fighting
Irishman. His pet scheme is an installa-
tion of electric power which will reduce
working costs so as to permit the big low-
grade ore bodies on the Towers to be worked
at a profit. He has been practising on the
Towers for 45 years, and at one time or
another has been in holts with most of the
big mining companies of the past, mostly as
upholder of the small-scale miner against the
big leaseholders.
Commissioner Mcllveny, who resigned from
tin. command of the M.L. Police, it has now
been disclosed, because he sacked a sergeant
on grounds an appeal board considered inade-
quate, has been succeeded by W- G. Wohl-
mann, next in seniority. He is 58, the son
of a policeman, find joined the force in
1895. H'e gave good service in charge of
the Waihi district during the miners’ strike,
and his reputation for tact netted him the
job of Commissioner of Police in Samoa in
1920. Latterly he has been Superintendent
of the Auckland District. He is quiet-man-
nered, keenly, interested in all sorts of sport,
and has the reputation in the Force of giving
everyone a fair and square deal. Incident-
ally he wears one of the most magnificent
moustaches in Fernland.
George Coates, the portrait-painter who
died in London the other day, is the only
Australian artist who ever thought of becom-
ing a professional boxer. He was a crack
welterweight in the ’eighties, and could have
made a living in the ring if art hadn’t called.
He kept his balanced athletic figure to the
end, but his face, with its touch of ascetic
melancholy—accentuated by a slightly re-
trousse nose—gave him the appearance of a
parson in disguise. He had charming,
manners, and his sitters (who included many
notable Diggers) loved him. Coates was
literally world-famous, being as well known
in France (where he had studied under Con-
stant and become a Salon associate) and
in the U.S.A. (where he had won a Diploma
of Honor) as he. was in Britain. He and his
artist-wife, Dora Meason, were last in Aus-
tralia nine years ago.
George Tidemann, who has gone over the
hill at Adelaide, aged 58, had been in S. Aus.
for the last 20 years, In the George Wills con-
cern. Before the war he was a Burns, Philp
man at Townsville, and in his day he was
one of the finest cyclists in Queensland.
J. W. Chew, dead in Brisbane, was one of
the busiest engineers in Australia. During
17 year.s in Queensland he was secretary of
the Marine and Power Engineers, refrigera-
tion expert to the Government, member of
the Marine Board and founder of the Bris-
bane Engineering Academy, besides practis-
ing as a consulting engineer. He was a
son of a Lieut.-Governor of Mauritius.
The new chief of S.A. Caledonian Society,
succeeding John Tassie, is David John Gordon,
M.L.C., who was chief-of-staff on Adelaide
“Register” till he gave up journalism for
politics. But Gordon, unlike his forebears,
did not come from the North of Tweed; he
was born at Riverton (S.A.).
Retired after 47 years’ service, F. M.
Calcutt, chief engineer of signals and tele-
graphs in Vic. railways. Calcutt was the
man who introduced automatic signalling into
Victoria. As far back as 1905 he w T as
appointed engineer of signals, and ever since
lie has been the administrative brain behiud
the branch that keeps the semaphore signal
arms falling and rising stiffly in front of
Clapp’s trains; lie also had control of rail-
way safeworking equipment, telephones and
telegraphs. S. P. Jones, his right-hand man,
succeeds him.
As nearly irreplaceable as any one man
could be was F. E. Meleng, dead in Adel-
aide. He was from the start in 1910 secre-
tary and general organiser of the Institutes
Association, which controls 300 S. Aus.
libraries, together with art classes and other
aids to culture; and he made himself the
personal friend of most of their official heads.
In 1928, when a .Library Association of Aus-
tralia was formed, Meleng was named
secretary.
It is easy enough to think of Julian Ashton
as a patriarch; it isn’t as easy to believe
that Lister Lister is only eight years his
junior. Sydney’s great art teacher was born
in ’5l and the president of its Art Society
in ’59 —which makes him 71 to-day; and he
still looks physically fit to do a good week’s
blacksmith ing. It i.s no less than 33 years
since he was chosen president of the Royal
Art Society of N. S. Wales, and he gives
LISTER LISTER.
good promise of reigning another 20. His
own paintings take a strong man to handle;
at the society’s annual exhibition, which
was opened on Saturday, he is represented
as usual by a landscape of almost continental
acreage.
J. E. Davidson, of Argyll station, was a
passenger in the first mail ’plane from East
Kimberley to Perth, and was back in Wynd-
ham 12 days later. He travelled the 4000-odd
miles with a broken arm.
Andy Cunningham got right into the
public eye on the eve of his solo flight from
Sydney to London, by donning a mask to con-
F. T. BRIDGES, the new manager of the
A M.P. Society.
ceal li'is features. He left surrounded by so
much mystery that the dogs were' barking his
identity before the noise of his propeller
had died away. A Geelong Grammar and
Sydney Uni. product, Cunningham has
always had a flair for the unusual. _ He
was a good oarsman at school and univer-
sity, and he went to the wars with the
Light Horse, serving on Gallipoli and in
Sinai and Palestine, and collecting a Mili-
tary Medal at Romani.
Dr. T. 11. A. Valin tine, Director-General
of Health in M.L., who has held that job
for a decade and has been an officer of
the Health Department since 1902, has
decided to retire. Born in Sussex G 5 years
ago he had several years of doctoring experi-
ence in England before he emigrated. An
able, shrewd but rather irascible man, given
to speaking bluntly, he has in his time
ruffled the feathers of dozens of hospital
boards. Just-lately he precipitated a mild
storm of indignation by declaring, in refer-
ence to a matter of hospital administration,
that “the medical profession wants watch-
ing.” He apologised handsomely at the first-
available opportunity. “In the heat of argu-
ment I overstepped the mark,” he said. “I
suppose it is a sign I am getting old. I do
not think I have forgotten myself in the
past.” Whereat there was a good-natured
laugh in medical circles, hearty enough to
be heard across the Tasman.
“C.H.”: “Jeames” (B. 30/7/’3O) does the
Ward family less than justice regarding their
war service. I remember Lord Dudley as
a yeomanry Colonel in Alexandria in 1915.
and he was on Gallipoli as well as Mudros
before joining some Divisional Staff in
France a year or so later. His two brothers
also served in France, as did his elder son.
Viscount Ednam, who was wounded and
won the M.C.; while Lady Dudley ran a
hospital at Wimereux.
Just-dead Geoi’ge Coates’s much-admired
war portrait “For Empire” represents an
Australian soldier in the great struggle. The
subject of the painting was the late Ralph
Claridge, a South Australian and fine speci-
men of manhood, who was lying wounded
in hospital when the Australian artist met
him. After Claridge’s death the picture be-
came the property of the young soldier’s
fiancee at Adelaide.
Geoffrey Winthrop Deeper, third son of
octogenarian classicist Dr. Alexander Deeper,
has joined the staff of Melbourne Uni. School
of Agriculture. Young Deeper, whose early
academic achievements recalled his father’s,
lectured at Adelaide Uni. for some time. His
two brothers are in the British diplomatic
service.
Captain Bill Manning delivers new ships
to Australasian ports much as the daily
breadcarter dumps his loaves on the door-
step. When he brought over the Bombo in
April, the 75-year-old mariner announced that
this would be his last trip, but he has since
been induced to take charge of the lighthouse
tender Matai, which is about to leave Lon-
don for Maoriland. It will be the 68th new
vessel he has brought across the world.


LAST MAN AND LAST SHILLING.
-Since .the present Government came into office nine months ago Messrs. Fenton and Coleman have been to England and the Continent, and Messrs. Scullin, Brennan and Parker Moloney are either going or have gone, along with their wives, private
secretaries and other accessories.”
THE LEADER OF THE DEPUTATION: Don t you see, Mr. Scullin, that what’s going on now is a fight for national existence? Won’t you remember Mr. Fisher’s pledge of ‘the last man and the last shilling’ to save the country?”
THE PRIMINISTER: Course I remember. And I tell you I’m going to be the last man to suffer and you’re going to supply the last shilling.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mr. Cinders”
Criterion “Little Accident”
Sta te Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Koyal “The New Moon”
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
STA,rE Movies and Talkies
»
It has been loft to an Australian writer
with an Australian play to make the legiti-
mate stage in Sydney sit up and look reju-
venated. The Opera House was crowded on
Saturday at both afternoon and night per-
formances of Doris Egerton Jones’s “Gov-
ernor Bligh,” presented by Allan Wilkie and
his co. in a manner that was itself a recog-
nition of the play’s merits.
There was a significant note in the pro-
gramme. “It was Mr. Wilkie’s suggestion,”
wrote the author, “that occasioned the writ-
ing of my play.” In other words, a demand
cropped up and it was supplied. That, in
turn, created a supply, and the supply in its
turn created a demand. It is a parable
in theatrical economics that might be con-
sidered by our industrious and apparently
misguided importers of stage fare. It is
notorious, they say, that there is not only
no demand for Australian plays-, but
something very much like hostility towards
them. That is on the commercial side. Among
the so-called “amateurs” the plea is that they
can’t find any Australian plays worth pro-
ducing. One crowd in Sydney has been work-
ing under this banner for years, and produced
one solitary Australian play—a tract on
venereal disease, to which it may or may
not have been aesthetic considerations that
brought audiences.
Miss Jones’s play is based upon the mutiny
against “Sailor” Bligh when he was Governor
of New South Wales. History has been so
bent to suit the playwright’s convenience
that the historical side of the piece is unim-
portant, except in the main issue, the
author’s sympathetic reading of Bligh. Most
of the figures, apart from Bligh, and their
stories to boot, are purely fictitious, which,
with the history-juggling, adds the lustre of
creative artist to the author. The important
thing is the impression that most of what
happens in the play did happen in reality.
Nevertheless, such items as Mr. Wilkie
Bligh’s barnstorming and bombast, which
closes one act, and the characterless sap-
headedness of members of the N.S.W. Corps,
as portrayed by John Cairns and Keith
Hall, are not easy to swallow whole.
The playwright’s object is to depict
Bligh as a heroic character, a figure
of greatness maligned and misused by officers
of the Corps, who are first led into com-
mitting a sign of mutiny by Macarthur and
afterwards are forced to commit the act as
a desperate means of saving themselves. The
writer has made a strong and villainous
character of Macarthur, but in spite of the
knowledge that this schemer is behind the
others, their washiness does not help to show
up Bligh’s strength.
It was playwright, not actor, who
provided the great bombast scene, the only
serious flaw in Wilkie’s Bligh. Even so, this
has a popular appeal which possibly excuses
it. As Wilkie’s voice, forecasting what Aus-
tralia was going to be as a result of his
having put down the rum traffic (“An ocean
of iniquity, a reservoir, of rum!”), rose
higher and higher towards furioso fortissimo,
the great crowd, at each performance, got
up and up on its toes, to burst out in almost
delirious applause when the speaker bit off
ALEXANDER MARSH, MARJORIE CARR and the HUNTER-WATTS, of the
Wilkie co., that turned to the Australian play “Governor Bligh” at Sydney Opera
House on Saturday.
the last word up near the ceiling, and the
electric light switch forced a black-out with a
startling CLACK! It is one of the striking
features of the play that it has this power
of exciting. Another choice example was
provided in the court scene. Here about
half a dozen members of the Corps are de-
picted deciding, at Macarthur’s instigation,
to arrest Bligh. One, Lieutenant Lawson,
in love with Bligh’s ward, stands out. He
moves quickly towards a side door. It is
mutiny, he cries. There is a move to rush
him ; he grabs the rifle from an attendant
and holds them at bay. Not even when at
the suburban movie matinee the hero gallops
up in the nick of time is there cheering and
applause to better that which greeted this
act of loyalty, and the Opera House has
known audiences with a lower average in
brows! The enthusiastic, unsophisticated
outburst was a spontaneous tribute to both
playwright and players. The audience was,
so to put it, simply carried away. It had
undergone a painless operation by that lead-
ing scientific experimenter, Egerton Jones
Wilkie Bligh Voronof. And this enthusiasm
was not isolated. It sizzled pretty well
throughout—perhaps because the play is
Australian in more than the mere externals;
because the spirit belongs.
The acting on the whole was excellent.
Wilkie as Bligh, Ronald Riley as Macarthur,
Arthur Keane as a sailor-servant to Bligh,
John Cameron, Miss Hunter-Watts, Mar-
jorie Carr and most of the rest in a fairly
big cast acted as if they welcomed the change
from their customary classical repertoire.
Scenery, painted by Reg Robins, uniforms,
in which Ray Lindsay lent a hand, and cos-
tumes w T ere up to the general standard. For
these and other reasons, this Showman
strongly recommends the show, even though
he will not be surprised if it is some day
reported from Melbourne, or some other
place where the Harbor of the setting is
not a sacred and magic institution, that the
piece is straight melodrama and that the
characters, outside the historical ones, are
of the genus “stock.”
* ¥ *
Possibly it is a case of the superior ver-
dancy of distant fields, but this Showman pre-
fers the Jan Kubelik of two decades ago to
the Jan Kubelik of to-day. The boy was
human. The man preserves an air of almost
godlike aloofness which is rather chilling
to his audiences. It is the immobile austerity
of Mischa Elman wedded to the Buddha-
like calm of Backhaus. More warming to
the CQcldes of the heart are such players as
the veteran and eccentric De Pachmanu,
whose prattle to his audience punctuates
every movement, and sometimes even accom-
panies the music, or such understandable
chaps as Percy Grainger, who also takes his
hearers into his confidence, though in a less
rococo manner. Zimbalist with his merry
smile cheered even the most hopeless Philis-
tines into a belief that they knew something
of what he was driving at. But these cold fish !
Having got that off his chest this Show-
man has to admit that the older Jan Kubelik
is a great master. His tone is beautifully
sweet and delicate; he can split nuances into
shades of one-thousandths, and he has long-
forgotten that there are such tilings as digital
difficulties. At Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night he gave an impeccable reading of
the Mendelssohn Concerto —the familiar
andante surely was never delivered so
suavely—and Bach’.s Prelude for violin alone
and the “Air for the G String” stirred the
audience to a display of enthusiasm that
wasn’t all faked. A Mozart Romance was
also utterly enjoyable, though the stern,
dark, brooding Beethovenish face above the
fiddle seemed to turn the warm sunshine of
Wolfgang into cold moonlight. For fire-
works the Paganini “Campanclla,” which
caused Liszt such delight that he transcribed
it, and Wieniawski’s rather shallow “Sou-
venir de Moscow” were given, and the Schu-
bert “Ave Maria” and the player’s own com-
positions, “Evening Song” and “Burlesque,”
rounded out a well-varied menu. Otto H'asa
proved himself a prince of accompanists.
* * *
If you want a new exercise for your
talents, ladies and gentlemen, you are hereby
recommended to attend the lectures of Cap-
tain Max Wardall, 8.A., LL.B., the distin-
guished American psychologist who is giving-
lunch-hour talks in Melbourne Town Hall
basement. Captain Wardall has devoted his
great scientific attainments to the study of
the human mind, and has discovered that it
is nothing more nor less than a broadcast-
ing station. The quality of the programmes
may be Shakspearean or BLO—that all
depends on yourselves, ladies and gentlemen.
We are all engaged in broadcasting our
messages in continuous session; and we are
also engaged in tuning-in—the gallant cap-
tain calls it “tooning-in”—to the innumer-
able messages of the other stations. We do
not know that we are receiving all these
messages because it is our sub-conscious
minds which ai*e the receiving stations. How
otherwise, asks the captain, do you account
for the fact that when a Federal statesman
makes an optimistic statement a wave of
optimism goes over the community? How
otherwise, if we leave out of consideration
the fact that every fourth person in the
country subscribes to a daily newspaper?
* # *
Before a brimming house, Melbourne Phil-
harmonic Society, conducted by Bernard
Heinze, made an attack on Gounod’s
“Faust” at the Auditorium last week. At
grand opera, in the days when there was
grand opera, present critic used often to
close his eyes in order the better to enjoy
the music, this shutting out the spectacle of
the tenor with flat feet pretending to be
a knight in shining armor, the pritna donna
with the middle-aged bust pretending to be
a 14-year-ola heroine, the trembling canvas
pretending to be a mediaeval castle and the
four financial members of the theatrical
union inside a cylinder of hessian pretending
to be a fiery dragon. There was no need
to do this at the Philharmonic performance.
The chorus of ladies and gentlemen was
seated foursquare in evening dress in the
organ gallery, the orchestra sat in front of
them and the seven principals were arranged
in a neat row on cane chairs in the fore-
ground. When Faust made his ill-considered
appeal for assistance to the powers of dark-
ness, Mephistopheles simply got up from his
chair, stood beside him and addressed his
remarks to the audience; and Margarita did
the same when Mephistopheles produced her
from nowhere.
This cast the burden of conveying the
atmosphere and the emotions of the play
entirely on the singers’ vocal organs, and
some of them came out of the ordeal better
GUS BLUETT, ROMOLA HAN BEN and “The Little Accident,” at Sydney Criterion.
than others. Herold Kyng’s Mephistopheles
lacked devil. H’e was as diabolical as a
curate opening a bazaar, though he has a
fine voice, trained to good habits of enuncia-
tion. On the other hand, Victor Baxter gave
to Faust a tenor which throbbed with pas-
sion, and when he combined it with the
lyrical and sympathetic voice of May Craven
as Margarita, the shut eye could conjure up
the famous garden scene in all its beauty.
Violet Jackson’s Siebel and Dawn Harding’s
Martha were also attractive, and there were
artistic graces about Charles Garnier-Brad-
ley’s Valentine. Considering its numbers,
however, the chorus was thin and ragged,
possibly owing to the members being engaged
more in pushing their own barrows than
combining to make one vocal vehicle. Prof.
Ileinze waved his baton with great energy,
but did not seem to achieve much besides
displacing the atmosphere in his immediate
vicinity. That is, as far as the chorus was
concerned —the orchestra was admirable.
Gounod’s opera is exquisitely tender and
beautiful in patches, but in the main the
libretto is a mixture of shoddy sentiment
and shameless melodrama. There are whole
yards of it during which a good nap would
do no harm to the discriminating listener.
* # *
Gaston Mervale made an unfortunate
choice when he selected “The Mask” as the
first of his season of Grand Guignol plays
at Melbourne Tivoli. Present critic’s im-
pression is that after “The Mask” has been
taken off there ain’t gonner be any season.
The play is not true Grand Guignol. It is
an English imitation. It lacks the sardonic
wit and dramatic nicety of such horrific
masterpieces as “E. and 0.E.” The horror
is there, but nothing else. Byrl Walkley is
the wife of a Midlands miner who has had
his face blown off and ever since the acci-
dent has worn a mask. When he goes to
London to consult a doctor Mervale turns up
as a lover, is caught by the returning hus-
band, but outs him. Thinking him dead, the
guilty pair decide that the lover shall adopt
the mask and pass himself off as the mur-
dered man. In the absence of the wife the
supposedly dead man revives, kills the lover,
puts on the mask and goes into the bedroom,
and the curtain descends to the tune of
feminine screaming. There was deafening
applause when Alfred Frith appeared imme-
diately afterwards disguised as a chanvoman.
3LO, Melbourne, is asking to be taken
seriously as a producer of the drama. It
began well with some short melodramas by
Betty Davies, the local playwright, and fol-
lowed up with “The Squirrel’s Cage,” an
admirable subject for broadcasting. Then
it dashed the spirits of a continent by giving
“The Prince and the Beggar Maid,” in four
acts and one monotonous succession of more
or less indistinguishable actors. Romantic
yarns about Balkan principalities are toler-
able enough on the legitimate stage when
handsomely upholstered and supplied with
sex appeal in the shape of a few beautiful
actresses, but over the wireless they are as
entertaining as a smoky chimney. William
Ralston arranged the broadcasting and Hugh
Huxham was the producer.
* # *
Cora O’Farrell, some Melbourne musical
goods which are being prepared for immediate
exportation though without any idea of im-
proving the adverse trade balance, was up
for final inspection at Melbourne Town Hall
last week. A tall, slim, extremely attractive-
looking damsel, she suggested Aphrodite ris-
ing from the sea foam. H’er voice was as
pleasing as her appearance. It is a rich
and melodious soprano, somewhat deter-
minedly being made dramatic. She sang
“L’Enfant Prodigue” of Debussy with less
warmth than she did the little songs of
Brahms and “Annie Laurie,” but with great
technical dexterity. It was quite an astonish-
ing experience, not to say novel, to find a
singer of so fairylike a form able to fill the
vast spaces of the Civic Hall. Raymond and
Edouard Lambert played Saint-Saens’s
sonata in D minor for piano and violin, a
work which loses its interest after the first
two movements. Pianist Raymond is a fine
artist and very nearly shifted the centre of
gravity of the evening. He is also off to
Europe shortly, so there will be two promis-
ing careers that may prove worth watching.
# ¥ *
Brandon Thomas’s “Passing Brompton
Road” was given its first airing in Mel-
bourne by the Proscenium Club at the Kelvin
Hall last week. If this organisation goes
on as it is starting it will threaten the
supremacy of the old-established amateur
concerns. There is a lightheartedness about
its choice of plays and a cheerful spon-
taneity about their presentation which give
the playgoer a reasonable assurance of an
evening free from excessive dulness. It also
has a great asset in Marguerite Cockerill,
whose nationality is French but whose art is
international. This lady infuses intelligence
and charm into every part she undertakes,
and as Dultitia Sloane, the woman who is
prepared to go through the Divorce Court
if that route will take her into society, she
was delightful. Ann Kershaw, A. J. Fay
and A. D. Walker, among others, contri-
buted to an amiable evening.
* * *
The Austral-Amadio duo finished up in
Melbourne with two well-attended concerts
at the week-end. The Voice was as magni-
ficent as ever, and the Flute as melodious.
The pair have given more employment to the
amusement-tax collectors than any previous
virtuosi for the last two seasons.
* * *
The Victorian Professional Orchestra
played again at the Auditorium last week,
but the audience was hardly worth speaking
about. There is nothing wrong with the
playing. In fact, it is better than that of
the amateur organisations, though the selec-
tions are not. The lack of social pull has
a lot to do with the V.P.O.’s failure to draw
the crowds.
For his swansong to Melbourne Leon
Gordon selected the familiar “White Cargo,”
and the crowds that streamed into the King's
to farewell the great stage amorist did not
have to be packed with a hydraulic press.
With Edith Taliaferro pushed into a poor
part, “Little Accident” is doing the best
business of the three pieces in which that
leading lady has figured since the present
Sydney Criterion season opened. Gus
Bluett literally and figuratively carries the
baby; even players like J. B. liowe and
Ethel Morrison are mere twigs in the
picture.'
“Mr. Cinders,” the musicomedy which is
better for the way it is done than for itself,
is in its last weeks at the Majesty’s. Hindle
Edgar is chiefly responsible for its being the
Harbor town’s most amusing show of the
moment. “Follow Through” will be the
next flight dish at that address.
* * *
Both Sydney Playbox and the Players'
Club change bills next week, the Playbox on
Wednesday reviving “The Insect Play,” by
Karel and Josef Kapek, and the Players
presenting on Thursday and Friday, at" St.
James’s Hall, “The Lord of the Manor,” a
modern play by John Hastings Turner.
/ * * H-
The Nellie Bramley enterprise fizzled sud-
denly out at Sydney Palace. Usually these
artists give their final farewell even when
they’re only winding up a bad season; the
Bramley simply shut up shop without either
brag or wail. The Palace has had an extra-
ordinary run of bad luck. Every other
house has had at least occasional bursts of
brightness, but the Pitt-street theatre has
seen pretty well everything from vaudeville
to Jewish opera fail.
* * *
Considering the times, it is rahter
a staggering experience to step into
the State Theatre. Melbourne, or the. Capi-
tol, Sydney, on a Saturday morning and find
it packed from the carpeted floor to the blue-
sky ceiling with young Australians. It
indicates a praiseworthy attempt to cater for
the children shut out by Hollywood and the
Censor from the usual programmes. There
are vaudeville items provided by infant per-
formers, a delicate compliment which is rap-
turously appreciated by the audience. The
quality and volume of the community singing
would surprise those who have only observed
the poor response to this sort of thing in
the legitimate theatres. The songs, presum-
ably all juvenile favorites, concern the grand
sentiment of love, which should reassure the
pessimists who point to the fall in vital
statistics as indicating a trend towards race
suicide. The pictures are not up to the stand-
ard of the rest of the entertainment, but that
is not the fault of the management, probably.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
WHERE YOU HAVE QUALITY
YOU HAVE ECONOMY
The durability and low cost per year of service of Pioneer Belting has been
proven and established in many Sydney manufacturing plants during the
last 72 years. In one factory a Pioneer Belt has been in active use for over
30 years and is still giving efficient service.
This record of achievement definitely proves the superiority* and economy
of Pioneer Belting. There is a special Pioneer Belt for every drive. Write
for particulars.
THE LEADER SINCE tBSB
Weatherproof because Waterproof.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
PIONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
Can you give me any advice as to what
the future of time-payment companies is
likely to be? Is the present financial storm
likely to blow in their favor, or is it more
likely to blow them to destruction? — Service
Department query.
When the Devil was sick the Devil a saint would be.
When the Devil was well* the devil a saint was he.
Has the Devil changed? The world has a
legible record of several thousand years now,
and human nature does not appear to have
altered during that time to any extent
worth mentioning. It probably never will
alter very much. And what was true
about the Devil yesterday will almost cer-
tainly be true to-morrow. When he is sick
he will be virtuous; when he gets well he
will do just what he lias been doing during
the past 10 years.
That being so, in the ensuing hard years
there will be a greater or less revulsion
against buying more than we can pay for.
It is not likely that we shall get back to
just where we were. We didn’t get back in
the middle arid later ’nineties to just where
we were in the late ’seventies, for instance.
Nevertheless, there was a period of utter sobri-
ety. The very composition of the early Labor
parties which came into being in those days
was significant. They were filled with
Sunday-school superintendents and “local
preachers” and temperance workers.
Yet time-payment business never died,
though it had quite a different character from
that which it assumed subsequently. It repre-
sented itself as rather a benevolent institu-
tion : most of those who were concerned in
the instalment plan down to a few years ago
liked to think that there was something of
philanthropy or religion in this business
of enabling people to acquire necessities and
pay for them out of their subsequent earn-
ings or savings. Our grandfathers and great-
grandfathers bought the Bible on the instal-
ment plan, and probably not another thing
in their lives.
Time payment will not die. But, on the
evidence of the past, it will gradually change
its character, reverting more or less to that
character which it possessed when formerly
the community felt sick and sorry.
The suggestion that when times are bad
people may buy more largely on terms seems
to have no foundation in past experience.
Some time ago the “Wild Cat” followed the
history of the pawnbroking business so far
as accounts of public cos. permitted it to be
done. It was shown then that loan offices
were most prosperous when times were most
prosperous—when Mrs. Brown was trying to
outshine Mrs. Smith, and the competition led
on inevitably to borrowing.
Debt has a far greater terror for the good
time-payment buyer than for the bad one
of whom the dealer fights shy in slack times,
So in such times the dealer won’t do busi-
ness with one section and can’t do business
with the other—on anything like the old
scale, at any rate.
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
Dividends To
June, Profits. (10 p.c.) Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 348,602 245,154 103,448 2,302,262
1921.. 392,923 250,000 142,923 2,445,185
1922.. 397,885 296,649 101,236 2,546,421
1923.. 422,068 306,000 122,068 2,668,489
1924.. 451,567 330,170 121,397 2,789,886
1925.. 480,261 349,920 130,341 2,920,227
1926.. - 485,069 350,000 135,069 3,055,296
Bank of Victoria absorbed.
Reserves taken over, £850,000 .. 3,905,296
Written Off.
1927.. 556,705 401,817 50,000 4,010,184
1928.. 653,243 473,212 50,000 4,140,215
1929.. 655,194 473,901 50,000 4,271,508
1930.. 637,619 473,901 50,000 4,385,226
■Comparing the 12 months to June 30 with
its immediate predecessor Australia suffered
a loss, mainly in pastoral and agricultural
incomes, of about £44,000,000, of which wool
accounted for £28,000,000, wheat £8,000,000
and other exports the balance. This is re-
flected in the C.B.S. accounts by a contrac-
tion of £5,018,553 in deposits, mainly current
accounts, and a decrease of £5,198,622 in
liquid interest-bearing securities. Nearly
half the liquids drawn upon were short-dated
British Treasury bills yielding very low re-
turns. Advances were only £325,326 lighter.
Earnings were, and probably will be, most
affected by loss of turnover in the exchange
business, due to (1) the fall in export
values, (2) restriction of imports, (3) ex-
tension of credits by overseas suppliers, and
(4) the freezing of foreign traders’ funds
here —the money has been invested largely in
short-dated securities.
Moreover, the outlook has changed, and
security values are on the decline, w'ith little
prospect of an early recovery to former
levels, if indeed they are ever recovered —in
some cases they are not likely to be. Thus
the estimation of a bank’s profits has become
a vastly more uncertain business even than
usual. The cautious board, however, con-
sidered the position sufficiently protected by
writing the year’s net result only £17,575
short of the 1929 figure, making it equal to
13.8 p.c. on capital as against 13.8, 13.8,
13.8, 13.8 and 13.7 p.c. back to 1925. So
the 10 p.c. div. was repeated without a
quiver, and the sound position disclosed
helped to give a firmer tone to the market
for bank stocks generally.
Nevertheless the price for C.B.S. scrip
has been erratic. The shares (paid to
£l2 10s.) fetched £26 10s. a year ago; the
figure sagged to £l9 12s. Od. a couple of
months back, then recovered to £2l 10s.
and later eased to £2O or thereabouts. At
this last figure the return is 6.2 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, and conditions will need
to get a lot worse before that rate seems
likely to be interfered with. To pay it capi-
tal and reserves combined have to net only
5.1 p.c.; actually they turned in 6.9 p.c.
last year. And in addition to the big pile
of visible accumulations there is the inner
strength, believed to be substantial. The
seasonal outlook is right, and as conditions
become more settled secondary industries
can be expected to get busier.
Notwithstanding the adverse movements
liquids were still 37.5 p.c. of the liabilities to
the public at June 30
1926. 1929. 1930.
Notes .. .. £8,230 £14,130 £14,013
Bills .. .. 1,821,498 2,104,183 1,488,019
Deposits .. 38,539,205 54,420,876 49,402,323
Assets
Liquids .. £20,311,893 £24,319,884 £19,121 262
Advances .. 25,844,831 40,173,312 39,847,986
Premises, etc... 942,505 1,343,464 1,346,296
And for every pound of its own funds the
bank was holding only £5 11s. 7d. of the
public’s money. It is a very strong position.
The contraction of £616,164 in the bills
figure further reflects duller trading con-
ditions.
A little over three years ago the Bank of
Victoria, an old friend, was welded into the
business, thus providing a very solid Vic-
torian connection with a small but growing-
one in S. Aus. Prior to that direct activi-
ties of the C.B.S. had been confined to N. S.
Wales and Queensland for close on a cen-
tury.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
Net , to Re- and Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 25,471 12J p.c. = 18,750 6,721 229,323
New' capital, £77,983 .. .. 307,306
Premiums on new shares, £27,408.. 334,714
1921.. 34,474 10 p.c. = 30,287 4,187 338,901
New capital, £127 339,028
Premiums, £B5 .. .. .. 339,113
1922.. 30,562 10 p.c. = 30,305 257 339,370
1923.. 18,305 7J „ „ 22,733 334,942
Assets written up, £56,950.. .. 391,892
1924.. 35,681 10 p.c. = 30,311 5,370 397,262
From inner reserves, £BOOO .. 405,262
1925.. 39,092 10 p.c. = 30,311 8,781 414,043
1926.. 46,113 10 „ „ 30,311 15,802 429,845
Premiums on shares and profit on
sale of freehold, £71,583.. 501,428
New capital, £30,640 .. . . 532,068
1927.. 51,012 10 p.c. = 33,375 17,637 549,705
1928.. 42,214 10 „ „ 33,375 8,839 558,544
New capital, £44,000 .. .. 602.544
Share premium, £ll,OOO .. .. 613,544
1929.. 47,935 10 p.c. =■ 40,000 7,935 621,479
1930.. 39,758 10 „ „ 40,000 621,237
Actual underwriting business has not been
very profitable for some years past. This
has been due to some extent to the accumu-
lation of large reserves by old offices, which
have been able to pay large divs. either
wholly or substantially out of the earnings
of these surplus funds; and as competition
has sharpened, the tendency among such cos.
has been to make cuts and concessions, thus
reducing the margin of profit on underwrit-
ing. This also explains w T hy the youngsters
in the business have such a hard row to
hoe.
The Mercantile lias been in the business
for over half a century, and £152,250 of its
£400,000 of paid capital represents gift dis-
tributions. Last year its investments turned
in £29,897 —£8839 more than for the pre-
vious year—or 7.47 p.c. on paid capital. But
owing to general depression business became
very difficult and expensive to get; the extra
cost of gathering only £35 more net pre-
miums was £13,483. This was partly offset
by the favorable loss experience—claims were
£4030 lighter. Still, the £9861 of under-
writing profit was little better than half the
previous year’s and only 2.46 p.c. on capital.
That made net earnings from all sources 9.9
p.c. on capital compared with 11.9, 12.6,
15.2, 15.2 and 12.9 p.c. back to 1925, so re-
serves had to be dipped into for £242 to pay
the usual 10 p.c. div.
But the chance of that rate being inter-
fered with is comparatively small. It de-
pends largely upon underwriting results,
which have behaved thus since the beginning
of this century :—-
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p.c.
1910.. 64,515 21,656 35,078 35.1 „ 56.8 „
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52.9 „
1925.. 357.188 186,834 147,901 52.3 „ 41.4 „
1926.. 374,560 200,835 155,476 53.6 „ 41.5 „
1927.. 428,008 245,025 156,923 57.2 „ 36.6 „
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 „ 41.2 „
1929.. 362,167 198,925 143,963 54.9 „ 39.8 „
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 „ 43.5 „
Last year’s result w T as well below the
average for the past decade. Much will de-
pend upon the extent to which costs can be
got back, and as further reserves are accu-
mulated the position will become more and
more snug.
As usual, policy-holders are well pro-
tected. At June 30 they could see net tan-
gibles equal to 171 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, which is 21 p.c. more than is usually
considered enough. And the funds are in
good quality assets :
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £303,110 £333,750 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities .. 121,644 237,262 226,115 244,297
Freeholds .. 231,563 227,181 373,728 411,400
Mortgages .. 17,204 17,822 17,304 18,376
Investments.. 241,611: 459,474 381,963 358,101
Book debts .. 69,645 80,865 86,232 79,974
Cash, etc. .. 27,077 35,153 18,668 26,184
If more is wanted there is another £lOO,OOO
of capital at call. The fine new head-
quarters premises which the co. recently
built itself in Pitt-street, Sydney, and which
are largely responsible for the outside debt,
are well tenanted.
On the market the pound shares, paid to
165., fetched 325. a year ago; they can now
be had at 245. Allowing for the final div.
the return at the latter figure is 7 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts to
245. lOd. in net tangibles.
Peters' American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 25,647 13J p.c. = 15,000 10,647 14,594
1923.. 17,932 11 „ „ 15,005 2,918 11,676
Reserves.
1924.. 30,464 10 „ „ 15,000 15,464 3.788
Unexplained additions .. 47,644 51,432
1925.. 36,200 10 p.c. 20,224 15,976 67,408
Unexplained additions .. 30,614 98,022
1926.. 43,175 11| p.c. = 26,250 16,925 114,947
Unexplained additions .. 43,964 158,911
1927.. 53,539 13J p.c. = 36,024 17,515 176,426
Unexplained additions .. 63,678 240,004
1928.. 66,298 13J p.c. = 48,953 17,345 257,349
Unexplained additions .. 86,018 343,367
1929.. 73,132 13J p.c. = 51,136 21,996 365,363
Unexplained additions . . 81,432 446,795
1930.. 65,239 13J p.c. = 55,929 9,310 456,105
The profit claimed was £7893 less than the
previous year’s. Nevertheless it was 15.5
p.c. on average capital (as against 19, 18,
19.7, 19.7 and 17.9 back to 1924), so the
13J p.c. div. was repeated without cutting
things too fine. But most of the profit was
earned before the end of February, since
when there has been a sharp decline in turn-
over. Boom conditions, which mean free
spending on luxuries, helped to put much
of the glitter in recent figures; now that
things have changed and unemployment is
on the increase, work is being rationed and
wages are on the down grade, the public is
more careful of the fewer pence in its pocket,
and that care is likely to grow.
It is plain, therefore, that earnings on
the same scale as in the past cannot be ex-
pected in the future, though to what extent
profit writing will be affected is difficult to
say. The board claims that it has been “ultra
conservative” in the treatment of the figures,
and the large unexplained additions to re-
serves suggest something of the kind. Last
year £81,432 was thus put aside, lifting the
general, taxation and depreciation reserves
(all lumped at £472,045) £9937 higher than
the book value of plant, etc. —that is, after
allowing for the final div. and. £25,250 of
goodwill. The amount earmarked to cover
loss of capital through wear and tear, etc.,
could with advantage be stated definitely. Of
the year’s increase £20,000 was presumably
on account of scrip received for the sale of
the co.’s Westralian rights; thus contribu-
tions out of ordinary revenue were £61,432
or £5414 more than for the previous year,
when £30,000 in scrip was received for the
Victorian rights.
Finances are comfortable :
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £383,523 £383,523 £425,835
Liabilities .. . 75,086 17,669 20,254 25,326
Freeholds, etc. 137,855 242,393 235,335 241,148
Plant, etc... 83,262 352,678 402,,277 446,168
Investments .. 4,313 39,765 107,110 152,310
Stock. . . . 7,238 9,334 11,36 C 11,340
Book debts . . 3,694 12,007 30,398 33,040
Cash .. .. 12 27,932 8,222 51,649
During the year £42,312 of fresh capital
was got in (ss. on 169,247 £1 shares), and
the more or less liquid surplus (£70,703,
excluding investments) was £40,971 stronger
than at the close of accounts in 1929. The
increase of £49,704 in the book value of fixed
assets and of £24,200 in the holding in the
Brisbane co. was met mainly out of the
year’s earnings. Holdings in associated cos.
figure at £94,200 —Brisbane, £44,200; Vic.,
£30,000; Westralia, £20,000. The Vic. co.
registered a loss of £9946 last year • the
Brisbane one netted 10.6 p.c. on its capital
and paid a 5 p.c. div., and the other in
Westralia has announced a 10 p.c. div.
The market prices the scrip (£1 paid to
155.) at 245. 6d. as against 395. 6d. a year
ago. The return at the lower price is 8.1
p.c. on a 13J p.c. div. basis, or 6.1 p.c. if
the rate of distribution drops to 10 p.c.
Including an unspecified amount for deprecia-
tion, the backing per £ of paid capital is 41s,
sd. in net tangibles, mostly fixed assets
worth what they can earn.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd.
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 6363 9 p.c. = 4295 1 mfiß 4 918
Provident Fund, £lOOO ) 1068 4,208
1921.. 6321 10 p.c. = 4829 ( „ q 9 - ozn
Provident Fund, £5OO \ 992 6,26
1922. . 6775 10 p.c. = 4829 ( 144 a 6 696
Provident Fund, £5OO ) 1440
Transferred to capital, £5050 .. 1,646
1923.. 7197 10 p.c. = 5365 f 1291 2 937
Provident Fund, £541 ) ’
1924.. 9221 10 p.c. = 5365 1
Written off premises, £l6OO 1762 4,699
Provident Fund, £594
1925.. 9172 10 p.c. = 5050'
Written off premises, £l5OO ■ 1984 6,683
Provident Fund, £638
1926.. 0842 l°P- c -= 5050) 4Q99 10 782
Provident Fund, £693 j
1927.. 7913 10 p.c. = 5050 f 9197 19 onq
Provident Fund. £736 ) 2127 12,909
Transferred to capital, £12,626. . 284
1928.. 8492 8 p.c. = 6294 f ~r 9 x 730
Provident Fund £746 ) 1402 1,(80
1929.. 8490 8 p.c. = 7070 ). g2G 2 562
Provident Fund, £6OO )
1930.. 8675 8 p.c. = 7070 ) 100 r 0 r )67
Provident Fund, £6OO ) IUUo 8,002
Drought and financial stringency delayed the
winding up of some of the trust accounts,
and the downward trend of prices, which
has been more or less in evidence in Queens-
land for the last three or four years, affected
commission earnings. Thus returns have
not kept pace with the recent growth in the
volume of trust business, which has steppei.
along in this way:—
1910 .. £2,135,244 1 1926 .. £7,016,953
1915 .. 3,382,095 [ 1927 . . 7,331,236
1920 .. 4,770,752 | 1928 .. "7,958,795
1924 . . 6,326,019 1929 . . 8,787,063
- 1925 .. 6,596,698 1 1930 . . 8,863,277
For the 12 months to June 30 last the net
increase in the value of trusts in hand was
only £76,214, the smallest for many years.
In "the previous term the leap was £828,268,
and only once has that figure been beaten :
it was in 1899, when the Tyson estate was
put on the books. .
But since the unearned portion of the
corpus commission is reserved, and credited
to the p. and 1. account as estates are wound
up, the Q.T. was able to show an extra £960
of commissions, interest and rents (£40,621)
last year. Exes. (£31,946, including £lOOO
as against £6OO in the previous year for tax-
ation) made off with £7Bl of the increase,
leaving the net result at 9.8 p.c. on capital
compared with 9.6, 10.7, 15.6, 19.4 and 18.1
p.c. back to 1925. The poorer showing for
the last three years is due partly to facts
already referred to, partly to the capitalisa-
tion of £12,625 of reserves in 1927 and partly
to heavier overhead, the result of louder
calls from the taxgatherer and additions to the
premises and staff. The 8 p.c. div., by the
way, is worth 14 p.c. to old holders; 7s. 6d.
of the 17s. 6d. to which the 101,000 £2
shares are paid represents gift distributions
since 1917. „
Excluding an overdraft of £36,925 for
secured advances to trust estates, etc., the
co.’s own funds and a small amount of out-
side money has been placed in this way
1 qi k IQ9fi IQ9Q IQ2O
Paid capital .. £25,250 £50,500 £88,375 £88,375
Liabilities.. .. 7,185 Nil 168 1,0'84
Freehold and plant 28,818 41,203 64,764 65,750
Public securities.. 20,550 21,842 21,150 21,150
Book debts and
cash .. ... 3,727 1,806 10,749 11,262
At the close of last accounts 67 p.c. of the
total assets was represented by city property
and 21.5 p.c. by Government securities. Pre-
sently a further £6OOO is to be spent on the
erection of premises at Toowoomba.
Probably the fall in rental and other
values in Queensland will not be so great as
in some of the other States; and against
whatever shrinkage in earnings may result
from this cause can be set a steady increase
in the volume of trusts. So, although the
visible prop for capital is slender, the 8 p.c.
does not seem in much danger. The market
prices the scrip at around 245.; at which
figure the yield is 5.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 18s. 2d. in net tan-
gibles.
(Continued on next page.)


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Street*,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
Tilling-Stevens Motors, Ltd.
Maidstone, England.
2 i. 3, 5/6-TON GEAR-DRIVEN 30 PASSENGER “EXPRESS’
2 ’ ' MOTOR CHASSIS.
Specially Suitable for Transportation of Cattle, Sheep, Horses, etc.
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
Touched
Bottom ?
There’s money to be lost by
buying the wrong stock or
trusting the wrong people.
There’s money to be made by
picking the right stocks and
buying at the right time.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly
doesn’t know everything; but
it has a wonderful accumulation
of data and unequalled sources
of information, and it places
these at your disposal.
AUGUST NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 21- ;
PER ANNUM, 22/0.
It looks a good deal of money ; but it
may save you losing all you’ve got.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.lison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * 4- *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Goo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Comer Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
;Ji $ !!: :j:
Economy is a feature that holds a big appeal in
Pioneer Wood Pipe, for not only is a considerable
saving made in initial cost—but also in freight,
transporting,' handling, laying and maintenance costs.
The service rendered by Pioneer Wood Pipe is of
the highest standard of efficiency. Strong, durable,
unafferted by frost, heat or electrolysis, and abso-
lutely non-corrosive. Write for full particulars to
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ;
and at Footseray, Victoria.— Advt.
iJJ * sit
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale-and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried.. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale. — Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney,
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane, in
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * 4= *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Make secure
what you can’t
insure.
SAFE PROTECTION for your books,
papers and valuables
Fire- and Burglar-resisting Safes. Strong-
room doors, etc. List of Banks, Insurance
Offices, Government Departments, Firms and
Corporations using these safes will be supplied
by request.
Buy direct from Manufacturer.
J. L. KELLY, 455 Macaulay Road,
Kensington, Melbourne, Wl.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co.
Paid Net Pro-
for fit avail-
Good- able for De-
June, Profit. Dividends. will. Reserves, ficit.
£* £,£,£,£
1920.. 7,008 9 p.c. = 6300 708 4043
Co. reconstructed. Reserves capitalised, assets
written up and £7413 added to goodwill items.
Towards De-
Jrne, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
C c -C =PQO44.
1921.. 12,282 10 p.c. = 10,501 1781 7263
1922.. 16,008 10 „ „ 10,501 5507 1756
Loss.
1923.. 871 Nil 2627
Profit.
1924.. 3,731 p.c. = 3,675 66 2571
1925.. 340 3 „ „ 3,150 6381
1926.. 10,045 7 „ „ 7,350 2695 2686
Reserves.
1927.. 13.514 9 „ „ 9,451 4363 1677
1928.. 13,724 10 „ „ 10,501 3223 4900
1929.. 10,745 10 „ „ 10,501 244 5144
1930.. 9,737 9 „ „ 9,450 287 5431
The co.’s factories are at Lane Cove (N.
8. AA T ales) and Footscray (A r ic.), and they
turn out wood-pipes for water-supply and
similar purposes. In 1920 prospects looked
so rosy that the book value of the assets
was written up £30,170, including £7413 for
goodwill, and the paper reserves thus created,
together with a handful of visibly accumu-
lated earnings, were capitalised, lifting the
lota] in the share register from £70,000 to
£105,007, at which figure it still stands.
Presently there was a slackening in ex-
penditure on water-supply schemes, competi-
tion sharpened, orders were difficult to get
and, for a while, it looked as though the
gift scrip would stand in the way of divi-
dend rate. But the wood pipe has its special
advantages and thus far its own particular
market, so earnings soon recovered and the
div. climbed to 10 p.c. again. Meanwhile
the co. went into the timber business as a
sideline, but this has probably turned out
to be more of a hindrance than a help.
Last year substantial Government con-
tracts in N. S. AVales, Yic. and Tas. were
completed, together with a good volume of
small orders. But business slackened dur-
ing the latter half of the term, hence the
hoard wrote the year’s net profit at 9.2 p.c.
on capital compared with 10.2, 13 and 13.2
p.c. for the three preceding years, so a
point was chipped off the div., reducing it
to 9 p.c. and making the average over the last
decade 7.1 p.c.
During the year £25,043 was clipped off
the debt, reducing it to £13,393: —
1920. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £105,007 £105,007 £105,007
Liabilities .. 23,576 37,030 38,436 13,393
Properties and
plant . . 40,716 71,820 74,215 74,860
Stock . . . . 28,697 36,083 49,056 30,092
Book debts .. 26,312 41,173 24,967 21,138
Deposits, cash, etc. 5,393 3,712 5,599 1,935
To do this stock was reduced £18,964, and
book debts, cash, etc., provided the balance.
The more or less liquid surplus (£39,772, in-
cluding stocks) was £1414 lighter than at
the previous balance.
Earnings largely depend upon Government
expenditure, and this will be much curtailed
in the future. The board, how*ever, considers
that the co. can successfully compete in
price for whatever business is offering. Of
the contracts in hand the most important
is in connection with the Mt. Lyell co.’s
new hydro-electric station, which is to supply
the extra power required for the Electro-
lytic Zinc Co.’s new mill at Rosebery.
The market sums up the risks by paying
12s. for the pound shares. Allowing for the
final div. the return at that figure is 16.2
p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to 21s. in net tangibles, mainly
plant, worth what it can be made to earn.
Mercantile Bank Liquidation.
What is the position of shareholders in
the Mercantile Bank of Australia (in com-
pulsory liquidation ) ? —Service Department
Query.
Finality has been delayed owing to illness
of the first liquidator and to doubt about
the present liquidator’s legal rights in re-
spect of claims against certain persons who
benefited under contracts made with the co.
Counsel’s opinion .is being sought. Assets
(apart from uncalled capital) consist of a
few hundred pounds in cash. The rights
of shareholders amongst themselves present
another problem, with startling possibilities
for ord. shareholders. Though these unfor-
tunates never had the satisfaction of seeing
the “bank’s” doors open, in addition to losing
their paid capital there is a chance of their
being called upon to make up, to the extent
of their unqalled liability, what the prefs.
have lost. Premiums paid on pref. shares,
of course, have definitely gone. The fact
that three different prospectuses were issued
promises to make the adjustment of rights
of shareholders inter se more confusing still.
At the date the winding-up petition was pre-
sented, paid capital was £16,475 in 2332
8 p.c. (fixed) cum. prefs., 3773 “A” parti-
cipating prefs. and 4262 ords., all £5 shares.
The amount ord. shareholders will be asked
to contribute to the assets will depend largely
upon how much the claims before mentioned
are worth.
Position at the Barrier.
Notwithstanding that the Barrier cos.'
contract for the sale of zinc concentrates to
the British Government, which ran out on
June 30, is not being renewed, and that the
bottom has fallen out of the metal markets,
the W.I.U. has decided to ask for a 10 p.c.
increase in wages, the abolition of the con-
tract system and a five-day week of six
hours a day underground and seven hours
on the surface. The union has also decided
to invest £lO,OOO of its funds with the
Wholesale Co-op. Society of N. S. Wales at
5 p.c.; the money to be used for the purchase
of rations in the event of a strike.
The union, of course, does not expect that
its request will be granted. What it hopes
tc do is to prevent a cut in wages. A reduc-
tion of 17$ p.c. was recently proposed by the
Proprietary, Block 14 and Sulphide Corp.;
and then, the cos. claimed, they would be
shouldering more than half the total loss in-
volved by continuing operations. The pro-
posal was turned down, so the Prop, and
Block 14 arc cleaning up preparatory to
closing. The ore from these two mines is
treated at the Central, which is to review
the position as soon as deliveries cease. The
British mine closed on June 2S, and the
North has since been rationing some of its
work. The union now fears that the North,
South and Zinc Corp. will move for a
reduction of wages when the present agree-
ment expires.
The curse of the Barrier is the swollen-
headed union leader. He has got an idea
that all the world is watching Broken Ilill,
and taking its time industrially from it. As
a matter of fact, there is ho town of equal
size in Australia which in these days com-
mands so little attention; and for years
past it has had hardly any influence in the
Labor party. It is therefore not likely to
get much sympathy or support from the
rank and file of Labor throughout Australia.
Tin Restriction.
An old friend of the “Wild Cat,” who is
an authority on the metal markets, takes a
cheerful view of the future for tin :
The Tin Producers’ Assoc, has published a list
of those companies which have agreed to its pro-
posals, either to stop for two months and afterwards
reduce their tin output by 20 per cent., or only
to reduce their present output by 20 per cent, in
the future. The list includes 28 Australian cos.,
but leaves out such producers as Maliin Nawar,
Nuang, Puchon, Pungah, Ratrut and Takuapa, ail
of which have debts to pay off. Amongst the 16
cos. which have agreed only to the 20 per cent,
reduction are some of the largest producers in the
Malayan Peninsula, viz., Detailing- and Gopeng Con-
solidated, though the biggest of them all, Pahang
Consolidated, has apparently refused to restrict.
There are also several British-owned mines which
have not agreed to the proposals. No Bolivian list
of mines appears, nor are there any particulars of
the Dutch beyond the statement that Bolivia and
Billiton have agreed to curtail production by 25
per cent, and 20 per cent, respectively. Most of
tlie mines named in the list are controlled by
British capital. One-third only of the Dutch output
is affected. The T.P.A. estimates a reduction of
17,100 tons of tin for the rest of the year as a
result of the restriction. If this estimate is realised,
the reduction ought to meet the existing condition
of an abnormally reduced consumption.
Most of the prophecies about the decadence of
tin overlook the point that the world’s consumption
is not going to stand still at the 1929 figure. In
the past there has been a steady increase in the
consumption. The causes of the reduced price .and
consumption of tin in 1930 have similarly affected
all the other principal commercial metals. A strong
indication of the loss of buying power is the low
price of silver ; it has never been lower since records
have been kept.
AVhatever the causes which have led to the
world-wide depression, it is not likely to continue
indefinitely in every country. Some will recover
rapidly, such as America. iOnce normality is
reached in purchasing power, consumption will get
back to its natural rate of increase, and it seems
safe to prophesy that in a few years’ time an
output equal to the present “over-production” of
tin will not nearly meet the demand. Support for
this view may be seen in the way that copper pro-
duction and consumption have bounded up in the
last few years.
The handful of optimists on the Mt.
AVerong (N.S.AV.) mineral field are pinning
their faith to the hoped-for flotation of Ruby
Creek silver-lead mine in London, whither
several tons of ore have been sent. There is
certainly good stuff to be had at Mt. Werong;
transport is the difficulty, Developmental
work, however, appears unconscionably
small considering the time the show has been
held by various parties. As for gold, the
field contains an enormous tonnage of allu-
vial wash from which colors can be obtained
everywhere. Unfortunately very little more
than colors seems to be obtainable, and their
cash value is distressingly small, the gold
being so light and scaly. Assays of plati-
num are said to have been obtained from
some of the wash which might repay closer*
investigation. It is a wonderful place fox-
timber ; magnificent blackbutt, messmate and
other hardwoods abound there, and if it were
not for the 30-mile haul to Oberon, the
nearest railway station, the timber should be !
a bigger goldmine tlian the auriferous con-
tents of the soil beneath.
* * * *
The Chillagoe Smelters (Q.) are still
smelting copper ore, and the north is being
canvassed for supplies. But at present prices
there is not much in it for the ore-producer,
and probably nothing at all for the smelters.
It is likely that lead ore and concentrates
will be smelted towards the end of the year ;
concentrates are expected from Mt. Isa.
*
Youanmi (AY. A.), offered to Adelaide for a
small sum, is described by Assistant State
Mining-Engineer Wilson as the best boring
proposition he knows among the old idle
goldmines in the AVest. He says there are
good values underfoot in the bottom of the
main and other workings, and that prospects
justify the drill being used to prove the
extension of values in deeper ground. 1w o
or three small cos. which have a few thou-
sands cash in hand are being urged to pool
their resources and give Youanmi a trial.
* * * *
Enterprise Gold Mines, Ltd., which spent
about £15,000 in testing the old Boulder No.
1 and an adjoining lease at Boulder Block,
Kalgoorlie, and then abandoned its option,
has decided to wind up and form a new co.
under the No Liability law. Shareholders
have the right to take up 10 free shares
paid to 3d. in the new co for every share
held in the old co. The Adelaide crowd,
headed by Morrie Hamer and friends, who
control this venture, is anxious to hear from
anyone who has a mine or the makings of a
mine for sale.
* * *
Kimberley Exploitations Syndicate (W.A.)
has had an unpleasant surprise. Last year
a stranger from the north reported that the
co. had a valuable gold, tin and copper con-
cession there, with the possibility of tan-
tali te, oil and other finds thrown in. The
pound shares soared to over £3O, and were
tipped to see £lOO. but the weight of hur-
ried selling soon broke the market. Pro-
sently C. M. Harris made an inspection. He
reports that the yarn about mineral riches
is all moonshine, and that the “petrolifer-
ous smell” is from marsh gas.
❖ i\t ❖ : i :
Sons *of Gwalia had its annual roll-up in
London the other day. Chairman Moreing’s
chief complaint was about the “unreasonable
attitude of labor.” It is not a question of
wages or hours, but of heat. The arbitra-
tion award says work must not be done
when the temperature rises above a certain
point, and, as the temperature in the bottom
of the mine is a degree or two higher than
the maximum fixed by the award, operations
are at a standstill. The co. is. asking for
a revision of the award. Morcing declared
that the lower levels were looking well, and,
with “anything like a fair chance,” the co.,
which hasn’t paid a div. for years and is
deeply in debt to the State. Government,
would give a good account of itself.
?,i % Jjc *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department. )
(1) Why are there so.many failures among
shale cos.? (2) Are any cos. operating in
N.&.W. successfully at present? (3) In re-
fining petroleum -what extra plant is neces-
sary for “cracking”? (4) Can such he pur-
chased in Australia? £5) Is the Crosier dis-
tillator as successful in treating coal for
petroleum as it has proved with oil shale?
(6) Is there any agent {or manufacturer )
of the Crozier plant in Australia? —7662.
(1) Principally excessive mining costs,
combined (in some cases) with unwise ex-
penditure of capital. (2) No. (3) Most
plants require a separate apparatus for the
chemical operation known as “cracking,”
though there are exceptions such as the
Schulz plant (B. 27/10/’27). (4) No record
of any Australian manufacturer handling
apparatus of this kind. The Crozier address
is Finsbury, London. (5) No record. (6)
It is an English firm. Dorman, Long, of
Sydney and Melbourne, who have been inter-
ested in a shale proposition at Latrobe, have
granted permission to Mineral Oils Extrac-
tion of London to erect a Crozier plant to
test the shale there. They may be able to
supply further information.
(1) If an insurance co. is ordered by a
Judge to be wound up, in what position are
policy-holders who have paid premiums?
(2) Have they any redress? (3) Their best
course? —7485.
(1) They become ordinary creditors for
the actuarial value of their policies. (2)
No more than ordinary creditors. (3) De-
pends on the circumstances of the case.
Better write to the liquidator (he would be
a man selected by the Court) and ask him
for advice.
When surrendering a life policy, is the
surrender value calculated to the day of the
surrender of policy or front the date of the
i last general meeting of policy-holders? —
7578.
The common practice is to calculate to the
end of the quarter current at the date of
the surrender.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.K.C.: Position obscure and doubtful.
See R. 19/2/’3O. Decision would depend on amount
paid on policy... .L.G.0.: See Bulletin 25/12/’29.
The shares are not listed... .A.T.S.: Yes, the tide
has turned. That is to say, we are reducing our
imports; and our excess ot imports was the main
cause of our disaster. But that certainly doesn’t
mean that prices have touched bottom... .8.C.: (1)
Yes —than some, at any rate. (2) If you mean
Australian investment, Commonwealth loans. ...
R.G.S.: (1) and (2) Report now in printer’s hands;
we are informed that it shows the details asked
for. (8) Wherever possible. (4) Yes. A profit is
shown at £l4O. (5) Sydney expenditure is not
included in mine working costs.... J. 8.: AVait till
you can get a surrender value. And don’t surrender
then until you are sure of acceptance elsewhere....
R.A.R.: Australian Shale Oil Co. sold to L. and N.,
Ltd., nearly two years ago. The buyers have not
started operating yet and shares are not yet issued.
. ...H.R.G.: A subsidiary of Oriomo; has a
sound directorate; operating in Australia and New
Guinea. A gamble, but it is at least trying to get
results... .T.F.R.: Looks quite safe 8.G.P.: A’on
can do much better... .V.Q.A.: (1) and (2) No ; it
isn’t that sort of situation at all. (3) and (4)
Neither could default without national default; and
that is not possible if there is even a fair response
to the call for increased and cheaper production.
. ...H.S.: You can be compelled to pay; whether
you will get anything out of it is very doubtful.. . .
G.A.L.: See B. -26/3/’3O F. J.G.: (1) See B.
23/4/’3O (2) B. 16/7/’2O and (3) B. 21/5/’3O.


Improved . . . but fundamentally unchanged
. . . the Chevrolet Six now offers even
greater value . • • value unapproached.
CLUB ROADSTER-This and other
models with 6 wire wheels, spares
carried in fender wells, bumpers, and
folding trunk rack as standard equip*
ment: Club Sedan, Club Coupe, Club
Tourer. Disc wheels are standard on
Suburban Roadster, Suburban Sedan
Suburban Tourer.
\' wn
i
>«
4*.
rs
me,
CM
■A
n
(i
Mil
i.
m
m
h.
/A
2*
\
\I
//
D
U
ft
if
Now the finest range of
body styles ever offered in the
low-price field —
10W- \ O
point#
\0 at «'“•
coi*’'"
j;»w; \ ~ \ O
„ \ D
riSKSi^S
S 3»
SMS
■VSrf-
STi-ilT'
X'SZ^'l
“S-lrS
5=
Check the Chevrolet Value Chart
on a demonstration run to-day
1. Six-cylinder performance. 2. Pet-
rol economy. 3. Smart streamline
design. 4. Big-car comfort. 5. Per-
fect control 4-wheel brakes. 6.
Smoothness and quiet. 7. Safety-
angled windscreen, foot-controlled
headlamps. 8. Service every where —
convenient terms. 9. Big-car features
—fuel pump, air cleaner, complete
dash indicators. 10. A General
Motors Australian product.
jm
f i m vkoiT \,/k
and the Chevrolet Value Chart proves the
amazing value back of all this new beauty
JgRILLIANT new body styles
in wide variety. Chevrolet’s
popularity created the demand for
them. And the improved Chev-
rolet Six responds—with the finest
range of graceful models ever
offered in the low-price field.
Four models—the new Club Series
—have 6 wire wheels, spares carried
in fender wells. Picture the smart
beauty this means. Then see the
car. Drive it. Thrill to its power-
ful, smooth 6-cylinder performance,
ease of control. You’ll find your
every expectation morethan realized.
Check the Chevrolet Value Chart
yourself and prove Chevrolet’s
superior value among low-priced
cars. Ten important points of
comparison tell the story.
Thousands of Australian owners
know that Chevrolet is outstand-
ingly economical to run. It is
warranted for one year. Expert
service everywhere. Easy G.M.A.C.
time payment terms if desired.
General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Ade-
laide, Perth. “More Wealth for Aus-
tralia —More Jobs for Australians.’’
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Metropolitan Dealers:
Brisbane :
Metropolitan Motors Ltd.
Adelaide Street - - Brisbane
Sydney:
John McGrath Ltd.
155 Elizabeth St. - Sydney
Melbourne:
Stokoe Motors Pty. Ltd.
559-565 Elizabeth St. - Melbourne
Adelaide:
City Motors Ltd.
95 Waymouth St. - Adelaide
Perth:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street - - - - Perth
The Improved
Chevrolet Six


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current 'rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 ho Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine,
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
m
KSSEr
Head Office.
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff, £3/13/6
weekly. Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc.
Situated right opposite Spencer Street Station, no
taxi fares; railway porter carries baggage across if
necessary. Please write for detailed tariff curd.
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
MISINFORMED.
“Ahndrew, Ah’m sorra tae hear you fairgot
yoursail' at the pairty the ither nicht.”
“Nae, nae, Ah didna fairget masel’. Ah
remembaired masel ’ a wee bit too
often.”
“Ringer” : Despite the fact that old Brown
had warned him off, Big Bill the shearer still
continued to court his daughter. “I’ll fix
th’ cow; —big as ’e is!” old Brown roared,
He saw Bill in town next day and taking
liis courage in both hands, strode up to him.
“Took ’ere Bill,” he yelled. “You keep away
fr’m my daughter or I’ll break her flamin’
nec k!”
“Sea Nomad”: The water
spout which was observed near
Perth the other day is a rarity
in that locality, but further
north it is a fairly frequent
phenomenon. I’ve seen the
spout in the Gulf of Carpentaria
in all its terrible glory. On an
almost calm day an inky cloud
will reach deliberately down to
the waters like a clutching hand.
Underneath thc cloud the water
is agitated and soon commences
to form itself into a column
which is joined by a column dip-
ping down from the cloud. Then
the sea fiends’ dance commences.
The water column is a huge
spinning spiral; its broad base
a mound of sucking wavelets
frothing high above the bosom
of the sea. Its roof is the ugly,
lightening cloud which seems
alive as its wings soar skyward
in an endeavor to tear the
column into the sky. But the
sea clings grimly to its own
while the cloud rushes away at
terrific speed. The column
stretches and bends and howls
as it .is forced to follow. 11l
fares any small vessel that fouls
the erratic course of the mon-
ster. The spout breaks in halves
at last, sometimes with a sound
like a tliunder-clap. A big spout
rarely lasts more than half an
hour. At times in the Gulf as
many as 20 of them are visible
at the same time, all rushing
about on their o\yn eccentric
and unrelated courses.
“Arg”: The chap who took illicitly dis-
tilled snake-juice from Tintenbar to Bailing
in a hearse wasn’t as clever as one of his
successors in the same trade. This man took
his stuff to market by dog-cart in the light
of day, fearing no evil. He had not squared
the police, but he kept bees as a side-line,
and purported to supply honey to the pubs
at the river mouth. He carried a cargo of
krosene-tins with internal, amendments.
Fair under the bunghole a piece of four-
inch pipe extended from the top to the
bottom of the tin. When the police stick
was thrust in, it plumbed nothing but pure
honey, clear down to the bottom. But the
surrounding space had contents of a more
exciting sort.
* s’: *
“Bad Australian”: In consequence of con-
tinuous raids and cattle-spearing by Central
Australian blacks the authorities have found
it necessary to increase the number of police,
and additional stations are to be
established, one in the north-west and
another in the south-east of the
Territory. Despite their meagre
numbers and the extreme difficulty of
running Black Brother to earth in
his native spinifex, the Centralian
police have succeeded in putting 36
of the marauders in a place where
the crows won’t annoy them for
some time. Jacky lets himself be
caught because he regards the cala-
boose as a convenient camping-place,
where he can enjoy plenty white-
pfeller tucker without hustling for
it; so when the season is unpropi-
tious and the kangaroo lights out for
parts unknown, and the emu is non-
come-at-able, or when he feels a han-
kering after the fleshpots of the con-
quering race, he goes out and spears
a bullock or two and confesses to the crime
with such alacrity that there is no mis-
understanding his motive.
i-s t\i • *!*
“Smilax”: Biggpott looked up from his
massive glass-topped table and glared at
the intruder. “Well what do you want?”
he rapped out. The young salesman coughed
diffidently, “Well —eh—sir, I came to see if
I could interest you—if you needed —one of
our”-—— “Can’t be done,” snapped the
other, “I’ve got three already.” The sales-
man’s eyes goggled, but he went. Alone,
Biggpott smiled at his own cleverness. Then
his eye caught the card the other had left on
the table, and he picked it up. Dark was
his brow as he read “Slicem’s Artificial
Limbs. Consult our sales representative for
cork legs, etc.”
v s !'
“Jaydee”: Jahiu the “head-boy” watched
with scorn the departing Sakais, shy, wild,
jungle-people, with whom the Tuan had been
bargaining for a monkey. “Let them come
back, Tuan, I will get it for you, and cheaply,”
he said. The Sakais came, glaring defiantly
at the Malays, but they insisted on their
price of 10 dollars for the wretched young
gibbon. “Good,” said Jahiu, “you shall have
it. Oh, Tuan, give me some money. Now”
(sternly to the Sakai), “hold out your hand
and say when it is enough.” Then, a cent or
two at a time, he doled out about half a
A FORTUNE IN INSURANCE.
COHEN (j ust arrived—to himself): “Mine gootness! Vat a lofely place to start a
bizness!”
dollar. The dazzled Sakai, his hands full,
stammered, “Enough,” and fled, leaving the
monkey. "Oh no, Tuan,” quoth the virtuous
Jahiu, “I am no robber. When the Sakai
goes to the Chinese shops he will be charged
all lie has for whatever he wants to buy, so
the less he lias the better.”
* ❖ * *
“Tiewire”: There is a good reason why
“The Emu” lias never seen rabbit bones
lying round the paddocks (B. 16/7/’3O).
As soon as a member of the furred clan
kicks the bucket, the body is 'dragged out of
the burrow. It doesn’t take the crows long
to pick the flesh from the bones—and that’s
just what Bunny wants. All hands are then
set to work to pound the bones into dust,
which is scattered throughout the grass.
Bunny realises that bones make excellent
fertiliser, and rabbits have to live, the same
as anyone else.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Pick”: A good horse is dependable in all
situations. We had rounded up a moh of
travelling bullocks on
the summit of Sherwin’s
Range (N.S.W.), and
after much ringing
and wheeling in they
had camped. Late on
night watch Fred, our
abo. stockman, was
scouting around the
resting animals when
with a common im-
pulse they sprang up,
and tore down the hill-
side towards where
he rode. Fred’s only
chance of escaping
the avalanche was to
race away down the
mountain side, but he
knew that at the foot
was a narrow gorge.
He had to risk that.
His old stockhors
was true. H’e cleared
the hollow, and the
leading bullocks somer-
saulted into it with frantic bellows. Twenty-
four lay dead at the bottom before the beef
torrent checked itself.
“Zwig”: It was Saturday afternoon, and
a little crowd of us were sitting about the
bar-room of a country hotel, pretending to
listen to the dull anecdotage of a local
squatter who had obviously shipped a greater
cargo than he should have. As he turned to
go he said something apparently unusually
humorous, for, although I myself didn’t quite
catch it, the rest of the loungers burst forth
in a paroxysm of mirth. When it liad sub-
sided to some degree, I looked across at
one who seemed to have inordinately enjoyed
himself, and asked, “What was the joke? I
didn’t quite catch it.” “I dunno,” he said.
“Then why did you laugh?” I asked. He
winked at me knowingly. “He’ll be takin’ on
men for sliearin’ next week!”
* * * i]c
“Uramao”: Up the Wanganui River
(M.L.), where Maoris swarm, football takes
precedence of everything else in its season.
In one village there was a Chinaman named
Willie whose keenness for the Rugby game
was not 'a whit less than that of his brown
.customers. He used to forsake his callots
and lettucee and accompany the Maori team
on all its forays. “Flee klick!” was Willie’s
favorite , exclamation as he capered up and
down the line. Neglect of his shop landed
the yellow enthusiast in the Bankruptcy
NO TIME FOR A SPELL.
“Heah, Flourbag! Pull up and have a drink
o’ tea.”
“Can’t do it, boss. Gotter get to Millaa
Millaa ’fore this ’orse knock up alto-
gether.”
Court, and great was the grief at his depar-
ture from the township. “Py korry, Wiri
was te masspot; I dunno how we get on
now!” wailed one hefty Maori.
THE CABBAGE-TREE HAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It's ragged, and it's greasy,
And it’s cracked across the crown;
It’s not the sort of cady
As a cove would wear in town;
It’s linin’s hard and wrinkled,
And its color’s dingy brown.
But never mind the looks of it;
My troubles about that!
It’s been a good old pal to me,
My cabbage-tree hat!
I haven’t had it on my head
For donkey’s ycaiA an’ yeai\s.
Not since 1 broke my collar-bone,
W’ile roundin’ up the steers,
Back in them Warrumbungle days,
A long ways in arrears.
For Father Time has got us down,
Both shoulders on the mat; •
Me in my bunk, him on his peg,
My cabbage-tree hat! *
My saddle an’ my stockwhip,
And my stock-horse an’ my dog
Spent many a night together
By the blazin’ niulga log;
An’ many a mile across the plains
We done the “chinkie-jog.”
An’ once, beneath a kurrajong,
Me an’ Eliza sat,
An’ on ’er shiny curls she wore
My cabbage-tree hat!
But out on Gooriannawa
My nag got “Hurlin' pea,”
An’ Stum pie took a bait an’ died,
On Wantagidginnie;
My saddle an’ my stockwhip's gone,
An’ nothing’s left but me
A-batchin’ in my humpy
By the creek, on Dingo Flat.
With my one friend of the Old Days—
My cabbage-tree hat!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


RUPTURE
SUFFERS &?■
V
©
Know security of body and peace of
mind by wearing Deuyer’s Elastic
Truss—the Truss with the patent
water pad. The last word in com-
fort, freedom and effective support .
Trusses also made specially to order.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
Free Pamphlet and Self-Measure-
ment Form sent in plain envelope.
WRITE NOW!
DEN Y E R BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established /1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bamc offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
The
Hand
in
Need
1
for the
SaleofSkins _
is the work of strong, reliable salesmen in market-
ing them. Consign Rabbit, Fox and Other Skins,
Winchcombe. Carson
LTD.
Selling Agents, SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s determined, capable efforts never
fail to produce highest possible prices.
Auctions every week Prompt returns
“Gridder”: You can say what you like
about horses, but the most fiendish and
Intractable sort of mount known to man is
the bicycle when it gets a new chum on its
back. I learned to ride a bike late at night
on a totally deserted road two chains wide.
There was only one danger spot on it —a
sort of nit formed as a storm-water sump,
mercifully filled in with an iron grating. No
matter where I was started by my tutor the
iron steed with unerring sagacity carried me
to that sump and threw me in. I fell in 57
times in all, and carried the imprint of the
grating in criss-crosses on my carcase for
weeks afterwards.
ft ft ft ft
“Waranbini”: A sweet-scented gum (E.
staigeriana) of the northern parts of
Queensland perpetuates the memory of Carl
Theodore Staiger, who was at one time
director of Brisbane Museum, and -was
made the victim of one of the quaintest jokes
in scientific history. l While he .was visiting
Gayndah station .the ■ hard-cases then- pre-
pared a new fish for Staigciy made-of the
head of a lung fish, the body of a mullet
and the tail of an eel. It was nicely cooked
and placed before him for his breakfast, with
the remark that it was something new —a.
very rare fish that had never been seen any-
where but at Gayndah. Mr. Staiger was
immensely interested, and expressed regret
that ,he had not'seen it a*live. On being told
that it might be months before another was
caught, he made a 'careful sketch of the
cooked specimen, before he. started to eat it.
The sketch and a description were sub-
sequently sent, to an ichthyological expert,
Count Castelnau, and that gentleman-named
it Om-pax spatuloides. Whenever a marine
mystery . was captured afterwards in the.
Gayndah district, the locals would remark
with a grin that it “must be a<n Ompax.”
ft ft ft' ft
“Awani”: Spot, our fox-terrier, was keen
after rabbits, and, when we went out to dig
up burrows he always accompanied us. He
would crawl into the burrows and chase out
the bunnies to the hounds we had waiting
outside. One day Spot chased out an extra-
large number of rabbits, and between the
excitement of helping the hounds to kill
them and filling in the burrows we didn’t
notice that Spot hadn’t come home with us
till about an hour after we got back. We
went back and searched, thinking he might
still be scratching at the burrows we’d filled
in, but call and whistle as we would we
failed to find him. At last one of us sug-
gested it was possible that he whs in the
last burrow when we filled it up. So we
set to work again. We had only dug in
a couple of feet, when, kneeling down and
listening, we heard muffled barks. We
redoubled our speed, and after digging a
few feet further struck into a large, shal-
low branch of the warren, out of which
jumped dear old Spot. He had lived for
two hours in a tomb that couldn’t have con-
tained much air.
ft ft ft ft
“Semaphore”: The description given by
“Bendee” (B. 25/<>/’3(D of a creature that
looked like a .“marsupial tiger cat” fits pre-
cisely a strange animal I saw a few days ago
while quail shooting on the dry bed of Lake
THE BULK STORE.
THE TEACHER: “Late for school because your mother’s making marmalade? What
did you do towards it?”
THE KID: “Please, Mum, I had to go to the cemetery to get the glass jars.”
Rurrumbeet near Ballarat
(Vic.). I was dowm wind
' about 400 yards away
■ when I first, spotted puss
trotting sedately towards
me. I.dropped down behind
some, grass cover and
waited full of curiosity.
When the cat was 100
yards away it paused and
was soon set in full
flight by the appearance
of my dog from a de-
pression some distance
back, but I had an excel-
lent view of the creature.
It was much larger than
any other cat I have seen,
and was strongly marked
with dark brown rings
over a light brown skin.
The head was positively
feline, but the belly
and haunches closely re-
sembled a small wallaby.
The tail was ringed also
and was a miniature of
a fox’s brush, about 15
inches long. Its gait was
a steady, easy bound that
rapidly ate up the dis-
tance.
ft * *
“Dai It.”: Round many
of the country towns
wood is becoming so
scarce that swagmen and
other campers are resort-
ing to the use of cattle
dung as fuel. The stuff
makes excellent coals for
grilling and toasting pur-
poses, and first-class
ashes for damper-baking,
while for quickness in
boiling the billy it easily
beats most kinds of wood,
catching easily ..and giv-
ing out an intense heat.
Strange to say, no taste
or odor of the fuel at-
taches to the cooked food.
Australians who have
been in South Africa,
where cattle-droppings are
a common substitute for
wood, are credited with
introducing the practice.
“Bos ’: The "possum hunters who have
been turned loose on Vic. have brought to
light a number
of albino ’pos-
sums. Albinism
is a suppression
of pigment for-
mation all over
the body, so
that the animal
affected has
white hair or
feathers a n d
pink eyes. The
ordinary white
animal has pig-
mented eyes.
T li ere are
strains of al-
bi n o hors e s
and albino
cattle, but
their eye trouble
is against them.
In America al-
binos of pure
negro blood
have been born.
In Australia
albinos occur in
kangaroos, wal-
labies, rabbits
and different
species of birds,
including the
crow. On an
out-back cattle
station to the
north-east of
Alice Springs
it is reported
that there is an
albino strain of
abos. They are
forced to mate
amongst them-
selves, with the
result that the
type is being
perpetuated.
The mode of in-
heritance of this
character is de-
finitely known.
Albinos mated
to albinos pro-
duce only ai-
binos, hence the ease with which strains of
albino rabbits, guinea-pigs, rats and mice are
kept up. Albinos mated with normal colored
give'normal colored offspring; but if two of
these offspring are mated we get colored and
albino progeny in the ration of 3 to 1.
THE TELL-TALE LINES (A.D. 1930).
BILL: “Why the long skirts on, Ethel?"
JILL: “Shewing her age, laddie—her knees are wrinkling.”
“Hayband”: Recent investigations place
the Australian tiger-snake right at the head
of the world’s venomous reptiles; another
native —the death-adder —occupies second
position. The latter secretes more venom—
-84 milligrammes against 47, but the tiger-
snake’s venom has much greater lethal quality,
and contains sufficient poison to inflict death
on 118 sheep; a death-adder could bag only
84. Luckily the tiger-snake has short fangs
and makes a hasty, glancing strike. Were
anything like a full dose of venom injected
into the wound there would be no hope of
recovery for the victim.
* ft ft *
“Huffin-Guffin”: In the old days to shoot
a ’possum it was necessary to get him be-
tween the moon and the eye, and there was
a bit of sport about it. But now the shooter
carries an electric torch and turns it on
to the treetops until he sees two small balls
of fire. Poor ’possum always gazes directly
at the strange glare. The rest is easy. An
expert will rarely damage a skin by hit-
ting the body. In good country—red-gum
timber is ideal—a man is not very pleased
with himself unless he gets a bag of 40 or
50 skins in a night. But it’s not sport--
just murder.
* * * #
“Amity”: Visiting a show where bees
were working I noticed that the combs,
formed in a position decided by a man-made
framework, were too near the glass of: the
case, and every now and then a portly insect
would find himself jambed between the slats
and the glass. His plight was always
noticed immediately, and half a dozen bees
rushed to the rescue. First they pushed
the victim as far as they could, then, run-
ning round to the other side, they pulled
him free. Close observation convinced me
that the rescue party was always comprised
of the same six bees. The other workers
took no notice of the bees in trouble, the
rescue work being entirely left to the six
detailed for the job. As the bees wdrk on
these exhibition frames only a portion of
their time, it must be an extraordinary in-
telligence that grasps so thoroughly the
needs of a temporary situation and organises
a means of relief.
* * * ft
“Bill R.”: “Awani” (B. l(j/7/’30) had
his leg pulled by the Chow who paid a
shilling a head for crows, and pretended
that he ate them. The Celestial wanted the
birds’ galls, which he could resell to Chinese
doctors at a handsome profit, galls from
birds that are black being considered speci-
ally valuable.
A DRINK WITH DAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thev buried old Dan on a sandy mound
Far out where the sun goes down,
With his swag for shroud where his swag
was found,
Bv the wanderers’ track from town.
’Twas a half-way place to the camps and
huts „ , .
And the sheds of the shearer clan ;
\nd all who followed the winding ruts
Stopped there for a drink with Dan.
He had pressed the clips and the bales had
packed
In the days of the flashing blades,
And while dead marines for the dead they
stacked
They told of liis escapades.
For Dan was a terror when sheds cut out,
And he lauded with cheques in town;
And after his last uproarious bout,
He’d left with his plimsoll down.
They fenced him in with the bottles spilt
On the hillock where he was hid,
And at the head of his plot they built
A glistening pyramid.
As “Bottle Grave” it was known far out
On the tracks of the caravan,
And drover, shearer and rouseabout
Stopped there for a drink with Dan.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
A Meal & Room
RS
for every,
taste /
fgdjfgd
Whether your first demand
be for comfort or for economy,
the Grosvenor meets it. 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all doors. Fire-
proof. Meals a la carte
from 1/6. £3/10/- weekly.
Bed and breakfast from 6/6.
NORTH TERRACJE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
LICK
Uhe
best
lick
a.nd
f -r
r
'/m
mm.
W
m
m
■ Feed
Him
Right
A properly balanced meal keeps dogs in good
condition the year around. Meat is essential.
When mixed with fresh vegetables, cereal,
ground bone and cod liver oil, it makes the
best, dog food. It is known as KEN-L-RA-
TION—the Dog Food Supreme.
Buy a tin today. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821. Melbourne
r?SSTrSSB3
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
[?] PARK & CASTLEREAGH [?] SYDNEY
FORMALIN FOR FOOTROT.
A. J. Staughton (Vic.) : A reference to
footrot prompts me to relate my very satis-
factory experience with formalin, which was
recommended to me about three years ago.
Prior to that time I had tried everything I
could lay my hands on, including arsenic and
Milestone.
My niethod of applying the formalin treat-
ment is to construct a footbath of wooden
framing lined with galvanised-iron, 18ft. to
—Oft. long and 2ft. wide, so arranged to pro-
vide two to three inches of solution for the
sheep to run through, lambs included, and
set between hurdles in the form of a race.
To put them through more easily waste wool
is immersed in the liquid; then they don’t see
the solution to the same extent. The strength
I use for a preventive is one part for-
malin to seven parts water. Where sheep
may be already bad, a solution .of half
formalin and half water is brushed on pared
hoofs. I also use formalin for sterilising
tailing and castrating knives and earmarkers ;
one part formalin to 40 parts water.
Before using this treatment I had as many
as 2000 sheep affected with footrot. I can
find only odd lame ones now. There has
been a decided labor saving also; the arsenic
and blucstone methods had to be applied
every week with the aid of two or three men.
The formalin that has proved such a boon
to me has the further recommendation that
it is made in Australia.
THE MOISTURE IN THE SOIL.
“Tuart”: W. N. Hedges, sometime M.H.R.
for Fremantle, farms in a big way in the
Bruce Rock district of Westralia. When
he took up his holding, called Koolberrin,
he put a couple of hundred men on clearing,
and it is now one. of the show places of the
State. A close student of soil and weather
conditions, Mr. Hedges laughs at the notion,
still prevalent over east, that Westralia is
too hot to become one of the great wheat-
growing countries of the world. “Our hot
weather is a magnificent asset,”, he says.
“The heat of the sun draws up moisture
from the subsoil, and this moisture, being
warm, is more easily assimilated than a cold
rain would be.” He likens the effect to that
of warm water in reviving cut flowers that
have wilted.
“But this moisture must be conserved,”
Mr. Hedges insists. “In light lands shallow
ploughing may be allowed, but in strong rich
soils we must plough deep to admit of the
moisture getting well down, and cultivate
as often as is required to keep the surface
broken to a nice even tilth.”
Mr. Hedges practises what he preaches,
and some interesting results of the policy
are mentioned in an article contributed to
the Perth “Sunday Times.” Returning from
England last October, he was assured in
Perth that it would be a poor harvest if they
didn’t get rain (it really panned out 39 mil-
lion bushels). Motoring straightway to his
farm, and having a look round, he inquired
what had caused some of the flag to be tipped
brown; the ears were just coming through
and had not tipped. He 'was told then that
there had been about nine or ten days of
cold, drying east winds. Hot weather
immediately followed; and the new fresh
green shoot could be plainly seen. “I wired
for three new Bft. binders. That made 10
in all. I cut over 2400 tons of hay without
cutting any of the crops put in for wheat.
It was the hot weather that caused the
heavy growth; no rain fell.”
In the following month Mr. Hedges
noticed that portions of the bush road sur-
face were almost black with moisture,
although there had been three or four hot
days followed by a cold night wind from
the south. The hot days had heated the
ground, and the heat whs ; drawing the bottom
moisture to the surface as a vapor, which
had been condensed by the cold night wind.
He looked for good results “on the late
varieties of wheat, such as Yandilla King,
of which I had a .large area. This wheat
was a good crop, and made its chief growth
after the hot weather started. I also read
in the newspapers about the wonderful
growth made by the late wheats, notwith-
standing that no rain had fallen.”
Mr. Hedges notes a> similar experience
about four or five years ago, when an oat
crop had been fed down close. It was very
dry; there was hardly a bit of green to
be seen. But after a few really hot days
the oats began to grow, and developed
into a new crop, which was partly cut for
hay and the balance harvested. Again, he
has a rich flat underlying which, only a
few feet from the surface, is water as salt
as the sea. On that flat he has cut three
tons to the acre of wheaten hay, followed
the next season by a crop which cut 25cwt.
to the acre of oateu hay. “The roots of
these crops did not go down to the salt
water, but the moisture drawn up by the
sun is fresh. It really amounts to under-
ground condensing, as heat applied to salt
water can only produce fresh steam or
vapor.”
Incidentally, a great deal of Westralian
wheat is grown in country where it is useless
to sink wells, the water being salt.
COW CHAFF.
“Alf Alpha” : Short and evenly cut chaff
is eminently suitable for horses, and has a
nice appearance ; but long chaff is much better
for cattle.
The digestibility of the fodder as far as
Strawberry is concerned varies to a degree
with the cut. In effect, long chaff, being more
suited to a cow’s method of re-digestion—
chewing the cud —results in a greater per-
centage of the nutrients being assimilated,
with a proportionate benefit to cow and
owner.
CLEANSING DAIRY UTENSILS.
“Noah Fraid”: Washing soda is generally
recommended for cleansing dairy utensils and
dissolving arsenic because it is fool-proof. xYs
“J. Point” (B. 2/7/’3O) says, it is dearer
and .no better than soda ash for these pur-
poses ; on the other hand, caustic soda is
better and more economical than either. Soda
ash is simply dehydrated washing soda. It
is a white powder which to the passing
glance may be anything, whereas washing
soda, with its characteristic large crystals, is
easily detected. Soda ash always contains
caustic soda, and is therefore not so comfort-
ably handled. Then the solubility of wash-
ing soda in water, cold or hot, is far greater
than that of soda ash.
However, I am against the use of soda
solutions or preparations for cleansing the
churn, cream can or milk dish. In the
crevices or corners fatty solids collect ; when
stale the fat decomposes and produces ran-
cidity, which is transferred to the contents.
By this means first-grade milk, cream or
butter is reduced to second- or even third-
grade. A little rancidity goes a long way, and
this matter is of the greatest importance to
our export trade. We assume that by scour-
ing with hot caustic or washing soda the
stale fat is turned into soap and washed out.
This is all right in theory, but in practice
it is often found to be like cleaning your
teeth without a brush —not all the stale sub-
stance is removed. Furthermore, cases are
known where washing soda in itself, under
certain conditions, has given a nasty taint to
butter.
Sodium hypochlorite, which can be pur-
chased in any quantity of 10-per-cent,
strength, stands alone as a cleanser and
steriliser in the dairy, creamery or butter
factory, and it is Australian-made. Use a
pint to 10 gallons of good water; thoroughly
swill and scrub the churn or utensil
with the diluted solution, and give at least
two washings with water subsequently. Allow
the utensil to be exposed to the air for some
time prior to use—the longer the better.
MOLASSES AND CANE FOR PIGS.
A farmer inquired of The Bulletin’s
Service Department whether it is advisable
to feed molasses and sugar-cane to pigs.
With the courtesy and anxiety to help
settlers for which officers of the 'State
Agricultural Departments are noted, the
Queensland Senior Instructor in Pig-raising,
to whom the question was referred, has fur-
nished a very informative reply.
The use of molasses, this expert states, is
recommended only where added to other
foods carrying a good feeding value.
Molasses contains no protein, but it tends
to make other foods palatable and more
readily digestible. Fed in excess, it may
cause indigestion or diarrhoea. Fed as an
addition to the ordinary ration of milk,
maize or cereal grains, it gives good results,
for it is a heat- or .energy-producing nutri-.
ent of particular value for growing stock.
The quantities to feed vary from half a fluid
ounce (a tablespoonful) to half a pint,
according to size and development of the
pigs; larger quantities may be used when
the animals have become accustomed to it.
But fermented molasses must on no account
be used.
As to sugar-cane, the officer reports that
the softer varieties of the plant, as well as
improved cow-cane, saccaline and other varie-
ties of sweet sorghum should be useful, par-
ticularly in the feeding of breeding sows aud
other mature stock, although these foods
must only be used to supplement more nitro-
genous foods such as green lucerne and
skim-milk. If a liberal supply is provided
the pigs themselves will determine the quan-
tity they require. They will spend a good
deal of time chewing cane and sorghum,
and will extract all the nutritious material,
rejecting the indigestible fibre.
These crops have a great value as a stand-
by for periods during which other green
foods are in limited supply. They are also
very useful for winter feeding, as they will
carry for many weeks. Sugar contains
valuable feeding properties, and is a help in
building up sows that have lost condition
through rearing their young.
ROCK MELONS.
“Bar K.”; Rock melons have become in-
creasingly popular during recent years, but
are only a profitable crop if favorite
varieties are grown and the quality is first-
class. There is no demand for inferior
melons.
Among the large types, the Early Hacken-
sack stands out, while the Rocky Ford is
perhaps the best of the smaller sorts. The
Iloneydew is a distinctive variety with
the advantage that it will keep well into
the winter months.
Well-rotted fowl manure is excellent for
rock melons. Sheep or pig manure, or Stable
manure well charged with urine, will also
give capital results. Drills should be about
nine feet apart, with six feet between the
sets. Four or five plants should be grown in
each set and thinned out to two plants when
the character leaves are well formed.
The land should be deeply ploughed in
early winter, and harrowed and lightly
ploughed before planting. Continuous culti-
vation should be practised as long as the
growth of the vines will allow it. Mildew
can be checked by sprinkling with flowers of
sulphur in the mornings while the dew is on
the vines. The fruit has to be picked for
market just before it is ripe, which will be
when the stem shows the first tendency to
pull away from the melon.
LESSONS FROM NORTH CAROLINA.
“Jamwood” : Dr. Darnell Smith’s report on
the production of bright flue-cured tobacco
is mentioned by “Tuart” (B. 23/7/’3O). It
is a valuable production, and if selected por-
tions were reprinted as a leaflet for free dis-
tribution by the State Agricultural Depart-
ments the knowledge thus diffused might
bring great results at a trifling cost. Assur-
edly we must try to save the three millions
we send abroad annually for tobacco and
add a neglected crop to our inadequate list.
The director of Sydney Botanic Gardens
spent two months in the Southern States of
the U.S.A. on the inquiry he conducted for
the Tobacco Investigation Committee. He
found that North Carolina produces far more
bright flue-cured tobacco than any other
State, and that the best tobacco is grown
there in poor soil derived mostly from
granite—grey sand underlain by pale-yellow
sand, and grey sandy loam, with a friable
yellow, sandy clay subsoil, “naturally very
deficient in humus.” There is any quantity
of this sort of land in the Commonwealth,
particularly west of the Darling Ranges,
Westralia. The North Carolina tobacco belt
has a 86-inch rainfall, well distributed; “the
ideal climatic conditions are evidently calm
atmospheric conditions, a high temperature,
great humidity, cloudy days and a moderate,
but evenly distributed rainfall.” They are
all to be met with in Australia.
Seed is sown in the seed beds about the
end of February and is ready to plant out
about the middle of May. The largest seed
is selected, and it is sown at the rate of loz.
to 800 square feet; the number of plants
required per acre is 3500 to 5000. Liberal
dressings of super, are applied, up to 8001 b.
to the acre on sandy soils. The disc harrow
is regarded as the best implement for work-
ing the soil into a good tilth, qnd the ridge
method of cultivation is universally employed.
A small square barn built of pine logs is
used for flue-curing. Rotation of crops is
practised, the general rotation being tobacco,
maize, cowpeas, oats. It has been found
that tobacco seldom does well after maize,
which takes too much out of the soil.
The best crop of tobacco Dr. Darnell Smith
saw in the U.S.A. was one of four acres,
worked by a North Carolinan and his wife.
“The crop,” he says, “was on a slight incline,
completely surrounded on all four sides by
deep belts of shelter trees —large-leaved pine,
short-leaved pine and oaks. The soil was
of the usual light sandy type, cultivated in
artificial ridges, 15 inches high, from which
the rain had washed the sand into the valleys
between, until it was l\ inches and 2 inches
deep. The soil had been heavily fertilised,
and the strictest attention paid to sucker-
ing and cultivating.” In Australia alone
there is a ready-made market for thousands
of such settlers when the right combination
of soil and climate is found.
RAT-POISONING WITHOUT TEARS.
“Bios”: A serious drawback to the use
of baits for killing rats is the fact that the
poison is often a source of danger to chil-
dren. . This difficulty may be overcome;
barium carbonate, while poisonous to rats, is
harmless to human beings. It costs only
about a shilling per pound and can be bought
without the troublesome formalities necessary
in the purchase of most poisons.
The ingredients required for the pre-
paration of the baits are barium car-
bonate, Soz.; flour, 170 z.; pollard, Goz.:
tallow, 50z.; common salt, loz.; water, half-
pint ; oil of aniseed, 10 drops. Mix the
barium carbonate, flour and pollard, and stir
in the melted tallow; then dissolve the sal t
in water and add slowly. The result should
be a stiff dough, which is rolled out to a
thickness of about half an inch, cut into half-
inch cubes, and baked in an oven till dry.
Mix the aniseed oil in an eggcup of water
and spray the cubes; These are now ready
for distribution, but should be handled as
little as possible and then only after the
hands have been coated with aniseed oil to
obliterate the odor of human beings.
About one-fifth of a cube is sufficient to
kill a rat.
POTATOES AND FERTILISER.
“Hatter”: I agree with “Hortus” (15.
10/7/'3O) as to the importance of thoroughly
preparing the ground befoi-e planting
potatoes, but not when he advises a rotation
of potatoes, wheat-for-grain, potatoes. Wheat
and potatoes are “robber” crops and should
be alternated with a leguminous or a fed-off
crop; I say they cannot be advantageously
alternated without fertiliser. “Hortus” does
not state the yield of the winning crop he
describes in N. S. Wales, but since he gives
the amount of loss from the soil with a six-
ton crop the inference is that this was the
quantity harvested. I cannot consider a
six-ton crop satisfactory. Westralia runs up
to 10 tons, and one instance has been re-
corded of 40 tons from 2 acres. In England
and U.S.A. 10 tons is nothing out of the
way. The winner in a New York State com-
petition last season produced 565 bushels
of potatoes (roughly 15 tons) to flip acre at
an average cost of Is. 2d. per bushel, in-
cluding rent and all expenses from seed to
harvest.
Only by the proper use of fertiliser can
the farmer obtain the maximum yield, and it
is only by obtaining the maximum yield that
he can cut the cost of production to the
minimum. American growers use a 5-8-7
fertiliser-—5 parts nitrogen, 8 phosphate and
7 potash. Results collected from hundreds
of farmers show that those who averaged
10001 b. of fertiliser to the acre secured about
100 bushels, and that the yield kept pace
with increased applications until tons
averaged 300 bushels. Though naturally
other factors entered in, this ratio was re-
markably constant.
It may seem remarkable that the unfer-
tilised crop mentioned by “Hortus” should
have won over the plots that were given
2cwt. of super, per acre. In the March
number of the British “Journal of Agricul-
ture” I read, however, that “phosphate has
value in hastening the crop, but unless
balanced bly suitable quantities of nitrogen and
potash it may have little effect or even tend to
depress the yield in certain, cases.” Super,
should never be regarded as a complete
manure. Potash prolongs the growing period
and increases the crop. The sulphate is
preferable for stiff soils, but the chloride can
be used on sandy ones. Nitrogen also pro-
longs growth. It can be applied chiefly by
sulphate of ammonia, but a light dressing of
nitrate of soda a month after planting is
helpful.
"Hortus” recommends planting whole
seed. Recent research work suggests that
this practice is dangerous. Plants affected
with the virus diseases now so prevalent,
such as mosaic, crinkle and leaf-roll, invari-
ably produce smallish round seed which is
brighter and more attractive looking than
the tubers from healthy plants. This seed
would be naturally selected when whole
tubers are planted. Far better to use large
tubers which from their size cannot pos-
sibly have come from badly infected plants,
and to cut them into sets of three ounces.
A YIC. FRUITGROWER’S BRICK.
“Jones” : Let me throw a brick at “Ernest
Osborne” (B. 25/6/’3O). I am a fruit-
grower—for factory, not market, than!
Heaven!—and am personally acquainted witl
half the fruitgrowers round Melbourne. Out
troubles about public sympathy; it won’t
buy one case of fruit in 10 years. We don’t
complain of our loneliness; we don’t waul
concrete footpaths or talkies. And we don’t
grumble about the pests that our grand
(Continued on page 25.)


o=a
\jjA Bt^i
V/
&
9=
=0
< *
4 s
dt
‘i/mr
/,
ife- '%^\
VV)\
/* M
i. Yb
m
// ym>
r m
CL.
#
.-=■; —< :)
( >
<■>
A'* '
~^\\Wi
ifIDE
T
Vl£\\r
X//
L
' W
■yi
,\y\'''-!m^//
M
2«e
7'.
»-a£
»/ //<»
i .'/^
' A
Vi/ v r.i\iM | A
4<' W ,
v v\\ \1 l//
fj
S ¥/
r r.
M
IM
TO.
V’E used all sorts of fences, but this ‘Cyclone* Ring*
Lock Fence is the only one to give me perfect
satisfaction. Now I know my stock are safe.
“Why man, it actually cost me less than a plain wire
fence with droppers. I only used one post every twenty-two feet
and put up five chains of complete fence in one strain—and
jolly easy, too!
“Take hold of the bottom of that fence and try and lift it up
—see how those stiff uprights hold the wires firm and rigid—
they’re gripped to the line wires by the ‘Cyclone’ Ring-Locks in
a vice-like hold and they will not bend or move.
“Yes; I certainly bought satisfaction when I put up a ‘Cyclone*
Ring-Lock Fence. It’s the only fence I’ll use in future.”
“Cyclone” [6 lines 28" high] Sheep and Small
Lamb Proof Fence. (Shown Above)
THIS FENCE IS MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS:
Style 6HA, 10 gauge throughout £27/10/0 per mile; 8/-
per chain.
Style 6LA, top and bottom wires 10 gauge, uprights and
intermediate wires, 11 gauge £25/10/0 per mile; 7/- J
per chain.
Orders for less than half a mile charged at chain rates.
□
□
RIMUOCK FAIM ill
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO.
PTY. LTD.
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
189-191 WILLIAM ST.. MELBOURNE PIRIE ST., ADELAIDE.
COUPOM
To CYCLONE FENCE & QATE CO. PTY. LTD.,
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced
Catalogue of " Cyclone” Metal Qates and Ring-Lock Fences.
Name ------
Address - -
BI'IiTiETIX e 'B/’3O
FARM & STATION
GATES,
These gates are manufactured from a special steel
tubing and have no bolt holes drilled in the frame to
weaken the construction or let in water. All struts
are electrically welded for greater strength.
The method of hinging “Cyclone” Farm and Station Gates
makes them swing easily for years.
There are many styles and designs suitable for every purpose, and
all are illustrated and priced in the big free “Cyclone” Catalogue.
“Cyclone”
Steel Fence Posts
These posts, made from a
specially rolled “T” sec-
tion, are packed and sent
out in bundles of 10, with
standard boring (starting
from top of post) 6", 6",
8", 6", 5", 5", 6". Slotted
and punched at top to
take barbed wire. They
are excellent for use with
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fen-
ces. sft. posts, 1/8 each.
sft. 6in. posts, 1/9 each.
Driving cap free with ev-
ery 250 posts.
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Farm Fences
are made In sereral heights with
various spaclngs ol wires for all
classes of stock.
. 4
&
:
*
S 3
«
BM
:
7 "' t v, e
a,
W s >
*«c e *e„, “/’Pf. 0
fs.
4.
U Pti
«*h C
Wts
g
Hi
Hot
""'es
* a
?•></ 1 <**,
ar *D
' S f 4
Ce 4 e//
‘tie
Or
s tf.
°ted
gr/r
ete/j’ *ij/ s *y
o u r **o t *****
s a
g
Special “Cyclone”
Strainer loaned
free of charge.
CYCIi
LOCK
FENCE
Sold in five*chain
rolls ready to erect
The famous “Cyclone” “N” Gate. Style 120
Manufactured from 1§ and If metal tubing. The “Cyclone" “N" is one of the
sturdiest and most popular paddock gates in Australia.
If" frame, to fit openings » • 10 ft. 35/6, lift. 38/», 12 ft. 39/6, 13 ft. 42/»
lf" frame, to fit openings * * 10 ft. 45/6, lift. 48/6, 12 ft. 50/6, 13 ft. 54/*


4
for all
IRON, STEEL AND WOODWORK
is given by
'4#
tv
xi%r
X
Ferrodor Paint affords a thick protective coat which has proven eminently successful
in resisting the attacks of the weather, sea, air, etc., on exposed surfaces. ... It will
not blister, crack or chalk off; it is unaffected by heat and cold; rain and sea air
cannot penetrate its tough film, nor can the abrasive action of hail, dust particles, etc.,
damage it.
Ferrodor Paint is obtainable in 20 colors, packed in paste form for greater economy
(you only mix what is required for the particular job on hand), and can be obtained
from any of the following well-known stores:—
Fred Ash, Ltd Newcastle
A. E. Budd & Sons Murwillumbah
G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd. . . Pitt Street, Sydney
Campbells, Ltd Manly
Geo. Dawson & Sons Newcastle
Grace Bros., Ltd Broadway, Glebe
L. Geddes Balmain
J. T. Gould Cronulla
A. Hordern & Sons, Ltd., George Street, Sydney
Keep, Macpherson, Ltd., George Street, Sydney
Lithgow Co-op. Society, Ltd Lithgow
Moore Bros North Sydney
W. Peatfield Kogarah
Quartley’s, Ltd Newtown
Robertson Beach Stores Newport
A. G. Robertson, Ltd Lismore
Schroders, Ltd Kempsey
Sterland Bros •. . . Gosford
Jas. Sandy & Co., Ltd. George Street, Sydney
Williamson, Croft & Co., Ltd.,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Fred Young Rockdale
Thompson & Harvey, Ltd.,
11l and 117 Flinders Street, Adelaide
Please send* the attached coupon for full particulars and color card to any of the above,
or direct to
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
LI M § TED_/
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence Street
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins Street
BRISBANE:
93 Albert Street.
ADELAIDE:
157 Waymouth Street
PERTH:
432-436 Murray Strec


4 widths per size
Narrow, medium, wide and
extra wide fittings are available
in every full and half size of this
black velour calf Abbey Shoe.
It is flexibly, toughly soled and
fits without any strain. Low-cut
sides and natural instep arch
assure full comfort.
ORDER BY POST.
Specify width as well as length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
Sports catalogue post free on reqxiest.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPLIBB
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
A AS
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Of course shell
keep her good
complexion —
she uses
Cnticura
Soap and Ointment
No matter how much the
skin is wind-burned this
CUTICURA combination
will allay irritation and
roughness of the skin, and
at the same time cleanse
and soften
the face
and hands.
Soap Is., Oint-
ment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each
free.
Address:
“£. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.8.W.”
2®^
CSj
\r*
LODGE
PLUGS
are unsurpassed for all
American Cars
Try a Set
To-day
a
v
%r
LODGE CT
lin.,
Regular.
PRICE
6/- •
in sealed
bronze metal
box.
Stocked hy all garages throughout
the Commonwealth.
Lodge Plugs Ltd., Rugby, England.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. * General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
Save Your Harness
by using' a
POLE STRAP LINK
S 3
Instead of slipping the pole strap through the
collar, and thus causing damage to both horse
and collar, the Pole Strap Link (patented) is
fitted between' the hames, and the pole strap
is slipped easily through.
The illustration shows Farm Hames with POLE
STRAP LINK attached for use with two Pole
Straps. The Pole Strap Link is attached to
the right hame by means of a connecting link,
and on the left is attached to a link of the
chain.
Price, 1/6 each.
The price of the Pole Strap Link is practically
negligible when compared with the money
saved in harness repairs.
POSTAGE SHOULD BE ADDED TO PRICE QUOTED.
HMMMt
Ofo BIGGEST HARDWARE HOUSE IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.)
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
And at Warrnambool, Bendigo, Horsham, Ballarat and Portland.
fathers didn’t have, though we do grumble
about the cost of the chemicals required
to combat them. ...
What we growl about chiefly is the poor
return we get for our fruit. Not half the
Doncaster growers cleared the basic wage
of •an unskilled laborer last. season. As I
write, eating apples are bringing from 4s.
to 7s. 6d. per case, after being pruned,
worked, manured, sprayed, picked, packed,
repacked out of cool store and marketed.
Yet you cannot buy Rome Beauties or Jona-
thans on the trucks —cheaper than the shops
—under 4d. per lb.
Again, I wanted some artificial manure
and went to the city office to learn the name
of the nearest local agent. The usual thing—
along an ornate corridor, up to a lofty
floor in a radiator-warmed lift, then into
an outer office, where a typist removed her
ear from the ’phone to tell me she didn't
know, and the manager would be in directly.
My time is valuable and I was removing
myself when the manager entered. In a
well-furnished inner office, also radiator-
warmed, he told me they had no local agents
but that I could get the manure where it is
manufactured as a by-product, which I knew r
already. That manager and the typist and
the ’phone and the lift and the rent of the
blessed office merely increase the cost of the
fertiliser. Quite possibly we live, partly, on
what they buy, but they don’t buy much
because fruit is too dear.
FUSARIUM WILT.
“Diamond Bar”: “Bar K.” (B. 16/2/’3O)
asserts that there is no remedy for fusar-
ium wilt, and that the ground must not be
used for further planting of tomatoes. I
differ on the second point. Follow these
methods and you will obtain a crop of
tomatoes in the most infected soil: (1) Turn
up the ground deeply. (2) Lime freely.
(3) Dig out a basin of sail 2ft. in diameter
and Ift. deep; place it on canvas and
thoroughly mix with two handfuls of flowers
of sulphur, so that the grains of sulphur
show freely in the earth; plant in the centre
of the circle and fill in the soil mixed with
sulphur. Do not omit the usual sprays for
the foliage.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the right time, and the method
of sowing (1) lucerne, (2) rape, (3) sub-
terranean clover? My land, is near Stan-
thorpe (Q .), and some of the land where
I mean to sow lucerne is rich black flats.
The rape and sub. clover are to be sown in
granite country that has been used for
vegetables. —74oo.
(1) Sow in March of April so that advan-
tage may be taken of the late summer rains.
If seed is drilled-in use 81b. per acre; broad-
cast, 121 b. to 151 b. (2) Fallowed land is
best. If the rape is to be grown as a culti-
vated crop in rows 2ft. 6in. apart, it will
take from to 31b. of seed per acre. When
the rows are 7in. apart it will require from
91b. to 101 b. Sow the last week in February
or from the beginning to the middle of March.
(3) Sow early in March at the rate of
from 31b. to 41b. per acre.
(1) Is a sheepowner legally within liis
rights in shooting a dog that is worrying his
sheep? (2) Can he demand the production
of the dog for the purpose of killing it? —
(3) Can the police order the destruction of
the dog? (4) Is the law the same in all
N.S.W. shires?- —7917.
(1) (2) and (3) Any N.S.W. dog attack-
ing an animal may be destroyed “by any per-
son whomsoever” if the attack “be not on
premises belonging to or occupied by the
owner or keeper of such dog.” (4) Applies
in all police districts to which the Dog and
Goat Act (N.S.W.) has been extended.
Is native bird’s-foot trefoil (Lotus austra-
lis) injurious to cattle? If not, in what
quantities can it be fed to stock? —79Bl.
It has been proved poisonous to stock,
especially if eaten in quantities and on an
empty stomach. Amount necessary to kill
a beast would vary considerably with' the
condition of the animal. Possibly quiet
browsing stock would be unaffected by it, as
they so often are by these prussic-acid pro-
ducing plants. Further information can
be obtained from the Director, Veterinary
Research Station, Glenfield (N.S.W.)'.
(1) A good salt and minci'al lick suitable
for Jersey cattle? (2) Method of making
lick into a brick so that it can be placed in
paddocks? (3) How to care, for and, feed
a 15 months’ Jersey bull? —7810.
(1) The lick must be composed so as to
balance a deficiency of minerals in the food.
In many districts a mixture of equal parts
of sodium chloride and sterilised bone meal
is found suitable. (2) By mixing above
ingredients with molasses, the lick is ren-
dered palatable, and may be moulded into
a solid mass. The lick should be placed in
troughs, as when placed on the ground there
is always a risk that foreign matter will be
picked up. (3) Can’t reply to that briefly.
Useful information is contained in “Cattle
Breeding (Proceedings of Cattle Breeding
Conference).” Dymocks, 15s. 6d.
(1) A recently-purchased pedigree Friesian
heifer, aged 19 months, and just in, fed on
chaff, oats (crushed) and bran, gives approxi-
mately 2} gallons of milk daily, but after
scalding and setting for 24 hours, very little
cream appears. Is this usual with tlie breed?
Will the percentage of butterfat improve
with the second and third calves? (2) Is
a sheep up to 11 to 13 months of age classed
as a hogget if it teas shorn as a lamb?
(3) Is gold a primary product? —7799.
(1) Friesian cattle give milk with a very
low percentage of butterfat and the yield
may be quite normal. The percentage does
not show any marked improvement after
subsequent calvings. (2) Yes, irrespective of
whether it has been shorn or not. (3) It is
so classified in official publications.
(1) Must a farmer curing bacon for sale
in N.&.W. obtain a license to dg so? (2)
Are there regulations governing the erection
of killing pens, outbuildings, etc.? (3) Before
killing must all pigs be inspected for disease?
(4) If so, by whom are they inspected? —
7233.
(1) He must apply to the local authority
to have his slaughterhouse registered. (2)
A slaughterhouse must have a concrete floor,
which must be graded to a wide and shallow
drain with a catchment at the end. Walls
to be covered with plain sheet-iron to height
from floor as prescribed. (3) All pigs must be
inspected. If the bacon be sent into the
abattoir area, it must be accompanied by
a certificate by an authorised officer. (4)
By an officer authorised by the Metropolitan
Meat Industry Board or Board of Health.
(1) How is stringy oil, as used on agri
cultural machinery, made? (2) Would it
he possible to make used tractor oil stringy
by the addition of gelatine, glucose or other
matter? —7444.
(1) It is mineral oil thickened with oil
pulp. (2) Gelatine or glucose would not
combine satisfactorily with the oil, neither
could a satisfactory stringy oil be made from
used tractor oil and oil pulp, because
used tractor oil has usually suffered
from crank-case dilution and contains a per-
centage of carbon and small particles of
metal. It is inadvisable to use used tractor
oil, even by itself, on valuable machinery.
Is there a way of breaking the wing of a
turkey when young so that it cannot fly? If
so how, and at what age? —7476.
The operation consists of removing the
first joint (metacarpal bones) when the bird
is 10 to 14 days old. The practice is not
recommended, as there is usually a per-
centage of losses. It is better to clip the
secondary flight feathers of one wing in the
grown bird.
A disease has broken out amongst my fowls
They look perfectly healthy until death, with
nice bright combs. The only symptoms arc
that the birds stand about with the food
in their crops undigested. The droppings
are green and dirty yellow. The birds die
in a fete days. Oleander bushes have grown
here for years. Have the fowls been poisoned
through eating the leaves? —7626.
Oleander bushes are poisonous, and the
birds will eat the leaves if there is a short-
age of green feed. But the symptoms point
to tick fever. Spray your fowlhouse or trees
where the birds roost with the following
mixture: Dissolve 21b. of soap in 1 gallon
of boiling rain-water. Remove from the
fire and slowly add 1 gallon of kerosene,
stirring continually to thoroughly emulsify.
Then add a further 8 gallons of water. Spray
freely.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Rotom”: Diarrhcea is a worry when
present in travelling horses. If it has lasted
some time and the horse is weakening, he
must be rested and warmly clothed. Make
him swallow a bucket of tepid water with
half a pound of flour stirred in; if this fails
give two ounces of tincture of opium.
“Grunter”: A calf is a contrary thing to
lead once he gets his legs propped out in
front of him; therefore don’t lead him. Run
the rope between his front and hind legs and
pull him backwards; he can’t put up any
resistance that way. But don’t rush him,
or he’ll topple over.
“Grunter”: There would appear to be
individual variations in the technique of pig-
catching. Tail first and hind leg next will
do me, and I, too, base my system on the wild
pig. As for the chap that sits down in the load-
ing race, tie a rope to the front post of the
race, run it back round the recumbent one’s
breech, take it forward around the other
front post, get in behind him, give a heave
on the tail with the right hand, and take up
the slack of the rope with the left.
“Goomarin”: .When putting the drill away
take out the pins holding the springs that
press in the floats. It’s only a little thing,
but you’ll get more even working next
year. Give them 5 a coat of engine oil; rust
kills springs.
“Bar K.”: Silvermine, though not a recog-
nised sweet corn, is a good variety for
culinary purposes, and commands a fair
price. The cobs must be picked just when
they are filled, and before the corn hardens
up. Silvermine has the advantage of heavier
cropping than most of the table varieties,
and the seed is usually cheaper.
“Wrash”: To reset the teeth of a cross-
cut saw that has lost its set through jamb-
ing when log-cutting, first hold the blade
flat on a sawn-off stump. Place the edge of
a wedge on the first tooth and tap the head
smartly with the back of the axe; similarly
tap each alternate tooth along that side.
Then turn over and treat the opposite teeth.
If care be taken to punch each tooth with
an equal weight of stroke the saw will be
perfectly reset.
“Pruner”: I have heard orchardists say
they would buy a new blade for their prun-
ing saws rather than sharpen the old one.
I have bought new blades but never use them
till I have filed a hook on the teeth some-
what like a ripsaw; this gives the saw a
good bite on the timber, especially thick stuff.
If you can’t do it yourself get a carpenter
to do the job for you ; it will be worth while..
“Tumbe Munda”: I won’t have calcium
cyanide for killing rabbits. I have treated
burrows with heavy charges; result, dead
rabbits on the higher levels but live ones
down low. In S.A. the most successful
method for large estates is that in which an
engine drives a blower which forces gases
from a wood fire through water and into
burrows. In another favored device the mix-
ture is composed of green gum leaves, sulphur
and saltpetre; the resulting gas is the same
weight as air and reaches the deeper recesses
of tlie burrows. I have dug out cavey bur-
rows in limestone country the day after treat-
ment. and have found them still heavily
charged.
“Jack Point”: Very often the beginner
hatches a better percentage of chicks than
the experienced incubator user, the reason
being that the' former follows the maker’s
instructions, whilst the latter is apt to
become careless of details. The beginner
must, however, resist the temptation to
interfere with the machine at hatching time.
When the eggs are finally tested on the 18th
day, the machine should be closed up and
the glass door darkened; on no account
should the machine be opened until the hatch
is finished. Don’t worry if the temperature
soars a bit —that's a sure sign of a good
hatch.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-Scotland Yard detective (40), Melbourne,
seeks position of trust or inquiry work. —7992.
Young- man (20) wants job on station any capa-
city ; 2 years’ exp. with sheep N.S.W. Refs. —7969.
Cabinet-maker (37) with exp. as ship’s steward,
can cook, ride and drive, wants job of any sort
anywhere.—79.33.
Elderly ex-ship’s-steward, Sydney, active, wants
job as houseman or valet. Tailor-presser and repairer.
Sppaks French. Refs. —7915.
Englishman (28), single, Uni. education, 0 years
ag\ exp., wants to take up dairying- on shares in
Vie.—796o.
Tractor mechanic, Sydney, “Caterpillar’’ and
“C'letrac,” wants job, repair work or driving. Refs.
- 7937.
Two ladies, Sydney, thoroughly domesticated,
would undertake all household duties station or
home, country town or city. Refs.—79B4.
\ oung lady desires position affording- opportunity
of visiting M.L., or companion desiring- to tour that
country; can drive car. —7905.
Middle-aged spinster (Elsternwick, Melb.) desires
companion for walks and other outings.—7B96.
To exchange, L. <'. Smith visible typewriter, in
good condition, for Corona portable.-—BOl2.
To get in touch with-readers interested in ornith-
ology and having- collections of eggs.—BBo7.
To buy Low’s “Caricatures” (1915), It. 1..
Stevenson’s “Father Damien” (pub. Sydney) and
(iill’s “Australian Sketchbook.”—79sl.
Wanted to buy “Raphael’s Almanac” with or
without Ephemeris, for years 1929 and backwards.
7936.
To buy “Australian Encyclopedia” (2 vols.) and
other books relating to early Australian history.—
7908.
To buy “Diary of Opal Whitely.”-—7947.
To exchange for copy of “Les Miserables,”
modern n0ve1.—7941.
Words of “My Little Cavalier” and “Bertram’s
Speech as President of the Bachelors’ Club.” —7958.
Information Sought.
What is the cruising speed with one
person, and tankage for 1000 miles of (1)
Gypsy Moth? (2) Avro Avian? (3) What
tankage had Hinkler’s ’plane? (4) Amy
■Johnson’s? (5) What biplane about the size
of an Avro Avian or Gipsy Moth has the
greatest speed? (6) Speed? (7) Price? —
7788.
(1) 80-85 m.p.h.; tankage 57 gallons in
still air. (2) With Cirrus Mark II engine
it has approximately same petrol consump-
tion and speed. (3) About 75gal. (4)
About 70gal. (5) D.H. Moth, 85 h.p.;
Gipsy engine. ... (6) 119.768 m.p.h. over
lOOk.m. (7) Apply to De Ilavilland Air-
craft Pty., Mascot Aerodrome.
A youth, aged 20, sole support of his
mother, wishes to go to England. Must he
secure his mother’s permission before a pass-
port is issued to him? —7982.
No fixed rule. Each case is dealt with on
its merits on application for a- passport
being made.
(1) Does N.S.W. Railway Dept, use square
and round sleepers, and how do they require
bridge timber? (2) How could I secure
contract for supply of sleepers? (3) Prices
paid for sleepers? (4) From whom can I
obtain full information regarding sleepers?
(5 I What royalty is payable? —7sB4.
(1) Both square and round sleepers are
used. Bridge timber is usually squared in
the bush with the squaring axe. (2) Con-
tracts are not entered into, each cutter being
paid for the sleepers delivered at railway
stations. (3) Prices paid are: Ironbarli
squares ss. 6d., hardwood squares 55., iron-
bark rounds ss. (4) Chief Civil Engineer.
N.S.W. Railways, Bridge-street, Sydney.
(5) Varies from sd. to lOd. per sleeper, and
is assessed by the N.S.W. Forestry Commis-
sioner.
(1) What procedure must a boy wishing to
become a weights and measures inspector in
Q’land follow? (2) Salary-and age on
attaining full inspectorship? —79o6.
(1) Commence as a cadet at the age of
16 after passing Public Service examination.
Cadets are required to attend Brisbane Tech.
Coll, for seven years, andfat the end of their
training must pass an examination in
engineering, drawing, physics, mechanics and
applied mathematics. (2) During the train-
ing period , salary advances from £9O to
£225; p-.a. To become ,a. sub-inspector an
exam, iii practical work must -'be. passed.
Salary is from £240 to |3OO p.a.’ A full
inspector’s position is generally gained at
about 30 years of age and carries a salary
of from £260 to £360 p.a.
Qualifications necessary, to become { 1)
(lain/ inspector; (2) swtik inspector in
X.S. TU. ?: —7577. >
(1) Inspectors under the Dairy Industry
Aet must have had a thorough training undeir
commercial conditions in the manufacture
of dairy produce and hold the TTawkeshury
dairy diploma or its equivalent. Inspectors
under the Dairies’ Supervision Act: work in
two sections —-inspection of premises and
plant and inspection of cattle for disease.
For the latter the stock inspector’s examina-
tion certificate must he held. Qualifications
for new appointees as premises and plant
inspectors have not yet been prescribed. (2)
lie must pass an examination, details of
which can be obtained from the Chief Vet-
erinary Officer, Agriculture Dept., Sydney.
How to rid a bowling green of (1) earth-
worms, (2) ants and (3) weeds? —7461.
(1) Use Carter's wormkiller, which must
he applied during, heavy rain or when the
green has 'fiodcleil with a hose.^Speaking
generally, worms do a green more good than
harm. (2) Arsenic mixed with marmalade,
placed on a piece of tin near the scene of
operations will put an end to their activi-
ties. Follow this up by smearing a little
of the poison on the timber around the edge
of the green once a fortnight. (3) Boil one
part 5 per cent, solution of arsenic with two
parts washing soda until dissolved, and
apply a couple of drops to the centre of
each weed with a camel-hair brush.
Does the Federal Government pay a sub-
sidy on six-wheeled motor-vehicles imported
h're, or is the subsidy paid by the British
Government? —76lB.
No financial inducement is offered by the
Federal Government. A subsidy offered by
the British Government is paid to a limited
number of owners of British-made motor-
lorries, which conform to War Office specifi-
cation—the vehicles being subject to imme-
diate mobilisation by the War Office when
occasion warrants.
What is the cause of celery going pithy?
Last year 1 grew thousands on my place
near Brisbane . from the same, seed, and it
aas all solid.- 7722.
Probably due to tin- excessive rains
together with high temperatures which are
not usual in Q’land at this period of the
year. Celery can only be grown to perfection
in climates where the winter season is cold.
How to destroy wombats? — 7ooBa.
Cut apples, pears or carrots into pieces
about Inin, or 2in. in diameter, then cut a
piece out of the bait having the form of
a pyramid or cube, and after inserting as
much strychnine as will go on the end of a
penknife, replace the piece cut out. Green
mhize or any other cereal may also be used.
It should be damped with a solution of
sugar and water and sprinkled with arsenic
or phosphorus. The baits should be placed
near the wombat holes or in the tracks of
the wombat.
Means of destroying nut’ grass ivithout
injuring the 50i1 ? —7983.
Not possible on a large scale. Two spray-
ings with a 7i per cent, solution of sodium
chlorate will temporarily check nut grass,
but the effect of this or any other kind of
plant poison is not lasting.
(1) When does the fruit-picking season
begin in Vic., and how long does it last?
(2) What are the rates of .pay? (3) What
chance would a Queenslander stand of a
j0b? —7648.
(1) The grape-picking season commences
in' Mildura about the beginning of Febru-
ary. Apricot- and peach-picking is carried
on in the Goulburn Valley during December,
January and February. (2) Mildura, £4
45.; Goulburn, £4 per week. (3) As a rule
there are more pickers on the spot than are
required. An outsider wouldn’t stand much
chance.
Chief dimensions of ( 1) Lindbergh’s “Spirit
of St. Louis”? and (2) Keith Anderson’s
“ Kookaburra” ? —7562.
(1) Span 46ft., length 30ft., height 9ft.
10in., maximum petrol capacity 376 gals.,
maximum lifting capacity (fuel and oil,
pilot and accessories) 32341 b., range 3760
miles in still air. (2) Span 36ft. 4in., length
23ft. sin., height Bft. 10in., maximum petrol
capacity 15 gals. (25-gal. extra tank may be
fitted), maximum lifting capacity 7201 b.,
range 320 miles, or 900 miles with extra
tank.
(1) Particulars of time signals sent out
from 3 LO Melbourne, and can they be picked
up in Papua? (2) Wave lengths and times of
transmission of s.-w. stations sending time
signals? (3) Publication containing list of
stations with particulars of wave-lengths and
call signs? —7BB7.
(1) They are transmitted at 11 a.m. and
noon on 371 metres. They terminate with
a dash and three dots followed by a second
dash ; the signal synchronising with the com-
mencement of the second dash.f 3LO will not
be heard in Papua during daylight hours. (2)
VIS Sydney, 9 p.m.; VIA Adelaide, 10.30
p.m.; VIP Perth, 11 p.m.; and VIM Mel-
bourne, midnight; Eastern Australian time,
all on 600 metres. These .transmissions
will be heard more consistently than*will the
distant s.w. stations. NAA Washington on
37.34 M, 6 p.m.; SSW Chelmsford 25.53 re-
broadcasting Big Ben and KGO San Fran-
cisco broadcasting observatory time signals
at 4 p.m. Eastern Australian time. -(3)>The
1930 Short-wave Manual compiled by Ameri-
can Radio News, obtainable from Swains, 123
Pitt-street, Sydney (35.). Station # being
referred to-in’-terms of-frequency," it will be
Accessary to divide 300,000 by the number
ot v k.c. mentioned in order to obtain the
wave length.
How often do English mails leave Sydney i
and how long do they take to- reaclvi their
destination? —77-53. vW L■- „ ■ f , ,
Mails close at G.P.O. at 5 p.m. i every
Wednesday, and arrive in London 31 days
later. Letters may be posted up to 5 p.m.
every Friday for transmission by Adelaide-.
Perth air mail to connect with’outgoing mail
steamer at Fremantle, time in transit to
London then being -29 days. By using
Karachi-London air mail, closing at 5 p.m.
on Wednesdays, or the Australian and
Karachi-London air mails in conjunction,
closing 5 p.m, on Fridays, time in transit
is reduced to 26 days and 24 days respec-
tively. i /
(1) How can I obtain maximum volume ’
from a crystal radio rcceirt-r? (2) Good
type of crystal? (3) Name of book dealing
with crystal receivers ? — 1 7965.
(1) An efficient aerial and earth are
essential, together with a pair of sensitive
high-resistance headphones such as Brown’s
of Baldwin's. Use a 2-volt valve which may
lie- operated off-* two LV-vohr dry eells ’amUa
if ■ ■ ■ -tit *'
small H.T. battery. (2) Galena ranks
amongst the most sensitive,, but requires
occasional adjustment. (3) “Crystal Re-
ceivers” (Cassell’s Handbook Series); 2s.
What are the rules for the correct use of
"shall'’ and “ will" ? —8022.
If you say “I will” you mean that you
intend, so far as you have power, to do
something. “Shall’’ involves more of a specu-
lation or a prediction, as “I shall be in
danger,” or “We shall have to wait. The
distinction is very slender, and in a great
many cases either “shall" or “will” may be
correctly used.
What becomes of woolpacks after manu-
facturers take the wool outt —777B.
To some extent they are used for baling
rags and other odds and ends. They become
so saturated with grease from the wool that
they are of little use as containers for any-
thing but more or less waste materials.
What is meant by skip distance in radio?
—7902.
Radio waves follow two paths. The ground
wave clings to the earth’s surface and the
reflected wave is projected upwards until it
reaches a semi-conducting medium called the
Heavyside layer, where it is reflected back to
earth again. Whilst the ground wave is
rapidly absorbed by the earth,, the reflected
wave may not return to the earth’s surface
until it has covered some considerable dis-
tance. The space between the point where
the ground wave is no longer heard and
where the reflected wave reaches the ground
is called the skip distance.
Hon- can a youth qualify to enter the
dental profession in Victoria? —7B97.
He must matriculate in .Melbourne Uni.
and take the course for the Bachelor of
Dental Science degree and the diploma of
Licentiate of Dental Surgery, which involves
the passing of five annual examinations.
How can the crew of a modern submarine
escape if it is submerged and unable to rise
to the surface? —7523.
An American naval officer has invented a
small portable breathing device not unlike a
gas-mask and it is stated that each member
of the crews of tJ.S.A. submarines is now
provided with the apparatus. Egress from
the submarine is effected by means of an
escape hatch ; cork buoys and life lines being
provided for the purpose of regulating the
ascent to the surface, thus minimising the
danger arising from too rapid variation in
the pressure, of the water. Apparatus of
a similar nature is being investigated by the
British Navy.
(1) Is ordinary cooking salt a human
necessity? (2) Do any tribes exist that do
not use salt, and if so, are they healthy? —
7872.
(1) It is on record that many primitive
races got along without it. They lived on
milk and meat, the latter either raw or
roasted in such a way that its inherent salts
were not lost. The addition of salt is an
essential to health when cereals, vegetables
oi- boiled meat figure in the dietary. (2)
There are Bedouin tribes that do not use it.
They are hardy people.
Was it not bad tactics for Captain Glossop
to come within range of the Emden’s guns
when with his superior range he could have
battered the Emden to pieces ivithout any
danger to the Sydney? —7567.
Opinions differ. British rangefinders, based
on the measurement of a very minute angle,
were not over-accurate, and Glossop may
have thought the range was greater than* it
was.
(1) How much material will I require,
to concrete a 103 ft. x Aft. pathway, also
28ft. x 111 ft., 2 in. in depth? (2) Propor-
tions of materials? (3) How should I pre-
pare old asphalt, which is very rough in
places, before I put the concrete on? —7415.
(1) Cement 14 bags, sand 1.04 cubic yards,
and crushed stone or gravel (fin. size) 2.05
cubic yards. (2) 1 cement, 2 sand, 4 broken
stone or gravel. (3) Take it up entirely,
break it up into small pieces, put it back,
tamp, and use as foundation. Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Ass’n, 14 Spring-
street, Sydney, will supply free literature on
application.
How is the discrepancy of 86,000 between
the A.I.F. enlistment and embarkation
figures explained? Is it a matter of deser-
tions from camp in Australia? —7s72.
Desertions accounted for not more than
1 p.c. The rest of the discrepancy is caused
by such cases as men discharged for family
reasons, •or because they were men medi-
cally' unfit-or undesirable, men who had
more than one enlistment, and men who were
in camp] at the signing of the Armistice.
1 (1) Can Bunsen burners be made to throw
a flame two yards? (2) Howi do such
burners - function? (3) Where are they
made? —7s42. •
(1) Noe Enormous air and gas pressure
would be necessary to deliver a flame even
12in. long. c , (2) ‘lt iburns a mixture of (coal
gas and air.: ’ A- sleeve on the tube of the
burner regdlates the, amount of air consumed.
(3) By Sale and Morris, of Layton-street,
Camperdown (N.S.iW;).
(1 )Pr ospects of an Australian - obtaining
employment in Hawaii? (2) Any prejudice
tligrcyagainst Apstralidiis? : (3) WoujtdHt be
necessary to become a naturalised American? ,
—7585; ■ • - .7,: V : • r,„. 7 ;
(!) No information available as to present
conditions: There isvnever a -great -deal of
field\work for white men. f (2) -Np. f (3)-,No,
but before, you'cQuldfgo, there- you would have
to apply at the "American Consular office in;
the district where you reside for a (passport
visa. ■ •; I- :•-■■■ r -
1(1) Are there any Samoyed dogs in 1 Aus-
tralia?''7!(2T> Is 'therclimate smtahlb? ' (3)
Average Aiedsurements and weight ? (4) If
a. pair were purchased in England what
would be the cost of landing them in Mel-
bourne (exclusive of price in England)? —
7744.
(1) Do not know of any authentic speci-
mens. Experts say that some classed here
as .Samoyeds; are, really oversize, Romeran-
ians. (2) Yes., (3) Height: do®s 20in.-to;
22in’> atshoulder; bitches 18in. to 20in.
Weightdogs 451 b. to ,551 b., bitches 361 b.
to 451 b. (4) Freight for pair would be
about £l5. Arrangements for feeding must
be made with the ship’s butcher or cook.
The dogs should be insured, and they would
have to be quarantined . fqr_.,six weeks at
tl.f.. -end, which would cost 20s. 'to 30s. per
Syh>ek. 7 / ' > ’- > . . v ":. '
. Brief Answers.
R.P.W.: Probably a claim by A at this
stage would involve expensive litigation... .W.M.:
The S.A. Firearms Act 1875-1891 applies to North
and Central Australia. Compulsory -license fee, 2s. 6d
. ...H.E.G.: (l) The Service Department doesn’t
undertake literary criticism. (2) January 25, 1908.
(3) See article in “Aust. and X.Z. Writers' and
Artists’ Year-book,” (4) By copyrighting it; fee
53 A.S.K.: Consult the American Consul-General.
17 O’Connell-street, Sydney. .. .A.T.L.: A woman
may own a chemist’s shop in Adelaide provided a
registered pharmacist is constantly in : charge and his
name is displayed on the premises.... W.K.: There are
no females employed on the staff of the Brisbane Public-
Library and no staff vacancies... .J.P.: If you.-
instrument is fitted with a reproducer having a
mica diaphragm, replace with a Columbia No. 9
reproducer fitted with a metal diaphragm, obtain-
able from Palings, 338 George-street, Sydney; price,
30s A.J.L.: (1) Write to Bryant and May,
Richmond (Vic.). (2) Ask Customs Department, Cir-
cular Quay, Sydney. .. . A.W.L.: From Prime Minister’*
Department, Canberra... .G.E.F.; “Bulletin Reciter, •’
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney, Is. 3d., posted....
C.M.P.: “Australia,” quarterly (editor, Rev. A. J.
Mills), St. Stephen’s Cathedral, Brisbane... .C.J.C.:
Tell us- make, of machine.... R. A. W.: (1) Yes.
(2) and (3) Write Registrar, Sydney Uni. (4) A
little brighter than here, but they prefer men
trained 10ca11y.... H.C.: Varies in different States
and according to whether a worker is under a
Federal or State award. Communicate with
Department of Labor, various State capital'.
.... R.G.; It can be learned by correspondence from
Sydney Tech. College, Ultimo. Fee, £2 10s., p.a.
. ...G.E.T.; Write United Artists (A’asia), Ltd.,
221 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.... R.F.: Get in touch
with Norman Dawn, Australian Talkies, Ltd., 02
Pitt-'treet, Sydney. . . .G.R.: A widow with two small
children may receive assistance from the State Chil-
dren’s Dept., Brisbane, provided that she is in in-
digent circumstances and the children are living
with her. .. . E.D.T.; Teachers for service in New
Guinea arc obtained from the Q’land Education
Dept. No vacancies for female teachers... .J.W.C.:
Two Liversidge Scholarships are awarded annual!\
to candidates who show greatest proficiency in chem-
istry at the N.S.W*. Leaving Certificate Examina-
tion; annual value £5O. You might apply for
University Exhibition and LTniversity Bursary, or
for a Training College Scholarship... .W.C.W.:
N.S.W. intermediate certificate candidates should
study pages 1-109 of “The Bond of Poetry.” At
the intermediate certificate examination notebooks
of practical work are required in all science sub-
jects except physics and chemistry... .F.K.: Write
Columbia Graphophone (Aust.), Ltd.,' Parramatta -
road, Homebusb, Sydney... .E.M.: By air the dis-
tance between Brisbane and Sydney is 500 miles;
the journey takes Shr. 28tnin X.M.8.: The
preparation is not now made, but stocks are still
obtainable. Try your local chemist... .E. 11.: Infor-
mation obtainable from Capt. E. Hatfield, Victoria
Barracks, Paddington... .0.W.C.: We know of no
place where trees are supplied free. The N.S.W.
Forestry Commission provides trees at a nominal
charge for shelter and breakwind purposes. Write
to the secretary... .W.M.C,: The net price received
by the Vic. wheatgrowers for the 1920-21 crop- was
7s. 8 4-sd. per bushel, less rail freight, which
would vary in different districts, but would average
4d. per bushel... .G.W.1.: Amyl acetate is not made
in Australia, but can be procured for manufacturing
purposes from any wholesale druggist in W.A., or in
small quantities from any chemist.... N.C;: - The
Vic. Agricultural Dept, has a scheme whereby people
may send gifts of produce (butter, fruit,.; jam,
wines, etc.), to friends in England. The scheme is
in operation through the year except for apple',
which may be sent during the export season >only.
. ...A.L.: Apply to Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney,
for permission to destroy.,.,M.H.: There, is no
school in N.S.W. specifically conducted on ; the
Dalton System, but in a number of schools'- the
Dalton plan in a modified form is in operation....
F.W.T.: Interest received from Commonwealth-Bonds
is not subject to Unemployment Relief Tax. If the
total amount received by each of the persons in
question does not exceed £BO, and they are nor
in receipt of income from any other source, a
return is not necessary.... .T.W.Q.: There is nothing
to prevent a N.S.W. property-owner from cutting
down a wattle-tree growing on his property.-...
C.8.P.: W.E.A: Club, Manning Building,, \44fi.\
Pitt-street,, .Sydney.. . .S.S.: If you close your
account with the bank, interest at the usual
rate will be , allowed up to the end of the
previous month.. . .L.C.8.: Consult N.S.W; /Board
of Fire Commissioners, Castlereagh-street, and. "Fir»
and Accident Underwriters’ Assoc., of N.S.W.,' Royal
Exchange, Bridge-street—both Sydney. Also see such
publications as those issued by the National Fire
Protection Assoc, of Boston, IT.S.A R*A.O.:
Write to your local M.P., supporting your claim ny
reasons and attaching recommendations, and ask
him to submit your-name to the Colonial Secretary. .. .
W.P.8.: Tf B . fails .in his payments A can,-exercise
the rights reserved to , him under the contract of
sale. It is a matter for® a ( s6lieitpr-. . t . . A.S.-: Write
Director, Civil Aviation Branch, Defence Dept.; Mel-
bourne. • . . E.JV,If the amount received ,js oils. per
week or higher you will be subject; to, the , tax. .. .
C.B ? H.; The importation of. dogs- into Australia from
Papua, and' all/countries Gi ! eat Britain, Ire-
land and M.L: is prohibited.'. . .T.F.L.: (l) May 17,
1858 ; (2) 2s. 9d., 4s. 9d. and 215.. .. .5.A.R.,: You
should lodge a claim with, the DeputyCorntriissionor
of Repatriation, Clialniers-strjeet,„ Sydney... ,-C. A. 1).:
They were found guilty of murder while : on active
service.. There were three separate charges involv-
ing 11 victims, all Boer prisoners of war.,...
. R.Q.N.:, ' (1) _ See , Forestry , Commission, Kembl.i
Buildings,, Margaret.istreet; Sydney. (2)- Contained
in N.S.W./ Fruit-. Cases Act, 1912. Copy obtainable
front Government Printer, Sydney (3d.) S H 1..:
Not .unless your/lease/contains .a specific power/ to
sublease with : the,, consent of the owner . ... VV*;A,W.:
Looks as if .insurance, were .advisable,; but ' make sure
of your facts; and obtain legal opinion .upon them.
It is sometimes .better to suffer a little injustice
than to. rush, into litigation.... E.0.N.: It is too
late ta enter f.or the £lOO prize, but not for the
£lOOO for the flight round Australia. Write to
Secretary Aero Club, Mcntague-street, Goulburn
(N.S.W.) .1.M.H.: Communicate with A. S.
Latta, Greenwell Point (N.S.iy.) ; ,1. Maloney, Bate-
man’s Bay (N.S.W.) ; and W. L. Butters, South Ber-
magui (N.S.W.) —all district fishery inspectors....
V.-B.: (1), (2) and (7) Notice must be given before
a claim can be made. (3) The class of fence is a
matter fj)r mutual agreement. (4) Shift your fence
to enclose the strip that belongs to you. (5) You
can claim the old fence if originally erected and
wholly paid for by you. (6) You can sell or lease
the strip to him... .E.C.W.: (1) 134.68 m.p.h. (2)
“8.M.W.” (3) Twin. (4) Ernest Henne. (5) Munich.
Domus: A lease is binding on both landlord
and tenant, and the only honest course you can take
is to explain matters to your, landlord and ascertain
from hiiir the 1-eTtu's bn "which'lie will' cancel it....
(Many btlieV', nuiiled.) _ _ . 1


nee we used horse-drawn
transport
now Chevrolet
Our business has increased 100
0/ 59
'0
say A. & W. Verrall
I„ your business, too, Chev-
rolet will prove a dependable,
active partner Here are nine
reasons why:
i A Six, at the price
1. Greater value— A
of an ordinary Four.
2. Finer performance 6 '^^
engine, 50 horsepower, * P
gearbox, 4-wheel brakes
signed for years of trouble-tree
life* ,
3. Greater power and rugged"-.
ensuring satisfactory results
all conditions.
4. Service everywhere.
5. Greater suitability— o y
best adapted to your work.
• nnwpr. bccflvisc
6. Greater earning P«« >
of its economy, speed, and
upkeep.
7. Sedan Cab means greater driver
comfort and efficiency.
8. Smart appearance— a
advertisement for your business.
, Complete nni,-chassis, body, cab
. warranted for one year.
they left for market at midnight and got back
at 6 p.m. Now, with Chevrolet, they are hack in
2 hours. They make three trips a day if required. No
top market prices missed. No goods “practically given
away” through late arrival. And, when the market is
particularly good, two more trips quickly made to take
lull advantage of unusual opportunities.
That is why the business of Messrs. A. & W. Verrall,
Market Gardeners, Hermitage, South Australia, has
increased 100% since changing from horse-drawn
transport to motor truck. That is why they write —
“We would not consider any other truck in preference
to Chevrolet.”
A small down payment puts Chevrolet at work for
vou. The balance can be arranged on convenient
G.M.A.C. instalments. Let your local dealer give you
details of the particular model that will fit your busi-
ness. General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth. “More Wealth
for Australia More Jobs for Australians.”
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Metropolitan Dealers
BRISBANE:
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
John McGrath, Ltd.,
143 Crown Street.
MELBOURNE:
Stokoe Motors Pty., Ltd.,
559-565 Elizabeth Street,
ADELAIDE:
City Motors, Ltd.,
95 Waymouth Street.
PERTH:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co.,
Ltd., 900 Hay Street.
*- m .
m
i
m
*
%■ ■
: '
■
t
»§l
m
m
i
s
m
m
Chevrolet Six
3o
CWT
TRUCKS
/«ur


i^art***
“Room only” Rates
Single Room . . . . . • • • from 12/- per day
Double Room from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet from 21/- per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet . . . . . . • • from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and Toilet from 40/- per day
Breakfast
2/- and 3/6. And a la carte.
Light Luncheon
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Luncheon and Dinner
4 la carte in Grill Room, mini-
mum 4/-; a la carte in Dining
Hall, minimum 5/-.
Th * /Australia IW
Telegraphic Address: "Austraotel, Sydney.
SYDNEY
y// ////^w^
SMOKE-OH!
MORE TYRANNY.
“The Polish newspapers are bitter in their denunci-
ations of the Home Minister, who has drafted a bill
ordering every Pole to bathe at least once a month.”
The shriek of outraged Freedom first rang
out
When Poland's idol, Kosciusko, fell.
Dead silence followed. Freedom didn’t shout
Or groan, or curse, or give one angry yell
Until last week, when, to the nation’s wrath,
Tyrants made Kosciusko have a bath.
* *
They call it boxsheesh at Canberra now.
* *
Journalistic candor reaches its apex in the
70th-anniversary number of Sydney “Mail” :
For with every issue of a paper like the “Mail”
there is the phenomenon of recreation.... The next
issue ! that is the nadir of the editor’s hopes.
¥ *
. WHERE ZARO SCORES.
“Doctors say that Zaro Agha, the 156-yeav.-old
Turk now in the U.S.A., is in his third childhood.
He is putting on a new growth of hair, refuses
strong drink, and yesterday made a vigorous and
spontaneous anti-alcohol speech. ’’-^-Cable.
Zaro Agha, say the doctors.
Spends his infancy (his third)
Growing hair and shunning liquor.
But it really is absurd
To suggest he has no pastimes.
He must know a lot of tricks,
Learned from, 1830 flappers
As a sheik of fifty-six.
* ¥
“FREE BOXES.”
Disgraceful Maiden Speech.
“The Leader of the Opposition, Mi-. Latham,
denounced as an abominable slander the statement
that Mr. Bruce had occupied free boxes at the Mel-
bourne theatres. Mr. Latham said Mr. Bruce had
SO WHAT COULD A FELLOW DO?
"Harold, I shall never take you to visit my friends again. You
have hardly spoken to them all the week-end.”
“Er — no. But m’ dear, not one of them knew a bally thing about
either golf or bridge.”
cabled explaining that he had only occupied free
boxes because of his reluctance to hurt the feelings
of the managements. (Loud National and Labor
cheers.) Mr. Bruce was grateful to Mr. Seullin and
the Labor party for vindicating his reputation in
this matter.” — Canberra item.
In the above connection our Special Re-
presentative at Canberra (since dismissed
for mendacity and conduct unbecoming an
associate of politicians) supplied the follow-
ing :
A sensation was caused last night by the provoca-
tive conduct of Mr. Taxpayer (Australia —Indep.), a
poverty-stricken representative who is understood to
be mentally deficient and has not addressed the
House before. He arose as though under strong
emotion, and began fumbling with what he evidently
took to be his notes. Hon. members were diverted
to observe that the documents were summonses,
judgment orders, etc., of which his pockets appeared
to be full.
Mr. Taxpayer, speaking in quavering tones, said.
“I was informed yesterday, Mr. Speaker, by one who
is, I understand, a professional statistician, that Mr.
Bruce in the course of his various trips to London
as Prime Minister has spent £95,003 14s. Bd. of my
money on hotel bills alone. (Groans and cries of
“Sit down.”) He has always, so to speak, occupied
boxes in the Empire Theatre at my expense. Now,
Mr. Speaker”
Mr. Gullett (Henty—Nat.): “A more dastardly in-
sinuation, a blacker lie, a fouler sneer has never
sullied the ears of this honorable House. 1 say, as
an agricultural laborer”
Mr. Taxpayer: “I have paid for Mr. Bruce, by
way of free transport, according to my informant,
£15,062 3s. 4d.”
Mr. Parkhill (Warringah—Nat.): “Throw him
out!”
Mr. Lazzarini (Werriwa —Lab.): “Declare him
black! ”
Mr. Taxpayer: “And then, Mr. Speaker, there is
the Prime Minister’s Lodge. This superb edifice
has cost me, I am told, over £150,000.” (Amidst
continued and deafening uproar in which members
of all parties joined, the hon. member threw up
his hands in a gesture of despair, and resumed his
seat.)
Mr. Seullin (Yarra —Lab. —Prime Minister) : “I
am sure we all deplore the vile aspersions that have
been cast on the honor of the ex-Prime Minister.
(Hear! Hear!) “I throw them back in the hon.
member’s teeth.” (Cheers.) “Mr. Bruce, it is
said, occupied free boxes at the theatre of Empire—
a reference no doubt to his habit of staying at
hotels like the Savoy while in London. Why did
he do this, Mr. Speaker? Solely because he feared
that by patronising less splendid establishments he
would hurt the feelings of the hon. member who
enjoys the privilege of paying our bills.”
Mr. Taxpayer: “I
wouldn’t have minded if
he had stayed at a
boarding-house—l’d have
admired him.”
Mr. Seullin: “Imagine,
Mr. Speaker, if the ex-
Prime Minister had paid
his own fare to London!
Imagine if we all took
to paying our fares like
politicians in Britain and
Europe ! Imagine if we
gave up our gold passes,
reduced our salaries”
Mr. Taxpayer: “I’d
like it.” (Groans.)
Mr. W. M. Hughes
(North Sydney—A.P.) :
“??! ! !**!I”
Mr. Seullin: “With
regard to the Prime
Minister’s Lodge—now
unfortunately empty and
likely to remain so—l
would ask the hon.
member to reflect on the
humiliation he would
have experienced if
Mr. Bruce had lived in
less expensive quarters as
I am doing. What a
source of self-reproach
to the hon. member and
his family! The lacer-
ated feelings! The sleep-
less nights”
Dr. Earle Page (Cow-
per—C.P.) : “Put an-
other ss. in the £ on
him.” (Cheers.)
At this Mr. Taxpayer
was seen to go deadly
pale. Later, by per-
mission, he apologised to
the House. He said:
“Humbly apologise....
Sorry I spoke. ...
Wouldn’t have, only I’m
ruined.... Still quite
see point.... Only wish
Mr. Bruce had habit-
ua 11 y travelled on
battleships.... Rented
Somerset House while in
London—the Tuileries while in Paris.... Built
imitation Blenheim Palace at Canberra with my
money.... Done me really proud.” (Cheers.)
Here the hon. member groped for his handker-
chief, found nothing but writs and ca res, and
staggered from the chamber overcome with shame
and remorse.
The House then rose, 10-2-4.
¥ *
' “Thousands met to protest against the Budget:
the Town Hall’s capacity was fully taxed.”
— “Herald.”
It would be with this Government in
power.
INSIDE STUFF.
“History records that Ben Johnson and Boswell
were not only contemporaries, but were closely linked
in their literary life.” — Melb. “Herald.”
The term “linked” refers, of course, to
their habit of being lighted home by link-
boys after late sessions at the Mermaid
Tavern (now the Cheshire Cheese), where
the immortal doctor wrote his Dictionary.
Here two centuries earlier Rare Sam John-
son (as Chaucer called him) first hummed his
ballad “Drink to Me only with Thine
A CERTAINTY.
MA: “I wonder whether the money young Billson is
making is enough to marry Edith on?"
PA: “I don’t know what he’s making, but however
much it is I know it isn’t.”
Eyes,” thus (much to his dismay as a
respectable married man) winning the love
of the authoress of “Queen Elizabeth and
Her German Garden.”
* ¥
Katie kissed me as I nursed her.
Then I swore. The car we sat in
(Do you blame me that I cursed her?)
Was the one I'd put my hat in.
*{•
REVISIONS.
(1) Always take a person as you find
him out.
(2) Never judge a film by its advt.
(3) A girl in the car is worth two in a
tram
(4) A penny saved means a two-penny tax.
v ' r. t. f.
*
LIFE AND DEATH.
He hurried into the consulting-room.
“I’m here on a matter of life and death,
The keen, grey eyes scrutinised him with
professional calm.
The great specialist
raised his hand
with a soothing
gesture. “Steady,
steady, my _ lad.
Now take a grip of
yourself, and tell
me what’s wrong?”
“Can I sell you
an insurance policy,
Doctor?”
Zwig.
IN 1990.
Miss Doll Brad-
manish will knock
all previous Test
records into a
cocked hat with her
1500 n.o. at Lord’s.
For a purse of
£5,000,000 Mrs.
Billo Maggs will
agree after much
argument to meet
Mrs. Biffo Daggs
at the Ladies’ Club,
Reno, for the
world’s li e a v y-
weight champion-
ship.
Prime Ministress
Muddlin will de-
dare a deficit of
£6,000,000,000,000. TT ...
The editress of the “S. M. Herald will
deplore the granting of votes to men.
Man as an institution will be' dead —and
the deader he is the better he’ll be pleased.
D. McM.
A FASHIONABLE EDUCATION.
“This is a thoroughly up-to-date school where the
fashionable are coached in all modern accomplish-
ments.”—Advt.
Having a grandmother and a couple of
schoolgirl nieces who are just coming out,
I sent for a syllabus and noted the follow-
ing special features: —
The Cocktail Class: This is a most useful adjunct
to the educational curriculum. Few girls in these
decadent days know how to carry their cocktails.
The seventh or eighth is liable to send them reeling
to bed. Miss Madeline Swank, M.A.
(Hotel Splendiferous), has, had
equally good results with 17-year-
old and sexagenarian flappers. Her
pupils are known in all our leading
winter-gardens—known and (by
those who have to pay for their
drinks) dreaded. It was one of
Miss Swank’s alumni who drank two
A.D.C.’s and a remittance man
under the table at a single session.
The Glad-eye Class: Numerous
students who have successfully
pinched other ladies’ husbands have
expressed their appreciation of the
instruction given in this section by
Mrs. O. Fyo-Fye, Div. Spec.
(Supreme Court, Matrimonial Juris-
diction). Instruction includes
modern and ancient methods of
pirating and gold-digging. A series
of lectures accompany the course,
commencing with “Motoring: How
to Avoid that Long Walk Home.”
Husband-losing Class: Most really
modern girls—whether blushing
brides in the twenties or rouged
matrons in the 50-and-over division
—find that they have drawn one of
matrimony’s innumerable blanks.
The obvious thing is to have an-
other go. After all, the first two
or three husbands are traditionally
the worst. “Poison the brute” was
a sound enough motto for the
Middle Ages, but nowadays, with
tiresome creatures such as Public
Analysts about, it is unsafe. Hence
our course. No lady who has her
eye on a fresh prospect should fail
to take it. The series on “Nailing
Down the Next” is worth the money
by itself. For, remember, girls,
young, elderly and senile, it is not
enough to oust the husband ; it is not
enough to compromise the unfortunate wretch whom
you have decided shall be the husband’s successor.
All avenues of escape must be blocked to the suc-
cessor, and this is where you will find the teachings
of Lady Dyedair of priceless assistance. Write now
for booklet. HAMEB.
* #
“These half-breads are lazy workers.” — “News.”
In short loafers.
“As the bridal party left the church the bells
tolled for 15 minutes.” — “Sun.”
One of those ultra-modern churches, no
doubt, where they keep the joy-bells for the
subsequent divorce.
PUSS, PUSS!
“D’you know I was engaged to your Billy once?”
“So I believe. But he’s awfully hard to please now.”
NAVAL AGREEMENT.
Once Britain held the Trident of the Ocean
And was supreme where'er salt water laves.
Geneva has dislodged this ancient notion,
So now we sing “Britannia pools the
leaves.”
HOUSING ITEM.
The girls give little thought to-day
To building castles in the airj
The slump has changed things so that they
Will frankly own they do not care
To think of castles. Few dare go
Beyond a small dream-bungalow.
M.G.


u.
far
I /
'n
m
91
WC*Llr
HOWTO
ENJOY
YOUR
WHISKY
HAVE YOU A
MEDICINE
CHEST?
Every home should
have a bottle of
“WHITE HORSE”
in its medicine chest.
Good whisky is. ui'
valuable in cases of flu,
sudden illness, severe
winter colds, etc. Be
prepared!
Pour out a portion of '"WHITE
HORSE ” and add an equal portion of
water. Roll it round in your glass. First
test it by the nose, and its delightful and
pleasing aroma will at once be apparent
to you, an aroma which almost baffles
description. Then test your "WHITE
HORSE” by slowly sipping it. Roll it
round your tongue. Do not swallow at
first—allow your palate to detect and
appreciate its distinctive and delicious
flavour. No other whisky gives such a
deep sense of satisfaction and enjoyment.
Scotch
E HORSE
Whisky
Obtainable in Bottles, Half-Bottles. Flasks, and Half-Flasks.


The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria, Limited).
EIGHTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking
OF
JUNE,
House,
THE
1930.
343 George
DIRECTORS
Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 29th July, 1930.
Statement of Profit and Loss and a Balance-sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the 30th June,
The Directors submit to the Shareholders
1930, and present the following Report:— ... . , ._.... t . . £ , n *. ..v.
The balance at credit of Profit and Loss Account, after adding the amount brought forward and deducting Interim ivi en a era e o per cen . per ’
paid on 24th January, 1930, rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying an , income an o er jq
for bad and doubtful debts, amounts to
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:
To Payment of a Dividend for the past half-year at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum £236,900 1- 6
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £4,300,000) .. •• •• •• •• •• •• •• a a
„ Transfer to Bank Premises Account . . . . . . . • • • • • ■ • • • • • • • q-’ooa « V
~ Balance carried forward .. . . . . .. • • • • • • • • • • •: • • oo,—o
£472,176 14 10
Ihe Directors desire to place on record their deep sense of loss through the death on 15th April last of the Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, who resigned from the Board
1929 after having been a Director of the Bank for 14 years. ... , D v , • «• -i i
This meeting is called upon to elect a Director consequent on the retirement in terms of the Articles of Association of Mr. Ldwar . nox, wois e lg
for election and has given the requisite notice that he is a candidate.
It rests also with this Meeting to appoint Auditors. . . . D u .k' • k! - ;
During the year branches of the Bank have been established at Homebush, in New South Wales, and at Moonee Ponds, in Victoria. e ranc a urn urr ,
in New South Wales, and the Sub-branch at Noradiuha, in Victoria, have been closed. •
J GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED)
30th JUNE, 1930 (including the figures of the London Branch by Cable).
AT
£60,315,544 0 0
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian Commonwealth Notes and
Cash at Bankers
Money at short call
British and Australian Government Stocks and other
Securities .. .. • • • • 4 • •
Bills Receivable in London and Remittances in
transit
Notes and Bills of other banks
Bills discounted, and other debts due to the Bank . .
Bank premises, furniture, etc.
£8,205,824 18 8
1,835,000 0 0
0,106,619 17 1
3,062,926 0 11
410,891 9 0
£19,121,262 5 8
39,847,985 19 10
1,346,295 14 6
£60,31.5,544 0 0
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interim Dividend for the Half-year ended 31st December, 1929,
at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum, paid on 24th January, 1930
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for past Half-year
per cent, per annum
„ Reserve Fund
~ Bank Premises Account
„ Balance Carried Forward
at the rate of 10
£236,950 12 6
100,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
85,226 2 4
£236,950 12 6
472,176 14 10
£709,127 7 4
By Amount brought forward from last year
„ Profit for Year ended 30th June, 1930
£71,508 8 11
637,618 18 5
£709,127 7 4
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
L. A. PARKER, Acting General Manager.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the cash in the
Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in
Sydney, 15th July, 1930.
Head Office of The Commercial Banking
the foregoing Balance-sheet.
F. W. HIXSON J
HARINGTON B. COWPER ]
Company of
Auditors.
0
M
■
\
Mm*
Mellow and Cool
Here’s a cigar especially
adapted to the Australian
taste. It’s fragrant and
rich.... absolutely depend-
able in quality. Obtain-
able at hotels and tobacco-
nists’, or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
10 Cigars 5/6
(Posted 6/-)
25 12/-
(Posted 12/6)
50 23/-
(Posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/-
(Posted 46/-)
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
Dr* De JONGH'J
LIGHT BROWN
COD LIVER OIL
is prepared from a blending of the purest
Norwegian Oils, by a process which does not
destroy the vitamins. It is the purest) most
palatable, most easily digested and most
speedily eSSicacious and has, for upwards
of 80 years, been highly recommended by the
leading medical authorities in the treatment of
Consumption, Diseases of the Throaty
and Chest, Chronic Coughs
and Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma and
m
k
n «i
-I=^
<sgwi
sss''
Dr. De Jongh’s Cod
Liver Oil can be ob-
tained from high-class
Chemists and Stores.
Sole Proprietors
ur
oo «orioDboeJ‘' h6H
,( Ul|| (l *'• MUM •««•»» , ,|ltl
'l'll,|,| '
'"'""mm* huh him"'
--Pints
ArJSAR, HARFORD & CO., LTD.
11, CRAY'S INN ROAD, LONDON, W.C. S
Beware of attempts to substitute Fraudulent Imitations
NO INVESTOR IS SAFE WITHOUT IT
How many tens of thousands of people were ruined in the ’nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
and the bad?
We are on the edge of a similar disaster. Already scores of companies have gone into liquidation. But no great amount of
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen?
The files and other data at the command of the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” are so complete that the companies themselves often
apply for permission to consult them.
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
No investor, great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make sure it
is safe.
You need not buy the “Monthly” without testing its value. Send for a sample copy, along with 1 id. stamp to cover postage, and
judge whether it is not worth 22/6 a year to you.


THE GOSSAHD LINE of BEAUTY
Gossard Designers
Spend Their Lives In Makin
Women’s Figures Beautiful
w
mm
mSKm
'
mm'
m Awai
> j
n
*3
m
mm
wSwwm
m
mm
A beautiful com-
bination of satin
and lace, show-
ing a most skill-
ful, slenderizing
design Hand-
loomed elastic
sections mould it
closely to the fig-
ure. Model 2536.
.... So you who realize that figure
beauty unsupported is a passing thing
—and you who understand that your
figures need slightly corrective gar-
ments to wear your frocks success-
fully—can act not more wisely than
to place your figure problems within
the skillful control of a Gossard
foundation—Beautiful in themselves
because only the finest materials and
workmanship are employed / they
instantly answer the beauty needs of
every type of figure, from the very
slender to the larger types.
Combinations, Solitaires,
girdles, step-ins, front lacing corsets,
brassieres, all bear the same marks
of perfect designing, whether in the
low, medium, or high priced groups.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W.
MAD E WITHIN THE
EMP I R
K-AUBT-4
b w
Poverty
Point
“Dramofilm”: The public’s reasons for pre-
ferring some talkies to others are still as
funny as ever. “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney,”
a satire on the smart set, attracted mainly
because it allowed harassed suburban house-
wives to glory in the doings of the upper ten
for a few fleeting moments. The grandilo-
quent spruiker outside the “National” con-
fided that more men than women turned up
to see George Bancroft in “Ladies Love
Brutes.” “Most of ’em were measly ’en-
pecked lookin’ blokes,” he added.
“Philm”: How sincere is an audience’s
appreciation of stage sentiment? I was
present at a Perth theatre when the scores of
the final day’s play in the second Test were
coming through. At the conclusion of Act
[, the announcement that England was 5 fox-
-150 was received with rapturous applause.
The finale of the second act brought 5 for
2G2, piospects of a draw, and dead silence.
“Journey’s End” may be billed as the play
that broke down the barriers of international-
ism, but all the enthusism in the audience
evoked by Stanhope and Raleigh could not
withstand the acid tost of cricket partisan-
ship.
“Lord Luvus”: The signing of a peace
treaty has just been reported from Paris.
The signatories are two talkie combines, one
German and the other American. The terms
provide that the high contracting parties
agree henceforward to divide the world
equally between them, except for special
areas where an open go is permitted. The
German talkie empire includes several coun-
tries of Europe, while the American interests
have the exclusive rights to India, Maoriland
and Australia. In view, presumably, of the
Scullin Government’s known views on the
subject, there is no mention of an army
of occupation to enforce the treaty locally.
“Cine Ma”: Film-producers are entitled
to some consideration, and there is no justi-
fication for the vagaries of the Australian
censorship. Up to date of writing,
“Lummox” has been banned by the Common-
wealth Board of Film Censors, released by
the Appeal Board, banned again by the
Victorian Censorship and personally viewed
and condemned by the Chief Secretary of
N. S. Wales. *
“Cine Ma” : It has often been complained
that the film producers constantly insult their
brothers of the literary craft by altering
book titles. Thus “Anna Karenina” became
“Love,” “Old Ironsides” became “Sons of
the Sea,” “They Knew What Thev Wanted”
became “A Lady to Love,” etc, ad lib., also
ad naus. In this matter, I think, Hollywood
shows a delicate sense of propriety. I have*
not seen more than two screen versions of
novels or plays that were not blatant traves-
ties of the, originals. The authors must be
secretly glad, as they stuff their royalties in
their pockets, that the children of their
brains are sailing under changed colors.
. “Columba”: I can support “C.M.” (B.
23/7/’3O) whole-heartedly in his ei-iticism of
Italian opera as seen in Italy. Some years
before the war I* attended a gala perform-
ance at the Teatro San Carlo in Naples. I
think the show; was “Maritana” ; whatever it
was, the atmosphere of untidy grubbiness
that pervaded the presentation almost enabled
one to smell the mildew on the costumes of
the players. The voices were good, of
course, but the acting was wretched,
and the opera was followed by the famous
ballet in which no two dancers were in
step or in time with each other or with the
orchestra. They went through their perform-
ance in a manner that could easily have been
bettered by a row of decently strung clothes-
pegs; and the dresses were frahkly dirty A
London or, for that matter, an English pro-
vincial musical-comedy chorus could have
given them miles of start and a good lickin'*
for drill and precision. The Australian ditto”
which imparts an air of enjoyment of its
work that London sadly lacks, is immeasur-
ably ahead of both —and of New York.
.“D.”: “The Firm” has cut its theatre
prices m Melbourne “to meet present con-
ditions, including the depression and the
double amusement tax.” The slump in “the
legitimate” is largely a protest against ex-
pensive discomfort, and the tactics of the
movie people show that they appreciate the
fact. Thus “Disraeli” has just * left the
renovated Sydney Lyceum for the old-
fashioiifed Crystal Palace. The same show
can be seen from any part of the Palace
for Is. that thousands paid 4s. apiece to
see from the Lyceum dress-circle. In other
words, many amusement-seekers were ready
to pay 75 per cent, of the admission prices
for softer, wider seats, better ventilation
and similar amenities. The drama will not
look up again till (1) prices are reduced to
match the primitive conditions in the theatres,
pr (2) the theatres’ standard of comfort
is raised to the level of the more expensive
talkie-palaces.
“Bumpkin” : I don’t know how she appears
to a landsman, but to a nautical man the
good ship “New Moon,” at Melbourne Royal,
in the act where she is fleeing from the
pirate, looks to be hard and fast aground.
I tried my darnedest without being able to
get the slightest illusion of movement. Per-
haps this may be due to the trifling circum-
stance that, whilst the breeze that filled her
sails was dead aft, the wind that produced
the majestic surges in the backcloth was a
few points off the port bow—in other words
practically a head wind ! ’
“Drum-stick” : Heard her last call at New
Jersey (U.S.A.), Australian prima donna
lillie Salinger. In 1882, when she was only
12, she appeared in Sydney with the original
Pollard Juvenile Opera co. at the old Opera
House. She was Buttercup to May Pollard’s
Josephine, and her brother Herbert was the
captain. She was for years prima donna at
the Tivoli in ’Frisco.
“Craiser”: To publish the private diary of
a personage after liis death is usually con-
sidered a respectable proceeding, * but ~tq do
so during his life and against his wishes
is a precedent which has been left, to the
Soviet Government, apparently. The great I
basso who visited Australia recently found i
on a Paris bookstall “Memoirs of the Cele-
brated Artist Chaliapin, Pages from My
Life,” and it bore the mark of- the official
Soviet publishing house. The contents
turned out to be an early journal which had
been entrusted to a friend in Moscow and
subsequently seized by the Government.
Chaliapin has had many vicissitudes since
the Russian Revolution. At first an ardent I
supporter of that institution, he was refused |
permission to land in England. Later be j
was excommunicated by the Soviet and his
property confiscated for singing to bourgeois
audiences in America and Europe.
The Inky Way
: The betting is that unless it is
bound by agreement, which it doesn't
w? t be ’ the ‘1 S - M - Herald” will come
back to a penny before long, or make some
modification of the new flat rate of 14d.
Already the office is shivering at the things
it hears said about itself. Even allowing for
a diminished circulation of 180,000, the extra
P er fort mght means an additional
ISi,ioo a year. (The “Herald” has been
charging its agents 9d. per dozen, less 7
per cent. The future charge will be
Is lid. per dozen, less 7 per cent.)
Hie cost of the £1 per ton duty on
newsprint plus the 21 per cent, primage
W n* ca iss/wS? at somethin S between £37,000
aa n P-a., which means that there
will be very close to £50,000 p.a. to spare for
something else. The general body of the public
is probably not so kind in its calculations as
that, it has assumed, for instance, that the
whole extra Gd. per fortnight will fall into
Pocket. Of course the position
pnnP| £ u' U i t ' + Not one firm in a thousand
could afford to pay out an extra £40,000 a
year and not get a bean of it back; and
even the Fairfaxes wouldn’t find the experi-
ence pleasant. But to add to the selling
price more than twice the amount of the
new charges is exasperating. Among other
things it shows you how difficult the science
of taxation is.
Notice of Motion”: Having noted little
or no improvement in the English of some
members of the Victorian Parliament during
the years I have listened to them, I feel con-
vinced that they are content to be slip-
shod knowing that the “Hansard” men will
overhaul their speeches. When J H
llisney announced that a “Queensland Labor
Government established its own insurance
office, which has been of world-wide benefit
as far as Queensland is concerned,” the
official listener-in made him say the office
had been of great benefit. Asked how many
insurance companies were in Victoria the
same member said: “In round numbers, about
v , ‘Hansard” gave the reply as approxi-
mately 101. T. Hayes, who has the staccato
delivery of a machine-gun, said: “As far as
that is concerned” 29 times in a 10-minute
speech I heard. The phrase did not appear
once in the “Hansard” report. George Pren-
dergast says constantly, “I want to say in
connection with this matter.” It i s dropped
by the Pitmanic recorders. Then there is
this patriotic flourish by S’William MePher-
spn: “This fair land of ours.” It is alwavs
rendered “Australia.”
The Palette
Geo^ e Lambert took himself
very seriously where his art was concerned.
Some years ago the owner of an unsigned
wash-drawing by hiiq wrote asking if he
would sign the picture. The reply, written
by someone else, was: “Mr. Lambert’s fee
for signing his early indiscretions is 10
guineas (£10 10s.). He hopes to see you.”
lo that the owner of the drawing answered:
The particular indiscretion- in my posses-
sion is scarcely worth a fee of 10 guineas ”
and so it remains unsigned. Still, it ought
iS G Sy " S; ‘ tS C ° mI>a " ion haa ss
A mixed show at the Beaux Arts Mel-
mai?Jy distinguished by two spark-
ling studies of Lltham gums by Colin Cola-
han and an inconspicuous but sincere land-
scape by Percy Leason. The veteran A. Col-
quhoun has a country road which looks as
u it would take you somewhere, unlike some
of its neighbors, which bring you up all
standing at the surface of the canvas Nor-
man McGeorge and John and Will Rowell
have good examples of their own particular
manners.
This year the Victorian Salon of Photo-
graphy exhibited in the Fine Arts Gallery,
and this unpardonable presumption promptly
started a controversy as to whether photo-
graphy is art. The Nat. Gallery doesn’t
think so, apparently, since it has rejected
a proposal to give a room to art photographs.
Present critic will keep an open mind on
the subject. Certainly those of the exhibitors
who try to be most “artistic” achieve the
least real art. All they produce are camera
studies masquerading as etchings litho-
graphs or pseudo Old Masters. Their aim is
that of the commercial gentlemen who stamp
leather to look like snakeskin, or wallpaper
to look like marble. Those who use the camera
with the least subterfuge, like G R Frank
land, Chas. N. Tomlinson and W. Howieson
get nearest to being true artists, as does the
despised press photographer.
F.S. . One of the quaint obsessions of
Arthur Streeton, who now does Melbourne
Argus s art criticisms, is that a picture
should convey its message equally well
whether the spectator stands at the distance
the artist intended him to or with his nose
gummed to the canvas. On the strength of
this amusing delusion he recently damned
the works of a better painter than himself
It wouldn’t matter much, only the public
being more fuddled on the subject of paint-
ing than on any other form of creative
effort, takes his remarks as gospel. The
same public would, of course, be quick to
detect the fallacy. if a musical critic de-
clared that he found a symphony orchestra’s
performance of the “Tannhauser” overture
quite good when heard from the seat allotted
him by the management but unintelligible
when he put his head inside the trombone


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. •. • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Sanioa'
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS Side's:
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
trom Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ARE YOU A
Mr. MICAWBER?
Waiting for Better Times
won’t make you prosperous.
louVe got to “go after”
business if you want it.
START NOW!
ADVERTISE
YOUR GOODS
AND SERVICES
IN
she Brisbane (Eouriec
Queensland’s
Leading & Largest
Newspaper,
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane.
’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative :
Robert D. Fisher, 74 Pitt-street.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative :
L S. Marks, The Argus Bldg.,
Elizabeth and Latrobe streets.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
tKp Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929. i
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
NOW- THE WORLD
mi
\
s
m
M s
mb
rfOII
pn2*
OVV©KK
otU
HOV
HO
NOW to the real business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings alnd plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
Smooth Water Voyage
which is a Holiday in Itself.
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,
5000 tons.
Return Fare Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, -Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story
Read the "B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers
4 O
as
M
i
UJ
§»' 3 5
BURNS. PHILP &C9.LTP
7 BRIDGE ST. SYDNEY,AUSTRALIA
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 18111
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. ■
Reserve Liability
*2Sfc
£7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1029, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor .. . 15,000 tons, Sept. 15
fCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 18
*Ascanius . . 11,000 ~ Nov. 25
JThemistocles 11,500 ~ Dec. 16
‘First class only.
tCabin class. JFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. }
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. I
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
1 Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
I Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel • 86701. 5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
I " MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
j Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerL
ine
Magnificent
Fast Passengai
Steamship.)
STEAMEIiS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice verm.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
CollinBStreet, Melbourne; BridgeStreat, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail aud cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN' CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOI/F ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with ft
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
the njz. referee news-
paper CO., LTD„
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any ef the World's Leading
Advertising Agencies.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM IQ WOMEN ]
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.


EOTHEN
PAYING GUESTS
128 Cast Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
tidutive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
Mrs- PARKER
LAKE LOUISE
4neb
j' vtn my jj&y ji tl A AtfMlj tjA i |h
A.
Silfß
’■fe
The most perfect gem of
Lake Scenery; exquisite
shadows of deep green
splashed with silver reflec-
tions from the Victoria
Glacier. Lake Louise dis-
trict is the favourite climb-
ing centre of the Canadian
Rockies. Fishing—riding
swimming social af-
fairs at the Chateau. Lake
Louise reached only via
Canadian Pacific. Illustra-
ted literature on request.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
-w -- dZ I •
M.'ift'.W"
/ *
gu s
. h°T
fcps
e aM
.s*
s
The Worlds greatest travel system
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed bp the importing
bookseller.
Later Years of Thomas Hardy
By FLORENCE EMILY HARDY.
Illustrated. 1 Bs. net.
This volume completes Mrs.
Hardy’s biography of her husband
begun in “The Early Life of Thomas
Hardy, 1840-1891,” published in
1928, at 18s. net, and still obtainable
NEW NOVELS.
Rogue Herries
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
The “illustrated London News”: “Rogue
Herries is a diamond of many facets, all worked
upon with extraordinary skill A great
novel, a great jewel in the splendid diadem
of English literature.”
Recommended by the Book Society.
Wind from the West
By PAMELA HINKSON.
[Empire Library.
This new novel by the daughter of
Katharine Tynan is concerned with an
old French family, rooted in aristo-
cratic traditions, and what happens
when a young girl of to-day breaks
away and marries an American who
symbolises the wind of freedom which
is to destroy the remains of a social
order that is already rapidly dis-
appearing in Europe.
MACMILLAN’S 2/- SERIES
FURTHER VOLUMES.
The Return of the Native
By THOMAS HARDY.
The Virginian
By OWEN WISTER.
The Caravaners
By “ELIZABETH."
Misunderstood
By FLORENCE MONTGOMERY.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges that last and
give a cleaner, far,
far better shave.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
From Stores,
Chemists and
Hairdressers.
Kirby Beard and
Co., Ltd., Raven-
hurst Works, Bir-
mingham, Eng.
Also London, Red-
ditch and Paris.
fgdjfgd
BEARD & C^td/
Q
e
*
)
'Value
that is proved
by actual years
of unfailing;
writing service
§li
Sly
m
S.F. 230 C
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6
Lapis Lazuli
with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30/-
A fountain pen that has a
reputation for continuing to
write perfectly for thirty or
forty years does not need ex-
travagant claims to support it.
Nevertheless the ‘Swan’ Pen
is guaranteed by the makers
to serve you faithfully for an
unlimited time.
You can now buy a ‘Swan’
Pen either in Black or in the
exquisite colours which are
so popular.
COLOURED ‘ SWANS ’ from 22/6
(OTHER SELF - FILLING ‘ SWANS ’
from 17/6 Black or Mottled)
“Fyne-Poynt " Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling V Blackbird ” Pens from g /•
OF STATIONERS & JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents & Repair
Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., ]
iBi, Clarence Street, rv J
Sydney.
- _ to match any ‘Swan’ Pen.
CWA
»WAn
PEN
FOR
"SWAN 1 *
PENS
AND ALL
PENS
Jl
|waiJT||
jfgd
p$K TO SEE THE HE* cot °Uß£o SWANS’
CIA.)
SHADOW SHOWS.
11l “Song o" My Heart” Sydney’s beauti-
ful Plaza Theatre offers £lOO,OOO worth of
John McCormack; that being what the Fox
Movietone people paid him to sing the world’s
loveliest tenor ballads into their microphone,
and do some acting as a side-line. John
represents an eminent tenor whose girl has
married another. The shock drives him to
choir-singing in an obscure Irish village.
After many years he hears the box-office
calling again, and wins the musical world’s i
homage on the very night that Mary, deserted
by his unworthy rival, dies in poverty. So
he returns to Ireland, and dedicates his life
to her children.
A feeble plot, but the glorious McCormack
voice is all that really matters. In one
famous song after another the golden notes
pour fluidly out of the screen. It is not quite
McCormack; on the other hand, it is miles ;
ahead of the best gramophone record ever
made. Two delightful Irish youngsters,
Maureen O’Sullivan and Tommy Clifford,
do a lot to improve the entertainment value
of the show.
# * *
Nancy Carroll, who dominates Para-
mount’s “The Devil’s Holiday” at Sydney
Prince Edward, has gifts that approach
genius, though, like every other feminine
star, with the possible exception of Ruth
Chatterton, she is a specialist. She stands
in a class of her own as a portrayer of
fluffy-haired adventuresses, and she can be a
very moving and human little creature in
her softer moments. For the greater part
of “The Devil’s Holiday” she is a man-
scorning gold-digger. While engaged collect-
ing funds and clothes for a trip to Paris
by vamping salesmen at the hotel where
she manicures, young David Stone comes
into her life. The story, which is trite,
deals with the efforts of his family to
separate them. In the nature of things the
Puritan father and brother are unreal, but
as often as their rantings threaten to reduce
the show to melodrama her cynical natural-
ism saves the situation. P. It. Holmes is
likeable as the boy, and Ned Sparks provides
a brilliant study of a buccaneering Middle
West bagman. Whether owing to the skill of
the projectionist or the acoustics of the
Prince Edward, the sound-effects are amaz-
iugly good. No one who wants to learn how
far movie-art has progressed in the last few
months should miss this fine show.
•* * *
Rudy Vallee, who arrived recently at Syd-
ney Roxy, is supposed to enjoy a bigger volume
of highbrow loathing than any other per-
former in the world. He is, in his line, what
the cornet soloist was, and the Wurlitzer is
He has capitalised the scorn of the intelligent-
sia for publicity purposes as Harry Lauder
did his alleged meanness, and to such purpose
that nowadays an American comic paper with-
out a joke or two at his expense is a rarity.
There must be something in such a man,
but _ “The Vagabond Lover,” which is the
medium chosen for his introduction to Aus-
tralia, fails to bring it out. It reveals him
as a crooner, with a voice which is neither
more nor less thinly saccharine than others
that have been afflicting this country for
the past year or more. He seems to like
himself best in the time-worn “If You Were
the Only Girl in the World,” and the audi-
ence on the night this critic heard his shadow
liked that best too. But he can’t act, and he
has the exaggeratedly wooden countenance
of a crook poker-player. Nor is his orchestra
to be compared with the Paul Whiteman
combination, which Sydney heard first at the
Regent. Marie Dressier, as a wealthy vul-
garian, is the one really bright spot in a dull
show.
* * *
The crowded state of Sydney Haymarket,
where “In the Next Room” entered on its
.N-S.W. career, is another indication that
most movie fans are even more stimulated by
slaughter than sex. Well-produced marrow-
freezers are the safest of all talkie bets —
and the more idiotically irrelevant the better.
In this one there is a blood-stained I<SB9 pro-
logue, which has nothing to do with the
grisly events of the 1929 story. And few,
if any, of the 1929 events are connected
with one another, or with anything of a
credible nature. A youth calls at the house of
mystery, examines a safe, and falls dead.
Another follows suit. Jack Mulliall (as the
breezy journalist-hero) opens the safe, and
an unconscious French girl falls out. Rain-
soaked N. York policemen, equally devoid of
brains and manners, bellow ineffectually
about the premises, and ineffectually depart.
One industrious moron constitutes himself
a kind of resident ’tec, sees all the murders
through, arrests the hero, and then finds by
reference to his notebook that he is in the
wrong house. He should have been making
an ass of himself elsewhere.
Talkie patrons don’t react to these pro-
ceedings as audiences did to melodrama. The
gripping fingers, creeping shadows, and fre-
quent deaths produce howls of laughter as
a rule—-and they are meant to. Each man
kills the thing he loves, and it is on the
cards that by making terror comic the pro-
ducers of mystery shows will eventually do
for them. At present, however, the humor-
ous aspects of murder are in great demand.
* * *
“A Lady to Love,” which began its Mel-
bourne appearances at the Regent, is a talkie
version of “They Knew What They Wanted,”
the only intelligent play Maurice Moscovitch
put on in Australia except “The Merchant.”
The story of the stout old Italian vigneron
who gets a wife from a ’Frisco cafe by send-
ing her as his own the photo of his I.W.W.
rouseabout, has been bowdlerised, deodorised
and ansestheticised into complete senseless-
ness. In the stage play the old chap’s
motive was to beget descendants, but
M.-G.-M. have painlessly removed the off-
spring and, what is worse, have turned its
father, the I.W.W. agitator, into a conven-
tional Hollywood hero and given the part to
Robert Ames, apparently the worst actor
available. In the stage version Nat Madison
gave a brilliant interpretation of the charac-
ter. The climax, wherein the cafe girl learns
to love the elderly satyr, is ridiculous, but
not more so than Vilma Banky as a waitress
who looks as if she had never washed up |
a dish in her futile existence. The amorous 1
vigneron is well enough done by George J.
Robinson.


he things that count in a
motor car ... as you yourself can prove them
fjlie NE W
m
i
«>
i
IS
0
IS
Advantages that Challenge
It is a big Roomy Essex-Long-
er wheelbase and wider seats
afford additional comfort for
passengers.
It is a Low, Sate Essex —A dou-
ble-drop frame lowers body
height with headroom maintain-
ed and road clearance increased.
Four-wheel brakes are effec-
tive with light pedal pressure.
It is a Modern Essex-designed
in the vogue of 1930. Modern
design is used in the detailing
of fenders, hood, hub caps and
body moldings; repeated in in-
terior fittings and decorations.
If you have not already ridden, we invite
you to examine and drive the New Essex
Challenger.
In looks, in action, its appeal is instantane-
ous. To those who have owned cars around
this price it is a revelation. It gives a new
sense of stability and power. It holds a
charm of appearance, riding ease and pride
of ownership that comes only with sur-
passing performance.
That is why owners express elation in the
comparison of their cars with the fine,
costly cars of noted performance ability.
It is why, with almost one voice, they call
the New Essex Challenger the greatest
pound for-pound value ever offered.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales.
%
Victoria . . .
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
13$ Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Queensland
South Australia .
. WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
. MOTORS, LTD.,-
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania
... H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
S 3 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


REPAIRS.
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
The Famous Hollis 12-gauge Guns
specially made, for me to suit Australian
Conditions.
Hollis “Foxey” Hammer Model, £l3
Hollis Special Hammerless
Model £2l
Specifications- for both Guns: 30- or 32-inch
Barrels, both full choke, chambered for Sin.
cartridges, high file cut rib, treble wedge
fast crossbolt (hammer model side clips),
selected English walnut stock, weight 7Jib. to
81b. each. POST FREE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Market Street).
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER
PROFESSION?
jfdj
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street. SYDNEY.
ROLLS RAZORS ARE NOT GIVEN
AWAY.
THEY COST REAL MONEY.
Just figure the cost of all the Wafer Blades
you use every year, then change to a
ROLLS
RAZOR
The British ONE BLADE SAFETY, the only
Razor in the world without a blade problem.
Imperial No. 1, 50/-; No. 2, 40/-
For sale at all the Better shops.
Rolls Razor Company of Australia,
8a Castlereagh Street.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD-,
Wholesale Distributors, Haymarket, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
By winning the 1929 Australian Hurdle
and Steeplechase, the two “Nationals” at
1< lemington this season, and the Australian
Hurdle again, Gus Powell’s Mosstrooper has
surpassed anything previously accomplished
by a jumper in the Southern Hemisphere.
Whether the son of Kenilworth is entitled
to higher fame than Redleap has aroused
spirited controversy. Mosstrooper has not
been asked to carry the crushing burdens
under which liis mighty predecessor tri-
umphed, but then Redleap was not required
to travel at the cracking pace which is main-
tained throughout present-day jumping con-
tests.
* ......
The Australian Hurdle was run at Caul-
field last Saturday, and, as in 1929, 10 horses
started; they included the New South
Wales geldings Paul T. and Rossgole. Itoss-
gole was in demand, though doubt existed
whether he would see out three miles and
a quarter; the son of Rossendale went out
third favorite. Mosstrooper touched 5 to 2,
eased a point and then firmed to 3 to 1.
Swahilli never was at a longer price than
5 to 1. Kentle receded from that level to
7 to 1. Reonui (well known on Sydney
courses as a fiatracer) led a few furlongs,
but Norman Kelly then took Rossgole to
the front. At one stage his mount was 10
lengths in advance of Swahilli, the rear being
brought up by Mosstrooper. Pulling hard,
Swahilli supplanted Rossgole six furlongs
from homo, and tin lightweight petered out,
being pulled up after clearing the final
obstacle. Swahilli punctured when Moss-
trooper, ridden with perfect judgment by
It. N. Harris, passed him at the straight
entrance. The favorite came on to score
easily by three lengths from Lord Harnley
(12 to 1), while Kentle, under severe pun-
ishment, gained third place.
McShortodds indulged in his accustomed
moan over Mosstrooper’s success, claiming
that the chestnut had been “pitched in” at
list. 121 b. Such had been his song of sorrow
ever since the weights appeared. Ante-post
and course odds were so restricted that field-
ers must have been well insured against loss,
but nothing short of a “skinner” ever satis-
fies them. Cragford, the Crimea Trial win-
ner, was almost unbacked, and the opening
success of a 25-to-l chance ought to have
given a solid lining to the moneybags.
Cragford belongs to, and was bred by, J-. P.
Arthur, being by his imported stallion East-
ern Monarch, the sire of Taisho, who was
expected to win the last Doncaster.
Failing to do much good with horses of
his own breeding, “S. A. Rawdon,” the
newspaper magnate and retired medico,
risked 2000 guineas on the purchase of the
Maoriland prad Waterline. This grandson
of Bayardo reached Melbourne only seven
weeks ago, and was produced for the
V.A.T.C. Malakoff Stakes. Punters sup-
posed that he would not be ready for a kill-
ing so soon, and 20 to 1 was laid ; but as
soon as the stable commissioner stepped in
there was a general rush for Waterline, who
shortened to 11 to 2. He scored in cake-
walk style, the favorite, Proud being
unplaced. Waterline is much better treated
in the A.J.C. Metropolitan than the Caul-
field Cup or Melbourne Cup, and will pro-
bably visit Sydney in the spring.
The easiest victory at Caulfield was that
of .Jacobin in the Mornington Welter ; this
neddy is trained by Jack Holt for J. 11.
Flannagan, of Adelaide. Holt had arranged
for Duncan to recommence riding by pilot-
ing El Rey in the Malakoff Stakes. Medi-
cal specialists intervened, and ordered that
Duncan should wait 12 months before going
on to the active list again. The jockey
met with a critical neck injury last Novem-
ber, yet registered more wins for the season
than any rival in Victoria.
For winning the first leg of the Caulfield
jumping double, Mosstrooper was reliandi-
capped at 13st. 51b. for the Australian
Steeplechase. If the pen is drawn through
the chestnut’s name the issue may be fought
out by Kentle, Namera and Adit. Others
with reasonable chances are Glentronie,
Orange Park, Good Whisky and Bang Bang.
Selections:—
Australian Steeple (in the absence of
Mosstrooper) : Kentle; next, Namera.
Balaclava Stakes: Lord Essex; next,
Waterline.
A decent sort of sprinter is Halifax (Ros-
sendale —First Act), who won'a six-furlong
race at Canterbury Park on the last day of
the old season. Over-anxious to get going,
he dislodged his jockey and galloped a few
furlongs while the starter was lining them up ;
and the bookmakers lengthened the odds from
5 to 2to 7 to 2. Again he broke away, but
this time the rider (Davidson) pulled him
up in a hundred yards or so. When the barrier
lifted the eager animal was the first to move,
but Davidson pulled him in behind Prince
Yerderer—by no means a bad horse —until
the straight was reached; then he let him
have his head, and the race was over.
Eric Connolly is said to have col-
lected a lot of the Halifax monev. In
the principal race Eden Hall (9 to 4) just
beat Flinders, but that honest steed seemed
a bit unlucky. He is earning a fair amount
ot stake money for Kelso, who doesn’t back
him to any extent.
* * * *
It was a Magpie day at Warwick Farm on
Saturday. Offspring of that great race-
horse and sire captured the first four flat
races—Golden Speech (7 to 1) the Farm
Stakes; Talkie (8 to 1) the first division of
the Maiden Three-year-old Handicap; Bur-
racootboo (4 to 1) the second division of that
race; and Bavarde (6 to 1) the Denham
Court Handicap. Burracootboo is a half-
brother to Goshawk, trained at the Farm by
Albert Wood for T. Longworth. He ran a
trifle green, it being his first race, but came
home well when tackled, and is evidently no
ordinary colt. He has been backed for the
Melbourne Cup. Bavarde was receiving 301 b.
from Killarney ( 4 to 1), and it was only by
a head that she prevailed over that horse (the
luckless Casque d’Or was another head away),
but she is not a bad bit of stuff all the same.
In the Shade opened his account in Aus-
tralia by winning the August Handicap, for
WHERE HIS HEART WAS.
McDOUGALL (for the seventh time): “Oh Hell!”
FATHER RYAN: “McDougall, me bhoy, ye seem a bit homesick to-day.”
which lie went out at the same price, threes,
as Dark Isle and Becalmed. There were
only six starters. Dark Isle cut up badly,
and may be dismissed from Metropolitan cal-
culations. Becalmed and Lord Romeo made
a race of it with the horse from Maoriland,
but he was going away from them at 'the
finish. All the same, it was not exactly a
stylish performance, and In the Shade will
have to show improvement before he can be
recommended for the Metrop, with Bst. 81b
There are not many horses in Sydney that
can beat Kavalli at a mile or thereabouts
when he is in the mood. He was on his best
behavior in the Edensor Park Handicap, for
which he was backed from tens to sixes, and
he won comfortably from Dreamdale (14 to
1) and Sion (10 to 1), who showed his first
glimpse of form for many months.
:'fi ❖ #
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Beckwith; next, Mint-
age.
Park Stakes: Ilidalla ; next, Garcon Blue.
Canterbury Handicap: Zeeldnd; next,
Spearmiss.
Ashbury Handicap: Sunflare ; next, Exact.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
In a scrap devoid of interest at Sydney
Stadium, Ted Monson, ex-middleweight cham-
pion, collected a points verdict over Tommy
.Cribb at the end of 12 rounds. Thomas
made a creditable showing early, but soon
faded out of the picture, while Monson
played the part of aggressor throughout.
Both warriors hit the canvas for a short
spell, Monson in the eighth and Cribb in
the eleventh. From the seventh to the
finish Cribb took delivery of a lot of pun-
ishment. Monson, list. 61b.; Cribb, list.
2£lb.
Footbrawl
The Australian Rules inter-State carnival
at Adelaide which opened last week pro-
vided much interesting football. The sur-
prise of the meeting was the double win of
N. over Queensland and Tasmania. The
Welshmen opened the carnival with a smash-
ing win from Bananaland, final scores read-
ing 138 to 62 (21-12 to 7-20). The Light
Blues were as emphatic in their defeat of
Tassy, which seems to have dropped from
its one-time high estate, winning 123 (18-15)
to 48 (6-12). The match between South
Australia and West provided a great battle,
the home side winning by 106 (16-10) to
82 (12-10). Victoria gave Tasmania a
fearful hiding by 146 to 50, and then went
on to tackle Westralia. A ding-dong game
on Saturday ensued, both sides being level
at three-quarter time, and again lialf-way
through the last quarter. Pulling themselves
together, the Victorians took the shortest way
to the goal, finding the opposition was beat- .
ing them in the air, and finally got home by
70 to 62 (10-10 to 9-8). Victoria and
South Australia will battle out the grand final.
To amuse those who must have tlieir
Saturday hoofball, Victoria’s League staged
a game at the week-end between itself and
the Subiaco team from W.A., and gathered in
£336 from 10,686 enthusiasts. A fairly good
Victorian team—the best being away at the
carnival —held Subiaco throughout; Vic..
106; Subiaco, 59.' The Perth club’s best
were Daily, Ditehburn, Rodgers and Smith.
* * * *
The inter-State Rugby Union match be-
tween N.S.W. and Queensland at Sydney
Cricket Ground drew over 12,000 spectators,
but was worth an attendance of three times
that number. N.S.W. won by 19-16—4 tries,
2 converted, and a penalty goal to 3 tries, 2
converted, and a penalty. For the greater
part of the game the home side was well
outplayed, the Queensland forwards spoil-
ing and rucking in rare style. Behind the
scrum the visitors’ superiority was not so
marked. Bennett is a remarkably smart and
nippy half, but he had to play second fiddle
to Malcolm, Bartle, at five-eighth, was good,
though up against the formidable Lawton,
who played an inspired game and led liis
side astutely. King and White, the N.S.W.
centres, were well spotted for the greater
pait of the game, White having an off day,
•incl in consequence. Palmer and Crossman on
[* e I ' vin B's got few openings against the
speedy opposition of McGhie and Wood-
w?.1 ’ d - 4 • Queensland centres were solid
without being outstanding, but the Too-
woomba. player Steggall, at full back, gave a
exhibition, quite outshadowing
i es 4 “eld- Safe, solid and a fine kick, he
should catch an Australian cap this season.
Among the N.S.W. forwards, Jack Ford and
Gerutti were conspicuous for honest work,
k ord doing some notable things.
* *
The English Union side in Maoriland put
up cricket scores last week. North Auckland
was beaten 38-5 at Whangerai, and Waikato-
i-liames at Hamilton by 40-16. This brings
the tourists’ record to i 4 wins 5 losses. The
fourth Test, on August 9, will be the last
match but one of the M.L. end of the trip.
After tackling Nelson at Marlborough, the
team will sail for Australia, opening in
bydney against N.S.W. on August 23.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian Rugby Union
is to have its match with the British Rugby
Union team after all, and so is Westralia.
llie game against Victoria is set down in
Melbourne for September 13, and the ■ Wcst-
ralians will get theirs a week later before
the homing tourists embark at Fremantle.
Two previous British Union sides have played
in Melbourne, Stoddart’s 1888 combination
beating the Melbourne R. U. 15-5, while
Mullineux’s 1899 tourists mopped up Vic-
toria by 30 to nil.
❖ :|: ;}; ;•<
The Maoriland Rugby League footballers
played a metropolitan team at Sydney
Sports Ground before a dishearteningly
small audience of 5000. The visitors are
well behind on their expenses, and a big gate
was ardently desired to square the ledger.
The football _ shown by the tourists was
again disappointing, the home side winning
very easily in the end by 39 to 22. Busch
was bright and clever behind the home scrum,
while Pearce played a strong game in the
centre. Brisbane, Abbott and the veteran
Dufty battled hard among the losers.
* * *
“Gate”: The ill-timed visit of the M.L.
Rugby League footballer’s to Australia has
proved a more emphatic wash-out than the
gloomiest expected. Both the N.S.W. and
Queensland Leagues, which sponsored the
tour, were doubtful from the first as to its
success, but something had to be don© to
offset the visit of the British Rugby Union
team to Sydney and Brisbane. The Maori-
landers came to Australia £lOOO in debt to
the N.S.W. Rugby League. So far, in
Queensland and N.S.W., their gates have
been far below this and their travelling costs,
the grand total running to over £2OOO. The
N.S.W. loan is a first charge on the takings
of the visitors. If the bailiffs are put in, it
looks as if the luckless fellows will have to
swim home.
❖ n :|t :J: i',:
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League has
resigned itself to a heavy loss on the current
season. It made a big tactical mistake in
abandoning the Sydney Cricket Ground for
the smaller and poorly sheltered arena,
for the large crowds of other days have
steadfastly refused to attend the new convinc-
ing ground. It is a certainty that the League
will ask for dates at the Cricket Ground
next year, but in future it will have to share
the big centre Avith other codes, the days of
its monopoly having departed.
“Everton”: Something quite new, even in
the highly professionalised circles of British
soccer football, is the banning by the Brit-
ish Government _of the admission to England
of Niden, a famous Austrian goalkeeper.
Arsenal paid £2500 for the Austrian. When
the live meat arrived at Dover it Avas held
up and ordered to go back to whence it
came. The ban was not imposed because of
any super-sentimentality about profession-
alism. Soccer swings a big Labor A’ote in
Britain, and the prospect of the alien turn-
ing a British footballer out of a job was
responsible.
(Continued on page 36)
"\V. G. Snort”: Billy Woodful] has at:
last climbed the pinnacle of undying fame.
In other Avords, his effigy has been added to
Madame Tussaud’s famous waxwork gallery
in London, and there he may noAV dream the
years away in company with Mary Queen of
Scots, Deeming and W. G. Grace. The exact
location of the portrait in the gallery has not:
been revealed, but if English bowlers are con-
sulted it Avill be the Chamber of Horrors.
:Jc ❖ *
“Carisbrooke”: IV. Loav, a well-known
identity in Maoriland movie and theatrical
circles, who took his last cal] the other
day, was a fine all-round athlete in his
time, especially on the running track. He
held the quarter-mile championship of
M.L. for three successive years, in 1894-
95-96, his best time being 52sec. In addition he
was a more than useful full-back in Dunedin
Rugby football. *


<hert: What awful, baqs,
WHEREVER DIO YOU OET
THEM ?»
Bert*/'Don't you like them ?*
<SERt:“No,» think they ace
HIDEOUS ’?
Bert ' But— &ut, i sacy, <sert,
you OOnt vvajht me to tkke
them off, do you V*
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : In the light of previous experi-
ence, the Victorian Football League had
the players selected for the inter-State
matches at Adelaide very strictly “vetted.”
In the past more than one man, keen on
the holiday trip, has stoically concealed seri-
ous injury. One notable bird of this feather
was ordered to submit his injured leg to the
official quack. It was only when he was
called on to play in the carnival—held in
Perth that year—that the heads realised he
had shown the doctor his sound leg.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: A football story comes from a
N.S.W. country town. Playing in a Rugby
match, a threequarter took a pass, and, losing
his sense of direction, ran brilliantly through
his own side to get a try over his own goal
line. Brisbane saw an almost similar happen-
ing in the golden age of Union Rugby there.
Playing for a Brisbane team against Too-
woomba, an international player got posses-
sion and all but scored after a miraculous
run. He would have clicked too, but that
his cursing comrades fell on him in a body
and managed to beat off the ranks of Tus-
cany—or rather, Toowoomba —which fol-
lowed, cheering, close behind, in the hope of
improving the occasion. It is only fair to
state that there was no question of alcohol-
ism in the recent N.S.W. incident. In the
Queensland happening there was no possible
doubt whatever about it.
*X• * X
“Old Cap”: Concerning the prices charged
in M.L. for the matches against the British
Rugby players (B. 30/7/’3O), consider
those listed for the games against the same
side in Sydney. Grandstand seats in
M. arc 20s. In Sydney they cost 45.,
while the general admission to the ground,
which in M.L. has been costing 10s., is a
florin in Australia.
H:
“Cash Amateur”: It is rapidly becoming
a question of which end does the wagging
where the N.S.W. Rugby League and
its tail of the country leagues are con-
cerned. One league has already defied the
parent body by refusing to allow a paid
player to represent N.S.W. Another has
followed suit. One Kingston, a Cootamun-
dra (N.S.W.) forward, was selected by the
State body to tour Queensland with the
N. team. The club which owns him
has bluntly stated that if he goes to Queens-
land he “gets the sack” from Cootamundra.
As the potentate who issued the ukase said:
“We want him here for the Maher Cup.
We pay him £lO 10s. a week to play for us.”
A splendid sporting spirit this professional
football breeds!
The Fifteen
Rain settled all hopes of a final decision
in the fourth Test at Manchester, which
ended in a draw. England, with 5 gone
for 221 on the Saturday evening, did not
bat again until 5.30 p.m. on the Monday.
At stumps the home side had lost 8 wickets
for 251, being 94 behind the Australian first-
innings total. McCabe cleaned up the last four
wickets for 41 runs, his bag including that
solid bat Leyland, who added a single to his
Saturday’s n.-o. score to make 35. As honors
are easy, the fifth Test at the Oval, beginning
August 16, will have to be played out.
X X X X
Woodfull’s men had little trouble in win-
ning the 24th match of their tour, Somerset,
one of the weakest of the first-class counties,
succumbing by an innings and 158 runs.
The Cider County, batting on an easy
wicket, put up 121 in the first shot, only the
reliable J. C. White and Wellard shaping
confidently; each collected 38, Grimmett
took 3 for 38, and a’Beckett, Hurwood and
McCabe bagged a couple apiece. The Aus-
tralian innings reached 360, Bradman for
once batting stodgily for 117, and Jackson at
last, coming to light with 118, his first cen-
tury of the tour. Young, a professional,
took bowling honors with 5 for 70, while
veteran White collected 4 for 91. Grimmett
(7-33) upset the Zummerzet apple-cart in
the side’s second try, which closed at 81.
# * * *
“Old Trafford”: A feature of the fourth
Test that seems to have been overlooked is
that Duckworth let go 23 byes in the Aus-
tralians’ innings. That such a superlative
’keeper should drop so many runs is a cer-
tain indication that the wicket was playing
up during the latter half of the Australian
innings, in spite of the contention of some
of the British press experts that it was
easy.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : With the fifth and last Test
of the present tour to go, Australia is still
two up on the Mother Country. Of the 123
games played, Australia has won 49 to 47
by England, and 27 have been drawn. In
England, the home side has had the better
of it, having won 19 to 12 by Australia, while
25 were drawn. On this side of the world,
Australia has won 37 to 28, with two games
drawn.
Clarrie Grimmott, who has more than once
given evidence of having his head screwed on
the right way, has seized the opportunity
afforded by his mana in English cricketing
circles to publish a book on the art of bowl-
ing. “Getting Wickets” is a slim volume
published by Hodder and Stoughton, and well
illustrated with action photographs of the
author and the finger-grips he employs. Length
and direction are Grimmett’s twin gods, and
naturally his remarks on spin, break and
swerve are the most interesting to the
student of bowling. Not the least attractive
part of the book is his story of his wander-
ings from State to State, in vain trying to
find a resting-place in representative teams,
until South Australia had the good sense or
good luck to grab what her sister States
declined.
Racquet and Brawl
“Let”: Tilden’s appearance in the Davis
Cup final at Auteuil was his eleventh under
the Stars and Stripes in the famous contest.
He has played in four finals against Aus-
tralia, six times against France and once
against Japan, and he has been on the win-
ning side seven times. And although he is
“retiring” the chances are that he will turn
out next year to bring his record up to the
round dozen.
* Hs He ❖
“Susie Swattit” : Someone has been com-
plaining in the Melbourne press that Aus-
tralian tennis authorities are far behind
those of America in providing “accessories”
on the tennis courts. These include not
only sponges, towels, pails of water and
lemons (sounds more like a prize ring than
a tennis court), but a box containing scis-
sors, talcum powder, smelling salts, belts,
garters and safety-pins! There are a lot of
other items, but that is enough for the time
being.
* :Js * :Jc
“Rev. Knucklebone” : Though they have had
an occasional win, the Australian Davis Cup
players have been making a very doughy show-
ing in Germany, especially in singles matches,
wherein most of them have gone under in
the feeblest fashion to second-raters of the
Stefani and Malfroy class. It is stated that
the team has not yet received the expected
invitation to play in the American national
championships at Philadelphia. Its perform-
ances in Europe have been pathetic enough
without adding to the tragedy by similar
exhibitions in America.
:j: ❖ ❖
“Rushcutter”: N.S.W. tennis heads pre-
dict a future for Joan Hartigan, who has
been showing excellent form this year. Of
fine physique, she goes after the points in
dashing fashion, and though not so mer-
curial very much resembles in her hard-
hitting style the Queensland championette
Miss Hood, who delighted Melbourne and
Sydney tennis crowds last year with the
wholehearted abandon of her game.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger” : Hitherto it has been the
popular impression that the more lurid
forms of gambling are confined to bowls
and the ponies. Thanks to the untiring
efforts of Sydney’s sleuth press, it has been
discovered that the canker has bitten deep
into golf. A shocking condition of things
was revealed the other day with the publica-
tion of a story showing that the unhappy
addicts of the game in the neighborhood of
Sydney were accustomed to gamble fever-
ishly in terms of golf balls. Tragedy
rose to its supreme heights when one
player laid another 1060 golf balls to 4 he
would beat him. The game turned up a
skinner for the edds-taker, and since the
loser did not possess 1000 golf balls, and
could not induce his bank manager to
advance them, he had to take the knock.
* x x *
“Yerong”: Brisbane has been wallowing
in the hectic excitement of the , women’s
golf championships. The singles title was
retained by Dot Hood, this making her third
win in succession; the lady returned a
card of 79, one over the course bogey, and
the first score under 80 of the meeting. With
S. Francis she won the mixed foursomes
event with another 79 score.
* * * x *
“Hotham”: The Victorian women’s golf
championship was won by Susie Tolhurst, of
the Metropolitan, who also took the title last
year. Her opponent in the final was Cicely
Lascelles, of the Royal Melbourne, who
gave the title-holder a great go to the
35th, when the Metropolitan player finished
2 up and 1 to play. At the end of the morn-
ing round Miss Lascelles was 4 up. Two
great afternoon rounds of 38 and 39 saved
the situation for the ultimate winner.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: There is a movement
afoot in Sydney to compel golfers taking
part in inter-club matches to attire them-
selves in uniform with the club colors. Foot-
ballers and cricketers do this habitually,
•while Solomon in all his matrimony was not
arrayed like unto our bowlers. The Ameri-
cau professionals taking part in the Ryder
Cup match in Britain this season wore a
tasteful confection of dark blue flannel with
a blue and crimson pullover and white shoes.
The idea is worth adopting here. For in-
stance, the Royal Sydney could walk appro-
priately attired in vleux rose, while the Aus-
tralian at Kenso could wear a racing-
jacket effect with cap complete. Of course,
a uniform garb could only apply to the men.
All the powers of Gehenna couldn’t force a
red-headed associate to don a pink blazer,
for instance.
* * * :!-•
“Hoylake”: What does golf cost the aver-
age man playing regularly? Someone has
estimated the minimum figure at £52 per
annum in Britain, and it would certainly
cost a lot more here. He puts club subscrip-
tion at 10 guineas, and caddies’ fees at an-
other tenner —he is evidently leaving Scot-
land out of consideration. Other items are
£6 for golf balls and a fiver for new clubs
and repairs. Fares, • clothing and other
necessary items make up the total, which
certainly seems an uncommonly moderate
one.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: An annual motor trip
which has its sporting features, though under-
taken in the way of business, was the recent
run from Muswellbrook in N.S.W. to Bru-
nette Downs in the Northern Territory,
which is owned by the White brothers,
of Edinglassie. - The party was led by James
.White, and the long journey, which began on
June 23, ended with the return of the expedi-
tion to Muswellbrook last week, the total
distance covered being 4000 miles. The
heavy rains early in the year put the N.T.
in wonderful condition. Lakes and swamps
were swarming with wildfowl, which alone
made the journey worth while from a sport-
ing point of view.
' Si! * * *
The 24-hour reliability trial held by the
Royal Automobile Club, from Sydney through
Bathurst, Goulburn and Braidwood to the
metropolis again, proved a great success in
spite of bad weather and patches of slippery
road. No fewer than 14 of the 29 entrants
scored the possible 500 points, while four
others scored over 490. Honors were evenly
divided among British and American makes
at the end of the 540-mile run.
* * * . *
“Idoros”: For timing speeds of over 40
m.p.h.—and there’s hardly any sort of motor
that can’t do better than that nowadays—
the stop-watch, no matter how skilfully
handled, is quite inadequate. To commence
with, it can’t subdivide time further than a
fifth of a second, and in that period of time
a car doing 100 m.p.li. covers 586 yards. The
electric-timer, as installed at Brooklands, Day-
tona Beach and most of the world’s great circu ■
lar speedways, operates automatically. The
car or motor-cycle makes contact by depress-
ing a lightly inflated rubber tube fitted with
silver strips as it crosses the starting-line.
This releases a pen which draws a line on
a cylinder revolved by clockwork. Side by
side with this pen is another which makes
a dot every two seconds. A third pen comes
into play when the finishing line is crossed,
and marks the end of the passage. By
measuring the record the speed can be ascer-
tained with a margin of error of only inches
per hour.
He sis Jfc H*
“Kick Starter”: The latest recruits to
the swarming army of persons cycling, walk-
ing or otherwise battling round the world
are two young Tenterfield (N.S.W.) motor-
cyclists named Wratten and James. The
pair propose to drive their Harley-Davidson
side-car outfit some 5000 miles about Aus-
tralia before embarking at Perth for Cape-
town. From there they will ride to Cairo
and go on, via Europe, to America, and so
back home. Both hope to support them-
selves on the journey by the sale of pamph-
lets.
* * * x
“Whizz”: Queensland was the venue the
other day of a new Australian record for
a 50-mile bike race on the road; H.
O’Donnell, of the West Brisbane club, was
clocked to cover the distance off scratch in
2hr. 2min. 56sec. The previous Australian
best was 2hr. 7min. 32sec., by Victorian R.
Ford in 1923. The world’s record stands
in the name of the late L. Meredith, of Eng-
land, who put up 2hr. 23sec. as long ago as
1921. Among the scratch men beaten by
O’Donnell was George Robinson, chosen to
represent Queensland in the 100-mile Aus-
tralian amateur championship race in Mel-
bourne on August 16.
X
“Sprocket”: This year’s Tour de France,
which finished at Paris last week, was won
by A. Leducq, a well-known French rider
who was runner-up in 1928 and fourth the
previous year. He was amateur road
champion 6f the world in 1924, and as a pro-
fessional has proved himself hot stuff over
the long distances. His Tour was a
departure from the original fixture inas-
much as, instead of the race being between
teams backed by the “trade,” it was a
national affair for eight riders each, France,
Belgium, Germany. Italy and Spain being
all represented. Nicolas Frantz, winner in
1927-28 and the king of European road
riders, was prevented by a contract from
entering. lie will sail for Australia in
September to take part in the big Sydney-
to-Melbourne race and other important
Australian road-cycling events.
Miscellaneous
“Kava” : The Fijis rocked to their volcanic
foundations the other day when the finals
of the Pacific bowls championships were
contested. The big item, the Pacific pen-
nant, went to Maoriland for the first time,
the Fijians, who had rapt it from Victoria
in 1928, failing to maintain their grip. M.L.
also took the open rinks and the Pacific
pairs. The Pineapple Cup, restricted to
players from Tonga, Fiji and Samoa, wa.s
won by the Tongans. The subsequent celebra-
tions were worthy of the occasion, and, if
unreliable reports are to be believed, a num-
ber of players camped for the night with the
local cows who frequent the Suva green
when players adjourn to the club house anrl
“rummy.”
x x * *
“Discus”: One athlete from this end of
the world who looks like catching a first
at the Empire Games in Canada is Lay,
the M.L. javelin-thrower, who figured pro-
minently at the last Olympiad, and later
won the British title with a throw of 218 ft.
His chief rival will be Pilling, the Canuck
Olympian, who carried off the javelin event
at the Tailteann Games in Ireland the same
year. Pilling’s best heave to date is 212 ft.,
so if both men are in form it should be an
exciting tussle, with the Maorilander picked
to win.
* * x *
“Alexandria”: The Melbourne Henley-on-
Yarra authorities have been pulling a long
face over a loss of close on £5OO on the last
regatta. Several changes have been sug-
gested in addition to postponing the func-
tion to the end of November (B. 30/7/’3O).
One of the most important is the extension
of the course for the Grand Challenge
Eights by 350 yards, thus bringing the race
more into line with the other big Australian
eight-oar events, which are rowed over
courses up to three miles. This will be
done by .shifting the starting point the
necessary distance up-stream.
* * x *
“Hotham”: The challenge by the Mel-
bourne yachtsman E. J. Bennell for a yacht
race across the Tasman has been quickly
taken up by the Pig Islanders. The All
Black rep. will be A. F. Stacey, of Christ-
church, and it is possible that another
Victorian, A. J. Donovan, may tackle the
stiff job. The present idea is that the
M.L. candidate shall sail from Cook
Strait to Melbourne, and then race the
Victorians back to D’Urville Island at the
western end of the strait. Bennell’s craft
will be the well-known Oimara, in which
he won the race across Bass Strait last
year. The M.L. boat is not named, but is
described as '& well-found 50-footer.
“Aileron”: British ’planes and pilots
got a fine advertisement out of the “Round
Europe” flying race which finished last
week. The event was started in Berlin
by young Bill Hohenzollern, well known
in other fields, and finished at the same
place. Most of the principal European
centres were included in the flight save
those of Italy and Russia, which countries
didn’t compete and declined to be flown
over. Captain 11. S. Broad finished first
in a De Ilavilland Moth, pnd was followed
home by A. S. Butler in another, though
the second man was disqualified for chang-
ing a propeller. British fliers filled third
and fourth places and a German was fifth.
Some dozen nations competed.
* * * *
“Bahadur Sahib”: In the fuss made
over the victory of Marjorie Foster’s King’s
Prize win (B. 30/7/’3O) a magnificent
performance by a mere male has been over-
looked. This was the notching of 21 con-
secutive bull’s-eyes by Major Bapty, a
native officer of the Indian team in the
Kolapore Cup, who put up the “possible”
in doing so. The ranges were 200, 500
and 600 yards, seven shots at each.
y * * *
“Ride Off”: The Ashton brothers received
a flattering reception on their arrival in
New York, when they were informed that
the American Polo Association had rated
them as a 26-goal team, or two goals _ better
than their English standard. Considering
the formidable calibre of Eastern States
polo, this is a mighty compliment to the
standard of the Goulburn quartette and to
that of Australian polo in general. The team
is to open its programme of six matches on
the famous Meadowbrook ground on August
9, and will sail for Australia, from Van-
couver a month later.


for Motor Boat and
Yachting Requirements
fdjfd
LONDON PATTERN BLOCKS.
Sheave.
Open .Until 9 p.m., Friday
KIRBY*
C *TA!OCU£ Of
Jiting mu/nm
(This Catalog of
YACHTING
REQUISITES
FREE
JOHNSON OUTBOARD
MOTORS (1929 Model)
Amazingly Reduced
LUBRlCATlON.—Principally automatic, since oil is mixed with
the gasoline. Oil is carried from crankcase to upper journal
bearing by specially designed oil ducts. Heavy oil or grease
is required in the gear-ease only.
IGNITION.—High-tension, quick-action magneto built into the
flywheel; oil and moisture-proof; has only one moving part;
requires no lubrication, delivers extra-hot spark for easy starting.
COOLING SYSTEM.—Water-cooled with plunger pump, of hard
phosphor bronze. Located on top of gear case, and well
protected by a special guard.
MUFFLER.—Silences the exhaust without undue back-pressure.
FULL-PIVOT STEERING (Patented). —Entire motor turns com-
pletely around; ensures reversing and steering with full efficiency
in any direction; motor floats in socket, insulating vibration
from boat.
REVERSE LOCK (Patented). —Prevents motor from tilting when
in reverse position, thus making - possible Full-Pivot Steering.
STARTING. —Rope starting; starting pulley on top of magneto;
notches secure end of rope, but cannot catch the clothing: or
strike the hand.
16 H.P., usually £BO. NOW £55
26 H.P., usually £llO. NOW .*£7s
jfd
(See description on left.)
Write for Circular on Johnson
Seahorse Outboard Motors.
j
Iron Winches.
scwt. Height 20in., base
16 x 17£ inches.
Each £4/5/-
Bewt- Height 28in., base
23 x 22 inches.
Each £9
12cwt. Height 29in., base
25 x 24 inches.
Each £lO
(See description on right )
2^
23
23
22
Yacht Manilla Rope.
Per pound 1/6
No. 1 Pure Best Manilla,
per pound 1/8
No. 2 Pure Manilla, per
pound 1 /-
Europe Jin. to Jin., per
pound 2/*
Approximate Weight
per 100 ft. of Pure
Manilla Rope.
Jin, rope weighs 1 Jib.;
Jin. rope weighs 2Jib.; lin.
rope weighs 41b. ; iJin. rope
weighs 4Jlb.; I jin. rope
weighs Gib. ; ljin. rope
weighs 71b. ; ljin. rope
weighs 91b.; 2in. rope weighs
121 b. ; 2 Jin. rope weighs 141 b. ;
2jiti. rope weighs 171 b.; 2Jin.
rope weighs 221 b. ; 2in. rope
weighs 271 b.
Galvanised-wire Rope
Grips.
Size Jin., 4d. ; 5-l Gin., 4d. ;
gin., sd. ; 7-16 in., 9d. ; Jin.,
9d. ; gin., 1/- ; Jin., 1/6
Galvanised Eyebolts.
2 xft inches, 4ftd.; 2ft xft inches, Cd.; 3x ft inches, 6d.; 4x ft
inches, 6d.; 3 x 5-16 inches, Bd.; 4 x 5-16 inches, Bd.; 5 x 5-16
inches, 9d.; 6 x 5-16 inches, 9d.; 3x ft inches, Bd.; 4 x § inches,
9d.; 5x § inches, 9d.; 6x | inches, 9d.; 8x § inches, lOd. ; 3x 5
inches, 9d. | 4x | inches, lOd.; 5x ft inches, 1/-; 6x 4 inches,
1/3; 8 X J inches, 1/3; 10 x ft inches, 1/6; 12 x ft" inches,
1/6; 4 x ft inches, 1/3; 5 x jj- inches, 1/3 ; 6 x § inches, 1/6;
8 x | inches, 2/-; 10 x ft inches, 2/6; 12 x f inches, 2/6;
14 x ft inches, 2/9; 16 x ft inches, 8/-; 6 x ft inches, 21-;
8 x ft inches, 2/3; 10 x ft inches, 2/6; 12 x ft inches, 3/-;
14 xft inches, 3/*; 16 x ft inches, 3/-. Heavier sizes made to
order.
JOHNSON SEAHORSE
OUTBOARD MOTORS
1930 Model
lft H.P. Outboard Motor. PRICE £42/10/-
3 H.P. Outboard Motor. PRICE £55/15/-
4 H.P. Outboard Motor. PRICE £59
16 H.P. Commercial Motor. PRICE £95
32 H.P. Commercial Motor. PRICE £125
16 H.P. Racing Motor. PRICE £llO
32 H.P. Racing Motor. PRICE £135
PMluh03
IDNIHSIJ
fdj
fdjfdj
fdj
NOCK & KIRBY’S have purchased the entire fishing tackle business of
Eastway’s. The first release, which includes American Rods, Split Cane
Rods, Steel Rods, Gut Lines, Hooks, Hooks to Gut, Hooks to Wire and
Spinners, will be offered at phenomenally reduced prices. Fishermen can make
exceptional savings by ordering their requirements immediately at Nock & Kirby’s.
Worms and Greenweed Bait are fresh each day. Prawns obtainable on Friday and
Saturday only.
POSTAL
ADDRESS,
BOX 68CC,
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NOCK&KIRBYS
Sydney's Specialty Hardware Store
GEORGE- STREET, SYDNEY
FREE
DELIVERY
IN CITY AND
SUBURBS


■
:
xv-r-
-m
:
♦
u
O)
4
cT)
Qo
n
s
•vx»
B
88
r
s
rz
A
s'
or*
m
a
/
L,
sss
I
♦
HOSIERY


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
eorge ;
STO
u
A
a Ur
-the Paste with
the Oyster flavour
Made from the world-famous,
luscious Stewart Island
oysters, St. George “OYSTO’’
Is a daintily flavoured oyster
paste that will provide, as a
relish o'r for sandwiches, that
‘something different’ for which
you are eternally seeking.
Just try it. From all grocers.
Delicious Oyster Soup, too,
can be easily made from
‘OYSTO’ paste. Instructions
on wrapper.
Irvine & Stevenson's St. George Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, Netv Zealand. 4
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—■
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
'Phone M4l 31 for your reservation.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Kubelik, back in Sydney after 22 years,
resolves into a middle-aged, smallish man
with rosy cheeks and raven looks, where the
thatch has not fallen out altogether. It was
with surprise that post-war Sydney dis-
covered his age to be a mere 49 or 50, for
post-war audiences had forgotten that the
genius thrilled his first public at the age of
eight, ll’c is extremely modest and devoid
of mannerisms. In the street he wears a
top-coat that hangs anyhowish, and a wide-
brimmed. soft felt hat. He makes a good
speech, but is inclined to be confidential with
front-seaters. He has a sly sense of fun.
and an infectious twinkle in the full, limpid
eyes. A polite young woman at the civic
reception given to him by the Lud Mayor
said to Kubelik, “Of all instruments, I
think my favorite is the violin.” Kubelik
replied with a slightly pursed lip and a
merry eye: “Do you know, I think it is
mine, too!”
Since he has been in Australia this time,
Kubelik’s daughter who was born here 22
years ago has married. She was punctilious
about asking father’s consent. One day a
cable came: “Will you consent to my engage-
ment t 0....?” Within 24 hours, before
father, who knows the young man well, had
sped his blessing, came another cable: “We
are engaged.” Within another two or three
days came the announcement: “We are
married.” Kubelik at that time was still
busy thinking he really must set about reply-
ing to the first.
How audiences have loved him can be
gauged by the fact that he married a Hun-
garian countess and bought three castles in
which to shrine her. Now the family has
only one castle —near Trieste, in the Aus-
trian Riviera—but there is also a town house
in Prague. The castle has a full and wide
view over the Adriatic. It was built by a
German champagne manufacturer who was
reputed before the war to be the second-
richest man in Germany, the head of Krupps,
then the biggest gun, having a few more mil-
.lions. After the war Kubelik bought it, and
there he and his Countess, their five daugh-
ters and three sons passed every vacation
till marriage stepped in to take some of the
daughters away. The girls, two of whom are
violinists, retain the name Kubelik after
marriage. The eldest girl, for instance, is
Mrs. Klinz-Kubelik, and it is expected that
the just-married one will call herself Mrs.
Jordan-Kubelik when she makes her home
in America, her- husband’s country. There
is a private chapel in the castle, and here
when the .first Miss Kubelik was married the
knot was tied. On that occasion Kubelik,
his wife and other world-famous musicians
formed an orchestra, and what was literally
(at current concert rates) a golden flood of
“Ave Marias,” Mendelssohn and the Handel
Sonata poured over the vow-giving.
Only once has great sorrow darkened the
Kubelik home; it was when the youngest son
died with tragic suddenness from scarlet fever.
He was his father’s joy, and even as David
lamented over Absalom so Kubelik mourned
his boy. The result is the beautiful Fourth
Concerto.
At the civic reception, Gerald Marr Thomp-
son. Sydney’s veteran music critic, reminded
Kubelik that 22 years ago he always grouped
his first-born twins as Opus I. It was Mr.
Thompson who also said that, stopping to
gaze in a city window where the faithful
Hindu secretary, Dawson, was (until the
traffic authorities demurred) guarding the
£25,000 Strad., he heard one lady murmur :
“So that is Kubelik! Dear me, how very
dark he is!”
You could have heard a feather flutter
through the air just before Kubelik started
the Mendelssohn Concerto, which opened his
Saturday night’s concert. The Town Hall
was crowded, and the sudden cessation of all
sound was almost awe-inspiring. The whole
Game family, including little Rosemary, came
to the concert. She wore her coat of airman’s
blue and was very thrilled, for the Games
travelled out on the same ship as the great
Jan, and learned to love him to such an
extent that they wanted to have him as
their guest. But, as Jan spends most of his
day when on tour practising, that was out of
the question. A very simple man, Kubelik, but
not so simple as to depart from the vest with
its five buttons that gives him an old-world
look and makes the spectator think of Mozart
and Beethoven. One cheerful philistine on
the top of the steps was heard saying:
“Oh, I couldn’t be moved by an artist who
wears five buttons on his vest!” But this
Letter doesn’t believe Kubelik is conscious of
his audience or its opinion once the music
starts. In the artist’s room afterwards E.
J. Tait said to him “It was a beautiful con-
cert,” and the little man looked at him
without any affectation, and inquired grate-
fully “You think so, yes?” In the audience
the most magnificent thing was Mrs. Charlie
Lloyd Jones’s ermine coat.
It can’t be helped, of course; but this
halting of people who haven’t paid their
tram-fare because they haven’t been able to
reach a collector is liable to give some ner-
vous people palpitation; so nowadays the
wise woman who hasn’t been able to unload
her tuppence will just pause on the kerb for
a few seconds to let Cleary’s plain-clothes
minions do their worst. Otherwise, after
“Here, give the poor girl a charnst.”
you are well on your way, with the thrip-
penny still clutched in your palm, you are
liable to hear thrown over your shoulder the
cold words: “Pardon, Madam, you have not
paid your fare.” Whereupon a crowd is
bound to gather while you enter into your
defence; and when a Sydney crowd gathers
it’s certain to take sides for and against
Authority. The burly champion who pushes
his large jaw into the controversy with,
“Here, give the poor girl a charnst!” isn’t
likely to make you feel any cooler under the
fur collar.
The unveiling of ex-Chief Justice Cullen’s
portrait was a gala occasion in No. 1 Jury
Court last week. Judges in their scarlet
and ermine were on the Bench, ex-Judges
with their wives sat in the jury-box, and silks
and stuffs and mere tweeds were where
they could get. It was a monster roll-up,
for the profession, though it may not have
regarded him as a great lawyer, to a man
honored him as a fearless and fair Judge.
Attorney-General Boyce drew aside'’ the
Union Jack which hung before the Norman
Carter painting, and Chief Justice Philip
Street and A. N. Littlejohn, president of
the Law Institute, spoke the eulogies.
For thirty-three out of its 'fifty-one years
of life Lister Lister has been president of the
Royal Art Society, and last Saturday he
turned up at the opening, as good as new,
his “Silent River,” the dominating canvas
in the larger gallery. Attorney-General
Boyce was this year’s official starter, but
there having been press days and the private
shows and so on, and the afternoon itself
being plagued with a westerly, the crowd was
not so impenetrable as of old.
The Hans H’eysen show in the Grosvenor
Galleries has done the best business of any
one-manner these months past. The lus-
cious fruits and flowers and the clear-cut
landscapes of the S’Australian artist can
always lure big prices out of the pockets of
the buyers. Of pictures on the wall “The
Head of the Valley” (Aroona) was Sir
Philip Game’s favorite when he and his
Vice-reine dropped in as private citizens last
week. Dr. Constance D’Arcy’s taste ran to
flowers, and a languishing bunch of Mai-
maison roses in a clear glass jug is the thing
of beauty pianist Wilhelm Backhaus will
take back to Vienna with him. Llangollen,
the Reg Staffords’ home at Cassilis, will be
the richer for a limpid water-color called
“Later Afternoon,” over which Mrs. Reg,
in town to see the dentist and meet friend
Jo O’Keeffe, who came back the other morn-
ing in the Orama, spilled the best part of a
century. For its own part, this Letter likec
the “Old Richmond Bridge, Tasmania,” with
the glimpse of the Eldershaw home beyond
its convict-built arches. The Eldershaw home
was once a mill-house; now, packed with old
mahogany and cedar furniture, which the
etcher collected from old settlers, it is a
summer Mecca for artists from all the States.
Carl Thomas and May Henry, dancing in
long, swift flights across the parquet floor :
silver brolgas circling the room in rhythmic
frieze, their ebony legs and red bills a decolla-
tion that chimed in with the red tables and
blue-and-gold lights of the Blaxland Galleries ;
grass-trees and bark baskets brimming with
bush flowers —these were outstanding impres-
sions of the Arts and Crafts Ball on Friday
night. The Games went to the party accom-
panied by Major Thompson, whose red mess-
jacket seemed part of the color scheme. Five
debs, who billowed across the ballroom in the
slowest time on record were convoyed by
Brigadier Bennett’s lady to the strip of
carpet which wafted them to the land of their
desire. The band was everything a band should
be —it was impossible to dance badly to it.
Dr. Sterling Levis, an Irishman with a nice
smile, enjoyed his wife’s, triumph—she was
president of the committee, and stood up to
whatever the night might bring forth, in
powder-blue moire and pearls. Lady Game’s
satins were blue of a deeper and, of
course, swung a cape. Secretary Rosalie
Wilson fluttered ethereal primrose chiffons,
and when last seen was in converse with
drama-loving John Dingle. Prof. Radcliffe
Brown, not so much the butterfly of late,
spread his wings once more in the vice-regal
enclosure. Norah Cazabon, too, was a grace-
ful occurrence in the dance.
As many giraffes, tigers, lions, monkeys
and elephants as there are in Kipling’s “Just
So” stories pervaded the entrance to David
Jones’s ballroom the other night. Palm-trees
and pillars dressed up with floating green
fronds and cocoanuts strengthened the
jungle effect, and members of the Royal
Zoological Society sighed happily and danced
merrily amid the pleasant reproduction of
their native heath (by adoption). Mrs.
Norman Lowe, who started out as president
and organiser of the dance, found herself in
a hospital bed on the night of the revel, and
that was the only gloomy thought the com-
mittee had throughout the night. Sir Philip
and Lady Game brought Miss Crowdy and
Major and Mrs. Thompson. Her Ex. was
lit with diamonds about the head and was
otherwise in parchment chiffons embossed
with delicate-hued flowers of large dimen-
sions. Green of clashing shades was worn
by Miss Crowdy and Mrs. Thompson.
Anthony Musgrave, of the Council of the
Society, welcomed the vice-res. to the
wilds. Knight Allen Taylor and his lady,
entertaiued the official party, and of course,
the Platypus Burrells, nature-loving Arthur
Eedys and the Aubrey Uallorans were among
those who entertained.
As hopeless as Canute’s hand to stay the
tide has been the movement of the well-shaped
limb to stop the onrush of the long skirt.
Girls with long slim legs vowed they wouldn’t
wear them, girls with plump calves and slen-
der ankles and dimpled knees stuck to their
kilt with a grim determination. At last,
hopelessly outnumbered by the thick of limb,
who had seized upon the long skirt with loud
hosannas, the pretty of leg rushed madly
into their dressmaker or the ready-to-wear
and shudderingly seized a garment to cover
The last of the short-coated.
their nakedness. The last of this Letter’s
friends to pull down the flag of resistance
was the Girl in the Flat. Opposite. She had
gamely stuck to her Eton crop and her knee-
highs to the last ditch; but she confesses
that she still wakes bathed in sweat from
a nightmare in which she lives, over again
the last night she went out short-coated.
The National Bank is reshuffling State
managers; E. 11. Matthews, who came from
Brisbane to Sydney when the National swal-
lowed the Queensland, passes on to Adelaide,
and brilliant L. ,T. McConnan comes back to
his native N. S. Wales. Mr. Matthews, who,
with his artistic wife, has been one of the
North Shore gardeners since he came to Syd-
ney, was entertained by his city friends at
lunch at the Australia during the week, and
for Mrs. Matthews July has been a month
of affectionate farewells.
St. Aloysius’s, at Milson’s Point, is 51.
The oldest R.C. college in Sydney was not
always on the north side of the harbor, but
had its beginnings in Woolloomooloo. Last
week the Old Boys’ Union held its annual
dance, and ex-pupils of the college made a
great celebration of it. They poured into
the Blaxland Galleries from every suburb,
and around the official table were gathered
representatives of 21 other schools, with
the Lud Mayor and Miss Hilda Marks. Dr.
Vincent Goldrick and Mrs. Goldrick pre-
sided over this party, in which were Father
1•„ K. O’Brien and Father A. Kelly. A
miniature Spanish galleon (the college is
a Jesuit institution), streaming a long ser-
vice pennant on- which the gold crown of
the college was proudly blazoned, was the
decoration of this board.
The times produce all sorts of economies.
In one over-the-harbor suburb the small boy
of the family
was sent our
with a bucket
and a dust-
pan to collect
the street-
droppings for
the benefit of
the family’s
Small kitchen
garden. While
he was so en-
gaged a school
mate came
along. “What
d’you use that
for, Bill?” the
newcomer
asked. “To
put on our
rhubarb,” Bill
told him as
he scraped
and shovelled.
“Gosh! Mum puts custard
on ours!”
“Gosh.” said
the unsophisticated friend—“mum puts cus-
tard on ours.”
Apart from its male directorate (Justice
Halse Rogers, Graham Waddell and Edward
Hungcrford), the Forum Club is purely a
woman’s paradise, and not a club for both
sexes. Males are admitted as guests only.
Ah, well, even Adam’s was but a temporary
sojourn in the Garden of Eden.
Hugh Allen, who in England is Director
of the Royal College of Music, and whose
jolly face has the look of a well-nourished
leprechaun’s, proved the liveliest guest the
Musical Association has ever entertained.
After his story of the beginning of music—
vocal, instrumental and otherwise —this
Letter refuses to be impressed any more
by its friends who are directly in the game
or are mere by-products thereof, such as
musical critics. According to Sir Hugh,
the first soloist was Adam, whose voice
and heart broke when Eve, whom he re-
garded, after all, as only a side-line, could
sing higher and louder than himself. Saul,
who flung a pointed’ javelin at David while
that youth was playing the harp, was the;
first critic on record. Lady Game, gold-
frocked and -coated, added a pictorial interest
to the party whereat these secrets were dis-
closed—it was held in the Blaxland Galler-
ies. Kubelik whispered beautiful sentiments
about religion aiud music to the filont-
seaters. Ex-Justice Gordon’s lady covered
her geranium-red chiffons with a coat deeply
collared in fox. Her husband, even as Lady-
Game’s, was dining at the Union Club.
Czechoslovakia did honor to the guest
through Consul Kuraz and , Mrs. Kuraz.
whose satin frock was the shade of mignon-
ette. Admiral Evans’s lady and Mrs. Asprey
were others in the semi-circle of armchairs.
There was a flashlight, also a new quintet
by Frank Hutchens, and the Musical Associ-
ation seems to have taken this Letter’s hint
about exercising its lower members, for
after supper there was dancing—just as gay
as the Artists’ Ball.
The littlest one had been naughty. From
the moment he had looked out at the day,
his eyes had seemed to inquire the thing he
could next do to send the family distracted.
By mid-day he had been in disgrace, by after-
noon he had been spanked, and a great and
glorious quiet had descended on the home.
At least it should have been a great and.
glorious quiet, but somehow the kid’s mother
went about feeling more distressed than she
had in the midst of all the hullabaloo. At
last she slipped to a window and peeped
down the gar-
den, where
her son had
been told he
must stay till
tea time. To
her surprise,
for she had
half - expected
to see him
experimenting
with the bulbs,
she found him
chir r uping
amid the
spring borders.
“W hat are
you doing,
Bill?” she
called. “Walk-
ing about
with a kiss,
Mummy,” the
young brat an-
swered cheer-
“What are you doing,
Bill?”
fully—“would you like it?” Now, of course,
mother wants to know what can you do
with angels like that!


iMCtLW 0%
£ BUT NOV
IT COSTS YOU LESS
!O
o
O
C 5
a
SUNLIGHT Soap always stood for happier, easier
washing days. Now—glad news! —it stands for
cheaper washing days into the bargain. And what
a bargain! For Sunlight’s price has again been low-
ered. Yet Sunlight’s PRICELESS QUALITY— Sunlight’s
GUARANTEED PURITY remain unaltered. As good
as ever and now it COSTS YOU LESS THAN EVER.
A PRODUCT
OF
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED
% : V
1-103-6


TO MARiTTTLLLINEN ’
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
(0.
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
'Write for Name Style Circular to
J &J. CASH, WE4¥ *“ T ;. lTb
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
f do * 7/,
"5 ** ,
for
Liiodeirte
fdjh
AS NEW AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING
Wentworth Hotel's New Tariffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 157-
Single Room, Inclusive, from . 20/-
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 3/-
&/>e WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
tinder
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.M.
Kino
GeorgeV
CH AIVIPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
S wift & Company U mita J
SYDNEY
w
CHAMPACKt 2f /J
'iariesHcidsie<> f </>
“’vie [i I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY' LIMITED, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne, so far as outward appearances
go, is cracking hearty, and the visitor gets
an impression that we are bright and
buoyant. It is a brave show, a. bit like
the melancholy Doody’s song in_ ‘‘The
Arcadians” —“Always Merry and Bright”—
to those of us who know what hard knocks
the community is getting, but better than
snivelling. We still take an interest in
clothes, and the i*ag-shops are making a gay
display with spring and summer fabrics.
Patterned stuffs are either spotted or floral.
Silky stuffs are mostly spotted, running the
gamut from pin-points to .large discs.
Chiffons and other diaphanous materials
flaunt flowers in a range of shades that would
drive conscientious botanists dilly. The
imported confections are now swatted so
heavily by the Customs House that emporium
proprietors swoon when they see the invoices
and compute the cost. Our own modistes,
who really are very clever and artistic —
many an alleged Paris frock was fashioned
thousands of miles from the Seine—'are begin-
ning to realise that it’s an ill wind that blows
nobody any good.
The first day of the steeplechase meeting
at Caulfield on Saturday provided a special
thrill when Mosstrooper won the Australian
Hurdle Race for the second time. The honest
trier galloped home amid a storm of cheers,
in which feminine voices were by no means
overpowered. The weather being an alter-
nation of sunshine and rain, and the tem-
perature low, there was nothing very won-
derful to be seen in the way of feminine
attire, but a few women contrived a smart
appearance. Mary Baillieu, in flecked tweed,
black, grey and white, with toque of the
same, arrested the eye. Mrs. Harry Rosen-
thal dared the elements in an ensemble of
oyster-grey cloth and fur, with matching
felt millinery. Mrs. Lauchie Maekinnon, who
was all in blue, was accompanied by Mrs.
R. G. Casey, whose black cloth coat with
a Persian lamb collar was topped by a
cire straw hat. Mrs. Fred Grimwade wore
black with additions of broad tail. Mrs.
George Armstrong's suit and hat were nigger
brown: and Mrs. M. J. Canny’s were of
cocoa hue. Mrs. 11. Whiting, Mrs. E. M.
Pearce, Mrs. Esmond Downey, Mrs. Len
Buxton, the last-named wrapped in a squirrel
coat; Mrs. Rogers Thomson, who featured
black and white; the Premier and Mrs.
Hogan, the Ben Chaffeys, Mr. and Mrs.
Keith Tolhurst and the Richard Lintons
were among the patrollers of the lawn.
This Page went to Erankston last week
to see how the kiddies at the Orthopaedic
Hospital were getting along. Sun, sea and
fresh air play a large part in their treat-
ment, and the patients’ uniform of the insti-
tution is in most cases a loin-cloth. The
day was cold and we grown-ups drew up
the collars of warm overcoats and shivered.
But when we asked some almost-nude young
person. “Aren’t you friz?” the reply wasn’t
that of Kipling’s small boy of Quebec, “Yes
I is,” but a cheery “Not a bit!” There are
42 patients, boys and girls, ranging in
age from 2 to 15. The hospital, the grounds
of which run down to the sea, commands a
magnificent view. The wards are immensely
wide verandahs, partially sheltered at night
and thrown open to fresh air and sunlight
in daytime.
The ever-changing sea provides the young-
sters with plenty of interest, and now it is
more interesting than ever to them. On
one wonderful occasion a seaplane stunted
and skimmed the water, and this display
was so much enjoyed that a letter of thanks
was sent fio Point Cook. Now rarely a day
passes without some flying-man steering a
course over the hospital. The older patients
attend school classes for a few hours daily,
Miss Collier having been lent by the Educa-
tion Department for this duty. Her job
isn’t an easy one, for her pupils are of all
grades, and she has to peregrinate from cot
to cot. The kids appear to like it. As
yet there is no kindergarten teacher for the
very little ones, and that’s a matter that
ought to he attended to.
Dr. Colquhoun, the resident medico, is
rejoicing over a newly-acquired operating
table which was made under his direction
in Melbourne. Wallace Mitchell paid the
bill, and the appliance was given to the
institution by his own small children. Mrs.
Mitchell is a sort of fairy godmother to
the suffqfers, who await her coming every
Wednesday with balloons, sweets and maybe
something extra-nice for tea.
The Royal Automobile Club’s Ball was
held at St. Kilda Plaza. President A. G.
Ilarston and his wife gathered around their
table .some special guests, among them Major
W. T. B. McCormick, chairman of the
Country Roads Board, and Mrs. McCormick;
Mayor and Mayoress Robinson, of St. Kilda,
she in black chjffon. velvet and gold lame;
and Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Cox. Mrs. fiar-
ston’s cosmos mauve georgette gown had
gold embellishment, and Miss Harston
danced in almond-green ninon.
The Old Paradians, which is the name
adopted by ex-students of the Christian
Brothers’ College East Melbourne, had their
dance at St. Kilda Town Hall last week.
There was a big attendance and the school
fund will benefit. Twenty debs, in ankle-
length frocks, mostly white satin, carrying
posies dangling the college colors, purple and
green, curtsied to the president, P. A.
Matthews, and Mrs. Matthews. Preceded by
heralds they made entrance to the strains
of the triumphal march from “Aida.” The
maidens’ partners, also gloved, piloted them
through the dignified measures of the lancers.
Mrs. J. A. Gorman, who had coached the
buds, stood by in coral-pink raiment sprinkled
with rhinestones. She presented the presi-
dent’s wife with a bouquet of pink roses
that went admirably with Mrs. Matthews’s
powder-blue draperies. F. P. Walsh and
J. A. Gorman were the hon. secs. A few
of the new figured chiffon frocks made their
appearance. They are a bit cretonny in
effect, the flowers or fruits being on a large
scale. Many of the feminine dancers wore
posies of fresh flowers, trailed over the
shoulder. An attractive frock was that
worn by committee member Molly Cole- —
flesh-pink . taffeta dotted with sprigs of
flowers and fashioned with a bustle bow,
Eileen Benson, also of the committee, was
in floral chiffon in tints of blue and green.
Kindred societies were well represented.
__ The Sacred Heart Ladies’ College at
Kyneton, rather a young institution as such
; schools go, now boasts an Old Girls’ Associa-
tion. The first dance of the organisation was
held last week at the Rex. Kitty Trahan,
hon. see., whose dahlia-hued velvet-and-,
chiffon frock had a matching cape, was
assisted in the management by the president,
Nancy Henley, and a committee. Miss
Henley’s taffeta frock blended three shades of
pink. Mrs. J. Korn; Mr. and Mrs. G. B.
Henley; Lena Young, in floral chiffon veil-
ing old rose silk; Eileen Ring, from Heath-
coate, in pink georgette; and Miss M. Snider,
wearing black lace, were among the dancers.
The maiden with the steady gaze and sleek
coiffure is Cassi Duane, a former student
at Loreto Abbey, Ballarat. She is ticket
secretary of the
at-home which
will be staged
by the Loreto
Old G i r 1 S’
Association on
the 18th. Miss
Duane is a
member of the
Loreto Play-
ers, and will
take the lead-
ing role in
“ ’Op - o’ - me-
T h u m b,”
which will
figure in a
double bill at
the Central
Hall on the
26th. Pro-
ceeds of the
show will go
to the Loreto
Free Kinder-
garten.. A Stuart Tompkins camera made
the portrait.
At the dance of the Commerce Faculty
of our Uni., held in Ormond Hall one
night last week, Dr. D. B. Copland and
his wife greeted the guests. Mrs. Copland's
amber taffeta was set off by a presentation
bouquet of pansies. The jollo was secretaried
by Constance Gepp, "who danced in peach-
pink moire, and Ivor Whittaker. Chancellor
MacFarland beamed on the assemblage.
At a guinea each about two hundred
society folk flocked into the ballroom of
Mrs. Han-y Emmerton's home at South
Yarra one afternoon last week to hear
Florence Austral sing and John Amadio
pipe his flute. The Free Kindergarten
Union got the proceeds. Pink and white
blossoms decked the big room, and a four-
o’clock snack was spread in the billiard-
room, where gorgeous yellow and red tulips
aroused admiration. Lady Somers, in jersey
tweed suit and fawn felt millinery, thanked
the diva, the flautist, their accompanist,
Nils Nelson, and the chatelaine of Raveloe.
Mrs. a’Beckett, president of the F.K.U.,
echoed the sentiments. Madame Austral
wore silver-fox furs, a black taffeta gown
with a shoulder posy of white orchids and
a close-fitting black-and-white hat. Mary
Emmerton, in flowered chiffon velvet, and
Lucy Rowe were the hon. secs.
The Austral-Amadio-Nelson trio took
leave of Melbourne at their Town Hall con-
cert on Saturday night amid demonstrations
of enthusiasm from a full house. The flaut-
ist said his thanks for the three, and praised
the discernment of Australian audiences.
Over the black lace gown of the prima donna
was draped a wondrous gold-lined shawl
scattered with huge pink roses. Such is
the art of the vocalist that though she had
been suffering from a cold for some days
she sang delightfully. The stage was strewn
with flowers and gifts at the finish. There
was a gum-tree in which a teddy bear
perched; a crimson lyre with a posy of
violets (that was a gift to John, and pro-
bably not intended as an aspersion on his
veracity) and numerous boxes and baskets
of blossoms. An extra taxi had to be char-
tered for their transportation. Though the
raiu came down in showers and it w T as cold
enough for snow, hundreds lined up to wave
the musicians good-night and good-bye.
There was not much dressiness about the
listeners, but an evening coat that was a
half-and-half combination of black chiffon
velvet and ermine, looked stunning. Mrs.
Russell Grimwade, Mrs. Mclnerney, the
Misses Wimpole, Hr. and Mrs. Behan and
Hr. and Mrs. J. Merrillees were in the audi-
ence.
Allie Robson, pictured here by Broothorn,
is a teacher of
the difficult
art of speak-
ing English
correctly. She
was a pupil of
Nellie Veitch,
who recently
retired, an 1
later studied
under Mar-
jorie Gollan,
in Londo u
With her
friend . Isabel
H'andley, the
playwright,
,Miss Robson
paid a visit to
t h e U.S.A.
some yeai’s
ago. So she's
heard quite a
lot of English
dialects.
Miss Robson will produce and act in the
play she has chosen for the programme at
the Kelvin Hall on September 24, the fifth
of a series of such evenings. Alice Smith
and Irene Webl? will be associated with her
as organisers of a triple bill.
Cora O’Farrell’s farewell concert at the
Town Hall was a cordial affair, with
Florence Austral, John Amadio and Nils
Nelson leading the applause in the front
row. Mrs. Fritz Hart waited on the mat
with a posy for Madame Austral, who was
cloaked in gold and rose brocade. Miss
O’Farrell sang classic operatic excerpts and
compositions by Gustav Holst and Fritz
Hart. Her white satin bodice, sparkling
with crystal, supported deep flounces of
tulle. She has a voice of exceptionally wide
range, and should make her mark, given
ordinary luck
At the O’Farrell recital, Raymond Lam-
bert, the young Belgian pianist, played his
last in this city for a couple of years. He
is returning to do a term of military ser-
vice in his native land. He’s a nice-looking
lad, and the heart of every flapper in the
audience throbbed quicker when he pas-
sionately declaimed the “Liebestraum.’’
Liszt’s famous love-song has a charm to
soothe various sorts of breasts. This Page
knows a bisliop and a pugilist who adore
it. When Shura Cherkassky, the youthful
Russian virtuoso, was in Brisbane, he escaped
from his father and his manager one even-
ing and journeyed to the scene of his recital
by tram. He had as fellow-passengers a bevy
of schoolgirls who were going to hear him
play. They recognised him, and were thrilled.
At the end of the journey one of the most
daring of his young admirers proffered a
request, “Oh, please Mr. Cherkassky, do
play the ‘Liebestraum.’ ” Shura arrived at
the hall grinning delightedly. “I haf not
played eet since I wass a leedle boy,” he
declared, “bot I shall play eet to-night.”
And he did—-most beautifully.
In these days when an invitation for an
afternoon means either bridge or talk with
intermittent music it was a pleasant change
to be ushered into Mrs. J. A. Newell’s little
circle of literature-lovers. Once every month
she gathers congenial souls around her at
her South Yarra home and devotes an hour
or two to the readmg of poems or plays, fol-
lowed by discussion. Mrs. Newell has a
beautiful speaking voice, and reads most
soothingly. Her last Friday’s programme
included a three-act Galsworthy play and a
dramatic excerpt that was all soliloquies and
asides, Mrs. Anderson, Mrs. Newell’s sister,
assisting with the. latter. Beatrice Day was
one of the listeners, and later talked about
drama and the stage.
Lucy Ahon’s student theatre society pre-
sented on Saturday night in the tiny theatre
ir ! *' ~12, building an American three-act
play, ‘ The Goose Hangs High,” by Lewis
Beach. .Charles Hill, John Haynes and Bar-
bara Steel won the principal laurels and the
piece had a very clever stage setting.
Our repertory societies will find the Pro-
scenium Club a dangerous rival if the club's
future productions are as well played as
‘ 1 assing Bromptou Road,” which was put
on at the Kelvin Hall on Thursday. Marie
Tempest starred in this comedy in London
a year or so ago. The plot hinges on the
efforts of an ambitious lady to climb into
society via the Divorce Court. Marguerite
Cockerton, who is French, was in the lead-
ing role, and bedewed pink chiffon with her
tears in the third act. Eileen Johnstone,
Margaret Reid, Ann Kershaw, A. J. Fry
and John Ormiston played minor roles cap-
ably. There were lashings of flowers for
all the ladies. Godfrey Cass proved himself
a good stage-manager.
Gwen Johnston was once more first past
the post in a steeplechase at the point-to-
point meeting on the Eumemmering race-
course on Thursday, run on behalf of the
Dandenong Hospital. General Johnston’s
daughter is an experienced follower of the
hounds, and a fearless rider. She has a
strong liking for aviation, and holds a pilot’s
certificate.
Mrs. Maurice Dudley, who recites, and
Jean Lewis, who sings, entertained Austral
Salon members and their friends at the
latest tea-gathering, when Mrs. J. L. Stein
was hostess. “Pleased to see you again”
was said to Dr. Fleming Dunstan’s wife, who
has been having her light soprano voice
improved overseas. The returned traveller
wore black and white tweed in cape mode,
with a beret-sliaped hat of fine straw. A
posy was handed to her by the secretary,
Iris Shaw. Mrs. Stein, who had the sup-
port of her daughters Laurie and Heather,
was in black moire with crystal buttons.
Dr. R. J. A. Henderson, whose parents live
in Malvern, took into partnership the other
day Marjory Alison, daughter of the R. J.
Youngs, of Horsham. Over the bride’s white
satin cascaded a Honiton lace veil that
descended from a coronet of orange-buds. Her
two ’maids wore tulle of Parma-violet hue.
St. Vincent’s Hospital’s Junior Auxiliary
had its annual reckoning last week. Mollie
Warden was elected president; Mrs. T.
McDermott and Rose Bullen, vice-presidents ;
Eileen Hoban and Lorna Snellgrove, joint
lion. secs.; and Monica Redmond, lion, treas.
The auxiliary has as patronesses Mrs. Daly
and Marie de Bavay.
There was a rustle of spring in the dress-
ing of Gwen Johnston and Thelma Dixon,
who attended Jean, daughter of Mrs. C.
Campbell, of Elwood, when she became the
bride of Dr. Graham Godfrey, of Packenham.
Their almond-green lace and tulle with hats
to match made a pretty background for
white satin and a veil of Brussels.
Wearing checked tweed ensemble in brown
and beige tones, with a harmonising hat,
Lady Somers presided over the annual re-
cording of the Victoria League. The hon.
sec., Mrs. Stanley Addison, told how the
league had helped to give seaside holidays
to the women and kids of Mallee settlers and
sent out 8000 books through the Bush
Library. The membership is now 1545.
Mrs. T. Rutherford and her small daughter
have come from India on a visit to Mrs.
Rutherford’s parents, the W. Dickensons, of
Mucklebar, Middle Brighton. As Audrey
Dickenson the young matron, now domiciled
in Madras, was a popular society girl with
a flair for effective dressing.
The women’s golf championship at Kings-
ton Heath provided a close tussle between
Cecily Lascelles and Susie Tolhurst, the issue
being in doubt up to the 35th’ hole. Miss
Tolhurst, holder of the title, retained it by
the narrow margin of 2up and 1. Before
luncheon it looked as if Miss Lascelles would
win, her opponent being 4 down. - The game
was said to be about the finest seen here in
the women’s championships. Mrs. Austin
Gatehouse, president of the Ladies’ Golf
Union, handed over the cup and other trophies
at a billy-boiling in the clubhouse.
The Wattle League is running a competi-
tion for young people this month. There are
prizes for an essay on the flower, a sketch
in any medium, and a poster featuring the
national bloom. The essay-winner gets a
course in journalism, and other prizes are a
course in black-and-white-drawing and a set
of colors. The shilling entrance fee will be
devoted to the endowment of a cot at the
Frankston Hospital for crippled children.
Phyllis Connor, hon. sec. of the Junior
Wattle League, 72 Mathowra-road, Toorak.
is the lady to apply to for details.
Mrs. Britomarte Janies, president of the
Women Citizens’ movement, who has long
been a worker in the cause of social welfare,
is a candidate for the representation of the
Canterbury Ward of South Melbourne. The
inclusion of women in municipal councils
has proved a very helpful innovation, and
prejudices against the sex in such a capacity
have been to a great extent swept away.


fdjh
To
enhance
i) our beauty
DEAUTY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most of your
hair as a backgiound for your beauty by
using Rowland’s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the oil welt into your hair, when it
will show the gloss of 'health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
01 all Chemists
I
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair,
Golden for fair
or grey hair.
. Rowland’s
M&casgarOH
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PAT'I’ERN
EVERY WEEK
<23
The cen/re of Queen s/an cfs
'd/ 's/ingu/shed Soc/o/ Life.
Wote I
-=> BRISBANE
_\N\
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
Thirty Pieces of Silver
By Montague G rover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis: In the coastal town of
Illawarra Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is brought up by Mary West,
a rosy-clieeked spinster so motherly
that she is generally known as ‘Mrs.”
Early she leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, which
he does so effectually that he heads
the scholarship list in the local school’s
annual examination. His foster
mother, however, is too poor for him
to be able to take advantage of the
free education offering, and, though
his teacher described him to the in-
spector as one of the most promising
boys he had handled, Jimmy has no
choice but to take a job whilst still
only a youngster.
CHAPTER lll—( Continued ).
JIMMY was a biggish boy for thirteen,
and strong. Remembering Mary West’s
injunction to be game, he had come to
the conclusion that it is twice as easy for a
strong man to be game as for a weak one.
So he had devoted himself to the acquisi-
tion of strength. Always fond of athletics,
he became an enthusiast. In summer he
swam and never swam without an object.
Each time he dived into the water at the
Illawarra baths, it was to do a yard more
than he had ever done before or cut a
second off his time. In winter he became
one of the backs of the Illawarra United,
and he joined the Boys’ Band—an organi-
sation for the purpose of decoying the
young into a religious life by the bait of
sport—in order that he might have the use
of the gymnasium.
“Where did you work last?” demanded
the foreman of C. J. Grey and Co.’s Illa-
warra Coke Works when Jimmy presented
himself as an applicant for a job.
“Just left school,” replied Jimmy.
“How old are you?” pursued the fore-
man.
“Fourteen next birthday.”
“Ah!” observed the foreman. He was
satisfied. Here <was a husky lad, who
looked fifteen at the least and who could
probably do the work of a lad of fifteen,
and it would be necessary to pay him only
the wages which are laid down by the Court
of Arbitration for the thirteen-year-old.
Jimmy looked a bargain.
“Got your leaving certificate?” queried
the foreman.
“More than that—got a scholarship, but
can’t afford to take it up,” said Jimmy.
This was a bit of a set-back for the
foreman. He had little faith in who
could win scholarships at thirteen.
“There’s no time for loafin’ over books
here,” he said.
Jimmy felt inclined to be conciliatory, to
call the foreman “sir,” to appeal to him.
Then he l'emembered Mary West’s advice.
“I don’t loaf over books. I work over
’em,” he announced. “And if you put me
on I’ll show you I can work over the coke,
too.”
The foreman looked down at the boy
with some admiration. But he determined
not to show it. “Well,” he said, “if you
can work as well as you can skite, you
ought to be worth a job. You can start
on Monday, seven-thirty. You’ll get fif-
teen bob a week to start; what you get
after depends on yourself. If you’re no
good, or loaf, or make mistakes, or if you
don’t do what you’re told, it’s out, quick
and lively, savee? And you’ll want a pair
of dungaree overalls—bib overalls are the
best. Remember, seven-thirty on Monday.”
“Thank you, sir,” said Jimmy. He reck-
oned the foreman was entitled to a “sir”
now.
“Fifteen bob a week for a start, Mum,”
he announced as he burst in at the laundry
door where Mary West was passing the
clothes through the wringer.
She paused. “Where?”
“Grey’s ovens across the line,” he ex-
plained. “I told the foreman I could work
on the coke like I can on the books, and
he says that if I can work as well as I can
skite I ought to be good.”
Mum laughed. “That’s the game, Jimmy
—stick up for yourself. Nobody else will,
they say. Some of them overdo it; but
it’s not often. You can’t hardly pin so
many tickets on yourself but there’s some’ll
believe ’em. What’ll you want?”
“Only a pair of bib overalls as yet—
that’s a cut into the first week.”
“I don’t know that it is,” said Mary
West, walking into the house. In ten
minutes she came out. “Here, put these
on, Jimmy,” she ordered. Jimmy stepped
into a suit of dungarees and Mary West
buttoned the braces and surveyed him. “A
couple of inches up at the bottoms and a
bit tighter round the waist, and what do
you say?”
“Fits me like the paper on the wall,
Mum,” he smiled. “Where did you raise
them?”
Mary West grew serious. “They’ve been
in the box there this twelve years. They
used to be your father’s, Jimmy.”
Jimmy looked at the overalls with
interest. The garments seemed suddenly
endowed with history, tradition. They were
a link with the past he had never con-
sciously known, something that connected
him in a way that he had never previously
felt with the father who was only a name
to him.
“I say, Mum,” said Jimmy shyly, “ain’t
you really my mum?”
“I wish I was, Jimmy,” she replied. Then,
“What made you ask? Have they been
saying things down in the town?”
“Jimmy had picked out the prettiest girl available at a
picnic, and got lost with her in the mountains.”
“No, Mum; nobody never says a word
to me,” he replied. “Only I wondered why
you was so good to me an’ spent all the
money you done over me, if I wasn’t.”
“I’ll tell you, Jimmy.” She had resumed
her placidity to learn that scandal had not
been trying to blacken her to the one she
loved most on earth.
“I knew Molly—that’s your mother—
from the time she was born; watched her
grow up just like I’ve watched you. She
was a nice kiddie, and when she was eight-
een she married a young chap—engineer at
one of the mines he was. They were very
happy till trouble came. One night the
cable overwound somehow—nobody ever
knew why—and when they found your
father he was dead. You were only three
months old then and the shock was cruel
on Molly. She tried hard to keep going for
your sake, but it was too much for her.
She died when you were two years old.
It wasn’t supposed to have anything to do
with your father’s death, but I knew. Her
own people had six young opes to bring
up—there were some ''years between Molly
and the next —and, as I was doing fairly
well, I took you on. They were to take
you back when they could afford to, but
it was like everything else with working
people: that time never came. Both of
them died before they had ten pounds in
the savings bank, so you stayed on, Jimmy.
And you’ve been great company for me;
so you can see there was a bit of selfish-
ness in it, too.”
“Selfish, Mum? 00, I wish you was my
rmim.”
“She was a better woman than I am,
Jimmy.”
“Then she must have been good.” Jimmy
threw his arms round Mary West’s neck
and swore to himself that nothing in the
world would ever tempt him to cause her
a moment’s uneasiness.
“Why didn’t you never get married,
Mum?” Her face grew grave. She was
looking back nearly forty
years. “I was going to
once,” she replied quietly.
“But the boy went away
to sea—he was on a boat
—and they never heard
of any of them again.”
Once more the spectre
of violent death—Azrael
shooting from ambush at
a strong man doing his
daily toil—tragedy stalk-
ing unexpectedly into the middle of life to
gamer those whose preservation is most
needed.
CHAPTER IV.
Jimmy was as good as his boast. He
worked on the coke with the same energy
that he worked on his books. For the first
year he was classed as a yard-boy, and it
was his duty to clean up and generally
perform the odd jobs which were disowned
by each of the various unions represented
among the workmen. Jimmy cleaned up
30 thoroughly that the foreman was in-
clined to regard him as a new broom; but,
as time passed and the cleaning showed no
deterioration, he began to feel less con-
tempt for academic distinction than
formerly.
“If that’s what scholarships teach ’em,”
he remarked to the manager, well out of
Jimmy’s hearing one day, “scholarship kids
for me every time.”
“When’ll he be fourteen?”
“Five months,” replied the foreman.
“Shift him on to the day ovens then.
I suppose the union’d kick if we did it now,
though the boy’s fitter than some of them
five years older.”
“Fitter!” cried the foreman. “Come along
at lunch time some day and just see how
he trims ’em with the gloves. We’ll be
losin’ him soon if some o’ th’ fight blokes
from Sydney drop to him. He’s one of
them born fighters—seems to know what
th’ other chap’s goin’ ter do five minutes
before he knows himself. My word, he’s
got some punch, too, for a kid. I wouldn’t
care ter stop one o’ them.”
The manager, who was a bit of a sport
himself, was interested in Jimmy. The
story of the foreman humanised him. He
became something more than a mere pai;t
of the plant and machinery of the firm of
C. J. Grey and Co. The manager felt
that if the coke works were to bring out a
wonderful fighting boy, part of the sur-
rounding glory would illumine him also. It
is something to be the manager of a
concern which turns out a champion fighter.
But Jimmy had no such aspirations as
yet. He devoted himself to the sport
primarily because it tended to make him
fulfil the ideal of Mum. Every time he
failed to smother he felt a thrill of pride,
simultaneous with the sting of the blow,
that he was taking it without wincing. At
the outset this was difficult. The pain
sometimes made his eyes water, the con-
tinued punching made his head ache. But
in six months he had lived all this down
and could take a full punch square on the
nose without blinking his eyes and, what
was more, counter with a left hook that
would make any sport feel good to see.
■ Jimmy started with the boys of his own
size, and as they were bush fighters his
superior strength stood him in good stead.
Th<jn he began to look for higher gam6i lhf .
i a j s 0 f sixteen and seventeen, firerg and
trimmers, most of whom were athletes of
some sort and a few of whom knew a bit
about the game. Moreover, their additional
years had brought additional strength and
height and reach, and Jimmy started
behind scratch. But, while they were
stationary, Jimmy was a progressive factor,
He did not rest content with delivering
blows and taking blows. He thought about
the subject. He noted the positions from


PLAIN At A
PIKESTAFF
r
A
J
y
are the duplicates pro-
duced witha'Mephisto’
Copying Pencil.
It lasts n uch I >rger
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HAHDTMUTFT. of “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame,
London Office—2!*, Kingsway. W.C.2
Austra'ian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGALL, P.O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
5 MONTHS TO XMAS.
Not very long, but time enough to make provision for the extra expense
which is inevitable at that period. Christmas retains much of the old
spirit; it is a time of rejoicing, of hospitality and the giving of presents,
and because it is summer-time in Australia it is a holiday period.
All this means expense, and with most of us that means the provision
of the money in advance.
The Purpose Savings Account, and you, can do it.
Open one or more now, at any Branch of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank of Australia, use them sincerely, and Christmas will find you
prepared.
The Bank adds interest at 4% per annum.
fcmonraltl) Savings JM of Austral
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
is h Jn
■ 5? U i}
m
t® s! JI.H
!*.ss
hlp
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single *Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 16S/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
which blows could most effectively be
dealt, the positions from which blows could
be taken with the least resistence. From
his first “overtime” he purchased a punch-
ing ball, which he rigged up on the back
verandah of Mary West’s home and prac-
tised at it till he could deliver punches
to and from every point in the compass.
When Jimmy was fifteen he was as handy
an amateur as there was on the South
Coast. In the featherweight competition
of the Boys’ Band he won handsomely
after' eight fights—two of them clean
knockouts and four of them against grown
men. He was drawing twenty-five shillings
a week now as day firer, and Mary West
insisted on his keeping five shillings for
spending money.
Jimmy was not a boy of expensive tastes.
Moreover, he had little time for indul-
gence. He ran his life on a timetable and
followed the maxim “Work hard, play hard,
rest hard.” The evenings spent with Wel-
lington he rightly regarded as being some-
thing more than entertainment. Welling-
ton, he realised, was able to direct a train
of thought in a way indicated neither by
the night schoolnor by Mary West.
Basil \fy ellington was what is known
throughout the British Dominions as an
Oxford man; that is to say, he had had the
more or less valuable advantage of the
more or less mediaeval learning imparted
to the sons of the ruling caste at the Uni-
versity of Oxford, England. That a person
of such distinction should be content to
remain the editor of a not too lucrative
country newspaper was due, it was gener-
ally believed by the democracy of Illawarra,
to the fact that Basil Wellington had
“done something.”
Theories, largely suggested by moving-
picture plots and embracing forged cheques,
vampire women in the gilded halls of West-
end vice, duels with dukes and intrigues
even with the heautiful connections of
Royalty itself, were advanced, and each
had its supporters, backed by psychological
observation.
In fact, Wellington had done something
worse than all—something which placed
him outside the pale of the society in which
he had been born and bred. But it was
much less picturesque and dramatic than
the suggestions which originated in Los
Angeles. He had committed the one un-
forgivable crime; he had married the
daughter of the boarding-house in which
he had lived in London while performing
the onerous duty of eating dinners at the
Temple, which gastronomical feat qualifies
a man to practise as an advocate in the
law courts of his country. Wellington dis-
graced himself before he had consumed the
necessary quota of foodstuff—some said
he had got as far as the cheese straws when
lie fell from grace. At any rate, he went
to a registry office, became a respectable
married man,, and it was asserted that,
when he turned up to the next dinner, a
beefeater in a scarlet suit barred his way
with a halberd under warrant from the King.
_With an income of £l5O and a new wife,
Wellington came to Australia, taught school
for a few years, and by reason of his un-
questioned skill as a writer sold occasional
articles to 'the metropolitan papers. One
of them tried him on the staff, but he
failed lamentably. A slow-thinking man
and a dreamer, he was temperamentally
unfitted for the stress of modern metropoli-
tan journalism. He lacked the news instinct,
and, with all his literary style, he was not
half so valuable as the dynamic youth
who sat beside him in the reporting room,
who seemingly lived his life defying speed
limits and engaging in conversations at
phones, whose English was execrable and
whose grammar was the worry of the sub-
editors, yet who would deliver murder-
mystery solutions, interviews with poli-
ticians or messages to Garcia indiscrimin-
ately, did the news editor mark him for
them.
Wellington further was a man of moods.
Even his skill in carpentry of words was
dependent upon his emotions. He would
turn out. splendid copy about something of
little interest, and fall down on what should
have been the star story of the day. Popular
personally, his superiors were loath to sack
him, and both they and Wellington him-
self were delighted when a sudden legacy
enabled him to buy the “Illawarra
Guardian,” a bi-weekly which had returned
its founder, just deceased, a clear £l5O a
year.
A man of simple tastes who loved his
wife very dearly, life in Illawarra found
Wellington as happy and contented as
mortal can be. He was comfortably situ-
ated financially. The “Guardian” improved
in circulation, advertising and influence
under his control, the natural beauty of his
surroundings appealed strongly to a man
of his aesthetic tastes, and, if he did miss
the companionship of fellow-intellectuals,
now that he was brought into close contact
with that foreign people, the working class,
he found to his surprise and his delight
that thej' were not foreigners at all.
He grew heretical. With increased know-
ledge of the lives of the people among
whom he lived, he began to doubt the theo-
retical soundness of the economists Oxford
accepted as irrefutable, like the solar system
and the law of gravitation.
'Oxford is only an elementary school,”
he said one day to the Mayor; “I com-
Basil Wellington.
pleted my education in the great University
of Illawarra.”
“I reckon he must have had a few in,’'
commented the Mayor subsequently in
relating the incident.
Wellington and Jimmy met first in the
library of the Mechanics’ Institute, while
Jimmy was still at school. Jimmy had just
asked the librarian for “Looking Back-
ward,” and the request from a youngster
of thirteen made Wellington look up from
his own book.
“You’re a youthful socialist,” he smiled.
“I dunno,” replied Jimmy. “Mum says
I will be when I’ve read that book.”
a “Excellent advice,” observed the editor.
“When Labor is as socialistic as its oppo-
nents, there’ll be something doing.”
Jimmy looked hard at him. “You mean
that the Labor blokes talk a lot about it
an’ don’t know what it is?”
It was the editor’s turn to look surprised.
“You’re an extraordinary kid.” He was
thinking how the Mayor of Illawarra wouid
have puzzled over his remark.
“Come along to my office with me. I’ll
lend you ‘Looking Backward.’ You might
have to wait a year before you get it here.”
Thus began the friendship between Basil
Wellington, M.A., Oxon, and Jimmy Pack-
ington, cokeworker, a friendship which
endured with pleasure and profit to both, a
friendship which eventually came to em-
brace Mary West and Mrs. Wellington.
It was four or five weeks after their
encounter in the library that Jimmy, who
had spoken much of Mum, introduced her
to Wellington in the street.
“There seems to be no end to the sur-
prises I get down here,” said Wellington
to his wife that night. “You know that
youngster I told you about—young Pack-
ington. I met his mother this afternoon—
a washerwoman down the beach end. A
wonderful woman, brainy and well-
informed, too. She’s contrived to pick up
an education somewhere, though she’s
obviously working-class. A woman like
that ought to be doing big things, and here
she is scraping along with washing and
selling eggs.”
“I’d like to meet her, dear,” said Mrs.
Wellington.
“And I'm going to take good care you
shall,” agreed her husband.
Jimmy was charmed with “Looking Back-
ward.” Obedient to Mum’s advice, We
thought out its suggestions and its con-
clusions to and from work, and was pre-
pared for Wellington’s cross examination.
“Well, did it make you a socialist?” asked
the editor with a smile, when Jimmy re-
turned the book.
“My oath!” returned Jimmy. “Except
that part about the old men havin’ all the
votes.”
“Good boy!” commented Wellington.
“Don’t swallow things whole. All these
theories have holes in them. Watch out
for the holes. Then you can patch them
when your chance comes. Though, for my
own part, I think that restriction of the
voting power to the older men is a wise
provision.”
Jimmy shook his head. “No fear!” he
persisted. He would have a vote himself
in a few years and he wasn’t going to let
any old fellow do him out of his share in
governing the country. And there were
plenty fellows like him.
Jimmy wanted another socialistic book.
“No, you don’t!” said the editor. “You’ve
got to know both sides. That’s the trouble
with most people, they refuse to listen to
what the other man says. I’ve got this
for you this time. It isn’t such easy read-
ing as ‘Looking Backward,’ but have a go
at it.”
Jimmy took the book and read the title
page. “The Servile State,” by Hilaire
Belloc. “I suppose he’s some big capi-
talist.”
“N°t a bit of it!” explained Wellington.
“He’s as much of a democrat as you, but
he thinks socialism a mistake. Read it
and you’ll know why.”
Jimmy took the book, prepared to des-
pise it, prepared to find it filled with lies
and misstatements regarding the working
people. He was surprised to be interested,
more surprised to find himself admitting
that the writer was sincere in his beliefs
and even that his conclusions had a basis of
probability.
Now Jimmy was firing the coke ovens
during eight hours a day. His extra-working
life at this period consists principally
of studying problems of politics and
pugilism. He pondered over the methods
of all the great masters, Henry George,
John L. Sullivan, Herbert Spencer and Bob
Fitzsimmons. He became interested in
their private lives and arrived at the con-
clusion on reading “Boxiana” that Jim
Belcher was the noblest of them all. George
struck him as going only half-way; Sulli-
van as a man who relied too much on
force and too little on the delicacies of
art. Fitzsimmons appeared to be the out-
standing figure who had reduced the, game
to such a perfection of science that its
poetic and dramatic qualities were lack-
ing, and Spencer seemed to Jimmy to
destroy his whole fabric of individualistic
argument when he admitted the necessity
of law and order.
He says a man can take another man’s
watch if he’s got a stronger brain; but
he won’t let him take it because he’s got
a stronger body. Where’s the difference?”
he demanded of Wellington. But Welling-
ton with the erudition of Oxford at his
back, failed to give an answer to satisfy
Jimmy. Elijah Moon’s frequent appeals
What does ’Erbert Spencer say?” to
clinch arguments with himself, made Jimmy
wonder if, 'after all, Moon were not un-
sound in doctrine.
Alma Grey.
Wellington was the only man in the town
who liked George Dalgety. He was the
only man in the town who thought of him
as George Dalgety. To eveiybody else he
was Major Dalgety, the right to “call him
Dalgety, or even George, being conferred
on Wellington by reason of his Oxford
graduation—a sort of ad eundem privilege.
Dalgety was not an Oxford man; he be-
longed to an even higher caste. ’He had
been an officer of the Blues, until bad
financial judgment on the part of his father
and the advance of humanitarian legislation
—described by the Dalgety family as “that
d’amned socialistic rot”—had led to his
haying to abandon his career, the father
being no longer able to subsidise the Blues
by the £lOOO annually needful to maintain
the prestige of an officer of that historic
corps.
Wellington refused to admit this version
of Dalgety’s return to civilian life. He was
accustomed to assert, in the presence of
Dalgety, that he had been court-martialled
and dismissed with ignominy for efficiency
—a violation of all the most sacred tradi-
tions of the British Army. Dalgety never
saw the joke—or any other, for that matter.
Certain it was that Dalgety was efficient.
Under his management, the Keira Main
Coal Company had been able to increase
its dividend from eight to twelve per cent,
and had paid it on an increased capital
of watered stock issued to prevent Moon
and other agitators quoting the distribution
as an argument for nationalisation. Further,
Dalgety had handled the men in a manner
so intelligent that strikes were reduced to
a minimum and waste eliminated. All the
same, he was liked less by the men than
any mine manager on the coast.
A thick-set man of medium height,
Dalgety wore a stiff toothbrush moustache
and an air of leadership. His whole bear-
ing smacked of the military. To his sub-
ordinates he never spoke; he gave words
of command. To his equals—the few he
regarded as such in the locality—he gave
the impression that he was making official
reports. His superiors—that is, his busi-
ness superiors, for some of the directors of
the Keira Main had very humble origins—
lie invariably addressed as “Sir,” while
pointing out in the most respectful way that
if they made fools of themselves in the
manner they suggested the company would
soon be involved in ruin, or if they sailed
as close to the law as they were tempted
they would get a new manager. “The
Dalgetys play the game,” he said to him-
self.
Dalgety was never dandified but was
always well dressed and immaculate. They
used to say that he could make his way to
the face and back without acquiring a speck
of dust. When he rode into Ulawarra, his
horse seemed to have been polished with
tan boot cream and his saddle and bridle
looked as if they had been bought that
day. He was scrupulously fair in his deal-
ing with the unions, which some of his
predecessors had not been. Further, he
was invariably courteous in meeting the
delegate boards, while former managers
had frequently lost their tempers. Still,
it is sometimes less harrowing to be un-
fairly treated by a man who turns to you
and cries, “Bill, I’ll see you and your
union in Hell first,” than fairly treated
by one who says courteously and firmly,
“Mr. Smith, the company is determined to
make no further concessions on the lines
you indicate.”
His predecessors would curse at the men
and rob them; but they would give them
a nod when they met them on the road.
At times they had been known to unbend
sufficiently to drink with them. But as far
as Dalgety was concerned, the workmen on
the mine, from union president to wheeler,
might have not been on the earth for all
the notice he took of them outside business
hours.
“George,” protested Wellington, “you’re
damnably unfair to the people round here.
They’re human the same as you. I live
among them and I know it. I had the same
sort of ideas as you at one time, but that
was before I received my education. Now
there’s an old woman in this town. She
washes clothes for a living, and I’ll defy
you to find a more intelligent or better
informed woman in the district.”
“What use is it to her? Only tends to
make her discontented,” commented
Dalgety.
“I know your view. Education is some-
thing for the upper classes. Well, she’s got
a foster-son, a boy of fifteen. That boy’s
worth something to the world, if he gets
the chance. He’s working at the coke ovens
in the day and studying Herbert Spencer
at night. He’ll be a better educated man
than either of us before he’s done.
“And he’ll grow up to be a damned dan-
gerous agitator—one of the worst type.
That’s what this sort of thing leads to.
I know them. You give firearms to
children; then we wonder why somebody
gets hurt.”
(Continued on page 45.)


Amusements.
CYDNEY'S chief theatres.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTYS: MR. CINDERS.
CRITERION : LITTLE ACCIDENT.
J. C. WILLIAMSON,- LTD..
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE NEW MOON.
11
u n's
U E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
EDMOND LOWE and CONSTANCE BENNETT in
THIS THING CALLED LOVE.
(Children under 16 Not Admitted.)
ALSO
LOVE, LIVE AND LAUGH.
' (Passed for General Exhibition.)
Legal Notices.
TO SARAH JANE PARKS AND ALEXANDER
HAWTHORN brother and sisfrr respectively of
LILLIAN ELIZA ANN WATSON who died at
Kihikihi New Zealand on the 22nd April 1930
and their children and to all persons claiming by
through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 13th June
1930 by a Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand' you are hereby called upon to send in to
the undersigned on or before the 30th November
1930 your claims to the estate of the abovenamed
deceased failing which the said estate will be dis-
tributed amongst those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 14th June 1930.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
'T’O HUGH CAMPBELL (OR MISCAMPBELL)
1 BROTHER OF DAVID CAMPBELL DECEASED
FORMERLY OF CLARA NEAR CLOUGH CO UN TV
DOWN IRELAND AND LATER OF QUEENSLAND
AND TO ALL CHILDREN OF THE SAID HUGH
CAMPBELL AND ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY
THROUGH OR UNDER lIIM OR THEM.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 20th day
of June 1930 by a Judge of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand you are hereby called upon to send
in to the undersigned on or before the Ist day of
November 1930 your claims to the estate of David
Campbell who died intestate on the 22nd day of
November 1927 failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims. . ,
Dated *at Wellington this 23rd day of June, 1930.
G. G. ROob,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office, Wellington,
New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT. OF QUEENSLAND,
1 TOWNSVILLE.
No. 54 of 1930.
Mr. Justice Douglas.
BETWEEN CUMMINS & CAMPBELL, LIMITED,
Plaintiff
And ALFRED HENRY THEODORE TIIOM
Defendant.
To ALFRED HENRY THEODORE THOM.
TAKE NOTICE that Cummins & Campbell Limited
a company duly incorporated and carrying on business
at Townsville and elsewhere in the State of Queens-,
land has commenced an action against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville by Writ
of that Court dated the tenth day of April 1930
claiming the sum of Six hundred and twenty-eight
pounds eight shillings and nine pence AND THAI
if you the said Alfred Henry Theodore Thom wish to
defend the said action you should cause an appeal-
ance to be entered for you m the said Court at
Townsville within thirty days from the date of this
publication AND THAT in default of your so doing
the said Cummins & Campbell Limited may by
leave of the Court or a Judge proceed therein and
Judgment may be given in your absence.
ROBERTS, LEU & NORTH, Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
Denham Street, Townsville. •
Missing Friends.
ROGER CROSBY HUNTER —Deceased.
JOHN CLARKE HUNTER, formerly of
J Bluff,.New Zealand, or anyone knowing
present whereabouts, is requested to
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Invercargill, New Zealand.
w HAIR
<o " E£D
HERE&
i Amy-
fdjh
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The. well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPQll&ris CMEXICAN)
Ukdnut Staiutt
THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN k SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (.4/6), 6d. being postage.
W
“THE BARRIER MINER,”
of Broken Hill, and
“THE BULLETIN,”
of Sydney,
Have not raised their prices, in
spite of the new newspaper taxes.
ftewO j lord Series
$
A
@ U P© up
, rackets
The new distinctive “Oxford’
Racket Series is manufactured
solely in Australia especially
for Australian conditions, from
selected imported materials,
and is representative of the
very finest examples in Tennis
Racket craftsmanship. There
is a particular “Oxford” for
every grade . . . every style of
player. One of Mick Simmons’
experts will be pleased to make
a selection for you ... to guide
you with advice as to correct
weight and balance suitable to
your individual requirements.
“COURT CRAFT” .. 24/-
“HAYMARKET” 30 /-
“HAYMARKET SPECIAL” .. .. 40/-
“HAYMARKET SELECTED” .. 45/-
“LIGHTNING” 45 /'
“BRITANNIC" 55 /-
“OCEANIC” ' 65 /*
“TORNADIC” 75 /-
“MASTERSTROKE” 77/6
“ROYAL ENSIGN” 80/-
TENNIS REPAIRS
However small the job, only skilled crafts-
men handle your damaged racket. Remem-
ber that dominant fact when next leaving
it at Mick Simmons. A same-day service
is always available and charges are of the
very lowest.
The first Australian shipment of
Bradman Bats especially for Mick
Simmons, Ltd. Don Bradman, who
is on the staff of this great Sports
House, personally selected and. auto-
graphed every one of these Bats at
Syke’s Famous Sporting Goods Fac-
tory, at Horbury, England.
fk
I
I /1
„
| r ' W , i *
' V
MW
msf
J,
•' * &
iffl&m y
/MMm-w
?§ojjjMjF
‘Don Bradman’
Autograph
CRICKET BATS
Beautiful! That is the word that
instantly escapes the lips of every
cricketer who sees them. Every
“Bradman” Bat, no matter what
the grade, represents the highest
standard of cricket bat craftsman-
ship ever introduced into Australia.
4 CROWN 65/-
3 CROWN 56/6
2 CROWN 47/6
CLUB . s 37 / 6
HARROW SIZE 37/6
JUNIOR SPECIAL No. 6 . . 35/- *
JUNIOR No. 6 20/-
JUNIOR No. 5 18/6
JUNIOR No. 4 16/6
(Carriage Paid on Cricket Bats.)
All letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket.
Sydney.
Mick Simmons
LTD.,
lIAYMARKET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
There was cold, bright weather for the
first of the two garden parties given at
Government House this week, and winter
frocks were the rule. Cinerarias and bou-
gainvillaea in vivid flower formed the back-
ground. The tea marquee was on the lower
lawn, and Sir John and Lady Goodwin
received on the terrace, while, boy scouts,
under command of Troop-leader Hall,
directed the visitors about the grounds, and
Vada MacPherson saw to the activities of
the girl guides. Lady Goodwin wore ash-
rose and a silk repp coat in a deeper shade,
with, hat of fancy Tagel straw; Mrs. W J.
Hunter (M.L.) was in black with touches
of Chinese blue and gold; Mrs. H. L.
Arclidall wore brown; Mrs. Cadell Garrick
chose black; the Hardie lady wore brown
and red; Cecily Walsh was in opal glue;
and Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell’s brown crepe
de Chine was worn with a brown fur coat.
There were grey skies for the final winter
meeting of the Q.T.C. at Ascot. The Governor
attended. Mrs. Duckett White was in
fuchsia; Mrs. Cadell Garrick in caramel-
brown, with a skunk-trimmed coat and fawn
hat' Mrs. Forrest- Alexander (Melbourne)
wore black; and Mrs. C. O. Mant chose
black with touches of gold.
Lady Goodwin was at the benefit given
at Kiimorna, Mrs. and Mrs. It. M. Kings
home, in aid of the Lota Seaside Home and
the Wilson Ophthalmic hospital. Her Ex.
wore dahlia-red with fox furs. Poinsettia,
sweet-peas and bougainvillaea made bright
the garden. The Country Women’s song was
a n item in the musical programme. In the
evening Mr. and Mrs. R. M. King accom-
panied the Governor and Lady Goodwin to
the Glee Singers’ performance in the City
Hall, where there was another bumper
house.
The Bulletin’s general manager, Ken-
neth Prior, arrived b/ Sunday’s air-express
and proposes to remain here over the Show,
which is to open on Monday next. Mr.
Prior’s visit is understood to relate to a vigor-
ous Bulletin campaign in Queensland.
The annual dance of the Christian Brothers
Old Boys’ Association was held in Lennon s
ballroom, the Governor and Lady Goodwin
being present. The president of the associa-
tion, Mr. F. J. McDonnel), and Mrs. McDon-
nell received the vice-regal party. Lady
Goodwin was in black mariette, Mrs.
McDonnell was in sky-blue with a vieux-
rose wrap. The proceeds go to the funds
of the Holy Name Cathedral building. Dr.
Duhig, Archbishop of Brisbane, was there
with Monsignor McCarthy.
The Brisbane Golf Club’s dance at
Yeerougpilly was a very smart affair, the
pretty club-house outlined m jade green,
sapphire and ruby lights. Mrs. Dudley
McNabs’s black frock had a dared cape and
cluster of red roses; Mrs. V. N. R M lllis
chose flame color; Mrs. T. B. Hunter’s
pastel-pink was worn with a coral-pink wrap.
At St. Mark’s, Warwick, George NichoUs
was married to Florence Shelley. The bride
was given away by her father, in ivory satin
beaute, and a broidered tulle veil. Her
bouquet was of white stocks, narcissi and
jonquils. Miss L. Shelley ’maided in mauve.
The honeymoon is in Sydney and on the
Blue Mountains.
Miss Mary Griffith, sister of the late
Chief Justice Samuel Griffith, died at
the Aged Christian Women’s Home, Bowen-
terrace, aged 80 years. A daughter of the
late Rev. E. Edward Griffith, she came to
Australia as a little girl, living first at
Maitland (N.S.W.), then at Ipswich, and
coming to Brisbane when her father was
appointed to the Wharf-street Congregational
Church, a position he held for more than 80
years She was an ex-president of the
YW.C.A. and for 27 years was a mem-
ber of the Children’s Hospital committee.
In 1911 she was recipient of the honor or
Our Lady of Grace, Order of St. John of
Jerusalem. Until a year ago she was active
in all her charitable pursuits.
Richard Bellairs is putting “Pollyanna”
on for Show time at the Theatre Royal.
Vera St. John and Lou Vernon are admir-
able in “The Love Test,” which is offering
this week. “H’old Everything” is coming to
His Majesty’s. Alexander W atson will
elocute at Albert Hall, and Edward Cahill
and George Brooke will have a concert in
the City Hall.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Law students put aside Coke and Black-
stone to make merry at their annual shivoo
in the Y.A.L. Hall. Prof. Beasley brought
his wife, in apricot studded with sparklets;
Mrs. Henry Moseley chose white, Ena Cock-
ram was in gumtip green, Mrs. Jack Durack s
buttercup georgettes deepened to old gold,
Mrs. Solomon and Mrs. Negus favored black,
tiny frills ran round the skirt of Judy
Harper’s peach-pink taffetas, slim Pete
Moustaka fluttered powdery-blues, Mignon
Jao'o’s apple-green transparencies clung to
‘i silvery yoke, Ncssie Horgan'was in blue
and Patsv Regan in dawn-pinks. Peggy
Wood’s shell-pink chiffons fluttered from a
gold-studded corsage, and sister Betty danced
in red; Mrs. .Reg Forbes ornamented her
moss-green laces with a velvet bow.
Padre Gunning came from Moora to
speak a morning blessing over the heads
of Ena Roberts and Duncan Glasfurd in
St. Mary’s, Colin-street. The bride chose
deep reds for her ensemble, with velour mil-
linery and a bouquet of pink carnations.
Gwen Roberts and Agnes Sanderson attended
in beige frocks and hats. Intimate friends
and relatives rejoiced at the Palace.
Cupid has been having a busy time. Last
week’s engaged couples include Tom Flintou
and Jeanette, daughter of medico and Mrs-
Gordon; Gwendolyn Mary Loveridge and
Gregory Compton; the W. G- Randells elder
daughter, Ina, and Ross Smith.
The Cottesloe Hall was dressed up in red,
blue and gold for the Scotch College dance.
Mrs. Hampshire, who looked after the deco-
rations, wore black; Mrs. Campbells sap-
phire georgettes had traceries of dull g o ‘rt
upon the skirt; Mrs. Allnut chose black; Mrs.
Fothergill’s gown was mostly black and
amber, sea-green moire suited Mrs. helton,
Mrs. Harry Gorrie wore pink, Mrs. Unbe-
haun sported a taffeta bow on the hip-
line of her black romaine, Mrs. Jones wore
scarlet shoes with her pale blue frock and
Mrs. Hack chose the same shade for her
footwear and a black gown. Headmaster
Anderson’s daughter Vance was tall anci
beautiful in a russet shawl over primrose,
Joan Church wore buttercup and her sister
Gwen deep cream, youthful Kathleen Baird
danced in pink and Sheila-Rowley in shower-
spot net, Audrey Savage wore black and
sister Pat green, Mrs. Bold chose a name
gown and Mrs. Plint black velvet.
At Mrs. Winterbottom’s party for Faith
Flintoff there was bridge iu a flower-filled
drawing-room and a table full of queerly-
shaped parcels for the kitchen of the bride-
to-be. The hostess wore a satin jumper-
suit, and Faith’s leaf-grown and gold frock
was of velvet.
Perth Hospital’s new department of radi-
ology for the treatment of cancer was opened
this week. The Federal and State Govern-
ments each donated £5OOO, and the remaining
£lO,OOO was raised by public subscription.
Their Exes., the Minister for Health, the
Commonwealth Attorney-General with Mrs.
and Miss Brennan, Robert Garran and his
lady, J. M. Tait and a bunch of medicoes
were at the opening luncheon.
Masses of flame-tree and Geraldton wax-
plant decked the balcony where “reinforce-
ments” in two “filling^”—the professional
term for supper —were spread for the Archi-
tects’ Ball iu the Y.A.L. Hall. Mrs. Hen-
derson mingled black lace with georgette
draperies; Dorothea Hancock danced in
flowered chiffon; Helena Ackroyd Stuarts
sherry-tinted moire was striking; Nancy and
Dorothy Forbes wore champagne and pale
pink respectively; Mrs. Reg Summerhayes,
always perfectly turned out, wore well-cut
black; Mrs. Keith Johnson had a silver
glimmer among her ice-blue draperies; pretty
Cecelia Brennan wore a fanciful pink gown;
Clarice Sainsbury’s frock showed a pre-
ponderance of lilac; Benjamina Clifton
twinkled her youthful toes in red Chantilly
lace.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Mrs. Allan Simpson, who returns to
Adelaide from Colombo by the Mooltan on
August 23, has been elected president of the
Lyceum Club in succession to Mrs. Charles
Todd.
The Maison de Danse was crowded for the
Movie Ball at Glenelg, and the School for
Mothers, Minda Home and the Unemploy-
ment Fund all profited thereby. E ancy cos-
tumes were not so frequent as on past occa-
sions, but the frocking generally was very
smart, flowered satin and taffeta being much
in evidence. Mrs. F. E. Chivers, whose hus-
band was one of the promoters, looked well
in a primrose taffeta patterned in roses, while
Mrs. R. H. Perry was frock eel in pale blue-
flowered satin. The finest display was the
Electrolux, in which the girls wore aluminium
tights, and twisted the silver coils of the
cleaner round their slim bodies.
The Police held their annual ball on the
same night at the Freemasons’ Hall, North-
terrace, when his Ex. was present w, 1 h
Capt. Williamson in attendance. Bng.-
General Leane and Mrs. Leane received him.
They were well represented by several stal-
wart sons and their daughter Betty, one of
this season’s debs. Mrs. Leane was gowned
in black ring-velvet. .
The Largs Bay Masonic Lodge held their
fifth annual ball in the Woodville Town Hall
on Thursday evening. It is the only look-m
that the Masonic wives get, and they always
turn up en masse. Dr Kenneth BoUeii, o
the Semaphore, is president and with his
pretty wife, who was gowned m sott black
satin, received the guests. The supper table
was decorated with gas-filled multi-colore
balloons tied to a fork in front of each
guest’s seat, and some were so fully charged
that they soared to the ceiling, fork and all.
The 9th Light Horse gave their annual ball
at the Palais Royal t<? raise funds foi the
T.B soldiers at Angonchina. His Ex. was
present, but uniforms were cut out; only
decorations were worn. The winner of th
lucky spot dance was given a free trip over
the citv in an aeroplane donated by the
Aero Club. Mis* E. Gordon figured .to
advantage in her solo dance, and Miss Noia
Stewart’s pupils scored in a costume ballet.
In hospital after an appendicitis opera-
tion, but doing well, is Harry Thomson,
Adelaide lawyer, a former Rhodes Scholar,
now on Adelaide University Council and
head of the legal firm long known as arley
and Evan.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Royal Hobart Associates’ Champion-
ship golf matches were played out on Rosny
Links in perfect weather. Effie Barclay beat
Betty Sale in the final, after an exciting
match.
The Women’s National League celebrated
its first birthday in the new quarters by a
party. Mrs. Mary Parker, ;0.8.E., returned
from her mainland trip in time to be present
at it and was called upon for an address,
and also to cut the cake at supper time.
There was a short, formal programme, when
Premier McPhee, Walter Lee and Mrs.
Parker gave addresses; music and competi-
tive games filled up the evening. The rooms
were beautifully decorated bv Mrs. C. E.
Webster, Mrs. Arndell Lewis and others.
A successful young Tasmanian is Roland
Wilson, son of the T. Wilsons, of Ulverstone,
who comes to the University in August as
T ecturer in Economics. Ho hns Intoly
qualified for his degree of Ph.D. at Chicago
University.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distiguished Social Life!


FOR ALL SKIN TROUBLES
Ai AN 0 r
I O^ri/iL
Zam-Buk allays pain,
hastens the rebuilding
of tissues, acts immedi-
ately as a safe and de-
pendable healing balm.
Zam-Buk is specially
manufactured for Aus-
tralian conditions, and is
the recognised first aid
in thousands of Austra-
lian homes. Clean, agree-
able odor and pleasant
to use.
Insist upon
55
v*
MV
When your Guests
Find it difficult
To Discover a
Mutual subject of
Conversation
Then is the Time
To Arouse a
Feeling of
Friendliness and
Goodfellowship
Accompanied by
Witty Speech and
Brilliant Repartee!
Such a Cheerful
Atmosphere
is Quickly Created
By Producing the
Required Number of
Bottles of
Resch's
DA
The Refreshing
DINNER ALE
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Speeial” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
FOSTER'S FAMOUS FLOWER SEEDS
Produce Flowers for Exhibition.
CARNATION. CHABACD GIANT. Best Carna-
tion from seed.
STOCK. MAMMOTH PYRAMIDAL. Double,
globular flowers, delightful colors
ANTIRRHINUM. MAJESTIC. The great advance •
exquisite colors. ’
l- packet.
FOSTERS, LTD., Seed Growers, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Now for a
day of
uninterrupted
leasure,
7
mm
yjfl.
K
.\
w
W/
THIS happy family enjoys
motoring holidays. They
will enjoy this one because,
amongst other things, they
have taken the easy pre-
caution to see that their
tyres are properly inflated.
Take a minute or two be-
fore a holiday outing or
business trip by motor, and
regularly at least once a
week, to see that your tyres
are properly inflated.
Use a Schrader Tyre Gauge
to test the pressure in your
tyres. It is rugged, inex-
pensive, easy to use.
Your tyre supplier will tell
you the correct pressure for
your tyres, and will furnish
you with aGenuineSchrader
Tyre Gauge.
Be sure it’s a SCHRADER
Look for the Name
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges 2
Dalgety felt some interest in Jimmy when
he learned of his position as a boxer. He
was a keen admirer of the sport which
served to entertain the upper classes in time
of peace, and fit the working classes for
their place in the ranks in time of war.
But for the other ambitions of Jimmy, he
felt nothing but contempt; while, as for
Wellington’s encouragement, if it was not
precisely traitorous, it was at least ill-
advised. Wellington plainly should be
thoroughly ashamed of himself. Sooner
or later the boy would become a follower
of that poisonous beast Moon; if, indeed,
he did not supplant him and become a worse
menace to the peace, order and good gov-
ernment by reason of higher intelligence
and attainments.
CHAPTER V.
It was the first warm day in September
that Jimmy was firing an oven when, above
the roar of the flaming coal and the rustle
of the wind in the gum-trees, sounded a
murmur of voices. He looked up and saw
a bunch of visitors being shown around the
works by McGregor, the manager. Two of
the strangers he knew. One was Dalgety;
he had met him, if such a term can be used,
in Wellington’s office. The second was
Grey—C. J. himself—sole proprietor of the
works. There was another oldish man, who
turned out to be Jackson, chairman of
directors of the Keira Main; two lads
about Jimmy’s own age, who were sons of
Jackson, the elder a medical student at
Sydney University; a girl of sixteen, who
Jimmy guessed was Muriel Grey; and the
last a girl of thirteen, Alma, the younger;
sister.
Jimmy saw her last. She came from be-
hind the approaching group when they were
only a few feet away—and Jimmy felt his
heart jump and beat in his throat. It was
not altogether that he was dazzled with
her beauty. He thought over the matter
afterwards—obedient to Mum’s precepts—
and admitted that he had seen girls just
as pretty. The only way that Jimmy could
explain it was that she looked “his sort”
—just the girl he had been craving for
unconsciously since the beginning of time.
She was black-haired, with rosy cheeks
and lips, a determined little jaw, quaint—
almost Japanese— eyes and a strong, even
set of teeth. She was not altogether a
child, though she gave, as yet, no evidence
of womanhood. Her dress was some filmy
thing of brown, with just two or three
touches of rose. Brown stockings and
brown shoes formed a fitting base to the
picture, and she was crowned by a lattice
straw hat which permitted fascinating spots
of sunlight to dance upon her face.
Despite her thirteen years, she looked
an infinitely stronger type than her sister,
whose unquestionable beauty was lily-like,
almost drooping. Jimmy’s impulse was to
cast down his shovel, step across the coke
and kiss Alma Grey where she stood. Re-
luctantly he shifted his eyes from her and
waited for her father to get off his little
speech of explanation.
As C.J. was speaking Jimmy noticed that
McGregor whispered to Dalgety and Dal-
gety looked his way.
“Well, my lad,” said Dalgety, “they
tell me you’re a bit of a pug.”
“Good enough for any of my weight on
the Keira Main,” retorted Jimmy, much
to the delight of McGregor, who resented
Dalgety’s general air of patronage.
Dalgety did not like Jimmy’s easy tone
of familiarity; further, he considered that
the boy should have called him “sir,” especi-
ally in the presence of the ladies. Old
Grfey should have pointed out the omission,
but for some reason old Grey also seemed
to be pleased with the boy’s reply. He had
a pride in his industry, the old man, and
it was something to know that you em-
ployed a lad who was ready to throw out
challenges to another and a wealthier con-
cern.
“I’ll remember your challenge, my lad,”
replied Dalgety. “What’s your name?”
“Jimmy Packington. You’ve met me at
Mr. Wellington, though I s’pose you
didn’t remember me with my black face.
Mr. Wellington’s coaching me, you know.”
Dalgety turned. “If you take my advice,
my boy,” he said, “yoifll stick to your
coke and your boxing.”
He moved away and Jimmy was glad,
for it gave him another chance to glance
at Alma before they passed on. Jimmy
rested on his shovel until they disappeared
round the corner of his row of ovens. Then
he returned to the fire.
Like the rest of the boys, Jimmy had
loved lightly with the girls of his own age
in Illawarra, had walked with them from
picture shows and kissed them over their
front gates, had picked out the prettiest
available at a picnic and had got lost with
her on the mountains, had sat on the beach
on summer evenings taking all the caresses
that were given and giving all that were
permitted. He was fond of the girls; but,
unlike some of the youngsters, he had
always regarded them as fellow human
beings.
Once Mum had caught him kissing the
little girl next door, and she had discussed
the question with him without rebuke,
without Puritanism.
“Leave the good ones alone, Jimmy, and
leave the bad ones alone. One you’ll hurt
and the other’ll hurt you. There’s plenty
m between,” she had advised, and Jimmy
had heeded her in this as in other things.
His fault, if anything, was to over-idealise.’
‘ Jimmy Packington’s a nice boy, but he’s
too slow to catch worms,” observed one
damsel of his own age who certainly was
not. Jimmy’s tendency towards over-
idealisation had led to a wrong diagnosis.
One day, Jimmy had thought, he would
meet a girl whom he would like better
than the rest, but in just the same way, and
would marry her. And now suddenly, un-
heralded, Alma Grey had swept upon him,
inspiring in him a feeling utterly different
from that which he had experienced to-
wards the various little girls whom he had
kissed over gates. He was convinced that
Alma Grey’s face reflected her character,
that she was good as gold, kind, endowed i
with every virtue and with the strength of
mind indicated by that square little jaw
governing her life.
Jimmy was in love. He was ashamed to
admit it to himself. It sounded so silly!
and sentimental. But he soon got over
that. He began to see visions, picturing
himself a great and rich man who would
stroll into the Grey mansion in one of the
fashionable Sydney suburbs to demand the
hand of its daughter.
But that was far away. For the present,
Alma Grey represented the unattainable.
Jimmy realised that the possibility of mar-
riage with Alma Grey was as remote as
if he were an aboriginal. Nowhere did the
caste barrier rise more surely than between
the sexes in their marital relations. In
other respects it was impenetrable enough,
but here it was red-hot and razor-edged.
The man who stooped to take a wife from
a lower social stratum risked much. The
woman who did so was outcast. She might
be promiscuous as a girl, unfaithful as a
wife, dishonest as a woman and yet remain
within the charmed circle; but marriage
with someone on the other side meant
extinction, annihilation.
Still, in Australia, it was possible to
reach the other side. Jimmy knew that,
here his birth and origin did not carry a
stigma. He knew that it was possible to
break into that charmed circle wherein the
daughters of the mighty are immured, to
storm that enchanted castle where the
princesses of social position are safe from
the knights of labor. Wealth, absolute
wealth, was not an essential; it was rather
a matter of occupation, something in which
you could earh a living without having to
get your face black or wear dungarees. It
was just a matter of emerging from the
bowyang status. He knew the history of
Sir Robert Short, the biggest squatter of
the Other Side, who had had the Governor
staying at his place. Bob Short was a
rouseabout on the old Bundanoora run
when silver was struck on the Barrier, and
his assistance to the party who pegged
out the lease led to his being given a one-
tenth share in the holding—a share which
after the lapse of twenty years was worth
on the open market anything over half a
million of money. Jimmy also knew that
with all Bob Short’s wealth he would not
have married the woman he did had he
•not been a man who could speak decently,
behave decently and think decently.
Jimmy made up his mind to break out
of the coke industry and break into some
industry in the dinkum status—some in-
dustry in which there were no dungaree
overalls with bowyangs round the knees
to raise an impenetrable blue barrier be-
tween man and love. He was on the right
track, he knew, thanks to Mum and Well-
ington and the schoolmaster, who, in the
night school, had gone out of his way to
give Jimmy a chance of covering as many
as possible of the subjects included in
the high-school curriculum.
(To be continued next wee Tc.)
Tutankhamen.
Gold was your swathing, Khem’s fated boy;
Unlissome gold beaten hard with alloy.
Gold of duresse that unmans and unwings
Was your weird ere you sank to the Yale of
the Kings.
Gold was your fettering, gold was your
narrowing,
Fixed in the blaze and the bloom of your
marrowing.
Did you love when she dowered you the
Lands and the River,
Great Aknaton’s daughter, your young glory-
giver?
Did you love, did she love you ‘the queen-i
child of Kh'em,
Lotus divine of the old Pharaoh stem?
Was there ever an hour when your soft baby
hands
Were twinhd, apart from the blare of the
Lands?
God Sihor, the soundless, fathered in mystery,
Full flowed, divinest, the day that you wed!
Godhead and kinghood, flies ambered in his-
tory,
Gold-girt and piteous, lie with' you dead.
Fate’s fell malison, kinglet of Khern, lies
Yellowed as stone over what was your heart
Gold-girt in living, the king’s soul of Kheni
flies,
Raided by light, to a limbo apart.
Gold-girt in burial, Lord of the Lands,
Fate’s gift and benison lives with you yet.
Dying, your death-tale is safe from the
hands,
And the cold other eyes, where Khem’s sun
set.
Living and dying, inscrutable Royalty,
Unlissome gold, yet your boy’s breast mailed,
What ’vailed in Amenti that poor yellow
loyalty,
Where cowherd and king go unmasked and
unveiled ?
MAOKILAND.
JESSIE MACKAY.


The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency Company Limited
85 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Hon. DONALD MACKINNON, Chairman;
Sir EDWARD F. MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Vice-Chairman; IVOR EVANS, Esq.; Hon. J. w. uiH.,
K.C.. M.P. ; Sir STEPHEN MORELL, K.B. ; ALLAN SPOWERS, Esq.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS . , , , 1<v , n
For Presentation to the Seventy-fifth Ordinary Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on Thurs aj, t ic 4 x a J ° & ’
The Directors have much pleasure in submitting their Seventy-fifth Report.
The accompanying Balance-sheet shows a Net Profit for
the year of
Add amount carried forward from last year
Leaving a Balance of
Which it is proposed to apply as follows: —
To further Dividend of 8 per cent.
To Bonus of 2 per cent..
To writing 10 per cent, off office furniture accounts (say)
To Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £64,612/10/8)
To balance to be carried forward . .
£23,682 15 4
The contract for the company’s new building, at a total cost of about £81,600, has been
signed, and the erection of same is progressing satisfactorily. It is expected it will be
ready for occupation early in April next.
To enable them to comfortably finance the erection of this new building your Directors
decided to issue to the shareholders a further 30,000 shares paid up to 10/- each at a
premium of 10/- per share, in the proportion of one share for every five of tlieir holding.
Applications for this new issue closed on the 30tli June last, and, except as to some small
adjustments, the full amount was applied for. Innal payments for these new shares
will be due at the end of this year. The next balance-sheet will disclose the completed
transaction Of the £3O,<XK> to be received, £15.000 will be added to capital (making k
£90,000), and the other £15,000 will, with the shareholders’ approval, be added to the
Reserve Fund.
As appears by the accounts, the Directors have paid the members of the staff the usual
io per cent, bonus. By ordcr of the Board,
i/kT/'T T?AY AT
COMPANIES ACT 1928.
BALANCE-SHEET AT JUNE 30, 1930.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital-
200,000 shares of £2/10/- each
Lefts unissued
£500,000 0 0
125,000 0 0
£375,000 0 0
Less uncalled . . .. . . .. 300,000 0 0
Capital paid up in money .. .. .. .. .. ..
Application and Premium Moneys, etc., on New Issue Shares
Melbourne Hebrew Congregation—Mortgage and accrued interest
Bank Overdraft —Building- Account ..
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss Account
£75,000 0 0
10,981 0 0
32.130 0 0
16,500 0 0
59,612 10 8
23,682 15 4
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with Bankers, secured by the assets of the respective Trusts
(see contra)
£223,906 6 0
£lOl,BOO 2 8
~ ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the Treasurer of Victoria
Commonwealth Government Stock £5200, atcost • •
Victorian Government 4 per cent. Stock £llOO, at cost
Victorian Government 5 c per cent. Stock, £SOO, at to. t
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works 3-j per cent
£25,100, at tost ....
£25,100, at tost •• •• •• •• ‘ ‘ ' .. inAn
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works 5& per cent. Stock, i.l
at cost
. . £5,007 0 9
809 0 0
800 0 0
Stock,
. . 23,773 10 0
1,000 0 0
Thf London ' Assurance— money for Queen Street premises . .
Sundry" Debtors J, for 'Commissions, etc. (after providing for bad and doubtf" l debts)
Fixtures, Fittings and Office Furniture, (after providing for depreciation) ..
Moneys advanced to Trust Estates, for which assets of the Trust are held by the
Company (sec contra)
£lO,OOO 0 0
£3l
58
39
16
67
539 10 9
087 19 0
,500 0 0
,776 8 6
061 3 2
911 4 7
£223
£lOl
,906 6 O
,800 2 8
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1930.
kiiny for contingencies £52,328 lb 9
By commissions, rents, interest on investments, etc., after prov:
To directors’ and auditors’ fees, salaries, advertising, stationery,
expenses
To Federal and State' incomes taxes for year
To bonus to staff
To balance, net profit for year, carried down
1930. —Tst February.
To interim dividend of 8 per cent.
1930.—30th June.
To balance
23,682 15 4
*
*
£29,682 15 4
1929. —aotli .Tunc
Hy balance . • • • • •
Less further dividend of 8 per cent.
Bonus of 2 per cent. .. • •
Writing 10 per cent, off office furniture
Transfer to reserve fund
Transfer to reserve fund of surplus on sale
property
1930.—30th June
By net profit for year, as above
£52,328 10 9
£46,830 17 10
. . £O,OOO 0 0
1,500 0 0
account . . .. 100 0 0
l,OOO 0 0
of Cuecn Street
. . 23,612 10 2
£35,212 10 8
£11,618 7 2
18,064 8 2
£29,682 15 4
CERTIFICATE BY DIRECTORS.
We, Donald Mackinnon and Ivor Evans, being directors of The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency Company, Limited, do hereby certiiv that m o
is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view of the state of the comapny’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 24th day of July, 1930.
AUDITORS' REPORT.
We report that in our opinion the accompanying balance-sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the company s
and the explanations 1 given to us, and as shown by the books, of the company. We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
Melbourne, 24th July, 1930.
r opinion the above balance-sheet is correct, and
DONALD MACKINNON 1 Directo rs
IVOR EVANS 1
affairs, according to’ the best of our information
F L. SMYTH { Chartered Accountants
W. F. COLES J (Australia).
Quong Hing’s Elopement.
Quong Hing was a short,
stout, dark, amiable gentleman of Celestial
extraction—a scion of one of the oldest
families in China. Having been unfortunate
in an endeavor to create a corner in bogs,
lie was reduced to the necessity of migrating
and establishing himself in the cabbage
trade, in the pursuit of which honorable
calling he circulated about Clunes (Vic.),
appearing as a tri-weekly issue, ambling
gaily round between two baskets hung on a
stick, and offering his vegetable wares from
door to door with an old-established smile of
wonderful circumference, a wheedling, messo-
mestoso intonation, and a grace of manner
well adapted and calculated to make impres-
sions and agitate the sympathies of compas-
sionate housekeepers and susceptible kitchen
females of every age and trade.
Quong was still young and of an affec-
tionate, clinging temperament; he had con-
jugality large, and amativeness swelled and
extending; his face was like a great, plain,
suety duff in the matter of complexion and
extent, and liis features were dropped down
about it promiscuously, regardless of pre-
cedent. and constituted rule; liis month
swayed away to the west, and his nose never
hung plumb ; his eyes were set up midways,
and his ears branched out and flopped like
those of a meditative goat; but Quong was
not unlovely, and, having the instincts of
a dude, he was simply irresistible when he
oiled his bearings, hung out his Sabbath
pants, and called up all his resources to
charm the hired maiden or the boss matron
into an investment in forced vegetables.
Q. Hing ran an irrigation farm ,on the
bank of Bircher’s Creek, and lived back there
in rural seclusion. He had a small, striped
wooden god of his own on the premises, which
cheap, toad-shaped divinity was the sole
companion of his solitude, and, when not
ministering, the comforts of religion to the
devout Confucian, it anchored out in the
garden, ostensibly to hurry the vegetables
up and keep its eye on King’s interest. This
plaid deity performed its honorable and
responsible duties pretty well considering,
but sometimes the (’how found slugs in liis
“cabagee” and “letieee,” and then he felt
constrained to bang his god over the head
with the hoe, in consequence of which dis-
play of resentment a coolness would spring
up between them and lead to a suspension
of friendly intercourse for a day or two.
During this time Quong felt the great
scarcity of society keenly, and yearned for a
woman’s influence about his old lopsided
mud-hut —for a wife to dispel his ennui by
heaving bottles and bricks and things at his
conoidal sconce.
There was one lady in Clunes upon whom
the fat heathen cast his long, liquid optic
with a particularly gazelle-dike stare of
reverential adoration, and towards whom he
addressed himself in tones more than ordin-
arily lusingando afid con dolcezza (see musi-
cal’handbook). Her name was Bridgetta
O’Gorman, or something, and he loved her
with a strange, sad passion, occasionally
swelling and intensifying its pressure _to
tumultuous agitation, and the aggravation
and wear and tear on his highly-susceptible
Mongolian temperament were harder to bear
than taxes ; and yet she was not an artistic
building nor gloriously fair to gloat upon,
according to the architectural styles and
standards of beauty now in favor amongst
connoisseurs—she shot too far out of her
boots, and too much humanity was wasted
in building her feet. She grew to a height
of 73 inches, and was thatched with ripe
red' hair, and had some blond complexion
in between the multiform, large Quaker-drab
freckles; her hands had more than the
allotted span; her features partook of the
early Milesian style, and her garments hung
to her joints like a blanket on a katrack.
But she was genial in manner, and her smile
went a long way east and further west, and
was a fine, humorous cavity to contemplate
from the other side of a fence, and she dazzled
Quong Hing with it when he went hanging
his hesfil over the back gate, crying “Cabagee”
in melodious accents.
Bridgetta seemed to feel for the lone
Chinaman, and she lent a sympathetic ear
to his dulcet discourse, and Quong smiled
and smiled till his head ached, and his
mangled English became softer and more
winning, and he looked pensive and cherubic,
and waggled and contorted so sonlfully in his
anxiety to be nice that the strain threatened
to cripple his intellect, and she sent her
ten-chain smirk rippling over her face, and
answered in his own broken patter flavored
with a sweet accent from Limerick, after
which she beat him down 50 per cent, in his
charges, and Quong would take up his burden
and bear off to the right, casting back an
oblique glance of unutterable devotion. Mrs.
O’Gorman had a husband of her own, and a
bit of his front name was Mike. He, too,
towered to a great altitude, and had straw-
berry-blonde hair, and advanced feet, and a
hand like a smoke-dried ham run over by a
steam-roller; he earned! a living hauling
trucks abopt down a mine, and could hit a
blow that scaled up near a ton, and deliver
a kick that would shift a 12-stone man
through a weatherboard house 30 x 14. Mr.
Q. Hing had never come across Michael in
the' way of business, and, although he sur-
mised that there was a “boss” about some-
where. he had no idea of his terrible aspect
and his depth of chest, therefore the appari-
tion of an awful retribution did not hang
with any great weight about his celestial soul,
and he continued to besiege the heart of Brid-
getta O’Gorman, and decorate himself to be
acceptable in her sight.
When Quong had been retailing vegetables
on credit to Mrs. O’Gorman for about two.
months at prices a ruinous percentage below
current rates, he determined at last to state
his case and spread his pagan affections at
the large feet of the enchantress. So one soft
summer morning when cabbages were high he
told the old, old story over the back gate,
and -.besought the fair Bridgetta to fly from
the arms of the base-born O’Gorman, and
dwell with him on his irrigation farm by
Bircher’s Creek, where she might rest for
ever in sweet seclusion and run the small,
squat, wooden god in her own interest. The
lady did not hop round and display any
hysterical excitement at the delicate pro-
posal of the dark, stout, foreigner; her pure
county Limerick blood remained normal, and
she heard him out with an affectation ot
gentle commiseration and secured a further
reduction of 10 per cent, on turnips, that
day. Quong Iling renewed his prayers at
later dates, but it was a fortnight before
his ardent solicitations wore on the long,
strong object of his youthful affections sufli-
ciently to win her consent to a scheme ot
elopement concocted in tribulation ; then she
appeared to abandon all matronly scruples
and bade him come along with a dray at the
time of night appointed, and remove her and
her belongings to his stronghold out back,
where she might spend her days in a rural
seclusion and devotional calm, and enjoy the
domestic power and intense adoration to
which her mental gifts and charms of person
partly entitled her. At this Quong rejoiced
with exceeding great joy; lie had expressly
stipulated for Bridgetta’s belongings, because
his rustic home was not fitted with equiva-
lents, and the prospect of scooping a lot ot
valuable fixtures as well as a wife was
pleasant to his Mongolian soul.
Mike was on night-shift at the mine that
week, and, at the time appointed, two hours
beyond midnight, Quong drove up through
the dense gloom in a vehicle borrowed from
a compatriot in the town and drawn by
a fading melancholy horse with spiral twists
in liis legs. Mrs. CrGorman was in readiness
The house was in darkness, and she had
her head bandaged in a shawl to avoid the
night dews. She assisted Quong to hoist two
big boxes and a few other fixtures into the
dray, then mounted behind and crouched
down amongst the goods, and the flitting con-
tinued, the solemn, borrowed horse feeling
his wav carefully through the prevailing fog
out of the town and over the common. Few
and short were the words they said, and
the elopement progressed favorably until the
mud humpy on the hank of Bircher’s Creek
was reached; there it unloaded, and the en-
raptured Chow left his red-headed prize
illuminating his humble homestead, whilst he
unshipped the quadruped and tethered it to
Quong Iling was filled with emotions of
great rapture as he turned again towards
his domicile—his home was no longer cold
and lone, he would be no longer forced to
commune solely with an irresponsible, striped
deity hewn out of wood. His joy found
vent in a barbaric ditty as he re-entered the
hut, but the melody died on his lips, and
his pigtail unhitched and stuck out like the
handle of a maul, when he saw that instead
of the fair Bridgetta, his humble home was
occupied by a strange wild man of about
her stature and complexion, and wearing
her old. familiar brown skirt over a pair
of yellow moles. Whilst Iling was leaning
up against the busli-built furniture with
bead wide open and his eyes standing out
like bubbles on a bottle, the two big boxes
opened mysteriously, and out of each stepped
a large stern man with a malevolent eye. both
of whom silently seated themselves on the
lids, and fixed the consternated heathen with
the said ill-boding optic. Quong realised the
delicacy of his unfortunate position in about
half a minute, then he closed up Ins lace
and passed out across country. He was
speedily overhauled by Mr. O Gorman, and
led back by the tail, and was then subjected
to a rigid cross-examination by the committee*
of three, who failing to elicit anything
further from the yellow Lothario than an
earnest assurance that he didn’t “savee,’ pro-
ceeded to disrobe him and warm up some
tar which had also been introduced under a
disguise into the elopement.
Despite his vociferous protests and
streuous exertions, the three strong, stern
persons with whom he had eloped began to
paint and decorate his extensive surface with
coal-tar, and after, exhausting their artistic
ingenuity in strange curves and patterns ot
wild device, wiped them all out in one plain
combination garment of black, stretching all
over his wide waste of Chinaman. lhey
then unrolled a package of feathers, and
relieved his funereal hue with tufts and
patches of white pltunagc. mid finished then
painting and decorating by converting Quong
into a gigantic species of water-fowl, and
sousing him in the creek in his new water-
tight cuticle and nice warm coat of feathers.
The three men subsequently returned to
Clunes in the vehicle belonging to his com-
patriot, taking with them their boxes and
possessions.
Quong was never satisfied in his mind as
to how his sweet, sad romance had terminated
so painfully, but he refrained from calling
on Bridgetta for an explanation—his pride
would not permit it.—C. M. Gee.
BULLETIN, 21 /12/'89.
THE SONG OF THE WASTE-PATER
BASKET.
Oh, bill'd of fortune, you deem me nought
But a mark for your careless scorn,
For I am the echoless grave of thought
That is strangled before it’s born.
You think perchance tliat I am a doom
Which only a dunce should dread,
Nor dream I’ve been the dishonored tomb
Of the noblest and brightest dead.
The brightest fancies that e’er can fly
From the laboring minds of men .
Are often written in lines awry,
And marred by a blund’ring pen;
And thus it comes that I gain a part.
Of what to the world is loss —
Of genius lost for the want of art,
Of pearls that are set in dross.
And though I am of a lowly birth.
My fame has been cheaply bought;
A power am I, for I rob the earth
Of the brightest gems of thought;
The Press gains much of my lawful share,
I am wronged without redress —
But I have revenge, for I think it fair
That I should plunder the Press.
You’d pause in wonder to read behind
The lines of some songs I see;
The soul of the singer I often find
In songs that are thrown to me;
But the song of the singer I bury deep
With the scrawl of the dunce and clown.
And both from the eyes of the world I keep,
And tlie hopes of both I drown.
HENRY LAWSON.


mimm
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES—For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for Illustrated Folder
Write jor booklet to:— BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
“Alternate
feeding”
viz., Benger’s Food in turn
with the breast, before, and
during weaning time, is
recommended by doctors.
Baby continues the bene-
fit of natural feeding,
mother avoids the over-
strain usual at weaning
time.
fdhj
Food
Re*x)L Trade
THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL
SOCIETY OF VICTORIA,
GRAND ANNUAL EXHIBITION
NINE DAYS.
THURSDAY, 18th, TO SATURDAY, 27th
SEPTEMBER, 1930.
Comprehensive Display of Stock,
Agricultural Produce and Industrial
Exhibits.
Intensely interesting, exciting and varied
Arena Events.
Liberal Programme of Prizes amounting
to over £BOOO
(including Champion Prizes of Australia).
COMPETITIVE ENTRIES (EXCEPT RING EVENTS)
CLOSE AT NOON, SATURDAY, AUGUST 16.
ENTRIES FOR ARENA EVENTS CLOSE AT NOON,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 30.
MEMBERS’ SUBSCRIPTION COVERING BADGE
AND TWO LADIES’ TICKETS AND GENERAL
PRIVILEGES, £l/10/- PER ANNUM.
LIFE MEMBERS’ SUBSCRIPTION, £l5/15/- EACH.
EXTRA LADY’S TICKETS, 10/6 EACH.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, ENTRY FORMS, ETC., ON
APPLICATION TO
HENRY SCHWIEGER, Manager.
Note address: Temple Court, 9th Floor, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Cl.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
To keep moths out of old clothing—-give
it to the poor.
SCRIPTURE V. LEGISLATION.
GOOD MAN: “Do you know, my lad, what the Scripture sayeth
about the sparrow that falleth to the ground?”
BAD BOY: “No, I don’t know what no Scripture sayeth, but I
do know that the South Australian Parliament sayeth that
they will give prizes to boys as killeth the most sparrows.”
[July, 1888.]
Mr. Peter Lalor, the Speaker of Victorian
Assembly, will shortly retire on a pension of
£lOOO a year. The doughty old veteran has
fallen into the sere and yellow leaf, and little
remains about his presence to remind one of
the part he played in the Eureka Stockade
fight except the empty coat-sleeve. Weak
and ill as he was during nearly the whole
of last session, Mr. Lalor never forgot the
dignity of the chair. “I will not dispute
your ruling now, sir, because you are ill,”
said Mr. McLellan during a fierce debate.
“I am well enough still to keep the hoix.
member in order,” rejoined the old warrior
fiei-cely, and the Dove of Ararat subsided.
Lalor will probably be succeeded by Mr.
Davies, of St. lvilda. [ll/6/’B7]
As a rule, there isn’t much female beauty
about a new goldfield. A few ladies clump
heavily about —ladies with strong arms and
ponderous ankles who stand sft. lOin. in
their bare feet, and who wear their hair
in a fusty knob behind; but they devote
themselves chiefly to washing and are useful
rather than ornamental. Poetic loveliness
is scarce. About three weeks ago, however,
a vision of grace and elegance descended on
Croydon, and almost shook the North Queens-
land digger out of his boots. She was appa-
rently aged about 20, and as she hoisted her
dainty skirts in getting out of the coach she
showed a wonderful little boot with a double
row of buttons. She was tall and slender,
too, with beautiful features, rosebud cheeks
and long golden hair that descended to her
waist, and she had a smile that was worth
dying for. A dozen lumpy diggers with
short pipes in their mouths fell back hur-
riedly to make way for her as she tripped
down the street, and she acknowledged their
courtesy with a bend of her - glossy little
head. Then she paused, looked round for a
moment as if puzzled as to her road, and
finally stepped forward to the group and
said, in her sweet, young voice: “Can any
of you galoots tell me where the blanked
post office is?” That was all. This vision
of loveliness was the new barmaid.
A little while back an itinerant and im-
poverished company of mummers engaged a
certain Mechanics’ Hall, to surprise the
potato-breeders and butter-punchers of the
half-dead hamlet with a realistic rendering
of some appalling ti-agedy, in which there
are a murder and seven promiscuous
assaults. They played the fii*st night to an
enthusiastic but small audience, so small in
fact that the gifted management could not
spare enough of the
gate money to supply
one square meal of
pork and potatoes
for the troupe, but
the troupe had “been
there” before, so
they merely swore
an oath or two and
hungered. During the
forenoon of the next
day the liei-o of the
tragedy, who was
supposed to have
been bored with a
pig-knife by a hairy
bandit in the play,
was sitting in the
hall (the company
boarded under the
stage), figuring out
how to make nine-
pence buy a dinner
and two beers, when
there came in at the
door an unkempt,
i-agged-headed ui-chin,
carefully beai-ing be-
fore him a large bowl
of something steam-
ing and savory.
“Please, sir,” he
said, “me mother
sent me wid this for
the poor beggar as
was shtabbed lasht
noiglit, an’ how is
he gettin’ on, plaze?”
The mummer gaped
for a moment, then
the situation struck
him like a runaway
horse. That bowl
contained about a
quart of chicken
broth with the
chicken in it, and as
he tremblingly clutched the basin, and his
mouth leaked like a crushed orange, the
tragedian said: “He’s getting on nicely, tell
your mother. Call again for the basin. This
will do him the world of good!” And three
seconds later the poor beggar who was
stabbed was enei’getically folding his person
x'ound that chicken and juice, like a heavy
cloud round a harvest moon.
“Man overboard,” shouted the sailor.
“Poor fellow!” said the captain. “Can’t stop
the ship in this gale. Heaven have mercy
on his soul.” “Beg pardon, six-, that was
our best pig fell overboard,” said the sailor.
“Hi, there ! Stop the ship!” yelled the cap-
tain. “’Bout ship! Launch the lifeboat.
Mustn’t lose that valuable pig whatever
happens.”
North Queensland goldmines, especially
those at and near Charters Towel’s, are the
boom of the day on London Stock Exchange,
the few floated last year rejoicing the hearts
of scripliolders with fat dividends. This is
a splendid thing for Australia. The Day
Dawn and ,Wyndliam Block, floated in
October, was at first denounced in London
as a “swindle,” but
the £1 shares are
now selling at 505.,
the market value of
the mine on ’Change
being a million and a
quarter sterling, and
judging from its Aus-
tralian reputation it
is likely to continue
worth the money. It
is now cabled that
the famous and solid
original Day Dawn
prospecting claim
(from which at least
£600,000 worth of
gold has already
been extracted by its
owners, a party of
working miners who
many and many a
day had to get their
rations on credit)
and the claims Nos. 1
and 2 West have
been floated for
£480,000; and, as
stated by us a week
or two since, the
celebrated Mount
Morgan mine (Rock-
hampton) will pro-
bably be “put
through” for the
little sum of five mil-
lions, should the Lon-
don public not be
frightened off by the
prospect of eternal
litigation as to the
title of the ground.
Ten years ago £5OO
would have bought it,
lock, stock and bar-
rel, but, alas, we
neither had the
“monkey” nor knew
the colossal wealth
concealed in that
golden hill. It is not
generally known that
the enormous in-
crease in the value of
this mine is owing
to the successful
application of a new
chlorination process
for extracting the
gold. By the old system of amalgamation
with quicksilver the intractable ore of Mount
Morgan only gave a return of a few penny-
weights per ton, whilst the new method
is said to average nearly four ounces
to the ton. Since crushing began in
the early days of Ballarat and Bendigo,
hundreds of millions in gold have, through
defective processes, been washed away in
rail-races, and scores of millions lost in in-
terest that would have accrued on gold
locked up in rich, but pyritous, claims. The
improved processes promise to revolutionise
mining on such goldfields as Ravenswood,
near Charters Towers, where the quartz is
rich but intractable, and where big fortunes
have already been sunk in the pyrites puzzle.
Some years ago, when N. Queensland mining
was in its infancy, that colossal reef called
the “Old Man,” at Ravenswood, was owned
by poor Zollner,. of Sydney (now dead),
Ebenezer Vickery (now M.L.C.), H. E. King
(Speaker of the Queensland Assembly),
John Sands, and others. They sent up a
small battery, and the first crushing looked
like a thousand ounces to the ton. The
shareholders (as the reef is between 15
and 30 feet thick and absolutely stiff with
minerals —it would keep a hundred stampers
going till the crack of doom) at once rec-
koned themselves billionaires, but unfor-
tunately for their calculations, at least
9990 z. turned out to be — copper! Despite
this disappointment, however, the true gold
return was good enough to pay dividends,
even with the crude machinery available,
which barely secured a third of the gold. A
new “dry” process plant was then specially
imported from America, and all looked rosy
for the proprietary, when suddenly, just as
the new machinery was being landed, the
fact that the annual rent to the Crown (a
few paltry pounds) was due, happened to
be overlooked. The claim was instantly
“jumped,” the shareholders turned out into
the cold, and the mine sold for much coin to
a local association, which had, no doubt,
carefully “shepherded” the lease for years
and years awaiting the opening of the rail-
way, and a sure method of treating the
stone.—[2/7/’B7.J
Chap. I, maid one.
Chap, it, maid won.
Chap. 111, made one.
The Yankee “surprise party” is gradually
becoming acclimatised in N.S.W., and a
brutally commonplace and vulgar nuisance it
is. The basis of this alleged entertainment
consists in a lot of men and women rush-
ing the house of a friend who doesn’t expect
and probably doesn’t desire visitox-s, and
AUSTRALIAN ANATOMICAL THEOLOGY.
PASTOR (to farmer’s 10-year-old son): “Who ate the forbidden
fruit?”
BOY: “Ave ate it, anyway.”
PASTOR: “Didn’t Adam eat it, too?”
BOY: “He tried to ate it, but it shtuck in his neck.”
[Feb., 1887.]
making a night of it on his premises, while
he wishes them in Gehenna but doesn’t care
to tell them so. These Goths bring their own
provisions with them; they also bring then-
own music by the way of adding insult to
injury, and grind out harp obligatos full of
unshed tears without asking permission.
When they first appear they are disguised
in loose white robes, caps and masks, but
after a while they take off these costumes
and reveal their native ugliness, and {it this
crisis each one dumps down his toothsome
bun and his bundle of carrots on the table,
and the feeding commences. Sometimes the
host is apprised in an underhand way of
what is going to happen, but as a rule the
calamity bursts on him suddenly. The
performance concludes about midnight, and
when the crowd, which is to the last as
clumsy and inconsiderate as a lame elephant,
lias been seen safely off the premises, the
depressed victim looks round on a. scene
of crumbs, fragments, dirty plates, and
fruit squashed into the carpet, and anathe-
matises his visitors with a curse which no
curse yet built can compare to. Then he
goes to bed, and a badly scared cat crawls
out of its concealment and spends the night
walking over the wreckage, and next morn-
ing is found very ill from indigestion and
repenting in the back yard.
OUR MAT.
It came from the prison this morning,
Close-twisted, neat-lettered and fiat;
It lies the hall doorway adorning,
A vei-y good style of a mat.
Prison-made! How the spirit is moven
As we think of its story of dread —
What wiles of the wicked are woven
And spun in its intricate thread!
The letters are new, neat and nobby,
Suggesting a masterly hand—
Was it Sikes who half-murdered the bobby
That put the neat D on the “and”?
Some banker found guilty of laches —
It’s always called laches, you know—
Had Holt any hand in those H’s?
Did Bertrand illumine that O?
That T has a look of the gallows,
That A’s a triangle, I guess;
Was it one of the Mount Rennie fellows
Who twisted the strands of the S?
Was it made by some “highly-connected,”
Who is doing his spell “on his head,”
Or some wretched woman detected
In stealing her children some bread?
Does it speak of a bitter repentance
For the crime that so easily came?
Of the wearisome length of the sentence,
Of the sin and the sorrow and shame?
A mat! I should call it a sermon
On sin, to all sinnei-s addressed;
It would take a keen Judge to determine
Whether writer or reader is best.
Though the doorway be hard as a pavestone,
I rather would use it ,than that —•
I’d as soon wipe my boots on a gravestone
As I would on that Darlinghurst mat!
THE BANJO.
SUMMER.
Now is the time when song-birds mate;
The baldhead stamps and swears,
Because upon his glossy pate
The flies out-count the hairs.
Now is the time when roses blow,
And budding fruit trees bear ;
Now on all boozers’ noses grow
Grog-blossoms rich and rare.
Now love so subtly stirs men’s hearts
.To Hymen they’ve recourse,
Just when last summer’s wedded tarts
Take action for divorce.


DELICIOUS FLAVOUR
REX QUALITY
AUSTRALIAN
J .A *
M
s*
. J
('ll .s;:^
S
•D
/
'
~ ~ *>. .
■-. I'KfcSi
»
L ;
SB
rnmism.
IJ| oni
■
r - " i
"i
.
. ■■ •
fdjf
A soup delicious to the taste
and full of goodness
When you lift this refreshing, wholesome soup to your
lips, you find all the splendid quality for which REX Pure
Foods are famous, and all the delicious flavor and
goodness of pea soup par excellence.
You enjoy it thoroughly. How easy, too, for the
housewife—delicious soup ready at any time, simply
prepared according to the easy directions on the label.
REX Pea Soup, and four other kinds of soup—Rex
Consomme, Rex Vegetable, Rex Ox Tail, Rex Mulliga-
tawny —are the latest addition to the long list of choice
REX Pure Foods, made in Australia, by Australians, for
Australians,
In lib. and 2lb. cans.
RE.X PEA *SOUP
To be certain that you get the Australian Soup with the fine flavor and quality, always say REX
FOGG ITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


Gathering Cocoanuts.
a
NOUMEA
Excepti o n a l
opportunity for
a South Sea Holiday
is offered by the
popular twin - screw
steamer M o e r a k i,
bringing the Fiji
Islands and New
Caledonia within
easy reach and open-
ing up a glorious
scenic circuit. The
18-days’ tour em-
braces Suva, Levuka,
Lautoka and Nou-
mea at an inclusive
cost of £3l to £34.
MOERAKI
THREE
WEEKS
SUNISHINE
TOUR
i
A-U-S-N- (r, UNION LINES
TWO SPECIAL SAILINGS: AUGUST 1 and AUGUST 22.
Reservations may be made with Union S.S. Co., or A.U.S.N. Co., at
any Australian Port.
tHERMOs
REC 9 TRADE MARK
'UM FLASK
m
s y vN
i I ii
I ii i
8r &
illhli §Ci
m
in
s ? \
imwm
§l§t * l y
Put your hot drink —or iced drink —
into your THERMOS Flask or jug.
Cork it down. Leave it. It will keep
its temperature and its freshness
for hours. The world has relied on
these British flasks for 22 years.
THERMOS and “vacuum flask” have
been used as synonymous terms.
But! Make no mistake! Your only
guarantee of getting the best flask
(with Stronglas lining) is the name
THERMOS. Look for it.
flp)
T. 6
liiiii
■■»>• • V. ■ W &v4fib>--sbv
LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED .
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country toicns, and field representatives in all Districts.
Every Man for Himself.
w. M. FLEMING
TELLS HOW KEN MARTIN CAME TO CHANGE HIS
MIND ABOVT j T
HE came to the station through a city
employment agency. There was noth-
ing striking about him either in appear-
ance or action, except, perhaps, a certain
compactness which gave an impression of
decision in all he said and did. Whatever
work he was told to do he did without fuss
or bother and passed easily and without
haste or bustle on to the next.
It was because of this quiet efficiency in
carrying out instructions that Alf Green
rechristened this new chap Tallwood, the
Boss’s Man. Three days later Green, by
gross carelessness, caused the crippling of a
good horse and got the sack. The Boss’s Man
did not seem to notice it. There had been
seven men on the place, all living in the
one hut, each with a room to himself, and to
a newcomer the going of one was a matter
of no moment. To the others it did appear
to matter, especially as no one was put on
in Green’s place.
Ken Martin, who had been rather a pal
of Green’s, growled that perhaps the Boss’s
Man would do Alf’s work as well as his own
—all of it that could not be shoved on to
the rest of them. The taunt, uttered so
that the newcomer could not fail to catch it,
drew no retort. Tallwood quietly carried on
as though he had not heard.
At eight o’clock one evening when all
hands were sitting over the table at a game
of euchre, the Boss appeared with some
papers. There was nothing remarkable in
this, for once every week he brought or sent
along a batch of weeklies and now and then a
few magazines. But this night he had more
than the usual lot. And when he had
handed out the reading matter he still had
something left.
“I’ve got a few words to say to you lads
to-night,” he remarked.
All hands looked up. A couple of them
showed signs of distrust, almost antagonism.
Tallwood seemed least interested of them all.
“These,” said the BoSs, shaking some
flimsy documents he held, “are our wool
returns. They are more than forty per cent,
below last year. I don’t want to say any-
thing about that. It’s not your fault, nor is
it mine. As far as I can see it’s no one’s
fault. But it does mean something to me, to
you and to everybody. I want you all to help
to balance things up as far as possible.
I am not going to ask you to work any harder
or take less wages. What I am going to
ask of you is to do all you can to avoid
waste of any kind and losses amongst the
stock, to do all you can to keep everything
fit, in good condition, so that the place will
produce all we can get out of it. We’ve
got to produce more or spend less. We don’t
want to spend less —any of us. The more
we make the more there is to go round.”
lie stopped speaking and waited. For a
while there was no response. Then Nat
Howe replied: “There’s no denying that
bit. The more we make the more there is
to go round.”
“If it does go round,” grunted Martin.
Tallwood looked quite disinterested. The
Boss, knowing nothing of the title that had
been bestowed upon him, wondered what he
was thinking.
Nothing was said for or against Martin’s
expression of doubt, and the Boss spoke
again.
“If it isn’t made it can’t go round. If
it is made we’re all in it for our share,”
he remarked, and with a general “Good
night all,” he turned and left them to talk
over what he had told them.
Silence fell. One could hear the chirping
of crickets in the damp places. There was
the sound of wings as wild fowl passed
high overhead in the safety of the night.
A ’possum grunted in a tree and gave a
sudden scream as though attacked. A cat
passed through the stream of light from a
door of the hut and with fixed intent disap-
peared in the darkness.
The strangely stirring cry of a frog in
its death agony pierced the stillness.
Tallwood started and shuddered.
Martin noticed the movement. “A coward,’’
he said to himself and noted it down for
future use. Then aloud: “It’s every blamed
thing for itself in this world, and every
man for himself, too.”
The cook had come to the doorway to
take the papers from the Boss and had
remained to hear what he had to say and
was still there. “That’s why we lia-ve our
unions,” he commented sarcastically, for
Martin, being the greatest growler at the
table, was no favorite with the cook.
“You be damned!” snapped Martin, and
turned to Tallwood.
“What do you think, Matey?” he asked.
There was a touch of scorn in the words,
especially the contemptuous “matey.”
“I’ve been in places where we all depended
on the other fellow,” came the steady reply.
Peter Baw’s voice cut in “What unit,
Dig?”
“Artillery, Second Divvy.”
Nothing more was said.
One month went by, two months went by
and the Boss noted with satisfaction that
his words had had an effect. In a dozen
different . ways little savings were being
effected, in a score of ways losses avoided.
Then came the local races. All hands had
the day off. Martin backed four winners.
That night, in the hut, he was boasting
of what he had done.
“The bookies will be cursing you,” said
Nat.
Martin grinned drunkenly. “I told you
before that it’s every man for himself in
this world,” he leered.
“Your luck’s in, you’d better take a ticket
m Tatt’s,” said Nat.
“I’ve got one in the Cup,” replied Martin
triumphantly.
“Cripes, yes!” exclaimed Nat. “The Mel-
bourne Cup’s run next week, ain’t it?” lie
stretched himself. “Oh well, a man’s bunk’s
the best place now.”
One by one all hands followed.
Peace had settled over everything. The
excitement of the day was' a?] I forgotten,
except, perhaps, in dreams; crickets still
chirped and now and then the cry of a bush
bird or animal broke the stillness of the hot
night.
Another sound crept in, a quiet whispering
sound that grew and grew till it assumed a
steady roar through which came sounds
of crackling pine walls and ceilings. The
Boss’s Man and two others began to dream
of spitting machine-gun fire battling through
the crashing roar of 'artillery and high ex-
plosives.
The Boss’s Man awoke. It took him a< few
seconds to realise where he was. He leapt
to his feet. The hut was afire!
Tearing from room to room, Talhvood
wakened the sleepers, heavy after the
excesses of race-day, and got them outside.
The open doors and windows were making a
terrible draught, in which the flames roared
a*nd the smoke whirled in dense suffocating
masses. The newly awakened men stood
blinking at the destruction being wrought.
“All here?” asked Tallwood.
The cook glanced over the group. “All
but one,” he said. “Ken Martin’s missing.”
Peter made a move towards the burning
hut, but Tallwood ran ahead of him and
almost together they disappeared into the
smoke.
Presently Peter emerged gapping and fell
choking at the feet of the group. The effects
of the acrid smoke on his gas-damaged lungs
was too much for him. He sat up. In
there!” he gasped, pointing wildly. “The
Boss’s Man. Martin’s room. Window
closed.”
Dudley sprang to the workshop, grabbed
the axe and made for the window. Nat
followed with a crowbar. Before they could
use either, a chair came crashing through.
Tallwood’s voice followed. “Take him. Pull
him through,” he said as one giving orders.
He shoved Martin’s head and shoulders
through. The others grabbed him and pulled
him out into the air.
As they did so, there was a* crash behind
Tallwood, and he seemed to sink back.
The cook grabbed him by one arm and
hung on to it. “What’s up?” he asked.
“My legs are caught,” gasped Tallwood.
He did not tell them that the burning beam
was already eating them to the bone.
Nat smashed some more of the window,
and, shoving his crowbar through, levered up
the burning beam. Dudley and the cook
pulled Tallwood through. But it was too
late.
* * *
The local hospital stood between the
township and the cemetery.
On his way back from Archie Tallwood’s
funeral the Boss called in to see Ken Martin,
who was recovering from his injuries.
“Getting on all right, Martin?” he asked.
“Yes, Boss, I’ll soon be out again.” j
“Your job’s waiting for you.”
Martin looked out of the window near
which he lay. “Right, Boss,” he said.
The Boss turned to leave.
“I say, Boss.” The words came hesitat-
ingly.
The Boss wheeled round and waited.
Martin spoke, with difficulty finding
another name for the Boss’s Man. “Fancy
the bloke being a war hero with s> wife and
three little kiddies! Who’d ’a’ thought it?”
The Boss nodded and waited for what was
coming.
“Left ’em hard up, I s’pose?”
“I’m afraid so.”
“Well, Boss, look here. This came this
morning while his funeral was passing.” He
held out a telegram.
The Boss took it and read, “Your horse
won the 'Melbourne Cup.”
“What’s this mean?” he asked.
Martin handed him a ticket in Tattersall’s
sweep on the Cup.
“You see,” he said, “me and the bloke
was halves in that.”
The Mistake.
T P. BAKER
SHOWS THAT THE LONE HAND DOESN’T ALWAYS PAY
THE house with its single chimney stood
lone on the hillside, set back under
the edge of timber and separated from
the road by the brief stretch of cleared
ground. The man who was picking his way
towards it up the night-shrouded track
stopped when the gleam of the lighted window
came into view, and leant against a tree
for a moment as if gathering his strength.
Down below in the valley was a smashed
car, from which he had extricated himself
with a sharp pain in his right leg. The
pain had now settled to a steady aching, and
lie had dragged himself, it seemed, for half
the night up the winding mountain road,
The rain had made the surface treacherous;
and in any case he would have had to move
cautiously, for he knew there were old pits
and shafts on either side.
He came at last to the fence that guarded
the holding. It W&B too dark to search for
a gate, and he got clumsily through the
barbed-wire and went knee-deep through low'
bushes to the house. The shaft of light from
the window caught him a*nd showed his
sodden clothes and a matted beard covering
his throat. He hammered at the door with
his fist, and after a moment heard a chair
scra<pe back.
The opening of the door disclosed a smalJ,
untidy room behind a big-built man who
was standing on the threshold.
“It’s me, Jem,” said the traveller, blink-
ing through swollen eyelids. “Me—Peterson
Wliat’re you gaping like that for? Forgotten
me?”
The man in the doorway peered closer
and muttered something to himself. Then
he held the door open.
“Come on in, I ain’t forgotten you.
What’re you doing here?”
{Continued on next page.)


A
CHINA
Exquisite variety
house of Shelley offers
boundless opportunities to the
lady who likes her Afternoon Teas I
to be distinctive social occasions.
Every Shelley Tea Set is made of
fine English Bone China, even-
piece is a delight to handle. The
noble Gainsborough service and
the charming Queen Anne series
are two of Shelley’s most famous
Tea Sets, but a variety both
infinite and exquisite may be had.
Ladies are respectfully referred
to their China-dealers.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea. Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attweu
<> Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• (klTltH MA.DB
IM CASE OF ANY DIFFICULTY IH OBTAINING
T*W. MIATM I
djfd
jfd
Missing Friends.
\Y/ILL JAMES STEVENS, formerly of
” Christchurch, N.Z., eler 1 ""A l: >st heard
of at Broome, W.A., in j 1099, or anyone
blowing his whereabouts, communicate with
MCINTYRE & TAYLOR, of Feildmg, N.Z.,
Solicitors for the Estate of his late uncle
William Henry Webb.
Re T. H. FOLLEY—Deceased.
\Y/ILL any person knowing the where-
W abouts of CLARA FOLLEY, sister of
the late Thomas Henry Folley, or any Child
of the said Clara Folley, please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart.
£o
' V
marks the new
BISSELL
It sweeps every
surface—easier 1
You’re not getting a modern
sweeper unless it’s the im-
proved Bissell \yith “Hi-Lo”
Brush Control.
You owe yourself this up-to-
date sweeper which sweeps
everything from inch thick
carpets to linoleum so much
easier. No more need of hard
bearing down.
At leading merchants. Booklet on request.
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Co.
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Export Department, 46 West Broadwny
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
ii
“THE WOMANS MIRROR.”
PRICE „m .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to lenow.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 rears Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
GENTLEMEN! I ask you
to join me in a “ spot ’
of McCallum’s Perfection,
a Whisky that has been
in front for 120 years.
Distributors for the House of McCallunt
Sole Agents for N.S.W. :■
Goldsbrongh, Mort & Co.
SYDNEY.
Bole Agents jor Queensland:
Goldsbrpugh, Mort & Co.
Wool Exchange, Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
Goldsbrongh, Mart & Co.
Cnr. Bourke & William Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for H’-4. :
Lionel Samson & Son,
FREMANTLE.
Sole Agents for S.A.t
Gibbs, Bright & Go,,
Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents for Tasmania:
MacFarlane Bros.,
117 Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
"I'll tell you after,” growled the visitor,
limping past him. “Shut the door. Shut the
damned rain out. I’ve had enough of it.
Hullo, Liza.” n ,
The tall, big-boned woman who had been
sitting at the far end of the table rose to
her feet, still holding the bread-knife she
had been using.
“You!” she said. “I thought we’d seen
the last of you” She took no heed of his
suddenly darkened face. “Trouble, is it.
she said after a pause. “We never see you
unless it is.”
“Trouble enough.” He unwound a soaked
scarf from his neck and dropped it on the
floor. When he bent his head little rivulets
of water ran from his hat-brim. “I'm pretty
near all in. I want some fresh clothes and
something to eat and drink, and then some-
thing to tie my leg up. After that I’ll have
to lie low till it mends.” .
“Well, out with it,” she said impatiently.
“We can’t sit up all night to listen.”
“The johns are on to me, but I reckon this
rain will hold them up for to-night.” He
turned to the man. “See here, Powell. You
know these hills. I want an old tunnel or
something where I’ll be safe. No good stop-
ping here.”
Powell looked uncertainly at his wife.
“There’s a few places”——
She came forward decidedly. No, there
ain’t. We’ve had more than enough to do
with you already. We’ll give you a feed, and
then you move on. We don’t want the
risk.”
I-Ie glared at her, but she met him steadily.
“What about you?” he demanded, turning to
her husband. ‘ “You going to turn down an
old pal a<s well ?” .. ,
“He’ll be 'all right, Liz, mumbled the
man, with a half-ashamed glance at her.
“We can put him in the old Number .One
shaft for a day or two.” .......
“Well, it’s your affair,” she said bitterly.
“But if it was me”
“It’s nothing to do with you, snapped
Peterson. “I’m talkin’ to Jem. And now
I’ll have those clothes.”
He followed Powell into the back room,
and reappeared in a few minutes clad in an
old suit and a pair of slippers. On the table
was another loaf and tin of jam.
“This all you got?” he scowled.
“That’s all,” said the woman. We re
hard up, and you know it.”
He began to oat with huge mouthfuls,
washing them down with great draughts
of the tea Powell poured for him. When he
had finished lie rose and tested his toot.
“Well, we’d best be getting off. xoull
have to help me.”
Powell was looking out of the door. Ihe
rain’s off. It won’t take us long.” _
Peterson halted for a moment in the
doorway to look back at the woman. Don t
forget, you,” he said. “When they come up
here, you ain’t seen me, and you don’t know
anything about me. If you let me down 111
come back and get both of you, if it takes
me ten years. So if you want to take care
of your Jem, you take care of me.’
She made no reply, but came to the door
and watched them go. In the starlight she
could see to the end of their tiny ten-acre
holding, with the rows of passion- - and
berry-fruits. They made c'nly a bare living
there, and M?’ A not been for Powell’s love
of fossicking round the old workings they
would have left long ago. She went indoors
again and trimmed the lamp, but it was over
an hour before Powell returned.
“Settled him in,” he said. They won t
find him there.” , „ ,
“And then I suppose he’ll be off and enjoy
himself again till he wants more help.” She
looked scornfully at him. “Why don t you
kick him out?” .
“Not on a night like this
“Why don’t you own up you re afraid or
him? Now we’ve got to keep him for a week
when we cau hardly feed ourselves. And this
is the first place Timmins’ll come to to-
morrow.” . , , , .
“Timmins won’t find him. And he s going
out of the country after.” #
Her dark eyes flashed at him. Well, I d
be ashamed to call myself a man. You can
tell all the lies to-morrow, I’m not going to.
Powell was up before dawn next morning.
“I’ll have to go up and see him. He hesi-
tated for a moment. “I suppose we can
spare some of that cold meat.”
“If you like to go short yourself.
• 1-Ie took a knife from the cupboard, and
she watched him cut into the small store
of mea«t and make up & parcel with bread
and a bottle of tea. When he returned,
before the mists had cleared from. the ranges,
he found her already at work with the hoe
“His leg’s stiffened,” he told her. It 11
be a week’s job.” ,
It was nearly noon when they saw tne
police-sergeant’s cream hack coming up
between the trees. He tied the reins to the
gatepost and strolled up the path.
“Morning, Mrs. Powell, he said. Morn-
ing, Powell. Just dropped in to ask it
you’ve seen any strangers by. Were after
a man named Peterson.”
“What’s he done?”
“Robbery with violence,” said the sergeant.
“He broke into a house down in Melbourne.
It’s a pretty well-to-do place, and he hit
an old gentleman on the head and got away
in a car. We found it in the bitch on
the other side of the Gully, and Peterson
may bo injured. There was a hit of blood
ab “Nobody’s been here,” said Powell.
“I came to you first because you re about
the hills a good deal. How’s business? He
glanced negligently round at the forlorn-
looking house with its rickety out-buildings.
“Bad,” said the woman. “It never is any-
thing else these days.”
“Ah, we all have to earn our living It
will be a windfall if anyone does find Peter-
son. The old fellow’s family are offering
two hundred pounds reward.
“Two hundred pounds! ....
“Yes, so it will be worth while dropping
me a line if you see anything. Well, 1
must be getting on. G’day, and don t forget
that two hundred.” , ,
He nodded easily to them and they watched
him vault into the saddle and ride on up the
V J “He knows something,” said the woman.
“Well, what do you think of it now?
“Just the same.”
“But think! Two hundred pounds! The
lines that toil and battling with the world
had planted on her face softened a* little.
She bore the real burden, of their existence.
She fought the storekeeper and kept then-
heads somehow above the stream. “Weve
been here ten years now, and tilings are
only getting worse. It’s slavery, and ad
you get out of the fossicking sno good. By
the time he comes out we’d be miles away.
He shook his head. “I wouldn’t inform on
a man,” he said with his eyes on the ground.
“Two thousand or two hundred, it’s all the
sa*me. I couldn’t do it, Liz.’’
“You mean you’re too cowardly to! she
said. “You’d sooner see us both starve than
act like a man for once !”
She turned away; but as she worked
mechanically down between the rows, the
thought of the two hundred pounds kept
constantly before her. She had worked and
waited patiently enough while there was no
hope of change, but this glimpse of whdt
could he done with the reward showed up
her grey existence.
Every morning that week she saw her
husband go off with a parcel of food, start-
ing while it was yet dark and coming back
by devious routes. On the Saturday morn-
ing lie carried off a bigger parcel than usual.
“He’s off to-morrow,” Powell said. There s
a suit of mine in there.”
“How’s he going?” she said at ’Jem
—you haven’t given him any money
His back was towards her a?s he tied the
string. “Well, he’s got to get away, hasn't
he?”
“Jem, we want all that!” For a moment
she seemed on the point of tears, but suddenly
her mood changed. “AH right,” she said.;
“You’d better hurry. You’re later to-day.
She waited till he was out of sight then
swiftly got her hat, and set off towards the
Valley. She found Sergeant Timmins seated
at his desk. c ,
“Are you still looking for Peterson? she
as ked.
“Yes. Do you know anything about him?”
“If I did —if I’d happened to see him go
by—would I be sure of that two hundred?
“If we catch him it’s yours,” he promised.
“I know where he is. You go up past
our place till you get to the mouth of the
old No. 1 shaft. There’s a clump of bushes
beside it, and under them you’ll lind another
shaft. They started to drive it before the
other one. He’s in there, with a crook leg
He won’t give you any trouble. But you li
have to hurry, because he’ll be off some time
to-day.” , , r .
“We’ll get him,” said the sergeant. And
how long have yon known about this. _
“All the time, but—but it’s not Jems
fault. He’s scared of that man. And, after
all, I’ve told you now.” , , .
The sergeant paused in the locking ot his
desk to scratch his chin. “Well, seeing
you’ve come to me 1 reckon I can nx it.
I’ll go straight up.” , ,
Five minutes later she saw the sergeant
and a constable canter off ahead of her.
With firm lips she went down towards the
St °ln" the mo-itli of tile old shaft the sergeant
and his - -comrade paused.
“Sounds pretty quiet,” commented the
They went in. The tunnel was dry anti
empty. “Too late, after all, said the
sergeant, but he was caught by an exclama-
tion from his companion—he had trodden m
one corner, and his heel had sunk m newly-
turned ground.
They found the body of Big Peterson a
bare six inches under the surface
“So that’s why the reward didn t shut
Powell,” said the sergeant, as he stood up
and scraped the mould from his boots. bee
that groove? He evidently intended to come
back and blow up the tunnel. Somehow,
Jack, I don’t think Powell was fair to his
wife Well, we’ll have to leave things
here foh the We can call tor
Powell on the way up.”
The Snake-skin Belt.
I wonder why I bought you?
I wonder why I brought you
Home with me to-day?
A snake-skin is unlucky, I’ve heard say.
I smooth you out across the emerald pile j
Of my soft tablecloth, until the gleams I
From my bronze reading-lamp find you and
flow
About you till you ripple, so it seems,
And bask with wicked joy in the gold glow.
You look so much alive that swift I peer
With superstitious eyes; almost I fear
To glimpse the flicker of a blue forked
tongue, .
Or meet eyes staring evilly in mine.
I can imagine you .
Waking, half-frozen, from your winter sleep,
And loosing your numbed coils enough to
creep
Out to" the glamor of the hot sunshine.
A little bright-eyed wren with hood of blue
Crouched fascinated, but you passed it by
Until you found a nook in which to lie;
And here you wound your coils in glistening
bliss . .
And turned to slumber with a happy hiss.
I dream you stalking the wee chirping tits
Among the fragrant tangles of sweet briai, »
Your eyes two narrow slits
Of ruby fire. , .
I see you basking m the hot sun-pools.
Your white throat pillowed on a sun-soaked
stone, . , ...
Drinking the warmth through every shining
Anon when noon’s soft honey lights are
blown , . , , .. ,
Among the gums your thirsty, dark lips seek
For drops of moisture ’neatli the squat toad-
stools.
You nose aside the rotting mossy logs
For hidden, spotted frogs.
But how you slither, with your heart a-quake
Into the nearest deepest thorny brake.
When, sounding till the echoes answer after, .
The kookaburra r-olls his joyous laughter!
How you have fallen now, wise serpent one,
Fond worshipper of heat and yellow sun!
No more you glisten through the woodland
slips; _ ' '
The glittering measure of your bronze, scaled
pelt
Has been soft fashioned to a buckled belt.
To coil about a woman’s supple hips!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


m
m-m
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A,
“THE AGE ”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established 1854.
ADVERTISERS!
The Court instructs every Jury to keep an
open mind, and record a. verdict according to
the evidence placed before them.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age.”
Audited net Sales 122,501 daily
(60% Metropolitan—4o% Country).
Over 96% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is “Australia
First,’’ and its' effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Clk mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury" is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
80 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotcb, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.'W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, L.isgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman's
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
J
:
5m
Mr
op
P'k
*■ r«a
c fe r
rev
e.-i/
er
c o/ (
Uf
e PtA
J'e//
e/r
°tv
ftla
Ji k
e Pe
,f es
SOef
Pd.
Pge
ls ni
S] ck
s yrn
n ?ss
*t a r
n y
r, Bht
Pt 0
tr a
th
a Pd
c e
at
of
e//
o/ 0
Co
Po
<V
fit
'Pat
a ch
n H
l Gs
s tr
a-v,
Co
If
***Pl
sh
a nd
you
'
e nt
‘°p
•?»
ar e
er e </
s u s
or
Pc
*tl C
>’c s
2*
°^p/
'p>
a Pd
Cfe
a/jj
Pge
*ak
e *hh
PUs
Pd
c *e
irr,
e rj
e °c/>
a *at
Pg
a Psi
atjj
ar
Pg
Pill
of
fen
re Pu
th
ted
s yst
a Od
e Pi
BEECH4
To secure the best of health, and to be
free from Constipation, Sick Head -
ache, Biliousness , Flatulence, Torpid
Liver and Disordered Stomach—take
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
PILLS,
2$
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
Evening Exp ress ,> obtainable from
“Saturday
W. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUG AN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for'which I enclose £.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
jfd
jfd
0°
at>
£\V c &6
I ’a\» V
>3'
#■’
\V*'


me UNION
and give
«c
o
si
m
I#
■
i
4*5?
ii
■
/
y
2£
m
m
choke U vest
M■' - ■ I ; •
These chilly mornings make no difference to the car which has a tankful
of Union.
No need to over-work the choke and risk diluting your oil, no need to
torture the selfstarter, no need to flood the carburettor or climb out and
give the engine a turn with the crank handle. Union ignites immediately,
no matter how much trouble Jack Frost may be giving to other fuels.
That’s the advantage of a super- refined spirit! It responds to the spark
with such lightning speed that an ice-cold engine has no chance to be
stubborn.
Fill at the Red , White and Blue Pump and
get instant starting as well as better running •
RED
mm -
.
SUPER SPIRIT
U22A
THE RUNNING MATE OF ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
