

I
and Printing
▲
SAME-DAY SERVICE
\
2$
in every
Kodak Print
i
m
m
1
KODAK ENLARGEMENTS.
These fascinating and beautiful
'photographs are within the reach of
everyone , the cost of an enlargement
being trifling compared with the real
satisfaction you get when you see
one of your little snapshots turned
into a big and impressive picture.
For the album, for framing, for gift
purposes, for wall decoration—the
enlargement is certainly the modern
idea.
Kodak Enlargements are either black
and white or sepia-toned on glossy,
matt, rough or velvet surfaces, to
your taste.
Write or call for your copy of our
new price-list for Developing and
Printing and Enlarging.
Every print we
make —every en-
largement— every
piece of photo-
graphic work is
really and truly a
Kodak Product.
Behind it stands
the world-wide
Kodak organisation
and all its un-
equalled photo-
graphic knowledge
and experience.
And that means that your holiday
prints will be bright and clear and
sparkling—you’ll have something you’ll
be really proud to show your friends.
Every Kodak Print is marked on the hack “Kodak Print”
Leave spools before 10 a.m.—prints ready 5 p,m.
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney.
“Ihe Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
- jjj |
|fl§
llilii
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
East Street, Rockhampton.
Flinders Street, Townsville,
162 Queen Street, Auckland.
40 Princess Street, Dunedin.
294. Lambton Quay, Wellington.
681 Colombo Street, Christchurch,
The Bulletin
/tlAAldk^.
Vol. 51.—N0. 2654.
Wednesday, December 24, 1930,
Price 6d.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOK PRESENTS.
72-page “XMAS CATALOGUE” Now Ready.
Posted Free Anywhere, on Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 1521 DD.
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
~7 STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New B,ree
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 316
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
sretytyutuyt
THE SUPPER
Host Holbrook Says :
“ Good evening
merrie gentlemen!
Your supper awaits
you.
With the lobster,
salad and cheese 1 have
served my Worcester-
shire Sauce. Ah !it is
indeed a delicious
relish.”
7*
to
/J
r
4
i
=w
SL
1
c
Exquisite variety
house of Shelley offers
boundless opportunities to the
lady who likes her Afternoon Teas
to be distinctive social occasions.
Every Shelley Tea Set is made of
fine English Bone China, every
piece is a delight to handle. The
noble Gainsborough service and
the charming Queen Anne series
are two of Shelley’s most famous
Tea Sets, but a variety both
infinite and exquisite may be had,
Ladies are respectfully referred
to their China-dealers.
sretytyutuyt
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
Nursery Ware
Lucie Attweu.
oHiida Cowham
DomesticV/are
Jem v Mo.u.nc
BSUTiSH MADE
IN CASt ©l* ANY DIFFICULTY IN. OBTAINING
WR.ITE TO
sretytyutuyt
sretytyutuyt
IPlil
Oyotj the renowned
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
service.
*
ci'
mm
Vv V\
%£<„.*
mmmwmmßm
: :
Save Money
on
res
D
OU can. easily avoid
-®~ costly tyre trouble
by keeping your tyres
properly inflated. But
you must use an accu-
rate, durable gauge. The
Schrader Gauge is such
a gauge.
Buy a Schrader Gauge
from any tyre or acces-
sory supplier. Keep it
always in your car. Use it
regularly at least once a
week and before long
trips. It will save its small
cost in increased tyre
service many times over.
Schrader Gauges are
sturdy, dependable, easy
to use, easy to read.
Be Sure It’s a
SCHRADER
Look For
The Name
chrader
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
The Red Page
Advice to Australian Authors
Somewhere in that wilderness of words
called ‘'The Time Machine” H. G. Wells
remarks that “It is a mistake to do things
too easily.” Carrying the utterance to its
logical conclusion, one would say, “It doesn't
matter so much what you do as how you
do it.”
A violinist nowadays stands very little
chance of achieving public recognition
unless he cultivates a head of hair like the
grass on a South American pampas, mani-
pulates the bow with a technique better
suited to operating a cross-cut saw and
is prepared to add improvements of ines-
timable value to the deficient works of
Chopin, Beethoven and Schubert. A person
possessing these requirements, even though
his repertoire consists solely of musical in-
vocations to horses to perpendicularise their
appendages, and other similar adaptations
from American opera, has all that is neces-
sary to oust Fritz Kreisler from the bril-
liantly illuminated heights of musical
endeavor. Remember that to play to a
small but appreciative audience is only to
gain some slight measure of recognition;
whefeas to serenade a hippopotamus, the
higher carnivora, or the philypnodon grandi-
ceps at the Melbourne Zoo in the presence
of several daily newspaper photographers
as Jan Rubiiii has so excellently done, i
to achieve universal distinction and popu
larity.
Irving Berlin, Jerome Kern, Sigmunc
Romberg, our own Jack O’Hagan, and thei
equally celebrated associates in the profit
able business of being unmusical, hav
long recognised this principle and hav
benefited considerably from its discriminat
. ing use. Even orchestras, or their con
ductors, appreciate its significance. Now,
conductor is unfortunate in that his occu
pation of musical traffic cop necessitates hi
turning the least impressive portion of hi
anatomy on the human race—or on tha.
portion of it assembled behind him—anc
this is, one must admit, by no means con
ducive to personal dignity. Fortunately, the
disability previously inflicted no longe
exists. Perceiving its publicity-giving pro
pensities, he now monopolises the spot
light, waves his baton like a mother whip
ping an erring child, and spreads his fairy
light fingers a la curate with an afternooi
teacup. Thus has his faithful public been
compensated for the indignity of viewing
Will Quintrell and Stan Porter a. derriere
W. M. Hughes, the astute Parliamentarian
responsible for the introduction of vaude
ville tactics into the political arena, is an
adept in the business. Into a speech reek-
ing with platitude he introduces latitude
and longitude, garnishes with a few ironi
allusions to a remote paradise known as
“blithering blazes,” sprinkles with the gore
of innumerable and ever-increasing oppo-
nents, and serves the whole hot to the com-
piler of “Hansai’d.” Thus we have a Com-
monwealth-subsidised entertainment which
never palls.
The success of these and other such flam-
boyant gentlemen as Napoleon, Genghis
Khan, Julius Caesar, Paris, Mark Antony
and Jock Garden should prove of infinite
inspiration to our personally unobtrusive
literati. Paderewski has his leonine mane;
Madame Melba her interminable farewells;
Billy Hughes his £25,000; Susan Lenglen her
temperament but what has Steele Rudd
to attract the vulgar gaze? Beyond his
work, nothing but an occasional cold in
the head. Who knows what Myra Morris
or Nettie Palmer think of Mullenby’s
Mixed Mustard? Who has ever seen a por-
trait of Roderic Quinn or Bernard O’Dowd
doing the splifs with his countenance
to better exhibit teeth which owe their
abnormal cleanliness to applications of
Dibson’s Delectable Dentifrice? One of the
harshest disappointments in my unusually
brilliant career occurred when an acquaint-
ance indicated E. J. Brady to me in the
street. From reading his verse I antici-
pated a piratical individual, a 1930 Captain
Kidd, with a nautical glitter in his eye, and
whose mildest expression was “Shiver me
timbers.” What I beheld was an inordi-
nately casual Australian of the type one
sees maligftantly chasing snails off the lawns
of some 20,000 suburban homes every
evening.
Now if Vance Palmer were to cultivate
side-boards like English hedge-rows, Myra
Morris to chew plug tobacco, or Steele
Rudd to parade Sydney streets in clothes
the color of a Labor member’s face after
a vehement denunciation of capitalism,
there might be something on which the
popular imagination could take a grip.
Picture lonely spinsters in garrets jolting
their jumbled complexes contemplating a
portrait of Percy Leason. Ineffable spec-
tacle ! Think of awed audiences in America,
Cochin China or Siam gazing in ecstasy
at underwear purloined from the one and
only C. J. Dennis,
All this and more can be accomplished
if our litterateurs will recognise that much
of Henry Lawson’s success is due to his
frequent references on every public occa-
sion to the dilapidated condition of his
lower apparel. It’s better to be a hoard-
mg .in Bourke or George street than
a picture postcard in Croajilngalong or
Boomanoomah. There is Malice in every
Wonderland, and in Australia it consists in
the persistent reticence of our poets, philo-
sophers and novelists. The day of glory
will have arrived when Roderic Quinn’s
portrait ousts the Beecham’s pill placards
lrom the hoardings.
DRAMOFILM.
Kendalliana
Judgment of any poetry, in an exclusive
relation to other poetry, is entirely the job
of the audience. What concerns the audi-
ence is the effect for them; not the cause in
the poet. Poetry stands impersonally for
sentence.
Judgment of any poetry, in relation to
the race of poets, is the job of the audieiice,
having regard to the life of the poet.
Poetry stands personally for a sentence that
considers the circumstances. These cannot
alter judgment; but they may alter a sen-
tence that can have effect upon other poets,
present or future sources of poetry, and
these in turn can alter the effect of poetry
for the audience.
Thus, into one aspect of poetical criti-
cism, biography enters. Had Kendall been
really “in the nineteenth year of my age”
when he wrote his untruthful letter to “the
editor of the ‘Cornhill Magazine’ ” on
January 21, 1862, being then far advanced
in his twenty-third jmar (though, possibly,
he did not know his true age exactly) that
would have made a difference, not to “the
accompanying verses,” but to judgment of
the verses in relation to Kendall’s poetical
performance, actual or anticipated.
In one aspect of poetical criticism, the
poet’s age counts; and Kendall’s allusion
shows that he himself thought so. The
verses wonderful in one’s nineteenth year
are much less wonderful in one’s twenty-
third year, with four years’ more experience
of life and poetry > Recent biographers
(Bertram Stevens; Kendall’s son, Frederick;
the “Australian Encyclopaedia”) have re-
duced Kendall’s four years’ error by two
years, stating the date of his birth April 18,
1841. But three years ago the Registrar-
General (N.S.W.) produced on application
Kendall’s baptismal certificate, proving
that he was born April 18, 1839.
I have published the fact many times
here and elsewhere; a copy of the certificate
has been held for reference in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney, during two years. Perhaps
we cannot expect that the editors of Ken-
dall’s poems will correct the error before
a new edition is required; but the “Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia,” purporting to be an
authoritative work, should now be sold with
an “Errata” slip correcting this and other
errors in its account of Kendall, and in other
portions of the work. For one reason, be-
cause the “Australian Encyclopaedia” may
be continually misleading some teachers
and children engaged in educational study
For example: the good enterprise of the
Department of Education (Victoria) in pub-
lishing “The Victorian Reading Books” for
children began in 1928 with “Eighth Book,’
in many ways excellent. Among other
errors of fact in this book (for a perfect
accuracy is hard to attain), the error of
Kendall’s birth-date is preserved in a note.
The attention of the department was drawn
to the error; and, in the “Seventh Book”
recently published, the error is maintained in
a note that adds other blunders to the
account tff Kendall:—
“Henry Clarence Kendall” (he was bap-
tised Thomas Henry; and the three books
of poems published in his lifetime, revised
by himself, bear his signature “by Henrv
Kendall”), “born 1841”' (1839) “near Mil-
ton” (a N.S.W. township which did not exist
until many years afterwards; with a name
locally unheard of by Kendall’s parents or
in Kendall’s boyhood and youth). “He was
educated in the bush” (a misdescription of
Wollongong, where he went to school in
boyhood, or of Sydney, where his real
“education” began at the age of 18). “At
the age of 13” (16) “he went to sea, return-
ing to Sydney at the age of 15” (18). He
“spent a few miserable years” (about two
years) “in Melbourne, but returned to
Sydney” (“Always have an eye to the
mayne, Whatsoever thou art chaunced at the
But,” wrote John Lyly in “Euphues and
his England”—and N.S.W. Education
Department has recently been bothering
some of its children with Lyly), “where
he was employed till his' death in 1882”
(with the exception of about 10 years—nine-
tenths of the period 1871-82—when he w T as
employed at Gosford, Camden Haven and
elsewhere; and with a reserve of doubt
(Red Page continued on page o.)


Shelter when
the Sun
is Fiercest!
t>
A Limited
Quantity at
l%
Here is a very simple device to
alleviate the discomfort of har-
vesting under a blazing sun.
These Harvester Sunshades cqre
made with a stout pole and
fittings, while the cover is of
hard-wearing Khaki Duck on
solid iron ribs. We now have
only a very limited quantity
left, and as the new Customs
duties make it impossible for
further supplies to be imported,
early ordering is essential.
Specially priced at .... 29/6
Wept., Ground Floor, George Street.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs
only.)
12|6 NOW 1016
We are clearing a quantity of
these splendid sola pith Helmets
at this worth-while reduction.
No other Hat gives such perfect
comfort and shade—these are
covered in fine quality White or
Khaki Drill. In all sizes. The
ideal headwear for both Aus-
tralia and the Islands.
Price, each 12/6
Reduced to 10/6
{Dept., Ground Floor, George Street.
We Pay Carnage.)
‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Anthony Horderns’ unfailing policy.
m
r
1
>
mm
o//
i
M
m
Such a price for such a suit is astounding—but never-
theless true. It is the result of a special Mill purchase
of Flannel, and the modern methods of our work-
rooms in which these suits are made. The smart
coat has single-breasted lapel, three patch pockets,
and is cut with either pleated or plain back. The
trousers have cuff bottoms and side and hip pockets.
The All-wool Australian Flannel is in serviceable
Greys with neat stripe effects. In sizes for youths,
men and big men. Two-piece, ready for service.
Price 26/9
(Dept., Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carriage.
1} ordering by mail, please give waist, chest and
leg measurements.)
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Only 18/11
Remarkable value is offered in these
Black or rich Brown Calf Shoes, in
the new wide shape, with neatly
stitched and corded caps. Rolled,
welted soles and heels. Full and half
sizes. Price, pr 18/11
“Tree” Brand
These smart Shoes are made in Tan
Calf, Box Calf and Glace Kid. Fif-
teen different styles, in neat square,
medium and wide fittings. Genuine
welted soles. Full and half sizes.
A Shoe that is made from the best
grade leathers. Price .... 22/6
“Tree” Brand, 2216
Leather-lined Box Calf Boots, with
genuine welted soles. Three smart
styles in full and half sizes. 22/6
1
For Hard Wear, 15/6
Our special Work Boots that will
stand up to the most rigorous wear.
Made in Tan or Black, with stout
standard, screwed and sewn soles.
Price 15/6
Riding Boots, 22/6
Llastic-sided Riding Boots, with
tandard screwed soles. All sizes.
■ > rice, pr. . . 22/6
n Tan Willow and Box Calf, with
genuine welted soles. Price . . 27/6
(All Men’s Wear —Ground Floor,
George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
Anthony Horderns’
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Postal Address.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


SIXE-5 AND E-lEHTS
at-'.
11l
3
arntm
SAFETY, COMFORT. PLEASURE
FOR THE FAMILY
Ability to understand and supply
the motoring needs of the family
has been the backbone of Dodge
Brothers success over a period of
15 years. All the experience
thus accumulated has been put
into the Dodge Brothers Sixes
and Eight-in-Line, with the result
that these cars are even more
popular than any of their pre-
decessors. They are comfortable,
safe, easy-riding, and easy to
control. Doors and windows are
extra wide. There is ample space
/or five adult passengers, with
leg-room, head-room and elbow-
room to spare. The Australian-
built bodies afford protection
that promotes peace of mind.
The weatherproof internal
hydraulic brakes are an im-
portant safety factor. The flexi-
bility of performance that comes
from a smooth, powerful engine
is still another insurance of satis-
faction. These cars have, of
course, traditional Dodge de-
pendability and long life. Let
the family see and drive them.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS;
New South Wales Harden and Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland ••••••••••••••• Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia .... Waymouth Motor Company, Lid., Adelaide
Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania .... Co'Operative Motors, Ltd., 131 Collins St., Hobart


An Innovation
SHIRTS
WITH DETACHABLE CUFFS
11/6
MADE BY DAVID JONES’
TO MATCH THE FAMOUS
VAN HEUSEN COLLARS
With Detachable Cuffs
A shirt that’s a match for the world’s most famous,
smartest, most popular semi-soft collar! The same
neat stripes, the same mannish colorings.
And how does this appeal to you business men
for efficiency? This shirt has detachable cuffs!
As easily changeable as your collar! You won't
need a financial genius to tell you this means
savings! Less laundering! Longer life to your
shirt! Spick and span appearance always! Made
of oxford! Really? Yes,— really,— oxford for
wear, for fadeless colors —oxford for you!
DAVID JONES’
Both Men's Shop, Lower Ground Floor
New Store and George St., opp. G. P. O.
whether in this period he was “employed”
in Sydney at all).
Does it matter? Yes; since truth matters
to the Department of Education, Victoria.
How many hundred thousand Australian
children may be misled before those books
are corrected?'
A. GOWER STEPHENS.
The Helpful Bookseller!
Is this why some Australian authors have
cause to complain that their books do not
sell here, despite good sales overseas? A
departmental manager in one of Sydney’s
largest book stores almost violently in-
formed me that he did not intend to show
my book for sale (though he had a number
of orders on the strength of a Bulletin
review), because books bought by his firm
direct from London returned a slightly
larger profit per volume than those (like
mine) which were issued for Australia by
an Australian firm who put their imprint
on the Australian edition and took over the
distribution here.
O’TOOLE.
I Beg Your Pardon
There is a newspaper legend that the “S.
M. Herald’s” court reporter once credited
the mere owner of a house with another
chap’s crime of arson. The owner promptly
complained. The “Herald” apology stated
that the house owned by Mr. Blobblob, of
Concord West, was not set alight by Mr.
Blobblob, of Concord West, as reported,
but by Mr. Blobblob, of Concord West. Mr.
Blobblob took it in silence, but the
“Herald’s” then manager insisted on an im-
mediate correction of the correction, and, on
second thought, wrote it himself. This
time it was made clear to everyone that
the house of Mr. Blobblob, of Concord
West, was not set alight by Mr. Blobblob,
of Concord West, as stated, but by Mr.
Blobblob of Concord West. Mr. Blobblob
took the next step. He wrote an anguished
letter to the “Herald” asking it, please, not
to correct the offending statement any more.
Well, I have kept an apology pending for
some time because of that lesson in making
such things; because I have felt that the
matter was better left dead and that raking
it up again might only give further offence.
Tf it does that must be put down to a
nagging conscience, for no further offence is
intended. Here is the attempt at literary
arson (R.P. 21/5/’3O)
I have been asked to found a branch of the P.E.N.
Club in Australia. I have declined. We have enough
of that sort of thing—poor, helpless, dull, ambition-
less mutual-admiration societies; all insincere; all
breathing prettily of an interest in Australian litera-
ture and passively permitting it to be made more
and more impossible; all too smugly content with
the little social light they enjoy from their rathole
candles to crawl out and. do anything for the cause
upon which they have ratted. Charming people, the
lot of them.
I humbly apologise to the P.E.N., though
it has not asked me to do so, for embracing
it in that armful. This international associ-
ation of writers, founded by Mrs. Dawson
Scott, has for president John Galsworthy;
Wells is “honorary member for England”;
Sir James Barrie, Scotland; Yeats and A.E.,
Ireland; Gerhardt Hauptman and Thomas
Mann, Germany; Mereikowsky and Gorky,
Russia: Tagore, India; Robinson and Frost,
United States; Hamsun, Norway; Maeter-
linck, Belgium; and others for a whole con-
tinent of countries. It is as international in
activity as it is in appearance. After the
war it obliged French writers to invite
German writers to Paris; that was the first
time after the war that Germans went to
Paris and were openly welcomed there.
From what I know of it now, I would say
that a branch of it would not be a bad thing
at all for Australia, provided—and this is
a provision which may not be understood
outside Australia—it were not accepted, as
all such things seem to me to be accepted
here, as a substitute for work.
I doubt very much whether the P.E.N.
would understand the position which pro-
voked my ungracious remarks. Australia,
at that time, was being made culturally im-
possible by an apparently ignorant and
demonstrably narrow-minded book censor-
ship. “All Quiet on the Western Front” was
banned on the authority of an ex-military
(I am not sure about the “ex”) member
of a Government which gave no other indi-
cation of ever being even aware of such a
thing as literature. Booksellers were being
prosecuted for displaying it and other books
(several of them recognised world classics)
for sale. Norman Lindsay’s “Redheap”
was coming out with a logical certainty of
being prohibited. It was a time when our
literary societies, whose numbers, I believe,
are greater than the numbers of our recog-
nised writers, should have spoken emphati-
cally.
After my unfortunate paragraph, which
was a mere tail-ender to several articles that
had appeared throughout the previous
weeks, there was an abortive and, as
reported, flabby interview with a Federal
Minister, who proved his literary incapacity
by vacillating over “Redheap” for weeks
and eventually banning it. When I started
my crusade against what I regarded as a
menace not only to open-minded readers
but, because of the provincial atmosphere
it was creating, to Australian literature,
there was no evidence that anyone in Aus-
tralia cared a straw about being fed with
literary skimmed milk by the petticoated
nurses who, on no other qualification than
the mere accident of holding a job in the
Gustoms, were, and are, a nation’s literary
censors.
I do apologise sincerely to the P.E.N. for
embracing it with a bunch of admiration
societies, but my faith in those who cling
to the skirts of Australian literature is so
weak that I believe they would discredit,
by their indifference to literature—the con-
crete, the living, not the abstract, the dead,
thing—even such an impressive association.
But for that, perhaps in spite of it, the
P.E.N. in Australia would be a very sound
institution. If it did nothing else it would
tend to broaden outlook, so that we might
in time appreciate just how fouled by ignor-
ance and pettiness and false modesty is our
literary atmosphere compared with that of
other parts of the world, and, appreciating,
understand why Australian literature so
rarely makes the world sit up and take
notice.
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
Mrs. Alfred Sidgwick’s Masquerade (Col-
lins) contains another of those German
women whom she draws so well, and a num-
ber of amusing English females, young and
old. The plot is. weak —a young waster
leaves home, and his double, who is no rela-
tion and anything but a waster, is accepted
by the family and neighbors as the missing
man-—but the book’s charm of style and
smilingly malicious humor make up for the
improbabilities.
Daphne Muir’s The Lost Crusade (Chatto
and Windus) has for its subject the ghastly
Children’s Crusade in the time of Pope
Innocent 111. In Stephen, the boy leader,
she draws a faithful picture of the born
mystic; .he is a precocious Christ. Her
descriptive ability is great, and so is her
power of reconstructing the dark religio-
maniacal age of which she writes. Lovers
of the English language will admire the deft
use she makes of simple words and phrases
Facets , by I. It. G. Hart (Benn), is an
unusual mystery novel. The characters are
all highly respectable, and the few who lack
amiability are to be excused. They believe
that the volatile Alba (the happy wife of
a second husband when the story opens)
hastens the death of their ailing relative
James by consenting to marry him. The
problem is: Who painted the pictures that
won Alba fame in her husband’s lifetime?
When that has been cleared up the story
fades into nothingness. The charac-
ter-drawing is good; and the uneventful
existence of a conventional upper middle-
class English family—one of those leisured
families whose members make an inordinate
fuss over trifles —is amusingly portrayed,
A Double Quest, by Douglas Timins
(Methuen), is,a very crude job. The excite-
ment begins in Central Africa, 800 miles
from Khartoum, when Andy Carruthers and
his detective friend ,Cartwright find the
dead body of the man in search of whom
they had left England. The remains are in
a mummy case. “A clear case of murder”
is the detective’s diagnosis. Later they
stumble on natives (“descendants of a race
many thousands of years old”) whose high
priest, the Lord Nortala, shows Andy the
likeness of a beautiful English girl. And
so back to England, where Andy finds an
underground city (since rendered inacces-
sible by an earthquake), unmasks the mur-
derer and marries the girl. The author has
a teeming imagination, but he is a poor
writer.
Mahers of Modern Europe, by Count
Sforza (Elkin Mathews). Personal recol-
lections by the Italian diplomat and states-
man of Franz Joseph of Austria, Yenizelos,
Curzon, Lloyd George and others of those
who helped to make the War and the Peace.
The writer was ambassador in Paris when
the Fascists started their march on Home.
He resigned in a now famous telegram em-
bodying liis Liberal principles. His assess-
ment of the Fascist movement is of great
interest. Sadism, one of the mainsprings of
his poetic sensuality, was the motive of its
poet D’Annunzio. Mussolini, a socialist,
“came to power with the hazy encyclopaedic
knowledge that every newspaper man has,
and was in good faith convinced that all
the problems about which he had so glibly
decided in liis editorials could easily he
solved.” By the time he had found out his
mistake the Fascists had turned themselves
into a small brutal police force
made up of young men of the middle and lower-middle
classes who find there, some, a satisfaction for their
childish war imagination ; others, a chance for giving
vent to their instincts with impunity; all, a job
that enables them to live without excessive toiling in
a country where, on account of over-population, the
struggle for life is particularly hard. Their strength
lies in that they know the hatred, hidden, but
burning, around them, and that they cannot indulge
in relaxing their grip.
In this book the idealists do more damage
in international politics than the realists.
In his Oriental policy Lloyd George was
swayed by Gladstonian idealism, the fruits
being seen “in Turkey, whence all European
influence has disappeared; in Constantinople,
now a dead city; in Thrace, in Greece, bled
white.” A book well worth reading. It
gives a brilliant picture of how much and
how little personality has had to do with
the present European mess-up.
+
“Guests of the Unspeakable,” Col. Tom
White’s fine story of his three years’ cap-
tivity and escape from the Turks, is to be
translated into modem Greek. The head of
the Greek community in Melbourne read
the book, remembered he was in Constanti-
nople at the time White was imprisoned
there, and interested an Athens publisher.
White’s story will also figure in a symposium
of war escapes being collected by Lowell
Thomas, the American who “ghosted” Law-
rence of Arabia into world-wide fame.
Henry Handel Richardson’s trilogy,
“Richard Mahoney,” “The Way Home” and
“Ultima Thule,” has been published as an
omnibus volume by Heinemann. The Aus-
tralian authoress has at last come into her
own. English and American reviewers are
loud in her praises and the public is also
taking notice—she made more in a month
out of “Ultima Thule” than she earned
from her books in the previous two decades.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M. J.MeC.: The mistake you and a million
more make is in assuming that, when costs of pro-
duction are mentioned, workers’ wages alone are
meant. A few other things affecting production
costs are interest, rent, excessive land values and a
horde of parasites, including many superfluous poli-
ticians, public servants, agents and distributors....
A. 5.8.: Wait till the clouds roll by....Entre N.:
Much obliged. Interesting.... Noel R.: Good,
honest bush yarn; beaten by Short Space out of
Hard Times. .. .Arnold L.; One of its weaknesses
is its stilted conversation.... Adco: Good Lord!
. ...Lancejack: Can’t be done these days... .C.1.C.:
Much obliged. But don’t you think the present
system of dropping the promising beginner an
encouraging line is better? Wail from West:
You can’t cane us; we’ve got an excuse.... Belfast: ■
Good to read. Thanks, Luck ! M.M.1.: Have
to go back. One is weak; the other has been
better done. .. .X.N.: As has been remarked before,
fact is unimportant. Only literary truth matters.
. ...8.U.: A direful item 5.8.5.: “Baby’s Velvet
Cat” returned, marked fragile T.A.8.: Don’t
care for the treatment He-male: No attraction in
“The Third Sex”... .P.T.; Too much of a direct
statement... .Ming: Don’t care for the sound of
the wheels going round in ’em....(hi).; “A Word-
I’icture” fails to win the most convincing word-
picture of all—a cheque... .H.L.W.: A good piece
of ridiculing; but the end’s weak... .S.L.K.: Rather
thin... .Anno: Might place it in an autograph-book
somewhere.... Lorestan: You sound very young....
Lead: Well, it’s your choice of pen-name... .31:
Phew! Smell oil burning somewhere... .M.E.8.:
Not for this market... .E.D.E.: Glad to hear you
are a devout reader of The B. ; but you’ll have to
watch your rhymes Sos: Heavy as a breakfast
of bones. .. .Jakardy: Send her to the offending
mechanic. .. .C.L.A.: You appear to do your wooing
on stilts... .R.H.: Somewhat off the beat... .S.D.C.:
Miss, but the margin is narrow.... P.M.: Some
of it has action, anyway:—
“Where’s the Are ?” gasps girlie, stepping
Out of shop, then madly tears
Crying “God! Oh save my baby!”
Down the street to house that flares.
Straight into inferno dashes,
Staggers out with child, close wrapped.
Unscathed baby snuggles shyly,
Heart stirred crowd cried, cheered and clapped.
Wept and clapped, nigh overwhelmed by
God Almighty’s gracious hand,
Lifting veil, revealing selfless
Mother in every age and land.
. ...P.J.H.: Sorry, but can’t trace yours “of the
7th.” Could you repeat?... .E.L.F.: Rather taken
by the chorus, “800 hoo hoo! 800 hoo hay!”
. ...L.A.S.: Thomson’s “Story of New Zealand”
(1859) is catalogued by booksellers at £3 ; Swain-
son’s “New Zealand and Its Colonisation’’ (1859) at
£1 16s. ; and Dieffenbach’s “Travels in New Zea-
land” (1843) at £3....841: Straight parody needs
to be astoundingly g00d... .F.H.: Work too well
done to be wasted on that thin idea. .. .H.E.M.: No
fancy for the dingo item. .. .M.H.: Forgiven....
Patroclus: Fair as nature study; not bright as
verse.... Rursus: Greetings to one with a sense of
humor, anyway A.E.H.: King Billy dreams far
too much... .D.T.: Some thought in ’em, but treat-
ment is not the best....Al: When that idea was
born Adam went out and cut a bunch of thistles.
... .Habet: You might turn it into an essay for some
newspaper’s magazine section.... E.N.: Idea that all
a cricket team has to do to win is to get enough
runs already patented by a leading broadcaster....
W.J.S.: No tip for “Waiting”... .Gig: Does “sadly 1 ’
rhyme with “madly”? If it does, you’ve got one
right... .R.G.M.: Rhyme about Polly who’s “work-
ing in a beershop” passed on to Religious Editor
for verification. .. .Bellerive: Tell of the stirring
battle between Hart and Tommy Burns: —
Fast, shifty and game
Against Hart’s heavy right,
With science and force
Burns wagered grim fight.
Hart was outclassed
By a rival he’d beat.
A shock to the betters,
Was the favorite’s defeat.
(Next week: “Recollections of Poseidon, Famous
Racehorse .”)
.... J.L.N.: “Quest” ended miserably. ... A.H.N.:
Hadn’t time to give the mariner a sea-burial, so
dumped him in the w.p.b J.A.: It wasn’t worth
writing... .N.Y.: Parsons who lose their pants are
too common in Australian humorous fiction....
G.H.W.: Crude in its present form but capable of
being twisted into a fair yarn... .H.M.L.: Doesn’t
make a story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.: If there’s a chance that they may be placed
elsewhere, they are not noticed, as a rule, lest it
might affect their sale... .A.J.: Have sniffed that
rum-sodden abo.’s breath before... .L.T.: Dispatched
to the Old Jokes’ Home... .C.N.W.: As humorous
as an algebraic formula... .P.J.B 1 .: A disorderly lot
of crooked figures... .F.L.: Horse -resembles a gnu
and its rider a gnome... .W.V.: Blobs floating in
a mist... .D.S.: Worthless... .D.M.: You have a
jaunty line but you’re no jester... .R.Iv.A.: Not a
gloom-chaser among them. .. . 8.M.: A drab bunch.
. ...W.0.: Is that bush parson still finding it hard
to keep his congregation awake ?... .W.8.L.: You're
not out of the morass yet.... C.E.R.: Labored
drawings; pirated jokes. .. .H.H.E.: You’re wasting
your time —and ours.... G.P.; A joke or a pastoral
letter ?.... S IC.; And uncle told you to send it to
us, instead of cutting you out of his will?. .. .T.G.:
Fact that you’re ambidextrous makes you a double
menace to art editors.... F.S.: Sending those crocks
home in an ambulance.... A. F.N.: You can’t entice
us with those bulgy females... .J.M.S.: Decorative
duds.... A.E.: Still plodding along R.8.T.: Wait
till you can draw. ... M.H. G.: Promising E.R.:
Valueless F.A.L.; Look at their arms!


9
mm 1
■
i
llltlsl
ISHI
laiiii
•..
■ :
■
IS
wim
i
■I
■i
-
/
2J
< '• I
m
m
I » 3sgm ;
K /
.. I
■P
K ?
■
m
m
-
M
ill
««*•
d jk? i,
■
3 - :' : . ;
■
li
in
-
ilil
■ ft
ii l ■
■
" J* 5,
>•
«


sretytyutuytsretytyutuyt
Vol. 51. —No. 2654.
December 24, 1930.
COMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON.
“Oh, splendid, splendid! I didn’t think I would be able to give myself a present like that!”


NEW YEAR NUMBER
DECEMBER 31
SPECIAL
HOLIDAY
ISSUE.
Concluding Instalment of Henry
Lawson’s Autobiography will be
published.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21k George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: ltk-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.G.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 108.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Jioute: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . . 18
THE PALETTE 18
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC . . 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. . . .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
SHADOW SHOWS 27
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . . . 28
SPORTING (illustrated) .. . . . . 31, 32, 33
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . . . 34, 36
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 36
FROM CHINA TO PERU 37
AS WE SAID BEFORE 38
Serial, “Break o' Day”—
By John Crisp .. .. ..40, 41, 42
COMPLETE STORY, “EMPTY BOTTLES”—
By Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting. . 29, 42
VERSE—By Alexander Turner, W. M. Fleming,
Harold Mercer .. . . . . 11, 42
Special New Year Number Next Week.
CAUCUS RULE OR PEOPLE’S
RULE?
The Labor Caucus at Canberra is destroy-
ing what little of either faith or hope was
left in Party Government, and is throwing
the last remnant of majority rule overboard.
There had been party meetings and party
discipline long before organised Labor came
into politics; but it was not till then that
the Caucus became an important thing in
Parliamentary life. The organisation of this
party was almost identical in every State.
It had its platform and its pledge; but out-
side the platform it permitted the utmost
freedom of opinion and expression. On the
platform members were, of course, required
to vote unitedly; but there was no harsh
restraint about that, because they knew
all the planks before they set themselves
up as candidates. On only one other occa-
sion were they required to sink their indi-
viduality, and that was when the fate of a
Ministry was at stake. Down to this time
the chief political issue in most Australian
colonies had been between Protection and
Freetrade, and upon this the workers, like
the rest of the community, had been split.
There was no attempt now to dragoon them
on this question; it was made clear that
there was room within the new party for
men of both fiscal faiths. All that was de-
manded of them was that they should put
the Labor platform first and eject either
principal party if they believed more could
be sqqeezed out of the other. Upon this
rock Labor almost came to grief in its first
Parliaments; it was too much to ask lifelong
Freetraders to throw out a Government of
their own faith in order to establish a
protectionist Premier. But the authority of
the Caucus was maintained; and the party
could not have survived without it.
But presently, instead of members of the
party within Parliament having the utmost
freedom on all matters outside the platform
where the fate of a Government was not at
stake, their liberty was gradually taken
from them and vested in the Caucus, until
now in the Federal sphere we have the
Caucus attempting to exercise supreme
authority—authority greater certainly than
that of the Ministry and equal to that of
Parliament itself. The political history of
the past three months has indeed been little
more than the tale of a succession of cabals
and conspiracies within the party to impose
the will of a minority upon the majority
and to compel the Ministry to adopt policies
most distasteful to itself; and the Caucus
has been the chosen ground for these
manoeuvres. The time seems not far off
when we shall have to decide whether we
can permit any—and if so what—dictation
to Ministries aqd interference with their
authority and responsibility. ..
Ministry and Caucus Work each in its own
atmosphere and under its own conditions.
The Ministry works in the public light; its
ear can be reached by the public; it is
surrounded by trained servants, who, if they
are not interested in politics, are at least
concerned with sound administration ahd
safe government. The Caucus, on the other
hand, works in secret; its ear can be reached
only by its own partisans; and it never
hears the views of the other side. If it has
within it an authority on any subject, it
is purely accidental; for Caucus is not
composed of experts, nor will any possible
amount of expert knowledge win a man a
seat in it. On the contrary, this is a place
where Jack’s as good as his master; where
the able man of the party can be brought
to earth by the midgets, and where jealousy
very often urges them to so bring him. But
the most serious feature of all is that de-
cisions are reached not in'the light of all the
circumstances, not after consideration of all
possible objections, but after only the party
view has been put forward. In Parliament
the Government proposes something, and
the Opposition scrutinises it, probably tears
it to pieces; the debate is reported; there
is no subject upon which somebody does
not possess special knowledge, and the press
hears from the specialist, and so something
like wisdom is reached in the end. In
Caucus ignorance is liable to talk to igno-
rance and confirm it in its errors. Further,
a freakish minority may join up with an-
other freakish minority, and they may sup-
port one another, though neither believes in
the other’s freak, but only in its own; so
a proposal approved by a small minority
may become the policy of the majority;
and the majority may impose it upon the
whole party. Thus the freak of eight or
ten members may become the policy of the
Caucus, to be put into force by a Ministry
which may wholly disapprove of it.
Behind every scheme of this sort for
destroying democracy you must look for the
hand of the Communist, the destroyer of
our institutions. It may not always be
there; but if it is not there it is because
somebody else is fool or rogue enough to
do its job for it. Communism will never
win its objectives in either Britain or Aus-
tralia by direct attack; but other methods
will serve its purpose as well if they reach
the same results. In Federal politics we
have lately seen all this well illustrated.
The Ministry, having had the advantage
of discussing the finances of Australia with
the Ministers of all the States and with
the best outside advisers which the occasion
produced, decided upon a certain course.
The Caucus, not having had any of these
advantages, and swayed by men whose
statements could be blown out if they
were made in public, set out to defeat its
own Ministry’s plans. The Ministry had
made the payment of our debts practically
the first plank of its platform. No doubt a
majority in the Labor Caucus are just as
honest as the Ministers who set their hands
to this plan; but, knowing little of eco-
nomics, they have been caught by appeals
to their class consciousness and by glib
schemes for paying debts without the pain-
ful necessity of putting their hands in their
own pockets. So, while crying out against
repudiation, they have been cajoled into
approving things which would inevitably
produce the same results; and the Com-
munist has stood by and probably wondered
whether, after all, fools are not better for
his purpose than rogues.
LABOR AND THE FARMER.
For 20 years I have put all njy savings, and a
fair amount of borrowed money, into a farm which
is now a well-developed 2000-acre proposition. This
year we will strip over 800 acres of wheat, which
must be sold at a loss. My two sons are working
the place, with two hired men. By sacking these
two men, and my sons working for tucker and
smokes, I think we can scramble through 1931,
cutting down our acreage. I hate to do this, as I
quite realise that Australia must produce wheat,
etc., if we want to dodge the bailiff. I want to
do the right thing by these men, and by Australia,
but am not convinced that I should go bankrupt in
doing it. I do not want to make a profit. Can
you advise a way out? —Westralian correspondent.
Australia has been told that it is in no
worse state than most and in a much better
state than many—that it is merely in the
trough of a world-wide depression. This is
not true- We should be in great difficulties
if there were no world-wide depression at
all.
No other country in the world has bor-
rowed on the Australian scale; in the very
years when we were doing it most furiously
and getting the least for our money, most
nations were paying off debt. In the eight
years 1921-28, according to the “Common-
wealth Year Book,” our aggregate “obliga-
tions abroad for interest and services” were
236 millions. We did not pay one single
penny of it. During that period our imports
exceeded our exports by 64 millions; actu-
ally we borrowed every penny we had to
pay in interest and this 64 millions into the
bargain. This, then, is. the problem we
have as our own special aryd exclusive pro-
perty: how to pay over 30 millions a year
interest where for many years we paid
nothing, and how to do it in the teeth of
a smashing fall in the prices of all the things
we have to sell.
It is this foreign debt which complicates
our difficulties so dreadfully. Others —the
U.S.A. and Canada, for example—can
afford to tell their people to grow less
wheat: U.S.A. is a creditor nation, and
Canada’s total debt is less than half of
ours, while its exports are more than twice
as great. Our position nevertheless is not
necessarily hopeless. It is only hopeless if
our exports fall away. Desperately as we
have been hacking at our imports, they
exceeded our exports by £700,000 in the
first four months of the current financial
year. In our shamefully backward state of
agricultural and industrial development
there is a very large schedule of necessaries
with which we are not in a position to
supply ourselves. Many of them are the
raw materials of Australian manufactures.
To pay for these imports and keep our
interest bill square we must be large ex-
porters; and there is nothing but pastoral,
agricultural and mining products that we can
export.
In view of the smashing fall in prices
other countries have been advising their
producers to slacken off production. These
other countries can afford to consider the
welfare of the producers themselves and
they only. We cannot. It is not for their
sake, it is for the nation’s, that they must
be urged to increase their output and their
export. That being so, the nation must
stand behind these producers. And it will
have to move very quickly. Instant action,
however, is difficult, and there are not many
ways in which it can be taken. Yet by a
sales tax on flour, assistance can be rendered
within a few hours. No doubt more than
that will be needed. Costs will have to be
reduced, and not merely labor costs either.
The interest burden is crushing out hundreds
of farmers: that, too, is a problem which
will have to be faced.
Thus far we have done just nothing to
help: all we have done has had the effect
of increasing costs, and making the position
more difficult. Yet if something substanti-
ally helpful is not done promptly there is
not the shadow of a doubt we shall not be
able to pay our bills overseas. That is the
position we have to face. It is not merely
a matter of keeping these farmers on the
land. It is a matter of preventing a national
crash. There is a section of Labor which
says, “Shall I be any worse off even if
that happens?” Well, we have had only
one financial smash in Australia, and that
was merely a sort of private affair. For
years afterwards the skilled tradesman who
got £3 a week and the unskilled workman
who got 6s. a day thought themselves for-
tunate. It is no use saying that times
have changed—that that was before Labor
unions got to work. Labor unions can
secure and have secured a fairer distribution
of wealth that exists. They cannot secure
a fairer distribution of wealth that does not
exist. Their one hope for the immediate
future is to join with the rest of the com-
munity in increasing production and wealth;
and- the most obvious way to do this is by
keeping the farmer on his farm.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Little Christmas Sermon.
John R. Raylxes, in his monumental “Coal
and Its Conflicts,” written mainly from
the Labor point of view, discussed that old
abomination child labor in mines. “But,”
he asked, “who brought them into the
mines? Their fathers. And why? Because
they could get lOd. a day 'easy money’ for
minding a door, and because their fathers
said 'the sooner they start the better work-
men they make.’ ” And he added that the
better the father’s wages the more anxious
he was to get his boy an early start.
Within these last few years the world has
developed a new social hate propaganda.
It is not fair to lay the whole blame for it
on the shoulders of the Labor and Com-
munist preachers of class consciousness. The
English country poor in particular were
taught to pray: “God bless the squire and
his relations And keep us in our proper
stations.” Class consciousness was a good
thing when it taught the “lower class” to
be humble and submissive; it was only
when it began to teach the same class to
be grasping and truculent that it became
bad.
T 6 teach and preach that there is a deep
gulf fixed between mankind is, and always
was, a monstrous perversion. All men are
much the same ; no “class” has a monopoly
of either the good or bad, the selfish or
unselfish. There probably never was a time
indeed when the vast majority of men were
not doing what they honestly believed to
be the best thing for their neighbors. And
there probably are to-day among what are
called the employing class as large a propor-
tion of honest well-wishers of the em-
ployees as there are among the employees
themselves.
At this time of year we are by custom
called upoh to radiate goodwill: it is the
time for inward searching to discover pre-
judices that lead on to warped thoughts and
wry conclusions. We might profitably
employ some of these moments of search-
ing to discover, if possible, how far we
are misjudging men’s motives. They may
be doing something quite wrong; but they
may be doing it with the best intentions in
the world. It does not of course follow that
they ought not then to be resisted; the
results of a ■ bad action done- in ignorance
will be just as bad as. if it were done
with open eyes. But personal enmity pre-
vents us judging between the bad and the
good, and we often embrace the bad because
the good is associated with one whose
motives we have been taught to mistrust.
Too often, no doubt, there is cause to
mistrust. We are surrounded by hired advo-
cates and paid propagandists. They sing
their songs of hate because those are the
songs that butter their bread. We ought to
resolve to beware especially of these. They
are the enemies of goodwill, of co-operation.
They are the arch-enemies of reform, be-
cause they cultivate hate, and so far from
hate righting wrongs it is the most pro-
lific breeder of them.
“I am sick and tired,” John Haynes, the
Labor sympathiser, wrote, “of hearing men
denounce 'the capitalists’ for putting little
children into the mines to exploit their
young lives.” For when the truth is told
it was, he says, the fathers earning big
money who took them there so that the
lads might the sooner earn big money, too.
It may not excuse the owners; but it shows
how unreasonable hate may be and how
evil things cannot always safely be charged
to evil motives.
♦
The Two New High Court Judges.
The worst that can be said about the two
new appointments to the High Court is
that they are made by a Labor Government
largely of the modern class-conscious type.
There is no question either that Ministers
sought out for the positions men who, so
far as their political preferences may color
their judgment at all, will lean towards the
Labor view. But, after all, almost every
Man —certainly every man fit for a Judge’s
chair—must have some political preferences.
The great Chief Justice Griffith stepped
straight out of the political arena, in which
he had been a partisan of the most deter-
mined type, into the office of Chief Justice
of Queensland, and filled it with such great
success that there was no question about
his outstanding fitness for the High Court
Chief Justiceship when that office was
created. There could be no more complete
political partisan than William Irvine, of
Victoria—“lceberg” Irvine of his Parlia-
mentary days. There could be no more
judicially-minded Judge.
That Labor adherents and sympathisers
have not shown themselves in consider-
able numbers capable of a similar surrender
to the judicial office is simply due to the
fact that very few Labor adherents
and known Labor sympathisers have thus
far won to conspicuous places at the Bar.
There is no visible reason, however, why
they should not be capable of complete sur-
render. Queensland affords an example in
Justice Brennan. A Labor Minister at
the moment of his call to the E»ench, there
was an outcry, for which there seemed a
good deal of justification, that neither his
political nor his legal training fitted him for
a judicial post. Yet his appointment turns
out to have been one of the best made
in Queensland in this generation.
To look only outside politics for Judges,
on the ground that the men in political life
will bring prejudices to their job, is bad for
two reasons: in the first place you do not
avoid the prejudices, and in the second
you are in danger of punishing people for
trying to do a public service. These young
men, Dr. Evatt and Mr. McTiernan, for
example, are certainly to be commended
for having responded to what they believed
to be the call of public duty. We want
such men: our constant complaint is that
they will not come forward. And when they
do come forward, while we are not entitled
to reward them with judicial appointments
for political services, we are certainly not
entitled to allow their political services to
be a bar to a judicial appointment.
It may be that there are at the moment
a few greater lawyers in practice in Aus-
tralia than these two. But there are none
who stand higher for either probity or in-
dustry. There certainly is none with the
promise of a more brilliant career than Dr.
Evatt, and the country that can secure his
services at his age, with the large financial
sacrifice that it involves, may regard itself
as exceedingly fortunate.
♦
A State Lottery and the Churches.
Finding the hospitals very hard up and
additional taxation difficult, the Lang Gov-
ernment proposed a State lottery after the
pattern of the eminently successful Golden
Casket in Queensland. Immediately there
was a protest from the Council of the
Churches, which presently found itself man-
oeuvred into accepting a challenge to rake
together the money itself. With the back-
ing of the Government, it has now entered
upon the task.
There was no obligation on the churches
to raise this money; and the council should
never have put them into the position of
risking an ignominious failure. And the
risk of such a failure is tremendous: for
the churches are not organised for raising
quick half-millions, even for religious pur-
poses, and are none the worse on that
account. Moreover, this is not a cause which
appeals to an overwhelming number of church
adherents. Of gambling a majority
disapprove; and one does not have to be an
attendant at church or chapel to do that.
Indeed, gambling is less an offence against
religion than against economics. But there
are grades of the offence even then; and it
is quite posssible to take a money risk
without committing any offence at all,
either religious or economic. Every religious


LANG’S CHRISTMAS TREE.
“In order to provide means for redeeming its election promises, the Lang Government is increasing the unemployment relief tax to Is. in the £ on wages and salaries,
and is looking around for other sources of revenue.”
SMALL BOYS: “When are you going to give us all the nice things you promised us, Santa?”
SANTA LANG: “Sh—sh! You’ll get them the minute I can nick them from the other tree.”
sect itself takes a chance and wishes it
could do it oftener; it undertakes the train-
ing of students for the ministry, to find out
presently that it was money well spent in
one case and wasted in another.
If we dug. deep enough we should find
that the basic reason of the opposition of
certain churches to all gambling was that it
comes into competition with the Church as a
purveyor of hope. They saw in the sweep
or the wager something that a man would
look forward to, something on which he
would build his thoughts of happiness, some-
thing that would distract him from those
hopes which the churches offered. But the
churches can no longer maintain that atti-
tude, even subconsciously, without tremen-
dously handicapping themselves. As _ a
matter of fact, they have been casting
off their garments of gloom for many years
past; to see that, one has only to compare
the frowning conventicle which Dr. Lang
built a century ago in Sydney with the smil-
ing edifice that has now taken its place on
Church Hill. It may be that the rulers of
the churches in those dark days did the wise
thing in surrounding their creeds and ser-
vices with gloom, pierced only by the hope
of heavenly happiness. Man must have
something to live for, and there was then
little attainable happiness in this world,
apart from practices of which no church
could approve. But the inventions of man
have made vast stores of happiness avail-
able to the working man and woman of to-
day. It is therefore no longer necessary to
teach them that unhappiness is a necessary
preparation for the promised happiness here-
after. And therefore it is no longer neces-
sary, and The Bulletin believes no longer
prudent, for the churches to set their faces
against every form of prize-winning. As
citizens their members may well declaim
against the multiplication of race meetings;
they may well point to the crime to which
the betting craze so often leads. But, as
members of churches, they might consider
whether these public lotteries are in essence
any more sinful than unproductive sand-
shifting, or any of the thousand other un-
economic things we do.
*
Will the Taxpayer Stand It?
“Our intention is to give preference to
unionists throughout the State,” said Lang
in the N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly the other
day, “and to restore arbitration rights to
civil servants.” “And their salaries?” Bavin
asked. “Yes, all their salaries,” the Premier
replied, and his followers cheered.
There are roughly 22,000 State civil ser-
vants in addition to railwaymen, trammies
and construction workers, and before Bavin
took one-twelfth off their salaries per-
manent officers averaged £336 17s. 6d. p.a.
They get a five-day week, annual leave,
“long” leave and (in certain cases) family
endowment, and in 10 years £3,338,300 of
tax money has been paid into their super-
annuation fund. Last year’s contribution
was reduced to £136,400, but the Auditor-
General suggests that this wasn’t nearly
enough; and when Lang was in office before,
he weighed in with £696,100 in one year,
asserting that the fund had been starved.
The Government railway employees
number 41,300 —or did at the end of June—
and the tramway employees 10,500. They
are all to get the 44-hour week again (“with
pay for 48 hours,” as Minister Muddley ex-
plains), although rationing is to go on.
The railway- and tramway-men have a sup-
erannuation fund for which the taxpayers
had to find £136,000 last year, the thing being
virtually insolvent. An amount of £90,500
was also debited against the taxpayers
(£74,500 in respect of railwaymen) for
family endowment. In the same year there
was a loss on the railways of £3,556,000,
which will have to be made up by the tax-
payers (all except £BOO,OOO, which was
found in advance), and the tramways con-
tributed a deficit of £385,000 on their own
account.
The rail and tram hands have their own
unions, nearly all political, and their own
spokesmen among the Labor Assemblymen.
There is also a Crown Employees’ Protec-
tion Committee, which claims to speak for
23,000 Government masters, and which gave
a “victory social,” whereat the Honorary
Minister in the Leg. Council stated that
he was the first direct representative of civil
servants in any Government. It was
asserted last week that the Crown Em-
ployees’ Protection Committee had arranged
with the Government not to press for the
repeal of the Salaries’ Reduction Act. This,
however, was contradicted by Mr. Mc-
Guinness, of the Teachers’ Federation—an
important body politically, for before the
cut there were 11,551 teachers, 6593 of them
women, who received £3,225,460 in salaries,
though many of them were minors and
part-timers. “The Government,” said Mr.
McGuinness, “will repeal the Act by April.”
And so the Government may—if it is satis-
fied that the people have no kick left in
them. But on that point there may be some
surprises pending; certainly Governments
will have to take into account the pos-
sibility of passive resistance on a vast scale.
*
Law Appeals in New Guinea.
“Herbertshoe” : It is doubtful if the Per-
manent Mandates Commission at Geneva
did realise accurately the conditions pre-
vailing in the New Guinea Mandated Ter-
ritory, even though the professional politi-
cian, Coleman, M.H.R., was guided by
the Territory’s official anthropologist, Chin-
nery, as described by “Mandateite” (B.
10/12/’3O). In his special sphere Mr. Chin-
nery’s qualification to speak with authority
is beyond dispute. Whether he is as well
in touch with the white man’s end of the
burden is another matter. If he had been
he would hardly have permitted Coleman
to tell that great native administrator Lord
Lugard, who asked if there was any chance
of establishing a court of appeal in the
Territory, that
The right of appeal to the High Court of Australia
ia regarded as of great value. Persons resident in
the Territory might object if the right were removed
and a new appeal court established.
In cold truth, there is, save in theory, no
court of appeal for private persons in Man-
dated New Guinea. It is true a petition
for leave to appeal to the High Court may
be lodged. But this must be backed with
pnnted copies of the evidence in support to
enable the High Court Judges to decide
whether the appeal should be allowed, a
procedure which costs from £2OO to £3OO.
On leave to appeal being granted, counsel
must be briefed, and the expenses of appel-
lants and witnesses to Australia paid out of
pocket. A mild estimate of the cost of it
all would range between £IOOO and £2OOO,
plus costs in the suit in the event of the
appeal not being upheld. There are not
many private citizens in the Territory
to-day able to face such a hurdle.
♦
A S’African War of Tongues.
Prime-Minister Hertzog mightily surprised
South Africa last week by calling on his
Dutch-Nationalist supporters to forget their
dreams of a rebirth of the Boer Republics,
Stupefaction was added when he further
asserted that his political life would in
future be devoted to fusing Briton and Boer
into an Afrikander nation within the
Empire.
The conversion of the once irreconcilable
Judge-General may be genuine. Years and
experience have possibly mellowed his out-
look. Yet Hertzog will probably find his
toughest opponents in his own ranks. This
is indicated in a circular recently issued,
which sets out the aims of the Federation
of Afrikaans Culture Association.
Afrikaans is an artificial language built
up in the last 20 years on a basis of the Low
Dutch of Holland and the Taal—the latter
that amazing gibberish which is still the
lingua jranca of Briton, Boer and Kaffir in
South Africa. In spite of attempts to get
him to adopt it, the Boer has always refused
to speak Low Dutch, and since the primitive
Taal had become a scorn, the Afrikaans
compromise was adopted. It ranks with
English as an official language throughout
the Union.
The circular referred to calls on all mem-
bers of the association to speak Afrikaans
always; English only when unavoidable,
Accounts, circulars, catalogues and similar
documents and publications must not be
accepted unless drawn up bilingually, or in
Afrikaans only, those couched in English
only to be refused. Cheque-books, de-
posit forms, bankbooks and other docu-
ments of the kind in Afrikaans must be de-
manded from the banks. Telephone num-
bers must be asked for in the same lan-
guage, and if the operator is unable to
understand, he or she must be reported as
inefficient. In any transaction, private or
official, inquiries must be couched in
Afrikaans and replies in English ignored.
It may be that this campaign does not
truly represent Dutch-Nationalist feeling
to-day; if it does, Hertzog’s fight for racial
fusion will be long and bitter.
_
Disadvantages of Being a Husband.
£> EAR Bulletin—Fifteen years ago there
wag an article under the pent-name of “Anti-
snuffle” similar to that appearing in The
Bulletin of December 3, written by Mr.
Blacket. My article, differing from the con-
clusions come to by “Anti-Snuffle,” was
t h en published by you, wherein I contended
t h a t a husband was not liable for a wife’s
tort j n n. s. Wales—and he is probably,
not so liable in other States of Australia-
so that the husband who has married the
j a d y 0 f poo r eyesight and a fancy for break-
j ng a fl spee d records, -leading to her
running over and killing a pedestrian, is
quite safe from being sued in tort by the
pedestrian’s widow—at least, successfully.
I regret having to join issue with such a
redoubtable opponent as Mr. Blacket, but
do so to save the pedestrian’s widow from
fruitless litigation; and also to relieve the
reckless lady’s husband from having any
more anxiety on the matter. Thp reckless
lady having wealth, however, would do well
to settle any action that may be brought
against her on her own account to save
further trouble, for, although her husband is
not liable for her torts, she is liable for
her own.
The accusation by the friend (so called)
of Mrs. X, that Mrs. X finds long sleeves
convenient when playing cards, does not,
therefore, render such friend’s husband liable
for damages in any action for slander. Mr.
Blacket should not be frightening the
friend’s husband in this manner. It is not
fair to him or Mrs. X either, for the
friend’s husband might on the strength
of Mr. Blacket’s article quite unnecessarily
“cough up” money he could ill afford to lose
these hard times in order to compensate for
his wife’s delinquencies, when he had no
need to do so; or Mrs. X might pursue
the friend’s husband at law, only to foot
a heavy bill for costs at the end of an ex-
pensive and abortive law suit.
Mr. Blacket’s comments doubtless have
been based on the English decisions, accord-
ing to which a husband is still liable for his
wife’s torts. This was so held in “Cuenod
v. Leslie,” a King’s Bench Division case, a
finding dissented from by Lord Fletcher
Moulton. Our High Court Judges at the
time (Griffith, C.J., and O’Connor and
Isaacs, J.J.) in the case of “Brown v. Hollo-
way,” expressly adopted the reasoning of
Lord Moulton in “Cuenod v. Leslie,” so
that husbands of wives with long tongues or
who drive motor-cars may rise up and call
those Judges blessed, and will not, I am
sure, begrudge the Chief Justice his well-
merited promotion to the peerage.—Yours,
etc., -H.-M. Wragge. -


£8
A- A
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from, men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
St.Cecree
B§s
i
m
* v - £'J.
fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fish,
unique m flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
ry i . ot. Lieorge Canned Whitebait will give you 8
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
VI NE AND STEVENSON'S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST* GEORGE Delicacies
POLITICAL
POINTS
Suggested text for Australia for 1931: “In
all labor there is profit; but the talk of the
lips tendeth only to penury.” —Proverbs
xiv, 23.
The 28-million loan had not closed before
some of the subscribers began to wonder
whether they hadn’t had it “put over them.”
Just before the last application was received
Forde, Acting-Minister for Customs, said that
he disapproved of the “pegging” of foreign
exchange and wanted it free; and he hinted
that he wasn’t the only Minister who felt
like that. The effect of the unpegging and
the lifting of the rate to 25 p.c.—the figure
talked about —will be to push up prices in
Australia; in other words, the 6 p.c. interest
on the new loan will not be worth more
than about 5 p.c. was when the loan was
floated. Of course, it isn’t repudiation ; but
the good patriots who subscribed to the loan
will be rooked all the same.
The banks took the very unusual course of
addressing the people of Australia last week,
telling them that unless the Governments
“balance their budgets and reduce costs” the
banks won’t be able to pay the civil servants,
or, if they do, private clients will have to
be abandoned. If the latter happens there
must be “a vast increase of unemployment
and of Government expenditure in relief
thereof.” It seems that the banks told the
Governments this months ago, but they have
taken no notice; and how 7 the people can
bring pressure to bear on them the banks
don’t suggest now. Most of the trouble
arises from the one simple'fact that Govern-
ments-; —mostly Labor —are making a struggle
to maintain wages and “conditions of living”
under conditions which simply won’t admit
of it; and unfortunately few have the pluck
or tne honesty to say so.
THE POLITICIANS AND THE PUBLIC.
The economy session at Canberra, which
reduced the cost of government by £40,000
p.a. (one per cent, of what was promised)
and increased the taxpayer’s burden by mil-
lions, closed m disorder. One of its last
achievements was a bill guaranteeing 3s. a
bushel f.o.b. for wheat without finding the
money, that matter being left in a threaten-
mg fashion to the Commonwealth Bank;
then, without warning, and in defiance of the
Tariff Boards recommendation, an export
duty of id per pound was clapped on “sheep-
skins in the wool. In the result (1) private
buying of wheat has ceased, and the farmers
don’t know where they are ; (2) France,
which takes more than half the woolled
sheepskins we send abroad (the value is
about £4,500,000 p.a.), is threatening re-
taliation, and the Westralian pastoralists are
pointing out despairingly that there are no
fellmongers in their State. Caucus controls
the Ministry, and for the time being has
superseded Parliament, but it is not govern-
ing. It is merely floundering—stumbling
from one desperate expedient to another.
Lang’s Christmas present to the N.S.W.
workers was a tax of a shilling in the nound
on their earnings: There were also a Win
njng Bets Taxation Bill, which taxes the
stake as well as the win ; and a Moratorium
Bill, from which the State Savings Bank, the
biggest mortgagee in Sydney, is excluded;
and a Landlord and Tenant Bill, which
will make it impossible for small house-
fcolders to pay Federal Labor’s special tax
Oi. Is. bd. in the pound on property income;
and a Forty-four Hour Week Bill, which,
according to the egregious Badly, will “in-
crease employment,” though its immediate
cnect ( ‘rationing” being prohibited except
in the case of Government departments and
tlie like) is to threaten thousands of shop
and factory hands with the loss of the
little work they have been getting. All these
measures were passed practically as drafted,
the Leg. Council meekly assisting (its fate
has yet to be decided by the Full Court or
, e ,V lv y Council), and the lawyers are
chuckling and rubbing their hands.
Anstey and his fanatical friend Beasley
still raise their voices in the Caucus and
the Cabinet, and wherever anybody else will
listen, that all would be lovely in the garden
if somebody or other would “release credits.”
But who is stopping the banks from “releas-
ing credits” ? Two years ago the Common-
wealth Bank had whips of resources, and so
it has still. But these millions are what
the financier calls “frozen” ; that is to say,
the credit has been used to pay the Govern-
ment’s debts, and the resources are now
represented by Government paper of one
sort and another. The other banks have
been caught the same way; in their address
to the public last week they said that over
70 millions had been advanced during the
past three years, and that the Governments
had had 51 millions of it —31 millions in
London. Seventy millions is a pretty con-
siderable credit to “release,” and the public
could have had the lot if the politicians
hadn’t hopped in first.
In Queensland from the first of January
railway freight rates on wool, cattle anil
horses, reduced by 10 p.c. last April, are
to come down another 24 p.c., and “greasy”
consigned to Queensland scours is to be car-
ried for 25 p.c. less. So the Moore Gov-
ernment has some consideration for the
pastoralist, if the authors of the export duty
on sheepskins haven’t.
Just when it seemed highly probable that
the Unemployment Relief Bill would be
the end of the Hogans (Vic.) the Opposi-
tion called off the fight. Under pressure from
interests which consider that Hogan and his
Ministers are setting a good example as
financiers, to other Australian Governments
(as indeed they are), Argyle suggested a con-
ference of all parties to find a way out
Hogan agreed, and the result was a com-
promise. Now the basic wage is to be the
standard for relief work married men are
to get preference, and single men are to
be accommodated in camps, while the special
tax on incomes—already heavily hit—is to
g 0 up 150 per cent, instead of 300 per cent,
One effect of the arrangement was to make
the unattached Glowrey and Gray, who had
supported Hogan, and'McLachlan, who had
c kmg to the Opposition, quite unimportant
fellows,
f One curious feature of the current demand
or inflation is that two sections join in the
cry 033 e the most militant brand of Labor,
tlle other some of the wool- and wheat-
gf°wers. It is the queerest partnership ever
formed. The explanation, of course, is that
the militants want the squatter to get more
his wool so that they can take it from
P iai ’ . and the squatter goes on agitating for
* ° f What iS g ° ing
to bappe33 when he »ets it.
So many of Cleary’s men were put off in
1929-30, and so many others retired on pen-
sions, _ that the harried - N.S.W. Railways
Commissioner had to dig up £136,500 for
superannuation. The fund was started in
1910 with the bright political idea that a
deduction of 14 p.c. from each employee’s pay
would suffice, with an occasional small Gov-
ernment grant, for all pensions and retiring
allowances; but in the tenth year the Gov-
ernment had to sweeten it with £48,750, and
last year’s £136,500 is far from being the
limit; “the amount of the subsidy,” Cleary
says, “will continue to grow and in a few
years will be very great.” He mentions a
case in which a man who contributed three
shillings altogether has been drawing £132 p.a.
for 20 years; “and there are many similar
cases,” he moans. Really, it was much plea-
santer managing a brewery.
Like The Bulletin, Winneke, J., thinks
that incomes and taxes paid on them should
be made known, as civil-service salaries are;
publication would be a check on cheats,
from people like the Abrahams brothers down,
and annual lists would be sure of a ready
sale. But the paper is not so confident as
the judicial chairman of the Vic. Railways
Classification Board seems to be that the
reform is sure to come, and soon. The S.
Aus. Auditor-General complains in his
annual report that even he is not allowed
to inspect State income-tax files, though he
gives four reasons (and could find a dozen)
why he should be; and the Ma State’s man,
John Spence, is in the same position.
Neither inflation nor deflation will put a
penny on to the country’s revenue nor add
a farthing to its wealth. All inflation can do
is to make a few people in this country a bit
richer at the expense of other people in this
country. At the moment it is the farmer
who thinks he would benefit from inflation;
and it is not at all certain that he would
benefit a farthing. He certainly would not
get a farthing more from the foreign
buyer for his wheat or his wool; all that
would happen is he would be able to change
the foreign money into more Australian
pounds. He might thus gain at the expense
of his mortgagee; but even that is doubtful.
Certainly wages, freights and every other
movable charge would go up and take his
extra pounds from him.
Bondy Iloare, stipendiary president of the
Northern (N.S.W.) miners, took the chance
offered by the unveiling of a monument to
the young man who was shot at Rothbury
to ask the crowd “to swear over the grave of
a dead comrade” that it. would work for
the, overthrow of a social system which
conaemns members of the working class to
penury. But Bondy is as usual less than
ialt right. The social system was steadily
supplying the working class on Maitland
tbl 1 ™ < j ltor " cars anc * might have supplied
them all only a few men promoted strikes
and lockouts, and introduced the darg and
other inventions of the Devil, and ruined the
export trade, and desolated the field. The
social system wouldn’t fail if it didn’t pay
the Bondy Hoares to make a failure of it
Tbpro o Ipccp,, r • vrr .
rolinn and 4mith a, i nl . in
on Tim TWh ?™ S JL° r
„ ’ _ In -PW7SO a
Adelaide Gov-
dnL
' rrmirtc a T t 0
® has 160,000 more
a lfu a Sl * tb t l , e
p r U tbe racmg ’ West-
ibirti w i tot;e . re y <! ( nu ®~ , m ar ty a
t| 33rd F' Wales receipts (£106,100),
though it punts on a milder scale. The
™ ain . , is that it provides
straightout and place machines,_ instead
of restricting the public to a device that
is neither one thing nor the other. “Straight-
out,” “place” and “doubles” totes (very suc-
cessful in Britain and South Africa) would
give Lang a great deal more revenue, and
they wouldn’t rob the Government or the
punter.
Dr. Page, his latest:—
If we were to offer Britain the Australian market
in machinery and tools of trade, by saying we would
not tax their machines by way of Customs duties,
we would be able to negotiate for the placing of
dumping duties against foreign surpluses of wheat
and staples which compete unfairly with our products
on the English market.
The September Summary of Australian
Statistics, referring to “metal works, machin-
ery, etc.,” says that the value “added by pro-
cesses of manufacture” in 1928-29 was
£35,709,422. Australia must not only offer
to wreck all this but must offer to offend
all other nations by shutting out their
“machinery and tools of trade.” Some fairly
bright men have just been trying to make a
much more reasonable bargain with the Brit-
ish Government and have been turned down
with scorn. It doesn’t seem likely that the
doctor with his ridiculous proposition would
get a hearing.
They have different ideas about it in
Holland, at the moment the most prosperous
country in Europe. If a man falls out of
work he is given a certain number of days’
grace to find a job ; and he isn’t hampered
by any Piddington awards in looking for it.
If he hasn’t found the job when his days of
grace expire he is l put to work on the dykes;
and the wages are not enough to make him
want to stay there. So the average time
spent on this Dutch equivalent of an Aus-
tralian sandshifting job is about 11 days.
Australian taxes are accumulating at such
a rate that even politicians begin to fear
that they have overdone them. Price, M.11.R.
for Boothby (S.A.), asked the Acting-
Treasurer how many there were, and
Lyons replied that at the moment there
were five taxes on entertainments, seven land
taxes, seven lots of estate duties, and thirteen
income taxes (including five for unemploy-
ment-relief and one, in Westralia, for hos-
pitals), besides customs and excise duties and
the sales tax—the subject of Mr. Ewing's
serial story. Westralian Premier Mitchell
suggests a conference on the subject, and
Lyons says he is willing. There is no reason
—save the cussedness and imbecility of poli-
ticians—why the Commonwealth should not
take incomes for its province and leave land
values (save in Federal territory), entertain-
ments and dead men’s property to the States,
Australia needs new industries, and lots of
them, but it has a very poor chance of get-
ting them while taxation is so oppressive,
confused, capricious and uncertain,
kol : A want that is wanted above
fh e average is a large-sized jury consisting
of an odd number of jurymen (15 is a fair
number) and the acceptance of a majority
verdict. The system by which the 12 jury-
men must be unanimous in order to secure
a conviction, while one bribed or terrorised
• piror can han 8 the case up for a new trial,
and another such juror can hang it up at
the new trial, and so on till the prosecution
f s dropped, is supported with enthusiasm by
the hoodlum who has money and possibly
a push behind him, and it provides a living
f° r sharks who understand the art of jury-
fixing if they they know little else. It has
created a speciai criminal class of inter-
mediaries. There is much less difficulty in
bribing or terrorising one juror to ensure
a disagreement than eight to secure an
acquittal. The rottenness of the N.S.W.
method has been exposed often enough.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clifford Snook”: The recent record fog-
in the south of England and some adjacent
parts of the Continent was probably due
to the presence of an unusually dead and
protracted, calm acting on the breath and
cigarette smoke of far too many hurhans.
There being absolutely nothing to shift this
EVIDENCE ON A PEEL.
“But, Mr. Jacobson, you shouldn’t judge any woman by what
she wears.”
"I don’t. I wait for further disclosures.”
debris, it accumulated and formed a miser-
able and murky mattress 1000 ft. thick (a
balloon was sent up in London to take
soundings), and if a breeze hadn’t arisen it
might have become a mile deep, with par-
tially-suffocated humanity wandering round
like crabs at the bottom. The good ship
England is loaded below the Plimsoll mark
with passengers nowadays—with far more of
them than it ever had before. Some of
these days a bad British fog will be put in
bales by some unscrupulous person and
passed off as wool, or cut into slices and
sold as cheese.
# $
“Bumpkin”: In Melbourne a number, of
citizens, in some cases with their families,
have taken to living on the Yarra,. The
mooring fee for any sort of boat is only
five shillings a year, which compares favorably
with rents on shore, even in these hard
times. Some of the residents of det. com.
launches have engines in their dwellings, so
they are enabled to indulge in a change of
sc-enery when required. There are some
lovely, willow-drenched reaches in the Yarra
where the absence of dust, motor-horns,
neighbors’ loud-speakers, hawkers and poten-
tial burglars is in sharp contrast to the aver-
age suburban street. Other floating villas
are mere shells, the hulls having been
purchased for a song; nevertheless, some
of them are fitted up inside most com-
fortably. The river population hasn’t yet
reached the proportions of Canton’s, so the
attention of Parliament has not yet been
drawn to it. In Perth many years ago a
few people started living in houseboats on
the Swan, but a by-law soon squashed them,
allegedly in the cause of msthetie beauty
but actually in the interests of apartment-
house keepers ashore.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A young member of one of
S.A.’s best-known families has obtained his
divorce, for what Chief Justice Murray
called an “almost incredible” case. His
counsel cheerfully admitted that in 1928,
being unhappily married, the husband offered
his wife a handsome settlement if she would
furnish him with “formal evidence” —the
usual double hotel bill without actual mis-
conduct. But it came to nothing, and the
pair went on living together. A year later
the lady took up with a woodcarter,
and the evidence given of .all-night orgies was
so lurid that the Court viewed them as some-
thing quite apart from the previous proposi-
tion, and told the petitioner that his former
“conducive” conduct might be forgotten.
* * * *
“Sol Malaprop”: In New York, where the
present average is three murders per day—
on'e before each meal—all sorts of curious
things happen. A recent event was a
brawl in a cathedral, the Bishop in the pulpit
being verbally assaulted by a Judge or ex-
Judge in the pit or orchestra stalls. The
Judge belongs to a large crowd which holds
that young couples should live together ex-
perimentally for five years before marriage—•
either the same couple all the time, or dif-
ferent couples if the first pair get tired of
each other every month or two and make a
new shuffle of the cards. At the end of five
years they, or the two who remain after
many shuffles, are to marry officially unless
they have become so used to the unofficial
union that they prefer it. There are to be
no children during the five experimental
years, they being either prevented or
abolished, and by the end of that time the
desire to give birth to a future President of
the U.S.A. will possibly have died away, and
the U.S.A. will have to get along without him.
The Judge explained this arrangement to
the Bishop at the top of his voice during the
sermon till he was dragged out and charged
with making a disturbance. Then the con-
gregation stood up and cheered the Bishop
till its voice gave out, and to .finish up it
probably passed a vote of confidence in the
dozen apostles and allowed business to pro-
ceed. It was all in the best Hollywood style.
* -v * *
“Olor”: Some hungry person—at all
events hunger was
his plea—was fined
ten bob for shoot-
ing a black swan
on .one of Sydney’s
suburban fens the
other day, and one
of the dailies ven-
tured the assertion
that the bird would
taste nearly as
good as turkey. I
remember sampling
one, in the days
when they were as
plentiful in parts
of Westralia as
they are now
scarce; it was
palatable enough,
but nothing to
write home about.
On the table, how-
ever, it doubtless
has the white swan
of Europe beat.
Nobody eats the
latter nowadays; it
is curious to recall
that its coarse, oily
and full-flavored
flesh was esteemed
a dish for a king in
mediaeval times.
Tastes change with
the centuries, of
course, but the
swan may have
been popular with
the banqueters of
the Middle Ages
for the same reason
that made certain
rare and decorative
birds much prized
by Roman epicures,
regardless of their
intrinsic merits.
The boar’s head
still survives in
certain Oxford col-
leges in the Christ-
mas season as a
sort of tradition,
but the larded swan
of our remote an-
cestors has long
gone by the board
on which it once made a brave show.
* * * *
“Bouragi” : A unique ceremony took place
at Port Moresby the other day. Gover-
nor Murray presented to two Papuan sea-
men the money subscribed by the white in-
habitants in recognition of their devoted
bravery in saving the wife of Resident-Magis-
trate Berge when the launch carrying the
Berge party was capsized in' the Gulf of
Papua, and all the . others, including Berge
and his children, were drowned, as well as 13
natives. The two “boys,” with Mrs. Berge,
were 18 hours in the heavy seas, but stuck to
their task until land was reached. Each is
to get the Royal Humane. Society’s medal in
addition, the first ever granted to non-
Europeans.
“X.S.”: A new form of burgling has been
perfected by an enterprising woman in Mel-
bourne. She calls on the suburban house-
wife, states that she comes from a baby
health centre, and requests to be introduced
to the latest pride of the family, incidentally
remarking that there
will be no fee. The
flattered mother takes
her into the bedroom
to see the offspring,
and is presently sent
away to prepare some-
thing in the kitchen.
After the kindly visi-
tor has departed it is
usually found that
something of value is
also missing. The
advice which Miss'
Sikes gives mothers in
POINTS OF VIEW.
MABEL: “You know, Freddy, you’re mother’s favorite among all her sons-in-law.”
FREDDY: “Yes. Rotten luck, isn’t it?”
return for what she can steal is perfectly
sound, which suggests that she has .been
connected with an infant-welfare institution
at some time in her career
* * * *
“Proponent”: A Sydney magistrate
brought confusion on himself the other day
by reproving a Scottish witness who uplifted
his right hand to be sworn, in his country’s
fashion. ’S Washup was opining irritably
that the witness’s inspiration came from
Hollywood rather than the Land of Cakes
when a Scottish solicitor in court intervened
and set him straight. One may be fairly
familiar with English legal process and yet
know little about the law and its administra-
tion in Scotland. As was pointed out to
the beak in this case, not only does the
Scots witness take the oath with hand up-
lifted, but the person administering it, in-
variably the presiding magistrate or the
Judge, also stands with raised hand. The
practice is much more dignified and impres-
sive than the casual gabble of a policeman
or tipstaff followed by the perfunctory kiss-
ing of a doubtfully clean court Bible.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: I see that ten black carriage
horses have been shipped from Sydney to the
order of my friend the Susuhunan of Sura-
karta, Java. I say friend, though I must
confess that I have never been within 100
feet of the potentate. That is the closest
even a European, at least of my plebeian
rank, can get to this terrestrial divinity. For
a native to approach without crawling on
his hams would mean sudden death —not at
the hands of the public executioner but by
the power of the daulat, or active principle,
which hedges a Javanese king. Within the
walls of his Majesty’s Kraton, which har-
bors 10,000 people, an unpleasant skin
disease smites the impious person who wears
a sarong of the royal yellow, a kris of the
royal pamor or an umbrella of the royai
design. The Susuhunan was the Pope of
Islamic Java until in an unguarded moment
he called in the Dutch to help suppress a
revolt of the Chinese. In return the Dutch
stripped him of his temporal power, though
he still remained the spiritual head of the
Javanese —in fact, a god. The Sultan of
Djogja, a rival potentate, annually paid hom-
age to him, and this perturbed the Dutch, so
they dressed the Sultan in Dutch uniform.
The Susuhunan is unable to exact homage
from anyone in European dress, so he lost
prestige enormously. On the occasion of my
visit I sent up a letter signed by the editor
of The Bulletin by way of credentials.
Evidently the monarch was an old-established
leader, because he placed his mountain sana-
torium at my disposal and a huge Fiat car
with a crew of three. The Susuhunan needs
this mountain retreat. He has 3000 -wives.
$ $ * $
“C. Sandy”: “Der Jong” (B. 17/12/’3O)
mentions only a few of the disadvantages of
the kilt in war-time. On Gallipoli, in front
of Krithia, not only did the folds of the
khaki service-dress kilt prove a refuge for
lice, but the backs of Jock’s knees were
lobster-red from sunburn. The other side
of the picture was shown in January, 1917,
when the Black Watch came out from before
Peronne with their traditional attire dis-
carded in favor of a more sensible garb. The
cold, wet mud had done the damage this
time. .
“Barangkali”: A little experience of my
own suggests that the number of street
cadgers in Sydney (B. 3/12/o0) is exag-
goTcitcd. I was in Loftus-strGct the othei
evening when it was full of people hurrying
to the ferries, and couldn’t help but notice
a shabby-lookmg little
man accosting every
passer-by, only to be
scowled at, brushed
aside with a few mut-
tered words or repulsed
in some other way.
Coming towards him
myself, it struck me
that he might be a de-
serving case, and that
anyhow such persist-
ence deserved a few
coppers. lie grabbed
me firmly by the arm
with, “Say, Mister, can you tell me where
Bridge-street is? I’ve been trying to find
out for the last five minutes, but all these
silly cows can say is Sorry, ■ old man, not
to-day.’ ”
“f hihn” : Even a petty burglar may have
s a uc 8 i e b?oke f Into a shop at Perth .the other
TelVxPhhnself "to
| £"Sn7f ** ™
It halfpenny! * *
«j eames ». Scu n in wou ld have no diffi-
cu]ty j n getting a barony or something
jjjgjjgj. f ol . Isaacs, if Caucus didn’t object,
me Australia > s on i y pee r, John Forrest,
Isaacs ] ias no son . Would-be peers with
sons to satisfy those who dole out
‘•] lonors ” that they also have at least
The painfully common spectacle
insolvent peers (samples are to be found
* u aP ran ]j s> f r om dukes and marquises down-
wards) is revolting to those members of
the L or( j s wi lo can pay 20s. in the f. The
letters patent of some peerages, such as the
car ldom conferred on Lord Roberts after the
death of his only son in the S’African War,
provide that the title shall pass to the
female heirs. But there would be no ques-
tion 0 f anything like that in the case of
i sa acs.
* * * *
“Lex” his vignette :
For the first time since the Crick case of 25 years
ago , when the Land Scandals were being discussed as
passionately in Sydney as the fate of the Leg. Council
being discussed now, five Judges have ascended the
n.S.W. Banco Court bench. It is an assembly of
a ij the talents ; nothing less was adequate to deal
-with the question at issue.
How different these spare, alert Judges look from
the obese, rubicund Martins and Darleys of other
days whose portraits gaze down from the Law Courts’
walls! Street, C.J., gets nearer to the old tradition
0 f portentous dignity, despite his moustache, than
any of his brethren. A. K.C. apologises for some
trifling slip; the Chief Justice accepts the explana-
tion with a grave courtesy imported straight from
the eighteenth century. Justice Long-Innes, of the
Equity side, is much racier in manner. Yet he is
a Judge by heredity, so to speak; his father was on
the Supreme Court bench before him, and his grand-
father adjudicated as a soldier. Like Justice Langer
Owen, he was at school in England and at Oxford,
Justice Owen has confounded all the prophets by
making a brilliant success of his undesired Divorce
Court job. He is a small, moustachioed man with
gentle, almost diffident, ways, an iron will, a first-class
mind. He tried to enlist in the early days of the war,
a nd on being turned down gave up his big practice
for the duration to become a Red Cross worker,
Lounging lazily back in his chair is a tall, lean,
hawk-faced man in the early sixties, Justice James,
His appointment, which was political, was demurred
to by the Bar at first, but that is all forgotten,
There is no sounder lawyer, no shrewder man of the
vorld on the bench. Near him is Ferguson, precise
of feature and expansive of nature, the only ex-
journalist and the most human character on the bench,
They contrast oddly with young Evatt, the best
brain at the N.S.W. Bar, the man who is to succeed
Isaacs as C.J. of the High Court. His large luminous
eyes blaze behind his thick glasses, his boyish voice
has an eager ring, his gestures are almost violent,
Ho is fire to their ice. It is an epoch-making scene;
one that will be discussed decades hence by spec-
tators who are still young.
CHRISTMAS IS CHRISTMAS
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What though the fare is humbler than of
yore,
The lordly turkey missing from the board,
Awhile we’ll smite Depression to the floor,
And take the joy we can (or can’t) afford.
Christmas is Christmas still! With careless
hand
From the old pleasure-chest we’ll lift the
lid,
Put on the robes of festive folly, and
Dash the expense—if it’s our latest quid!
Still revelry shall dance in paper caps,
With blaring horns and noises young and
gay;
Greybeards join hands again with little chaps
And share with them the frolics of the
day.
Bottles on friendship's altar still shall bleed;
The wine of laughter dull old Care shall
drown—
Later the bottle-ohs shall reap their meed
And give us coppers for our fares to town !
What though the fare is humbler than of
yore,
The sunlit air is tingling with the chime
Of merry bells; the cool waves kiss the
shore
Singing soft carols of the festive time ;
And revelry shall stir on beach or where
Nature has decked the bush with all her
arts
For carnival—we need no Yule-logs here
With Christmas fires of friendship in our
hearts.
Christmas is Christmas! For a time we
bang
The door on each pursuing care we know;
The festoons of our mirth from rafters hang,
Call in the hours of joy—and let it go!
Staid age and buoyant youth united in
The feast of pleasure their gay laughter
fling—
Chase out the shades of gloom with merry
din ;
Christmas is Christmas still, and Joy is
king!
N.S.W.
HAROLD MEKCEE.


“Lex” : Twenty years ago in London when-
ever what Arnold Bennett calls “a pretty
lady” got run in for being drunk and disorderly
she described herself as “an actress,” and as
“an actress” she appeared in “Reynolds’s” and
the “News of the World” the following
Sunday. Then the stage performers orga-
nised an association, and took action. You
don’t see a police-court defendant listed as
an actress nowadays unless she is one. In
Sydney any flapper who gets into the news
through being arrested by policewomen at
a beach-side drinking-party, attempting to
shoot her lover, or getting bowled out while
shop-lifting, may rely on being described by
some of the' Sunday papers, and all the
tabloids, as “a society girl.” The latest to
be presented as “prominent society girls,”
and “members of the Younger Set,” are a
couple of 17-year-olds who are learning to
be typists, and who recently astonished coma-
tose old Bathurst by parading the main
streets in beach shorts. The Lord only
knows what a Sydney society girl is, but it
may be taken as read, presumably, that when
lined up at the Central she doesn’t, like the
maidens mentioned above, “seem jolly and
none the worse for the experience.” An
Amalgamated Union of Dinkum Sydney
Society Girls (membership being confined to
females under 60, who are in a position to
prove that they have never been arrested)
is called for as a means of clearing up a
deplorably involved situation.
* * %
“Bildad”: The Perth case in wdiich
Lancelot Wearmouth shot his wife by alleged
agreement, and then jibbed at killing him-
PERHAPS THAT WAS IT.
ANGUISHED HUSBAND: “You’ll please explain, Helen, how I came
to see you kissing that fellow in the lounge just now.”
FLUSHED WIFE: “I dunno, dear—unless it was that you just
happened to look in!'
self and asked the police to have him hanged
instead, proved not to be the hunger tragedy
it at first appeared. Wearmouth was cer-
tainly out of work, and an infant was
expected. Still his wife had about £l5l in
the bank, and they had been in receipt of
Government aid since last June. The im-
mediate future was provided for. But
Lancelot laid his hands on his wife’s money
and lost it all on a horse or on sundry
horses, and two days after the final animal
the shooting came off. By the man’s account
it was the woman who lost the money as well
as her life, and Adam struck much the
same attitude over the apple. The Aus-
tralian high and necessary standard of living
includes too much horse.
* * * *
“P.X.”: It’s in the back country you
realise how distance has been just about
obliterated. In the old coaching days, when
Morrison or Kidman and Nicholas could get
through at all, six miles an hour was good
going. The other day dad and two girls
turned up at the Broken Hill Hospital from
Cloncurry, in North Queensland: the girls
had brought dad down for a throat opera-
tion, and after that was done they proposed
to push on to Adelaide. From Cloncurry
to the Hill only just falls short of 1590 miles,
and they’d pushed through in five daysl
There’s not a hundred yards of asphalt in
all the distance and only a mile or two even
of made dirt-track. In good weather, of
course, you don’t want made roads; only
sandhills bother you then. But you get
ready to do some camping if rain-clouds
blow up; half an inch will make even the
well-used track between Broken Hill and
Adelaide impassable in places.
“Shep”: On the Conti-
nent they still concoct
their home brews from
ancient recipes. After the
Armistice the Belgians we
lived with, to reward us
for humping their sick boy
through the snow to the
unit’s doc. in the small
hours, unearthed a bottle
of wine coated with the
dirt and cobwebs of ages.
Not a grape was in it, the
Belgians swore, but a
nobbier apiece made us
Offer to cart the rest of
their progeny to the quack
then and there. In the
apple districts the cider
was mostly tasteless muck;
once only did we strike a
barrel of really good
tipple. It was in the
cellar under our billet.
First we sneaked in singly
while others kept watch for
the lady of the house ; then
developed a procession with
mess-tins, until the last qf
the barrel was upended
into a bucket and carted
away openly. There were
no complaints from
Madame until she’d made
dead sure that every drop
had gone; then with tears
and shrieks she wopped in
a bill to the C.O. for 200
francs, and howled till canteen funds paid up.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s City Council didn’t
forget to start its year of office by drinking
a health, in the customary silence, to the
memory of Colonel Light, who insisted, 94
years ago, on placing the city where it is,
and not at Port Lincoln, ox* on Kan-
garoo Island, or at the mouth of the Murray,
as strongly pressed by others. Light, as
Surveyor-General of the infant S.A., had
the right of choice, and insisted on exercising
it; but the attendant worry is generally given
as the cause of his death not long after.
* * * *
“Wells”: “Hansard” is studded with
words in brackets
such as “laughter,”
“uproar,” “dissent”
and so on, but dur-
ing 30 or 40 years’
desultory reading of
that invaluable pub-
lication I have only
once come on the
phrase “roars of
laughter.” The late
George Reid was re-
sponsible, and he got
his effect with a
simple interjection
of only four words.
It was after George’s
short-lived Federal
Administration of
1904, when Deakin,
after helping to put
him in, had taken
almost the first
opportunity of turn-
ing him out. George
had referred to his
quondam ally’s per-
fidy, as he viewed it,
more in sorrow than
in anger, and Deakin
was making out the
best case he could
for himself. There
had been a tem-
porary alliance, he
admitted, but it was
dissoluble at the
will of either party,
and be went on to
refer to a meeting in
some club where his
followers had decided
on a break with
Reid’s crowd.
“What’s a n this
about a club—what’s
a club got to do with
it ?” someone testily
interrupted at last,
and George made his
second contribution
to the debate. “I
got the club,” he cut
in ruefully; and
the whole House
rocked with merri-
ment. Reid was per-
haps the only politi-
cian Australia ever
ixuwnuiia cvci
had who could make his opponents laugh on
occasions as heartily as his supporters.
♦ $
“Bangemall”: The Westralian goldfields
produced a few unconventional journalists,
prepared to write the most outrageous things
in the plainest Rnglish about anybody or
anything, but none of them, not even
“Smiler” Hales, was in the same class as
“Bull-ant” Mclntyre, whose literary activi-
ties and likes and hates enlivened Southern
Cross in the pre-war years. “Bull-ant”
knew all about mining—there were some who
credited him with writing the gold into the
ground for the Bullfinch boom of 1910, and
GETTING IN FIRST.
MISTRESS: “I can’t help thinking, Nora, that it’s the worst mistresses get the best maids.”
NORA: “Now, now, Mum, g’way wid y’r blarney.”
lie certainly did his best—and not a great
deal about anything else, but he made up
for it by the downrightness of his opinions,
the violence with which he expressed them
and the bitterness of the feuds into which
he projected himself and his paper. Pro-
bably Thady O’Kane himself never penned
more libels, but aggrieved persons were
always a bit shy about tackling him, partly
perhaps because of the unlikelihood of get-
ting damages out of him and partly because
of the impartiality with which his pictur-
esque invective was turned loose in all direc-
tions. When he hadn’t any better target
Mclntyre, a good-hearted and sociable little
man in private life, would cut loose on the
Government and the cockies of the coastal
districts, who, he always maintained, were
unduly favored at the expense Of the gold-
fields. He once threatened in cold type. to
shoot a Government machinery inspector if
he should ever catch that functionary on a
Mclntyre lease, and one of the last “Open
Getters” he ever penned was directed to a
Prominent Citizen, whom he began by feel-
ingly addressing as “Prince of Thieves.” To-
wards the end “Bull-ant” landed himself in
a lot of litigation which darkened his closing
days, but he never lost the combativeness
which gave him his sobriquet.
* * * *
“Nakh”: The council of Trinity College,
Melbourne, after swallowing hard, decided
to reject the £20,000 bequest of James Hill
Boyd, a condition of which was that it should
get rid of the Archbishop of Melbourne and
the bishops of the diocese as ex officio mem-
bers. The State Chief Justice had decided
that the will was sound in wind and limb.
The tempting sum now goes to provide
scholarships at Geelong College and establish
a school of domestic economy in the southern
suburbs.
* * * *
“Mako”: We had arranged with an Auck-
land (M.L.) land agent to escort us to view
some choice building allotments in the
vicinity of the old Western Springs, for many
years the source of Auckland’s water supply.
It was a bright summer morning, and all
the way out th.e land-agent expatiated on the
beauty and desirability of the sections he
had for sale. “They’re just over this hill,”
he said, and when we breasted it we were
delighted to find that the locality boasted a
large, imposing lake. The only one who didn’t
wax enthusiastic was the agent. In a muffled
voice he admitted that the sections were some-
where under the lake, and a board six feet
from the ground, which just emerged from
the water with some remarks on desirable
building sites, endorsed his contention. Why
and whence the waters had appeared nobody
could explain, but it was three weeks before
they subsided. To-day the place is a popu-
lous suburb, but most home-builders have
taken the precaution to build a reasonable
distance from the ground.
* * * *
“J.H.T.”: “Jeames” (B. 3/12/’3O) is on
firm ground when he says that Lord
Brotherton left £1,750,000, but his state-
ments about the wealth of Solly Joel,
the Rothschilds and others are merely sur-
mise and hearsay. The only huge fortunes of
which there is actual proof in recent years
are those of Lord Iveagh (Guinness’s stout),
who left £11,000,000, and Sir David Yule, an
Edinburgh man who made his £20,000,000 m
India —the largest British fortune absolutely
authenticated in this or any other century.
Twelve-figure fortunes were regularly attri-
buted to the Dewars, of whisky fame, but
death revealed one brother to be worth
£5,000,000 and the other less. It is more
than doubtful if Britain has 500 millionaires,
or anything like that number,
* * * *
“Verri”: What sounds like easy money
j s to come to Matthew Neal Hallwright, a
schoolboy, of Wairoa, Hawkes Bay (M.L.),
jf his relatives will consent to his changing
his name to one an English great-uncle
wishes to perpetuate. The sum provisionally
bequeathed to the lad is £15,000; the testa-
tor, having lost his only son and his only
grandson, placed his proposition before his
Maoriland next-of-kin. He further suggested
holy orders and residence in England as non-
compulsory clauses of the bequest,
* * * *
« T , ~ T ,
Beamier : Long-distance swimmers are
castm § round for fresh straits to conquer,
aml 0113 lady has propelled .herself
EIS English Channel has arrived m
ft, deS xF n .H ° n St |i ip, & 'r 3
se P a i ales the North and South islands,
do ® sn t look so formidable on the map as
Sui
FFF dlsta ? ce ma y make it so. Still,
°f s Ps ctacu l ar swims to be
<mcompUshed around European coasts even
if the novelty has worn off the Calais-Dover
°ne. The Bristol Channel and the Wash are
awaiting would-be record-breakers—the former
has had some attention already—and sooner
or later some modern Captain Webb will
probably leave the Isle of Man and strike
out for one of the three mainlands from
which, according to the geographies, it is
nearly equidistant,
* * * *
“Quad”: A Sydney tabloid deplored
recently that the local university “has for
some time been developing into a glorified
technical college,” there being “too many
““NfTegarfts tolngltowf to
“ un iversitv ’ tradition” and “nNnmnle of
whatirmLntbv tradition” is given
* by had r s , ' ,
Recently onG of the colleges applied ail approved
initiation process to Sir Philip Game’s son. He was
told to commandeer the Chancellor’s car.
However, he tricked his seniors by obtaining a car
of the same make from Government House,
Another lad was sent over to the Zoo to obtain
the hair from an elephant’s tail,
This kind of fun . doe ? n °t , exist at . all among the
memb ers of the University living outside,
The initiation foolery has arrived here from
the U.S.A. via the films. It is unknown in
the great European universities, and appa-
renly only flourishes in the more purse-
proud Yankee ones, where money or skill
at games gets an undergrad further than
hard work in the schools. At best, the
ragging ’Varsity student is a pest. There
was a lot of ragging at Oxford and Cam-
bridge in the days when men of fashion
smashed street lamps and assaulted tlie
watch to prove their spirit, but it is out of
date now. In connection with the last Boat
Race. rag in London it was claimed by the
’Varsity authorities that 50 per cent, of trie
revellers who postured as undergrads in the
streets and theatres of the West End were
shop-assistants. The modern Cantab or
Oxonian is doing just what is objected to in
Sydney (i.e., striving ’to get a degree and
get out), and it is a sound example for our
youth to follow.
GREAT HISTORICAL FIGURES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking in N.S.W. Assembly, Education Minister
Davies said that the history taught in State schools
should cease to deal with kings and wars and pay
more attention to social reformers. (A voice: ‘Jock
Garden and Bondy Hoare!’)”
To blazes with the buffetings and bastings
That war lords gave or took in days of
yore!
Why bother with what William did at
Hastings
Or glory-loving Hal at Agincourt?
The conscientious chronicle-compiler
Should know their exploits are as nothing,
. weighed
Against what set the seal of fame on Tyler
And gilds the name of Cade.
In days to come it well may prove a mystery
Why adventitious kings and casual queens
Should loom as large as life in ev’ry history
From graphic Gibbon’s to explicit Green’s.
Are there no better landmarks for the
younker
The past in fair perspective who would
view
Than what befel at Bannockburn or Bunker
Hill—or at Waterloo?
Out on the books that worn conventions
flatter!
And when our • children drink from learn-
ing’s fount,
Let them absorb more of the things that
matter
And deeper draughts about the men that
count.
Hearts against idols of the past may harden,
Monarchs and warriors be names —no more.
But our next Tacitus will err past pardon
Who hasn’t got a pedestal for Garden,
A niche for Bondy Hoare.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


PERSONAL
ITEMS
Dr. Evatt, who has the succession to the
Chief Justiceship in his pocket, will be the
youngest man on the High Court Bench.
He is 36. E. A. McTiernan, who is put
into one of the vacancies, is 38. Of the
present Judges, Owen Dixon is the youngest:
he is 44. Brother Starke is 59, brother
Rich 67, Chief Justice Isaacs 75 and brother
Duffy 78 (though, having been born on Feb.
29, he has had less than 20 birthdays).
Edward Aloysius McTiernan, the new
High Court Judge, is the mildest-mannered
man that ever reached the Bench. He is
a slim, ascetic lightweight who has never
married, and lives with his people at Stratli-
field as contentedly as he did when a boy.
His father belongs to the Sligo branch of a
well-known Leitrim family, and arrived in
N. S. Wales when bushranging was in
flower. Simultaneously losing all his money
he joined the mounted police, and young
Eddie was actually born at the Commercial
Hotel, Glen Innes, while his father was out
after a local gang. Lewisham Hospital is
the new Judge’s chief interest in life out-
side politics and the law. He wasi its secre-
tary for many years. He was the associate
of one of his new colleagues (Justice Rich),
and, though not what the Americans call
a mixer, is popular at the N. S. Wales Bar.
Few who hadn’t consulted the records be-
lieved that Octavius C. Beale, killed last
week in a motor collision, could be 80 years
old. He was vigorous mentally and physi-
cally to the end ; in fact, he was off on a camp-
ing picnic-holiday on the N.S.W. North Coast
when the accident occurred and he was look-
ing forward to it with positively boyish
enthusiasm. Fifty years ago, after an appren-
ticeship in Europe and Melbourne, he set
out in Sydney to make “Beale’s sewing
machines” household words throughout Aus-
tralia. But he could not persuade the N. S.
Wales Government to give him the protection
he wanted, so, not content to go on import-
ing foreign goods, he turned liis attention
to the manufacture of pianos; and thereafter
it is not too much to say that no man did
more to break down the old stupid idea that
Australian goods must necessarily be crude
and ill-finished. He left six sons and four
daughters, five of the sons in the business,
including Ronald, the general manager.
Dr. H. V. Evatt, the 36-year-old K.C., who
has been carrying the whole burden of the
N.S.W. Government case in the Full Court
fight over the abolition of the Leg. Council,
grew up on Constitutional law, and was
writing treatises upon it when he was in
his early twenties. There were six boys in
4 he Evatt family: two of them went to the
war and never came back; H.V. (Bert),
tried to get away, too, but defective eyesight
blocked him. His memory is uncanny. He
reads enormously, and can remember not
only what he reads but generally the page
or thereabouts of the book where it’s printed.
DR. EVATT, K.C., appointed a Judge of
the High Court last week, and the most
likely successor to the Chief Justice’s
chair.
Scholarships took David Maughan, K.C.,
the foremost forensic defender of the N.S.W.
Leg. Council against the Lang offensive, from
The King’s School to Oxford 38 years ago;
he secured high honors there, and lectured
on law at Balliol before he was called to
the English Bar in ’96. Patronage of ath-
letics is his recreation; he is president of
the G.P.S. Athletic Association, vice-presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Rowing Association, and
chairman of the council of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union.
Next week’s Red Page (B. 31/12/’3G)
will be devoted to the concluding half of
Henry Lawson’s viyid and self-searching
Autobiography.
Rousing cheers coming from one of the
courts of Melbourne’s Temple of Justice one
afternoon last week gave passers-by the im-
pression that some highly nonular acquittal
had just taken place; but it was a Judge
and not a prisoner who was getting the
hurrahs. John Longstaff’s portrait of
Cussen, J., senior puisne of Vie. Supreme
Court, which is to be given a place on the
walls of the library, had just been unveiled,
and it was Duffy, J., of the High Court, who
prompted the gathering of wigs to forget
formality and cheer. Cussen, who is recover-
ing from a long illness, showed his apprecia-
tion in his own modest style.
Baron Somers, the Acting G.-G., will
return to his State job about the middle of
January, when Isaacs takes over his Com-
monwealth responsibilities. Unless his term
is extended Somers will finish up in June.
Frank Clarke, president of the Yic. Leg.
Council, fought determinedly in committee
to save Supreme Court Judges from
the percentage deductions which the Hogan
Government proposes for civil servants gener-
ally, and succeeded in bringing a bare
majority round to his way of thinking.
Clarke carries, some weight politically when
he cares to use it. He was a. Minister under
Bowser and Lawson for just on six years,
and has been in the chair for the past seven
years. In the beginning he was a rural repre-
sentative, but for the last 5J years he has
been a city member.
Ten years ago
Langdon Bon y-
thon, S. Australia’s
wealthiest knight,
said that at the
end of 1930 there
would be £40,000
waiting to build a
Great Hall in the
Adelaide Univer-
sity. The cheque
was paid over the
other day; but the
heads don’t think
they should build
just now, and the
money (in public
securities) will go
on earning interest.
That makes £60,000
of Bonython
money given to
this school; and
the School of
Mines, next door,
of which he has
been president for
41 years, and whose
annual prizes he
distributed earlier
in the month, has
also had a thick
wad. He had his
82nd birthday
lately, but is quite
hopeful of seeing
the Bonython Hall
completed.
JOHN LANGDON
BONYTHON.
The Bulletin has had no luck with its
standing counsel lately. First Adrian Knox
took the Federal Chief Justiceship, then
A. B. Sliand decided to retire, and now Dr.
Evatt discovers a better ’ole.
The late O. C. Beale would have made a
great journalist if he hadn’t decided to manu-
facture pianos instead. He would have
shone almost anywhere in the writing field.
What a wonderful man he would have been
on an inquiry he showed when the Common-
wealth Government gave him a commission
25 years ago to overhaul patent and proprie-
tary medicines. After he had finished with
the subject there weren’t many impudent
quacks left on the local map. It was he, by
the way, who helped to persuade the “Lone
Hand” magazine in its earliest days to tackle
the same question ; and he wrote a good deal
for it as well as making translations from
the German. He was, for an Englishman
an Irishman really—an exceptionally good
linguist,
Norman Brown, who was shot in the Roth-
bury riot, was a well-liked member of the
flock of Emra Burkitt, the vicar of Greta;
and the young man’s clerical friend had
charge when a memorial was unveiled last
week. But, of course, Bondy Hoare, the
miners’ president, had to make a mess of
things before the service was over; according
to programme “Nearer My God to Thee”
had to be sung as the last hymn, but Hoare
called instead for “The Red Flag.” However,
the band got to work and the hymn won.
Emra Burkitt belongs to a long clerical
line: his father was in the N.S.W. Public
Works Department, but his grandfather and
his fathers for five generations had been in
the Church. One notable ancestor, however,
wasn’t ecclesiastical; that was Francis
Drake, the admiral. The Greta man—one
of the best —knows what hard work is. The
better to prepare himself for what he always
knew was his life job he went into the
Goninan foundry at Newcastle, and served
his time as an engineer ashore and afloat.
The only lay representative of the Council
of Churches on the committee appointed to
make an appeal on behalf of the N.S.W.
hospitals is ex-Senator ’Siah Thomas; and
he certainly has stuck to his anti-gambling
guns. It must have been at the very first
meeting of the Federal Labor party in
Caucus in Melbourne that the question of
the party’s attitude towards Tatt.’s and simi-
lar sweeps arose; and there was a sharp
lining up at once, with Josiah Thomas and
the late Frank Tudor at. the head of the
section which wouldn’t either taste, smell
or handle the accursed thing.
The Bulletin par. concerning George
Meudell’s collection of literature relating to
mining and Stock Exchange history of the
last 50 years provoked an immediate response
from the Mitchell Library, Sydney, which has
since bought the collection.
For an ex-military officer Colonel John
Walter Hacker, who passed over in St.
Kilda recently, left an unusual legacy. The
income from £5077 is to be devoted in per-
petuity to- training choir-boys for St. Paul’s
Cathedral and St. Kilda’s All Saints’ Church.
Hacker was on the Commonwealth Military
Force’s retired list.
Alam, M.L.C., who artlessly mentioned that
he had often used the Parliamentary ’phone
to make bets with s.-p. bookmakers, was one
of those four or five whom Lang selected
years ago to help vote the Council out of
existence. Alam, who is a country store-
keeper, was recommended by Dunn, the present
Minister for Agriculture. After getting into
the House he disappointed his sponsors by
discovering that it was doing excellent work
and throwing bouquets at it instead of the
half-bricks he was expected to hurl.
“2nd Divvy”: Hugh D. Mclntosh did more
for V.C. men than offer them free entree
to his shows (B. 17/12/’3O). He lent a
number of them money, either to make a start
in business or to get them out of difficulties,
and he would be a lot more affluent to-day
if they had all paid him back. Some have,
and others have made heroic efforts, but
quite a few have taken a different view of
their obligations. One ex-warrior who owes
him for hundreds and is now prosperous wrote
enclosing a tenner “as an act of grace,”
and mentioning with regard to the rest that
he intended to plead the Statute of Limita-
tions if pressed! These V.C.’s are not alto-
gether to be blamed, the psychology of the
borrower being what it is. Old Henry
Parkes was probably the most accomplished
borrower in the history of N. S. Wales, and
he always took the view that he had a right
to the money. John and James Marks,
father of Theo and Wally respectively, were
his chief supporters, and they would no more
have thought of asking for their cash than
he would have thought of repaying it.
Maoriland Rhodes Scholars for 1931 are
John Stephen Watt, of Auckland, and John
Edward Lovelock, of Dunedin. Watt, a
native of Boulder (W.A.), is a B.Sc. of and
a lecturer-demonstrator at Auckland Uni-
versity College, where he has just won the
Sir George Grey scholarship in science.
Lovelock was born on the West Coast, and
has studied medicine for the last two years
at Otago University. Watt is 22, and Love-
lock just on 21.
T. E. Day, who retires as Surveyor-
General of S. Aus., but will be chairman of the
Pastoral Board for five years, has been in
the service since 1882. He was in the N.T.
for four years, and has done much useful ex-
ploration on the Queensland and Westralian
borders. His most famous predecessors
were the first Surveyor-General, Light, then
Sturt (for a few months only), and later
Goyder, who laid down the line-of-rainfall
so solidly confirmed by the experience of
recent wheat-farmers.
Defence Minister “Texas” Green would
have been only too ready to represent the
Commonwealth at the Delhi celebrations if
Caucus hadn’t jibbed and substituted
Monash. Green is a firm believer in the
broadening influences of travel, and, in addi-
tion to having knocked about North America
in his younger days and got occasional
jobs at his trade of bricklaying, has made a
couple of trips to China and Japan. The
first was when he was a Westralian M.L.A.,
when he combined pleasure with business by
securing a profitable agency in his own State
for the shipping of the sandalwood that finds
its way from the Australian bush to the
temples and joss-houses of the Flowery Land.
Bernard Parker, Westralia’s Clerk of Par-
liaments, is retiring at 74. He was a Lon-
don solicitor for 20 years before he arrived
in Perth, soon after Federation, to draft
Parliamentary bills; a few years later he
got a steady job ahd steadily progressed till
he reached the top. An amiably precise
officer, he took more interest in legislation
and legislators than most men who get their
living by watching them at close range. His
father was president of the Incorporated
Law Society of England 40 years ago.
Retired from active service in New Guinea
at 72, the Rev. John Flierl, D.D., father
of the Lutheran Mission in those isles of the
blest, and the oldest inhabitant of the Man-
dated Territory, where he had lived, with
occasional holiday spells, for 42 years. A
Bavarian, the doctor arrived in S. Aus. at
20, and began mission work in the Cooper’s
Creek country. He first saw whrat is now
Mandated New Guinea in 1886, two years
after the Germans had taken over. A born
organiser, he early taught the natives the
necessity for spreading the Gospel tidings
on their own initiative, with the result that
what is known as “the Black Mission” has
been one of the outstanding achievements
of mission work in the western Pacific. The
Herr Dok'tor is succeeded by another veteran
in the Rev. Stephan Lehner.
Processor PEDEN.
John Peden, cen-
tral figure of the
row over the N.
S. Wales Leg.
Council, is a tall,
spare, ascetic-look-
ing K.C. in his early
sixties. He has been
one of the orna-
ments of Phillip-
street for nearly 40
years, but his heart
is with Sydney Uni-
versity, where he
was made Challis
Professor of Law
in 1910. The
undergrads, like but
also fear him; be-
hind his smiling de-
meanor he is an iron
disciplinarian whose
watchwords are
order and efficiency.
Peden has made a
conspicuous success
of his job as president
of the Council, as he
has of every other
job he has taken on.
There are few better
constitutional law-
yers in Australia,
and with his shrewd
advice he has been
a tower of strength
to his friend Bavin
in the past three
years.
For the fifth year in succession broad-
shouldered Mick Enright in tranship-
ping the Victorian harvest at Williams-
town. As Commissioner Clapp’s officer-in-
charge at the pier, he is the last Vic. rail-
wayman through whose hands the State’s
wheat passes. He has been a railroader
since 1889 and has worked under every
district superintendent in Vic. railway his-
tory—as porter, shunter, guard, signalman,
goods foreman, booking clerk, stationmaster,
traffic inspector or train-running officer.
Charles Frederick Belcher, recently
appointed Chief Justice of Trinidad"' and
Tobago, is an Australian. He was born at
Geelong in 1876, admitted to practise in Vic-
toria in 1902 and called to the English Bar
in 1909. He has exercised magisterial and
judicial functions in Uganda, Zanzibar,
Nyasaland and elsewhere.
“F.” : rpjjg o i,i eS j- living Australian (B.
3/12/’3O) is Mrs. Catherine Woods, of
Young (N.S.W.). She is in her 105th year,
was born at Colac (Vic.), and about four
years ago assisted in the production of the
motion picture “The Birth of White Aus-
tralia,” the outdoor scenes of which were
taken near her picturesque old home at
Young.
Lord Somers, AcJing-G.-G., was a Boy
Scout before he came this way as Governor
of Victoria. The first time he made any
sort of public appearance in the Baden
Powell uniform half of the congrega-
LORD SOMERS, Boy Scout.
tion at St. Paul’s gaped in astonishment :
he’d been to a “Itover moot” —at was in 1927
—and, unannounced, turned up at the cath-
edral in the shortest pants a Vic. Governor
over wore. But Melbourne has got more or less
used to them since then, for there haven’t been
many big Scout meetings that his Ex. hasn’t
attended. He is to go into camp with the
other boys at Warrnambool on December 29.
He gave Kitty Russell Jackson a sitting, and
she produced for Tiie Bulletin this model
of the acting-G.-G. in clay.
Lieut, von Muecke, who has come out as a
fierce opponent of the Nazis, or German Fas-
cists, is the officer whose escape from Cocos
with his landing party after the Emden was
destroyed made him the hero of the hour in
the Fatherland. Muecke’s voyage in Gover-
nor Ross’s schooner to Arabia was almost
as remarkable as the exploits of the Emden
herself. He made his way through several
hostile native kingdoms into the Turkish
lines. The cable staff at Cocos had nothing
but praise for the behavior of Muecke and
his men during the 12 hours the German flag
flew over the atoll. They were careful to
leave the staff enough food to carry on, and
gave lOU’s on the German Government
for what they took.
Otto Beit, dead in London at 65, was one
of the outstanding figures in that curious
hierarchy of mining finance which has played
such an important part in the history of
South Africa. The founder of the family,
Alfred Beit, a Hamburg Jew, was a Kimber-
ley millionaire before Johannesburg was
heard of, but turned profitably from dia-
monds to gold. An intimate friend of Cecil
Rhodes, Alfred burned his fingers badly over
the Jameson Raid. His son, who kept rigidly
aloof from politics, had a finger in countless
pies, but his two chief interests were the
British South African Co. and the Rhode-
sian Railways, while he was one of the trus-
tees for the Rhodes scholarships. He was a
cultured, reserved man, whose gifts for
medical and scientific research were princely,
even for a man of his immense wealth, and
he did notable work for the Allied hospital
services during the war.
“Inner Temple” on loyalty:—
The obituarists of the late Lord Birkenhead can’t
point to any particular achievement in his crowded
life. His share in the creation of the Irish Free State
probably constitutes his strongest claim to be remem-
bered. But there is a characteristic which one and
all —Tories, Liberals, Laborites and Socialists —credit
him with admiringly, and in almost the same words:
“He never deserted a friend.” This is the rarest of
all traits in great men. Gladstone turned his friends
down wholesale when they looked like threatening
his career. So did Chamberlain. So did Disraeli,
who was loyal to practically nobody but his wife;
and Salisbury would have done the same without a
doubt if he had condescended to make any real
friends outside his tiny Hatfield circle. When the
Tories who had belonged to the War Cabinet decided
to throw Lloyd George over, Birkenhead alone stood
out, and he remained the warm friend and admirer
of the outcast to the day of his death. An identical
situation arose here when the heaving-overboard of
Billy Hughes was decided on. Bruce, the only
Nationalist who didn’t rejoice at Billy’s ruin, did
his best tcf play the Birkenhead. He would have
succeeded, and remained Billy’s friend, if the fiery
little ex-dictator had given him half a chance; and,
as it was, however great the provocation, I can’t
remember him aiming a really wounding criticism at
his former chief. One’s heart warms to such men
as it used to warm to a fighting soldier in the
presence of a staff officer 15 years ago. They are
what we would all like to be.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company-
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
•• ■
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association.
Ex- Writ- Added to
Sept., Income. Claims. penses. ten Oft. Funds.
£/ £* £* £* £>
1900.. 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 140,678
1905.. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173 165,655 692,440
1920. . 2,352,957 832,177 275,846 1,244,934
1922.. 2,722,513 969,145 267,064 1,486,304
Equitable of U.S.A. business taken over.
1923. . 3,940,177 1,343,406 286,188 206 2,310,377
1924.. 3,260,737 1,460,483 303,336 1,496,913
New York Life business taken over.
1925.. 4,278,979 1;704,680 332,209 6899 2,235,191
Added to Investment Reserve, £8779.
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Notwithstanding that it missed the indus-
trial ’bps, the National, a purely mutual
institution founded by Colonel Templeton in
1869, has developed greatly. Its quick
growth over the last decade —income more
than doubled during that time —was helped
by the blocks of insurance digested when
the Australian businesses of the Equit-
able and New York Life were taken
over. Other factors which assisted the
advance were the popularity of the pro-
bate policy, the attention given to group
insurance, the very solid reputation of the
society and the energy of the management,
which has carried the business far afield.
Nearly half the annual income is gathered
outside Australia.
Though more policies were written last
year, financial stringency and other impedi-
ments checked the rate of progress. Con-
sider these figures:—
1920. 1929. 1930.
Policies . . . . 16,893 20,078 21,052
Amount .. .. £6,496,606 £9,868,350 £9,201,023
First premiums . . 250,796 356,253 336,488
Renewals . . 1,401,302 2,660,690 2,831,247
Single premiums.. 13,246 338,637 106,947
Annuities . . . . 22,120 54,014 49,610
Interest, etc. . . 681,211 1,608,616 1,739,401
Av. per policy . . 479 437
Allowing for reinsurances—£79,B22 as
against £77,081 in 1929 —there was a slip
of £88,038 in the year’s net premium in-
come (£3,244,476), due mainly to a drop
of £231,690 in single premiums (these
are payments made for policies in one
amount instead of by annual premiums in
the usual way), which have been a promi-
nent feature of the National’s accounts of
recent years. Also there was a heavy crop
of surrenders (£739,954 as against £351,811
in 1929), which are more or less inevitable
in times like the present. So, despite a
growtlf of £130,785 in interest, etc.
(£1,739,401), the net addition to the assur-
ance fund was £426,473 short of the pre-
vious year’s.
Together with mounting taxation it all
affects the surplus available for distribution
amongst policy-holders as bonuses. Never-
theless the National exhibits highly satis-
factory results wherever crucial tests can
be applied. The drop in single premiums
again shows up in a rise of 4.2 p.c. in new
business costs: —
Exes. New
New Chargeable Business
Business to New Expense
Sept., Premiums. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1920 .. 250,796 176,694 70.5 „
1925 .. 255,402 184,547 72.2 ~
1928 . . 340,930 223,424 65.5 „
1929 . . 356,253 250,677 70.4 „
1930 . . 336,488 249,578 74.2 „
The calculations are based on the assump-
tion that renewals cost only 7 p.c. and single
premiums 3 p.c., the balance of the year’s
exes, being charged against new business. Of
the total net premiums exes, took 13.9 p.c. as
against 13.4 p.c. in 1929, whereas the office
allows for 15.2 p.c.; they are low figures
and provide a , satisfactory margin for
bonuses from that source. Also the mor-
tality experience of recent years has been
under 60 p.c. of expectations, which means
that the office will receive more premiums
than it' figured upon, and interest earnings
will benefit by the amount realised on sus-
pended payments.
The society scores heaviest on the differ-
ence between the 3 p.c., which it assumes
its funds will earn, and the actual rate
realised:—
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900.. £4 13 2 p.c. 1927.. £5 10 9 p.c.
1910.. 4 12 3 „ 1928.. 5 11 0 „
1920.. 5 3 8 „ 1929.. 5 6 0 „
1925.. 5 11 3 „ 1930.. 5 6 11 „
The lower returns for the last two years are
due entirely to extra Government bleeding.
Last year’s gross interest was £5 16s. fid. on
mean funds. The assumed return was
lowered from 34 p.c. to 3 p.c. a couple of
years ago, the idea being to provide for the
maintenance of fat reversionary bonuses.
At Sept. 30 the assurance fund stood at
£33,521,387; investment, fluctuation reserve,
£162,249; staff fund, £52,950; claims, etc.,
awaiting settlement, £365,309. The lot was
invested in the following proportions:—
T 4. ’2O. ’25. ’2B. ’29. ’3O.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities . . 6.9 39.9 43.2 37.7 39.4 39.2
Mortgages . . . . 59.3 34.8 27.7 29.2 27.2 26.8
Foreclosures . . . . 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.8 0.8
Freeholds . . . . 9.9 6.0 4.9 4.7 4.7 4.6
Loans on policies . . 9.4 7.8 14.3 15.6 16.2 16.7
Other assets . . . . 13.9 11.3 9.7 12.0 11.7 11.9
Last year an extra £734,270 was invested in
Government securities (£13,391,416), a
further £492,607 was advanced on policies
(£5,694,444) and £39,414 was added to the
book value of premises (£1,561,828). The
holding in Fourth Victoria Permanent Build-
ing (now £346,137) has been increased by
£103,079 since 1924. This investment turned
in 12 p.c. last year.
Amalgamated Textiles (Australia), Ltd.
When this co. put up its mill buildings
at Albury and Orange, N. S. Wales, about
five years ago, and bought its chief earning
asset, the plant, construction costs and the
price of textile machinery were very high. In
this class of business plant calls for a pretty
heavy maintenance bill, and depreciates
rapidly. Earnings were insufficient to pro-
vide adequately for these charges, which the
general slump in values has made much
heavier. After setting aside £18,971 for
depreciation, trading to Sept. 30, 1928, had
resulted in losses aggregating £52,513, of
which £46,463 was capitalised. Also pre-
liminary exes, had made off with £34,647,
mainly on account of ambitious share selling
in the early stages ; and the co.’s holding in
the W. A. Woollen Mills, in the books at
£lO,OOO, was admitted to have no saleable
value.
Then a change in the management was
followed by improvement in the figures, and
a profit of £15,009 was claimed for the 12
months to the close of accounts in 1929.
It was 3 p.c. on the then £449,481 of paid
capital; but with trading becoming increas-
ingly difficult it was obvious that shareholders
had little prospect of getting into the picture
until the burden of excessive book values,
including the pile of intangibles, was removed.
So, to lighten the load, 6s. Bd. was struck
off the face value of each share, reducing paid
capital to £293,375 in 447,544 shares of
13s. 4d. each at Sept. 30 last.
Ilow the £156,106 thus made available has
been used the next comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows : ,
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £291,990 £448,079 £449,481 £293,375
Overdraft ■ , 54,883 69,625 63,52 a
Sundry creditors 2,318 5,569 11,161 17,336
Freeholds . . 49,033 89,301 96,123 81,903
Plant, etc. . . 139,436 211,065 223,808 170,957
Fittings . . 580 1,018 1,129 1,231
Stocks . . 20,573 99,735 119,571 146,377
Book debts .. 7,549 27,416 35,512 20,495
Shares in other
cos. . . 10,000 10,000 10,000
Cash, etc. . . 13,334 2,408 2,503 2,607
Intangibles . . 53,803 87,159 81,240 10,517
Thus the board was able to lop £52,851 off
the book value of plant, £14,220 off freehold,
mill buildings, etc., rub the holding in the
Westralian co. out of the books and wipe
off £70,723 of intangibles, leaving goodwill,
etc., at £10,517. It was a pity not to have
completed the tidying up, especially since
37,310 shares were forfeited during the year,
raising the forfeited-sliare reserve to £BBO4
when the books closed. In addition there was
a p. and 1. balance of £12,196 and a deprecia-
tion reserve of £38,851, to which £8791 was
added during the twelvemonth.
The writing down has had no effect upon
earning power, of course. During the period
covered by the latest accounts economic dis-
turbances severely restricted trading, retailers
adopted a hand-to-mouth buying policy, prices
receded steadily, and for most of the term
the co.’s mills worked only half-time. Also,
the fact that the one at Orange depends upon
the other at Albury for tops makes over-
head difficult to restrain; though, of course,
the mills add to tha prosperity of the towns
in which they are situated. So there was
a sharp drop of £11,773 in the net profit
(£3236), which was only 1.1 p.c. as against
5.1 p.c for the previous term on capital as it
now stands. The immediate outlook is very
uncertain, but prospects for the local manu-
facturer should brighten as conditions become
more settled; whether the cut m the co.’s
capital has been deep enough yet remains
to be seen.
The growth of £26,806 in the book value of
stocks and a drop of £15,017 in debtor's
balances suggest that sales have not kept pace
with production, despite reduced output. It i.s
only when the mills are kept fully employed
that satisfactory profits can be earned. The
financial position improved, the more or less
liquid surplus (£88,618. including stocks)
being £ll,BlB stronger than at the close of
accounts in 1929. Much, however, depends
upon the figure at which stocks have been
taken into the sheet.
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.
Nominal
Net To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 4,315 Nil 4315 5,376
1921.. 5,241 5 p.c. = 9,591 1,026
1922.. 9,566 5 „ „ 9,591 1,001
1923.. 9,414 5 „ ~ 9,591 824
1924.. 9,718 5 „ „ 9,591 127 951
Prefs. Ords. £
1925.. 9,919 10 p.c. 5 p.c. = 9,651 268 1,219
1926.. 15,136 10 „ 6 „ „ 12,645 2491 3,710
1927.. 16,625 10 „ 6 ~ „ 13,494 3131 6,841
British rights sold; net additions to
general reserve, £47,956 .. .. 54,797
1928.. 20,724 10 p.c. 32$ p.c.=67,202 8,319
1929.. 17,230 10 „ 6 „ „ 16,509 721 9,040
1930.. 9,936 10 „ (Nil) = 5,000 4936 13,976
Considering the co.’s success on the tech-
nical side, financial results have been dis-
appointing. Much was expected from foreign
patents. But, including a 25 p.c. bonus
(£47,956), hastily distributed from the
£lOO,OOO received for the sale of the English
rights (exes., etc., made off with the differ-
ence), the ords. have averaged only 6.3 p.c.
since 1918. And that is including a 6 p.c.
div. declared in respect of the 1929 term
but not yet paid.
Figures for the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts benefited from two new
machines at Colombo and from a couple more
in Westralia. Also two small _ totes were
sold in connection with dog-racing in Bri-
tain. But since much less money was thrown
about on all forms of racing last year, there
was a drop of £5889 in this co.’s gross profit
(£42,349) ; exes. (£32,413, including £8294
for depreciation, etc.) were £1405 heavier.
Thus, after handing the prefs. their £5OOO,
the balance was only 2.5 p.c. on the £191,825
of ord. capital, not enough to justify a div.
The whole of the profit claimed was on
account of foreign earnings, which turned
in £14,508 net in the previous term; appa-
rently there was a loss on Australian opera-
tions, from which £9OOO-odd was netted two
years ago.
The earnings of the French subsidiary,
which began in 1928, have been disappoint-
ing, too. It has a paid capital of £200,000,
half 10 p.c. cum. participating prefs. and
the other half ords. The parent took all
the ords. fully paid for rights, etc., and guar-
anteed the minimum pref. requirements
(£lO,OOO p.a.) for 20 years. For the year
to June 30 last the pup netted £661, whereas
£15,000 is wanted to cover the bare pref.
requirements plus pref. capital redemption
fund (£5OOO p.a.). The chances of the
ords. getting into the picture look anything
but rosy.
The English contract provided for a
royalty of one-eighth of one per cent, on
turnover, with a guaranteed minimum of
£2OOO p.a. Whether anything more than
the guarantee is likely to be collected is
doubtful. Until world conditions become
more settled, sales of the remaining foreign
rights will be difficult, and another point
which has to be considered is that as such
rights are sold they become less valuable, or
perhaps of no value at all, to the co. itself.
So the board is considering the question of
“heavily writing down certain of the co.’s
assets” ; but no hint is given in the report
as to what cut, if any, is likely to be made
in capital.
Here is as much as the published figures
tell:—
1923. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £191,825 £206,879 £241,825 £241,825
Liabilities . . 9,520 13,495 19,933 23,147
Patents, plant,
etc. . . 177,799 198,696 216,673 221,484
Shares .. 100,000 100,000
Freeholds, etc. 6,176 6,793 6,844 6,844
Stock .. 4,298 10,221 16,168 20,868
Book debts .. 33,644 28,210 66,826 55,977
Cash . . .. 6,604 13,683 5,419 6,184
Exactly how much of the £221,484 at which
patent rights, models, plant, totalisators, etc.,
figured at Oct. 31 was represented by intan-
gibles is not disclosed, but it is believed
to be substantial. On the other side of the
sheet are reserves totalling £143,885, of which
£110,838 is specifically set against rights.
But £lOO,OOO of it is represented by shares
in the French subsidiary, which have no
tangible value at the moment, and, under
existing terms, will be unable to earn any-
thing in about 17 years’ time.
Taking the unpaid ord. dividend into
account, the more or less liquid surplus
(£59,882) slipped £8598 during the year, due
to a net addition of £4Bll to the book value
of rights, plant, etc.
Owing to the recent legalisation of the
tote in Victoria orders have come in for
four new machines there —at Flemington,
Caulfield, Moonee Valley and Williamstown
- —but how the board proposes to finance the
work is not mentioned. On the market the
ords., which fetched 325. two years ago, are
now priced at Bs. 6d. The return at that
figure would be 7 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs., which have priority as to capital
and carry a cumulative 10 p.c., are offered
at par. Last year’s profit was nearly twice
their annual requirements, and their capital
is covered by the more or less liquid surplus.
Ackman’s, Ltd. (Fitzroy, Vic.).
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. (8 p.c.) Old. serves. Deficit.
1921.. 10,221 4000 6 p.c. = 6000 221 11,586
1922.. 5,444 4000 Nil 1444 10,142
1923.. 5,648 4000 Nil 1648 8,494
Written off, £1263 .. .. . . 9,757
1924.. 14,098 5405 6 p.c. = 6000 2693 7,064
1925.. 11,901 6000 6 „ „ 6000 7,163
1926.. 6,137 6000 Nil 137 7,026
1927.. 5,759 6000 Nil 7,267
Loss on sale of property, £3213 .. 10,480
1928.. 5,808 6000 Nil 10,672
Loss.
1929.. 3,897 Nil Nil 14,569
1930.. 8,664 Nil Nil 23,233
This Smith-street (Fitzroy) furnishing house
has been in business for over 20 years.
Since the public became interested in 1920,
when £50,000 of 8 p.c. pref. money was sub-
scribed, results have never been very encour-
aging. The co. was not overburdened by good-
will, but it started off during the inflated
post-war years carrying a heavy load of
debt. That, the continuous decline in values,
and the drift of the shopping public city-
wards have been mainly responsible for the
poor showing over the decade.
Furniture cos. generally have had diffi-
cult times lately. Styles and patterns change
frequently, and there has been an increas-
ing call for “built-in” furniture, thus
lessening demand for the old type and
making obsolescence of stocks a major con-
sideration. On top of all that has come an
almost complete stoppage of home-building
and the furnishing that goes with it.
In order to capture some of the city trade,
Ackmans last year acquired a leasehold
next to Robertson and Mullens in Elizabeth-
street. The new showrooms comprise five
floors; they are being modernised, but were
not opened to the public when the accounts
closed. Business will still be carried on in
the old as well as the new premises.
Trading was on a restricted scale during
the year to June 30 last, and after taking
stock into account at £13,893 below the pre-
vious year’s figures, the result for the term
was a loss of £8664, making the second loss
during the co.’s career. The prefs. were
passed over again, and, including their arrears
(£12,000), the deficit on ord. shareholders'
account increased to £35,233. The latter
have gone hungry for the last five years;
indeed, since 1920 they have averaged only
1.8 p.c. p.a.
When the co. took over the original pro-
prietary’s business it paid £lO,OOO for good-
will; and the first balance-sheet showed
liabilities of £116,084. In order to
reduce the debt and coax custom by extend-
ing its t.-p. business the co. issued another
25,000 prefs. in 1923, thus bringing paid
capital up to its present figure. But only
during the last couple of years, when the
banks began to call for reduction of over-
drafts, has the co. done much in the way ot
reducing its obligations to outsiders: —
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Ord. capital . . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Pref. capital.. 75,000 75,000 75,000 75,000
Mortgages . . 96,072 99,610 84,693 79,391
Deposits . . 18,933 13,467 7,004 5,900
Other liabilities 9,532 11,923 4,346 3,768
Freeholds, etc. 99,699 103,850 106,112 107,112
Fittings, ' etc. 22,383 23,305 21,106 22,372
Stocks . . 76,592 74,690 46,292 32,399
Debtors . . 96,436 90,223 82,800 78,650
Cash . . . . 402 260 162 292
Since 1928 £35,941 has been wiped off, mainly
by liquidating stocks and book debts. But
owing to adverse trading experiences and
further outlay on fixed assets, the liquid
position has worsened, the more or less
liquid surplus (£22,282 at last balance)
being £17,891 lower than in 1928.
Nothing is said as to the basis on which
stocks are valued, but the item (£32,399) is
less than a quarter of its 1921 book value.
It is therefore obvious that the directors
have been endeavoring to put the business
on a sounder financial basis. It looks as
though the ords. may have to lose some ot
their capital before they get on the div.
list again; but more important than a book-
entry wiping out intangibles is a reduction of
the debt and a real improvement in the finan-
cial position. That requires improved trading
results, and the outlook at present remains
gloomy. . _ „.
The prefs. are now carrying 3s. 2d. arrears
of divs. Their backing amounts to £2 Os. 7d.
in net tangibles, mostly fixed assets Last
sales, in July, were at 11s. The ords. are
held privately.
(Wild Cat continued on page 16.)


EMBARGO
plus
wjiwrranwj wm vmwm 'M?
'cjlL jlilL JISh aJBfL
and what it means.
Twice in 1929 the duty on
imported cigarettes was
raised. And in 1930 a fifty
per cent embargo has
already been imposed. But
in spite of this, the enter-
prise of Godfrey Phillips
now makes it possible
for you to obtain the
original English quality
Cigarettes at
9 for 6"
FULL SIZE & QUALITY.
Australia now produces the
best cigarettes in the world .
DRIGINAL IMPORTED QUALITY
GUARANTEED BY GODFREY PHILLIPS
(AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LTD.
Nine full size original
English quality cigarettes,
but made in Australia by
Australian workers with
combined Australian and
English enterprise and
capital! Just think of it!
De Reszke, Army Club or
Greys, whichever blend
you most fancy, at
9 for 6-
FULL SIZE & QUALITY,
Australia now produces the
best cigarettes in the world .
ORIGINAL IMPORTED QUALITY
GUARANTEED BY GODFREY PHILLIPS
(AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LTD
THE "CREYS*
Wo??
23
as
sw
r*
I
*
C*
£ *
M
4K
M"
0m
mi
Mm
<c
i -x
w
SP'M of
>' N
1 1
8®
i Q
cS %• n
mm
m
fcrA
.mu.
Ato\\ CAvfa \
1
l»» l»X- | •’ v^xjjvCy.ioOiX
.Luy : JL<*> l^v-|«w»:
I;
Hi
li
y
SR
Lk:
K
Cn
s||»i
SftSsris**
Ml
W
im
m
m
lL
mm
m
m
&
Mi
m
m
OitkWJl
f w ~'\ ‘L»‘
■~< | |V
S*
m
< I >. V
'• ;
md
Hi
so
wm
VXM
*4c!
jVhIS&h


Watch Your
Step f
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
* * * - *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide, Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
For carrying any type of liquid no pipe can equal
Pioneer Wood Pipe for economy, efficiency and long
trouble-free operation. Pioneer Wood Pipe costs con-
siderably less than metal pipe, it is non-corrosive,
easier and cheaper to handle, transport and lay, and
has proved its extreme efficiency on many important
installations throughout Australia. Write for full
details to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
# * * *
Hydraulie Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HRAKCUES IN VARIOUS STATES.
Don’t Experiment with Belting
Buy PIONEER for assured
long-life service
Growing old has no terrors for Pioneer Guaranteed Leather Belting. On the
smallest or largest drives it ensures many, many years of constant and trouble-free
service—no breakdowns or slipping, but steady and efficient power transmission
under the most severe conditions.
Proof of Pioneer quality is in the fact that more Pioneer Belts are in use in
Australia than any other make. Leather' lasts longest.
PIONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE IBSB
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
Queensland Agents: HOEY, FRY, LTD., Edward Street, Brisbane.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122*132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
I
ft
l u
M"
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £>£>£>
1920.. 15,193 10 p.c. = 5811 9,382 15,526
1921.. 3,947 10 „ „ 7500 - 11,973
1922.. 12,632 10 „ „ 7500 5,132 17,105
1923.. 17,730 10 „ „ 7500 10,236 27,341
1924.. 14,123 10 „ „ 7500 6,623 33,964
1925.. 14,307 124,, „ 9375 4,932 38,896
1926.. 13,913 124 „ „ 9375 4,538 43,434
1927.. 12,980 12* „ „ 9375 3,605 47,039
Brisbane preliminary exes., £6lO 46,429
1928.. 11,376 124 p.c. = 9375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £60.. 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7710 2,727 38,717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
That is the. first time since the public became
interested in 1910 that shareholders have
gone hungry. They had a steady 10 p.c.
since 1918, sw'eetened with a 2} p.c. bonus
in 1919 and again for the four years to the
close of accounts in 1928, Then £12,500
was transferred from reserves to capital to
pay 10s. on each of 25,000 new £1 shares.
Meanwhile a factory was set up in Brisbane,
but results from that quarter have not been
satisfactory.
The co. manufactures commercial station-
ery and office requisites. Headquarters are
iu Melbourne, and there are branches
in Sydney and Perth as well. The
Westralian subsidiary excepted, the busi-
ness shared the general experience of
traders last year. Gross profits (£32,810)
slipped £11,752. Exes. (£29,704) were got
back £4421, leaving the net result at 3.1 p.c.
on capital compared with 13.5, 15.1, 17.3,
38.5 and 19 p.c. back to 1925. The down-
yvard trend of the figures reflects the results
of the Brisbane venture, and keener com-
petition and mounting costs. It is doubtful,
therefore, whether a recovery of earnings to
the average level of recent years need be
looked for. Prospects are that, when trade
generally has readjusted itself to altered con-
ditions, turnovers will have lost some of
their former briskness. Still, a 6 p.c. div.
may then be worth as much as 10 p.c. used
to be; much wall depend upon the extent
to which overhead can be got back, and upon
how the Brisbane branch ultimately pans out.
Capital had the assistance and support of
£41,823 of visible reserves at Oct. 31, and
the co. has a wide goodwill, of which no
account is taken in the books, and an able
management.
The recent growth of the business, and the
satisfactory state of the finances, are
reflected in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1923. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £75,000 £75,000 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 8,339 8,361 12,954 13,619
Premises.. .. 25,426 34,800 41,715 41,826
Plant, etc. . . 27,635 33,437 40,179 45,074
Stock . . . . 18,919 25,110 34,551 29,701
Book debts .. 20,602 20,824 27,772 24,734
Cash and sundries 9,514 8,915 1,414 1,565
Shares in other cos. 13,334 13,334 15,000 17,600
Last year £2544 was snipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors (now £5423, in-
cluding something for taxation). £5006 was
added to the book value of fixed assets and
£2500 to the holding in the Westralian sub-
sidiary. To do this the board went to its
bankers for an extra £3209, raising the
overdraft to £8196, and drew upon liquids
for the balance. Thus the more or less
liquid surplus (£42,481, including stocks)
was £8302 lighter than at the previous
balance.
On the market sellers asked 335. for the
pound shares a’ year ago; they were recently
offered at 245. The backing amounts to 28s.
4d'. in net tangibles.
Tinsongkhla
To enable the co. to hold on, shareholders
in Tinsongkhla, N.L., are to be asked for
more. There is about £16,500 coming to
sundry creditors and little in the till. So
it is proposed to raise the face value of the
180,000 shares, of which 141,500 (10,000
10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 131.500 ords.) are
issued and fully paid, from 255. to 30s. Not
more than 2s. of the extra ss. is to be called
during 1931, the board says.
It has been a disappointing venture.
Formed in Melbourne in 1926, the co. took
over a number of properties in the F.M.S.
and Siam from Eastern Option. It decided
to work one, in Southern Siam, and the
others were passed over to a prospecting
subsidiary, Eastern Tin, which has not thus
far met with much success.
It was figured that the Siam property
contained 9,250,000 c.y. of 14-Joz. to 17oz.
dredgabie dirt. The dredge, which has a
capacity of 144,000 c.y.. monthly, began dig-
ging in'June, 1928. When it reached the tin-
bearing ground in section “A” in the follow-
ing October the co.’s troubles began. Heavy
clay, not disclosed in the original examination
of the ground, restricted yardage and recov-
eries, while water shortage added to the
troubles for a time, and costs climbed to Is.
4d. as against an estimated sd. per yard.
So, in November, 1929, it was decided to
throw section “A” into the discard, and the
dredge was turned back through its own tail-
ings towards the 100 acres of more easily
worked ground in section “B.”
Here there are about 4,000,000 c.y. check
bored to go 17oz. t.o. per yard. But the
dredge, which has never worked to capacity,
closed down in June last, when the price of
tin dropped below’ £l4O per ton. The best
recoveries obtained were 0.61 b. a yard; on
that basis there are approximately 800 tons
of tin to be w r on. Costs hung around Is.
On the market the ords. are priced at 2s. 6d.
At that figure, and on a 0.61 b, recovery, the
investor who looks for his money back plus
10 p.c. counts on tin averaging £165 per
ton and costs being reduced to 6d. a yard.
The metal is now around £lO6, London, and
prospects of a sharp advance from that figure
are not bright at the moment. A substantial
improvement in recoveries would alter the
co.’s outlook. Owing to domestic troubles,
the restriction scheme of the Tin Producers’
Association is not working so smoothly as
it might, either.
Chairman Frank Hambridge told New Guinea
Goldfields shareholders at the annual meeting
last w r eek that the financial position of the
co. was excellent. The cash balance was
£170,000, while Mining Trust, Ltd., was
standing by to throw in another £356,000 as
required, making cash resources well over
half a million. One-third of this should
enable the co. to begin profit earning with
the initial milling plant now being designed
to suit local conditions. The diamond drill
had been put to work on the reefing propo-
sitions, and exploration speeded up. The
drills, should settle all doubts as to the per-
sistence of the ore bodies already located as
they go down, and the existence of payable
stone in the secondary enrichment levels.
Soft ground wms holding up the work until
casing was available. There was still a lot
of alluvial gravels available on the co.’s
leases, most of wdiich were let on tribute.
New alluvial had been discovered in con-
siderable quantity, but so far values had
not been sampled. Ore tests made in
America indicated that a high recovery by
orthodox methods was likely. The pilot
plant was being designed to put through 100
tons of ore daily, and would, it was hoped,
be running within 12 months after the plac-
ing of the orders for manufacture. It would
set in on the Wau ore body, which has been
sampled to go 110 s. per ton, and is easily
accessible.
* * * *
Kaindi Gold, one of the New Guinea reef-
ing claims acquired by New Guinea Gold-
fields some time ago, has decided to distri-
bute 25 shares in N. G. Goldfields for every
share held in Kaindi. This will absorb
50,000 of the 55,000 £1 f.p. shares received
by Kaindi from N.G.G. for its leases. Dis-
tribution is to be made on and after January
26 on presentation of Kaindi scrip. The
remaining 5000 shares will be handed out
when the transfer of one remaining lease is
completed.
* * * *
There has been a revival of interest in
the old Morinish goldfield, not far from
Rockhampton, ,Central Queensland. Long
ago a lot of alluvial and reef gold was taken
out of Morinish, and Rosewood near by.
The present find is described as a “big” reef
with only a few feet of overburden. Free
gold can be seen, and dollying has shown good
returns and a silver content. The reef has
shed in some places, and there are nice
patches of specimen gold, some of w’hicii
have averaged 14oz. to the ton. A rush has
set in and a lot of country has been pegged.
Nevertheless, the prospects of a new
Eldorado are remote. All the past finds in
this country, with the exception of Mt.
Morgan, have proved patchy and shallow.
The probability is that the new one, like
sc many of its predecessors, is an isolated
“blow” or an outsize floater with a limited
life ahead of it.
: u if: ❖
“Old Warden” : Metalliferous beach sands
have never received the attention in Aus-
tralia which they have commanded in other
parts of the world, though for years a strip
of the northern N. S. Wales coast has been
worked in perfunctory fashion. Recently
two Brisbane mining men, W. J. Lynch, an
engineer, and H‘. C. Oakes, an analyst ana
assayer, patented a simple plant for treat-
ing beach sands which promises to give
satisfactory results. There are many beaches
between Byron Bay, in N.S.W., and Cairns,
in N.Q., known to have a fair gold content,
with tin and platinum often associated.
Separation from the fine sand on an economi-
cal basis has always been the problem. By
the new process it is claimed that the sand
can be reduced to one per cent, of its
original bulk in one operation, the metal
content being retained. The sand is fed to
a central hopper by an ordinary sand pump.
Then four pipe-leads distribute it to a
cylinder fitted with a paddle-beater _ revolv-
ing in flowing water, thus separating the
waste sand from the concentrates. Parcels
of sand assaying a few grains of gold to the
ton yielded concentrates going up to soz. _ A
fair working size plant "would deal with
four or five tons of sand an hour.
* * * *
Gulgong Gold Options, N.L., has recently
been formed in Sydney to work a group of
leases on the famous old N. S. Wales field.
Provisional directors are A. E. Brown, mining
engineer, and F, J. Ludowici, a w’ell-known
Sydney leather merchant. Nominal capital
is £5OOO in 2s. 6d. shares, of which 20,000
are offered; the vendors get 10,000 f.p.’s,
and the balance is in cold store. The co. is
to take over Stein’s Deep Lead property.
mining plant is available on the spot. The
Happy Valley and Black Leads were the
richest runs in Gulgong, but as the ground
grew deeper their course was changed. It is
claimed that the leads have again been located.
The shaft sunk by the Stein interests to cut
the alluvial drift is down 100 ft.; it is pro-
posed to deepen it to 180 ft., where it is
expected to bottom. In the old days loads
from these leads yielded up to £4O to the
square yard.
* * * *
Westralia is elated over the passing of
the Gold Bounty Act. Some of the big pro-
ducers on the Golden Mile are preparing to
increase their output. It is expected that
Wiluna, which starts ore treatment in
March, will swell next year’s Westralian
gold production by 150,0000 z.
* * * *
London, it is reported, is nibbling at the
Mararoa Co.’s idle goldmine, near Cue
(W.A.). A small syndicate represented by
H. E. Vail and others had an option on the
show for a time, but abandoned it on account
of “financial stringency and burdensome min-
ing taxation.” There was, however, no ex-
change premium or gold bonus then.
* * * *
Kimberley Options show at Edjudina
(W.A.) is officially reported to be looking
well. At 100 ft. down, where independent
experts reckoned the shoot would cut out,
good values are exposed. The reports cir-
culated about this property scared the hold-
ers of others away from the field, and in-
ducements will need to be particularly good
at depth to persuade them to return.
* * * *
Kramat, one of Alluvial Tin’s subsidiaries,
which began digging a year ago, has sur-
prised the market with a 6d. div., payable
Jan. 10. Malcolm Newman figured that the
co.’s property, on the left bank of the Kinta
River, contained 50,000,000 c.y. of dredgabie
dirt, averaging .751 b. black tin. The elec-
trically operated bucket dredge of 180,000
c.y. capacity is capable of digging to 75ft.
below water level. Recent recoveries have been
around .931 b., and costs actually a shade under
3d. a yard. Even with tin at its present
figure (£lO6 per ton) the co. can show satis-
factory results. Paid capital is £165,000 in
fully-paid pound shares, which fetch 225.
on the market.
:]=***
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Are there any likely spots in N.S.W.
where a prospector might pick up gold? What
equipment would I need besides camping
gear? —sBs.
At this moment there are probably more
than 5000 prospectors scattered over the
gold-bearing belts of N. S. Wales. These
probably average only about 10s. worth of
gold per man per week. Under the circum-
stances it is difficult to suggest “likely spots,”
which are not already receiving attention.
However, the tributaries of the Abercrombie
River, north from Crookwell, might be tried.
A prospector would need a gold-saving dish,
pick and shovel; some experience is essential.
(1) How do gold and antimony occur
together? (2) What percentage of anti-
mony will pay? (3) Can antimony be fully
treated in this country? (4) Demand? (5)
Where can it be treated and price per ton
of concentrates? —423.
(1) Gold may be either coated by or
associated with antimony. (2) Antimony
usually occurs as sulphide (S 3, Sb) and
ore would have to be dressed (or concen-
trated if necessary) to 50 per cent, antimony
to be marketable; whether payable would
depend on costs and price of metal, which
is very low. (3) and (5) O. T. Lempriere
and Co., 23 Macquarie-plaee, Sydney, will
treat. Fifty per cent, is regarded as stan-
dard. Lemprieres will treat under 50 per
cent., but not when it falls substantially
below the standard. Price varies from £lO
to £l2 10s. per ton according to quality.
(4) Little demand at present as evidenced
by the price. No Queensland deposits are
being worked.
(1) What are the chances for a prospec-
tor in New Guinea? (2) Are they any
better in N.S.W. or any other State? (3)
Fare to New Guinea? (4) Chances of other
employment there? —sBl.
(1) Good for a man with some capital—
from £5OO to £lOOO is advisable —and experi-
ence. (2) No. (3) Variable; write Burns,
l’hilp and Co., Sydney. (4) Poor just now*,
the mining cos. employing wages men and
the business firms are full-handed.
What is the market for crude red ochre
like in Queensland? —163.
There is none. Paint manufacturers
import the ground oxide from Europe. Most
likely buyers are Messrs. McLeod and Co.,
Alexandria, N. S. Wales, and Messrs. Taub-
man, Ltd. (through their Queensland office,
Edward-street, Brisbane). Quotations for
crude ochre are not available, but the best
ground and refined brings up to £l4 or £l5
per ton; inferior grades, £7 to £7 10s. Better
submit a sample to the Mines Department,
Brisbane.
In selling an ounce of fine gold in
Sydney, worth, say, £4 55., would the seller
receive four Australian £1 notes and 55., or
would the exchange between here and London
be taken into account? —734.
The Commonwealth Bank passes on to
sellers the full benefit of the increase due
to the higher rate of exchange on London,
less cost of transfer. The rate or premium
at present is 7f p.c., equal to about 6s. 7d.
per ounce of fine gold.
After the war German marks {paper) were
offered for sale in Australia at the rate of a
million marks for £1 Is. Ilow much of Aus-
tralia’s money did Gei'many get that way? —
744.
Nobody knows. Nobody knows even the
total of German marks in which people in
foreign countries speculated. It was esti-
mated at the time that the interest on this
foreign holding of internal loans was up-
wards of 1000 million marks. When the
crash came, so almost valueless was the mark
that the entire debt was practically wiped
out,
BRIEF ANSWERS.
iC.W.K.” : (1-4) Perilous. You’d have to back
an unproved management in a highly technical busi-
ness. (5-6) With very few exceptions it is not easy
to sell shares not listed A.J.G.: The “visible
backing’’ of a B.N.S.W. share is the capital plus
reserves, divided by number of shares. In some
cos. it is necessary to subtract goodwill and similar
intangible assets before making the division. (Reserves
are the visible net assets in excess of capital.)....
M.H.: (1) Sorry, no. (2) Rather worse. .. .Nebo:
Better leave it where it is... .8.T.5.: Presumably
your shares are Tongkah Compound No. 3. (1) No
recent quotations. (2) Not available. (3) Present
price of tin, which has held up half the producing
cos. in Malaya. (4) No news of a call, though on
the 112,000 contribs., paid to 65., one is always
possible. (5) If your holding is f.p., nothing to
lose by hanging on S.H.S.: (1) Don’t know. (2)
Inflated. (3) In the war years (1914-18) Germany’s
debt rose by 11.3, 22.1, 30.3, 36.3 and 50.9 milliards
of marks, plus 13j milliards for which Germany
backed its allies’ bills. (A milliard is a thousand
millions: 50 milliard marks would thus be
£2,500,000,0*30.) (4) No.


ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
"When we get a little more used to this economy we shall find ourselves all the happier for practising it.”—Bulletin correspondent.
AUSTRALIA: "Her presence is a bit embarrassing, of course; but now I’m getting used to her I think I'll ask her to stay.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Turned Up”
Criterion “Eliza Comes to Stay”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The House that Jack Built”
Tivoli “Ton Hole”
State Movies and Talkies
+ ——
“By the way,” said Snodge, shifting his
foot thoughtfully along the rail, “that show
‘Beauty’ at the Opera's jakerloo.”
“Eh!”
“I said,” Snodge asserted, “that the pan-
tomime ‘Beauty and the Beast,’ at the Grand
Opera House," Hay, Campbell and Castle-
reagh streets, Sydney, is an admirable
theatrical entertainment.”
“But doesn’t it start next Friday?”
“No,” said Snodge, “it doesn’t. That’s
where you critics miss out, if you get me.
All you can write’s a perennial splurge en-
titled ‘Polished Goods.’ If you have a good
dinner and you’ve got something in the ice-
chest for Sunday, it’s a good show. If some-
one trod on your corns on the way in, it’s
cronk. Ask any theatrical management. But
in any ease the show’s got to have its
clothes on, so to speak. Of course, I might
be wrong, but give ’em to me in the Godiva
stage. Rehearsal. That’s the idea. Ever
been to one? No, of course, you haven’t,
except in the Art theatres, where they put
’em on in lieu of the billed play. Take my
tip, and try one, just for a change from
writing about the ‘externals of pantomime
being exquisitely perennial.’ You know the
sort of guff.
“Anyhow, I blew in on this ‘Beauty’ show
the other day. Good name for it, ‘Beauty.’
Never saw such a bunch of little pearls in
my life. They won’t see me again—not on
your life. One turn on the old dog-chain’s
enough for me. A bloke’s only taking un-
necessary risks, butting into this sort of
company. Take Beauty herself, for in-
stance. I’ll admit her hair was all done up
in bone combs, but you never saw anything
as beautiful as it in your life. It was nearly
the color of beer. As for her face, well, I
tell you all the church steeples in Adelaide
on Christmas moiming are only ding to it.
It’s absolutely ding-dong. Name’s Jones.
“And she’s only one. What about the girl
who’s the Boy—Miss Dewar? Her name’s
enough on its own. Damn good brand. Or
take Miss Parcelles. Eyebrows as black as
a small boy’s foot. Absolutely poetical.
“The front legs of the giraffe cleaning his
finger-nails."
You know, the archy sort. Or take Miss
Waring, who’s another of the dark sort,
only rounder. And about half a hundred
othei-s with legs on ’em that look as if they’d
been educated in butter factories.
“Mind you, I hold no brief for ’em in
general, but you must admit they’ve got a
bit on us when it comes to clothes. Look
at the men in this lot. As bona fide actors
they wouldn’t object to taking their trousers
off on the stage, but here they hang on to
’em like Jack Lang with his teeth in a
punter’s ear. Most of them are dressed as you’d
run into ’em in the street, sweltering away
at about 110 in the snotlights. Nat Phillips
has heaved off everything save his shirt and
pants, but he’s Idle Jack forgetting his part
and directing the business in a way that’d
get him the boot out of the Public Service.
Never saw anyone woi’k like him.
“But the girls have it all over the rest
of ’em for commonsense. They’re in gym-
nasium trunks and blouses, and look as cool
as the fish in the aquarium. Darned seri-
ous, too —about the job, I mean. Funniest
thing in the world to see ’em get up off their
haunches and go out on to the middle "of the
stage, when Nat gives ’em the office, and act
as if the place was packed to the roof.
You’d think the rest’d stand off and laugh
at ’em for making such damn fools of them-
selves, but I s’pose they’re used to it.
“You see Nat with the orchestra-conductor
aspect of him turned to the footlights put-
ting a couple of them through their paces.
‘Now that’s the kiss,’ he says. ‘Now you
put your arm round the giraffe’s neck.’
Well, it mightn’t sound funny to you, but it
looks darned funny to see this cove Cass,
who’s the Dame, dressed in a- brown suit and
gold watch chain, with glasses on, putting
his arm l’ound the neck of a giraffe that
isn’t there because its hind legs is talking
to the Boy in her tomato-colored beret and
grey street dress on this side of the stage, and
front legs is leaning against a solid
brick wall of butter muslin cleaning his
finger-nails on the other side.
“As for the Beast, well, I didn’t find Dan
Weldon a bad sort of a bloke at all. He was
strolling about muttering, ‘R, I have you
in my po-wer at larrrst!’ but he was doing
it in such a wouldn’t-hurt-the-girl-even-if-she-
mari’ied-me sort of tone that I’d have taken
a risk and asked him out for a lemonade
only a cove named Connelly, got up in an
ordinary suit to represent one of those old-
time Barons, and a benevolent-looking bloke
named Foster, who’s the Demon, collared
him first.
“Might all seem a bit topsy-turvy the way
I’m telling it to you, but that’s just how
it is. There’s a hundi’ed or so of ’em just
hanging about the stage—bits of kids who’ll
be bunny rabbits when all you critic codgers
see ’em, and men who’ll be. women and
women who’ll be men, and so on. And one
or two are out facing Nat strutting their
stuff, and a cove down in the orchestra’s
tickling the piano when he gets the office.
That sort of thing.
“Of course it’s a cow of a job to get in
and see ’em in action. Bloke on the door
did his best to keep me out. He’s right, too.
Only up to him to keep fellow-goats out.
Mutual protection. Not that any of ’em
came at me. But that might’ve been only
because their mothers were sitting up in
“Give ’em to me in the Godiva stage.”
the back like a row of stuffed owls, watch-
ing ’em. What the dickens mothers have got
hanging about a rehearsal I’m hanged if I
know. Anyhow, the only bint who
approached me only wanted to know how you
pronounce ‘observant.’ I told her ‘observant, 1
which is the only way I’ve ever heard it
pronounced, and hopped it for my life. When
they’ve got eyebrows like that I believe in
playing safe as a bloke bidding two no-
trumps at a wool sale. In future I
inspect the goods from the safe side of the
orchestra.
“What’s that? Show? Well, all I can
say is if you don’t find it the goods on
Friday it’ll only go to prove what Jock
Garden has been telling you all along—that
people who work hard deserve what’s coming
to ’em.”
* * *
So well did Don Finlay produce for the
Community, Sydney, its miracle or morality
play of The Nativity, and so appropriate
was the church-crypt setting, that a presen-
tation which by all modern canons of litera-
ture and stagecraft was a burlesque could
be accepted not only with intex-est but with
reverence.
The stage setting took the form of a trip-
tych of black di’aping, in the panels of which
sat the Holy the Angel of the Annun-
ciation and King Herod. As each was called
to speak the yellow panel screen was drawn
aside to disclose the character framed in
a small alcove. Miss Tennant was a blonde
Madonna in a traditional Madonna-blue
cloak; Alf Olsen had stepped right out of
a stained-glass window, halo and sceptre of
Christmas lilies and all, as the angel;. and
J. S. K. Maclennan played Herod in Ercles’
vein.
Staging and costuming were of the dia-
grammatic type that went with the mediseval
period of the play, and much of Chaucerian
English had been retained in the dialogue.
The whole was a curiosity of the evolution
of stagecraft. The angel acted Chorus;
Herod was a red-faced villain of the piece
in a grotesque hat (and little else), and a
jester, played neatly by Joyce Lambert, “fed”
Herod in the manner of modern comedians.
Eric Edmonds (Isaiah), colossal in the
robes of a prophet, as it were, “introduced”
characters and scenes in words of prophecy.
Mary was a gentle heroine “so mild,” per-
secuted by the villain.
There were quaint intentional touches —
and one unintentional. Caspar, Melchior
and Baltasar, the three kings, came riding
(on broomsticks decorated with steeds’
heads') from a desert that perforce had to
be occupied by the audience; the shepherds
also watched their flocks among the seats
of the auditorium before the Star of Bethle-
hem led them to where the manger and Babe
were. Herod, foiled by the departure of the
Holy Family to Egypt, angrily galloped—
on his broomstick steed —away into the dark-
ness of the two-shilling seats. The, uninten-
tional quaintness was provided by St.
Joseph. C. E. Anscombe, brought in to read
the part at short notice, was bare-chinned,
wore rimless glasses and disclosed lacpd
Oxford footgear and obvious “strides” be-
neath his pilgrim cloak.
Despite this, the play impressed; the story
rang real; the atmosphere was never lost.
Presentation was greatly aided by the cos-
tuming, in which Mrs. Gabriel achieved re-
“As bona-fide actors they wouldn’t mind
taking their trousers off.”
markable results from gay-hued cottons and
a touch of cardboard and paint. Mrs. Gab-
riel was also occasional interlocutor, boom-
ing questions to players from a dark corner
of the crypt theatre. The performance was
quite a landmark in Sydney repertory work.
* * *
The tornado of sacred music which is a
regular visitant to Melbourne at the pre-
sent season began to blow spiritedly at the
Town Hall last week, the Malvern Choral
Society, assisted by the Vic. Professional
Orchestra commencing the meteorological
disturbance. ' Handel’s “The Messiah,” which
has almost acquired the right to be sub-
titled “The Methuselah,” was sung in its
entirety, allegedly for the first time in Aus-
tralia. Singing the gigantic opus without
stint or cuts was a dubious experiment, and
the choralists, under Herbert Davis’s direc-
tion, did not come out of the ordeal un-
scathed. There w’ere lots of false accentua-
tion and much straggling on the part of the
infantry. Adele McKay w r as not equal to
the demands of the solo parts assigned her.
but Madame Eda Bennie showed her usual
artistry and sense of the dramatic. Henry
Thomas was more noisy than effective. How-
ever, the large audience was not disposed to
be too critical—in fact, criticism is in a
way an impertinence at a performance which
most patrons regard as a religious ceremony
rather than a musical occasion.
* # #
The prize for me worst concert of a week
of music in Melbourne goes to the Vic.
Liedertafel for. its display under Sutton
Crow’s baton at the Town Hall. Except for
the Spanish and German lieder sung by
Madame Orff-Solscher, the programme - was
crowded . with undistinguished items, though
firmer direction might have made something
of ■ the less mediocre of them. “Ring Out,
Wild Bells” lacked the ferocity of a tram-
driver urging a Baby Austin off his track.
“.Child Divine” (Bridge) was sweetly sung
by the Liedertafel choir of boys, but the
brass band from the Australian Broadcast-
ing Co.’s, studio is not the best form of
accompaniment for juvenile voices.
* *
After having promised remission of amuse-
ment tax on legitimate entertainments, Mr.
Hogan has discovered that he is obliged to
give more consideration to the subject, so
the entrepreneurs who arranged to open their
theatres on the strength of the expected
relief are at the moment too full of emotion for
words—at least, of the printable sort. Never-
theless, performances will proceed as pre-
viously announced on the north side of the
Yarra, while others are threatened on the
south. “The Old Woman Who Lived in
a Shoe” will be presented twice daily at
the Playhouse, commencing on Boxing Day,
“The First Mrs. Fraser” commences on
Boxing Day at the Comedy, and “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin” at the King’s. On Saturday
“Cinderella,” in the shape of Rene Esler,
“Look as if they’d
been educated in
butter factories.”
began trying on foot-
wear at the State,
and at the Royai
“The House That
Jack Built” was
thrown open for in-
spection. Closer
examination of these
will be postponed till
next week.
Minnie Love is the
latest adition to Mel-
bourne Tivoli, and
looks as if she has
taken up a perma-
aent abode there. The
tall, personable lady
has a quality rare
in v a u d e v illean
comediennes indi-
viduality. With the
aid of a straw hat. or
some other slight ad-
justment to her nor-
mal makeup she gives
speaking impersonations of , Maurice t Che-
valier, A 1 Jolson and the immortal London
charlady. The appeal of her art to the regu-
lar Tivolitarean is so complete that it was
unnecessary for her to have a melodious
voice; but she has that also.
* * 9
Adelaide Repertory Theatre announces, as
its programme for 1931, Barrie’s “Mary
Rose,” Shaw’s “Heartbreak House,” a Gals-
worthy, a Lonsdale, and something humorous
from the Spanish. There will also be five
“club” evenings, at which one-act plays
will be the principal fare.
The Firm has pinned its Christmas faith
to “Turned Up,” which was turned on at
Sydney Majesty’s on Saturday. Its cast is
first-rate for musicomedy purposes, with
Gus Bluett, Elsie Prince, Bertha Riccardo,
Cecil Kellaway and sundry other good ones
carrying the baby. Judgment reserved for
the New Year Bulletin.
* * *
“The Green Goddess,” the late William
Archer’s little joke in melodrama, is the sub-
ject of litigation in Melbourne. The case
rests on whether the talkie at present touring
Australia is a cinematograph version. If the
word “cinematography” applies only to the
old silent film, then the J.C.W. firm claims
that Union Theatres are infringing its right.
The stage play was introduced to Sydney
by Guy Bates Post in 1925. Presumably,
if the Firm wins its case a talkie will
legally be tantamount to a flesh-and-blood
performance, and a person who calls round
at the stage door of the Regent and asks to
take Norma Talmadge to supper will be
legally behaving quite rationally.
* * *
“ ‘Central 928’ is the title of the current
revue at the Tivoli Theatre,” remarked the
“Argus” the other day. “For all the relation
it bears to the performance the title might
as appropriately be ‘Buckle’s History of
Civilisation’ or ‘Citrus-raising in Czecho-
slovakia.’ ” The “Argus” was wrong. The
title has everything to do with the perform-
ance. It happens to be the ’phone number
of the Tiv.’s booking office.
* ¥ #
The Williamson revival of “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin” recalls that Maggie Moore was
Topsy and J. C. Williamson was Phineas
von Tromp in their first big Australian sea-
sons in 1874-75, when “Struck Oil” was their
chief draw. Other famous Topsies include
Carrie Swain, Fanny Wiseman, May Living-
stone and Lily Dampier. Rignold got a
great run out of the piece at Sydney
Majesty’s in 1888, and introduced real water
in the riven scene. He also used real blood-
hounds, but in a later revival (1894) he
introduced a St. Bernard dog to hunt the
slaves, which called down the ridicule of
the press. The Pollards staged an operatic
version at Sydney Cri. in 1895, and the
ITicks-Sawyer Minstrels and the McAdoo
Minstrels staged the piece with real coons.
Little Nell, the Californian Diamond,
doubled the roles of Topsy and Eliza in a
revival in 1876 ; she spent most of the time
changing from black to white and back again.
Hosea Easton, a real nigger, was a capital
Uncle Tom in Rignold’s show, which fol-
lowed Mrs. Stowe’s story very closely, and
had Fanny Wiseman as a notable Topsy.
Johnny Sheridan always played Marks, the
“Nat gives ’em the
office.”
lawyer, in his
musical-comedy edi-
tion. Mrs. Scott-
Siddons played
Eliza for many
weeks w h e n
Shakspeare failed.
4- ¥ ¥
Brisbane Reps,
offer 50 guineas
for a play written
in Australia by an
Australian. Plays
that have been pro-
duced aren’t eli-
gible. Those sub-
mitted must be
capable of provid-
ing a two-hour per-
formance apart
from interval; the
winner will be the
property of the
author, though the
society keeps the
right to.produce it
in Brisbane without payment of royalties for
a season of not more than six nights.
The Palette.
“Hamer”: Will Ashton some time ago
made a bonfire of all his old canvases remain-
ing unplaced; Arthur Streeton would prob-
ably like to do that with many of his old-time
paintings that didn’t. All his life Streeton
has been a most industrious worker, and in
the starvation days he “knocked off” a mul-
titude of small things for any loose cash he
could get for them —a few went to a Mel-
bourne restaurant proprietor with artistic
leanings. The restaurant man has realised
a big profit in these days, when anything
with the Streeton signature sells, and so
have others who have got hold of the old
potboilers; but the artist had his worst
moment when a lady recently wrote to him
asking him to put his signature on one of
them from which it had been omitted.
Streeton responded that he would be
delighted—for £25. Then the lady wrote
back to say that it didn’t matter —his letter,
pasted on the back of the canvas, was an
ample guarantee of authenticity.
At the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, there
is a show of etchings of old Sydney,
mostly by Lionel Lindsay and Ure Smith,
craftsmen who have felt the spell of the
city and translated its spirit into vigorous
line. Some old aquatints and other colored
prints round out a collection that should
solve for ma.ny art-loving folk the problem
of what to give at Christmas.
“F.S.”: For some months past water-
colorist and art-critic Blamire Young has
been running an illustrated series of “What
to See in Our Art Gallery” for Melbourne
“Herald,” and it is a curious commentary
on national collections in general and the
public taste in particular that up to date he
has not selected one first-class work, although
there are at least half a dozen in the Nat.
Gallery. In dealing with Edwin Long’s
“Queen Esther,” Young dimly recognises an
absolute truth when he remarks : “This kind
of work is still popular, but fashions have
changed, and the gibes that were directed
at it at the time by Whistler and Oscar
Wilde are now echoed by a rapidly-growing
number of people.” Yet he can go on to
say: “Public taste has improved a great
deal, but that may not prevent a return
to pietures-with-stories-to-tell in the near
future as a recoil from the meaningless aus-
terities of to-day.” I am infected with the
sad suspicion that Young, who is a roman-
ticist, is himself certain to reject as “mean-
ingless austerities” the most significant
paintings of to-day, just as did the popular
“Hang on like Jack Lang with his teeth
in a punter’s ear.”
taste at which Whistler and Wilde gibed.
That is why when, turning to modern Aus-
tralian painting, Young praises the story-
telling virtues of James A. Flett and depre-
ciates the “meaningless austerities” of
Clarice Beckett, I feel certain that Miss
Beckett’s pictures would be the safer “buy.”
Even Young must be impressed by the fact
that the painter of “Queen Esther” got 6000
guineas for a picture that would hardly com-
mand as many shillings now. That our own
George Lambert’s stock will go down in the
same degree I am as certain as that the
Felton Bequest won’t buy a really great
artist’s work until he has been dead 100
years and his prices have gone sky-high.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Should “Sheltered” Investments Be “De-
flated ”?
During tlie boom I, an average wage-earner, saved
£lOOO. As a result of deflation my thousand is worth
£l3OO now and looks like being worth £2OOO next
year. So by sitting down I have increased my
money 100 per cent. My wages are cut to suit
the falling cost, a just procedure, so why not
similarly deal with my capital ? As commodities
fall there should be a corresponding inflation, so that
the fellow coming on can save his thousand, too, an
impossible thing on a low wage. If cost of living
falls 10 per cent., then print 10 per cent, more notes.
Where are the fallacies in this plan?— Crcesus.
This is illuminating: it suggests how it
is that so many wage-earners refuse to see
that there has been an enormous shrinkage
of capital.
Like .so many tens of thousands of other
wage-earners, “Croesus” evidently put his
money on deposit in a savings bank or else-
where, or lent it out on mortgage. He was
a moneylender rather than an investor. And,
thus far, his money is there, intact. But if
he had invested it in some industry—in a
farm, for example, or in shares in any indus-
trial or other co., or in houses for letting—
he would certainly have lost from 40 to 60
p.c. of his principal.
Now, in order to deflate these few “shel-
tered” investments, “Crcesus” proposes a
plan to deflate all investments, whether they
have been already deflated or not. Obviously
that, would be quite unjust.
Whether these sheltered investments ought
to escape is a matter for serious considera-
tion : it was discussed in B. 17/12/’3O under
the heading “Should Mortgages Be Written
Down ?”
To reduce the value of his own invest-
ment “Crcesus” suggests an increase of the
note issue. The trouble is that once this
note inflation begins it has been found very
difficult if not impossible to stop it. And
when that happens, savings-bank deposits and
other sheltered investments are the worst
sufferers. To a man who owns a farm, or
a business or a few houses," or even ordinary
shares, it does not matter much what the
nominal value of his investment is, as long
as he does not want to sell. But to a man
who has deposited £lOO with a savings bank,
variation in values may mean everything, be
cause, while he paid in in notes that were
not inflated, he can and will be paid out in
inflated notes. It was this which ruined
almost every bank depositor and mortgagee
in Germany. They were paid back in prac-
tically worthless paper.
Germany adopted a better plan after the
war. It wanted to get back some of the
enormously inflated values. So one of
its three forms of taxation of property was
the kriegssteuer on “property increase,"
which practically appropriated every increase
of over 5000 marks in the value of property
between Dec." 31," 1913, and June 30, 1919;
the maximum increase which anybody was
allowed to retain was 172,000 marks. Thus
the tax on a property showing an increase
between those two dates of 10,000,000 marks
was 9,833,000 marks. Now it might be pos-
sible to apply the same principle to Aus-
tralia in order to equalise sacrifice, if it
should be decided that equal sacrifice is a
fair thing. A modification would, of course,
be necessary, a fall of say 40 per cent, in
market value being taken as a base or datum
point, and a percentage being taken of all
value maintained over that level.
One point, however, “Croesus” and the large
section he represents overlook. They see that
their capital has greatly increased in value,
without any effort on their part; and they
say this is not fair to the community. Maybe
they speak a little too soon. Maybe their
capital is not quite what they think it is.
Those deposits are in some cases represented
by property which has fallen as much as
50 p.c. in value ; and if all depositors made
a sudden call for their money they would
find it wasn’t there, and had in fact no
existence.
The Farmer and the Tariff
Dear Bulletin, —“J. 5.8.5.” (B.'lo/12/’3O)
castigates Australian agricultural machinery
firms for their charges, and sets out his own
experiences in connection with the purchase
of a binder in detail, showing a knowledge
of overseas prices and landing charges truly
remarkable in one so devoted to farming
pursuits.
However, that is no reason why his doubts
should not be removed, so I refer him to the
exhaustive report on agricultural-implement
manufacture by the Tariff Board. It is
Government white paper F. 15244, dated
August 19, 1925. Its final conclusion is:—
... .the Australian implement-maker is seen to be
receiving a benefit of only 64 per cent, through the
tariff, and the amount thus involved is too small
to be taken into account —it is about .15 of a penny
per bushel of wheat, and probably amounts to about
70s. 6d. per year to the average wheat-farmer. Before
charging even this small amount as a “burden due
to the tariff,” however, there should be taken into
consideration the fact that Australian-made imple-
ments are sold cheaper in this country than imported
implements in New Zealand or Argentine ; so it is
only reasonable to assume that if there were no
implement industry here the farmer would also be
paying a higher price for implements. It may
safely be said, therefore, that the tariff on agricultural
implements is imposing no burden on the primary
producer.
“J. 5.8.5.” quotes the price of an implement,
but does not state its size, so that compari-
sons cannot be made. The 6ft. reaper and
binder, with transport and sheaf-carrier, is
a standardised line wherever grain is cut.
It sells to the farmer for cash in various
countries as follows: —
Australia, made in Australia .. ..£6B 5 0
(Pins sales tax in recent months.)
Australia, imported (duty 45 per cent.).. 71 0 0
Canada, made in Canada (duty 25 per
cent.) .. .. .. .. .. 55 2 6
New Zealand, imported (duty free) .. 68 5 0
South Africa, imported (duty free) .. 70 10 0
Canada has the advantage in this compari-
son. Reapers and binders have been made
there for over 50 years, while in Australia
the trade is in its infancy. The Maoriland
and South African prices prove fairly clearly
that the Australian farmers would not get
cheaper binders if they were imported duty
free. The home market pays good prices for
a large proportion of all the produce of our
farms. Freetrade would wipe out most of
the factories and reduce the home market
disastrously.—Yours etc., R. W.
The Crash in Canned Goods
“Kyabramah”: Vic. growers of fruits for
canning are up against blue ruin—they are
offered £5 per ton for one-lialf the year’s crop,
and nothing at all for the other half. Any-
one could see this coming. Canned fruit,
as it has always been put up to us, is essen-
tially a luxury—and an expensive luxury
at that. I have often counted the fruit in
a tin, costing up here (Monaro) 15s. per
dozen, or 18d. for the single tin. Peaches
average out at nine halves = 4d. per peach.
Only wastrels, intoxicated by high wages,
could or would pay such prices, except for
an occasional luxury. The canny capitalist
would buy fresh fruit at one-quarter that
price—or else dried fruit, which can be got
at still lower prices (we are using at pre-
sent first-class dried Leeton apricots at 34d.
per lb., and prunes, peaches and pears can
all be got at under 6d.). When there is
money to burn canned goods lend themselves
admirably to that cult of the tin-opener
which is the most distinctive feature of our
civilisation; but when there is no money
it’s different. The catch is in the very
nature of things. The tin-can as a container
for small quantities of unconcentrated food
is an outrage on all economic laws ; but when
the canner deliberately half-fills that expen-
sive container with slightly sweetened water,
the outrage upon economy is redoubled. Be-
fore canned goods may become economically
justifiable articles of common diet, cheaper
containers than tins must be perfected, and
far honester methods of putting up must be
adopted.
Australian Dried Fruits
“L.8.M.”: “G.L.T.” complains (B.
10/12/’3O) of the poor packing of our dried
fruits. In Australia we have the finest dried
fruits in the world and the best methods of
packing; but we also have lower grades and
cheaper—in short, packs to suit all demands.
Those who can pay for the best can get it.
“G.L.T.’s” main complaint seems to be grubs.
In the case of sultanas, currants and raisins
his grocer can purchase “Showell processed”
fruit, and he will then have little trouble
with this pest. Apricots and peaches can be
obtained in 71b. and 61b. tins; but his grocer
wall pay id. per pound more. Of prunes
there are several excellent packs in 21b.,
61b. and 71b. airtight tins superior to the
best American. Our packs include Melba
and Canal brands from the Murrumbidgee
areas, and Verity brand from Young
(N.S.W.).
Distributors generally say they buy what
their customers demand ; so if “G.L.T.” and
others want the best it is up to them to ask
for them.
Who Gets the Exchange Premium?
“J.S.P.”: A point arising from “Pulling
the Worker’s Leg” (B. 10/12/’3O) is that
there is no certainty that woolgrowers are
deriving any benefit from the present high
exchange rate. Not long ago the rate was
raised £3 to £9 per cent., yet no rise was
noted for wool on the Australian market.
There ought to have been an increase of a
farthing to a halfpenny per lb. on fleece
wool, for 3 p.c. on tenpenny wool represents
per lb. At the time there was no fall
in world parity, so that can’t be blamed. It
looks as if the buyers, instead of the pro-
ducers, are making the profit out of the
exchange and paying us, in our depreciated
currency, prices calculated on the par value
of the pound. Certainly it means that a
man whose wool had been sold in England
after the exchange rose would have received
3 p.c. and more for his money in Australia:
it seems strange, then, that wool sold here
at the same time did not benefit to a similar
degree. Investigation might be worth while
just to discover if we are getting anything
out of the remaining £6 per cent, premium
Heaven knows we need it all!
Akubra Hats
There are a good many points of likeness
between the great piano-manufacturing busi-
ness which the late Mr. 0. _C. Beale founded
and another great Australian industry, the
A. S. THURLOW.
making of Akubra hats. Mr. Beale began
business as an agent and indentor, and' then,
dissatisfied with being an importer and
handler of other people’s goods, resolved to
make his own. So Arthur P. Stewart car-
ried on an agency and indent business in
Melbourne for many years in partnership
with Charles Perry until the urge to do
something for Australian industry became
irresistible. Then he joined up with the
late Benjamin Dunkerley—this was in 1910
—to make felt hats. On Mr. Stewart’s death
in 1925 the business was for a time
run by his- executors; then in 1927
they formed it into a co., which has
since carried it on along the lines laid down
by the founder. This maintenance of the
founder’s ideals was all the easier because
the three directors —A. S. Thurlow, P. A.
Towse and S. Keir —had all been with Mr.
Stewart almost from the beginning of the
industry, which has continued to make
remarkable progress under their guidance.
Mr. Thurlow is the co.’s managing director.
Vestey’s and Darwin
There is a glimmer of hope that Yestey's
works near Darwin, which have been closed
for 10 years except for a short boiling-down
run in 1927, may re-open. A co-operative
co. to comprise ail branches of meat-workers
is being formed to operate the plant. It wili
have a capital of £2500 only; no shares to be
sold to outsiders; every employee to be
a shareholder, and the works to operate on
cattle-owners’ account only. The Federal
Ministry is considering the advancing of
£6OOO rent for the three years’ lease which
the co. proposes taking, with an option of
purchase at the end of the term. Whether
the lessors or lessees shall put the plant in
running order is yet to be settled.
With Federal aid, the project should be
early under way. It deserves success; the
abandonment of Yestey’s undertaking, which
promised so much for the North, was one of
the tragedies of Australian industry. But
the industrial extremist got to work early,
and go-slow methods soon proved fatal.
Interest and depreciation of capital demanded
an annual killing of 50,000 cattle, and only
70,000 were killed in three years. Govern-
ment rail and wharf employees added to
the burden. So the firm cut its losses after
a capital outlay of £700,000 and retired in
disgust. Its employees were cast on their
own resources, Government rail and wharf
receipts dwindled to nothing, and cattle-
breeders wore again compelled to turn to
Queensland or the Wyndham meatworks for
a market.
It is to be hoped that a better fate awaits
the latest venture, and the co-operative
basis of the undertaking may save it. But,
since the old trouble seems as rife as ever
in Darwin, off the works the conditions may
be too burdensome. Only the long-promised
North-South railway will bring industrial
civilisation to the strife-stricken outpost.
The late OCTAVIUS BEALE.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Denmark is a keen competitor of ours.
lloio do we compare in such things as popu-
lation, production, debt, cost of government,
etc. ? —693.
Population of Denmark at the census of
1925 was 3,434,555: present estimate,
3,610,700. Public debt, 75 million pounds
sterling, 39 millions of it foreign. CuiTent
expenditure (’29-’3O), 17 millions sterling.
Parliament consists of two Houses, both
elective; electors for the lower House must
be 25 years of age or over, and for the
Senate 35 or over; members vet from £3lO
to £4OO a year according to whether they
live in the capital city or out of it; total
appropriation for the Parliament, £120,000.
Exports for several years past have aver-
aged 95 millions sterling.
Population of Australia, 1925, was
5,992,084; present estimate, 6,500,000.
Public debt, 1100 millions stg.—nearly 15
times more than that of Denmark. Common-
wealth and State taxation combined (1928),
88 millions. (Revenue from works and
services is another 62 millions and from
lands a further five millions.) Australian
taxation (Commonwealth and State) is thus
five times greater than the total public ex-
penditure of Denmark. Members of Federal
Parliament (both Houses) are paid £lOOO
p.a.; members of the N.S.W. Assembly
(1929), £875. There are 12 paid Chambers
in Australia. The cost of the Parliaments
(1927-28) was £459,457 plus £335,901 for
salaries of officers and staff, lighting, etc.;
total £795,358 —seven times more than the
total appropriation for the Danish Parlia-
ment. Australian exports reached their
highest in 1924-25; they were then 162
millions. But in 1926-27 our imports
reached 164 millions and our exports were
only 145 millions.
One may look to the Scullin tariffs to ex-
plain the reported decision of Cinzano and
Co., famous makers of Italian vermouth, to
establish a factory in Sydney for the manu-
facture of their specialty, which is an in-
gredient in most cocktails. The wine which
is the basis of the product is plentiful in
Australia and of much better quality and
cheaper than that obtainable in Italy for
similar purposes, while all the other ingredi-
ents are also available. The venture will
probably be undertaken on a large scale
with a view to manufacturing, not only for
the Australian market, but for others near
by at present supplied from Europe.
* * * *
Tentative arrangements have been made
for the establishment of a branch factory of
the Grosvenor Battery Co:, of London,' for
the manufacturing of torch and radio bat-
teries and all types of dry-cell batteries. The
chairman of the British co. will arrive from
London during January to investigate more
fully the special requirements of the Aus-
tralian market. The Australian directorate
will consist of H. W. Gepp, Thomas W.
Haynes and H. Hecht.
* * * *
“C.H.C.”: The P.M.G. has been stressing
the cheapness of his telephone services.
“Telephone calls l|d. each! Ins'tal an
extension telephone; costs only Id. a day."
I have a telephone at my suburban home
for which a rent of £2 16s. 3d. a half-year
is charged. Lust half calls were 2SO, so
each call cost 3.6 Gd. Economy measures
have meant cutting out all unavoidable tele-
phoning, and the half just ended shows 106
calls. Cost, 4.69 d. each !
* * * *
“S.A.P.”: In B. 26/11/’3O you gave infor-
mation about fluorspar. This was O.lv. as
far as it went. But fluorspar is also used
in some of the cement works for the manu-
facture of quick-hardening cement. Price
for 85 per cent. CaF2 is £4 14s. per ton
delivered Adelaide in lump form and loose
(not bagged). This comes from Broken Hill
district.
* * * *
An interesting experiment is in progress a t
Warren (N.S.W,), where a local squatter
has persuaded a team of shearers to put
through several thousand lambs for him at
£1 a hundred and a share of the money the
wool brings at auction. As the result of the
sales in which the barbers will share will
not be known for some time, the affair carries
some of the attractions of a sweep.
* * * *
Even if the overseas trade has largely
gone, Queensland is finding a useful market
for her beef in the Southern States, and one
that is rising steadily. In 1929 —taking June
30 as the end of the year—Bananaland sent
south 3060 tons of chilled and 3130 of
frozen. At the end of last June those
figures had jumped to 5570 tons chilled
and 4000 frozen—a 55 per cent, lift on the
year before. If this continues —and it would
seem to be inevitable — L thc chief cattle State
of Australia should see to improving the
quality. That can only be done by impor-
tation of high-class beef stud-stock, and that
again, in these hard times, can only be done,
save in a few cases, with Government assist-
ance.
ijc t',i ❖ *
Start an industry, no matter how small,
and there is no telling where it will end.
About three years ago Australian Spark Plugs,
Ltd., established a Melbourne factory to
make the goods from which it gets its name.
Not only is it now supplying a large slice
of the home trade and got into the export
trade with Fiji, Java and Maoriland, but
one after another side-lines are being devel-
oped as far apart as brass-taps and boot-
protectors.
:•{ sji H* *
One of the features of the cane-crushing
season in North Queensland is the Rivalry
between the principal crushing mills as to
which will secure the greatest output for
the season. Not only are the millhands on
their toes when the cane is coming in, but
all sorts of methods short of violence are
employed to induce growers for the mills
to improve their methods of cultivation with
a view to improving the weight and quality
of the crop. A mill holding the champion-
ship is keen to keep it, and wagering is solid
on the result. The Phar Lap of the last
couple of seasons is the big South Johnstone
plant at Innisfail, . which last year put up
a Queensland record with 217,936 tons. The
record promises to be eclipsed this season:
it is estimated that 225,000 tons of cane
will go through the rollers, yielding about
31,000 tons of raw sugar.
m * * *
“Joy-stick”: An air service that doesn’t
get much publicity, perhaps because it func-
tions so smoothly, has its headquarters at
Perth and links half the circumference of
the continent. There’s a regular service
between Perth and Derby—extended during
some months of the year as far north as
Wyndham—and another between Perth and
Adelaide, with a branch inland to Wiluna
from Ivalgoorlie. It accommodates pas-
sengers, mails and luggage, the luggage car-
ried at railway rates. Business has been
good, and when the co. gets its new fleet of
Viastra monoplanes in commission—the con-
tract provides that they must be capable
of doing 150 m.p.h.—it should be still
better.
* * * *
“Garry”: One of the first engineers in
Australia to pry into the anatomy of _an
aeroplane engine was Don Harkness, of Five-
clock (SydneyL who repaired the machines
of W. Hart and “Wizard” Stone, pioneers
of flying in the Commonwealth. Harkiress has
now put on the market the first aero motor
designed and constructed entirely in this
country. It is of the 4-cylinder type so
popular with fliers from London to Aus-
tralia, but embodies many original features.
It weighs 3001 b., develops 1301i.p. at 2200
r.p.m., and burns up s£gal. of petrol an
hour —a surprising degree of economy and
efficiency for this exceptionally sturdy and
reliable type of engine. The motor has under-
gone lengthy and searching tests at Sydney
Technical College under the supervision of
an inspector of the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment, and is fully certificated. The manu-
facture of an aero engine is about three
times as difficult as the making of an auto-
mobile motor, so there doesn’t seem to be much
room left for doubt that Australia can, as
soon as she feels like it, commence to pro-
vide all her own transport requirements on
land, water or air.
tf * * • #
Sir Philip Game, Governor of N. S. Wales,
who formerly was one of the heads of the
R.A.F., had a congenial job the other day
when he ushered into activity the very first
aeroplane that could claim to be Australian
from propeller-boss to rudder. The General
Aircraft Co., of Mascot (Sydney), made
everything except the motor, which was a
4-cylinder “Hornet,” the product of Hark-
ness and Hillier, of Five Dock (Sydney).
At the launching the bi-plane was tethered
by cords, which his Ex. severed. The
machine, a three-seater, behaved very pret-
tily, taking off quickly and landing slowly.
It" did better than 100 m.p.h. with the
throttle full open, and the motor, which
embodies several original features, proved to
be remarkably flexible.


r CHRISTMAS IN SYDNEY
Christmas in Sydney—enchanting things to do and see
on every hand. Christmas at “The Australia”—gay
crowds and brilliant social life, entrancing splendor of
appointment, standards of comfort and luxury most
happily conceived.
Socially and
geographically
rhe centre of Sydne^
li.ujl
SU O M
111 II II I L LL
[ILIULILLL
111 II II IL LL
jILII II IL LL
|ILILJLJL W
IUUL
L II II II I
L II II l( I
t ILILILI
L II II II JI
UULILI
JLA
Early booking is desirable for so delightful a holiday
—especially in view of the new “Room Only” Rates—
Single Room from 1 2/- per day—Double Room from
22/6 per day.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Capital paid-
£422,loo.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
he
Sustr
ABORIGINALITIES
r itb ; ,rst of “Nbmdy rioom”
1 15 - 10/IJ/ 30) about magnature outdoor-in-
door sports reminds me of a “human pieces”
c-liess match in which I once allowed myself to
be involved. A sunken tennis-court, marked
out m squares, provided a very good board ;
but unfortunately my opponent, Gotwhis-
kerski took his.chess very seriously. We had
selected a classic game of a speedy sort, but
one of my knights, being a bit potty, wan-
ted to K 5 when I tried to shift him to
KKo, and Gotwhiskerski insisted on the
right of taking him. The erring knight, being
anxious to rejoin the refreshments, was glad
enough, but the incident muddled up the
game, especially when Gotwhiskerski dis-
covered that the capture was of no advan-
tage, and, being now in difficulties, insisted
upon. taking his full time for each move,
studying the situation on a miniature board
The pieces naturally became tired, and it was
rather pathetic to see the serious-minded
chessplayer, having decided on his move,
frantically chasing after pieces that had
wandered off the board and, by the time he
had induced them to -return, having to
think up his move again. Finally I wan-
dered off to a secluded spot with my own
queen, and my king, who happened to be
her betrothed, made a fuss over it and came
after us. That ended the game.
FIVE BOB WOULDN'T COVER IT.
C OUTRY J.P.: “Any more of that impudence and I’ll fine yer five shillin’s for contempt
o’ court.”
EMBITTERED LITIGANT: “Five boh! Here, I’ll take a quid’s worth!”
“0.W.W.”: Henare was tinkering with a
battered relic of a motor-car by the road-
side, so I jokingly asked if he would sell
it to me. “I’ll give you a fiver for it,” I
added, trying to look serious. “Py chove!’'
he exclaimed brightly; “you make it three
pouns you can hafe it.”
“C.A.8.” : Dave just down from the station
ordered steak. When brought to him it was
under-done—very much under-done. Dave
glared at the waiter. “Take that steak back
an’ cook it, ’ he roared. “It is cooked ”
snapped the waiter. “Cooked, be damned,”
Dave retorted. “I’ve seen cows burnt worse
than that get well!”
* * * *
“Pick” When Binghi wished to express
augmentation of the distinctive quality that
a district or place possessed he
carried out his purpose by a re-
petition of the name applied.
Thus lie indicated “very windy”
by “Tilba Tilba,” an immense
quantity of white stone by “Wog
Wog,” very many crows by “Wagga
Wagga,” and a large expanse of
water by “Woy Woy.” I can-
not agree with “Tiewire” (B.
22/10/’3O), who deplores the con-
tinuation of the abo. custom. To
me there certainly seems more
poetry and romance in “Grong
Grong” than would appear in the
single word, and in “Gol Gol”
than in “Gol.” And in “Jellat
Jellat”—place of many frogs—
there seems more euphony and a
better trip off the tongue than in
the Anglicised name of “Frogs’
Hollow.”
“Viau”: “Eureka” (B. 10/12/’SO) writes
as if satisfied that animals will not drink
sea water. On my New Guinea plantation
no day passes without horses, goats and
cattle going to the beach for their issues of
the dinkum briny. Further, bush pigeons
are, always found round about 5 p.m.
at the shore sipping water from holes in the
rocks. Hill Kanakas always drink some
when near the beach, and I’ve frequently
seen them swallow a fistful of coarse salt
with gusto.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A sft. 4in. man who
walked into the Sydney Hospital and col-
lapsed turned out to weigh only 561 b.; he
had wasted down to that in a few weeks of
semi-starvation. Rather grotesquely he
described himself as a laborer. It is alleged
that W. M. Hughes went through the most
strenuous period of his life on a diet of
apples and nuts, and at a weight of 771 b.
It is remarkable the poundage that some
people can get down to and still keep up-
right. Fitzgerald’s Circus once showed a
sft. 6in. man who, on the day he started
on the bill as an exhibit, weighed sljlb. He
happened to beg from Dan Fitzgerald, and
that enterprising showman rushed him on to
the scales and then into the programme.
Unfortunately, on three steady meals a day
he soon ceased to be of value as a freak.
Remembering him, I asked the Fitzgeralds’
advance man, Jones, what had become of
him. “He’s become the Fat Man in a circus
in America,” he told me. But Jones w T ould
say anything.
* * * *
“Captain Flint” : I have been at sea quite
a long time in every rig and trade, and I can’t
swallow “Carrick’s” yarn (B. 19/11/’3O)
about cask-broaching. Apart from the scar-
city of capstan-bars during the last 20 years,
I should like “Carrick” to explain how he
would get the cask from the hold, and where
the mates would be while he was up to his
little tricks. Where, and how, would he
secure his cask, to place his dish beneath?
All these difficulties overcome, I would defy
him or anyone else to make a cask leak
by compressing it. Casks are made of
pretty solid wood (usually oak) and a
Spanish windlass would tighten the seams,
not loosen them. All skippers carry wine
and whisky, but unless they and their officers
get blotto on it there isn’t much chance of
the sailors having a sniff. I must leave
this to go and supervise the loading of
several hundred casks of various sizes. Some
TRICKS OF THE TRADE.
DINEB: “Waiter, how is it that turtle soup
is always scratched off the menu no
matter how early I arrive here?”
WEARY HIRELING: “Turtle soup, sir? We never ’ave none, sir. Turtle soup’s only
trimmin’s, sir.”
quiet chap with a gimlet may steal some-
thing from them, but I’m sorry for any haud
I catch sneaking about with capstan-bars,
and coils of four-inch manilla.
* * * *
“Alias” : Fat abos. are scarce, and there's
a reason. In 58 years, during which I’ve
wandered from Cape York the long way
round to Onslow (W.A.), I’ve seen but one,
and he belonged to the leanest, hungriest
tribe on earth. A perambulating beer barrel,
Narduk grunted and
sweated his 18st.
round Israelite Bay
for months, moving
off at last, family,
flies, dogs and all, for
the inevitable walk-
about. Along the
Bight, where water
never runs, drinks are
days apart and game
is scarce. Goannas,
snakes, emu eggs,
bardie grubs, maflee-
root bread . and an
occasional porcupine
make up the diet, and
every item takes get-
ting. Half a year
later, a strange nigger
blew in grinning all
over his face. “Hullo,
Boss,” he. said.
“Hullo,” I replied.
“What name you?” At that there was a gale
of laughter, chorused by three naked gins, five
ditto piccaninnies and a dozen scrawny dogs.
“Aw, boss, gammon not knowum —me Nar-
duk!” And so it was. Ten stone; a waist
instead of a tummy; hard as a brick; and fit
to run a hundred miles.
* * * *
“Gouger” : A tough old girl was Munyawe,
witch-doctor of a Jardine River tribe (Cape
York Peninsula). Women practitioners are
rare in abo. circles, but there was no doubt
about Munyawe being capable with the black
arts. She peered from beady eyes, cold with
wickedness, her bony gums leering in a mirth-
less smile. Scraggy hair in tails of dried
clay rattled upon her brows; her withered
breasts drooped like wild hornets’ nests; her
hands were claws. Her water-bottle was a
clay-plugged skull. She could fly up into the
sky at night, sc* the tribe implicitly believed,
and spit death into her enemies. Her star
magic consisted in willing splinters of quartz
crystal into the kidneys of a sleeping enemy.
Munyawe had that tribe so bluffed that its
strongest men trembled when she crawled by.
With a cunning leer she gave me to under-
stand that.if I wanted to recruit ship-boys
they might be willing if I paid her so much
“bacca,” “plour,” “tugar,” “tea” per head. I
jumped at the hint. No boys were ever
recruited so quickly, no crew ever sailed
from their home port with such ardent relief
and pleasure. Twelve months later when
they signed off at Thursday Island they took
a tin of strychnine back home with them.
* * sjs *
“Allyn”: Queensland boasts two quaint
and remarkably picturesque small animals —
the climbing kangaroo and the climbing fish.
Both are found in large numbers in the
North, the marsupial in the dense jungles
at the back of Cairns, and the fish among
the mangroves along the banks of the John-
stone River in and around Innisfail. The
kangaroo, which is a very prettily marked
brown-furred animal, is a little bigger than
an opossum, while the fish looks like a mid-
get snapper, its length being only two or
three inches. A cursory examination of this
curiosity convinces me that it has lungs.
*
“Alias”: The Bight coast carries more
death-adders to the acre than any other pari
of this continent; they lie doggo in tracks, on
beached seaweed, in houses, everywhere. To
newcomer whites they are a nightmare for
a time, and blacks dread them. All the same,
since the telegraph stations were opened,
about 1872, only one white is known to have
been bitten. H'e was still on deck 15 years
after. And though I spent years at one of
the telegraph stations and was closely in
touch with them all for 40 years T never
heard of an abo. death from adder
bite. I was hunting once with a native
’vho thought an adder had struck his
foot; he whipped out a knife, half-severed
both his ears, “makeit blood a cornin’ ” —first
thing done to a poisoned dog—then dumped
his foot into my fire and kept it there till I
nearly fainted. He lived long enough to go
850 miles on foof and get into gaol for
stealing beer.
“LIFE’S LIKE THAT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You couldn’t put old Ernie out—’e always
toed the line ;
When luck went to the roundabout ’e’d never
growl or whine.
An’ if you’d offer sympathy ’e ’ad ’is answer
pat:
“I s’pose.the dam’ thing ’ad to be, old man,
fer life’s like that.”
The drought took all the cash ’e ’ad, the
bank sold up ’is place;
’ls eldest boy went to the bad an’ brought
im to disgrace.
All ’e could call ’is own at last was jest
his wife an’ cat;
Yet-all ’e said was “Drop the past, old man,
fer life’s like that.”
An sittin ere I wonder now if Ernie wasn’t
right,
If it ain’t best for us to bow w’en luck is
out of sight.
No use to kick against the blow of Fate that
knocks iis flat;
Best say with Ern “Aw, let it go, old man
fer life’s like that.”
VICTOKIA.
Spring . Greek.


On This
Subject ot -
Feeding :.
*4
Centuries ago dogs were carnivorous
and they still are their digestive
organs require meat so that meat must form
the basis of any satisfactory food for dogs.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme—
contains all necessary ingredients for keeping
dogs in good condition.
Packed i:i 1-lb. tins. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
a rea b rotiiiLLi
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard o i Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fua
Detonators
Cartridges
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £528,671
(Including over £283,237 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia. New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Jm yoik
Biuphiim
i
Follow the example of hundreds
—wear Denyer’s Elastic Truss.
Its patent water pad gives
effective support with every
freedom.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
Trusses also made to order.
sretytyutuyt
COUNTRY
RESIDENTS.
You can order by
post. Write for
Free Rupture
Pamphlet and
S e 1 f-m easuring
Form. Sent i h
plain envelope.
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
“Booraby”: There is nothing tamer or
cheekier in the bush than a ’possum that has
not been molested in its native habitat. It
is always fossicking about for dainties and
seeking new foods. I have seen it upset the
billycan at a camp tire, and sip among the
sweet tea-leaves. While camping out I have,
found it a persistent little burglar, rifling
the tucker-bags whenever it could get at
them. It likes damper, sugar and cooked
corned meat, and will gnaw holes in the bags
to get at the food. Rats and mice have
often been blamed in camps for the ’possum’s
doings. When near cultivation paddocks
it dines with relish on wheat, maize and
lucerne, and when it can get peanuts it sits
back and eats them like a monkey. There
are many ’possums around Sydney. In tim-
bered grounds, where they are not interfered
with, they become so tame that they will
feed out of the hand, and look for offerings
when they come down from their home-trees
in the evening.
* * * *
“E.A.F.” : Horses can see in the dark, and
they can see things that are beyond human
vision even in daylight. In the old days
of Highland shepherds and no fences there
was a track across the Monaro plains from
our homestead to a neighboring station. It
was practically a beeline except in one place,
where, for no perceptible reason, it made, a
considerable detour. The shepherds said
that no horse would cross this place. My
A DRY TRACK.
“I suppose if I offer you a lift you’ll tell me to -well shut my own gates.”
“No, Mister. I’ll come if you’ll open the last one with a corkscrew.”
dad, not the best of horsemen, coming home
late one afternoon, took the short cut and
got a nasty fall when liis horse, without
warning, propped, swerved and galloped
madly away. That was many years ago.
Fences have closed the old track, and I had
forgotten the story, until one evening, riding
near the place, I was surprised when my
mare became uneasy and presently refused
to go on. There was nothing to be seen —
open, plain country, with no trees nor any-
thing for the eye to distort —but Judy was
terrified. I tried to force her on, but after
a few minutes she was trembling and drip-
ping with sweat, and I began to feel a bit
queer about it myself, so w T e veered off.
*!; ik •*?
“Gouger” : One of the
best mates I ever had
was a woman, but I
didn’t know it till we
parted. It was on the
Lightning Ridge opal-
fields when Long Gully
harbored 900 lusty men.
“Tom” was an accom-
plished cook and a
great hand with mutton
and scones. She could
pull a hundred buckets
of dirt and not sw T eat
a drop; then climb
down the shaft and
swing a pick all day.
She listened in, around
the camp fire, to tales
that would have made
Richard Burton blush,
and what she thought
about them the Lord
only knows. We worked
12 months together, and
never had a row. We
did a bit of starving,
and I did a lot of
grumbling, but Tom
took things as they
came; always helpful
and kindly even
mended my boots. Then
one day we struck a
nest of “nobbies” worth
£l2OO. Tom fainted
with excitement, and I
had to loosen his collar
and douse him with
water —and that’s how
I found out he wasn’t a
he. I didn’t let on I
knew. When we worked
the pocket out and split
the cheque, she held out
her hand and said
“Good-bye, mate,” with
the happiest smile I’ve
ever seen; and I suddenly felt dashed sorry
for myself.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : It has always been supposed
that the aborigine never got across to Kan-
garoo Island (S.A.). Nardoo stones have now
been found well back on it, and Adelaide's
Museum and Geographical Society ai*e sitting-
up and taking notice. But there were settle-
ments of sealers there before Adelaide was
ever heard of, and legend has it that they
took black women over from the mainland,
so the primitive kitchen utensils might pos-
sibly be accounted for in that way.
x * * *
“H'ol” : Maoriland’s experiments with im-
ported pests have been expensive. Rabbits
had to be poisoned wholesale until their
commercial value ivas discovered, and then
it was too late to prevent a second
foolishness. Weasels and stoats had been
brought in to attack the rabbits; but the
furtive killers turned their attention to the
weka, the wood-hen of the native bush.
Her quaint cry is no longer heard in the land,
and she has ceased to hunt around camp and
w hare in search of spoons and knives and,soap
to be carried away and hidden. Some time
R go—after a fierce controversy—deer also
were classed among the pests, and a bonus of
two shillings a tail was payable in parts of
the South Island. This bonus has now
spread through the whole of the island.
There is also a move to discover if a market
can be found for deerskins; The best are
worth about 4s. 6d.
OBVIOUSLY A FAIR THING.
BARBER (after shaving Jacky ): “That’ll he eighteen-pence, please.”
JACKY: “Cripes, you bin shavem that pfella in glass, too —you bin get bob from him.”
“Murrungurry”: He was hard up, and
scemed to be brooding over something. After
being treated to a drink he became communi-
cative. “You see, mate, I’m a man with a
conscience,” he said rather sorrowfully. “The
other day I picked up a purse with £BO in
it—lyin’ in the middle of the road between
the wheel tracks. Next mornin’ I met a
squatter drivin’ back lookin’ for the money,
I handed it over, an’ he gave me two bob.”
In the pause that followed he glanced at
his broken boots, took off his old felt hat,
and after turning it rojind in his hands, put
it on again. Then he added : “My conscience
has been worryin’ me ever since.” *
“Pick”: Keen eyesight isn’t always the
necessary qualification of a wool-classer. The
position had been vacant two days when vve
commenced peeling ’em at Brinagee, and in
the meantime the sorting was being done by
the overseer—himself an expert. Then
arrived a derelict, totally blind, who asked
for the job. . Though doubting his ability,
the overseer in his dilemma started him for
a trial. He watched the sorting for a time,
then, as a test, instructed the wool boy to
return to the sightless classer a fleece that
he had just sent to No. 2 bin. “What’s your
blanky joke?” shouted the new sorter. “Take
the flaming fleece to where I told you, and
don’t try any more tricks on me.” He got
the job. _
* * * *
“Polycarp”: Is suicide unknown outside
the species Homo sapiens? I’ve come across
half a dozen or so apparent cases of animals
and birds doing themselves in, but in spite of
loud arguments I’d plump for accident every
time. Saw on one occasion an exhausted and
terrified bunny, after a long chase by dogs,
jump at an oid stump and hash its head in.
Saw another time a half-grown wallaroo,
hunted and harried till it was half mad, jump
over a sheer drop of about 300 feet. A third
case that came under my notice was that of a
vhite-naped honeyeater pursued out of cover
by a blue falcon; in broad daylight it dashed
into a simple four-wire fence and broke its
neck. Such tales are common in the bush,
hut I fancy the Coroner would label them
death by misadventure. R'as anyone ever
heard of a deliberate felo de se among birds
or animals, even when there has been extreme
sickness or pain?
* * * *
“Sea Nomad” : There is a grim black cliff
on Mer (Torres Strait) known as “Geedee's
Leap.” Geedee was a lovely slender little thing
with clean bronze skin and eves like black
stars ; the belle of Maiad village. Came
along’ a blackbirding schooner. The crew
landed in a steel-grey dawn, half a
dozen whites and a swarm of assorted
Polynesian and Asiatic savages. Before the
palms threw shadows they burst upon the
village, and flames leapt skyward and showed
where the dinghies waited as men dragged
screaming women across the beach. The
females fought like wild cats. One sixteen-
year-old girl fastened her teeth in a Chinese
throat and she and her captor died together,
Geedee ran swiftly. The mob headed her oft
as she fled through the scrub, seeking refuge
in the Valley of the Dead at Deaudapat. She
twisted and turned, but at last they penned
her to the long grassy spur that runs out
into the sea. She sped along this and stood
poised on the furthermost rocks, panting and
distraught. Then, as the pursuers drew
near, with one last wild scream she leapt
out of life.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Dave was looking through
ever y bo °k in the house and slammed the
’ast one with a resounding bang. “I’m
banged if I know,” he said as he pushed
his fingers through his hair. “What’s the
matter, man?” old Maloney asked. He was
over on a visit and had been watching Dave
for half an hour without a word to break
the silence. “Surely you’ve got nothing to
worry you,” he continued while Dave still
ran his fingers through his hair. “The farm
f s j n perfect order, grass is a foot high, the
cattle are as fat as mud, no mortgage to
worry you ; big cheques and small bills,
and your wife has just had twins. Now what
more could a man wish for?” “I know r all
that Maloney,” Dave replied, “but you don’t
understand. Yer see when me and Sarah
got married we decided to name all our
children alphabetically. These two make
eleven, so we are calling them John anu
Kathleen. I’ve been lookin’ through all
these ’ere books and I can’t find a single
name beginning with X, Y or Z.”
* * * *
w ..i. ikaa a
Sa * a • Wl I . n ! I f' miles there is no
growth from which they may be made, yet
Kimberley (W.A.) natives are plentifully sup-
plied wdth beautiful, straight spears, up to
14 feet long, passed tribe to tribe from the
Leeuwin country in exchange for pearl-shell
and other northern products. The ingenious
method by which southern abos. obtain the
raw material is worth description. At a
suitable time a tree is carefully selected and
by means of some sort of body belt Yarri
climbs about 20 feet. He tomahawks a
straight deep cut from there to near the
ground, and follows up by parallel cuts about
an inch apart right round the trunk. In IS
months or so, sun, wind and rain have pretty
well separated the strips from the trunk and
from each other, so that Yarri, after cross-
cutting top and bottom, quite easily pulls
away 50- or GO-inch-square lengths, most of
them ready for shaping.
A SAD MISTAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I wash I ’adn’t bought me car,” said Joe
with sadness in his tone,
“Fer as things jist at present are I cannot
call me gal me own.
When I ’ad me old ’orse an’ gig there wasn’t
bloomin’ room fer three,
But now ’or famlee—an’ it’s big—all waiiter
come fer rides with me.”
“Sal sits beside'me at the wheel —we don’t
allow no one with us—
The rest climb in behind. I feel the poor
springs creakin’ in the ’bus.
There’s Mum and Dad an’ Jack an’ Pete,
Sophia, Alf an’ Mary Ann,
An’ then the young ’uns on one seat. Ain’t
it enough to rile a man?
“An’ chaps ’oo see us on the road turn round
an’ laugh an’ say, ‘Eh, Joe,
W’ere are yer totin’ that there load? Yer
wanter trailer, dontclier know?’
I steps upon the gas an’ goes as fast as
blazes down the track
W’ile Dad clouts Alfie on the nose an’ Mum
claws kids from orf ’er back.
“To be contented with your lot is best, w’en
all is said an’ done.
I useter think that I got the ’bus I’d
’ave a bit more fun.
An’ now the famlee’s got that way they orl
must come with me an’ Sal,
An’ I can’t tell old Dad that they ain’t
wanted —fer ’e owns the gal.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
»*1
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin ” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ASK THE MAN
WHO’S BEEN THERE—
And he will tell you that the finest holiday
he ever had was at Mt. Buffalo National
Park — Victoria’s “Garden of the Gods.”
Wide-flung views of mountain and valley, a great granite plateau with tre-
mendous precipitous walls, deep ravines and yawning cliffs, clear mountain
streams and deep, placid lakes—these are some of the features which cause
those who have once visited Mt. Buffalo to return there year after year.
Excepting the Christmas period, when rather higher rates
operate, the tariff at The Chalet during the summer
and autumn is only 15/- per day for weekly vacationists.
Book at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney, or
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or else get in touch direct with the manager of
The Chalet.
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
SMOKE-OH!
“Caucus Howls at Lyons.”— Labor paper headline.
“Brays” might perhaps be deemed a better
word.
And if to their opinion he deferred
How proof amasses
Of that so oft remarked phenomenon,
Ever recurring as the years roll on,
Lyons Led by Asses!
¥ ¥
In spite of the slump, we’re making ducks
and drakes of our money this week.
¥ ¥
Odd that Canberra, the garden city,
should be so much more notable for its
bloomers than its blooms.
¥ ¥
“The police called to arrest him, but he was out.”
My righteous ways I ivould abjure;
All rules and precepts I would flout;
If I could only be quite sure
My sins would always find me out!
¥ ¥
The Federal Ministry’s decision to pay a
bonus on gold should put miners on their
metal.
“Isaacs, C.J., to be Governor-General. John
Monash asked to go to India as Commonwealth repre-
sentative.”
No wonder they’re called the Chosen
People!
SET HOT AND SULTRY.
EX-FRMER : “And what, now, is your idea of a sinecure?”
EX-MARNER: “Well, say, for instance, the weather prophet’s job in Hades.”
“Four sailors were fined at Sydney Central for
riotous behavior. They linked arms and returned to
their ships singing and dancing.”
Went down to the sea in skips, so to
speak.
¥ ¥
“The Premier is passionately devoted to flowers.”
— Mrs. Lang, in “Sun,”
His favorite being the Gardenia, pre-
sumably.
¥ ¥
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME.
“Announcing the most gorgeous entertainment of
the year—J. T. Lang and full company in an up-
to-the-minute version of an old favorite, ‘Jack and
His Beans Talk!’”
Don’t miss Handsome Jack in the spec-
tacular scene from “Uncle Tom Bavin,”
wherein, disguised as Little Eva, he skates
across very thin ice, carrying Uncle Tom’s
£15,000,000 baby Deficit and towing a red
herring. You will thrill to the marrow when
you hear the baying of the pursuing blood-
hounds (kindly lent for the season by the
Tin Hare Association).
Handsome Jack’s song-hits will include:
“A Borrower Bold I’ll Be,” “We’re All On
Loan,” “All by Myself in the Limelight,”
“We’ll Cash the Silver in Granno’s Hair,”
“If. I were a Honey-bee I’d Sting You for a
Quid,” and “Just Another Lil’ Shilling in
the Pound.”
Gorgeous ballets and choruses will include
the Fifty Communist Cuties, direct from the
Moscow Follies, in a riot of crimson entitled
“The Pan-Pacific Conference.” Also Little
Albie Willis and his cobber Big Jack Badly,
assisted by chorus of unemployed miners, in
a lilting song and dance turn, “We Ain’t
Gonna Woik No More No More, ’Cos There
Ain’t No Woik ter Do-000.
The whole magnificent show to end with
a brilliant ensemble in which the complete
company, clad in sackcloth and ashes, will
render the song that should soon be on every-
body’s lips—-“ Let Old Lang Sign.”
Bring along your summonses, and ca re
orders and give a touch of color to the con-
fetti. To-day and every day at the People’s
Theatre, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
Bookings at the Taxation Department.
Angus O’Cohen.
¥ ¥
“When ‘Boxer’ Evans lost his temper he lost , the
fight.”— “Sun.”
> His opponent, of course, kept calm and
' cool —and collected.
¥ ¥
PROBLEM SETTLED.
“Consent to the marriage of minors must be given
by the mother as well as the father in future.”
—Claim put to Premier Lang by deputation of
feminists.
“Victory is ours!” cried Feminista, waving
the paper triumphantly. “Hilda shall marry
Algernon.”
“A worm like that!” roared her husband.
“I’ll see her dead first. Young Jabez Gloop
is the man for her. Honest, sober, saving,
highly respectable. One of whom any father-
in-law might be proud. She may consider
herself engaged to him. The matter's
settled, and further argument is useless.
“Hullo folks!” cried a cheery voice, and
Hilda breezed in. “Meet Bill. I’ve just
married him.”
P. P.
¥ ¥
“Mr. Rufe has a family of nine daughters.”
— “News.”
His Rufes must cost a lot for shingling.
¥ ¥
“The appointment of an Australian as Governor-
General removes Australia from direct personal touch
with the Sovereign.”— English cam-plaint.
It certainly seems a pity at a time like
this when we want ,to ggt in touch with as
many sovereigns as possible.
¥ ¥
“ ‘Australia will carry on,’ said the Australian
Commissioner-General in the United States in a
farewell message.”
But not as it’s been carrying on in' the
past, please God !
“Dismissed Or Stoo Off.”—' “S. M. Herald.”
Stoo is usually off when a man's dismissed.
¥ *
“Detectives engaged on the ease are working 18
hours a day.”— “Herald.”
They want no time for themselves; all
they want is to get time for their quarry.
¥ ¥
Christmas text: Many are shot, and a few
are shot-in.
¥ ¥
The latest batch of Italian immigrants had
to be told to go to the Duce.
They refer to it now as the House that
Jack un-built.
PARADOXICALLY.
Those who exceed the odds with rum or beer
And so get shot are very sad to see;
And yet when times of carnival are here
Those who are never shot deserve to be.
An objection to these politicians with ideas
that break new ground : most of them would
break the country.
* *
STYLE CARD.
(Issued by Depressionist Press, Ltd.)
1. There are still five vowels —A, E, I, O,
U. However, feeling that some personal sacri-
fice is necessary, we have decided to subject
them to a 40 per cent, cut by eliminating the
first two. All copy, particularly in the leader
section, must now be based on the three
remaining vowels, viz., I, O, U. _
2 Sufeh breaks in serials as XXX must
not’ be used, as heretofore, merely to
denote new chapters. Owing to the
frequency of dry periods in serials it
is deemed advis-
able that XXX’s
shall be distri-
buted freely
throughout the
narrative in
order to cheer
the reader by re-
minding him of
ale, thus counter-
acting the parch-
ing influence of
the story. Sub-
editors are in-
structed to begin
the numbering in
new serials at
XXX instead of
at 1.
3. Dots should
be employed more
freely -owing to
their cheapness.
They must be
substituted fo r
the more costly
crosses whenever
it is desired to
indicate corpses,
bullet-marks and
bedroom scenes.
Also for dashes
in the case of
obscene language.
Real dots should
be used where possible, but there is no
objection to ringing-in the dots off i’s at
peak periods.
O’Jones.
* *
“More people in the clothing trades hold prominent
positions in churches than those in any other calling.”
—Sydney parson.
Mercer-ful heavens!
“You are my Rose. Your voice fills my life with
song.” —From letter read in Divorce Court.
Odd how things change! The glamor goes
That oncg made home a paradise.
Into a rouse turns gentle Rose,
And her loved voice becomes a vice.
HE MAY EXPECT A BITE ANY MINUTE NOW.
.“When the trouble was at its height, Sergeant
Lindrum was summoned.”— “Sun.”
And took his cue, we hope.
HIGH COST OF BEAUTY.
“My face is your fortune, Em afraid!”
The maiden said with a snarl. Her
Head she tossed as the hill she paid,
And bounced from the beauty parlor.
SEVEN POSITIONS OF A POLITICIAN.
Standing for Parliament.
Crawling to electors.
Running down opponents.
Sitting in House.
Lying in “'Hansard.”
Jumping to wrong conclusions.
Being thrown out on ear by constituents.
S. ESQ.
MY LIFE STORY.
(By Henry Blowings, M.P.)
[World copyright.]
I was born in a gasworks. Mother was
a circus performer and father a gold-brick
salesman. My childhood w T as not. a happy
one. Barbers refused to cut my hair because
they got splinters in their fingers, and I was
troubled from earliest infancy by a peculiar
itch in the palm of the right hand.
My decision to enter politics came about
in a strange manner. Exasperated by my
AN AUTUMN SALE.
RETAIL DRAPER (proposing): “Remember, this is the last day oj this Astounding Offer!"
stupidity father hit me on the head with
a mallet. The mallet broke, and a gentle-
man who witnessed the incident immediately
enrolled me as a life member of the Young
Patriots’ Club. Determined to master the
vagaries of political finance, I toured the
country with a pack of marked cards, a
thimble and a pea. Looking back across the
years, I now know why I became a success-
ful Treasurer in several Administrations.
After gaining a double first in Skite and
Underground Engineering, I passed on to
the historical side, concentrating chiefly on
the lives of Ned Kelly, Ben Hall and Dan
Morgan, who have been my exemplars
through life. Let me say in conclusion that
I owe my country everything —and intend
to keep on doing so for as long as it will
stand me.
D. McM.


CHRYSLER
66
7o
// n
77
Performance that
cannot be exaggerated
R
.ERFORMANCE claims that would ordinarily seem
exaggerated are perfectly in order with Chrysler—the farthest advance
thus far achieved in motor car engineering. —ea That the great line of
cars bearing this name is farther ahead in Engineering can be demon-
strated easily to anyone who is familiar with the science of engineering—
and equally well demonstrated to the motorist who judges engineering
entirely by performance results. And how these Chryslers do per-
form! —E3 How powerful and brisk and full of life! How easily they
dart through traffic or sprint up the steepest hills! How smoothly
and quietly they maintain high speeds on the open highway! How
responsive they are to the slightest touch on the wheel! How instantly
obedient to their internal weatherproof hydraulic brakes! —o There
is no other motor car performance like Chrysler performance
because there is no other motor car engineering like Chrysler engineering.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales .... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lanes Motors Ply., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia Southern Motors , Ltd., Adelaide
West Australia William AttWood Motors, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania. Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
Britain's best pump gives
double pressure with
half the effort
Recognised to be the “Master”
Foot-pump by all motorists. Two
pumps in one, with a patent super-charged action, a
push-on connector that fits all valves, and an accurate
direct-action pressure gauge. These are the unique fea-
tures which make the British KISMET-DUPLEX the
best tyre-pump in the world.
KISMET
DUPLEX “MASTER”
FOOT PUIVIP
Two
in
One
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
m. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
sretytyutuyt
PRICE, WITH
GAUGE, 84/-
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All°meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, d
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
LUG ILI A RUTHLESSLY EXPOSED.
“Tuart”: In the November “Journal” of
the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research there is a remarkably interesting
article on the blowfly, covering the researches
undertaken by the council’s Division of Eco-
nomic Entomology, with results obtained by
other workers. The subject is so important,
and the facts ascertained by the investi-
gators—whose work is still in progress—are
so interesting that I propose, with due
acknowledgment, to boil down portions of
the article for the Land Page.
Approximately per cent, of the cost of
production of wool in Australia is due to the
activities of the blowfly. Taking into con-
sideration the present price of wool, the
blowfly is a greater menace to the pastoralist
to-day than it has ever been.
Seven species of fly have been bred from
living sheep, but some are of minor import-
ance. It used to be believed that the common
native brown blowflies ( Calliphora stygia
Fabr. and G. augur Fabr.), so numerous in
houses, were the chief cause of the trouble;
incidentally, sheep do not appear to have
been attacked at all heavily before the 1901-02
drought. Then it was noticed that the green
blowfly which produces hairy maggots (Ghry-
somyia rufifacies Macq.) inflicted extensive
injuries on sheep, but investigation showed
that it devoured a great many of the smooth
maggots. Evidence now supports the theory
that another green species with smooth
larvae ( Lucilia sericata Meig.) is the most
important primary blowfly of sheep, G.
rufifaoies being purely secondary.
Put in other words, G. stygia and C. augur
may be primary causes of strike, but investi-
gation suggests that, in the great majority
of cases, the way is cleared for them by
Lucilia , and that when present alone they
can infest only a very small percentage of a
flock. Ghrysomyia may damage sheep, but
can only do so in the presence of other
species; consequently control of Lucilia
should automatically solve the hairy-maggot
problem.
As regards identification, Lucilia is a bit
smaller and less robust than Ghrysomyia,
is green to brassy in color ( Ghrysomyia is
green to bluish-green), and has no narrow
transverse blue bands adjacent to the lines
of junction between the abdominal segments
Ghrysomyia has these bands. The larvae
of Lucilia are rather slender, smooth, creamy,
with sometimes a tinge of pink; of Ghry-
somyia, robust, hairy, cannibalistic, grey
in color.
Facts supporting the theory that Lucilia
is the worst criminal are (1) that in Great
Britain it is the only species that attacks
sheep, and (2) that it is unknown on the
Fitzroy (W.A.), a district free from the
blowfly problem. It has been established,
moreover, that Lucilia is the first species of
fly to arrive at a carcase and the first to lay
its eggs ; it is therefore reasonable to expect
that the fermentative processes going on in
wool would have a greater attraction for
this green fly than for others.
The body of a freshly killed animal ex-
posed in the field in warm weather is visited
successively by Lucilia, the brown blowflies,
Ghrysomyia, Peronia rostrata, a black fly,
Piophila casei (it breeds the “cheese hop-
pers”), and by beetles and parasitic wasps;
these beetles and wasps and their larvae feed on
the blowfly maggots, and (though our ento-
mologists do not say so) if some way could
be found of immeasurably increasing their
useful activities without constituting them
a menace on their own account, the blowfly
problem might conceivably be solved.
On one thing the writers of the article
in the “Journal” insist; “If one is endeavor-
ing to combat the green fly by means of
carcase destruction or poisoning, attention
must be concentrated on carrion in the first
and early part of the second stage of decom-
position. If treatment is left until later,
the bulk of the Lucilia will go free, and the
effect will be to discriminate against the
Ghrysomyia larva', which are their greatest
enemies.” Pastoralists should note that
Lucilia arrives on the carcase within an
hour or two of death and lays its eggs during
the first and second days; Ghrysomyia
reaches the carcase on the third or fourth
day.
A female Lucilia may produce upwards of
1000 eggs, and is probably capable of flying
10 miles in 28 days. The blowfly popula-
tion of Australia is greatly in excess of the
number that would be required to find and
occupy all available carrion. Obviously the
living sheep is not more attractive to the
fly than carrion; if it were every sheep would
be struck. It is not even equally attractive;
if it were every sheep would be overcrowded
to the same extent as the carrion. “Neither
of these things happens in nature,” the scien-
tists write, “and it is only possible to con-
clude that a proportion of the sheep are
quite unattractive to the fly, while the re-
mainder vary in attractiveness, from a slight
degree, when only a very few larvae are found,
to a degree of the same order as that of carrion,
when strike is found to be very heavy. This
conclusion is favored by field observation.
I urthermore, a sheep may be susceptible at
one time and not at another, and a fair
knowledge is being acquired of the factors
which predispose to attack.”
This is the conclusion at which the investi-
gators arrive; “The quest for a means of
effeoting an. adequate control of the blowfly
population is by no means a hopeless one,
but it involves slow and laborious investiga-
tions, _ and.... it cannot be expected that
immediate spectacular results will be achieved.
While awaiting this desirable end, however,
it is not necessary to sit down and bear the
loss. If the fly population cannot be ad-
equately controlled, a great deal can be
done to protect the sheep from its attack. A
wide field of useful work lies here in which
the animal-breeder, the physiologist, the
veterinarian, the chemist, and the entomolo-
gist can co-operate with undoubted benefit
to Australia’s most important industry.”
Tl ® PROBLEM of hill pastures.
Old Toolong”: Besides the more barren
kinds of hill pasture-land, where introduc-
tion new fertilising element is neces-
sary, there are in south-eastern Australia
many millions of acres with great inherent
possibilities. The soil is often better than
on the inferior types of bottom-lands; the
areas are, as a rule, healthier for sheep
than any of the richer flats; and they are
very well watered, or easy to conserve water
upon. A great deal of money has been spent
in killing, the unwanted timber and clearing
off the. resulting litter, but comparatively
little on further improvement. A few owners
have supered small areas ; but the compara-
tive prices of super, and of stock put that
process out of bounds for the present. I
have heard of ingeniously-considered systems
of eating-out and spelling to encourage the
growth of choicer herbage, but know of noth-
ing authentic.
From my own experience, nightly shifting
of stock off flats covered with English
grasses, and camping them on the high lands,
with a view to thus distributing the seeds,
is no good. My father used to hoe up
burnt patches and rake in grass-seeds: Eng-
lish rye, Yorkshire fog, cocksfoot, Kentucky
blue, couch and half a dozen more. All
these held, more or less, on the flats, but
not on the high slopes, except sweet-scented
vernal —the most useless of all the introduced
grasses. Also, to some extent, Yorkshire fog.
Neither of these grasses could bear any com-
parison in worth with the various species
of wallaby-grass, which so far is the main
source of value in the high country. Queens-
land red grass has overrun a great propor-
tion of the lower slopes, but is widely
execrated by cattle-graziers ; its chief merit
is to give sheep a green bite in dry seasons.
In wet seasons quite 90 per cent, of its
growth must be waited. Why such a ram-
pant grower will not overrun the steep
country is a mystery, the soil there being
often better than where it luxuriates.
Wallaby-grass has its weak points. It
is not relished by stock except through the
winter. It suffers greatly from the.smother-
ing of coarser weeds and annual grasses in
the spring, and it has a tricky way of
dwindling and disappearing for no apparent
reason. Sub. clover is greatly raising the
carrying capacity of the hills, it is spreading
over; but it is sudden death to the peren-
nial native grasses, especially the choicer
kinds. And, even if the whole of such pas-
tures could be covered with sub. clover, the
overwhelming prevalence of one annual plant
is not altogether to be desired.
I should greatly value any information
that Bulletin readers could give as to
perennial grasses that have proved their
superior value on this class of country.
BRIGHTER PROSPECTS FOR BEEF.
“Kooroora”: Gone are the days of over-
production of beef. Cattle are proving profit-
able once more, and prospects for the indus-
try are good. Australia can produce excellent
beef, but does not go to nearly enough trouble
to produce the best. In N. S. Wales there
is only one Government stud for beef cattle.
And yet we have the Grafton experimental
farm, with all the Clarence valley behind it,
to assist in building up and improving studs
of Aberdeen Angus or other cattle suitable
for Australian conditions.
In the breeding of cattle, the. same rule
applies that governs other branches of stock.
We must not fool about with too many
fancy breeds. Let us study the requirements
of our markets, and sink our personal whims.
I maintain that the Aberdeen Angus is the
most suitable breed for all requirements.
The breed is docile, and has a big pull over
the long-horns when it comes to travelling
long distances by truck. The beef is of
the quality demanded, and Aberdeen Angus
bulls can be crossed satisfactorily with Here-
ford cows.
At present not nearly enough care is taken
in the quality of bulls that run with grade
beef cows. Rough stuff eats just as much
as good-quality beef, and does not make
weight half as quickly.
Scrubbers are usually wild and trouble-
some to muster. They cause many a stam-
pede and a lot of unnecessary racing of good
beef, which would travel quietly but for the
presence of bad company. There should be
no room for scrubbers on any run.
Use only the best type bulls obtainable,
and you will be improving the quality of your
future breeders as well as producing better
beef for sale.
IMPURE SUDAN-GRASS SEED.
“Wilt” : Sudan grass is probably the most
valuable fodder plant that has been intro-
duced into Australia in recent years. The
only drawback to its use is the risk of stock
poisoning, not from the pure Sudan grass,
but from sorghum-Sudan hybrids. In almost
every instance of such poisoning it has been
shown that these hybrids were present in the
crop.
The hybrid plant can be distinguished,
when the crop is from nine to twelve inches
high, by the thick stems, broad leaves and
free stooling habit. If these hybrids are not
too prevalent, the crop should be run through
and all suspicious plants removed; if they
are too numerous to destroy the crop should
not be grazed until it reaches the flowering
stage, when there will be no danger of
poisoning.
Unfortunately Sudan crosses easily with
sorghum. The two crops should not be
grown in the same neighborhood, if the seed
is to be saved. Some of the imported strains
of Sudan-grass seed that have been examined
in Government laboratories have proved to
contain, not only a good proportion of hybrid
seed, but even pure sorghum seed. Hybrid
seed is usually smaller and rounder than
pure Sudan, and the seed heads of the
hybrid plants will be more bushy and com-
pact like those of sorghum.
Seed should not be harvested from a crop
that has contained hybrid plants even though
those plants may have been removed. Sudan
grass is of such high value as a fodder plant
that considerable trouble in maintaining a
pure seed source will be well repaid.
SORGITUM ON DAIRY FARMS.
“D.L.D.” : In N.S.W. coastal dairying dis-
tricts a spmmer-grown crop makes the best
standby as a winter fodder. I refer to
sorghum, which, while yielding well as regards
bulk of fodder, will retain its succulence during
the winter. Many varieties have been tested
of recent years, and tests are still going
on. White African is one that is gaining
in popularity.
On elevated positions in Illawarra during
the past winter White African remained
green up to October. In situations subject
to frost, only the leaves were damaged, the
stalks retaining their succulence. Some
dairy-farmers complain of the hardness of
the thick stalks. This is not much of a
drawback in days when such fodder is
chaffed up. As experts point out, you can't
have it both ways ; if it were possible by
plant breeding to ensure a softer stalk the
sorghum would probably be less resistant to
disease. White African is a late-maturing
type and to ensure seeding must be sown
early—October appears to be the best period.
But if the farmer aims at only a winter
fodder crop, December under normal weather
conditions is probably the best month to
sow. The Dapto Agricultural Bureau
recently procured 7cwt. for distribution in
small parcels. So great was the demand
that 30cwt. could easily have been disposed of.
The standard sorghum in N. S. Wales is
saccaline. Under normal conditions it gives
an excellent yield; it stands well, and is a
quicker grower than White African. Another
excellent type is Cowper, known until re-
cently as Selection No. 61. This variety
has much to recommend it; the stalks are
fine and soft, and are capable of retaining
their succulence over a lengthy period. In
this latter respect in tests it proved superior
to saccaline. Collier has also given good
results.
Sorghum is of special value to dairy-
farmers in the winter months, for by keep-
ing the cows in good condition it assists
indirectly in maintaining production. Still,
to obtain the very best results a balanced
ration must be aimed at.
GIVE THE COWS CONCENTRATES.
“M. in A.”: It has been proved in Den-
mark, Holland, Britain and America that
high-producing cows need a percentage of
concentrates at all times. They may be fairly
good producers without concentrates, but
with a balanced concentrate ration they will
greatly increase their yield. R. Boutflour,
M.Sc., of the British Ministry of Agriculture,
makes the following recommendations regard-
ing allowances of concentrates and roughage
under purely stall-feeding conditions: —
Yield, Concentrates, Roughage,
Gal. lb. lb.
2 7 . 20
3 104 20
4 14 16
5 174 12
6 21 9
7 244 6
Adapting the principle to our own condi-
tions, it will be found that the farmer who
feeds a small ration of concentrates in addi-
tion to his good pasture during spring and
summer will increase the production of liis
herd to a point which will astound him,
always provided his cattle are of good dairy
type. A concentrate ration suitable for the
purpose would consist of three parts of
grain meal (oats, barley or maize) with one
part of linseed meal. It should be fed in
accordance with production to cows on good
pasture at the rate of approximately Alb. per
gallon of milk produced.
Every farmer knows that breeding, record-
ing and feeding spell high production and
greater income. Most farmers breed and
cull along the right lines; few realise that
feeding is the greatest factor of all.
STINKWOOD AS A POISON PLANT.
“Speckcr”: Stinkwood is a name rather
loosely applied to any shrub with an objec-
tionable odor, but the species referred to
here is known botanically as Zieria smithii.
It is an attractive-looking shrub with loose
clusters of white flowers and groups of three
lance-shaped leaflets of a dark-green color.
Under favorable conditions it attains a
height of 15ft. After a burn it comes up
as a thick shrub about 4ft. high with dense
foliage, and it is in. this stage that cattle
turn to it when other feed is scarce. The
genus is widely spread throughout eastern
Australia.
Owing to heavy mortality in various
parts of the Speck from what is com-
monly known as “panting disease,” the
Agricultural Bureau recently undertook in-
vestigations which proved the cause of the
trouble to be stinkwood. Besides the usual
symptons of illness the disease is character-
ised by distressed and vapid breathing and
a slight nasal discharge. A p.-m. shows the
presence of pneumonia and pleurisy, fluid
in the lungs and hsemorrhagic inflammation
of the intestines. It is considered that the
shrub would only be eaten under conditions
of semi-starvation, but this description
applies to not a few bush runs in parts of
the Speck; in one instance recorded, out of
20 head of cattle turned out only four sur-
vived.
PEDIGREE SEED IN W.A.
The Westralian Department of AgricuL
ture is reducing the price of pedigree seed
wheat and oats from the Government experi-
mental farms. For wheat it is charging 12s.
per bag (three bushels) where 10 or more
bags are purchased, and 14s. per bag where
the order is for less than 10 bags; for oats,
Bs. and 10s. per bag respectively.
These prices include rail freight to the
siding nearest to the purchaser’s farm —in
Westralia, of course. The wheat varieties
are Baroota Wonder Early, Carrabin, Geera-
lying, Gluyas Early, Merredin, Nabawa,
Noongaar, S.H.J. and Yandilla King;
Algerian, Burt’s Early, Guyra and Mulga are
the varieties of oats.
Two new wheat varieties. Sutton and Bcn-
cubbin, will also be available, but supplies
are small and applicants are many, so the
price will be fl a bag, freight-rate paid.
And no farmer will receive more than one
bag. Big things are expected of both varieties.
BREED YOUR OWN PIGS.
“Bendee”: It is a mistake to purchase
young or store pigs if it is possible to breed
your own. For one thing, there is a risk
of buying diseases such as swine-fever; and
unless you know the breeder you can never
be sure' of the age of the grunters you are
buying. You may be getting pigs from slow-
maturing stock, or pigs which have had some
setback that will make them expensive to
rear, even though they may be in good con-
dition at the time of purchase. Finally,
why present the vendor with a profit which'
you could have yourself ?
In selecting sows to keep as breeders,
choose only those from quick-maturing
(Continued on page 26.)


NEW
YEAR
1
i
a
Gifts
LADY’S HANDBAG
A Genuine Crocodile Lady’s Handbag, smartly
shaped and fitted with a centre swing purse, also
a mirror and small purse fitted in pocket inside.
An ideal gift. Price
llO/
NOTE CASE
A Handy Note Case, made in Brown or Black
Morocco. Separate recess for notes, and various
sections for cards and stamps. A useful present.
Price 7/6. Better Quality . . 9/6
PATENT
The RONSON
Lighter. Very
easily worked by
one movement.
Fool-proof. The
best lighter on
Price, 35/-
sretytyutuyt
LIGHTER
the market.
Made of Steel
and Colored
Leather. A gift
men will appreci-
ate for years.
In Chromium Steel, 42/-
SEND YOUR ORDER TO DESK S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. '
Also at TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH and TOWNSVILLE.
GALVANISED IRON AND WIRE
TANKS A "° TANK
MATERIAL
sretytyutuyt
iiiiiilim mmn ml
■■ ■■•■ i it nuik
ImifSijl/lIJII
We are the
largest Distri-
butors in
Queensland
without excep-
tion.
We invite com-
parison—y o u
get best quality
and prices from
us—
Note the fol-
lowing:—
GALVANISED IRON
FENCING WIRE
m
NEW ERA
SEPARATORS
Importation is now prohibited and bounty of £2/10/- on Australian
Iron has been withdrawn—Prices just must advance. Whilst our
stock lasts of Hibiscus British Crown Iron —the highest grade—
26g—we will still sell at £24/10/- per ton. Or by the sheet.
sft. Oft. 7ft. Sft. 9ft. 10ft.
2/2 2/8 3/1 3/6 4/2 4/8 per sheet
Don't delay, as the offer naturally can’t be repeated.
A duty has been imposed on Fencing Wire of £2/10/- per ton, and
the Australian Works have advanced their prices the same. Our
latest prices are:—
8g Hibiscus Galv. Wire, 18/6 per coil.
12g Hibiscus lowa Barb, 4 coils to mile, 26/- per coil.
12g Standard Australian lowa Barb, .4 coils to mile, 25/- per coil.
124 g Australian Long Distance Barb, 26/6 per coil.
12Jg Hibiscus Long Distance Barb, 28/6 per coil.
12ig Hibiscus Tested Plain High Tension Wire, 28/6 per coil.
12»Jg Australian Tested High Tension Wire, 22/6 per coil.
THE HIBISCUS VENTILATED COOL SAFE
Keeps food fresh and cool without Ice.
Size “A,” 18in. x 18in. x 33in. High 50/- each
Size “B,” 24in. x 28in. x 39in. High 75/- each
CREAM CANS.
Hibiscus Special Quality Tinned Seamless: —
2gal. 3gal. 4gal. sgal. 6gal. Bgal. lOgal.
16/6 17/6 18/6 21/- 23/- 25/6 28/6
Less 10 per cent, discount.
As Direct Agents for the Factory, you get actual Factory Prices.
Write for detailed pamphlet.
15 gallon
22 gallon
30 gallon
£4/10/-
£7
£9
45 gallon
CO gallon
90 gallon
£l2/10/.
£l6
£2O
Lowest also for Groceries, Wire and Netting, K. Wire, Gates, Troughing, Tee Hinges, Bolts and
Nuts, Piping, Window Shades, Motor Spirit and Kerosene, Septic Tanks, Tents, Tarpaulins, Hose,
Furniture, Saddlery, Kitchenware, etc. Our 176-page copyrighted catalogue gives details.
Write to-day for a copy.
DIRECT CASH BUYERS ALL WOOL, HIDES AND
SKINS, ETC. WRITE FOR DETAILS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
FARM ACCOUNTS
■III* lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllMllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliilllllllll^
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping. t
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.


A\fL
s
«K 4
The Comfort Shoe.. .
supple and light
Made of pliant calf—best of
all leathers for ease of fit—the
upper of this Abbey Shoe is
designed for special comfort.
Low-cut sides .... strainless
lacing curve over instep arch
. . . .tough, flexible sole. . . .all
these special features make it
the ideal type for aching feet.
Three widths per size.
ORDER BY POST.— Both full and
half sizes available—each in narrow,
medium or wide fitting. Specify
width and length. Ask, also, for
the correct Abbey preservative
polish (6d. per tin), or a convenient
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf . . 39/6
Black Box Calf . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
' “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 208
We wish
all our clients
the
Compliments
of the Season
OyiK2£o*S
"For the Best Hardware ’*
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at Warrnambool, Bendigo,
Horsham, Ballarat and Portland,
Victoria.
Position Vacant.
A. S. P. A. SECRETARYSHIP.
’"THE AUSTRALIAN SUGAR PRO-
-1 DUCERS’ ASSOCIATION, LIMITED,
invites applications for the position of
GENERAL SECRETARY to the associa-
tion. Salary £lOOO per annum. Duties to
commence about Ist MARCH, 1931.
Applications (accompanied by copies of
testimonials) in sealed envelopes endorsed
“APPLICATION FOR SECRETARY-
SHIP” and addressed to the President, The
Australian Sugar Producers’ Association,
Limited, Q.P.I. Building, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, should reach the above address
on or before the 31st JANUARY, 1931.
Particulars as to the duties of the posi-
tion may be obtained upon application by
letter addressed to “the Accountant” of the
association at the address given above.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends,
DYAN, WILLIAM, formerly of Liverpool,
New South Wales, draper, married
Catherine Farrelly 30th November, 1807.
Information as to his death or whereabouts
is required. He is entitled to money in the
intestate estate of his late wife, who died
14th April, 1929.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee,
107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
J7LIZABETH DUNN or DUNNE (maiden name
Smyth, previous married names Dunstan and
Cooper), supposed to have died at Broken Hill or
Bourke, New South Wales, between 10 and 20 years
ago. It will be to the advantage of any descendants
of Mrs. Dunne or any other person who can furnish
reliable information regarding her or her descendants
to communicate with THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
A LECK CAPEBREAD, born in London
1868, and late of Penge, Kent, England.
Last heard of in 1895. Believed to be in
Australia. Anyone knowing his whereabouts
please communicate with JIM COOPER,
Home Hill, North Queensland.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary; R.* V. BOOTH.
DONT FLIRT! STICKTO
CRAI C &Al TKE N
GEORGE SI SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLOB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
parents, and sows which have themselves
built up quickly and economically. There is
no better foundation than the second Berk.-
Tam.-Berk. or Tam.-Berk.-Tam. cross. These
sows, put to either a Berk, or Tamworth
boar, will with careful selection prove pro-
lific breeders under good conditions.
Brood sows should always be reared on
pastures, and not confined in sties during
their growing period. In this way they
become more hardy and develop breeding
qualities more naturally. Always choose a
sow that is loose-limbed and free in her
gait. Avoid draughts in the shelter-sheds,
and let all the ventilation be at the top.
The sow which produces average litters of
eight to ten pigs and rears them all is a
better proposition than the sow which far-
rows 12 to 15 and loses four or five.
CORNER- AND GATE-POSTS.
“Mulyan”: Trouble is often experienced
with corner- and gate-posts of wire fences,
particularly with the former on a slope in
sand or loose soil. The tightening of the
wires puts-a lifting strain on the post, and
various devices are used to strap it down.
Some put in twp posts, which takes off the
cross strain. This is the simplest way out of
the difficulty, provided the posts are well
stayed and not standing in too much of a dip.
But a more lasting dodge, with only one post,
is to put top rails in the first two panels on
each line, with a stay each way from the
corner to the bottom of the first post, and
lun the wires through the stay.
To keep the gate-posts plumb, rail and
stay in the same way, and put a heavy
sleeper between them, sunk to the level of
the ground, with the ends let into the sides
of the posts and spiked. This holds the
posts both ways; at the same time it prevents
a hollow wearing under the gate. For that
reason it is just as necessary where sliprails
are used. It is common to find a hollow or
a puddle under gates and sliprails; they
cause more trouble and inconvenience to the
landowner than sagging posts. On a farm
when crossing with a big load of produce
there is always a bump at such places that
threatens to jolt some of it off, while it
makes unnecessarily hard work for the
horses. With a sleeper, and a load of gravel
on each side of it when the ground lias
begun to wear, a man has a gateway that
always gives him satisfaction.
Incidentally, a farm gate, where hay, green
stuff and other overlapping loads have to be
oaYted, should never be less than 10ft. wide;
all the better if it is 12ft. A great many
gateways are only Bft. wide, and these cost
just as much as the wider ones, while the
sides of the load drags against them or
against the posts.
PITTING POTATOES.
“Wandi”; As soon as the tops of potatoes
have died, the tubers should be dug up.
Some growers, when there is a poor market,
or when the crop is wanted solelv for home
use, leave them in the ground, digging a few
at a time as they are required. In such
cases there is a. danger of the potatoes start-
ing a second growth, or of rotting if a long
spell of wet weather sets in. I once had a
fine crop that I was digging bit by bit for
home use. Wet weather came, and when I
was able to get on the ground again there
wasn’t a spud left. After that I always dug
them up as soon as they were properly ripe
—when the skins were set—and stored them.
The best way of storing is by pitting. A
thick layer of straw is spread along the
ground, about 2ft. wide and as long as
necessary, or in parallel rows ; on that the
potatoes are heaped so that they taper
towards the top, like the roof of a long hay-
stack, and covered with another layer of
straw, then with soil.
( When potatoes are wanted, the pit should
oc opened at one end, and covered up imme-
diately the required quantity has been taken
from it. Pitting is more economical than
stacking in a barn when a large supply has
to be stored for home use. Most people like
potatoes fresh from the soil, and fresh from
the pit is just as good. The, straw after-
wards can be ploughed into the ground.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I write from Hay (N.S.W.). We have
had a plague of grasshoppers of unusually
long duration. How long do their eggs take
to hatch, and, whaVs the best way to deal
with them ? —492.
The N.S.W. Government Entomologist
says the best control for grasshoppers in
the hopper stage is bran and Paris green
bait, or spraying with arsenate of lead.
When the young hoppers hatch in late Decem-
ber and January, the bran bait or the spray
should be applied to them. Leaflet on the
subject is obtainable from Agriculture
Department, Sydney.
My Rhodes grass last spring turned brown
in patches. This season it is much worse.
I find it is caused by countless small red
spiders. Hoio can I destroy these? —37o.
Thoroughly spray the grass with lime-sul-
phur solution (1 part in 50 of water) or
dust it with flowers of sulphur.
(1) What are the prospects for cotton-
growing in the Burnett or Dawson Valley
for a young man with £2OO of capital? (2)
Does the Government give encouragement to
settlers? —496.
(1) As good as in any other farming indus-
try ; £2OO might do for a single man suited
to farming and prepared to rough it for a
couple of years, but £3OO to £5OO would be
safer. (2) The Government finances settlers
under conditions, particulars of which may
be obtained by applying to the manager of
the Agricultural Bank, Brisbane. Write
to the secretary, Land Administration Board,
Brisbane, as to land selections available;
information about cotton-growing can be
obtained from the Agriculture Department,
Brisbane.
Is there a cheap, quich and easy cure for
ringworms on men, horses and cattle? —412.
The affected parts should be thoroughly
washed with soap and warm water. When
thoroughly dry an application of glacial acetic
acid to the rings by means of a feather will
effect a cure. The treatment must be con-
tinued daily until the trouble disappears.
How to prevent bees from returning to an
old hive? —580.
Remove all wax from inner walls; paint
the inner surfaces of the walls with crude
tar, carbolic or kerosene and close all open
ings in the outer -walls.
Correct time of the year to strike and
layer loganberry cuttings in -N. 8. Wales, and
how old should the wood be in each case? —
451.
In the early spring, just before the plants
start into growth, the ends of the previous
season’s canes are bent down and buried two
or three inches under the soil, leaving the
tip of the cane out of the ground. The part of
the cane under ground should be held in place
by a forked stick or a piece of fencing-wire.
The ground should be kept moist but not
too wet. Care must be taken not to dis-
turb the layer when working the soil. The
layered plant, should be ready to cut off from
the parent plant, and transplanted the fol-
lowing winter.
Must home-made jams and pickles be
registered under the N.S.W. Pure Foods
Act? If so, what is the procedure? —sB9.
Registration under the Pure Food Act is
optional, but if desired application must be
made to the Receiver, the Treasury, Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney.
How to stop a young cattle-pup from
eating eggs? —sol.
Place an egg on the plate of a set rabbit-
trap. The dog will receive a severe rap
on the nose. Two or three lessons will teach
him to shun eggs for ever.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mulyan”: It is often hard to get a cow
on her feet after she has been pulled out
of a bog, or in other ways become to-o weak
to rise. A good plan is to harness her in
the shafts of a cart. She is then easy to
lift, and can be kept on her feet by slightly
sinking the wheels of the cart and propping
the shafts so that they won’t shift. A bag
trough, temporarily rigged in front to hold
grass or hay, completes the outfit. Release
her at night, and cover her with a rug.
Next day, if she is still too weak to rise,
harness her again.
“Kooroora” : The amount of wool produced
on any pasture is governed by the amount of
cystine present in that pasture, cystine form-
ing 13.1 per cent, of the dry wool fibre. Pas-
ture improvement will increase the amount
of cystine per acre, but it will not increase
the proportion of cystine to other consti-
tuents in the plants. There is a concentrate,
manufactured from the waste horns, hoofs,
wool and hair from slaughter-houses, known
as “Cystine OS.” Tests have shown the wool
yield to be profitably increased by feeding
this to sheep. Bonem'eal or Nauru phosphate
and salt will supply the necessary deficiency
of lime and phosphoric acid.
For scabby mouth in sheep, reported in
north-western N. S. Wales, the Department
of Agriculture recommends Milestone solu-
tion (21b. to 10 gallons of water) followed
up with an oily dressing consisting of 5
parts of coal-tar dip, 10 parts of sulphur
and 100 parts of tallow. It insists, however,
that affected flocks will need very careful
watching, and owners are advised to immedi-
ately get in touch with their local inspector
of stock if they notice the condition exist-
ing among their sheep.
“Surat”: James Ferrier, a Queenslander,
has patented a blowfly trap which fits on a
benzine-tin or similar vessel, and is baited
with a piece of liver or meat. Ferrier claims
that his trap catches blowflies only, and not
the policeman-fly, which is the sheep-pest’s
enemy. Some traps catch the policeman-fly
as well as the blowfly.
“Bad Australian”: There is a prejudice
against wheat as a stock food, largely due
to the unsatisfactory results of feeding whole
grain. It should be crushed or coarsely
ground; then it gains in nutritive value 15
per cent, to 20 per cent. A good ration for
cattle and horses would consist of 80 per
cent, crushed wheat and 20 per cent, good
clover or lucerne chaff. Pigs may be given
as much crushed wheat as they will take,
but it should not be fed in large quantities
to horses, as it is liable to cause digestive
trouble.
“Odd Job”: To control noxious weeds,
watch your headlands and give them a regu-
lar clean-up. They’re the breeding-places of
most of the pests—just where the plough and
the stock cannot reach them. Get the weeds
before they flower.
“E.H.M.”: Further to buncliy-top. The
Morse-code markings always invade the
narrow, pale strip adjacent to the midrib
of a banana leaf. The dark-green dot, which
is the first indication of bunchy-top, appears
on the midrib of the middle leaf 28 days
after inspection ; in a few days it will have
developed into a line about 38in. long, run-
ning parallel with the midrib; after that the
line will turn to the right and extend at a
right angle along the leaf, breaking into dots
the size of a pin’s head and dashes about
Jin. long.
“Hoi”: Last season the Canterbury (M.L.)
orchards lost nearly all their apples in one
disastrous night, and frost alarms are now
installed. When the thermometer drops to.
danger-point a bell rings, and the fruitgrower
then can do his best to save his trees. Most
of them are guarding against late frosts this
year by using oil-pots. For seven years in
succession one North Canterbury man had
oil-pots under his trees, and for seven years
there was no late frost severe enough to do
real damage. He used them again last year,
and had them alight on the night of the big
frost. He was the only orchardist in the
place who bought a car that season.
“Honi Pikau” : If your garden soil is of
the water-logged variety with an impervious
clay subsoil, try this procedure. Trench at
Oft. intervals; make the trenches not less
than 2ft. 6in. in depth; fill the bottom with
tea-tree fascines, then fill in. Now give the
soil a good dressing of lime. The lime will
improve its texture and the trenches will
create an efficient water-table.
“E.H.M.”: If foxes raid your poultry,
leave a tin or two of sardines dosed with
strychnine about the yard. But tie up your
dogs and be careful of the children, if you
have any.


V-
N*
8*
0
<§>
CONtO
light pobt
}.■ G GRAMP Ct SONS
! ,!l y 'Ntr*«B j Htwimo’s ‘fi» T - ,5l “
S! L|c TEO AUSTRALIAN
G. GRAMP & SONS, LTD.,
119-123 York Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA4424.
sretytyutuyt
Day and Night
A. W. A*
Communication
Facilities are
at your service
Ring up
England, Scotland, Ireland,
Wales or twenty-two European
countries, Canada, New Zea-
land, U.S.A., Mexico and
Cuba from your own home or
office 'via
~ A.W.A.
RADIOPHONE
Telegraph
England, Scotland, Ireland,
Wales, North and South
America and all European
countries 'via
BEAM WIRELESS
Telegraph
your friends at sea and in the
Pacific Islands 'via
COASTAL RADIO
SERVICE
For full information
telephone A. W. A. offices,
Sydney 8W2211, or
Melbourne F 4161, and
ask for "Traffic,”or apply
at any Post Office or at
Amalgamated Wireless
(A’sia) Ltd., 47 York St.,
Sydney; 167-9 Queen St.,
Melb.; Collins House, |
Collins St. Melbourne.
sretytyutuyt
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established l B '
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IT MAY BE HARD TO SAVE
BUT IT PAYS?
Many thousands of depositors are
thankful now that in the past they
saved some of their earnings. . . .
Look ahead! A Savings Bank
balance provides for future
difficulties and opportunities. . . .
SAVE REGULARLY
USE THE
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF N.S.W.
4 per cent, interest paid up to £l,OOO.
192 Branches; 644 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834.
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
466 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6, 12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 % PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
New Year “Bulletin”
Did you like the Christmas Number?
The New Year Number will be every bit as
good.
A dozen brilliant stories.
Drawings by all the great black-and-white
humorists, including Low and the late Alf
Vincent.
And Henry Lawson’s Autobiography—a
vivid introspective story of enormous human
interest.
These in addition to all the regular sections
and features
No increase in price—the same 6d.
Order early: the Christmas Number was sold
out inside 12 hours.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Fox Movietone’s “Up the River,” which
was pre-shown in Sydney last week, is pro-
bably the best talkie that Hollywood has
sent Australia. “Holiday” is about the only
one that matches it for quality. Like “The
Big House” it is a prison picture, but there
the likeness ends. The ferocities of the
U.S.A. penitentiary are glossed over, and
there are no meretricious effects; no gun-
play, no salacity, no sob-stulf and no movie
mother—only a real mother.
There is a love interest, but it is as
slender as a spider’s web, and as effective
as a web, and as real as love or life. There
is a lover’s kiss—one only—and this also
is real. There is no mechanised succulence i
about the kiss. Saint Anthony migiit have!
bestowed it on his mother.
The novelty in form makes the production 1
hard to categorise. It isn’t a crook play or
a society play or a romance; it isn’t
melodrama, and it isn’t comedy. An essay
in dramatic form is perhaps as near as one
can get to a label. It is a running commen-
tary on trifles, as the essay was when Dr.
Johnson defined it as “a loose sally of the
mind.” In the words of another authority,
“it does not pursue its theme like a pointer,
but goes hither and thither like a bird to
find material for its nest, or a bee to get
honey for its comb.” If Steele or Addison
could be resurrected this is the polished and
amiable sort of film he would prepare. It
flits with the inconsequence of some winged
thing among the inmates “Up the River,”
touching here on an inter-penitentiary match,
and there on intra-penitentiary theatricals
Of the many points made none is driven
home with a mallet. Each is indicated with
delicate certainty and left; and the director
has found it all the easier to accomplish
this feat because the cast contains no one
who has to be starred. The chief players
are Humphrey Bogart, William Collier, sen.,
Claire Luce and Warren Hymer, and any
amongst the horde of brilliant supers acts
as convincingly as they do.
The Good Films League and similar bodies
have expended justifiable energy in calum-
niating bad films. They might do worse
than put energy into the encouragement of
this film when it is released in a few weeks’
time. It is a phenomenon in its way—as
fitted for the entertainment of a group of
nuns and their charges as it is for artists
or men of the world.
* # #
A. E. W. Mason’s “Green Stockings”
appears on the Melb. State screen as “The
Flirting Widow,” it being a fixed principle
with Hollywood that a picture title should
be as obvious as the. kick of a mule. The
story of the English girl who invents a
marriage with a fictitious colonel, and
is later confronted with an actual hero of
the same name, is well performed by Eng-
lish actors with the exception of the heroine,
Dorothy MacKail, who has the Stars and
Stripes printed all over her and strikes a dis-
cordant note. There is some drudgery for
conscientious picturegoers in the first part
of the film, but towards the end some amus-
ing situations arise and perfect direction
makes the most of them.
# * *
“Heads Up,” at the State also, is a sym-
posium of all the vices of cinema. It con-
tains musicomedy, tragedy, drama and farce
and the sadist is well served. The Bulletin
has become pretty hardened nowadays, but
it viewed and listened to the opus with
blank astonishment. For 40 minutes the
brazen voice was never stilled. Then this
paper stumbled out of the theatre into
Flinders-street, where the world’s noisiest
intersection seemed by comparison to be suf-
fused with the peace of a quiet country lane.
* * *
“Women Everywhere” (Fox), at Mel-
bourne Regent, is what the advts. call a
colorful romance.” J. Harold Murray is the
captain of a steamer engaged in gun-running
for rebels in Morocco. A French cruiser
bags him and his crew and takes them to
Casablanca, where he escapes by hiding him-
self in the dressing-room of the fair, if
raucous, Fill D’Orsay. Under the dressing
room is a labyrinth of rooms resembling the
early Christian catacombs, and in these Fih
and Harold enact some pleasing love scenes,
while the police search above. One of the great
moments of the film (there are several, in
fact too many) is where the hero rushes on
to the stage disguised as a clown and sings
a song in a far from unacceptable _ voice
while the gendarmes are ransacking his late
hiding-place amongst Fifi’s unmentionables.
Later the police get too hot upon the scent,
but by a merciful dispensation of Provi-
dence and Fox a passing native sticks a
dagger into the heart of a member of the
Foreign Legion, and Mr. Murray dons his
clothes. Under his new disguise he per-
forms such prodigies of valor against the
Arabs amongst the sandhills of Hollywood
that he is pardoned, marries F'ifi and repairs
aboard his ship. ,
The English comedian George Grossmith
wrote the story, and takes a small part. In
view of his past services to the cause ot
public entertainment, he is hereby released
under the First Offenders Act.
* #
U.S.A. films are showing real acting to
millions who might never have suspected
what it was like, but they have pretty well
killed versatility. When William Collier or
Clive Brook or Reginald McKenna is starred
the talkie addict knows every detail of the
solemn, competent and well-tailored per-
formance he is going to witness. William
Haines’s rOles, though different, are equally
stereotyped. He plays the silly ass all over
again in “Way Out West,” which has been
on view at Sydney Regent. He does it this
time on Leila Hyams’s ranch, where men
are men and utterly merciless to flash
crooks; and the thrashings and crude prac-
tical jokes he is subjected to bring out the
hero in him as usual. There is another of
those incredible talkie scraps in which both
parties carry on after exchanging bunches
that would put a Tunney out for minutes,
and Haines exploits the customary gags in
the customary tone of voice. It must be
easy for him, but how audiences go on
swallowing the trite stuff is a mystery.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you'have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid, confusion, in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Printer, linotype operator, Vic., varied exp., seeks
position anywhere.—sB6.
Girl (18), N.S.W., wants job on farm or station as
general help.—sB2.
Young man, N.S.W., with publishing, journalistic
and legal exp., wants secretarial or literary position.
—567.
Handy man, Sydney, exp., wants job boatshed
summer months.—s6B.
Single man (27), N.S.W., car-, tractor-, engine-
driver and mechanic, handyman, wants job anywhere.
Refs.—s6l.
loung married man (26), wants work anywhere
on farm or station, exp. as motor- and tractor-driver,
and an share farmer.—s 46.
Station carpenter (26), exp. painting, plumbing,
concrete and all farm work, wants job in Vic.,
N.S.W. or S.A. Refs. —549.
Young woman, Sydney, wants domestic employ-
ment in refined home. Nine years’ exp. Refs.—ss4.
Black-and-white artist, Sydney, wants any kind of
artistic work ; decorating, etc.—s 66.
Whereabouts of Jessie Littlefair, who ran a con-
fectionery shop in George-street, Sydney, 12 years
ago.—ss V.
To lease, for 6 to 12 months, small island off coast
of Australia. Must be a living on it. State products
and selling price.—588.
Words of verse beginning “Advance, advance, Aus-
tralia, and take thy destined stand.” —295.
To buy Kipling’s “Stalky and C0.”—575.
To buy “Cartoons by Bradley,” published by Rand
McNally and Co., Chicago, U.5.A.—251.
Words of verse commencing “I heard and thought
how, side by side, we two had stemmed the battle’s
tide.”—lBs.
To buy books on the Kirwahili language of East
Africa.—97B4.
Partner or engineer wanted who has facilities for
the production of a simple, one-piece steel patent.
Inventor will do all selling. Equal share of profits.
—594.
Whereabouts of Foster Alan Frederick Bone, last
heard of in M.L.—601.
To buy “Bushman and Buccaneer,” by “The
Breaker.”—6os.
English words of Offenbach’s “Barcarolle.”—s92.
To buy set of men, board and rules of Chinese
game wei-ehi.—43l.
Experienced governess, Vic., wants position as
teacher to two families. Music, drawing and painting.
Refs.—6l6.
Information Sought.
How can 1 obtain a first-aid certificate
in Sydney? Textbooks, lectures or corres-
pondence classes? —s36.
St. John Ambulance Association, 62 Mar-
garet-street, will commence its classes early
next year. Textbooks obtainable same-
address.
(1) Where, in Sydney, can I obtain in-
struction in wireless telegraphy? (2) What
salary is paid to an operator? (3) Pros-
pects of employment?— s2B.
(1) Marconi School of Wireless, 97
Clarence-street. (2) £l6B to £437 per
annum. (3) Practically nil.
Is it British law to hang more than one
person for the murder of one person? —s6s.
Yes, if equally implicated. In Yic. in the
’sixties two men and a woman were hanged
for the murder of the woman’s husband, and
in Westralia early this century three men
were hanged at Fremantle for the murder of
a pearl-buyer.
What are the differences between (1)
opera, (2) grand opera, (3) opera bouffe,
(4V- opera comique, and (5) operetta? —6l4.
There are only two sorts of opera—serious
and comic. The composer aims either to
make people laugh or cry. Grand opera is
tragedy; “opera bouffe” is light comedy,
“comique” explains itself, and “oneretta” is
a term that denotes usually the one-act
choral drama, which may be in any mood.
How to eradicate booh lice from cup-
boards?—6oB.
Use carbon bisulphide, at the rate of lib.
per 100 cubic feet. Pour it into a saucer
and place it near the top of the cupboard.
The whole is closed up for 48 hours. Care
must be taken, as the fumes are highly com-
bustible.
(1) Bo you recommend Atwater-Kent,
Model 49, for wireless receiving 2000 miles
from Melbourne and Sydney? (2) Cost and
where obtainable? (3) Could salammoniac
cells be used for filament? If so, where
procurable? —3ls.
(1) It would be suitable under normal
receiving conditions. (2) Cost of receiver
and valves £35 11s.; A. G. Healing, Goul-
burn-street, Sydney. (3) Yes ; from Siemens,
257 Clarence-street, Sydney, 10s. 9d. per I\-
volt cell. Four cells will be required with
six-volt valves, and three with four-volt type.
What arc the qualifications for an an-
nouncer for broadcasting? —36o.
According to the regulations of the Postal
Department, good education, style and per-
sonality, clear enunciation and absence of
characteristic dialect.
(1) Proportionally, were there as many
men hilled during the Great War, per ton
of material used in destruction, as there
were in the Napoleonic wars? (2) In what
single action on the Western Front was there
the greatest mortality? (3) Bid lyddite play
a part in the Gi'eat War, or was _ it super-
seded by a more powerful explosive? —lo2.
(1) Commonwealth War Historian says
probably not. He doubts if it has ever been
worked out. (2) The Battle of the Somme,
1916. (3) It was in use in the British Army
in the early part of the war but was later
superseded by T.N.T.
Diet for well-grown 18 -months’-old Irish
setter? —42.
One meal a day of of cooked meat
supplemented by a little biscuit and vege-
tables. At times it is advisable to give some
liver. Soup should be mixed with the ration.
Shins of beef, sheep’s heads and other cheap
cuts may be used.
How to cure mange in a cocker spaniel
pup, nine months old? —810.
Put him on a meat and milk diet with
an occasional feed of green vegetables mixed
with soup or gravy. The dog should be
washed with soap and warm water, then
thoroughly dried. Afterwards rub into the
affected parts a mixture of loz. sulphur, loz.
oil of eucalyptus, loz. fish oil. Leave for
three days, then wash off and reapply.
From where is the word “garrotting” de-
rived and what form of robbery is it ?.—354.
From “garrote,” a Spanish word for an
appliance used in the execution of criminals.
The criminal is seated on a scaffold fastened
to an upright post by an iron collar (the
garrote), and a knob worked by a screw or
lever dislocates his spinal column, or a small
blade severs the spinal column at the base
of the brain. Garrotting is the name given
in England to a form of robbery with
violence which became common in the
early ’sixties. The thief came up behind his
victim, threw a cord over his head, and
tightened it nearly to strangulation point
while robbing him.
Value of our trade with France, and value
of principal articles exported and imported?
—3BB.
Exports to France (1928-29), £15,141,155,
including wool (greasy, scoured and washed),
£11,865,744; sheepskins, £2,394,243; wheat,
£480,441; copra, £203,342; ores and concen-
trates, £53,579 ; rabbit-skins, £34,866. Im-
ports from France (1928-29), £3,700,303, in-
cluding piece goods of silk, £908,132 ; trim-
mings for apparel, £172,728; blouses, skirts,
etc., £171,163; velvets, velveteens, plushes,
etc., £171,132; perfumery and toilet prepara-
tions, £148,119; rubber manufactures,
£118,645.
Who was Pygmalion in mythology? —3B9.
The son of Cilix and the grandson of
Agenor, King of Cyprus. He fell in love with
an ivory statue he had made; Aphrodite
granted life to the image, and Pygmalion
married the miraculously born vii’gin. Pyg-
malion is also the name given in Virgil to
a King of Tyre who murdered Sychseus, the
husband of his sister Dido.
Does Australia export beer? —463.
Yes; for year ended June, 1929, it ex-
ported 202,611 gallons of bottled ale, beer
and porter valued at £44,607 (£43,925 Aust.
produce and £682 re-exports), and 6835 gal-
lons of the same in bulk, valued at £BB3
(all Aust. produce). New Guinea, Fiji and
Papua were the chief buyers.
My rosella parrot, ten years old, takes fits .
Cause and remedy? —46B.
The bird is suffering from deficiency
disease, due to faulty diet. The food should
consist of mixed parrot food, with compara-
tively little oats and sunflower seed, and
some radio malt. A few drops of cod-liver oil
should be placed on the food, and the bird
may also be given fruit and vegetables.
(1) What fee is a Sydney estate-agent
entitled to on a property offered at auction
and not sold? (2) Where two firms are
asked to make a joint valuation of real
estate what fees should be paid them? —279.
(1) The Real Estate Institute scale pro-
vides that ss. is to be the minimum fee
chargeable on properties of reserved value,
cr, where there is no reserve fixed, of value
of £5OO or under; 10s. 6d. over £5OO and not
exceeding £1000; £1 Is. over £lOOO and not
exceeding £5000; £2 2s. over £5OOO. The
above fees do not include advertising. (2)
Each must be paid the schedule fee.
What were the three most valuable gold
nuggets found in Australia? Where, when
and value? —231.
Beyers and Holterman’s nugget, a mass
weighing 6301 b., was taken from a reef at
Hill End (N.S.W.) on June 23, 1872.
Though technically speaking it was not a
nugget it is popularly described as such, and
is the largest specimen yet recorded. It was
4ft. 9in. long and 2ft. 2in. wide, and was
valued at £12,000. The “Welcome Stranger’’
nugget, which, was found at Moliagul, eight
miles from Dunolly CVic.), on February 5,
1872, was worth £9534. It weighed 2101 b.
The “Welcome” nugget, found at Bakery
Hill. Ballarat, on June 9, 1858, was worth
£9325.
What were the reasons for the foundation
of the Commonwealth Solar■ Observatory at
Canberra? —248. _
Its situation is such that it will fill a
gap in the existing arrangement of astro-
physical observatories. With its completion
there will be a chain of stations, each link
separated by 90 degrees of longitude, around
the globe. It is hoped that the development
of knowledge concerning the relation between
solar and terrestrial phenomena will have
great practical value.
(1) Why isn’t mangrove bark used more
extensively in Australia for tanning? (2)
What are the chief mangrove barks sold
locally, and what are their principal char-
acteristics? —255.
(1) Mangrove bark is not likely to be
used in Australia for the tanning of leathers
other than sole leather whilst local tanners
can obtain reasonable supplies of wattle bark
and extracts. The leather produced by a
mangrove tannage has an objectionable red
color, and is disliked by leather buyers. (2)
The mangrove barks sold in Australia con-
sist largely of a mixture of the three genera
— Ceriope, Rhieophora and Bruguiei'a. This
bark produces a leather which does not
reach the same high waterproof standard
as that which has been pine-tanned.
(1) Does kiln-drying of timber affect the
strength of the wood? (2) In view of the
seasonal rise of the sap in trees in spring
and fall in winter, isn’t it better to cut in
the spring? —2s7.
(1) Not if the process is properly carried
out. (2) That myth has been exploded.
The winter moisture content may be higher
than in summer. Winter felling is advan-
tageous, not because the “sap is down,” but
because the timber is less subject to borer or
fungal attack and to the desiccating winds
of summer, which bring seasoning troubles
in their train.
How is twenty-one point cassino played?
—259.
There is no difference except in the method
of scoring. Twenty-one points is the game,
and the usual way is for each player .to
take mental count of the number of cards,
spades and other points he has made, and
claim game as soon as he reaches 21. The
count is then made, and if it be found that
he has not reached 21, his opponent wins,
no matter what his score may be. If, on
the other hand, he is 21, it is his game, even
though his adversary has scored more. If
neither claims to be “out,” and it is found
that both are “out,” the game must be con-
tinued to 32 points, and so on, adding 11
points to the score to be reached until one
player claims to have won the game.
Origin of old English custom called “beat-
ing the bounds”? —363.
In former times, when maps were rare,
it w r as usual to make a formal perambula-
tion of the parish boundaries on Ascension
Day or during- Rogation Week. The priest of
the parish with the churchwarden and the
parochial officials headed a crowd of boys,
who beat with green bows the parish border-
stones. Sometimes the boys were themselves
whipped, or even violently bumped on the
boundary stones, to make them remember.
The object in taking boys was to ensure that
witnesses to the boundaries should survive
as long as possible.
(1) What country owns the Tonga
Islands? (2) Where are they situated? (3)
Area and population, including Europeans?
(4) Capital? (5). Chief exports? (6) Cur-
rency? (7) Climate? —373.
(1) They are under British protection.
(2 ) 400 m. s.-w. of Saipoa, 200 m. s.-e, of
nearest Fijian isle. (3) Approx., 385 sq. m.
Attend of 1928, 27,097 Tongans, 611 whites,
225 half-castes, 367 other islanders. (4)
Nukualofa, on Tongatabu Island. (5) Copra.
(6) British coins and the Government note
issue. (7) Very healthy. May-Nov. shade
temperature seldom exceeds 84deg. F. ; summer
shade temperature occasionally reaches 90deg.
Tropic fevers, including malaria, are
unknown, '
Opportunities of employment for a
mechanic in Mexico? —43.
None. A law made in May, 1929, pro-
hibits the entrance to Mexican territory of
persons of any nationality if they intend to
work for a salary.
Upon the title-page of Whitaker's
Almanack is a circle of peculiar little figures.
I am told that they are the signs of the
Zodiac. What is the Zodiac, and what are
the signs pictured? —26o.
The Zodiac i.s an imaginary zone of the
heavens within which lie the paths of the
sun, moon and principal planets. It is
bounded by two circles equidistant from the
ecliptic, about 18 degrees apart, and it is
divided into 12 signs, and marked by 12
constellations. These 12 constellations are
Aries (the Ram), Taurus (the Bull), Gemini
(the Twins), Cancer (the Crab), Leo (the
Lion), Virgo (the Virgin), Libra (the
Balance), Scorpio (the Scorpion), Sagit-
tarius (the Archer), Capricornus (the
Goat), Aquarius (the Water-carrier) and
Pisces (tire Fishes). Read them anti-clock-
wise, beginning at the top.
What are “Liverpool options” and how do
they operate? —42l.
It is a trade term. Cotton in Liverpool ■
is sold on a weekly settlement basis. Prices
to be paid at settlement are fixed by the
Liverpool Cotton Association every Monday.
These are rigidly enforced and buyers must
pay by 1 p.m. The option comes in when
dealers bargain for the alternative of taking
the settlement price or that prevailing on the
day wdien the transaction took place.
A few biographical details concerning H.
V. McKay?— 6o9.
H'e was born at Raywood (Vic.), Aug.
21, 1865, and died at Rupertswood (Vic.),
May 21, 1926. In 1884 he invented a har-
vesting machine which winnowed and
stripped. He built his first agricultural
implement factory at Ballarat in 1888 and
transferred to Sunshine in 1906. During
war-time he was on the Business Adminis-
tration Board. He established a trust (in-
come £lO,OOO p.a.) to improve Australian
inland-life conditions.
What results are being obtained in Aus-
tralia from the treatment of coal by low
temperature? Is it likely to become a com-
mercial success? —606.
Not yet used on a practical scale. The
Coal Commission reported that the treat-
ment would not be found to be a commer-
cial success in Australia for many years.
What is the difference in meaning be-
tween “ continuous ” and “continual”? —634.
Pernicketty students of English make the
distinction that . “continuous” denotes a
sequence in which no break occurs ; whereas
“continual” may refer to a succession of
occurrences of the same sort separated by
periods of time.
How to play the “draw” game of dominoes?
—617.
This is really a variation of the block game,
the only difference being that after the first
down any player may, whether he is blocked
or not, draw as many dominoes from the
stock as he likes, provided two are left
on the table undrawn. If a player is
blocked he is obliged to draw until he obtains
a bone that can be played, or until he has
drawn all but the last two. / When playing
four-handed six dominoes are drawn. Draw-
ing gives additional interest to the game and
makes it harder.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Corinda, the name of a Queens-
land station? —439.
Brief Answers.
W.H.G.: Arkins’s Pianoforte Academy, 248
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .K.H.: Scrub robins
build open, cup-shaped nests of sticks, bark and
leaves on the ground, at the foot of a tree or bush,
and lay two or three white or greyish eggs blotched
with brown... .N.C.F.: (1) Tahiti has an area of
about 600 square miles and a population (1926
census) of 8585 inhabitants, more than half of
whom reside in Papeete, the chief town. (2) Write
Dr. W. J. Williams, the Acting British Consul at
Papeete. .. ,F.H.: Spring tides at Broome, 27.89 ft.;
at Cossack, 18.04 ft G.W.: Don’t sign the con-
tract unless there is provision for the payment of
return passage, .. .E.K.M.: Apply sec. Walker Con-
\aleseent Hospital, 109 Pitt-street, Sydney, for the
names of examining physicians, who alone can
issue certificates of admission. .. .H.J.: Obtain “Notes
on Strength of Timbers,” by M. B. Welch, from
N.S.W'. Govt. Printer, Sydney... .W.M.R.: It was
written by Tosti, born in Italy in 1846, who, in
his thirties, (vent to England, was appointed teacher
of singing to the Royal family, and died in 1916.
. ...C.W.R.: Elephant-grass roots from Yates and
Co., 184 Sussex-street; 10s. per 100.; 755. per 1000.
. ...W.T.: The flammenwerfer (flame-thrower) is a
German weapon consisting of a cylinder carried on
the back, containing inflammable oil, which is pro-
jected by compressed air and ignites in the air....
E. : Write Conservator of Forests, Sandakan, British
North Borneo... .N.S.F.: A maharajah is the highest
of hereditary rulers among the Hindus. A rajah is
an Indian prince inferior to a maharajah. The
principal wife of a maharajah is maharani, and of
a rajah rani... .H.P.: Miscegenation is a mixture or
blending of two races, particularly of a white with a
race of another skin-c010r... .G.G.A.: Philippics in
classical literature are a series of orations delivered by
Demosthenes against Philip of Macedon. The name
was applied to the speeches of Cicero against Mark
Antony, and “philippic” has passed into general use
in the sense of an impassioned invective or declama-
tion... .M.A.: Writs sec. Apprenticeship Committee,
Brisbane... .E.S.R.: The ship G. W. Wolff was
wrecked in Bass Strait, August, 1912. The captain
(who was drowned) was blamed for not allowing
officers access to charts.... D.W.8.: From Registrar-
General, 11. M. General Register House, Edinburgh
(3s. 2d.). Send full particulars... .F.Y.: 29 Camp-
den Hill-road, London, W.8....W.H.: The Boyne
is a river in Ireland. The Battle of the Boyne
was fought about two miles west of Drogheda, near
the mouth of the river on July 1, 1690. (old style
calendar) ; the forces of William 111. gained a
victory over those of James II U.T.: The “Aus-
tralian Museum Magazine” (quarterly, 4s. p.a.) should
suit purpose... .E.M.M.: The secretary, N.S.W. Milk
Board gets , £650 p.a. ; he was previously first clerk,
Marketing Bureau, Agriculture Department. The
sec. to the Commissioner of the Transport Board gets
£B5O p.a.; he was previously a senior officer in
the Agriculture Department. The accountant of the
Transport Board gets £BOO p.a. and was previously
assistant accountant, Works Department.. . .W.J.: (1)
Prospects of her securing an appointment are remote.
(2) Her services could be used in either a primary
or secondary school... . J.N.S.: You forfeit the deposit
and are liable for instalments up to the date of the
return of the piano. The firm was within its rights ,in
refusing to exchange the instrument for a cheaper
0ne....D.0.: Michael Terry was born at Newcastle-
on-Tyne, May 3, 1899. Publications: “Across Un-
known Australia,” “Through a Land of Promise,”
“Hidden Wealth and Hiding People”. .. .G. 8.8. and
F. J.G.: Write Lyster Ormsby, 235 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .F.H.L.: (1) No. (2) and (3) Try Cum-
ings Anderson, Ltd., 5 Hamilton-street, Sydney. (4)
Cannot be stated exactly, as stumps vary in thickness.
Full length of pitch is 22 yards. (5) Twenty-seven
inches. (6) Eight inches. (7) Save that the bowling
crease must be Bft. Bin. in length, there is no limit.
. ...F.H.A.: (1) Production of soya beans in Man-
churia in 1927 (latest figures available) was 5,298,309
tons. (2) For year ended June 30, 1929, we im-
ported 104,333 super feet of undressed hickory valued
at £4729. For year ending June 30, 1925, imports
were 125,831 super feet, valued at £5917... .C. 8.:
From Robertson and Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne. .. .W.W.: We must await the grant of probate
or administration... .E. A.D.: You had no luck....
F.G.R.: Can’t say. No two cases are alike... .P.D.:
Registrar-General’s Department, Wellington, M.L
A.S.; (1) Yes. (2) If the gift or settlement is made
within three years prior to the death of the person
making it, the property will be subject to duty....
C.H.F.: Verdict for the double four... .F.C.N.:
Sal. soda is a material often mentioned by American
writers who describe old tanning processes. Probably
washing soda or soda ash... .W.8.R.: A manual
covering the Harley-Davidson twin motor-cycle can
be got from Bennett and Wood, Pitt-street,
Sydney (Is. 7d., plus postage).... J.P.: Currency
lads and lasses were the native-born population of
N.S.W. in the early days. The term was used to
distinguish them from the immigrant portion of the
inhabitants, who were designated as “sterling”....
M.M.F.: At December 31, 1928, the population of
Fiji was estimated at 176,793, including 4569
Europeans. .. .N.D.: The 1810 map of N.S.W. should
be worth 15s. and the 1839 Tasmanian map £2....
R.G.: It is dealt with in “Teeth of a Horse and its
Age,” obtainable from N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, Sydney. Price lOd 8.E.W.; The phrase
“Procrastination is the thief of time” was coined
by Rev. Edward Young (1684-1765). It appears in
his “Night Thoughts” L.S.P.: The piston stops
for an instantaneous period of time in order to
reverse the direction of its movement. .. .L. 0.: (1)
1540 to 1550 21b. loaves of bread are made from a
ton of flour. (2) A ton of wheat will make 16131 b.
flour, 3131 b. bran and 3141 b. pollard... .R.H.M.:
The secretary of the Society of Genealogists might
undertake the work for you. Address, 5 Bloomsbury-
square, London, W.C.1... .C.8.J.: (1) Have posted
pamphlet issued by Q’land Agriculture Dept, on sub-
ject. (2) and (3) Write to the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Fisheries, Whitehall-place, London, S.W.I.
. ...A.E.8.: Tattoo into the design a 50 per cent,
solution of tannic acid. After sloughing rub silver-
nitrate into the treated area. This forms a heavy
black deposit of tannate in the skin. The tattooed
area gradually becomes hard and dry, eventually
lifting off. The operation takes some weeks. It
is impossible to prevent scarring. .. .H.R.: Australia
imported £8 17s. 3d. worth of British goods per
head in 1928 ; N.Z. imported £l3 ss. sd. worth per
head; Irish Free State, £ll 17s. 7d.; South Africa,
£4 2s. 2d. ; and Canada, £3 12s F.E.R.: Most of
Arnhem Land has been examined and no gold has been
discovered. The abos. are not hostile, but are in-
veterate thieves. The wet season extends from the
middle of December to April. First-class steamer
fare from Melbourne, Sydney or Brisbane to Darwin
is £25; fare by rail and aeroplane from Sydney
to Darwin is about £30... .K.J.8.: (1) and (2)
The Council may sue for the rates in the
Small Debts or District Court. (3) and (4) Rates
are a charge on the land and if overdue for more
than seven years, may be recovered by sale of the
land, the balance after payment of rates and costs
going to the owner.... (Many others mailed.)


You
may not have to
count the cost . . .
but here are some
battery facts for
those who do . .
THE firft cost of the battery
you buy is relatively un-
important ; it’s cost per
month and miles of service that
counts —and the service you
receive from your battery is not
juSt a matter of luck.
Look beyond the possible few
shillings difference in initial
cost, to what you can expeft
from an Exide Battery:
Greater cranking capacity, size
for size, than any other battery
made.
The moSt substantial ebonite
case of any Standard battery
sold in Australia.
Longer life, under the same
conditions of service than any
other battery you could buy.
Exide service established
throughout every State of the
Commonwealth.
Buy Exide Batteries from your
local dealer. There is a size
and type to suit your car or truck.
L lßattery
FOR CARS RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
State Distributors :
NEW SOUTH WALES : Exide Battery Service
(Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.), Hunt and Com-
monwealth Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge,
2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Exide Battery Service
(Q.) Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane ; Stanley
Street, South Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & John-
stone Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : M. J. Bateman Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
TASMANIA : Medhurst & Sons, Collins Street,
Hobart.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO ELECTRIC SWITCHES.
r T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 15851/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
What a Lucky Christmas for Broken Hill!
LOOK WHAT IT HAS GOT FOR CHRISTMAS
BOXES:
Best Miget Golf Course in N.S.W.
Great rains, giving a year’s supply of water.
Pastoral areas blooming and booming.
Probable continuance of work on the mines.
And the “Barrier Miner” to keep things
humming!
All the best luck in Australia has come to
Broken Hill.
The Same to You.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin'
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends.
WOODMASON.
TF JAMES MATTHEW WOODMASON.
A late of Malvern and brother of the late
Walter Woodmason, will communicate with
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, he will hear
something to his advantage. The said James
Matthew Woodmason usually followed the
occupation of a dairyman, etc., and is hard of
hearing. Will anyone knowing his where-
abouts please communicate with the above
company.
Legal Notices.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 513 of 1930.
Between ANNIE CHRISTINA TAYLOR Petitioner
And ALBERT EDWARD TAYLOR Respondent.
To ALBERT EDWARD TAYLOR late of 96 Great
Buekingham-street Redfern Park Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE CHRISTINA
TAYLOR has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Third day
of March One thousand nine hundred and thirty-one
and in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this Eighth day of December 1930.
BLOMFIELD & OLIVER,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
Bega.
By W. H. HILL & TRUMAN,
Solicitors,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1352 of 1930.
IN RE HANNAH ELIZA TERBUTT (formerly
Hannah Eliza Stapleton) of Narrabri the wife
of Francis Henry Terbutt of Narrabri Grazier
Petitioner
AND the said FRANCIS HENRY TERBUTT,
Respondent.
To FRANCIS HENRY TERBUTT late of Eulah Creek
near Narrabri in the State of New South Wales
Grazier.
TAKE NOTICE that HANNAH ELIZA TERBUTT
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just ■ cause or excuse. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-fifth day of
February a.d. 1931 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge.
Dated this Twenty-seventh day of November a.d.
1930.
For the Registrar,
(Sgd.) C. K. BODY [l.s.],
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Dalrymple & Blain, n
Perpetual Trustee Chambers,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Town Agents for William Edmund Potts,
Solicitor for Petitioner,
Narrabri.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
In Divorce.
No. 3663.
To WILLIAM LINDSAY BRYDON of Sydney Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Well-
ington citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of WINIFRED DOROTHY MAY BRYDON of Welling-
ton Married Woman WHEREIN she prays for a
Divorce from you on the ground of wilful desertion
for a period of three years and upwards and such
Citation intimates that in default of your doing so
the Court will proceed to hear the said Petition and
to pronounce sentence thereunder notwithstanding
your absence. NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE
that for the purposes aforesaid you are within forty
(40) days after the date of the publication of this
advertisement to attend in person or by your Solicitor
at the Supreme Court office at Wellington and there
to enter an appearance without which you will not
be allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this sth day of December 1930.
[L.s.] E. RHODES,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
JACK DUDDINGSTON WILLIS is the Soliictor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at
the offices of Messieurs Willis & Nicholls, Solicitors,
T. & G. Building, Lambton Quay, Wellington.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
1 WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
In Divorce.
No. 3732.
To TOM WARDLE STEPHENSON husband of Alice
Maud Stephenson of Hamilton in the Dominion of
New Zealand Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Well-
ington citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of Alice Maud Stephenson of Hamilton in the
Dominion of New' Zealand Married Woman wherein
she prays for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the ground of desertion and such citation
intimates that in default of your so doing the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition and to pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding your absence.
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within thirty-five days
after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington and there to enter an appearance
without which you will not be allowed to address
the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated this 4th day of December, 1930.
[L.s.] E. RHODES,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
ALBERT GEORGE JORGENSEN is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
office of Messieurs Chapman, Tripp, Cooke and
Watson, 20 Brandon Street, in the City of Welling-
ton, in the Dominion of New' Zealand.
Empty Bottles.
MARGARET FANE
AND HILARY LOFTING TELL ANOTHER TALE OF
SYDNEY’S CROWDED ’LOO—WITH A DIFFERENCE.
MARTY picked up a pyjama-coat and
held it helplessly in his one hand until
Mary chuckled and took it from him.
She laughed again at his vacant face.
“The influenza will have affected your
mind, Marty man. Or is it that the idea of a
week-end in the country’s too much for you?”
“It is rather, Mary my dear,” he told her
forlornly. “I believe getting back to work
in the shop would do me more good. I’m
used to the shop, and I’m not used to packing
or going away.”
“By the same token you’re not used to
being flat on your back for three weeks and
needing a holiday.” She folded the coat
and put it at the bottom of the suitcase.
“It’s a pity you wouldn’t let Ginger. see a
happier face and him going away for his
first trip with you since this was his home.
And that’s more than a year.”
The word “Ginger” (as was intended)
brightened Marty. “He’s going to have a
great time, isn’t he? After the ’Loo a week-
end at Wyong ’ll be a real change for him.”
■ But Mary was silent, brooding deep in
thought over some parcels on the dressing-
table. She picked one up. “Now this, Marty,”
she told him impressively, her handsome
serious eyes watching him, “is a cake, made
and baked by meself for old Mrs. Kirton.
You’ll not be getting the parcels muddled,
will ye? You can tell hers be the shape-of
it, d’ye see?” She held up the cake and
another longer parcel. “This long one’s the
apricot cordial for Jim; if the old lady gets
it by mistake she’ll be on her ear in two
sips, and it with the kick of a horse.”
“I’ll remember which is which, Mary my
dear,” Marty assured her.
“It’s a good son Jim Kirton has been
to nis mother. D’ye mind when he was a
bit of a boy just left school how proud she
vTvas, telling us he’d sworn to get his mother
out of the ’Loo and into a place of his own
in the country? She was always a great one
for the country.”
“She never did like the ’Loo, did she?”
Marty said ; “though she and Jim had lived
all their lives here until he got his place.”
With an air of business-like helpfulness he
put a sock on the dressing-table. “It’s
wonderful the way people always want to get
out of the ’Loo.”
“If I had a rough-and-ready residential at
the wrong end of Triangle-street I’d maybe
want to get out of it meself,” Mary answered.
“I’m thinking Alice’ll be finding her hands
full now, with eleven rooms and no one to
help. And there’s Tom, too; he’ll not wait
for ever; it’s one thing to be engaged to a girl
like Alice, and quite another to find that,
now her mother’s gone to live with her son
at his fine place in the country, she’s too
busy to look at ye.”
She put the sock away and held up a third
parcel. “This,” she admonished the attentive
Marty, “is for Essie, Jim’s wife. She was
always a spoilt little baggage, and she gets
the cream of it, as usual. It’s a pound of
me own special lollies, and I ruined three
pounds of them to get Essie’s one pound
right.”
The parcels were packed carefully in the
suitcase. “Now you will be careful to give
them to the right people won’t you Marty?
It’s the first time Ginger’s been”
* * * *
“Any empty bod’ls!” A raucous piercing
voice came shattering into the bedroom from
the yard below, making Mary jump and
Marty drop a boot. “Rags, bags, bones or
bod’ls — bod’ls !” it screamed, splitting the
firmament.
The world was stilled for a moment of
horrified silence. “God bless my soul!” Mary
gasped. “I should be used to it by now,
but I’m not. Every time I think it’s all
the bottle-os in Sydney calling at once.”
Marty’s shocked face came to life. “He
gets those calls to the life, doesn’t he?” he
said, a certain complacency purring in his
voice. “You’d swear there was a bottle-o
in the yard, wouldn’t you, Mary my dear?”
She took a deep breath. “I’d swear there
were twenty in me pocket,” she said grimly.
“Tell him to get a wash and change his
clothes, Marty. Ye’ve none too much time
before your train.”
Marty put his head out of the window.
“Ginger!” he called. “Shake it up and get
washed. We’re on the way soon.”
“Righto, Dad,” the voice, softened now,
answered him.
Mary shut the lid of the suitcase. “There s
one thing, anyhow,” she announced.
“What’s that, Mary, my dear?”
“I won’t be deafened and scared out of
me senses for one week-end.”
“No, my dear.” Marty said apologetically
before he chuckled again. “But he is good
at it, isn’t he?” he added.
* * * *
Green wrapped the valley in afternoon
peace when Marty and Ginger came down
the track with Jim Kirton carrying the suit-
case. Evening was at hand in the silence,
Marty could feel it, coming on its quiet way
over the sloping fields to Jim’s little house
on the brow. '
“It’s a great place here, Marty. Jim s
broad stolid face looked complacently across
the paddocks to the little house. “Mum has
a great time here. None of the clatter or
fuss of the ’Loo.”
In the still silence they came to the house,
to old Mrs. Kirton, all beaming hospitality,
on the verandah.
“You got here, then, Marty. And you 11 be
wanting a cup o’ tea. I expect the train
tired you out, after being sick. Sit down
and rest yourself. And you too, Ginger-
how are you, Son?”
She was very hearty and glad to see them;
she seemed to be all over the verandah at once,
talking nineteen to the dozen, getting them
chairs, calling out to Essie in the kitchen to
bring them cups of tea and goodness knows
what all. Marty felt a bit swamped under
the tide of her welcome; he was tired, too,
and glad to sit down and drink a cup of hot
tea after the journey.
Essie had filled out a bit; quieter than
when she was a good-looking snip of a girl
thinking too much of herself in the ’Loo, but
that was natural enough. She had too much
life in the old days, you might say; and
living in the quiet of the country had toned
her down. Jim was just the same as he
had always been in himself, but was settled
and happy. His troubles about the rest of
the world, so long as he had his cows and
beans and potatoes to look after. And old
Mrs. Ivirton —Mum—was up to her neck in
having a good time and ramming it down
your throat what a good time she was having.
Marty put down his empty cup and with-
drew himself for a moment from this com-
pany. Ginger had cleared off into the yard
with Jim “to help with the cows,” and Essie
was saying “Yes” and “No” at the right
places to all that mum was saying. Evening
was well on its way; over the far hills
shadows were thickening, and down in the
valley a faint mist obscured the shine of
the creek. In the ’Loo now the racket would
be just about beginning—the scream of the
trams, the voices, the sirens on the harbor,
the cars tearing up and down William-street,
the dull heavy boom of Sydney over the
Domain. Lights would be springing into
life along the streets, gates clanging, voices,
voices.... And here there was nothing but
this stilled silence, the shadows, the mist
down there on the water. Nothing but peace.
It was funny how life went. There was
Mrs. Kirton, as fine a woman as you could
meet in a day’s march, spending three-quar-
ters of her life in the ’Loo working hard
day in, day out and getting the good rest
she had earned at the end of it in a place
like this, with her son and his wife to
look after her, and nothing to worry about.
They said you never got your reward in this
life; but she had, and you couldn’t get away
from it.
“And so you’ve been sick, Marty, have
you?” Mrs. Kirton’s voice brought him back.
“You’re not looking too clever; you’ll be
glad to get your tea and go to bed. You
ought to live in the country. Look, I’ve
never had a day’s sickness since Jim brought
me here!” She looked impressively at Marty.
“Not one day!” she added triumphantly.
“I don’t remember you ever being sick in
the ’Loo,” Marty said.
“No, I never was one for being sick,” she
agreed. “But listen —you couldn’t be any-
thing but well in a place like this.”
“You like the country, Mrs. Kirton?”
“Like it!” She turned on him. “When
Jim was a boy at school he swore he’d have
me out of the ’Loo and in a place of our own
before he was 30. Well, he’s done it, and
here we are, with a good bit of the money
paid off”
Essie stood up and took the tray. “I’ll go
and turn your joint, Mum,” she said.
“Ta, Ess. It’s a small one to-day; another
quarter of an hour will do it, I expect.”
She turned to Marty again. “Like it? Why,
I’m having a beautiful time, Marty. All the
tea in China wouldn’t get me back to the city
again.”
“It must be a good rest for you. It was
time you had a spell.”
“Too right it was. Did you see Alice
lately? That house is a bit of a handful
for one.”
“No. We don’t see much of her now you’ve
gone.”
“I expect she’s too busy.” Mrs. Kirton
was thoughtful for a moment’s silence before
she, too, stood up. “I’ll go and see what
Essie’s doing to the beef,” she said. “You’ll
be ready for your tea and a night’s rest.”
Ginger came round the corner of the
verandah and grinned placidly at his foster-
father. “Bosker cows,” he announced. “Jim
says I ought to make a good farmer.”
“Does he, Son?” Marty was very tired,
he realised. “Why?”
“I dunno. I asked him, and he just said
it.” Ginger’s tranquil eyes looked knowingly
at the advancing night. “Rain coming up,
I think. There’s one”—he turned again to
Marty, awe in his voice—“Rose, a Jersey
who’s touched her six gallons!”
Marty chuckled. “H'as she indeed?” he
asked. “Well, that’s wonderful.”
“Yes. But it’s all in the feeding. Jim
says. If you feed ’em right, they milk right.”
“Goodo. That sounds reasonable, doesn’t
it?” Marty stood up in the gathering silent
darkness. “Suppose we go and wash and
freshen up before tea, Son,” he said.
“Farmers —good farmers —are great fellows
for washing, you’ll find.”
Essie brightened up a bit at tea, but she
wasn’t too happy, Marty thought, though he
couldn’t quite see why. Of course, Mrs.
Kirton had always been used to having her
own way, and you might think, if it had
been anybody else, that she and Essie didn’t
pull too well together. But you could see' it
wasn’t that they were too fond of each other.
Jim beamed impartially at everybody,
stolidly agreeing with' all his mother’s praises
of the country. Ginger did nothing but eat.
Blowing his candle out, Marty got into
bed. Now for a good night’s rest in the
country air. He could do wdtli it, tired out
as he was. He put his head on the pillow
with a satisfied grunt.
But the darkness in the room banished the
silence. A din of small noises rose, each
treading on the heels of the other until the
night seemed to be a tumult. A mouse had
got between- the linings and found some-
thing which he called a million other mice
to come and see and scratch and scream at.
Those bosker cows of Ginger’s mooed drearily
at each' other at intervals. Cocks mistook the
moon for the dawn and crowed masterfully
at it, while curlews went howling by like
lost souls on their way to Hell.
Marty turned over a dozen times and tried
hard to sleep. He counted the sheep going
through the gateway, repeated the multiplica-
tion tables, said his prayers again. But in
the end he resigned himself and lay listening
to the thunderous turmoil until a million
small birds awoke and added their piercing
voices to it.
Most of the morning he pottered about
the yard with Ginger and Jim and wondering
(Continued on page $.)


Sale of Selected “Bulletin” Drawings
A Chance to Get One for 15/-
y/i
GEORGE LAMBERT.
s. d.
“Trouble on Our New Selection” 60 0
“Geography of the Backblocks” . . 60 0
“Signs of the Drought” ......... 40 0
“Portrait of Arthur Adams”
(as illustrated) .... Fifteen Guineas
‘Giddy Giddy Gout’' 40 0
“Girl Logic” 40 0
FRANK P. MAHONY.
s. d.
“Up to Specifications” 20 0
“Racing Abbreviations” 25 0
“As Per Agreement”—an excellent
Mahony horse drawing .... 25 0
mi
OSWALD PRYOR.
s. d.
"The Way of It” 25 0
"Any Port in a Storm” 20 0
"A Good'Year’s Work” 30 0
"Another Optimist” 20 0
"And His Riverence Didn’t Know” 20 0
NESSIE TINDALL.
s. d.
"A Common Complaint” 20 0
GEOFF. LITCHFIELD.
•. . s. d.
"Willing to Try” 20 0
“Brains in Crime” 20 0
B. E. MINNS.
s. d.
"Wanted, a Paying Guest” 30 0
Abo. Studies—
“ The Monarchist” 20 0
‘.‘Cash and Carry” 20 0
“Long, Long Ago” 20 0
: H
For over 50 years the best drawings made in Australia
have come to “The Bulletin,” and a collection of a
hundred of the choicest examples of this country’s black-
and-white art is now offered for sale.
Though the prices at which they have been marked are
exceedingly low, “The Bulletin” makes a large offer in
addition. To every purchaser of a drawing who sends a
12 months’ subscription to “The Bulletin” or the “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” a rebate of 25 per cent, on the price of
the drawing will be made. To every subscriber who
sends a renewal order, a rebate of 33 1-3 per cent,
will be made.
Thus a reader who sends a 12 months’ subscription to
either “Bulletin” or “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” can buy a
picture marked at 20/- for 15/-; and a present subscriber if he sends a renewal can get a 30/- drawing for 20/-.
Readers who send two years’ subscription can get a 25 per cent, rebate on the price of one drawing and a 33 1-3
per cent, rebate on the price of a second drawing; or they can get a rebate of 58 1-3 per cent, off a single
drawing, making the price of a 20/- drawing 8/6.
Of course you can buy without sending any subscription; and you will still get something worth a good deal
more than the price you will pay.
Following is a list of the drawings included in this unique offer:—
6
J
a*
. ..
■
c 2
“HOP.”
s. d.
'A Touch of Nature” 25 0
“A Cheerful Bridal Tour” 25 0
'Ask the Driver” 20 0
' Dishing Parkes” 30 0
The New Literature” 20 0
“tincouraging” (as illustrated) . . 20 0
The “Heathen in His Blindness”
Series—
“ln Anticipation” 20 0
“Posthumous Consolation” .... 20 0
“A Fragment” 20 0
LIONEL LINDSAY.
s. d.
“A Reasonable Objective” 20 0
DAVID LOW.
s. d.
“W. M. Hughes’s Tariff Wall” .... 40 0
Woodrow, the Balancer, and the
Fourteen Points” (as illustrated) 40 0
Strenuous Times for Cartoonists” 40 0
“Times Are Changed” 30 0
“Willing” 20 0
The Final Appearance” 20 0
G. K. TOWNSHEND.
s. d.
Not Like Bradman.”—A golfing
subject 20 0
“Safety First” 20 0
“Gilded Meals, Too” 30 0
PERCY LEASON.
s. d.
"An Apt Pupil” 20 0
“The Evolution of Home” 45 0
“Billy the Sport.” Another Billy
Hughes Series of six in one
drawing 40 0
“Trying to be Funny” 40 0
“Finding Things Out for Himself” 30 0
“When Crowns Go by Ballot” .... 30 0
COLIN COLAHAN.
“French Polish” 20 0
“Not in the Least Particular” .... 20 0
"The Wine and the Wit” 35 0
“Defined” 20 0
“No Spoil Sport” 25 0
DENNIS CONNELLY.
.. s. d.
“No Excuse for It At All” 20 0
“Cabby Gets a Tip” 20 0
He Knew It Wasn't Smith’s Fault” 20 0
NORMAN LINDSAY,
s. d.
“The Subscription Habit” 25 0
“Real Courtesy” 25 0
“Under Compulsion” 40 0
“A Few Suggestions by Our Suicide
Expert” 40 0
“Even Money” (as illustrated) . . 30 0
“Teddy Bear” Series—
‘Teddy* at His Ease” 25 0
D. H. SOUTER.
s. d.
“Fact and Fiction” 25 0
“When the Southerly Came Up” . . 20 0
“The Indirect Method” 20 0
“In Strict Confidence” 25 0
“You Must Keep Your Balance” . . 25 0
“Included in the Award” 20 0
TED SCORFIELD.
s. d.
“Right Turn” 20 0
“Confession” 20 0
“A Prodigious Success” 20 0
“Unexpected Philanthropy” 25 0
“It Might Come Off Once” 30 0
“Reassuring Him” (as illustrated) 25 0
BERTHA BENNET BURLEIGH.
“The New Rule” 20 0
“Jimmy’s Done For” 20 0
“Opportunities Ample” 25 0
“After the Quarrel” 20 0
“The Treasure” 30 0
“The Humbug” 30 0
“In the Reign of King Jazz” .... 20 0
PERCY LINDSAY.
s. d.
“Inhuman Almost” 20 0
“A Matter of Figures” 25 0
“The Homing Done” 25 0
“Trade Measurements” . 20 0
“Taint” . 20 0
ALF VINCENT.
s. d.
“His Panacea” 20 0
“The Iron Cross” 40 0
“Followers Supplied” 30 0
“The Accident” 20 0
“The Mission Woman” 25 0
AMBROSE DYSON.
s. d.
“Consolation” 20 0
“In Push Society” I 20 0
“In Push Society” II 20 0
“In Push Society” 111 20 0
“Excluded” . 35 0
“With View to Above” 25 0
a
Cl
£ :
m
C. H. PERCIVAL.
s. d.
‘The Flapper Knows” 25 0
Natural History Problems” .... 20 0
‘Great Changes” 20 0
‘The Martyr” 25 0
BETTY PATERSON.
s. d.
‘Confidences” 20 0
‘Something New Ahead” 20 0
‘Judging by Appearances” ...... 20 0
‘Any Soil, Climate” 20 0
‘They Ought to Be Marked” .... 25 0
ISH^tjes^ir— ' —j
No
A
8%-
BERT LEVY.
a. di
‘Quite Unsuitable” (as illustrated) 25 0
‘French Laundry” 20 0
ESTHER PATERSON.
s. d.
‘Exclusively His Domain” . 25 0
‘Considerate Child” 20 0
‘Biding His Time” . . 20 0
RUBY LINDSAY.
s. d.
“Standing Forth” (as illustrated) 30 0
“Fully Covered” 30 0
“No Disqualifications” 42 0
“Indiscriminate Youth” 35 0
“His Wife Had One Too" 40 0
These and other drawings are now on view at The Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
The drawings, which are mostly unmounted and unframed, will be sent, securely packed, to any address in Australia, post
free, on receipt of remittance. To addresses outside Australia, Bd. must be added to cover cost of packing and postage.


sretytyutuyt
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors,)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Ta'it.
HER MAJESTY’S: TURNED UP
CRITERION:
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: •
PANTOMIME—
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER
(Commencing at Matinee Boxing Day).
KING’S THEATRE:
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN
(Commencing at Matinee Boxing Day).
OICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
MUSICAL COMEDY,
TOP HOLE.
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites,
Popular Pre-war Pricea.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Not for many years has there been racing
on consecutive days at Randwick, but on
Friday that famous course will be the scene
of the Summer Cup, and on Saturday of the
Carrington Stakes, with in each case an
attractive programme besides. At the
moment of writing Voleuse (7st. 81b.) is
favorite for the Cup. She is a good little
mare on a hard track, but not so good in
heavy going, and in a month which has been
very unsettled in point of weather heavy
going is a possibility to be reckoned with.
Jeypore was third in the Metropolitan, run
in record time, with Bst. 21b., after doing all
the pacemaking—third to the ill-fated Crag-
ford, a weight-for-age horse with 7st. 51b.,
and In the Shade, who has since done well
in Maoriland. With Bst. 71b. Jeypore must
have a great chance over the same distance
in a decidedly weaker field, more especially
as he has been galloping brilliantly. He is
a handsome little horse and as game as they
make them. Valparaiso (Bst. 61b.) is also
much above the ordinary, but the last fur-
long may tell on him. Star God (Bst. 41b.)
and Dalston (7st. 81b.) are cranky beggars,
but both are stayers, and Dalston looked
a very fit horse at Rosehill. Nor can Spear-
shot (7st. 131 b.) be lightly dismissed, though
he disappointed in the race in which Dalston
ran second to Star d’Or. Munro made a
lot of use of him on that occasion ; Crucis,
handled in a similar fashion, died away in
a Rosehill handicap a couple of weeks be-
fore his hollow Sydney Cup win. Two
others with pretensions are Zeeland (7st.
81b.), a seasoned and consistent fellow in the
dangerous Walker stable, and Sun Eagle
(6st. 101 b.), a three-year-old brother to Wee
Glen (they are by Bernard —Glen Iris), who
as a three-year-old won the Queensland Cup
in 3.24 J after having beaten Piastoon (con-
queror of Limerick subsequently in the Syd-
ney Cup) in the Q.T.C. Derby. Sun Eagle
was fourth to Sargon in the A.J.C. Members’
Handicap, and the fast finish which carried
him to victory in the Maiden Three-year-old
Handicap at Rosehill was even more impres-
sive. The Bulletin fancies Jeypore, 1;
Sun Eagle, 2; Spearshot, 3.
Greenline won the Carrington Stakes two
years ago with 9st. 131 b., and was third to
Gay Ballerina (Bst. 21b.) last year with
lOst. 61b. In Saturday’s Stakes Greenline
has lOst 111 b. and Gay Ballerina 9st. 31b.;
in the meantime Greenline captured the
Newmarket Handicap with lOst. 21b. He
was leading at the end of six furlongs at
Rosehill with his Carrington burden, and is
in fine fettle. Gay Ballerina is also a good
weight-carrier, though small compared with
Greenline; and Waugoola (Bst. 91b.), Re-
mora (Bst. 31b.), Caravel Boy (Bst. 21b.),
Sydney George (7st. 121 b.) and King’s
Arms (7st. 71b.) will not lack support. A
three-year-old with a nice weight (6st. 121 b.)
is Porneit, who has run two capital races
up the Randwick straight in open company,
and that excellent. This Page likes Porneit
most, with Greenline and Remora next in
that order.
The handicapper’s tip for the December
Stakes is the Victorian colt Bold Bid; and
the A.J.C. handicapper is a shrewd judge.
But Bold Bid’s gallop on Thursday was un-
attractive, and perhaps Martand will win
with Ranier next.
Horses which have been here noted down,
on appearance and recent performances, as
early winners are Lord Romeo, Aorangi,
Lord Eudorus—all three are in the A.J.C.
Handicap on Friday, but the nine furlongs
may be a trifle far for Lord Romeo and
Aorangi—Sunlit Reef (in the Chelmsford
Handicap on Saturday) and Bawn-na-Glas.
The last-named is in the Denman Handicap
on Saturday and may be equal to the occa-
sion. He seems to require a fair amount of
racing to bring him to his top.
* * * *
“Don Crew”: “Wot with over’ead expen-
ses and this ’ere tax on winnin’ bets,” my
friend Basher moaned, “a Tommy’d be better
off sellin’ porcupines as back-scratchers than
’o would swingin’ the bag. The worry ’d
send yer mad. Fancy a man ’avin ter keep
dooplicate books, an’ deduct 10 per cent, w’en
blokes ’as three-an’-six on at seven ter four,
an’ gallop to the Treasury in between
race days. It makes me feel as merry as
an ’airless poodle in a ’skeeter swamp.
As for the punters, they ain’t got the
eharnce of a curate in the lap of a Dar-
lin’hurst widow. Coughin’-up that tenth
every time yer ’orse does it, and winners as
far apart as currants in an Aberdeen cake!
W’ere’s the Labor Buroo, spoi't? I want
ter put me name down fer a sand-shiftin’
job.”
* * * *
“Retired Urger”: Someone, described by
the journal as “a well-known sport,” wrote
to a Sydney newspaper recently .suggesting
a system of racing taxation likely to bring
about better results than the Lang Govern-
ment’s 10 p.c. levy on winning bets. One
suggestion worth consideration was that
proprietary race clubs should be compelled
to publish their balance-sheets to admit of
their profits being taxed 10 p.c.; another
was that there should be no increase in the
prices of admission. Everyone will agree
with the first idea. The community is full
of people who have waxed unholily fat on
the huge profits of the proprietary courses,
and few outside their ranks would weep if
they were subjected to the skinning process
which they have for years applied to the
public and racehorse owners. As to admission
prices, these should not only be not increased
but cut down. N.S.W. charges in this re-
spect are the highest in Australia, and a
reduction would certainly result in larger
course attendances and less money in the
s.-p. shops.
❖ * * :Jc
“Fitzcray”: The first trial of Victoria’s
sixpenny stamp tax on paddock bookmakers’
tickets came off at Moonee Valley. The new
scheme naturally met with disapproval, and
none were more indignant than the dollar
bettors, from whom the bagmen demanded
an extra tanner before taking the wager.
There is a humorous side to the situation.
Anyone would imagine from some of the
sporting columns that our “Leviathans'*
spent most of the time between races laying
the odds to thousands. The M.V. meeting dis-
ATMOSPHERICS.
BATTERED PUG (through cigarette haze) : “Cripes, the air’s crvok ’ere to-night.”
SARCASTIC TRAINER: “Yeah—so it ought to he the way you been beltin’ into it!”
closed the painful fact that much of the busi-
ness done was on the dollar basis. The same
is true of swankier courses than Moonee
A alley, including Randwick, where the
lordly cry of “No ten bobs!” is never heard
nowadays.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Expecting to see a second “Boston Tar
Baby” in action at the Leichhardt Stadium,
fully 4500 fight enthusiasts went to watch
“Young Sam” Langford, an Ethiopian who
recently arrived from the U.S.A., lock horns
with Wally Hancock. Langford (10.9) was
every bit as coal-black as his namesake, and
when a right to the angle of the jaw, dropped
Hancock (10.6) for nine seconds in round
two, the new Sam seemed something like
the old one as a pug. All resemblance ended
there, however, for Hancoek’s left hook after-
wards hit Langford on bead and body so
often that the white man ran out a decisive
winner.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: Max Schmelling has
been told by the New York Boxing Commis-
sion that he must accept Jack Sharkey’s
challenge to a fight for the heavyweight title.
As far as can be ascertained, Max, who got the
decision on a foul after he had been pasted
all round the ring by his present challenger,
has studiously avoided the squared circle ever
since. Now he will have to take his hiding
or get out of the game for good. His cup of
bitterness has been added to by the alleged
fact that a Chicago promoter guaranteed
him £lOO,OOO to get into the ring with
Y'oung Stribling. The latter would probably
have given him a worse lacing than Sharkey
did, but the money wrnuld have been worth
it Now Max will have to tackle Sharkey,
who will certainly beat him, on a percentage
basis, which means that lie will get just
as big a walloping and much less money for
taking it.
The Ins and Outs
H’ea\ r y scoring marked the opening stages
of both the Sheffield Shield matches which
began last week. In Adelaide, N.S.W. ran
up the formidable total of 610 against South
Australia. Jackson showed recovered form
with 166, and put up a record stand of 334
in 223 minutes for second wicket with the
aid of Bradman, who flogged the bowling mer-
cilessly for 258- (his tenth double-century
score in first-class cricket). Kippax got
42, while Hooker (45) and Chilvers (23)
made a useful tail-end stand. Grimmett took
5 for 180, and now needs only 7 wickets to
beat Ernest Jones’s record for South Aus-
tralia of 209 wickets. Chilvers and Hunt
proved altogether too good for the open-
ing South Australian batsmen. At stumps
on the second day 6 had gone for 140,
Nitschke top-scoring- with 69. Hunt’s
figures were 3 for 24, and Chilvers’s 3 for 57.
At Melbourne Queensland again made the
mistake of sending the home side in after
winning the toss from Victoria, and though
Oxenham got the first two wickets cheaply
for 49, the score finally totalled 474. Rigg
played an attractive shot for 124, and with
Ryder (114) carried the score to 268 before
the third wicket fell. O’Brien, a lefthander—
there are five on the side—made a good debut
with 65, while a’Beckett ran to 92. Oxenham
bowled 43 overs to take six wickets for 92,
a wonderful feat in the circumstances. The
visitors collapsed in their first innings,
reaching only 103. There were four l.b.w.
decisions, but Ironmonger (5-29) bowled
magnificently. His co-veteran, Blackie, helped
with 3 for 37.
❖ * *
G. C. Grant, skipper of the West Indies
side, is young to hold such an important
position, but his selection gave general satis-
faction in the land of the guava and turtle,
and has been justified by his work in the
field. Born in Trinidad 23 years ago, he
learned his cricket at Queen’s College there,
and going up to Cambridge soon found his
way into the Light Blue side. He had a good
season in 1929, scoring well against the
counties and ending up with an average of
31.40 for first-class matches. A right-hand
bat of the steady type he is a first-class field,
and has shown himself well able to handle the
side he heads—a job which presents more than
ordinary difficulties, as one or two previous
W.I. skips have found.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”; The English Board of Con-
trol, after an unconscionable time in counting
the cash, has announced that the Test takings
came to a trifle under £78,000. A wad of
that has to go to Australia, but even then
there will be a tidy lot left for the board’s
bank account. Conscious of this, no doubt,
the board has resolved to dash the expense,
and has recklessly decided to give ten whole
quid to each professional who played in the
Tests. Though the guerdon is not so generous
as that bestowed on the Australian amateurs,
it is better than the nothing at all outside
the actual match fees which has been the.
rule in the past.
* * * *
“Swan”: Westralia has been showing
marked signs of peevishness because the
Board of Control, having refused to send a
cricket team west this .season, is toying
with the notion of dispatching one to Maori-
land. However, a sweetener lias come to
hand in the shape of a cheque for £1470, the
State cricket association’s share of the profits
from the recent Australian tour in England.
Last time the Gropers’ cut was only £BOO.
S. H. D. Rowe, chairman of the Westralian
Cricket Association, has been elected the
State delegate to the board, Gregory, M.P.,
having skied the towel.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Like abo. Jack Marsh, of
N.S.W., in days of yore, Constantine, the
West Indies fast bowler, is a sprinter of
note. He is very keen on getting a match m
Australia, and anyone round about the
evens mark is invited to try his luck. The
Trinidad man’s ambition was a run against
Jim Carlton, but, as he is a professional'
cricketer, that may not be. While on the
subject it is worth remembering that the
N.S.W. athletic authorities now rate all
inter-State and other cricketers taking cash
allowances for playing as professionals, so
anyone with a regard for the purity of his
amateur status and desiring to take on Don
Bradman or any of his mates over 100 yards
had better watch his step.
(Continued on next page.)
“Shrewsbury”: The profession of sports-
master, a recognised institution in British
public .schools, where anyone with a cricket
or football Blue has a billet waiting for
him the moment he goes down from the Uni-
versity, whatever his position on the pass
lists, is gradually growing in importance in
Australia. The latest recruit is A. N.
Finlay, the Waratah and N.S.W. forward,
who becomes assistant sportsmaster at Syd-
ney Grammar, in addition to taking a hand
on the teaching staff. An old Grammar boy
himself, “Huck” has been for some time
associate to Justice James, but is evidently
fed up with the interminable found of wit-
nesses and wigs.
* * * *
“Colors”: Sydney University Sports
Union, which comprises all branches of ama-
teur sports within the University, has
been compelled to scrap the blazer which
has been in evidence for many years. The
old royal blue with gold braidings and the
’Varsity arms on the pocket has not only
been adopted by unauthorised folk in the
University itself, but is to be seen all over
Sydney on people who obviously have never
done anything to earn the distinction. The
new colors will be red, blue and gold in ver-
tical stripes, the red a tiny stripe dividing
the other two colors of greater width. The
Uni. arms, of course, will show on the pocket,
and the buttons will be gilt. More important
than all that is the fact that the new colors
have been copyrighted as by law required,
and cannot in future be pinched by beach
sheiks or any other unauthorised swankers.


Gert V have vou been auu
the VMESK ?"
Bert: Ive sot the fever . verv
'nfectious')
Gert i " Tvpwovo * "
Bert : midget solf,"
time arises from the publication of the in-
evitable book about the tour by the no less
inevitable expert travelling with the team.
This writer, one Geoffrey Tebbutt, says
Don’s popularity with the public was not
echoed by his team mates. His aloofness
alienated these, and the gift of £lOOO put
the lid on, even leading one prominent player
to remark “He is not one of us” —quite in the
best manner of Potts Point or Toorak. De-
fence has come from an unexpected quarter.
Kelly himself has stepped forward to declare
that Don was a social mixer of purest ray
serene.
* * * *
“Gabba”: There seems to be something
wrong with the Queensland cricket selection
committee. Last year it fell foul of skipper
Leo O’Connor by ordering him to leave cer-
tain players out —this when the team was
on its tour of Victoria and South Australia.
O’Connor naturally objected, and the
subsequent row led to his retirement from
Sheffield cricket. The Brisbane selectors
attempted the same fbing on the eve of the
Queensland match with Victoria in Mel-
bourne. They have again been defied and this
time by the whole team, which itself chose
a. selection committee to pick the side on the
spot.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: One of the troubles of Aus-
tralian teams in England has been the
quality of some of the grounds on which
matches have to be played. This varies
greatly in different parts of the country, and
is none more than the North of England,
where the three principal arenas are situated
in huge manufacturing cities. Following on
a report to the Marylebone Club by manager
Kelly of the last Australian Eleven, the
M.C.C. has appointed a committee to inves-
tigate. One Test-match ground at least,
that at Headingley, in Leeds, seems doomed
for the axe. It is small, and has a pro-
nounced slope—though this last may be said
of Lords also—and the wicket has always
been tricky after a day or two’s play. York-
shire’s other official ground at Bramall-lane,
in Sheffield, is better in many respects, but
it is surrounded by factories, and when a
wind is blowing a smoke screen is put up
that tries the keenest-sighted batsman. One
of the best Test-match grounds in England
is Edgbaston, in Birmingham, but of late
years it has been ignored by the framers of
the Australian itinerary. Another ideal pitch
is The Hove, at Brighton, but this is a bit
out of the way for the gates expected nowa-
days for the international games.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: When the Board of Con-
trol gave Brisbane one of the Tests against
Chapman’s team, Sydney, which had been
docked accordingly, rent the welkin with
howls of protestation. One particular accu-
sation hurled at the presuming Banana-
landers was that their wickets on the Exhibi-
tion ground were not fit even for a match
between two out-back teams, and it was
asserted that blood-curdling casualties might
be confidently expected. The other day in
a match between N.S.W. and Queensland,
1406 runs were scored on the ground in four
days, and the pitch was as good at the finish
as at the beginning. This rather knocks a
hole in the Sydney affidavit.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : I note that, after long years, the
Brisbane Cricket Ground is again to see a
first-class match, the West Indies side open-
ing there against Queensland on January 10.
The Test match against the same team, how-
ever, will be played on the Exhibition
Ground, which is an invidious distinction,
from my point of view. Many years ago, the
writer, with 1499 others, parted up for a
life membership of a ground that was to be
made out of a tangle of gullies anu waste
land at the Five Ways of Woolloongabba.
Our money filled in, levelled, and fenced the
ground, which was to be the equivalent in
Brisbane of the Sydney Cricket Ground, an
arena for first-class cricket and football only.
A certain amount of first-class cricket was
played there; then it was given over
to night pony racing and trotting clubs, and
finally, I hear, the tin-hare couched on its
unresponsive hearthstone. Now Soccer
players keep the courts where I have seen
Ranji, Archie Maclaren, Ken Hutchings and
others drink deep of runs against abo. Alec
Henry, C. T. B. Turner, Tibby Cotter and
Jack Saunders.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: The Victorian tennis cham-
pionships ended with a characteristic rever-
sal of form by Jack Crawford. He had played
wretchedly during the tourney, and just strug-
gled into the final against Hopman, who had
played magnificent tennis all through. John
was heavily tested, but rose to the occasion,
as he sometimes does. After winning the
first set* 6 —l, he lost the second, B—lo,
after a gruelling go. Then, to everyone’s
surprise, he polished off Hoppy, 6—o, 6 —2,
and that was that. He and Hopman were
soundly licked in the doubles by Clemenger
and Schlesinger. Mrs. Jack won the women’s
singles from Miss Hoddie Wrigley, while she
and her 'worse half had little trouble in
The Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: Though the Australians won
the first Test against the West Indies by
10 wickets, it is doubtful what the result
would have been if Grimmett had not been
playing. Hurwood certainly showed a re-
assuring return to his Australian form of
last year, taking 7 for 141 in the match, but
the visitors were at home to all the rest,
while helpless against the South Australian
googly expert, whose bag was 11 for 183.
Constantine failed with bat and ball, the
most effective of the visiting trundlers being
slow-bowler Scott, with 4 for 83 in Aus-
tralia’s first innings of 376. A second W.I.
knock for 249 left Australia 172 to win, and
got them. Ponsford (92) and Jackson (70).
The hero of the West Indian side was Grant,
with two mighty useful if not stylish knocks
of 53 and 71, both n.o. He is one of those
batsmen who look as if they might get out
at any moment, yet frequently stop to run
up respectable scores.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The oddest thing about the first
Test match against the West Indies was
the sending over to Adelaide of Rigg as
12th man, with a fine field like Vic
Richardson ready on the spot to do any
emergency work needed. It can but be
taken as a delicate hint to the Australian
Xl’s recent vice-captain that his day is over.
The oddest thing about the actual play was
that our bats were always happy with slow
bowling and always doubtful against fast
stuff; which is, of course, an exact reversal
of tne West Indians’ fancies.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: More than one of the Aus-
tralian Eleven players has been showing
signs of staleness. Woodfull and Ponsford
wisely dropped out of the Queensland-Vic-
toria match, and Wall has been left out of
the Australian side for the second Test
against the West Indians, which begins in
Sydney on New Year’s Day. One or two
others might have been dropped, notably
Fairfax, whose bowling, his chief asset, has
been harmless since his return. Indeed, the
board might well consider the selection of
an entirely new Australian side against the
Buccaneers, and thus give the younger genera-
tion a chance to prove themselves in big
cricket. A very powerful lot could be got
together, and one well able to hold its own.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Even Victorians are somewhat
surprised at the inclusion of the lefthanded
veteran Ironmonger in the team for the
second Test against the West Indians in
Sydney. He certainly has been bowling
splendidly this season, but he is out of the
picture as a possibility for the next Aus-
tralian XI against England. It would have
been far better for the game if a young left-
hander like Hunt, of N.S.W., who is also
a really good bat and a brilliant field—lron-
monger is emphatically neither —had gone
into the vacancy left by Wall’s retirement.
Up to the end of the Queensland-N.S.W.
game in Sydney Hunt had taken more
wickets than any other Australian bowler.
He has plenty of time ahead to improve,
also, since he made his first representative
appearance this season for the N.S.W. colts.
Queensland must be accounted fairly for-
tunate in their first three Sheffield Shield
games. The South Australians were without
the match-winning Grimmett in Brisbane,
while N.S.W. went up without Bradman.
In Sydney against N.S.W. the rain probably
saved the Maroons from a licking, giving
them a win on the first innings instead. The
northern State had 11 points up out of a
possible 15 at the end of this match, N.S.W.
having 7, while South Australia was point-
less. The batting averages for the three
matches arc headed by Thompson, of Queens-
land, with 135.22 for three completed inn-
ings. Kippax leads N.S.W. with 93.60 for
three knocks, and Nitschke is at the head of
the South Australian list with 57.5 for 4.
Hunt, of N.S.W., had taken most wickets
with 15, which cost 18.53 each. Oxenham,
Gilbert and Hooker each bagged 12 wickets.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: It looks as if the larger
wicket has definitely come to stay. The
English County Committee is all in favor
of it, after the thorough trial of the past
two seasons, and Australian opinion seems
to already run in the same direction. In
any case, the M.C.C. has asked the Austra-
lian authorities to express a definite opinion
by February 10, which should settle the issue.
All hands and the cook still continue to
dodge the essential reform which would give
the unfortunate bowler of to-day the chance
he deserves —the abolition of the elaborately
barbered and prepared wickets on which such
enormous scores are almost automatically
made nowadays. However, these help the
gate takings, and, after all, that matters
more than anything.
* * * *
“Lime”: Don Bradman, who, whether he
intends it or not, never for a moment steps
out of the publicity spotlight, is the centre
of a fresh attraction, the public having
wearied of waiting for the Kelly report and
whatever it may contain. The fuss this
taking the mixed doubles from Hopman and
Miss Hall.
* * * #
“Top Spin” : In spite of reduced entry fees,
the N.S.W. tennis heads have had a poor
entry for the once-popular country cham-
pionships which kick off at Rushcutter Bay
on January 8. The tourney a year or two
w-as claimed to be the largest in the world,
and not the least of its attractions was the
social side, old friends from all over the
State seizing the opportunity to foregather.
It has brought to light Kalms, Sieler, Wil-
liams, and juniors of promise like Walker,
now an _ inter-State representative. Tam-
worth will have to defend the men’s side
of the country championship this year, while
the Goulburn women will be set for their end
of it. J. E. Snape holds the singles title, and
with R. G. Spence, of Barraba, will try to
hang on to the doubles pot.
♦ * * sfc
“Lancaster Park”: Geoff Olivier, one of
the finest tennis-players Maoriland has
turned out since Anthony Wilding, has gone
over to the professional ranks at the same
time as Pat O’Hara Wood, of Victoria,
against whom he has matched racquets many
a time. He will take charge of Canterbury’s
coaching scheme inaugurated last year, and
should be a big success in the position. In
the Wilding days M.L. produced a string of
fine players. With the passing of the in-
spiration of Norman Brookes’s great partner,
the Shivery Isles seem to have grown in-
different to the game. Canterbury has always
been the heart of tennis in Maoriland, and
with Olivier’s assistance the dry bones may
be stirred again.
* * * «
“Centurion”: An Australian figured pro-
minently in the last annual tennis match
between the British army and navy, which
the Lobsters won easily. This was Captain
H. L. Barclay, a Tasmanian, who some years
ago held the championship of the Apple Isle.
He was champion of the army in 1929,
though he was missing from this year’s
matches. H'e is in the R.A.F. and was
one of the best players in India, where he
was stationed for some years.
Ss * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Tipping form in
tennis is about as reliable an undertaking
as pickin’ ’em at the ponies. An American
journal just to hand, commenting on the
rather astonishing win of “little” Betty
Nuthall in the U.S. singles, prophesies that
she will be supreme in women’s tennis for
the next 10 years, the cases of Mrs. Mallory
and Mrs. Moody (Helen Wills) being cited
as precedents, together with that of Suzanne
Lenglen. The forecast has been bumped by
the ranking list of English tennisinas issued
by the English L.T.A. This puts Betty third
on the list, and makes no apologies for doing
so either.
* * . * *
“Iconoclast”: For a long time N.S.W.
and Victoria tennis addicts have been yowl-
ing for the official recognition of their obses-
sion in the Great Public Schools. It is
sad to think that The King’s School is
granting school “colors” to its representa-
tives in the recent G.P.S. tennis tourney.
Others are likely to follow, but I doubt if
the holders, past and present, of rowing,
cricket, athletic and Rugby colors for the
famous Parramatta school will welcome the
latest addition to their ranks with fervor.
* # * *
“Cut Shot”: The question of Australian
representation in British tennis circles has
long been one for argument. W. Sabelli,
secretary of the English Tennis Association,
has filled the job capably for some time, but
he has many other interests to look after.
N.S.W. has recommended to the Australian
heads the appointment of Stan Youdale, a
few years ago a prominent figure in the coun-
sels of Ma State tennis, who would fill the
job to perfection. Domiciled in England,
he is a leisured man of means, and has been
a good friend to Australian tennis players
overseas. The only objection to him,
according to the view of a Sydney journal
commenting on the chance of his appoint-
ment, is that he is a N. S. Welshman, and,
therefore, in the eyes of the Victorians
who are supposed by the Ma Staters
to run the Australian Tennis Association,
a person not to be considered at any price.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Cash Amateur”: At long last the trus-
tees of the N.S.W. golfing competition for the
A.I.F. Cup have crawled down from their
exalted amateur perch and thrown the event
open to mere professional persons as well
as the lilywhites. Hitherto no one who re-
ceived money for playing golf could hope to
enter the sacred circle, even if he happened
to be a major-general plastered from head
to foot with decorations. Now, any pro.
who is attached to a recognised golf club
can go it with the best of them. The N.S.W.
event was the only one of the many A.I.F.
competitions in Australia which drew the
amateur line.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Sydney’s A.I.F. Cup
will be played for next year on three
courses on the same day, instead of on
one as of yore. The three courses chosen
are Manly, Killara and Kensington, and the
Manly club, to which entries should be for-
warded, will run the show. In former years
the first competitors started with the jack-
ass and finished with the mopoke, but there
will be no more of that until there are not
enough of the A.I.F. left to form a pair
for a match.
& * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne “Herald” devotes three
columns to midget golf. A “minnie” associa-
tion has been formed, its principal activities
to date being mainly in connection with the
burning question of the Sunday ban. A
competition has been started to find Mel-
bourne’s “golfie” star. It would be terrible
if, when found, he proved to be an infant
of six. In a recent issue the “Herald” gave
two headlines to the sensational fact that
at a new links at Prahran only one player
has beaten bogey, which is 23 for 12 holes.
*** * • 1
“Hoylake”: The British open golf cham-
pionship (B. 10/12/’3O) will not be entirely
played at Carnoustie, for the qualifying
rounds will take place there and at Barry,
close by, beginning on June 1. The finals
will be played on the Old Course at Car-
noustie. The battle for the amateur title
will rage at the other end of the King-
dom, at Westward Ho, in Devonshire, start-
ing on May 18, so intending competitors
from Australia will do well to begin pre-
parations. There is a good deal of wild
surmise in Britain and America as to
whether Bobby Jones will revoke his deci-
sion to drop big golf and have yet another
shy at the British events in which he has
figured with such success in the past.
* Hs * *
“Ness”: That bird who wrote that Car-
noustie golf course was in the Kingdom of
Fife (B. 10/12/’3O) should be sentenced to
three years at Cupar, a place to which
every Scotsman not inhabiting it prays that
he may not go when he dies. Carnoustie is
in Forfarshire, near Dundee, just across the
Tay from Fife. The writer’s further com-
ment that a Fife man can get more out of
a threepenny-bit than an Aberdonian leaves
the Forfar laddie cold. He never bothers
about trying to get anything out of the coin
mentioned, or any other that comes within
reach—he takes the lot.
* * * *
“Shirley”: Arthur Duncan, who long ago
gave up the certain prospect of an All Black
football jersey to devote himself to the then
somewhat cloistered pursuit of golf, has had
a long run of success in the royal and
antient game. It is 29 years since he won
his first M.L. championship by taking the
amateur title at Auckland, and he has won
that event and the open championship many
times since. The other day in Wellington
the veteran showed that he has still a hefty
kick in him by winning the Miramar club
championship against a strong field, show-
ing form that convinced onlookers that he is
still a strong candidate for any M.L. side.
* * * sN
“Hula”: Port Moresby, in Papua, seems
now to be irrevocably sealed to golf, the
club in that small community numbering-
some 50 members. There is a sporting 9-hole
course at Konedobu, and this is well thronged
every day in the week. A notable happening
was the holding of a competition for caddies
lately. These are recruited from the ranks
of Brown Brother, and some of them show-
signs of developing really good form, though
adequate coaching is not available. Prizes
ranged from ss. to 6d., and an unusual con-
dition was that all clubs used should be
native-made, a dollar being offered for the
best exhibited.
* * * *
“Ulu”: Mandated New Guinea has now
another affliction to stagger under in addi-
tion to the low price of copra, malaria and
the Administration. This is miniature golf,
which has descended on the hapless inhabi-
tants of Rabaul in a night, so to speak. Per-
haps it would be more correct to say it
was introduced, much as the politician, the
prickly-pear and the rabbit were introduced
to Australia in the past. It is not certain
who is responsible, but in the days to come
it is likely his name will be held in the
same high esteem as those of the gentlemen
responsible for the advent of the Australian
blights mentioned.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Those taxgatherers who
have turned a hungry eye to midget golf as
a source of revenue —Victoria proposes a £5O
registration fee and a tax on admission —
may refer to an English decision that the
game is untaxable as an amusement save
under special legislation. The grounds for
the finding were that the proprietor of the
course does not provide amusement, the
players furnishing this for themselves. It
may be good law, but it is dashed poor fact.
The players, invariably struggling in despe-
rate earnestness, provide no amusement for
themselves—the thing is too serious. The
people who do get tickled are the onlookers
at the rails watching the contortions and
listening to the ravings of the afflicted.


Car and Cycle
“Formula” : The N.S.W. Automobile Club’s
last outing of the year took the form of a
secret-conditions trial, points being awarded
for reliability, a flying half-mile, half-mile
acceleration, and slow-running. Only one
of the 23 entrants scored full points in every
section, this being W. B. Thompson, driving
a 2991 Bugatti in Class C. E. J. Buckley,
after weathering a protest against his engine,
secured first place in the “pram” class with
an 847 Morris Minor, scoring 171.98 out
of a possible 200. T. D. Irons took first place
in the B division, notching 166.93 with his
1087 Riley. The best of the big cars was
Otto ’ James’s 4399 Chrysler, with 182.44
points.
“Disc Clutch”: America, famous already
for its splendid system of motor roads, con-
tinues to make new experiments; the latest
is the laying down of steel rolled into sheets.
Three varieties of the material are being tested
--galvanised, corrugated and flat sheet. On
the steel is laid a layer of sand, and on top
of that a three-inch topping of brick. The
idea of the steel is that it will respond to
all changes of temperature in the variable
American climate, while the renewal of the
surfacing will be easy and cheap. Under
• conditions such as these, it is no wonder
that in many American States to-day there
are penalties for the car-driver who does not
maintain a speed of 40 m.p.h., and that the
pedestrian is becoming rarer on country
roads.
$ $ # #
“Bluey”: A fierce controversy has been
raging in America as to whether blonde or
brunette women are the better motor-drivers.
A New York insurance co. has pronounced
judgment for the brunette; its statistics
show that the type that gentlemen prefer
have more accidents than the darkies. The
company is also emphatic on the point that
the female of the species, blonde or brunette,
is a safer driver than the male. Twenty-five
per cent, of the drivers in America are
women, yet only 6 per cent, of car accidents
can be debited to them. And not one word,
mind you, of the dear old ginger-tops. The>
are plentiful enough and prominent enough
in other walks of life than motoring, and
must bulk large in that. The omission of
any reference to them can only be attributed
to prejudice—possibly one of them with an
unsettled claim has roared up the boss of
the insurance company in the real red-
headed way.
“Sliigatze” : The motor-car can now fairly
claim to have penetrated to every quarter of
the globe, even to the Poles, if motor-sleds
may be admitted to the category of cars. Its
latest conquest is aloof and guarded Tibet,
where the Dalai Lama, the reincarnation of
the Buddha, now* rolls about his city on the
world’s roof in an English limousine. It was
impossible to drive the car from India over
the tremendous mountain passes and the
goat tracks of Tibet, so it was carried in
parts on mule back to the sacred city. The
going" thereabouts is fairly good, but the
petrol supply has to be humped up from the
Indian plains.
4 4 * *
“Sprocket” : The Australian amateur cycl-
ing championships will be held under new
conditions this coming year, since it has been
decided to have them on the wooden basin
track at Canterbury (N.S.W.) on January
14 and 21. The Dummett Cup, given by a
Victorian enthusiast, will be competed for
for the first time, and all the Australian
States will be represented at the meeting—
a record for this annual gathering. The
Victorians are sending their team up a
week ahead, so as to get them used to the
board track. How the riders from other
States will fare under the unusual conditions
remains to be seen. The N.S.W. men have
bad plenty of opportunity on the track, and
lQpk to have a considerable advantage over
the opposition on that account.
The Watermen
“Blade”: Those responsible for the N.S.W.
Great Public Schools regatta have again
decided that it shall be rowed next year on
the and congested Parramatta River,
in spite of the general consensus of opinion
that the Nepean at Penrith is more suitable
in every way. One excuse made is that
Penrith is so far from Sydney, which would
mean a loss of school time for the crews. To
those who know how much school work
troubles these people during the elaborate
trainihg period there is humor in the plea.
Another is that if the crews trained as
usual on the Parramatta and then went to
the Nepean for the race, they would have
to row in heavy fresh water after prac-
tice in the more buoyant salt. Granting that,
it would not matter in the least if they did.
The time records in these races are of no
importance, and those are all that would be
affected.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The headmasters of the six
schools concerned in the annual boatrace in
Melbourne are considering a well-meant sug-
gestion to remove that event from the cat-
egory of a wrestling contest at the Stadium.
At present the races occur on the second
Friday and Saturday in May, and it is
Claimed that serious dislocation is caused
to school work. The newspapers turn the
affair into a sensational stunt, and school-
boys get an inflated notion of their own
importance and wrong ideas about what con-
stitutes real sportsmanship. The proposal
is to race on the Wednesday and Thursday,
the two last days of the term. The heads
hold that there would be far less disloca-
tion of schoolwork and that the affair would
assume right proportions. One of the stag-
gering things about the heats on the Friday
is the number of people who leave their jobs
to watch them.
* * * *
“Nth”: Watching a rowing race in Syd-
ney recently I found myself deploring the
valuable energy wasted so unproductively.
Returning home I worked out the ratio
between the human body considered as an
engine—which, of course, it is—and the ordi-
nary steam and internal combustion methods
et propulsion. The human machine is the
more efficient. Roughly one-fourth of the
energy produced goes directly to the propul-
sion of the boat —the loss in Steam, and other
engines, due to several factors which cannot
be enumerated in a paragraph, is much
greater, varying with the different types. 1
take it that each rower breathes 16 gallons
of air a minute and develops 4h.p. at the
start of the race when he is freshest, the
ratio decreasing as the race progresses. In
a three-mile race, that being, I understand,
the normal championship course, fuel con-
sumption is the equivalent of half a pound
of that valuable fuel sugar. At 6d. per
pound this is good running cost. How many
motors- could run three miles for 3d. and
supply their own fuel at the same time?
* * *
“Shrewsbury”: Australia is again repre-
sented in the trial crews for the Oxford and
Cambridge boatrace early next year, while
Maoriland has also caught a place. The Aus-
tralians are. R, H. Dutton, of Adelaide Uni-
versity, who is in the Oxford trials, and
Luxton, of Geelong College, who has been
included in the Cambridge lot. The Maori-
lander is Platts-Mills, of yVellington, a Rhodes
Scholar at Oxford. M.L. oarsmen are rarely
seen in the boats for this big event, the
probable reason being that the M.L. univer-
sities and schools do not nourish rowing as
their Australian contemporaries do. Club
rowing in Maoriland, on the other hand, is
of a high standard, which makes it the more
regrettable that the youngsters are not
blooded earlier.
* * *
“Fitzcray”: The poor quality of sculling
in Victoria was again shown up in the mile
handicap of the Victorian Amateur Sculling
Association last week, when the N.S.W.
veteran 11. E. Ricketts won easily from
the best of the Victorian entry, G. F.
McKenzie, of Mercantile. The Welshman,
who can be graded at about fifth place on
N.S.W. sculling lists, gave McKenzie 36
seconds, and overhauled him at half-way, to
win, pulling up, by a length. As long ago as
1925 Ricketts, then a South Australian
representative, finished fourth in the Aus-
THE BITTERNESS OF THE FED UP.
PHOTOGRAPHER: “Are the fish biting?”
WEARY ANGLER: “If they are, they’re biting each other!”
tralian Champion Sculls on the Yarra, won
by Cuthbertson, of Tasmania. Curious that
Victoria, always powerful as a rowing State,
has of late years been unable to produce a
sculler fit to pace it with the pick of other
States. In the 38 years’ history of the event
only five Victorians have won. Nine N.S.W.
men have scored and three Queenslanders.
Little Tassy has produced three winners and
Westralia one. South Australia has yet to
get her name On the list.
° * * * *
“Hotham”: One result of the recent suc-
cessful Henley-on-Yarra regatta—leaving out
the financial side—is the expressed determi-
nation of the committee to bring competitors
for the big events from overseas, even if kid-
napping has to be resorted to. For years
past attempts have. been made to induce
crews from Britain and Canada, as well as
scullers from both countries, to try their
luck on the Yarra. Once or twice arrange-
ments have been almost completed, only to
fall through at the last minute. Such eights
as that of the famous Vancouver Club could
reach this country and return in a few
weeks, with plenty of time for settling into
their stride before competing. The odds
against an English crew are a good deai
heavier, and the rigid amateur outlook of
English rowing is an additional handicap
on top of the long journey and expense likely
to be entailed. A sculler is a different pro-
position, and it is hoped that the winner of
the next Diamonds or Wingfields at Henley
may be induced to make the trip. It is long
since Australian oarsmen have been
measured against those of . outlying lands,
with the exception of Maoriland, and there
is no doubt that a visit of the kind sug-
gested would give a great fillip to the rather
languid interest at present taken m Aus-
tralian rowing.
* * # ■ *
“Shell”: Let me commemorate the 41st
anniversary of the death of Harry Searle, the
Clarence River professional sculler, who
ranks second only to Bill Beach in the
esteem of the few who nowadays take any
interest in professional oarsmen. He first cap-
tured the world’s championship in 1888, when
he beat Peter Kemp, the great stylist who
took up the mantle resigned by Beach. Next
year he went to England, and on the Thames
made a hack of the American champion
O’Connor. Returning to Australia, he con-
tracted typhoid at Colombo, and died in
Melbourne. Searle’s death was regarded as
a national calamity and observed as such.
It sounds rather absurd to a generation
quite indifferent to sculling, but it is no
exaggeration to say that the nation was
more stricken by the tragedy than it would
be to-day if Don Bradman made a pair of
specs in a Test match.
::< * # *
“Shell”: J. R. Scott, the N.S.W. sculler
who won the Australian amateur champion-
ship in South Australia last May, Bob
Pearce being an absentee, has been invited
to visit Maoriland in February. He has
been asked to compete in the M.L. sculling
championship at Wellington, and at Wan-
ganui and Auckland as well. A fine oarsman,
though not in Pearce’s class, Scott won the
Henley-on-Yarra sculls last year, but could
not defend his title last month. One of his
best performances was his second to Pearce
in Sydney when the Olympic champion broke
the world’s record for 2000 metres by 21sec.
Though beaten, Scott also bettered the stand-
ing figures.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer” : With preparations for the
Los Angeles Olympiad afoot, the prayers of
the Australian athletic congregation for the
continhed wellbeing of Jim Garlton are
requested. It is a long time since this coun-
try produced an amateur sprinter to equal
him, and he has improved out of sight in
the last two seasons. His consistency is not
the least remarkable thing about him, for
every week or so he reels off the hundred under
evens, a feat which few of even the world’s
champions can emulate. Carlton is Aus-
tralia’s best Olympic asset in sight at pre-
sent, and since sculler Bob Pearce has
changed his mind and resolved to stay in
Canada he will probably be our "best bet at
the 1932 Olympiad.
* * ❖ ❖
“Spike”: The recent N.S.W. athletic cham-
pionships serve to emphasise the fact that
the State standard in the field-games section
has faded with the years. Nowhere was
this more noticeable than in the once-popular
hammer-throwing event, won bv C. T. Fergu-
son, who first competed in it 20 years ago.
Ferguson’s throw on this occasion was 118 ft.
54in., a long way below some of his past
performances. The State record is 141 ft.
lOJin., and that was put up as long ago
as 1914 by W. J. O’Reilly. On the other
hand, the form in the track events improves
yearly.
J * * * *
A fine all-round athlete was Sir R. T.
Vyner, who died at Armidale (N.S.W.) the
other day at 72. Warwickshire born, though
of an old Yorkshire family, he* came to Aus-
tralia for his health in 1891, and took up
grazing properties in the Armidale country,
while he was also one of the chief share-
holders in the once-famous Silver Spur
silver-mine at Texas, over the Queensland
border. An English Rugby cap, he was one
of the greatest m ; le runners of his day.
$ * * *
“Hororata”: Maoriland was thrilled last
week by the arrival of Mercedes Gleitze, the
young person who specialises in swimming
straits and similar long-distance feats in
the open sea. Among her triumphs are the
Channel, the Straits of Gibraltar and the
Hellespont. Her object in coming to M.L.
is to tackle Cook Strait, and that promises
to be the toughest job she has yet tackled.
The shortest distance across the Strait from,
point to point is about. 15 miles, but the
racing tides and wild currents in this narrow
strip of water are. a caution to snakes, as :
more than one navigator has found to his. cost.
“Blue Chalk”: After a rather bad trot, for
him, Walter Lindrum last week put the lid
on all his previous performances with a
break of 3905. He was playing McConachy,
and the latter, with 7000 start was far in
the lead with only a couple of days’ play
remaining. Lindrum went after him and the
session ended with the champion 16.p03 and
McConachy 17,671. Walter’s break was made
by all-round billiards and smashed three
world’s records. The first was when he
scored 2375 in a single session, the second
was the topping of his own _ record of 3-bl
made last year, and the third the passing
of AV. J. Peall’s 3304, made in 1890, chiefly
by the long-barred spot-stroke. It is good
betting that one of these days the young
Westralian will reach the 5000-mark which
is said to be his ambition.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The long-expected decision
of the Maoriland Rugby Union in the matter
of remitting its 50 per cent, of the gates tor
the British team’s seven matches in Aus-
tralia has been arrived at; the claim is
reduced to 40 per cent. This will just
about pav expenses, counting those _ or
the Victorian and Queensland Unions
in. An agreement is an agreement, but
in this case a surrender of its rights
would have been no hardship to the wealthy
ML. body, which cleared £30,000 on the
tour of the Britons in the Shivery Isles
alone, a sum which should bring its assets
well up to £50,000. The surrender of the
share of £l4OO from the Australian tour
would have greatly benefited the Australians,
faced as they are with keen competition from
other codes. The well-being of the Austra-
lian Unions is essential to M.L. football, lor
without inter-Dominion visits, the standard
of the All Black game must deteriorate.
* * * *
“H. Doo” : There is some interest to the
superstitious as well as to the sporting fratei-
nitv in the cabled announcement that Loid
Wakefield’s Miss England, m which Sir
Henry Segrave lost his life on Lake Winder
mere, is to be sent to Buenos Ayres to
attempt to break the record for motor-speecl-
boats established by the Englishman. No
doubt an entirely new shell will contain
the tremendously high-powered engine which
had to be recovered from the bed of the lake
after the fatal accident. Nevertheless, the
public which watches portents will expect
further tragedy in connection with the un-
lucky craft. That lias not deterred, hun-
dreds of folk from applying for the job ot
driving her in the Argentine contest lhc
owner has chosen Kaye Don, who failexl to
beat Scgrave’s motor-speed record on Day-
tona Beach. There is a curious fascination
attaching to such happenings. AVitness the
number of reputable citizens who write offer-
ing marriage to ladies who have poisoned
their husbands.
“Whizz”: By creating a new worlds
record for outboard motor craft at Bast
Cowes last week, Charles Harrison put Bn-
tain iu possession of all the world s speed
records by air, land and sea. His time was
59 089 m.p.h., or two miles an hour bette.
than the previous figures recorded by an
Italian last year on Lake < Oomo. Ixvcuden-
tally, it is doubtful whether Britain will
defend her air record next year, the Govern-
ment jibbing at the expense. However, as
France and Italy haye entered pnyate en
terprise may step in, provided the Air 1 01c
’plane and pilots are made available.
* * * *
“Bias”: Cricket is not the only game
which is being invaded by organised femi-
ninity (B. 3/12/’3O). The latest to suffer is
bowls, a pastime immemorially sacred to the
lords of creation, and only of late years
intruded on, and that in timid fashion, by
the daughters of Eve. Now in a night has
sprung up a move to , for m an asso-
ciation of women players m N.b.W. m
proposal has some sinister aspects. In days
gone by properly-brought-up females were
debarred from bowls because of some, ot the
natural aspects of the game No really nice
girl liked the idea of strolling over to the
bar for a spot every few heads, that being
one of the fundamental principles of bowls.
Now, however, the cocktail and cigarette
habit has taken hold of the female of the
species and —but I will write no more.
* * * *
“Bias” : Now we have midget bowls, played
on a “green” about the size of a billiard-table.
The green itself is colored linoleum, but
otherwise the game follows the sacred tradi-
tions. kitty and bowls, of course, being re-
duced in size. As it is intended primarily
for indoor use, the new green should nil a
long-felt want. To many bowlers the trouble
of having to walk out of the bar to play a
shot or two before having another is one
of the chief drawbacks of the hilarious sport.
Under the new system, the sideboard can.be
right alongside the green, only necessitating
a little arm-stretcliing.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Though Sydney yachtsmen
see no point in accepting the challenge
of Victorian F. J. Bennell to a race
from Melbourne to Maoriland, the owner of
Oimara has found an acceptor in J. McLean,
owner of the Wellington (M.L.) yacut
Restless. McLean, indeed, is ready to take
the Australian craft on in any stvle, from
Wellington to Sydney or Melbourne and
vice versa, or tiggy-tiggy round the Shivery
Isles themselves. His only condition is that
both boats shall be piloted by amateur navi-
gators. There is a difficulty here, for few
yachtsmen on this side, of the Line own a
sea-going master’s certificate, though many
British and American amateur seamen are
thus e’^lificd.
$ * * *
“Staysail” : Thomas Lipton has done one
thing with the Yankees, even if he has never
been able to lift the America’s Cup from
them He has taught them to respect Eng-
lish sportsmanship, a matter in which they
have been somewhat remiss in the past —
and they have not always been to blame. On
the eve of his departure for England, after
the last race for the Cup, the old man was
given a formal farewell at the New York
City Hall, and presented by the Mayor with
a cup for being “the world’s best loser.” It
was a graceful compliment in its way, and
it so broke up the tough old Ulsterman that
he couldn’t reply, someone else returning
thanks for him.


A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Their State Exes, have moved to Sutton
I orest for the summer; and their tree-sur-
rounded home should suit the country-loving
family. If Sir Philip hadn’t been an airman
he might easily have been a Walt Whitman.
He spent the other week-end with his son
and his son’s schoolmate on a tramp out of
Leura. They carried a rug (for father),
two or three pounds of chops, a loaf of bread,
a billy and not much else. And they had
“a bonzer time.”
Teddy McTiernan, one of the new High
Court Judges, is a bachelor. But he has
a best girl. She’s a dear little lady, whose
eyes are very adoring when she turns them
on her learned son, and that son’s ideal
week-end (which is seldom his) is with his
father and mother in their Strathfield home.
The new Judge has had one unforgettable
experience. That was when he arrived in
London, on public business, just as Agent-
General Timothy Coghlan collapsed and died
At a moment’s notice he was thrust into the
office of acting Agent-General. W. A. Hol-
man was in London at the time, and
escorted Teddy to his first official dinner,
remarking afterwards that the young man
from Australia made quite an impression by
his manner, which was neither bumptious nor
self-effacing.
This has not been a very decorative Christ-
mas time in the big stores, many of which
have cut out the usual fairy play, depending
on Santa Claus and glistering toy depart-
ments to dazzle the imagination of child
hood. In spite of current tales of youthful
scepticism, the belief in Santa is still very
strong. In all the shops the red-rohed,
white-bearded figure is the centre of crowds
of admiring, eager kiddies. Small girls
cling to his hands, and shining-eyed little
boys refuse to move on until they have at
least waved good-bye. One puzzled youngster
out Newtowto way had sprouting doubt
scotched abruptly when he queried hotly:
"Can there be six Santa Clauses? I was in
six shops with mum the other day, and each
shop said theirs was the real Santa.” “Well,
fathead, didn’t yer father ever tell you
that Santa Claus had seven sons?” jeered
bis companion.
If you are a true woman of fashion you
barber your nails three times a day. You
use colorless liquid for the morning polish and
a rosy one for afternoon, while the hand
that stretches for the before-dinner cocktail
must be fringed with nails a deep red if
the owner would prove herself of the inner
circle. Hair seems to have quite decided
to be short (or at most only shoulder-
length), and when curls and buns are seen
they are usually of the pinned-on variety.
The craze for blondes is on the wane, so
dark-haired women can show themselves in
their true colors. Incidentally, there's a
new shade of powder for brunettes. It has
more pink in it than old friend rachel. Small
hats will cling to the backs of our heads
again next winter; in the meantime, the
large and becoming leghorn,, panama or
rustic straw, trimmed with a band of velvet
ribbon, is übiquitous in Sydney streets.
Among the coming winter styles the beret
threatens to reign supreme. Not just the
plain round of felt, but luscious variations
in chenille, velvet or fur. Tucks and folds
and cheeky little bows are part of the make-
up of the latest berets, which in some cases
are reminiscent of demure bonnets. These
will be the most comfortable wear when
the fur coat with its high collar comes forth
again.
The finger-length (a baby giantess’s finger,
perhaps) coat is one of the new styles that
are easy to bear. They are made of any
rich material, preferably fur, and are scarcely
waist-long. Red in all its tones is popular
for evening. Pleats add fulness without
width to the newest day dresses. Linen and
wffiite kid shoes are having quite a vogue in
the afternoon, while the striped awning shoe
for beach and sports adds to the gaiety of
a nation that has shown the world it can
raise a loan of £28,000,000 in a month.
Annette Kellerman, who has been content
to count up old successes for a year past,
has just decided that she must be on the
move again, and is to begin at once a mer-
maid tour of Britain. To that end she has
sent for sister Marcelle and Marcelle’s hus-
band, Fred Wooster, the latter to take charge
of the great glass tank holding 25 tons of
water in which Annette disports; to lead
a 25-ton glass tank around, and warm up the
water to the right temperature, isn’t a job
for an apprentice. After a run north to
say good-bye to their Queensland relations,
the Woosters left for Europe by Saturday’s
Orient liner.
Pretty Cynthia Hawkes is among the
newly-engaged. Her young man is a dashing
lieutenant in the Royal Navy, by name
Archibald Fleming; his father is Dr. Robert
Fleming, of Edinburgh. Cynthia is the
daughter of the Cuthbert Hawkeses, of
Greenoaks-avenue, Darling Point.
Margaret Shepherd is justly proud that her
cookery-book for nurses and bachelor girls
is already in its second edition. Margaret
is teacher of invalid cookery to the trainees
at the Coast Hospital, the Royal Hospital
for Women, the Crown-street Women’s Hos-
pital and almost every large metropolitan
institute of healing. Her hospital work
takes her as far afield as Orange and Goul-
burn, into the coalfields districts and along
the South Coast, and everywhere the little
blue-backed book of recipes accompanies her.
Denis Allen, who won the Corinthian Cup
on Celtic at Rosehill, is Arthur Allen’s
eldest. He distinguished himself by skill
and daring at another form of piloting during
the World War; he was one of the soundest
fighting officers that Australia gave to the
11.F.C. His brotheivin-law Ken Austin im-
bued him with a passion for race-riding over
15 years ago, and he has ridden winners in
most of the events open to amateurs since
then. Denis works with his brother Dundas
in the family firm in Castlereagh-street.
Sorrow for the loved and admired Ruth
Beale is being expressed in every woman’s
club and philanthropic circle in Sydney. A
splendid citizen and the father of splendid
citizens was Mr. Octavius Beale, who lost
Ins life in a motor accident.
Back in Australia and marvelling at a
Sydney which-she has not seen since girl-
liood is Mrs. Cleaver, only daughter of the
famous George Reid, and known to all her
triends as Thelma. Mrs. Cleaver is an
acknowledged London beauty. She is fair,
has a rich, rather slow-speaking voice, and
is reputed as witty and as tactful as her
father.
Josephine Paxton, a Sydney native who
has been studying painting in London for
some years, sends word to her relations in
Canberra that she has had a picture accepted
tor the Autumn Salon in Paris, and two
portraits for the Royal Society of Portrait
iamters, of which Orpen is president. The
Salon picture shows an old coster flower-
woman standing in the evening light offering
her last bunch of roses to the passers-by.
Jo O’Keeffe got back to Pomeroy on
Christmas Eve, after a fortnight in St. Vin-
cent s, to find her room blazing with flowers.
Her room at the Darlinghurst hospital had
been like a flower show during her tenancy.
One morning no fewer than 12 boxes of
flowers arrived, and from each box some of
the blooms went to the altar of the hospi-
tal’s chapel.
. The loot from the recent Elwatan fgte in
aid of the Crown-street Women’s Hospital
was £904. Not bad for a one afternoon
affair, even though the beautiful gardens of
the Robert C. Dixsons, at Castle Hill, en-
shrined it.
The walls of the United Association’s
rooms in Gowings’ Buildings have been color-
ful with the work of artist Jerrold Nathan.
Among the outstanding pictures are portraits
of the association's leaders, Mrs. Albert
Littlejohn and Mrs. Kenneth Street. In
both the artist has had a chance to handle
velvets and brocades, and he has brought out
the design and tones in realistic fashion.
Another good portrait from his brush is that
of dark-liaired Elizabeth Knox. The associa-
tion, though soaring as to idea, is restricted
as to premises, and during its gala week,
which took the form of a Christmas sale of
gifts made by the members, the rooms were
as congested with buyers and sellers as
a pudding with plums.
A recent paragraph regarding Professor
Hunter and Lewisham Hospital reminds a
correspondent of another saying which
is still remembered amongst the nurs-
ing sisters of the hospital. Poet Victor J.
Daley was an inmate, and spoke gratefully
to one of the nuns upon their infinite
patience with the sick. “You should not
thank us,” he was told; “thank the grace of
God, which prompts us in our work.” “Are
not you the grace of God?” was the quick
reply.
Probably the last big party hostessed by
Mayoress Hilda Marks in the Town Hall
drawing-rooms was the welcome to Mrs.
James Macarthur-Onslow, just returned from
representing the N.S.W. division of the Red
Cross at the British Empire Red Cross
conference in London. The reception was
really a Red Cross jubilation, and all the
heads of that organisation were present,
foremost among them being chairman R. J.
Ilawkes and Mrs. Alfred Lee, who has been'
deputy for Mrs. Macartliur-Onslow. Beauti-
ful flowers were thrust on the guest, who
threw a bouquet to Mrs. R. S. S. Mackin-
non, founder of the Junior Red Cross, when
she declared there was nothing in England
tc equal the work of our juniors, who keep
a milk campaign going for poor kiddies and
are responsible for the upkeep of two or
three rest-homes for soldiers’ children.
Sydney hailed with great applause a new
woman playwright at the close of the first
performance of “Dear Doctor.” She is
Dorothy Tobin
(Mrs. R. C.
Tobin), the
subject of this
picture, and
she has pre-
sented in her
comedy what
doctors declare
is a pathologi-
cally accurate
picture of the
reactions of a
neurotic
woman. The
play was pro-
duced in the
.interests of
the Rachel
Forster Hospi-
tal and had
strong backing
from the Ly-
ceum Club, of
which M r s.
Tobin is a member. Mrs. A., G. Thomas, a
chieftainess of the Lyceum, was the organ-
iser of the entertainment, which snared both
vice-regal and mayoral presence.
Later Mrs. Tobin, her cheeks as rose-
flushed as her georgette frock, spread a
supper party for the players and a handful
of friends at the Mary Elizabeth. At it Dr.
John McKelvey made one of the few speeches
recorded against him. It was as clean-cut
as one of his own bits of carving, and con-
cerned the play to which he had been what
might be termed chief medical adviser.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite went into
the shop where her credit is highest to buy
an elastic step-in. The attendant, looking
as limp as a piece of wruug-out washing,
came forward after smiling her former cus-
tomer out of the department. “I’ve had a
dreadful half-hour,” she said to the Girl in
the F. 0.; “I’ve been fitting a lady with a
spare tyre.” “Tyre!” exclaimed the Girl
“I thought this was the corset department.”
Then the attendant explained that “spare
tyre” is the technical term applied to a roll
of fat that forms just above the waistline.
Gus Bluett is the star inmate of St. Vin-
cent’s. He occupies a ground floor front,
very commodious and cool, and the telephone
is being nearly wrenched off the wall in the
effort to cope with the inquiries _as to his
progress. Some of the bright lads in the pro-
fession sent him a message of condolence.
It read: —
Gus. Bluett, Maternity Department, St. Vincent’s.
Sorry to hear of the little accident.
The Girls’ S6condary Schools Club is
now established in Gdwings’ Buildings. The
walls are pale daffodil, the curtains green
and gold, and the furnishings jade and mul-
berry. There are dining-, card-, writing- and
bath-rooms in addition to the • lounge with
its specially prepared dancing-floor. The
club is prosperous, having 700 financial mem-
bers. Over 200 of these rallied to the house-
warming, and secretary Mildred Rees spent
the evening introducing everybody to the old
armchair—a comforting rocker of padded
leather, which is the" club’s chief pride.
Somebody on the , Royal Prince Alfred
auxiliary had a brain-wave and decided to
use a model of the Harbor Bridge as a penny
collector. Every day for two or three weeks
the clever little structure has stood in the
city streets making silent appeal to the
passers-by. A couple of pretty girls stand
guard, and it’s a poor day when the coppers
on the bridge do not amount to £7.
The Y.W.C.A. conference will be held next
year at King’s School, Parramatta. From
Jan. 15 to 22 the young women, complete
with bathers, towels, basketball outfits and
sandshoes, will inhabit the school buildings
generally given over to the adolescent male.
It is expected that 100 girls, ranging from
14 to 18, will be gaily dropping tlieir hair-
clips and shingle combs, swapping berets and
confidences and otherwise having a good
time during this week. A miracle play
under the direction of Dorothy Newby Fraser
will be a feature of the period of mixed
study and recreation.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
decided to give poet Arthur Bayldon a
Christmas box, and chose Steele Rudd’s
“McClure and the Poor Parson” as the
money-raiser. The play lost none of its
points through
being produced
by John
Gould, who
did wonders in
the way of
grouping and
atmosphere on
the small
stage of the
Railway Insti-
t u t e, and
laughs were
long and fre-
que n t. The
girl in this
picture, Marie
Boyers, was
excel lently
cast as Mrs.
McClure, and
m a i n t ained
throughout the
four acts a
Scots intona-
tion, neither over- nor under-done. This
would be almost an impossibility to the
ordinary amateur, but Marie is unusual. She
is an elocutionist who has gained the degree
of Fellow of the Trinity College of London,
the highest attainable; her examiner was
that master of diction and voice modulation
Alexander Watson. One of the tests was an
extempore address by the candidate on any
aspect of literature the examiner might
choose.
Young husbands are rushing home by
early trams ancL ferries these nights so that
they may give the wife a hand to wipe the
early dinner dishes and then hasten back
into town to do a theatre. No, it’s not so
much that the. drama is enjoying a second
blooming as that suburban homes are lush
with buckshee theatre tickets. These are
being given away as prizes for lucky-number
dockets by many of the big rag firms —in
such quantities that sometimes a whole
theatre is reserved for the holders.
Monsignor O’Haran refused to allow
his people to give him anything in the
shape of a jubilee testimonial. But he couldn’t
stop them sending him congratulations, and
the presbytery at Darlinghurst was almost
ceiling-high with flowers that ranged from
ihe most exotic of blooms to the posy of
early roses plucked from the grower’s own
garden
In his annual report at Sydney Grammar
prize-giving the head rebutted an alleged
rumor that Grammar was in a bad way, and
was sending out frenzied calls for assistance
to its old boys and the Government. He
mentioned that the gross annual enrolment
was 703 this year, as against 678 last year.
Talking, of exclusive schools, Tudor House,
up Bowral way, which was started by Wil-
frid Inman and his wife (who was Mary
Martin, daughter of a bygone Chief Justice),
has acquired a new head in Mr. H. D. Med-
ley, of the Union Club. He came to Sydney,
after a brilliant career in the Imperial Army
and at Cambridge, and joined Dalgety’s. His
wife is a daughter of Sir Francis Newbclt,
K.C., and has education in her blood. Her
maternal, grandfather was Dr. Bright, the
famous historian and master , of University
College, Oxford.
Chriss Kirby, of Manly, who has re-
turned from a leisurely jaunt of the States,
saw New York and San Francisco in com-
pany with another Manlyite, Mary Kenny,
who is at present in Canada. They visited
the famed San Gabriel Mission, where the
play which is enacted regularly to perpetuate
the memory of the first Jesuit missioners
has real Indians as actors. Miss Kirby
also attended a concert in Carnegie Hall,
where Alfred O’Shea got a great reception.
She went round to see him in the interval,
and he was delighted to get some first-hand
news of Sydney, and plied her with inquiries
regarding acquaintances.
Beulah Bolton, radiant in health and not
yet weighted with the mantle of depression,
was welcomed back to the fold of the Vic-
toria League at the usual tea-drinking.
Beulah, who has been the league’s secretary
for several years, painted a large and
spirited canvas of her adventures in the
wide, wide world for her listeners; one
moment she had them excitedly caught in a
procession of Gandliists amid the exotic
street-scenes of India, and anon they were
bowling with her through the peaceful green
of rural England.
The Albert Littlejohn home, The Knoll,
at Darling Point, has gone under the ham-
mer; Mrs. Littlejohn is off to England. One
can only hope she doesn’t think of exchang-
ing The Knoll for the Tulpit. She has
several times addressed congregations in
Sydney, and this, coupled with her great
admiration for Maude Royden, might easily
hold the germ of a new career for the elo-
quent lady.
Norma Collins, a trainee of New Plymouth
Hospital (M.L.), and a friend, Lilian Clark,
an old P.L.C. girl, solved the problem of
how to travel the world without a big bank-
ing account. Norma specialised in the tech-
nical side of X-ray work at King’s College
Hospital in London, and Lilian has a great
hand for massage. They worked together m
Canadian and Pittsburg hospitals. Lilian
is now in charge of the massage depart-
ment in Brisbane General Hospital.
Here’s _ a brand-new Christmas story. A
certain rich woman said to a hard-working
friend, “Dear, I am giving you my onyx
and diamond earrings for a Christmas
present.” The hard-working friend felt
elated; and receiving a package addressed in
the rich woman’s writing she eagerly split the
fastenings asunder. Within the box she found
the onyx earrings, but the diamonds which
had sparkled about their base had been
picked out. With the present was a note of
explanation that the sender had needed the
gems to complete a diamond bar-brooch,
which the jeweller was making for her own
wear.
Still another comforting cheque for charity •
found its way home before Christmas. It
was the £llOO gathered by the auxiliary
formed three mouths ago to aid the Blind
Institute in William-street. Of this £6OO
was raised by the performance of “The Ro-
mantic Age,” organised by the Alexander
Gordon lady.
The newlv-formed Queensland Association
seems to be netting the brains, beauty and
art of the dwellers in our midst. Of course,
only Bananalanders are eligible for dinkum
membership and it is a revelation to
find how many there are. At the first
cheerio in the Grosvenor Galleries, Town
Clerk Layton turned up as president,
Dr. Bradfield and “S. M. Herald” editor
Brunsdon Fletcher as something else, Kings-
ford Smith, sculptor Harold Parker and
Arthur Feez, K.C., as members, and Mary
Irvine, president of the Women Painters,
as shepherdess of the ladies.
Hazel Walker became Mrs. Tom Read at
St. Thomas’s in North Sydney. The bride
is a Wollstonecraft girl, the ’groom is the
second son of Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Read,
of Chatswood, so the wedding was entirely
North Shore. The frocking of the principal,
her maid (Margot Read) and the guests
presented a line of de luxe wedding gar-
ments, the flowers in the church and at
Llanderis, the Read home at Chatswood,
evoked the “Oh!” of admiration, and the
South Coast is supplying the setting for the
honeymoon.
Picnic races, cricket, surfing, bridge,
midget golf and tennis are amusingly sung on
the “Tails Up” series of New Year greetings
issued by the Country Women’s Association
in the furtherance of its good works. Each
leaflet carries a humorous illustration of the
sport in the carol. These greetings are on
lightweight paper, and will slip easily into
an envelope.
The brass-polish firms wouldn’t have to
go out of action if Macquarie-street could
have an epidemic of the luck that fell to a
suburban medico’s home. Mrs. Crothers.,
wife of Dr. Crothers, of Deewhy, snitched
off first prize in the F'ood for Babies art
union. It was a £lOOO diamond necklace,
and she had spent exactly three shillings to
get it. The fund that the lottery was in
aid of is spent, among other causes, on milk
for school kiddies at Golden Grove.
Our Brisbane “Little Sister” writes :—■
A new creche at Spring Hill, named after Lady
Goodwin, was opened by the Governor. Mrs. A. E.
Moore proposed the vote of thanks, and a silver key
was given to Lady Goodwin, with a banch of roses
and gladioli. The creche is an airy building of two
storeys and 11 rooms, equipped with all the latest
improvements. The Australian Broadcasting Station,
Df. Lilian Cooper, Mrs. R. Dempsey, Barbara,
Joan and Marjorie Midson and the Kindergarten
Training College presented the six cots.
The dedication of the new Masonic temple in
Ann-street took place in the presence of the Governor
and many distinguished visitors. A gold key was
given to the Grand Master, Mr. W. H. Green. No. 1
room was consecrated by M.W. Bro. Alexander Corrie,
who gave the history of the craft in Queensland.
The first Masonic hall was built in 1866 ; Augustus
Charles Gregory was Grand Master—he ruled for
42 years. In 7*3 years Freemasonry in Queensland
has expanded from one lodge with a membership of
12 to 361 lodges with 22,390 active members.
St. Margaret’s Church, Sandgate, saw the marriage
of Harold Palmer, of Rockhampton, and Marjorie
Phyllis Scott, second daughter of the W. O. Scotts,
of Taroom. The bride was given away by her father
in deep cream silk net over silver tissue, and an
heirloom veil of Brussels lace. Annie and Cypha
Scott ’maided in deep pink silk net; Cynthia Scott
and Bruce Kilgour, in pink ' satin and hydrangea
blue, were train-bearers. Ewin and John Palmer were
best man and groomsman. At the Moora Park
kiosk, there was feasting amid cream roses and
frangipanni.
Fred Charles Mercer married Myrtle A. Lather in
the Congregational kirk at Southport. The bride
was given away by her father in ivory mariette over
satin and a hand ’broidered Brussels net veil. Leila
Clem (Brisbane) and Doris Blake (Toowoomba)
’maided in pink floral georgette. The Northern Rivers
will see the ’moon.
Mrs. A. E. Moore presided over the meeting for
adding a women’s branch to the recently-formed Social
Service League. The relief of distress among women
and children is the object. For every £2 raised
the Government will give £l. Already the league
has two rooms, one in South Brisbane and another
in the Valley, where unemployed girls can earn one
and threepence an hour for two days in the week
at sewing.
Mr. Arthur Boyle gave an interesting vocal and
string orchestral concert in the Albert Hall. Elspeth
Capper was the soloist, and a decidedly pleasing
number was “Lo, Hear the Gentle Lark,’’ with
flute obligato by Francie Francis and J. Brock.
Dick Thomason, the boy soprano, sang “Hear My
Prayer,” and Winfred Hanslem gave “Sabbath Morn-
ing at Sea.”
Hugh Mclntosh’s Tivoli Follies are playing “Happy
Days” at Oremorne. Ada Reeve is in a sketch,
“Beware of Madame,” with Sid Hollister, Gwen
Matthews and Les Warton. Alfred Frith is a dame
this week. Houses are good.
Gregory Ivanoff is coming back to conduct a band
at the Wintergarden.


stestise
CREATIONS Include
SERVICE WEIGHTS
No. 400
A super stocking of medium
service weight, pure silk through-
out, with Picot edge and lace clox.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
No. 401
Similar in all respects to No. 400
without lace clox.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
2%
m
No. FFi
Full service weight pure silk
throughout.
Fully Fashioned . per pair I6li
No. 800
Pure silk to welt, featuring the
new reinforced toe-guard.
Fully Fashioned . per pair I I /
IZ I
SERVICE SHEERS
No. 600
An exquisite fine gauge service
sheer with Picot edge, and the
new Parisian heel. Pure silk.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
No. 500
A beautifully fine 45 gauge service
sheer stocking with taper or new
Parisian heel. Pure silk. Remark-
able wearing qualities.
Fully Fashioned per pair
\7i
Io'6
s>
Hi
x
mm
:,x;-;x
V
AN AUSTRALIAN CREATION
FULL FASHIONED
HOSIEKY
Jlrel%e


Undejl
Royal
AVarrant
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
IQS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
'-uarleslleidsicCv
Reims
To H.M.
George V
“MERCURY" BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only from 10/- per day
Single Room only, with Private Bath from 15/- per day
Room and Breakfast from 12/6 per person
Inclusive Tariff . from 20/- per day
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath from 27/6 per day
Private Suites quoted on application.
Luncheon 3/6 or a la carte. Dinner 5/-
Meals served in rooms, 1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM COURT LINKS
Open from 11 a.m. till midnight—lB Holes for 1/-
Golf and Morning Tea or Coffee 1/-
Golf and Afternoon Tea 2/6
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH HILL SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
THE IDEAL RIBBON FOR LINGERIE
You’ll be wise to use Cash’s Washing
Ribbons for Shoulder Straps, as they
never break or fray, and you need not
bother to remove Cash’s Ribbons from
the garment, as they’re fadeless and
“iron up like new.” They’re obtain-
able in the daintiest Pastel Shades,
Plain or Brocaded. Ask your Draper.
TO MARiOCLLLINEN'
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on."
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
for Name Style Circular to
Jjfc T fASH AUSTRALIAN
UL O . VaOU, WEAVING CO PTV. fTO
85 CUBIT! ST.. RICHMOND MELB
?/6
SA
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
A flock of assorted parrots could not
boast a more bizarre combination of bril-
liant hues than is offered now in bathing
costumes, wraps, hats, beach pyjamas and
parasols. The craze for vivid contrasts even
extends to dressing-tents and bags for odds
and ends. Side by side with the trend to
greater gaiety of hue is a still further reduc-
tion in the area of skin covered. The new
two-piece suits are mostly jersey, and not
much of that below the waist-line. In con-
trast to this mode is one that makes a
feature of short undies. A garment in white
and red has a couple of huge dolphins in
glistening sequins sporting around. All-
scarlet suits are strongly represented. Beach
millinery is a matter of rubber-caps to match
the costume, berets and wide-brimmed rush
and light straw hats. Wraps for the bather
show a great deal of variety. The kimono
mode appears in all sorts of attractive pat-
terning and there are also shawls of gorgeous
striped. and flowered silks, deeply bordered
with fringe, and others, untrimmed, that are
meant to be swathed about the figure after
the manner of the Javanese sari. For the
promenade there are pyjamas of spotted,
'flowered, checked and cubist-patterned
materials that will make our sands look like
the scene of a vast iChristy minstrel show.
These are three-piece ensembles, and run
in price from under a pound to many guineas.
One is a creation of black cr@pe de Chino
with a border of saxe-blue and a sprinkling
of pink rosebuds. A get-up that suggests
the naval styles of a Yankee, revue comprises
nautically-cut navy blue pants, a cream sing-
let and the white cap of the gob. Beach
clogs with very high heels are the latest foot-
wear. They look most uncomfortable, and
are not likely to prove nearly so safe and
suitable as sandals.
The races at Caulfield for the Unem-
ployed Relief Fund were well attended.
Mayoress Luxton, smart in a dark
green suit, pin-spotted in white, was
there. Mrs. Albion Walkley, who gave a
tea-party, wore a black frock and hat with
a dash of white. Mrs. Ben Chaffey wore a
geranium-red sports suit and felt hat. Mrs.
E. M. Pearce, all in Lido-blue, was in the
eommittee ladies’ box, which also housed
Mrs. Merson Cooper, Eileen Byrne, Mrs.
A. V. Hiskens, Miss Cox and Mrs. A. Y.
Kewney. Mrs. Rogers Thomson was accom-
panied by her daughter Kathleen.
The city from the Town Hall to Elizabeth-
street and around the block to Bourke-strect
wears decorations as if for a royal welcome.
Venetian masts are linked by festoons of
greenery, and at night by festoons of lights.
It’s just a stunt to stimulate Christmas pur-
chasing. Stan Argyle gave it a kick-off,
after which Father Christmas! arrived in the
regulation hot and uncomfortable raiment.
Dappled greys drew his carriage, which was
red and yellow, and the reins were handled
by a gentleman in Cossack uniform.
A military wedding with a guard of the
bridegroom’s fellow-officers raising swords on
high as an arch for the newly-weds to pass
beneath drew the curious in groups about
the Melbourne Grammar School chapel on
Thursday afternoon. The bride, who trailed
ivory-white satin and tulle, was Ina Jean
Dodds, younger daughter of Major-General
and Mrs. T. H. Dodds, of St. Kilda; and the
bridegroom Lieutenant Deric Aitken Hall,
of Sydney, third son of Lt.-Col. T. F. W.
Hall and Mrs. Hall, of Toorak. Mabelle
Dodds was ’maid to her sister in a yellow-
toned floral chiffon gown and matching hat,
and the ’groom’s small niece, Jocelyn Tate,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Frank Tate, in
frilly apparel of the same shade, was train-
guarder. There were after-rejoicings at
No. 9.
Pauline, daughter of the James Ernest
Robertsons, of Forbes (N.S.W.), exchanged
vows with William, younger son of the
Robert Jamiesons, of Stony Point, Flinders,
at the Toorak kirk last week. The bride
departed from custom and wore a ninon gown
of plumbago hue topped with a white hat.
Her sister Laura, who attended her, was in
blue of light cornflower tint topped by straw
millinery to match.
White satin and Brussels lace were the
bridal trappings of Nora, only daughter of
Ralph Laver, of Studley Park, Kew, for her
knot-tying with Alexander Duncan Grant
Adam, twin son of the late Prof. Adam, of
Ormond College, and of Mrs. D. S. Adam,
Ivew. A trio of maids in flounces of pink
georgette and similar colored hats attended
the bride.
Members of the Women Citizens’ Associa-
tion, hostessed by their president, Mrs. Brito-
dt an end-of-the-year tea
party. The Mattie League also had a kettle-
boiling at the Lyceum Club, where Mrs.
James, who has gone to lead the simple life
at her farm at King Lake for a space, again
wished all hands happiness and good luck.
, The for babies which is sponsored
o.y tli6 Methodist Church and is built on a
rise overlooking the Yarra has just cele-
brated its first birthday. The institution,
winch cost about £27,000, was opened free
?rU£ ebt ' Though the weather was unkind
L'UO was collected at the anniversary party,
lhe, star turn of that occasion was a pro-
cession of nurses each carrying one of the
54 babies. The youngest child was three
weeks old.
A bridge party at the Wentworth Cafe
helped to provide Christmas cheer for the
patients of the Queen Victoria Hospital.
Mrs. Playle lent the cosy tearoom and pro-
vided supper. The president of the hospital’s
central auxiliary, Mrs. W. M. Robins, was
attired in black lace. Mrs. Russell Gabb,
Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie and Mrs. J. H. Moss
were the ticket secs., and Doris Moffat looked
after the finances.
Father Christmas attended the afternoou
Christmas party of the R.V.1.8., at which
200 children, blind or the offspring of sight-
less workers at the institute, were the guests.
There was a presentation of prizes by the
president, J. L. Carnegie. Santa arrived
on a motor-lorry, bringing with him a tree
bowed down with gifts.
Well over £lOO was raked in at a bridge
and cafe chantant at Myers’ tearooms.
Engineered by Mrs. Barry Thomson, Mrs.
Maurice Patkin and Mrs. P. H‘. Locke,
with May Rimmington as lion, sec., the
thing was designed to give the children
in the Alfred Hospital a merry Christmas.
There were raffles for silk stockings and sales
of flowers, the latter controlled by Mrs. Park-
house. Mrs. H. J. Robertson rallied up a
galaxy of lads and lassies wfflo provided musi-
cal and dramatic entertainment.
At the Fernery, Frankston, there was a
dance organised by the auxiliary of the
local Children’s Hospital. Cynthia Collins,
in black georgette; Moira O’Donoghue, in
parchment-tinted chiffon; and Isabel Cart-
wright, in ivory lace, were the chief engineers.
Mrs. Norman Brookes, president of the
auxiliary, in cherry-red chiffon, was accom-
panied by her husband and three daughters.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Mitchell, also good friends
of the crippled children, were there. Garda
1-lowse was swathed in white satin; Peggy
King danced in black lace and Kathleen
Rogers Thomson’s filmy raiment was lime-
tinted.
After six years of music study abroad,
Jean Christie, pictured here by Broothorn,
has returned
to embark on
a career as a
teacher. Irene
Fletcher and
Hilda Roberts,
of this city,
developed her
youthful
talents as a
pianist, and
Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer played
the part of
fairy god-
mother and
sent the lass
to the Old
World for
further tui-
tion. Instruct-
ed by Ivor
James, Miss
Christie be-
came so pro-
ficient. as a ’cellist that she was a member
of the orchestra of the R.C.M. After get-
ting her teaching diploma from that famous
London school she had pianoforte lessons
from Cortot, and later from Madame Wanda
Landowska, the Polish pianist, who per-
petuates the Chopin technique and has a
little museum in which are instruments that
were used by Chopin and Mozart. A holi-
day in Italy accompanied by Mrs. Dyer is
among Miss Christie’s travel memories.
At the Warden’s Lodge, Trinity College,
there was a party under the auspices of the
British Music Society to welcome home Miss
Christie. In the music-room there were
groupings of copper beech foliage, purple
petunias and larkspurs. The entertainers
were Mrs. Behan, wife of the Warden, whose
soft draperies blended cherry, rose and black,
with a black crinoline hat; Mrs. Thorold
Harper, Mrs. Victor Wischer, Mrs. Thomas
Crisp, Rita Hope and Sibyl Hull. Dr. Behan
introduced the pianist, whose auburn locks
were set off by a filmy frock of faint blue
ninon sprayed over in a design of a deeper
tint. She played the first movement of the
Mozart Sonata in B flat and pieces by Tans-
man, Albeniz and De Falla. Baritone Howard
Andrews sang songs by Parry and other
British composers. Among the guests were
the Barrett lady, Mrs. Albert Miller, Tom
Brentnall, Dx*. Gengoult Smith, Mrs. W.
Angliss and Mrs. Harry Emmerton.
A number of songs composed by Fritz
Hart to fit verses by Humbert Wolfe had a
first performance at the Albert-street Con.
t’other day. Muriel Cheek sang them, accom-
panied by Harold Smith. The best-liked ones
were entitled “Forgiveness,” “Journey’s End”
and “Noon and Night.”
The Little Gi’een Shop of St. Vincent’s
Hgspital, which is a good source of revenue
to the institution, got further financial aid
the other day from a bi’idge party at Madame
Crivelli’s home, which brought in £2O.
The nurses of the Eye and Ear Hospital
put on a hop in the out-patients’ hall to
raise coin for a seasonable treat for the child
patients. The youngsters will have a good
time.
The Brighton Auxiliai-y of the Eye and
Ear Hospital has taken the responsibility
for 13 beds. By bridge parties and other
means all expenses have been met during
19e>0, and the achievement was celebrated
at an at-home at the residence of the
Justin Carrs, of Brighton, proceeds of which
went towards Christmas fare for patients.
This is Dorothy Canberra, who, when not
lifting her
voice in song,
i s Dorothy
Thomas,
daughter of
the Rev. T. J.
and Mrs.
Thomas, o f
Caulfield. Dur-
ing five years’
absence from
Australia she
studied her
art to such
good purpose
that she has
been heard in
opera in
Berlin, and
has given very
successful re-
citals in Lon-
don. She is
a graduate of
the Albert-
street Con,
The fete organised by the Armadale-Mal-
vern Auxiliary of the Women’s Hospital
and held at the home of the president of the
auxiliary, Mrs. George Langridge, yielded. a
profit of £6OO. Mrs. Norman Brookes has
been re-elected president of the hospital.
“One Happy Night,” an entertainment
organised by the Empire Reciprocity League
to aid the benevolent societies, was in two
parts. There was a concert at the Bijou
and a supper and dance at the Rex. Young
people, under the direction of Mrs. George
Bell and Mrs. Debney, acted as ushers
and sold programmes, , flowers and sweets.
Betty Rae and Mrs. George Bell, with
Leonie Miller as the maid, gave a sketch,
“Cat’s Claws,” by Gertrude Jennings. Eunice
Weston’s pupils danced a ballet, in white
tulle skirts. Esme Eshelby. a Queenslander,
was chief ballerina in “The Letter,” and
Lois Weber was soloist in the “Archer’s
Dance.” Marjorie Jacoby sang, and 11.
Penn and F. Dennett played on two pianos.
Dorothy Brunton presented prizes to the
winners of various competitions.
Knight o’ the palette Longstaff, Arch-
bishop Head’s wife,- Mrs. Britomarte James
and Prof, and Mrs. Boyce Gibson were
among those who visited Aileen Dent’s show
of paintings. The young artist, who is
making portraiture her chief work, had on
view pictures of many prominent people,
including Archbishop Head, Mrs. Lodewyckx
(she in the national dress of Norway) and
Thomas Brentnall. Some landscapes and
flower groupings were also on the walls.
Mary Allport, of Hobart, was here for a
couple of days on her way home after seven
months’ sojourn in Europe. Her sister Lily,
who paints, is remaining in England to make
some more pictures. The Allport girls, after
motor tours in Cornwall and Devonshire,
went to Norway and then to Belgium.
J. J. Liston, city councillor, sec. of the
Liquor Defence Union, ex-Mayor of Wil-
liamstown and ruler in football politics, was
married the other day to May Ward, of
Williamstown, and is off for a honeymoon
in Ceylon. This is his second matrimonial
venture, and the knot was tied by the
bridegroom’s old friend Monsignor Collins,
at St. Pat.’s Cathedral.
Headmistresses of girls’ secondary schools
had a meeting over cups of tea at the Lyceum
Club. Principal reason for the gathering was
the retirement of Miss A. E. Garton, prin-
cipal of Oberwyl School, St. Kilda. She
was one of the foundation members of the
Headmistresses’ Association, formed a quar-
ter of a century ago. The president, Con-
stance Tisdall, gave the guest of honor a
nosv.
The Otranto brought back the Clarence
Harriotts and their family, who have spent
several months in the U.S.A. and Europe.
Mr. and Mrs. T. Sadler Gill, who have beeu
touring the U.K. and the Continent, were
also passengers.
Mrs. Maurice Patkin is again president of
the National Council of Jewish Women of
Victoria, which society has a fine record
for its very few years of existence. In
every public hospital this band of workers
now maintains a bed or beds. Many activi-
ties are already listed for the new year.
A useful article, a boon to the traveller,
exhibited at the Ladies’ Work Association’s
Christmas sale is a portable hanging ward-
robe of cretonne. In bag form, with a coat-
hanger for several gowns, it is held in posi-
tion by a couple of light pieces of wood. It
can be taken to pieces and packed in a
suitcase.
“The Romantic Young Lady,” translated
from the Spanish of Martinez Sierra, was
performed by the dramatic students of the
Standard Speech-training and Dramatic
School as a wind-up to their year. Olivia
Woolford, as the romantic female, and
Clarice Begelhole, as the astute Dona Bar-
barita. shared the honors of a nicely-pro-
duced comedy. Hope Cooling and Ethel Mit-
chell appeared in the Clifford Bax fantasy,
“Square Pegs.”
Nurses Jean Liddle and Marie Heath,
trainees of the Children’s Hospital, are com-
bining their profession with sight-seeing in
Europe just now. It is their ambition to
get experience in leading hospitals in Eng-
land, Austria, France and elsewhere. Miss
Liddle is a sister of Katie Liddle, the pianist.
Ailie, daughter of barrister-politician G. A.
Maxwell, is a travelling companion of the
two ministering angels. The trio saw the
Passion Play at Oberammergau and made
a walking tour of the south of England.
The Lady Helen Club, which interests
itself in blind ex-soldiers, staged a Christ-
mas party at which over 90 of its wards
and their wives were present, as well as
children, who made acquaintance with a very
genial Santa Claus. The orchestra of the
R.V.1.8. provided music.
Members of the Welfare Circle of the
Royal Automobile Club exchanged Christ-
mas good wishes over afternoon tea at head-
quarters. Mrs. J. G. McCallum, Mrs. R.
Anthony, Mrs. R. S. Gardner and Mrs. W.
Treeby were the hostesses. Vocal and in-
strumental music cheered the party.
The Lenci doll ballet arranged by Jennie
Brenan, which made a stir at the Arts and
Crafts Society’s benefit show lately, is one
of the star features of* the pantomime “The
House That Jack Built” at the Theatre
Royal. Another of the draws is the Garden
of Eden transformation scene and ballet —
a lovely place where there is an untroubled
Eve, for there is no serpent.
Our Hobart “Little Sister” writes:—
His Ex. put the lid on all his public jobs by
opening the Perth Bridge, over the South Esk River,
which restores communication with the north and
west interrupted by the great floods of April, 1929.
The new bridge lacks some of the picturesqueness
of the beautiful old stone structure, but it looks
capable of defying floods and weai'-and-tear for many
a- generation. Knight Walter Lee presented the
O’Grady with a bound volume of photographs of
the old and new bridges as a souvenir.
Elizabeth Jenkins chose the right moment for her
exhibition of hand-woven goods at the Mayor’s court-
room. She was supported by Eleanor Robey, whose
hand-made leather work, needlework and painting
made a charming little show; and by Judy and
Barbara Butler, with beautiful needlecraft in Christ-
mas gifts of all descriptions.
Margaret O’Grady was commandeered by the Blind,
Deaf and Dumb Institution to present the prizes at
its annual demonstration. Maypole dancing and
physical exercises, stalls with all sorts of goods for
sale, music and a good tea were features of the day.
Dr. Morris Miller welcomed Miss O’Grady and voiced
the usual regrets at her impending departure.
Hobart’s first arcade is now in full business swing;
it contains, among other things, a roomy, well-lit
art gallery, which was christened by an interesting
show of the works of some leading artists, including
Eldershaw, Streeton, Norman Lindsay, H. Herbert,
J. Connor, Vida Lahey, Blamire Young and others.
This is upstairs, as is the tearoom. Downstairs,
besides the two libraries, “F.O.M.’s” and the “Book-
shelf,” there are shops, and Norah Perkins has estab-
lished herself in an attractive nook with her loom
and a variety of artistia and useful hand-woven pro-
ducts. Premier McPhee opened the art gallery.
Cupid has been busy in academic circles lately.
A. I. Davern and Sylvia Park were made one in
Christ College Chapel; a guard of honor of
University students in cap and gown made a novel
setting. The engagement of Elinor, youngest daughter
of the W. N. Hursts, New Town, and E. J. G. Pitman,
Professor of Maths, at the University, is announced.
University undergraduates wound up their year
by a very jolly little dance in the Library. Mavis
Smith, Neil Westbrook and V. Smith, with H.
Nicholls to do the secretarial work, were responsible
for the running of the show. Youth and pretty frocks,
good music from Marcus Trappe’s orchestra and a
toothsome supper made it one of the cheeriest dances
of the season.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
While Sydney is crying out for the aboli-
tion of the trams and the substitution of
motor-’buses, London has quite a different
idea about it. The London General
Omnibus Co. has felt the recent slump in
’bus traffic so much that it has taken 194
vehicles off 50 routes. The reason given is
that the ’bus congestion in London has be-
come so great that it is quicker to walk ;
and trams, running through streets where
the volume of traffic is less dense, make far
better time. Sydney with its narrow city
streets is likely to be faced with the same
problem if the mueli-advocated change-over
is made, so it may be as well to think twice
about it.
* '■ * *
The pawpaw is being put up, attractively
labelled and with the delicate flavor well
preserved. The season’s pack has been mar-
keted in Sydney and Newcastle, and a ship-
ment has gone to London. It is a fruit that
can be made serve many turns.. The peel yields
a heavy syrup used in fountain drinks. The
seeds contain pepsin. The juice preserves
m,
fibre.asif it had been chewed and contents
extracted.) Other products of the same fac-
tory are cumquat jam and jelly, pomolo pre-
serve and mango jam. A delightful confec-
tion is -the pawpaw crystallised, and.waned in
nriseTs TownsvX’s ° f mothermg the enter ’
V o ' ISVI * s - * *
t> ...... . , , • , -vr •
j , Bl ?f“! s f^? p at fiS r S v UP Th° c>
Ixlo Antarctic WlldlG’lllsllGl y. JLIIC ■ATIffIO-.NOl"
S
1930dli e seas 0 October? f The
co. is using for the first time an electrical
harpoon which electrocutes the whale, and
so allows the catching vessel to get after
& s
*'* * *
A simple idea may yet make a fortune for
A. E. Gay, an amateur inventor, of Haw-
thorn (Vic.). It 'is a milk-bottle with no
bottom. When it is required to hold milk
one end or both are closed by cardboard
wads, which are said to make a perfect
seal. It can be cleaned as easily as a
lamp chimney.
_ * , * * *.
In spite of many efforts to deal with the
pest, the Queensland sugar-cane borer has been
a serious sprag on the wheels of the industry,
The latest move is the importation from Cuba
of a hunting wasp which lays its eggs in the
fat grub which causes all the trouble. Two
boxes of these wasps were landed in Bris-
bane recently, and, in view of the success of
the parasites imported to deal with the
prickly-pear, much is expected of the new-
comers.
mi _ - . . * . * .
The recent increase in the price of petrol
has brought some relief to the railway ser-
vices. Nearly every State reports that com-
petition from the motor, both passenger and
freight, has fallen off considerably. Running
costs are now too high to permit of under-
cutting, and numbers of car and lorry regis-
trations have not been renewed as a conse-
quence.
* * * *
In preparation for the two huge new
Cunarders now building in Britain for the
trans-Atlantic passenger trade, the largest
graving dock in the world is being laid down
at Southampton by the Southern Railway
Go. The dock will be 1200 ft. long and 135 ft.
wide at the entrance, with a depth of 45ft.
The building of both ships and pool is being
assisted by the British Government under
the Development Loan Guarantees and
Grants Act.
Two 70-ton steam-driven, self-propelling cranes supplied by Craven Brothers (Man-
chester)., lifting a 4-8-2 Mountain type 3-cylinder locomotive weighing 130 tons
6cwt., on the N. S. Wales Railways. Under test in England they each lifted 87½
tons of cast-iron billets.
The first consignment of Queensland fruit
to travel bv rail from Brisbane to Perth left
Bananaland the other day, via Broken Hill,
Australia’s amazing rail system necessitated
three transhipments on the journey, and it
would have meant more by any other route.
The consignment consisted of pineapples and
bananas. At present W.A. gets her supplies
by boat chiefly from Java, the run being
much shorter than the round-Australia trip
from Brisbane. If costs work out all
right, the W.A. trade will be kept m
Australia. ...
* * * *
Possibly in part due to the adverse ex-
change rates between Maoriland and the
USA. there has been in the last few
months a swing-over in the Dominion in
favor of Australian timber. In 1929 the.
islanders imported 24,600,000 super, ft. of
Yankee lumber and 14,600,000 super, ft. of
Australian—the latter mostly hardwoods. In
the first eight months of this year Australian
shipments totalled 22,338,000 super, ft. and
American only 14,385,000 super, ft. t
A deputation of tobacco-growers from
most of the principal tobacco-producing
countries of' the Empire knocked its head
against the stone wall .of Cobdenism in
Britain, the other day, when it asked the
Government for some measure of encourage-
ment in the face of foreign growers, who
at present swamp the British market. There
were delegates from tobacco-growing coun-
tries as far apart as Canada and Cyprus,
only Australia, which is always talking about
the necessity for developing its tobacco in-
dustry, was absent. One good point made
was that per head of population the Empire
units represented at the conference bought
from British manufacturers far more of the
manufactured article than did the United
states, which practically enjoyed a mono-
poly of supplying the British home market
w ith the raw materia! It was in vain. All
the delegation got was a half-promise that,
while the duty on tobacco remained, the
existing Empire preference might not be
cancelled.
* * * *
a^nani-
lieirs a^d d§ exe cutqrs and to the business
I{J Brie fly the Court decided that pro-
d of a jf fe insurance policy where a
dece “ sed insure r’s estate has been declared
bankrupt are not divisible among the
creditors. Assets of the kind are plainly
excluded from the property divisible amongst
creditors if the insured has become bankrupt
before his death. In this case the N.S.W
If rt TirVmm ngfnf n VI7Q c
Slf a bankruptcy S
granted‘and the asse t« transferred to an
Court froni a judgmept made by , ,
flrulge in ,• , trihnnnl -is
tins was upheld by the higher tribunal, as
'stated. The particular interest for insur-
ance companies lies in the fact that, though
there was an amount owing on the policies
} n dls ,PUte for charges .not paid by the
nisured for two years before his death the
policy-issuers are no better off m respect of
their claim than the other creditors,
* * * *
“Americano” (Los Angeles) : Western
Union and Postal Telegraph, America’s rival
communication concerns, have both induced
b ig o ii cos . to arrange for making telegrams
receivable at petrol-filling stations. Men
a t GOOO stations who take postal wires will
bring blanks to the motorist’s car, collect
tbe charges for the message, and assume the
responsibility for transmitting it to the
neare st telegraph office. Western Union
will i ns tal slot-machines in 3300 filling
stations. Users of this service will read
their messages over the telephone to the
nearest W.U. office and drop coins to cover
charges into the slot,
... • ... ’ s . *
" .
While the dumping of Russian wheat in
Britain and elsewhere has been much heard
of recently, the fact that Russo-Siberian
canned salmon has captured many of the
markets which British Columbia monopo-
lised not so long ago has escaped general
attention. The British Empire Producers
Association has been making bitter com-
plaint, and that, is interesting, because it
was British capital .which established the
Russ in the business in the. years before the
war. The 1930 salmon run in British Colum-
bia was the heaviest seen for years, yet
most of the pack remains unsold because
of the Russo-Siberian competition. Hus
year, before Canadian prices were quoted,
450,000 cases of Soviet salmon were sold
in Britain at cut-throat rates.
“Nomen”: “S.T.S.” is not quite correct
in his statement that Point McLeay marks
the only spot where a Sturt centenary memo-
rial was erected “at a place which Sturt
himself named in passing” (B. 29/10/’3O).
Point McLeay was named on December 6.
1837, by T. B. Strangways and Y. B.
Hutchinson in honor of George McLeay,
second in coiftmand of the Sturt party.
Sturt had nothing to do with the christening.
V
While Lancashire cotton operatives are
refusing to accept the working terms agreed
on between the owners and the union repre-
sentatives some time ago, and hundreds of
mills are idle, Japan is snapping up cotton
plants for export and re-erection at bargain
prices. Mills costing £lO to £l5 per loom
in Lancashire are fetching £5 a loom from
the Nipponese cotton-spinning interests.
Japan is not the only customer of the
kind either, for Australian firms have
recently made several wholesale purchases of
mill plants for re-establishment in this
country.
“C.Q.”: An impressive feat of catering
will be undertaken at the Exhibition Build-
ing, Melbourne, on Christmas Day, when
10,000 unemployed and their families will sit
down to dinner with Sidney Myer. As
the accommodation available even in
that vast structure is inadequate, Mr.
Myer’s guests will be fed in batches of 2000,
so that some will be getting their soup at
10 a.m. while others will be- looking for
threepences •in their pudding at 2 p.m. For
the Gargantuan spread there will be re-
quired (among other things) ’ 30,000 pickled
onions, three-quarters of a ton of ham, half
a ton of butter Mid 1000 gallons of beer.
* * * *
• A few days ago a Bulletin craftsman,
before leaving his workroom, put on his
coat, hung his apron on a hook and flung
a duster on top of the coat-hanger—all in-
side the glass door. When he got outside
AN ACCIDENTAL BILLY HUGHES.
and looked back he saw a perfect silhouette
of Billy Hughes in a Digger's hat; and
without arranging any of the “props” he
made this remarkable photograph.
A prize-winning dodge at country shows
is to bottle fresh fruit in clear water the
day before exhibiting it. Such fruit has only
to be attractively arranged to take the judge's
eye by its firm appearance, and score a prize
—unless the judge has been “caught” this
way before, and insists on sampling the
exhibit. As a refreshing change from such
trickery, the winner of the prize for dairy
butter at the last Natimuk (Vie.) Show had
left a hair —genuine product of the cow too!
—in her butter, just w’here it showed when
the judge cut the pat in two.
* * * *
The need for some sort of international
control over the chief treasure of the Antarc-
tic is shown by the latest move of the Nor-
wegian whaling cos. The next offensive on
the seas at Australia’s front-door is going
to be assisted by aeroplanes. Two well-
known Scandinavian aviators, Larsen and
Luetzow, with previous experience of dying
over frozen seas, are to follow the schools
to spot their favorite feeding-grounds. Pre-
viously there was some hope for the doomed
cetaceans owing to the limited field of vision
even of the fastest modern craft; but the
use of the air eye will enormously increase
the whaler’s range.
* * * *
Germany is not the only Continental
country to turn to Britain for aircraft equip-
ment. Belgium, which is an engineering coun-
try of good repute and herself the manufac-
turer of some first-class types of internal
combustion engines, has placed an order in
Britain for 45 Fairey fighting ’planes
equipped with 500-h.p. Rolls-Royce engines,
and capable of 200 m.p.h. This is the largest
order for military aircraft Britain has re-
ceived from abroad.
Ms it? 4= *
“Frigid”: I’ve seen birch wine in the
making in France, and also tasted the
finished article (B. 10/12/’3O). This was
in March, 1917. An aged villager tapped
the tree and allowed the sap to run into
a wooden cask. Half of the sap was then
boiled with sugar and the other half with
honey. Nothing was added to fortify it
before it was bottled, and I was told nothing
ever was added. The • fermented liquor of
the previous season had plenty of kick in
it and sparkled like champagne.
* * * *
“Si Anu” : An agitation has arisen against
the Vic. Royal Agricultural Society’s pro-
posal to introduce steer riding at the annual
show. It would surprise a native of British
North Borneo. In that halcyon backwater
of the Empire the mounted section of the
police used until recently to be provided with
water buffaloes. These slow-witted and slow-
footed beasts have a horn span sometimes
of lift., and a more terrific-looking caval-
cade could not be imagined than a squad of
these native cops; but the animals seldom
travel more than two miles an hour, except
when loose on the ricefields, when they can
chase a white man up a tree at an amazing
speed. Indian bullocks are also saddled
and ridden, and these have a greater, if more
irregular, turn of speed. The native no
more regards it as cruel to ride or drive
these animals than we do to ride or drive
the horse.
sf: * #
For a long time the question of third-party
risk has bothered motor-car owners and the
cos. insuring them, the various cos. being
more or less a law to themselves, with
confusion and recrimination as a conse-
quence. Britain is endeavoring to straighten
out this tangle by the compulsory issue of
motor-insurance certificates covering third-
party risks and laying down on the certifi-
cate itself exactly what these risks are. Cer-
tificates must be taken out before New Year's
Day.
“Feng-Shui”: The Australian Board of
Missions proposes to withdraw all its mis-
sionaries from the Chinese and Japanese
fields owing to the present financial strin-
gency. The move might just as well have
been dictated by the voice of reason. The
so-called “Christianising” of Nippon proceeds
on the assumption that the Japanese are a
lot of benighted heathen whose social sys-
tem, being different from that allegedly pre-
vailing in the missioner’s own land, is there-
fore shockingly depraved. Thus, we get the
spectacle of missionaries denouncing the sane
institution of the yoshiwara while unlicensed
prostitution flourishes at home; or telling the
young Japanese husband that the year of
unregistered marriage prescribed by Shinto
doctrine is simply living in sin, though he
has the American film to tell him how the
Western institution of matrimony works.
Naturally, the intelligent Jap citizen feels as
riled with this sort of preaching from an
Australian missionary as an Australian citi-
zen would at a Buddhist missionary from
Tibet. In China the Christian church has
practically become a branch of the Govern-
ment, and if the evangelist does not subscribe
to the “Three Principles” and bow the knee
to the portrait of Sun Yat-'sgn he may as
well pack up. If he (or she) attempts to
practise outside where the Government’s writ
runs it is likely that he will be caught by
a bandit and held for ransom, and if the
ransom is paid the bandit has so much more
cash to buy rifles and machine-guns for spread-
ing misery and terror over a wider area. At
latest reports there were 24 missionaries of
both genders in bandit hands, and their
respective Governments have frankly washed
their hands of them.
* >:< * *
The German police have tested an appa-
ratus which it is believed will prevent the
theft of cars. It is a device which can be
secreted in the vehicle and connected to
brake, lights or couplings, or all three at
the same time. When any of them is touched
it ■ sets up a deafening yell, and will con-
tinue to scream until help arrives.
* He * *
“Verda”: Simultaneously with the re-
appearance of long-lioarded coins (B.
2G/U/’3O), I notice efforts to accumulate
English silver that previously went un-
noticed when changing* a poimd. I handle
takings from the flicks, mostly in two-bob
pieces and less, and I sometimes get requests
(perhaps from people who are going abroad)
to sort out of the pile any English coins.
Even at the bank the other day I noticed
the teller going carefully through a few quids’
worth of silver and replacing with a couple of
Australian sixpences two English ones he
tossed into a small heap—the finds for that day.
* * ❖ *
“Sol Malaprop”: Possibly the kinkiness
of the U.S. character is due in part to mixed
breeding. The old families (those which were
founded by ancestors who came over from
Europe in the seventeenth century) ceased
to be pure white very early, but started to
recover afterwards for want of the right
kind ’of color in sufficient quantity to mix
with. The mixture of the high-toned
“American” wasn’t nigger but Red Indian.
His practical disappearance is easily ex-
plained. The paleface married his daughter
and his grand-daughter, and his great-grand-
daughter, all free and more or less enlight-
ened females, till the streak became untrace-
able. In the Revolutionary period the boss
mulatto, as he would have been called if liis
father had been black instead of red or light
brown, organised the tribes in the British
interest, held the rank of colonel in George
lll.’s army, and made a very presentable
appearance at the Court in London. The
difference between tlje Yankee of old descent
and the same kind of Mexican is largely
owing to the fact that the Indian down south
was too numerous and too highly organised
to be absorbed, and the white invader was too-
few to do the absorbing. That possibly
explains the discrepancy- between Lincoln,
who had got over his tinted ancestress, if
any, and Diaz, who hadn’t, because the lady
was too numerous,
SjS # ❖
“Whitehall”: The usually accurate Tom
Courtney makes an odd bloomer in a recent
article in support of note-inflation: —
It is futile to quote “Gresham’s law,” under which
it is said that the bad currency, as represented by
paper money, would drive the good currency, as
represented by metallic money, out of the country.
Wherever Gresham got his authority as a lawgiver,
the financing of the war knocked the stuffing out of
his theories and his laws.
There were no notes in circulation three
centuries ago when Sir Thomas Gresham
propounded his Law or Theorem. All the
coinage came from the Mint, and certain
malefactors known as “garblers” or “pickers
and cullers” made a business of getting hold
of new coins for melting-down purposes. It
was easy, since the average party to a com-
mercial transaction doesn’t care whether the
coin he accepts, or pays away, is new or
eld. The garblers, who mostly got hold of
coins fresh from the Mint for conversion into
jewellery or gold-leaf, were checked to a
certain extent when Governments began to
withdraw from circulation all coins that were
worn below the legal weight. Yet still the
bad, or worn, sovereigns and half-sovereigns
continued more or less to drive out of cir-
culation (though not necessarily “out of
the country”) those that were ever so little
better; in other words newer, heavier, or
less worn. The only reason why it is futile
to quote “Gresham’s Law” these _ is
that It is highly unlikely people now living
will ever see coins worth-garbling (namely
gold coins) again.
if: i'fi $
“Shep” : France destroyed whatever claims
the kilt had to be regarded as service-
able war-time wear (B. 17/12/’3O). An
extra khaki apron was often belted over it,
and for the sake of comfort sometimes
replaced it altogether, but this merely added
a bit more hot clothing in summer and
became an extra mud-carrier in winter. Kilts,
or for that matter anything dangling loosely,
soon collected a weighty coating of mud, so
that we were accustomed to hack off our
greatcoats to the level of the waistline dur-
ing the winter on the Somme. Where
trenches were waist-deep in water the kilt
was a plain horror. I can still picture a
crowd that relieved us, before they were
properly wet, .'emulating a bevy of flappers
and tucking up their kilts to paddle through
the high tide in part of the trench.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A Bathurst (N.S.W.) paper publishes a
thrilling article on the question: “Why Do
Men Die?” The answer seems easy, and
yet, on careful consideration, it proves to
be a good deal less easy than might be sup-
posed. A good many of them probably are
talked to death, and some go recklessly to
A CONUNDRUM.
What is the difference between the Bishop of Melbourne and the
Bishop of Sydney?
ANSWER: One is Goe arid the other is Going.
[The Bishop of Melbourne was the Rt. Rev. Field Flowers Goe The
ditto of Sydney was the Rt. Rev. Alfred Barry, who is shown in “Hop’s”
drawing; he was proceeding on his second honeymoon. Published 29/12/’88.]
law, and are scared to death by the bill. A
few get frozen sleeping in the hen-house to
keep out of the way of their mothers-in-law,
and here and there some reckless individual
calls a big man a liar and goes to his great
reward in consequence. Now and then a
harmless but stupid citizen gets his health
proposed at a banquet, and dies of surprise
at hearing of his own good qualities; or he
snuffs his life away by Yarra’s. smellful
banks, or else a stentorian Salvation trom-
bonist comes and performs before his door,
and he departs to lie low on the weather bow
in a visionary vale where the amaranth
grows and the rose of Sharon hangs out for
evermore. Or possibly he gets married, and
perishes through the fading of a great illu-
sion when he sees his idol rush round on a
cold morning with a large hole in her stock-
ing, and her hair in curl-papers, and a dish-
cloth hurriedly tied round her neck, and
an inflammatory light on the extreme end
of her nose; or he may be killed off by her
top-note when she sits down and flogs the
vociferous piano in the gloaming; or again
lie may back a bill for his father-in-law, and
then breathe his last when it falls due and
neither of them can raise the money to meet
it- These are all rapid and joyless methods
of extinction, but a gradual and mirthful
end can be arrived at by having some money
left to you, and then going on an hospitable
drunk for six weeks, and finishing up on
gruel in the Benevolent Asylum, and being
walked on by an attendant in heavy boots,
after which the doctor states that death has
arisen from something extensive in foreign
language. The above are a few of the rea-
sons why _ men die, and the person who is
proof against them all, can solve the great
problem by starting a curiosity paper in a
locality where he is expected to drink out
the advertisements; or else he may shuffle
off his mortal coil by attempting to deliver
a time-payment volume in the backblocks
where an enraged population has resolved
not to pay and is defending its position with
a gun.
An English professional man, whose family
sent him out to these beastly kawlinies
because he was a living illicit-still, turned up
again in Sydney the other day and straight-
way made for the editorial apartments of
the “leading” paper, where he interviewed
the manager and the managing proprietor.
To his appeals they turned deaf ears. “We
read the papers, sir, and we know that you’re
a liar, a drunkard, and a thief, Mr. Jent-
wun.” “Well, what of that?” was the un-
abashed rejoinder. “You will oblige us by
quitting these premises, Mr. Jentwun.”
Straightening himself up in a drunken bur-
lesque of majesty, the deadbeat replied in
crescendo: “Yes, I am a liar. Yes, I am a
drunkard. Yes, I am a thief. But I won’t
quit these premises. I’ll take a chair, be-
cause—because I feel myself quite at home in
your company, gentlemen!” What a police-
court Solicitor lost!
There is ' a cabman in Sydney who was
once a light-hearted and joyous being.
When he had received twice his fare he
would get down and threaten his passenger
with summonses and promise to “take it
out of his hide,” and so on, until he got
another half-crown, and then he would go
round the corner and stamp with irrepres-
sible glee and go forth once more seeking
whom he might de-
vour. But all that
is changed now. He
was hailed the other
day by a gentleman,
who, although a
stranger to him, is
well known among
cabmen for his
princely generosity.
“Drive me to the
railway, quick!”
said the fare, and
cabby raised his
whip and went for
all he was worth.
When they arrived
the passenger jumped
out, handed a coin
to cabby and called
a porter to take his
portmanteau away.
But cabby was not
going to let him off
so easily, and before
he had gone three
steps he was stopped.
“Well, what is it?”
said the passenger.
“This ain’t my fare,”
said cabby, holding
the coin contemptu-
ously between finger
and thumb - “an’
you orter be ashamed
ov yerself to give a
feller a bloomin’ bob
after runnin’ his
’orse ter death.”
“Oh, indeed, and
pray what is your
proper fare?” “I
want ’arf a crown.”
“Well, here’s your
half a crown. Give
that to the porter.”
“Thank you, sir,
thank you; you are
a gentleman, you
are,” said the porter,
and, after seeing the
fare into the. train,
he turned to cabby
and remarked,
“Well, you are ■ a
juggins!” “Wot
for?” demanded the
cabby. “D’yer think
I was goin’ ter take
his bob?” “Bob?” said the porter, and tak-
ing it out of his mouth, he held it up before
the - astounded eyes of cabby. The despised
“bob” was a sovereign!
The hotel-runners of Sydney are an active
and enterprising crowd, but some day one
of them will get hurt. The gentleman who
is reserved for future damage has a habit
of laying violent hands on the newly-arrived
pilgrim at the wharf with a view to kidnap-
ping him, body and soul and baggage, to
his particular establishment, and when once
he clutches a victim nothing short of ampu-
tation will make him let go. If the stranger
explains that he is going to another hotel
he is assured that the place in question is
full; if he is going to a dozen other hotels
he is told that they are all full; if he intends
making his own residence he learns to his
horror that it is choke-full, and if he ex-
plains that his wife is waiting for him the
runner tells him that he has seen her and
that she is full also, having contracted the
habit of tippling in his absence. All Sydney,
in fact, is full except the particular hotel
which this awful tout touts for, and by
dint'of vocal slime and violence he breaks up
what were once happy families, and severs
pleasant home ties, merely that he may drag
the fragments of a shattered household to
his accursed pub, and make these distracted
remains run up a heavy bill there. This
course of fraud has been going on for many
months, but retribution must come. Some
day the mangled remains of a hotel tout will
be found in the harbor blown up past recog-
nition with hydrogen gas, and then peace,
gentle, balmy peace, will once more prevail.
[l6/3/’B9.]
Alluding to ankles [writes Sappho Smith],
why will women, when they swish their hems
out of the dust, raise them almost to the
knees back and front? It is after dark, of
course, that you see this at its raciest among
the matrons hurrying out of the theatre, who
forget the fateful lamp-post gleaming behind
them, and plough along while loudly express-
ing their disgust at the revelations of the
chorus girl. Unless you are ploughing
through a .bog, the slightest hitch, suffices to
keep your swaying draperies out of the
gutter, but many a time have I seen a blush-
ing husband cast an imploring glance, at the
two revealed ships of his careful pansy-
blossom, who looked as if she had gone back
with a bounce to the days when they took
tucks in' her clothes. When she has, bal-
looned her skirts up in this way, and is
standing perched on the kerb waiting for the
tram, a woman looks for all the world like
a hen on a roost.
A publican at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) has
been fined because he refused to supply bed
and board at the customary rates to Miss
Helen Hart, who, lectures on “The Sphere of
Woman.” Whether it was Miss Hart’s appe-
tite that scared him, or whether it was the
hostile expression of her eye, the defendant
did not state, but apparently he felt it
would be cheaper to be fined than to have
the lady in the house. Possibly he was
right. We travelled once on board a Union
steamer with a lady lecturer, and she was
the most expensive person who ever came
on board. Her strong point was a mysteri-
ous “sphere” which the soul was alleged to
enter by a Hidden Way. Once the soul
got in, the present became non-existent,
and the past was obliterated, and the future
assumed a new aspect which was not Very
•well defined, anfl all ordinary mortal exist-
ence ceased, and individuality was extin-
guished, and the individual who had passed
the threshold became filled with mystic gifts
and cognisances, and the price of tickets
was 2s. 6d. In the course of a six-days’
voyage this ethereal creature ate everything
on board except the deck and the mainmast,
and manifested a complete acquaintance with
every Act of Parliament that was ever passed
under which a lone female could recover
damages on any earthly pretence whatever.
But at last when it became evident that be-
tween eating and actions for damages she
was likely to own the whole ship within a
fortnight, the captain resolved to give her
the slip, and he steamed out of Wellington
Harbor an hour ahead of time, and left her
desolate on the shore. At least we all sup-
posed that she was left desolate, but she fol-
lowed in a special steamer, and overtook our
vessel at Gisborne, and charged the special
steamer to the company, and the latter
proceedings of that female were worse than
the first.
Too many cooks spoil the policeman.
A few points for mean men: Reverse your
hat periodically, wearing it back to front
on alternate weeks. Then it is twice as long
before the perspiration-mark in front makes
AN, ANCIENT WHEEZE REHEARSED.
TAILOR (to. fat customer ): “Will you hold one end of
the tape while I go round?” [23/7/’87.]
it unwearable. Never be bow-legged, which
is wanton extravagance. The bow-legged
man - wears ,the outer side of his bootsole,
.which is its 1 weakest part; the economical
.knock-kneed man wears the inner side, which
• lasts much longer. Always carry half-
-sovereigns; never sovereigns. If you pay
anybody with a sovereign he may give you
change for a half-sov. in spite of your
remonstrances: if you always give a half-
sov., some day or other somebody will give
you ' change for a whole one by mistake-
Carry a few notes of the most obscure and
shaky bank going. Very often, in panic
times, after you have had a drink or a lunch,
the proprietor flatly refuses to take the note
of the shaky little bank. Then you tell him
you have no change and owe him the money.
Never use receipt stamps. When you sign a
receipt put on the bottom of it a square
patch of wet just the size of a stamp, and
let the ends of your name appear on each
side of the damp vacancy. If this is neatly
done, it is apparent that the stamp was
there, but has unfortunately fallen off.
Don’t wear a moustache. The clean-shaved
man can smoke a cigar down to the last
quarter-inch, while the man with a mou-
stache has to,sacrifice at least an inch else
his lip ornament will be conflagrated and the
flames will proceed up his nose.
The average taxation per head in N. S.
Wales is about 101 d. weekly. [ll/10/’9o.]
[Tn Australia it is now approximately £l5
17s. p.a., or 6s. Id. per week.]
The Prince of Wales, according to an Eng-
lish contemporary, has lately had his special
joke. During his frequent visits to Hamburg,
it appears, the Prince is seriously harassed
by a low class of dudes and others, who
insist on copying his style of dress in every
particular. On the occasion of his last visit
the wonted nuisance was in full swing, and
Wales grew desperate. Then an idea struck
him, and he went out and bought a suit of
dirt-colored tweed, a red nigger-minstrel
shirt with a blue collar, a soft felt cream-
colored hat with a band of orange ribbon
round it, a red handkerchief and tan boots.
Nobodv copied his style of dress after that.
[i9/i/m]
WHEN MY lIAIR GOES UP.
When my hair goes up, and my skirts go
down,
0 the gay girl that I shall be!
I will make a bonfire of tiresome books,
Dragging them out from their hidden nooks—
Grammar and history, French and all—
For they’ll be no use when I grow quite tall;
So I’ll pile them on as the flames upspring,
And in the blaze I will dance and sing
To the wildest tune, in the shrillest key—
I shall be the happiest girl in the town
When my hair goes up and my skirts go
down.
And lovers will come, will come by the score
When my hair goes up, and my skirts go
down;
But I will be haughty, so haughty and cold
That the boldest among them shall grow less
bold ;
I will frown—like this —and stamp my foot,
And into my glance such scorn I will .put,
They shall sigh all day, and toss all night,
While ever their pain will be my delight
When my hair goes up and my skirts go
down.
Let them call me coquette—l will plague
them more!
When my hair goes up and my skirts go
down.
Yet —if there is one, I do not say—
When my hair goes up, and my skirts go
down — .
One who is gentle and brave alway,
With plenty of money, a soul without guile
(I should like him to dress to suit my style),
Tall, to be sure; and wit must not lack,
And his eyes will have to be black, quite
black;
And if he plays planet, and lets me be sun —
Mind, I do not promise, but if there is one—
Why, I’ll be the happiest girl in the town
When my hair goes up, and my skirts go
down.
A. G. S.
A DOG FOR SALE.
“Want t’ spekilate in a dog, mate?”
The strange sundowner whistled the sorry,
sore-eyed, fly-bitten nondescript away from
the neck of mutton hanging in the “colonial”
safe behind our hut, and held him aloft by
the remains of a tail.
“He’s game, y’ see.”
! “What’s he good for, anyhow?”
“Anythin’. I wouldn’t sell him, on’y I’m
goin’ up to St. Arnaud t’ bury mother. Take
him fer. a quid. He’ll run
errands, steal meat an’
chickens, perform on a
powder-keg, keep flies off
th’ grub, an’ he’s the best
sheep- an’ cattle-dog on th'
roads ’tween here an Bris-
bin. Say eighteen bob an’
a drink fer two. If you’d
seen that dog work sheep
you wouldn’t take him
from me for less’n a fiver—
you wouldn’t have th’ heart
to do it. He’ll work ten
thousand through a crack
in a fence, an’ you won’t
gather enough wool off th’
palin’s ter plug your ear
with. Say fifteen Roberts,
an’ I’ll sling in a pedigree.
See here, mate, whisper—
that pup there’ll cut a mob
into squads an’ drill’ em. He'll
teach ’em ’t form fours an’
march into th’ yards t’ th’
tune of ‘Th’ Ole Bullick
Dray!’ Jake ken round
every grasshopper in a
forty-acre paddock into a
jam-tin. He’ll draft an’
keep tally. You won’t be
such a fool es t’ say half
a quid’s too stiff fer a
gifted animal like that?
See him after cattle! He’d
yard a sunstruck scrubber
into a bail, or lead 300
head of wild ’uns through
a Wesleyan picnic without
spillin’ th’ milk. Eight
bob, I said, an’ it’s a sin
t’ part with a dog that’s
bin in th’ family so long,
but there ain’t any help
fer it. Eight bob fer a
pure-bred cattle-dog an’ a
gifted linguist.”
“A what-er?”
“A linguist. Understands
languages, yeh know. That
humble-looking dog ken
work sheep in three, lan-
guages—English, German
an’ Welsh, an’, he knows
a little Chinese. - You
can have him for half a crown. No,
I don’t think you’re any —— mug, not.at,all.
You see, he first learnt t’ handle jumbupks
with a Cockney; then a German —Y.arman
Harry; feller with one ear—bought him, an’
he had t’ pick up th’ business in German.
Then a fat new-chum Welshman paid a fat
price fer him, an’ taught him th’ orders in
Welsh. H’e picked up th’ Chinese as he
went along. Half a crown.”
Phil chipped in, after examining the
canine prodigy: ,
“Why, damn it all, man. that’s the
mongrel from Blackham’s at Ball’s Corner
that comes up here after our rations.”
Another man might have been discom-
fited by this revelation; not so the weary
wanderer. He scratched his chin reflectively
for a moment; then he looked up, radiantly.
“That’s! a fact!” he said. “Well, tell you
what, mate. Give us a pipe of terbacker,
an’ I’ll drown th’ condemned ole hybrid.”
SILAS SNELL.
BOUQUET AND BRACELET.
Bouquet said: “My floral ring
The homage of a heart encloses,
Whose thoughts to you go worshipping
In perfume from my blushing roses.”
Bracelet said: “My rubies red,
Though hard the gleam that each exposes,
Will last when flow’rs of spring are fled
And dead are all the summer roses.”
Beauty muS'ed awhile, and said:
“Here’s poesy,” and sighed, “here prose is.
Bouquet, I choose the rubies red —
In winter they will buy me roses.”
V. J. DALEY.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve Fund and
Profits
Undivided
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
1846.
Che Brisbane Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
Che Brisbane Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with ft
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
HAWAI
Uhl lIS
SUMMER
QEEI CQ|\
OZL
r
\
rv''
&
>V*\/
J
ft
rtx
lONvaov
vavoviN
Hawaii. . Waikiki Beach. . picturesque
people, .festivals, .sunshine and palms
. . . Queen Island of the South Seas,
Hawaii draws visitors from every land.
I Y
r*
7V=
i
Ww£'’
m
4f*k &&W Wj
I
■ ■ a*;r rf
_____
(anadi an Australasian
EXCURSIONS
Hawaii, Via Zealand and Suva.
Book with Union Steam Ship Company,
Sydney—Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Sailing JANUARY 8, FEBRUARY 5
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
Smooth Water Voyage
which is a Holiday in Itself.
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. MARELLA,
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,”
5000 tons.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
t&<r
<&
m
'CO
(tSd
BURNS. PHILP &C9LTP
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDNEY.AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liabiilty
m
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. •• ••„ •• £89.228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DA VID SON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
. Agents and, Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED. ■
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail ”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the Daily is. demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The Daily Mail
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—
both city and country has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to tie MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
. . 15,000 tons, Jan. 19, ’3l
fEuripides 15,000 ~ Feb. 16, ’3l
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Mar. 13, ’3l
fCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Mch. 24, ’3l
*First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars npplv to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. (
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. j
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney,
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
sretytyutuyt
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu<t
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Close to shopping and
theatre districts, yet situate
in exclusive neighbourhood.
Two minutes from Royal
Albert Hall. Overlooking
Royal Parks. Central heat-
ing, running water and tele-
phone in every bedroom.
Private bathrooms, self-
contained suites, garage.
Inclusive daily, weekly or
monthly terms.
Telegrams: “Improvisor,” Kensington
*in the social heart of the first city
of the world ’
under same direction.
Brighton
ROYAL
B„ CRESCENT
*1 111 HOTEL
GRAND PUMP
ROOM HOTEL


After your shampoo
sretytyutuyt
a touch of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
From all Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
sretytyutuyt
Mailers
Maca§§ar©ll
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND.
1931.
Resolve to open a Savings Bank account! Save a little each week—
or each month and employ the Commonwealth Savings Bank as your
safe and patient assistant.
The man with a Savings Account is not only happier, for the possession
of some ready-money resources—he is stimulated to increase these
resources, to his ultimate great benefit.
A y ° U not °. pen a S enera l Savings Account, at least start a Purpose
Account one in which you save for a specific purpose during a definite
period of time. Provide by easy degrees for a payment at a selected
date or for the discharge of a future obligation.
A New. Year approaches. You can make it one of progress and
satisfaction.
<fibfflinoitweal(l) Savings JIM of Australia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
Pleasing Pare to suit all
sretytyutuyt
purse?
Live and dine here
just as you wish, at
the rates you wish to
pay. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. 300
rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all
doors. Fire - proof
throughout. Cour-
teous service. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
BREAK O'DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scortield
Synopsis : Ban Digby, a giant of a
man, is transported to Tasmania for
smuggling. He escapes to the main-
land, is again in trouble, and is being
taken back to Adelaide. On the way
he refuses to go any further, and is
chained to a tree. He is saved from
dingoes by Hawke and Hales, two
other fugitives. He takes command
of them, and formulates a scheme to
seize a cutter and sail to New Zealand.
He includes Sam Morgan, another
escapee, in the party. They get away
from the S. Australian coast safely,
though short of food and water; but
only Digby reaches New Zealand. He
soon starts trading and acquiring
land, and has had much success when
he meets and marries Margaret Cam-
eron, Bess is born, the mother dies, and
the girl grows up with her father at
Maxwelton, until she is sent to an Eng-
lish school. Allan Macalister, a young
Highland shepherd, had got work near
Maxwelton, and throws himself into
the Land League movement to have
the big estates cut up among small
settlers. He has a son, Malcolm
Caisar, brought into the world with
great difficulty by an eccentric doctor
and Old Mother Deans. Allan’s em-
ployer, Sir Alfred Richmond, Bart.,
is rescued from financial difficulties by
Bess, who proposes, marries him and
soon has him in Parliament and the
Hei'mitage and its racing stables on a
sound footing. Regarding Macalister
as a danger, she discharges him. A
little later the manager, Wiltshire, also
goes, and Angus Ross, an uncanny
figure with strong religious feeling's,
takes his place, Macalister secures a
place of his own, Raeburn: A little
later he is arrested on a charge of hav-
ing stolen sheep from the Hermitage.
Chapter XIX ( Continued ).
ALLAN put Jessie back in the chair and
resumed his seat on the form. Jessie
turned to him with glistening eyes.
“What is it, pa?—all this about sheep-
stealing?”
“Angus Ross charges me with stealing the
Hermitage sheep.”
“But he can’t, pa! We have our own
sheep, and don’t steal nobody’s.” Jessie
turned to the sergeant. “You go back to
Angus Ross at once, and tell him he’s a
wicked liar.”
Poor Jessie!
“I’m sorry, Mrs. Macalister, but I can’t
do that,” almost groaned the sergeant. “I
am only a policeman. I must carry out
the wax’rant.”
“Then I’ll go,”- said Jessie. “I’ll go now.
Allan, you’ll come wi’ me!”
“It’s no good, Ma’am,” said Sergeant
Clavers. “Your husband is under arrest.
He must come with me to Maxwelton. I
must warn you, Macalister, that I ai’rest
you on this warrant, and that anything you
say may be used in evidence against you.”
Jessie sprang to her feet and grasped
the officer’s arm. “You’re not going to take
my man away,” she pleaded.
“He’ll be back before the day’s out,”
returned the sergeant. “He’ll be bailed.”
Jessie sank into her chair, exclaiming,
“Oh, ’deed, ’deed! What a wicked world!”
“Mister Clavers,” asked Allan, “can you
tell us what has made the Hermitage folk
do this?”
“I can tell you this,” said the sei’geant,
takiixg a seat at the table opposite Allan,
and shifting the lamp that he might better
see his prisoner’s face. “I can tell you .this.
We came aci’oss hei’e this evening, or, as
it’s after midnight, last evening, when you
were gone to the town. Angus Ross was
with us, and”
“Angus R,oss!” ejaculated Allan.
“Yes,” said the sergeant, “Angus Ross.
He led us to your barn. We found . a heap
of skins thei'e—over fifty. Seven of them
bore the Hei’mitage earmark, and six had
the eai’s cut off. The rest had your ear-
marks.”
“Angus Ross? Angus Ross brought you
to my bai'n?” Allan was stai’ing sti-aight
at the sergeant’s eyes, as if he expected to
find thei'e a solution to his difficulty. “Mr.
Clavers,” he began, “the only skins in my
barn”
‘‘Stop!” exclaimed the sergeant, raising his
hand. “I’ve already warned you that any-
thing you say may be used against you.
Its my duty to tell you that.”
u‘»’ Ve ■ no^in S f° hide, man; nothing at
all, said Allan, speaking in a calm voice
and rising from the table. “I’ll tell you
what it is. Thei’e is either a tei’rible mis-
take, or, as I am inclined to think, a
monstrous wickedness afoot. This is a ter-
rible thing, Mr. Clavers, a terrible thing;
but I must face it and fight it. Look you,
s ' r ” —Allan placed his right hand on the
sei’geant’s shoulder, and looked him square
between the eyes—“as God’s my judge, I’ve
never lifted a hoof from anywhere that
wasn’t my own. Every skin in my barn
bears my own earmarks, and there’s none
without ears.”
“Wait!” said the sergeant. He turned to
his comrade.
“Ryan, bring in a couple of those skins.”
He handed the constable a key, and added,
“bring one of each. One with the Hermitage
earmark and one without ears.”
Jessie was now outwardly calm and sitting
upright in her chair. As Constable Ryan
returned with the skins she said, “Allan, I’ll
go wi’ you to Maxwelton. Malcolm Caesar
need know nothing of it but that it’s some
business.”
“Those are not mine,” said Allan, rising
from an examination of the skins that the
constable had placed on the floor, and
adding, “this beats me altogether. I’ve no
more to say.”
Allan sat wearily down on the end of the
form. Suddenly he asked as an after-
thought. “What key was that you handed
to Mr. Ryan?”
“I’ll tell you,” said the sergeant. “When
we found those skins in your barn I put a
padlock on the door. I got the padlock at
the Hermitage. They seemed to be pretty
certain over there that we’d find something
here. Now I’d suggest that you have some
rest. We’ll make a start for Maxwelton at
daylight.
Chapter XX.
Sir Alfred Richmond, having served eight
years in Parliament, was heartily sick of the
business. Politics were not his metier;
sport was. Yet he could not resign; Lady
Richmond would never consent to such a
step. He had never even hinted to her that
politics bored him; he had not the heart
to dash the hopes she had of making him
one day a Minister of the Crown—possibly,
Prime Minister. He had not told her that
when his name was mentioned three years
since for a vacant Cabinet post he had
begged the Premier not to appoint him,
and that the Premier had acceded to the
plea, while expressing his regret that Sir
Alfred could not see his way to place his
experience and attainments at the disposal
of the Government. Sir Alfred had got out
of that all right, but it was a close call.
He thanked his stars that Bess was not in
Wellington at the time.
Sir Alfred had always, and quite wrongly,
imputed it to Bess that her anxiety to
make him someone in politics was prompted
by a desire to shine in his reflected glory.
He should have known better. He should
have known that Bess kept steadily before
her the injunction of her father, old Dan
Digby, “Get and keep,” and that her striv-
ings were limited to those ends. She in-
herited from her parent, together with a
large fortune, a fine sense of the power of
property. She had, too, as Dan Digby
had, the sure touch when she set out to
acquire, and an unconquerable passivity
when movement did not suit her turn. It
was to her interest that the colony should
continue to be governed by men well dis-
posed to the large landholder. She was
concerned not at all with airing herself in
the society of the capital. She had reached
, , . ~ . .
her objective on society s ladder when she
lnained a baronet. By one step she had
emerged from the common sink. She had
adrmttecUy sought out and married Sir
Alfred for his title, giving of course a
valuable consideration for it. It was the
only way, and she had the money to do it
with It was aso necessary. Bess had often
heard it said that only the poor were good
to the pool, but, it seemed to hei that the
poor were nasty only to the poor and never
o the high and mighty She felt that, if
she stayed down there, she would not
be of Dan Digby and
S ,™ t and back ;, + Up here sh f, wou!d
fh P S- o? if ; f? 7t g-
the pull it gave her in getting and keeping.
tt „ r f
' t l’ ° f • C ° Ur + Se ’n ° r i! lo
title, a mighty champion to have m her
walk through life; but could Bess Digby
in any circumstances walk with the same
certitude as Lady Richmond? She could
see the cloud no bigger than a man’s hand
] QTr , , ■ o/
vLSe’the
Conservatism would give way before an
irresistible attack of the landless—Radicals!
Canaille! She could see that fanatic Allan
Macalister sweeping the country, his pas-
sion for his cause drawing and holding the
people to him, they the needles, he the
magnet. She was anxious for the safety
of her treasures and her acres. Their safety
lay in keeping in power a safe Government;
in being ever watchful to see that the ranks
were filled with the right men; in rooting
out those who developed a disposition to
decline from the eminence where the rights
of property were held sacred.
For his part Sir Alfred cared not a fig
for all that. The'future meant nothing to
him. To-morrow we die. His wife did not
fail to perceive the weakness. It was neces-
sary therefore to stand over him that he
might not slink off and become to the
sacred cause of property a total loss. How-
ever much he tried he could see no way
out of it. He had hoped against hope that
a strong man would arise and defeat him.
Twice he had been opposed at general elec-
tions, and on each occasion he had been re-
turned by a hopelessly large majority. He
was unfortunate in possessing a genial and
kindly nature. Fatally popular with man,
woman and child, he stood not the slightest
chance of defeat in the Rewa-Rewa elec-
torate. Thus, his hopes blasted, he con-
sented to carry on, his only proviso that
he should shoulder no responsibility beyond
voting for the Government.
Concerning one beautiful little object,
however, Sir Alfred and his lady were in
perfect agreement. Their small daughter
Linley was the apple of her father’s eye and
her mother’s hope of immortality
“ b st r |,fred
never ceased to marvel that a little bit of
Heaven should have been entrusted to his
care to sweeten his days. All his affection
—and he was capable of much—was lavished
on this last little sprig of the Richmond
tree- and Lin was a Richmond, from her
oriflamme of golden curls to her twinkling
toes; strangest of all, there was not a trace
in her of the weaknesses of the enervated
stock from which she sprang. Sir Alfred
never looked upon her without thanking
God for Bess. They had produced a Rich-
mond—a renewed Richmond! The Digbys
had given their red vigorous blood to bring
forth, not a Digby—Sir Alfred thanked
God!—but a consummate patrician. Watch-
ing her walk hand in hand through the
blossoming orchard with the gardener, old
Sandy McClure, Sir Alfred, twirling the
end of his blond moustaches, would con
her points as he would those of a blood filly,
confiding to himself, “She throws to the
family—to the family, by gad! Every
movement of her! Not a sign of the other
side—a thoroughbred! Good old Bess!”
Lady Richmond’s love for her daughter
was expressed by the mother’s solicitude for
the child’s future. She exercised her autho-
rity, which was supreme at the Hermitage,
towards keeping the child unspoiled. She
had with much care chosen a governess,
and she intended to choose wit h equal care
everyone and everything that should come
in contact with her daughter. As in all her
activitieS) she acted with her mind pro-
jected into the future . She feared the past,
or at least that part of it that she did
not herself sh The future was Lin’s,
and she would mouM Lin to mee t it; and,
as far ag ghe was able to do it> the future
wou j d be t em p er ed for her. She knew how
gt and tbo |. ny was the climb from shirt-
gleePes to silk \ at . She knew , too, that
& { Sl]k hat to shirt-sleeves
cou]( j be J chieved m one tragic drop. Dan
Digby had taught her that, and taught her
p ow to avoid the drop. “Get and keep.”
T , . .. , ! . , T i ■' n
It was at the beginning of July in the
1877 that the station manager, Angus
y. , , . , •
OSS ’ reported to her the loss o
hoggets , from . the s “ a11 P a fdock on the
boundary. The muster tallied two
bundred and “venty-tour as against three
hundred that had been p’aced in the pad-
** monthsprevimriy. The fences
w ® r ® m pei oct 01 de !’
e you . certain that your tally is cor-
rect? inquired Lady Richmond sitting at
the ° ffice Qesk > contemplating the pale and
troubled eyes of her manager
1 es - Ma am > there s no doubt about lL
. “ Ca n you offer . an y explanation? Are
the fences m repair?”
The fences are good, Ma am. The sheep
were stcden ! ”
“Stolen, eh?” mused Lady Richmond,
“Have you an idea who the thief is, Angus?”
Quite simply Angus replied, “Macalister,
ma’am!”
.. , , ,
Allan Macalister, Ma’am!” repeated the
manager.
' Lad y Richmond sat rigid in her chair,
Her hands, clasped tightly, rested on the
table before her. She stared at the man-
a&er> steadying herself. When she spoke
her voice was slightly husky,
down > Angus,” she said,
He lowered himself into the chair at the
table-end opposite Lady Richmond, who
regarded him for a space in silence. She
was excited but was not showing it. She
was thinking, her brain racing; “Macalister
a sheep-stealer, and delivered into my
hands!” Yet was it so very astonishing?
A man w h° would openly seize another’s
ar i d w °uld surely not hesitate to lift his
neighbor’s sheep? Still, there was some-
t'hm&. about this that did not satisfy the
intelligence. She thought she knew Mac-
There was that about him well,
• dld n °“ look the man to commit a little
f ime> T jenty-six sheep.... it didn’t ring
„ And y * ' 1 " „ . ,
, m /l’ A ?. gus Ross < what proof have
™ ht of ‘ h t e “»»■ \
wnr Imrl s ( t ,° hdly ’ tlckmg off ea
™ rdwith a nod : * fo \ iad sheepskins with
m ? £ lS bam
m>' j , . xl
Y % Ma am > and some skms Wlth the
ea «VwJr'L •
A ?„ ve been in Macalister s barn,
«1 US ' ix- ~ , . T . , ,
, bev f a J times, Ma am since I noticed that
8 , • been rounded up in the hogget
paiddock > ir } tf 1 ® corner by the creek, where
the paddock joins Raeburn.” The manager
to ° k m a iong breath noisily,
go on,” urged Lady Richmond,
drumming the table with her finger-tips.
“I’ve suspected Macalister this long time,
Re ’ s been selling dressed sheep to the
butchers. He’s short of money. The feed
on bis place is poor. He stole our hoggets
because his own weren’t fit for butcher’s
meat. He’s hard pressed.”
Bess leaned back in her chair. She had
made a decision.


7hp centre of Queens/onc/s
cffsfo'ngutshecf Soc/oZL/fe*
mote I
<?HDISH
BRISBANE
sretytyutuyt
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 83211 —6 Lines.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
8*
V
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ”
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, H ard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
_ THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc,
L. * C. HARDTMUTH. of “ KOH-I-NOOR ’’ Pencil fame,
London Office —29. Kincewny. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGALL. P O Box 165, SYDNEY.
“Angus, we’ll start for Moana at daylight
tn-morrow morning. Have the buggy and
pair at the door by seven o’clock. I’ll
consult the solicitors. They can act as they
think fit.” , . , ,
Angus rose from his chair, hat m hand,
and turned to the door, with a murmured,
“Ay, Ma’am,” but Lady Richmond arrested
his movement with “One word before you
go. You are absolutely certain that the
skins in Macalister’s barn are ours?”
\ngus put his head back and looked up
at the ceiling. He replied slowly and
solemnly, moving his head from side to
side:
“I’m a God-fearing man, Lady Richmond.
I speak neither more nor less than the
truth.”
“Yes, yes, man, I know. But are you
sure you’ve made no mistake?”
“As I’m in God’s hands, Ma’am, Mac-
alister has our skins in his barn.”
“All right,” concluded her Ladyship;
“to-morrow at seven.”
Chapter XXI.
At nine o’clock on the morning of the
13th July Constable Hickey, sole policeman
of Maxwelton, walked into the bar of the
Shamrock Hotel, and, without stopping to
take breath, addressed the landlord.
“O’Gorman, let you put your hat on quick
and come wid me to the police station.
Allan Macalister is there wid two men
from Moana and his wife. ’Tis arrested he
is for sheep-stealing, and he wants you to
go bail for him. Get your hat quick;
they’ve two J’s.P. remanding him, and he’s
awful keen to see you—’twill be all over
in a few minutes. Whatever is the world
cornin’ to at all at all I don’t know!”
“Hickey!” said O’Gorman, glowering at
the policeman across the counter, “is it
mad you are, or only drunk?”
“ ’Tis the God’s truth what I’m tellin’
you, and they’re all in, the police station
this minute. Get your hat quick,” urged
the impatient officer, in his excitement
marking time on the floor of the bar.
“All right, Hickey,” acquiesced O’Gorman,
“I’ll come wid you; but I’ll tell.you straight
I believe you’re mad, because I can see
you’re not drunk.”
Meantime Allan Macalister was charged
before two justices with stealing seven
sheep the property of Sir Alfred Richmond,
3art., of the Hermitage sheep station, and was
remanded for eight days, bail being fixed.
O’Gorman stepped dumbfounded into the
police station at the end of the short pro-
ceedings, and a few minutes later, being in
possession of all the facts, signed the bail
bond as Macalister’s surety, and immedi-
ately proceeded to make the case his own.
O’Gorman was like that. As he said him-
self, he could not go into anything unless
he went in head first up to the ankles.
“I declare to my God, Mrs. Macalister,”
he said, “I never have seen such happenings
in my life as there’s been in Maxwelton this
week. But this beats all—the Richmonds
charging Macalister wid sheep-stealing! All
I can say to it is, God forgive them. ’Tis
revenge, political revenge no less. They’re
frightened of Macalister.”
“He stole no sheep, Mr. O’Gorman, Allan
did not. Oh, but it’s wicked!” sighed Jessie,
catching her breath.
They were in a private sitting-room of
the Shamrock Hotel. O’Gorman had in-
sisted on their accompanying him there to
talk over the plans for Allan’s defence.
He judged, too, that they would be more
comfortable there than in the street while
the town was seething with the sensation of
the arrest.
“They found skins in our barn,” said Allan,
“with the Hermitage earmark, seven of
them; and they found some with the ears
missing.”
“Well,” remarked O’Gorman, “I suppose
there’ll be a good reason for that?”
“None whatever,” replied Allan. “That
was none of my w r ork nor of my family.
It has me beat.”
“Glory be!” ejaculated the host; “there’s
dirty work afoot. Now who would do the
likes of that? Macalister, you must have
the best lawyer in Moana. God only knows
what’ll be sworn against ye. You must go
to the city to-day. No time must be lost.
I’ll go wid ye.”
“What a kind friend you are, Mr.
o’Gorman!” said Jessie, wiping her eyes.
“Come what may, O’Gorman,” asserted
Allan, steeped in sorrow, “I’ll never forget
you.”
“ ’Tis nothing at all, and ’twill all come
right; but we mustn’t be idle, because this
is not a case of a jury returning a verdict
of ‘Not guilty,’ and having the people
saying ‘He was a lucky man, that Mac-
alister. He was guilty all right, but his
lawyer got him out of it.’ Do you see what
I mean? We’re going to prove that Allan
Macalister is innocent, and That a dirty
criminal trick was played on him. Now
do you see what I mean? And if it’s pos-
sible to do so, we’re going to make the
criminal wh6 played the trick smart for it.
I declare I never heard tell of such a thing
outside of Ireland—meaning the North, of
course.”
Allan, who had been waiting to speak,
now remarked: “There is only one lawyer
I care to have; that’s Colin Menzies.”
“Then Menzies it’ll be,” O’Gorman con-
curred. “We’ll leave by the coach at one
o’clock, and return here to-morrow night.”
“And I’ll drive back home as soon as we
have our dinner and come back for you to-
morrow evening, Allan,” said Jessie; then
turning to her host she smiled, “You’ve made
me feel much better, Mr. O’Gorman, and I
do want to say you’re a good man, and God
bless you. I’ll go now to see your good
wife and the little one.”
“I’m sure God will bless you, too, and
your husband in this trouble,” responded
O’Gorman, and added quickly, to stay the
lady’s departure, “Did you hear tell, Mrs.
Macalister, of the narrow escape I had
myself this week from a terrible misfor-
tune?”
“ ’Deed, no, I did not,” said Jessie, re-
suming her seat.
“Well, I’ll tell you. Nora had another
son, as you’ve heard. Well, ’twas born,
“"We are going to prove that Allan Macalister is innocent, and that a dirty criminal trick was played on him!”
if you please, just five minutes before
Orangeman’s day. What do you think of
that?”
“Before what, Mr. O’Gorman?” Jessie ex-
claimed, her face a blank.
“Before Orangeman’s day, Ma’am. Five
minutes. The 12th July, you know, bad
luck to it!” O’Gorman, misreading the want
of expression in Jessie’s face as a sign of
intense interest, carried on. “It was a hell
of a close shave, Ma’am, saving your pre-
sence, Ma’am; only five minutes betune the
poor child being born like a decent Christian
and having the curse of the Black North put
upon him at his birth, and me the talk of
place!”
Jessie could make nothing of it. Her
failure to understand she attributed to her
own troubles. But she managed to exclaim,
“There’s nothing but trouble in the world,
Mr. O’Gorman I”
“ ’Tis true for you, Mrs. Macalister,” he
agreed; and as Jessie rose from her chair
he placed his hand on her shoulder, and
added, “Ma’am, I might as well warn you
that there is a rumor, a lying rumor, in the
town to the effect that the child was born
on the 12th. ’Tis a base lie, Ma’am, put
upon me by Billy Mcßride and the likes of
him. So if it is told to you that way,
you’ll Snow it’s a lie.”
“I’m afraid, Mr. O’Gorman,” murmured
Jessie, “there’s not many will want to speak
to us after what’s happened.”
“Don’t talk that way, Mrs. Macalister;
there’s no one in the county who knows you
people would believe that the Macalisters
would remove a dandelion from another’s
paddock; and you and Allan here, just
you remember this: I’m with you in this
business" to the finish, and, though I say it
myself, I generally make a success of what
I put my hand 'to, not because I know more
than other people, but because I’m very
lucky, as the birth of the child five minutes
before Orangeman’s day proves.”
Chapter XXII.
The morning after Macalister’s arrest,
Sir Alfred Richmond received a telegram
at Parliament House, Wellington: “Allan
Macalister arrested last night. Charged
stealing seven sheep from Hermitage.
Writing full particulars.—Bess.” To which
he replied an hour later: “Don’t write.
Leaving for home to-night’s boat.—Alfred.”
When Alfred Richmond read Bess’s wire
his gorge rose. He read the message again
and again till the words stopped dancing
before his eyes. When he had assimilated
its meaning, he began to curse hotly, walk-
ing with quick steps in the grounds of
Parliament House. For a full hour he thus
walked hurriedly to and fro, his mind con-
centrated on the message. Never in his
life had he turned over any subject for
such a length of time —an ordeal, indeed,
which he told himself afterwards he would
not care to see his bitterest enemy endure.
When he found that his brain was like to
give way, he took a resolve, and walked
to the telegraph office, repeating the words
that had sprung to his lips when he first
fully understood what had happened:
“Something wrong, damn wrong! Mac-
alister fanatic, of course. Bit mad—politi-
cally mad. But no thief. No, no, no!
Know him too well. Eleven years at the
Hermitage. Honest through and through.
Like daylight. Something wrong, damn
wrong!”
The telegram dispatched, he put in for
leave of absence and left by the evening
ferry. He boarded the little steamer a few
minutes before sailing-time, and immedi-
ately sought his bunk, exhausted with the
day’s doings. He lay sleepless on his back
bristling with annoyance. Never since he
had left the army had he been called upon
to make such quick decisions as he had
made that day. His marriage certainly was
a like case, but different in that his mind
was made up for him. No effort there!
But this bad business—this damnable tele-
gram—had required one quick and decisive
action after another until he crossed the
gangway of the little paddle steamer behind
the cabby carrying his luggage, and clean
forgot to pay him.
He called the steward, and ordered a
brandy and soda. “Make it a double one,
Steward. I need it.”
“Yes, sir. Certainly, sir. There’s a choppy
sea running outside, sir.”
“Well, be quick then, Steward. Brandy’s
the only thing to calm a rough sea, Steward.
Oil’s not in it with brandy.”
“No, sir.”
When the steward returned, apparently
defying the laws of gravity, and miracu-
lously balancing the laden tray on the tips
of his fingers, Sir Alfred met him with:
“Steward, have you ever known anyone
receive a telegram with good news in it,
what?”
(Continued on next page.)


MW
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
"SWAM
FOR
“SWAN”
PENS
INK
AND
ALL
PENS.
Healthy Hair Will
Grow Only on a
Healthy Scalp
Keep your scalp in good
condition by shampooing reg-
ularly with a liquid soap made
by dissolving shavings of
Cuticura Soap in a little
hot water. Rinse thoroughly
in tepid water. If there is any
dandruff or irritation of the
scalp, the shampoo should he
preceded by an application of
Cuticura Ointment.
Cuticura
Soap
and
Ointment
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcmo
Ib. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co*
Sydney, N. S. W.
sretytyutuyt
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
■ DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMENI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
HAIR
need
NO
HERES
•umy-
sretytyutuyt
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfraXktrCs CMEXICAN)
likUnui
♦removes THE GREY'
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (.i/6), 6d. being postage.
fP
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE BATTERY YOU CAN ALWAYS RELY ON
L
I
F
E
Type 6GHX9.
p
o
w
E
R
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 15 6
6 VOLT IS PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Buy a “Dagenite” Battery—Save Sales Tax.
NATIONAL
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
London and Sydney,
Amalgamating Peto & Radford and
Hart Accumulator Co., Ltd.
Representative - - - JOHN ARNOLD
386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl.
it Mary had been to the six-o’clock or
the eight-o’clock mass and what sort of a
bieakfast she had had. He’d be back home
in the ’Loo again this evening and would
ask her.
After dinner Mrs. Kirton asked him if he
bad slept well, adding that liis appearance
too clever. Marty laughed sheepishly,
‘it s the old joke about the country being
too noisy for the city man,” lie said. “1
couldn’t sleep for the mice and the birds and
the cows”
“Better than the noises of the ’Loo,
Marty,” Mrs. Kirton told him, a sudden
light springing into her eyes, and as suddenly
dying away.
Watching her, Marty fell abruptly thought-
ful. In the end he looked at Ginger. “Go
outside, son,” he said, “and have a game
on your own. We haven’t too much time left,
you know. Give your lungs a bit of exercise.”
. ‘Righto, Dad,” Ginger said, and went out
into the yard.
“You won’t forget. Marty, to give Mary
my love and to thank her for the beautiful
cake, will you”
“Oh, and for my lovely lollies,” Essie put
in. a faint animation in her subdued voice.
“And for that drop o’ the liard stuff, too,”
Jim added. “Maybe it’ll send me on the
scoot, but”
Mrs. Kirton snorted. “It’d be likely to
wouldn’t it, when you haven’t touched”-
“Any empty bod’ls —rags, bags, bones or
bod’ls !” tore the room asunder, affronting
the valley and the shocked hills. “Rags,
bags, bones.. . .old iron. .. .bones. Any old
bed steads!”
The Sabbath world swooned into silence.
Once more the raucous voice filled the day.
“ I've got the lovely ripe toma-a-atoes !” it
yelled to Heaven. “Bones, bones, bod’ls—
any empty bod’ls !”
And once more the cowering silence fell.
In the end Mrs. Kirton broke this. A
storm of wild tears seized and shook her.
Her streaming eyes stared haggardly at the
company in the kitchen. “I can’t stand it,”
she moaned. “I can’t go another day of it!”
She glared at Jim. “You’ve been a good
son to me, Jim, and brought me to your
lovely place in the country and given me a
beautiful time. And I have had a beautiful
time here with you and Essie. But I can’t
bear it. Not another hour of it!”
She wiped her eyes with her apron and
looked at the stricken faces. “The bottle-o,”
she whispered. “Why. I never hear any-
thing in this silence. I might as well be
dead.... No trams, no motors, no steamer
whistles, no voices.... I’ve been here for
years without a sound.” She stood up,
letting her apron fall.
“Thank you for the lovely time, Jim and
Essie,” she said, her kind firm eyes watch-
ing them, “and it has been a lovely time,
whatever you think. But I’m off back home
to me job and the ’Loo, and let Alice get
out sometimes to see her friends. And where
I can hear the bottle-o again and come to
life.”
Ginger’s fiery head passed the window,
and Marty smiled.
“Only once, sir,” replied the steward,
pouring the soda into the brandy. “Friend
of mine, sir.”
“What! Good news, Steward?”
Sir Alfred reached for the brandy and
soda, but missed as the vessel rolled to
starboard. The steward balanced the glass
into Sir Alfred’s fist and explained.
“My friend owed a lot of money to a
Jew who was hounding him for the debt.
In fact, sir, he was expecting to be arrested
when he got a telegram from his mother:
‘Cohen seriously ill, found wandering in
Pitt-street yesterday. Lost his memory.’ ”
Chapter XXIII.
Since his marriage Sir Alfred Richmond
had taken no very active share in the
management of his affairs. There was no
reason why he should. Bess could do that
much better than he, and liked doing it.
He attended to his political duties, certainly,
but without enthusiasm and yet without
neglect. His electorate was well looked
after. Sir Alfred, being persona grata with
the Government, had his requests promptly
attended to, and the electors who sought
Government jobs for their sons were seldom
disappointed. But he was heartily sick of
Parliament, for which he had never had any
taste. Now the news of Macalister’s arrest
on information emanating from his own
station got well under his skin and cut deep.
He could not perhaps have explained why,
but he felt that in some way the honor of
his house was stained. Although he was a
baronet, the last of a long line, and was
numbered among those to whom the rights
of property are as sacred as the right to
live, a very clear case would have to be
made out before he would move to prose-
cute any man for a theft from his property,
and when that man was his neighbor, his
erstwhile shepherd and a political enemy,
he felt that he should have been consulted
before any action was taken. For the first
time he felt that he had stooped when he
allied himself with the daughter of Dan
Digby—that he had married into a class
which could feel a wound but not a stain.
Sir Alfred was met in Maxwelton by a
groom < driving the buggy and pair. The
nearer he approached the Hermitage the
more the idea gripped him that the Rich-
monds had committed an injustice against
a struggling neighbor. He felt that this
business was conceived in nastiness; whether
the charge was true or false. He knew that
Bess saw in Macalister an implacable enemy,
who must be circumvented and if possible
crushed, and that whatever means were
taken to that end were justified. He was
not an intellectual man nor a sagacious
man, but there was that bred in him which
is one of the rarest of human qualities:
He must be chivalrous to a foe, and could
not be a party to a mean stratagem.
As the buggy swung from the pine drive
into the gravelled crescent before the front
door of the Hermitage, Bess and little Lin
stepped to the verandah to welcome the
home-comer; and there was that about Sir
Alfred as he took Lin in his arms and
affectionately saluted Bess that could be
described only as a change for the better.
He had the air of one who had a job to do.
He was stained and tired with much travel,
but the flaccid air which was his wont had
given way before some determination that
possessed him. Bess had never seen him
just like that before, and she inwardly
marvelled.
They had hardly passed through the door
when he demanded: “My dear, what’s all
this about Macalister?”
Bess did not at once reply, but asked an-
other question:
“It’s nice to see you, Alfred; but are you
sure that you’re not neglecting your Par-
liamentary duties?”
They had now reached the sitting-room.
Sir Alfred drew himself up and looked
squarely at his wife. Bess looked at her
husband, but the expression she .found in
his eyes was one that she did not recognise.
Sir Alfred spoke in unaccustomed incisive
tones.
“Look here, Bess. This is no time to be
concerned with my Parliamentary duties.
Will you please answer my question?
What’s all this about Macalister?”
Bess stared with incredulous eyes at her
husband. He seemed to her to have been
somehow renovated.
“My dear Alfred,” she began, and she
was conscious for the first time of being
desirous to placate her husband, “surely you
must be tired; first have a bath and a
change and something to drink”
“Not till I hear the facts of this bad
business. Let us go into the library,” and
Sir Alfred led the way into that comfortable
den, where the log fire that blazed in the
wide fireplace made it unnecessary to light
the lamp.
Bess seated herself in an easy chair, but
her husband planted himself on the hearth-
rug, his back to the fire.
“Bess, if Macalister is a thief, I’ve been
seeing crooked all my life.”
Don t be a fool, Alfred. The skins
were found in his barn—hoggets from the
fattening paddock.”
“Who found them?”
“The police, of course. They had a
search warrant.”
“Quite so, my dear,” pursued Sir Alfred.
'But how came the police to be informed?”
“Alfred,” replied her Ladyship, “for good-
ness sake sit down and have a brandy, and
I’ll tell you everything that has happened.”
(To be continued next week.)
The Coast Road.
With blue seas below
And with blue hills above,
The road goes up to Isseka
That takes me to my love.
A small wind shivered
And rustled every tree
As dawn on the hilltops
Watched moonset at sea.
I heard the slow drums shudder
That call the stars aw ay;
I heard the clarions utter
The challenge of the day.
Shadows dowm the hillsides
Crept every one;
With long shafts spearing,
Blazed out the sun.
Far below the white caps
Dazzled on the main,
As I rode to Isseka,
Up the road to Isseka.
The north road to Isseka,
To see my love again.
WESTRALIA.
ALEXANDER TURNER.
Pagan Strength.
Before the Man of Sorrows came, when
weakness met with scorn;
Before men harked to old wives’ tales, or
politics were horn;
Before they fenced their acres off, or weighed
by pound and ton,
There fed along the river lands the mares
of Babylon.
They snorted, sweated, kicked and raced,
The style and temper on,
Those fifty thousand matrons proud,
The mares of Babylon!
’Neath plume and crest their colts went forth
with lance and bow and spear
To scream in pain on battlefields, or fall of
cold and fear
High up amongst the frozen peaks where
wild ambitions led—
’Twas for such warrior’s work of men such
horses should be bred.
And kings rode out in purple state
To look with pride upon
The fifty thousand mares that made
King’s stud at Babylon.
By river flat and fertile plain far stretch our
pasture lands;
When shall they know the haughty pride of
Persia’s river strands?
Must we sit weakly, then, and watch the
days of youth go by,
The cult of manly courage pass, the horse-
man’s vigor die?
Or shall we rise as horsemen should
And pass the message on?
“Australia’s plains shall yet eclipse
The plains of Babylon.”
N.S.W.
W. M. FLENING.


sretytyutuyt
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCOUD WEST. N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellingtoh.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDEB, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but leaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney,
47 Fleet Street, London.
National Advertisers
Who Wish to Cover South Australia
sretytyutuyt
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
representatives
SYDNEY. S.
Thompson, "Ll*,
gar House,’ 1
Carrington
"Lit-
i,” 30
street.
MELBOURNE.—
J. N. Bednall,
The Herald Office,
Flinders street.
Clk mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
80 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 }d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, EC. 4.
Do You Know ?
The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
SSSSk
m
HEALTH..
<t> PILLS >?
PRIC
dWHI
Health matters! On Health depends yout
physical well being that bright, cheerful,
optimistic outlook on life. But health, happi-
ness, beauty, depend on a clean system. If
poisons linger in your system, trouble starts.
Irritability, languidness, sickness, headaches
soon spoil the wish to enjoy end denote auto-
toxication. Beecham’s Pills do much to keep
your system free from waste and poison.
Purely vegetable they do their work promptly
and thoroughly. To keep smiling and healthy
keep Beecham’s by you.
BEECHAMS
Worth a Guinea 1 I
a Box I lbb>
<b s
<8
X
FOR 87 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
/
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTV., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S, ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne;
W. G, DOUGAN, ; 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME ....
ADDRESS .... - ;
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, lf>/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
0°
,j\G 6 06>
S e< o^ e
s °
0<
"•»e Vc* I ’-
■ SVj3"s^


Make Johnnie Wtilker
-
<&r
LV
li-rA
~>H^
T 4^
•V
r -v
5^
* +yr
-a,., -. \
-v.
V
e-
C
jy
e
S&S&iV
~o
S?
? u
..V » •;
ro&ar-■->:■•
T
' \
Vi/
-VS
«v*r
ISSfltfe-
<i .?-r “• V'l'>; sh«*.
*»
ZW
fe&f>
Vi
s
•'*•**?
:.?J: s-\
..ly .»’ -•
i* - :
s?
sss
1
V‘. V*
f Vr
JOHNNIE WALKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER Sc SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.
_ Tjjucr
Ambassador
of Good Cheer
it a really happy Xmas for
ATA your friends. Send a bottle of
Johnnie Walker... the most popular
whisky in the world. Your friend
will admire the spirit of this gift
and relish mightily your gift of this
spirit. It’s the most cheerful way
you can possibly express cordial
goodwill at the festive season.
