

d
HD
T
Perth
near
0&
/fos tutusrmv suMutD to rnt %js~
InPCRpILINSTITiITO
i CIUBS
JohnDewaroSonsl^
fismitrs PERTHiScoMMvdU 10KW*
M9OUCI or SCOTLAND
ujukviM
WONDERFUL WHISKY-
DEWAR'S
STANDS SUPREMELY ALONE
The Bulletin
, s/lnwj c?w /
Vol. 51.—N0. 2628.
Wednesday, June 25, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TTIE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free on
application to
DYMOCK S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
There’s confidence in knowing what to do
In all the dread emergencies of life;
There’s confidence in having prompt aid, too
When epidemic winter ills are rife. ’ . ’
There’s confidence which you will thus create
In others who desponding still endure; ’
There’s confidence to make all hearts elate
In Woods’ Great Peppermint. Cure.
Iffil
lW«
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send. without obligation, your \ew Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System, of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Same
My Address
S.B. 314
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
1
*4 M
THE BREAKFAST
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce stim-
ulates the appetite
for breakfast.
Jpst a few drops
with the eggs and
bacon ah ! what
a delightful zest.”
HZ
*//////////////s/ss//////////////////////////A
/(I 1\ 1/ 1
a.
timi
mK. i
CRICKET ENTHUSIASTS
will all want C. V. GRIMMETT’S new book,
“GETTING WICKETS.” Paper cover, 2/6 ; postage,
•ill. Cloth, 3/6; postage, sd. Supplies will reach
Australia shortly. Order your copy now from
THE BOOK DEPOT,
135 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
I DIRECT MEDIUM'T9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“' ror WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
.. .. 3d.
PRICE
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
THE IDEAL GIFT FOR
A MAN
IS A
ROLLS
RAZOR
The British ONE BLADE Safety Razor
that Strops and Hones itself, and saves
the cost of thousands of wafer blades.
The Rolls Razor stands alone.
The Best Safety Razor
in the World
Imperial Model No. 1 .. 45/-
Imperial Model No. 2 . . 35/-
From all High-class Stores, tobacconists,
and chemists throughout Australia.
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Sole Distributors for New South Wales.
LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised 1 by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
*
Who
could tell
that I once
suffered from
df
NOW IT IS GONE FOR EVER
Looking at me now, with niv clear, unblemished skin,
who would ever guess that once I veiled my face to
hide the hideous growths of ugly, disfiguring hair?
Vet that is so. For years my life was a, misery.
As the young wife of an officer in India, I suffered
the agonies of shame. I had a distinct moustache,
almost a beard. Nothing did me any good. Even
the expensive, painful electric needle brought nothing
but a few days’ relief. Always the ugly, disfiguring
growths came back again stronger than ever on my
face and body.
Then, almost in a day. my clouds were lifted in a
most amazing way. My husband saved the life of a
humble Hindoo soldier. In his gratitude the Sepoy
breathed to him the cldsely-guarded secret of the
Hindoo religion, which keeps the women of that
race free from any sign of superfluous hair. I tried
it in desperation. From that day—now years ago—
I have never;seen sign of superfluous hair.' I watched
for it daily for months, never daring to hope that
it was gone for ever. But it was! I was cured
completely. I was a normal woman again. Since
then I have told many other sufferers of my experi-
ence, and the secret recipe has never failed. It has
brought joy and permanent freedom in every case.
If you, too, suffer, let me help you. Let iue tell
you how I suffered, and let me pass on to you the
secret that saved me, I shall gladly send it free, if
you will send me coupon below, or a copy of it to-day,
with your name and address, stating whether Mrs. or
Miss. Ail .1 ask is that you send me three penny
stamps to cover my outlay for postage, etc. Address
as below.
THIS FREE COUPON i,"| £
sent, with your name and address and 3d.
stamps. Mrs. Hudson: Please send me free
your full information and instructions to
cure superfluous hair. Address : FREDERICA
HUDSON (Box 9 M.), No. 9, OLD CAVENDISH
STREET, LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND.
IMPORT AH T MOTE.—Mrs. Hudson, belongs to a
family high in society, and, is the widow, of a , pro-
minent Army Officer, so you can write her with every
confidence. Address as above.
The Red Page
Australia Remains a Joke
In other words, the existing book censor-
ship farce—a “system,” Mr. Forde calls
it—is to continue. He imparted the joyous
tidings to a deputation representing Aus-
tralian authors, journalists and booksellers.
He made only one reported slip in a charm-
ing flapdoodle monologue. He did not think,
he said, that anyone would seriously affirm
that there should be no censorship of films.
Apart from its revelation of ,the official
classification of literature, that reveals Mr.
Forde’s contempt for the intelligence of the
people he was talking to. There is a con-
crete, visible, restricted, select film censor-
ship. It is appointed, perhaps politically,
but at least with some regard for ability
to do the job. The literary censorship is
determined by the mere accident of gov-
ernmental position. The very qualities that
might commend a man for the post of
literary censor—culture, artistic taste—
would almost certainly- prevent him from
reaching that post through the only
channels now open to him. Australia’s
literary censorship is conducted jointly by
politicians, police and Customs officials, the
most unlikely bodies imaginable to provide
a really qualified man for the job.
Mr. Forde spoke a lot to his deputation
about the effect the literature which is
being banned might have upon the younger
generation. What is this terrible “effect”?
Has any criminal ever sought a j ury’s
sympathy on the ground that he had been
led into vice by reading pernicious litera-
ture? Is there any evidence that England
is any way depraved because books that are
being banned in Australia to-day—the com-
plete Defoe is the latest—have circulated
there for centuries? Or is not this “effect”
a bogey raised by the type of people who
believe it is their mission in life to impose
their will upon others, and who find in
Australia that indifference which is ideal
for their purpose, since Australia, having
as yet little or no literature of her own,
has no great sense of literature? Did not;
Mr. Forde, in the midst of his quasi-
altruistic regard for this purely theoretical
“effect,” really explain his Government’s
whole attitude towards literature when he
said that a censorship would cost money
.and was not justified in view of the state
of the finances? That, being interpreted
from the political sidestep into common
language, means simply that the Scullin
Government is perfectly aware that litera-
ture —literary sense; the feeling for litera-
ture—is at such a low ebb in Australia
that the votes of the few interested can
be safely ignored. The movie sense, on
the other hand, is as highly developed as
it is in any part of the world; therefore,
notwithstanding the state of the finances,
it, must continue to have a concrete, com-
petent censorship.
No plea is made here for the abolition
of censorship. All that is suggested is that
if there must be a censoi-ship it should be
a competent one. Until it has ; been se-
cured, or at least until the existing farce
is ended, Australia will remain what it is
to-day—a provincial, simple-minded, sport-
loving, tin-god worshipping country, cultur-
ally indifferent, henpecked by ignorant
officials, a sight worth looking at. Perhaps
it is better so. Freedom of thought so
cramped and restricted here, we cannot
expect to give the world anything much
in the way of literature. Yet we can do our
bit. We can continue to give it our whole
selves —as its best joke.
CECIL MANN.
Are Our Publishers Alive?
J. B. Dailey stated on the Red Page
recently that all that was wanted by advo-
cates of a duty on books was legislation to
cause novels to be printed here. J. H.
Catts, official spokesman of these advocates
before, the Tariff Board, said that heavy
duties were sought on works of fiction, or
literature of a similar character. The kinds
of books to be. permitted free entry were
then specified, and a glance at the list will
show that “literature of a similar character”
was evidently intended to include poetry,
drama, essays, literary criticism, biography,
travel, etc.
Mr. Dailey referred to the success of an
Australian publisher to prove his argument
that all novels should be published locally,
yet that same publisher gave this evidence
before the Tariff Board:—
Australian publishers will be hard-hit bv this pro-
posed duty. No country, taking our small''population
into account, has been better served by its publishers
lt. is urged by advocates of this duty that it
will benefit Australian authors Nothina- cmiia
be farther from the truth....no tariff ever framed
has nourished a country’s literature, no duty ever
imposed has inspired a masterpiece. At present
Australian authors are unhampered in their choice
of a publishing centre, and thus, acting on mv
advice, Dr. Charles MacLaurin sent to London his
two brilliant studies of great men in the ]j°ht of
thoir physiological weaknesses and peculiarities, and
achieved a world-wide success with them, which he could
never have done had he published them here. London
is the natural centre for Empire authors whose
work appeals to either the very many or the com-
paratively few. A duty on books would confront
Australian authors of such work with the alter-
natives of publishing either in Australia at their
own expense and almost certain loss, or, say, in
London, and be penalised by a duty in their home-
land.
Mr. Dailey also said that any big local
firm of booksellers would have been
delighted to print “A. House Is Built” or
any other Bulletin prize-winner. “A House
Is Built” was offered to, and refused by,
the biggest publisher in Australia. It was
first offered to him, and sent to London
only because of his refusal. If “Coonardoo”
had been similarly offered it would prob-
ably have been similarly refused. “A
House Is Built” has, I understand, done
better in England than in Australia, yet the
Australian royalties have not been beneath
the authors’ notice. Mr. Dailey quotes
Norman Lindsay’s statements concerning
royalties and “Redheap.” But Mr. Lindsay
insists on giving the selling price of novels
in Australia as five shillings, instead of six.
and declares that an Australian author,
because of this dumping price, makes no-
thing on Australian sales. The fact is that
Australian royalties are smaller than Eng-
lish, but certainly not negligible. And the
lower price is not due to dumping, but was
fixed as a concession to the Australian
trade. The price of 7s. 6d. in England is
largeh' a Nominal one, as the purchase of
fiction there is mainly by libraries.
Mr. Dailey thinks local publishing would
mean better sales for our writers. It is
difficult to see why. It is much more likely
that praise from overseas will help sales
of English editions here. Yet even overseas
praise of the most enthusiastic kind may
tail to induce large sales here. Just one
instance. Our most distinguished novelist,
Henry Handel Richardson, wrote the three
parts of her great IVlahony trilogy at inter-
vals extending over 12 years. The first
and second volumes were well reviewed on
publication, sold poorly in England and
practically not at all in Australia. One
Sydney bookseller’s stock of the first
volume was remaindered at sixpence a copy.
When the second volume arrived, eight
years later, he didn’t take much risk; but
most, of the very few copies he took were
sold off at Is. 6d. Then, early last year,
came the final volume. This time, English
critics used superlatives. (“If ever v our
generation has produced a work of genius,
this is one.”) American critics followed
suit. Sales responded. In England there
were quick reprintings, then a reissue of
the long-out-of-print first volume. In
America the book was chosen by the Book-
of-the-Month Club, which meant an initial
sale of 80,000. and it continued to sell at
the rate of 1000 copies a week. But, in
spite of this phenomenal success abroad, I
don’t think Australian booksellers could
affirm that the author has found a lucra-
tive market in her own country. It is
certain that, had the volume been offered
to them, for publication, they would not
have recognised in it a certain seller, and
it would, so far as they were concerned,
have remained unpublished.
I. L.
Kendalliana: A Retort
If my father had treated Kendall ip. Ike
manner A.G.S. says he did (R,P. 11/6./’3O),
and if Kendall resented it, would Kendall
have been so hypocritical as to address over
half a hundred affectionate letters to
McCrae after he (K.) had come away
from Melbourne, where the distasteful inci-
dent was supposed to have taken place?
Some of this correspondence lies open for
inspection at the Mitchell Library to-day.
McCrae’s description of Kendall as an
undertaker was a playful allusion to the
latter’s fondness for dressing in black; a
piece of banter not kept subsequent to
Kendall’s death. McCrae called Kendall
to his face “Mr. Mould,” and Kendall
dubbed McCrae “Quilp.”
Out of this brotherly badinage an inter-
loper mixes dung with the chaff, and dis-
honestly passes it off for real.
Note: A.G.S. numbers Daley among
Kendall’s personal acquaintances and makes
him partly responsible for the statement
that he remembered the poet as “quite-
a lively chap; in spite of underlying sad-
ness.” Victor Daley himself told me that
he had never known Kendall, but that he
had attended his funeral.
HUGH McCRAE.
Another View of “Redheap”
In summarising the characters in "Red-
heap” “F.S(R.P., May 14 and 21) touches
on but one side of them, that the sex
side, and in doing so presents the book as
{Red Page continued on page 5 .)


Anthony Horderns 9 name in an advertisement is a complete guarantee of its accuracy.
Footwear for Every TasK and
Every Weather at
Anthony
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Famous Low Prices
Mustering in pouring rain or wading through mud in the cowyard requires
Boots that will keep the wet out FOR CERTAIN. And the Man on the Land
knows how hard it is to buy entirely waterproof boots. Of course there is
nothing to equal Rubber Knee Boots when you have to spend long periods
in unavoidable slush. However, below we show a Boot for your every need.
And remember that the name of Anthony Horderns 7 ensures complete satis-
faction with your purchase. This is guaranteed.
Rubber Knee Boots, 22/6 pair.
These are made from best-grade
Rubber with stout rubber soles.
Ideal for a hundred jobs. Price, 22/6
Also in Thigh Boots. Pair, 39/6
In Box Hide, 16/6 pair.
Our special working Boot of Box
Hide, with extra stout standard
screwed and sewn soles, made for
really hard wear. Per pair, 16/6
Also in Tan, stout oiled leather.
Per pair 16/11
With long-wearing Oakite soles.
Price, pair 18/6
mm
In Box Hide, 12/9 pair.
Men’s Box Hide Cossacks, with
standard screwed soles. All sizes
—5 to 10. Price, pair .... 12/9
With watertight tongues. Price, 13/9
m
Lace Boots, 18/11 pair.
Men’s Box Derby Lace Boots, with
stout sewn soles. A neat style with
no toecaps. All sizes—s to 10.
Price, pair 18/11
Also in high-grade Box Calf, with
genuine welted soles. A really fine
quality boot. Price, pair . . 26/6
High Grade Shoes, 19/11 pair.
Men’s Box Calf and Tan Calf
Oxford Shoes, made on neat ex-
tended or the new round toe last.
Genuine welted soles. A splendid
quality shoe, obtainable in full and
half sizes. Price, pair .... 19/11
Riding Boots, 22/6 pair.
Men’s Black or Tan Elastic Riding
Boots, standard screwed soles, 22/6
Genuine Black or Tan Calf and
welted soles. Price, pair .... 27/6
“Tree” Brand Boots, 22/6 pair.
This famous make of Men’s Box
Calf Lace Boots, with genuine
welted soles; leather lined—in full
and half sizes. Price, pair . . 22/6
Other grades at 25/-, 27/6, 30/-
Also in Black Glace Kid—a truly
smart boot. Price, pair .... 27/6
Ring Us Day or Night.
You can ring M 2401 any time of
the day or night and leave your
order. Remember that Trunk
Line calls may be made at half
rates between 7 p.m. and 8 a.m.
(All Men’s Wear-Ground Floor, George Street. Wc pay carriage.)
d
'Phone: M2Jfil
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box %712 C, G.P.O.


53.711 miles!
t -5
V
C ■*
m
m
\x
X:
11
H: \
&
:
k
mm?.;,*
m
Mobiloil - lubricated
Chrysler car breaks
world’s non-stop
record by 22,461
miles!
A stock Chrysler 65, Mobiloil-lubricated,
recently broke all existing endurance records
after 69 days and 68 nights of continuous
running at the Avus track in Berlin . . .
and was still going strong at 53,711 miles,
when a heavy fog stopped the run. When
taken down after this gruelling run, all
mechanical parts of the Mobiloil-protected
engine were found in excellent condition.
Here’s a dramatic example of what the
New Mobiloil will do for you in your car
. . . think of it! . . . when you ask your
garage man for a drain and refill of this
wonderful New Mobiloil, you are putting
into your engine an oil with records of
proved performance that no other oil has
ever equalled.
53,711 miles ! ... no replacements, all
mechanical parts in excellent condition . . .
you should buy the New Mobiloil because
it has proved, by what it has done for the
cars of other men, that it is a super-lubricant
—the World’s Quality Oil.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
THE
NEW
Mobiloil
R|o9
"The Worlds Quality Oil”
OM3L


Hawaii
A GLORIOUS HOLIDAY IN
EVERYBODY’S REACH
Honolulu is only a fortnight away; an island paradise of romance
and haunting music, a flower-strewn paradise; and what delights,
enrapturing pastimes, diversities of scene, and native life, like the
diving hoys, await you here.
Hawaii offers you the world’s finest climate, luscious tropical
fruits, active volcanoes, interesting inter-island cruises, palm
shaded beaches, all forms of sporting life, golf, tennis, fishing—
the most perfect holiday you will ever have. You should arrange
to stay at least a week.
Special return excursion steamer fares now available. Modern
hotel accommodation 15/- to £3 per day, with meals. Through
travellers pay no extra to break the journey at Honolulu.
Send us your address and we will forward to you descriptive
booklets of the Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in colour.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept. I ] Box 1627 8.8., G.P.O. SYDNEY
most unsavory, seething with brutal lusts
and incestuous desires.
Two of the Piper daughters are employed in the
silent contest for the affection of a townsman.
Thwarted in this direction, one of them obtains
satisfaction with a townsman who is married.
This is gross and incorrect. If this silent
contest between the two Piper daughters
for one of the townsmen is a reference to
Niven, the young country doctor’s attrac-
tion to Ethel when he is formally in love
with her elder sister, Hetty—and it could
refer to nothing else —“F.S.” has yet to
discover that it was Ethel who had the affair
with the young married townsman, and it
was in progress before the appearance of
Niven. Hetty, who was turned aside by
Niven for Ethel, did not go in search of
satisfaction from married townsmen. She
was a conventional type, and, along with
Robert’s father and mother, his uncle Job-
son and his brother Henry, the draper, can
be cited as the conventional or moral
characters that “F.S.” denies exist in the
story.
“Squalid,” “F.S.” says, “is the adjective
which instantly crops up in the mind in
regard to Lindsay’s book.” He speaks for
himself. The book deals beautifully with
some of the sweetest aspects of youth.
The two instances of Lindsay’s polysyl-
labic humor, maliciously torn from their
context, and stated by “F.S.” to induce any
schoolboy, if asked to parse and analyse
them, to tear his hair, could quite simply
lie parsed and analysed by anyone who has
had a regular Australian public-school
education. They would baffle a school-
boy only because his vocabulary is not as
comprehensive as Lindsay’s.
“Lindsay,” “F.S.” adds, “gives the im-
pression that he gained his knowledge of
the human heart through a psychologist’s
handbook.” The same may as well be said
of Shakspeare, that Hamlet’s mental pro-
cesses were construed from a psychologist’s
handbook. But the psychologist has always
followed the footsteps of the artist.
Again, “His mid-Victorian community is
incongruously smitten with Marie Stopeism
and Bertrand Russellism.” It is difficult to
see exactly where Bertrand Russell steps
into the picture, and as for Marie Stopes.
perhaps it was her conspicuous absence
necessary for the development of Lindsay’s
plot that annoyed “F.S.’s” moral sense.
However, Robert Piper’s difficulties with,
the parson’s daughter, and other instances
in the town’s history were sufficient testi-
mony to a lack in the community of a
knowledge of Marie Stopes.
BON J. BLUNDEN.
Unholy Memories
Horace B. Samuel, author of Unholy
Memories of the Holy Land (Hogarth
Press), went to Palestine as a Zionist in
1918, in the ranks of Lieut.-Colonel Pat-
terson’s Jewish Regiment (“Jabotinski’s
Army”). He soldiered for a time, then car-
ried on as a Judge and afterwards as a
lawyer, discreetly retiring in 1928 to write
his memoirs—“discreetly,” because, as he
puts it, to have published the book while
he was still a resident of the country
“would have shown both a superfluity of
moral courage and a deficiency of common-
sense.”
Here is one of his pictures of the country
of which it has been said—with some truth,
he thinks—that at the very best of times
it can keep itself going only by the export
of its two most lucrative products, Zionism
and religion:—
There are functioning in Palestine nearly a dozen
distinct and recognised Jewish political parties...,
each participating in the election of delegates to the
Zionist Congress.... Apart from these official Zionist
parties there flourish other parties, other groups,
other cliques.
That is the Palestine of to-day, as he sees
it. When he landed there it looked like
this:—
The Palestinian Jews were very different stuff from
their brethren who had been conscripted in London.
They were out for fighting! They were anxious to
drive out the Turk, and then constitute a permanent
Jewish garrison amid a hostile Arab majority, On
the other hand, complications soon arose among the
various classes. The Ashkenazic Jews, viz., the Jews
of Central European extraction, despised the Sep-
hardic Jews., viz., Jews of Spanish origin, so in-
tensely that it proved difficult to mix them. It was
certainly disastrous to allow the two elements to
sleep together in the same tent. The Ashkenazic
Jews, particularly the colonists from Jaffa and the
surrounding district, looked upon themselves as the
real thing. As for the Sephardic Jew, who in some
cases tended to lack toughness and virility, and who
spoke Arabic as well as an English Jew speaks
English, it was doubtful whether he was quite
the genuine article. The Alexandrine Jew they tended
to regard as a Levantine. As for the Yemenite
Jew, tanned a good rich brown by the Hejaz sun.
he was rated a nigger pure and simple, and bullied
accordingly.
The army on the move merits a casual
glimpse:—
On the Ist of March, 191 S, the regiment made
through the streets of that city [Alexandria] one
of those self-advertising marches which were always
one of its chief characteristics. For, so far as the
Jewish Regiment was concerned, not merely fighting,
but propaganda, was the thing. As Jabotinski him-
self once remarked: “We are not merely a regiment
—we are a political performing company.”
The writer left Palestine after his 10
years’ service with a considerable sense of
acquired freedom. Thus freed from a
life which, he says, “is at best parochial,”
he sees the Holy Land in perspective, and
asks:—
After all, this Palestine, this Land of 1 Israel, is it
really worth making so much fuss about ?... .
Eliminate the associations of the country with
Jewish history on the one hand and Christianity
on the other, and what remains? A country of
approximately the area of Wales, with a total popu-
lation of less than that of Birmingham. Seven
hundred thousand Arabs, whose picturesqueness palls
after a few years’ contact, one hundred and sixtv
thousand Jews, or one per cent, of the Jewish popu-
lation of the world, a handful of European and
American nationals (for the most part officials), and
economic possibilities still to be exploited. Candidly,
and viewed coldly from the material angle, the place
is not much of a catch.
Yet the writer finds some merit in Pales-
tine—as a country which attracts on its
merits, and will continue to attract all
the best elements of the modern .political
Jews of Central Europe, devotees of a tra-
dition in that they have selected Palestine
as their national home. It seems a slender
beam of brightness in a land of which a
Zionist, or ex-Zionist, has to write:—
To the supporters of missionaries it is a place
where all the Jews should be converted into
Christians. To the Zionist it is the scene of the
building up of the National Home. To the British
Imperialist it is the scene of the last crusade, an-
other base for protecting the Canal, and an important
stage in the new airway to India. To the,'believers
in the League of Nations it is one of the most
important - of the Mandated Territories. To the
Arabs and their backers it is a place where the
native inhabitants of the country have been handed
over en masse to be placed under the heel of hordes
of alien immigrants (sic!'). To the ordinary British
taxpayer it is a country notorious by reason of the
recent outbreak, to the pacification of which he is
afraid he may personally be forced to contribute.
Still, all is quiet on the Palestinian front
—for the time being!
A Satchel of Books
•The Magic of tlic Stars, by Maurice
Maeterlinck (Allen and Unwin). An admir-
able translation of Maeterlinck’s latest col-
lation in which scientific pabulum is made
into engaging and in places exciting read-
ing. The writer highly praises the part
played in modern astronomy by Americans,
who, equipped with the finest instruments in
the world, have succeeded in photographing
more than a thousand million stars.
Modern Roses in Australia, by B. V.
Rossi (Mitchell and Casey, Melbourne). A
book written for the novice who wants to
make a success of what anyone who has
tried it without such guidance will know is
a fine art carefully surrounded by snares
and pitfalls. A plate of his 113 exhibition
medals stamps the writer’s authority to
speak, and the book is closely packed with
information and advice, simplified with
numerous illustrations. Plans for rose gar-
dens and sanctuaries and a long descriptive
list of the best roses complete a fine prac-
tical guide, which is written with an enthusi-
asm that is not only infectious but positively
joyous.
Heat Wave, by Denise Robins (Mills and
Boon), is interesting as an indication of the
kind of man that appeals to an intelligent
woman. The action occurs in Ivliota, and the
characters are rubber planters and their
womenfolk. Hugh Dawltry is the local
wrong ’un —a handsome, whisky-bibbing
cynic, with a weird reputation due to his
chivalrous behavior as a co-re. and a fatal
habit of winning the love of pure women. An
enraged husband, whom we are expected to
despise, but with whom it is hard not to
sympathise warmly, shoots Hugh. However,
the latter is not killed, and he departs for
England, still bounding sky-high, with his
assailant’s wife. The one touch of verisimi-
litude in this old-fashioned yarn is the
hatred all the men who know him have for
the posturing Hugh.
KecrhosJdoof, by Norman Giles (Collins),
provokes gloomy speculations. The author
is the son of an Australian clergyman. Why
was he not inspired to write as colorfully
and absorbingly about our backblocks? This
book deals with a primitive community of
Boer farmers. Their natural leader—the
only superior man in the district—has a
beloved daughter who marries a neighbor
with black blood in his veins. Hence tragedy.
The story, which is based on a mystery that
ceases to mystify after a few pages, is
redeemed from triviality by its gallery of
supremely interesting portraits (of farmers
and their wives, blacks and officials, Boer
and Anglo-Boer), by the courageously frank
light it throws on the morals of the inhabi-
tants, and by its picturesque atmosphere.
No one, with the possible exception of Kath-
erine Prichard and Norman Lindsay, has
drawn genre pictures of the kind of Aus-
tralians. Would the author of “Keerbosh-
loof” have had the courage to do it if he
had stayed here?
In Turn Back the Leaves (Macmillan)
E. M. Delafield provides a realistic study of
religious mania. Sir Joseph Floyd has been
debarred from following his vocation and
entering the R.C. priesthood by the neces-
sity of marrying to perpetuate his ancient
line. Being a born anchorite, the obligations
of the married state and the transgressions
of members of his family cause him agony.
The best-observed character in a book which
is full of shrewd, judicial observation is
the baronet’s second wife. She is a most
human and lovable being—faithful to her
principles, devoutly religious, saintly in her
patient unselfishness, yet thoroughly wordly
and by "no means devoid of class-conscious-
ness. Fate smites her from every angle—
the last blow being when her husband goes
completely mad —but, with the inquiry,
“After all, what does anything matter com-
pared with living and dying in the grace of
God, like good Catholics?” she carries tran-
quilly on. A great novel this, with a poig-
nantly ironical ending.
A Dream in the Luxembourg, by Richard
Aldington (Chatto and Windus), is un-
usual verse, of fine narrative and pictorial
merit. It is modern, in the true sense—
not in mishandled English, but in outlook
and atmosphere; it could not very well
have been written at any other time. It
could not have been written in Australia, even
to-day, because in the mid-Victorian atmo-
sphere created by our censorship craze no
writer here would feel free to express him-
self in such frank terms. The narrator,
sitting under the trees in the Luxembourg,
is undecided whilst he writes whether his
tale is a dream or an actual experience. One
of three lovers of a woman, lie received a
message in England to come to her in
France. He stopped midway in a sentence
and went; the other two made excuses; he
gathered the prize—the girl and an unofficial
honeymoon. There is a suggestion of* sick-
liness in parts, but there is also a literary
passionateness and true poetic feeling, with,
consequently, a rare illusion of reality. It
is scarcely great poetry, but it is poetry,
not mere verse, and that is something to be
grateful for in these tinkling days.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (.except oj a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Tasmac; Put your case—we’re ready to
■listen . to- it... ,-P,J.: Nothing in “Innocence” but
shaky rhyme and dubious psychology. “Dawn” never
rose... .A.S.: No real feeling... .AAV.: Slight things
get hurt in the crash.... Marc: Accept your word
that it was original. The w.p.b. said it was
aboriginal.... Geloin: It doesn’t live up to its magni-
ficent first line, “The three of us were fond of
beer”... .8.F.: Not struck by “Old Things”....
R.L.J.: You don’t give the impression of having felt
that way... .D.M.G.: Nothing moving in the batch.
. ...J.M.: Too much gloom. .. .R.J.A.R;: Has all
been said in Plain English.. . .A.D.0.: Adon’t....
B. J.: Off the track... .lvoota Momi: Rambles, but
doesn't get far.... Bell erive: Continuing the Zoo-
logical Inspiration serial: —
THE PORCUPINE.
In thickets and soil
Where insects abound.
The porcupine burrows
Deep into the ground.
A match for reptiles—
In close-quarter fight.
Its quills of defence—
’Twill raiseth upright.
(Next week: “The Hyena,”)
. ...E.A.E.: All right, “Thou, Ocean, thou art an
awful sight!” is not funny. In Canewdon, Essex, is
a church with the inscription over the door: “How
dreadful is this place.” That isn’t funny, either.
. ...D.A.: Wrong address for uplift verses for
children. Try Australian Censors, Unlimited....
C. : Desperate stuff... .M.8.D.: Good of you to
suggest sending along a pick-me-up “if necessary.”
Send it by air mail.... J. 1.: “Oh, I would be a
little apple-tree.” Go ahead; it is a healthy
occupation... .Lichen: You have the rules off pat;
now do it... .E.JAV.: Afraid the note has been
struck before... .G.L.S.: No more Amy verse, please !
....Masliie Driver: Took a fair putt, but it found
the basket.... Chelsus: Liked the touch about the
judgment which “reached Heaven, and rang the
be 11”... .T;E.: Hearken, you million poets who have
tried, and failed: —
Now away in far off London
In a land across the sea
There lived Miss Amy Johnson
A girl of twenty three
And she planned to break the record
of that wonderous Hinkler flight
And they say to get supporters
She had a dreadful fight
But miss Johnson was determined
and later thought it best
To go and buy an airship
which she called the Jason Quest
She flew around/ in circles
and waved her friends adieu
And then struck out for Darwin
and said she’d see it through
Now many were the hardships
and many were the trials
That befell miss Amy Johnson
for thirteen thousand miles
And she landed up at Darwin
on the twenty-fourth of May
And the people up in London
I wonder what they’ll say.
... .H.A.M.C.: The Burns book is worth 305.. ...
N.J.H.: Thanks; would like to see balance-sheet.
.. . .I’.T.: Story of Bracefield and Davis is men-
tioned in “Tom Betrie’s Reminiscences” and Russell’s
“Genesis of Queensland.” You might see them at
the . Mitchell Library... .-S.-N-. Born- at Londes-
borough, Yorkshire, 1862 ; came to Australia when
23; see Bruce’s “Art of Blamire Young”... .N.E.C.:
Condensed and reconstructed has the making of a
story... .E.C.: No room for “Pearl” in the jewel-
box.... N. A.: “Civility” declined with thanks....
E.D.: “Life of Edward Gibbon Wakefield,” by Gar-
nett ; “Colonisation of Australia, 1829-1842,” by
Mills; “Foundation of South Australia,” by Grenfell
Price; “Long White Cloud” and “State Experi-
ments,” by Reeves... .D.H.Br: Shows imagination
and might find a place in a children’s magazine....
J.H.: All moonshine. .. .W.T.C.: Return ticket for
railway yarn.... D.S.: Dramatic, but things don’t
happen that way C.F.: A bit " extravagant but
not far off... .G.K.S.: “Boomerangs” now on the
homing loop.... D.N.: Passed the censor but not
the post D.U.D.: Returned —with sympathy....
A.J.B.: Impossible to print reasons for rejecting
pars. If they don’t siflt, out they go and nothing
said C.C.A.: Mother-in-law in Italian is
“suocera”; in Dutch, “beliuwd-moeder”; in Danish
and Norwegian, “sviger-mor” ; in Persian, “Madar-
i-zan.” In abo. languages the term differs according
to various tribes; “buoyal,” “wandayan,” “t dun”
and “gunnindyang” are a few... .L.F.D.: See “Flags
of the World,” by Gordon, and “Complete Guide
to Heraldry” by Fox Davies.... S.'F.: All are abo.
names. Junee means “speak to ? me”; Mudgee “a
nest”; and Wagga Wagga “many crows”... .C.lt.B.:
Odd copies have not much value to the ordinary
collector. Offer them to the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
.....E.W,: Pack doesn’t cut an honor... .R.W.J.:
Prose poor and verse worse... .R.W.E.: IIow would
J. Hop plead if charged with “giving vent to an
exclamation of chagrin” ?.... Dig: Official returns
are that 416,809 329,968 embarked and
264,051 returned. Westralia, with 101.30 per 1000
of mean population, had the highest enlistment rate.
. ...O.P.: Yes,*'Elliot Johnson, sometime Speaker of
the House of Reps., was once a scene-painter at
Covent Garden Theatre. He is now living in retire-
ment at Cremorne, Sydney.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.A.S.: An uninviting bunch... .F.C.: Your work
needs a thorough overhauling... .V.B.C.: It rejected
itself R.W.H.: Little hope for you if that’s the
best you can do... .B.T.: Still full of faults... .S.P.:
Not at any price .T.1T.E.: Nothing in it
A.C.: You must he easily pleased if you’re satisfied
with those R.J.E.: Fell by the wayside
A.R.M.: Where did you see telephonists dressed like
that? L.H.: Better finished and furnished with
new gags they might stand a chance... .L.S.: Pen-
sioned off long ago P.M.: Not buying AAV.:
Try some English paper —drawn for one evidently.
....A.I’.: Not a winner among them... .R.R.:
Glover got ahead of you with the cafe one ; others
won’t do,...V.G.P.: Returning Chester: Not
parking the fellow on the girder here N.F.R.:
Can’t see you breaking through yet awhile... .
S.B.: Very promising; you should find a market
presently H.P.: Devoid of merit E.S.W.:
Hustled .Tacky off the premises.


: ■
m
m
■ i
i
■
m
v
, it . *!
HW'IR 4
r' s r>
IHI
a
■
99
r
lllißSlfiiSlfliMßw! ■
Jls^v
-
:
I
mm
i
ii
t
a
■n
:« i
Hf :
*. <: fii
Wm l
\
)
sJ
•*
K
a
.-' ;fe
■
■
■n
H H
l- ■■■
m,
:
■ I
aj
tn


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2628.
June 25, 1930.
GAS ATTACK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 2,10 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
south Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Vvestralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance*
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.:
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
t‘ months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
„ S} n Ojc copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
l<i]i: lOos., Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1,0 z., id. All Sea Route: ltiaz., ltd.
British 1 ossessions and U.S.A.: J,oz. or part thereof,
Id. lAseivhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
. THE CENSORSHIP OF LITERATURE . . 2
ARE OUR PUBLISHERS ALIVE ? .. ..2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS . t ' g', 9
JAMES SCULLIN, OPTIMIST . . ! . g
SO GOOD-BYE, AMY JOHNSON ! '. .8
LATHAM KEEPS QUEER COMPANY . . 8
WHAT IS BRENNAN AIMING AT?—
Bv Senator Ogden . . . . .. g
BLACK INGRATITUDE TO SOLDIERS !! 8
GARDEN IS NOT LORD MAYOR .. .. v
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) io
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11 12
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES.. .. 13
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
PERSONAL (with drawings) .. .. ..14
SUNDRY' SHOW’S (Theatres, etc.) .. .. 16
BROADCASTING THE TEST MATCH
—Drawings by Frith .. .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . ’ 17
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT \7
FAIRYMEAD SUGAR 17
MORRIS, HEDSTROM .. .. . 17
SWAN CEMENT 17
SINGAPORE HUME PIPE 17
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
LOOK TO THE FLOCK’S FEET .. ..’22
WOOL PRICES FOR 30 YEARS .. 2°
SUPER. FOR WHEAT—AND WHY .. . . 22
MAKING CHEESE ON THE FARM .. ..22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSW’ERED .. ..25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. .. . . 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . .. 35, 36
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY RACING .. 35
CRICKET IN ENGLAND 36
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER . . . . .. 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. ..44
The Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer.. 42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE —With drawings by Phil
May and "Hop” .. .. .. .. 47
TWO COMPLETE STORIES—
“BLUE BLOOD,” by Harold Mercer . . .. 49
“LIFE INSURANCE,” by David Langford .. 50
VERSE. —By Roderic Quinn, Llwelyn Lucas,
Myra Morris, Charles Campbell,
Elizabeth Richmond .. .. 45, 50
T^e'^ulZeiz/n.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25, 1930.
JAMES SCULLIN, OPTIMIST.
The Prime Minister spent part of Sun-
day, the 15th, at Canberra in. formally
launching an Optimists’ League. The fact
that he was at that depressing place at
the week-end, with the shortest day at
hand, and the coldest day in prospect, and
the windiest day lying in wait round the
corner, showed that he is the material of
which the best type of optimist is made.
There are three main varieties of opti-
mist. One says that Australia is in a bad
way through too little work, too little pro-
duction, and too much importing and bor-
rowing and going on strike, but that the
nation has only to be courageous and live
sensibly and the return of prosperity is
certain. A second and much more popular
variety tickles the colossal public vanity
with the tale that there is nothing amiss
with the people and their methods, and it
is only necessary to sit tight while the great
natural resources of the continent auto-
matically pull them through. The third
waves a red flag and assumes a devil-may-
care attitude. It doesn’t want Australia
to pull through either by special effort or
by the neglected course of events and the
effluxion of time. When the continent goes
definitely broke, the res.ult, according to
the 1 rades and Labor Council element,
will be a disastrous knock to the “capi-
talist and a reconstruction of society with
themselves in sole charge of affairs, both
of which happenings they consider cheap
at any price. Those who aim at putting
things on a solvent basis, like Prime Min-
ister Scullin, are mocked in a superior
fashion, as pessimists and scaremongers, by
those of the second class, such as ex-
Treasurer Page, whose idea is to let the
sinking ship alone till it rises again auto-
matically. And the second lot has the
secret approval of the third lot, the Red
Revolutionists, whose game it is playing
though it lacks the sense to be aware of
the fact. It is probable that three similar
schools of thought have prevailed in recent
years at Pisa. One held that the famous
Leaning Tower, which is a valuable asset
and brings many rich visitors to the city,
showed signs of leaning too much after
being on an angle for 600 years. They
asserted, in a pessimistic way, that it would
be well to provide some work for the people
by making it safe. A second push, large
and orthodox and respectable and backed
by the “Pisa Morning Herald,” said that
if the vast eight-storey monument was left
alone it would straighten itself of its own
accord, the natural resources of Italy being
underneath it. And a third push backed
the second with the mental reservation
that when the Tower fell it would pro-
bably squash somebody who deserved
squashing.
Prime Minister Scullin’s introductory
statement of the Optimists’ case was clear
and convincing. Australia’s urgent need is
to import on the average year £40,000,000
worth less goods than it has been doing.
This is partly because it has been import-
ing of late £40,000,000 worth more than it
could pay for except out of overseas loans,
and they have ceased to be procurable
except by driblets, the national credit
having flickered very low. And it is partly
because the people, who have also flickered
very low, badly want the employment and
wages to be gained by making as much
as possible of these goods themselves. The
same effect would result if Australia
exported £40,000,000 worth more goods, but
that isn’t likely to happen for many years,
as there is a shocking fall instead of a rise.
The new and very robust tariff started six
months ago in theory, but, as a matter of
rather overstrained fairness, exemptions
were allowed as to foreign goods, on the
way or under order, to such an extent that
it really only began to show its saving
effects last month. In the interval Aus-
tralia has scratched along by commandeer-
ing and dissipating the cash reserves in its
banks, and otherwise pawning its shirt and
fastening its waistcoat with a safetj'-pin in
order to disguise its nakedness.
An atmosphere has been created in Aus-
tralia that the Scullidore tariff is an un-
avoidable calamity, to be accepted for as
short a time as possible in the hope that
the recurrence of oversea loans will shortly
permit of modification and a return to the
old grovelling dependence. It is a pity
that the Commonwealth isn’t furnished
with a party which will hold that a strong
tariff is a virtue in itself, like honesty and
sobriety, and much more of a virtue than
winning all the cricket matches. It may
be due for reconsideration when the nation
has dispensed with foreign loans, has paid
off its foreign debts in full, and has com-
menced to lend some of its surplus riches
abroad, but that won’t be a matter for this
generation to woriy about. The United
States has done all these things, and still
it increases its tariff—for amusement or
something. If Uncle Hoover has that busi-
ness-like view all to himself he may end by
holding too much of the world’s assets, if
he hasn’t reached that point already.
Unfortunately the Scullin Ministry has to
depend too much on its own party for
tariff support. That is to say, the Red
element, which doesn’t believe in tariff
reform (preferring smash and the Mus-
covite brand of revolution), may back up
solvency and honesty at a price. And
other members, who have sense enough
to realise that the country requires salva-
tion and that reduction of imports is the
only possible way, may be violently hostile
because Page is a Freetrader of the worst
sort, and loyalty to party has a tendency
to come before loyalty to the country’s
interests. It is a misfortune when a
supremely important national issue comes
to be mixed up with paper-inflation freaks
and persons with schemes for the disin-
tegration and reconstruction of society.
But someone had to face the problem of
keeping Australia out of blank and blither-
ing insolvency, and Bruce and Page and
Hughes being alike impossible, Scullin and
his motley following got the job. Scullin
appears right enough, but many of the
followers whom he has to placate are plain
horrible.
SO GOOD-BYE, AMY JOHNSON!
Amy Johnson is a much more significant
circumstance than most of those may have
thought who cheered her and put their
hands in their pockets to buy gifts for her.
For she represents the Rebellion of Woman,
one of the most tremendously important
features of this generation; indeed, it may
be the most important feature of all. Amy
Johnson and the flapper who bares her
knees to the world are standard-bearers in
exactly the same cause—probably without
either of them in the least realising it.
It began, of course, long before the war.
But up to that time it was scarcely at all
a physical rebellion. The leaders of the
feminist movement of the ’nineties were
entirely intellectual. They aimed chiefly at
an improvement in the social conditions
affecting women and children. To that end
they sought the franchise; and they found
their warmest supporters among the clergy.
There was no overwhelming number of
women interested in their movement; it is
doubtful whether at any time before the
vote was gained one-third of the female
population of either Britain or Australia
cared two straws whether they had it or
not. It was the intellectual force behind
the movement, combined, no doubt, with
the capacity of determined woman for
making mischief, that won for the sex a
vote for Parliament.
Important as that victory may have been,
it left no real mark upon woman, it
wrought no changes in her, except perhaps
that here and there it fanned a tiny spark
of independence. The real change came
with the war. Until then there was a great
gulf fixed between the sexes. Sex indeed
was something not to be inquired into,
especially by those who draped their bodies
in many petticoats. The war almost
bridged 'the gulf, and a new relation of
the sexes was established. It is true that
no fixed lines w r ere laid down. But in a
general way woman declared that she was
not either a moral or a physical weakling
incapable of Taking care of herself; and she
paid the normal young man the compliment
of letting, it be known that they under-
stood one another quite well. Out of the
\var thus came a mateship between the
sexes which—in the unmarried state at any
rate—had not existed before.
Now to a very considerable extent the
rebellion has moved away from sex alto-
gether. It has' given the world vast num-
bers of women who believe that they can
get a, great deal out of life entirely irre-
spective of sex. Sex may call to them some
day; if it does, they are prepared to
answer it. Meantime they live lives of inde-
pendence, as perfectly at their ease among
men as among women. Dress reform and
the sport which has come with it have been
a tremendous factor in this development.
Working with that has been the increasing
employment of women alongside men in
factories, shops and offices. Here, how-
ever, the spirit of equality is not so marked.
This is a field which man so Jong had to
himself, and he has made use of his domi-
nating position to put the female upon a
lower industrial level. Still, she is steadily
breaking down prejudices and establishing
her right .to equal pay for equal work.
Meanwhile, if her pay is not always what
it would be had sex no say in the matter,
it is vastly better than it was even 15 years
ago.
Thus in one way and another marriage
absorbs less and less of the thoughts of the
young woman. In her moments she still
no doubt regards it as immensely important;
but marriage and life no longer mean pre-
cisely the same thing—it is possible, she
believes, for a woman to live well and
happily without marriage: a while longer,
at any rate. The physiologists will argue
over the effect of that repression—a repres-
sion which is often no doubt carried into
the modern married state. It seems, at any
rate, highly probable that, just as in some
cases Poms and bridge take the place of
infants, in others the repressions call for
physical performances, preferably spectacu-
lar. And that urge can be now easily satis-
fied. At any rate, the unmarried woman no
longer pines and fades, or asks for any
pity. She has an independence such as
woman never had before; she can mix
with her fellows of both sexes as she never
could before; she can, when she feels dis-
posed, pick out a man she thinks she could
live with comfortably, ask him to marry
her and buy the furniture; she can take
her Jason and fly the earth un chaperoned,
and, instead of rebuking her, grandmothers
will load her with praises, and sometimes
with more solid gifts.
It is one of the few good things the war
left us. For, though the Rebellion of
Woman may have helped to produce some
of the world’s current economic disturb-
ances, it has done away with an enormous
amount of hypocrisy and humbug, and
given the sexes a saner relation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Latham. Keeps Queer Company.
Latham, Bruce’s henchman and successor,
did his strict duty as a party politician by
replying in orthodox Free trade style to the
Prime Minister’s statement that the posi-
tion is improving. Latham said in the first
place that it is impossible “to make the
community prosperous by increasing taxa-
tion.” There he should speak by the book,
for the Federal Ministry to which he and
Page belonged increased taxation mightily.
It took from the people £31,832,600 in Cus-
toms alone in 1926-27, as against £22,597,306
in 1922-23, which was the last year of
Hughes, and it contrived, in the Freetrade
way, to give much more assistance while
doing this to the foreign importer than to
the Australian worker. It finished its Min-
isterial career with a huge deficit, and with
Australia’s credit stopped both in London
and New York, and very much damaged
at home. Its successor, on the other hand,
dragged from the people in May, 1930, by
way of Customs alone, £674,000 less than
the Lathams did in May, 1929, so the new
way of doing things should enrich the
people as Latham’s old way didn’t.
Further, the ex-Attorney-General stated
that the real proper thing to do is to
reduce expenditure; and in that respect
he struck a solid fact. But he showed a
melancholy lack of information. There is
paper expenditure here and gold expendi-
ture abroad, and the two should be dis-
cussed separately. Unfortunately 971 per
cent, of politicians and others fail to keep
in mind that they are separate.
Paper expenditure here can be reduced
in a number of ways; but some of the
ways are beastly unpleasant. They include
the closure of unprofitable railways and the
sackage of the staffs, and the stoppage of
all relief to the distressed. Gold expendi-
ture abroad can be reduced in* two direc-
tions. (i) Imports may be reduced, and
a very large and permanent reduction is
required. (2) Or an economy might- be
made, or attempted, on the interest, sink-
ing fund and charges on the oversea debt.
In other words, Australia might try its
hand at repudiation.
Every politician who denounces forcible
reduction of imports should explain
whether he believes in forcible reduction
of the interest bill instead. Platitudinous
evasions or quotations from Fveetrade text-
books shouldn’t be allowed to rank as a
reply. *
What Is Brennan Aiming At?
From Senator Ogden, a former Labor
Treasurer of Tasmania, and one of the
oldest members of the State’s Labor party:
The proposal to give the Court power to
grant unqualified preference to unionists
must be taken to mean that the Federal
Government requires absolute preference to
be embodied in all awards, and presumably
this power will be exercised by the partisan
Conciliation Commissioners who will be
appointed, as well as by the Judges. This
will place tyrannic power in the hands of
militant trade-union leaders greater than that
exercised in mediaeval times by any auto-
crat, either civil or religious. The religious
bigot said: “You are secure from persecution
if you join my religious faith.” The trade-
union fanatic says: “You may enjoy all the
benefits of our modern civilisation only if
you join the union.”
. Labor preaches self-determination of
nations, but practises coercion by starvation
of individuals within that nation. There
must be no freedom of thought or action.
No man may earn a living unless he joins
a union, and even then if lie offends the
powers that be he may be expelled, and
lie shall have no appeal—the decision of the
union boss is irrevocable. This is an abso-
lutism more complete than ever monarchs
possessed.
This so-called Labor Government is evi-
dently not satisfied that chaos will arrive
soon enough by this form of tyranny alone,
and proposes to hasten it by removing tin 1
instruction that the Court in framing an
award must take into consideration the eco-
nomic effects upon industry and the com
munity in general. Labor’s new leaders are
not concerned whether industry can bear
any additional burden or not; wages must
be raised and working hours reduced even
though the industry perish, and if thousands
of workers are thrown out of work as a
result, what matters it? They will pro-
claim a victory even in the face of starvation,
and the poor dupes will be told what a mag-
nificent fight has been waged in defence of
a glorious principle.
There are other amendments which
together make the bill one of the greatest
instruments of tyranny and coercion ever
contemplated. It hands over complete con-
trol of industry to industrial leaders. It
is difficult to know whether the Government
has so drafted the measure as a direct invi-
tation to the Senate to reject it. I am
inclined to think that if the Senate refuses
to agree, Brennan and co. will inaudibly
exclaim, “Thank Heaven we have a Senate!”
But I am not too sure whether it would not
be better to allow the measure to become
law, so that, the Government might stew in
its own juice. A general election must
eventuate in about two years in any case,
and we can suffer for that time in order that
the end may be certain and complete.
Black Ingratitude to Soldiers.
Australia owes much to the officers and
men of the Permanent Military Forces who
trained the A.I.F. and gave it so many
bold and skilful leaders; and the work of
the survivors for the C.M.F. has increased
the debts But their services have been
requited with black ingratitude by the poli-
ticians. Hughes, in a spasm of economy,
characteristically irrational, retrenched them
right and left. Bruce, extravagant as he
was in other directions (motor speedways,
for instance), cut military expenditure to
the bone and ended by closing barracks and
drill halls in. important country towns.
Scullin did away with compulsory training
and threw upon the professional soldiers
the burden of recruiting a volunteer army
from the disbanded battalions. They have
accomplished this task, to their infinite
credit, with help from a devoted band of
volunteer officers, but none from the Scul-
lidores—in the face, indeed, of a persistent
pacifist-Labor agitation in favor of scrap-
ping the defence system altogether.
And now these faithful servants of the
nation are to be punished for raising the
new army, or for being non-unionists, or
something. During the financial year
commencing on July 1, and during subse-
quent years perhaps, they will have to take
time off without pay. This “enforced
leave,” as Minister Green expresses it, will
amount to eight weeks in the case of
soldiers drawing £260 p.a.. and upwards, six
weeks four days for those in the £247-£259
group and five weeks four days for- £241-
£246 men. All officers (351) and warrant
officers (567) are condemned to lose the
eight weeks, and many of the latter will
therefore be reduced considerably below
the basic wage, so sacrosanct where
unionists are concerned.
The infamous part of this ruthless wage-
cutting is that only the soldiers will suffer.
The policy is not to be applied to The
civilian staff of the Defence Department
or to any other department dominated by
the public-service unions. Mr. Shepherd,
the secretary of the Defence Department,
who did not serve in the war, is paid
£2OOO p.a. General Coxen, ChauvePs suc-
cessor, was supposed to get £ISOO p.a., while


THE LAST SHILLING.
“No section is suffering more unemployment than the returned soldiers.”
“Remember me, sir? I’m the man you were going to back with your last shilling!”
General Brand was to receive £llOO p.a.
for being Quartermaster-General, and
General Dodds £llsO p.a. for being Adju-
tant-General. Mr. Shepherd will go on
drawing his £166 13s. 4d. a month; the dis-
tinguished A.I.F. officers and others of
lower rank will go off the salary list for
two months.
It, is an utterly disgraceful episode in the
history of Labor politics, and the effect on
the new militia is bound to be deplorable.
Many young recruits joined up because
they were Attracted by the fine character
and soldierly qualities of the warrant-
officers, particularly the sergeants-major of
the instructional corps. The danger is that
hundreds of these men will leave the service
of the country whose Government is treat-
ing them so soundly and that thousands of
volunteers will leave with them.
>
Garden Is Not Lord Mayor,
One of the new Sydney aldeimen, going
to the poll on Wednesday, found that five
votes had been cast in his name; which was
just like old times. Like old times, too,
was the poor roll-up of electoi's—only 58
per cent., with impersonators thrown in.
Ratepayers who are too tired to exercise
the franchise when a Garden menaces the
city with a spoils-to-the-victors policy—
“spoils to the victors with a vengeance”—
don’t deserve to have it. It has been sug-
gested that voting should be compulsory,
but it would be much more sensible to
strike non-voters off, failing proof of in-
capacity, and charge £2 for re-enrolment.
The city had been cut up into five three-
member wards, each with 9000-odd electors.
Phillip and Flinders were cei-tainties for
Communist Labor, and Gipps and Mac-
quarie for Civic Reform, so everything
depended on Fitzroy. Civic Reform won
the three seats there, but its majority was
by no means great, and if Gai’den had not
been in the field it might not have won
at all. That egregious person’s candidature
must have been worth hundreds of votes
to the other side; third man in for Flinders,
he got only 2389 votes, as against 3262 for
Ward and 3476 for Shannon, M.L.A. Clearly
if Civic Reform doesn’t w'atch its step,
Labor—probably in the old Tammany form
—will come back. And it will come back
all the sooner if the Reformers go in again
for the pitiful squabbling which marked
their last regime.
The Public and the Police.
“My Association intends to approach Mr. Chaffey
about” the campaign conducted by a section of the
Sydney press against the police in connection with
Miss Johnson’s visit.”— Sec. N.SAV. Police Assoc.
“The foreman of the jury said that the jurors
wished his Honor to know that they dissociated
themselves from Mr. Blank in his remarks about
the police.”
“The arresting constable then called on the crowd
for help. He was knocked down and kicked about
the head, his prisoner escaping. He was treated,
later, at St. Vincent’s Hospital for head injuries
and shock.”
These extracts from Sydney dailies of the
past week or so help to explain the preva-
lence of that gang warfare which mystified
Justice James, according to his summing-
up in a recent mui’der trial. Sydney is the
only Australian city in which the police are
periodically held up to obloquy in the pi-ess
and by defending counsel.
Britain’s metropolitan police force enjoys
greater prestige than any other. The Lon-
don bobby doesn’t even carry a revolver;
he depends for results on the public’s respect
for his uniform, which is so great that in
clashes between the police and Guardsmen
crowds invariably help the police. Yet
London policemen are no better than
Sydney policemen. Their superior status
is due almost entirely to two conventions.
The English press never misses a chance of
advertising their virtues, and Judges protect
them like brothers. Not that they need
much protection in court; an accused per-
son who suggested an attack on the police
as his first line of defence would get an
icy reception from most criminal defenders
in England.
If Sydney does not want to go the way
of Chicago as regards gang warfare and
crime generally, it will have to show a great
deal more loyalty to the men who have the
dirty and dangerous job of protecting the
belongings and lives of the inhabitants.
♦
Why Not a Probate Loan?
Probate is one of the problems of the pro-
pertied person; and the smaller the pro-
perty often the greater the problem. State
probate and succession duties vary ; but in
N. S. Wales Federal and State duties com-
bined call for a minimum of £177 in cash
from an,estate in excess of £5OOO, running
up swiftly to £250 from an estate of
£6OOl, and reaching £Bll4 from one of
£50,001; and in most cases the duties will
actually be highei’ than these minima.
Something very like disaster is facing many
estates which, valued last year for pur-
poses of probate, have now to realise
assets which are almost unrealisable in
order to meet the payments within the
statutory period.
Many a man would gladly relieve both
his trustees and his dependants of anxiety
if he could see a way of doing it. There is
life insurance, of course; but insui'ance is
not always possible, and to one up in years
the cost is very heavy. Actually what he
does in many instances, unable to see any
other way out, is to compromise with his
conscience and make some moi’e or less
bona-fide division of his estate with the
intention of avoiding death duties; and in
most cases he succeeds, to the great loss of
the State.
Bonds issued by the taxing authority are
not acceptable in pajunent of duty; and
that is quite pi’oper, so far as old bonds
are concerned, for it tvould never do to
make a bond pui’chasable at a discount to-
day acceptable at par to-mon'ow. But the
question is whether it is not possible to
make new loans acceptable, restricting the
use of the bonds for this pui’pose to the
estate of the original purchaser. It is quite
true that the Government of some future
date would get bonds instead of money in
payment of duty; also it looks as though the
Government would never be paid in bonds
when the latter w r ere at a premium—they
would always be sold by the trustees and
converted into cash in that case—unless
some special pi’ovision was made. But it
might be just as well to chance all that.
There certainly is a large sum of money
awaiting investment in some security which
will be acceptable at par in payment of
probate duties; and the time was never
so ripe for the Governments to go after it.
There seems no reason why it should not
be made a supplementary provision of the
current loan, so far at least as Federal
probate is concerned.
+
The Cause of Industrial Crises.
“Good old Piddo,” chairman of the N. S.
Wales Industrial Commission, has found
himself once more out of step with his two
colleagues. Said his Honor: —
“The root of the industrial crises in
modern countries is not that there is not
enough wealth produced to provide the indus-
trial population with a decent standard of
living, but that there is widespread in-
equality in the distribution of material things
produced.”
Which is merely another illustration of the
muddled thinking of this well-meaning but
extremely mischievous old gentleman with
his head in the clouds.
“Unequal distribution of material things
produced” has, it is true, caused innumer-
able strikes hitherto. Many a time, and
very rightly, workmen have complained that
they were not getting for their labor a
fair share of what they produced. That
indeed was why industrial arbitration was
brought into being; the intention was that
a Court should go into the question of the
men’s real earnings and make an award
accordingly. But the world's great industrial
crises in these days are not due to strikes
at all. They are due to unemployment.
At the present moment, though there is
scarcely a strike anywhere in Australia,
there is an industrial crisis of exceptional
gravity. The whole trouble is, not that the
employers are grabbing too much of the,
profits, but that there are no profit* for
so many of them to grab—that, in short,
employment could only be continued at a
loss.
And when we seek for a reason why
industry in so many cases can only be
carried on at a loss—in other words, why
men and women are unemployed—we find
that, in this country, at any rate, it is
because industry has been controlled by
well-meaning but muddle-headed old
gentlemen who never carried on an industry
in their lives, and who have fixed basic
and other wages without regard to what
the workmen can earn.
#
The Citizen Who Is Not.
The Italian trouble in North Queensland
has given rise to a good many misunder-
standings. To the Australian not actually
in' touch with the facts it is difficult to
realise why the British-bred objectors
should display such animosity to immi-
grants who have for the most part taken
out naturalisation papers and become mem-
bers of the unions .connected with the sugar
industry. As naturalised Britons they have
every right to equality of status, and for
that reason there has been little sympathy
outside Queensland for the antagonistic
attitude of the local workers and their
unions.
Nevertheless the Italians themselves have
largely contributed to the situation by their
insistence on remaining a people apart
from the community which has found them
shelter, and of which they are. ostensibly
ingredients. It is many years since the first
batch of Italians came to the Queensland
canefields at the invitation of the State
Government. There has been plenty of
time for assimilation, but nothing of the
sort has taken place. The Innisfail dis-
trict, which is the storm centre at present,
is practically a self-contained Italian
colony regarding itself as set down among
aliens, while it is only too evident that
the Italians themselves desire nothing so
much as to maintain their present attitude
of aloofness from their fellow-citizens of
British stock.
The Italian Government itself cannot be
freed from blame. When the Mussolini
regime became firmly seated, the Duce
announced to the world that Italy would
refuse to recognise the naturalisation of
her nationals in other lands. The prin-
ciple has been extended to practice, and
Italians taking out naturalisation papers
in their adopted countries do so with tongue
in cheek, knowing that, the action is only
an outward profession which will permit
them to enjoy all the advantages of a local
citizen without alienating their allegiance
to their native land.
The principle enunciated by Italy, evi-
dently following on the notorious German
tradition, is a negation of international
polity. The obvious remedy is to refuse
naturalisation privileges to the people of
any country making claims of the kind.
It is intolerable that aliens should be per-
mitted to go through a form which enables
them to have a voice in Australian affairs
while still insisting on their right to remain
foreign nationals.
♦
Domestic Loans.
The Commonwealth Loan Council, acutely
aware that unless it makes credit avail -
able to the State Governments the latter
will have to revise their ideas of govern-
ment to an alarming extent, lately decided
that local resources must be tapped. Aparf
from the fact that it was the only way
out of a tight corner, there is a great deal
to be said for the decision or. more far-
sighted grounds.
A nation borrows money not directly
on the security of its assets, which are.
the real and personal property of its citi-
zens, but on the tax-gathering powers of
its Government. As a principle of Com-
mon Law in almost all codes, ancient and
modern, the citizen of a republic or the
subject of a monarch holds his property
and his very life subject to the right of
People or Crown to take any proportion
or all of either. The citizen or subject who
subscribes to a domestic loan knows, there-
fore, that the alternative is the form of
confiscation called taxation.
The rate of interest offered is a fair one
in view of all the circumstances; and,
though such loans inevitably must restrict
the development of domestic industries,
they don’t operate to create an Australian
market for imports competing with our own
manufactures, and they don’t inflate our
currency. Above all, they serve to impress
upon every Australian the homely truth
that he ought to be his own and his coun-
try’s best friend, and that dependence on
outsiders is x a policy that can have no
permanent endurance.


m
: t :
tl
S: 5
f-i
1.-:;
I S
yd
s :•%
F!
Z
0
X ::;!
*
1 I /‘"'""■•••.i
Hr <
i 1
I ' 1.
Y V/,
v ■*’ te.
W r:
v' t
'/• /
' y/,/ y v
•XS&
Mi
"Vs/S/St. \
(A i i
m
i !/;•
\. \ : r 'W ■
L— | -4 / / i! ! iilfi K 4% ? ;
J j I j !
nwiLUf
: ; iAM, %
: :
:f1 #f ] i
> • •'"wZvyy. 'jCy, * ft.
v ;i ;f
,Kjil ;ji» £|L/-
• J * I /'''"wZy*.
e\- : ;.:. \:-....yz/MM'y/
::: CTn. •' "I : ! ?:
:iu.KS5i55Sw
v-. ;
nv ■•'••••
• vm
r//.7/,y/ «
fc;.-.*:j J
U :!
ttf li
v?!%j
irnrfcif
j\f iftjFS
• I -:| I -j i>.
■ •• •• . i U '% A
wm
/ r.i
’C" %!
i ¥M ■/. .$
y.fr
% ! i i
i ::l
: ■%
1{ \ | %(#*%
■ot-ors
SHELL
MAKES
GOOD CARS
BETTER
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Seullidores have brought in another
tariff schedule increasing the duties on 114
articles. It is a necessary step, for the
volume of imports, though greatly reduced,
still exceeds our present capacity to pay for
them; but the Government is inviting the
bitterest criticism by continuing to exempt
cinematograph films, now our worst extrava-
gance in the import line. A report that it
intends to clap a 30 p.c. tax on the Aus-
tralian tribute to Hollywood has been denied.
The only thing wrong with the proposal is
that it doesn’t go far enough. In view of
past cheating the tax should be 50 p.c., not
30 p.c., and it should operate regardless of
whether the money is sent abroad or kept
in Australia.
Uncle Hoover’s new tariff law increases
887 duties and reduces 235. This wasn’t
because Uncle was scratching on the edge
of financial ruin or anything like that, for
he has 4O per cent, of the world’s
gold coin lying superfluous in his banks,
but because he thinks a little more would
do no harm. He may modify his attitude
if some of his best customers adopt tariffs
like his own, and demand concession as the
price of concession, but for the present he
is not at all dissatisfied.
Consul-General Sung, who complains so
much about the White Australia policy and
police raids on pak-a-pu clubs, has found a
new grievance—income-tax forms are not
printed in Chinese. Well, they are Chinese
to 90 p.c. of Australian taxpayers, and the
formulas in which the rates are wrapped
up are in the highest Celestial style. Take
“Velly, velly good Austlalian puzzle."
the Federal puzzle, which says that the tax
on earned income is 3 3-800 d„ for the first
taxable £l, increasing by 3-800 d. for each
additional £, and on income from property
3 l-181.058d. for the first taxable £l, increas-
ing by l-181.058d. for each additional £;
with one super-tax of 8 p.c., another (Theo-
dore’s) of 10 p.c. to 20 p.c., and a five-year
averaging system to complete the conun-
drum. It would delight any mandarin.
The A.W.U. is a queer mixture of putty
and steel. It made a great mistake when it
neglected to discipline its N.Q. canefield
members who kicked over the traces and
didn’t give the industry a fair go. This
was specially foolish because really the
sugar industry is on a very rocky basis.
The simple facts are that, though the export
value of Australian sugar last year was only
£9 17s. per ton, the Australian price was
£26 10s., and the South will not put up
with a burden like that unless it is satisfied
that the North is giving it a fair deal. And
it has to be a fair deal according to the
standards of the South —not of the much
more liberal North.
In the Industrial Court award regulating
cane-cutting in Queensland, a first prefer-
ence is given to men with A.W.U. tickets,
“irrespective of nationality,” who commenced
the previous season’s work on time and car-
ried out their contracts. The odd thing
about the outcry against Italian cutters is
that it is all coming from a party that be-
lieves in internationalism and industrial
arbitration and pacifism and all the copy-
book virtues.
Owing to inability to extract enough
money from the poor to cover expenses,
delegates from the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council won’t take a luxurious trip to Mos-
cow this year, and the Council will have to
content itself with getting its orders from
the Bed International by letter. Pity half
the amount wasn’t raised —enough to take
the delegates one way.
The Hogan Government has decided not to
go on with the proposed new Hawthorn
bridge, but to recondition the
old one. As the Board of
Works has just completed a
temporary bridge, which it
claims is good for 20 years,
Hawthorn will have two bridges
where one would do. The waste
of public money is not viewed
with concern at the Trades
Hall, since unionists were em-
ployed in building the super-
fluous structure.
Once upon a
time the Bank of
New Zealand
waited on the M L.
Government an d
said that if the
Government didn’t
come to the assist-
ance of the bank
at the double there
was going to be an
unholy s m a s h.
Th e Government
helped—on its own
terms, and to-day
owns about half
the bank and has
had a big say in
the management;
the biggest, say, as
a rule. Now the
tables are turned,
and as the result
o f preliminary
talks the Bank of
England is expect-
ing a visit any day
in connection with
Australia’s month-
ly payments of
£2,500,000 in Lon-
don for interest. The
Bank is therefore
sending one of its directors, Sir Otto
Niemayer, this way, accompanied by an
economist and another high official. Presum-
ably their job will be to value the family
diamonds and state the conditions on which
the bank will come to the rescue. As for
Australia, it can reckon itself mighty lucky
that there’s a Bank of England strong
enough and. sympathetic enough to do it on
any terms whatever.
A new low-record forward sale of the
season’s wheat crop was made in Chicago
towards the end of last week —98. cents,
equal to about 3s. 4d. at sidings in Australia.
If the Commonwealth Government’s scheme
for guaranteeing the farmer 4s. goes through,
it looks as though it may cost the general
body of taxpayers anything up to £6,000,000.
and Heaven may know where the money
is to come from. Theodore doesn’t.
Inside the last 14 months there were 47
stoppages at the Tyldesley coalmine, Cullen
Bullen (N.5.W.),. The management was con-
cerned in one of them, the other 46 being
quarrels among the miners themselves. There
is no more sense in coaldusty sons of toil
stopping a mine because some of them dislike
some more of them than in the driver of a
train leaving it abandoned on the rails be-
cause he and the fireman disagree over
religion; but it is hard to explain the point.
Stoppage is a vested interest, which also
used to be the case with the British worker’s
right to beat his wife.
Reckless municipal councils made no small
contribution to the jag which has left Aus-
tralia with a sore head, and some of them
are trying to continue it. While the Com-
monwealth is in the market for £10,000,000
Still doing it.
at 6 p.c., Fremantle is offering 7 p.c. for
£35,000. This rate, it is true, is only a little
more than Brisbane will have to pay for
the million it recently got in America, but
clearly the Loan Council will have to be
lord over municipal, as well as Common-
wealth and State, finance. Particulars of
Bumble’s operations are not as complete and
up-to-date as thev should be, bdt the
“Official Year-book” reports that he bor-
row r ed £7,215,700 in 1927* and he has been a
persistent ©arbiter ever since,
TRAGEDY OF FRUSTRATED AMBITION.
J. SMITH GARDEN : “And I wad ha’ looked prodeegious in that
outfit!”
Before converging on Canberra to place
the case for the gold bonus before Scullin
and Theodore, the mining men from West-
ralia were promised the support of Queens-
land Premier Moore and his Cabinet. They
might have landed the N.S.W. Bavin Govern-
ment also but for the Premier’s illness; his
timid substitute, Buttenshaw, refused to
commit himself, but Weaver, the Minister of
Mines, gave the bonus his blessing. These
Westralian campaigners have made a strik-
ing impression wherever they have gone.
They have put new heart into people old
enough to remember what happened in 1893.
The outlook for sugar gets gloomier and
gloomier. In an average season it is reckoned
that the crop is now 40 p.c. too large for
Australian needs, and in the foreign market
the competition with the black-grown pro-
duct is simply paralysing. During the war
the European beet-sugar production was
knocked endways; but it is now greater
than ever it was. The Philippine production
has been increased from 394,000 tons to
750,000 tons since 1923-24 and in the U.S.A.,
under higher protective duties, Florida is
becoming a big producer. Now a movement
has started on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers
to demand that the price to N.S.W. growers
shall not be slaughtered through over-plant-
ing in Northern Queensland; and the future
generally is full of trouble.
Secession talk in Westralia is far from
being a new thing; in the early days of
the Commonwealth it was a favorite topic
with a few of the old diehard Tories. Occa-
sionally, by way of variation, these quaint
relics would issue an appeal to Forrest to
quit Federal politics and return to his own
people, on the assumption that they were
all longing to have him at the helm again.
Forrest never showed any inclination to
comply with the request, and Walter James,
when Premier in 1904, christened these mal-
contents the “Come-back-Jacks.” After that
little more was heard of them.
Fiji has always been a discontented sort
of place. It imported Hindu coolies, and
blames Downing-street for the result. It
turned against Australia when the Com-
monwealth Government protected Queens-
land bananas, and Maoriland has disengaged
its affections by growing bananas in the
Cook Islands. Now Fiji wants to join up
with Canada. The reply from the hard-
headed Canucks is “What’s the praposi-
tion ?”
Atlee Hunt’s term as Federal Public Ser-
vice Arbitrator has ended at last, and the
Seullidores are not going to fill the vacancy
for a time. If they made another appoint-
ment and the gentleman followed the Atlee
Hunt tradition of free-handed generosity
with the public revenues, union stamp-lickers
and file-keepers would have to be put off as
well as non-union soldiers and sailors, and
that, would never do. Atlee Hunt, as kind-
hearted , as ever considered a claim
for higher pay, became Public Service Arbi-
trator towards the end of 1921-22, and by
June 30, 1928, the salaries of the permanent
staff alone had increased in the mass from
£5,510,600 to £7,989,500. His awards were
largely responsible.
, The opposition of Hausen, the Vic. Direc-
tor of Education, was sufficient to prevent
Julia Flynn being appointed chief inspector
of secondary schools after the trial period
of six months had passed, but' it was not
strong enough to block the permanent
appointment of E. P. Eltham to the chief
inspectorship of tech, schools after four
months’ probation. McPherson, the Public
Service Commissioner, nominated Eltham,
and the Ministry promptly accepted him, and
put the order through at a special Executive
Council meeting. Eltham will carry on as
president of the Apprenticeship Commission
without pay. The net result is that £9OO
a year will be saved in salary.
Westralia’s wheat harvest for 1929-30 is
officially stated at 39,081,183 bushels, which
is more than Cinderella ever produced before.
A creditable achievement, especially as she
topped the list in 1928-29 also; at the
same time it isn’t evidence that AVest-
ralia can support a large population in com-
fort out of wffieat-growing alone. With an
11-bushel average, the agriculturist needs
plenty of acres to work on, and that means
a thin population.
They do some things better in Afrikander-
land. Last week the Riotous Assemblies
Act was given its first airing; a whole dis-
trict in Cape Colony was put under the
ban, and until the proclamation is lifted
anyone speaking out of bis turn is due for
the “tronk.” Further, notice was served on
a Bolshevist just as he was leaving for
Jo’burg that he would be gaoled if he even
visited the place. Australia is the only
country on earth which allows ruffians to
agitate for the overthrow of its institutions,
with universal robbery and murder, and stir
up lawless strikes as a first step.
Ramsay MacDonald has appealed to the
other parties to come to his assistance with
ideas and votes for the reduction of unemploy-
ment, always provided that they don’t want
to protect British industries, and are willing
to back him in abolishing such Protection as
there is. Baldwin naturally won’t co-operate
on these terms, but. Lloyd George rushed at
the offer with bis mouth open, only stating
that he expects in return a measure of elec-
toral reform which will give the Liberals a
better chance next t'ime. This is awkward,
for at last year’s polling the Laborites
secured 27 more seats than the Conserva-
ties with a quarter-million fewer votes, and
though the gross inequality of the electorates
made the Liberals heavy losers a redistribu-
tion might put Labor in a future hole: Still,
the alliance will get Ramsay out of a present
hole if his Welsh ally can bring his party
over with him and provided it stays over.
In seven years to June 30 last N.S.W.
totalisator revenue dropped from £281,817 to
£193,865, and there lias been a further
heavy fall this financial year. On the other
hand the tax on bookmakers’ tickets yielded
£113,126 last year as against £110,128 in
“Put it there, Treasurer Stevens — you’re
the best friend we’ve got.”
1921-22, and after every suburban race meet-
ing the Sunday papers come out with items
like these:—
Bets laid against Veneer tor the first division of
the Trial Stakes included £lOOO to £4OO, £lOOO
to £2OO, £450 to £lOO, £4OO to £lOO, £250
to £5O, £2OO to £5O (four times), £l6O to £4O
and £l5O to £3O.
A lady punter was accommodated with £5OOO to
£2OOO about Curtius for the second division of the
Trial Stakes.
Some of these big wagers are probably exag-
gerated, but exaggerated or not the tote
never gets anything like them, and the
bookie (whose shop brother pays no tax)
is beating it hands down. And the
reason is that the tote punter is grossly
overtaxed. The Government takes 9 p.c.
from the pool and allows the clubs 3J p.c.,
fractions (these amounted to £25,735 in the
latest recorded year) and unclaimed divi-
dends —nearly 14 p.c. altogether. In Eng-
land the tote is beating the bookmaker, but
only 6 p.c. and fractions are deducted there.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Con Tango”: The Mungana (Q.) Com-
mission had to issue a subpoena to enable it
to investigate ex-Premier McCormack’s bank
account; but such compulsion isn’t always
necessary. When “Happy Jack” Scaddan,
now one of Mitchell’s Ministers, was Labor
Premier of Westralia, complaints were heard
from some of the rank and file that he was
becoming too affluent. “Happy’s” retort was
to bring a bank pass-book to a caucus meet-
ing, slap it down on the table and challenge
his calumniators to go through every line of
it, an invitation of which several promptly
availed themselves. After they had expressed
themselves satisfied, party business was re-
sumed as if nothing had happened.
* * =l=
“Sixenate”: Like Judge Curlewis, a
Sydney suburban magistrate loathes slang.
YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
“He’s quite unlike everybody else I’ve met. He’s a man of letters, you know.”
“Well, take my advice and don’t burn any of them.”
He asked a witness tartly, “What do you
mean by saying the defendant w T as on the
ropes?” “I said ’e was on the rocks, y' 'wor-
ship,” witness explained. “On the rocks?’
pursued the magistrate. “Same thing as
bein’ down on the mat, y’ Worship, witness
said. “You know —flat out; nine-ten; no-
thin’ in the kick.” “Wha’, wha’?” exclaimed
iiis Worship, inarticulate in his wrath.
“Sorry you don’ Unnerstan’ a* man,” said
witness benevolently. “I mean ’e ’adn t a
razoo.” His Worship let it go at that.
“Piecrust”: Some of these sparks are
frank enough. A youth giving evidence in a
Melbourne case was asked why he had sud-
denly ceased to walk out with a young
woman. “Well,” lie explained, “I found out
she wasn’t really married.”
* * * *
“G. Moses”: I notice that the poor old
Press has been falling in for reproach
again. It was a Sydney parson named
Raward this time, and he was helped out by
the Manly Methodist Church Choir. Mr.
Raward’s plaint was that the bad things
which happen are published, which was
much too sweeping. Perhaps 99 per cent, of
them are omitted for lack of space, or scar-
city of interest, or absence of discovery. On
the other hand, the good deeds are left m
oblivion, or to quote the parson’s words:
Bigamy, forgery, stealing, assaults, fraud when
that kind of thing occurs everybody reads about it.
But a clerk does not steal his employers
money, a man gives up gambling, a boy cuts free
from bad company.... and nobody reads about that.
Unfortunately the Scripture is in the same
boat as the Press. It drags in a lot ot
characters, and takes one disparaging view
of them, and then drops them. Goliatn
of Gath, for instance, makes his solitary
appearance when he wants to kill somebody,
but his peaceful fireside life at home receives
no mention. And the other giants, who
seem to have been plentiful enough in those
stirring times, get no notice at all, which
proves that they were good and kind,
because if they. had been wicked advertise-
ment would have poured on them. There are
other examples without number. It seems
to me that the Press has been much the
same through the ages, doing its best with
the scanty space at its disposal, recording
the name of, say, Deeming, who killed two
wives, reluctantly leaving out the names
of better men who didn’t kill any wives, and
getting darned little thanks from the Churcli
for its ill-paid efforts.
**' * *
“Gunner”: The need for a gag for gen-
erals, to be applied at the firing of the
last shot in every war, and if possible
earlier, has been demonstrated by Austra-
lia’s John iVlonash, who has had the worst
of an undignified squabble with Billy Hughes.
It is as interesting as it is painful to com-
pare his record as a talker with that of
the self-effacing Brudenell White. Monash’s
passion for getting into the news is the one
weakness which he shares with the dud
generals of the World War—French and
the “national soporific” Joffre, to name two.
Foch and Haig, like White and Chauvel,
never said an unnecessary word for publi-
cation.
* * *
“Oiam”: If the R.S.P.C.A. has a spare
medal it should be pinned on a small form-
nine friend of mine, who, playing on the
sand at Bondi (Sydney), caught a flea alive,
and, clutching it between finger and thumb,
rushed home in desperate haste and deposited
it on the cat.
* * =i= *
“Percy Pawnticket”: It takes habit to
make the meal-supplier the pirate he so
often is; novices in the business are very
often modest. On the road to the southern
highlands (N.S.W.) a party of us decided
to camp before a magnificent view, a smiling
woman at a near-by farmhouse having offered
to serve a meal on the verandah. . And it
was a meal: soup with body in it, bacon
and eggs, cold mutton and mashed potatoes,
apple pie with cream, home-made bread
and cheese and home-brewed ginger-beer.
Delighted with everything, we asked the
pleasant lady to assess the damages. “I hardly
know what to say,” she murmured bashfully.
“You see, I don’t go in much for this sort
of thing, though I’m thinking of doing it
regularlv now, so many motorists are coming
along. * Would a shilling each be too much. ’
“Rufus Baggs”: There was a time when
the Uvw gave us chaps in the back country
a fair chance to more equally distribute
the horses and the sheep, and so make Jus-
tice Piddington happy. Of course, with
the rest of them we gave cheers for the
magnificent mounted police; and so far as
they went they were a very fine mob in-
deed. But they couldn't go very fast or
very far; and there weren’t so many of
them that their movements couldn't be
watched. So, as I say, we had a chance.
But now there’s not a police station in the
Broken Hill division, which includes about
]OO.OOO sq. miles, that hasn’t got a motor
vehicle; in fact, there are only about four
DISPROVED ONE CHARGE, ANYHOW.
“I’m full up of you and your poky flat and your dirty little meannesses. I’m going
back to mother?
“Too mean to live with, am If Well, I’ll show yow-here’s yer tram fare.”
stations that keep a horse on the premises,
and they’re more for use on ceremonial occa-
sions than anything else. Some of the
mounted men have to keep an eye on places
as much as 140 miles from home; and that
takes better eyesight than any Government
can buy for 15s. a day. No wonder if mobs
got a bit mixed sometimes and brands were
occasionally misplaced!
* * *
“Iv. O’Kopo” : Ever heard of a race meet-
ing advertised as being run “by courtesy of
his Lordship the Bishop”? Babaul has;
its King’s Birthday meeting was so
announced. For years the Kokopo Dis-
trict Sports Club has held Three or
four meetings a year at Kinigunan,,
the big plantation property of J. O. Mouton
near Kokopo township, the Randwick of
llabaul—and, in fact, of the entire Territory,
for there is not another course m iNew
Guinea Mouton sold out last year to the
Sacred Heart Mission, which receives prac-
tically nothing from charity. Bishop V es-
ters, the head of the mission, is a jeal
sportsman, and readily agreed ”
being continued on the property undei tne
new regime. ... if
“Ell Gee”: Called upon to Produce a
musical comedy for a country amateur
pany, I found the comedian the mos
ful performer I had ever met. I tried a little
advice: “More life, Mr. Jones ! This is light
comedy; you’re stalking round like s>
blasted undertaker.” For the rest of the
evening an atmosphere of constraint hung
in the room. The comedian was the under-
taker.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Two young men rolled up
to a Nhill (Vic.) garage recently and asked
the proprietor to fill up the tank of a travel -
stained car. He did so smilingly, and when
the visitors drove off without paying, the
smile continued to decorate his face. The
car was subsequently found abandoned near
Narracoorte (S.A.), and its occupants were
traced and arrested. The garage man had
rightly suspected that they were motor
thieves and mixed water with the spirit. That
was why he smiled.
* * * *
“Hiroshi”: He was a regular attendant at
the monthly meetings of our (more or less)
secret society in Wellington (M.L.), ana
he had never failed to catch the last terry
steamer to his home across the harbor; the
wife insisted on that. But this particular
night he was so interested in our proceed-
ings that when he glanced at his watch
he had barely five minutes in which to catch
his boat. He raced madly down the street
to Lambton Quay; and there was the
steamer only a few feet from the wharf.
Taking his courage in both hands, he made
a flying leap and safely alighted, incidentally
knocking old Captain Jones into a crate
of fowls. The skipper took a generous
view of the situation. “It’s all right, he
said, “but you needn’t have been in such a
hurry. I was just coming in.”
* * * *
“Flax”: Lest he should forget that he has
responsibilities to two races, Forbes, the
Maoriland Priminister, received on his acces-
sion to what the Maoris regard as a kingship
a telegram from A. T. Carroll, of Wairoa,
member of the Ngati-Kabungunu tribe,
and relative of Timi Kari (James Car-
roll). The great Kari was of the camp of.
Seddon, who received the blessing _of
George Grey, remembered as a terrible soldier
and a just lawmaker. Seddon, the Maoris
understood. Kari, half of their own blood
and chief and tohunga by laws that cannot
be broken, they understood and loved; Ward
was not so much to their liking, and neither
Massey nor Cofitcs raised their enthusiasm.
To Forbes, with whom many of their race
played Rugby football long ago, they sent
this message: “May the blessing of God
rest on you and your colleagues. Quit ye like
men ; be strong !”
$ * # *
“C.Q.”: A dull day was relieved by the
announcer at Moonee Valley (Vic.) when
Miss Johnson arrived. As the ’plane landed
he shouted, “That’s Amy Johnson with the
yellow nose and the tail.” *
“Denison”: Hobart hospital, which the
B.M.A. declared “black” over 12 years ago,
is once more a union shop. All branches
of the B.M.A. have been notified that mem-
bers are at liberty to accept employment
un der the terms of settlement arrived at
by the hospital board and the local B.M.A.
doctors, and the long-standing advt. in the
“Medical Journal” warning doctors against
accepting positions under surgeon-superin-
tendent Ratten has been cancelled. Dr.
Ratten remains s.-s. at £2OOO .a year, but is
barred from private practice.
HIS FRONT-RANK MAN.
(AN ANZAC MEMORY.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Blime, the cows can’t shoot!” he said,
And ’opped out of the boat;
The wavelets rippled round me ’ead,
Kept by me pack afloat.
“Don’t drink that water, Bill!” ’e cried,
And grabbed me by the ’and,
And lugged me through the flamin' tide,
Until me feet touched land.
“The cows can’t shoot! ’Struth ! Duck yer
’ead!
Too true we’re at the war;
The blinkin’ air’s chock full o’ lead”....
Jest as we reached the shore
’E crumpled up. No word ’e spoke.
“Eh, Jim, come on!” I cried, •
Til-inkin’ ’twas jest ’is silly joke....
I went all queer inside.
“Forward the Tenth!” the captain yells,
But I could only stare,
All in a trance, while screamin’ shells
Went crashing through the air,
I tried to drag ’im up the beach.
“Yer silly fool—Vs dead!”
There came some flamin’ Digger’s screech,
Then all the world went red.
The sea was like a crimson flood,
Beneath that scarlet ’ill,
With rocks and bushes drippin’ blood.
God, but I drunk me fill!
Me bayonet lapped the ruddy stream,
With greedy flashing tongue:
“For Jim ! For Jim !” With frenzied scream
To the red earth they clung.
Jim was me mate —me front-rank man,
In camp and on the ships
’E always ’ad some little plan,
A laugh upon ’is lips.
Oh. I ’ave felt the wings of Death
When many a cobber died ;
But Jim! —me spluttering, out o’ breath —
“The cows can’t shoot!” ’e cried.
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


“Pink Tape” : The biggest bequest ever left
to . the Salvation Army in Australia is still
being awaited by the legatees, though the will
was read font years ago. Joseph Gill, bachelor,
pastoralist and woolbroker, of Melbourne, cut
up for £489,000, of which £40,000 was to
go to his nieces and £400,000 to the Sydney,
.Melbourne and Goulburn branches of the
organisation that W. Booth founded. The
relatives challenged the will on the grounds
that no person was named as recipient of the
Army portion, that Bramwell Booth had
been displaced by Commissioner Higgins as
generalissimo, and that the trusteeship was
an Unsettled question in the Cold Land.
Litigation, is still proceeding, but the Army
authorities in Melbourne are so satisfied that
they will get their portion that they are
already spending it in the imagination. As
Goulburn is to shar'd equally with the two
metropolises, officers in that town will be
hard put to it to find sufficient subjects for
rescue work costing £lOO,OOO or so. Goulburn
has little poverty, and slum areas are con-
spicuous by their absence.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” : Five Cantonese nuns recently
completed a journey which makes Amy John-
son’s flight seem child’s play on the physical
side. The sisters walked from Canton to
Peking and thence to the headquarters of
their faith in Lhassa, over the mighty Kien-
lung range. Worshipping at 70 Buddhist
“stations” on the way, they passed through
bandit-infested country, crossed rivers by
means of ropes, and altogether took 11 years
to cover 5000 miles. The youngest of the
party was 25 and the oldest 77, but this is
not what makes the feat remarkable. They
all did it on the typical Chinese bound feet.
❖ ❖ ifc :S:
“D ” : The president of Queensland’s new
British Preference League said recently:—
The lower living standards of Italians represent a
definite challenge to our race, and unless the tide
is stemmed the superior living conditions of Aus-
tralians must crash to destruction.
As one who has visited most parts of the
world and taken a keen interest; in the eat-
ing and drinking habits of foreigners, I
would say that the Italians here live better
than we do, and pay loss for it. At an Italian
restaurant in Sydney I can have a dish for
half of what I pay for it at one of the
Australian hotel-restaurants near by. I
ENCOURAGING THE BOY.
“That’s, the . wench for you, my lad.”
Dad, it's no good—l always feel so sheepish when she’s near.”
Gad, boy, you don’t think women want wolves, do you? They’re lookinq for some-
thing they can shear.”
drink Australian wine with my meals for
preference. I can have it sent, in at this
place, which makes my drink expenditure
small. Coffee—real coffee—is included At
an Australian hotel-restaurant a 2s 3d.
bottle of Chablis costs 4s. 6d. For a half-
pint of lager the charge is 9d., and the wine-
waiter expects 3d. Coffee—invariably bad—
is extra. And the. waitress looks for a 25
p.c. tip. Roughly, it costs twice as much to
eat and drink in a restaurant of this class as
in an Italian one; and the food, to one of
cosmopolitan tastes, isn’t nearly as attrac-
tive. It is the same in private life. Poor
Italians, of whom I know several, under-
stand the arts of cooking, wine-drinking,
colfee-making, etc., as well as rich Britishers
and Americans, and get what they want
cheaply; many Australians are satisfied to
pa*y high prices for badly-bought and -cooked
meals, parboiled vegetables and stewed tea.
Our “high standard of living’’ is largely a
misnomer; it should be “high standard of
leisure.” You never see Italians in bars,
though all of them drink, and some heavily;
the liquor there is too expensive.
* * * *
“P.H.”: “Uramao’s” statement that a
Maorilander, Major Brandon, was the first
man to bring down a German Zeppelin
should have been qualified with “in Eng-
land.” On June 7, 1915, Lieut. Wa?rneford,
V.C., a Canadian, attacked at German Zep-
pelin in Belgium, and from a height of 6000
feet dropped six bombs which completely
destroyed it. Warneford was killed a few
days later while testing a ’plane in Paris.
* $ * •.):
“Spot”: A motor caravan fitted up as a
pub has arrived in England. Scouts are
sent ahead to villages and towns, and drink
is sold out of legal hours and all day on
Sunday, to the delight of the thirsty and
the bafflement of the licensing authorities.
The thing is claimed as an innovation, but
Chesterton used the idea in his “Flying Inn.”
Also grog-carts used to be familiar in out-
back Australia —they were known as bum-
boats on the Westralian goldfields.
* * * *
“Cagi Laba”; The Fijian native has a
strong anchor on life. During a recent
hurricane a cutter was wrecked at Wakaya.
Two of the crew got away on a small raft.
One of them hung on for four days and then
fell off, but the other, named Taniella, hung
on for another seven days and was picked
up at Nai Rai, 40 miles from where the
vessel was wrecked. During his 11 days
of drifting Taniella was exposed to a heavy
breaking sea and a fierce tropical sun and
had no food or drink. Though much
emaciated, he is slowly regaining his strength
in hospital.
* * * *.
“Bildad” : Divorce has become very much
a matter of course in N. S. Wales. The
Ma State has the most accommodating of
the Commonwealth’s half-dozen mixed sys-
tems, but still that system is open to improve-
ment —there is a streak of hypocrisy about
it which repels me. In a recent case, where
the streak was well developed, the lady
asked for relief on the plea that adultery
had been committed at some time or times,
within a space of two years or more, with
some female believed to be a woman, or with
several females, name or names unknown,
at Brighton ( no exact address given) and
at places unspecified. There was no de-
fence, and the case went through. It is
hardly worth while to besmirch the charac-
ter of an unknown female, or male either,
when a mere lay figure is wanted. As good
a form as any would be “My wife versus
me, herself co-respondent.” In other words
she might double the parts.
* * *
“Bad Australian”: The glory departed
from Castlemaine (Vic.) when the gold
petered out, and the oid town is now only a
shadow of what it was when Jimmy Patter-
son was king and Professor Pearson shed
the glory of his erudition on the people; but
it is still able to set an example to more pre-
tentious places. It is about to spend £3500
on the erection of an art gallery. Building
will start in July. W. J. Mit.chell heads the
list of local subscribers with £5OO, and the
State Government, though frightfully hard
up, has promised another “monkey.” Castle-
maine has lost none of its ability to score off
the public treasury, no matter what party
holds the purse-strings.
“Meteren”: Those war-books of the Wanes
remind me of a batch of girls we yarned with
un a leave boat crossing the Channel., One
of them spoke bitterly of the Tin Gods,
having, it seems, been obliged at an early
breakfast to share a teacup with others.
“Would you Australians stand it?” she asked
Our minds went back to jagged milk-tins be-
ing passed round for a mouthful of some-
thing warm, but Lofty interrupted these
reflections. “Perfectly disgustin’,” he said.
“We wouldn’t stand it in the A.I.F. Do you
know, girls, they sacked our sergeant cook
for sendin’ our tucker into the line without
fingerbowls.” The aggrieved one stared hard
at him; then she picked up her traps and
ushered her chums down aft.
* * * *
“Mudros”: “D.” (B. 14/5/’3O) may be
right about the gender of the present-day
POACHING ON HIS PREROGATIVES.
“What did you leave Dobkinson’s for?”
“I made a mistake.”
“Bad?”
“Oh, the worst a typist can make. I let the boss see one of the clerks kissing me!
chain-smoker, but the heaviest fag-consumer
of my acquaintance is a male who sucks in
the gases from over 20ft. of gasper per day.
The theory that the consumption of feminine
nose-warmer is in inverse ratio to the square
of her beauty may also be correct, but the
loveliest girl I ever knew smoked over 60
fags a day. She drove a motor-ambulance
in darkened London during the war, and
inhaled cigarette smoke to steady her nerves.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Lex”: The spectacle of the only son of
one of N.S.W.’s richest landlords going
through the Bankruptcy Court emphasises
the difference between the English and Aus-
tralian attitude towards real estate. Under
the feudal systems of primogeniture and
entail which govern inheritance
in great English families, the
eldest son takes everything.
With us sons and daughters share
and share alike, as a rule—which
accounts for the disappearance
of so many Australian families
that led “society” half a century
ago, or less. In England the
eldest son of a landed pro-
prietor can borrow freely on
post-obits. Until a recent
amendment in the British
moneylending Act, schoolboys
of 14 and 15 were deluged with
circulars from accommodating
Hebrews with Scotch names
offering up to £5OOO “on their
note of hand alone.” In Aus-
tralia the post-obit business has
been virtually killed by a law
empowering Equity Courts to
cut interest to the bone. This
does a lot to. prevent the raising
of money on expectation under
wills, even when the borrower
insures and the testator is very
old and decrepit. The custom
of putting estates in trust in-
serts another spoke in the len-
der’s wheel. If a beneficiary
borrows, the trustees can with-
hold income, and have been
known to do it. The money-
lender’s only hope in Australia
where a defaulting client has
borrowed on a post-obit is to
threaten bankruptcy in the
hope that the family will pay
up. In cases where (1) the
client has nothing, (2) the
family pays, (3) the family
refuses to pay, nothing more is
heard of the matter. Where a
debtor is bankrupted it means,
as a rule, that he has, at least, some assets
of which the petitioning creditor is deter-
mined to have his rightful whack.
* * * *
“Sol M.”: The erudite “S. M. Herald”
had a leading article in its issue of June 14
on early navigators hereabouts, and put in
the remark that “the Spanish, the Dutch,
the Portuguese seem each in turn to have
almost stumbled on Australia, only to step
aside at the last moment.” That of course
left Captain Cook to make the immortal dis-
covery, and So the long period of early Dutch
exploration on the coasts of New Holland,
Tasmania and “Statenlandt,” as Tasman
christened Maoriland in the days when
Charles I. was king, is blotted out agaiu.
More remarkable even than the Australian
public debt are the delusions of big Austra-
lian papers about the history of their own
country.
“Chevroford” : A young man caused some
excitement in Dandenong-road, Melbourne,
by rising from a sitting posture on a motor-
cycle travelling at 45 m.p.li. and placing
both feet on the seat. Then he released
the handle-bars and stood upright, finally
raising both hands above his head. At this
point he and the motor-cycle violently parted
company, and when he recovered conscious-
ness lie was in a hospital wai’d. The
vehicle continued its career towards an
intersection, with a 16-year-old flapper, who
had been sitting in the sidecar, in sole com-
mand. She climbed into the seat and tried
to turn the machine away from the inter-
section, but it overturned. There was no-
thing the matter with her when picked up
beyond a few leg bruises, but the adventure
cost her sheik a matter of £5.
* * * *
“10-2-4” : Sydney “News,” winding up a
series of uncomplimentary remarks about
High Commissioner Ryrie:—
Australia is as much in a mist as to his quali-
fications for the job as three years ago.
Speaking as one who watched him in action
in London for about a year, I would rate
this as bunkum. Ryrie may be “perfunc-
tory,” “platitudinous” and all the other
things the “News” says, but London likes
him. With the exception of George Reid
he is the most acceptable High Commis-
sioner we ever sent there, and neither Bruce
nor Theodore would do half as well, though
they would certainly not drop half as many
bricks. Ryrie, with his burly figure, fight-
ing face, and yarns about horses and soldiers,
is the Australian of every mitravelled Eng-
lishman’s dreams. A kind of rough-hewn
Roosevelt.
* * >i= *
“Whistle”: Train speeds? The Tuesday-
morning special from Sydney to Canberra
does the Moss Vale-Goulburn run, 50 miles,
in 68 minutes. The “Fish” train to the
Mountains streaks over the 34 miles to Pen-
rith in 47 minutes.
❖ * * *
“Gully Wind”: Let us 'stop talking and
get back where we belong—back 300 years,
to Tom Mun and commonsense. Not many
moderns are acquainted with Tom, and likely
enough no member of any of the seven Gov-
ernments snowed under with lOU’s has even
heard of him. He was a merchant born in
London in 1571, and died in 1641. He en-
gaged successfully in international trade, and
wrote for his son a book on the subject. The
title-page goes this way:—
England’s Treasure by Forraign Trade. Or the
Ballance of our Forraign Trade is the Rule of our
Treasure. Written by Thomas Mun, Merchant of
and now published for the Common Good
by his son John Mun, of Bearsted, in the County of
Kent, Esquire.
Firstly, in enumerating the qualifications
that ought to be possessed by those who pro-
pose to engage in international trade, the
author mentions arithmetic —the science
which teaches that two and two won’t ma<ke
five. In another paragraph the motif of the
treatise is expounded :
The means to increase our wealth is by foreign
trade, wherein we must ever observe this rule:
To sell more to strangers yearly than we consume
of their value. For suppose that when this Kingdom
is plentifully served with' cloth, lead, tin, iron, fish
and other native commodities, we do yearly export
the overplus to foreign countries to the value of
£2,200,000, by which means we are enabled to
bring in £2,000,000 of their goods. We may rest
assured that this Kingdom will be enriched yearly
£200,000 because that part of our stock which is
not returned to us in wares must necessarily be
brought home in treasure.
Throughout the point is stressed that the
whole object of foreign trade should be to
increase the stock of gold in the nation,
always remembering that in the hour of
trouble it is the last gold piece that wins.
Doubtless copies of the work could be pro-
cured in London; but any bookseller pro-
posing to land a supply would be well advised
to ascertain whether or not Mr. Forde would
regard the work as an offensive publication.
WINTER WEIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
■Winter girl, bomuffed and furred,
Are you somehow to be stirred
By my shivering advance?
Unapproachable you seem
As the shadow of a dream,
Or a maid of old romance.
Winter girl, are you the free,
Frivolous, untrammelled she
That in summer once I met?
Now you seem remote and chill
As the frigid stars, until
Warmer moments I forget.
Winter girl, securely wrapped,
Trimly cloaked and closely capped,
Triple-guarded you appear.
In the name of noses blue,
ITow is one to get at you
Through such coverings austere?
Winter girl, I catch your eye,
Warm blue as the summer sky....
So I fling in Winter’s teeth
Doubts he sent to tease my mind;
Now I know that I shall find
You’re the same girl underneath.
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


AT THE PALACE AT CANBERRA.
THEODORIA, QUEEN OF SHEBA: “It’s no good, Jim, old man. I’ve made all the savings you told me to, get work.”
KING JIM SCULLIMON: “I’m afraid, then, Theo, we’ll have to get rid of some of this magnificence. We may even have to tell a few of tese faithful slaves be to get work."
SHODOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Diggers will find plenty to criticise in
the talkie version of “All Quiet” at Sydney
Royal. Most of the older characters talk
English and look German; all the younger
ones talk American and wear long hair.
No one goose-steps or strafes the English m
the Germany of 1914, and at the front
towards the end of ’l7 there are no gas-
masks, klaxons, gas-curtains for dug-outs,
tanks, derelict or otherwise, roadside heavies,
dead horses, pill-boxes, batteries in action
o r corduroy
roads.
The back
area scenes
miss what was
their most
insistent fea-
ture through-
out the war,
and the one
that. always
impressed it-
self first 'on
men return-
i n g from
leave the
ever - surpris-
ing intimation
that the inter-
national in-
sanity was
still going for-
ward in the
shape of an
endless line of
smoke by day
and fire by
night along
the distant
YOLA D’AVRIL,
in “All Quiet on the
Western Front"
hilltops. The landscapes are constricted;
there is no wide vista such as the
Allies looked down on for so long from
Tor Top and the ridge behind Armentieres
on the Ypres sector, and from the vantage-
points of the Somme. And the German's
enemies are all French, though during most
of 1917 the French Army was practically
immobilised and the attacking was being
done by crack British and Dominions for-
mations. .
But, giving all the anomalies m, this is
the best and siqeerest picture that Sydney
has seen, and the only one that tells how
men really fought and died during the w_ar.
It has no story, no beginning, no end--
which is supremely right. Paul and his
doomed friends appear first in _ the school-
room of the eloquent old patriot who, in
every war and country, makes it his busi-
ness to expatiate on the privilege of meet-
ing a hero’s end. The sergeant who next
takes charge of them is also true to t^pe—a
roaring desperado at home, but nothing of
the sort in Flanders. They reach the:
trenches. From now on till Paul goes on leave
the play is a war-pageant, in which there
is no place for pity. At home he meets his
mother again, and the one and only touch
of pathos creeps in. Beryl Mercer s. lines
are few and commonplace,, but she instils
a world of patient misery and foreboding
into them. He also meets the elderly
mouth-fighters who are winning the war with
maps over their drinks, and disgust drives
him back to his unit. So he meets his futile end.
As in all American pictures, the casting
is superb. Louis Wolheim’s Katczinsky is
a gem. He is the immemorial private sol-
dier —cheery, ribald, drunken, self-sacrificing,
strong, cunning and fearless; worth a dozen
men of higher mentality and finer suscepti-
bilities. Lewis Ayres makes a very human
boy of Paul, and a hideously realistic piece
of silent acting is supplied by the portrayer
of a Frenchman whom he kills, and whose
face assumes the “grin of death while he
watches it. * * *
All Paramount’s Westerns are good, and
“The Texan, 1 ’ now at Sydney Capitol, is
better than most. Gary Cooper s latest
medium for expressing sombre charm in terms
of healthy criminality has an exciting plot,
an entirely original sheriff, and the mother
of a regained son who. while as fluttenngly
tearful as most ladies in her position never
becomes mawkish. On this occasion the tall,
lean star is Enrique, “the Llano Aid,
wanted for robbing a stage coach and shoot-
ing a gambler who has carelessly dealt five
aces at cut-throat poker. A blacksmith who
shoes the horse on which the slayer has
escaped is the local sheriff. James Marcus
makes an absorbing character of this frowsy,
pot-bellied old hymn-bellower. The sheriffs
conversation is entirely made up of tags from
the Bible, and very appropriate most ot them
are He assures Enrique, on being disarmed
and informed of his customer’s identity, that
the Lord will bring them together again in
His own good time, and the prophecy proves
to be correct.
On the train which the fleeing outlaw sub-
sequently boards is one Thacker, played as a
bounding Yankee undesirable by Oscar Appel
—another admirable study. The two become
acquainted as an outcome of the _ theft or
Thacker’s railway ticket by Enrique, no
action being too shabby for our hero at this
stage of his career. It is when Thacker in-
troduces him to Senora Ibarra as her lost
son that his innate nobility of soul is mani-
fested. Efe has hardly had time to find out
that he loves Fay Wray as Consuelo, and
resolve to sin no more, when the Biblical
sheriff arrives to arrest him. The battle m
the grounds of the senora’s hacienda between
Thacker and his hirelings, who are after the
old lady’s treasure, and Enrique _ and the
sheriff, who combine to defend it, is magni-
ficently staged. Indeed, the whole of the
scenic effects are beyond praise, and most ot
the acting is equally effective. It is an odd
circumstance that of the four classes ot
talkies with which America chiefly deluges
Australia —Islands, Gangsters, Back-stagers
(orNakeds) and Westerns—the last-named
are the least-esteemed by the critics. Yet in
the things that matter artistically—story,
photography and character-acting they are
usually the hest.
# # #
One of these days the public will realise
that pictures like “Show of Shows
(Warner Bros.), now at Melbourne Princess,
are collections of vaudeville turns no better
and often considerably worse than the mixed
bills that used to be presented at the Tivoli
in the flesh a year or so ago. The songs
and dialogue
of “Show of
Show's” are
mediocre, i f
not downright
puerile, an d
entirely deli-
vered through
the na.s a 1
organ. Young
m e n ~ wit li
guitars sing
y C ar ningly
about love
and the moon
in those
a s t o unding
voices which
are neither
male nor
female, but
W'hich seem to
belong to a
new sex not
mentioned on
census papers,
though it
may have to
DOLORES COSTELLO ,
in "Show of Shows.”
be'some day. Young women, colloquially
known as pep artistes, throw- themselves
about the screen, and occasionally clean out
of it. An army of chorines dance intricately
before elaborate scenery in displays of organ-
ised vulgarity. These are the
factory items of the lot. Although no
expense is spared in their production, when
the camera-man stands far enough away to
take in the whole scope of the ensembles, the
figures and faces become fuzzy. when he
gets up close the effect is of excessive over-
crowding. In neither position does the
observer get the sensation of abounding life
and vitality a Williamson ballet used to
supply.
“Ringin’ in the Bathtub” may have
cost a small fortune in sanitary appliances
but it is as witless as a mayoral speech ot
welcome to Amy Johnson. A soliloquy by
John Barrymore from “Henry the Sixth
a plav written by an English guy named
Shakspeare—stands out like an artistic Gib-
raltar from the ocean of inanity.
# V X
“Atlantic,” previewed at Melbourne State
and to be shown at the Majestic, is the third
notable British film that Australia has seen ot
late. “Splinters” was distinguished by being
the first war film with no female in the ca*st,
and no sloppy love-story. “Rookery Nook
w T as remarkable-for being brilliantly runny
without being sentimental. Both scored box-
office triumphs. “Atlantic” may not do like-
wise, but it is better than either of them.
It stands on its own since “Chang and
“Grass” through its deliberate attempt to
emplov the screen as an a<rt m _ itself, and
not as the medium for a conventional story.
The incident depicted—it is only an inci-
dent —is obviously derived from the pre-
war tragedy of the Titanic. It doesn t worry
about following that exactly. The Titanic hit
a ’berg in an attempt to break the trans-
atlantic record on her maiden voyage by
taking the shortest route through ice-infested
waters. She sank in a few minutes and
her list prevented most of her boats being
launched. In this case the great liner ha*
only enough boats to accommodate the women
and children.
The outstanding feature is the use of sound
in its most intelligent application —as a
means of deepening the sense of impending
tragedy. Behind the intrigues of a wife with
another woman’s husband, the chatter ot
loungers in the smoke-room . and the
whispers of lovers is heard the diapason of
the ship’s engines. The intrigues and
romances are only subsidiary themes —they
are overshadowed by the greater motive and
there is no attempt to take them to a
logical but irrelevant conclusion. The
engines stop and go astern, sailors are heard
shouting, the wireless buzzes, rockets whistle
into the sky and panic begins to spread
amongst the passengers. At a marine court
inquiry some exception might be taken to
the details of the final plunge, but there
is no doubt about itsi dramatic quality. Pity
and terror are the dominant impressions.
The chief blemish is the slow tempo
of the acting. Franklyn Dyall is the centre
of the human interest. He is obviously sup-
posed to be W. T. Stead, here represented as
s> helpless invalid. He follows stage tradi-
tions of acting, as do Ellaline Terriss,
Francis Lister. John Longden and others.
But the faults are submerged in an outstand-
ing picture.


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon .'or dinner a
la carte from 1/6.'; 'lnclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £‘3/13/6 weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
x St.Geor^e
xNsto
-the Paste with
the Oyster flavour
Made from the world-famous,
luscious Stewart Island
oysters. St O'orge “OYSTO”
is a daintily flavoured oyster
paste that will provide, as a
relish dr for sandwiches, that
‘something different’ for which
you are eternally seeking.
Just try it. From all grocers.
Delicious Oyster Soup, too,
can be easily made from
‘OYSTO’ paste. Instructions
on wrapper.
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, New Zealand. 4
gIJREAU OF LITERARY SERVICE.—
Authors’ MS. helpfully criticised and
advised upon. Work introduced to English,
American and Australian Publishers. Fee
2 guineas. Address: Secretary, Room 7,
Floor 11, Kembla Building, Margaret Street,
Sydney. JOHN RUTHERFORD, Principal.
TRY BROKEN HILL.
You should see the travellers flocking
to Broken Hill,
And the Winter Sales booming.
Adelaide and Sydney people say
“You Are Lucky Here.”
W’ell, join in the luck. Get on to
Broken Hill money through
“The Barrier Miner.”
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Veteran sportsman Lance Stirling has
been unanimously given another lease of the
president’s chair in S. A. Leg. Council. He
lias been 40 years in Parliament, and nearly
29 years President; and, till doctors kept him
Uway for part of the last session, he had
never failed to be in his place at every sitting
of the Upper House.
A. W. Wheen, the former Sydney Rhodes
scholar who did “All Quiet on the Westerh
Front” into English, has now translated
“Four Infantrymen on the Western Front,
1918,” from the German of Ernst Johannsen.
Wheen saw a great deal more fighting in
France than the author of “All Quiet.” He
was the only man in the A.I.F. to be
awarded a Military Medal with two bars.
Wynnum, at the mouth of the Brisbane
River, has raised a cairn memorial to
Kitchener; it was unveiled on the fourteenth
anniversary of his death in the North Sea.
When in Queensland on his tour of Aus-
tralia, the grim Field-Marshal looked on at
a great review of State troops. The cairn
stands on the site where he took the salute.
More than 30 former chief presi-
dents of the A.N.A. in Victoria are still
on deck. Tommy O’Callaghan, the oldest
chief, who was appointed in 1877, is more
than half-way through his eighties. Speaker
Alex. Peacock and George Wise, ex-P.M.G.,
who had turns in the chair last century, are
still busy men. The same applies to ex-
Federal Minister Hume Cook, J. M. A. Cal-
laghan, A. A. Peverill and Arthur Robinson.
The association will celebrate its diamond
jubilee at Warrnambool in March, 1931.
The N.S.W. Assembly lost an esteemed
and hard-working member in Bryce Craw-
ford Walmsley, who died at Lindfield with
tragic suddenness on Saturday. Born
SAM WALDER,
of Sydney.
at Port Adelaide 49 years ago he spent his
boyhood at Albury and came to Sydney in
1902 to practise his profession of accountant.
Besides being a staunch churchman —lie was
honorary treasurer of St. Stephen’s Presby-
terian Church in Phillip-street—he always
showed a keen interest in politics, and in
1927 he entered Parliament as Nationalist
member for Lane Cove. A good debater and
close reasoner, liis speeches always com-
manded attention in the House, and he
seemed marked out for early promotion.
Professor K. S. Bailey has been trans-
ferred from the chair of Jurisprudence to
that of Public Law at Melb. Uni., the latter
having been established from the endowment
of £BO,OOO provided out of the Law Courts
library fund. Bailey is an old Wesley Col-
lege boy, and after taking a hand in the
Big Scrap became a Vie. Rhodes Scholar.
Few men can boast a closer and longer
knowledge of Westralia’s eastern goldfields
than Bernard
Leslie; Mayor
of Ivalgoorlie
and member
of the gold-
bonus delega-
tion. It goes
back to the
early ’nineties,
wh e n men
flocked to iCool-
gardie from
all parts of
Australia and
many parts of
( lie w o r 1 d.
Leslie began
as a prospec-
tor and miner
in . the north-
ern districts —
g e n e rically
“M u 1 galand”
—and it was
no a r 1 y 20
years before
he settled in
Ivalgoorlie as
s t o ckbroker,
business man
and holder of
numerous civil’
offices. With
hi s pictur-
esque facial
upholstery lie
almost seems
to have stray-
ed out of the
past into the
pres e n t
smooth -- faced
g e n e ration ;
one of the
English jour-
nalists wh o
w ere here
with the
CLAUDE ALBO DE
BERN ALES, who is
leading the gold-bonus
petitioners to Canberra.
Prince of Wales in 1920, after a trip
to Ivalgoorlie, declared that the dispenser
of municipal hospitality reminded him of
Velasquez’ “Portrait of a Spanish Gentle-
man.”
Dr. ,T. Giles, who died in Auckland the
other day at 97, played many parts in his
time. He had been medical practitioner,
Crimean army surgeon, pioneer settler, gold-
miner, newspaper editor and magistrate, and
this didn’t exhaust the list of occupations.
A native of Somerset, he was study-
ing medicine when the Allies declared war
on Russia in 1854, and off he set for Scu-
tari, where he was associated with Florence
Nightingale during the melee. He edited
one of M.L.’s first papers, the “New
Zealander,” and later spilled much ink at
Nelson. Later still he served as magistrate
till his retirement from the Bench in 1898.
Harold Delf Gillies, who collected a
knighthood in England the other day, is
known to many as “The Sidcup Wizard”
on account of his wonderful work in plastic
surgery. He was born in Dunedin (M.L.),
46 years ago, and is the son of a N'orth
Otago pioneer, an old-time M.P. In his
younger days he rowed for Cambridge ami
played golf for England against Scotland.
After the war he became chief plastic sur-
geon at the Hospital for Facial Injuries at
Sidcup, Kent. His reputation is world-wide;
he received the. thanks of the King of Den-
mark in 3924 for his work among the
injured in the explosion aboard the Danish
cruise.r Geyser, the Danish naval authori-
ties having summoned him expressly from
England.
When the famous Einstein gave a lecture
at Nottingham (Eng.) before a gathering
that included a muster of Britain’s intelli-
gentsia, anxious to hear the relativity
man’s views firsthand, it was Dr. Henry
Brose who interpreted his remarks from
the German. Brose is a native of Adelaide
who went from Prince Alfred College to the
local Uni. and won a Rhodes scholarship
in 1913. He was a civilian prisoner in Ger-
many during the war, and filled in time by
.studying the Einstein theory on its native
heath. Four years ago he was a lecturer
in Sydney Uni.; since then he has been
assistant-professor of physics in University
College, Nottingham.
“Momus”: The late Lord Glendyne, who
was for years London stockbroker tp all the
Dominions and most of the Grown colonies,
started life as Robert Nivison. and when
I knew him first he was in the Bill Depart-
ment of the London and Westminster Bank.
He was a small, sandy-haired Scotchman
who hid his vitality under a mask of silence.
He had very little capital when he joined
the London Stock Exchange, but he soon
became a leading underwriter of British
and Colonial Government issues. Since 1890
he is said to have floated one thousand mil-
lion pounds of loans, and, considering the
number of them lie renewed, he must have
dealt in three times that amount of money.
His close friend on the London Stock
Exchange was the late Sir Robert Inglis,
wdio was chairman for 16 years; Robert’s
brother, James or “Tiger” Inglis, was well
known in Sydney as Minister of Education
in one of the Parkes Ministries and better
known as the man who first packed a*nd sold
“Billy” tea. Lord Glendyne was a staunch
friend of Australian Governments and
Agents-General, and his place will be hard
to fill.
Adelaide Jewry’s G.O.M. is M. J. Solo-
mon. At 87 he is president of the Hebrew
congregation, a position he first held 59
years ago, and one to which he has been
elected unopposed for the last 17 years. His
uncle ran a trading brig which brought the
family from Queensland to Adelaide in the
late ’forties. Solomon’s father was one of
Adelaide’s early mayors. A brother, Yaiben,
was Premier for a week at the end of last
century; another, Colonel B. Solomon, was
S.A.’s Chief Military Censor during the war.
“Binduli”: When “Texas” Green won the
Ivalgoorlie State seat in 1911, and quitted
the work of issuing postal notes and orders
for the less strenuous job of making laws,
his new-found constitutents, or the Labor
section of them, gave him a banquet and
a gold watch and chain. 1 was there, and I
can still see the beaming guest, as the new
timekeeper was handed to him with the
usual professions of esteem, tearing a bat-
tered Waterbury w r ith a shabbier guard from
liis vest pocket, and jocularly gesturing as
if he would hurl them from him into the
outer darkness of Hannan-street before he
proudly girded on liis new possessions. He
went on to say that it was the proudest
moment of his life, and that he would never
desert Ivalgoorlie. And, in a way, he never
has, although it could hardly have been
within liis wildest dreams at that period
that Ivalgoorlie would make a Common-
wealth Minister of him, for Charley Frazer,
who was 10 years Green’s junior, was un-
assailable for the division, and Hugh Mahon,
who succeeded Frazer, would have had an
equally safe seat for life if he hadn’t man-
aged to get expelled from the House of
Reps.
Rome recently celebrated the golden
jubilee of Father J. A. Moran, the Aus-
tralian assistant of the Superior-General of
the Marist Society. Born in Australia in
1858, he spent most of his early years in
Maoriland; returning to Dublin with his
parents, he was educated at the Catholic
University School and Dundalk College.
Joining, up with the Marist Fathers in 1877
he was on the staff of the University School,
and rose from the rectorship of Dundalk to
liis present job.
Sydney’s City Council has just been
resurrected after being in the deodoriser
GEORGE PARKES.
for 21 years ;
and the' most,
p i c t uresque
new alderman
i.s_ a nephew
of the State’s
most pictur-
esque states-
man. George
Parkes ha s
points of
strong resem-
blance to the
great Henry.
Like h i s
nuc 1 e, th e
nephew is a
big, heavy
m an, with
plenty of con-
li dene e i n
himself; but
George is
clean - shaven,
wher e a s
Henry’s beard
flew in the
breeze, an d
the old man had
a thin voice,
high - pitched,
wher e a s
George’s is
large and
vibrant. The
address of each
i s Fan Icon-
bridge. The old
man is buried in
the Mountain
village that he
loved; George
admiringly hoisted the name over his home
at Mosman. He has spent most of the work-
ing hours of his life as a shipping agent.
Don Cameron, the new president of the
Vic. Trades Hall Council, is recognised as
the best debater in local Labor circles. He
is one of the executive of the Tramways
union, though he started life as a plumber In
Westralia. Regarded nowadays as a mild
and philanthropic socialist, during the anti-
DON CAMERON.
conscription campaign in the West lie raised
considerable heat by his speeches on the
Esplanade in Perth, after one of which lie
was chased off his soapbox, and only
saved himself from the anger of the mob by
seeking the sanctuary of the conservative
Weld Club.
F. J. Berge, Resident Magistrate of the
South-Eastern Division of Papua, who was
drowned with several other Europeans, in-
cluding four of his children, by the capsizing
of a motor-launch between Port Moresby
and Kcrema, in the Gulf of Papua, was a
Queenslander. An original Anzac, he served
with the 25th Battalion, rising to the rank
of lieutenant. A brother, Stewart Berge,
is a well-known Queensland police magis-
trate. A heroic incident of the tragedy was
the saving of Mrs. Berge by some of the
vessel’s native crew after a nine-hours’
struggle with the tremendous seas of the
Gulf. There have been many similar in-
stances of this devotion by native employees;
the most notable was the rescue of
Captain Barton, then Governor of Papua,
with several of his party when a whale-boat
was capsized off Orokolo, not far from the
scene of the latest disaster. The late R.M.
was only 40, and was transferring to another
post.
Passed out at 94, Tom Connolly, a Queens-
land pioneer who came out from Dublin
with his parents in the early ’fifties. He
first struck Rockhampton in 1860, and after
years of teamfetering, on the roads, returned
there to become a hotelkeeper and Mayor of
the city. There was. one experience he never
tired of relating. When he was up
at the Apis Creek hostelry, proprietor
Christie offered him a timber contract. He
turned the offer down, thus losing his
chance of having a real live bushranger for
a boss, Christie being none other than Frank
Gardiner.
.T. S. Goode, the Russian journalist who
recently gave The Bulletin a brilliant
glimpse through foreign eyes of an Austra-
lian Labor conference, has been appointed
instructor in his native tongue to Melbourne
University. Goode, who had an English
mother, is a man of many parts. Before the
Bolshevik revolution drove him out of his
country he Was a leading translator of Eng-
lish works, and had written plays of his
own, although he began life as an engineer.
He is president of the Overseas Journalists’
Association of Australia and a correspon-
dent in several languages for European
newspapers.
Passed out in Launceston at 67, Michael
Hannah, who crowded a deal of money-
making into his 40 years in the Speck. A
native of Lebanon, Syria, he landed from
Melbourne with a hawker's pack. Within a
year or so lie was boss of a score or two
of his countrymen, who did the hawking
while lie provided the goods. Later he turned
his attention to mining, and at his death
was the owner of many shows. Not long ago
he got £ll,OOO from English investors for
the Paul’s River tinmines, but they turned
out a dud. Michael also owned a few
racehorses. He left no relatives in Australia.
THE GOLDEN ARROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An engine in a poem," I heard one say
Who saw my gilded length and knew the
lead
I and miy master gave to Britain’s breed
That misty morning of Columbia’s May.
I did his bidding; and the world seemed gay
When I responded, as he seemed to need,
In each exultant burst of breathless speed.
But now the skies arc overcast and grey.
No one will ever guide me any more;
My surging energy shall no more feel
The impulse of his dominating will:
Others may course along Daytona’s shore,
But not as I. with Segrave at my wheel —
To-day that gallant heart is also still.
N.S.W.
GEOFFREY CUMINE.


lty
Gu
wmmy»m
never
yd
it
reali
res
tf&xy .-mt- /w»x: •*
Why risk unpleasant
perspiration odour
r when this hygienic toilet soap
purifies the pores— keeps you fresh j
ABUSY day, a hot, stuffy room, the embarrassing
hint of perspiration odour.
How quickly we notice it in others —yet often we
may be guilty ourselves and never know it.
And perspiration odour is a year round problem.
Even on cool days —when we don t seem to
perspire at all the pores constantly give off odour-
causing waste.
Yet there’s no excuse for risking perspira-
tion odour now. Just use Lifebuoy. Lifebuoy
is so refreshing that it’s a joy to bathe with it
every day. It purifies pores —gives lasting
freedom from embarrassing odour.
Those suffering from odour due to under-
arm perspiration or perspiring feet will
especially welcome the purifying action of
Lifebuoy’s deodorising lather.
So good for the complexion!
Lifebuoy is remarkably soothing and beneficial to
the skin. Its purifying lather keeps complexions
clear, fresh, satin-smooth. Millions use it for skin
health alone.
But Lifebuoy is far more than just a fine toilet soap.
*V'
Its penetrating, healthful lather removes germs as well
as dirt. “Even if your hands look clean, says a pto
minent medical authority, “they may be covered with
germs.” Lifebuoy helps protect you and your family
from the 27 germ diseases that hands may spread.
You’ll like its clean, hygienic scent
Lifebuoy is so different from other toilet and bath
soaps that even its scent is different. Not a
perfume, but a clean, pleasantly hygienic
scent which tells you that Lifebuoy gives
greater protection.
Even before you’ve finished your first cake,
you’ll learn to love this cleanest of all soap
scents, which quickly evaporates after rinsing.
Without its deodorant, Lifebuoy would still
be a wonderful toilet soap —but you wouldn t
get the added protection.
Added safety —no extra cost
Lifebuoy assures greatest health protection and
freedom from perspiration odour yet costs no
more, probably less, than the toilet soap you now use.
Lifebuoy is orange-red, the colour of its pure P
fruit oils. You can get it wherever soap is sold.
lifebuoy
Health Soap
for hands face bath
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
MZm
■ ■*:
g
,
II o
: :'•>
:
•: :
■
%
W:
for toilet
and bath


sa
6
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. ,
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
the Asoociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) in the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and: the premium reduced proportionately*
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency. <
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Application's for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manaeer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Katinka”
Criterion “The’ Garden of Eden”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
“The Belle of New York”
King's “This Thing Called Love"
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
♦
This Showman’s confidence in the future
of amateur theatricals was justified last
week when an important company adopted
his suggestion that fjjl the players should
remain off and leave the play to its natural
interpreter, the prompter, also off. The
"The Test Match”—as you can hear it played.
offering was the fine comedy, “The Test
Match,” staged at Trent Bridge, Notting-
ham, a radio station near George-street. An-
other suggestion, wrongfully thought to be
intended as flippant—that, since prompters
talk so loudly, the audience might at? well
stay at home and enjoy the show from there
—was also justified, because present writer
played bridge in a living-room several miles
from the theatre, and heard most of the
lines distinctly.
“The Test Match” differs from all other
comedies. It is in four acts, and it takes
nearly‘ all night to play one of them. It
Ims 22 heroes, half of whom are known as
the Flower of England and the other half
as the Cream of Australia. Whether this
would warrant addressing one of them as
Verbena or Goat’s Juice is not known. The
heroes are not all masculine, apparently, for,
though some of them are described as colts,
as many as 11 of them have been known to
be completely demoralised by a bad miss
in the slips. It seems unfortunate, too, for
the Cream of Australia that it has a tail,
and is further handicapped by the fact that
it has to do its fighting uphill. Still, the
Auzacs fought uphill, and the Spirit of
Anzac is alive in this Eleven, notwithstand-
ing that one member habitually drinks tea.
This information is gathered from a pro-
logue spoken to the first scene. It is spoken
in few words, but these are repeated so often
that the prologue lasts for about an hour.
According to it, our boys are out to win.
If they don’t win, they will lose. This is
known as the Glorious Uncertainty of
Cricket. On the other hand, if they can get
enough runs, they will win. One thing, they
can be depended upon to carry the war into
the enemy’s camp and punch it. Cricket,
of course, is a see-saw r , and every man must
pull his weight. The English captain especi-
ally knows this, and he can be depended upon
to nurse his men* and get a good kick out
Artist’s idea of Bradman turning Tate to
leg for a few.
of them in the end. Still, the Australian
captain is also a good nurse, reliable at a
pinch and at his best when hardest pressed.
All his boys are in good condition, full of
ginger. If Bradman gets going with those
daisy-cutting shots of his, the Flower of
England might find itself hard put to it to
pick the plums. There has been a tendency
to take our bowlers too cheaply, but if
Grimmett strikes form the Englishmen might
have some difficulty in getting out of the
wood, and there may be a procession. Hobbs,
of course, is a hard nut to crack, a real
ace of the first w r ater. He is at his best
in a fight, when he knows he will have to
take the bit in his teeth and swim hard
to avoid defeat. But Woodfull is good at
that, too. He is a rock, though he may find
himself at sea on a sticky pitch. The pro-
logue ends, some time later, with the asser-
tion that both sides are out to make history.
Despite this suggestion that the show is
going to be highbrow, it goes, as far as
present writer can recall, something like
this:—
Hullohullo. Trent Bridge, Nottingham.
Hammond is bowling from the City end to
Ponsford. Ponsford gets the first away to
cover for a single. Riglit-o, no trumps have
it. Your lead, partner. The last ball from
Hammond Bradman glances to the ropes.
A magnificent over. Everyone is on their
toes. The drama of cricket has them in its
grip. An American writer has well said, “I
get tired of reading so much necrotic verse
in manuscript.” ll'e, of course, would never
have got tired if he had used one of Mason
and Spong’s famous armchairs. Even verse
can be read with pleasure in one of these
splendid chairs. HuUohullo. Trent Bridge,
Nottingham. Good Heavens, partner, what
on earth did you want to lead that for?
Bradmanisnowyourleadpartner!
Tyldesley has taken up the bowling. Brad-
man gets down on the first ball and smothers
it. The next he smashes. No, Hendren saves
magnificently. They run a single. Another
fine over. The excitement is at fever pitch.
As Nestor remarks in “Troilus and Cres-
sida,” “By this white beard, I’d fight with
thee to-morrow!” Why fight? Why not
remain a good peaceful citizen by buying one
of Blogg and Co.’s safety-razors? I wish
you’d returned my lead partner. No, 1
discarded a club on his diamond. Game and
rubber to them. Trent Bridge, Nottingham.
Tate has now come on, and is bowling to
Bradman. Oofi ! Wild excitement. It nearly
yorked him. He got right down on it in
the crease. Hullo, what’s this? He’s out;
yes, he’s out! No, no; he’s not out. Phew,
that was a near thing! A great poet has
asked, “How can I then return in happy
plight, that am debarr’d the benefit of rest?"
Take your old mattresses to Cloth and
Blank’s, and get one of their super-spring,
all-kapok perfections. Trent Bridge, Not-
tingham. Tate is bowling to Ponsford. who
nibbles at the first. The next he punches.
The next, the next.... yes, it got him all
right. A beauty. He’s out. “Even as the
sun with purple-colored face.” When Shaks-
peare wrote that he had not heard of Matt's
famous bottled stout. Drink it, and keep
that purple color away. Trent Bridge, Not-
tingham. Partner, you deserve to be shot.
I take you out of hearts into diamonds twice,
and you go back into them again! McCabe
has come in. The first he turns right round
Hobbs, with the bit in his teeth.
on and slashes to the ropes. The next he
punches. The crowd has gone mad. This is
something like cricket. There’s a thrill in it.
“Genius,” as Sir Joshua Reynolds said, “is
supposed to be a powrnr of producing excel-
lencies.” He would have been surer had
he worn one of Fit and Grunt’s all-wool
singlets. Keep warm during these cold
wfinter months by wearing one of these pro-
ducts of genius. Trent Bridge, Nottingham.
The sun has come out hot, and it’s now
rather oppressive. Oh, that was a cheeky
one. McCabe cut it to Hobbs, and they ran
a single, Bradman backing up well. The
lead is from your hand, if you don’t mind.
The last ball of the over before lunch. What
will happen? The crowd is straining with
excitement. McCabe... :no, he doesn’t. Like
a sensible young man, he lets it go quietly
to Duckworth. A modern poet has written,
“He lives within the hoflow wood,” but if
he had invested in one of Bee and Bonnet’s
famous ready-built homes, he would not need
the wood, would he? Trent Bridge, Not-
tingham. Good Heavens, partner, you lead
from an ace-queen! That ends the morn-
ing’s play. Australia is now 19S. It has
been a day of wonderful thrills. The crowd
is still simmering with excitement. Onions,
for some reason or other, are considered, to
use the Latin phrase, infra dig, and even
Tennyson wrote, “There lay she all her
length and kissed his feet.” But Apple and
Dull’s pickled onions in one and sixpenny
and two and fourpenny jars are pure. H'ullo-
liullo. The rest of this thrilling drama will
be given to you as it comes to hand. We
will now have a little music.
This Showman wishes to congratulate
everyone concerned. It was the best show
he had stayed away from for years.
* * *
“The Garden of Eden,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, is built according to the well-known
recipe of Mr. Avery Hop-
wood. Select a dirty cafe
in Paris; throw in a hand-
ful of impurity (atmosphere,
cabaret proprietress, girls,
hidden room with couch) ;
add a speck of chastity
(Edith Taliaferro) and six
feet of wild-oats sower (J.
B. Rowe), who must be per-
mitted to be well frustrated ;
remove Edith and Rosa, a
baroness come down to
cabaret charing (Ethel Mor-
rison) , to Monte Carlo,
where Ethel spends her sav-
ings on a couple of glorious
weeks a year; introduce a
diplomatic service youngster
(H. B. Jameson) ; add love-
affair, dashes of space and
eventually wedding day, with
a return of wild-oats sower,
and disastrous consequences
to Edith and young Mr.
Jameson. The first act is heavy and
shrieky; the second and third are excel-
lent. The ending is so unusual that
the audience sat fast, refusing to be-
lieve it. A really good show, with the
Taliaferro better than in her first play. She
does one or two things that most actresses
would crash badly on, and gets away with
them quite well. Ethel Morrison has another
fine part, packed with laugh-lines that she
gets every ounce out of. Jameson confirmed
this Showman’s suspicions that the best of
him wasn’t seen in the earlier production,
and Rowrn is fair in, for him, an unusual
role. The show is cheerful, engaging and, in
the leading parts, at least, thoroughly well
done.
# * #
Fritz Hart gave the third concert of his
1930 series at Melbourne Town Hall last
week before an audience that was sparser
than hitherto, although the 2s. tickets have
been reduced to Is. llld. in order to pro-
tect highbrow or semi-highbi*ow music-lovers
from Mr. Hogan’s amusement tax. The most
interesting item was a setting by the con-
ductor himself to “Gods,” a poem by Walt
Whitman. Mr. Hart’s, music was very much
better than the poetry, which only seemed
to have some meaning while the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra, the Victorian Postal
Institute ' Choir and the Melbourne Lyric
Choir were engaged in interpreting it.
Another piece by Mr. Hart, “The Seeds of
Love,” had no words but much natural
beauty. The final number was Villiers Stan-
ford’s setting of Tennyson’s “The Revenge.”
“The Revenge” is the very best of its jingo
kind and Stanford’s music is wonderfully
expressive of the din of battle, though the
conflict lasts too long and becomes musically
monotonous. The three organisations men-
tioned above performed the piece with much
feeling and almost complete unity.
* # *
That amiable and industrious entrepre-
neur, Beresford Fowler, obliged with his
best production of the season at the Queen’s
Hall, Melbourne, last week, when Noel
Coward’s “Easy Virtue” was performed,
allegedly for the' first time in Australia. The
Coward effort concerns the reactions of a
middle-class English family to the marriage
of the son of the house and a divorced woman,
Behind it lies a conventional viewpoint, but
Coward never fails to dress his old-fashioned
dishes in effective witticisms.
Mr. Fowler has collected a new lot of
histrions, who on the whole did excellently.
Doris Moore was a somewhat machine-made
daughter to Dorothy Slutzkin, who, however,
was a* not unnatural mother. Brenda Thomas
was a feminine first emergency who acted
with confidence, and Douglas Caddy a
very tolerable lover to Molly Locke’s divorcee,
who had all the tricks of the actor's trade
as well as some personal advantages. Richard
Hocking’s butler united with a candelabrum
and a plaster statuette to give the requisite
air of elegance to Colonel Whittaker’s draw-
ing-room. The chief fault of the Beresford
Fowlers is a dread of silence. Silence is
Study of cricket enthusiasts realty enjoying
a Test match.
golden except amongst actors who don’t
know what to do with their hands, when it
becomes a darned nuisance.
Florence Austral tilled Melbourne Town
Hall with song and audience on Saturday
night. Australia’s first great dramatic
soprano sang the longest programme the,
present critic has listened to from any singer,
and looked fit enough at the end to go
through it all again. If the other languages
she sang in were as perfectly enunciated as
her English, the evening must have been a
linguistic feat for a cosmopolitan ear. She
brought all her forces to bear on “Hymne au
Soleil” (Georges’), and if the luminary con-
tinues to sulk after being so addressed he is
no gentleman. An encore from “The Valkyre”
was the only Wagnerian number vouchsafed.
The “Ritorna Vincitor” from “Aida” was
perfectly sung—a voice that sings like that
is not likely to appear twice in one genera-
tion, Amadio fluted marvellously.
* # *
Grogan McMahon demonstrated that
G.B.S. still has drawing power by nearly
filling Melbourne Bijou three times last week
Chapman is a good nurse.
with a performance of “The Doctor’s
Dilemma,” which touched brilliance here and
there and produced laughter most of the
time. Norman Wister’s Dubedat was admir-
able on the histrionic side, but the charac-
ter’s reputation as one of the world’s greatest
artistic geniuses would have been better sus-
tained if the pictures he was alleged to have
painted had been kept turned to the wall.
McMahon has done nothing better than this
piece, and he could do worse than continue
a course of the better plays of Pshaw.


NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
Conklin endura
Pens and Pencils
All Repairs FREE including
Accidental Breakage !
JPOCKLtNCTON b* VVHII>E .Factory Representatives
141 Clarence St.. Sydney '■■■.
WM
vmß.-
jUMua
m
MTiumV
/.*
w\
\K--
MAY’S
Fertilizer
Spreader
Now is the time
for Top-dressing
and here is the
ideal machine
for the job.
Send for leaflets
or call and
inspect.
AGENTS:
Guthridge Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown,
New South Wales.
’Phones: L 2715-16
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
Six reasons for supporting the new Com-
monwealth loan
(1) The security is good. There is be-
hind it all the wealth of the country. It is
true that this wealth does not belong to
the Government, but it can all be called for
through taxation. .
(2) The interest, remembering that the
interest is free of State tax and taking the
security into account, is extraordinarily good.
It has been pushed up to 6 p.c. because of a
difficulty in paying foreign debts. But there
is no difficulty at all in paying local debts.
So you get a high rate of interest because of
a circumstance which doesn’t really affect
local loans at all.
(3) But while the security for the local
loan is not affected by the temporary diffi-
culty of making gold payments in London,
the value of (i p.c. has been greatly enhanced
by recent price movements. On account of
tiie fall in the value of commodities, £6 will
buy as much as £7 did two years ago. That
is to say, the security being the same, 6 p.c.
to-day is as good as 7 p.c. would have been
two years ago, when you couldn’t get more
than 5 p.c. for a security of this sort.
(4) As said just now, all the wealth in
Australia is taxable. Right or wrong, Gov-
ernments being what they are, money will be
spent to relieve unemployment. If it is not
got by loans it will be got by taxation.
And taxation carries no 6 p.c.
(5) Though overseas borrowing is the pri-
mary cause of our present difficulty in mak-
ing gold payments abroad, it may be a matter
of the utmost importance that we should do
a little more borrowing to tide us over the
period of readjustment. Nothing will so
assist us to get help abroad as the knowledge
that we are willing to trust our Government
with our own money.
(6) We cannot better assist the Govern-
ment in securing Australia against default
abroad than by supporting the local loan. We
cannot subscribe to overseas loans in order to
make them a success because we cannqt make
gold payments in London. But we can en-
courage investment in an overseas loan by
making a great success of a local one.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
19511 119,4 2 7 65,6 14 10 p.c. = 84,493 617,426
1922 237,039 65,641 15 „ „ 137,527 651.297
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd. (N.SAV.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £37,500.. 688,797
1923 230,833 65,324 15 p.c. = 145,027 709,279
1924 290,259 64,569 15 „ „ 145,027 789,942
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £186,113 976,050
Additions to reserves, £280,947.. 1,257,002
1925 372,313 63,346 15 p.c. = 212,692 1,353,377
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,540,877
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,909
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.c. = 287.500 1.865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.SAV.), bought out.
1929 381,572 62,925 15 „ „ 300,000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 . . 2,083,825
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074,644
Wool averaged £l3 9s. lid. per bale for the
nine months to the close of last accounts.
It is the lowest figure since pre-war days,
and no less than £8 2s. below the average
for the 1928-29 season; yet it compares quite
well with pre-war averages. Owing to ex-
tension of the auctions, the co. put 48,401
fewer bales under the hammer last year, and
the carry forward (76,154) was 50,713 bales
heavier. This, drought in the back coun-
try, where the co. is a large run-owner, and
the low prices ruling for skins, sheep and
produce all.chewed into earnings:
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 256,789 135,362 65,614 2000 53,813
1922.. 377,655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., purchased.
1923 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165,509
1924!! 498,039 205,280 64,569 2500 225,690
Bao-ot Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., purchased.
1925 806 413 429,100 63.346 5000 308,967
1996. 846,050 462,725 63,233 5000 315,092
1927 855,272 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
1928" 889,060 509,213 62,967 5000 311,880
Badgery Bros., Ltd., purchased.
1929 914,201 527,629 62,925 5000 318,647
1930 795,752 539,787 62,646 2500 190,819
•Including £25,000 drought exes.
Thus the slip in gross profits was £118,449.
That was after making provision for bad
debts, etc., and in tbe circumstances allow-
ances are likely to have been larger than
usual. Exes, ran off with an extra £13,10b,
the net result being 9.5 p.c. on average capi-
tal compared with 15.9, 16.3, 17.». l*- v _’
21.8 and 23.3 p.c. back to 1924; so the a
p.c. bonus was dropped, leaving the div. at
10 p.c. Only for three out of the last -
years has the co. failed to do better.
The cut, however, was not unexpected, tne
price for the scrip having receded steadily
from 51s. 3d. a year ago to 28s. 6d. earlj
last month. Then, as the seasonal pros-
poets took on a brighter look, the. liguie
rose to 335., but eased to 31s. following tne
publication of the sheet. Allowing tor the
final div. the return at the latter price is
0.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis ; the visible
backing is 445. 9d. in net tangibles.
Obviously the market has its doubts about
an early restoration of the bonus. The issue
of 400,000 new fl shares at 50 p.c. premium
towards the close of accounts made paui
capital £2,399,892 at March 31; there was
then only £lOB to come in. The premiums
were added to reserves. So a 10 p-c. di\.
will now call for £240,000, or £49,181 more
than was netted last year after paying the
debenture interest. That is to say, total
funds (capital and reserves combined)
will need to earn 5.3 p.c. clear; actually 4.9
p.c. was netted on average funds last year as
against 8.2 .p.c. in the previous term. lo
meet a 15 p.c. distribution total funds will
need to turn in 8 p.c., and though that
may be within the co.’s reach some
day, it will not be till conditions be-
come more settled and costs get closer into
line with fallen values. Recent widely-
scattered rains and the strengthening of wool
prices have greatly relieved the position; but
a return to former price-levels need not be
looked for. The co.’s activities are well spread
over all the Australian States, and its robust
development during the last decade, by
absorptions and otherwise, augurs well toi
future earnings. The management has given
a lot of attention to the merchandising and
pastoral-finance sections of the business.
Moreover, the co. is well ribbed financi-
ally :
Liabilities.
1920. 1926. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. ,773,010 1,750,000 2,000,000 2,399,892
Debentures. 1,504,648 1,434,658 1,427,842 1,418,702
Other liabili- I>2sg>M6 1)309 ,596
Liquid assets 647,455 1,023,287 722,347 398,515
Advances .. 1,967,430 3,687,113 5,031,221 5,886',0>1
p 2’ o perties
and stock 220,723 345,500 267,330 290,904
p I' 0 jj2 ises
etc. .’. 212,803 634,049 605,915 649,158
Other assets 64,105 93,889 143,367 166,564
The year’s growth of £854,830 in the book
value of advances illustrates the extent to
which the co. came to the assistance of cli-
ents during a difficult period. To do this
liquids were drawn upon for £323,832, and
only £56,541 was added to the floating debt;
the new capital and share premium moneys
provided the balance. At March 31 sun-
dry creditors, including £428,111 of deposits,
could see 6s. Id. of every pound coming to
them in liquids, and the other 13s. lid. was
covered nearly six times by advances alone.
The debenture debt, a reminder of the shat-
tered values of the ’nineties, is interminable,
except that the co. has the right to purchase;
it costs on the average \\ p.c. p.a. Premises
are known to be worth a lot more than their
book value.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q. )•
To Re- Re-
Dee.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 11,783 8 p.c. = 21,2(10 55,858
Loss. Mt lat
1919 .. 14,677 Nil
1920 .. 17,073 Nil 24,108
1921 .. 43°842 12 p.c. = 31,800 12,042 36,150
1922 . . 97,299 20 „ „ 53,000 44,299 80,449
1923 .. 23,431 8 „ „ 21.200 7,231 87,680
1924 .. 31,240 8 „ „ 21,200 10.040 97,720
1925 .. 28,793 8 „ „ 21,200 7,593 105,313
1926 . . 30,484 8 ~ „ 21,200 9,284 114,597
1927 .. 61,698 10 „ „ 26,500 35,198 149,795
1928 . . 39,225 8 „ „ 21,200 18,025 167,820
1929 . . 39,142 8 „ „ 21,200 17,942 185,762
P»ecause the average price for our surplus
sugar exported last year was only £9 17s. per
ton, or 13s. less than for the previous season,
the average return to the grower and miller
for the whole crop was £2O ss. lOd. as
against £2O 17s. lid. for the year before;
also the 'sugar content of the cane was poorer,
due to a severe winter. So the board wrote
the year’s net profit at £26,340, or £685 less
than the previous year's. That figure is
reconciled with the profit in the table by an
unexplained addition of £12,802 to _ the re-
placement reserve, making it £113,552. This
fund has been built up as circumstances per-
mitted since 1912. and nothing has been vis-
ibly withdrawn. If it is not all accumulated
earnings in excess of actual depreciation,
then the £185,762 of reserves shown above
is not 100 p.c. genuine profit. Including the
additions* the vear’s net result was 14.7 p.c.
on the £265,000 of capital as against 14.8,
23.3, 11.5 and 10.9 p.c. back to 1925; thus
the 8 p.c. div. presented no difficulties. Since
the public became interested in 1911 share-
holders have averaged a wink over 8 p.c.,
though they have sometimes had to wait for
11 A lot of money has been spent on mills,
plantations and other equipment of recent
vears: —
1923. 192 C. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £265,000 £265,000 £265,000 £265,000
Liabilities . . 58,793 140,481 92,862 60,705
Estates . . 176,063 222,637 225,394 227,696
Factories, etc. 112,585 163,341 170,277 165,145
Railways, etc. 41,084 58,434 ;>3,268 :>3,301
plant . . 40,627 54,503 42,696 42,690
Stores .. .. 5,643 11,076 23,975 20,869
Sugar stocks,
book debts, etc. 46,070 37,287 31,272 22,960
Debts totalling more than half the paid
capital had piled up at the-close of accounts
in 1920. But earnings have since permitted
substantial reductions, the cut last year be-
ing £32,157, reducing the excess of liabilities
over more or less liquids, including stores, to
£16.870. During the year £2302 more was
spent on plantations than was written off —
they are believed to be worth a lot more
than the figure at which they appear—and
the book value of factories was reduced
£5132.
At the producing end the outlook of the
current term is for another satisfactory
crushing. But the share market, which keeps
an eye on the surplus exported (38.4 p.c. of
last year’s production), notes the recent
slump in the world’s price of sugar, and the
fact that the local agreement regarding price
is due for revision next year, and considers
the pound share worth no more than par.
They fetched 245. a year ago. The backing
figures out at 345. in net tangibles, including
the replacement reserve. But these tangibles
are worth only what they will fetch.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
,——Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£_£ £ £ £
1921.. 79.177 7,015 10 p.c. = 48,642-23,620 155,928
1922.. 90!074 12,231 Nil 53,623
Assets apparently written down, £119,400 65,777
Profit. Reserves.
Capital reduced £87,000 .. •• •• |1,223
1923.. 26,856 12,231 Nil 14.626 35,848
1924.. 50,092 12,373 4 p.e. - 20,201 17,518 §8,866
1925.. 59,233 12,514 5 „ „ 25,252 21,46< 74,833
1926.. 06,670 12,598 G „ „ 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve taken in, £15,000.. ••
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 13-609 l
Transferred to Provident Fund, £oooo. . 130,091
1928 73 615 13 152 74 p.c. =39,031 21,332 161,923
\lll- 77 090 13 152 8 „ „ 41,633 22,305 174,228
1930.. 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. .. 177,<1.
This co. carries on the business of merchants,
plantation-owners, etc., with headquarters at
Suva (Fiji). Since they struggled out ot
the backwash of the post-war boom the policy
of those in control has been to build up the
strength, visible and otherwise So the diw
has been kept down and £161,496, or 32.4
p.c. of the aggregate net earnings over the
last eight years, has been openly added to
reserves. Yet even now these are not a very
stout prop for the £739,613 of capita
£219,206 of it is prof, money carrying a nxed
cumulative 6 p.c.—but provision is claimed
to have been made for ordinary contingencies
IR Last*year there was a further decline in
the price for island produce. This and other
difficulties show up in a fall ot in
gross profits (£162,941). Trading exes
t£81745) were practically unchanged, but
there was a direct loss of £3034 on account
of the hurricane, and £7675 less was struck
off for depreciation (£5916). The amount,
however, is claimed to be adequate, provisions
hitherto having been on a liberal scale. Thus,
after allowing for minor reserve adjustments
and the pref. requirements, the board -was
nhlp to show 11 5 p.c. on ord. capital com-
pared with 12.2, 11.3, 10.7, 9.2 and 7.5 p.c.
back to 1924, and the div. was kept at 8 p.c.
In the two years to the close of last
accounts the price of copra has dropped over
£6 per ton. This has affected the capital
value of plantations, so £15,000 is to be
struck off the figure at which they appear in
the books. Since these were ruled oft there
has been a further sharp drop of over £2 per
ton Earnings will also be affected, of course;
that they have thus far escaped serious dam-
age from falling markets is largely due to
increased production, but there is a. limit to
what can be done in that way. Yet, though
turnover in these and other _ directions
threatens to be auieter, the board is confident
that the co. will continue to earn moderate
it is well equipped for more
difficult trading:- m 9 1930
Overdrafts .. ■ • «1«,768 £46^ 84 £6l^ 46
DeS 63 " 35,985 39,578 30,886
StC liabilities . . 66,088 65,303 23,450
Plantations . . • • 73,269 85,323 87,829
Piant.ete. |||;|2| 254,003 279,246
Investments' and" cash. . 248,212 192,948 187,296
oa Snches V rtc U 6 212,461 129,445 162,064
Book Sbts, etc. .. 144,518 89,361 90,268
Last year £25,243 was added to the book
value of premises, etc due mainly toghe
purchase of Brodziak’s freeholds. To f nan Jf
this deal, increase the capital valu
branches by £33,219 and , I ? a^ p a b “Jd drew
tion of £34,977 in the debt, the boa l a arew
upon stocks, book debts, investments, etc., fo
_P7i 4-10 11P t Thus the more or less Hquia
surulus (£436.028) was £36,435 lighter than
at the previous balance, Investments coma
mainly of shares and debentures m •
sidiaries in Fiji.
There is nothing to suggest that anytl
better than S p.e. need be looked foi at p
sent, so the market prices the pound ords.
at 235. Gd. as against 245. a year ago -
the current figure the return is t .•> p.c.
an S P c div. basis; the backing amounts to
26s 10d. in net tangibles. The prefs. sel-
dom come on to the market; they are coverer
bv £4 3s Bd. in net tangibles, and last yeai s
profit was over 54 times their annual require-
ments.
Swan Portland Cement (W.A.).
Net To Re- Re-
Fel), Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ 4
».“Sirw= ~»« Sg}
185:: 11!:: :188 *5B »8S
*ll| months.
This is the concern which took over the
Westralian Portland Cement Co. s works, on
the river-bank near Perth, three yeais ago.
The price paid was £110.998, or approxi-
mately half the figure at which the old busi-
ness was capitalised. No goodwill bgured
in the deal. The old co. had set up m 19- ( > .
but as its Lake Clifton scheme proved a
failure, a license was obtained trom the
Government to get shell from the kw
River. Thereafter there was an improve-
ment in the quality of the cement , u
though the co. managed to struggle alon*
until 1927, it then went into liquidation.
The present co. thus got a flying start, and
it has made encouraging progress since, de-
spite keen competition from Victorian- and
English-made cements. In its hist Ha
months it netted £lB5O more than was re-
quired to give shareholders 10 p.c. and re-
place the £8273 which had been spent on
preliminary exes. Then the management
gave attention to overhead; net profit im-
proved £1393 in the next year, and a 24 pm
bonus was sent out with the final div., mak
ing 124 p.c. in all. For the 12 months to
the close of last accounts the co. was able to
capture more of the local trade, and gross
profits (£46,719) made an encouraging
spring of £10,150. Exes., however, took all
but £2672 of the increase; still the net re-
sult was a comfortable 20.7 p.c. on average
capital as against 18.2 p.c. in the previous
year, and the 124 P-c. to shareholders offered
no difficulties.
The real profit in concerns of this kind de-
pends largely upon whether the amounts set
aside to cover wear and tear, etc., prove to
be adequate. In addition to the lay-by shown
above, the Swan Co.’s depreciation reserve
totalled £29,663 at Feb. 28. The £12,272
added to it last year was £3lOB more than
the previous year’s addition, and equal to
nearly 10 p.c. on the book value of plant at
the close of accounts. Appearances are,
therefore, that the provisions are not being
>Sk In P order to cope with the brisker trading
more plant is being installed:
1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £97,209 £97,344 £117,538
Liabilities .. • • B > l6l 10 ’ 708 7 ’ 738
Freeholds .. • • 10.373 14,054 14,054
Plant . • • • 91,647 104,847 125,479
Stocks'etc 8,757 14,750 U > 677
Kook debts .. 9,650 10,894 8,97i>
Cash, etc .I !. Sfiil 834 23,923
East year’s addition put £20,632 on to tlm
book value of the item, and £20,194 of fresh
capital was gathered to meet the outlay. Ihe
year’s surplus earnings, including the allow-
ance for depreciation, were invested mainly
in more or less liquids, which thus mounted
to £36 837 in excess of the small outside debt,
or £2i,067 more than their excess a year
curlier
1 Future results will largely depend upon the
course of competition and the extent to which
costs can he kept in hand. The new plant
now about due to begin work should help m
this direction, and will, it is claimed, enable
the co. to look after demand for several years
ahead. The net tangible backing per pound
of paid capital is 225. Id.; there is another
3s. lid. per share in the depreciation reserve.
Singapore Hume Pipe Co., Ltd.
To Re-
AEr Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
i.uai •) £,£/£>
1003 959 Nil 959 * 18,209
1924!: 9,595 124 p.c. = 5000 4595 13,614
1Q25 1.482 Nil 1482 12,1 22
1926" 8 033 10 p.c. = 4000 4033 8,099
1927" 7,800 8 ~ „ 3200 4600 3,499
A Reserves.
IQ9R 11 301 10 ~ 4000 7301 3,802
1929". 11,699 15 „ „ 6000 5699 9,501
1930.. 12,074 15 „ „ 0000 6074 10,070
This little one of the Ilume family has done
very well for itself. It was launched in 19-2


Watch
Your
Step
Anything may happen to
your investments in these
days.
If you want to protect
yourself read
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”
JUNE NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassol, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagii
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Aiivt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. —Advt.
* * * *
Australian industries require suitable air condi-
tions for efficiency and comfort. Learn how. Get
prospectus Lewis’s Correspondence School of Heat-
ing, Ventilating and Air Conditioning. Box 352 G
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
The long, trouble-free life of Pioneer Wood Pipe
is but one of its many outstanding advantages. /This
excellent conduit is, non-corrosive and unaffected by
extremes of heat or frost. It is light, easily laid
and transported and costs considerably less than
metal pipe. Specified on many important water-
supply contracts, and giving thoroughly efficient
and economical service throughout Australia. Write
for literature to the Australian Wood Pipe Company,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.—Advt
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
:|: * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane, in
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. —Advt.
* 4= * «
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 42 years’ experience in the
m . an ag emen t °f all classes of Estates. Unlike ,an .individual, it-cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our expl-anatorij' Booklet, , sent free on
request, will interest you. Write, now. .
J. W. BARNES, Manager. . E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEIY.
INSURE WITH THE
1
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
fire, marine, accident,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
as a subsidiary of Hume Pipe Co. (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., and set up a factory at Singa-
pore. At the start nearly half its paid capi-
tal of £40,000 was represented by goodwill
(£15,000) and preliminary exes. (£4168),
which have not been treated as assets in the
table. But enough orders were booked to
keep the plant busy, and, except for a set-
back in 1925, due to a faulty shipment of
cement, some nice profits have been won.
Earnings depend largely on Government ex-
penditure, and that was curtailed last year,
following a drop in revenue, due to the col-
lapse of prices in the rubber and tin mar-
kets, while competition continued keen and
prices for the co.’s products were reduced.
But whatever the co. missed in this way was
largely made up by the growth in small
orders, and, though turnover was not quite
so good as the previous year’s, the manage-
ment was able to make some worthwhile cuts
in costs. Thus there was a slight improve-
ment in the net result, which mounted to
80.1 p.c. on capital compared with 29.2, 28.2,
19.5 and 20 p.c. back to 1926, so the 15 p.c.
div. was repeated with ease. To date share-
holders have averaged 8.8 p.c., and since
more has been put by than was distributed
the board has been able to rub £19,16S of
intangibles out of the sheet, set aside £4205
for contingencies, and exhibit £15,575 of
general reserves besides.
These accumulated savings have enabled
the co. to invest £21,636 in a joint enter-
prise with Hume Steel, Ltd., for the manu-
facture-of concrete-lined steel pipes at Singa-
pore. Satisfactory profits are said to have
been earned in this connection last year, but
the amount is not disclosed, nor is it clear
whether anything was passed on to the joint
owners.
Finances are comfortable. At March 31
stocks (£13,307), book debts (£5506) and
cash (£4343) totalled £20,519 more than
the amount coming to creditors (£2637), and
that was £3393 stronger than the more or less
liquid surplus at the previous balance. On
fixed assets (£21,694) the year’s outlay was
£1433 more than was written off. Much
depends upon the adequacy or otherwise of
the allowance for depreciation, which is not
disclosed.
Reduced Government spending threatens to
afreet the co.’s earnings in its present terri-
tory during the current term, but extension
of the business is under consideration, and
the board expects to maintain turnover at
about last year’s level. The enterprise with
l fume Steel is developing well, and consider-
able expansion is spoken or when conditions
become more settled.
The market, after considering the risks,
sums up the, position by paying 225. as
against 18s. a year ago for the pound shares
paid to 15s. Allowing for the final div.
and bonus, the return at the current price
is 11 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible backing per £1 of paid capital
amounts to 275. 9d„ mostly plant, etc., worth
what it can earn.
The success of the Richmond Brewery.
Melbourne, has attracted a good deal of
attention lately to the Nathan system, under
which it operates. This is a Swiss inven-
tion, for which the Bond Underwriting Corp.,
Ltd., of Sydney, holds the Australian rights.
One advantage claimed for it is that it
reduces the period of fermentation to 12 days
as against approximately three months under
ordinary methods. Also the brew does not
&ome into contact with the air during the
whole cooling and fermenting process. Since
the Cascade Co. (Tas.) installed a Nathan
plant, its output has increased, and more
plant is on order. The Walkerville (S.A.)
has also just adopted the system. At the
moment a new concern, the Moreton Bay
(N.S.) Brewing Co., is on the market with
250,000 £1 shares to set up a Nathan plant-
in Brisbane. The promoters say over 40
p.c. of the hotels there are “free,” and that
more than half of them have applied for
shares in the new co.
Incidentally, negotiations are afoot for
the sale of the N.S.W. rights in the Nathan
system to one of the existing breweries.
* * * *
“Melilla”: Re the Etheridge (B. 4/6/’3O).
It is true that this N.Q. goldfield did turn
out a lot of metal, and that the brown stone
was succeeded by heavily mineralised stone.
But, as depth was reached, this mineralised
stone was succeeded by hard, white quarts
carrying little mineral. The reefs are there,
but values have declined to vanishing point.
Geologist W. A. Cameron mentions this ugly
feature in his report, and postulates that the
gold and values were precipitated in the
upper and cooler zones by alkaline solutions.
Of recent years several cos. with up-to-date
plants have operated on these reefs, but all
went the usual way to oblivion. The small
rich galena lodes of Mosquito Creek are
different, and there are gold leaders out the
Percy way. But the Etheridge itself has
been profoundly unsatisfactory.
* * « *
At Kimberley Option leases. Edjudina
(W.A.), development is still confined to a
modest few feet of shaft-sinking. The quartz
outciop is being broken for treatment at
, U/ .State mill; it is cheap ore. First
siaft is being sunk on the lode in Patricia
bouth ground, and gold can be seen in the
Tlle Yarri plant will disclose the
content early next month. So far there
appears to be little cause for anxiety.
bame lease-peggers never learn. On dis-
covery ot Patricia leases, Edjudina two
men pegged near the South Patricia, and for
a six months working option asked £lOOO
aUcl . £9OOO cash if option exercised.
Phiee parties were anxious to give good
a “ fPtion though more modest
P an tl'ose just stated. Affairs have been
biought to a head by the “jumping" of th“
ground for alleged breach of XLv Vk
, ,yt course the option-seekers ceased
negotiations with great promptness.
JNumerous pup s surround Kimberley
Option areas (.A.), but none has vet run
down a payable ore body. Still, a great deal
6 P r ospectlllg is being done. Parties
. “ v ® t 0 ten miles south are having
better luck- a few promising finds have
been made there.
The outlook for Lake View and Star con-
SmV B^ 0 ?]- Durin S May 6445 tons ore
yielded bullion worth £23,327: profit for
month, £7696. Grade of ore is again higher,
and _ profit satisfactory, but there were
special charges for plant and mine develop-
ment amounting to £12,14S to set against
it. figures are not yet available for 666 S
tons of tnbuters’ ore treated
* * * ~.
Prohibition, Meekatharra (W.A.), has
treated 1200 tons for lOOoz., and the owners
hope the grade will improve. Those who
have expectations after a return like that
deserve a bit of luck.
* * ’ ...
The Wiluna Co.’s big shaft has been
deepened to 674 ft. in quick time. The pay-
ro totals £13,500 monthly, and there are
4SO names on it. The big plant* is now tak-
ing shape, and treatment operations should
be in full swing by next March
* * 1 * • : * ,
South Ivalgurli made a profit of £2287 last
month. No other show at the Golden Mile
has approached this co. in regard to regular
gold yields and dividends.
* * * *
Austral Development, Ltd., having aban-
doned its option on .Golden Butterfly,, Norse-’
man, the latter's shareholders await an
announcement concerning the board's inten-
tions. ■
Following the drop in tin prices .below
±lo4, two more Australian dredges in
Malaya were put on' the peg last week/
Bundi, a Victorian ,co. registered in 1922,
and. a solid producer, hung up its second
dredge, No. 1 having,knocked 'off a few days
previously. Part of the co/s ’ area in the
Bundi and iChenah valleys in Eastern
Malaya has been let on tribute to' comply
with labor conditions, and it is expected that'
enough will come in from this source to pay
expenses while the plant is closed dow-n.
Lampeh, another Melbourne float with a
small property in Siam, has also developed
the What’s the use?” complex and hung up
“de shubbel and de hoe” until better days.
Kramat, another Alluvial Tin proposition,
began to dig in December last. Recoveries
were so consistently good that the co„ w-hich
owed outsiders close on,£lQ,ooo at the end’
of January, was out of pawn by April 30/
a cash balance of £2364 helping in this
direction. By May 31 the dredge had re-
turned 229 tons* of t. 0., on which a working
profit of £8667 was shown. It is one of
the most modern and powerful machines in
Malaya, and has lately been turning over
as much as 260,000 yards per month
Originally bored to go ,751 b., Kramat has
been close on the .701 b. mark for the past
two months, and gives every indication of
turning out a profit earner. Capital is
£165,000 in £1 f.p. shares, for which buyers
offer 21s. 6d.
QUESTIONED ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the position of the Australian
Whaling Go. ? Bow many shares have been
allotted? Is it working the Wes trail an and
Jervis Bay (N.B-W.) stations and operating
in the Antarctic? —734o.
The co. recently went to allotment on the
subscription of 75,000 shares. The vendors
were to get £120,000 —£50,000 cash and
£70,000 in paids—for plant, etc., said to be
worth £110,150 as a going concern. The
cash consideration is payable £30,000 within
18 months, and the balance as finances per-
mit. The co. thus kicks off with a subscribed
capital of £145,000. It has taken over the
shore plant at Norwegian Bay, Westralia,
and intends to commence operations there in
May next year. Five chasers are,on order;
the cost of these, stored and equipped, was
put at £llO,OOO in the prospectus. If is not
yet operating in the Antarctic; to extend
activities there a factory ship wall be re-
quired ; the additional outlay is figured at
£225,000, including £50,000 for working capi-
tal, etc. ■ The estimated net profit from tho
Norwegian Bay station alone is £107,000
p.a., subject to taxation. The figure is
based on fire chasers catching 1100 whales,
yielding 6417 tons oil at £3l per ton. The
eo. has taken over the lease of a property
at Jervis Bay, but will not operate from
there at present.
I have most of my savings in pvef. shares.
In the event of note-inflation, what will he
my position? —73o3.
Fixed pensions and all other income of
like character suffer when currency is plen-
tiful from any cause whatever and its pur-
chasing power is consequently reduced. Non-
participating pref. shares suffer with the
rest in such a movement. Even at present
moment the Australian £ is worth less than
the English £; hence the market value of
Australian fixed-pref. shares has fallen, so
that the purchaser may get a higher return
to counteract the fall in the £’s purchasing
value. Any further reduction of the exchange
value of the £ (Australian) would be fol-
lowed by a further fall in the market price
of fixed-pref. shax*es. Whether there would
be a corresponding fall in ordinary shares
depends on the earnings of the co/ If the
earnings increased in proportion to the infla-
tion, then of course they would gradually
be more p.c. of the fixed capital, and it would
be possible to increase the ordinary div.
accordingly. The ords. would, moreover,
benefit by the fact of the fixed-pref. div.
calling for a smaller proportion of the (in-
flated) earnings. On the other hand, if we
are in for a period of deflation (and that is
the movement all the world over) the fixed-
pension (including pref. div. at a fixed
rate) is obviously the gainer.
/ have 500 pref. shares in Sunday Times,
Lid. f sec the “ Referee ” and “Arrow” are
sold; how docs that affect ns? Prospects?
—7354.
There were two cos., one owning the “Sun-
day Times,” the other the “Referee” and
“Arrow”; but there was an agreement that
during the life of the S. T. Co.’s pref shares
the profits of “Referee” and “Arrow” should
belong to Sunday Times Co. The cos. got:
heavily in debt to the bank, which lately
foreclosed and sold certain of the assets,
including "Referee” and “Arrow”; publica-
tion of “Sunday Times” ceased. Besides the
debt to the bank the co. owes a gnod many
thousands on debentures.- The chances of
pref. shareholders getting much, if anything,
out of the wreck are small: it’will depend
on the realisation of other assets, and pros-
pects there are very gloomy.
You published a list of Australian hanks’
capital arid reserves and various ratios.
Please give us same particulars for New
Zealand hanks.— 7o9l. ■
Shareholders’Funds Deposits
(’ooo’s omitted) (’ooo’s omitted)
: ' ’B9-’9O. * ’29~-’3O. ’B9-’9O. ’29-’3O.
Bank of N.Z. ~ £l,lBl £10,901 £8,719 £33,939
National Bank of
NZ. .. .263 4,155 1,847 10,567
Capital and reserves, 1929:
Capital. Reserves.
Bank of N.Z. .. ..£6,858,113 £4,042,591
National .Bank of N.Z. .. 2,000,000 2,155,154
Ratio of deposits to funds: Bank of N.Z. •
1890, 7.38 to 1; 1929, 3.11 to 1. National
Bank of N.Z. ; 1890, 7.02 to 1; 1929, 2.54
t° 1- ~ ,
■ Please compare for me M.L.C. and
National. Mutual premiums for a whole-life
policy at age 2.0 next birthday. What is
each paying in bonuses on such a policy 35
years in force?— 7oola
M.L.C.: Premium, £1 17s. 7d. p.c., with a
“select rate” for life contracts of £2OOO and
upwards; bonus,- £3 -18 s. p.c.- (for a 36-year
policy it rose to £4 4s. p.c.). National
Mutual: Premium, £1 16s. 9d. p.c. (This
office accepts on “nearest birthday, so if the
proponent was 19 years 5 months, the 19-
year rate would be taken, viz., £1 15s. lid.)
Bonus, £5 p.c.
(1) Know anything about the Australian
Imperial Shale Oil Co.? (2) Do you recom-
mend it to investors? (3) Has the “Wild
Cat, ” any faith in the shale oil business
generally ? —7258.
(1) Co. has a nominal capital of £30,000.
Issued is £15,000 in £1 shares at ss. applica-
tion, ss. allotment and ss. in two successive
monthly calls. Of the issue, 10,000 shares
are f.p. and the remaining 5000 are avail-
able for subscription. The other 15,000 go
to the vendors as f.p. The eo. is to work
new ground near Mudgee (N.S.W.), which
it claims has been proved by driving to show
a high shale content. A retorting plant of
the Schultz;type on which the “Wild Cat”
reported a year ago is to be installed. This is
entirely modern in design, and should be in
working order by the end of six months. The
secretary of the co. reports that, after paying-
all commitments, including the cost of the
retorting plant, his eo. doesn’t owe a bean to
creditors. Everything has been paid for
prior to the kick-off. If the equipment is
adequate; it lias cost miraculously little. (2 )
Explained many times that what is a suit-
able investment for one is wholly unsuitable
for another. This is only for those who
nro prepared to take big risks in return for
possible big profits. (3) Undoubtedly.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.S.E.: Inquiries for balance-sheets of
Horne Provident, Ltd., have not been successful.
Therefore cannot say whether it is sound of not.
It is understood to have gone into the land sub-
division business 1.A.C.: If safety of principal is
very important, no.. . .T.P.P.: It’s easy to get in;
but it’s nearly always faf more important to ask
how you’re going to get out. ... \V.C.: Don't think
any of those suggested are sounder.... Fred J.F.:
Better keep policy going. Present policy liabilities-
are well covered, and co. is making some headway.
.... K. 8.: The British American is a Canadian
concern with a capital of $750,000 and reserves
(apart from contingency reserves) of $2,440,528.
Most Australian banks will accept its policies....
M.C.0.; Benefits under ordinary probate policies are
liable for probate duty. The only advantage of
such a policy is that the co. undertakes to make
the money available for paying the tax... .M.R.:
See B. 18/6/’3O, and draw your own conclusions,...
V.F.M.: Not inside 18 months.... Wellington: (1)
What you can get. (2) No settled market- sec.
may be able to place them. (3) May; in our
opinion chances are very 5ma11.... 5.F..5.: Don’t see
how they can avoid liquidation... .Thos. I.: A
gamble at long odds... .M.K.S.: No; the banks are
making little or nothing out of the high exchange
rates. It is the man who has something to sell
abroad that is collecting the dividend.


Hullber that outwears
Steel
C\
l J
ml
fimpn
ii
The illustration (reduced size )
depicts the steel plate, }i s" thick,
with hole worn through it by a
standard Dunlop Balloon. Tyre
,—after running 1,700 miles in
a road test.
Amazing Results of
Interesting Test
N instructive test was recently carried out
on Victorian roads which proved that
Dunlop knowledge and experience have
evolved a rubber of remarkable toughness.
The tread of a standard Dunlop Balloon Cover—
whilst in road use - was run in contact with a
steel plate | M thick, kept in position with springs.
After travelling a distance of 1,700 miles a Hole
was worn through the steel.
In this severe test the tyre was subjected to TWO
distinct abrasive actions —one from rubbing contact
against steel plate, the other from the usual functions
of a tyre, viz., carrying the load and transmitting
the power of engine.
The steel plate was subject to only ONE abrasive
action —the rubbing of the tyre tread. Despite this,
the result of the test showed that 32” less thickness
of rubber was worn away than steel conclusively
proving what exceptional wear resistance is built
into Dunlop Covers.
The rubber in every Dunlop Motor Cover we
make for Cars, Trucks or Motor Cycles, is exactly
the same as that in the cover tested.
A
It is this wear-defying rubber that assures
users of DUNLOP such big average
mileage . . ♦ such freedom from trouble ♦ • ♦
such satisfactory tyre service.
YOUR LOCAL GARAGE STOCKS THEM
Buij
fd
DUNIOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIA ALL ST * TES
MANUFACTURERS OF
HIGH-GRADE RUBBER GOODS
*
, 1,/-'.
' f.i


SAFE PROTECTION for your books,
papers and valuables
Fire- and Burglar-resisting Safes. Strong-
room doors, etc. List of Banks, Insurance
Offices, Government Departments, Firms and
Corporations using these safes will be supplied
by request.
Buy direct from Manufacturer.
J. L. KELLY, 455 Macaulay Road,
Kensington, Melbourne, Wl.
Make secure
what you can’t
insure.
M
Leipzig Trade Fair
GERMANY
A
THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS
(TWICE YEARLY.)
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Engineering and
Building Fairs, starts AUGUST 31, 1930
INQUIRIES INVITED, INFORMATION GLADLY GIVEN BY:—
LABS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.AV.
C. N. KEPPEL,
C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd.,
Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
“Germany invites the display of Australian Primary Products
for presentation to the World’s Buyers.”
The
Hand
in
Need
9
M
for the
Saleof Skins
is the work of strong - , reliable salesmen in market-
ing them. Consign Rabbit, Fox and Other Skins,
Winchcombe. Carson
LTD.
Selling Agents, SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s determined, capable efforts never
fail to produce highest possible prices.
Auctions every week Prompt returns
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIN
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
Piecrust”: The instinct to let the other
fellow do the dirty work is not confined
to humans. Most animals and insects if they
are given the opportunity, will take’ advan-
tage of somebody else’s industry. The
cuckoo, who waits for a neighboring couple
to build and furnish a home and then farms
out a baby on them, is
an outstanding case,
but she has the excuse
that she produces her
eggs at intervals of
several days, and it
would be inconvenient
for the first-born to
appear while the others
needed keeping warm
for another fortnight.
Another labor-saver is
the queen of one variety
of wild bee. Recent
observers have found
that if she is dissatis-
fied with her own nur-
series she selects a
bodyguard of fighters
and makes her way to
a neighboring hive,
Either because of the
looks of her escort or
from mutual politeness,
there is rarely any
trouble, and she is
allowed to roam the
palace and leave her
eggs in any chamber
she fancies. Occasion-
ally the resident queen
turns nasty, and after
the conflict one or
other of the hives has
to hold another general
election. Life amongst
the trapdoor spiders
also has its thrills.
When children are on
the way, a certain breed
of Mrs. Trapdoor is
addicted to collecting
and storing paralysed
prey in readiness for
them, and it is not
unusual for her to
return from a skirmish-
ing expedition to find
another lady in possession of the offspring
and the larder. A willing scrap follows,
but the children at any rate have nothing
to complain of, for whoever is the victor
treats them as her own.
* * *
“(C. Coral”: Thus discoursed Jimmy Susu
on the perils of the deep: “Yes, too much
shark he run about now, make very hard
work for me to swim for trochus-shell, an’
pick up pearl-shell on top reef. ’Nother
day I nearly lose my life. I come up quick
from down below, and just when I going
to blow, wind I look, and he got one big
shark right close to! His nose close up
touch my swfimming-glasses. When I look
eyes belong that shark he roll round, look
like he proper wild for get me. I go down
quick, so he can’t turn for bite, then I make
noise, ‘Umph, umph!’ with my mouth, all
same like man he fight that drum. That
noise make that shark ,go way—you know,
underneath water it sound all same thunder.
That’s only way to make shark fright.
S'pose you hit your hand along water for
THE MARKS OF HIS EDUCATION.
NEIGHBOR: “Wot’s up with yer poor ’usband?”
MISSUS: “Someone’s been idlin' ’im that a man ought to be boss in his own house.”
make splash, that no good: that only make
shark come more quick, might he think some
hsh or somet’ing make that splash. But
when you sing out ‘Umph, umph!’ then
that shark he no like. You t’ink shark-fin
he got good price now?”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: “Gad” (B. 4/6/’3O)
could not have been nature-observing in the
proper way to have to ask that simple ques-
tion about what happens to the dirt out of
a rabbit burrow. The rabbits ha*ve two
methods. One is to dig another hole in front
of the burrow and bury the spoil in it. The
other is for all hands to bathe in a near-by
creek, come back and roll themselves in the
loose soil, which clings until it is washed off
in the creek again.
* * * *
“Arkay”: Some years ago, when I was
living on an island in the Kaewieng district
(New Ireland), the wife pro tern, of one of
our native laborers gave birth to an heiress.
Having heard her express disgust at the
fate that had overtaken her, I was not
surprised to bo told half an hour after the
birth that “Mary ’e plant : im finish pic-
canin’.” We dug the unwanted offspring
from beneath 18 inches of sand while the
unconcerned mother pensively scratched her
head and enjoyed a smoke. Miraculously
the infant lived, and after about a fortnight,
thinking the lady was reconciled to it, I
left it with her for the night. She greeted
me next morning with “Piccanin’ ’e die finish
along night.” After a pause she added with a
bland smile : “This time me plant ’im deep !”
* * * *
“Sendee” : Motorists on the main road near
Penrith (N.S.W.) had a surprising experi-
ence recently, when they were besieged by
a mob of sheep. It appears that out West,
during a dry time, these woollies had been
hand-fed from motor-lorries, and the sound-
ing of horns had been the signal that dinner
was served. The first motorist to meet the
mob on the main road was a lady, and as
the sheep obstructed the track, she indig-
nantly sounded her horn. She was immedi-
ately “charged by the infuriated beasts,”
as she later described it. There was a
lot of traffic on the road, and the queue of
cars all tooted loudly, only adding to the
confusion, for the mob was a* large one.
Several dogs and the imprecations of a
perspiring drover, who frantically called on
the motorists to “stop them blasted ’orns, or
the brutes’ll eat yer,” eventually restored
order, and the sheep were transferred to a
near-by paddock to ruminate on the treachery
of mankind.
“E.S.”: 1 don’t know anything more
objectionable than working and 'camping
among a multitude of caterpillars, moving
m dense formation and crawling over every-
thing in their path. The ugliest mob that'l
have struck was on the Nive (Q.). They
were dirty-green beasts, about two inches
long, that pretended to be twigs when dis-
turbed or resting. The rear half clung to a
branch or splinter, and the front half
rigidly outwards or upwards. Every
leaf-denuded shrub and every fence post was
bristling with imitation twigs. It was im-
possible to step anywhere without crushing
a score of the creeping pests; and if a bloke
stopped to light his pipe they crawled up
his legs and tried to wreathe themselves
round his hat. If lie touched one, the front
half swung round with a smart wallop, and
when one of the creatures dropped down the
back of one’s neck, its activity was horrible.
They filled me with a great love for birds—
especially birds that eat caterpillars.
;J:
. -Tiewire ; It doesn’t seem to be a general
opinion, but in my experience the friend-
liest of Australian birds is the emu, whose
insatiable curiosity drives out fear. Five
the birds placed themselves on my calling
list while I was camped in a nor’-western
.scrub, sheer inquisitiveness brought them
there at first, and later on they invariably
turned up to watch me eat my breakfast.
Y\ ithin a month they were all quite tame
and did not resent being handled. They
were good company, but when I found one
making off with a blanket I decided that it
was time their visits were discouraged.
***
“Ilomfrey Beale”: Twenty years ago a
ehaiacter well known in all the sleeper-
getting centres of N.S.W. was “Wedges
Gus, an ancient who used to peddle axe-
head wedges made from shear blades in sets
ot four at two bob the .set. His appearance
was generally hailed with delight by the
cutters, who were usually miles from the
nearest shearing-shed, and he did a roaring
trade, each cutter being sure to buy at
alfa quid’s worth.” When Gus was
left ilzOO by a relative and returned to his
native Hartford (Eng.), he had no succes-
sor, and his wedges and liis gossip wer«'
sorely missed.
FISHING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A\ hen summer in his golden hands
J lie eoastland holds no more,
And winter seas on chilly sands
Their broken burdens pour,
Enun Gippsland Lakes the Ashing bands
In careful craft come o’er
To Mallacoota’s sheltered tide
With new-tanned nets and gear.
Then heavy boats the shallows glide,
And keen-eyed rowers peer
The bays and channels, where, abide
The fortunes of a year.
Dark ludrick on the weedy flat
Whence startled black swans fly,
And poddy mullet, always fat,
Shy bream and golden-eye,
And ugly speckled flathead that
Along the bottom lie.
Trevalli coarse and whiting slim,
And flounders for the plates
Of Melbourne gourmets glamor him
Who, with his hardy mates,
Comes yearly through the seas that rim
Our narrow seaward gates.
The camps along the foreshore light
The still lake’s loneliness
With open fires that dot the night,
When heavy toilers press
The bracken bunks in tired delight
Of resting weariness.
Close crowded fins in stake-nets pent
Await the going down
Of ruffled seas. The men, intent,
Watch changing smile or frown
On Ocean’s face if chance has sent
The precious catch to town.
Fine manly chaps these fishermen,
Good honest blokes. Their lives—
Lived far away from brush or pen,
The cities and their hives—
Have brought me passing comfort when,
As one who harshly strives
’Gainst life’s rough odds, I watch them face
Head winds and seas adverse,
Poor prices and the scanty grace
Of creditors and worse,
More bravely than the bard who’d trace
Their simple lives in verse.
HAPPY DAYS.
’ORACE: “I spent th’ ’appiest days of me life when I was at ’ome with th’ missus.”
CUTHBERT : “Then why did you leave ’er?”
ORACE: “She turned me out ter look for a job.”
Stout, sturdy sons of these coastlands,
Your joys and cares I know!
Each year ye come in sea-borne bands.
Each year ye come and go—
And here’s my hand unto your hands.
And let the brown beer flow!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BEADY.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Batjbs
at
:P ??5. ’* "
M Is;
ipi
■r R ~
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6
Telephone: F^l4l.
Week.
168/-
300/-
100/-
182/6
Take care of the Pennies
The Pounds will take care of YOU
The greater number of our people are wage- and salary-earners
who can look only to thrift to establish a competence in later life. For
them there is no better means than the Savings Account.
The less you earn the greater the necessity for saving, and regular
deposits, no matter how small, will build a banking account at a
surprising rate. Don’t be ashamed of saving pennies—they soon make
pounds.
Branches of the Commonwealth Savings Bank are to be found
in the principal towns, and every Post Office is an Agency.
Cbimonwcaltl) Savinas JBank of Australia
(.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Kcix-L-Ration
Tb Dog food
Supreme
m
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly the right proportions.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T : Ration
“ Viau”: Snakes do swallow their young
in time of danger. I was burning-off a
decayed part of the plantation (New Guinea)
and caught a six-foot wriggler, blackish
flattened head, creamy body with chocolate
bands along back, a very common sort here,
WITH OMAR IN THE NORTH-WEST.
“And Thou who didst with Pitfall and with Gin
Beset the road I was to wander in”
crossing the road. The boss-boy gave a
slash with his knife and a -loin.'■•specimen,
dark grey, with distinct darker banding, came
out via the gash. I watched it -squirm as
the knife caught it, and saw a six-inch picca-
ninny come out of its mouth.
**' * *
“Salambo”: The notes of some Maoriland
birds occur in regular combinations, like
snatches pf melodies. The grey warbler’s
call is reminiscent of the open-
ing bars of “Home, Sweet
Home,” and the bellbird is fond
of a phrase from “The Camp-
bells Are Coming.” Tuis and
bellbirds, whose notes are similar
in timbre, sometimes sing duets.
“Yarri”: Snifkins is an
amateur naturalist with a bent
for experiment. The other
morning lie diluted some treacle
with o.p. rum and dribbled it
about near an ants’ , nest, inter-
rupting several busy workers
who were carrying provender
for the storehouse. The ants
took to the drink with enthusi-
asm, and in a little' while there
were a dozen of them stagger-
ing about and trying to see one
another home. When a couple
blundered to the doorway and
fell in. several ants scrambled
out. They were the police and
the ambulance brigade, Snif-
kins said. When they met a
drunk wobbling round they
inspected the imbecile with
obvious amazement and waved
their antenna*, at one another
in Pussyfootish horror. An-
other drunk lurched up and fell
on their necks, and they moved
away in a bristling and dignified
manner. Then two or three of
the ambulance corps started to
escort some of tlieir helpless
brothers, but on the way they
came to a trail of dope, stopped
to investigate—and got drunk.
Finally, a host of prohibitionists
swarmed out and rushed around
in a great buzz of excitement
till they also arrived at the
treacle. They fell from grace,
and when the sun went down
150 ants were on the jag, too
intoxicated to know where they
lived. The few who got to the
right address couldn’t find the
keyhole. Most of them slept
on the road.
“J.C.”: Watching the skies from Watli-
oroo Magnetic Observatory (W.A.) I have
seen stranger things than a rainbow by
moonlight. I have seen a lunar fogbow
as well as a sun fogbow: mock suns (three
of them) ; a fourth and a fifth rainbow
on rare occasions, and a third rainbow fre-
quently. And on one occasion I created a
thunderstorm by burning off a lot of scrub
when conditions were ripe. At this station
we noted generally that when a bush fire
started, the cumulus head formed over the
fire in still air became the seat of a thun-
derstorm, though there was rain only , when
there was moisture in the air. A pheno-
menon that for years I watched for but
failed to observe was the. “green flash" at
sunset. This is an apple-green flash which
bursts up just after the last segment of the
setting sun vanishes under the horizon, and
it has been observed by others at Cottesloc
(W.A.). It is only recently that Lord
Itayleigh worked out the scientific explana-
tion of this strange happening.
ANOTHER SIDELIGHT ON PSYCHO-ANALYSIS.
“Wha’s this ’feriority complex the praicher do be talkin’ s’ much ’bout?
“’S far foorth as I do understand, it do mean if a man think ’e’s awnly a grasshopper,
then ’e do be a grasshopper.”
“Bendee”: Has anyone seen a creature
that looks like a marsupial tiger cat? Ido
not refer to the big spotted tiger, or native,
cat (genus Dasyurus), but to a ferocious
wicked beast much
bigger and resembling
the domestic cat. It is
light brown or fawn
iu color, with darker
brown or nearly bla k
striped markings. Years
ago on the Moonee
River I shot one of
these beasts on the
branch of a leaning
tree, where he had
taken refuge from my
dog. I had the idea
that lie was coming
down after me, so I got
in first with a 32.40
bullet. Although mor-
tally wounded, lie
fought my big dog, and
ripped him severely. It
was the only time I had
ever seen the old dog
pull out of a fight, and
lie was never any good
afterwards. The only
things that impressed
me at the time were the
strength, smell and fero-
city of the brute, and
the fact that in some
respects it resembled a
wallaby more than a
cat. These animals
seem to frequent the
most impenetrable
country, and are hard
to get at. Sydney Zoo
and Museum authori-
ties can get no specimens or definite infor-
mation to prove whether they are domestic
cats that have been bred wild or marsupials
of the feline order.
“Dai R.”: Travelling in the sandalwood
parts of North Q’land I have noticed that
the trunks of the. older sandalwoods arc
marked by dark, irregularly-shaped patches,
varying in circumference from the size of
half a crown to that of a large meat-cover.
These are always on the western side of
the trunk, and are much more pronounced
in the late afternoon than at any other
time. On trees that grow on slopes the-
patches are much darker than on those in
the hollows or on ridgetops. Bushmen say
that these patches are due to the action
of the sun producing an exudation of the oil
and that the reason they appear on only
the western side of the trunk is that the
forenoon heat is not sufficiently strong to.
draw it out. But the heat of the North
Queensland sun at 11 a.m., when the blaze
is full on the eastern side of the trunk, ;s
as intense ns at any time of the day. Has
any member of the Council a more rational
explanation?
“T.AiS.”: A couple of years ago I was
trying to catch a couple of jewies in a
waterhole near Mitchell (W.Q.) when I
hooked a green turtle. I cut off its head
so that I could get the hook out of it. A
couple of minutes later I looked around
and saw the headless thing crawl to a
little log, beneath which it scratched a hole
and deposited therein 14 eggs.
*
“Awani” : The engines of the .small black
ant must be extra strong. I watched one
the other afternoon conducting the transport
of the dead body of a large-sized house fly-
Mr. Ant led it by the head, and by repeated
efforts dragged the fly about three inches.
Then it let go and scurried like mad across
to its hole, about two yards away, pre-
sumably to measure the distance it had to
drag the burden. Then it came back and
took another pull and dragged the body
another few inches. Then it let go again,
and took a circuit around the fly three or four
times —looking for a better hold, I. suppose.
Evidently it found one, for after a few
more bouts of tugging and pushing the car-
case was safely stored. There were a number
of other black ants running round,, but none
offered to help, and none were appealed to
for assistance. The black ant evidently minds
its own business.
WITH THE BIRDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis joyous in the morning hours
To wander with the herds
Amid the honeyed scent of flowers,
And listen to the birds
That seem to speak from blossomed trees,
Or as they swiftly pass,
And charm with worded melodies
In scrub and swamp and grass.
The tribute of the kurrawong,
Oft-shouted loud and clear,
Inviting all to “Come along!”
In forest glades I hear;
The while his cousin of the hills,
Koolardi, dark and plain.
Disporting high o’er running rills,
Predicts “It’s goin’ to rain !”
Where sprinkled shades of greenery
Are splashed with opal wings.
“You’re n0t....a .sweet, wee bird....like
me !”
r Phe gay flame-robin sings ;
Whilst for “Maria” here and there
The catbird queries low,
Beside the winding river where
The wild red cherries grow.
The babbler mutters “Go away!”
It has so much to do;
The purple pigeon, glad and gay.
Responds “Good luck to you!”
While gillbirds chuckle “Got to walk!”
The kookaburras jeer.
And laugh “Ho-ho!” at all the talk
Of busybodies near.
When leatherheads shout. “Four o'clock!”
With many a sportive trick.
The diamond-bird by bank and rock
Says “Baby, .sleep, sleep quick!”
Tin* little friar calls “Hope you're well !”
The grinder “Who. are you?”
And in the brush where pigeons dwell
They ask “How do you do?”
There, screened beneath the leafy shroud,
Where moss-grown gullies dip.
The noisy pitta cries aloud
And oft “I’ve lost my whip!”
The lyre-bird mocks and fools them all,
’Pill comes the cry, “Look out!”
All know the noisy miner’s call.
And heed that warning shout.
With merry chirp and pirouette,
The wagtail flaunts his pride,
“Sweet, pretty creature!” —dry or wet,
1 le chirrups far and wide;
And down beside the scrubby creek,
Where wattle boughs are stirred
By flitting wings, “A grin a week!”
Demands the pilot-bird.
From early morn they talk and sing,
And gambol, build and play;
A joyance to the bush they bring
With rolling roundelay.
And when the mob retires with night,
All silent as the stork,
The mopoke from his roost takes flight,
And calls afar, “More pork!”
N.S.W
E. S. SORENSON.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Sheep Owners
Does it pay to mix your own Lick?
WE THINK NOT
WITH our organisation including factory efficiency,
technical service, and analytical checking of Lick
ingredients, we are positive we can make you a
cheaper and better lick than you can mix yourself.
VITA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
BRISBANE WEBSTER & CO. LTD.
TOWNSVILLE - - - WEBSTER & CO. LTD.
ROCKHAMPTON - - WALTER REID Sc CO. LTD.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
LOOK TO THE FLOCK'S FEET.
"Jimmy Geebung” : This is the time of year
when sheepmen should look to the pedicur-
ing of their flocks, particularly the rams.
I Funs grow a large amount of superfluous
hoof, and in the wet months this softens and
spreads. Even if the softening does not
lead to inflammation of the glands between
the toes, with consequent footrot, the
“splawed” feet, when dried and hardened,
soon cause lameness. It is a small matter
to yard up the rams occasionally, and trim
the toes with a- pair of secateurs. If they
have become too hard to clip, a heavy wood-
chisel and a block of wood will be found
a satisfactory substitute. If there is the
slightest sign of lameness in any sheep, they
should be caught and examined.
Footrot spreads rapidly when not attended
to. If tlie disease does establish itself in
a flock, the Milestone treatment, together with
clipping and dressing in special cases, is by
far the best. All sheep affected should be:
run in a hospital paddock near a set of
yards. It may be found necessary to trans-
port them by dray and waggon, but this
is well warranted, for with a little care and
judicious dipping in bluestone solution a
cure can be effected. Wooden troughs, eight
to ten inches wide and ten feet long, should
be let into the floor of the drafting-race.
A beer cask stood outside the nice serves as
a good supply reservoir for concentrated
bluestone solution. Dissolving the crystals
is perhaps the most troublesome job of the
lot. They have to be boiled to dissolve, and
if they are first crushed to powder this pro-
cess is much quicker. Ordinary tins last
only through one or two boilings, as the acid
eats them away. For this reason, an old
copper set in a concrete fireplace is the best
sort of boiler. The concentrated solution
in the supply barrel is replenished from the
boiler, and the troughs are filled from the
barrel, broken down with water to the
required strength.
The affected feet should be pared back as
far as it is possible to cut them; a little
bleeding does no harm. Drastic cutting-back
is essential. The bluestone has an immediate
hardening effect, and if a diseased portion of
the inner hoof is left covered by some horn,
once the horn has become hardened by the
bluestone it is a most difficult matter to
cut away the hardened covering for further
treatment. Hooves which have completely
shed their horn should not be dressed with
bluestone, but with Stockholm tar thinned
with kerosene.
If foot-rotted hooves are fly-blown, it will
be found almost impossible to get all the
maggots out by ordinary probing means,
which are too slow in any case. An ordinary
motor-car oilcan, filled with petrol, will do
wonders. A jet of petrol up under the shell
brings the wrigglers out at the double, kill-
ing them instantly. In very bad cases, where
the foot is so tender that the animal is like
to starve through want of ability to walk
after grass, it pays to bandage the foot with
basil, tying it tightly round the fetlock.
This must be opened up every day, how-
ever, and the process is only recommended in
the case of valuable sheep.
After having initiated the first mob of
hospital cases to the troughs, it will be found
that they will soon learn to run through
the troughs without any pushing. At Carwell
in 1920, 3000-odd sheep were run through the
troughs every day for some weeks. Every
gate was left open, and the sheep drew
through the receiving-yards and up through
the forcing-yards and through the troughs
by themselves. They had to be stopped every
now and then while the troughs were
replenished. There were many deaths, but
the flock would have dwindled to extinction
but for the bluestone treatment.
SAFFRON THISTLE.
“R. Iv. Deea” : “Hortus” (B. 28/5/’3O) has
a good word for the saffron thistle, but why
bother with the thing when the saltbush
family is available? Consider the analyses
of saffron thistle and creeping saltbush: —
Carbo-
Proteids. hydrates. Fat. Ash.
p.e. p.c. p.e. p.e.
Saffron thistle .. 8.41 81.90 2.98 6.71
Creeping saltbush 12.78 59.88 1.61 25.73
The law proclaims the thistle a noxious
weed. Why? First, because it is a
dangerous fodder (when eaten, its spines
act deleteriously in the animal’s innards),
and, secondly, because it is a gross seeder,
spreading quickly and crowding out other
plants of greater service to animals and
man.
WOOL PRICES FOR 30 YEARS.
At a conference of Westralian woolgrowerx
(who, incidentally, decided to send delegate
to Queensland to discuss a proposal from
that State for a wool-control scheme) great
interest was shown in a list of average prices
received for wool in South Australia during
the last 30 years. The information, which
is here subjoined, was obtained by Mr. Ernest
Lee Steere, owner of Eurythmic and Maple,
on a visit to Adelaide; auction averages per
bale are given, except where appraisement
years are specified :
Bale Aver.
Season. (Greasy).
1899- . £l3 3 2]
1900- . . 6 7 31
1901- . . 7 10 4?
1902- . . 9 8 2
1903- ..10 8 7
1904- . . 10 2 1
1905- . . 10 18 31
1906- .. 11 2 3*
1907- . . 12 11 111
1908- .. 8 18 51
1909- . . 1] 5 21
1910- . . 11 1 0}
1911- .. 9 13 101
1912- .. 1112 10-1
1913- . . 11 6 7
1914- . . 9 15 5
1915- . . 13 0 101
1916- . . 17 2 91
(4 ord. sales, 5 appraised)
Bale Aver.
Season. (Greasy).
1917- . . £l9 5 9-i
(Appraisement)
1918- .. 19 16 7-1
(Appraisement)
1919- . . 19 18 lj
(Appraisement)
1920- . . 12 16 0
1921- . . 17 8 6|
1922- . . 23 3 5
1923- .. 28 3 101
1924- .. 32 4 U
1925- . . 18 17 8*
1926- . . 19 1 21
1927- .. 22 5 111
1928- . . 19 12 71
1929- . . 12 2 11J
(Six sales)
THE truth about rabbit wool.
The Queensland Minister of Agriculture
sent a cable to the Agent-General in Lon-
don to ascertain the true state of the market
for Angora-rabbit wool. The reply was that
supplies far exceed the demand. The average
price for first-grade wool is about £1 3s.
per lb. The market for Chinchilla rabbit pelts
is_ also much depressed. Prices for “best
winter” reach 55., but average about 25.,
with heavy stocks on hand.
SUPER. FOR WHEAT—AND WHY.
“C. E. Real” ; Results for over 30 years
have proved that super, is the best manure
tor wheat in Australia, and yet our wheat
soils are comparatively poor in nitrogen.
An average wheat crop of 14 bushels will
remove approximately 331 b. of nitrogen from
every acre of soil. Of this amount, 191 b. is
contained in the 14 bushels of grain and is
removed for good; of the remaining 141 b.
some at least is returned to the soil.
A stubble burn does not destroy all the
nitrogen the straw contains, as is generally
supposed. The “char” is fairly rich in
nitrogen and is subsequently ploughed under.
It is estimated that 61b. of nitrogen per acre
is recovered in this manner. This brings
the actual loss of the dearest fertilising
element down to 271 b. per acre.
There a<re ways and means by which this
loss is replenished. A 14-inch rainfall inland
adds to the soil 51b. to 101 b. of readily soluble
nitrogen per acre. The actual amount will
depend largely upon the number of thunder-
storms occurring during the yeii*r. Electrical
disturbances appreciably increase the amount
of nitrogen, as ammonia and nitrates are
contained in the rain. In the second place,
the grazing of sheep on the fallows and
stubble, returns readily available nitrogen to
the soil, and a goodly percentage of this is
“new” nitrogen—that is, nitrogen obtained
from the leguminous plants (trefoil and
clovers), which are partial to super, and
derive their nitrogen from the air. It has
been computed that 51b. of “new” nitrogen
is obtained from this source and about 151 b.
from the two-years’ rainfall, assuming the
rotation is wheat—fallow —wheat, so that the
actual loss is really about 71b. of nitrogen
per acre. The average Australian wheat
soil contains roughly a ton of nitrogen in
the top acre-foot, and the rate of nitrification
—the process of rendering this nitrogen
available —is much greater in the wheat-
zones than in the colder parts of the States.
In certain of the lighter wheat soils of
Victoria, nitrogenous manures have shown a
small benefit in recent years. This is not
general and may possibly be due to an
alteration in the methods of growing.
What of the potash? Our average wheat
soil contains approximately three tons of
potash in the top acre-foot and considerably
more at the lower levels. About five per
cent, of this immense quantity is being
continually made available, and the average
14-bushel crop removes about 51b. of potash
per acre—the stubble burn does not drive
any potash away. We need not worry about
a potash deficiency for many generations to
come.
PIGS FOR GRAZING.
“Sendee”: Farmers intending to go in for
grazing pigs must remember that good fences
are essential. The most satisfactory fence
is that made with heavy K wire-netting, with
barb top and bottom. It is necessary also
to do the thing in a fairly big way; grazing
a few pigs will not justify the initial outlay
on fences, cropping and water-supply.
Lucerne is probably the best pasture. The
paddocks must be divided to allow of fre-
quent spelling, and they must not be over-
stocked. Nor should the stock be allowed
to remain in the one paddock for long
periods; the oftener they are moved round
the better. There should, when possible, be
handy paddocks heavily grassed with pas-
palum or other ha<rdy grasses, where pigs
can be kept during excessively wet weather.
And in addition to permanent pastures it
is advisable to grow crops of artichokes,
swedes and mangel-wurzels; maize, rape and
barley grown together, or oats. Root crops
a*re the best protection against droughts, as
pigs can root them out for themselves long
after the surface herbage has been cleaned
up. Stacks of lucerne hay or a supply of
ensilage will be of the greatest help in a
dry time, and almost any roughage will make
suitable ensilage. Hand-feeding of a*n added
grain ration will help to keep the pigs tract-
able.
Shelter-sheds should be in well-drained
spots, with the opening facing the north.
The roofs, which can be of bark, should not
be too low.
The best breed of pigs for grazing, under
most Australian conditions, is the result of
crossing the Berkshire boar on Tamworth
sows. Tamworth sows throw big litters, the
shape of the youngsters’ heads making far-
rowing very easy for the mother. They a<re
good fossickers, and are usually quiet.
The progeny of this cross will make excellent
mothers for the next generation.
When the cross is reversed, and the Tam-
worth boar is put to Berkshire sows, the
main advantage of the Tamworth —mother-
craft—is lost. Though Berks, are often
excellent brood-sows, intensive sty-feeding
and continuous breeding for the show-ring
have tended to reduce their natural breed-
ing potency. Line breeding of the Berk.-
Tam. cross will eventually produce bacon
pigs which should be of as much value
to Australian pig-farmers as the breed of
Illawarra* cattle lias been to the dairyman.
I suggest, first; Berk, boar on Tam. sows,
and then Berk, boar on the progeny. Breed-
ing from the crossbred boar should not be
undertaken till the fourth generation of
crossing. The progeny of the second cross
might be allowed to mate with a Tam. boar,
and the resultant' stock returned to the
Berk, sire again. This breed, as well as
meeting all the requirements of the farmer,
will always command high prices when well
topped up, on account of the firm flesh and
the well-streaked bacon which it invariably
produces.
The White or Yorkshire pigs, being liable
to scald in tbe hot weather, are not so
suitable for grazing. Poland-Cli’inas will
cross well with a Tamworth, but the pro-
feny are not so attractive as the Berk.-Tams.
tritish Blacks are meeting the fate the
breed deserves.
MAKING CHEESE ON THE FARM.
“Fysh” : Not one dairyman in a hundred
bothers to make a bit of cheese for the
house, yet a 41b. cheese can be made for a
few pence, if you have the milk. Separated
milk can be used if desired, though new
milk is much better.
You need two gallons of milk, a 71b.
treacle-tin with the bottom cut out, a round
board cut to just fit inside the tin (termed
a “follower”) and a smooth board to stand
the tin on. Cut a kero,-tin lengthways dnd
put the milk in it. Stand it in a tub of
warm water and keep the water at 84deg.
by adding more warm water at intervals. A
dairy thermometer costing a couple of shil-
lings will make sure the lieat is right. Add
some rennet (directions are on the bottle)
or some junket tablets. In about three-
quarters of an hour the curd • should be hard
enough to cut. To test it, see if it breaks
cleanly over the finger; it it does, cut it
into squares about lin. each way with a
knife long enough to reach the bottom of
the curd. The whey will begin to come out,
and then the heat must be gradually raised
by means of added water till it is about
96deg\, not over; it takes about 20 minutes
to arrive at this temperature.
Now pour off the whey and gently stir
the curd for about three minutes —handle it
gently or the cheese will be hard —and add
two tablespoons of salt. Put the board under
the treacle-tin, line it with a square of
butter muslin, and gently ladle the curd in,
filling the bottom carefully. Fold the muslin
over the top and put the follower on it;
clap a small weight on the follower and in-
crease the weight.
After the cheese has been in the press for
12 hours, turn press and cheese over and put
the weight on the other end. Leave it like
this for another 12 hours. Then take the
cheese out, rub the sides well flith butter,
and cover sides and ends with muslin the
blitter holds it in place. Put the cheese in
a fly-proof cupboard for a month to cure
turning it every day. It is ready for eating
in a month.
SULPHUR AS A FUNGICIDE.
“P. Aitcli” : In the near future fungi will
need attention, and one of the oldest and
best remedies is sulphur. Vignerons use
large quantities in the form of atomic sul-
phur, or intensely ground iron pyrites; the
hopgrower relies on atomic sulphur wet-
sprayed ; market gardeners are keen on the
dry-mixed sulphur-lime.
The fungicidal efficiency of sulphur depends
on (1) the fineness of the powder, because
this controls the “spread” and ensures the
maximum amount of foliage being subjected
to the sulphur’s action; and (2) the
presence of an alkali in some shape or
form, as this increases the fungicidal action.
Neat dry atomic sulphur then may be
regarded as more efficient than flowers of
sulphur; it gives a better “spread.” It, is
also superior to finely ground iron pyrites,
especially as it contains more of the element
sulphur.
However, best results are obtained when
atomic sulphur is used with a spreader of an
alkaline nature. Acid spreaders, such as
glue, a*ro not economical because they retard
the action. For wet-spraying I find nothing
better than soft soap, dissolving a pound
of it in 20 gallons of water and stirring in
101 b. of atomic sulphur. For the dry-mix
use 21b. to 31b. of sulphur with one pound of
slaked lime.
PRUNING YOUNG APPLE-TREES.
“I>isc Harrow”: On the way the young
tree is handled depends the shape and con-
dition of the finished product:. No amount
of later work will rectify mistakes made in
the early stages. The ideal to be kept in
mind is a strong, even and well-shaped
framework in the shape of a funnel, the
leaders springing at about 40 degrees from
the perpendicular. Air and sunlight; are
then admitted equally to all sides of the
fruit, and spraying can be carried out
thoroughly. Some varieties assume this
shape more or less naturally; others, such as
the Rome Beauty, require far more care.
The tree should come from the nursery
showing three shoots. Prune the roots back
before planting, and prune each shoot so
that two buds are left on each. With the
six growths that result the next year shap-
ing can be started. If necessary, remove one
or two of the shoots completely. An
examination of the buds left 'will show
where growths in tlie required direction may
be obtained. Each growth can be counted
on to produce two shoots the following
year, so when making the cut take notice
of the two buds directly beneath it. Leaders
must be trained up equidistant from one
another and gradually brought out from
the centre.
It is better to err on the side of a large
number of leaders, and to prune short rather
than long. Wood can always be cut out
when needful, while if a blank is left it may
be a job to fill it later. Hard cutting
develops strong and stocky limbs, and in a
heavy year may be the means of saving the
tree.
Do not take any notice of fixed rules as
to the number of leaders there should be
in 'a tree. Each case must be treated on
its merits, the only matter that needs atten-
tion being to see that all leaders are kept
the same height. Train up the number that
the tree seems to require, and the size of
the fruit will tell if there are too many.
I have seen a row of Gravenstcins which
averaged 36 leaders to a tree.
REPLY TO A WESTRALIAN
CHALLENGE.
“XSA”: I am pleased to tell “Arma-
dale” (B. 11/6/’3O) that my methodical
citrus-grower (B. 30/4/’3O) claims no record
for working a 22-acre orchard giving about
5000 bushels a year with' the help of a
crippled lad. There are others in the
Hawkcsbury (N.S.W.) district who do even
better. The normal rainfall for June, July
and August is approximately 16in. From
blossoming until harvesting it would be
about the same, but during the past five
years my grower has at times had condi-
tions similar to those experienced by “Arma-
dale” in Westralia; he has gone for five
months without a decent fall.
Three grades of citrus fruits, choice,
standard and plain, are sent to market, and
the mean difference in sizes is gin. Wind-
falls are not troublesome. The orchard is
not only surrounded by but intersected with
windbreaks. The packing-shed is well
equipped, and covers 30 x 30 with skillion.
It has . raised platforms, ramp and lorry
clearance, all made of bush timbers. The
sizer works from mandarins to navels, and
is a good one. Stock and implements are
two good horses, s.f. and d.f. ploughs, spring-
tooth disc, scuffler and harrows; the draw-
ing is done by lorry.
(Continued on page 25.)


The majority of Buick owners
have owned r ßuicks before
5*
/
a
The all-round
dependability of the car
keeps Buick owners loyal
year after year ....
THERE is no measure of the value of a car half
so good as the experience of owners.. And
there can be no more definite expression of
what owners know about Buicks than what they
do with their money when they are ready to buy
a new car.
They buy Buicks. The majority of present Buick
owners, investigation shows, have owned Buicks
before. This is all the more significant because the
total number of Buick owners is growing so steadily.
It is the all-round dependability of Buick and the
confidence people have in it which puts Buick in
its unique position of leadership.
From 10 to 60 miles an hour in less than half
a minute
As never before in the z 6 years of Buick success,
the Buick for 1930 combines exceptional perform-
ance with new and classic beauty.
From 10 to 60 miles an hour in less than 3° seconds
means perfect control and adaptability in city traffic
and in any driving crisis on the road. Even on 11
per cent, grades, top gear will take you from 5 to 25
miles an hour, and powerful 4-wheel internal brakes
cushion you to a safe quick stop from all speeds.
Exceptional Comfort
Owners emphasise the comfortable driving qualities
of Buick. New double-acting shock absorbers
check excessive bound up or down, and with the
semi-elliptic springs compensate for rough road sur-
faces, and prevent sidesway. Non-glare windscreen
kills headlight glare from rear or sides. Steering
Road Shock Eliminator absorbs shocks before they
can pass through the steering gear to the wheel.
Adjustable driving seat adds its quota of comfort.
Service Everywhere
Three hundred Buick dealers all over Australia
provide a high standard of service for the Buick
owner. Buick is warranted for one year. Con-
venient payments can be arranged on the liberal
G.M.A.C. terms plan. Arrange with your local
dealer to drive a Buick.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
It’s a General Motors
car
Buick
More Wealth for Australia —
More Jobs fo r Australians


Hear every siqnal
clear as a bell
with O sram MH4-A.C. Detector Valve
(with indirectly heated cathode)
\A / ITH a detector valve of such sensitiveness and an amplification factor of
* * 35, combined with moderate impedance, your set will bring in every
signal with a clarity of tone that is surprising.
SPECIFICATIONS:
Filament Volts . . 4.0
Fil. Current, 1.0 amps.
(approx.)
Plate Volts, 200 (max.)
Amp. Factor 35
Impedance,
23,000 ohms.
Normal Slope,
1.5 m/amps, per volt.
Equivs.: E 435, E 438
The Osram MH4 is designed with an adequate clearance
between electrodes to give greater mechanical strength,
absolute reliability, and consistency in performance. The
special gauze plate assists in the ready dissipation of heat,
and maintains the initial efficiency of MH4 throughout
a long and useful life.
If you cannot obtain it locally, or any Osram Valve you
need, it will be sent direct, safe delivery oruaranteed. Ask
also for a copy of “The Osram Valve Guide,” a helpful
booklet, detailing Osram Valves —free on request.
oggjn
ciL Va*ve s
Made in England
at the famous Osram Lamp Works
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co., Ltd.
Head Office and Public Showrooms: Magnet House, 104-114 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices and Public Showrooms at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle and N.Z. cities. Sole Agencies at Brisbane and Hobart.
VB6


I©!
rsCj
v-
-
*:• (
S&. _ -;/'si
■E# $
' S \jrCcg3>
Tightness
eliminated
Designed in easy-fitting curves
specially adapted to the natural
shape of the foot, this Abbey
Boot guarantees full comfort
and muscle freedom. It is
pliant, and has a sole of double
thickness. Th'e tough, top-grade
leather of which it is made
gives longer service under the
hardest conditions. And, at
ankle, this boot fits most smartly
—there’s never any bulging.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over SO years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 192
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particular.-,
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
gp O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separate.y by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Green
Sayers
Seal
Remedy
ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
scc. dose.
Contains Ice. Carbon Tetra ? hlorid fi e ve pe s h ee "p ’ treated
900 doses to the gallon; about
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS: -
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, R°ckhanipton
i S V P t iX n« Melbourne
5 a F. ety . & „ C ° ... Adelaide
Go in & Co Perth
Gollin & Co ,1 ~, j -vr rr
King Lawless, Ltd AlK * ‘
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding
Measure and Drenching Syringe,
scc. and acting as
10/6, post free.
CHANDLER
Made in Our Own Factory Under
Skilled Supervision.
CHANDLER FARM GATES
are made from the best quality l§io-
diameter steel tubing. All joints ai e
electrically welded.
Gates are fitted with our own patent
hinge, which brings the gate within sin.
of the gate post; also patent latch. J3y
means of our special pipe-bending
machine we are able to turn the
corners, thus avoiding breaking the
frame and providing a solid, one-piece
structure of enormous strength.
All gates, unless otherwise stated, are
made 3ft. lOin. high. All gates are now
covered with Chandler Ringlock Ii encmg.
Sizes.—We send gates to suit open
ings, allowing for space taken up by
latch and hinges.
Wire-netted (Rabbit-proof), bd. per
foot extra.
Very strong tubular Steel Gate, braced and
welded. Our cheapest farm gate. Prices:—
10ft lift. 12ft. wide.
24/- 26 /• 28/- each
Fig. 181.
Is extra strutted for wide widths. Prices:
12ft., 40/-; 13ft., 41/6; 14ft., 44/-; 15ft.,
46/6; 16ft., 50/-; 17ft., 53/6; 18ft. wide,
57/- each.
Send for free copy of our Fence and _ Gate-
Catalogue, which contains a complete list of
our Farm Gates.
Prices arc F.O.R. or F. 0.8.. Melbourne.
234-236 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM. BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 80 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision
and staff. Effective and safe.
Fully qualified matron
‘ ~ and staff. Effective ana saie.
the. central mission institution,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Tolontinrip- Brunswick 744.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance '
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R, V. BOOTH
W&W26.
iino
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
ď
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
< (99.9% guaranteed).
ZING CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association JR:
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Trees are planted 20 x 20 in sandy soil
on the diamond. The place can be ploughed
at any time, moisture being held by annual
cover crops well worked under. Fumigating
is done on a community basis.
My man never lets any job get ahead of
him, and by curing his fruit for a few days
finds that it will hold should the market
become temporarily overcrowded. Inciden-
tally, he is a great hand with the hoe.
BANANA PLANTING.
“Jolinno”: The intending banana-farmer
should seek the advice of successful growers
in his district before making a start with
his plantation. The same set of rules does
not apply to all classes of land. In light
soils, for instance, the plants require to be
set down deeply; in soils of a heavy texture
the best results arc often obtained from
comparatively shallow planting. Generally
speaking, deep planting is safer than shallow
planting, although when the plants are set
down deeply in stiff soils the suckers are
slow at coming a-way.
In light soils of a volcanic nature
the plants should be put down at least 16in.,
but not deeper than 20in. as a general rule.
In stiff, clay soils 10 to 12 inches is deep
enough, while 15iu. gives the best results
in a> medium soil. It should always be
remembered that the banana has a tendency
to grow out of the ground, with the result
that suckers of the second growth are almost
standing on top of it when the planting has
been too shallow. The banana* requires a
lot of moisture. When planted deep the trees
resist long dry spells better than when
planted shallow.
PRODUCERS AND PUBLIC GOOD-
WILE.
“Ernest Osborne”: I should like to re-
mind every man on the land of the import-
ance of public sympathy. Having grown
commercial crops ranging from cocoanuts
through sugar-cane and cabbages to eggs, I
speak by the book.
Don’t say city people are parasitic on
agrarians and that you carry the nation on
your back. It is often said but it is untrue.
Were it not for urban consumers, primary
producers could not live.
Don’t complain about your loneliness
and lack of pavements, street lights and
gaiety. . City people know that you took
up land in expectation of riches, and that at
the worst you are your own boss and do
not live under the shadow of the sack, as so
many of them do.
Don’t moan about the decreased price of
wool, or say that the weal or woe of every-
one in Australia depends on sheep’s fleece
being dear. For years past very large profits
were derived from wool. These were not lost,
and handsomely balance a drop every intel-
ligent pastoralist knew was inevitable.
Don’t exaggerate. When lambs die and
hatching chickens pass on, when strong
winds strike off weak flowers and fruit or
it rains more than normally, don’t quote
absurd figures as your loss. If sensational
newspapers exaggerate these, correct them.
Most such seasonal occurrences are not rea-
sonably assessable as loss. If every seed
germinated and everything that germinated
grew, man would be submerged in a few
years.
If insect pests and plant diseases attack
your products, combat them. If you don’t
know how, ask. The _ Service Department
won’t charge you anything.
Don’t forget that primary producers and
the rest of the nation are interdependent.
No one section can stand apart from the
others. We must all pull together for the
good of all.
FRUIT AND VEGETABLES OUT BACK.
“Gam II.” : On the N.S.W. western plains
we experience great difficulty in growing fruit-
trees and vegetables. I have tried deep tilling,
watering on the surface, and w r atering by
means- of trenches placed at intervals amongst
the vegetables.
When bores are allowed to empty them-
selves into the creek water supply, the water
appears to be unsuitable. The sediment
cakes on the surface of the bed. This
detriment is not entirely eliminated when the
trench system is used. I obtained partial
success by placing chaffbags over the beds
before watering—at least one onion out of
a packet of seed came to maturity.
Should anyone discover a means of treating
bore water, or the soil in which the vegetab’es
are to be grown, he will banish one of the
great drawbacks to residence on the dry
plains. At present settlers send a lot of
pocket money to the city and larger towns
in search of the elusive vegetable.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) Does the Q’land Government find
much difficulty in disposing of land in the
Atherton district? Is there any Grown land
available in the district for dairying and
farming. If not, where would I get particu-
lars of private properties? (2) Gan a re-
turned soldier, intending to take up land
there, secure assistance from the Govern-
ment f —6BlB.
(1) There is a very keen demand for
dairying and agricultural land in the dis-
trict and none of the land remaining open
for selection could be recommended. *l. F.
Currie, Chas. H’arding, land agents, Ather-
ton. could supply particulars of private pro-
perties. (2) No advances are now being
made to returned soldiers under the Dis-
charged Soldiers’ Settlement Acts, but a re-
turned soldier successful in securing land in
this State may apply to the manager of the
Agricultural Bank for an advance for the
purpose of paying liabilities on the land,
effecting improvements thereon, and pur-
chasing stock and farming implements. Each
application is dealt with on its merits.
(I) Best N.S.W. districts for banana cul-
ture? (2) Price of land in such districts and
cost of clewring? (3) What prospects has
the industry ? —6951.
(1) Tweed Valley and Coff’s Harbor. (2)
Uncleared land costs from £lO to £3O per
acre, and clearing costs £lO to £;>o per acre.
(3) Very favorable, provided growers strictly
carry out the regulations for the control of
bunchytop and beetle-borer.
(1) Do you recommend red spraying oil
for downy mildew on grapes? (2) What
are the mixtures and, correct time for spray-
ing vines to control this disease? —6810.
(1) No. Red oil is used principally for
the destruction of insect pests. (2) Boi*-
deaux (6-4-40) and Burgundy (6-8-40) are
the spraying mixtures commonly used, the
advantage lying with the former. Applica-
tions should be made as soon as the shoots
have reached a few inches in length, again
just before the flowering period, and again
as soon as the young fruit has set. Addi-
tional applications will depend on weather.
If it is at all wet the vines should be sprayed
as ofteu as necessary to keep the foliage well
covered. Some growers make it a practice
to spray once a week throughout the season
until the fruit is colored.
(1) What percentage of Borthwick’s pro-
tein meal should he used in a poultry ration,
and what arc its meat contents? (2) Would
it he cheaper to use dried hlood? —6930.
(1) The protein content is 54 per cent,
and 8 per cent, can be used in the mash.
(2) Dried blood is not a good substitute, as
a proportion of it is indigestible, but good
results can be obtained by feeding limited
quantities of dried blood with some other
protein meal. Six per cent, meat-meal and
2 per cent, dried blood is the right propor-
tion.
What is the best winter food for bees?- —
6925.
Sugar syrup, made up of sugar and water
equal parts by volume, fed warm inside the
hive.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Tocal”: For an effective dingo decoy
mix about a tablespoon of asafeetida with
like quantities of tincture of. aniseed and
oil of rhodium; stir well and add about half
a* teacup of sheep or bullock’s blood. Care
should be used in setting traps; if a trapped
dog gets free the decoy is spoilt.
“Wescocky”: When building rabbit-proof
fences across dry watercourses, don’t forget
to stay your posts against the direction the
water will run. The extra time and trouble
will be a trifle compared with the job of
re-erecting after a stubble-laden flood has
done its worst.
“Hornby”: Nearly every landowner in fox
country has lost A'aluable dogs through baits
left by poisoners. .When your dog is a
couple of month's old, impregnate some pieces
of meat with cayenne pepper, plant them in
shallow holes, and take him for a stroll, linger-
ing near the baits till he rakes one out and
chews it. He’ll never eat anything away
from the house again.
“Wrash”: Young unbroken horses left to
fend for themselves, especially if paddocks
are on low country, are apt to become
infested with internal parasites, evidenced
by a poor appearance when grass is abundant.
They should be provided, in troughs, with a
lick of 20 parts salt to 10 parts lime and
1 part sulphate of iron. The parasites will
soon be expelled by its action.
“Hornby”: For destroying nut-grass (B.
28/5/’3O) try covering the infested area with
sawdust to a depth of three or four inches,
and then watering well. The liquid soaking
into the ground kills the roots in a month
to six weeks. Besides, sawdust -won’t hurt
the soil.
“Ha<tter”: Bracken country can be re-
claimed, as “Mick” says (B. 6/4/’3O), by
fertilising, sowing and stocking, but “Mick”
slips when he recommends cutting while
fronds are in curl. The best time to cut is just
before the spores burst, about the end of
November in southern Australia; this is
when its root is stored with the minimum of
nourishment. Cutting again when the seed
is ripening is advisable. Blackberries can
be set back considerably by cutting when in
flower.
“Clodhopper”: A preparation for painting
trunks of apple-trees to prevent rabbits eat-
ing the bark can be easily made. Get a
petrol-tin of blood from the butcher; in it
slake a little fresh lime, stir well and mix
some of the stuff with water in another tin.
With a good-sized brush paint the trunk and
lower branches. It smells vilely, but Bunny
will take a couple of bites and then leave
the tree severely alone. A tin of blood does
acres, and the effect lasts a year.
“Yandot”: Don’t go nap on lucerne for
the chooks; mix it a little. Lettuce is richer
in iron, manganese and the rarer elements;
cabbage is a good change and onions are
essential. How r ever, probably the best green-
stuff to grow is New Zealand spinach, which
compares with lettuce in its content of iron,
manganese, etc., and is rich in vitamins.
This is the stuff to keep the color of the
yolks right.
“Wescocky” : Always keep a brazier and a
kerosene-tin of water in the milk'ng-shed.
A five-gallon oil-drum with a few holes
punched in its sides will make a handy
brazier, and with this you will always have
warm waiter for the cow’s teats and udders,
and for the milkers to wash their hands
between each cow. Bes:des, in frosty
weather the fire will make the atmosphere
in the milking-slied much more bearable.
“M.H.”: When early tomato plants have
made their second row of leaves, set them
individually on trays in jam-tins, tops and
bottoms first removed. Forty-eight tins can
be placed on a 3ft. x Ift. hardwood plank
and shifted into a shed at night to beat
frost. When planting in open ground lift
each tin on a wide trowel and set in the
ground; the tins can be removed the next day.
day. „ . .
“A. 8.” : Two weeks before putting in the
early crop of potatoes spread blood and
bone over the beds and work it in. At
planting-time give the drills a dressing of
straw manure and a sprinkling of sulphate
of potash. All that will be necessary after-
wards is to hill up the rows.
“Fysh”: Tired of paying up to Is. each for
cabbages, I decided to lay out a a ego table
garden devoting an acre to cabbages, beans,
peas, pumpkins, onions and sundries. I have
kept accounts The seed cost Dust under ±2:
we have had as many v< gefables as we could
rat for nine months, and ill worth Avas sold.
8o a farm vegetable garden can be made to
pay.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Headers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
\\ anted to Sell ’• or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
loung man, strong - , well educated, wants job in
Pacific Islands, any capacity.—7o3S.
Returned soldier, Vic., married, would like posi-
tion as motor driver, private or commercial. —7099.
College graduate (H.D.A.) wants job on station
or farm, with prospect of advancement. Practical
exp. Refs.—7oB4.
To- meet or hear from a mining man with capital
who is acquainted with the old Kurnalpi goldfield,
AV.'A..—7096.
Educated Englishwoman, wants position as com-
piuSon-chauffeur to lady, Vic. or N.S.W. Refs.
—7115.
Young lad} - , Q’land, wants position as book-keeper
and typist or governess in country town. Refs.
—7132.
Young lady, C. of E., O’land, wants position as
nursery governess, good needlewoman, assist home
duties, willing to travel.—7lso.
Brisbane man would like to get in touch with
local breeder of squab pigeons prepared to give
information on the subject.—6B77.
To buy “Triad,” about Easter, 1927, containing
“X,” by Gertrude Lewis.—7ls6.
To buy Lawson’s “Short Stories in Prose and
Verse” (1894), “Verses, Popular and Humorous”
(large paper, 1900), “While the Billy Boils” (1896),
“In the Days When the World Was Wide” (large
paper, 1896). —7126.
To buy Updike’s “History of Printing” (2 vols.),
second-hand.—7ls7.
To buy “Illustrated London News,” July 9, 1927,
October 29, 1927, .and October' 27, 1928. Any reason-
able price paid.—7oB6.
To buy D. G. Phillips’s “Story of Susan Lenox” (2
vols.) ; also, will exchange “Music Masterpieces”
(23 numbers) for offer.—7o6s.
To buy “Australian Nursery Rhymes,” published
by The Bulletin. —-7177.
To buy Donaldson and Charge’s “The Proprietary
Company in Victoria.”—7ls3.
Words of verse ending: “She was too blanky good
to be true.”—7l22.
Words of “The Green Eye of the Little Yellow
G0d.”—7105.
Whereabouts of R. V. Wallace, late R.A.N., last
heard of at Pumping Station, Cooma, N.S.W. —7107.
Whereabouts of August Hafs, laborer, last heard
of in Queensland about six years ag0. —7125.
Whereabouts of Harry Scott, who left Fremantle
for the Nor’-West 28 years ag0. —7148.
Information Sought.
Holmes in his “Life of Mozart” speaks of
“a magnificent effect of harmony which
musicians call the inverted pedal.” How is
that effect obtained? —7053.
“Inverted pedal” is a term applied to tlie
introduction into compositions written for
the pianoforte (or the harp) of a note or
chord not belonging to the bass part, which
is sustained (not struck again, though still
sounding) through a succession of chords.
Classical examples may be found in the first
movement of Mozart’s Sonata in D (4-4
time) and in the minuet of Mendelssohn’s
long-forgotten pianoforte Sonata in E.
Is Captain Holden's aeroplane, the Can-
berra, larger than the one used by the Smith
brothers in their flight to Australia? Type,
span, weight and class and power of engine
of both machines? —6884.
Ross Smith’s machine, Vickers-Vimy type
biplane; span 67ft.; weight, loaded,
12,5001 b.; two Rolls-Royce Eagle VII
engines, 360 h.p. each. Captain Holden’s
machine, De Havilland biplane, type
D.H.61; span, 52ft.; weight, loaded, 70001 d. ;
one Bristol Jupiter XI engine. 490 h.p.
(1) What ingredients are used in French-
polishing? (2) Filling for oak? —6839.
(1) Pure shellac and methylated spirits.
(2) A good-quality woodfiller, such as Ber-
ger’s “Silex,” should be used. It is thinned
to' a heavy brushing consistency with turps.,
and brushed on the surface. After the
material “jells” or sets, but before it is dry,
it should be wiped off against the grain.
(1) How to mix mill-white paint for an
exterior surface? (2) What is a petrifying
liquid? —69l9.
(1) Add to paste mill-white half-pint raw
linseed oil and well stir it in to ensure a
thorough amalgamation before reducing with
water. (2) Usually a primer for sealing a
rough surface such as bricks, etc., to pre-
vent moisture entering the material. In most
cases it may be painted over, but there are
materials obtainable which, being of a creo-
sote or tar nature, do not allow of finishing
the surface with paint.
(1) How much white-lead is required in
a gallon of raw linseed oil to make good
paint? (2) Other ingredients? (3) Best
method of mixing? (4) How to get cream
color? (5) Oil finish for hardwood house,
to dry hard and shiny? —6Bo4.
(1) 28lb. paste lead in oil. (2) 5 p.c.
of good quality pale terebinc drier. (3)
Add a little oil at a time to the paste lead ;
stir constantly, and as amalgamation is
obtained add more oil. (4) Ochre ground
in oil or chrome ground in oil is used as
a stainer. The stainer is first reduced with
oil to a thin paste consistency, and is then
added to the white-lead paint, stirring the
latter thoroughly. The quantity necessary
to produce a cream shade must he deter-
mined by experiment. (5) Boiled linseed
oil and a good quality outside varnish—
approximately 50-50. Add a small quantity
of terebine drier, and, if necessary to ensure
easy working, a little turpentine.
What, is the Powcllising process of pre-
serving wood? Any literature on the sub-
ject?— 6505.
It consists of impregnating wood with
molasses, the assumption that this is a
preservative agent being, however, unproven.
In W.A. the system Avas used in a large Avay
by the Government sawmilling industry,
resistance to white ants being allegedly
obtained by mixing an arsenic compound
with the molasses; Write to the Forest
Products Laboratory, Melbourne, for de-
tailed information.
How to control white-curl grubs in laicns?
—6802.
Best results have bden obtained AVith
an emulsion made by mixing 1 part of resin,
fish-oil soap, 3 parts of Avater and 10 parts
of carbon bisulphide. Mix the soap and
Avater thoroughly, then add the carbon bisul-
phide and mix until the whole becomes
cream-like and thoroughly emulsified. For
use add 1 part of this mixture to 50 gal-
lons of water, and apply to the infested green
at the rate of 3 pints to the square foot
of surface. Excessive quantities of the
liquid should not be applied, as the grass
may be severely damaged. After treatment
the grass should not he watered for 36
hours. In .handling remember that carbon
bisulphide is highly inflammable.
(1) Does the Ji.A.A.F. train aircrafts-
men or mechanics, and how does one enter
the service in either capacity? (2) Can
one be apprenticed in either capacity with
commercial cos.? (3) Prospects for trained
men? (4j Award rates for both classes of
work? (5) Is it necessary for a mechanic
to qualify as a pilot ?~G 322.
(1) They are not trained by the R.A.A.F.
Before entering this service as mechanics
it is necessary to pass prescribed trade tests.
Write Air Board, Dept, of Defence, Mel-
bourne, for particulars. (2) Yes. about 10
aircraft cos. apprentice learners on a four
or five years’ term. (3) Openings exist
from time to time with aircraft cOs. (4)
Aircraftsmen are paid award rates in accord-
ance with the coachbuilders’ award, which
varies from £5 10s. to £7 per week, and
aero engine mechanics in accordance with
the engineers’ award, from £5 10s. up. (5)
No.
(1) Award wage for law clerks? (2)
Articled law clerks? (3) Does an articled
clerk study during the day or in his own
time? (4) Prospects for a solicitor in
N.5.W.T— 7002.
(1) Award for law clerks is based on
duties; copy can be obtained at Govt. Print-
ing Office (Sydney). (2) No award. (3)
Bulk of study is done in private time. (4)
Profession croAvded; without special oppor-
tunity prospects not encouraging.
(1) When a parachutist jumps from a
’plane does he feel a jar when the para-
chute opens? (2) Does a parachute open
gradually or suddenly? (3) Does a para-
chutist drop from a ’plane head or feet
first? (4) Who was the first man to test
a parachute? —6B42.
(1) Yes. (2) In the Irving parachute, a
small pilot parachute, which is spring-actu-
ated, opens immediately it is released from
the pack. The main parachute is then pulled
from the pack by the pilot parachute and
appears first as a long streamer, which
begins to belly and swell at the upper end.
This swelling grows rapidly down to the
bottom until the parachute is fully opened.
(3) In an emergency drop the parachutist
leaves the aircraft in any attitude which
appears convenient to him. In “jump-off”
practice parachute descents the normal
method of take-off would be feet downward.
In “pull-off” practice descents the para-
chutist, standing on a platform out on one
Aving, pulls the toggle, and is pulled off
shoulders first when the parachute opens.
(4) The honor is ascribed to a Venetian
architect named Verauzio, who parachuted
from high buildings in 1617.
(1) Would it be legal to make my pro-
perty over to my children {who are all
under age) to save probate duties? (2)
Arc the trustees of an estate required by
law to supply the beneficiaries with a full
statement of the estate’s accounts on demand
or at any stated period? —7o76.
(1) Such settlements are made, but should
you die within three years after the transfer
of the property it will be subject to duty.
(2) Trustees a*re bound to present accounts
of their administration when ordered to do
so by the Court; not otherwise.
(1) How can / qualify as a meat inspec-
tor in Victoria? (2) Commencing salary?
(2) Age limits? (4) Where can copies of
examination papers be secured? —7123.
(1) An examination is conducted by the
Public Health Commission, Queen-street
.Melbourne, usually in September of each
year. Write to the secretary for particu-
lars of meat-inspectors’ class. (2) £3OO
p.a. on appointment. (3) Health Act im-
poses no age limits, but local authorities
making appointments may have preferences
m that respect. (4) Apply to Public Health
Commission.
What is the difference between a tortoise
and a turtle?-- 7119.
Tortoises are terrestrial or semi-aquatic,
the land forms having true logs and high,
rounded carapaces. The semi-aquatic or
fro.sh-watcr tortoises have flatter carapaces
and webbed feet. Turtles are mostly marine ;
some are found in brackish Avater and estu-
aries, but all are aquatic in habits, and have
not true legs, the limbs being paddle-shaped.
(1) If a returned soldier receiving a pen-
sion marries , is his wife entitled to an allow-
ance? (2) If so, what is the rate for wife
and child? —6980.
(1) Yes, in proportion to his assessed
incapacity. (2) The Avife and child of an
ex-soldier who was a private and is receiv-
ing full pension would receive 365. and 20s.
per fortnight respectively. If 50 p.c. pen-
sion, the wife’s and child’s rates Avould be
ISs. and 10s. per fortnight respectively.
What is the appearance of trigger fish,
and how docs it derive its name? —7039.
They are encased in a jointed armor of
stout plates that leaves only the tins exposed ;
a strong spine on the back can be erected
'at will and locked in an upright position
by several smaller spines behind it. The sup-
posed resemblance of the spine to a trigger
is the origin of the name.
(1) Where could I obtain plans for a
glider? (2) What sorts of wood and metal
are used in its construction? (3) Where
could I obtain the timber? (4) The cost of
making 0ne? —6713.
(1) Prom Sydney Uni. Glider Club or
Aircraft of Australia Co., Hendra. Brisbane.
(2) Aircraft spruce and ash and mild steel.
(3) We know of no supplier in M.L. (4)
About £4O.
(1) There is a bird in the Gulgong
(N.S.W.) district which I understand is
the gill bird. How can I make sure? (2)
Open season for gill birds, cost of license to
shoot them, and bag limit? (3) Where could
I obtain advice as to marketing?— 69ls.
(1) Send a specimen to the Australian
Museum, College-street, Sydney. (2) April
35 to July 31 each year. License fee is £5.
Application must be made to Under-Secre-
tary, Chief Secretary’s office, Sydney. The
bag limit for gill birds is 50 per day. (3)
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.,
Sydney.
Hoiv can I magnetise the needle of a com-
pass? I have a■ bar magnet, one end red,
the other blue. ' Which end should I use? —
7004.
The south end of the compass needle to be
magnetised is drawn across the north (red)
pole of the magnet, the magnet being applied
near the centre of the needle and drawn
smartly towards the tip and contact broken
suddenly. Do this several times and then
the same with opposite ends, north to south
and south to north.
I am contemplating the establishment of
a private kindergarten in a Sydney suburb.
Must I register with the N.S.W. Education
Dept, and must the schooll conform with, cer-
tain standards or in any way be under the
supervision of the department? —7l46.
If the pupils are seven years of age or
over the Education Department must be con-
sulted, not otherwise. If any of the pupils
are to be boarded, the Child Welfare Dept,
must be informed.
(1) What educational standard is required
of a person wishing to enter the Faculty of
Agriculture, Sydney University? (2) Length
of course? (3) Fees? (4) What positions
are open to graduates on completing course?
—7147.
(1) He must have passed the Leaving
Certificate exam, of the Education Dept, or
the matriculation exam, of Sjffiney Uni., in
prescribed subjects. Syllabus may be obtained
from the Registrar of the Uni. (2) Four
years. (3) Approximately £142. (4) Gradu-
ates have btien appointed to positions in the
Scientific and Field Branches of Agricultural
Depts. of various States, to the staffs of
agricultural colleges and high schools, to the
staff of the Commonwealth Research Council
and to the staffs of firms engaged in industry
connected with agriculture.
I am secretary of a Sydney deep-sea fishing
club. At the weekends we engage a small
steamer and fish up the coast. Gan I secure
a packet license to sell liquor to members of
the club? —7l4s.
Applications must be ma*de by the master
of the vessel—of course, with the concurrence
of the owners—to the Metropolitan Licensing
Court, Fraser House, 'Bridge-street, Sydney.
(1) Are to omen received as pupils by the
N.S.W. Aero Club? (2) Must intending
trainees pass a medical exam.? (3) Length
of course? (4) Fees? —-7175.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. (3) Average time for
a woman is 5 to TO weeks. (4) Average cost
for woman pilot to obtain license is £6O to
£7O, including entrance fee.
What prospects of success would the enter-
prise of producing motion picture cartoons
have in Australia? —7011.
Not at all bright. There are 16,000 indi-
vidual photographs in the average cartoon.
While these are not all individually drawn,
expensive apparatus is required to produce
the various movements. Very small hire is
paid for cartoons, and the plant neces-
sary for their manufacture is almost as
expensive as that for a big feature. Even in
England it has been found that cartoons do
not pay.
According to an old textbook water can
be pumped above the theoretical height-limit
by the use of a series of valves set 28ft.
apart. Is this possible? —7oss.
No. It is an oft-exploded fallacy. No
system of valves yet devised can enable a
pump to draw water more than 33ft. above
sea-level.
(1) What qualifications are required of
inspectors of farm produce at Tasmanian
ports? (2) Salary? (3) How are the vacan-
cies filled? (4) Do vacancies often occur? —
6366.
(1) A sound knowledge of diseases and
posts attacking produce. Experience and
ability in surveying and classing grain, pulse
and chaff, and the grading of root crops,
apples, pea<rs, etc. (2) £240 to £326. (3)
Applications are invited by advertisement
and candidates chosen by the Public Service
Commissioner on the recommendation of the
Director of Agriculture. (4) No.
(1) How often do vacancies occur for
gardeners at the Melbourne Botanical Gar-
dens, and how are they filled? (2) Wages
and working hours?— 7l2o.
(1) At very irregular intervals. They are
advertised in the Vic. “Government Gazette”
and applications are, as a rule, only received
from persons in the Government service.
(2) Hours, 461 per week; wages range from
£lOl to £252 p.a.
Does the N..S.W 7 . Government Savings
Bunk still make advances for the purpose of
assisting home-builders? —7llB.
The Commissioners are not entertaining
applications for loans at the present time
and we are unable to state when they will
again bo receiving them.
What are the prospects of securing a
position as an artesian-well borer until (1)
Q’land Govt. (2), private Q'land boring cos.?
(3) What wages could I expect in both
cases? —-7164.
(1) No vacancies. (2) Very little drilling
Is being done. (3) Wages in both cases are
governed by Arbitration Court Award.
Brief Answers.
T.D.H*.: Alfred Dye, 514 Cleveland-street,
Moore Park; T. R. Matthews and Son, 96 Rocky
Point-road, Arncliffe; and J. Searle, 315 Pitt-street
all Sydney....lX W.: A transfer of the mortgage to
the purchaser for the unexpired period can be
adjusted with the mortgagee. Place it in hands of
a solicitor T.F.: Moreland Metal Co., 3 Market-
street, Sydney... .WAV.H.: There is very little sale
for emu oil in W.A. There are still a large number
of emus in that State, and settlers requiring such
oil obtain it by boiling down the carcases MX.:
Try H. B. Selby and Co. or Elliott Bros., both Sydney.
... .A. 8.: An lOU signed by a minor, or otherwise, is
not ground for legal proceeding,'; R.H.P.: Sydney to
Brisbane, rail, 715 miles; sea, 510 miles. Sydney
to Melbourne, rail. 691 miles; sea, 576 miles.
Melbourne-to Adelaide, rail, 483 miles; sea, 508
miles... .A.S.: The surgeon’s name and other par-
ticulars can be obtained from the British Medical
Association, 21 Elizabeth-street, Sydney M.G.:
From A. Hordern and Sons, George-street, Sydney.
. ... J.W.: Melbourne’s motto is “Vires Acquirit
Eundo” (“She gathers strength as she goes”)....
•i.W.ij.; An executor may charge the estate with
all expenses he is out of pocket and may apply to
the Court to be allowed a commission if remunera-
tion for his services has not been provided for by
the wi11... .R.T.F.: No present market in Sydney
for old inner tubes ; the last time any quantity was
sold as scrap they brought from 2d. to 4d. per lb.
. ...J.W.S.: Write to the remaining executor and
ask for an explanation why the dividend has not
been paid to you. Until you know exactly how
matters stand, it would be unwise to take legal
action. . . .KAV.: Get in touch with C. Shaw, Sydney
Publicity Club, M.U.1.0.0.F. Building, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney T.T.: Write Harrington’s, 386
George-strcet, Sydney. .. .E.S.K.: Get Robert Kaleski’s
“Barkers and Biters.” If you're doubtful on any
point, write to the author, care of us V. J.G.;
Apply to the Registrar of Wills, Somerset House,
London, for copy of the will, furnishing full name
of testator, date of death and place of residence.
Copy costs 6d. a folio of 90 words, with a duty-
stamp, Is. and postage. If on receipt of the copy
you find that the testator has made the disposition
you state, communicate with the executors....
H.H.J.: Any of the engineering firms specialising in
the manufacture of sugar-cane implements may be
interested... .A. 5.8.: Zinc sheets or wire can be
purchased from all big hardware stores. In small
lots .it is sold by the pound. Present price of
zinc sheets is about 4d. per lb XYZ: The bi-
chloride of gold referred to is probably tri-bromide,
made by acting on finely divided gold bromine. The
substance is used in medicine G.K.AV.: (1)
Write Department of Public Health, Macquarie-
street, Sydney. (2) The market is so overloaded with
patent medicines that new preparations are not likely
to meet with much success. .. .D.A.: Write Canadian
Trade Commissioner, 90 Queen-street, Melb J.H.:
Secretary, Bank of N.S.W., Sydney, says “It was not
the custom here in pre-war days for bank-tellers to
weigh out sovereigns to customers withdrawing large
amounts instead of counting them”... . J.A.8.: (1)
It costs 3s. to copyright a photograph. Forms and
particulars from Copyright Office, Commonwealth
Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney. (2) The
photographer should inscribe the fact that copyright
ip reserved on every print... .0.0.: We canM
recommend moneylenders. .. .E.P.C.: The importa-
tion of untamed animals is prohibited; except by
authorised zoological gardens and for exhibition pur-
poses. In-the latter case a bond of £250 is re-
quired... .K.8.J.: Section 9of the N.S.W. Workers’
Compensation Act 1926-29 provides that “where
total or partial incapacity for work results from the
injury, the compensation payable by the employer
shall include a weekly payment in respect of the
worker during the incapacity ... .K.W.: Get in touch
with Chief Inspector, Fisheries • Department, 57
Murray-street, Perth.... .S.R.E.: Descriptions are
given in the “Australian Encyclopedia” (vol. 2,
pages 540-41). A copy can be seen at the Public
Library of N.S.W., Sydney... ,F.D.: Marie Tempest
60, Fay Compton 35, Sybil Thorndike 48, Irene
Vanbrugh 58.... J.M.D.: Danks and Son, 391
Boui’ke-street, Melbourne, for stock .designs; 11. .1.
Corder, 222 Swanston-street, Melbourne, for stock
tools. .. .A. 8.: Gladys-: Moncrieff has not played in
“The Belle of New York” in Australia....Abmatin:
(1) Yes, 18 to 35 years is a suitable age. (2)
Secretary, Air Board, Defence. Department,. Mel-
bourne. Owing to retrenchments there are no
vacancies at present... .V.AY.: There was no
game season in Tasmania in 1929. In 1928 skins
taken were'as follows: Kangaroos, 57,737; walla-
bies, 87,910; opossums (brush), 38,441 ; opossums
(ringtail), 472,253. Hunters paid £2328 in licenses
and £8285 in royalties... .A.G.R.: Durham’s “Saws:
Their Cara and Treatment” and Grimsliaw’s “Saw-
filing” can be got from Country Reference Section,
Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney. Most saw
films issue descriptive matter on the subject.
. ...J.H.R,: Write Secretary, Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission, Box 2708 C, G.P.0.,
Sydney, giving particulars of the bore. The matter
will then be investigated... .W.VV.: Write for free
pamphlet “Ambergris' and How to Recognise It,”
issued by Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney... .W.J.11.: Write J. Albert and Son, 137
King-street, Sydney... .A.S.: (1) If the bull and the
heifers are of good constitution and have the
qualities which it is desired to infuse" into the
herd, the bull could be used. (2) This method of
breeding is not recommended. It is too c105e....
A.J.McL.: Binnowee (a green place), Coolamatong
(water near a hill), Warrambool (a grass-grown
watercourse), or Warrawong (hillside) ... .A. E. II.:
Write N.S.W. Wool and Fur, Ltd., Dalton House,
115 Pitt-street, Sydney.... E. 5.8.; Withdrawals from
joint accounts must be signed in accordance with
the specimen signatures supplied when the account
was opened. This, however, would not prevent an
officer of the bank paying a small amount in a
case where the signatures to the withdrawal form
varied from the registered specimens and
where he had no reason to be suspicious of fraud.
... .W.A.R.: Charges above those set down in the
Act include 21s. for passing duty statement and
about £3 for out-of-pocket expenses. The Law
Office, Melbourne, can deal with amounts under
£l2OO. Refer to Mr. Pullen, of the Law Office. .. .
.T.D.: In dieting for high blood-pressure, the most
important . factor is quantity. You mustn’t over-
eat. . Some medical men advise only a little meat.
Another essential in treatment is rest... .C.V.8.:
You want calcium hydroxide, distilled water and a
syphon, amongst other things. Get the drugs from
a chemist... .C-D.: Their food value is negligible.
They are more of a stimulative nature. .. .N.C.: (1)
Write District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office,
Beach-road, Edged iff, and ask for free booklet, “How
to Join the R.A.N.” (2) Make application to Air
Board, Department of Defence, Melbourne F.S.:
The money is part of the wife’s separate estate
and her husband’s creditors cannot touch it....
A.E.R.: The Civil Ambulance in Adelaide' is con-
trolled, staffed and managed by the police. No
outsiders are employed.... 11. M.: Presume you mean
radium treatment. Can’t estimate cost. If it is
done iin a public hospital, the doctor charges
nothing. ... (Many others mailed.)


,-4^ . oS s
G\ c o^
«c** r
m
a
m
m
; : v.s-
-m
m
X
\
Don't buy valve experience—there is only one valve
that can replace a Philips—another Philips.
Soon, these valves of which over two million have
been sold in this country, will be made in Australia,
by Australians, under the direction of the scientists
who have built the fame of Philips laboratoiies.
SOON! —Australian made
PHILIP
■VAUIi
and Margaret Streets, Sydney, N.S.W. )
[Advt. of Philips Lamps ( Australasia ) Ltd. (Radio Dept.) head Office and Showrooms,
corner Clarence
om


<23
The centre of Queens/onc/s
' d/'shngurshed Soc/o/ Life.
Woki
RDTCB
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
ď
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
•guests
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 57 80 —10 Lines.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E, Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi3
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted , .i . .. . Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New, Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
LK>
<SW/
Headquarters
for Hotel Comfort!
Situated on Adelaide’s finest boule-
vard, tHe Grosvenor provides to its
patrons a “horae-from-home.” Fire-
proof, 300 rooms, 100 bathrooms,
spacious lounge, yale lock on every
door. Tariff from £3/10/- weekly.
GROSVENOR
Finest Unlicensed UioteL -
Opp. Railway Sto.. North Terrace. ADELAIDE-
SMOKE-OH!
Amy Johnson has exchanged airpockets
for windbags.
* *
It is believed that the breach in the Aus-
tralian party was entirely due to Mr. Max-
well’s objection to the Hughes policy of
preference to "Little Diggers.”
* *
“.Tones beat Tolley at the nineteenth.”— “B. At.
Herald,”
They get a lot of practice at this hole in
prohibitionist America.
* *
“Pony owner dead.” — “News.”
To amend the one about the man that
bit the dog: “A dead pony , owner is news,
whereas a dead pony is not news.”
* *
RESPITE.
With desperation in his eyes the hunted
wretch .staggered on. Ever and anon he
touched the precious package concealed be-
neath his shirt, as though to ma*ke sure it
was still there. And now the baying of
the bloodhounds in his rear becomes fainter.
The oaths of the beaters, reminding him
hideously of the only Parliamentary ses-
sions he ever attended, become fainter, and
the thundered commands of the police cordon
that had been closing in on him all the
morning die away. “Thank God!” he
panted, and leaned against a tree for sup-
port. “A close go! But, by the Lord, I’ll
finish this job in spite of ’em all.” Sinking
A HORRIBLE MESS OF THINGS.
“Oh, Mother, it’s terrible! I find out now he doesn’t believe
in cigarettes, cocktails, bridge or even golf!”
“Well, my dear, you took him for better or worse, you know.”
“Yes, but if he ivas worse he would be better, so he’s better
and worse, too, don’t you see?”
exhaustedly to the ground, he extracted his
copy of “Redheap” and thumbed over to
where he had been interrupted by the unto-
ward arrival of Mr. Forde.
* ¥
A man in his prime by a slip of the tongue
May set all his friends in a whirl;
But think of the painful events that have
sprung
From the slips of a, slip of a girl.
THE RED TERROR.
“It will be a red-letter day in the municipal
history of Sydney when Jock Garden becomes Lord
Mayor.” —Domain speaker.
It will, and a red-hot one, too. Consider
the men with red hair. They will naturally
get preference on all jobs. Those with red
noses will also be absorbed at a wage-rate
commensurate with their thirst. Sales at
the Municipal Vegetable Markets will be
confined to beets, and down a*t the City Fish
Markets all but red bream will be black.
The Municipal Red Tape Factory under the
personal direction of Jock—the only man in
Australia who has made the red-rag industry
pay—is bound to succeed. No letters will
receive attention unless in red ink; no guest
will be recognised unless lie arrives at recep-
tions in a Red Cab, and God help the work-
man who appears on the job without his
red flannel shirt. Red gums will be given
pride of place in the parks—in short. Jock
can be relied on to paint the town red and
the Citizens’ Reform Association to co-operat<
bv seeing red.
D. McM.
* *
NURSERY RHYMES.
There teas a little man and he 'bought a
little gun;
Its bullets were made of lead — lead — lead.
A large policeman took it,
Saying “I expect you shook it.”
And the man now wields a razor-blade
instead — stead — stead.
“Most bushmeri learn the habit of sleeping face
downwa rd. ’ ’ —“N «cs.
In inverted comas, so to speak.
¥
“The icy liquor coursed down his throat.” — “Sun.”
The so-called nip of winter.
COULD FIND A USE FOR HIM THEN.
“’Struth, I feel like a mug o’ beer, ’Erb.”
“Wish ter cripes yer was!”
“Cermany quite understands that much more from
us than we sure that some understanding can be
reached bv which the discrepancy may be lessened.”
—“Herald,”
And yet there are people who accuse
these Germans of being dull.
Most of us are hard up these times, but
the shortest day for one and all was last
Sunday.
BEHIND THls MAKE-UP.
“It is now revealed that the ‘General Monash’
whose name appeared recently over a series of sen-
sational articles was really a member of the staff
of the newspaper that published the articles.”
There is nothing remarkable about this, as
all can testify who have had an opportunity
to glance a*t a copy of “Who is Really Who”
—a publication which is only to be found in
newspaper offices. We learn from this use-
ful volume that Lord Stonejh'aven is in
reality a polo-playing Boy Scout named
Johnny Baird. His wealth is so enormous
that he can afford
to spend £145,000
on postage stamps
in a single year.
The same mine of
information reveals
that the famous
amateur sportsman
“Bowls” Wiggles
is in private life an
eminent prof es-
sional of the same
name.
Under the head-
ing “J. T. Lang”
we get the follow-
m“j7T. (or ‘Jock’)
Lang (otherwise
known as Garden)
is a tall, dark, bald,
shortish, hairy
Scottish-Auktralian
with a Sydney-Glas-
gow accent and a
Rolls-Royce limou-
sine. Business:
Politics. Recrea-
tions: Starting
strikes. Residence:
Trades Hall. Club:
Clerks’’ Union.
“‘Jock’ (J. TANARUS.)
Garden (or Lang)
is priva*fely Ivan
Stoushki, of Mos-
c o w. Stoushki’s
‘How I Ruined the Timber Trade’ was
a best-seller in 1928. He followed up
this success with ‘How I Ruined the Coal
Trade.’ Business: Revolution. Recrea-
tion: Revolution. Residence: Proletarian
Palace, Moscow. Club: I.W.W. Naval
and Military.
“Ivan Stoushki is actually Count Serge
Lunatikoff. The Count's celebrated ‘Pan-
Idiot Plan’ (an ingenious scheme for bring-
iug happiness to the world by persuading
everybody to rob everybody else) attracted
considerable attention in his birthplace.
The citizens have allotted him permanent
free quarters in the local asylum so that he
may have leisure to work his idea out in
a thorough manner."
H. S.
¥ *
SILLY ASSES.
My landlady, who nightly sets out a
drugged saucer of milk with the idea of
catching the cat
burglar.
My friend Jen is,
who took a trip
to the Solomon
Islands in order to
get a loan from
the owner.
Young Bill Smith,
who, having fallen
in love with a girl,
took a flat-iron
along with him
when he visited
her, to help him
press his suit.
Old Tom Muddle,
who, having de-
cided to make his
son a baker, sent
him to a politician
to learn floury
language.
Joe Snooks, th >
chimney - sweeper,
who is unemployed
because his wife
garbaged the soot
he kept to dirty
himself with for
his job.
My landlady
again. She thinks
I’m going to pay
the rent next
Friday.
Harold Hardupp.
* *
Many a married
Digger would like
another war for the sake of peace.
V- *
“Sundries” has not been a prolific scorer
on the Australian side, and many old-time
cricketers are bitterly deploring the absence
of “the byes of the old brigade.”
* *
If only these careless drivers were ear-
less !
* #
“Mr. Cleary, of N.S.W., is strongly opposed to
unfair motor competition.’’
He is also hostile to fare competition.
* *
“Married a Waitress.” — “Sun.”
She probably served him right.
* #
“Tn the recent lynehings at Mukden all the victims
were soldiers.”
As the phrase goes “every lynch a soldier.”
* *
“Talkie plant vanishes.” — “Guardian.”
Probably gone home to mother.
THE NEWER ART.
“My latest, Harold!”
“Wonderful! Wonderful! How ever do you contrive to get such
sex-appeal into your work?”
“Policeman Wins £500.’’ — “News.”
And a good cop, too.
# *
“The Australian militia would be popular if so
much time were not wasted over drills.’’ —Press
correspondent.
“I’ll join the army soon,” said Rill;
“I’m sure I’d love its thrills.
I’m really only waiting till
It has electric drills.’’
THE EFFECT OF CONVICTIONS
ON CONVICTIONS.
“ITow far can a barrister convince himself, in
the teeth of his own commonsense very often, of
the justice of his client’s case?” —Sydney “Sun”
article on “When Should Counsel Reject Briefs?”
“I usually manage it,” said the eminent
criminal defender. “It’s a gift. Take the
case of Kuifer Jones whom I defended for
the murder of Thug Gallagher. Everything
was against me. Ivnifer was known to have
assassinated a couple of other friends, and
to have sworn to cut Thug’s heart out.
Eyewitnesses had given damning statements
to the police. Bemused by drink. Knifer
had boasted of the crime in the hearing of
a detective. Then his friends subscribed
to pay my fee, and all in a moment I
saw the position from the poor boy’s
standpoint. Refused money by Thug!
Denied access to the lady with whom Thug
was living at the time! Dragged out of
Thug’s car and warned not to steal it again !
It was more than flesh and blood could
stand. I formed an unshakable conviction
that the police had
bribed the Crown
witnesses in order
to get a charming
and worthy young
Australian hanged.
Such was my de-
fence, and, thank
God, it succeeded.
“It was the same
in the Milly Ah
Dope case. Mrs.
Ah Dope was a
splendid type of
Australian woman-
hood, though re-
putedly a cocaine-
peddler. She had
been sentenced to
terms of imprison-
ment totalling some
25 years when I
was asked to de-
fend her on a
charge of husband-
poisoning. H e r
solicitor informed
me simultaneously
that she was an
extremely rich
woman. I formed
a deep respect,
then and there, for
her sterling quali-
ties of heart and
intellect. My con-
viction that she
was innocent did
not betray me into
putting her into the
witness-box. No!
No! She had had other mishaps with
arsenic. I let her tell her simple, moving
tale from the dock, thus saving her the
embarrassment of a cross-examination at
the brutal hands of the Crown. In my
address I likened her with passionate con-
viction to Joan of Arc, St. Cecilia and
Florence Nightingale. The juror who had
been interviewed by her son the previous
day (and who has since retired from busi-
ness) wept copiously. However, as you
know, I did even better for this ornament of
her sex than a disagreement; she w r as
acquitted.
“There is another side to the picture, of
course. When young Algie Boodle em-
bezzled £5OOO I rushed to his aid, only to
find that he had lost it all at the ponies
and been disowned by his father. I not
only threw up the brief, but addressed a
sharp rebuke to the criminal’s attorney.
‘My conviction is,’ I said, ‘that your client
is guilty. How dare you ask me to defend
him? Get someone who is less scrupulous.’
“But I am afraid,” said the K.C. sadly,
“that my code of ethics is a little old-
fashioned in its iron rigidity where the pal-
pably guilty are concerned.”
10-2-4.


g /\| nd e d ceneeation
How FLYING
brought Mr.M.
back into
business
Mr. M. has spent his life in energetic pastoral
and industrial development, travelling perpetually
from State to State, city to city, station to station.
After twenty years of this, his health became
seriously affected. His doctor made him cease
work for three months, and wanted him to retire
permanently.
But Mr. M. found time to wonder whether it was work
that had worn him out, or whether, actually, the blame
must* be laid at the door of travel nights of fitful s eep
in trains, a constant rush to get through business in time
to leave for somewhere else, tedious, interminable days o
travel by car. If he could save that waste of energy he
might rediscover some fun in work. . . .
Therefore, he bought a Gipsy Moth and tried business
again. Now, sixteen months later, all talk of retiring is
cbmpletely forgotten, and his latest plane, a Hawk Moth,
is large enough to carry several friends and employees as
well as himself.
He used to spend nearly 2000 hours a year in
Now,, covering the same ground, he spends less than 400.
He travels the time-short routes of the air, and sleeps
every night with nerves at rest. He has more time for
work, so that his work is unhurried-
more time for recreation, so that his
recreation is ample.
One fcould name many other men who
are torn by too much travel; but more
and more, like Mr. M., they are finding
a solution of the whole difficulty in
Moth ownership.
REGISTERED
TRADE
/ v A
'
m
mss
JS3&&
.
:\ -
• - ■
553 K
S
Ullll
«SS3&E
m
*s*3
»ss#
••
ft
£ SSB§
Qc*
ft '4 SR
3£%!
£2^s^
fiSS
g^ggil
sis
«s
iTw^
sa
>•
#fJ.
dF
//.
v;
SIS!
The 2-seater GIPSY
Moth (£750 up-
wards), the 2-8-
seater cabin PUSS
Moth, and the 6-
seater cabin HAWK
Moth, are the three
De Havilland
machines which are
of greatest interest
to private owners.
All have folding
wings to facilitate
garaging. For fully
descriptive litera-
ture and arrange-
ments for demon-
strations, write The
De Havilland Air-
craft Pty., Ltd.,
Mascot Aerodrome,
Sydney. In all
States there are
Moth dealers and
a Moth Service
Organisation.
2)e
MOTH
GIPSY MOTH FOLDING VINOS 2/3 SEATER. PUSS MOTH 6 SEATER. HAWK MOTH
&
■d:
The Big' Group in
>MMi
fd
And Dry Cells
Every type is available in the extensive range from Cells for Bells and Batteries for Torches to all
classes of Batteries for Radio Sets, Telephones, Telegraphs, Railways, Signals, etc. , . ~,
This Great Australian Industry enables every user of Batteries and Dry Cells to secure xamon
for every conceivable purpose.
Diamond Stands for Longer Life.
The Postal Department, which purchases hundreds of thousands of Drj> Cells, finds on tests being
made, that “Diamond” give a much larger watt-hour output than specification deman s.
Constructed Under “The Section-Protected” Principle.
That is, safeguarded against Leakage, and stands for battery economy. , , .
“Diamonds” are sold under a definite guarantee, and each day a rigid test is made o t e a eries
produced - NEW CATALOGUE FREE. . ..
Write for a copy now—it illustrates, describes and supplies prices of the range embracmg Batteries ’
and “C”— Starter Batteries—Electric Bell Batteries—Torch Units—Lighting Battenes—Dry Cellls for all purposes
Telegraph, Telephones, Medical Apparatus, Mechanical Toys, etc.
Insist on "Diamond” from your Dealers.
Direct Factory Distributors:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY
Ground Floor, “Whitehall,” Bank Place, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: F 4952.
N.S.W. Representatives: REG, ROSE & COMPANY, cvnwrv
Kembia Building, Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Representatives: J. B. CHANDLER & CO., ooicdamc
45 Adelaide Street. BRISBANE
ď
m
w
;>■ %:: ■?.
Wl
W!
L *srm
Mb
Stitt*
SilEt*
5V«l"
irricit
tfTic
ttXl
IS
tipi
m
m
m
& . ' ; .
m
£•&.?
Ust?#
m.
v ■: .. u^iN
*****
aWS»«£
£2S*<«
trfjcir


mm
VzVa
mm
ZfliSS
•m
k
L*gj
i
m
sAfe
ffls2
ii<W
!i
m
iMIIIi
HU4
s
g»g!
!£g^i
figs
•M#
WPI
ffiil
13
minKTianßi
aimuniin.
R»m
li/i
sas
!&>
mil,',»ii;
§spp
mm
w/m
111
itjij;
?!««(
rmm»
i
I
«ia
fAW/J.f
i
si
iliiimu
igp
1
»S£H
swasHM**
II
»2
\w»i
r®!
iwjjSSj
K
Mi
•Mi
?a
n
l»
MK
I
a
nivui;
§i
MW®
SjuWv.'
mJaw
SKS
mm
V
m
•Ml
s
mWtiim.
m
111
1
K&SKsjjMCfi
m
«lHili!t
Mlffij
UU lUV'»^
m\w
mm
mSsltJifl.
fm-
vm
i§l wmm
mm
Ml
MS
»
:|£
;7.§
€
@a
mm
■
pHK
91 Si
wmmi
svv
•;<z
vwwv:
Mjip:
Ml®
■ I i?— , i<«iii‘,
Mtesa
ms
IllTiU
illi
lIN presenting these authentic recordings of Maori Music
Columbia wili earn the gratitude of countless thousands of
music lovers the world over.
fear after year innumerable visitors flock to Rotorua, the centre
of Maori culture where are preserved the customs of this
ancient race of stalwart men and charming women.
Delightful indeed are the voices of the Maori as they chant
the songs of their race and these Columbia recordings convey
a wealth of inherent beauty and unspoiled melodic sweetness.
When years have passed away and fusion of races has obliter-
ated distinctions these records which were made at Ohinemutu
on the shores of Lake Rotorua, New Zealand, will be a faithful
and true witness of the Maori Race and its traditions, of its
capacity for song and harmony.
FirSt Series 10-inch, Special Label, 4/- each
Rotorua {Maori Choir
(Karu Karu (A Fishing Chanty)
DO 52 'Te Ope Tuatahi & I Runga O Nga Puk*
[ (Marching Songs)
DO 53^°® a a Waka (Canoe Poi Song)
(Haere Haere Ra E Hine (Hinemoa Poi Song)
DO 54fP°k are k are (Maori Love Ditty)
(Te Taniwha (Maori Love Ditty)
no cofMatangi (I Grieve For You)
(E Hotu Nei (I Long For You)
no A 3 fP° Atarau (A Song of Farewell)
(.He Moke Moke (My Lover Is Far Away)
no A4.fA u E Ihu (English Hymn—"Jesu, Lover of My Soul")
(Karaunatia (English Hymn—" Crown Him")
(Te Arawa E (Arawas — Arise)
DO 65 Take Turanga Ake (Maori Chant)
(Reti Mai (Maori Love Song)
Rotohiko Haupapa and Choir
no m f Haere Tonu (War Song) *
(E Pare Ra (Warriors' Departure) ‘Rotorua Maori Chou
Mere cAmohau, Contralto
no cc f Aroha Pumai (I Love You Truly) *
l E Moe Te Ra (Shadows of Evening) *
Tiawhi Ratete, Tenor
r\r\ c l ( Ako Ako OTe Rang! (Whisper of Heaven) *
DO 56 (The Maori Flute *
DO 62
Te Mauri Meihana, Soprano
("Hine E Hine (Dearest) *
(Wairangi (May I Not Love) *
Rotorua Maori Male Quartette
DO AAlMaringa Ai (I Grieve For You)
(Moe Mai E Hine (A Maori Lullaby)
With ‘•Piano cAocompaniment
OBTAINABLE AT ALL MUSIC STORES
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
GRAFONOLA LTD., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
COLUMBIA DISTRIBUTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD.,
300 Little; Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
QUEENSLAND:
KING & KING, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A E. HARROLD, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
PHONOGRAPHS, LTD., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PHONOGRAPH CO., LTD.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
COLUMBIA SUPPLIES (TAS.) PTY., LTD.,
Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.
NEW ZEALAND:
A. H. NATHAN, LTD., 40-42 Custom Street East, Auckland.
BANNATYNE & HUNTER, LTD., Allen and Wakefield Streets, Wellington
COLUMBIA DISTRIBUTORS, LTD., 56-58 Lichfield Street, Christchurch.


\v\
at\M
Qiticua ocjp
MM
BDKMarain
futicura
V«MTMtHT
fledl
£rZ-&,
Derived from daily use of the
Cuticura
PREPARATIONS
The Soap, pure and fragrant, to cleanse
the skin; the Ointment, antiseptic and
healing, to remove pimples, rashes and
irritations; and finally the lalcum,
smooth and pure, to impart a pleasing
fragrance to the skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
HERES
•umy-
Grey Hair is always taken to be ®
of age or worry, and in a woman, P
ally if she be in early years, amounts t
a tragedy. A woman should ne\e.
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well kn -
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican • "*\
Stain, removes all trace of grey. ■
easy and safe to apply and can
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your onemisi
or storekeeper for—
&CULms CMEXICAN)
t&Urud StaJjrx,
THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents;
DUERDIN & SAINSBUUY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (in'6), 6d. being postage.
fd
Is
Heads
Pour GUINNESS gently into a
glass, note the glorious deep ruby
colour the creamy, delicious
“head.” The appearance alone is
inspiring.
As you drink it you feel strength
and vitality irradiating the system;
Guinness completely satisfies. That
is why the wise man asks for
Guinness —it always turns up
“heads.” “Heads” that are a sign
of the purity and wholesomeness
that win you new strength, new
energy, new health.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOB YOU
N.B.—Onepintof Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo-
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
m . GF/A'K4 l
Poverty
Point
“Izaac Email”: Spectacular advertising
doesn’t till the collection-plate. A Detroit
parson recently preached a sermon from si
cofhn, but the added attraction didn t pull
an extra button, so he gave out from the
pulpit that two deacons would support his
legs while he preached next Sunday’s sermon
standing on his head. The attendance was
meagre, and now lie’s back to the orthodox.
A New York parson has done a bit better
by screening in his church, as a moral les-
son, a film that Sydney censors turned down
as immoral.
“Retired Volt”: A woman’s scream was
an expensive luxury jfor the Australian
Broadcasting Company recently. The lady
concerned was addressing the microphone at
?>LO, Melbourne, and her part of the heroine
in a play demanded that she should end
her lines with a violent shriek. She shrieked,
the yell surged violently but silently through
the primary and secondary coils, leaped
desperately but noiselessly across the con-
densers and rushed into a transmitting valve,
which spluttered and gave up the ghost.
It cost the co. £4O to repair the damage.
“Philm”: Maurice Moscoyitch has been
telling the American public in a newspaper
article of his early struggles before he did
Shylock for the first time. He is proud ot
the fact that, despite his being at Poverty
Point, he refused to desecrate his art by
appearing in inferior plays. He doesn t men-
tion that later prosperity and Edgar W allace
taught him better. The box-office _ lias
settled greater idealists than Moscovitch.
“Ais-Les-Coogee”: What will Mr. Forde s
censors say about Marc Connelly’s play,
“The Green Pastures,” just printed and
recently produced in N.Y. with an. all-
negro cast? It holds the simple negro-concep-
tion of Heaven, with God as the principal
character. He wears a white shirt with a
white bow tie, a long Prince Albert coat ot
black alpaca, black trousers and gaiters,
lie calls Gabriel “Gabe,” and because the
boiled custard isn’t exactly to his liking
and needs more “firmament” he throws a
miracle: “Let it be some firmament, and
when I say let it be some firmament I don t
want jest a little bitty dabs o’ firmament,
’caize I’m sick and tired of runnin out. of
it when we need it. Let it be a whole mess
o’ firmament.” And so the earth. Gods
parting injunction to "Gabe” before leaving
for the earth sums up omnipotence: xou
know dat matter o’ de two stars, Gabe.' 1
“Yes, Lawd.” “Get dat fixed up! You know
dat sparrow dat fell a little while ago.
’Tend to dat, too.” And there s a kindly
toleration that will upset the prohibitionists
about God’s permission to Noah to take a
keg of liquor on the Ark. Noah wanted two
—to balance the boat. But the Lord said:
“You kin put one keg in de middle of de
ship.”
“Exempe”: “Craiser” (B. 4/6/’3O) should
make some more inquiries into the alleged
“scandal” of free passes to theatres for
politicians. I don’t know how many poli-
ticians he knows, but I sat with 111 for
twice as long as the average life ot a
member, and must disagree with him. it
there is any scandal, it is in the way that
passes are offered to members. When a
committee is on tour, about the first phone
ring is to the secretary from one or other ot
the theatres asking how many are in the
party, and what shows they would like
to see. (It is the same with clubs and race
clubs.) If “Craiser” looks up the last Bruce
Budget, he will see that it was proposed to
increase the amusement taxes, which would
have passed both Houses had they been
voted on. That doesn’t quite agree with his
statement that “entrepreneurs dare not
refuse the cadgers.”
“L. de Itideau”: Since The Bulletin
animadverted on the appalling gramophone
fiasco at Melbourne King’s during the Jour-
ney’s End” revival, the Firm has more than
mended its ways by substituting the Sisser-
man trio for the Leon Gordon season. David
Sisserman (’cello), Bene Bregozza (violin)
and Cecil Bois (piano) are as good a three
as there are in Melbourne, and the audience
shows its appreciation by staying in its seats
during the intervals, preserving comparative
silence and loudly applauding the very fine
programmes. In “This Thing Called Love
a radio plays an important part; the music
is provided by the Sissermans, concealed m
the vicinity of the intrument. The quality
of the melody is the most unreal thing about
the play. It is as like broadcast music as
a peach fresh from the orchard is like a
canned one.
“M.G.S.” : It has always been a mystery to
me why Frank Bradley has for all these
years had to play second fiddle to Leon
Gordon in the shows in which they appear
together. There is no question that Bradley
is incomparably the better actor. One
always lias the feeling, when Gordon holds
the floor, of waiting until lie has finished for
the play to be got on with. Bradley’s fine
character studies are always an integral
part of the playwright’s intention. He is
exempt from the other man’s innumerable
distressing mannerisms. Possibly the reason
is that, though both are entitled to put S.A.
after their names, the letters stand for
different things. In the case of the one it
stands for Sex Appeal; in. the case of the
other only for South Australian.
“L. de R.”: One of the best-known men
in Melbourne theatrical circles is Alex.
Isaacson, a director of the Tivoli. A bache-
lor, Isaacson indulges in a sort of concen-
trated vicarious parenthood once yearly,
when he takes a couple of hundred young-
sters to the panto., the mothers and fathers
being warned off the grass on the cards of
invitation. Isaacson’s hobby is medals, and
he has just completed the full issue of
Waterloo emblems which he has Presented
to the Nat. Gallery. It took him oO
to do it. He is also the only person in \ ic-
toria authorised to buy A. 1.1 . decoration ,
which are available to boria-/?(Ie borrowers
for public functions. He lent 11 forlast
Anzac Day. He has never lost one of them.
“Cauboy”: Great art is a rare visitant
to musical comedy, but Cecil s
performance of the lunatic in T k e of
New York” comes under that category. In
his hands a part originally intended to be
comic acquires the atmosphere of tragedj
S some members of the Melbourne
audiences have found almost unbearably
pathetic. I have it on the authority ot
Psychology Professor Gunn, of Melbourne
University, that Kelleway's portrayal is
scientifically sound in all particulars. -
professor is convinced that the comedian < ■
studied certain treatises on the subject ot
insanity and points to two or three pages in
a well-known work which must have pro-
vided Kelleway with the material for the
last few minutes before his final exit. H i
an interesting theory, though 1 am preps 1
to wager a shilling or two that the actor has
never heard of the books mentioned. Peda-
gogues as widely intelligent even as
fessor Gunn are apt to underestimate the
powers of the creative artist.
“Hamfat”: Dick Stewart, who has ceased
to decorate the house-front of Sydney
Criterion, was in the performance of
“Sinbad the Sailor” in which, at Melbourne in
1880, sister Nellie made her first appearance
as a principal boy. Even then lie was a
veteran. He had toured India and gone to
London and New York with his fathers
Rainbow Revels co. For 40 years lie has
been associated with the Firm. He looked
after its business in Maoriland for 15 y' ia . rh >
and when it launched out in South Africa
lie had charge there for 18 months.
“L.H.P.” : Another theatrical family affair
was the Brougli-Boucieault co. in its early
stages. Brough had in the show his mother
(billed as Miss Romer) ; his wife; his .sister,
Brenda Gibson; and two sisters-in-law,
Emma Temple and Bessie Major. Dion
Boucicault had sister Nina.
“Doric”: Died in May, at Edinburgh,
Fred W. Wyndham, long manager of Syd-
ney Royal and Lyceum. Born in 1853, he
first put. on make-up in panto, in the sixties
at his dad’s theatre, the old Sydney Royal,
where the G.P.O. now stands. He was a
good actor, great manager and fine fellow.
“C.R.” : Frank Neil opened in Capetown
to excellent houses with “Up in Mabel’s
Room.” It is expected that the enterpris-
ing actor-manager will be recommended for
next year’s Nobel Prize for the best effort
in the interests of internationalism
an American farce played by Australians
to South Africans.
“Cine Ma”: A forthcoming British talkie
will be Sheridan’s “School for Scandal,”
with most of the original dialogue. The pro- !
ducers are doing it entirely in color, recog-
nising, as did Allan Wilkie, that one of its
chief appeals is the chromatic brilliance of .
its costuming.
The Inky Way
“Lao-dah”: The Bulletin Novel Com-
petitions have penetrated to the Dandenongs
(Vic.). Half-way on the long climb to Olinda
is a restaurant which rejoices in the name
of “Coonardoo.”
“Inkpot” : In Perth the Public Library
purchases a large quantity of American stuff,
and the English publications include such
general matter as the “Bystander,” “Spec-
tator,” “Looker-on” and “Punch,” but every |
worth-while Australian publication is ex-
cluded. Is that why some Westralians want
to secede?
No cartoon of modern times has been so
widely reproduced as Leason’s Bulletin
front-page drawing in which a good-looking
soldier viewed a horrible-looking person in
a war-book mirror and swore that he was
surely never like that. The cartoon, having
got out of England, is now doing the rounds
of the European Continent; and it has also
been widely reprinted in the U.S.A.
“Wandering Willy”: The world’s most
curious newspaper office is that of the
Rabaul “Times.” When I dropped in a
little while back the newspaper business was
run in conjunction with a restaurant, a
picture show, largely patronised by the local
Chinocracy, and a big business in Govern-
ment and private printing. The editor was
running a market garden of his own in the
hills, and his sanctum was piled high with
kau-kau and lettuce, which could be bought
—a sort of colored supplement. Job lots of
groceries were also for sale, and the news-
paper building was about the only boarding- 1
house of any size in the town. On Satur-
day afternoons it was used for auction sales, j
Alice Grant Rosrnan, who used to be j
“Rosna” and pioneered The Bulletin’s
Woman’s Letter from Adelaide, had such j
success with “The Window,” published in
the U.S.A., that she gave up her staff job
on a London paper and settled down to
write a book a year for the American
market. She isn’t sorry. Her second book,
“Vistors to Hugo,” had advance sales of
25,000 copies and was a best-seller all last
summer; and this year’s “Young and Secret”
has had still larger advance sales—4o,ooo
at latest advices.
“Ex-Express”: The demise of the Liberal
“Daily Chronicle,” like the “Westminster
Gazette” absorbed by the “Daily News, ’
reduces the number of London dailies to a
round dozen. Under the kindly star of
fl 000 000 of fresh capital the struggling
Labor “Daily Herald” has made giant
strides, and this formidable opposition, with
the national decline of interest in the
tenets of Liberalism, killed the “Chronicle,”
the second of the Liberal morning papers to ;
give up the ghost in the last two years. Lord
Rothermere controls three “For King and
Country” dailies, Lord Beaverbrook has two
and the Berry brothers two more. There
are now only two non-Tory national news-
papers. The “Chronicle” was the only
“union” office in the Street, with the excep-
tion of course of the “Daily Herald.” Fleet-
street knew it as the kindliest of employers.
One who will mourn it particularly is L. J.
Brient, long ago editor of Sydney “Tele-
graph,” who guided its destinies for a time.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS S x * ea '«,'s:
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fil*elnsurances';ffeeted on all classes of
—Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United" is an Australian Institution.
A: 0. Dawson, See. 11. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
ď
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. j. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
‘‘Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
BRrSRAwr ElJzabeth Street
BRISBANE, QUEENSLANI
Sydney Representative:
Conntrw r> L - ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Lt
Barrack Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
—■■
ontains everything a woman
needs to lenow.
AN INTERESTING TRAVEL ROUTE
* I 'HE ideal route to Canada, United
-*■ States or Europe traverses the
Sunny South Seas, carrying you via
Auckland, Suva and Honolulu to
Vancouver, or by Wellington, Raro-
tonga and Tahiti to San Francisco.
You may then cross to Europe, plan-
ning the whole trip in advance with
the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melb. Cl.
A
w.
■ u
4, imtlA'J.
. -is
•w
r^tssm
■c-*:—:f
T —*-=
-.'nc.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION Royal Mail Lines.
*
n'\ii /
m
r%'
■'.~s
r.%
fcs
■4*
BURNS PHILP TOURS
VISIT JAVA
'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII •
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
£Bl
BURNS, PHILP & 00., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS, PHILP &,C?,L T .°
r bridge: st, Sydney, Australia
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
f
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
f? 8 .Pl ai l c i es and in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji. PaDua
andated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
FOR 84 YEARS QUEENSLAND’S LEADING DAILY NEWSPAPER
The
BRISBANE
COURIER
The largest and most widely spread
Home-delivered morning newspaper in
Brisbane and Queensland. For 84
years the “Courier” has been the most
outstanding advertising medium of
Queensland, and still enjoys the
supreme confidence of all local and
national advertisers.
220,571 inches
The “Courier” during 1929 exceeded
its morning contemporary’s total adver-
tising space by 220,571 inches.
Published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
COURIER BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
’'Ascanius .. 11,000 tons, June 18
fEuripides . 15,000 „ Aug. 2
*Nestor .. . 15,000 „ Sept. 15
fCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 20
*First class only.
fCabin class. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.)
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. I
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU —CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 117512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
nuddart Parkei
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steanislil|)3
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne,' Bridge Simat, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
d
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cun
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CUUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.


We Don’t Know
Where the Gentleman
In this Advertisement
is Going!
But We can Tell
From His Cheerful
Countenance
Where He’s Coming
From.
Dinner of course!
Because It’s Easy
Enough to See That
His Contentment
is due to
The Fact that
He Does Not
Consider a Meal
Complete unless it
Includes a Bottle of
Resells
DA
The Refreshing
DINNER ALE
Chaps
ch iub lA,nS
& Cold-Sores
Immediately your skin feels rough,
sore, inflamed or chapped, or you have
chilblains, apply Zam-Buk. This re-
markable herbal balm supplies the skin’s
shortage of natural oil —it soothes smart-
ing, stinging pain, allays inflammation
and irritation, reduces swelling and
grows new healthy skin. Zam-Buk also
safeguards you against the perils of
festering and blood-poison.
Zam-Buk is very effective when rub-
bed in for a cold in the chest or back;
and for neuralgia, sciatica and rheuma-
tism. For cold in the head, rub a little
Zam-Buk between the hands and breathe
in the medicinal odours given off. Also
good for nasal catarrh.
For cuts, burns, scalds, eczema, bad
legs, scalp disease, ulcers, piles, septic
wounds, etc., Zam-Buk is unequalled.
Rub in for cold on chest and rheumatic
pains. 1/6 & 3/6 box. All chemists.
CREC I SAMPLES of Zam Buk Balm and
rncc_. Medicjna | Soa p W j|| be sent post
paid on request to Messrs. 0. E. Fulford (Aus).
Ltd., P.O. Box 21, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
ďf
*5
i>"
- .fe'i i! *\S-'
v- ’iflpgSgjg
-
\
■ ;■
:■
■ r
i ■
i mm
: . :•- -:.■■■■■ ,
§
-
wwm
111^3,3
Q
res
v
58
W!
SSR
,/^/ipp
\s * otC „
ete t petVo-i- ? “ oAJ
V Qtvg s
itv^ e r tVvO^^aC'
atv^
v e
VJ 1 A s cd or\V^
et>*
st e labu'™ -»seO l
,te* e ’
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by ™E CLYDE EN-
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.S W , largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
i
CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
Clyde Kadio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer- SOUTH AUSTRALIA* Cornell*
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane. Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Co., Ltd., Melbourne. Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobav*
je-tofl
Business, Robbery, etc.
LOVE IN U.S.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love your fellowmen,
Because you’re told to;
But more because the man you seem to love
Is easier sold to;
And every fellow in the U.S.A.
May be your blinking customer some day.
So love your fellowmen and love them well
For, after all, what’s life but one big sell/
MAORI LAND. ARNOLD W ALL.
*{: :J: # *
“Smilax”: The local C.P.S. overcharged
me 25., and on demanding a refund I was
told he would have to communicate with
the Treasury at Brisbane. He did. Back
came an affidavit form and a memo, request-
ing me to set out my grounds of complaint
and forward to the' Under-Sec. After two
more memos. I got my refund —less postage'.
* * * *
“N.Q.”: The N.S.W. Minister of Lands
has set aside 4000 acres of Crown land-
rough scrub country—for an Angora goat
farm. The promoter is an American; he
proposes to import 1000 flock and stud goats
from his property in Texas. The Angora
has never caught on in Australia. Chis-
holm of the Prairie, west of Townsville
(N.Q.), did his best to popularise the long-
haired William and his wife, and a Southern
Cross (W.A.) man had a go early in the
century, but these aud other experiments
all failed. Still there's no harm in trying
again. They told us, you remember, that
we couldn’t grow rice.
* * * *
“Rupert Robot”: By all means let us
insist on Australian-made goods being
branded with the manufacturer’s name. 1
was recently shown a toothbrush nianufac
tured by an Australian concern, but
branded “Made in England.” This imposi-
tion is quite legal, yet heavy penalties in-
cluding confiscation, are meted out to firms
receiving overseas goods on which the place
of origin is not properly branded.
* * * *
“Slieelah”: “Mick” is wrong in asserting
that Tas. applegrowers do not pay for
wharf inspection of their fruit (B.
4/6/’3O) ; the charge is included in the
threepence per case that the shipping-
agents get. As - for the potato man
carrying the baby, he doesn’t have to send
90 per cent, of his product overseas and
part, up a fraction over Bs. per case to get
it on the market, exclusive of cartage,.insur-
ance and commission (unless he sells
f.0.b.) at the other end.
*■* * *
“Jimmy Geebung”: About 8000 strays
pass through the Melbourne Lost Dogs’ Home
every year; three-fourths are painlessly
destroyed. A manufacturer of fertiliser
boils down the carcases, which are rich in
tallow fat, and for consideration delivers
a hundredweight or so of fresh horseflesh
each time he calls for further supplies.
H*
“Stanmore” : The Caves express is faster
than the Fish train mentioned by “Whistle”
(B. 11/16/’3O). On the so-called level
between Sydney and Penrith it averages
nearly 50 m.p.h., with a couple of bursts
over 60 m.p.h. On the Penrith-Mt. Victoria
section—where the line rises three-fifths of
a mile in 44 miles —the average exceeds
25 m.p.h., including several stops, one of
five minutes.
“Bill Ding”: The Scullidore emergency
measures are having' a reforming effect on
architects who could see no good in their
own native timbers, and shoved Oregon pine
not only into roofs but into principals and
even floor joists. All the same, Russian and
Baltic fir is still a nightmare to the Austra-
lian sawmiller. The Baltic exporters are
active in all markets. For example, im-
ports of Russian fir into Los Angeles in
April totalled 17,570,000 super, feet —the
annual output of an Australian sawmill
employing 200 men and distributing £50,000
in wages.
* * * *
“Cultivator” : Ex-fisheries inspector Neary,
following a self-invented method of keep-
ing oysters fresh for weeks after their
removal from the sea, is making arrange-
ments to market Sydney rock-oysters in
Perth. The experiment will excite interest in
Port Lincoln (S.A.), where a number of
methods of shipping mud-oysters to Perth
have been attempted without success. Early
this century, fleets of oyster-cutters were to
be seen right in Port Lincoln Harbor, but
dredging was so ruthless that legislative
action had to be taken to close the beds. The
fleets moved on up the West Coast and
halted near Coffins Bay. In getting the
oysters from there to Adelaide it was neces-
sary to return them twice to the sea, once at
Port Lincoln and again at the Port river, and
after an outbreak of typhoid the bed
was abandoned. Since then the business has
been conducted from Port Lincoln, but
oysters are not shipped to Adelaide without
first being ordered; it doesn’t pay to send
them for sale at the caprice of the market.
* * * *
“Huon”: The loss of the Joseph Sims,
which sailed between Melbourne and Tas.,
draws attention to the gradual disappear-
ance of the “mosquito fleet.” The Amelia
,T., laden with Newcastle coal, put out
for Hobart, never to be heard of again ; 10
souls went with her to Davy Jones. The
ILanda Isle also sank with her Newcastle
coal cargo and 12 men; the Kassa climbed
a rock in Bass Strait; the Leprena found-
ered,’ the Cecilia Sudden was burnt, the
Southern Cross took 12 of the crew and a
cargo of petrol to the bottom. Others have
been towed to “Rotten Bow” in the Yarra.
“Elsie Ghee”: Proudly displayed in the
wiudow of a shop in Woollahra (Sydney)
is a collection of framed warrants of appoint-
ment as laundress to successive N.S.W
Governors, the appointee being presum-
ably the lady who conducts the little
shop. They date back to Beauchamp, of
“birthstains” celebrity (“for the Ibirthstains
take Beauchamp’s pills”). The window is
on the sunny side of the street, and the writ-
ing on the warrants grows fainter. Soon
their value will be lost both to their owner
and the archives of N.S.W.


;~:r ;i: , ?•-* ■
t^r
«;:»'iv
% --Jiu' *v*Ss2j-;
> "i
#PP
t-
.^■wj
.v-V-vi)
rt, ‘V.’hi-'-fc.
■'■rtsM
P '
&& >;
»«**i -|»s •
m
.■it:
;■'* ill
$
IIS:;.
x> ■;
A il!:M
! Ml
•w
4‘.5i
w&gfe.
,*.i ismi
mix
2
iSI
’ .V
\lil
*
llt : 5
run
n T
»w
rfLiyji!
:ar
'•'■.’r'i'j;
im.
• !r s
& ?!«.
i;.v
i
-V
a
Wt!
.
.Ns
#•" •
Ss
IV.M
Kiv
•-HU
•' V, y-v
' ......... .v.J.
fl
Ms
mi
%
1,
,#•■■■ -.••iffe'
-I 4 - >■■>:s*s
ri
•V ' -
ii I'.
Vjj:
:i‘3=:
* t !3
J
yvlv
;*/
11
a
~.i
K : !
Mi!
a.*:
Jp'Hiiil l
•;r.t'- ;&?!
•.iff/*; *l-!.
■,v
$V -1-.
ijiaiv.'E
g
~*T,
f ;*
;’T*'
»•;-*:
'■life:;
• » l -v • '
■vi*,;.
AicK
'^ijv
'i'i’.l-r'
’ I '*!{!'
' ft
-r*ts
tw.-PUiv,
VA vs*.*;•;..
fk -;sa.Sr.
!n»s-
i!;^ v
; ii;%
:!•»
• • ‘-iWji*, > >■•-* •.,
Mi
I ,
;' y-'-mi
m-
r
*• A ’ i
*T!r
" '
~W
'.Vr;PV;’5*;
iiSU&'l
4 *i* # t *
•'•-.’life:
: r
:«!!'■
4‘R-
HSi
!»ife
u\vv t \
•lUr.
Wl
pv
V
i- p
.-I?'
Jr:-
V« 5S
1 <
.1
a
a
r
S
[r
gUs virile men arid
women love the
wholesome pleasures
of the
great outdoors,
so do they
appreciate the
freshness & fragrance
of
State (xp^ess33ss
or
SWE(XPRESS
CI CAR E-TTE-S
MADE- IN lONDON
'THERE'/-NO-THROAT- HARM • IN •A- MILLIO N."


Thousands are
changing
—changing
to Chesterfield
because
my way
ml
■ B -
? A >V . r - ° v '"> \>'; v -*'*&/ > v <^%
• ’ - >’ ' *;
■ • <• ; <- >
•V - ■
-r, , ;
put a\ring around
that word and
don’t forget it ®
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Luck was against William Kelso at Ilosc-
hill uii Saturday. With an ordinary share ot
it (Meaner, trained by his son .lack and
backed from sixes to fours for the Three-
year-old Handicap, could not. have lost, but
the big grey gelding was interfered with so
badly that the boy's leg was hurt. Keeping
his head, the youngster, Weiss, got Bairn s
half-brother going again in time to deau-
heat with Celtic (4 to 1), and another stride
would have given his mount victory. (Meaner
should score an outright win presently.
• Again in the June Handicap Kelso saw
one of his string, Flinders (8 to 1), draw
up to the leader, Hustler (*> to 1), in an
exciting finish. In this case, however.
Hustler, with a final effort, got portion of
his big head in front; Kelso’s cast-off, 1 induce-
ment (4 to 1), was third once more. Vertoy
who ran second to Hustler in the Canter-
bury Cup, was kept in this race till the last
moment, apparently in the hope that sweep-
money would be forthcoming. This sweep-
money business is due for inquiry by the
A..T.C. committee.
Bartle increased his already substantial
load on the other Sydney jockeys by riding
three winners—Euclare (10 to 0) in a
Juvenile Handicap, Magnetic (6 to 4) in
a Flving Welter and Zeeland (4 to 1) m
the Granville Stakes. Magnetic won very
stylishly, though he had nothing much to
beat; and apparently young Lamond has
succeeded in mending this handsome fellow’s
manners. Pretty Bett (10 to 1), a neat
little thing by St. Anton—La Bassee (a good
mare in her day), put the bookmakers on
top bv dancing away from a pretty good
field (it included Crown Area and Aorangi)
in the second division of the Flying Welter,
the best betting race of the day. She is
owned and trained by Poison, who couldn t
have fancied her much judging by the price.
t- * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Flying Welter: Brockway; next, Gritall.
Kogarah Stakes: Miss Vara; next,
Tetrawa.
Moorefield Handicap: Flinders; next,
Eubul.
Rockdale Mile; Magnetic; next, Gleaner.
The result of the Toolambool Hurdle at
Caulfield (Vic.) brings SwahUli into renewed
prominence for the Grand National. Ilns
Spearhead gelding was one of the first horses
backed for the big Flemington event, but he
shaped miserably at headquarters on June
9 when the going was very sticky. _ As much
as 12 to 1 was laid against Swahilli in the
Toolambool; he shortened four points, and
scored handsomely from Gipsy Verse _ and
Mosstrooper. The favorite, Chumree, missed
a place, and is below the form which enabled
him to run second in last year’s National.
However, Chumree finished far ahead ot
Tirade, who beat him in the race for which
Swahilli was heavily freighted with bullion
r.<t the beginning of the month.
Swahilli belongs to “Morrie” Keleher,
who began as a newsboy in Melbourne and
has become affluent out of the continued sale
of daily papers and k’rect cards. The jumpers
owned"by Keleher are trained by Percy lad-
field, who won a Grand National Steeple
some years ago with Sir Prim. It would be
dangerous to discard Tirade because of his
Caulfield failure, but Rumford, Cobran veil
and Flavedo were seriously discredited, lhe
distance (a little over two miles) was too
short for Mosstrooper, who also was embar-
rassed bv Gipsv Verse making the pace a
cracker. ' Local trainers hold the Sydney can-
didate Songift, in wholesome respect, while
Bay of Biscay, from Adelaide, is also
reckoned dangerous.
West Wing manifestly suffered no serious
injury when he fell in the V.R.C. Hopetoun
Steplechase on June 7. He saddled up ioi
the cross-country contest at Caulfield, and
again was the medium of a stable plunge.
Reviser opened favorite at li to 1, but was
ousted by Merauki: in the closing quotes,
however, Merauki, Reviser and \A est Wing
were separated by half points only. Peviser
would have won but for falling at the L s
fence, enabling West Wing to romp home in
advance of Merauki and the Adelaide prad
Good Whisky. The Grand National journey
will be too* far for Reviser, even il he
manages to stand up, : i nd A / s nnd C
scratched last week, J. A. MacLeod and C.
V. Taylor will have to rely on Sandhurst
doing the trick once more.
F M. Pearce, owner of Mollison, has
cause ‘to regret disposing of Scintillation.
NOT LIKE BRADMAN.
FIRST CADDY: “How’s the old bloke goin?"
SECOND CADDY: “’E’s a bit nervous appro achin’ ’es first cenchury!"
This Maoriland-bred filly landed the Minook
Two-year-old so decisively that she looks to
he , the best filly of the season in Victoria
at all events. ' New owner A. C. Coliyer,
brother-in-law of a State Judge, has rapidly
accumulated a good deal of money out oi
punting. Unlike some other plungers, he
operates without ostentation, and is unknown
to the majority of racing followers.
The middle-distance Richmond Handicap
went to El Key, owned by Mrs. U R.
Buxton, who is wonderfully fortunate in
getting hold of good horses; she won the last
Caulfield Cup with High Syce, and Highland
also carries her colors. Jack Holt trains
El Rev, and his confidence was reflected in
the market, the half-brother to Waranton
being backed, from 7 to 1 down to 4 to 1.
It was a rough race. Ocean Bound was sent
rocking towards the rear of the field half a
mile from home, and his jockey received an
official reprimand for trying to force a
passage between Bessemer and »\ oodchatter.
Ocean Bound and Woodchatter got into
further trouble nearing the winning-post.
The rider of Prince Don was censured for
not keeping his mount under proper control.
Alligator covered himself with glory by
lumping- lOst. 61b. to victory in the Cambria
Welter, a race which ought to have gone to
Dark Dawn. Bred and owned by Andrew
Chirnside, whose family has been associated
with Australian racing for generations, Daik
Dawn was backed for a small fortune; but
he is a slow beginner and met with a bau
passage, finishing strongly in second place.
Wise Force, aforetime sprint champion or
Queensland, captured the Rosny Plate from
Jaberoo and Lady Backbite. Misbehavior at
the post ruined prospects of the favorite,
Field Artillery.
:ic * *
For Williamstown on Saturday:
Port Phillip Hurdle: Mosstrooper; next,
Bav of Biscay. . .
Williamstown Steeple: Reviser; next,
Glentronie.
;1; $ :!= #
“Don Crew”: Yet another link in the
chain of racing history snapped when Car-
bine's trainer, Walter Hickenbotliam, went
west in Melbourne last week at the age ot
81 Hickenbotliam was born in Bathurst,
and, following on an apprenticeship with
“Honest John” Tait, handled some brilliant
steeds. Included among his numerous suc-
cesses were four Melbourne Cups (won with
Mentor, Newhaven, Carbine and Blue Spec),
three Sydney Cups, the Launceston Cup, the
Adelaide Birthday Cup, the \ .R.C. Derby and
three A.J.C. St. Legers. His best meal-ticket
was Carbine, who, but for the intercession
of a stable hand, would never have been
born. Carbine’s sire Musket was condemned
to be shot when two years old by his then
owner, the eccentric Lord Glasgow, because
the horse could not win. A groom pleaded
successfully for his life.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Johnny Peters, the iittle -English boxer,
hopes to leave Australia with an unbeaten
record. In his latest appearance at Sydney
Stadium he scored over Gildo, the r llipino,
after 15 rounds. Peters showed to less advan-
tage than in previous fights, but his knowledge
of the game landed him _ a winner. The
aggressive Eilipino kept his opponent mov -
ing with his persistent attack. Employing
a high guard, he foiled many of the English-
man’s left hooks to the head, while his own
right to the jaw always carried a danger
label. Peters clapped on the pace m the
eighth, but in the next it looked as it
he would crack up, for when they stood
and swapped punches the Englishman was
the first to break ground. Keeping a stab-
bing left going to the face, however, and
crossing hard with his right over the con-
cluding rounds he earned the decision.
Wrestlers *Pat McGill (15st. 71b.) and
Chas. Struck (15st. Sib.) performed before
a* very small crowd at Melbourne on
Saturday night. The fiasco of the previous
week affected the offertory, and the husky
pair worked really hard to restore lost pres-
tige All manner of holds were tried before
Chas. gained the first fall in the third round
with a body scissors. A trip through the
ropes into the sawdust and a melee, during
which the diminutive ref. became entangled
with the combatants and emerged vie-
torious, were extremely well received. lat
scored falls in the sixth and seventh rounds
to collect the verdict
Footbrawl „ , „
On Saturday some 28,000 League football
followers packed the Carlton Oval to see the
undefeated home side tackle Melbourne.
Though the locals made a game effort they
failed by two points. The visitors were
a trifle faster and cleverer and their for-
wards co-operated better. I rom half-time
on. each side led, and the few minutes before
the end saw a tremendous struggle. A.
last, when Melb. had a three-point lead a
Blue forward got a great mark near goal, bur
on an angle, and could do no better than ;i
point. Carlton thus took its first knock this
season witli 70 points to Melb s. At Vic-
toria Park Collingwood slammed St. iviicla
in the mud with 22 goals 11 behinds to 14
„oals 8 behinds— great kicking. At Hawthorn
Geelong got as big a surprise as when it
beat Collingwood, the home team going off
like a politician after a soft billet and keep-
ing ahead till the end—Hawthorn <2
points, Geelong 47. Bichmoud, on the home
ground, found Fitzroy pretty good and very
willing, though the Maroons faded towards
the cud. Their big follower, Cashman. domi-
nated the game throughout, but one man isn t
a team; Richmond 100 points, ’Roy 72.
Essen don proved too swift and clever for
North Melbourne; Essendon 77, North •><>.
South Melbourne demolished bootscray by
100 points to 00. South is a team with
possibilities, but lias started too late to do
any good this season.
■ * * * *
Britain’s first victory in Rugby Union
Tests with M.L. was recorded at Dunedin
on Saturday, when the All Blacks went
down by 0-3, or two tries to one. Both
forward packs were evenly matched, though
M.L. had a* hit the better of the line-out work.
The British inside backs got the hall
away much more sharply than the opposi-
tion: the veteran Mill being very slow behind
the Black pack. Attendance was 2<,0U0. a
huge one for Dunedin, and the game, begun
in a snowstorm, was full of thrills.
* * * v
In the Sydney Rugby Union competition
Randwick defeated last year's premiers. West-
ern Suburbs, at Parramatta, by I<4>, after
leading G-3 at half-time. W inners scored
4 tries and 2 goals, one a penalty, to a tij
and a penalty goal. The Randwick back
division played irresistible football, while the
forwards' acquitted themselves finely against
the powerful Western vanguard. Mick
Stewart was again in fine buckle at fullback
for West, and made his election to the inter-
state team against Victoria sure. Northern
Suburbs and Glebe-Balmain had a rare
tussle at the Cricket Ground, North getting
home by 9 to S. The G.-B forwards played
a strong game, but the all-round work ot
the opposition was a trifle too good.
tern Suburbs had a surprisingly easy win
at Uni. Oval by 27-5, scoring < tries to 1.
At Manly, the local men won in the mud trom
St. George by 12 to nil, after a game wlneli
in spite of bad conditions, was bright ami
open.
* * w
The N.S.W. Rugby League competitions on
Saturday were notable for the second succes-
sive defeat of the premiers, South Sydney.
Western Suburbs proved altogether too
strong in defence for the famed Southern
attack, and held the upper hand all the way.
to win 12-5 (2 tries and 3 goals to a try amt
a goal). The game was played at the Agri-
cultural Ground before a good house, and tot.
hack play of both sides was often spec-
tacular. 'Credit for the Western win must
o-o to the club’s wily leader, J. Craig, who
was in everything. That other veteran,
Blair, led South ably, but was patchily sup
ported. At Marriekville, Eastern Snb“B*
got the better of Newtown by 19-13, mm
to the disgust of local barrackera, who greatly
fancied the Newtonian chance. St. Georgy
had a tough but solid go with North Sydney
at the latter’s address, and emerged vieto •
by 10-7. the Saints’ first win this season
At Wentworth Park, Balmain made a good
job of University, the weak student aide
going down by .20 points—score 22--. Uni.
minus its scrum worker in the second half.
(Continued on next vaae.)
The British open golf championship has
been won for the third tune by Bobby .Ton -
with a total of 291-70, 72, 74, 75. Jones
has thus brought off a _double_ not accom
]dished since the late John Ball took
in 1890. ;;; * *
Erie Anperly, of the Manly club, won the
N.S.W. amateur golf championship from tha
mighty smiter, Hattersley. by 6 and i on
Saturday.
THE RULING PASSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Heart up!” I said. “No hour so drear
As that before the dawn you'll find.
The very fact that winter’s here
Connotes that spring is close behind.
Though Fate has been a bit unkind
'Tis over soon to be depressed ”
“Too right,” lie muttered. “Strike me
blind!
We onghter win the second Test.”
“These clouds,” I said, “are bound to clear;
This tangled coil /we’ll yet unwind:
To square the ledger, never fear,
Our rulers methods have designed.
At honest toil we’ll have to grind
With just a little keener zest.”
“That’s all they’ll need to keep in mind,
lie said, “to win the second Test.”
“In rising wool,” I said, “there’s cheer,
In bounteous rains it’s underlined ;
The pinch will .soon be less severe
And smiles they’ll wear who croaked and
whined.
Sec, coal once more in stacks is mined,
No more the idle derricks rest.”
lie merely grunted and opined
We mustn’t lose another Test.
“Our troubles soon will disappear,
Old man,” I confidently stressed,
lie brightened as he sank a beer
And breathed his slogan in my ear:
“We gottcr win this second Test. '
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


<sert • “ Dont leave me, Bert ! ”
E’ERTJ Vbuß& ALL. RIGHT
Strike out !”
<=iE-RT *, ° Like that
E'e-rt • "cripes no 1 Do it with
VOUR FEET NEXT TIME"
Footbrawl
~-/ir" ltzC - ray ’,’ : Things arc getting really
Me Austru * liau league games in
MUbonnie this season, bo much so that the
oldest inhabitant, with memories of the
clashes between Essendon and “Sowtlis” in
tne long-ago, hangs an ashamed head. The
authorities ar e desperately grappling with
ic situation, but they are handicapped by
the method of dealing out justice to the
liters, players who recently appeared
teSrt % League tribunal on most emphatic
lcpoits horn the umpires escaped scot-free.
A step in the right direction has been made
l)y treeing the appointment of umpires from
the supervision of partisan club delegates,
but unless the unhappy whistle-holder is
backed when he brings irrefutable evidence
oi misconduct against players, he might just
as well hold his breath and let things rip.
v * $
“Cash Amateur” : The Rugby Union’s pro-
verbial distaste for trophies which are
capable of being twisted into tacit profes-
sional payments has led to a queer turn-up
in England. Thirty years ago J. E. Crabbie,
an Oxford Blue and Scottish international
presented a most valuable cup for Che annual
Rugby match between the Dark and Light
Blue universities. Oxford won it the first
year after presentation, and this is the only
tune the winners’ name appears on the pot.
Kecently it was discovered in a Cambridge
pawnshop, and now both universities refuse
to ta<ke it out of Moscow. How it ever got
mto Uncles keeping is one of those things
no teller can understand, even if he has been
an undergrad, at one or other of the impli-
cated universities.
* * * *
, Cato ’; “Caius” (B. 11/6/’3O) is wide
of the mark when he says that Queensland
uni. has been given over to the League since
!, s inception. Queensland Uni. began playing
the Union game when it opened in 1911, and
to do so till the amateur code went
off the Queensland map in 1920. Francis,
who repped for Australia in 1914, was a
product of Brisbane Uni. and Brisbane
Grammar. So was Fowles, N.S.W. hooker of
a tew years ago.
r “Tenakoe”: Maorilanders do take their
football seriously. Where else in the world
would you find a crowd willing to pay Bs.
™j _the poor grandstand accommodation the
Athletic Park in Wellington furnishes, or 3s.
lor looking on from the windy hillside?
More than that, the Pig Islanders are stick-
ing their enthusiasts up 10s. a ticket for a
grandstand squint in the four Tests. That
might be considered a fair thing at Auckland
and Christchurch, but in Dunedin and Inver-
cargill I can see a lot of Scots asking for their
money back—and not getting it, of course.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League dropped over £2OO
on its country-week fixture. There is no
doubt that the League’s old supremacy is
approaching vanishing point in N.S.W.’and
Queensland, and many of its stalwarts are
looking forward gloomily to the Australian
tour of the M.L. professional side which is
intended to offset the Rugby Union’s pre-
sentation of the British team. The League
game in M.L. is of a wretched standard. That
lias been put beyond all doubt by the per-
formances of the unhappy M.L. professional
teams dragged over to Australia in the past.
Queensland will have to share with N.S.W.
the burden that is inevitably to be laid on
the pair. It seems hardly worth while.
The Fifteen
Though beaten outright by 93 runs in the
first 1 est at Notts, the Australians com-
pletoly dispelled any illusion that may have
persisted in English minds that they were
easy marks. After completing their first
knock on a rain-spoilt pitch for 144, Ivippax
finishing with 64 n. 0., the tourists sent Eng-
land to the rightabout in the second innings
for 3<L. Hobbs (74) and Hendren (72)
headed the scoring, Sutcliffe retiring injured
Tvith 58 up. Woolley and Hammond again
failed. Wall at last struck something like
torm, taking 3 good wickets for 67. Grimmett
bad another great match, bagging five wickets
in each innings, but Hornibrook, with an
injured leg, could do nothing effective. As
a set-off to this, England lost Larwood in the
closing stages of the Australians’ second inn-
ings, which ran to 335. Bradman plaved the
rm\ ng 100/ 01 , 181 > while Ponsford
i 1 v V I .r. ax • “ )• Richardson (29) and
McCabe, (49) did their best to help him out.
McCabe s return to form is comforting and
it Jackson can only do the like the critics
who discuss our batting “tail” may have to
devour some more of their comment The
tiresome contention that the side is weak
IV. howling took the knock in this match,
h ive bowlers got wickets, and a battery that
can dislodge the best batsmen in England
for 2,0 and 302 on a good wicket is no
collection of duds. Given a fair break with
the luck, Australia’s chances of getting away
wnh the Test series are uncommonly good.
Surrey recovered handsomely in their
second innings against Australia ‘at the Oval,
the game ending in a draw. In their first
knock the side was Grimmetted out for 162
on a nasty wicket, Shepherd (56) and Sand-
off+£n% tbe onl y serious opposi-
tion. Gummett s figures were 6 for 24, while
Woodfnll collected a brace of wickets.
WoodfuH Australia’s only innings at
He made 141 himself, while
tklf a Ctt i gladdened the hearts of his mates
with a dashing 67 n.o. after a month’s
absence from the team. Jackson gave a
glimpse of his true form for 37 u o and
n/ ,I,a vro ( h } Ti M CC , abe (42 > swung a neat
lac • ll P, bbs le ad tlio home side’s score with
1 1 b . “ tae second essay, in which only two
wickets fell for 249. Shepherd played am
other good shot for 65 n.o.
* * * *
R.V. : Disaster met the Firm’s attempt
to reproduce the Nottingham Test, ball by
ball, at Melbourne Auditorium. The late
and irregular arrival of the- cables from
England made the performance almost as
seven 'day match, and spectators
had their money handed back. On the other
hand a Sydney radio station’s experiment
fan same line was strikingly successful,
and it doesn t share in the 245. p.a. extracted
from listeners.
* * #
“Lansdowne”: M. D. Lyon’s splenetic
remarks about certain Australian cricketers
in the first lest are offensive to any lover
of fair play, whether Australian or British
but is it really worth cabling such an out-
buist across'tlie world? And why do writers
011 ..u ci slde porsist in representing Lvon
as the Somerset captain? He isn’t; White
orfpl-S J; yo * n is certainly a front-rank
cncketei whatever his lapses as a critic. He
is one of England’s best amateur ’keepers
and scored a century for his county against
Collins s men m 1926. His cnntankerous-
ness is almost as pronounced; he was asked
to liold hunself in readiness to accompany
Gilhgan s team to Australia as second
[° n eper fi in 11 192 f> and when the selectors’
choice finally fell on someone else he drama-
tically announced that he had done with
first-class cricket for keeps, although he pre-
sently thought better of it. Incidentally, the
young man is a rising Old Bailey barrister
and he contested a seat unsuccessfully in the
Liberal interest at the last general elections
* * * *
‘‘Old Q.” : One of the big disappointments
ot the tour has been the failure of Hurwood to
Set wickets. It is true that he has been picking
up one or two in recent matches, but for
some, reason skipper Woodfull invariably
gives him very brief spells with the ball. It
cannot be a question of stamina, for the lathy
Northerner is as tough as fencing wire, as he
showed last year in the Sheffield Shield
games. There is no mention of illness or
injury either, and generally the situation is
a puzzling one.
Racquet and Brawl
• % v - Knucklebone”; Once more Austral-
an Davis Cup hopes have crashed on the
Italian front. The Australians faced the
last day s work with two singles games lost
and the doubles won; Ji m Willard, for-
tunately played in this last event. All
depended on winning the remaining brace
* m in § i Hopman, who had most unexpec-
tedly failed against Stefani in the first round
of the singles put up a gallant battle against
the formidable De Morpurgo, to go down by
three sets to two. Crawford easily outed
Stetani, which makes Hopman’s defeat by
tins player all the more inexplicable. Our
next representatives will have to be folk of
ougher fibre. It is time that temperament
was cut out.
* * * *
Sh ? t ” : ere is some surmise as to
what the Australian tennis authorities will
do with the spare Davis Cup team now in
Jimrope. It is committed to Wimbledon, at
feast, but what is to happen after that is
uncertain. The South Africans were anxious
that the tourists should drop in on their
way back to Australia, and this visit may
eventuate. J
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Well, even if the land of
the orange and myrtle has put it all over our
navis Cup team, let us throw up our hats
as members of the British Empire, because
the English girleens have pulled several
feathers out of the Amurrican Eagle’s tail
w-n / lght the Wightman Cup. Helen
Wills (now Mrs. Wills-Moody, please) went
■ Hough all opposition until she was beaten
by Mi's. Watson (better known aforetime
a*s Mrs. Codfree). The Americans won only
thiee singles, the doubles and the other three
singles going to the English' players.
* * # #
Cut Shot”: The big All-England tennis
tourney at Wimbledon is one of the best finan-
cial propositions in the world of sport. Every
year the seats—all reserved—are sold out
months before the tournament, and in spite
ot the endeavors of the officials to stop
trafficking are sold over and over again at
exorbitant premiums. Even then the appli-
cations are so numerous that tli e precious
slips of paper have to be balloted for, and
this year relief is to be sought in a system
whereby no ticket-holder may see more than
three days of the-show in a week on the same
court, the great attraction being the famous
‘centre court,” on which the finals and
semi-finals .are, staged. ~
The Nineteenth Hole
i ‘' Divot , Digger”: Australians who are
always bemoaning the scant recognition
.extended to golfers b,y the provision of
. e municipal courses open to all, will
sigh with envy at the news that Los
Angeles lias just completed its tenth public
course. It isn’t ;a*s if a municipal course were
a money-losing proposition either. Even in
. „ P alm y days of the Labor regime
m feydney, when squads of workmen were
put on to trim the fairways with nail
scissors, Moore Park showed a profit.
* * * *
, f Dickory”: Quite a lot of Australian
e olters have been rushing the steel-shafted
clubs, which have become legal since the St.
Andrews ban was lifted. They are invari-
ably the mugs, for not one of my acquaint-
ance claiming to play good golf has dreamed
ot changing f rom his wood-shafted pets. The
mugs go for the new type because they
reckon it is less liable to injury on the hard
surtace often met with on Australian
courses, especially in the wide open spaces of
the Outba»ck. That’s a delusion. The bad
stroke that shatters a hickory shaft will
bend a steel one into a condition which calls
tor the attention of an expert smith and an
annealing furnace. In the case of the hic-
kory casualty, get a pick-handle from the
station store, split it into a four-sided sec-
tion, and then spokeshave and plane it down
in the vyce until it is of the necessary pro-
portions. I have one old-time cleek shafted
on these lines which has withstood the
buffets of nearly 30 years.
* * * *
“Uraniao”: The British football team in
Maonland includes many golfers. Mention
ot a game of golf being available sends half
the team dashing off for their clubs and,
despite approaching mealtime, they spin away
to the links. When the team was in Wan-
ganui a city where Maoris most do congre-
gate at a football match—the sight of so
many of the visitors in plus-fours so tickled
Menare that one firm sold out its complete
stock of similar goods. The spectacle of
brown brother in the golfer’s garb was one
worth seeing.
* * * *
“Cranoustie”: Dropped into a sports shop
the other day to try to buy a golf bail
guaranteed, to stay on the fairway, when the
nobleman in charge called my attention to
sets of “graded” clubs which he was specially
featuring. I never saw the man in my life
before, and how he got any idea of my handi-
cap is beyond me. Yet he assured "me that
the purchase of one of these graded sets
would eliminate half the difficulties which at
present rear their heads in my game. These
gl aded irons, so I was informed, reduce
approach play to terms of mechanism. One’s
individual capacity for judging the distance
and strength of a shot to reach the green is
entirely done away with. All you have to do
is to swing your arm with a graded club in
it and the rest is automatic. Of course there
is a catch in it. The six graded irons cost
±b-Bs. Ive never paid more than 7s. fid. for
an iron in my life. Certainly some of those
I have did good work at Flodden, but hoots
to that.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: One of the annual golfing
tunctions m Britain which always attract
attention is the cup presented by the members
or the Ilighgate Club, of London, for com-
petition among Australian players. There
is always a batch of these in Smokeville, and
all are eligible for entry. This year the pot
was taken by an individual described in the
cable as Mr. Smith, “from Australia,” which
is on the vague side; still, Australia’s own
Oranville Ryrie was a competitor, and must
have added a lot of interest to the game. Not
that he is much of a golfer, but, as one who
has. been much exposed to him. writer can
testify that few are better fitted for the
verbal aspects of the game.
Car and Cycle
“\Vhizz”; British post-mortems on Kaye
Don s failure to make an effective attack on
the speed record at Daytona Beach indicate
that there was a good deal of friction between
the English driver and the American officials.
Don was definitely of the opinion that the
beach was not in fit condition for a speed
trial at any time while he was there. Warren
Baker, representative of the American Auto-
mobile Association, concurred. The race
committee considered that the beach was all
right, and Don made all arrangements for a
final attempt. This Baker vetoed, with the
result tnat the vffiole affair ended in an atmo-
sphere of blanky, or something approaching
thereto. »
* * * *
“Differential”: An interesting fuel con-
sumption test was held by Sydney Bicycle
and Motor Club on a Sydney suburban con-
creted road recently. It W'as decided on a
ton mileage basis, each car being allowed a
pint of petrol and required to run up
»nd down the road at a minimum of 25
m.p.h. until the juice was exhausted. The
winning car was a 3238-ci.e. Oldsmobile
weighing 41841 b., and driven by Frank
Howarth, which returned the fine average of
46 ton miles to the gallon. A Chrysler was
second with 41.3' miles, and a twin-cylinder
Renault lorry third with 38.85 ton miles.
Jjhe greatest distance actually covered on
tiie petrol allowance was just over five miles,
by A. Rintoul in an 847-c.c. Morris Minor.
“Piet Retief”: A recent claim by a South
Atman motor-cyclist that he had run 367
miles on one gallon of petrol—-his usurer
was a 24-h p J.A.P.—-has staggered even the
Amateur h lshermen s Association, a verv
t ® ll ' so for a carefully nursed machine is
about 90 miles to the gallon. No particulars
are to hand of the route ridden, though it is
announced as a road affair. The writer has
an idea that it must have been done on the
downhiii from the High Yeldt to Durban
I lie drop is about 6000 feet from Heidelbui-"-
and though there is a slight rise at Charles-
town, over the Drakensburg at Laing’s Nek
the run down the other side is as steep as
tiie roof of a house, and there is good coasN
ing with the engine cut off, almost down to
Pietermaritzburg.
. * * =i= *
Fitzcray : With, the road-racing season
looming the Victorian cycling contingent
is not letting the moths get into its tyres
►several' of the cracks are already committed
to the elstabljishment of n,ew Australian
records, Ossie Nicholson is to set up a new
standard for the Ganberra-Melbourne run
while Lamb will do the same trip from the
lederal gasworks to Sydney. Lamb and
1 iubert Opperman, probably two of the
best men in the road-racing game in the world
to-day, are going to have a try later tt‘
«P a world’s record for a 24-liours tandem
ndc > , J . he double machine has long been out
°t fashion m Australia, but is still popular
with European record-seekers.
* * * ...
Sprocket”: The proposed big road race
trom Sydney to Melbourne is putting everv
Austrahan cyclist on his mettle. Cash is
rolling m from the towns on the route, and
the promoters have announced that thev
will probably be in the blessed position to
give prizes to everyone—enough at least to
pay the expenses of th e whipper-in, to sav
JVahmg ot those ahead of him. It is hoped
that there will be over a thousand pounds
tor distribution, and bicycles that have lain
neglected for years in back-yard sheds arc
being brought out to the light of day, and
reconditioned on the off-chance.
Miscellaneous
, Rase”; Some definite news as to
the forthcoming tour of the two American
piotessional baseball teams was received in
Sydney the other day. It is practicallv
certam that the sides will include “Babe”
Kuth and Roger Hornsby, both mighty hitters
who sign their own ticket when it comes to
a question of salaries. Ruth is said to be
drawing £20,000 for this season, wdiile
Hornsby is almost pegging level with him.
ihe teams will show in exhibition matches
le blessed amateur status preventing
matches with local sides. The tour should
draw good gates, for baseball as these experts
play it is a game worth going far to see.
* * *
Ride Off ’: The polo tourney for the
Dudley Cup m Sydney this year will be
shorn of much of its former glamor. For some
years past Goulburn and Harden have been
a big draw, even if they dominated all other
competitors'. Goulburn, as represented by the
Ashton brethren, is busy on English grounds
this year, and the Rosses of Harden are not
nominating. However, there will be several
new sides, including the Assamanders, a
( d players from Siam, reinforced by
that great player Curtis Skene, of N.S W.
Gundagai, Canberra and Wirragula are also
newcomers, while Muswellbrook, a one-time
cupholder, ig making a welcome reappear-
ance,
* if ...
Hotbam”: When the Australian bowlers
7T not , to be confused with Grimmett and
no. left tor Britain a. couple of months a<go
some of the pessimists. pronounced the com-
bination the worst collection of duds to
ever leave these shores, many first-class
players who could not afford to pay their own
expenses on the long and thirsty tour having
been left behind. The tune is changed, for
in their first 15 matches the tourists ha*ve
been defeated only twice, though one of the
flops was in the first Test, lost by 14 points
c XL-? . The team’s biggest, hurdle, the
Scottish section of the tour, will take some
facing. Not only are the Scots mighty
bowlers, but the national habit of drinking
whisky neat is disconcerting
* * *
> Ue : Still another suggestion
has been made, to curb the huge scores pul
uP ri ? ro^essi 9 billiard experts. An
English journal has offered a valuable trophv
tor a handicap tourney between Walter
\ Mc V onaeh >’- I ,a vis and Newman.
-l d ??a 1S l ha ? onoe H“‘ non-striker’s
mil n whether deliberatelv or acci-
dentally, the striker’s break ends. The next
player is to have the option-of spotting the
balls or continuing with them in the same
position as when the losing shot was played
iew m rfl >e -- 1 , righ t fO /, the Pros., but the
new iule will be a hardship for the average
amateur, who is always certain of a couple
ove?°th e S packet When he get * hL< ° ,lversar *


!!\
v'
■f,
1
Li®
H
W
si 1
in
m
m
m
T 5
\ !
F
C
w
=a
<S3*^
0'
-"it
'n
53
zz
0-
A
v
\\
hOJ
WOLFES
e
orODUCT OF HOLLAND.:
l—*-*
THIS £•
TIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGg
actured exclusively in Holland, and
ted’ not only pure from every injur-
jfty and ingredient, but it is also of
nfesible quality. ?
of Agents and Purchasers;
apto the Signature and address ok-
mfanA to the Title of this Aromatic-
B?Cordial, embossed on the sides Of-
j|*?as protection against inferior and,
delimitations
.v I /
m
{ m
w YORK & ROTTERDAM
L_every attempt at infringement will I
and the infringers vigorous
MET:I PINT6FL. OZS,
Hot “Schnapps”
for Cold Snaps
When the weather is wintry and change-
able, when the blood-stream is sluggish
and the kidneys alone bear the strain of
eliminating impurities, then are you most
susceptible to colds and ailments. And
then is the time your system needs the
assistance of Wolfe’s Schnapps, the
purest of medicinal beverages. Try
Wolfe’s Schnapps last thing at night,
taken hot with a dash of lemon.
' 1 •
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in
Large, Half and Quarter Bottles.
WO LF E’S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCH H\m
“As Good for Women as for Men.”


1
V
O'-
v\
O
*
+m
m
9
6150
m
.
#■
%>'
m
m
m
im
6155
7009
m
m
yd*
Hsjeo
DANCE with infinite grace, with
incredible ease . . . dance,
knowing that the natural
beauty of your girlish figure is en-
hanced ; that firm contours are pre-
served, that your modish frock—
no matter how close-fitting—is
moulding the slender, rounded bust,
the pretty, curving waist, smpothly,
faultlessly, precisely as it should.
Eet a Berlei Corselette or Step-in
enhance your present loveliness,
preserve it through the years. En-
joy the unparalleled luxury of
wearing a foundation garment that
is absolutely true to type —your
type.
If of Sway Back type you will
appreciate the merits of Berlei
Corselette 6151. It is very speci-
ally flattering to the waist . . . and;
perfectly controls the hips. The
bust receives the gentle uplift so
essentially the vogue. This lovely
Corselette is designed in artsilk
broche with lace brassiere section.
Eightly boned lining over abdomen.
Low-cut back for evening wear.
Bust measurements 30-36 inches.
Every Berlei foundation
is positively guaranteed.
6150. Corselette
imparts curved
waist and uplift
bust effect to
slender Average
type. Art silk
striped broche;
elastic sections.
Btists 30-36 ins. 1
an d OF COURSE FOR
SPORTSWEAR TOOj
0
There are “slender” Berlei foun-
dations to suit “slender” figures
of different type. Are you, for
instance, straight and slim? Are
you normally curved? Or are
your curves too much for you —
and for your frocks? Check your
figure type by the Berlei Indica-
tor at any reliable store . . . that’s
how easy it is to find the Berlei
you’ll rejoice to wear beneath
dance frocks, beneath figure-
revealing sportswear.
'6155. Corgelette
for slender
Sway Back type.
Art silk broche;
elastic sections.
Uplift brassiere;
low-cut back;-
| light boning over
1 abdomen. Busts
30-36 ins.
7009. Step-in
for slender Aver-
age type. Art silk
broche ; fancy
elastic sections.
Hook fastenings
at side. Raised
front. Waists
22-28 ins.
V '
G 7.36.30
BEKLEI LIMITED, RECENT STREET, SYDNEY


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 131 for your reservation.
Sydney.
revolves
around
The c Australia
A
v\v
y
Cosmopolitan city and world-famous hostelry
flourish together —they are inimitable ! You have
not lived until you have sampled both but espe-
cially the comfort, the luxury, the exclusiveness,
the moderate tariff 'of “ The Australia.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 15/-
Telegraphic Address: “ Austraotel, Sydney
“The Australia”
Capital Paid-up
£422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
tinder^
Royal
Warrant
ď
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1920.
CH AIVIPAGIME
Meslleidsiccfc
surais
Australasian Agents—
S wilt & Company Umitad
SYDNEY.
CMAMPACriC
vbaiiesHcidste^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kroft Cheese?
Sydney has billowed and curvetted and
crackled for days, caught on a galloping
wind. It has turned brains topsy-turvy; it
has torn ruthlessly across nerve strings;
it has cheeked us, laughed at us, and then
when we got to fever-heat flung a spatter
of cold rain across our powdered noses, just
to let us know what thistledown puffs ive
are if the elements like to turn real nasty.
And while women in the city are plucking
the smartest thing in macs, brollies and
lubber boots from the winter sales, and
grumbling over taxi and tram fares when
they gallivant at nights, country sister in
the flooded areas between the Hastings and
the Hawkesbury is weeping over homes
which the waters have invaded. Along the
Hunter it was worst: all flood records since
1820 have been lowered. And it is carfying
but cold comfort to a partially submerged
population, with noisome filth, lodged m the
t.p. player-piano, to bid them remember tlia..
the same noisome filth will do no end of
good to the rich flats that grow the famous
lucerne. Most of those who have seen their
homes invaded haven’t got any lucerne.
Three cheers for Mrs. Garlick! Hearing
that a testimonial party was being organ-
ised to farewell herself, and the Chiei
Commissioner, she wrote to Chief Justice
Street’s lady, who was president of the com-
mittee, begging, “in view of the present cir-
cumstances of want and unemployment,
that no money should be spilled over any
sort of complimentary function. "We would
rather whatever money can be spared be
used to help the unemployed and hospitals.
And if that’s not the right spirit, what is.
Doolej* says a soiree is a party
(Jot up to s’prise the Colonel in a bunch ,
There’s lots to drink and everyone eats hearty,
So each of us will take a bit of lunch.
That seemed the idea that infected the
pen women of this city last week, tor at.
the Pattie Fotheringhame testimonial the
afternoon tea was provided by the invited.
The Civic Commissioner’s wife provided the
rendezvous iu the Town Hall, the tea,
coffee, sugar and milk, and the writers did
the rest—-a jolly good rest, which included
everything from asparagus rolls to cream-
filled meringues. Well, the testimonial was
a cheque illuminated in gold to the value
of £314, and was presented by Mrs. Garlick
framed in a nice little speech, whereupon
Mrs. Fotheringhame arose from a surf ot
presentation petals to speak words ot grati-
tude Carl Bud den Morris flung a Caprice
against the. ancient cornices, where the
notes glittered like diamonds, and Mrs.
\-thur Scrivener and Mrs. Florence fl a y lor
listened to their protegee with interest. Mrs.
William Macleod was in the flashlight pic-
ture, and so was Captain Fotheringhame.
Secretary Etta Cowan and Mrs. Liddell,
who had borne the heat and burden ot
the day, suffered still another onslaught on
their arteries when the presentation hand-
bag (a handsome affair of black lizard skin)
couldn’t' he found. They beat the palms
and looked suspiciously into jardinieres, and
then the bag was found on m table beside
the presentee herself. Mrs. Charlie Lloyd
Jones, who gave the bag, dropped in wear-
ing a black coat of priceless cut; Mrs
Crawford-Robinson, too, proved a sartorial
attraction in a silver grey outfit, which
included a beret built like a baker s cap, and
still very attractive. But lown Clerk
Layton, whose daughter, Mrs. J. .T. Rouse,
was another of the well-dressed, made the
hit of the afternoon when lie made his
bow to Mrs. Fotheringhame. This Letter
makes a resolve that if ever it creates
knighthoods for fine manners it will put
Mr. i .ayton at the head of the list.
Miss Preston Stanley, the leader of the
Feminists, is a clever woman. She knows
the value of color, knows that the world
is crying aloud for color and pageantry.
Therefore, when Lady Game lunched with
the Feminists for the first time, did she
flnd merely a group of well-tailored, com-
fortably-smiling women waiting to receive
her? Not at all. By the addition of a
glittering chest-ribbon each _ vice-president
was transformed into a Dominion: Canada,
India, Australia, Maoriland and the rest
of the family, including even half-sister
Palestine, the, last giving Dr. Fanny Read-
ing- a great chance to talk at the length ot
a G. B. Stern heroine. Furthermore,, the
onlookers were enchanted by India in a
yasmak, Australia with five stars gummed
on a crown, and so on. There were patriotic
songs, too, and as the lunch was served on
the vermilion tables in the Blaxland Gal-
leries, the whole was, if not quite as im-
pressive as an Elizabethan pageant, at least
a step in the right direction. The lady
who represented Britannia credited Mother
England with marriage lines: “When my
husband and I” she said. \V ell, that s
cleared up one mystery. Now we know the
exact relation John Bull bears to Britannia.
Color' This Letter would like to splash
gallons of it on the Lady Mayoress’s rooms
in the Town Hall. Oh, the drabness of its
curtains, the sepulchral look of the archway
and its drapings! It has the atmosphere ot
a not-too-shccessful palmist’s rooms in a
depressed arcade. This Letter would almost
welcome Jock Garden as Mayor, for that
would no doubt mean that Mrs. Garden
would snatch down the neutral tones and
hang the place with scarlet.
Where are the balls of yesteryear? The
big, buoyant, spectacular _ affairs to wlucn
everywoman went caparisoned in eitliei
period costume or the very best that husband
had cash or credit for? The balls and dances
of 1930 are tame affairs, entirely lacking in
sensation. You just roll up the carpet and
put on a record. Dinner- and bridge-parties
seem to be the wildest expression of rejoic-
ing the community is capable of at the
moment, if you omit the old-time surprise-
party and amateur theatricals, which are
iaging in city and suburb. ( harades even
are back in some of the best homes.
The drawing-room of the Lyceum Club was
colorful last week when members showed the
work of their hands. Dominating one corner
is the peacock-blue of Ada Newman s china
and pottery. Across the piano is flung a great
supper-cloth of Czecho-Slovakian embroideries,
virile and glowing. This and more delicate
smaller pieces are the exhibits of Mrs. Ivuraz,
wife of Czecho-Slovakia’s Consul. Prisoned
within a cabinet, fish and bird and flower on
Sybil Dowse’s plates and mugs gaily clamor
to be free. Mrs. I’hipps, wife of the Naval
Commander, has lent some of her miniatures.,
Versatile Mary Mansfield has scattered Span-
ish shawls, painted china and woodwork pol-
ished and vividly colored; on a wall hangs
her portrait of Mary Gilmore. In the litera-
ture section “Vandorian” (Miss Cox Taylor)
has three well-known English magazines
which harbor her stories; one, “The Alameda
Kaneli,” has won her a streamer headline on
the magazine cover. Mary Gilmore and Rose
Soley are among the authors with books on
show Marjorie Quinn is represented by an
imposing pile of MSS., for she has the family
vice of mellifluous song. One bit ot the wall
is covered with surely the world’s monster
collection of autographs worked in stitchery.
This is the possession of Mrs. M ordsworth
James, a descendant of William of the Lakes;.
Mrs. Burley Griffin’s sketches, Mrs. Danvers s
books, written and bound by herself. Pearl
Sheldon’s paintings and Eileen Ivcllies
beautiful lettering are a few ot the talents
with which the room is brimming.
There was a party opening, of course, and
the club’s founder, Rose Soley, very tiny and
frail, and banked high with presentation
posies blessed the venture, of which Mrs.
Foster Mattei, wife of the many-tongued doc-
tor, is the secretary. , _ . ,
Here is Nancy Bavin, the Premiers
younger daughter and very good companion.
Nancy has
slipped into
sister Shirley's
place as a
leader of youn-
ger sets and
charity move-
ments. The
It. S. P. C. A.
movem e n t,
and the St.
John Ambu-
lance pageant
claim the earn-
es t young
lady’s atten-
tion at the
moment. Not
that life is all
seriousness for
Nancy. She is
keen on danc-
ing and sports,
and, a true
Bavin, she is
a tremendous reader. Blue is. her fa\elite
color. Falk made this little picture of he
for us. , . . ,
In the bluster of one morning of last week
Jean GUles, one of Sydney’s clever dress-design-
ers, blew into St. Joseph’s at Woollahra and
became Mrs. Tom Magney. The weddin 0 -ring
followed closely on the engagement, which lu
up the bride-to-be’s finger only a week earlier.
Jean was a brown-cloth bride. Her costume
was piped with checked silk in cinnamon
tones and her hat was of brown _velour.
Father Piper tied the knot, and Dolly Magney
was the ’maid. Breakfast at the Garden Club
was followed by a motor run to Melbourne.
Both bride and groom are dwellers on Belle-
vue Hill.
Louie Palmer, of Hyde, went off by the
Ascanius to collect her wedding ring m
London. Eric Saville will be the other party.
The ’groom-to-be is the son of Padre and
Mrs. Saville, of New Guinea, and the mis-
sionary and his wife, who are holidaying 1
England, will be there to broadcast tae
family blessings. Louie is the daughter
A. J. Palmer, of the Stinson, Macgregor and
Palmer law firm.
Lester Brain, the airman who soared to
fame when he tracked the missing Southern
Cross, is to claim as his bride on July o one
of the prettiest girls of Strathfield. She is
Constance Brownhill, and she will sign o\ er
at the Church of the Holy Innocents at
Croydon.
Dorothy Gibbes, the girl in the picture,
is one of the State’s brilliant young pianists.
She is a mem-
ber of the Con-
servat oriu m
staff and she
and Bessie
Coleman are
runners-up for
honors in the
two - piano
work which
Frank Hutch-
ens and Lind-
ley Evans first
made popular
with Sydney
a u d iences.
Dorot li y is
from Orange,
and her first
teacher wa s
Beatrice
Harper, of
that tow n.
Myrtle Meggy
and Verbrug-
ghen put the finishing touches to the art
which is already known to listeners-in all
over the State.
W.P., the grounds of Cranbrook will b»
jocund on August: 2. By that, time the bulbs
•uul greeny shoots will have been given the
straight tip by Nature that summer is
i-cumen in. The affair is being hatched by
the committee of St. John Ambulance AS
a welcome, to Sir Philip and Lady Game
and a money-raiser for St. John. ini
pageant will depict the work of the order
of "st John of Jerusalem (and now of all
the world) from the tenth century to this
year of grace. The afternoon tea which
launched the crusade was in the Australia,
and had Chief Justice Streeps lady as
hostess. In the rain-swept week it seemed
to have been a Heaven-sent way of spend-
ing the afternoon for half the women you
knew. Attorney-General Boyce snatched
the big hand of the meeting and said in
the honeyed and ambiguous political way,
“If there is anything I can do for you? you
can rely on me” ; but as St. John has stag
g ered along without Government aid sinee
1886, this Letter guesses he won t want to
be made an old-age pensioner now. In that
time bv the way, 50,000 people have been
trained iu first aid and 200 classes estab-
-11 'sll PQ
' Last week Sydney Uni. had «™f h er iittlc
windfall. This time it was £1606, the e itt
of Dr H. M. Moran, the Macquarie-street
Kiteciaiist Italian is the subject which will
benefit bv this endowment, and the doctoi
gives it to commemorate his late sistei
Beatrice, who was a fine linguist. At pre-
fent the study of Italian has no place in
the University course, though Vice-Chancelloi
Wallace himself a noted Italian scholai, has
been very keen to establish a lectureship.
This endowment will allow him to carry
out his wishes, and at the same time stien„-
then the Arts Faculty.
Matron Kellett, of Sydney Hospital, was
the belle of the ball when the nurses
of that institution jazzed at the Ambassa-
dors last week. She wore her peerless com-
plexion above black tulle and satin liberally
sprinkled with diamente.. She was m bister
Pio-eon’s party, and their table was embel-
lished by a basket of pink roses. Matron
of St - Luke’s Beatrice Taylor was another
notable Nightingale at the dance. Dorothy
Swain and Joyce Tate were the secretaries,
and, sleek in velvet and satin, hostessed a
great party, every man of it a medico.
Still another woman’s club is being
fashioned. It is for ex-students of the Girls
High Schools. The club will be run on
much the same lines as the Girls Secondary
School Club, and last week old High girls
danced the night through at David Jones s,
their object being foundation funds The
schools interested are St. George, Sydney
High North Sydney High and Bort-street,
and at the dance the banner of each was
draped about the official table. Nancy
Norris, was chairman of the committee and
others who played a part were Joan
Mackaness, Miriel Heyde (secretary) and
Kathleen McElroy.
Jo O’Keefe drops a spring letter from
the Hotel Bristol in Berlin The hotel, inci-
dentally, gets the name of being one of the
most elegant in Europe, and to j* e ejo
of the Sydney traveller the city t £ e th opu i e nt
beautiful: its cleanness ai plots
width of the streets its parts and the P^
of gardens around the P, u h bll t h e Sch-looking
a blaze of tulips, with 0 f Germany
countryside, make one think r£f u >
as a land flowing with milk peasant
English traveller is treated well, a p/easa
contrast to the attitude of the £ W-Kafser’s
keeper and hotel staffs. fS^iik
palace at Potsdam, its vails, wardens,
brocade, and its pictures and its ?a d or
suggest boundless luxury ; and af
the “Paganini operetta at ios. . ..
did not shriek of a city in P nv^hom
This operetta is by I rank ' 1 ’ rpi,,,
*.rpi,„ Merrv Widow made famous.
Vera Schwarz is a tall, golden blonde witn
& sssS^sSif
the-roof, and danced at L’Ermitage Musco
vite, where the gigolos are Russian pnnc^.
who will dance with visitors a . with
ing and think themselves royally paid wit
a hundred-franc bill.
Westralians in Sydney have become State-
conscious since President of the Senat ‘
ter Kingsmill and lus wife and the Hal Cole
batch family have settled m Sydney. Now a
West Australian Society is to be formed, a
strong mover therein being
Mattei The roll-up to the initial meeting
was overwhelming and a distribution o ie
sacred tealeaf within the Lyceum
forth the pledge, “One for all and all foi
one.” The Kingsmills are at Mal ?ar, the big
white flats with the harbor view in Madeay-
street; the Oolebatcli home is on Lei let ue
Hill.
Sibyl Morrison, Sydney’s woman barrister,
dropped this'Letter a note from Crosby Hal ,
London, to tell of the double she has just
plucked. On the 14th of last month si i.
was called to-the English Bar at the Middle
Temple, and on the 15th she was one of the
Australians presented at Buckingham. ►
wore on that occasion a frock of cream
Duchess satin, its regulation Gouit tram .
composed of old family lace.
Dramatist Harry Tighe’s “Open
was the fare which the Fellowship of Aus
tralian Writers browsed over last week.
The script was read by Doris Fitton, All..
Suttor and the author; and it. struck at
least one hearer as a powerful novel weak-
ened by being moulded into a play. True,
the readers were not much help. D us
Fitton looked charming enough foi the allui-
ing Marjorie, but used her voice without
variation ; Mrs. Suttor, too, as Martha was
scarcely in the picture. Between the lead-
ing and the dance which followed came
supper, and during the progress of the tray-
mobiles poets and authors m bud or bloom
wandered about from group tm group. Rod
Quinn was there . and_ niece Mar mis
tress of ceremonies m pink taffetas an
tulle. Dulcie Deamer flashed r hums tone
shoulder-straps next door to fur-coated Jessie
Tlrauhart; tiny Vera Dwyer was a front-
seater; and Mary Gilmore, who afterwards
carried off. friends to admire the work that
Eric Sanders has put into his portrait ot
her. President Le Gay Brereton, serious
and kindly as ever, made the thanksgiving.
A striking contrast to “Open Spaces ” with
its rather tragic war between a daughter ot
the soil and a sophisticated woman ot the
world, was “A Girl’s Best Friend, pre-
sented by the Vagabonds just around tin
corner in St. James’s Hall. A thistledown
affair this of amusing situations that never
even glimpsed the skirts of tragedy. /ita
Harris, in elaborately fringed shell-pink
pyjamas, opened the show snappily. A dab ot
cold cream at the dressing-table, the click
of an electric button, and the stage is m
darkness. When the light goes up again
Zita is between the sheets and just opening
a motion of No Confidence in Mother (Ruby
Coxhead). who snares all their young men,
with second sister (Hilda Waugh). After
that the show was one laugh on top ot
another.
Jim Macart.hur Onslow is probably .the
first of the pastoral family to make acquaint-
ance with the Bankruptcy Court. Jim and
his wife, formcidy Pixie Herbert, of J.
Williamson’s, live at Gundagai m what was
formerly the R.C. presbytery. Mrs. Jim is
popular, pretty and plucky, and, report has
it was not above giving dancing lessons to
help the family exchequer. Indeed, the
courage of the two has kept their spirit un-
broken against the odds of bad seasons.
Something a little different is promised by
the soiree at David Jones’s next Saturday
(fgtli) t 0 aid the Crown-street Womens
Hospital. It will be a supper concert, the
programme arranged by *Tohn Lcmmono, who
lias promised to bring his flute.
When Amy Johnson came here
She had to trust to a ’plane ;
But she’d lots of feathers to fly with
When she went home again.


Sh.
\ x /r
¥ >5
J Y, \ \>_
k
Li
‘••niina
H)n in?.
'V
LU
C’_
sfsr
s£^m«J|
rxji
TJ
r
’=ll
rer:
fi
a
ft
.a
5!
Vr
y
w
<w
n
*
t/
i
m
£s3?
a
Arnott’s Latest Sandwich Bis-
cuits are of delicious cake like
texture, filled with a rich cream.
Their distinctive flavour is
achieved by the masterly blend-
Manufactured by WILLIAM ARNOTT,
LIMITED, THE BISCUITS SPECIALISTS of
60 Year’s Experience.
mg of Oriental Spices giving a
subtle and extraordinary at-
tractive effect, which you will
find wonderfully charming and
very appetising.
“Made in Australia, Financed by Australians,
and produced by highly trained Australian
Workers.’*
*
D
A
FAMOUS
ENTAL
D
D
BISCUITS
Important to Housewives, ALWAYS ASK FOR ARNOTT’S


For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
move and more as something better than a
hair dressing. Tt keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the encroachment of greyness and
baldness.
m
m
ancTs
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.65
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
Wentworth Hotel’s New Policy.
fi'S 1 —»■«y : -
Single Rooms, with Breakfast only, from je/f
Single Rooms, with Bath, only, from 2Q/ .
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, from y y • • 22/6
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, from /
Double Rooms, P per day, Breakfast only, two persons, from . . 25/-
Double'Rooms, per day, inclusive, two persons, from '• J. |'' 4Q/ .
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive with Bath, two P ers °™’, • 7
Double Rooms, per day, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
Do U bk o Rooms n de f Luxe,’ with* Bath, *Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY
f
CASH’S NAMES ARE BEST.
DISTINCTIVE AND FADELESS.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on”
Sold by
Leading
Drapers
K.S.Talbot
Actual
Size of
Style N 0.2
<^CfcS
life
Yl> 1
al6
jfr^^-rrrnTTlP
Write for Name Style Circular to I
J.&JXASH,.r.;,“"-tro
05 CUBITTST^R^CVtMOND^EILBJ
d
WASHING
RIBBONS
Iqo-
c rS
Joy L Lingerie
Mswetoafe; u
Reheated lOashitifo
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Caulfield added to its other attractions
the V.A.T.C. meeting on Saturday the pres-
ence of Amy Johnson, one result ot tlie
patronage being the planking ot a lot. oi
money on “Johnny Cake” in the Hurdle
race. The faith of punters was misplaced,
however, for the horse was delayed in transit
and didn’t fill a place. The cold was intense
and the damp from the lawns was more tha
ordinarily penetrating. Everyone was mul-
ti od in furs and top coats. Miss Johnson
bravely arrived in a complete rig-out o
Lido blue even to her bag, but was glad to
cover it all with a squirrel-collared mus-
quash coat at the earliest opportunity, in:
chairman, James Grice, the Hen Chaneys,
Mr. and Mrs. H. P. Willis and Mrs. L. M.
Pearce met the flier, Mrs. Cliaffey, who was
tailored in brown tweed, handing over a
bouquet. Mayoress Luxton accompanied the
young lady on a sort of triumphal progiess,
during which she was shown the beauty-
spots of the course. The air-maiden had
tea with the committee’s womenfolk, to
whom were added a few others whose bus-
bands were connected with .other racing
clubs. Among those on the lawn were Mrs.
Hogan, Mrs. Rupert Downes and Mrs.
Richard Linton. Mrs. L. R. Buxton, whose
El Roy registered a win, looked smart m a
coat patterned in a zigzag design m brown
and red, with a nigger brown bat.
After the State lunch in her honor at
Parliament House Amy Johnson was intro-
duced to Bob Solly, Labor member for Carl-
ton and a former Chairman of Committees.
“Do you happen to know my brother Bui
who lives in Hull?” inquired Bob, Amy
iVfleeted a moment, and then she replied:
“You must be the uncle of Clara Solly with
whom I went to school.” Then Lob told her
how as a bootmaker of 17 he left Newcastle-
on-Tyne 53 years ago to emigrate to Soutn
Australia, and how he drifted from there
to Melbourne, and became in turn presi-
dent of the Trades Hall Council, the Light
Hours’ Day Committee, the Workingmen s
College Council and the Exhibition .trus-
tees. He also alluded, smilingly, to Ins good
fortune in having a constituency that time
after time accorded him a walk-over. Amy
is to call on Bob’s brother Bill when she
gets back to Hull. He, like her dad, is in
the fish trade.
When there is a heap of work to do Vic.
Premier li'ogan gets irked at having to attend
Vo social affairs. Last week, when he was
trying to straighten out unemployment aim
sustenance tangles, he had to give up five
Jiours one day and three hours the next to
doing the amiable over the arrival of Amy
Johnson. But he concealed bis feelings.
U the women’s reception to Miss John-
son 2500 of the sex represented a
hundred societies afliliated with the. A.< .v\ -
There were three or four speeches, sonic
music, and half a dozen presentations inside
•15 minutes, but the rapidity ot the pro-
ceedings didn’t lessen the warmth of the
welcome. Premier Hogan’s wife, Mrs. D.
A. Skene, the Irvine lady and _ Mayoress
1 uxton were the speakers. Gifts included a
writing-desk of polished Victorian mountain-
ash • life membership badges of the iVC. W.
and St. Cecelia’s ladies choir; a water-color,
by Elma Roach ; flowers and the manuscript
of a vochl composition, “A Prayer, dedicated
to the recipient. Seated at the presentation
desk, a blind girl read an address m Braille
from the children at the R.V.LB. and handed
it over to the flier. Elizabeth Campbell was
at the organ accompanying contralto Mary
Mack, who led the assembly in the singing
of “Land of Hope and Glory ’ and the
Anthem.
Wearing white satin, Miss Johnson was
escorted through lines of policemen who
fenced off a cheering crowd into the Green
Mill, where the Aero Club made merry in
her honor. Miniature aircraft and balloons
figured in the decorations. . The president of
the club, Cecil McKay, and his wife, who
was in deep parchment-tinted satin, spoke
words of welcome. Captain Guy Moore, the
secretary was in the offing with his life
partner, whose attire was of pale blue moire.
Around the official table were the Mayoral
Luxtons, Rear-Admiral and Mrs Kerr, in dia-
phanous raiment of dark lilac hue; General
and Mrs W. A. Coxen a<nd Flight-Commo-
dore and Mrs. Williams. Colonel And Mrs.
Brinsmead, the A. T. Hiskens, Dr; and Mrs.
Barry Thomson, the W. Mitchells, the Bus-
sell Grimwades and Mr. and Mrs. Bob Knox
were also present. Miss Johnson made
acquaintance with Ray I’arer, one ot tie
pioneers of England-to-Australial flying, and
was also introduced to Lieut. TV. Dunstan
Y.C. Margaret Nicholson, in emerald green
draperies, gave an exhibition with Charles
Scrimshaw of the new ballroom steps and
there was a ballet of shapely maids m
silvery tunics and flight caps.
The Sports Girls’ rallv at the Town Hall,
engineered by the Y.W.C.A., gave the lassie
from Hull a good laugh. Racquets, oars and
hockey sticks were raised as an arch ot
honor, and war-cries and songs in praise o
the aviatrix were chorused by 2000 young
Australians, who wore sports attire or school
uniform. An orchestra of women played
under the baton of Madame Agnes Smyth,
and Elsie Bonnet proved her mettle as sing-
ing director. A mock trial was staged py
members of the Women’s Hockey Associa-
tion, at which the visitor had to answer a
charge of stealing the hearts of the people,
and was sentenced to be “a lifer ot the
association. The Y.W.C.A. girls came to
light with a skit on the flight from Croydon
to Darwin, in which the Jason was repre-
sented by a bicycle, with some aeroplany
frills, and the girl who took the role of the
aviatrix skipped on and off, greeted by
sheiks, Nautch girls and other incongruous
characters, the whole winding up with the
handing over by the bogus flier to the real
one of a Dora Wilson painting.
Though—or perhaps it was because—the
Undergrads, were implored to abstain Irom
ragging when Miss Johnson went to. take
tea with the Women Graduates’ Association
and the Uni. Association, members ot a
weird sort of band, armed with a big drum
and other instruments, suddenly emergen
from under the stage and enlivened the pro-
ceedings.
A matinee performance, which benefited
the Alfred Hospital, tilled the Comedy
Theatre on Thursday, and the fact dliat Miss
Johnson was a member of the audience co -
looted a crowd without, which was looked
after bv a battalion of police. Members ot
"The Belle of New York” co. furnished
items, supplemented by some daintily frocked
ballets danced by pupils of Jennie Breiian.
Some society ballerinas, arrayed in black-
and-white pirn-rot costumes, had Leo hranklin
to aid tTiem in "Dancing Your Soul Away.
The Leon Gordon co. played the first act
of “This Thing Called Love.” Madame Joy
McArden, in black, was one of the soloists
of the afternoon. The profits of the enter-
tainment amounted to about £40().
Lyceum Club members literally sat at the
feet of Amv Johnson on Wednesday night.
The roll-up was such that only the grand
piano seemed untenanted, and femininity sat
itself as gracefully as might be on the
Persian mgs in adoration of the aviati ix.
Owing to illness Dr. G. Buchanan, the pre-
sident. was missing, but Mrs. E. F. Allan
made a welcoming speech and handed over
a posy. A dinner with the committee pre-
ceded Miss Johnson’s introduction to the
whole mob of intellectuals. The guest,.whose
floral chiffon gown peeped from under a
coat of pink velvet, departed early, being
whirled off by her manager to another recep-
The aviatrix pictured here by Ruth 110 -
]j e k is our only woman medico to take to
w i n g s —Dr.
E 11a Ma c-
knight:. She
graduated in
medicine at
M e 1 bo nrne
Uni. at about
the same time
as she quali-
fied for her
pilot’s certifi-
cate, but she
has not yet
done any long
flights, and
was barred
from entering
for the recent
aerial races be-
cause she had
not completed
the quota of
miles of solo
fi yi. n g re-
quired. She
has lately been appointed one of the resi-
dent doctors at Melbourne Hospital. Dr.
Macknight was one of the six fair fliers
who piloted Aero Club Moths as guard of
honor to Miss Johnson from Laverton to
Moonee Valley.
Miss Johnson wore an ivory velvet gown
that flared beneath a coat, of the same
material at the Australian Flying Corps
Association Ball at the Town Hall on 1 nday
night This association confines its ranks
to those who had active service with either
the \ AF . R.A.F. or the Royal Naval Air
Service. The guest was presented with a
plaque of Australian wood, on which was
traced her flight. Air-Commodore M llharns,
the president, did the honors, assisted by
Mrs. Williams, who wore black satin. Others
who took part in the welcome were the
Mayoral Luxtons, Rear-Admiral and Mis.
Kerr and Major-General and Mrs. Goxen.
Melbourne gave Amy Johnson its most
characteristic and tumultuous reception at a
gala performance of “The Belle ot Ac
York ” The Theatre Royal was crowded
to the doors, Leo Franklyn added a vei-se
about the aviatnx to one of lus son H s, an
at the end of the show flickers ot the m„iit
from Darwin were shown. 1 the mien
rag rose to display the Jason, The Lone
<nrl Flier” was warbled, and the lass tiom
Hull came down from the managerial
and boarded the little Gipsy Moth plane
amid cheers. The theatre was decked with
flags and gumtips; balloons upiose tin
ovefy chair-arm, and a miniature aeroplane
careered above the auditorium. - ,
peller and a tiny green plane markedLthe
guest’s box, on which a spotlight was turned.
A frock of pale-green moire appeared be-
neath Miss Johnson’s white fur coat, and
her escorts wore the Premier and Mrs.
Hogan and some Taits. Lud Mayor Lux ton
and his wife, who had with them th
Cecil McKays, occupied. th c °- p . »ox
Colonel and Mrs. Brinsmoad, Flight
Commander and Mrs. Williams, and Wing-
Commander and Mrs. Adrian Cole were
there. There was a monster crowd outside
the theatre, shepherded by a battalion of
policemen, and the audience was asked not
to leave until the lady had had time to «t -
clear away.
A recent addition to Melbourne’s musical
world is the Sisserman Sflung Quartette.
The leader is ’cellist David Sisserman, who
was a player
in the Pav-
lova orchestra.
He has asso-
ciated himself
wit: h three
clever local
porfor mors,
Reginald
Bradley. Rene
Brcgozzo and
Mischa Kogan,
to give a
series of re-
citals of cham-
ber music. Mr.
Bradlev. pic-
tured here by
Spencer Shier,
Avon an Or-
mond scholar-
ship for the
fiddle at the
Uni. Con. under
Prof. Laver,
and is well known as a soloist through 3L .
where he was conductor and director ot pro-
grammes when wireless was a novelty, tie
is first violin of the quartette.
A nice study in the public sense of pro-
portion was provided outside Menzies the
other day. An immense crowd had gathered
to catch a glimpse of Amy Johnson return-
ing from some function, when a small, daik
man with a broad forehead a small chin and
a mop of wavy hair partially concealed unde 1
n black hat, pushed his way through the
throng and went inside, leaving as the only
effect of his passing a wake oi nutation.
He was Jan Kubelik.
The Johnson flight, has set our topical
song-waiters in motion. The Aero Club
sponsored one of the efforts, which hears
the title, “Fly, Fly, Up So High,’ and was
composed by a Melbourne woman wio dis-
guises her identity under the name of Sylvia
Hozart. The MS. was presented to Miss
Johnson at the Aero Club Ball.
For her recital on Saturday night Flor-
ence Austral drew tiered flounced draperies
of fine black lace across the stage, and a
diamond brooch twinkled upon her corsage.
Commanding in figure and equipped with
the charm of youth and a glorious voice she
had no difficulty in conquering an audience
of her native state. Her accompanist. Ails
A Nelson, also young, with hair that shone
with seal-like smoothness, aided in harvest-
ing the flowers. While Madame Austral
covered the pianoforte top, Mr. Nelson filled
in with baskets the spaces between the
aspidistras that bordered the platform. John
Amadio, the singer’s flautist husband, though
born in Maoriland, has lived so much m
Melbourne that it was like coming home
for him, and he got a cordial reception.
It w T as a most expensive looking audience,
well wrapped in fur, mostly white, with
some sable and mink. A few fine coats in
gold tissue and Oriental brocades with
immense fur collars diversified the scene. In
the throng were entertainer Alexander
Watson and his wife, Medical Knight James
Barrett and his lady, Mrs. Fred Ivrcrouse,
Ainslic Williams. Mrs. Sam Mackay. Knight
John Longstaff, heading a sprinkling of
painters, and Fritz Hart, beaming over the
success of a former student at Albert-street
Con.
Florence Austral, wdio was a student at
both our Cons., having studied at the two
under the same teacher, was welcomed by tin
Old Students’ Association of the Uni. to •
at Melba Hall on Thursday night, who
welcoming words were spoken by the ‘
cellor, Prof. Bernard Heinze, Kmght
Barrett and J. Sutton Crow, president ot
the O.S.A. A musical programme was P «
vided by pianists Lorna J rnst sind '<■.
Smith, with fiddler Constance Ziebell. Satin
of the hue of russet gold trailed beneath tli
brocade coat of the guest of honor.
Civic balls of last week included one
given by Mayor and Mayoress Bucini ot
Fitzroy at the suburb’s town hall. '
immense fern-covered bells, from which i 1 •
of greenery and blue and rose nglits ‘
trailed, figured in the decorations, and tie
stage was transformed into a bush
with tree-ferns and wattle. Mrs.
black gown was chenille embossed in „ «
and deep rose. Amy and Rosa Bucmi. who
are students at Mandeville llall, had •
evening out, the elder wearing oheriy-
georgette and her sister coral-pink. Mayo •
and town clerks of neighboring municipa 1-
ties, with their wives, were invited to the
function, and there was a fair sprinkling
of politicians. Other guests included Mr.
and Mrs. G. 11. Honeycombe, Brigadier-
General and Mrs. .T. C. Stewart, she m
black lace: Dr. and Mrs. Spnngthorpe, Dr.
and Mrs. Maurice MacGillicuddy and Mrs.
r l’. ,T. Ryan, whose gown was of Canterbury
bell hue.
Cars were parked at Cliveden Mansions
at the mid-week, when Mrs. Hudson Hast-
wood boiled the billy in honor ot the Mit-
chell lady, wife of the Premier of \\ estraija,
who looked in on us for a few days. Ihe
hostess wore black velvet, and her guest was
in tones of brown. Mayoress Luxton.
Madame de Bavay and the Morell lady were
there.
St. Vincent's Hospital Nurses’ Associa-
tion had a dance at No. 9 the other day.
Mrs. W. R, Burston, wearing chiffon pat-
terned in rose, blue, silver and black, was
lion, sec., and Betty Considine, who wore
ecru lace, was the president.
On Friday afternoon there was held tin 1
third and last of a series of bridge parties
convened with the object of endowing a eot
at the Homoeopathic Hospital. Sponsored by
the Ladies’ Aid Association of the institu-
tion. the cot will bear the name of Isabella
Walker in honor of the oldest working mem-
ber of the association. Mrs. W. Mackey and
Mrs. E. A. Bennett organised the card-
playing.
Melbourne’s interest in the first Test match
was intense. Many citizens sat up all night
to listen to the radio account, of the plus •
and at various dances the music was lopped
off in the middle of a bar to let the loud-
speaker announce the state of the score.
Breakfast-table wit of the week includes
the following attempt at epigram You
remark: “Sydney is three hours ahead ot
us,” and when somebody challenges tins
assertion you say solemnly: “No. Three
hours is right. ‘Our Harbor, Our Bridge and
Our Bradman.’ ”
Another of our Uni. graduates to receive
honor in his home town is William Neil
McKie, a one-time holder of the Clarke
scholarship at the Uni. Con., who has been
appointed City Organist. lie is the son
of Rev. W. McKie, of Ivew ; and at London
R.C.M. tacked many letters on to. his name.
At present he is director of music at Chi-
ton College, Bristol. About 50 organists
in England and 25 in Australia were appli-
cants for the job, which carries aa itli it £ i ».>o
a year, with right of private teaching prac-
tice. McKie was not an applicant, but was
invited to say whether lie would say yes. it
lie were asked. He said lu: would, with
certain reservations.'
Trinity College Students’ dance at St.
Kilda Town Hall brought forth a crop o/
flappers in frocks that dipped to and. swept the
ballroom floor. The warden of Trinity, Dr.
j (' v. Behan, and Mrs. Behan, she in
moire and tulle of flame-hue, did the honors
for the 70 hosts. Other colleges within the
Ini were well represented, among the
dancers being the Master of Queen’s and
Mrs F W. Kernick, Miss Enid .Toske, Princi-
pal of Janet Clarke Hall, who wore draperies
of cerise chiffon, and Dr. F. R. Lawton and
Airs Lawton. Patricia Clarke s pink tafieta
frock was alluring, and Kitty Currie s frock
of green had a shower of crystal.
An event of last week was the consecra-
tion of the chapel of the Deaf and Dumb
Society This church, Oriental m architec-
ture stands on land bordering on Jolimonr-
squarc that originally belonged to Governor
Latrobe, whose house stood there. The new
chapel is built on what used to be a dri 1-
yard for the troops After the Hatrobe
regime the place was bought by Mrs. W elcli.
wiio vastly improved the garden. The
aI) D S which bought the estate in 1921,
began'its work half a century ago m the
form of an evangelical mission. Years later
club-rooms and a lecture-hall were established
in Flinders-street. That property was sold
for £l7 000, of which £14,009 Avas paid on
the Joiimont-square section, the price ot
w’hich was £25,000.


d
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES—For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/-per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for Illustrated Folder
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
o Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine.
Billiards,
Dancine.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2OS4
F 3575
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ill
' Hook your accommodation at the Chalet,
MT, BUFFALO, NATIONAL PARK,
for the snow sports season NOW!
Information and advice at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, %
Martin Place, -Sydney; Queen's Walk, Melb. |s
— ~
THE PASSAGE
BY VANCE PALMER.
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
Synopsis: His father. Hob Cal-
laway, drowned at the bar of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough with the life, but slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
Hughie, Lew admits, has brains; so
when Kunkel offers him a job at
his store Lew agrees that he should
take it. Hughie buys a motor-lorry,
and soon is running a car service. He
does so well that he goes to town to set
up in the car business. Lew is attracted
by Clem McNair, daughter of a man
tvho has sold a large area of land
on one side of the Passage to Osborne,
a speculator, who has started a young
township upon it. Lew's diffidence
prevents closer relationship, and Clem,
disappointed, decides to go abroad.
Lew then marries Lena Christensen,
who had been keeping company with
Craig, a surveyor, but had assured
Lew that affair was “all off.” A
seven-months' baby boy is born to
Lew, who, in the next year or so,
becomes entirely wrapped up in the
little fellow. The marriage, however,
is not a success: Lena becomes irri-
tated' with Lew and his interest
in his work , and he grows weary
of her tired, bored smile. He is in
town visiting Hughie and their mother
(Anna) when Lena has a surprise
meeting with Craig in the bush, where
she had gone ashore for a swim after
rowing.. Lena feeds that she has quite
done with Craig, but his old attraction
proves too strong.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Undercurrents.
IT was fun, Lew felt, just to lounge around
and watch old Tom now that he was
in charge of his own boat. He had
Doug Wiegert, Albert’s eldest boy, work-
ing with him as mate, and he took his
job with as much seriousness as if he were
running an ocean liner. With his soiled
yachting-cap cocked on one side of his
head, and sandshoes covering his bare feet,
he padded about the cluttered deck, both
hands in the pockets of his trousers as if
he had no other means of holding them
up, and his sidelong stare turned on the
stakes of the channel ahead. He had be-
come more authoritative in manner, more
important in his own eyes, and he talked
with decision in any matter connected with
the working of the boat; yet sometimes he
grew cranky or silent. Lew always recog-
nised the trouble before it came to a head.
“Better lie off for a while, Tom,” he
would say, “All work and no play....
I’ll take the boat down this time.”
And Tom would mutter something about
feeling a bit crook inside and float quietly
over to the hotel at Lavinia, returning in
a couple of weeks with a slightly-boiled
look about the eyes and a sober concern
lest anything should have gone wrong with
his little world while he was out of it.
Lew was proud of the way old Tom had
stuck to him. He himself was coming
back from his trip to town with a renewed
zest for his work, and a pleasure in the
opportunities it opened up ahead of him.
A breath of Hughie’s gusto had been com-
municated to him. They had talked night
after night of the Tourist Service Hughie
had planned, and Hughie had brought out
maps to show the routes he was going to
open up, figuring out the capital required
to the last penny. At first it had seemed
speculative and grandiose to Lew, who had
no belief that • anything could be raised
except by laying stone on stone, but he
was carried away by Hughie’s persuasive-
ness and his flow of talk. Hughie had more
ideas than half a dozen other men put
together! And when had he over failed in
carrying them out?
But his real source of pleasure was the
feeling that he had established contact with
Hughie again. They had had very little
to do with one another since Hughie had
gone to town, and it seemed that their
lives had definitely diverged. Yet during
the last, few weeks they had fallen again
into the old easy intimacy. Hughie had
opened out to him, telling him of his
struggles to keep off the drink, his quarrel
with Mona Bailey because of his entangle-
ment with another woman, his ambition to
make money so that, he would be free to
carry out mechanical experiments. There
had been a boyish emotion in his voice
that last night when they had sat on the
river bank, keeping the mosquitoes off
with their tobacco smoke, and watching
the lights across the water go out one bv
one.
ou \ e been a hell of a good brother
to me Lew'. Always taken an interest in
wrnat I was doing—jollied me along and
encouraged me to put my back into it.
Always listened, too, when I’d something
to say. If I ever amount to anything it’ll
be because of the backing you gave me,
and the way you took for granted I could
Pull off whatever I wanted to do.”
Lew had been moved.
Oh, give it a bone, Hughie. You never
needed anything from me. Always could
stand on your own feet since the time
you shed your petticoats.”
He was deeply conscious of the fact that
Hughie had taken over his job and was
carrying the family on his back. Not that
they were a heavyweight, now that the
girls were earning such good money, but
any sort, of responsibility cramped a young
fellow like Hughie, who had his own way
to make in the world! It was up to him
to help Hughie with all the means in his
power, even if it meant mortgaging his
own resources and going back a step or two
in the long fight for independence.
He had little capital available. There
were, he reflected, some blocks of land at
Lavinia adjoining the golf course that
Lena had urged him to buy with the
object of building there some day. Not a
very difficult job to sell them for a good
price! Then there was the chance of
getting a loan of five hundred from Osborne
and his friends on the security of the two
boats. They would squeeze him for in-
terest, in the belief that he must be in
deep water if he was borrowing money,
but that didn’t matter! As long as he
was confident in his own power to keep
afloat they could think what they liked,
and if they tried to clamp the screw too
tightly he could go further afield. After
all, his name and his reputation stood as
high as anyone’s in the district now, and
the local banks lent money on assets less
sound than his.
It, was the thought of talking it over
with Lena, though, that sanped at the roots
of his confidence. She wouldn’t want to
sell the land at Lavinia; wasn’t she always
nagging at him to build a house on it?
And the knowledge that he was lending the
money to Hughie, other money as well,
wouldn’t, exactly soothe her ruffled temper.
He could see her face harden and her eyes
turn glassy.
“That family of yours again! When are
you going to shake yourself free of them,
Lew? I didn’t think when I married you
I was marrying the whole crowd of Calla-
ways. Haven’t you done enough for them,
spoonfeeding them when they were young-
sters and keeping the whole show going?
lt’s about time you thought of your
own w r ife a little. I’ve been wanting a
car and a few other necessary things for
God knows how long.”
But, this outburst only reached his inner
ear, for he didn’t tell Lena what he was
doing. Time enough when she asked for a
car again, or brought up the question of
shifting to Lavinia! Such a chance w 7 as
long in coming, though, for Lena seemed
steeped in the delight of having Peter back
again, and prattled away to him day and
night as if she hadn’t seen him for a year.
How many times had he cried when he
was staying down at Granny’s? And wasn’t
he afraid when they came round Cardigan
Point into the bay and the big waves
began to thump the sides of the boat as if
they would break it in? She was excited
about Peter in a new, intense way, and
caressed him with a fervor that made him
uneasy. For Peter had always hated to be
kissed. All his body went taut and rigid
when he was fussed over that way.
What he liked, though, was going for
walks with his mother along the banks of
the Passage, and over the strip of open
beach to the rocks of the headland. They
did that often now that the summer was
past and the heat gone out of the after-
noons ; and it was the time that Peter felt
himself really alive. A few stern warnings
not to go near the outer edge where the
waves were breaking, -a hurried straighten-
ing of his clothes and he was left with the
whole afternoon for his very own. No
Jimmy Haig to bully him and throw wet
sand over his shirt! No Milly to tell him
his face was grubby and haul him off to
the bathroom! And what a thrilling play-
ground it was out there! When the tide
was low, you could wander on from pool to
pool, looking at the anemones, ruby and
green, closed up like rubber knobs on the
sides of the rocks, and the colored fish
darting in and out among the swaying
water weeds. There were shallow pools,
clear and safe looking, where you could
paddle and explore among the deep layers
of shells with your toes. Sometimes the
dark, snake-head cowries could be found
there with the polish still on them, and
little blue and purple shells that shone like
fire. All the while Marie would be dancing
round the rocks, nosing crabs out of their
crevices and barking furiously at them
when they sidled away; hunting the fish
in the shallow water; racing after some
sea bird that had settled on a clump of
driftwood.
But the greatest thrill was to go out
to the big pool that was joined to the
sea by a narrow gutter in the rocks, through
which the water rushed foaming after every
wave. Sometimes wobbegongs were shut
in there by the outgoing tide, and moved
round sluggishly among the weeds, looking
ugly and terrifying with their patterned
backs and piggish eyes, though they couldn’t
hurt anyone, old Tom said. Still you
dreamt at night of falling down, down, to
where they were circling among the weeds!
And there was the big groper that had
once been shut in, too, and had lain still
under the ledge of rock until a small bream
passed him. Then there had been a snap,
and little bubbles coming to the top of
the water.
, Peter had only once fallen into a panic
out there on the rocks. That was the
day when he had been fossicking in the
pool where the money r cowries were, putting
his fingers into the small clefts and occa-
sionally jerking out the precious shells of
creamy enamel with their single band of
gold. Panting and breathless, he had
worked from hole to hole, when suddenly
he had felt a homy tendril round his leg,
drawing tighter and tighter. Spidery feelers
reaching for him, a . sense of being pulled
under, little, wicked eyes glaring at him
from a greeny, blubbery mass! His yell
had echoed out all over the rocks; he had
called to his mother and tried to scramble
out, but his knees had given way and he
had fallen face downwards in the water,
hardly remembering what happened till
someone, running over the rocks, had lifted
him up and forked the creature out with
a stick.
“It’s all right,” he heard the man saying.
“Only a reef octopus! Nothing to worry
about; I’ve pulled dozens of ’em out for
bait. They couldn’t hurt a big fellow like
you. Lord, no!”
But Peter was still sobbing, and shrink-
ing in horror from the green, jelly-like thing
with its orange tentacles when his mother
came up, white and breathless.
“Oh, Peter, you did give me a scare! I
was dead sure you were drowning! You
mustn’t paddle in those pools again—never,
never!.... No, don’t cry any more! Be
a man.”
As if he didn’t hate himself for crying
before this dark-faced stranger who was
picking the octopus up and throwing it at
Marie, making her dance away and bark!
Those were the days of early winter when
Peter saw little of anyone but his mother,
for the first shoals of mullet w T ere coming
in and the men were out on the sandbanks
with the early light, coming home with full
boats in the dusk. Dewy mornings with a
nip in the air, a hazy, golden sun, brighten-
ing at noon, a movement of swans up the
Passage at nightfall! Lew, busy in un-
loading his boats and getting them away
again, had little time for Peter or anyone
else. The orange season had begun and
big loads were coming down from the
range; besides, a new butter factory had
started, and was giving him all its carrying.
Never had there been such a continuous
bustle at the jetty with trucks coming dow r n
full and getting away again. It meant day-
long work for everyone.
As Lew humped the heavy cases about,
images of Hughie were often in his mind.
He thought of him eager and concentrated,
bending over his first canoe; of the way he
used to hop over the paling fence after
breakfast and go whistling off over the
green to Kunkel’s store; of his comical
pride on the day he drove through the
gates with Reardon’s truck, and how he
couldn’t go to sleep that night for excite-
ment. Lew was filled with a quiet satis-
faction in the thought that every pound
he could rake together would be a help
to Hughie, yet now that his younger
brother’s voice was fainter in his ears, his
own native caution began to cast up doubts.
• Wasn’t Hughie’s luck tempting him to over-
reach himself a bit? Wouldn’t it be better
if he plugged along in his present groove
a year or two longer? Neither of them
could afford to take risks yet awhile.
It was old Tom, spelling for a while dur-
ing the loading of his boat, who first
roused him from his preoccupation with
Hughie’s affairs. They had been sitting
on the side of the jetty, smoking in silence,
their legs dangling down to the water, when
Tom said, looking at him in his bird-like
way:
“I see Craigie’s back.”
“Eh?”
“Craigie. He’s stopping at the pub. Made
a bit of money out west, so he’s taking
things easy for a while. Mean to say you
haven’t run across him?”
“No; I don’t go up that way often.”
They said no more about the matter,
though Tom, sucking at his cold pipe and
staring down at the water, seemed uneasy
for a while, like a hen sitting on too big
a clutch of eggs.
But a few evenings later, when Lew
stopped outside the store to glance at a
news poster, he heard Craig’s name being
bandied about inside and noticed tha.t the
other men self-consciously stopped talking
as soon as he came in at the door. There
was only the usual crowd lolling about—
Dave Wiegert stretched along a form in
his oilskins, young Martin with his leather
motoring-cap blotting out the upper part
of his face, Haig inscrutable and dark in a
corner by the cpunter, and Corny Lait with
his dogs at his bare feet—but from the
awkwardness that fell upon them Lew
knew he was an intruder. The conversa-
tion must have had something to do with
him! They covered up as well as they
could; young Martin was desperately
anxious to know if it was true he intended
selling his blocks of land at Lavinia, and
Kunkel dropped his paper to show him a
batch of new German records.
“You was the man I was waiting for, Lew.
Just listen and you hear somet’ing wort’
while. Somet’ing you couldn’t get yourself
by sending to the music-shops in Brisbane.”
He wound the machine and then stood
back, his head cocked on one side in an
absurd pose of self-absorption, andj his
glasses catching the light; but the other
men, after listening to one or two records,
took their papers from the counter and
slipped off into the night. There was 'em-
barrassment in the very emptiness they left
behind them.
It was a disconcerting experience for Lew,
one that roused him as the incoming tide
does an anemone, and forced him to send
out sensitive feelers. Craig, he asked him-
self, as he stumbled home with a couple
of records under his arm—what the devil
had he to do with Craig? The man seemed
to belong to a hazy past; he hadn’t thought
about him for years. It was true dark
thunder-clouds used to belly up over the
edge of his mind once when he heard
Craig’s name, but what did Dave Wiegert
or Haig know of that? Nothing had hap-
pened to give him away to them!
Lights- were streaming out of the house
through the open windows and he could see
Lena’s head and shoulders as she sat at the
piano singing; the sound of her voice


Interest: 6 Per Cent.
Price of Issue: Par
Period of Loan: 8 Years
INTEREST PAYABLE MAY 15 AND
NOVEMBER 15.
COMMONWEALTH 6 PER CENT. LOAN 1938
AMOUNT ASKED FOR £10,000,000
The Loan is issued by the ConnmonweaUh Government of the
Governments of he C X °me of a PP lic a ti„n, or by instalments,
.Subscriptions may be paid in tull at the c t H ember 1, 1930.
Tax, but free of all State
AppUcabons may ?
Commonwealth Treasury.
EDWARD G. THEODORE, Treasurer.
caught him in the left side as he came in
at the gate. It was always the same,
there was something in her singing voice
that went through him and turned him to
water, though when she stopped and spoke
in that, lazy, drawling way of hers lie lelt
himself freeze again. She turned her head
as he came in but went on singing, and lie
lay down on the sofa and closed his e\es.
Queer the power of music to call up pic-
tures that had nothing to do with the tune
or the words! A summer night on the
Passage when he was a boy, himself and
old Tom lounging on the nets in the boat
looking up at a falling comet, the skirl ot
curlews coming over from the timbeied
banks, shivering the heart! „
“They tell me Craig’s come back,” he
said later on in the evening. I haven t
run across him.” . . ,
Lena yawned, covering her mouth witl
her hand and looking at him with drowsy
eyes that had a hint of banter in them.
' “You haven’t? But then you never know
who comes and goes, Lew. Stick down
here r\ ll the time and let the world go b
you. I knew Craigie was back over a
month ago. Seen him fishing from. the
rocks more than once when I was going
“The oar! He had lost the oar!”
round the headland with Peter.... What’s
this you’ve been getting? More records.
She undid the string and began to examine
the colored labels, though without any par-
ticular excitement, Lew’s eyes were fixed
on her impassive face, the fair eyebiows,
the heavy features that seemed modelled
in white wax. Craig’s return meant nothing
to her, he was assuring himself, nothing
of all' And at the same time he knew
lie was playing the ostrich, hiding his head
in the sand and believing what he wanted
to believe.
CHAPTER XXV.
The Open Boat.
Peter sitting in the stern of the dinghy,
tan* on to the seat with both hands as
thev met the rollers coming m over the
bar His heart swelled till he couldnt
breathe every time a wave came roaring
Sown on them, lifting the bows h.gh m the
air- but they always came down on the
other side with a plunk, and he felt the
blood bounding through him again This
was the day he had longed lor and dreaded
nearly a year now. and he would have died
rather than show how hard it was to keep
from shutting his eyes and crying om
terror every time the boat rose, km I Is. a
thick mass of them, were sitting on the
sandv nose of Rathbone Island,
couldn’t have thrown a stone without hit-
ting two or three! He kept his
fastened on them and tried to think o
nothing but the way they would darken
the sky if they all flew up togethei.
“Well, how’s it going, Peter? Getting
the wind up?”
“No-o, Dad.” ,
“That’s the style. Well soon be across
the bar. And there’s no sea on to-day out-
side. Smooth out there as the back of a
Se Lew was keeping the nose of the dinghy
to the breakers, rowing swiftly as soon as
one passed and gradually working out to
open sea where the broad waste had hard
a fleck of white on it. A perfect day ioi
a small boat, though the fish would be
more 1 lively in a swell! He watched Peter s
strained f£e and taut little body and knew
what was going on in his mind, knew, a „o,
that in spite of his fears, Peter would rather
be out with him in the boat than playing
with Jimmy Haig in the back yard What-
ever was lacking in Peter, it wasn t pluck.
His will would master his timorous flesh
in the end and temper it to the right hard-
n6“Got to make him face things bit by
bit ” Lew told himself. “Never let him
get too scared or panicky. Once he picks
up a bit of confidence in himself hell be
ready to take anything on.”
That had been his idea all along, to
nurse Peter through his babyish fears, to
watch over him protectively till a tough
skin grew over his nerves But a boy
couldn’t learn to swim by standing on the
b& He bent his back and let his arms have
free play, making the rowlocks grunt m
their sockets and sending the dinghy spurt-
ing over the watery plain to where the
submerged reef lay. Light poured from
the sky out there; a man felt it wash
over him. He was trying to forget the
scene with Lena the night before when
she had come in late for tea, trying to
forget the glassy hardness of her eyes and
the barbed resentment of her tongue. it
had been the first real quarrel since they
were married, but that was nothing o
boast about! Perhaps it would have been
better to let the bad blood out befoie,
instead of bottling it up and pretending
nothing was the matter. And when he
had seen her come in. flushed and a little
above herself, he had known for certain
she had been with Craig, and had let the
dull exasperation he had been carrying
around for weeks have its full vent.
But he had been staggered by the way
Lena had stood up to him, poised and
quite sure of herself, only hesitating when
she was in search of a word that would
sting. What did she care if people were
talking? She wasn’t going to shape her
life to the pattern of the Haig woman
or Dora Wiegert! And what an old woman
he must be growing into if he listened to
the gossip of a lot of half-witted fishermen
who would nudge one another and bandy
jokes about if they saw two swallows
sitting on the one post. , . ,
“Don’t forget, Craigie and I were friends
before I even heard of you, she flashed.
Yet it wasn’t the words; it was the new
flood of life in her, flushing her, giving
her confidence and power, bhe was living
•it the top of her being, ho look at fiei
made the passion stir in him like a drowsy-
eyed animal roused from winter sleep A
savage, male feeling took charge of him
so that his veins swelled and the W°od
burned behind his eyes. He couldn t be
reasonable about her meetings with Craig,
no, there wasn’t any room for
reason! A man had to assert
himself or throw in the towel!
“Look, Dad!” cried Peter,
suddenly dropping off the seat
in excitement. “Somefings
splashing! It’s a whale! A
big whale!”
His eves had become round and staring;
his voice was a hoarse whisper. Lew, who
had cast anchor and was shcmfjt
ts arwa. $ fa
A
faint S&g of sea birds above the troubled
""“Yes.” muttered Lew. “It’s a whale, all
right. The killers are after him.
'‘‘Killers?” , .
“Killer-whales. You know what they are,
don’t you? Little fellows with snouts like
swords that hunt the big fellows. They 1
fXw this one till they get him, even if
“takes days.... Look at them lumping
in the air and coming dowrn on him. y OT \
mean to give him much of a spell, do
they? He’ll be full of holes as a mosquito-
nGkr horror stared out of
his "athlr’fshouWe'r.
huge, dripping fluk ?A X^ splash There was
rtsifcSjftiaita,
S'E.SM’IS.V -
But " h J Ml S\o^ 3 " Why dfdn’t he
Lew’explained 1 they would the whale
iin like dingoes would a stia.> } V
SS€!£|s“3S£Ss
whale, in desperation, would rush m
cmash himself on the rocks.
’ “Like what happened at the badland
a couple of years ago, he salt • little
se=“=^*|e9£i
ldm. h And h the g re he lay for weeks stranded
Sh« n^SltaJ” feW
hundred tons of good blubber wasted
He was only giving Peter one part of hu
mind The other part of it was fixed 01
tho line 1 at the stern and from the water
Le could sec Lena looking up with a queer,
Vi “ Don’tt e forget, Craigie mil were friends
b ' tvhy was There a triumphant ring in her
voice when she said that? As if she had
found something, that could penettate jus
skin and leave a jet of poison in tlhe blloo
He knew well enough that Cm g naa Deen
a friend of l.ers in those old. days at
Plan rowan There was nothing in that.
a TZdy rocking of the boat a pressure
of the sun on the nape of his neck, tft
g»“er off T o,l ldtesXd go"ne ta out
*tatheir slmggle'was nothing
moref than*a bird splash in the blue waste.
P on‘with eyes pricked
””“1 can’t see anything now. D’you think
th Splrhts got did this time.”
He felt the vibration of the gut hue m
hi«i fingers and pulled in mechanically,
trippS the convulsive snapper from the
hook and baiting again an automatom
What had he ever known of Lena, he was
thinking? Had he ever tried to get neai
her? They had been living together over
five years now, but they were no more at
home with one another than the day they
were married. He had never been tempted
to give her the sort of confidences he gave
Huo-hic and Dot; had she ever shown she
wanted Them? *No, they had lived as
strangers, only meeting when the tides o
their blood drew them blindly to °ue an-
other. And there would be an end of that,
it had almost come now. ,
But why did the suspicion that she had
given herself to Craig as a girl rouse such
t devil in him, darkening his eyes and
(Continued on page 45.)


\Xi
bitt i\
iPA’W
S!
hum
CHINA
“These are my jewels”
is the proud thought of
a hostess,when guests admire
the Shelley China Tea Set. Even
if her means do not provide ex-
pensive clothes and jewelry, she
can express the desire for beauty
in China.
Each piece of Shelley “Dainty
White” ware is brilliant, trans-
lucent, pure and white as snow;
bearing the Hall Mark of aristoc-
racy, because made as perfect
chinaware must always be
by the traditional methods
peculiar to Staffordshire for
many generations.'
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Mousing Sets
Dainty White
* China
Numsery Ware
l>y Lucie Attweu
v Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
CASE OP ANY DIFFICULTY
as*.CLARE*
ď
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M'g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTYS: KATINKA.
CRITERION: THE GARDEN OF EDEN.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
J£ ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THIS THING CALLED LOVE.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
DYNAMITE,
With CONRAD NAGEL, KAY JOHNSON, CHARLES
BICKFORD and JULIA FAYE, together with Talkie
Shorts.
Victoria Racing Club,
Flemington.
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE
MEETING.
SATURDAY, JULY 5.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE
(£2OOO Added Money).
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
THE TWO-YEAR-OLD MILE.
SATURDAY, JULY 12.
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE
(£5OOO Added Money).
Large Entries. Stakes over £16,000.
ARTHUR Y. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
CTTZABETH COOPER (nee Smyth), sup-
posed to have died at Broken Hill or
Bourke, New South Wales, between 10 and
20 years ago. Any person who can furnish
reliable information regarding Mrs. Cooper
is mines ted to communicate with THE
TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, limited, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, at once.
If any illustration in “THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
write to the MANAGER , who will
quote you price for the original.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
alLAustralian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
Ho Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 22S Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Florence Austral’s magnificent voice was
heard in two recitals, and though both
nights were wet the second concert drew
a crowd to the City Hall such as has not
been seen sice Melba, was here. On the first
night the singer wore black Paris lace and
pearl and diamond ornaments; on the second
she had an even more becoming gown of
tango moire and net with diamente sKoulder-
strops and pearl and diamente tassels. There
were floral offerings galore, including many
a spray of the city emblem, poinsettia. George
Sampson played the organ for “Land of
1 lope and Glory,” and Nils Nelson, of the
sleek fair hair and engaging smile, was at
the piano. John Amadio and his flute won
almost as much enthusiasm as the diva.
At the morning tea at the National, to
which local presswomen were invited,
Florence Austral appeared in Jason green
with a coat in long-cut style, upturned hat of
green and a tawny fur stole which suited
her radiantly fair skin. Though admitting a
weakness for diamonds and emeralds she does
not wear much jewellery. Tapestry and cook-
ing are two of her hobbies, and Galsworthy
and Philip Gibbs her favorites among modern
authors. John Amadio played a cheery host;
Nils Nelson, W. Locke (the manager from
Bundaberg) with his daughter were also in
tin' party. One of the presswomen wanted
to know if the tiger cub with which Madame
has been often seen in photographs “wasn’t
stuffed,” and it was explained that the
beast grew so big tha*t it had to be sent to
the London Zoo. Pat O’Shea staged a
supper-party for the concert company at
Lennon’s, his sister and brother helping.
Others there were Mary De Burgh Persse,
Cyrus McColm. Dan Carroll and 11. Eustace.
Dan Carroll tells us that the Austral-Amadio
tour is the only thing of its kind that has
paid for years.
Coomera bridge, which does away with
the old ferrying of cars, was officially opened
in a deluge by the Attorney-General. N. F.
McGroarty. Mrs. McGroarty cut the ribbon
at the end of the bridge with a pair of gold
scissors. There was a marquee on the. river
bank for tea, but the driving rain made it
impossible to use it, and the Coomera State
school had to house the cups and plates.
A private dance was given on,the Naldera
by Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Mackay when the
ship lay like a jewel along the night at New
Farm. Tall palms guarded the gangway,
and Commander Harrison, D. 5.0., helped to
welcome the guests to the divan, Mrs.
Mackay was in gold brocade. The decks
had melon-shaped Oriental lanterns and
draped flags. Supper was in the first dining-
saloon, decorated with flags and balloons.
Wesley Church, Kangaroo Point, saw the
marriage of Edgar Dearden. son of the F.
Deardens, Arden Downs, Goondiwindi, to
Daphne Margaret Grant, daughter of the
late W. M. Grant, Tliallon, and of Mrs.
Grant, Indooroopilly, Brisbane. The bride,
who was given away by Mr. T. Heydon,
was in ivory bridal satin, and an embroid-
ered tulle veil. She 'carried a bouquet of
camellias, lily of the valley and sweet-peas.
Mr. F. Dearden best-manned; Anna Grant,
in rose taffetas, ’maided.
WE STIi ALIA.
Perth.
The Merredin Golf Club Ball was a huge suc-
cess. Whole gum-trees made green jungles in
each corner of the ha*ll, festoons of streamers
and glow-worm lights played hfde-and-seek
among the branches, and the orchestra did its
job under a leafy bower. President Mrs. T.
Duff smiled her patronage in black satin;
diamente glistened among Mrs. Henry
Eminott’s fuchsia georgettes: Mrs. Murphy
wore saxe blue; Mrs. Ken Duff chose flame
taffetas; Mrs. Telfer was an almond-green
froth of laces and georgettes; twinkling silver
’broideries relieved Mrs. Shelmadene’s black
gown; a red rose bloomed among Biddy
Hickey’s laces; Mrs. Flockbart trailed ice-
blue georgettes; Maud Mitchell wore pink
slippers with her periwinkle frock and Freda
Treadgold was in tangee draperies.
Wicked-looking forceps and drills were
locked away ea*rly in preparation for the
Dental Ball. Students who are learning the
use of such instruments arranged a ballet
of muscular Roman soldiers and a silhouette
item depicting the horrors of the dental pro-
fession as practised by prehistoric man.
Gilbert Henderson brought his wife, clad in
black satin pin-pricked with silver; Mrs.
Campbell Wilson wore sherry georgettes;
petunia chiffon descended to Mrs. D. G.
Forster’s ankles; Mrs. Ben Herman wore
black; Maisie Campbell was slim in georg-
ettes patterned with green and apple-blossom
pink; roses rambled over Gwen Tebbutt’s
black frock: frills of love-in-the-mist chiffon
blew about Edmee Antoine’s ankles ; Queenie
Lynn chose flowered ninon; Guida Weir’s
cm burn locks looked well above pale green;
Winnie Taylor-Thomas wore scarlet moire
and Ena Cockram chartreuse satin.
The Automobile Club remembered the
society which rushes to the aid of its un-
fortunate or careless members by handing
the proceeds of its ball to St. John Ambu-
lance. The frisk was held in Temple Court,
where black-and-white drawings depicting
the joys of motoring enlivened the walls.
Secretary Oscar Zehnder escorted his better
half, who wore honey-colored taffetas;
medico Tymms, the president of St. John
Ambulance Association, brought his wife
garbed in black ring velvet; Mrs. Joubert
wore amber, Mrs. I. Herman was in apple-
green, Connie Wardell-Johnson chose dawn-
pink laces, and Mrs. Brear black flowered
chiffons.
The littlest ones made merry at the Cale-
donian Society’s Children’s Ball in the
Town Hall. The swirl of bagpipes escorted
Lady Campion to the dais. Her Ex. had
gnld lace inserted into her black gown:
Kitty Weston, who accompanied her, was
in pink. Evelyn Hodgkinson’s “Mdlitaire,”
Elsie Haynes’s “Rainbows,” Doris Mel-
ville's diminutive “Butterflies” and Miss
Campbell’s small people, who pointed their
toes gracefully in the “Minuet” set, won
prizes. Dorothy Dyson’s "Local Industries”
collected the poster prize.
The ambitious Filippini Opera Co. is
producing grand opera for a 12 nights’
season at His Majesty’s. Count Filippini.
Antonio Molinari, Ugo Mina, and local
singers Lorna Sydney-Smith, Lylie Mooney.
Ethel Treadgold and Noelle Broomhall are
covering themselves with glory. Countess
Filippini, wearing black and diamonds, con-
ducts nightly.
Boys and girls who collect stamps may be
saving a nest-egg for their grandchildren.
One of the famous 4d. blues of the 185-1
Westralian issue, with the inverted swan,
recently fetched £550 in London.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Adelaide public, in spite of the frozen
legs that are the penalty of sitting in the
Town Hall, flocked to hear Kubelik. lie
played to crowded houses the whole season,
and the audiences rushed into the building
as if there were only a 100-to-l chance of
getting .seats. The fact that the violinist
is the father of twins gives him an extra
interest for mothers. The Mayoress is host-
essing an at-home in honor of Backhaus,
who follows on the heels of Kubelik.
It promises to be a crowded winter.
Friday, July 4, will see no less than six big
dances, including the Gunners’ Ball, at which
his Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven will be pre-
sent. Mount Osmond Country Club has
issued invitations for a dance and bridge
party in the mountain stronghold on Thurs-
day, July 10, and there is a brisk demand
for invitations. The F. Villeneuve Smiths
are giving a dance on July 8 for the debut of
their eldest daughter, Linley, in their lovely
old home, Springfield House. Meantime the
number of debutantes continues to mount
up for the Adelaide University Ball next
week until it promises to be a record.
That splendid band of war workers the
women of the Adelaide Cheer-up Society,
who farewelled every transport which left
South Australia and welcomed back every
returning Digger, is again busy. Every day
they are providing a free hot meal for over
200 single unemployed ex-soldiers. Dona-
tions are being received from many, but
the cost is heavy—over £35 per week—and
tin- balance which the society had put in its
stocking for a rainy day comes in handy
for relieving acute distress.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This is Harry Kelly, one of the Speck’s
most promising artists, who has some fine
work to his
crco i t. Ho
saw war ser-
vice with the
A.I.P. Two
of his pictures
were outstand-
ing features
of this year's
Art Society's
e x h i b i tion,
one of them,
the view of
Mt. Welling-
ton, pai n t-
cd for presen-
tation by the
Cadbury - Fry-
Pascal staff
to the N. P.
Booths, before
their trip to
Europe. The
picture here-
with is made
by Jos Eccles.
The O’Grady went to Campbell Town to
open the show, which was blessed by heavenly
weather and an attendance drawn from the
whole countryside. Dinner and bridge
parties, the Hunt Club’s meet and dancing
kept the week lively. Among Hobart visitors
were Major and Mrs. M. D. Williams, who
stayed with Dr. and Mrs. Webster; Sybi!
and Rupert Lyons, who were with the
Clarkes at Quorn, and Evelyn Butler, who
was the guest of Miss Leake, at the Grange.
The Midland Hunt Club’s Campbell Town
meet- centred on president Crosby Lyne’s
Iticcarton estate. Barbara Bennett, on Beau,
and Crosby Lyne, on Redleap, took the drag,
and the rest of the field had to do all they
knew to follow. The weather was gloriously
fine. Among those following were Mrs. Arthur
Bennett and Misses Dorothy Foster, K.
Mercer, M. Bennett and E. Foster.
The Launceston Players brought their
latest piece, “Outward Bound,” to the Theatre
Royal, in aid of the Child Welfare Associa-
tion, and a well-filled house applauded. After-
wards the committees of the Rep. Soc. and
the C.W.A. entertained the players at supper
at the Chaucer.
The Barclay twins, Lily and Grace, are
enjoying themselves in Scotland. When last
heard from they were playing in the Ladies'
Championship Golf matches at Turnberry.
Other Australian women players there were
Miss Macleod and Miss G. Hay.
The Old Wilkinsonians held their dance in
the Masonic Hall, Launceston. The decora*-
tious, in varying shades of green and pink,
were artistic, and the Wilkinson house banner,
hung over the entrance door, gave a
key to the color-scheme. Special guests of
the evening were the Head of Church
Grammar School and Mrs. Adams, the H.
Frasers, and Mr. and Mrs. Harry and Kate
Richardson. Chrysanthemums in pottery
bowls decorated the supper-tables.
Headmaster E. E. Unwin was all smiles
when the O’Grady unlocked the door of the
jusUerectod Art and Science wing at: the
Friends’ School. The new building includes a
studio, with windows running its full length:
well-equipped pottery rooms; three large
laboratories and a biology room with a green-
house for botanical experiments. The Barrow
Cadburys, on their visit to the Speck last
year, left a donation which helped to make
this dreaan come true.


f
Mid-
Winter
\
tv
M
SALE
Still
the
Suit Value
Supreme!
£5lO - Suits to measure
"lW-
A pleasing surprise for every purchaser!
And reasonably so, because of the excel-
lence of the fabric, fit and finish, and this
astounding pre-war price!
We’re asking you to send for the patterns we
know you won’t be disappointed, for you can
choose from All-Wool Worsteds in Grey, Brown,
Fawn, Blue, etc. Also fine Twill Guaranteed
Indigo Serges, and the quality is of high standard.
We have also £6/6/- Suiting, to, £4/19/6; £7/7/- Suiting, for
£5/16/6; £7/10/- Suitings for £6/15/-, etc.
ma I? ! FILL IN AND SEND THIS
1 citterns r red coupon—without DELAY!
Desk “R,”
Murdoch?*, Ltd.,
Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
DeC>r Kindly send me a complete range of Suit-to-M easureFree
Patterns, at Sale Prices, including the self-measurement outfit.
I am under no obligation, whatever.
Name
Address
SOME OTHER BARGAINS.
35/- English silk-lined Hats, -Snap Brim’* shape 24/9;
12/6 heavy Flannelette Pyjamas for Men, now 8/7; 8/11 Striped
Poplin de-Luxe Golf Shirts, now 4/6; 15/6 Mens Grey Cotton
Tweed Trousers, now 12/3, etc.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
If writing, kindly address your letter to Desk “R,” Box 3875TT,
G;P.O., Sydney.
S^Tcforgesiscdmjey
THE STORE THAT SERVES AUSTRALIA."
putting murder into his heart? Was it
something that had occurred to him for
the first time? Or was he merely humili-
ated by the thought that the other men
held it, too—the Wiegerts, Tom, even old
Kunkel? That look he had noticed in their
eyes lately when lie came near —wasn t it
a look of patronising sympathy? The sort,
of look they might give to the old whale
if it was driven on the rocks!
He was aroused by a low sound of sob-
bing, and flashed his eyes behind him. In
the bottom of the boat lay Peter, his
head in his arms, his little legs spread out,
his whole body shaking convulsively. Hew
was beside him in a moment, picking
him up. ~ , 9
“Peter! Wliat’s gone wrong, old boy.
Not sick, arc you?” .
It came out brokenly, incoherently)
through bursts of sobbing. 'I he oar! He
had lost the oar!
“Lost it? How?” . .
Peter couldn’t explain. Sitting m the
stern, staring at the lapping water, he had
been wondering what he would do it one
of the killers came up quite near while his
father’s back was turned. Took the boat
for a whale and came up to attack. lie
had seen the great silvery shape rising
from the water, the dripping snout, the
saucer-like eyes, and edging the oar along
the seat quietly he stabbed at it. Stabbed
and stabbed with all his might! But a
sudden awe had spread through him when
his small lingers had lost grip of the oar
and it. had slid into the sea. He tried to
cry out, but his voice broke like a bubble
in his throat. . .
Lew was stripping off his shoes and Ins
shirt.
“Never mind! I think I can see it
out there about a hundred yards. You stay
here quietly, Peter, and I’ll have it back
in no time.”
But the boy was hysterical and clung to
his trousers. ,
“No, no, the sharks’ll get you. Don t
leave me, Dad!.... Don’t, don’t!
Lew hesitated. Impossible to leave him
when he was in this state!
“All right,” he said. “We’ll up-anchor
and go after it. Come on, Peter! Pul!
yourself together, old boy. Why, man
alive, this is nothing. What about old
Corny who got capsized out here and had
to paddle home with the boat end up and
no oar at all? Couldn’t right the boat
because there was a swell on, and had to
strip off his very trousers! He got in to
the beach all right, though, and so 11 we.
He was pulling the anchor up, hand
over hand, jollying the boy, making light
of the matter; but nevertheless there was
a sick feeling inside him. A little wind
had got up, crinkling the surface of the
sea; the boat shipped water when it
broached round. ’ Why the devil hadn t he
brought a spare oar with him, Lew was
asking himself? He should have taken no
risks when he was coming out with Peter.
“Now you watch me use- the old dinghy
for a canoe,” he said, kneeling in the bows.
“A poke one side and then the other.
Little by little—that’s the way the sand-
crab got home along the ninety-mile beach.
...Keep your eyes open for the oar,
Peter.”
Peter was standing with his hand on his
father’s shoulder, staring open-mouthed
over the lumpy water; but it was the
splashing far out that held him the flashes
of silver, the bursting bubbles of foam. Ihe
whale and his enemies seemed to be mov-
in'* nearer in: you could sometimes see
the black, shiny back heaving up now!
His knees trembled and his throat grew
dry. What if the boat drifted among them
and was smashed to pieces! He felt him-
self in the chilling water among great
shapes that slashed and tore.
Clouds the hue of purple grapes on the
horizon, the drench of cold spray coming
over a bleak wind blowing in little gusts
from the south! Lew was desperate at
finding what he had taken to be the oar
turn to a strip of floating weed.
“No matter!” he said. “We’ll leave it
and make home. Plenty more oars where
that one came from! No use trying to
o-o in over the bar, though; don’t want a
swim, do you, Peter? We’ll beat in toward
the rocks and find the place old Corny
used to go out from when he was after
to s j. ng something cheerful
about a swagman camped at a billabong,
making Peter join in the chorus, but it
was no joke trying to drive the lumpish
dinghy through the water with a single
oar. It tended to swing broadside on every
time a wave lifted it, and the sea was
becoming choppy and broken. If only
Lamont, who had gone out in his launch
that morning, would come back and give
him a tow! But there was no sign of
Lamont on the wide horizon, and Lew
knew he would, have to get in by his own
unaided strength, or give up and drift
wherever the sea took them.
Peter was clutching at the shoulder of
his shirt, dragging at him when the boat
rolled, and the sense of contact gave more
power to his arms, more tenacity to his
spirit. He kept up a running fire of talk,
trying to banish the image of the whale
and the killers from Peter’s mind. Couldn’t
lie notice how the beach was coming closer
now? You could see the hole where the
last storm had stripped a piece of iron from
the old bathing-shed. And there was Andy
Williams, standing on the platform of the
lighthouse using his long telescope! By-
and-bye you would be able to pick out the
little cove among the rocks where old
Corny used to launch his boat—there were
two big rocks that stood out like the en-
trance of a harbor.... And that man in
sea-boots, fishing from the p'oint—wasn t
it Jimmy Haig’s uncle, down again tor a
holiday? .
“No.” said Peter, suddenly articulate.
“It’s tire man that waits for Mummy when
we go out to the headland.”
Lew missed the water with his stab, so
that the dinghy swung round dangerously
in the froth of the first line of breakers.
But they were well within swimming-
distance now, and even Peter had no fears
left. He stood gazing full-hearted at the
sun-bright shore, the pandanus-palms out-
lined against the blue, the rainbow-birds
wheeling in flashes of living color above
the bathing-shed. What a good place the
land was! How safe and secure, it seemed,
after the horrors out there!
CHAPTER XXVI.
Revelation.
Lew had to go back to the rocks when
the evening meal was finished to bring
home the boat. A long wait in the dark
•for the tide to turn and then a stiff pull
along the fringe of outer breakers to the
bar! It was near midnight when he reached
the smooth water of the Passage, and
sleep-heavy and fatigued, he was tying the
boat to the jetty when Lena appeared on
the breakwater with a lantern, her hair
dishevelled and her flimsy wrapper un-
fastened at the throat. In the yellow light
her face looked ghostly and macabre,
blurred shadows filling the eye-sockets and
the hollows of the cheeks.
“Where in God’s name have you been,
Lew?” she burst out. “I’ve been calling
you everywhere. There’s something wrong
with Peter. He’s had one of those attacks
he used to have when he was about three.”
Lew sprang from the boat to the jetty
at a bound.
“Eh?”
“He’s shivering and grinding his teeth,”
Lena told him. “And I couldn’t leave .him
to run across for Mrs. Haig. You didn’t
say you were going off.”
She was nearly beside herself with fright
and uncertainty. Lew ran ahead of her up
the path, feeling a stitch in his side that
did not come from the heavy pull across
the bar. He saw that a strong fire was
roaring in the kitchen stove and two boilers
were beginning to steam; Lena had lost
no time in doing the obvious thing. Light-
ing a candle he bent over the cot on the
verandah where Peter was tossing, mutter-
ing incoherent things and occasionally being
shaken by convulsive spasms. The skin of
the white forehead was dry as parchment.
“He was all right when he went to bed,
or I’d have kept Milly here,” Lena said,
coming up with the lantern. “It was only
when I was going to bed myself that I
noticed what he was like. You’d better
see if there’s a doctor at the Lavinia
hotel. Lew. There’s mostly one there.”
“All right. Get him into a bath right
away. Hot as he can bear it. I’ll root
Mrs. Haig out and send her over. She’s
as good as any quack.”
He hurried out into the night, blundering
into stump holes and tripping over ruts as
he ran across the green to Wiegert’s. This
was nothing to lose his head about, he
was telling himself; it had all happened
before. And next morning Peter would be
sitting up in bed, the alarms of the night
as completely forgotten as if they had never
been, his fingers busy at whittling a new
mast for his boat! But he himself wouldn’t
get over it so quickly. Every crisis left
its mark on him, hidden but ineffaceable.
The more a man loved any human being,
the more open he was to hurt. He couldn’t
imagine how he would live out his life
without Peter.
(To be continued next iceek.)
Ancient Ranges.
Where of old long-vanished ranges
Stretched their grim and lonely line,
Where the season’s ceaseless changes
Come and go with shower and shine,
Under mallee, mulga, saltbush
Lie the rocks of ages gone.
Born of old when pristine waters
In the world’s strange morning shone.
Night and day the wind that passes,
Busy vagrant, to and fro,
Tells the list’ning, leaning grasses
Legends of the long ago—
Tells the mulga, mallee, saltbush.
Wise in Mother Nature’s lore,
Tales of sail-less, keel-less waters,
Breaking on a vanished shore.
While the moon in silence paces,
While the noon in splendor reigns,
Barren bluffs and gaunt cliff-faces
Stare across the spacious plains—
Stare as though the vanished ocean
Still in glory shone afar;
Like blind men that seem to vision
Glow of sun and gleam of star.
Still, when skies above them darken
And a loud wind, rising, raves,
Maybe through night hours they hearken
Roaring reefs and warring waves:
Maybe memories haunt them ever,
Ancient visions, vague and vast.
As they front the passing Present,
Conscious only of the Past.
Yet, though cliff and bluff remember,
Life and love take little heed:
’Neath the soft rains of September
Blows the bloom and stirs the seed;.
Spring immortal, youthful, joyous,
Counts grey ages blit as hours,
Mantling all the ancient ridges
With her golden desert flowers.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


New Ideas in
SAN D O W
ATHLETIC
EQUIPMENT
at
Mick Simmons
j/ )i
SANDOW’S
DEVELOPERS
Popular Combination Model, set, 19/6
Improved Combination Model, set, 30/*
PATENT CHEST
EXPANDERS
One Strand, coiled springs .... 5/6
Two Strand, coiled springs .... 8/6
Three Strand, coiled springs . . . . 10/6
Four Strands, coiled springs . . . . 14/6
SANDOW’S
NEW MODEL
DUMB-BELLS
Self-adjusting and Grip-testing. Adjusts
to your strength, registers your grip
pressure; bell rings when closed
and released. Pair . . 21/-
Unquestionably the most original and best
thing in Athletic Apparatus introduced in
recent years!
&
“RUB-A-CUP”
Wall Punching Ball
P LATFORM
Easily and simply adjusted anywhere in
the home, and taken down and put away
in a few moments when not in use. Its
action is perfect, and meets every need
of the professional. Equal in every way
to the expensive platform at a fraction
of the cost. Reversible for "uppercutting”
and "hooking.”
Price (no ball) .
Teach that
Boy of Yours
How to Defend
H imself .
30/-
,4
0
A knowledge of the
noble art begets
confidence . . . in-
f use s a manly
courage in the boy
... the youth . . .
the man.
BOYS’
BOXING
GLOVES
Napa Leather, set 9/»
Leather, laced palms, set, 11/—, 12/0
Laced palms, padded wrists . . 13/0
Special Youths’ size, laced palms,
set 13/0
(Carriage paid on Boxing Gloves, but not
on other Athletic Equipment.)
All Letters to Box ISB. P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
Mick Simmons
HEADQUARTERS:
72 0 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home
Entertainment.”
ALFRED J. BRITON.
You’re Next!
Now Watch YOUR
Muscles Grow!
You must have things quickly
these days—one cannot wait
months and years for anything.
Time flies—every day is bring-
ing you nearer to the condition
you want to avoid. Read those
letters from men who had given
up hope. Read how they have
changed from puny weaklings to
red-blooded, muscular he-men!
YOU WANT RESULTS! And
you’ll get them. I’ve taken men
of every size, age and condition
—some of them so run down and
wasted that you’d think a stiff
breeze would carry them away—
and I’ve transformed them into
perfect specimens of manhood!
I’ve been doing it for years. I’ve
earned my reputation as the
father of physical culture by mail
—on Results. I’ve made a science
of building men. People don’t
call me the “man-maker” for
nothing.
I’ll Increase Your Chest
and Muscles by Inches!
I’ll so alter you that people will hardly know
you. Give me just a few moments in the
privacy of your room each day, and I’ll
make you as strong as a bull. You’ll have
layer on layer of muscle on your body; they’ll
stand out like iron bands, and they’ll be
panther muscles as live as spring steel
with the speed and power of a battering ram
—you 11 laugh at men twice your size.
GET THIS BOOK—NOW!
It is full of startling information and amazing
pictures. For a while you may get this book
FREE. The book that has given new life and
NEW bodies to thousands of men get this
coupon away in the post to-night—AT ONCE.
More Amazing Proof!
“In a fortnight I have gained slb. in weight.”
—J. Mogridge, South K., Queensland.
“I will recommend your wonderful system to any 1
can. I have more than got full value in every way.”
It. Bowen, K„ S.A.
“I think your system is wonderful, and I can heartily
recommend it to anyone.”—N. Wiggleworth, D., N.Z.
“I have developed wonderfully, far beyond my expec-
tations. I am more than satisfied with the results.”
—G. Ireland, M., Queensland.
“I am quite satisfied that your system is all you
claim it to be.” —G. Fraser, C., N.S.W.
“I have seen my body pass from a bony structure to
that of a well-muscled athlete. I have gained 7-Jin.
round the chest in 95 days.”—«T. M. Craig, G., N.Z.”
“I have increased my measurements all over my body.
I am perfectly satisfied with the system, and would
recommend it to anyone desirous of obtaining better
health and muscular development.”—E. Ruck, M.P., Yic.
“I have put on half a stone in weight already, the
color has come back to my cheeks, perhaps the greatest
improvement of all has taken place in my nerves,
which were in a wretched state prior to starting
the course.”—G.V.C., S.H., Victoria.
These letters and hundreds more may be
seen at my offices at any time.
RIP OUT AND SEND—NOW!
IT
IS
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely FREE and
without any obligation on my part, a copy of your
latest book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength—
and lIo\V to Acquire It.”
I enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. H., 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(Known throughout the Southern Hemisphere).
B 25/6/’3O.
Sydney Annual Stud
Sheep Fair, 1930.
Merino and British Breeds
COMMENCING MONDAY, JULY 7, 1930
The undermentioned Agents will offer the usual consignments of
HIGH-CLASS RAMS AND EWES.
On behalf of noted breeders of TASMANIA, NEW SOUTH
WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA and NEW
ZEALAND
The sheep will be sold at the wool stores as set out below
SPECIAL COMBINED SALE of high-
class Special Stud and Stud Merino Rams
on MONDAY, JULY 7, 1930, at:—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD. (Pyrmont Store),
at 9.30 a.m., on account of various Stud Breeders, to be
followed by—
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO., LTD., Pyrmont,
Monday, 7th July, at 2 p.m., and Tuesday, Bth July, at 9.30 a.m.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Pyrmont,
Tuesday, Bth July, at 10145 a.m.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Pyrmont,
Wednesday, 9th July, at 9.30 a.m.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Millers Point,
Wednesday, 9th July, at 12.5 p.m.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO., LTD., Pyrmont,
Thursday, 10th July, at 9.30 a.m.
FARMERS & GRAZIERS’ CO.-OP. G. 1., & AGENCY CO., LTD., Pyrmont,
Thursday, 10th July, at 11.30 a.m.
NOTE.
BRITISH BREEDS WILL BE SOLD ON TUESDAY, JULY 8
COMMENCING .AT 9.30 a.m., AT THE STORES OF
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Pyrmont, in the following order:—
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE C. 0., LTD.; GOLDSBROUGH
MORT & CO., LTD.; NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE
AGENCY CO., LTD.,- DALGETY & C. 0., LTD.; AUSTRALIAN MER-
CANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO., LTD.; and FARMERS & GRAZIERS’
CO.-OP. G. I. & AGENCY CO., LTD.
Information will be supplied on application to the respective agents.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 742 of 1930.
BETWEEN ADA MAY BROWN Petitioner
And CHARLES HENRY THOMAS BROWN
Respondent.
To CHARLES HENRY THOMAS BROWN late of
Brisbane in the State of Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Ada May Brown
has commenced a suit against you in this Honor-
able Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three years
without just cause or excuse and take notice that
you are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court on
or before the Twelfth day of September One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
Dated this seventeenth day of June, One thousand
nine hundred and thirty.
RALPH ERSKINE COLEMAN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Parramatta; by his agents, C. M. Marsh
and Harvey, Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
For tile Registrar,
[l.s.] I). C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.—IN THE SUPREME COURT
(In forma pau-peris).
No. 395 of 1930.
BETWEEN DORIS MAY CHAPMAN Plaintiff and
ARTHUR ASHDOWN IRVING CHAPMAN
Defendant.
To ARTHUR ASHDOWN IRVING CHAPMAN.
Notice is hereby given to Arthur Ashdown Irving
Chapman whose last known address was at Unlev
that a Writ has been issued in the Supreme Court
of South Australia in tin action in which his wife
Doris May Chapman claims an order for divorce on
the grounds of his desertion and in such action lii.s
wife intends to ask for an order for custody of
Valeska Chapman and for costs. If Arthur Ashdown
Irving Chapman desires to be heard in opposition,
to the claim for any of such orders he must file
an appearance in the office of the Master of the
Supreme Court of South Australia within thirty days
of the publication of this advertisement, otherwise
orders may be made against him in his absence.
CHARLES ARTHUR SANDERY, Victoria Build-
ings, Victoria Square, Adelaide, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To lIILTON GEORGE WIEGAND formerly of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales Seaman.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of this Court
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
Hilda Ada Wiegand for dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds of cruelty and desertion
TAKE NOTICE that unless within thirty days from
the publication hereof you cause an appearance to
ho entered in the said Court to answer the said
Petition the Court will proceed to hear the said
charges proved and pronounce judgment your absence
notwithstanding.
Dated this Fourth day of June, One thousand nine
hundred and thirty.
(Signed) C. S. SIMMONS,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
A. B. and C. CRISP GILL and HARVEY, 141
Collins-street, Hobart, Proctors for the Petitioner.
NOTICE OF INTENDED FIRST AND FINAL
DIVIDEND.
In the Court of Bankruptcy.
District of Central Queensland.
No. 3 of 1930.
Kc, JOSEPH BETROS of Rockhampton in the
State of Queensland Hawker lately residing at
Rockhampton and elsewhere and carrying on business
at and about Rockhampton and in the Dawson
Valley District Central Queensland formerly carry-
ing on business as a Hawker in New South Wales
and Victoria.
Last Day for receiving Proofs- —19th July, 1930.
AV. G. AVYATT, Acting Local Deputy Public
Curator, for and on behalf of the Official Receiver
and Trustee.
East Street, Rockhampton, 12th June, 1930.
CATHERINE GlLLlCK—Deceased.
B Y . direction of the Deputy Master of the Supreme
Court of South Australia made in the matter of
the estate of Catherine Gillick deceased (late of
Magi II in the said State Widow who died on the
third day of February 1929 and administration of
whose estate was granted to the public Trustee of
South Australia bv the Supreme Court on the 29th
day of April 1929) No. 240 of 1930 NOTICE IS
HEREBY GIVEN that the next of kin of the said
Catherine Gillick or their representatives and in
particular the descendants or representatives of
Michael Hill are to send by post prepaid to the
Public Trustee State Bank Building Pirie Street
Adelaide South Australia their full Christian and
Surnames addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims on or before the eighteenth
day of December 1930 otherwise they will be ex-
cluded from the distribution of the estate. The
maiden name of Catherine Gillick was Hill. It is
believed that she had a brother Michael Hill who
died at or near Port Augusta in the said State
about thirty years ago.
Dated this 13tli day of June, 1930.
PAVY, HARRY Is PAVY, 44 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, Solicitors for the Public Trustee.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND—
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
‘ No. 3688.
In--Divorce.
To DOUGLAS BURNSIDE the husband of Bertha
Leathart Burnside of the City of AVellington New
Zealand Married AVoman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Wellington citing you to appear and answer the
petition of Bertha Leathart Burnside of the City of
Wellington wherein she prays for a dissolution of
her marriage with you on the ground of desertion,
and such citation intimated that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition and to pronounce sentence therein not-
withstanding your absence. Now therefore TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within forty days after the date of this publication
to attend in person or by your solicitor at the
Supreme Court office at AVellington and there to
enter an appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings.
A copy of the said . citation and petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court office at Wellington.
Dated this 27th day of May, 1930.
(L.s.] C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
Archibald Burnett Sievwright is the soliictor for
the petitioner,, whose address for service is at the
office of the said Archibald Burnett Sievwright,
212 Lambton Quay, AVellington, New Zealand.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A S WE SAID BEFORE
Thi, Page will be devoted week by week to refroduction. of th.
gems In picture, story and verse P"bl.shed m an<)
century, so that pleasant memories may he r ..
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
At high-toned English weddings it is now
regarded as the correct thing to drop that old
improbable statement that the bride win
“obey” her husband, seeing that she lias
long* since given up all intention of obeying
THE MOTHER OF" NECESSITY.
Q.: “Now, boys, what is the Mother of Invention?
A.: “Necessity.”
Q.: “And what is the Mother of Necessity?”
A.: “Free-trade.”
, • mid tbp law ii as decided that she isn’t
S/uuon to do R .She confines herself,
to the naked assertion that she
will “love and honor” her fellow conspirator,
ilimurh even that looks a rather surprising
announcement and he adheres to the ancient
fable about endowing her with all his goods,
though he knows that he really wants to
annex her goods, only her father won t let
him. Still, these anomalies will doubtless
be removed some day, now that the retorm
has once started, and sooner or later the
agreement will be fixed on a plain hard basis.
Then the parties will simply state that tl y
intend to stick together barring unforeseen
accidents: that they will love and honor each
other so far as the circumstances allow,
that they won’t make any rash promises
about their goods; that they will cleave
together to a reasonable extent, and that
thev will be one as far as possible. loi
much metaphor and too little reUable fact
are the things that are wrong with the
marriage ceremony.
Tlox and Cox have come to life again,
and are swearing in the police court against
a lady whose front name is Eliza, and whose
hind name is sometimes Box and sometimes
Cox Eliza, it appears, married Box, who
was' employed on night duty somewhere,
leaving home at five in the evening and re
turning at 7 a.m., and she also became the
happy bride of Cox, whose hours of labor
we?? from 6 a.m. to 0 p.m. She thought
this was great fun at first but she soon
found herself wretchedly deceived. Sim
spent the night with Cox. but the instant
he went out in the morning she had to get
out of her comfortable bed and fly thiougl
the cold dismal streets to the residence of
Box, where she had half an hour to kindle
the fire and get breakfast ready. Then she
had her housework to do, and about noon
she had to tear away again, leaving Box
wrapped in slumber and do more housework
and get Cox’s dinner ready. V* hen that
horny-handed son of toil had returned to his
employment and she had washed up the
dishes, it was time for her to rush back
to the other domicile, where the chances were
that Box was prematurely awake and howl-
ing for his dinner, and wanting to know
“wot she ’ad been hout. for!’/ and the miser-
able slave had to pacify him and rake up
another meal. She had
already eaten dinner with
Cox. but she had to eat an-
other with Box to allay sus-
picion, and she had also to
take tea with Box and then
fly the moment his back was
turned to get tea ready for
Cox. By this time the
wretched female jokist had
run about seven miles and
was ready to drop, but she
had to bear up and have an-
other tea with Cox, and sit
with him during the evening,
and then at night she would
lie awake and draw fancy
pictures of Box returning
unexpectedly and finding
her not at home. On Sun-
day both husbands were at
home during the day, though
Box had to go out at night
as usual, and then the un-
happy woman had to spend
her whole time in tearing
backwards and forwards.
Twenty-five miles was the
average distance which she
accomplished on the Day of
Rest, and when she wasn’t
running she was explaining
to one husband that she had
been out at Sunday-school,
or to the other that she had
just returned from church,
and the evening generally
closed by her being soundly
walloped by each of the de-
ceived pair. Box used a
strap on these occasions,
and while she was still
weeping from this infliction,
Cox would lay on to her
with a long cane. Both of
them hit her in the same
place. At last, when she
had eaten about 350 more
meals than she wanted, and
had run, on a low estimate,
2700 miles, she gave up and told Cox all.
She explained that Box was her first love,
and Cox, being a conscientious man, replied
that, in that case. Box was the only indi-
vidual who had a right to thrash her. He
therefore, took her along with him ana
explained matters, and then I>ox whaled net
till she could hardly stand. This function
being completed, they jointly, severally an
individually called in a policeman and gave
her into custody, and each started to do
his own cooking for the future. As for
Eliza, she languishes in a dungeon, and it
is the first rest she has had for seven montlis.
Newly-married wife to Did
you say there was no bread for breakfast.
Domestic: “No, Alum, there isn t a bit
of bread in the house.'’
Newly-married wife : That s too ban. i
suppose you’d bcttet make some toas .
She was the relict of a squatter, an
illiterate, gentleman who "riz by his own
exertions, materially assisted by a perfect
knowledge of the art ,lof . dummying She
was large and red, and displayed a gieat
lack of aesthetic culture—ate hash with a
knife and laughed like a braying mule. Her
sweet unsophisticatedness, combined with
her lump of land and comprehensive bank
balance, won upon a Melbourne youth, who
was originally de-
signed to ornament
one of the profes-
sions, but fell short
in the reckoning. He,
asked her to be his.
She “was on,”
arrangements were
perfected, and the
gay young man
duly came in for
his property. Then
he proceeded to
trim his prize,
smooth her down
and touch her up,
preparatory to lead-
ing her into “sas-
siety.” He suc-
ceeded, after much
argument, in con-
vincing her that it
was inelegant and
unbecoming for a
lady to use swear-
words of more
than four syllables,
but could not get
liis pupil beyond
that. She per-
sisted in cutting
her h's and start-
ling her new asso-
ciates with obser-
vations which are
regarded as useful
in urging a team
of bullocks to
united and ener-
getic action but
are de trop in the
upper circles.
When her ma-in-
law, her sisters-in-
law and several
other lady friends
were in company
an article of fur-
niture was acci-
dentally over-
turned, and it
dropped its sharpest angle deftly on to the
fancy corn of the squatter s relict. Natu-
rally, “To wid th’ thing ’’ was the
first remark of the aggrieved lady; then
noting her hubby’s pained expression and
admonishing forefinger, she observed with
great humor: “What, Geordie! Was I
droppin’ me h’s agenV”
1 read recently (writes Sqppbo
that in the United States stuffed b**s alli-
gators with glass eyes are the at
present for trimming hats and bonnets. This
fashion is worth Australiamsing—consider-
ing that Queensland suffers under a*n abund-
ance of the wide-mouthed reptile and one
hat ornament is as good as amffhe * ffpl
our leaders of fashion decreed that a stuffed
alligator crawling up a red bow was the
proper style, the danger of bathing m Queens-
land rivers would soon be reduced
minimum, for by next season all that
would remain of the early beta noir would
be boxes of him pinned out on cardboard
going at a sacrifice at stocktaking sales.
The combustible nature of woman has
again found vent. Mrs. Andrews, a lady
in affluent circumstances and possessed o
many noble traits of character, was over-
hauling her husband’s desk when he was
out. and bv dint of holding Ins blottin* paa
before a mirror she read the words, My
dearest, ownest darling,” accompanied by
the address of a young lady whom s ]g t
know but whom she at once set down as
£££ a horrid thing. So she took her
umbrella and called at the house, and when
g. voun- lady came to the door she hit her
on her ?ed right ear and called her a cat, and
then she smote her violently on her Grecian
nose and prodded her several times, f urther,
“hf gave 'her one with her open hand upon
the other listener, and took away some of her
hair iTa clue. As the injured girl be hinged
to a family that had just moved into the
house that morning, she was naturally unable
Sfsrtf Wu*
guineas costs.
•‘T hone vou appreciate the fact, sir, that
in marrying my daughter !« « ■
s&, s ™n s± */
qualities from her fathei.
At a Hill Bfi <N.S.W.) ‘here J»
a powerful-looking servant S} 11 ’., • mont i l
HI- tS Si IS**
not’ know the alphabet 1 her oecugtion was
rlissine in the mines with In 1 tatnei.
hands are of enormous size, am J> i® s to
hrmvnv DOrSOII who WOlllCi J %
aeS consYderablo agility with a flatiron.
BRISBANE THEOLOGY.
Ethel: “Mammy!”
Mamma: “Yes, dear:"
Ethel: “I know where Hell is!"
Mamma: “Why, where, child?”
Ethel: “Up at Townsville, Mammy! I heard Daddy say so
to Mr. Smith.”
Until she arrived at Hill End she had nevm
seen any woman other than her mother.
She is of a peaceful disposition, which alone
prevents her tearing the house down and
cleaning out the town. On the we
consider that she is the. sort of girl.that
man ought to marry right off the first chance
he gets. A young lady who has made her
hands of vast proportions while digging with
the old man, and who has never talked with
any other woman except her inothei, must
be free from a good many of the small vices
which disfigure lovely woman in her civilised
state.
THE LESSON OF THE SPARROW.
Along my garden-path hops up and down
A saucy sparrow in a. suit of brown,
And turns upon me, as ho passes by,
A bright, quick-moving, supercilious eye.
For hours past I have sat here, wrestling
with
Dark problems, such as—“ls the \\ orld a
Myth?” , ,
“Giv’n fifty creeds, to find the one that s
right”—
And “What is Man’s place in the Infinite !
But little knows that careless bird about
The travailings of philosophic doubt,
The trouble of a choice ’twixt fifty creeds:
His thoughts are all on grubs, and worms,
and seeds. ~
The riddle of the painful earth to him
Is naught. He has no yearnings vague and
dim.
’Tis pitiful to see —a*nd yet absurd—
The ignorance of that wretched little bird.
And yet, no doubt, he’ll fly back to his nest
And to his mate remark in scornful jest :
“I saw a creature huge, but small of beak
(Which gave his visage an expression weak).
“He was not hunting insects in the weeds,
He was not seeking grubs, or worms or seeds,
But sat for hours, unmoving as a tree:
How he lives is a mystery to me.’
O sparrow, each of us a lesson needs!
I will go hunt for grubs, and worms, and
seeds , .
Henceforth', and leave Philosophy divine
To those whose verse brings eighteenpencc a
line.
Y. J. DALY.
A BUSH TRAGEDY.
Fast in the terrible grip of the waste of a
western plain, . ..
’Neath the shade of a drooping wilga—
overhead
Already th’ accursed crows were turning
out and wheeling again,
And our search through the tangled mass ot
the scrub had been in vam,
For we found him —dead!
Stretched on the ground with his face
upturned to the sky lie lay, .
One hand as in agony clenched across las
breast. , . . e
Who shall carry the tale to his wife, and
what shall he say?
How shall he easiest break the news ot thi.
terrible day—
Of the end of our quest?
Awful the stare of his sightless eyes and
the pose of his frame, ,
Loosely flung out as downwards in death
he had sunk....
Here came a deep-chested roar from our
leader. Long Jim was las nam
‘'Dead! well, may I be hanged, but he has
just played us a game. ?
Dead ! ! Why, the blessed man s DKUjNK .
YARRAN.


A dreadfully smart British gentleman has
invented a new way of making a* livelihood.
It is a very simple method, too, for it con-
sists entirely in going to church and forbid-
ding the banns of any unhappy pair who
may be about to perpetrate matrimony. He
merely rises and says in a hollow tone, “I
’bject,” and then lie goes outside and waits.
DAME -NELLIE MELBA.
[Thin portrait appeared over
the title “Mrs. Armstrong —
Madame Melba —the cele-
brated prima donna,” on
Sept. 15, I888.]
If there is
anything
wrong about
either party
a crushed
i n d i vidual
g e n e r ally
conies out
and gives him
all the money
he or she
may have on
hand at the
moment, and
implores him
to keep dark
about the
past; and
s o m c times
both parties
turn up, and
hand over
all their
loose change
and the i r
jewel lery,
and entreat
him sepa-
rately not to
blast their
c li a r acters
for ever-
more. Of
course if neither of them has done
anything particularly bad he doesn’t get
a cent, but still there is a decent livirtsf
in the business, and when he strikes a badly
terrified individual who is evidently a case
of bigamy he may collect as pinch as £lO
or £2O. Mostly, however, it is only an
aggravated charge of hugging another girl,
complicated by possible breach of promise,
and then the artist takes anything from ss.
up to £1 from the male offender, with the
possibility of another little sum from the
girl if she has been kissing the curate and
thinks her sin has found her out. So far
only one man has felt sufficiently strong in
his rectitude to make any serious row.
When poor Governor Loftus packed his
carpet-bag and quitted Australian shores he
left behind him a legacy of woe in the shape
of a kettle which was afterwards fated to
agonise a respectable solicitor. It was a
short, podgy, self-satisfied looking kettle made
of silver and covered with crests, and when
it was put up at auction in Sydney the
brokers bid “55.” Mr. Lyons, an attorney,
offered an extra sixpence, and amid the con-
sternation of the trade the source of his
after-misery was knocked down to him. One
staggered Melcliizedek even ventured to re-
monstrate with him on his recklessness in
thus swamping the market, and urged him to
reconsider that sixpence and repent and flee
from temptation as eloquently described in
Deuteronomy xix, and, frantically tearing
his hair, told him that he had a wife and
family to maintain, and if Mr. Lyons went
round buying kettles at this rate they would
die in the Benevolent Asylum, and his aged
second cousin would end his days on gruel.
The solicitor tottered two or three times, and
felt for his brains, but recovering a little,
he asked if all this impassioned row wasn't
a little too much for a single sixpence, and
then shaking off the broken-winded Mel-
chizedek he went home. Next morning, how-
ever, when he called for the kettle and
tendered ss. 6d., he was asked amid much
applause from the office boy for the other
£l7 4s. 6d., and then he discovered that he
had been buying silver at ss. 6d. an ounce,
and he rose and stated that the kettle might
be struck by the bat of fate and driven
SYLVIA GREY.
FRED LESLIE.
NELLIE BARREN.
LETTY LIND.
THE GAIETY GIRLS AND FRED LESLIE (August, 1888).
right into the celestial spheres before he
would have anything to do with it. At
latest advice he was paying the balance
claimed in accordance with a District Court
judgment, and it is understood that he in-
tends to abjure kettles entirely and depend
upon a galvanised bucket.
M.P.—Mag-pie.
Alexander Connor jumped out of the top-
Storey window of a Melbourne hash
emporium one day last week. The doctors
think he’s mad, but they don’t know what
extremes a poet will resort to to dodge a
six-foot landlady with a three-months’ bill.
It happened on a sheep station out west.
The squatter, a true specimen of our hardy
pioneers, had been suffering the “what we
do in England” of a newchum guest until
his patience was exhausted. Thinking to
give his friend a lesson as to “how we do
it in Australia,” he told one of his four sons
to catch and saddle a certain horse on the
run. _ Now this horse was reckoned a “terror”
to ride; iu fact, the son commissioned tq
catch him was about the only man on the
run who could boast, that the horse had
never thrown him. The moke was brought
round to the front of the house, where all
.were sitting, and after a little trouble the
son got seated iu the saddle. But only for
a moment, for what was his surprise and
his dad’s vexation of spirit, to feel himself
sent a regular flier! The Englishman gave
a hearty guffaw and started “Now, in Eng-
land”—— “Oh, d—n England !” burst out
the annoyed old man. “.list show us how
you would ride this brute in England.” And,
calling to the youth who had caught the
“terror,” he said, “Bill, bring the moke over
here. Mr. Brown is going to ride him.” A
covert grin spread over the man’s face; but
Mr. Brown, to his credit be it said, did
not show any fear at the task so hustled on
him. He simply buttoned his coat, walked
up to the horse and mounted —on the,wrong
side . Amid the helpless looks of the dumb-
founded spectators, the horse quietly and
even placidly walked off without a solitary
kick. As it afterwards transpired, the
animal had been trained to bo mounted on
that side, and Brown’s ignorance of eques-
trianism had saved his neck.
I [Sappho Smith] saw a charming hat
on a fair little four-year-old yesterday. It
was composed of drawn pale pink lisle, with
unmounted daisies put on in little groups, at
regular intervals, all round the brim, which
was caught up on the left side by a large
bunch of marguerites veiled in tulle. In
direct contrast, as regards taste, is a cos-
tume worn by a lady whom I see in the
street daily. Dress, bright green, trimmed
with dark green, blue felt liiat, with an
immense bunch of scarlet at the side. Panama
hats, turned up at the back, and adorned
with poppies and other bright flowers, still
[lBB9] hold their own, together with the
übiquitous gem and close-fitting shape.
A pathetic story has been left behind among
the ruins of the Melbourne Exhibition. In
the picture gallery one day a middle-aged
man was shedding tears in front of a homely
little landscape with a cottage and a potato-
field iu it, when a woman came along, and,
after casting a glance at the picture, gave
a start and commenced to weep violently.
He asked her the cause of her emotion, and
she pointed to the painted scene and said
that she was born there. He was born there,
too. He asked her name and ascertained
that it was Smith. Her father had been
named Smith also, and she had played in that
same potato-field in the happy days of her
childhood, when life was still a primrose-way
of innocent joyfulness and there was no
shadow on its horizon. His name was Smith,
too, and he had played in the same field. He
mentioned this fact, and she uttered a shrill
scream, and said lie was her long-lost
brother. He said he was, and she fell into
his arms. Then she burst into wild hysterics
and fled screaming. He followed, but she
was out of sight. Ilis watch and chain were
also out of sight, and her pal accidentally
hit him behind the ear while he was looking
round for her, thereby stopping his investi-
gations. They never met again. She wasn’t
bis sister, and her name was not Smith, and
she had never seen the place described in
the picture that she had been weeping over.
He had never seen it either; in fact, he had
been weeping over the wrong picture by
mistake. The watch was an old Geneva
with no works in it, and the chain was a
brass one. It xvas a sell all round.
“Pawn me word!” ejaculated the young
man in the “Lands.” “Do,” replied she,
sweetly, “you have pawned everything else.”
Doctors like a good story as well as any
other class of people, and one, tohl at the
expense of a very talkative specialist in
throat diseases, went the rounds at the late
Intercolonial Medical Congress. The special-
ist was boasting of the powers of the laryngo-
scope he had in a lady’s throat, telling her
that, with it he could see every vein and
muscle in her anatomy, as though her whole
body were illuminated. “Oh. Doctor,” she
said as soon as she was able to speak, and
checking the withdrawal of the instrument,
“do tell me if both my boots are laced.”
Editor, Bulletin, —I travel a good deal
oil the . N.S.W. Western line. Once at Syd-
ney I was alone in a carriage. Just before
starting a lady and gentleman entered, fol-
lowed by a shower of rice. I wanted to bolt
but time would not permit. Soon they
screened themselves behind an open umbrella
and an evening paper pinned to it and the
lining of the compartment. She sat on his
knee. At Penrith I changed carriages. Three
weeks later, as I was about to enter a train
at Katoomba, en route for the city, I heal'd
a woman’s voice from behind the sun blind,
thus: “If you’ll be good enough to say which
corner you do want, I’ll take the other.” It
was the same couple.—Yours X.
A “School of Repose” is doing good busi-
ness at New York. The proprietress main-
tains that the hardest thing for a society
girl to learn
is how to
lie around
gracefully on
a sofa, or to
loaf elegantly
in an easy-
cliair. . with-
out drawing
u n necessary
attention to
her feet or
sticking her
a r m s out.
She under -
takes to
teach the
awkw a r d
maiden how
to do these
things, and
after three
in o n t h s’
tuition it is
claimed that
a n intelli-
ge n t pupil
might fall
head-first in-
to a horse-
BLAND HOLT.
[This portrait of the still-
living actor - manager teas
printed on June 16, 1888.]
box and break both her legs, but still,
when some kind friends came to haul her
out, they would find her lying calm and
reposeful even amid her sufferings.
A story from the Far North. A party
of three—two old hands and a very green
and. soppy newchum —started out from a
station to round up stray cattle. The day
was hot enough to freckle the complexion
of. a stone, god, and the newchum was almost
fried in his saddle, but he peeled off most of
his raiment and leaked grease till sun-
down, when a halt was called, and the party
camped by a small but swift stream. Sud-
denly the newchum’s mates heard a yell and
a. splash, and, making for the river, they
discovered Johnny-Comc-Lately floundering
in mid-stream, spouting like a whale and
imploring to be assisted out of the wet. Ilis
mates were aware that he could not swim
a stroke, and conjectured that all was over
with him, but as he continued to float and
yell they followed him down, and at last, by
careful engineering, reached him with a
hooked stick and towed him ashore at a
bend, after he had been 15 minutes in the
water, floating all the time as buoyantly as
a cork. This was a mystery, but it was
explained when he landed —he had been so
dreadfully sunburnt that the blisters wouldn’t
let him sink!
If you want to bow to a lady nowadays
the orthodox thing is to remove the hat with
extreme velocity from the cranium, then
carry it quickly down till the back of the
hand strikes the hip, and the hat itself is
wobbling among the owner’s feet. While
taking off the tile the operator breaks off
suddenly at the waist, and the top half of
him bobs abruptly forward in a respectful
manner. This internal cataclysm is accom-
panied by a smile of recognition. The sud-
den jerk forward brings the patient into
concussion with liis hat, which is just re-
turning from its expedition, and if the thing
is done properly it hits him on the stomach.
Then he looks at it in a surprised manner
as if he didn’t expect to. sec it There. Next
he upends the hat. and.'glares reproachfully
at the inside of it as if he thought he might
find some kittens in it, and there being no
kittens he plants it firmly on his head again,
returns to the perpendicular, and goes away.
By this time the bewchus woman has got
round the corner into the next street.
A once well-known snake-man in Tas-
mania was a jovial spirit. He got regular
remittances from England, where he had
well-to-do relations. The arrival of each
remittance was followed by a prolonged
carouse, which terminated only when the
cash had melted. Rollicking about Launces-
ton in his loose blue jumper and slouched
hat. he was on one occasion “run in.” On
arrival at the watch-house the charge—
drunk and disorderly—having been duly
entered, the prisoner was ordered to bo
searched, in accordance with the regulations
in such case made and provided. The search
was vigorously entered upon—a knife, some
tobacco and matches were sprung from the
outside pockets of the jumper. Then the
enterprising searcher thrust his arm down
to the socket, inside the jumper. The shriek
that followed no pen can adequately describe.
The charmer had about half a dozen snakes
inside that jumper. The vigor with which
the search was abandoned, and the charmer
shunted out —snakes and all—gave the
quickest time on record.
A Sydney bank manager relates the fol-
lowing as his first experience, as a teller.
The bank had just opened when in walked
an elaborately-dressed young man who re-
quested change of a £5O note —forty in
“singles” and one “tenner.” They were given
him. Haying carefully counted them, he
handed back a £2O note, observing, with a
flush of honest pride suffusing his hand-
some countenance, that “there was a slight
error.” .He received a “tenner” in exchange
from the now flustered teller and left. ’Twas
afterwards discovered that the whole lot
were bad.
“The wages of gitx is breath.”
Bishop Stanton, it will be remembered,
helped a skipper to discharge coal during the
recent strike. The skipper, so it is averred,
cordially thanked his Lordship, and after
informing him that the job had been done
in a very workmanlike manner, remarked:
‘You are a noble man. You ought to be a
(adjective) archbishop. You ought to be a
(adjective) pope!” Which reminds us of a
certain burial at sea. The captain of the
ship was a great drunkard, and as he was
specially incapable on this occasion, the
task of conducting the burial ceremony fell
upon the mate. “I am the resurrection and
the life,” began the mate. Just then the
captain staggered on deck. “No, I’m blamed
if you are— Pm the resurrection and the
life aboard this ship!”
“I am ill,” advertises a lady. “Will any-
body take my handsome, quite new, dark
grey velvet bonnet from me? It cost 355.
I will sell it for 125., or I will .take two
quarts of cod-liver oil, a packet of mustard
plasters and one hundred quinine pills in
exchange.”
A WINE SONG.
Bearded brothers, fierce-eyed brothers, gather
round the board;
Let us feast and reap the harvest that
was grown
Seventy summers since, in vineyards where
the .sun
Kisses fiercer, kisses warmer, and the
winds are blown
Over scented field's of corn, reddening ’neath
the ruddy sun.
liipe and red the sparkling sun glistens o’er
the fields of gold;
Hot the ruddy sun droops downward, heavy,
warm
On the dead limbs of the dead trees, white-
trunked, worn,
By the bitter, bleak and stormy winds of
winter tossed and torn.
Bed the ruby wine is sparkling; brothers,
let us quaff
To the memory that is rushing, to the
memory that is gushing,
With the rushing and the gushing of the
ruddy wine.
Flushing with the roselight, with the face
and forehead flushing.
liaise your cups to him who with us,
When the earth was golden and the noon-
tide sky was blue,
Drank and sang and warmed and gladdened,
In the days that maddened, in the days
that gladdened, in the days that flew.
Oh, the sad days! Oh, the mad days, bitter
with the unshed tear,
Flaming with the flash of wrath, and
fading sad and sere!
Madder days we know not, merrier days
we trow not.
Flew on pleasure’s pinions in the passing
of a year.
The bitter, bitter days, the ashen-tinted days,
When the redness of our passion gloomed
and greyed,
When the ruddy wine no longer flow in
foamy froth asunder,
And the redness of the rosy cheek began
to fade.
Wine and women, song and warfare, mad-
ness that is cherished
By. the high gods throned above us; by
the king of gods, the mighty
Jove, who hurls the thunder with his hurt-
ling blast.
Fear ye, brother? Dread ye that he smite
ye?
Tremble at his Furies? See them fast
advancing—
Locks of knotted snakes and stony eyes
that fright—
Shall we dread the darkness? We who
walked unfearing,
We who meet undreading all the ills of
light?
Ho, the rubies sparkling! Ho, the rose-
light flashing!
Harvest of the vine—the clustering vine
that grew
Reddening ’neatli the ruddy sun and ripen-
ing under skies of blue,
Flushing red and flushing redder under
summer skies of blue!
WANDERER.
THE JADE I LOVE.
I love a jade with pencilled eye,
Who acts at the the-a-ter,
The gold that she is making fly
I wheedle from my mater;
You would be shocked if you could twig
Her perched upon my knee;
I’m twenty, but I’m none too big—
She’s stout and forty-three.
I’m twenty, but I’m none too big—
She’s stout and forty-three.
She thinks me very young, I feel—
She treats me like lier poodle,
And when to kiss her hand I kneel
She merely murmurs “Noodle !”
I’ve bought the smartest horse and gig
Her faked-up eye could see;
I’m twenty, but I’m none too big—
She’s stout and forty-three.
I fear she is inconstant, too —
That she has more admirers;
She tells me tales that are l not true,
For girls are such Sapphiras.
She doesn’t seem to care a fig
When I bring out a D.;
I’m twenty, but I’m none too big—-
She’s stout and forty-three.
- And when my back is bent with age,
And I no more can tarry
To pick up charmers from the stage
(Ere then, of course, I’ll marry),
My whisky I shall calmly swig—
That jade won’t worry me;
I’ll buy her, though, a golden wig
The day she’s eighty-three-
Yes. Maud shall have a golden wig
The day she’s eighty-three.
EDMUND FISHER.


Dr. De JONGH'S
LIGHT BROWN
COD LIVER OIL
is prepared from a blending of the purest
Norwegian Oils, by a process which does not
destroy the vitamins. It is the purest, most
palatable, most easily digested and most
speedily efficacious and has, for upwards
of 80 years, been highly recommended by the
leading medical authorities in the treatment of
Consumption, Diseases of the Throat,
and Chest, Chronic Coughs
and Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma and
en'W
HOfINOTO^MNIJA^
music
DNiJfrn
nvl
f1 r.^" 1 " ,1,1 m" , ‘"!^,.-. l|(
|l||l , * ll# V«VllM» MIIM
* „# •»»•»••»« n *»n
Liver Oil can be ob-
tained from high-class
Chemists and Stores.
Sole Proprietors:
ANSAR, HARFORD & CO., LTD.
18* GRAY’S INN ROAD, LONDON, W.C. 1
Beware of attempts to substitute Fraudulent Imitations
M 47
Gverg Conceivable Qualitq in
Men’s High Grade Knit-Wear,
The men who instinctively choose
“Rameno” Brand “Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters look forward to months and
years of comfortable, serviceable wear. The
knitting is flawless; the designs smart and
exclusive; the colours tasteful and appropri-
ate. These, then, are the reasons why
“Merino-Knit” is an ever-growing vogue
amongst men who like to feel that in every
; respect their Sports Wear is absolutely
dependable 1
RAMENO
Zwm/m-KAr/T"
CARDIGANS
SOCKS and QOK.F STOCKINGS
QjriAii
. wno-Knit
iAlwaiisFif
Rameno "MERINO-KNIT" garments are knitted from the
finest Australian Merino Wools by the MERINO WOOLLEN
MILLS PTY. Ltd., the Specialist Manufacturing House
for Men’s Super-Quality Knit-Wear.
SrOC/f£D BY AU I£ADMG M£/?C£/?S
w
m
Sr
il
*
CIGARS
Tender and carefully cured, the
mellow leaf used in Club Reil
Cigars possesses the mild mellow
flavor best suited to Australian
taste. Obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists, or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
10 Cigars 5/6
(Postal 0/-)
25 „ 12/-
(Posted 12/0)
50 „ 23/-
(Posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/-
(Posted 40/-)
CRAIG AND
AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
FPL 9
i
6
Blue Blood.
HAROLD MERGER
REPORTS SOME MORE OF THE OBSERVATIONS OF
MRS. PARSLEY.
I WOULDN’T ’ave such people in my
’ouse fer all the tea in China, not if
the land was flowing in ink and
oney,” my landlady declared.
She had been showing her best rooms to
a man and his over-dressed wife, and I had
heard the wife remark, “It’s not quaite what
we have been accustomed to.”
“Blue blood is thicker than water, of
course,” proceeded Mrs. Parsley, “but I’m
satisfied as long as I keep my ’ouse respect-
acle. I’m not one to go in fer ’aving dukes
and lords about my place, for I’ve always
’eld that true ’arts ’s more than cornets
and simple things amuse small minds. Not
good enough fer ’er! she says—not the sort
of place she’s been used to! ‘Perhaps you’ve
not been used to a respectacle ’ouse w T here all
the married couples are married couples,’ I
says sharp. As Mr. Cummings, ’oo was
something on the stage and knoo his Bible
off by ’art used to say, that must’ ave touched
’er on the craw, fer she started as if she’d
bin shot. An’ I think myself she was shot —
’alf-shot, anyway.”
Having relieved herself of this surge of
wrath, Mrs. Parsley became her amiable self
again.
“I don’t ’old much with lords and earls,”
she said, “except in books. But, as the sayin’
is, ‘You can’t judge a novercoat by the sausage
that wears it,’ an’ I daresay I’ve ’ad people
in my ’ouse as well connected as ever that
woman was ’oo came this mornin’. There
was old Mrs. Calthorp de Roebuck, ’oo useter
occupy 30A, for instance.”
“That little top-floor room?” I asked sur-
prisedly.
“Full many a gem of sparkling rays, siree,
is made up in little packets,” retorted Mrs.
Parsley. “She was very poor, but it wasn’t
until she’d been with me some time I found
out she ’ad the old-age pension; an’ all be-
side that was a little money a grandson
useter give ’er.
“Almost proud of being poor, she was;
and of her fambly connections, too —I ’card
about them almost the moment I spoke
to ’er.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley?’ she asks, when she ’ears
my name. ‘I wonder if your husband is con-
nected with the Parsleys of Pashingham?’
t “ ‘My ’usband,’ I said, not quite gettin’
’er meauin’, ‘is a very respectacle man in
spite of a slight failin’ fer drink. ’E’s bin
connected with the wharves for twenty-seven
years.’
“ ‘The Parsleys of Pashingham were a very
old family,’ she says. ‘Evelyn Parsley mar-
ried my mother’s cousin, whose sister was
married to the younger brother of the Earl
of Broketon; so, in a way, I am connected
with the family.’
“ ‘Beware of the Greeks when they bring
you fish,’ is a Bible proverb I’ve always
thought very true; and I become suspicious
when people try to make out they’re related.
So I thought I’d make it quite plain.
“ ‘I don’t think my ’usband ’ad anythin’
to do with them Parsleys,’ I says. ‘As a
matter of fact, although we didn’t shout it
from the ’ousetops like the foolish virgins,
Mr. Parsley was a fondling, which is where
’e got some of ’is bad ’abits, I always say.
such as knockin’ ’is pipe out on the floor.’
“ ‘My resources may be limited, but I’m
well connected, and I’ve a lot of influential
friends,’ she says when I shows her the
room and tells her the rent. I can’t see
’ow ’er influential friends is goin’ to do me
much good; but, partly because she says
that, and looking like a permanent, and 30A
being small and ’ard to let, I cut a coupler
bob a week off the rent.
“ ‘The little old lady,’ as they called ’er,
soon became popular in the ’ouse. In spite
of being sharptongued at times, an’ in spite
of ’er ’abit of keepin’ people in their places
as she called it, she was a naffagle old soul
’oo was willin’ to talk to everyone about ’er
connections, especially ’er grandson ’oo was
somethin’ in the city.
“She was liked chiefly because she kep’
so cheerful. You could pickcher ’er when
she was young dancing among the beauty
and the chivalry with earls and whatnots
all round ’er; an’ here she was in ’er old age
in 30A, and naffagle to all, if a bit con-
descendin’.
“It was pleasant to talk to ’er; an’ people
was eager to ask ’er to ’ave a cup o’ tea
or put pennies in the gas when she ran short.
‘I can’t see my bankers until Wednesday,’
she would say. Wednesday was pension day.
But we didn’t let on we knoo that. A silent
tongue is more precious than rubies on a
swine’s snout, as I always say.
“ ‘lt’s the way of the world, Mrs. Parsley,’
she would say—‘nobody likes the poor rela-
tion’—exceptin’ the grandson ’oo was Some-
thin’ in the City. Young ’Erbert Storie, he
was; a gentlemanly, kind young chap, cornin’
out to see ’is grandma so reg’lar an’ always
so affectionate an’ jolly with ’er. It must
’ave been ’ard on ’im, givin’ ’er whatever
money ’e did, for it came out that ’is Some-
thing in the City was being a clerk in a
prodooce store.
“’E ’asn’t been cornin’ long before ’e
notices Miss Baird, a pretty girl ’oose father
was in the police but ’ad married again.
She begins to smile at ’im on the stairs, a
blusliin’ violet if ever there was one, and
after a while she used to go for a walk
with ’im after ’e’d said good-bye to ’is grand-
ma. Both scared of the old lady findin’ out
they were, as if their bein’ in love was one
of them crimes that blush unseen. An’ in
love they were, as you could tell.
“The little old lady, ’oo ’as sharp eyes,
notices of course, an’ might ’ave noticed
earlier only that a man named Slimkins
came to the ’ouse an’ useter take up a lot
of ’er time.
“ ‘lt’s not a subject I talk about much,’
’c said, ‘but I always like to meet a lady
of good family. There’s somethin’ in blue
blood, whatever you like to say. My own
people—my Australian ancestors —was the
Captain Slimkins who came out in the early
days.’
“ ‘Yes, she’s a very nice girl,’ I ’ears the
little old lady sayin’ one day. ‘An’ you
know, ’Erbert, there’s nothin’ I want more
than your ’appiness, my dear. But think of
’er family—only a policeman’s daughter,
’Erbert!’
“ ‘Nonsense,’ ’e began.
“ ‘Oh, ’Erbert!’ she cries. ‘ ’Owever poor
we may be we can still remember our family.
But there, if you still feel you cannot be
’appy without ’er, don’t worry about the
money you allow me—l daresay I can secure
some employment in giving tuition to people
with neglected education.’
“‘Don't be so silly, Gran!’ he cried.
“ ‘lf you were married,’ she says, dignified
like, ‘I might refuse to take it. You would
owe your duty elsewhere.’
“She was a denominating old body when
she wanted to be. and she knew that that
is where she ’ad ’Erbert. She ’ad poor little
Doris the same way, too, before long.
“An’ soon the ’ole ’ouse was sayin’ that
if ’Erbert an’ Doris married they would
be very selfish. ‘They are both young; surely
they can wait,’ says Miss Furley, ’oo, being
forty-five if a day, ’ad done a lot of waitin’
’erself, an’ ’ad no idea that ’ope deferred
is the thief of time.
“Money’s a curse when you ’aven’t got it;
an’ ’ere it was croppin’ up again.
“ ’Owever, it’s an ill wind that blows away
the silver lining. Young Slimkins brings in
a friend one day an’ introdooces ’im to the
old lady. This friend—a Mr. Brewer *e
was—sat on the edge of a chair twistin’ ’is
’at round an’ gaping like a trusted fowl while
she talks of Lord This an’ the Earl of
That.
“Suddenly Brewer stands up an’ speaks.
“ ‘lt’s this way,’ he began. ‘The wife an’
me ’ave come in fer a bit of money. The
idea of the missus is that we oughter get
into society. What about givin’ us an’
intro’ to the Guv’nor? We’d pay all right.’
“ ‘Well, really,’ she says, ‘you see my re-
sources are now very limited, an’ I’ve got
rather out of touch with society.’
“ ‘Oh, that’s all right; people’ll only be
too glad to ’ear from you again,’ puts in
Slimkins. Then he turns to Brewer. ‘You
leave it to us,’ ’e says.
“A few days later I gets a shock. There’s
a frightened call, and I find the old lady
talkin’ to a man who says he’s a police
officer. The little old lady is tryin’ to ’old
’er ’ead ’igh, but she’s all of a tremble.
“ ‘You can say, Mrs. Parsley, that I ’ad
nothin’ to do with it!’ she cries. ‘This gen-
tleman says that Mr. Slimkins got £3OO from
Mr. Brewer fraudulently pretending he was
going to introduce ’im into society, and I’m
an implication.’
“ ‘Your name’s mentioned; an’ inquiries
have been made. The wealthy relations you
spoke about to Mr. Brewer, it appears, own
an ’am an’ beef shop at Newtown. An’ your
husband was a Government House mes-
senger.’ " r
“‘I married my husband for love,’ says
the little old lady. ‘My own family is a
very old one.’
“ ‘I ain’t concerned with that, mum,’ says
’e. ‘The facts is that, on your own state-
ments, it looks as if you been workin’ in with
this ’ere Slimkins. No one wants to involve
an old lady like you in trouble. But what
I want to say is that my name’s Baird.’
“‘Not Doris’s father!’ cried the little old
lady.
“ ‘That’s me,’ ’e says, sort of grim. ‘I love
my daughter, Mrs. de Roebuck, although
she don’t 'it it with my new missus; an’ I
like that grandson of yours. I’m prepared
to ’elp ’em to be ’appy. I can give ’em a
’ouse; an’ they want you to go an’ live
with ’em. But I understand there’s some
objection about ’Erbert’s family.’
“ ‘But, Mr. Baird,’ says the little old lady,
‘you’re not just a policeman! You’re an
official of the Police Department and a
property owner !’
“ ‘Put it that way if it pleases you, mum,’
’e smiles.
“ ‘Mr. Baird,’ she says, crying, ‘you don’t
know ’ow ’appy you’ve made me!’ She
stops. ‘But tell me, Mr. Baird,’ she says
suddenly, ‘there was a branch of the Bairds
of Bramleith that came out and settled in
the New England district eighty years ago.
Are you’
“’E didn’t wait. Merely shook ’ands ’ard
an said the young people were waitin’ below
an’ ’e d send them up. An’ they did come
up; an’ you’d think the little old lady ’ad
been beggin’ ’em to get married instead of
keepin’ ’em back, the way she went on.
“Not long after I ’eard the little old
lady was dead,” said my landlady with tears
m her voice and eyes; “but I don’t really
need to cry about ’er, because ’er last years
was all ’appy, an’ she was particularly proud
of the baby that was named Calthorp de
Roebuck Storie. I went out to take some
flowers for ’er grave one day, that being
one of the few pleasures I give myself; an’
there was ’Erbert there, with ’is wife an’
their little ones, all very well dressed, but
mi still the thoughtful, dutiful grandson
as of old.
“ ‘l’m running a bottle-yard now,’ ’e told
me. ‘lt's a good business. I only went in
fer clerkin’ because Gran thought it more
genteel. Did you see the tombstone we’ve
given ’er?’
i "I ’ad-. An’ I felt sure it would make the
old. lady s soul rejoice like the village black-
smith. It ran
“ ‘Sacred to the Memory
of
Mary Calthorp de Roebuck,
Aged 76.
A Connection of the Fifth Earl of
Broketon.’ ”


1 H
g g g, Ssss
REG O . TRADE MARK-
«STOCIM*
gg i ig;
<s gg s
& fess §g? .It
All ‘ THERMOS’ flasks and jugs are now exclusively-
lined with ‘ Stronglas ’ the strongest vacuum
lining ever made ! Years of rough handling will
not impair its efficiency. This is the flask you
want —Stronglas-lined and British. It will save
money by its longer, better life. ‘ THERMOS ’
jugs and food jars also are indispensable in
the home. Be sure that the ‘THERMOS’
trademark is on every flask or jug you buy.
THE ONLY BRITISH FLASK
ft
#) T. 3.
ď
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent.
Caulfield, S.iS.B, Victoria.
EOTHEN”
eat*:
II
{PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St’
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
garage
Inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
Mr*. PARKER
StoMg®RST
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Speeial” rooms (h. and e. water), 10/- or 98/-
Missing Friends.
ESTATE OF LATE JANE WHITEHAND.
VV7ILL BENJAMIN WTIITEHAND,
” formerly of Learmontli, Victoria, or
anyone who knows his address, please com-
municate with CUTHBERT, MORROW
AND CO., Solicitors, Ballarat.
Re EDWIN CLARKE — Deceased.
\Y7ILL any person knowing the. whereabouts
W of HARRIETT CLARKE, formerly of
Oatlands in Tasmania, half-sister to Edwin
Clarke .(also, known as Edwin Thomas
Seallan and Edwin Scallan Powell), please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hobart. ■
INFORMATION is required by the under-
* signed as to the whereabouts of J•
SMALL and .JOHN .RUSH, who resided at
Bennett Street, Surry, Hills, in 1878.
GREEN WELL, SHEPHARD & YORK,
Solicitors,
21 George l Street, Parramatta,
And 12!) Pitt Street, Sydney.
You may not be able to visit
Scotland, gentlemen, but
when you join your friends
in a "spot” of McCallum's
Perfection Scots Whisky,
Scotland comes to you in
every drop. It is the pro-
duce of her soil, her
rivers, her very atmos-
phere. Its home is in
the capital, the heart
of Scotland, and it
comes to you as
the best that the
dear old country
can produce.
GENTLEMEN ! I ask you
to join me in a “ spot
of McCallum's Perfection,
a Whisky that has been in
front for 120 years.
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co.
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Queensland:
Goldsbrough, Mort & 00.
Wool Exchange, Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
Goldsbrough, Mort & <Co.
Onr. Boiirke & William Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for W.A. :
Lionel Samson & Co.,
FREMANTLE.
Sole Agents jor B.A. •*
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents jor Tasmania:
MacFarlane Bros.,
117 Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
Life Insurance.
DAVID LANGFORD
TELLS THE STORY OF THE GATE-OPENER.
HEY !” The little two-seater traveller's
car pulled up in a cloud of dust as
its driver beckoned to the man sit-
ting under the kurrajong-tree by the road-
side. “Want a lift?”
The dusty figure stood up, stretching his
hairy arms, and tossed his swag on the floor
as lie climbed in. The car started with a
jerk, and then moved swiftly over the dry,
red crust of the plains.
“Where are you making for? asked the
traveller by car.
“Oh, anywhere along the road. I’m head-
in' for the autumn shearings they’re talkin’
of up by th’ border.”
There was silence for a while, and the two
men took stock of each other. _ The usual
swaggie, the traveller decided —his face dusty
and unshaved; his battered hat barely con-
cealing his untidy mass of hair; his boots
cracked and worn. Still, a funny tiling, in
a way, to be striking up into the North-West
with the drought barely showing signs of
breaking, and men still being sacked as work
grew less! Months earlier than the usual
shearing, too, although there had been talk
of trying to dodge the grass seeds on the
places where it had rained.
The shearer grunted as the car slid to
a standstill before a gate.
“Gate-opener, as usual, I suppose ? he
remarked as he heaved himself out of the
seat.
“That’s why I picked you up, of course,'
replied the traveller, smiling. “Pa<rt of the
contract, y’know.”
The passenger became more talkative as
the engine resumed its droning.
“What’s your line?” he asked.
The man in the grey dustcoat _ shot a
glance at him. “Insurance,” he said.
“Property or life?”
“Oh, small things mostly; occasionally a
bit of life work.”
There was another silence as the car
slowed down and the driver carefully steered
over the potholes of a dried-up lignum
swamp. He was a virile, muscular man, this
traveller; his eyes cool and hard, his face
tanned and rather lean-looking.
“Ever travelled round Wagga way.' 1 asked
the shearer.
“Yes. I was down there a few weeks
back.”
A pause. _ . _ TT ’
“Ever meet a chap named Carnegie t He s
something in your line, I think —-travels a
lot anyway.”
“Carnegie? No, can’t say I have.
“I’m interested in Wagga. Used t live
there when I was a kid, an know a bit
about the place and the people. Wliat s
vour name, d’you say?”
“Johnson. Come from Bathurst.
“Lewis they call me. ‘Jake Lewis o the
plains,’ ” he chuckled rather heavily.
Silence again came between them. John-
son was racking his brain for the elusive
identity of the man Carnegie
The shearer restlessly rubbed Ins leit
temple, his hand caressing the spot gently.
“Ever hear what happened about that
Pringle case?” he asked casually. Y get
out of touch with things, away from the
papers. I was roadin’ about it months ago.
Bad thing, wasn't it?”
“Yes. Outright murder, if there ever was
one.” . , . , .
The shearer’s hand again strayed to Ins
left temple, and he smoothed back some hair
the wind had blown across his forehead
“What was the name of the teller that
done it?” lie asked. “Toff’s name*—Digby
or something. What ’appened to him i
“D’Arcy, you mean. Oh, they got him
all right.”
“Got him?”
The traveller looked round.
“Yes,” he said, laughing softly. 'These
follows nearly all get caught in the end.
They catch themselves mostly. A question
of conscience, I suppose; but they slip some-
how.”
For a while Lewis chewed thoughtfully
at a stalk of grass he had picked up by the
road. Then he spat over the side of the car
and took up the conversation.
“Wonder what made him do it? he asked.
“Suppose it was money—or a woman. Most
likely money.” , . ~
“But he didn’t lift a threepenny-bit,
Johnson told him. “And there doesn't seem
to have been a woman anywhere in the
affair.”
“Oh, you never know what s behind these
things,” remarked the shearer, chuckling.
“But if it was money—well, ’e might ’ave
got scared an’ not gone on with it. Most
likely ’e didn’t mean to kill th’ old josser
at all. Anyway, how did they know it was
’im?” ' ,
Johnson smiled slightly. “I believe lie
left a wealth of finger-prints,” lie said. “And
he cleared straight away. An’ Pringle wasn t
quite dead; lie said it was D’Arcy.”
There was another silence for a few
minutes while the men studied the faint car-
tracks stretching far ahead into the shim-
mering horizon of distorted, hazy scrub and
plain.
Then suddenly Johnson remembered Car-
negie, and he smiled hailf-grimly. Truly the
inspector was right when he said it was
always better to keep up a disguise, even
when away on a holiday.
His suspicions, slightly aroused with the
first distrust that had become a habit, were
now sure. They always put out feelers!
But, then, so did he.
The car slowed down, then came to a stop.
“What’s up?” asked Lewis as the other
climbed out.
“Only want to make sure _of my gear,”
Johnson replied easily. “We’ll soon be in
town, and I’ll need it. Got a line on some
life work.”
The shearer watched him as he stopped
behind the upraised lid of the “sample-box,”
and
“How d'you say they landed on this
D’Arcy?” the shearer asked.
“Plainclothes man got . him,” came the
reply. “He —he couldn't help talking too
much. He even lot the plain-clothes man get
his gun,” he smiled half-scornfully., Then,
swiftly: “Put ’em up.' D’arey, or Lewis, or
Carnegie, whichever you like, an’ let’s get
your bangles on.”
Salvation.
The Darling Downs! The Darling Downs!
The Darling Downs arc all ablaze
With waving flag and swelling cob
And ripple sunshine on the maize!
’Plie Darling Downs ! The Darling Downs!
Your soul shouts out to call them home;
The waving pasture-lands are seas,.
The young white lambs are frisking foam.
The rhythm of the mighty land
Is something more than any sea.
The moon can make her silver tides;
The sun controls the land —and me.
Phe Darling Downs ! The Darling Downs.
Like swelling breasts of fertile land—
Would I could sing your good and grace
To make a sad world understand!
The Darling Downs! The Darling Downs!
The Darling Downs are all ablaze
With waving flag and swelling cob,
And ripple sunshine on the maize .
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Drowned Pastures.
Silver and cold
The waters lie
Tinder the ashen arc of sky.
Under the hillside’s purple fold—
Silver and cold.
Silver and cold !
Dark as doom, and still as grief,
The deep pools harbor leaf on loat,
Furry twigs and kelp-like boughs, •
Where once grazed the solemn cows.
And boats of bloom with stamcned prows;
Tinder the shallow brimming floods
Lie the pale, drowned lily buds;
And starry whorls of capeweed gold
Among the layers of drifted mould.
Deep, deep down
Are the furrows made
In the earth’s rich brown
By a steel-bright blade.
\nd the pitted mounds in the sandy loam,
Where the startled rabbits scampered home.
Here, where the nesting plovers whirred,
The bubbles break and the pond-things pass,
And the frogs croak loud where the ground-
bird stirred
In the tufted grass.
Silver and cold
The waters lie.
Silver and cold !
I know not why,
In this dreaming place,
But I think of the time when 111 be old;
And I hide my face
With a bitter cry.
Silver and cold
The waters lie!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Poet to His Heart.
Heart, you are old! Could not you leave her
there
Asleep with all her pretty dreams and go
Out of the room, out. of her life, and fare
Across the highways of the world, nor
know
The smallest scruple for forsaking her
And this routine of dull, drab days that
range
Before you to the end —a prisoner ?
She will forget, but time shall not estrange
You from this hunger; you shall not forget
The vows and colored dreams you have
betrayed;
And through the years must vision with
regret
The past you might have had, and watch
it fade .1
Away with youth. Ah! once a* splendid j
stave . '
Of song, a ship at sea, would make you
bold
With plans! And now, you comfort-sated
slave, '• '
You value shelter from the rain and cold,
And bow to sentiments! Once you were
brave;
But now, pool - clod, you’re frightened and
you’re old.
N.S.W.
CHARLES CAMPBELL.
Attics.
Attics were made for poets. Little rooms
High up above the pigeon-breasted clouds, |
Yet not too high to hear the clamorous
crowds
Nor see bow beautifully the violet blooms.
Open to the sun’s story and the moon’s.
Throw wide your naked windows, throw
them wide
To the great legend-eyed gold ghosts of song.
As to the late small star that stares inside!
If down your street a shadow greyly hovers,
Matching his errant step with stumbling
lovers,
Hale him into the lamplight—lie’s a thief
Who steals their sighs, who follows and
discovers
Where Laura trod, and where the burning
Beatrice
Lies locked in grief.
And watch for autumn. She comes by in
tears,
Sweeter than any tears that springtimes
spill.
She speaks in thunder and the splash of j
rain. - She hears
The cliantings beaten out with broken spears!
By dark men on some tattered midnight,
hill.
Attics were made for poets—narrow rooms
Wan under moonlight. Through the open
door
Slips beauty. Pages flutter to the floor.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RICHOND.


m ■ i
- ; ?r
ft . . . » ''l
l ’ji
~ssr“ M T"7
Hi
'
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency. *
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland A (rents —HOLM KS * c *^^2ii2Ss“ e ’
3ST.Z. Office—B3-107 leatherston Street, Me ,bourne.
Victorian Office —“Chancery House, 48J SMITH ft CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ® v '
CONCORD WEST.N. S, WALES
“THE AGE"
Established 185 4.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
“THE AGE” publishes over one million adver-
tisements annually. A newspaper advertising
record for the British Empire.
This achievement is definite proof that “The
Age” has moved forward with irresistible
power to its objective—public confidence.
When formulating your advertising pro-
gramme, link up with “The Age.”
Your confidence will not be misplaced.
audited net daily sales,
123,533.
Advertising rates on application to the
principal Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3fis Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
the daily mail,
BRISBANE
is definitely tlie finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted^ chal,en f n e dreader valul
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
tlx mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury*’ is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA.
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
f
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original
d
9u
s
m
£ i4 Qr £v
tike Cfia ra C t^S
i 4r A ' f c o r- b u .
y € it C> y << , dr s
<‘k" *
S r y/ »PtoZ^ es * JS / ataL «£ &I W
hat rn of r a ncj t n 9c e -
v - , i
.»*«* h Pat, 'op C bes, >
•- co -4> .»> «£*.<£*
rA.^ c o^f ecf ek f/ »®
/- £^ef e httijj) and l hart*
'*k e n £'-o a \ he alt £
g the *eu£
BP ?Sf e m r °f
* ea s&
E EC HA
To secure the best of health, and to be
free from Constipation, Sick Head -
ache, Biliousness, Flatulence, Torpid
Liver and Disordered Stomach—take
BEECHAM’S PILLS .
&
&
&
V
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full informatiorij copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and Saturday
Evening Express" obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
SIR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COLTD.,
Box 252188. G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jonoard The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £
'NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
, , s e V*.
rif c s ® 6 ••■'■’’ ••'■ .••;"<?


m
m
Wi
X?
o
J 1
m
u&w r
y
X.
9
£2*
&
Before Takinq
l'Viu*.'
fn^
v,
\*
\j~
After Takinq
'XSb^-;
A Better Way
To Regain ¥)ur\butli
Everv few weeks the newspapers record some new triumph in the fight of Science against Weak-
ness, Pain and Old Age. Famous doctors and scientists have earnestly devoted themselves to
seeking out the reasons why people so soon lose their early vigor, and the results achieved by
medical men during the last few years have considerably added to the span of useful, com-
fortable life. Some authorities claim that diseases caused by uric acid are more far-reaching than
had previously been supposed—a greater evil in some respects even than consumption! It is
certain that many grow old and painfully deformed—some even die—years before their time on account of
disorders caused by uric acid or genito-urinary trouble.
What a Byron Bay Doctor
Says:
“Dear Sirs, —Several of my patients
having’ tried Harrison’s Pills and bene-
fited when all other pills, drugs, etc.,
failed, a confrere suggested I should
myself take them for a stiff leg that
had been worrying me, I did so, and
can get about now; the ankle joint
that was quite stiff, painful and life-
less is now good, and I want no better
proof if Harrison’s Pills can do what
they did for me.—(Signed) Sarsfleld
Cassidy, M.D.”
A New Man.
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and
severe rheumatism, I was practically
dead at 77. In spite of the severity
ef my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have
made a new man of me, and I feel
not a day older than 50. I have
never known any remedy act in so
remarkably beneficial a manner.—
(Signed) B. Jacobson, Blackman's
Point, N.S.W.”
Acted Like Magic.
“Dear Sirs, —Only those who have
suffered from Neuritis know the pain
of it. My right arm was paralysed and
the pain was cruel. My mother sent
me some Harrison’s Pills and they
acted like magic. I am so much better
my husband has decided to take them
too. —(Signed) A. V. Gooding, Goben-
ella, via Oberon.”
Wonderful Relief.
“Dear Sirs, —I must write you about
Harrison’s Pills, as I have had such
wonderful relief from them. I was
under five doctors and in five hospitals,
and was discharged as certain to be-
come a cripple. I could not walk
without aid had terrible knees, and
my feet and ankles were so swollen I
was giving up hope. Then I saw
Harrison’s Pills praised in ‘Truth,’
and decided to try them the swel-
ling has all left; I get about alone,
can go to town without aid, and am
so pleased I could not help writing.—
(Signed) Margaret Keating, 42 King-
street, St. Peters, N.S.W.”
«r ,<>
Z Q
hr l- 1
Q 3
CO®
C£>-~
>CI
uu.
<§
<5
§|
Of Chemists and
Stores Everywhere
Find the Cause
Instead of banishing the cause of their troubles, thousands have, unknowingly, been treating mere
symptoms! Some have tried tonics; then anti-acid stomach compounds; then old-fashioned liver or
kidney pills in the hope that they would find relief. Many obtained relief; but it was the temporary
kind that can only come from treating symptoms instead of causes. But with the new remedy—
Harrison’s Pills —all that is changed. Harrison’s Pills have shown people they can definitely throw
off their ageing aches, pains and weakness, gaining such energy, freshness and vigorous youth as they
have not known for years. By getting rid of the deadly uric deposits , as well as uric acid itself,
Harrison’s Pills give REAL improvement in health —positively, surely and safely.
Feel Younger —or Pay Nothing!
Many thousands of men and women have gained remarkable benefits from their trial of _ Harrison-s Pills.
Men who were losing their virile strength—who were being termed “old-timers;'— have “come back with
a power startling to all who knew them : women who were fast losing their capability and charm have found
in Harrison's Pills a new way to glowing health and happiness 1
Wonderful Testimony
Hundreds have written of their own accord in grateful, praise of Harrison’s Pills, many of them eminent
people in responsible walks of life. The four letters here published arc selected simp 1 y because they aie biicf
and to the point, but they are absolutely typical of the great numbers of genuine letters we are-continually
receiving.
Since You RisK Nothing—Why Delay?
There is nothing to equal Harrison’s Pills for Aches and Pains; “Nervy” Dizzy Spells, certain Blood
Disorders, and those special ills that make so many men and women feel old 10 to 30 years before their
time. Harrison’s Pills will drive out the Poisons' that cause Rheumatism, Lumbago, Backache, Gout,
Sciatica and Arthritis; they will give you hack the elastic step of youth or cost you nothing!
Simply get a package from the nearest chemist. Three sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. .Lake as directed, and if
not astonished at the prompt improvement in vour health, strength, looks and general beaiing, icturn the
empty bottle to Amalgamated Laboratories, Dept. B. 12, Kembla Buildings, Sydney, and get your money
back.
Why go on suffering? Why drag through your days? Why not get hack your grip on life this safe, sure ,
easy way f Get a package of Harrison s Pills from the nearest chemist or store NOW and become a power
once more!
YOU
MUST
TAKE GENUINE
f
FOR
HEALTH
TRIUMPHANT
They Drive the Uric Poisons from the Blood, Remove the
Cause of Aches and Pains, and Make You Young Again.
£lOO will be uaid to anyone Droving this is not a Safe, Effective Remedy, bearing a Genuine London Doctor’s Signature.
