

23NOQ II SI MOH
h- 3
\
t: . S
m.
mv
W. 5
LU
a
: f ii
- N. IV
L
sxvj.s.iv:» ‘
1/01
Sometimes you hear people
say, ‘ How is it that cig-
arettes of such high quality as
CAPSTANS can be sold at
eleven for sixpence while other
cigarettes are much more
costly?” The answer is summed
up in one word —POPULARITY.
At least ten times as many
CAPSTANS are smoked as is
the case with any other brand.
This means that whilst the
profit per packet is very small,
the huge turnover makes it
possible to use the finest
tobacco that money can buy.
You cannot buy a better cig-
arette than a CAPSTAN-—that
is why it is always safe to bet
—lO to 1 it’s a CAPSTAN.
■w
CAPSTAN
11 for 6d., 22 for 1 /., and in tins
and boxes of 60. Also oval heavy-
weights in tins :of. 26 and 50.
ifrdr&Met
CAPSTANS are made by W. D. & H. O. Wills at the Garden Factory, Raleigh Park, N.S.W,
*
The Bulletin
%onty ~~to-dowy.
VoL 51.-—No. 2633.
Wednesday, July 30, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
“Ye Faraway Bells,” adoss the bay,
Ringing so sweet at the close of day,
Whilst each fond lover his story tells,
Ring, 0 - Ring, ye Faraway Bells!
“Ye Faraway Bells!” I love your song,
It cheers my heart when the world goes wrong,
When I a cough or a cold endure
Your chant and Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Kri-j-gisy
This Book FREE to YOU!
.. SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mn Address
5.8.516
LySAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
(
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
y-M
w
Vxn
m
r> «**»
r.
v
r
HR
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says:
“A few drops
of my Worcest-
ershire Sauce
served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
unexpected
guests.”
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE. CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
wMCHmm
TRADE MARK
FLASHLIGHTS AND BATTERIES
gswnMSVi/^
U3JSMJW/UL
mrnmi
JH
*
s
5?
s
—as Qood as the Qun
IF you know Winchester Rifles
and Shotguns you know Win-
chester quality. And you will
find this same fine quality in
Winchester Batteries and Flash-
lights —a light adapted to every
use, with special features of con-
struction and convenience that
no other flashlight gives.
In the three-cell focusing flash-
light shown above, note the stur-
dy construction, the deeply cor-
rugated case, the positive, easily
operated switch and the octagon
cap which keeps the light from
tolling oft a table when you lay
it down. Note particularly the
special hook hanger by which
you can hook your light to belt
or pocket or to a rod, cord, au-
tomobile hood, tree branch—and
at many other points where a
light cannot usually be hung.
When you think of Winchester, think of
flashlight* and batteries as well as of guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING 20
ARMS COMPANY
If any illustration in “The Bulletin" takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The Red Page
The Praise of Kendall
(Concluding a series of five chiefly
biographical articles on the poet.)
“There goes Mad Harry!” the common
people of Sydney (if we may trust tradition)
cried after Henry Kendall, munibling his
poetry as he walked the street in 1859.
Pass a dozen years, and find Kendall at
the cultured Yorick Club in Melbourne. He
is described by Alexander Sutherland, fol-
lowing G. G. McCrae, for in 1871 Suther-
land himself was but 19 years old, a student
at Melbourne University, (“The Develop-
ment of Australian Literature,” p. 275) :
He was far from being a typical club man.
Dressed in a suit of black, with long’ loose frock-
coat, his black-gloved hands folded over liis invari-
able umbrella (generally laid across his knees), his
tall and narrow-brimmed hat standing on its crown
beside his chair —he looked like an undertaker from
some melodrama dropped in among- a godless set of
jovial spirits. He never drank, he never talked;
lie occasionally, for the form of the thing, drew a
furtive puff or two from his pipe. He gathered up
Ilia hat and umbrella and departed, to be the subject
of droll witticisms among- the rest -of the light-
hearted company.
There goes the Undertaker!
“The light-hearted company” of journal-
ists and literati were (save Gordon, who
assuredly never jeered at Kendall) estab-
lished Melbourne citizens: they had full
bellies and warm backs, and some assur-
ance of the future. Kendall had his wife
Lottie and his baby Araluen and a ravening
landlord on his mind; no regular employ-
ment''and no money at all. His permanent
suit of shabby “blacks” was his only decent
clothing when he could keep it out oi
pawn. Read the lines “On a Street” in
his son’s edition of his poems:—
I dread that street—its haggard face
I have not seen for eight, long years ;
A mother's curse is on the place
(There/s blood, my reader, in her tears)....
But, let me whisper, in that street
A woman, faint through want of bread,
Has often pawned the quilt and sheet
And-wept upon a barren bed....
Here, surely, on this bank of bloom,
My verse with shine would ever flow;
But, ah! It comes—the rented room,
With man and wife who suffered so!
From flower and leaf there is no hint—-
I only see a. sharp distress—
A lady in a faded print,
A careworn writer for the press.
I only hear the brutal curse
Of landlord clamoring for his pay;
And yonder is the pauper’s hearse
That conies to take a child away.
Apart, and with the half-grey head
Of sudden age, again 1 see
The father writing by the dead ,
To earn the undertaker's fee....
Just think of him —beneath the ban
And steeped in sorrow to the neck,
Without a friend —a feeble man,
In failing health —a human wreck.
With all his sense and scholarship,
How could he face his fading Wife?
The Devil never lifted whip
With strings like those that scourged his. life....
A fit “subject of droll witticisms,” indeed!
Pass 60 years. Of all that “light-hearted
company” there remain in Australian fame
and honor only the three heavy-hearted
ones—Clarke (for Clarke’s heart was heavy
enough before his premature end), Gordon
and Kendall. Clarke—dead at 35 ; Gordon
—dead at 37; Kendall—dead at 43. Two
aliens and one Australian—first* of “Native
Australian Poets” after Harpur—“Mad
Harry” Kendall, “the Undertaker.”
Think of how that sensitive boy, with
the _ love of letters in his blood, dragged
himself through poverty and misery to the
time when his burning and unquenchable
zeal for learning attracted the sympathetic
aid of his early friends—Moore, Halloran
and Michael; until, at the age of 23, he
published his first book of poems, passion-
ately patriotic, with the introductory lines
for the Muse of Australia—
A lyrebird lit on a shimmering space;
It dazzled mine eyes and I turned from the plac-e,
And wept in the i dark for a glorious face
And a hand with the Harp of Australia!”
—until John Robertson gave him a Gov-
ernment post “in recognition of literary
promise,” and Henry Parkes became his
faithful and forgiving friend—and agree
that, whatever were Kendall’s weaknesses
of character and errors of conduct, his
lofty ambition and his earnest struggle in
the end atoned for all. His work stands
beyond personal detraction and ridicule.
From intelligent contemporaries he re-
ceived high praise. G. B. Barton, in
“Literature in New South Wales” (1866),
wrote of “Poems and Songs”: “This volume
represents the highest point to which the
poetic genius of our country has yet
attained.” Victor Daley gave him the
Laurel with love. “Certainly the best poet
here,” wrote A. L. Gordon.
Frank Myers wished to inscribe on Ken-
dall’s monument true words: “He began
to interpret the parable of Australia.” A
still better line was Donald McLean’s “A
skylark singing in his country’s dawn.”
Best of all praise of Kendall are the
heartfelt verses by Lilian Greaves, closing:
And though his pen unlifted lies,
Though on his grave is grass dew-wet,
Australia’s poet never dies ;
His singing soul is living yet:
And, with his volume in my hand—•
Australia’s best interpreter—
I love my precious Native Land
The more because he sang of her.
A. G. S.
Publishing in Australia
John Dailey (R.P. 9/7/’3O) challenges my
statement that ‘‘A House Is Built” was
refused by an Australian publisher before
it was offered to a London one. My authori-
ities were unimpeachable; the authors and
the publisher. The publisher was not
approached; he did the approaching—and
then decided against publication. Only,
then did the authors look Londonwards.
But is the local publisher as much to
blame as Mr. Dailey suggests? He has
done much for Australian literature, despite
the gibe that we har eno publishers, but he
has the business side to consider, and we
must in fairness admit that, in almost all
cases, local publication is a handicap to
an Australian author. “A House Is Built’’
was a long book, therefore not a cheap one
to publish, and it would almost certainly
have sold less well in Australia if it had
not been published in England and praised
by Arnold Bennett, in the “Evening Stan-
dard.” As it is, sales in England and Aus-
tralia are over 20,000. I should sav 8000
represent Australasian sales, and it is still
selling. The publisher here had the memory
of failures with previous novels to deter
him. Mr. Dailey must have had the same
experience as others: of us, who know how
difficult it is to persuade our own friends
and acquaintances to read the work of
Australian writers, or of English writers
about, Australia. How many copies were
sold in Australia of D. H. Lawrence’s “Kan-
garoo,” for instance? How many know
Grant, Watson’s novels of Western Austra-
lia? Are Australians rushing to buy the
books of Brent of Bin Bin? If published
here these books would all probably be
failures from the business point of view.
Whatever the royalty, Lawrence would have
had a trifling credit balance on Australian
isales.
I admit that on Australian sales royalties
are very inadequate, but I cannot agree
that this is due to dumping of remainders.
There is no dumping in the matter. As
I said before, “colonial” editions were first
published to stimulate “colonial” sales, and
now it would be rather difficult to jump
the price up to or beyond that of the
English edition. On the same basis as
other books are charged, an English 7s. 6d.
novel would cost here 9s. 6d., and the author
would get the same royalty for each. Are
we prepared, in the interests of our authors,
to pay the price? If we are, the publisher
will surely have no objection.
As to the case of Dr. Charles MacLaurm,
the sales of his two books in Australia
reached nearl\ r 8000, good for books of their
kind. If they had not had the seal of
English approval their success here would
have been much less, and if they had been
published here, probably their English sales
would have been very adversely affected.
Protective legislation would not bring the
world’s great publishers here, not for some
considerable time, at any rate. It would
not pay them to come. The local publisher
already referred to could produce all the
books we have to publish now, if he- could
see a profit in so doing. He has the plant
and the staff. Can we assure him of the
sales?
I.L.
New Poetry
Is it a sign of healthiness or merely of
drowsiness that Australia has no verse even
remotely corresponding with that of Imagist
Anthology, 1930? The book, lately pub-1
lished by Chatto and Windus, with forewords
by Ford Madox Ford and Glenn Hughes,
holds examples of the “poetry” of Richard
Aldington, John Cournos, “H.D.,” John
Gould Fletcher, F. S. Flint, Ford Madox
Ford, James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence and
William Carlos Williams. “Imagism” was
the name given to a militant movement
towards a new poetry started in London in
1912. Glenn Hughes (address San Fran-
cisco) calls it the “only well-organised move-
ment in English poetry since the days of
the pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.” But,
he adds, the “Imagists knew when to let j
Imagism die”; they simply had‘certain be-
liefs and, faced with certain prejudices,
banded together, won their fight and stood
thereafter as individual artists.
As such they are here represented, and the
fruit of their blossoming demands to be
tasted, whatever we may say about the
flavor afterwards. At the least it represents
{Red, Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — gives addeJ importance to every word of Anthony Horderns’ announcements.
msm
•Xvlf.v
mjp
Hord
NS
m
n
j
French Brandy that has been Ageing
A
. t «u»iw«v
*•*
’SsSamtSSiual
4
for more than
30 Years!
At Sale Prices
This Choice French Brandy is Exshaws’ Club
Liqueur-—a fine, soft, well-matured spirit that appeals
instantly to the palate. Beautifully mellow, it is a
Brandy for the connoisseur, while at the same time
being highly recommended for medicinal purposes.
Price, bottle 26/6
Sale Price, bottle 23/6
Exshaws’ Nos. 1 § 2 Brandy
These, too, are very old and well matured, and are
exceptional value at these low prices.
No. 1, Price, bottle 18/6
Sale Price, bottle 16/6
No. 2, Price, bottle • • 15/6
Sale Price, bottle 13/6
(In cases only—all one dozen to case.)
Holland Gins and Schnapps!
Underproof Holland Bulk Gin, an excellent quality product. In 2-gallon quantities.
Price, per gallon
Sale Price, gallon •••••’
Overproof, in 2-gallon quantities. Price, gallon
Sale Price, gallon
Underprodf Holland Bulk Schnapps—ideal for general and medicinal uses. In 2-gallon
quantities. Price, gallon
Sale Price, gallon . , .
Overproof, in 2-gallon quantities. Price, gallon
Sale Price, gallon
(Wines —Ground Floor, Goulburn Street. Free delivery city and suburbs only.)
50/-
45/-
79/6
74/6
42/6
37/6
66/6
61/6
’Phone : M2lfil
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


lEYUVND LANCS
m
transports2l tons per. hour a four mile round trip
% ley land "Beaver'
MR. E. S. HARRIS, Contractor, of 19 Clubbe
Street, Rozelle, carries out all the haulage for
the Municipality of Balmain. He utilises a
LEYLAND 3 2 -ton “Reaver” and two other trucks of
similar capacity but. different make.
“The Beaver” transports 22 TONS PER HOUR on a
round trip of four miles, AS AGAINST 12 TONS PER
HOUR each of the other two trucks. The cost of
operating “THE BEAVER” is no greater than that of
either of the other trucks, although it DOES NEARLY
DOUBLE THE TRANSPORT. Mr. Harris contributes
this extra work entirely to THE GREAT FLEXIBILITY
AND SPEED OF “THE BEAVER.”
Further praise of “The Beaver” comes from Mr. F. J.
Bamheld, the Engineer who supervises all road construc-
tion and road repairs for the Municipality. He states
that 250 tons of gravel, metal, sand, cement, etc., utilised
daily are unloaded from either railway trucks or hoppers,
and that NO DEMURRAGE CHARGES occur through
delays in unloading, because of the RAPID TRANSPORT
PROVIDED BY “THE BEAVER,” which is THE
MOST SATISFACTORY MACHINE THAT HAS
EVER BEEN IN THEIR SERVICE.
Demonstrations of the flexibility and speed of the new
LEYLAND “Beaver” can be arranged at any time. Prices
and specifications will be posted immediately on request.
HEAD OFFICE:
24 GROSVENOR ST.,
SYDNEY.
ENGLAND
SERVICE STATION
153-167 GEORGE ST.
REDFERN.
TELEGRAMS: LEYMOTORS, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: 87951-87952.
Melbourne Depot:
C’n’r Villiers & Courtney
Streets, North Melbourne.
Brisbane Depot:
Grey Street, South
Brisbane.
West Aust. Depot:
Royal Street, East
Perth.


I
m
\
0
f C
COMMERCIAL ART.
Commercial Art and Advertising are creating big business to-day.
Thai is why TRAINED Commercial Artists are commanding big
incomes. Splendid positions await young people who train
with us.
YOU who have drawing ability—are you taking advantage of this
opportunity?
The Art Training Institute offers you the teaching of TEN of the foremost
Specialists in the several branches of Commercial Art. Such service is
quite unique and without parallel in the history of Commercial Art in
Australia.
Our Director of Studies, Mr. Tom Alban, is the most highly qualified
Art Instructor in Australia. He is an Exhibitor to Royal Academy,
London; King’s Prizeman, Royal Drawing Society; awarded 12 gold, silver
and bronze medals in great National Competitions. He had experience
in Australia with Paton and Price Berry Advertising Services.
PERSONAL OR POSTAL TUITION.
6 I
}oo]ltusrrdtions
w
/I
The Photographs of our Instructors
appear in our FREE BOOK, “THE
NEW ERA OF COMMERCIAL ART,”
70 pages, hundreds of illustrations in
full color. SEND FOR IT TO-DAY.
Please mention “The Bulletin” and
enclose 9d., cost of registered postage.
•Jivstitvte
80 SwanstonS Melbourne
change in a world that is continuously
changing; it is an effort to treat of the
times in their own terms; attempt to pre-
vent words from going stale. It surely
shows a greater regard for literature than
the business of writing in 1930 verse that
would have been considered old-fashioned
in 1900. Australia has had only one con-
scious literary movement in recent years —
.that which produced “Poetry in Australia,
1923,” a glance through which volume should
prove that such movements are not always
fruitless. But even it—still, seven years
latei-, our most “modern” effort—stuck
close to old form, and such conventions as
it sought to break through were as often
moral as literary. The writers of this
“Imagist” anthology have little respect for
moral conventions, but it is the conventions
of verse structure that they deliberately
crash through. Occasionally they achieve
such a consummation of modernised verse
and modern topic as that of one of Alding-
ton’s “Passages Towards a Long Poem”:—
When I returned to London
After a long absence,
The beautiful scarlet motor-’buses
Seemed like gay lacquered coaches.
A little later they appeared
As sinister red hearses
Conveying the dead souls
Of a nation.
That, whatever itself may be, is clearly the
work of a poet, and so is this:—
Helen, you ate my heart.
No, no, what a muddle you’re in.
It was not Helen, but Margarida.
Well, but has she played her part?
She ought to fall from the lip of the tower,
And there she is prettily eating fruit.
Or are we both buried in Perpignan,
In a single tomb in the southern aisle
Which gave much scope to the sculptor’s skill
And made him his name,
And an epitaph penned by the King himself ?
Then this is one of those nasty dreams
Which come to dead men under the paving,
When the last cowled friar has shuffled to bed
And the church itself lies dead with the dead?
Hush, you dead man, hush, be at rest;
The lettered slab is firm above you,
Solid the effigy, fixed the shield.
That, however, is fairly formal; Aldington
in other moments can sound as little like
a poet as James Joyce himself, whom he
probably plagiarises and certainly parodies
in one ugly, not to say kindergarten, title.
It is in their substitute for the lyric form
that these Imagists most signally fail.
Compare “H.D.’s” “If You Will Let Me
Sing”—
If you will let me sing,
that God will be
gracious to each of us,
who found his own wild Daphne
in a tree,
who set
on desolate plinth
image
of Hyacinth,
—with (a like fashioning of a thought)
Yeats’s formal “The Moods”:—
Time drops in decay,
Like a candle burnt out,
And the mountains and moods
Have their day, have their day;
What one in the rout
Of the fire-born moods
Has fallen away ?
Or take the chorus translation from the
“Bacchae” of Euripides:—
Who is there,
who is there in the road?
who is there,
who is there in the street?
back,
back each to his house,
let no one,
no one speak;
chasten your tongues;
O cease
from murmuring,
for swift,
I cry with every note
of consecrated speech
my song to Dionysus,
and compare that with Gilbert Murray’s
rendering:—
Who lingers in the road? Who espies us?
He shall hide him in his house nor be bold.
Let the heart keep silence that defies us;
For I sing this day to Dionysus
The song that is appointed from of old.
Whether Australia will lose or gain by not
having been caught in such currents will
depend on why she has not been caught—
whether she has stood strongly aside and
watched the useless flood go by, or dozed in
a backwash unknowing that there had been
a flood.
MACDONALD.
Imported Serials
Almost every Australian daily or weekly
paper that one picks up is running a serial
story—by an overseas author. These
serials are dumped into Australia at cut-
throat rates which would not be tolerated
for a week in any other industry. An
editor explained the position to me thus:—
I can get serials by the best English authors
delivered to my office at from 17s. 6d. to 20s. per
instalment of 5000 wqrds. Not only do I get the
story, but I get it set up in stereo, practically ready
to shove into the machine. So if I pay even tlie
pound to the Australian writer for his 5000 words,
I still have to pay the comp, to set it up, and
that alone would run into double what I give for
the entire instalment. So even if I got the Aus-
tralian author’s story for nothing, it would still pay
me better to print the imported serial.
How can any Australian writer hope to
write and market serials in the face of such
competition? It simply can’t be done.
An import duty of 100 per cent, would
help; a duty of 200 per cent, might even
cure. Yet I know this is hopeless without '
a duty first on the overseas periodicals
which print the same serials. Without such
a duty on periodicals, the duty on the serial
would merely further handicap the Aus-
tralian printer.
W. CHARNLEY.
Short Story Competition
When not long ago a Queensland literary
society held a short-story competition it
made it open to any writers in Australia.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers has
a competition which closes on November
17, but it is open only to members and
associate members. At first sight this
second competition appears to lack the
national spirit of that of the society which
calls itself merely “Queensland,” but it
Erobably argues some good commercial
rains" among the Fellows. The prize is
fairly good—£2o—and the underlying idea
appears to be that so many non-member
writers will be prepared to back their poten-
tial masterpiece with the 10s. Gd. member-
ship fee that the society will b'ecome
thoroughly Australian. Even now it has
members in all States, including a fair
proportion of writers.
The story length is set at about 3000
words, copyright to remain the property of
the authors. The Fellowship reserves the
privilege of reading the winning story, and
any other, at a meeting. The judges are
the president and vice-presidents, who will
not compete, and entries should be
addressed to Miss Marjorie Quinn, 100
Addison-road, Manly, New South Wales.
A Satchel of Books
Collected Verse of Robert Service (Benn).
The “Canadian Kipling’s” five books of verse
gathered into one volume. A good stock
of reading for anyone who likes his verse to
go with a swing and have tang and rough
vitality in it.
All Our Yesterdays, by H. M. Tomlin-
son (Heinemann). Classed as a war book,
though of its four parts only the last dea’s
directly with the ’l4-18 disturbance. It
begins, however, at the time of the Boer
War, and the first three parts are really an
accessory background to the closing chapters.
The background is mostly journalism: “Fleet-
street War” would have served for a title.
The book is not rushed as are many war
books, but, then, it is beautifu'ly written.
D. H. Lawrence and At All Costs, by
Richard Aldington (Heinemann). The first
a critical and personal study, the other a
war short story, good, as would be expected
from the author of “Death of a Hero.” “A
great artist,” he calls Lawrence, and
applauds his disdain of sport. “Is life so
long, is the mind so dull, is there so little
to see and do and feel and know, that we
must waste the unique (if diabolical) gift
of consciousness in silly games?” In other
ways the study is provocative. The booklets
are handy little publications, sold at Is.
each, English price.
In The Gentleman in the Parlor (Heine-
mann) Somerset Maugham allows his mind
to wander discursively through art, litera-
ture and life, while his body is being carried
on muleback from Rangoon through the Shan
States to Bangkok and French Cochin
China and per steamer to Hongkong. The
sentimental journey—for, at bottom, the
cynical author of “Our Betters” is a
thorough sentimentalist—has an individual-
ity rare in travel books. Maugham the
dramatist —or melodramatist —peeps out in
sundry stories alleged to have been told him
by people he met, but which give forth
a slightly artificial note.
Lady O’London (Hutchinson: Dymocks)
is by Dorota Flatau, whose father was a
Sydney doctor. It is partly the romance of
Lady Pruenella Bullacomb and Jan Berry-
man, actor, and partly the tragedy of Prin-
cess Caroline, the ill-used wife of the Prince
of Wales, afterwards George IV. It is
hard to take the love story seriously. The
actor does 12 months for a theft he hasn’t
committed to save Lady Pruenella’s repu-
tation, and then wins her heart and hand
by keeping her locked up in a farmhouse
with him for 12 months. There are some
interesting pictures of London as it was a
century ago, but they are not all reliable.
Princess Caroline, for example, is made to
pass the Marble Arch as she drives from
the Edgware-road to Drury-lane Theatre
by Park-lane and Piccadilly. It wasn't
erected till 30 years after her death.
Poetry at Present, by Charles Williams
(Clarendon Press; Roycroft). In brief but
well rounded chapters the writer considers,
as contributors of new values to English
poetry, Thomas Hardy, Bridges, A. E. Hous-
man, Kipling, Yeats, Davies, Walter de la
Mare, Chesterton, Masefield, Hodgson, Gib-
son, Abercrombie, T. S. Eliot, the Sitwells,
Robert Graves and Blunden. Eliot is the
only writer in whose presence he is uncom-
fortable, which in itself seems to imply the
admiration for the purely beautiful in poetic
expression which is in fact the basis of his
critical work. The primary intention—to
provide introductions to the works of cer-
tain contemporary poets for readers who do
not know them—is satisfyingly carried out.
The book would be hard to better in that
respect, and it holds enough original observa-
tion and thought to deserve the attention of
mature readers.
How About Europe? by Norman Dougla<s
(Chatto and Windus). This collection of
naked scorpions’ tails, Mr. Douglas says,
was inspired by Katherine Mayo’s “Mother
India.” With a sting in every other sen-
tence he applies the lady’s method to sur-
veying Europe, a place which, he finds, has
not only gone to the dogs but been badly
chewed. Smugness, cant, that “Dora”
which haS its counterpart in censorship and
suchlike primitive survivals in Australia,
and all the hypocritical, herd-minded substi- '
tutes for facing life he lashes with his laugh-
ing contempt. In a hundred or so brief
chapters—he calls them “footnotes”—he
cuts into a great range of topics, such as
v.d. (“whoever wishes to abolish syphilis
should begin by abolishing hypocrisy”), com-
pulsory education (“a State controlled manu-
factory of echoes”), Christian superstition,
women, government and after-hours trading.
Possibly more valuable, certainly more read-
able than the works of those who deal with
such things in terms of political economy
and other forms of fiction, I
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (.except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
William S.: No, it doesn’t ring true.
.... Shoman: Looks as though it might be loaded.
... .Howard R.: There will be no Novel Competition
this year, at any rate... . J.P.M.: Very well done;
but the theme shows its age in spite of the care
wdth which you cut off its long, white beard....
Oce: Sorry; can’t take it even as a gift.... Siege:
Don’t see why you should apologise to Coleridge.
He never wrote anything like that K.T.: Con-
versational vision of Hell declined... .C.P.: Good
idea; that’s a 11... .Orace: Reads like C. J. Dennis
and gingerbeer.... Tullochgorrum : Would suggest as
gently as possible that incomplete verse has already
gone far enough. .. .H. 8.: No snap; it just goes on.
. ...J.1.: Thought is good—much better than the
treatment... .S.S.M.: Not quite good enough. Have
another shot.... Y.F.C.: Nicely done, but it’s rather
a worn prayer... .Cam: Yes, it has interest, but not
general interest... .Ripponlea: Majestic welcome to
“Rainbow Pansies; or the Fantasia of the Sub-
conscious” :
Across the path 1 Ah, that is it. Across the path.
To transverse and reluctantly proceed we arrive at
last;
And the fatal destination. Yet miles and aeons away
Through pre-historic Stygian light-years
On to the futile future, up from our thoracic
Ganglion to our accepted selves.
The vast Infinite of Time and Space each unto each
And all in all in the vacuum of the Unknown.
Like flotsam' and jetsam to some abstract reach
On the heaving of the ether soon, soon are flown.
And we are carried to triumphant absoluteness
Whether we will or no; whether we will not or yes.
.... Topside: There’s a suggestion of the bosey in
your attempt to rhyme “in-swinger” with “beginner”
in the Bradman poem.... R.N.H.: Failed, after search,
to find anything in “Music”... .H.H.11.: Stilted and
without much in it yet, but you might do better
later on 5.0.5.: Doesn’t warrant your initials,
but not up W.W.R.: Sincerely wish ignoring it
would get rid of the depression... .G.W.R.: Blest
if it isn’t Bernard Shaw! What made you change
your name, Bernard?... .C.P.C.: What —-you don’t
like The Bulletin any more? Commiserations on
passing youf 90th birthday. G.M.C.: Even that
much previous publication would bar it. The piece
holds a fair picture, but moves rather heavily....
N. : Like more in ’em....M.R.: Couldn’t get en-
thusiastic over “Big Australia”. . ...F.8.P.: No bull’s-
eyes in “The Lolly Shop”... .W. 8.5.: Missed....
H.W.: That sort of “simplicity” verse has to be
superlatively well handled... .H.O’C.: They don’t
gain anything by being cut up into lines of about
one word each... .R.E.M.: “Lost Keys” the best,
but they were lost as far as the pay-box was con-
cerned. .. .R.P.: Not much use tackling that sort
of thing unless you have something fresh to say.
... .R.H. (Papua) : Try another ; it went c105e....
J.M.F.: “A Near Thing” wasn’t. .. .A.W.R.M.: Rather
pleasantly told, but too discursive... .1.J.8.: A long
way off... .E.T.E.; Still unsatisfactory, especially
construction... .L. 8.: With more pains and fewer
words you might get somewhere... .S.M.: No cage
for “The Gorilla” 1.R.: Tourist notes booked for
trip home... .G.W.: Sorry, can’t dish up the dream-
cook. .. .M.A.: Excites curiosity ; then damps it.,..
O. : Small-talk and sentiment... .8.W.: Too long.
. ...T.M.8.: You start the story with a sentence
of 65 words. ... K.W.: Too obviously artificial....
Scrubber: “Ideal Shearer’’ now in the basket calling
loudly for tar E.1.Y.: All slight Bellerive:
Extra cheerful instalment of the great poetic serial,
“Zoological Inspiration”:—
TROPICAL VAMPIRE BATS.
Long-eared, with a head
Like tlie common rat,
A menace to cattle
Is the vampire bat.
As they dart to and fro
On a sultry night,
Upon horses and cows
They grimly alight.
Gnats and moths
They greedily consume,
As they flutter and cleave
Through the darkened gloom.
{Next week: “Birds of the Woodland.”)
M.M.: “Egypt, land of all my longing, Shall
I see thee but in dreams?” At the present rate
of exchange it would be cheaper Horton B.: Quite
well done; but we’re fighting for breath under an
avalanche of island yarns Christian F.: Can’t
believe it. You can write, though Barnadine:
Not possible unless the whole neighborhood was
daft.... Yu'ob: Thank Heaven you are not a cow or
you’d spend your life in the pound for wandering.
J.C.W.: As you did not part with the copyright
in the verses you have a right to use them. The
Bulletin does not reprint verses published else-
where.. ..W.T.S.: “Ursula Bloom” is Mrs. Ursula
Denham-Cookes. She has published “Lyrics of Life,”
“The Great Beginning,” “Vagabond Harvest,” “Driv-
ing Destiny,” “The Judge of Jerusalem,” and “An
April After”. .. .A.K.P.: If you had only made it
convincing... .C. I. C.: No treacle on your bread....
D.E.: Not this time... .M. 8.8.: Article on politics
and politeness utopian... .D.W.0.F.: Interesting in
a way, but not suitable W.C.G.: Won’t have those
bandits on the premises... .N.R.: “A Storm Within
a Storm” blew itself 0ut....J. of M.: “The Flints”
strike no light D.S.: Girl in pyjamas the one
bright spot in the picture N.L.: Would take an
elephant to carry off that yarn E.M.11.: Not suit-
able as a story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.J.C.: Not out of the slapdash class yet....
L.W.8.: Only fair... .8.T.: Improving a bit, but
slowly Ches : Also ran S.G.: Horrible.... J.H.:
A washout F.C.: Missed... .T.A.G.: Not up to the
mark... .A.M.R.: You have a good way to g 0....
J.S.: We’ve met Myrtle’s husband before... .G.K.C.:
Possibly you could place it in England... .H.P.:
Fearful W.N.8.: Rabbit-trappers too rough
S. Y.: Overcrowded with labels and signposts
H.W.: Those flappers merely cackle... .A.C.: Same
idea has appeared in “Judge” (U.S.A.) V.K.:
Eight, lessons are what you need... .S.C.: Mouldy.
.... 8.G.: Dull jests and distorted drawings....
R.S.: He will have to celebrate a lot more birthdays
before he breaks through... .M.N.A.: Cork up that
ink bottle before you do any more damage....
H.C.: Nothing in ’em.


/ •
s
TM
. ' ; 1
V.-'V*
sbss
nil!
ms
A
mm
»1 i
■
i
■
.4
r
S£3
raS
1
:: :
A
-
R
, # '
Hi
■
T/l ; ■ "
A
/ >A
s ;cgsi;j. \
£/; -/I
■
Wf
W,..
.
Hi
"IS
*y /
T& y


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2633.
July 80, 1930.
THE INSPECTOR ARRIVES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victouia: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.i
6 months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 4»z. t Id. All Sea Route: ltioz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE PRAISE OF KENDALL, by A.G.S. .. 2
PUBLISHING IN AUSTRALIA—CAN IT PAY?
by I. L 2
NEW POETRY 2
IMPORTED SERIALS—WANTED SOME PRO-
TECTION 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
SHIFTING SAND 8
THE REAL WEALTH OF AUSTRALIA .. 8
“WE PATIENTS ARE FED UP, TOO”
By One of Them .. .. .. .8
TEN INCOME TAXES! 8
NEW NOTES FOR OLD GOLD 9
THE BEGINNINGS OF INDUSTRIES . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC—A RECORD OF
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY 13
PERSONAL 14
“MR. MICAWBER FOUND THAT OUT”—
A Cartoon by Percival .. . . .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
THE COMEDY CALLED WRESTLING—
Drawings by Frith .. .. .. .. 16
“THE LITTLE ACCIDENT” ACCIDENT .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. ..• .. 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . . . . 17
METROPOLITAN (MELB.) GAS .. ..17
PORT JACKSON AND MANLY STEAM .. 17
QUEENSLAND BREWERY 17
NORTH COAST STEAM 17
GOODLET AND SMITH 17
THE N,S.W. SHALE TRAGEDY . . . . 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
WE MUST GROW MORE TOBACCO . . . . 22
HARVESTING THE RICE CROP . . . . 22
PERENNIAL VELDT GRASS 22
A CHEAP SEPTIC TANK 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . . . 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-011 (with drawings) . . . . . . 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS .. .. 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36, 37
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY RACING . . 35
TEST CRICKET 35
SYDNEY AVOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
NEW SERIAL—
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover .. ..42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE—With drawings by Phil
May and “Hop” .. . . .. 47, 49
THE SERIAL—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer .. ..50
A COMPLETE STORY—
“VACATION,” by Arthur 11. Adams .. ..50
VERSE —By Geoffrey Cumine, Arnold Wall,
“Gerardy,” M. Forrest, Dulcie Deamer . .45, 50
NEXT WEEK.
“LET’S SCRAP CANBERRA!”
The Bulletin has come to the conclusion that the
time has arrived when the place should be abandoned.
It will give some reasons why.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 30, 1930.
SHIFTING SAND.
In common with almost every other country
in the world, Australia faces the problem of
unemployment. But it has another which
is its own exclusive property—the problem
of how to pay its external debts; and this
is the more difficult of the two. The relief
of unemployment can be, and is being,
achieved by taxation; but no amount of
taxation can do anything towards paying
external debts. Indeed, taxation may inter-
fere with production; and only through
production can external debts be paid. So
the two problems resolve themselves into
a third —how 7 to relieve unemployment and
at the same time stimulate production.
Production can be divided roughly into
two groups, one of goods for home con-
sumption, the other of goods for export.
In our circumstances both are indispensable.
A self-contained country, doing without im-
ports and having no foreign debt, has no
need to trouble about exports. Australia
is not in that category- Some goods we
must import—fewer, it is true, than we
thought necessary. In addition to paying
for these, there is a matter of an annual 30
millions of interest on foreign debts which
can only be paid with exports. For many
years payment has been dodged by raising
loans in the foreign market—in other words,
by passing the bills on to a future genera-
tion. We have been doing this at the rate
of 40 millions a year. The ordinary loan
market being suddenly closed to us, we are
now driven to make our exports balance
our bills for imports and foreign interest.
And unfortunately this happens at a time
when almost all our exports are at very low
prices.
In these circumstances, apart from arrang-
ing temporary accommodation—and that
is the main purpose of Sir Otto Niemeyer’s
visit—only two courses are open; one to
reduce our imports; the other to stimulate
our exports. And here the unemployment
difficulty intrudes. The workless citizen
has to be considered as well as the foreign
capitalist. How can the unemployed be
relieved in such a way as to assist in the
payment of our just debts? The Federal
Government took the first important step
when it prohibited the import of some
articles and discouraged by high duties the
import of others, thereby at once encourag-
ing local industry and reducing the total
of exports needed to balance national
accounts. But more than that is needed;
the entire extinction of imports would leave
us with a very heavy bill still to pay—
-30 millions a year, as we have said, for
interest alone. The stimulation of produc-
tion for exports must therefore proceed
alongside the stimulation of production for
local needs.
In almost every State an authority has
been set up to choose unemployment relief
works and carry them into effect; and it
is here that we seem to be doing the
wrong things in great abundance. In N. S.
Wales some thousands of men have been
put on sand shifting at Maroubra and there-
abouts. There may come a time when the
State will sell these sites and recover a few
pence in the pound of the money spent;
but not a farthing will be added to the
country’s exports, nor is a penny added to
the country’s production for home use,
though those are the two great require-
ments at the moment.
Much has been said—and said rightly—
against the system of bounties and bonuses
into which we have drifted. But something
can be said on the other side. Thus it is
certain that to meet our present needs every
ounce of gold recovered is worth more to
us than every hundred tons of sand shifted:
we should be better off, so far at any rate
as our present needs are concerned, if the
money spent in shifting a hundred tons of
sand recovered us even an ounce of gold.
Nor is gold the only article to which
attention might be given. At Broken
Hill there are mines capable of yielding
saleable metals but now idle because they
are slightly under the pay limit. The posi-
tion is complicated there by a dispute as
to what is a fair price to pay for labor; but
if a small bonus on production will meet the
difficulty it ought to be granted. No doubt
sand-shifting and such jobs are easy to
think of; but easy thinking has led us into
our present difficulties and easy thinking
will not get us out of them. We must dis-
cover ways in which men can be employed
that will either reduce our imports or else
increase our exports. So far as our present
urgent needs are concerned all other expen-
diture is a burden upon industry, and so
far from helping us to pay our foreign
creditor is actually impeding us in the
process.
But, apart from the choice of jobs, the
whole system of unemployment relief calls
for review. The mere existence of large
numbers of unemployed is a bad thing;
it has an incalculable psychic effect upon
the community. This is most obvious in
Australia to-day.' It is responsible for
most of the unwarranted pessimism which
afflicts us. The result to be aimed at is the
speediest possible absorption of these men
into the ranks of the regular employed.
The anomaly is that they are employed.
Moreover, they are being paid, not out of
the proceeds of loans, but out of the pro-
ceeds of taxation. There is something
utterly absurd about this. If industry can
afford to pay to the Government enough
money to shift sandhills, it could afford to
itself engage men, and put them on to
something more profitable to itself and the
country. From every point of view, then,
it is desirable that a scheme should be
devised by which employers should he
relieved of unemployment tax in return for
the engagement of an equivalent number of
new workmen. It would result certainly
in a better return for the money, and we
should have the splendid psychic effect of
a gradual reduction of the army of un-
employed. Of course there would have to
be safeguards. But even without any it is
doubtful whether more money could pos-
sibly be wasted than under the present
system.
THE REAL WEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Land is the real wealth of Australia, not
in quality certainly, but in quantity. Every
inhabitant of the Commonwealth is the
owner of 300 acres, that being his share
of the national estate. The inhabitant of
England and Wales owns less than one
acre. The only conspicuously richer man
than the Australian is the Antarctican, or
would be if there was one. Should a
family of five definitely settle in the Ant-
arctic the amount of land crying out to
them for occupation, just as the worst part
of empty Australia cries out, would be
about 640,000.000 acres each.
There is nothing save lack of population
to justify the idea that the Australian
is naturally entitled to more wages than
anybody outside, along with shorter work-
ing hours and better conditions. The con-
tinent carries about one-eighteenth part of
a sheep to the acre and the one-hundred-and-
thirtieth part of some other animal—
bullock, horse or pig. This is roughly one
saleable tame beast to 16 acres. If it fails
to do better, it isn’t for want of endeavor,
for the pastoralist has spread out in all
directions. Even in favored N. S. Wales
there are regions which are credited with
taking 200 acres to maintain a sheep, and
the animal is hardly worth searching for
in that space. The value of agricultural
products in a good average year like 1926-27
w r as officially set down at £l6 per inhabitant,
or rather over Is. per acre. Grain of all
sorts is about 70 bushels to the square mile.
The latest return put the value of all
mineral products at rather over £3 per in-
habitant,' or 21d. per acre. Britain’s yield
in 1927 was £5 per inhabitant and £3 10s.
per acre. The recorded value of all Aus-
tralian mineral production since records
began, which is 80 years ago, is
£1,152,000,000, and that is only equal to the
output of England, Scotland and Wales
(similar to Victoria in area) for five or six
years.
A map of Australia showing the distribu-
tion of population, wheat, sheep or cattle
resembles a bald head viewed from an aero-
plane. There is the great blank space par-
tially surrounded by a thin fringe of
something suggestive of hair. The map
showing cattle has more fringe and less
bald spot than the others, but even it reveals
a very big waste where the bullock gives
up the ghost and the struggle. As a matter
of fact, it is possible to cross the continent
from east to extreme west, say in lati-
tude 28, and, saving in the first 250 miles
from the coast, to see nothing beautiful
enough, to write poetry about. For two-
thirds of the way it is riverless and tree-
less.
Apart from its lack of population Aus-
tralia Jias no claim to be a high-wage
countiy. But it is a country of high ex-
penses. The charge for educating and
policing and medically attending parts of
it is remarkable. It has cost £5 4s. per
inhabitant per annum merely to police the
Northern Territory, though this has been
cut down a little.
Something would be gained if people
drifted away from the doctrine that this
is a land of staggering resources and that
the inhabitants should live in a staggering
fashion accordingly, especially in their
public affairs. It is just as God made it,
and if He didn’t spend over-much time
on it allowance should be made for the
fact that Creation was a busy week, and if
there were deserts to be got rid of somebody
had to have them.
“AND WE PATIENTS ARE FED UP,
TOO!”
The suggestion of “Claude Oesophagus”
(B. 7/9/’3O) regarding Compulsory Health
Insurance makes my blood boil. It is bad
enough for the poor patient to have to
voluntarily subsidise the body of profes-
sional gentlemen who are educating them-
selves at his expense; jto be compelled to
do it by law would be the last straw.
Let me cite my own case.
Some years ago I fell ill of an obscure
complaint or of several complaints. I con-
sulted my family doctor, who gave me a
tonic and prescribed a diet. It did no good
and I consulted another general practitioner,
who gave me the same tonic but reversed
all the first man’s ideas about the diet.
There was no improvement, so I consulted
a specialist. He was an authority on
“nerves,” and he decided “nerves” was my
trouble. He prescribed the Weir-Mitchell
treatment. This consisted of going into a
rest home, at from 14 to 28 guineas a week
according to your means, and being put
to bed, stuffed with food like a prize hog
and weighed once a week, the gain in
adipose tissue being an index of returning
health. After seven weeks I had gained
two stone three and was allowed into the
garden, my first action being to measure
the depth of a pond. It was too shallow
to drown myself in, so I was obliged to
continue the treatment, though its worse
horrors were mitigated by the discovery that
a convenient pony had a passion for rice-
pudding, one of the most important items
in the dietary. I emerged from the hospital
feeling no better and with a ruined ward-
robe.
A few years later I ran against this
specialist again. When I mentioned the
Weir-Mitchell, he remarked airily, “Oh,
that! We threw that on the scrapheap
long ago!”
The next specialist I consulted found I
was suffering from “intestinal putrefaction,”
and recommended a restricted dietary and
antiseptic tablets. On advice I then went
to a surgical specialist. He had me X-rayed.
The portrait of my internal regions disclosed
a grave condition, and he sent me to a
fellow-surgeon, who confirmed the diagnosis
and recommended an immediate operation.
Being a physical coward I postponed this,
and all subsequent specialists have declared
that the condition is of no importance and
that the operation is only successful in two
out of five cases, anyhow.
I then got in tow with a mouth, nose,
throat and ear specialist. He removed my
tonsils, straightened my septum, bored holes
in several antra and had most of my teeth
removed. He expressed regret at not being
able to find anything wrong with my ears,
but suspected that the trouble lay in a
deep-seated cell in the skull, and professed
his readiness to have a go at it, in quest
of evidence. At his suggestion I went to
a brain specialist. He thought it was
migraine, and there was a new migraine
anti-toxin with which he had had “consider-
able success,” so he gave me 11 doses of it
He also found that I was suffering from an
excess of liquid, thus reversing the decision
of a previous specialist, who had ordered
water treatment.
There being no improvement I looked
up a hay-fever expert. This gentleman made
a comfortable living scratching patients’
arms and rubbing pollen preparations in
them. He found I was sensitive to dahlias,
rye grass, roses and house-dust, and gave me
a mixed anti-toxin combining all these
agents. There was no improvement, so I
went to another neurologist. He was a
mixture of breezy humor and medical pre-
scriptions. By this time I had become an
adept at reading the handwriting of doctors,
and was able to note that he was engaged
in ordering the usual laxatives and iron
tonics plus something to give my glands a
jolt. The effect lasted four to seven days
but no longer. I was unable to find an
elbow specialist, so did not learn whether
my trouble was located in that department.
The above chronicle is not quite con-
secutive and several treatments have been
omitted. They had one salient feature,
however, beside the fact that in my case
they had no validity. With few exceptions
no specialist had a conference with any
previous specialist, even if they flourished
in the same building. Every specialist
diagnosed my trouble as being located in the
region of my body mentioned on his name
plate. It was as if motor mechanicians
were divided into carburetter experts,
vacuum-tank experts and tappet experts,
and lived in different parts of the town
and never spoke to each other; but of
course such things could not be, motor
mechanics being more or less a science.
I am prepared to hope that a State-owned
medical service would cure some of the
abuses of the specialist system; but not
until the doctors themselves show some
disposition to tackle them. Until then I
shall steadfastly oppose the fulfilment of
“C. Oesophagus’s” dream of the day “when
the ordinary individual will have as much
hope of escaping paying his health insur-
ance as his income tax.”
ULAT BERBALIK.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ten Income Taxes.
N.S.W. Treasurer Stevens said during the
Lane Cove by-election campaign that
Lionel Hill, the worried Labor Premier of
South Aus., had proposed united action to
secure a uniform rate of company taxation
throughout Australia, and a low rate at
that. Not a bad suggestion, but The
Bulletin has a better. It is that taxation
of incomes from all sources should be trans-
ferred to the Commonwealth, the States to
share in the proceeds and to have the ex-
clusive right to impose estate duties, and
land-value and amusement taxes, except in
Federal territory. In short, that there
should be one Australian income tax, made
simple and yet comprehensive, and falling
as lightly as possible on the thrifty and
enterprising, proper attention being given
to the incidence of other taxes, particularly
the customs and excise duties and the
imminent sales tax.
Our chaos of income taxes has become an
unmitigated curse. Twelve months ago
there were seven of them, six State and
one Federal; and even then the Conjmon-
wealth and N. S. Wales charged 10s. m the
£ on personal earnings exceeding £7600 and
on property income exceeding £6500. Very
shortly there will be 10, N. S. Wales and
Victoria having imposed special taxes (3d.
in the £ in N. S. Wales) to furnish relief
works, and Queensland being about to fol-
low suit; moreover, Victoria has shoved
up its ordinary rates, and there have been
two stiff increases of Federal tax.
The effect on industry is serious, especi-
ally as there are very natural fears that
worse may come. Shareholders in struggling
companies ask themselves “'What is the
good of carrying on, when if we do make
profits these reckless Governments will grab
an inordinate proportion?” Others minded
to start labor-employing enterprises hold
back, the present being so discouraging and
the future so uncertain. Others again put
all they can scrape together into the fre-
quent Government loan, the interest on
which is taxed by the Commonwealth but
not by the States, though the reason, no
man knows. A great deal of revenue is
lost in this way, though it wouldn’t be
lost if there were one Australian income
tax and one only; and the loss increases
with every loan. Again, the State taxes
are avoided on a large scale (quite legiti-
mately in numerous cases) by men of
means who distribute their investments so
as to take advantage of the several exemp-
tions, and by seafaring people, commercial
travellers, shearers, bookmakers and so
forth who spend part of the year in one
State and part in another or others.
Naturally, with 10 income taxes instead
of one (and a child-endowment tax thrown
in in N. S. Wales) administrative costs are
terrific; nor do the Government returns
tell the whole story. The taxes are so con-
fused and confusing that an extensive
literature and an army of so-called taxation
experts have grown up about them. Taxa-
tion and assessment bills, crammed with
obscure phraseology and baffling arithmeti-
cal formulas, are drafted for uncomprehend-
ing legislators and passed in a hurried sit-
ting or two, generally at the end of the
session. The whole business of interpre-
tation and enforcement is left to seven
commissioners, who are a law to them-
selves, like the arbitration Judges. Case


There was an old woman
Who lived in a shoe
She had so many children
She didn't know what to do.
50 SHE BOUGHT THEM SOME SHOVELS
TO PLAY IN THE SANDS,
Then said* Now, thank goodness,
They're off of my hands’!
after case has come to light in which these
extraordinary powers have been abused,
but abuses are generally submitted to, it
being too costly to challenge them. The
Bulletin knows a Sydney man who last
year received income from a Victorian
property, the first for 35 years. This in-
come, added to his salary, is taxed by
the Commonwealth; it is taxed twice by
Victoria (ordinary and unemployment im-
posts), and the salary is taxed twice by
N. S. Wales. Now the N.S.W. Commissioner
demands a sixth tax, claiming that the Vic-
torian income is subject to the N.S.W. un-
employment tax, and to the Devil with
common fairness and constitutional rights!
The burden of these taxes has become in-
tolerable, outrageous. It will have to be
lightened before Australia can prosper.
The Beginnings of Industries.
The decision of four of the best-feathered
Broken Hill cos. to see whether the kero-
sene-shale industiy can be put on its feet
again is one of the most cheering circum-
stances of the month.
The intrusion of the Commonwealth Oil
Corporation into this Australian industiy
20-odd years ago was a calamity. Up to
that time the shale business had been making
a little profit, and there was always a good
prospect of something large and very profit-
able being built on the small N. S. Wales
enterprises of Capertee and Little Hartley.
Unfortunately the pretentious English co.
which swallowed the small local ventures
was the most gorgeously mismanaged in
Australian histoiy, and, while it gave birth
to no giant, succeeded in killing the useful
dwarfs. Mr. John Fell’s subsequent attempt
to turn the. unquestionable riches of Caper-
tee and Wolgan to account was handicapped
by unreasonable labor demands and by
the bad planning of the C.O.C. enterprise.
With most expensive works—including a
mad railway—in existence, the inclination
to try to make some use of them, even
though they are unsatisfactory, takes a lot
of resisting. The Broken Hill cos. will,
however, be strong enough to scrap when
they know that a thing should be scrapped;
and that and their own need of crude oil—
for use in the great central power plant they
are erecting at the mines—are the best
guarantees that these richest shales in the
world will have a thorough testing.
Whether that leads to a great new indus-
try or not, it will in itself illustrate once
more the vast potentialities of the smallest
enterprises. Fifty years ago a now almost
forgotten silver-mine was worked at Sunny
Corner, at the back of'the N.S.W. Blue
Mountains. It never was even half a world-
beater, but the flow of molten silver-lead
from its little furnace sent teamsters knap-
ping outcrops as they passed, and so pre-
sently we had, first, Thackaringa, then Purna-
moota and finally Broken Hill. What
Broken Hill has led on to nobody knows.
Apart from the tremendous effect on pro-
specting throughout Australia and Tas-
mania, to it was directly due the establish-
ment, first of the coke industry in Aus-
tralia, later the iron and steel industry at
Newcastle, and still later the electrolytic
zinc industry. Now the coke industry has
its dozen of by-products, the Newcastle iron
and steel industry has its dozen of sub-
sidiaries, and the zinc industry has been a
handmaiden to many others. To-day there
is this great hope that the Broken Hill cos.
will give Australia a mineral-oil industry.
Every time a Government takes a tiny
infant business in hand and gives it pro-
tection of some sort there is an explosion
of mirth—to “tax all Australia” for the
sake of a factory employing a man, a boy
and a dog is declared to be too ridiculous
altogether. There wasn’t even a man and
a boy and a dog present at the birth of
the great Australian zinc industry. There
was only a sick man experimenting with oil
and acid in his kitchen-laboratory!
#
New Notes for Old Gold.
Dear Bulletin, —You have expressed your-
self in favor of a bonus to stimulate the
production of new gold. What’s the matter
with advocating a similar bonus for old
gold? .
The Federal Government is in dire need
of gold in London, and the Commonwealth
Bank has already shipped there as much of
its gold reserve as it safely can. It there-
fore behoves us to explore all likely avenues
in our search for the precious metal; much
on the same lines as the Germans went
looking for brass during the war.
The agreement with the trading banks
to pool their resources in London and give
the Commonwealth Government first call
thereon will prove most embarrassing to
such of the banks as have large and valu-
able importing connections; 'and, although
the trading banks’ gold was taken from
them at par (most unjustly, to my mind),
it seems unlikely that they would object
to the payment of a bounty to those people
who have gold in coin or any other f<prm to
sell. It would all make the position so
much easier for the banks.
The Bulletin in one of its recent issues
made reference to the fact that “the old
lady was pawning her jewellery,” the
remark being prompted by the shipments
of gold then going forward to London to
meet our interest payments there. Why
not now invite “the old lady” to melt down
some more of her old gold junk, which
must exist in very large quantities? The
amount of old gold lying idle in the form
of old and unused jewellery, accumulated
during the course of the last 100 years or
so, must be very large, and the payment of
a bonus would surely have the effect of
bringing a lot of it to its proper place —
the melting-pot.
The rate of bonus could properly be de-
cided by .the selling rate from time to time
for London cover (which, of course, is
what the gold is). Present rates should
be sufficient to bring a lot of gold, coined
and otherwise, to light; and there seems
no reason why the people holding it should
not have the chance to make something out
of it and in so doing help their country at
the same time.—Yours, etc., G.
—4
The Latham Prescription.
In his attack on the Budget, Federal Oppo-
sition-leader Latham dodged the more
important aspect of his large subject. He
maintained that the proposed £14,000,000 of
new taxation isn’t wholly necessary because
it is quite possible to save £3,999,000 of
expenditure. This was his list of economies:
Baby bonus to be given only where the
family income is £0 weekly or less ..£200,000
Assistance to coal industry.. .. . 150,000
Public Sendee and Parliament .. .. 1,000,000
Aids to unemployed.. .. .. .. 1,000,000
Road-making .. .. • • • • • • 1,500,000
Bounties .. .. • • • • • •
Peace Tribunal .. 3,000
£3,999,000
The saving of £200,000 or possibly more
out of the £660,000 spent on baby bonus
should be possible, for the old Labor idea that
every new Australian mother is, and always
will be, in need of public assistance has
been a grotesque foolishness for 18 foolish
years. It should be possible to cut a mil-
lion off the cost of the Federal Public
Service and Federal Parliament without
sacking anybody whose work is of the least
value. The refusal of the Labor Govern-
ment to make the lavishly paid Legislature
retrench itself to some extent is a disgrace
both to the Cabinet and the party; for,
though the possibilities aren’t so large
as is commonly supposed, the example
would have great value. The coal conces-
sions and the industrial peace tribunal
(which doesn’t produce any peace) aren’t
commendable, and bounties are always dis-
putable.
But the expenditure in aid of unemploy-
ment is charity, and the road grant, what-
ever it may have been when Latham’s
predecessor raised it to the limit of
£2,000,000 per annum, is now a clumsy and
muddled form of charity. It is paid, not
because there is an urgent need for more
roads, but because there is an urgent
demand for human sustenance, and even
if it was spread out more thinly than it
is the demand for sustenance wouldn’t
be met. These big charity items should
be remorselessly cut out of the Federal
expenditure as soon as reproductive work
is made available, and it can be made avail-
able by reducing imports, which reached
insane dimensions under the Bruce and
Hughes Ministries, and by forcing Aus-
tralia to make things in its own factories
and grow things in its own fields instead
of buying the products of foreign fields and
factories. To cut down the charity vote
before this industrial revolution has made
big progress would merely turn a mass of
workers and a good many loafers adrift on
the world, and they might. make a most
unpleasant row about staying adrift.
The Freetrader’s Unpaid-for Hat.
Dear Bulletin, —When I consider the
Freetrader and his principles and his clothes
and his hat (the last is conspicuous, being
the topmost part of him), I wonder that
he isn’t more particular about paying
honestly for the imported article instead
of so frequently leaving the bill, with
heavy interest attached, to his Australian
posterity. No doubt he will swear that he
paid, but that only shows his unreliability.
He may have given the retailer an lOU for
it—a Government promise to produce gold
on demand. For many years and to a very
great extent that has been done only by
borrowing money abroad and putting pos-
terity’s name to the promissory-note. If
the proud and inflated wearer had sent
abroad gold, or something which would sell
for gold, he would have paid for the goods;
but, as the position stands, he is clothed
in something which isn’t exactly stolen, or
cadged, or obtained by false pretences, but
a good deal of all three. Men wearing
unpaid-for hats and other raiment are as
common in a busy Sydney street as waste
paper, and nobody takes any notice of them.
Yet it is a profoundly mean action for a
man to charge his tailor’s or hatter’s bill to
the Public Debt; and a country which floats
big loans because its exports, by the repres-
sion or neglect of local production, don’t
nearly pay for its imports, does this con-
stantly.
If an imported hat costs £1 and is charged
up to the Public Debt (being one of the
surplus imports which have for the last
10 years or so been consistently debited
to the Public Debt), then it also costs
about Is. per annum for interest. This
lasts while the hat lasts, and, in addi-
tion, after it is dead, while the debt lasts,
and the debt is much the more durable of
the two.
In a year when one-fourth of the Com-
monwealth’s foreign purchases are paid for
out of foreign loans, every such purchase
which is nominally priced at £1 should, in
common honesty, be ticketed at £1 plus
an annuity of 3d. When one finds old
imported clo’ in a dustbin, there is room
for philosophical reflection as to how much
it has cost, and is costing, and is still going
to cost the taxpayer by way of interest.
The Freetrader who babbles about relative
prices, often on the basis of faked statistics,
leaves this most important item out of the
calculation. It doesn’t come into the cal-
culation if a nation pays for its impoits
with its own earnings as the British people
do, but Australia has, for a number of
years, lived in a set of conditions of its
own.—Yours, etc., J. E.
♦
A last-minute slip in “New Taxes and
Old Barnacles” (B. 16/7/’3O) made the new
letter-postage rate 2d. per -Joz. It should,
of course, be 2d. per loz.


No Investor Is Safe Without It
How many tens of thousands of people were ruined in the ’nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
and the bad?
We are on the edge of a similar disaster. Already scores of companies have gone into liquidation. But no great amount of
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen?
The files and other data at the command of the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” are so complete that the companies themselves often
apply for permission to consult them.
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
No investor, great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make sure it
is safe.
You need not buy the “Monthly” without testing its value. Send for a sample copy, along with 1 stamp to cover postage, and
judge whether it is not worth 22/6 a year to you.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The £10,000,000 loan (paper money and
very useful for local requirements) has been
over-subscribed. Some of the amount was
put up by outside people who run lucrative
businesses and would rather have sent the
profits “home” to England or the United
States, but that being out of the question
for a time are investing them here at 6
per cent, in the safest security this country
can show. It is amazingly high interest to
pay in time, especially as it is free
of State income tax.
A million of the new 10 millions is to be
lent to South Australia so that it can repay
a million which the Commonwealth has
already lent it. S.A.’s overdraft has been
stopped at the Commonwealth Bank, and its
Treasurer reckons it not worth while to pre-
pare a Budget till he finds how much more Scul-
lin can do for him.
An Australian company has taken over
the Newnes (N.S.W.) shalefield. The revived
industry is expected to support 300 men
when it starts, and 1000 men if it doesn’t
stop too suddenly. In the depressed con-
dition of the western coalfields this is good
news. But the Communist push, which
receives its orders from Moscow, will regard
Newnes as a public enemy and a stumbling-
block in the way of the reconstruction of
society, so it would be advisable to lay in
a pair of boots with a strong toecap.
“It is recalled that Lang, when Premier of N. S.
Wales, tried to put a tax of ss. in the £ on the
Australian profits of foreign film companies. Scullin’s
much-heralded tax is Is. 4d. in the £ on 30 p.c.
of their net receipts, or less.”
GREAT PERDOOCER: “Goil, if that Lang guy’s
Labor, then I’ll change muh pahlitics.”
The struggle to disencumber Queensland
of its State cattle stations is still heard of
at intervals. Two w r ere put under offer the
other day. For Buckingham Downs not even
a sporting offer was received. For Keeroon-
gooloo, which cost the State £156,000 in 1919,
when Ryan was king with Theodore and
McCormack assisting, the only tender was
£23,000.
Young H. P. Fitzsimons did well to hold
the Lane Cove Assembly seat for the N.S.W.
Nationalists with about 2200 votes to spare.
Labor-Socialism polled 4080 primaries as
against 2987 in 1927, but on that occasion
it put no weight behind its man; in the by-
election it had troops of union secretaries
and political civil servants working for Hutt.
The electorate has a strong infusion of civil
servants, and the result suggests that most
of them have no faith in Lang or his lavish
promises and object to the Laborising of
their organisations. Hughes’s “Australian
party” ran ex-mayor Dunn, who stood as an
independent three years ago. His vote went
up from 2585 to 3399, but probably 95 per
cent, was for the man and 5 per cent, for
the “party.”
“Bavin is one of the most partisan
Premiers the State has ever known ; there is
only one class he fights for —vested interests.”
Thus Hughes, snarlingly, at Lane Cove.
Billy has the advantage of Bavin, having-
fought for two classes in turn ; and vested
interests certainly rewarded him.
It costs £lB a week above receipts to run
the legislators’ refreshment-room at Can-
berra. The over-Fed. Parliament.
Earthquake and storm have ravaged
Southern Italy, which is one of the globe’s
danger spots. Amid the usual mixture of
slaughter, terror, heroism and sublime self-
sacrifice the one recorded spot of humor has
been supplied by a cardinal, who said that
“the disaster was caused by the scandalous
conduct of the people; women’s fashions
had attracted the wrath and vengeance of
Providence.” There are abundant traces
of earthquakes before civilised humanity
was invented, so they were probably due
to the sinful luxury of Mrs. and Miss Mam-
moth, and the shameful way they spent
Old Man Mammoth’s money on draping
their bulky limbs.
As money is needed to pay
creditors, a Supply Bill is
being whisked through the
Vic. Assembly, now in action
again. Traffic Co-ordination,
Marketing, Gas and Rural
Bank bills will be brought for-
ward in the first few weeks, if
the Opposition can be kept
quiet.
The casual dot-and-dash
artist has definitely lost his
job; the last of the temporary
telegraphists has been dis-
missed, war service notwith-
standing. It is rough on the
poor chaps, especially as the
Commonwealth has a monopoly
of the business, but Federal
Labor can’t go on paying 250
four-figure salaries and keep
the humble temporary tele-
graphist too.
The bills to be spread before
the Queensland Parliament
this session deal with a bewild-
ering variety of subjects, from
the control of racing to the
banishment of beauty competi-
tions. It seems queer to deny
beauty its competition, but one
of these large-scale exposures
of female flesh had a tragic
sequel in Queensland. And
there is a strong tendency to
liken the business to that of
the niggers who sell the dirty
postcards at Port Said.
N.S.W. Agricultural Minis-
ter Thorby reports that
15,000,000 bushels of the last
N.S.W. wheat crop are still
unsold. Yet for a long
time every letter which the Post Office
delivered bore the inscription “Grow More
Wheat,” and the farmers have gone and
done it. ■ Thorby fears that the' bulk of
the wheat will have to be sold abroad at a
loss, unless Scullin finds sufficient gratuity
to turn the loss into a living wage. It may
not be as bad as that —the overseas market
shows signs of improving—but the misguided
enthusiasm of Parker Moloney has thrown
a big responsibility on Scullin. That gentle-
man, like the State Treasurers, is more
anxious to get extra money out of the farmer
than to put money into him.
Just on four years ago S. Aus. Premier
Hill announced in his Budget speech that
lie was allowing for “a windfall of £185,000
frbm Victoria” in respect of border-railway
traffic diversion. A desultory argument
followed between Commisioner Webb (since
departed) and the Auditor-General as to
whether the £185,000 should have been
credited to revenue or capital; Webb trium-
phantly reported at the end of 1928 that
it had figured as a revenue item in the
Vic. accounts. On his return to office (he
was out for three years) Hill found that his
“windfall” had never been collected, and
after some heated observations on the sub-
ject Attorney-General Denny went to Mel-
bourne to see the Hogans about it. Their
Perhaps Bill Denny will be his own bailiff.
reply was that Victoria denied liability, and
would pay nothing “until details of . the
claim are known and have been studied.”
Denny feels almost wild enough to put a
bailiff in Hogan’s office or garnishee his
salary.
As a pre-election move Tas. Labor Oppo-
sition launched a censure motion at the
MePliee Government, denouncing it for not
having “immediately made available- the
necessary funds to provide work for the
unemployed.” McPhee replied that he
couldn’t perform impossibilities with loan
funds limited this year to £114,000, but he
had nevertheless kept unemployment figures
pretty low compared with those of other States,
and had pulled through with a deficit of
£20,000 or so. He positively refused to
impose any more taxation, and wound up
UP TO MOSES AGAIN.
“Moses Gabb, M.H.R., denounced the expenditure on the
Parliamentary refreshment-rooms at Canberra, pointing out that
members could l get refreshments at two Government hotels —both
losing concerns—a few hundred yards away.”
“And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, ‘Take the
rod and gather thou the assembly together.’
And Moses lifted up his hand .... and the congre-
gation drank.”—Numbers xx.
by announcing a 121 per cent, cut in poli-
ticians’ salaries. Obviously a “bowelless
Tory.”
There have been sporadic strikes against
the new Federal shearing award, but after
thinking the matter over for eight or nine
days the A.W.U. executive has decided that
it is no time for a general upheaval. So
members of the union have been authorised
to accept work at the new rates. This is a
rebuff for the Communists, who were pre-
paring for a grand disturbance, but the Red
fools have been consoled to some extent by
a “victory” in Sydney—the pulling-out of
hundreds of relief workers engaged on one
of the Bavinshaw Government’s sand-shift-
ing jobs. Many of the poor devils didn’t
want to come out, and it is surely the most
pitiful strike on record. It ought to be the
end of the sand-shifting business, but the
Government, being short of ideas, is going
on with the miserable substitute for pro-
ductive effort.
Premier Mitchell, of Westralia, complains
that the tariff has made exchange impossible
because the man in England must send us
goods worth £3OOO and accept goods worth
£2OOO in return. Premier Jimmy doesn’t
say how the miracle comes about, but if
Britain sends him £3OOO worth of goods in
return for £2OOO worth of wheat, the most-
confused Freetrader should be pleased. James
also declares that if his State is once freed
from the shackles of the tyrant “the best
brains of the Empire” can be “marshalled”
for its development. Henry Parkes, who was
alteo a man of large ideas, once asked a visiting
German diplomatist if he (Henry) was much
talked about at Berlin, and was assured
that he was almost the sole topic of conver-
sation. Jimmy possibly aims at a similar
distinction.
Vic. Police Commissioner Blarney is apply-
ing for reappointment at the reduced salary
of £1250 p.a. His chances are not bright;
he is disliked in certain quarters for having
maintained order at the waterside. “Ad-
vanced” Laborites would like the force to be
treated as the Scullidores have treated the
army.
An almost forgotten spook was material-
ised in the Queensland Assembly when some-
one asked if the Government had renewed
the heads-we-lose-tails-you-win agreement
made by its predecessors for the sale of coal
from the Collinsville State mine. The reply
was an emphatic negative, but no further
comment was made, the apparition being
permitted to fade away.
Chauvel, in his last report as Inspector-
General of the A.M.F., warns the Common-
wealth that British sea-power is falling
below “the minimum required for the safe-
guarding of Imperial interests,” and that
“Australia’s present armament is not con-
sistent with this unenviable position.”
“Australia,” in fact, “is the most isolated
and sparsely populated portion of the
Empire, and therefore occupies the position
of greatest danger in time of war.” Labor
Minister Green’s attitude seems to be that
the country will be perfectly safe, even
though warships are scrapped and the in-
structional staff of the army is put off for
eight weeks without pay, so long as Shep-
herd, the secretary of the Defence Depart-
ment, gets his £2OOO a year and expenses.
Although there has been a slump in
Federal arbitration cases Chief Judge Deth-
ridge is being kept busy; he is to conduct
the inquiry into the grievances of British
settlers (mainly ex-service men) against the
Vic. Government. McPherson refused an in-
vestigation, but ITogan proved more accom-
modating. A man from the Crown Solicitor’s
office is to watch the State’s interests.
L. F. Giblin, Prof, of Economics at Mel-
bourne Uni., was a Tas. Labor Assembly-
man before he went to the war. He is now
styled an “enemy of the working class,” and
an attempt has been made to gag him,
because he contributed to a daily paper a
series of simple talks to John Smith, which
have been republished as a free pamphlet.
One angry Trades Hall critic asked whether
“a servant of the people” could not be
prohibited from attacking “working-class
doctrine.” Bob Ross mildly suggested that
it the Labor party believed in its economics
it ought to welcome criticism, and instead of
trying to “discipline” Giblin an effort is to
be made to answer him in another pam-
phlet.
The first rule about the application of
a sales tax has been, mastered by Mr.
Scullin, who has had some advice on the
subject from a Canadian expert. In reply
to a question the Priminister said the tax
would be paid by the last wholesaler to
make a sale to a retailer. It is a matter
of simple arithmetic. Take the case of
a consignment of goods which cost A, the
manufacturer or importer, £lOO, is sold
to B, then by B to C, and then by C to D,
a retailer. If A, B and C each take 10
p.c. profit, then if A pays the tax the. Com-
monwealth gets 505.; if B pays it the
Treasury rakes off 555.; if C pays, 60s. 6d.
rolls into the national purse.
In theory the disturbance which Gandhi
started in India was a matter of the brown
man “rightly struggling to be free.” It
has developed into the familiar old shindy
in which the Mohammedan thinks himself
free to fry the Hindu, and the Hindu con-
The cause of it all.
siders himself at liberty to club the Mos-
lem. Gandhi’s peaceful salt-boiling move-
ment may have been a fizzle, possibly because
no one knew exactly what it was. about, but
it has been followed by a great gingermg-up
of Indian existence.
The Prime Minister’s defence of the Bud-
get was the speech of the week; and he was
effective when replying to the business men
who urged him to borrow instead of taxing,
and to the Page-Lathams who, having loaded
him with the £20,000,000 roads agreement,
now want him to wriggle out of it. But
his attempt to justify the refusal to cut
salaries was of the feeblest description. If
members have been overpaid,” he said, let
us pass a resolution to that effect.” Ihe
question is not whether members have been
overpaid, but whether it isn’t an outrage to
continue the 1920 scale of pay-—that was the
year in which Ministers voted themselves
another £BOO a year and members another
£4oo—when the national income, as Scullm
himself admits, has been reduced tremen-
dously and people are being taxed to the
bone to maintain a huge army of unem-
ployed. The same applies to the tall poppies
of the service. The Priminister was indig-
nant at the proposal to lower these per-
sons’ salaries 10 per cent. (“It would be tanta-
mount to a special tax!”), and that with-
out reference to the Public .Service arbi-
trator. But his Government is taking a lot
more than 10 per cent, from “rationed” mili-
tary officers, and it didn’t go to the arbitra-
tor in their case.


SOCIETY
"and it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Manet” : Broome Park, formerly held by
Hugh D. Mclntosh, of Sydney, and now bougdit
by Lund, the oil magnate, throws some in-
teresting sidelights on Kitchener’s character.
It is full of period furniture. The lovely
Adam drawing-room has eighteenth-century
pictures as well as pieces. However, every-
thing in the house, with the exception of
some exquisite and priceless screens (looted
from the Summer Palace at Pekin) in a
room on the first floor, is bogus. The de-
signs of the mantelpieces, etc., were drawn
by Kitchener himself in the houses of his
friends; there is a Blue Boy copied from the
original; a refectory table in the library that
looks five centuries older than it is, and
so on. Kitchener argued, sensibly enough,
that as he couldn’t afford the real stuff he
would give himself the pleasure of living
with what looked like it. Mclntosh kept
HARDLY A LEG TO STAND ON.
“What was his excuse for being late?”
“Oh, a very slender one —with a green hat.”
everything as Kitchener had left it inside
the house, but altered and greatly improved
the grounds. Kitchener died just too soon
to inhabit Broome. When he dashed down
from his War Office job he used to occupy
a hut in the park. And if he had lived he
mightn’t have been able to keep the big
place up. He had spent the whole of his
fortune on it when the end came, and was
relying on another Parliamentary grant to
maintain it.
* * * *
“Junius”: The Parliamentary reporter
who wakened from a beery sleep and essayed
to move, from over the Speaker’s head, that
“this House adjourn for a million blanky
years” may be a legendary figure, but a
Westralian leader-writer managed to be even
more insulting to one of his Majesty’s Min-
isters some 15 years ago. The legislator
had just finished his contribution to some
controversial topic when a note "was deliv-
ered to him from the press gallery. Open-
ing it he read, “Contemptible liar and hypo-
crite !” Looking aloft to ascertain who it
was that he had impressed so unfayorably
he encountered the baleful gaze of the news-
paper man, who jerked his head at the note
as if to intimate that it exactly conveyed his
sentiments. Then lie left in good order, pos-
sibly to avoid being hustled out by
authority. The abusive note was brought to
the Speaker’s notice, but that official decided
that he had no power to do more than bar
the offender from the press gallery until he
apologised. I believe some sort of amende
was made, probably as sincere as most Par-
liamentary withdrawals.
* * * *
“X.S.” : The offences brought before Child-
ren’s Courts in Vic. in the last 12 months
ranged from 1951 cases
of larceny to four of
drunkenness. Of all the
children committed to
reformatory prisons
and subsequently re-
leased, since 1924 only
22 have succumbed a
second time. Of the
probation cases last
year 609 were satisfac-
tory, 67 fair and 04
recalcitrant; and 1053
persons were released,
of whom 1004 were
boys and 49 girls.
A fault in the system
is that the 22 courts
frequently fail to co-
ordinate, so that a
young brigand may be
released as a first
offender by one magi-
strate after having
passed through other
courts. Chief causes of
juvenile delinquency,
according to the officer
in charge, are aban-
donment of family tra-
dition, loss of respect
for parents and re-
ligion, and the casual-
ness of guardians in letting children ge
unattended to tripey picture-shows.
* * * $
“Ex-P.8.1.”: “Sar’-Major” says he never
knew a Digger whose hair turned white
under some terrible strain (B. 16/7/’3O).
I have. At Voormezelle, in T 5, our battalion
H.Q. was shelled one night, and the cellars
were badly blown in. After working all
night and most of the next day we extricated
the victims, most of them dead. Amongst
the living were the adjutant and the M.G.
officer, both black-haired men. They were
lying almost side by side, pinned down by
the same heavy baulk of timber, and the
M.G. man had another piece lying diagon-
ally across the back of his head. The adju-
tant’s hair was almost snowy white, -and the
other had a strip of white hair across his
head, where the wood had been touching
his skull. The adjutant died that night; and
I had a drink in Blighty in 1919 with the
M.G. officer, still wearing his white stripe.
“Spare Corp.”: Cases of hair turning
white may have been rare among Diggers
(B. 16/7/’3O), but I remember one instance
very vividly. Father and son were together
in a strong-post, the son a recent reinstoush-
ment, having applied to be with his dad’s
unit. Dad took the youngster’s place on a
fighting patrol; and the son, on sentry and
a bit windy, took a pot shot at a solitary
figure approaching the post. The cry that
followed told him the worst—he had shot his
own father, who had got out of touch with
the patrol and was making his way back,
The stretcher-bearers rushed the wounded
man away; there was a change-over that
night, which prevented the boy from obtain-
ing any exact news of how the old man was
getting on. In the morning the youngster’s
hair was white; later, when dad recovered
from his wound and returned to his unit,
it was queer to see the two together—the
father’s crisp black hair contrasting with
the whiteness of his son’s thatch,
......
“Cedilla”: “Yes,” said Timothy impres-
sively, “hair certainly can turn grey in a
night. Mine did. I used to live near a worked-
out goldfield—shafts everywhere. One pitch
black night I was on my way home alone. It
was impossible to see a foot ahead, so I
had to feel my way with a walking-stick.
Stumbling over a stone I dropped the stick.
Picking it up again I poked the ground
ahead of me, and felt nothing. Thinking it
a pretty lucky escape I turned round and
prepared to retrace my steps. I pushed the
stick down where the ground ought to have
been, but couldn’t feel a blanky thing. I
poked all round, but no. I was apparently
marooned on a pinnacle just big enough to
stand on, and how the devil I’d got there I
couldn’t understand. There I stood for six
and a half hours till daylight came. Then all
was explained. There wasn’t a shaft within
200 yards. I was -standing in the middle of
an open paddock. And then I noticed that
instead of picking up my walking-stick, I
had grabbed a bit of wood only a foot long!”
WHAT CAN A FELLER DOf
JIM: “What yer looking so serious about, Angus? Just ’cause yer mother said to be
careful of yer clothes?”
ANGUS: “Yes. If I sit down I wear out me pants an’ if I stand up I wear out me
boots.”
“Philm” : A Perth shoe store recently dis-
covered that the feminine mind runs true to
type under all conditions. An order from
the country was for “a pair of smart black
shoes suitable for an anticipated funeral.
* ❖ * *
“Zwig”: An Englishman, whose know-
ledge of Malayan wasn’t quite as perfect as
he believed was endeavoring to explain to
a native mandoer at the Hotel Wynveld,
Sourabaya, that he wanted his breakfast
served in his room next morning. An Aus-
tralian seated near by, noticing the English-
man’s predicament, offered to assist him in
conveying his wish to the stupefied attendant,
but the Englishman said snappishly, “Please
be so kind as to refrain from interfering with
mv use of Malayan!” “Certainly,” answered
the Australian, “but you’ve just told the
mandoer that you want your throat cut at
breakfast-time, and these Javanese are very
obliging people.”
* * * =!=
“T.P.”: Cousin Jack banqueters in Mel-
bourne, after a wordy argument on the
composition of the old-time
pasty, agreed to refer the ques-
tion to Oswald Pryor, of Adel-
aide, Bulletin cartoonist and
accepted authority on all
things Cornish. The verdict
proved all the disputants right
in some particulars and all of
them wrong in others. “My
mother,” began the arbiter,
‘made ‘ ’erby’ pasties for a
change—leeks, onions, turmits,
parsley, but not meat.” He
referred with gusto to another
with “nothing but potatoes in
its in’ards —these while hot
were opened like an oyster and
spread with butter.” Mention
was also made of squab pasty,
which, instead of pigeons, held
meat, currants, vegetables and
—jam.” But the O.S. variety
topped the list in Pryor’s
opinion, being 18 inches long
with almost everything avail-
able inside. This was finally
cut into bra-a-ve sections, and
rationed out to the family.
The judgment finished with a
reminiscence of a dialogue on
one of the artist’s old mines.
Cap’n, to small boy seeking a
job: “How old are ’ee, m’son?”
Nipper puts his age on ja
couple of years. Cap’n: “Well,
goest ’ome an’ eat few moore
pasties to make ’ee grow; then
try again.”
* * *
“Whitehall”: The Duke of Edinburgh, in
distributing presents of jewellery in M.L. and
having the bills sent to the Govei’nment
(“Cran,” B. 23/7/’3O), was following a royal
tradition of great antiquity. Ex-King
Amanullah exploited the custom when he
was in Paris just before his dethronement.
One of his favorites was a comely young
hotel porter, and to the fury of the French
Government —then in the throes of a cam-
paign to “Save the franc” —bills to the tune
of over £5OOO were run up in the Rue de la
Prix on behalf of this youth and others.
The Government did not dare to object at
the time, as the Afghan sovereign was
credited with powers of international import-
ance, but he had hardly departed before
hordes of officials fell on those who had
benefited by his vicarious generosity and
retrieved his gifts. He penalised the
British and Russian Governments, both of
whom were angling hard for his favor, on
similar lines. It was estimat'd after he had
returned to Afghanistan that Western
Governments had spent over a million sterl-
ing in attempts to impress him. And every
bean wasted, as usually happens when money
is blewed on travelling royalties.
* * * *
“1.G.8.”: Peter Kavanagh, who preceded
Sergeant Walsh as head of the staff insti-
tuted to cope with gold-stealing (B.
16/7/’3O), was probably the smartest detec-
tive Westralia ever had. There was some-
thing about him that suggested an alert
terrier, and although he has been dead 20
years “Kav” left a name that is still
remembered around the Golden Mile. He
had some interesting stories of the devices
employed to outwit him by the wily gold
thief and the even wilier receiver. On one
occasion he watched for days before he satis-
led himself that “snide” gold was being taken
from a treatment plant to a miner’s humpy.
He secured a search warrant, and finally his
lengthy vigil was rewarded when .he saw a
furtive-looking emissary sneak circuitously
to the shack, deliver what was presumably
the goods and depart as hastily. A few
minutes later the ’tec emerged from his
hiding-place and pounced. There was no
one in the house except a buxom woman
cooking the dinner, who indignantly professed
an utter ignorance of yellow metal and evil-
doing. Peter searched every nook and cranny
where a bar of smelted gold might have been
popped at a moment’s notice, and the lady
watched him scornfully till he approached
a saucepan of Irish stew that was bubbling
on the stove. It might have been a shade
of anxiety in her face that gave him his
clue; a moment later the gold was retrieved
from under the spuds and onions.
* * * *
“Nikko”: They do this rationing differ-
ently in some other countries. A young
German, working in a big Sydney concern,
was advised that he was to stand down one
week in five, and he replied cheerfully that
he had been used to that in his own land
when times were not too prosperous. But
his amazement was profound when he found
that in addition to no pay he was to have
no work. To help his firm he was quite
willing to do his bit by working on his
payless week, but he was firmly told that
was not the Australian way.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Divorce petitioners
run to all ages; a couple who worried N.S.W.
Justice Owen the other day had been mar-
ried for 33 years and raised a family of nine
before the conjugal yoke became insup-
portable. The breach began when husband
and wife quarrelled over the former’s objec-
tion to a swain who came a-wooing the
youngest daughter; it led to a separation and
finally a suit on one side for desertion and
on the other for cruelty. ’Sonah dismissed
both, but the parties refused determinedly
to consider a reconciliation.
* * ; Ic *
“Hamer”: An old maid in a Sydney sub-
urb has three little dogs which never appear
in public without the coats, enu
broidered, which she has made for them
with her own fair hands. The coats have
become a habit. The other day when a
visitor called, their mistress summoned the
dogs. There was no response She called again,
and was answered by a canine whimper.
Investigating she found the dogs huddled
together behind a bedroom door. Modestly
they refused to make an appearance in an
unclothed condition.
* * * *
“Australian Made”: It is perhaps early
yet to talk of the longevity of army issue
clothing, but in ten years’ time I hope to
enter a great-coat for the prize. In March
’l5 I received at Enoggera (Q.) a L.H.
overcoat, and on promotion to trench-coat
rank in T 7 in France, I passed it on to a
cobber who was an artillery driver. He
wore it for the rest of the war and has
utilised it ever since in wet weather. Another
overcoat issued in ’l6 to my brother in
Brisbane saw out the war, came back with
its owner and has been used by every member
of the family in succession. In addition it
has come in useful as a horse-rug on extra-
cold nights and a spare blanket on fishing
trips, and now does duty as a lady’s raincoat.
Personally I envy those who can still wear
other army clothing. My tunic, worse luck!
' fails to meet by nine inches in the chest and
19 inches at the girth.
UNCENSORED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night that bold producer, memory, _
Puts on the show; and gathered in the
wings . . .
The ghosts have donned again, in grief or
glee,
The finery of old, forgotten things.
Already can I hear their whisperings
And feel their furtive glances, as alone
In the dim stalls I wait while wistful
strings
Are tuning to some half-femembcred tone.
Author and audience to-night am I,
And honest and uncensored is the play;
To no shrill-whisp’ring secret shall I cry
Halt, and no frankness will my soul dis-
may.
Again the splendor of a vanished day
Will pageant for me on this dimming stage;
Again young courage in his fine array
Can strut his precious part, in ruth or rage.
The lights are out (the clouds have hid the
stars) ;
The baton taps its message, melodies
Crowd back upon me with the opening bars
(Although it may be but the rustling
trees).
The curtain lifts. Yes, yes; the scenes
were these
That now bemuse my backward glance on
youth,
Fair and unfaded; let the puppets please
As much, there’ll be a pleasant play in
truth.
Wait! Was it thus I acted then?.... And
then?....
Did I sneer so?. ... Was that the way I
strode,
Fretful and pettish, in the eyes of men?. .. .
Dear God, was that the courage once I
showed ?....
Is this young love, at thought of which
I’ve glowed,
This timid stir of mud with passion’s
rake ?....
Were these my yearnings?.... That a
youthful code 1....
Ring down the curtain, then, for pity’s sake!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


“C.Q.”: Traralgon (Vic.) has three mar-
ried couples all belonging to the same two
families. George, Frank and Ernest Lane
have espoused Emily, Alma and Florrie
Giblett -respectively. The father of the girls
holds the proud title of champion football
barracker of Central Gippsland.
* * * *
“Keg”: Being blown up or down may not
have turned hair white, but the strain of
waiting has often had that effect.. I have seen
grey hairs come after a few shifts in places
like the Cossack Post, on Gallipoli, where
there was no fighting, but a man did a two-
hour shift with his finger on the trigger. 1
came off Gallipoli grey at 24. One day
someone will explain why the color tone of
the hair can stand a Menin-road and not
an O.P. .
* *
“S.T.S.”: There is a small bronze
Athlete, from a classic Greek model, in a
North Adelaide garden setting, which seems
to invite indignities from midnight roysterers
and motor-car larrikins. Two years ago it
was dropped into the Torrens, and the other
night it was wrenched out of its steel-and-
concrete setting and (after 24 hours’ disap-
pearance) dumped near by. It was presented
to the city by William Horn in 1893, when
OPEN TO THE WIDE WORLD.
“How does my dress lie, Darl?"
“Lie? Girlie, that dress doesn’t lie. It tells the whole naked truth!
m this respect it IS muc „ j y ic _
toria-square 1 In tl.e course ot alleged civic
imnrovements Hercules has just been moved
down near the Cathedral, and yet another
Hmm statue a copy of the Canova Venus,
far alone North-terrace. Neglecting the
chancc o S f S the undraped lady the
society of either Robert Burns or Ring
Edward VII., the authorities have put her
hv the University, in the uncongenial guardian-
ship of W r . M. Hughes and Chief Justice Way.
“Chev.”: The newest excuse for drowsi-
ness was tendered at the Brunswick (Vic.)
police court by a witness who had been
severely taken to task by the Beak for ms
muddled way of giving evidence. “I've been up
all night listening to the broadcasting of the
Test match,” remarked the delinquent
aggrievedly. .
* * *
“Thirdovaquid”: Judge Denniston, who
decorated the M.L. Supreme Court Bench
for’ donkey’s years, was in private life one
of the mildest and kindliest of men,, but in
wig and gown he wa3
a holy terror, and
young barristers with
a flair for oratory
frequently found their
most persuasive
appeals punctured by
nasty little interjec-
tions from up aloft.
About the only case
on record where coun-
sel turned the tables
on the old Judge was
provided by the late
Judge Alpers in his
early days at the Bar.
Alpers was an ama-
teur actor of renown,
sported a black-rib-
boned monocle, and
exuded an air of 'bon-
homie that made him
very effective with
juries. He was well
into his stride, defend-
ing a criminal, when
an acid voice from the
Bench remarked: “Mr.
Alpers.” (Impressive
pause.) “You have
told the jury in effect,
that in certain cir-
cumstances black may
be mistaken for white :
that night and day
may be confused, and
that it is possible for
a §ane man to forget
his own name and
address. I am check-
ing you before you proceed to
demonstrate that two and two do
not make four.” “I thank you, your
Honor,” boomed Alpers, bowing
grandly. “I was about to observe
to the jury that it is quite possible
for two and two to make 22, but now, of
course, I should not dream of doing so.” He
got the rest of his points through.
* * t- *
“Seven Hills”: Recent excavations in Mel-
bourne Gaol unearthed Deemiug's skull,
which was examined by surgical-knight Colin
Mackenzie. The structure, Mackenzie says,
is similar to that of the java skull, which
dates from the misty past when primitive
man was in the process of adopting upright
posture. At that time the spinal column
entered the skull near the back. Nowadays,
in a normal man, it is situated about the
middle. But Deeming’s backbone was further
back than in the case of the Java skull, and
nearer the back, of the head than that of an
anthropoid ape. Probably his ideas of right
and wrong were a couple of geologic periods
or so out of date. Born in his proper era,
his undeniable intelligence might have car-
ried him far. At this late date there was,
of course, nothing to do but hang him up out
of the way.
War did no thing else it evolved a new creed.
In the dark old days when Thomas Atkins
drew his bob a day your attestation sheet
provided for only C. of E. and R.C. Later
extra space was allowed for Presbyterians
and Methodies. When the British authori-
ties were raking in all hands under the
conscription scheme, they came across a lot
of religions which they had never heard of
before. In desperation, they added an extia
column headed “Etceteras. thus bearing
out the famous classification of the old-time
regimental sergeant-major on church parade:
“Prods one step to the front; Micks, one
step to the rear; all fancy religions, stand
fa A» .
* * * *
“5.0.5.”: The outburst of rage in the
Federal* Parliament over Percy Deane’s
statement that “the practice of Parliamen-
tarians of obtaining free seats in theatres
was widespread, and that Mr. Bruce was
one of the most frequent users of the privi-
lege” was significant. The P.M. flung the
CAME NATURAL TO HER.
“Barbara’s going in ]or aviation, I
believe.”
“Oh Barbara —she flies off at anything.
allegedly lying allegation back in Percy’s
teeth in a withering manner, amidst imooi
cheers, and Latham said that “Mr. Bruce
deeply appreciated Mr. Scullin’s action in
defending his reputation during las absence.
Yet according to Bruce’s cable on the subject
Deane said no more and no less than tlie
truth. “This practice [i.e., of accepting free
boxes] I acquiesced in,” B«*ice cabled,
“although 1 did not like it.” The idea seems
to have been that he would have hurt the
management’s feelings if he had insisted on
“paving for an ordinary, seat as an ordinary
citizen,” and Parliament obviously took the
same view. It shows how the evil of dead-
heading corrupts good sense. Our politicians
have got so used to free tickets on the trams
and railways, free tickets for themselves and
their colossal staffs to England. Europe and
the U.S.A., and the rest of the perks they
have voted themselves at the taxpayers
expense that they honestly believe private
firms would be insulted if offbred money for
value received.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Booze and sport go together
a great deal in Melbourne, and the licensee
of g t he bar in the Old Members’ Pav at
Carlton was justly incensed on a recent
Saturday when his clients, their throats
dry with barracking for or against Geelong,
were gassed out of liis premises. A gang o
three ' were noticed behaving suspiciously
with a bottle. Presently the trio vanished
and a nauseous effluvium filled the room.
Frantic efforts to ventilate the place failed
to evict the pervasive perfume by closing-
time, and the ten barmen, seven of them
returned soldiers, were badly affected. The
proprietor regards himself as the victim
a dastardly plot on the part of rival licensees
who envy him the popularity of the par
ticular brand of beer he peddles.
* * * *
“Guelph”: Lots of surnames came under
suspicion of being German during the war
for no reason whatever. And even if they
had been of German origin that was not to
say that the wearers were not 100 per cent.
Britishers or Australians. An unusual name
however British, was always liable to be
looked on with dark distrust by some busy-
body or other. Perhaps the most amazing
case was that of a Westralian schoolteacher
named Shugg, who brought an action foi
libel against somebody who had impugned
his patronymic. Shugg, of eourse
Cornish—maybe akin to _ Chough and
the owner of the name triumphantly Mn
dicated it.
* * * *
“Piecrust”: Our country town is proud of
its Wednesday afternoon markets in which
you can buy anything from a packet ot
canary-seed to a ton of chaff. or a second-
hand bicycle. Jogging slowly m oma recent
steamy afternoon, I overtook Dad M P°l
striding along in the dust of the road, and
almost red-hot with his exertions. He hailed
me with delight, and, after he had clam-
bered up beside me, told me, between gasps,
what S happened. A traveller known as
Long Mike, who sometimes ravages through
am district, bad called on dad that morning,
and when he had gone dad missed a pnsm
nie “An’ the missus away with the .pnk'a,
he g ‘raved. “But whip up, and we 11 get there
before he has a chance to sell it. The
market was crowded, but our man must ha\ e
us before we saw him, for he imme-
diately ridded himself of the evidence. The
place suddenly became an inferno, infested by
a very active black pig. The escaped animal
first bolted playfully under a trestle table
and spilt four pyramids of apples. Every
d og in the place then awoke, and
chased or fought as the mood took
it, while the quarry darted between a
fat woman’s legs, tripped up a policeman,
eluded, dad’s kick (which lamed an Alsatian
belonging to the wife of a J.P.) and raced
under the noses of the line of waiting horses
attached to jmkers and carts. In 10 minutes
the market looked like Donnybrook, but
finally the Law, dishevelled and hatless,
stood up with the squirming body m his
arms. “’Oo owns this animal?’ he demanded,
while the panting stallholders and customers
gathered round. But dad wasn’t having any.
“Time to get home,” lie suggested, pulling
m e by the sleeve.
$ * * *
“Shop”: Cordite wasn’t the only army
property that went up in smoke to liven up
hut braziers (B. 16/7/’3O). Tim stoker ot
our hut at Dranoutre swore by petrol, and
he always had tins thieved from the dump
stowed under the floor He was so
proud of his dexterity in handling the stun;
that he finally tried to clean the chimney
with it, but only succeeded in blowing tne
top off the stove, setting fire to the hut and
sending himself to hospital. Hundreds of tins
of army biscuits went into the braziers,
where they threw off a good heat. But the
early Nissen huts provided their own warmtn
in the bitter Somme winter. All a man had
to do to stoke up the fire was to haul down
part of the Ceiling (preferably from over
someone else’s bunk) and smash it up.
... ... * *
“A. B. See v (Eng.) : “Barwicfk” (B.
9/4/’3O) is one of the simpletons who
believe in the Indian rope trick. I sent his
par. to Jaspar Maskelyne, the world-famous
magician. In reply lie writes : “My fathei
offered £lOOO to anyone who could perform
tlite rope trick in the middle of Langnam-
place, which is outside our theatre, m broad
daylight without the aid. off trickery. 4
now make the same offer; in fact, I am will-
ing to double the amount. I have had much
the same experience as my father, who spent
many years in unsuccessful attempts to niiu
someone who could show him the trie*.
Several people told him they had seen it,
but my father found that they muddled the
rope trick with the Indian pole-balancing.
In it the juggler takes a pole about 12 teet
long, places it vertically on the ground and
climbs up it like a monkey keeping his
balance all the time. The Maharajah ot
Jodhpur told me while he was here m Eng-
land that the rope trick is a myth. He says
he searched his entire kingdom without tin
ing anyone who could perform the trick to
him. Whenever he asked anyone Have
you seen this trick?’ the usual reply was,
“No, but my father has seen it.’ Un send-
ing for the father this man would say, ivo,
I have not seen it, but my father saw it.
The Maharajah would then send tor tne
father’s father, but usually he wasi dead.
*** 1 *
“Annan Water”: “The McTonal’s” com-
ments on “Annie Laurie” (B. 23/7/’3O) call
for corrections. The verse he quotes as having
been “cut out” was not so treated. It was
“adapted” by Lady Nairn, who did the. same
for many of the old ballads. Also, the original
version ran “She’s breisted like the peacocK,
she’s neckit like the swan”— obviously ? a
much more poetical figure than Mel. s
“She’s backit like the peacock, she’s bretsted
like the swan.” Lady Nairn converted mat,
to “Her brow is like the snowdrift, her
neck is like the swan.” Finally “jimp l us
means “neat” without any panthe.rish sugges-
tion, panthers being scarce cattle in Dumtries
and Kirkcudbright.
A THREATENED KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A deputation of licensed victuallers complained
to the Assistant Minister for Customs that the con-
sumption of spirits had decreased by 33 per cent.,
the high duties having virtually ‘weaned the public
from whisky.’ ”
Monarch, whose praises under various titles
Our Robert Burns convivially sings
In strains unfit for temperance recitals.
Can you be going the way of other kings?
Say, does it fade, the loyalty intensive
Wherewith whole generations to you clung,
Or are they slightly over-apprehensive,
The brotherhood of Bung?
Chieftain, supreme in realms of tid and
nobbier
As ever haggis in the pudding clan,
The stay alike of emperor and cobbler,
The staff of artist and of artisan,
A thousand fierce assaults you’ve had to
weather;
From ev’rywhere grim foemen on you
sprang;
Secure among your native crags and heather
You didn’t care a hang.
What scorn that sears, what epithets that
spatter
Have come your way from hosts of worthy
men
And women, too. But did it greatly matter >.
Someone was sure to set ’em up again.
And where the Yank his glass a-brim is fill-
ing,
With armies of preventives on the watch,
His Majesty is far too tough for killing
And mighty hard to scotch.
King, are there deadlier perils that surround
In mounting pennies and in measured
drams
Than all the thorns and things wherewith
they crowned you
And diagrams of ruined diaphragms?
Ah, well, though Bonifaces fret and flurry
And see your crown a-slipping from your
brow,
I doubt there’s any real need to worry.
Old Peck o’ Maut, here’s how!
N.S.W.
T THE R.


Business, Robbery, etc.
The eight Queensland wool sales to the
end of June showed only 318,995 bales dis-
posed of at an average of £l4 2s. 9d. a bale,
or 10.4 d. a pound. This is the lowest since
1914-15, when the price was 9.45 d. But
wages and costs of production generally
were far below those of to-day, notwithstand-
ing some recent adjustments. We haven’t
yet come quite to earth.
* * * *
The last optimist has ceased to hope that
Darwin meatworks will ever resume opera-
tions. A recent shipment of some of Vesteys’
Darwin plant to their South American
works looks like the end. That, too, accounts
for the thousands of Territory cattle on the
hoof for Queensland and South Aus. In
contrast Wyndham meatworks are in full
swing, putting through 300 bullocks, a day.
* # * *
Another oversea manufacturer to instal
himself in the Commonwealth as a result of
the new tariff is the London firm of Car-
reras, which specialises in high-class cigar-
ettes. The firm has formed an alliance with
G. G. Goode, a Melbourne manufacturer of
tobacco goods, and the new combination is
to set up a modern factory. Carreras has
been established in England for 150 years.
j': * * *
Jn spite of suggestions that all the talk
about a local factory was bluff, Heinz, the
sauce and pickle people, declare they will
have their Australian works going by
January next with a staff of 350. The fac-
tory will be located near Sydney, and partial
exemption from the prohibition against
pickles and similar goods manufactured by
the co. has been granted on condition that
£50,000 derived from the sale of the exempted
imports shall remain in Australia as capital
for the new enterprise.
i\i t[i sjt ❖
If a N.Q. venture reaps the success it
deserves Australia will be able to wash its
face with sponges cultivated on its own
doorstep; at present our requirements come
from foreign sources—largely Florida. It
is stated that Barrier-Reef sponges are of
as fine texture as any, and that they can
be propagated easily. Anyway, some adven-
turers have applied for a lease of an area
about Lizard Island (near Cooktown), and
a treatment plant is to be erected; the dis-
tributing centre will be Cairns. The move
is . a direct result of the work of Dr. Yonge,
of a recent Barrier-Reef scientific expedi-
tion.
i’fi # $ *
S.A. Premier Lionel Hill has set a good
example by ordering furniture for his office
waiting-room from the S.A. Conservator of
Forests. Now all visitors approaching him
officially will see really beautiful local work
in pine,, stringybark and redgum.
* * # *
One part of far-west Queensland has again
missed the rains, and Boulia is notching its
eighth consecutive year of drought. Station
working complements have been cut to bed-
rock, there being little in the way of stock
to look after, while the smaller men have
abandoned their holdings.
:is * * *
The freakish fireman has cooked his goose ;
for without a doubt he is chiefly responsible
for the swift development of the motor-driven
ship which carries no firemen at all. Lloyds
reports that during May alone 20 new motor-
ships aggregating 118,000 tons went into
commission in various countries. Six were
tankers, 10 cargo boats and four passenger
liners.
* * # *
Our postal authorities can see further
through a ladder than most of us suppose.
With a fine gesture of meeting the public
FI XING THE DATE.
“You think so much of poker, you don’t even remember when
we were married!"
“Of course I do, darling—it was the day after I held that straight
flush at the Club!”
convenience, the department has announced
that until the tuppenny stamps can be
printed, the old with a “2d.” overprint
will be used. As only a limited number of
these will be issued, they will be bought up
by collectors the world over, with exceeding
profit to the department.
* * * *
No other gamble has such charms for the
adventurous as the pearl trade. A Mel-
bourne theatrical man who, possibly through
racial predisposition, indulges in gem deal-
ing as a side-line was interviewed one morn-
ing by a man with a pearl of unusual shape
and color. Knowing that unmatched the
thing was a dubious investment, he still paid
£75 for it, at the same time feeling he was
a fool for doing so. In the afternoon he
strolled into a Collins-street dealer’s and
asked to see his stock. Within two minutes
he was gazing at a pearl which was an
exact replica of the one he had in his pocket.
The dealer paid him £4OO for his specimen
and a week later sold the pair, made up as
earrings, for £l2OO.
H: * ❖ *
The Tasmanian hydro-electric power
scheme has involved the Government in a
total expenditure of approximately £3,600,000,
a courageous venture for a population of
212,000. The Government took over the
scheme and commenced development in 1915,
with no prospective customers and in the
face of strong opposition. A contract was
made in 1916 for the supply of 30,000 h.p.
at £2 per h.p., the estimated cost of produc-
tion, but rising prices due to war conditions
nearly doubled costs, and the Electrolytic
.Zinc Co. secured a very rosy , contract.
Further smaller blocks of power were sub-
sequently sold to the CO.; under the agree-
ment it was to pay an increased price for
the original block when the return on the
co.’s total capital expenditure reaehed_ S
per cent., and an accumulated sum of £9500
was received on this account last year, bring-
the average payment on total consumption
of 36,000 h.p. up to
about £2 7s. 6d. per
h.p. Still the co. has
very cheap power.
Despite the low
price the Scheme
reached a profitable
stage in 1926, and
last year, after pay-
ing working costs,
meeting all interest
charges, and setting
aside £31,000 to de-
preciation reserve,
which now stands at
£263,000, a net profit
of £23,000 was made.
This has been placed
towards the redemp-
tion of the accumu-
lated deficiencies of
earlier years, and
only about £4500 of
this amount now re-
mains to be liqui-
dated. Next yehr the
department will, have
a clean sheet in this
regard and will be on
the fair road to re-
demption of the capi-
tal charge. The re-
sult is very credit-
able to the manage-
ment, which so far
fortunately has been
free from political in-
terference. Power
development is still
in progress, and elec-
trical energy has been
distributed to country districts throughout the
State from Esperance in the south to Wyn-
yard in the north-west, and the West Coast
mining fields are supplied from the Lake
Margaret scheme put in by the Mt. Lyell
Co., but now owned by the State. The peak
load at the Waddamana power-house last
year was 61,000 h.p. Lighting charges are
not as low as they might have been had higher
prices been obtained from large bulk-users.
Householders pay sd. per unit, lid. for
domestic power, and -Jd. for hot-water ser-
vices, and as the business extends and pro-
fits increase it should be possible in a few
years to reduce these charges.
The credit for the discovery that it is
possible to make good paper out of such hard-
woods as the eucalypt—an industry recently
established in the United States and soon
to be established here—rests with Australian
investigators. The first steps in research
were made in 1914 by Henry Surface, of the
U. S. Forest Service, who was lent to the
Tas. Government. He had no success. Two
vears later I. H. Boas, of the Perth Techni-
cal School, had a
go at the problem
and devised modi-
fications of the
soda process that
produced surpris-
ingly high yields of
easy bleaching
pulp. Under the
auspices of the
Council of Science
and Industry, L.
R. Benjamin carried
on investigations
in Australia. His
results were com-
municated to all
countries inter-
ested, and the
Forest Products
Laboratory at
Madison, Wiscon-
sin, working on
Benjamin’s fo r-
inuhe, completed
the work by per-
fecting the tech-
nique of manufac-
ure. Two cos. have
been formed, one
with wide forest
areas in the north
of Tasmania, the
other with corres-
ponding areas in
the south. The
capital involved is
large, and finance
has been an in-
creasingly difficult problem; nevertheless the
co. fathered by Gerald Musson, in which some
of the largest consumers of newsprint paper
in Australia are interested, has not only
paid for its forest areas but ordered plant
and paid for a unit. The other co., in which
a Broken Hill zinc-extraction co. is chiefly
interested, is marking time, and in view of
the difficulties ahead, and in order to secure
the utmost economies possible, it has been
suggested that the two should combine
forces. This proposition is now under con-
sideration.
* * * *
The Westralians who came east, led by
Claude de Bernales, to try to persuade the
Commonwealth Government that a bonus of
fl per ounce ought to be offered for all gold
produced in Australia were met by Scullin’s
objection that, as the Commonwealth already
produced about 360,0000 z. gold, the Govern-
ment would be paying £361 per oz. for new
gold if the increase was only a thousand
ounces. The delegation was divided as to
the answer. But there is a way out. If
the Government feels that it cannot give a
bonus on the entire output, £1 an ounce
could be paid on the excess over last year,
the total being divided up equally among
producers. (This would be necessary, other-
wise there would be endless trouble over what
was “new” and what was “old” gold.) Then
if the output went from 360,0000 z. to
400,0000 z., the Commonwealth Would pay
a bonus of £40,000, and every producer of
an ounce of gold during the year would get
a bonus of 2-s. per ounce. Although
something of this sort was suggested, the
Budget was -coiuing on and the trouble oyer
Theodore gave Scullin such a staggering
blow that the matter was permitted to go
into recess. But it will be taken up again.
* * * *
Some idea of the size and complexity of
a modern department store is to be got from
the automatic telephone exchange which
Myers’ in Melbourne have lately installed.
JUST FOR LUCK.
TIMID PEDESTRIAN: “Er—lovely new moon, isn’t it?”
THUG: “Yeah —turn yer money over!”
It took 12 engineers from the P.M.-G.’s
department three months to do it. There
are 500 miles of wire, 6000 switches and
109,000 soldered connections. But the firm
still has merely one number—“ Central
10,000.”
* * * *
Another cry from the U.S.A. —Seattle this
time: —
After 10 years in the United States I am still
wondering why one never sees any Australian goods
displayed in the better stores here. Of course one
occasionally sees canned foodstuffs, usually Aus-
tralian rabbit or jam, in the Japanese stores in the
poorer parts of the cities, and, unfortunately—l hate
to mention it—-the tins are nearly always unattrac-
tive looking, often rusty, with frightfully common-
looking labels, and not one intelligent word of
advertising with them. Why does not some
enterprising Australian firm' hold an exhibition of
Australian-made goods here? There is a big
opening for pure woollen blankets, automobile
rugs, steamer rugs, leather goods, suit and dress
tweeds, woollen sweaters, golf hose and infants’ wear.
But if Australia wishes to trade with this part of
the world the goods must be best quality, and
carefully and attractively wrapped. In catering
for this public, you must give the most minute
attention to detail. What is more, they are only
inveigled by intelligent advertising. Australia ought
to capture the world’s market in woollen wear: with
Australia’s advantages I am sure the U.S.A. would.
For a start I suggest an exhibition over here of
infants’ woollen Wear and other needs.
* * * *
The board-ship wireless telephone is now
a matter of course. All the first-class Atlan-
tic liners have them installed, and con-
versation goes on over them as comfortably
as on any shore line. The British White
Star liner Majestic, one of the first to be
fitted with the latest destroyer of privacy,
reported at the end of the gadget’s first
voyage that 40 calls had been made during
the five days’ run across the Atlantic. The
cost of ringing up is still on the millionaire
side.
* * * *
“Moresby”: The base contention that the
Government does little to ameliorate the lot
of the dweller in, Papua or New Guinea has
vanished like the rain on the river in the
face of the latest Scullidore tariff schedule.
In the past, when those of us unblessed with
womenfolk needed repairs to our clothes, we
had to ship them to Australia. The Cus-
toms made us plunk down a deposit of the
duty on the articles, and this was returned
when the clothes came back. Now these
goods are to enter Australia duty free if
accompanied by a series of affidavits to the
effect that they are not to remain in the
Commonwealth. The new schedule has lifted
a lot of gloom from a community which has
experienced more than most the poignancy
of Henry Lawson’s “When Your Pants
Begin to Go.”
* * * *
“Blondin”: Yet another Norwegian co. is
being formed to exploit the Antarctic whal-
mg grounds. The well-known Belfast firm
of Workman, Clark. Ltd., has started the
construction of a factory ship of about 25,000
tons deadweight capacity, and a Middles-
brough shipyard will build nine chasers for
u I le ?ro!i O rAA e , contracts involve
about £024,000, and the vessels are to be
delivered by June, 1931. Mr. Anders Jahre,
one of the leading whaling men in Norway
previously associated with the Kosriios and
Pontos cos., will be managing director.
*** . *
The listening-in habit is barely 10 years
°lo< yet it isi estimated that there are
25,000,000 sets in the world, and that the
capital invested in the industry already
exceeds x0G0,000,000.
The toughness of the modern motor-tyre
was illustrated by a test recently made by
the Dunlop people in Vic. The tread of a
standard cover was run in contact with an
J-inch thick plate of steel. After 1700
miles a hole was worn through the steel,
while the amount worn off the tread was
l-32nd. of an inch less than the thickness of
the plate.
* :Ss *
“Clamp”: 'those Victorian truck tyres
which have d.one 40,000 miles and are still
going strong (B. 16/7/’3O) are mere
amateurs in comparison with some. Dunlop-
Perdriau maintains a fleet of cars and trucks
which are run continuously over all sorts of
roads for test purposes. One truck in N. S.
Wales has been on this job since September
with the same set of tyres, and has covered
over 80,000 miles with a load averaging 4£
tons. ,
* * * *
“Smilax” : Comparing an Australian-made
box of matches with a. Swedish brand the
Other day, I found that, whereas the Aussie
contained 60 matches, the foreigner could
boast only 51! Of course they were both
marked, “Average contents 60 matches."
* * * *
Those Australian purchasers who ask in-
variably for something not made in Australia
would have been well rewarded by the pur-
chase of an article produced in the Federal
Parliament the other day, which this be-
nighted country is unable to manufacture.
It was a woman’s dancing shoe imported
from Czechoslovakia, and made entirely of
cardboard. There is a Customs provision
that such articles should be stamped, to
show their real composition. This has been
ingeniously evaded by stamping the outside
of the packing-case only, and removing the
articles unstamped from the case as speedily
as possible.
TO “BULLETIN” READERS.
In common with all other newspapers of
Australia The Bulletin has been seriously
considering the position created by the vari-
ous new taxes.
During the war almost all newspapers
were forced to increase their price. The
Bulletin, which undertook to revert to the
old price at the earliest possible moment,
was the first paper in Australia to do so.
In the capitals outside Sydney the price of
the daily paper that was formerly Id. has
continued to this day to be either lid. or
2d. Proprietors who maintained the in-
crease justified themselves by the fact that
newsprint paper has never fallen below
about 50 per cent, advance on the pre-war
price.
The Sydney daily newspapers have now
resolved that they can no longer stand out
against rising costs, and announce an in-
crease of 50 per cent, in selling price. The
paper hitherto one penny will on and after
August 4 be three-halfpence.
Tiie Bulletin, though more heavily hit
by the primage duty than the daily news-
papers, because its superior printing paper
costs 50 per cent, more, believes that the
position can be met without raising the
price and thus adding to the cost of living.
At any rate it is going to see if it can’t be
done.
There will, therefore, be no increase in
the price of The Bulletin, which will be
sold at sixpence as hitherto. But such
further improvements will be made in the
paper as will, it is believed, greatly add to
the circulation; and it is hoped that the
large additional sales which are confidently
relied upon will offset the additional costs.
The first attraction will be Montague
Grover’s remarkable serial story, “Thirty
Pieces of Silver.” This begins with the
present issue.
Still further attention will be paid to the
art section. The drawings published in.
The Bulletin are now generally admitted
to be the finest in the world; and they will
be made still finer. To the work of the
present generation will be added the finest
examples of the work of “Hop,” Phil May,
George Lambert and G. R. Ashton. These
will appear in the section “As We Said
Before.”
The call for the services of the “Wild
Cat” department was never so .great. In
these most uncertain times every investor,
great and small, is in need of some authority
to whom he can refer. The “Wild Cat”
department is to be strengthened in order to
meet the heavier calls upon it. It will aim
at being a complete guide to the investor,
who is invited to consult it in any difficulty.
As an illustration of the accuracy of The
Bulletin’s information and the value of its
forecasts it may be pointed out that every
feature of the present depression was prog-
nosticated again and again during the past
seven years.
During over 50 years The Bulletin has
built up between itself and'the bulk of its
readers something more intimate than the
usual relations between newspaper and
subscriber. It knows that the redemption
of its war-time promise to return to the
old price at the earliest possible moment
was greatly appreciated; and it believes also
that its present efforts to meet the greatly-
increased costs of production without put-
ting up the price will have the same general
approval.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122*132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
m
llpl
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day- Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/* 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
Quality that ensures lifetime wear in
sdf
Solid Oak Case, contain-
ing Fx & R A 1 Spoons
and Forks, and Rustles?
Steel Cutlery. 42 pieces
in all.
£l4
“Fx&R”AI Quality
SPOONS & FORKS
There are many spoons and forks that
appear to be excellent quality when new,
but that lose their beauty and usefulness
in a few years. “Fx & R Spoons and
Forks will wear like silver for 40 years;
in fact, there are cases on record where
they have passed from one generation to
the next.
Obtainable separately or in any desired
quantity.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
■ Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some 20 years ago two residents at Wall
roonga (N.S.W.) —one a Methodist parson,
the other a rosegrower—entered their boys at
Sydney High School. The two lads w r ent
through the school together, passed on to Syd-
ney Uni. and became Rhodes Scholars within
a year of each other. One was W. Wheen,
who translated “All Quiet on the Western
Front,” and, by the way, got very little out
of it; the other was Raymond Kershaw,
who has come back with Sir Otto Niemeyer.
C. H. Karins, the Papuan Resident Magis-
trate who, with Patrol-Officer. I. F. Cham-
pion, two years ago discovered the long-
sought sources of the Fly and Sepik rivers,
crossing the tremendous mass of ranges
between the Papuan and New Guinea water-
sheds in the process, has returned from a
holiday tour of America to resume work in
Papua. Ilis feat has no parallel in Papuan
or New Guinea exploration,'when the tiny
size of the expedition and its scanty equip-
ment is taken into account. It brought
Karins the Gold Medal of the R.G.S.
When Dick Seddon took over the reins
of power on John Ballance’s death in 1893
he installed Joseph Ward as Colonial
Treasurer. Joe’s first Budget made provision
for £300.000 for the acquisition of the
Cheviot Estate (Canterbury), the first estate
burst up for closer settlement and the fore-
runner of many others. A sturdy young
fellow drew a section on that estate, and to
comply with the residential qualification went
out to his farm, slept under a dray the first
night, then built a lean-to. This was
George William Forbes, who has stepped
into Sir Joseph’s shoes as Priminister of
Maoriland. He still owns and runs his
original section.
Joseph Ward’s son Cyril, who takes over
the family baronetcy, is 44, was educated
at St. Pat’s (Wellington) and St. Ignatius’
(Sydney), and lias been engaged in commer-
cial life with his late dad’s concerns most of
his days. His wife is a grand-daughter of
a wealthy N.S.W. squatter of a past age, one
Shanahan, whose daughter married Patrick
Jennings, sometime Premier of the colony.
E. C. RIDDLE, Governor of the Common-
wealth, Bank, the man who is .kept in
closest touch with Sir Otto Niemeyer.
Dr. Marmaduke Rose, of Kew (Vic.), who
has just filed his schedule in the Melbourne
Bankruptcy Court, was member for a metro-
politan constituency in the Legislative
Assembly from 1883 to 1889. No member
who sat with him is now in the Vic. Parlia-
ment.
John Henry Prowse, M.H.R. for Swan
(W.A.), of whom a political opponent re-
marked the other day that he “would find
something to complain about in Paradise,”
is a rather dour and intensely serious person
who graduated for politics by a quarter of
a century with an insurance company. He
has always been a pillar of tempa-ance organ-
isations and was Mayor of Perth for a
couple of years before the war.
William James, now an affluent citizen
of Raudwick (Sydney), ran a barber’s shop
at Geraldton in the roaring days of the
Westralian goldfields, and made his first big
punch when he accepted a quarter interest
in the wonderfully rich Fenian mine in pay-
merit of a bad
debt. In those
days Geraldton
had a burning
grievance
against the
Perth Govern-
ment because it
permitted Sin-
gapore steamers
with suspected
cases of small-
pox aboard to
call at inter-
mediate ports,
though they
would be rigor-
ously quaran-
tined at Pro-
mantle. Finally
a public indig-
nation meeting
was held, and
the Mayor and
William were
appointed a
vigilance com-
mittee of two
to restrain the
next suspect
vessel from
berthing along-
side the jetty. ■
The pair kept,
watch all night
and when the
steamer was
appro aching
they raised their
voices and
warned anyone
it might con-
cern that the
town wouldn’t
permit her to
berth. The skip-
per shrugged
his shoulders,
but the chair-
man of direc-
tors of the line
happened to be
aboa r d # and
opened his bat-
Sir OTTO
NIEMEYER, director
of the Bank of Eng-
land, who is in Aus-
tralia at the invitation
of the Government to
consider how the
Commonwealth can
be tided over its
troubles.
teries on the _
audacious sentries. “Do you know who l
am?” he asked, and when they professed ignor-
ance he reeled off a string of his distinctions
—he was a shipping magnate of the period—-
and announced that the steamer would berth.
“Do you know who we are?’’ he was asked
in return. An apoplectic voice said that it
didn’t know—or care, either. “Well, this is
the Mayor and I’m Bill James the barber,
came back the information, “and we say it
won’t.'’ And it didn't.
Some August birthdays:—
Justice Halse Rogers (N.S.W.), 47, and medico-
knight Joseph Vereo (S.A.), 79, on Ist; S. 11. Smitii
(formerly N.S.W. Director of .Education), 05, R. B.
McComas (Melb. merchant), 68, and Mrs. Edith
Cowan (late M.L.A. for W. Perth), on 2nd; Adelaide’s
ex-Lud Mayor Wallace Bruce, 52, knight Edward
Miller (Melb.), 82, Rev. Dr. Borland (Scots’ Church,
Melb.), 63, and Archdeacon Charlton (Syd.), 70,
on 3rd; former Fed. Senate President John Newlands,
66, W.A. Minister John Scaddan, 54, and Rev. Dr.
Dey (“Christian World”), 82, on 4th; Norman Jolly
(Ma State Forests Commissioner), 48, on sth; Chief
Justice Isaacs, 75, knight Robert M. McO. Anderson
(Syd.), 63, Principal Thatcher (Camden Coll.), 67,
and poetess Marie Pitt, on 6th; knight Lennon
Raw-s (Melb.), 52, and poet* E. J. Brady, 61, on
7th; Dr. Earle Page, 50, ex-Federal Minister Poyn-
ton,’ 77, and E. T. Fisk (wireless), 44, on Bth;
N.S.W. Chief Justice Street, 67, on 9th; P. E.
Deane (Canberra), 40, on 10th; Speck’s Chief Justice
Nicholls, 62, and E. A. Mann (ex-M.H.R. for Perth),
56 on 11th; Keith Murdoch (Melb. “Herald”), 45,
on 12th; E. W. Holden (Adel.), 45, Prof. Morris
Miller (Speck), 49, and Adel, musician W. H. Foote,
50, on 14th; Prof. Elliot Smith, 59, novelist Erie
Cox, 57, and Bishop Baker (Bendigo), 48, on 15th;
poetess and journalist Mary Gilmore, on 16th;
Federal Minister Frank Anstey, 65, on 18th; Arch-
bishop Wright, 69, on 19th; ex-Fed. Minister R.
W. Foster, 74, Prof. Laver (Melb.), 64, and John
Garlick (Svd.), 55, on 20th; Bishop Dwyer (Mait-
land). 72, and Vic. Methodist minister A. T. Holden,
C.8.E., 64, on 21st; Judge Curlewis (N.S.W.), 61,
on 22nd; Major-Geh. Talbot Hobbs, 66, on 24th;
Opposition-leader Latham, 53, and former Federal
Attorney-General Glvnn, 75, on 25th: Bishop Ash
(Rockhampton), 48, knight Prof. T. R. Lyle, F.R.S.
(Melb.), 70, and Prof. W. A. Osborne (Melb.), 57,
on 26th; President Dwyer (W.A. A initiation Court),
55, Prof. Angus (Syd.), 49, Chas. Gavan Duffy
(formerly Clerk of House of Reps.), 75, and S. Aus.
ox-Speaker Birrell, 61, on 27th; Brigadier Walter
E. H. Cass (S. Aus. District Commandant), 54, on
28th; architect knight John Sulman, 81, Biig.-Gen.
Cannan (Q.), 48, and J. Spencer B.unton (Syd.),
69, on 29th; ex-Qovemor de Chair, 66, and ex-
Principal Ronald Maclntyre, 67, on 30th; and R.
Ewing (Fed. Taxation Commissioner), 59, on 31st.
Two of the most insatiable travellers in
Melbourne left in the triple-engined Las-
conder the other day to spend a holiday that
will take in Oodnadatta, Darwin and
Charleville (Q.). They were Arthur Peck,
the septuagenarian architect who accom-
panied Elliot Giles on his 14,000-mile yacht-
ing cruise in the ■ Pacific, and W. Oliver.
Oliver is a retired grazier, and this is the
fifth successive year in which he has set
out by air to tour Centralia.
“ Jeames”; The family of Australia’s
former G.-G. Dudley has had ghastly luck.
Pie was crippled as a boy, and is lame to this
day. His first wife was drowned in Ire-
land. His grandson and second heir was
run over and killed by a lorry on the
Thames Embankment, and now the child’s
mother, Lady Ednam, has died a violent
death in an air smash. Gerald Ward, the
crack steeplechase rider, was the. only
member of the family w r ho served in the
World War as a combatant, and he was
killed a few days after reaching the front
line.
Howard Joseland, a former president of
the N.S.W. Institute of Architects, who died
in Sydney last week aged 70, was an Eng-
lishman who married into the Coolangatta
Hay family. ITe was an artist as well as
an architect, but the general public knew him
best as the State’s leading fly-fisherman and
pioneer of dry fly-fishing in the Monaro, and
author of “Angling in Australia and Else-
where.” There were few people within dis-
tance of Cooma who didn’t know and like the
tall, handsome painter-sportsman.
It was Alec Peacock who as Premier
authorised, 27 years ago, the purchase of
the ornate mace which is now carried before
him as Speaker in the Vic. Assembly. After
the mysterious disappearance of the bauble
in 1891, an old wooden mace of the late
’fifties served as a makeshift for 10 years.
Then Speaker Mason induced Peacock to
spend £250 on the purchase of the present
ornament.
Has any Australian sat in three different
Houses of Parliament except the late Justice
Ewing of the Speck? Ewing, who was a
N.S.W. solicitor, took his law books west-
ward and was returned to the Westralian
Assembly in ’97. When Federation came
along he resigned, and was a successful can-
didate for the first Senate. Before his term
was quite up he resigned again, transferred
himself to Tas., and was elected to the
Assembly a few years later, remaining there
till lie became a Judge.
Dick Glasson, one of the “Big Six” of
Edie Creek fame, arrived in Australia by
the Montoro and has taken a fortnight’s
Professor
L. G. MELVILLE
(Economics), the young
Adelaide University
man, who is a member
of the Commission
appointed by the S.A.
Government to advise
the State how to get
out of its financial
difficulties.
run to see what’s
doing in the
West. Glasson
is a wanderer. He
shot buffaloes in
the Territory and
sailed his beche-
de-mer lugger in
the Gulf before
putting in four
years at the war.
Then he returned
to New Guinea,
adventured into
the headhunters’
country of the
Sepik, was in the
Waria and Mark-
ham districts be-
fore “Shark-eye”
Parke and Nettle-
son located Kor-
anga, chased gold
along the Bulolo,
and, with Bill
Royal, put Edie
Creek on the map.
After the “Big
Six” disposed of
their leases. Glas-
son renewed his
wanderings,
mostly in wild
country. Unlike
many rolling
stones he has
gathered moss,
holding a big in-
terest in three
fine plantations.
George Cur-
lewis, just dead
in Westralia, had
four sons and all
joined up among
the first in August,
1914. Few if any
families in Aus-
tralia had such a crushing bereavement
to face, for three of the four fell at Galli-
poli, two on the day of the landing, the
third succumbing to his wounds a little later.
The father was a cousin of the Sydney Judge.
William Noah Hedges, ex-M.11.R., one of
Westralia’s biggest taxpayers and best adver-
tised wlieatgrowers, came from England
in his twenties and found railway contracting
and the construction of other Government
undertakings a highly profitable job, first in
Archbishop WRIGHT, of Sydney, Primate
of Australia, beams on the Lambeth
Conference, which was welcomed by
the King last week.
S. Aus. and later in the western State. Then
he became the head of the Kurrawang Co.,
which pioneered the business of supplying
fuel to the Golden Mile, another gilt-edged
proposition. Between whiles he found time
to develop political ambitions, and after un-
successfully contesting a State seat in 1904
he presently arrived in the House of Reps,
as M.H.R. for Fremantle, and. held the seat
for two Parliaments, after which the Labor
vote dispossessed him. Hedges never cut
much ice in Parliament, although he was a
frequent speaker when the Trans., line was
under construction, and showed himself the
only legislator who had a working know-
ledge of dogspikes and fishplates. Nowadays
he has an elaborately equipped farming pro-
perty, the show place of the Wheat Belt,
at Bruce Rock; and is periodically seen in
Melbourne and Sydney at Employers’ Federa-
tion conferences.
The late Robert Stout, Maoriland’s G.O.M .
wasn’t the only one of his family who came
from the Shetlands to this side of the world.
A brother was one of the best-known jour-
nalists in Westralia 50 years ago. There
were few papers in that struggling colony
then, but Stout left his mark on such as
there were, and numerous stories about his
resource and originality lingered for years
afterwards. He died comparatively young.
It has been disclosed by a medico who
attended the late Baronet Ward of MX. that
the veteran Priminister’s pulse was extra-
ordinary slow —about 52 as compared with
a normal 72. As his blood circulation was
vigorous this was considered an advantage
rather than otherwise. The circumstance
perhaps helps to explain Ward’s wonderfully
even temper. None of his colleagues or
subordinates —not even his private secretaries
—ever saw him rattled. In Parliamentary
debate he could snap out a scathing and
effective retort without a second’s hesitation,
but there was never any real persona] animus
behind it—merely an automatic reaction to
political duty.
Lord Carbery, who married a 22-year-old
secretary last week before joining in the
round-Europe flight, is related to Australia
through his first wife. She was Josie Met-
calfe, daughter of Evelyn Metcalfe, a
Queenslander who now lives in London. She
divorced him after the war, upon which he
took out American naturalisation papers,
changed his name (which is Evans-Freke)
to John Carberry, bought a farm in Kenya
Colony and married a girl who presently
got killed in a ’plane accident. He is one
of the world’s best as a pilot, and he served
with distinction throughout the war.
The Beit scholarship, for which any man
or woman of European descent graduating
from any university in the Empire is
eligible, goes this year to two Victorians.
Drs. G. R. Cameron and R. P. Cook. Both
are Melbourne Uni. graduates.


MR. MICAWBER FOUND THAT OUT.
"Sir Otto Niemeyer, director of the Bank of England, is finding that a solution of Australia’s financial problems is not easy without calling upon the country to make greater sacrifices than it has hitherto thought it possible to face.”
MR. MICAWBER: “It never DOES turn up, does it, Sir Otto?”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mr. Cinders”
Criterion “Little Accident”
State Movies and Talkie!
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The New Moon”
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
»
One of the oldest and most spectacular
comedies ever performed had a revival in
Sydney last week, though the version pre-
sented was so modernised that most of those
who saw it thought it a new offering. It
was not witnessed from the plush seats of
any dress-circle, and it was missed by all
who wandered over the six-inch-deep carpets
THE IMMORTAL UNDERPANTS.
of mezzanine lounges, listened enraptured to
mighty wurlitzers, walked through gilded
vestibules beneath two-and-a-half ton chan-
deliers, or preened themselves in foyers sanc-
tified by Valentino’s immortal underpants.
It. was witnessed only by frequenters of that
amalgamation of spit, sawdust and tobacco
juice, the Stadium.
_ The fact that most of these failed to recog-
nise it does not prove them any less cultured
or intelligent than, say, that monument to
our education system, the average talkie
audience. Deliberate steps had been taken to
palm it off as an entirely original presenta-
tion, chief among which was the advertising
of it as a wrestling match. How effectual
this was is apparent from the fact that it
completely took in Frith, who, though he
may look like a poet who has just had a
hair-cut and a wash, nourishes a surprising
thirst for gore. True, he goes along now
and then to listen to boy sopranos, young
lady reciters or even tennis players, but
that is only when duty insists. His heart
is never in that sort of thing. It is always
hanging about some temple of stoush ; indeed,
though it may be true that no -wrestler of
the first flight has ever been thrown by
Frith, it is equally a fact that no wrestler
is in the first flight until he has been thrown
at him. Yet he was so completely taken in
by the modern touches that had been addpd
to this piece, plus, of course, the advertising
of it as a wrestling match, that while it
was being presented he kept shouting out,
“Blime, he’s got him in a scissors!” “Good
heavens, it’s a Boston crab!” “Look—the
■splits!” and other remarks of a similar
character.
He confessed afterwards that he had been
taken in a good deal by a newspaper article
written by one of the players, who admitted
the soft impeachment of having been called
a. “big stiff” and said definitely that he was
a wrestler, adding that at wrestling his
nose had been broken four times, each of his
ears had been broken several times, and two
“To listen to boy sopranos.”
of his ribs, two ankles and a knee had also
been broken, and he would strongly recom-
mend wrestling to business men who wanted
to keep fit. When he had had the key-lock
on one opponent he had said to him, “Give
it up, or I’ll break your leg,” but, though
there was such a thing as dirty play in
wrestling, he had fortunately not struck any
of it as yet, and he would strongly recom-
mend the pastime to anyone who wished to
reduce. He further convincingly identified
himself with the present gentle times and
manners by recording that when he was a boy
in Cairo and a playmate had been attacked
by a pack of Arab youngsters, he had pulled
the leg off a table and gone to the rescue,
calling out, “Open your knife, Johnnie, and
dig it into the soft parts of them.”
On the face of it, the writer of that article
was what he purported to be—George Kot-
sonaros, a wrestler. That being so, his
opposite in the piece would have to be
accepted as Billy Edwards, of the same
profession. That they may have been respec-
tively Achilles and Hector re-enacting their
old, old duo turn did not appear to be widely
appreciated. Still, that was how it struck
this Showman: and Achilles raised tre-
mendous enthusiasm by driving furiously on
to the scene of battle amid cheers from the
Greeks, though the effect was rather spoilt
when, pausing to pay the driver, he was
nearly knocked over by another “Yellow”
coming from the opposite direction. It seems
open to question, however, whether Hector’s
arriving on the scene by tram was an im-
provement on the original arrangement,
under which he entered hastily in a chariot
and opened the proceedings by felling a
minor character named Teucer with a lump
of rock. The setting, nevertheless, has been
unquestionably improved since the piece was
first presented. Instead of a stretch of
uninteresting countryside, cluttered with in-
terfering gods and goddesses, and doubtless
alive with goats, the act was staged on a
small plateau, brilliantly illuminated by
Prometheus’s gift to the Sydney Electric Light
Board. Among those present were Minerva
(from the pub at the corner of Pitt-street),
heavily cloaked in rabbit pelts; Venus, in a
sports frock rather more ample than the
one she used to wear, belt revealing a ten-
dency towards knobbiness of the knees;
Paris, in a double-breaster and bowler:
Apollo, in a worsted sac suit, hand-knitted
socks and a foilr-for-a-bob cigar; and all the
other divinities similarly disguised as bar-
maids and politicians and kept from inter-
fering by a horizontal palisade of ropes.
Behind these, successive circular wire bar-
riers, labelled Ten Shillings, Five Shillings
and Three Shillings, kept off the mighty
hosts of Greeks and Trojans perched round
ir close formation, every now and then
taking a swig of one or other of the more
famous brands of nectar, declaiming as they
did so some Homeric line, as “Skin off your
nose !” “Tons of the best!” or “Here’s lookin’
at you!”
It was into this setting that Achilles, his
nose slightly misplaced, and Hector, who has
cultivated a fine pair
of louse ladders
since Homer knew
him, stepped to ex-
change compliments
in low but sincere
terms before opening
their act with an
open-handed smack
on each other’s right
car. Achilles im-
proved on this by
hissing a Greek word
of two syllables
meaning “No gentle-
man,” which Hector
at once threw back
in teeth, together
with others of appro-
ximately similar
meaning. After that,
Hector picked
Achilles up and
threw him at Frith,
whereupon Achilles
climbed back into the
ring, sat firmly on
Hector and plucked
hairs out of his louse
ladders, repeating
softly, “He loves me,
he loves me not.”
After they had spent
the best part of an
hour doing things
like this, the pro-
ducer cut in suddenly
and drastically, and
Achilles was abrupt-
ly declared !tke
winner on a foul. The
Greeks immediately filed off to ther chips re-
joicing. The Trojans hung around displaying
their culture by counting up to ten and their
generosity by throwing a few pennies to the
victor; but even they went off after a while,
leaving the precincts of Olympus to the small
boys, who still clamber nimbly up and down
those august heights, gathering the empties.
* * *
Reconsideration of Miss Taliaferro’s
acting at Sydney Criterion raises a doubt
as to whether the Firm is disappointed or
merely trying to be unpleasant. It might
be both. Miss Taliaferro, with the consider-
able assistance of Ethel Morrison, bright-
ened the old house when she began there a
few weeks ago in “Let Us Be Gay.” It was
Ethel Morrison, however, who really made
the entertainment, and she did so again in
the second offering, “The Garden of Eden.”
Miss Taliaferro added a pleasant voice and
a perky personality, and in “The Garden”
managed a good passage of violent acting
before stripping off her outer raiment. But
her sophisticated divorcee of the first piece
was not noticeably different from her un-
sophisticated young person of the second,
and in the present show she continues to be
Miss Taliaferro with chivalrous fidelity.
Still, an imported leading lady is prob-
ably not to be blamed for treating with
contempt such a part as that of the mother
of the “Little Accident.” Certainly good
acting would make the part better, but it
would be rather a pity to waste good acting
on it. There is only one part in the play,
and the Firm in its wisdom has entrusted
this to Gus Bluett. It is one of the as-
tounding things that happen every now and
then in the theatre. Bluett is an amusing
enough cuss, but a slapstick artist pure
and simple. He plays his part as if the
piece required his natural sort of foolery,
and to that extent manages very well. But
does the play not call for something deeper?”
The theme is not despicable. A young man
(Bluett) on the very eve of his wedding re-
ceives a letter from a maternity home telling
him that a girl he had had an affair with a
little earlier is about to bear him a child.
The young man, who has got into the second
feminine entanglement out of pique, goes,
as requested, to the hospital, to find that
the child has been born, that the mother
is letting it be adopted, and that all that
is wanted of him is a health test, to be
given as a sort of guarantee with his son.
The problem is, what would this young man
do? It is the mother of his son and not the
other girl who really attracts him, but the
mother, partly piqued herself and partly
thinking he wants the other girl, argues
fairly logically that she is doing the best
thing by the child, by him and by herself.
Paternal instinct eventually decides the
issue; the father kidnaps his son! He
then goes into hiding in a boarding-
house, cutting off all his life-ties at
one snip. Feeding trouble causes the
boardinghouse-keeper to ring the hos-
pital, and (the weakest link in a fair
chain) both the ladies involved rush
round, they having been waiting
anxiously for word of the minor Don
Juan. Both are prepared to forgive,
which keeps suspense' nicely balanced
till the end, when, of course, the
young man and his son’s mother are
left alone with their little accident
binding them together.
Bluett turns that into a mere farce.
The touching theme, the intrinsic
human truth, are hidden under grimac-
ing and pattering superficiality. . The
play is cast clumsily aside, to make
way for a two-hours’ vaudeville
turn, made up mostly of obstetric jokes.
The rumor that the Firm will shortly stage
“Lear.” with Bluett in the name part, is
probably not without foundation. Anyway,
it has been left to this strangely done thing,
“Little Accident,” to give the box-otfice its
best feast of the season.
A show that deserves a mention on this
page because it was twice as interesting,
thrice as spectacular and quite as well cast
as “The New Moon,” was the field natural-
ists’ jubilee display at the Town Hall, St.
Kilda. It contained low comedy, drama and
music—all the ingredients of an entertain-
ing evening except the high kicking.
The music was provided by Megascolides
australis, a star from Gippsland, otherwise
known as the world’s biggest earthworm.
She is entitled to the claim of often attain-
ing the length of 12 feet, and runs to quite
as much waist as the average prima donna.
AA'hen startled she burrows deeply i"to
moist ground, emitting a distinct gurgling
sound, though the words, as with all the
best vocalists, are not intelligible. She
“Achilles, his nose slightly misplaced, and Hector"
also releases a curious odor resembling creo-
sote, wherein she differs from most prima
donnas, who favor garlic. But, s then, Megas-
colides australis is not imported. In fact,
she is threatened with extinction by im-
ported worms, and ought to have the benefit
of a protective tariff.
The low comedy was provided by the
axolotls from South America, who look very
low comedians indeed, more so even than
Alfred Frith at the Tivoli. The axolotls
are impartially either blaokfaeed or pink-
faced, have arms, hands and fins, live indis-
criminately up trees or under water and
have many other means for raising laughs
without saying anything—like Frith again.
The beauty chorus was represented by the
beetles collected by' Mr, F. Wilson, of East
Malvern. They were of quite staggering
beauty, but not more so than the cicadas,
which also combined extraordinary grace
with extravagant costuming. The star of the
ensemble was the great day-flying moth of
Northern Queensland. If J.C.W.’s robes
mistress were to see her she would probably
give up her profession in despair and go
in for the underclothing business.
The gigantic fusus, the giant crab
and the thorny oyster were amongst
the sideshows, and a hint of tragedy
was provided by the albino ’possum,
who had just given birth to a baby and
seemed anxious about its parentage,
it not having grown any hair yet.
After their sojourn by the sad sea waves
of St. Kilda, Vic. Prof. Orchestrians resumed
business at their old address, the Auditorium,
last Wednesday. On the principle that half
a classic is better than none, one move-
ment of the Eroica was played, but played
admirably, and the “Di Ballo” overture of
Sullivan revealed that composer out of bis
cap and bells for a moment. A swaggering
performance of “The Ride of the Valkyries”
closed the evening, a loud demand for an
encore being rewarded with the Nat. Anthem.
# * #
Linda Parker is unique amongst budding
virtuosi. At her farewell benefit concert
at Melbourne Auditorium she refrained
from playing the Appassionata. Instead,
she contented herself with such compara-
tive hors-d'rpuvrcs as Mendelssohn’s “Caprie-
cio Brilliant” and Schumann’s Papillons.”
She promises to be lyric rather than
fiery, and persuasive rather than force-
ful, and her career will probably be worth
watching. She is the third Australian to
embark on the European pilgrimage after
being endorsed by infant prodigy Shura
Cherkassky. A small audience froze through
the performance which had the assistance of
Harold Elvins, ’cellist Sisserman and others.
“He loves me; he loves me not!”
Robert Guthrie, as the amusing rogue who
smooths out the troubles of his masters and
mistresses while picking their pockets, is
holding the centre of the stage in the Reper-
tory performance of “The Rogueries of
Scapin,” which closes at Melbourne Playhouse
this evening (Wednesday). He is admirably in
tune with the sort of buffooning criticism of
life Molibre aimed at; and so are Claude
Thomas, Coral Brown and others of the
well-cast collection of amateurs. The great
Frenchman’s comedy, which has been well
translated by Lady Gregory, is 300 years
old if viewed historically—viewed humanly
it is about three minutes. It is consider-
ably younger and fresher, for instance, than
the modern fantasy “Columbine” by Reginald
Arkell, -which preceded it. Moli&re dealt
with what the programme notes, if there had
been any, 'would have called “the eternal
verities”—that is to say, plain men and
women; and plain men and women (or
pretty ones, either) don’t alter. He is only
burlesquing human character, but they are
real human beings he is burlesquing. Very
little of the fun comes from the situations—
almost all from the reactions of the charac-
ters. Well staged and splendidly mounted,
the show is well worth the attention of
students of the drama, as well as of amuse-
ment seekers.
# * *
At the dirt-cheap prices asked, Fritz Hart's
popular and splendid concerts at the Town
Hall, Melbourne, must be packed to pay
exes. The hall on Saturday was not packed;
nevertheless the house was good for a
community wherein every device of adver-
tisement is employed to make the people
buy -what they don’t w r ant at prices
they can't afford. Brahms’s noble
Symphony No. 3 in F overshadowed every-
thing else on the programme, and it was bril-
liantly conducted and admirably played.
Ernest Bloch’s Concerto Grosso, for piano-
forte and strings, was performed for the first
time in Australia. It is modern only in ike
sense that it was composed in 1925; other-
wise it might have been written by Handel,
though he would probably have written it a
good deal better. Violet Ewart at the piano
had not much in the solo parts on which
to exercise her reserves of feeling. Percy
Grainger’s jolly “Mock Morris” turned up
again, as also did Hart’s own “Seeds of
Love,” a very charming fragment.
# * *
AV. H. Foote, of Adelaide Conservatorium,
conductor of the Tramways Band while it
existed, lias done a good thing for local
music in getting together a similar band, to
be called Foote’s Ensemble, and to give
popular concerts sandwiched in between the
heavier efforts of "the S. A. Orchestra. The
first of them went well throughout. It varied
“Would strongly recommend wrestling to
business men.”
from Handel (with George Gardiner at the
Town Hall organ) to Sullivan (with Fred
Rowley at the cornet), from “Faust” and
Schubert to the “Tiptoe Tulips” of the
present craze, beautifully orchestrated,
Allan Wilkie continues to keep the past
alive at Sydney Opera House. There have
been sound revivals of “She Stoops to Con-
quer” and “The School for Scandal”; “The
Rivals” goes on to-night (Wednesday), and
“Julius Csesar” will take his issue to-morrow
afternoon. On Saturday afternoon “Governor
Bligh” will have its premiere.
# * *
After a brief renaissance under the Jim
Gerald regime. Melbourne Bijou has relapsed
into silence. The co. has been disbanded and
James will form another in Brisbane.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
[PREPARED]
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
mlm
■ rit
>#rriV^£
Meeting To-day’s
Problems with
MORE Efficiency
Modern
P 11
Experts state that the average age of
man is three score years and ten. Even
in that time no man can accumulate
enough knowledge to meet every business
problem with efficiency. This is the
reason why over 400,000 of successful
business executives all over the world are
subscribers to the Alexander Hamilton
Institute’s Modern Business Course and
Service.
Let the Alexander Hamilton Institute
help you as it has helped others. Write
to-day for a copy of the Booklet, “Forg-
ing Ahead in Business,” which describes
this. Modern Service for executives.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Division in Australia of
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank
Place, off 410-412 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Investment Tip for the Week.
Stand pat till y<?u can see a little more
daylight.
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne).
Works Written
Divi- Charged 02
deeds. to lie- Stocks, Re-
Profits. .(13 p.c.) venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ **
June, ’21.. 63.495 65,000 Nil Nil 611,563
Dec., ’21.. 109,160 65.000 21,2(6 Ni 634,447
June, ’22.. 138,202 65,000 49,293 Nil 658,356
Dec., ’22.. 139,520 65,000 28,800 Nil 704,076
' Refund of income-tax . . £23,54.) T2i t 6Jl
June ’23.. 58,679 65,000 29,070 8264 683,906
Dec.,’ ’23.. 103,000 65,000 13,789 4262 1 696,253
Cost of Govt, inquiry, £7662 \
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 46,871 5,633 704,234
Premiums on shares .. £43,528 747,<62
Dee., ’24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748.121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,500 50,603.4,194 701,176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 •• 814*649
June, ’27. . 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,204
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 920,677
Dec, ’27.. 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
■Tune, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906,047
Dec., ’29... 100,772 84,500 36,184* 3,748 882,387
Profit on sale of land, £13,586 . . 890,973
June, ’30.. 94,328 84,500 22,038* Nil 883,763
*old plant written off.
The figures for the last 38 months are a
clear illustration of the sinful waste result-
ing from the recent stoppage on the northern
N. S. Wales coalfield. Work has been
resumed there, and the price of coal reduced,
but the co.’s shareholders and Melbourne
gas consumers remained saddled with the
high cost of importing coal from England
over the six months covered by the last
accounts. That was because the co., in order
to be sure of supplies, had to make charter-
ing arrangements four months and more
ahead.
An early result of this high cost was that
the div., which had been lifted a couple of
points to 15 p.c. in 1924, had to be dropped
to 13 p.c. again. They are purely nominal
rates, made inevitable by the premiums
which the scrip (fully paid to £5) brought
on the market. For the last 52 years all
shares have been sold at auction, the aver-
age price realised being £lO 10s. 3d., which
makes a 13 p.c. div. worth no more than
6.1 p.c. But owing to the reduction of the
div. and the hardening of interest rates the
market now prices these shares at £8 10s.
or thereabouts, thus yielding the investor
8 p.c. at the present rate of distribution.
A substantial saving in costs can be ex-
nectcd to result from the use of Maitland
joal during the current term, but this might
be offset by a drop in revenue should the
extra sd. (making 7s. 6d. per 1000 c.f.) added
to the selling price last year be knocked
off. Prospects of an early restoration of
the 15 p.c. div. are therefore not encourag-
ing. Consider these figures:—
( Year ended June 30—
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Sales:— 1929. s. d. 1930. s. d.
Gas ..£1,470,601 7 0| £1,547,173 7 4-J
Residuals .. 264,491 1 3| 256,296 1 2f
Total . . £1,735,092 8 4 £1,803,469 8 11
Manufacturing
& distributing
exes. . . 1,236,728 510 1,319,557 6 3£
Other charges 287,550 1 4| 262,659 1 3
Total outgo £1,524,278 7 2J £1,582,216 7 61
Assuming that the gain of 3id. in last year’s
sales is lost through reduction in selling
price, that s|d. can be saved on manufac-
ture and distribution, and that other charges
and the returns from residuals remain un-
altered, the net result would be Is. 2|d. per
1000 c.f., or 3d. more than would be required
to pay a 15 p.c. div. But that margin is
only half the amount that the co. is entitled
to set aside out of profits to cover deprecia-
tion, etc. Much, of course, will depend upon
the extent to which costs can be got back.
The co.’s real position depends very
largely upon whether the sums spent upon
works, etc., and charged to revenue, which
is equivalent to writing down fixed assets,
proves to be sufficient to cover actual depre-
ciation. What has been done in this way
of recent years the next table shows: —-
Charged
Works, etc., to Meters
Year ended Repairs and Paid for out Renewal
Dec., Maintenance, of Profits. Reserve.
£> £ £> ■
1920.. £164,062 £22,084 £797
1921 . . 242,821 21,276
1922 . . 222,589 52,093
1923 . . 239,469 42,859 12,526
1924 .. 275,933 85,614 9,911
1925 . . 258,505 69,231 9,464
1926 .. 250,830 72,593 15,244
1927 . . 229,459 58,156 4,585
1928 . . 244,911
1929 . . 243,568 3,748
1930*.. 117,400
*Six months to June 30.
If the expenditure to date turns out to be
inadequate, then profits have been over-
stated in the past, and future results are
likely to suffer. Recently reserves were
bitten into to cover obsolescent.
The unexpended balance of capital account
at June 30 was £200,044. Holder’s of
£150,000 of 6 p.c. debentures, maturing Oct.
1, are asked to convert into 61 per cent..
redeemable Oct. 1, 1941. Legislative con-
trol of divs. and prices remains in the air,
as it has done for years past; but it is a
point that should not. be overlooked.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 27,752 13§p.c. = . 28,162 57,750
1920.. ? 134 „ ~ 28,162 ? ?
Co. reconstructed and split in two. Assets written up.
Two £1 shares paid to 15s. in new ferry co.
issued for every one similarly paid up in old co.,
ana aiso one fully-paid £1 6 p.c. participating
pref. share in subsidiary insurance co. for every
two in old co.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 525 2,59 l
1922.. 26,411 6 „ „ 25,345 1,066 3,957
1923.. 32,186 6 „ ~ 25,345 6,841 10,798
1924.. 25,406 6 „ ~25,345 61 10,859
1925.. 30,203 7 „ ~29,570 633 11,492
1926.. 25,003 7 „ ~ 29,570 6,925
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
1928.. 10,116 3 p.c. = 12,673 7,095
Ship property written down £140,808 by striking
off ss. per share.
1929.. 33,346 10 p.c. = 28,161 5,185 12,280
1930.. 19,695 7 „ „ 19,713 12,262
The seed of much of the co.’s recent troubles
was sown during the reconstruction in 1920,
when for every share paid to 15s. in the old
co. scrip paid to 40s. in two new cos. was
handed out. (A subsidiary, Port Jackson
Investment and Insurance Co., tvas thrown
off to handle chiefly the parent’s risks.) To
do this the book value of the fleet was multi-
plied by three, and that just when prices
were at their peak. But ship values have
slumped so heavily since that the ordinary
substantial provisions for depreciation be-
came inadequate, and running costs kept
deepening their bite into takings ; thus share-
holders went hungry in 1927. A shilling was
added to the weekly fare, but it was not
enough, so ss. per share (£140,808) was
lopped Off capital on the one hand and from
the book value of the fleet on the other.
On a 6 p.c. basis this meant a saving of
£8448 per annum in depreciation charges.
In the following year circumstances were
exceptionally kind, the net result mounted
to 11.8 p.c. on capital as reduced (£281,616)
and a 10 p.c. div. was paid. Last year the
weather and unemployment interfered, so,
despite a substantial saving in running costs
( two new oil-burning ships now do the work
previously done by three), there was a sharp
contraction of £13,651 in the disclosed net
profit, which was 6.9 p.c. on capital. Hence
the final div. was cut back to 6 p.c. p.a.,
making 7 p.c. for the year.
Whether the co. did any better than
admitted depends partly upon what capital
expenditure, if any, has been charged to
revenue. The year’s improvement in the
liquid surplus was £4681: —
IQOO IQOQ IQOfl
Liquid assets .. .. £45,961 £51,158 £51,291
Liabilities . . . . 47,432 9,837 5,289
Excess liabilities .. £1,471 -
Surplus assets .. £41,321 £46,002
Fixed assets .. .. £440,525 £269,471 £256,325
There was a reduction of £6483 in book
debts (£3860) and £6356 was added to the
cash and investments item (£39,883). Stores
were in at £7548. On the fleet £13,178 more
was written off than was spent leaving its
book value at £210,465; freeholds figured at
£45,860.
Improvement in revenue during the cur-
rent term seems unlikely. Prospects of a lift
in the div. to 8 p.c. depend largely upon
whether the writing down was adequate, and
the extent to which costs can be got back.
And there is the Harbor Bridge, the com-
pletion of which will mean immediate com-
petition from road transport, perhaps allied
with rail. Though the management has
planned to meet this contingency, what
has been done under the old conditions is no
guide to what may be done under the new
ones. The market prices the 10s. paid shares
at par. The backing is 10s. sd. in net tan-
gibles, mainly ships, worth what they can
earn.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane).
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1990.. 17 127 8 p.c. = 8,925 3,202 21,000
iqoi 16 469 8 ~ „ 9.902 2,567 25,000
1922" 18 071 8 „ „ 10,389 3,682 29,000
1993" 27,803 10 „ ~ 14,609 8,194 34,000
Sit:: 40.170 12§ „ ~23,375 5,795 45,000
1925.. 40,205 12i ~ „ 29,219 2,986 53,000
1926 41,499 10 ~ ~ 27,442 2,057 65,000
1927" 40 554 10 „ „ 29,885 2,169 73,500
1928*" 41145 10 „ ~ 29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 12J „ ~ 37,356 1,702 87,000
1930!. 39,674 10 ~ ~ 29,885 3,789 93,000
The div. has been kept steady at 10 p.c. for
the last eight years, with 2| p.c. added
when things looked brighter than usual. The
board’s decision not to pay the bonus tor
the last term fitted in pretty well with mar-
ket anticipations; the price for the pound
shares held between 30s. and 325. until
December, since when the figure has dropped
to 245. 6d. Allowing for the final div. the
return at that price is 8.5 p.c, on the basis
of a 10 p.c. distribution.
Gross profits (£182,707) were £10,703
lighter than the previous year’s, but a cut
of £6379 in exes. (£143,033, including an
unspecified provision for depreciation, bad
debts, etc.) softened the fall, leaving the
net figure at 13.2 p.c. on average capital
compared with 14.7, 13.5, 15.1, 17.2 and
21.4 p.c. back to 1925. They are splendid
results considering the difficulties, chief of
which have been a gruelling drought, keen
competition and mounting costs, on the heels
of which have come financial stringency and
increased taxation.
Nevertheless the board anticipated further
expansion of business to follow improved
seasonal conditions, but tight money and re-
duced spending threaten to limit the. growth.
Also, the possible effects of competition from
a new concern, the JMoreton Bay (N.S.)
Brewing Co., which is asking the public for
a quarter-million in order to put up &
Nathan brewing plant in Brisbane, have cre-
ated doubt concerning the future of brewery
scrip in Queensland. Exactly wliat this
might mean nobody can say for certain, but
tlie Queensland co. is solidly entrenched
throughout the southern, central and west-
ern portions of the State, where it has spent
a lot of money on the purchase of hotel
freeholds —this is the way breweries have
of ensuring future income, there being prac-
tically no price-cutting in the trade. _
The co. w’ent heavily into debt to finance
recent developments, but liabilities are being
worked down as debtors’ balances are re-
duced :
1920. 1924. 1927. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid
capital .112,5010 2001,000 298,851 298,851 298,851
Liabilities 31,476 515,122 257,141 1’4?1,58S 132,128
Fixed assets 73,643 154,455 305,824 294,146 298,681
Stock .. 44,795 64,176 89,790 95,951 105,560
Book debts 45,804 114,115 276,058 190,920 167,732
Cash, etc. 9,846 3,510 5,485 6,014 7,916
Since 1920 £186,351 of fresh capital has
been got in, and the visible improvement in
net assets amounts to £305,155. Thus share-
holders are £118,804 visibly better off than
they were 10 years ago, and £80,117 of the im-
provement is in more or less surplus liquids,
which totalled £149,086 at the close of last
accounts, or £2216 less than at the previous
balance.
Including the contingency reserve, shown
as written off in the table, the visible lay-by
was 28s. 9d. per .share in net tangibles,
of which approximately 20s. was represented
by fixed assets.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£> £ £ £
1920.. 52,430 10 p.c. = 35,664 16,766 128,023
1921.. 60,973 10 „ „ 39,471 21,502 149,525
June,
1922.. 25,737 10 „ „ 19,736 6,001 155,526
1923.. 51.469 10 „ ~ 39,471 11.998 167,524
1924.. 44,498 10 „ „ 39,471 5,027 172,551
1925.. 42,047 10 „ „ 39,471 2,576 175,127
1926.. 42,181 10 ~ „ 39,471 2,710 177,837
Transferred to capital, £48,986 .. 128,851
1927.. 53,503 10 p.c. = 41,920 11,583 140,434
1928.. 52,032 10 „ „ 44,370 7,662 148,096
1929.. 49,457 10 „ „ 44,370 5,087 153,183
1930.. 53,525 10 „ „ 44,370 9,155 162,338
The accounts of State coastal shipping cos.
afford a bright exception to the general ex-
perience of traders these days. That is
because nature has been kind. Last year
farmers on the N. S. Wales North Coast
filled this co.’s ships with farm and dairy
produce, and, with the cheque, bought many
things, the bulk of which the co. has also
had the job of canying. Further, the run-
ning costs of the fleet have been reduced by
the recent addition of two oil-burning ships,
and the year’s takings benefited by extension
of business to Port Macquarie. This followed
the purchase of the assets of N. Cain’s ship-
ping business, thus giving the co. practically
a monopoly of shipping from Newcastle to
the Queensland border.
So, notwithstanding a falling off in
freights toward the close of accounts, the
board wrote net- profit £1568 better than the
previous year’s at £46,025. But that leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained addi-
tion of £7500 to the “insurance and reserve
accounts, £118,089.” This the “Wild Cat"
believes to be genuine profit and treats it
accordingly. Thus the net result, according
to “Wild Cat” reckoning, was 12 p.c. on
capital compared with 11.1, 11.7 and 12
p.c. back to 1927, when a small issue of
gift scrip, the only one in the eo.’s history,
added £4889 p.a. to the 10 p.c. div.. making
it worth 11.2 p.c. on old holdings. The true
profit, of course, depends upon the adequacy
or otherwise of the allowances for deprecia-
tion, and appearances are that these are
liberal, although recent alterations to the
tariff have added to the cost of replacements.
Now look at these figures:—
1924. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £394,714 £394,714 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities . . 33,818 40,802 13,032 18,489
Ships.. .. 364,015 393,689 *345,770 323,738
Freeholds, etc. 28,912 36,487 35,759 35,859
Liquid .. 227,891 202,913 250,572 287,115
Notwithstanding the year’s purchase, already
referred to, the book value of the fleet at
June 30 was £22,032 lighter than at the
previous balance, while the fine pile of more
or less liquids, including stocks, benefited
by no less than £30,543. That the board
is not taking any more risks than it has to
is suggested by a reduction of £23,120 in
the book value of shares in other cos. (£9000)
and an increase of_ £72,307 in cash and
Government securities (£234.349). Book debts
(£33,981) were £12,973 lighter, and stores
(£9784) were £528 heavier.
The market prices the pound shares at
265. 6d. as against 28s. 6d. a year go. Allow-
ing for the final div. the return at the cur-
rent price is 7.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
and there is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that that rate is likely to be
interfered with. The net tangible backing
amounts to 275. 3d., of which 11s. Id. is in
surplus liquids.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney).
To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1920.. 9,112 8 p.c. = 8,800 312 55,749
Assets written up .. 55,000 110,749
Transferred to capital, £llO,OOO.
Balance of reserves ( £749) disappear.
1921.. 20,004 6 p.c. = 13,200 6,804 6,804
1922.. 17,404 7 „ ~ 15,400 2,004 8,808
1923.. 17,795 8 „ „ 17,000 195 9,003
Inner reserves disclosed, £25,000 34,003
1924.. 17,621 8 p.c.= 17,600 21 34,621
Capital returned, £llO,OOO
1925.. 11,103 10 p.c. = 11,000 103 34,127
1926.. 11,008 10 „ „ 11,000 8 34,135
1927.. 11.876 10 „ „ 11,000 876 35,011
1928.. 10,094 1.0 ~ ~ 11,000 34,105
1929.. 10,016 10 ~ .. 11,000 33,121
.1930.. 10,005 8 ~ ~ 8,800 1205 34,326
A few years ago it was decided to get out
of the timber business and give more atten-
tion to tile-making. So one by one most of
the old freeholds were sold, the unearned
increment being responsible for much of the
inner strength disclosed during the last
decade. Thus £135,000 of bonus scrip was
handed out during the four years to the close
of accounts in 1924; then 10s. per share was
returned in cash, reducing paid capital to the
present £llO,OOO.
Meanwhile the co. became mainly a hold-
ing concern, having bought heavily in Kan-
dos Cement, which has paid a steady 10 p.c.
since it was formed in 1920. So Goodlet and
Smith has been able to write pretty even
profits for the last half-dozen years, and
pay a regular 10 p.c. for five of them, despite
what looks like very poor returns from its
own trading. Owing to the altered outlook
a couple of points wore snipped off the div.
last year, reducing it to 8 p.c.
Recently Kandos (N.S.W.) and Austra-
lian Cement (Vic.) sold their manufacturing
assets to a new co., Australian Portland
Cement Pty., Ltd., for scrip. The idea was
to minimise the.dangers which threaten from
over-production in the industry. The two
vendor concerns hold equal share interests
in the operating co., which controls plant
with a capacity of over 400,000 tons per
annum, or slightly more than one-third of
the total plant capacity of the whole Austra-
lian industry. According to latest published
figures the combined net earnings of the two
old cos. was 17.3 p.c. on their combined capi-
tals. The immediate outlook in the industry,
however, is one of reduced earnings, construc-
tion work having been severely curtailed
throughout Australia.
The changes which have taken place in
Goodlet and Smith’s business since 1920 are
reflected in the next comparison :
1920. 1929. 1930.
Machinery, plant, etc. .. £54,000 £35,000 £35,000
Stocks 38,085 1,133 1,393
Book debts, shares in
other cos. and cash.. 267,322 126,582 116,435
£359,407 £162,715 £152,828
Liabilities .. .. 129,858 14,094 5,202
Net assets .. .. £229,549 £148,621 £147,626
The real position is obscured by the lumping
of shares, book debts and cash in one untidy
entry. A reduction of £10,147 in this blanket
item last year enabled the board to clip
( Continued, on next page.)


Touched
Bottom ?
There’s money to be lost by
buying the wrong stock or
trusting the wrong people.
There’s money to be made by
picking the right stocks and
buying at the right time.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
doesn’t know everything; but
it has a wonderful accumulation
of data and unequalled sources
of information, and it places
these at your disposal.
AUGUST NUMBER
ON SALE SATURDAY
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
It looks a good deal of money; but it
may save you losing all you’ve got.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.-— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — -Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Comer Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt,
* * $ *
Pioneer Wood Tanks are cheaper to buy and instal
than any other type of tank, and offer outstanding-
advantages.. They are strong, durable and unaffected
by extremes of, climate. Being absolutely non-
corrosive, they maintain absolute purity of their
liquid content. For water, wine or for use ;h
mining and cyanide plants they are unequalled.
Obtain full particulars from The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria. — Advt.
* :?« $
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney • Office, 46 Trafalgar Street.,
Annandale.— Advt.
* * * :j!
Bismuth.-— We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* $ * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1813.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.!
F. E. Lo;xton, Esq.; ffra. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bamt offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
The Popular Science Quarterly Magazine dealing with the Wonders of Nature
JULY—SEPTEMBER NUMBER. VOL. IV, PART 3
NOW AVAILABLE
From all Booksellers or direct from the Australian Museum, Sydney.
FEATURE ARTICLES.
CHARLES STURT, EXPLORER AND NATURALIST W A RAINBOW
DO WE EAT ENOUGH FISH? " T C ROUGHLEY
THE BRONZE CUCKOOS OF AUSTRALIA K A HINDWOOD
THE TERMITE NEST EXHIBIT ' a’ MUSGRAVE
TERMITE CITIES OF THE PLAINS K C McKEOWN
THE TEETH OF FISHES . Q p WHITLEY
MOUNT KOSCIUSKO, IN SUMMER AND WINTER A. MUSGRAVE
Non-technical and profusely illustrated.
SINGLE COPIES 1/1, posted. ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION 4/4, posted.
SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED TO TEACHERS INTERESTED IN NATURE STUDY.
w
YG
L
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
m
DT
. Swift & Company, Ltd;, Australasian Agents, 26-30 Clarence St., SydneyU
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
£8892 off the debt, but net assets were £995
lighter than at the previous balance. Plant
is reported in good order.
The pound shares, which fetched 28s. 3d.
a year ago, are now priced at 18s. on the
market. Therefore the investor who looks
for 61 p.c. on his money counts on no more
than a 6 p.c. div. The backing amounts to
265. 3d. in net assets, mainly Ivandos shares.
The Hetton Bellbird Collieries, Ltd.
f D i v i den ds
Pi ets. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1921 . 58.970 283 124 p.c. = 49.494 9193 9.193
1922.. 52,169 193 121 „ ~ 49,656 2320 11,513
1923.. 39,633 169 9 „ ~ 35,780 3684 15.197
Premiums on new shares, £1521 .. 16.718
1924.. 4,903 Nil Nil 4903 21,621
1925.. 4,038 339 24 p.c. = 11,189 6,055
Profit.
1926.. 35.951 16S 8 „ ~ 35,805 6,033
1927.. 48,319 81 10 „ ~44,847 3391 9,424
1928.. 51,523 154 10 „ „ 44,776 6593 16,017
1929.. 31,470 65 5 „ „ 22,405 9060 25,077
Loss.
1930.. 17,449 Nil Nil 7,628
Clear of the troubles which followed the
explosion and fire at No. 1 colliery on
Sept. 1, 1923, the co. was quickly regaining
its front-rank place as a profit-earner when
the general stoppage on the northern coal-
field occurred. That was early in March,
1929, and both the co.’s pits remained idle
until the beginning of June last. Meanwhile
the heavy expense of keeping the mines and
plant in good working order showed up in
a drop of £20,053 in the profits for the 12
months to June 30, 1929, and a straight-out
loss of £17,449 last year.
Since work was resumed a few months
ago there has been a reduction of 2s. 3d. per
ton in the selling price of coal, but Is. 6d.
of this was on account of a rebate on rail-
way freights, and the other Is. 9d. is partly
offset by the terms on which work was
resumed. There is, of course, still too
many in the industry for the volume of busi-
ness offering, but the quality of Bellbird coal,
especially for gas-making purposes, has long
attracted buyers and its standard shows no
sign of decline. The co., therefore, is not
likely to have any difficulty in finding a
market for its output; and, judged on past
performances, a 10 p.c. div. does not seem
beyond its reach, notwithstanding heavy in-
creases in taxation. Owing to the gener-
ally unsatisfactory state of the industry
investors now look for 10 p.c. or thereabouts
on colliery scrip, but since the future is
much mote uncertain than usual they pay
only 18s. for the co.’s pound shares. At
that price the yield would be 10 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis, or 8.8 p.c. if the rate of
distribution was 8 p.c.
Exactly what the financial position is it
is impossible to say; “property, plant,
stores, investments and coal” were all
lumped in one shockingly untidy entry at
£554,908 at June 30, or £30,642 more than
at the previous balance. This increase,
together with the year’s loss, was repre-
sented on the other side of the sheet by a
net addition of £48.091 to the outside debt
(£97,316). The debenture item (£6125)
was worked down £3063, but £51,154 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. At the close of accounts in 1928
the mine and plant figured at £421.673; in-
vestments (mainly public securities and
cash), £84,111; stocks and stores, £13,339;
hook debts, £63,217. A lot of money has
been recently spent on the development of
Xo. 2 colliery.
The Tragedy of N.S.W. Shale
John Pell, who sold the Wolgan and Caper-
tee (N.S.W.) oil-shale properties, with rail-
way and plant, to the Broken Hill cos., put
up a great fight for the industry, and car-
ried it on right through the war, wheu
his lubricating and other oils and products,
including sulphate of ammonia, were very
badly wanted, both here and in England.
It was in 1912-13 that Fell, being then in
London, was asked by the debenture-holders
of the hopelessly insolvent Commonwealth
Oil Corporation to take over the properties.
He knew that most of the co.’s money had
been wasted; he knew that nobody could
afford to pay for the undertaking a fourth
of what had been spent on it. But he knew
there was exceedingly rich shale there, and
he agreed to take the concern over on
better terms than the owners of the derelict
had ever hoped to get. The railway from
Newnes Junction (on the Main Western
line) to Newnes (in Wolgan Valley) was
in the wrong place; it should have come
from Rylstone down the Capertee Valley.
But it had cost close on quarter of a million,
and it had to be left where it was. The
retorts had also been a failure. Fell made
the line usable and, after tests, altered 32
retorts at a cost of about £lOOO each.
Then the war started, and the shale in-
dustry had the same labor troubles as the
coal industry. These deposits do not lend
themselves to cheap mining, for, though ex-
ceptionally rich, they are in shallow beds
running from 18in. to 6ft. Mining costs,
though with the new appliances installed
they should have come down, actually in-
creased ; they were four times greater iu
1922 than they had been 10 years earlier.
It was this which eventually compelled
John Fell to cease operations. The retorts
were doing quite satisfactory work at low
costs; but the mining costs were prohibitive
in view of the prices at which foreign oils
and products w r ere marketed in Australia,
and mines and works have been idle since
1923.
Truth About Springsure Oil Prospects.
J. H. Ileid, lately Government Geologist
(Q.), discovered and worked out details of
the Springsure Dome in Sept., 1929, while
doing routine field work for the Queensland
Geological Survey. His report pointed out
the petroleum possibilities of the. dome, and
said they deserved investigation. In Febru-
ary, 1930, Reid and Dr. YVoolnough, Federal
Geological Adviser, were to have examined
the area jointly. The latter was unable to
visit the area, and has not yet seen it, but
was so impressed by the result of Reid’s
field work that he strongly recommended
intense investigation of the dome. Reid
also interested Drs. Jablonski and Bremner
in the area while they were making a gen-
eral overhaul of Australia's oil prospects for
the Vacuum Oil Co., and they have just
completed a brief examination of the area.
Mr. Hossfeld, acting for Woolnougb, made a
brief examination of the field in the middle
of July, but before he had actually seen the
dome the Sydney daily press stated he had
made a detailed examination and had reported
excellent prospects of petroleum being
obtained in quantity!
Briefly, no positive evidence of oil has been
found. The work of Reid shows it to be an
area worthy of investigation on geological
evidence, and on that alone. A Queensland
co. was quietly formed to undertake detailed
scientific work on approved lines; this was
followed by a rush for petroleum permits,
and the whole dome has been taken up for
90 miles. No .one can assess yet its petroleum
prospects, and possibly several years will
elapse before a definite view can be enter-
tained. Statements about probable gushers
at this stage are quite out of order, and
may indeed defeat the object aimed at.
Mr. Reid has been relieved of work in the
Geological Survey Dept, in order to continue
the investigation on behalf of the parent eo.
Queensland National Goldmining Co.,
which aims at re-opening the Hodgkinson
(N.Q.), is a £50.000 concern in a million
shares of one shilling each. Of these 50,000
have been reserved for allotment to em-
ployees .at par., and the balance are offered.
The co. is to acquire the old Tyrconnell mine
at Kingsborough for £1250 cash, with its
plant of a 10-head mill, winding machinery,
compressor and buildings. Modernisation
of the plant and other preliminary work is
expected to cost .about £5OOO. In addi-
tion it is proposed to spend at least
£3OOO on development. Operations wall start
when a quarter of the capital has been sub-
scribed. It is a cheap gamble.
* * * *
Oriomo Explorations, which has a finger
in a good many Australian and Island-oil
pies, has been lately oil the hunt for gold-
fields in Papua. After inspection of the Mt.
Lawson area, the co.’s engineers investigated
the possibilities of Mullins Harbor, on the
s.-w. coast, but found nothing worth atten-
tion. Under its old title of Fife Bay, the
locality was once the scene of a minor allu-
vial rush, which proved little better than a
tucker proposition.
* * « *
Return Creek Tin Dredging Co., Mt.
Garnet (N.Q.), has issued its balance-sheet
for the year ending August. 1929—nine
months after its financial year closed. The
financial result was a loss of £3.333. The
trouble with the dredge and alterations made
to it have lost the tin market to the co.,
and now only much-reduced returns can be
expected. The co.’s prospects of picking up
the leeway on the present low metal market
are not bright.
* * * *
Great Northern Tin, Herberton (Q.), has
reduced hands. It has had to go to the
bottom of the deep winze, where the pipe of
ore was lost, and prospect for a continua-
tion of the run of tin. If tin is not located
shortly further curtailment of operations
may follow; the co. has some £ s. d. in
reserve.
* * * *
Marranboy, the open-cut show in the
Northern Territory, cleaned up 170 tons for
39cwt. concentrates assaying 08.7 p.c. tin on
June 16. Manager John Tully says that if
the present steam plant is replaced by a
crude-oil engine he can save between 4s. and
ss. per ton on crushing. On the 93ft. level
the west drive continues in ore bulking 2 p.c.
to 3 p.c. tin. An intrusion of mullock has
chopped off the ore body in the last drive,
but it is expected to be met again a few
feet Until the price' of tin improves
the policy is one of development.
Another mining concern formed to win
gold in New Guinea has decided to . set in
on an Australian proposition instead. This
is Mount Ivaindi Gold Ridges, which has
exercised an option over a gold-bearing pro-
perty on the Mummel River (N.S.W.). The
area has been worked for some time; two
reefs are reported at the 70ft. level carrying
gold in arsenical pyrites, and ore is to be
raised for crushing from four faces. The
mine is fully equipped with battery, concen-
trating tables, rockbreakers, air compressors,
drills, etc., and crushing is to commence
forthwith.
H« j»c
“Ben”: The industrial depression has
turned attention to gold, and old Gelds in
Tasmania are being raked over. Back Creek,
Lefroy, Lisle and Mount Victoria, all big
producers years ago, are having a close inves-
t.gation. At Lefroy, where the lodes
petered out fat about 400 ft., indications are
that payable stone will again be struck. At
Mount Victoria the Ringa-rooma United,owned
by the late Michael Hannah, a Syrian, has
been taken over by a syndicate, and driving
to pick up a rich lode struck in a winze
and other exploratory work is to be done.
* * * *
Unless a gold bonus or something nearly
as good materialises the liquidation of the
Associated Northern seems certain. The co.
was Goated in 1899, and took over four
gold-mining leases at the north end of the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile. Three of these
proved worthless; the fourth—the Iron Duke
—held a large section of the famous Oroya
Brownhill shoot, from which several million
pounds’ worth of gold was extracted, and for
every £1 originally invested shareholders re-
ceived over £2 in divs. The shoot is now
worked out and the Iron Duke is in the
hands of tributors. When its wealth began
to peter out the co. acquired the Gimlet
goldmine at Ora Banda. At Grst good values
and picked mill supplies enabled a little
proGt to he made, but deeper development,
lower-grade ore and high costs mopped up
the surplus. Another venture, acquired about
the same time as the Gimlet, was a gold
and silver show in Mexico. Much was ex-
pected but little was obtained from this.
Now the co. is trying to sell out.
* * # •
The fate of Edjudina (W.A.) hangs in
the balance. Despite a small good crushing,
Kimberley Options’ show’ (the prospectors)
has fallen short of expectations, and there
is a doubt whether values persist at depth.
The good opinion broadcast in Adelaide and
Perth of other claims on the Geld is not
justiGed by results.
* * * *
Burma Malay, a Sydney prospecting and
holding co. which has tw 7 o subsidiaries work-
ing—Katu and Renong Consolidated —reports
a loss of £20,015 for the year to April 30.
This includes all prospecting expenditure and
that incurred in the .Telai Concession dispute.
There was only £1717 coming to creditors.
Assets comprise book debts £16,815, includ-
ing 5000 shares each in Katu and Renong
Consolidated; cash, etc., £54,759; invest-
ments at par £51,300. Both the subsidiaries
have proved fair producers, but unexpected
preliminary expenditure and the slide in
tin prices have cramped their style.
# * * ❖
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from'Service Department.)
Prospects for an energetic man to knock
out a living on Lightning Ridge ■ (N.S.W.)
opal field?. —7625.
There is an extensive area of likely opal-
bearing country in the Lightning Ridge-
Grawin district. Sinking ranges from 40ft.
to 100 ft., but the opal layers may outcrop on
the slopes of the ridges. Gougers have
recently not hud much success, but there
is always the possibility that even a novice
may recover good-class opal. Classifying and
marketing are not always easy.
Are you prepared to state whether Aus-
tralia is bankrupt or not? — 8016.
Quite prepared fo say that it isn’t —that
so far it has been able to arrange temporary
accommodation which has tided it over a very
awkward situation. But for that temporary
accommodation it certainly would have been
obliged to ask its creditors for an extension
of time. Whether the temporary accommo-
dation will save us rye don’t know. We don't
believe it will without a great increase of
production at a great reduction of costs.
Re Placer Development Co. (1 ) Where is
it registered? (2) Amount of capital? (3)
Interests in subsidiary cos.? —BoB6.
(1) British Columbia. (2 ) 500,000 dollars,
in Gve-dollar shares. (3) The co. holds
224,000 f.-p. shares in Bulolo Dredging, also
registered in British Columbia, but owning
a property in New Guinea. Nominal capital
of this subsidiary is in 800,000 shares of
Gve dollars each. In addition to Flacer’s
holding, 476,000 have been taken up in Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, England and U.S.A.;
100,000 are in reserve.
(1) The address of Australian ' Mort-
gages, Ltd.? (2) Are the present prospects
of this company good or othei'wisef— BoB9.
(1) 29 Bligh-street, Sydney. (2) Pros-
]ieets are anything but encouraging'. At
June 30, 1929, paid capital was £54,091 in
46,502 prefs. and 52,390 ords., all called to
135.; intangibles totalled £19,712. To repre-
sent the balance and £2707 coming to credi-
tors there was land with a book value of
£21,450; . book debts, etc., £14,526; cash.
£125; sundry assets, £lO5O. Thus, on
paper, the net tangible security per pound
of paid capital was 345, for the prefs. and
ss. sd. for the ords. But the auditors said
they were unable to certify that the assets
were worth their book values. Most of the
capital was then represented by real estate
nonproductive of income. The properties
were put under the hammer, but without
result. Accounts to June 30 last are not
yet available.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.P.8.: Still a gamble; and we don’t think
the price is good enough. .. .J.11.M.: Not yet.,...
G.S.M.: Though the co. may be registered in Vic.
and have no office or register in N.S.W., you are
still liable for unemployment relief tax in the latter
State if you reside within it.. .'.C.J.H.: You can’t
get out of your liability by forfeiture. When you
apply for or accept transfer of a £1 share you
agree to pay the co. anything uncalled up to £1
upon due notice... .J.8.T.: E. O. Watt, c/o Tanami
Gold Mines, Scottish House, Bridge-street, Sydney.
... .A.A.M.: No information available. Write
Secretary, J. D. F. Harbison, Mt. Gambler (S.A.).


Better Motor Transport
Increased National Production
\ 7ISJT one of the five assembly plants
V of Australia’s leading maker of motor
cars. Note the amount and variety of
Australian-built machinery in operation.
Surrounding the smoothly advanc-
ing assembly lines 'built in Australia
and tended by skilled Australian
workmen —you will find cranes and
hoists, dip-tanks and spray booths, drills,
lathes, fans, blowers, ovens, heating
coils, pipe lines. These represent
purchases by General Motors Australia
from 35 leading Australian suppliers of
machinery, tools, and equipment.
Then look to the cars themselves.
In their make-up you will find the
finished products of no less than 70 more
Australian firms —who, in their turn,
require daily supplies of raw material
from Australian industries, both primary
and secondary, in six States.
For example, the Australian-built
bodies call for an average of nearly two
million super feet of timber each year.
Notice the upholstery cloth, leather,
tyres, tubes, batteries, bumper bars, paint,
and Duco required. These are only part
of the Australian -produced materials
used, the amount of which per car is
continuously increasing.
Pontiac, product of General Motors Australia,
carries a holiday party to the shores of Silver Lake
in the Mount Lofty Ranges, South Australia.
General Motors’total expenditure in
the Commonwealth since 1926 exceeds
£13,000,000. Naturally these figures
would not be possible without the good-
will of the motor car purchasing public.
They indicate an appreciation by
Australians of the values provided in
General Motors cars and trucks. They
express the determination ot General
Motors Australia to develop in every
way at its command this programme of
local purchase and manufacture inaug-
urated four years ago.
Thus your purchase of a General
Motors Australian car or truck is more
than an investment in dependable trans-
port. It is a contribution to the pros-
perity and progress of many Australian
industries.
Welding cowls for Chev-
rolet commercial vehicles
at a General Motors
Australian Plant. This
ingenious electric welder
is entirely Australian-
made.
m spr
*■ ■* * - ,
■n hs! s -: «2£i
SSII '•• -m* i a sasi
a S«l * vSIMII
ujg, «
# * ■>. mm. .:, .
gg
,„ -. **■
SSSSS9: lllffc
r-
■Mi
M
f
11
1
itH
1
i
‘J6si
r****
■ y$
- A
■E
*
gfpak
■
sms
mm
■1
111
i
■
H|
JHn
■
■ s
■HI
A General Motors Truck loaded with 6 tons of J™,
export, Brisbane. In the service of better motor transport, 100,000 General
Motors cars and trucks now travel Australian roads.
i m
■
mm
HH
mmm
ill
■Ea&sfi]
I
; <■
mmm
ll|f|||§l§|§j
m?& Fm
On the iob 7 days a week, all roads, all weathers, 19,000 miles and repairs
onlv £3 That’s the record of this Chevrolet Six Truck, but it’s nothing unusual
S is W. N. Frankland, Tullamarine, Victoria.
Building all-Australian bodies for
General Motors commercial vehicles.
Australian wood—steel fabricated in
Australia Australian labour. Even the
framing jig which ‘'vices” sections to-
gether is Australian-made.
CHEVROLET
PONTIAC
OLDSMOBILE
MARQUETTE
OAKLAND
BUICK
VAUXHALL
LA SALLE
CADILLAC
Also Chevrolet Trucks
General Motors Trucks
Pontiac Express Deliveries
General Motors (Australia) pty.
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH.
“More Wealth for Australia—More Jobs for Australians"
LTD.
... -1


sdf
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES-For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for Illustrated Folder
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard oi Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting' Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff, £3/13/6
weekly. Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc.
Situated right opposite Spencer Street Station, no
taxi fares; railway porter carries baggage across if
necessary. Please write for detailed tariff card.
Carlyon’s Hotel is sufficient address.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
OUR WONDERFUL COUNTRY.
THE DRIVER: “See them cows over there. They was jist skeletons a week ago; now
you could make up a double bed on the back of the poorest of ’em.”
“McTavish” : Wiremu, a Maori chief and a
mighty breeder of pigs, called on the manager
of a large freezing works. H’e wanted to
sell a line of prime porkers. The manager,
who had only a nodding acquaintance with
the buying side, said he would send a buyer
out to inspect ilie grunters. This arrange-
ment, however, did not suit the chief, who
insisted that the manager must do the buy-
ing himself. Rather than offend the chief,
who usually supplied very good stock, the
manager called next day at the pa. On
arrival, surrounded by about 200 Maoris and
as many dogs, he inspected the pigs. He at
once got an impression that there was some-
thing about them that was wrong, but what
it was he could not make out. He looked
at them from one angle and then from
another. “What you tink—too fat?” asked
Wiremu anxiously. “No, no,” came the
reply, “very nice quality.” Still unable to
decide the peculiarity possessed by the
porkers the manager moved to examine them
from yet another angle. “Too thin?” asked
Wiremu. “At this moment the manager
found out what was puzzling him. “Wiremu,’
he said, “none of these pigs have tails!”
Wiremu grinned widely. “No,” lie said, “no
tails. T’at te earmark.”
* # ❖ ❖
“Tagen”: A country doctor was recently
visited by an elderly cocky in a low state
of health, who was immediately ordered into
hospital and operated on. Next morning on
his rounds the doctor was touched by the
thought that his patient was old, alone and
suffering, so asked if he could do anything
for him. The patient expressed the wish
that word be sent to his farm telling the
men to go on poisoning timber and, if they
wanted a killer, to get a sheep from the
river paddock. Three following mornings
the old chap was asked if anything was
required, but each time the reply was in the
negative. On the fourth, however, a further
request was made. Would the doctor mind
sending a wire and letting the missus know
where lie was?
ifi *i* A*
“D.”: I’ve often wondered who originated
the idea of decorating abo. “kings” with
brass plates. King Billy’s is supposed to
date back to the time of Governor Mac-
quarie. I know of several other plates that
must be at least 70 years old. They are
made of thin metal, and bear a. representa-
tion of an emu confronting a solitary bul-
rush on one corner and a ’roo on the other.
The plates of “Bonny, King of Kilie,”
“Tommy, King of Manimie,” and “Billie,
King of Biran,” are of this vintage and
apparently much older than the larger plates
of “Bobby Cubby, King of Bundulimbi,” and
“Tommy Cubby, King of Tandawanna,”
which bear the entire Australian coat of
arms.
❖ ❖ *
“Platypus”: In the ’93 flood a house
belonging to a man called Lye was completely
submerged for some days in a hollow near
Sandy Gallop in the Ipswich (Q.) district,
Lately Lye’s sons decided to cut down his
bedstead so that the old man—he’s now 91 —
could get into it more easily. When the saw
got to work on the first post out rushed a
quantity of muddy water and the other three
legs each yielded a quantity of water and
AUTO-SUGGESTION.
TEACHER: “Now, who can tell me what gas is?”
EDWARD: “It’s what you step on when you’re in a hurry.”
slush. Apparently this water seeped into
the hollow posts when the flood waters
covered home and furniture 37 years ago.
❖ ❖ #
“C.8.H.”: A terrible lot of blokes seem
to be troubled with crows. As kids Joe and
Billy and I trapped
five on our station in
Queensland and
painted them with
white and red, patches.
Then we tied small
bull-roarers to them,
took them up to the
killing-yard and let
them go. The other
crows fled for the lick
of their lives, thou-
sands of them, with
our blokes chasing
every mob to try and
pal up. There was a
black line of crows as
far as the eye could
see, heading west, and
what with the shrieks
and caws of the de-
parting and the roars
of the chasers from
the bull-roarers, you
couldn’t hear yourself
speak. Next morning
there wasn't a crow on
our station,, and bar-
ring the chasers, who
came back, we never
saw a crow again up
to the time the drought
broke and we walked
off the place and left
it to the banks. Dad
was going to patent
the idea, but he read
in the paper about an
influx of millions and
millions of crows from
the sea into a place
called Mauritius, where
they ate up all the
sugar-cane. They were
our crows all right,
and we had enough
trouble with the
drought and the banks
without getting mixed up in any crow liti-
gation. So the patent notion was shelved.
* * * *
“Sepik”: At the village of Vanimo, on
the borders of the Aitape and Dutch dis-
tricts, New Guinea, lives an old, old man
credited with marvellous powers. He is
head of the village, and should any man
rebel against him a spell is put upon that
man, which makes him unable to catch any
fish for the period of his punishment.
Although all the other men
come home with full baskets,
not a single fish will the cul-
prit catch, even though the
water be swarming. The old
man can go out on the reef
and pick up fish in his bare
hand, one, two, or as many
as he desires. As he has
quarrelled with his sons the
secret will die with him.
“MacFlecknoe” : “Bread's gone up to
a loaf,” I said. “Yer lucky,” said the Old
Timer, reflectively, “up on th’ Palmer dig-
gin's we paid a lot more’n that. I was just
a kid then, and me appetite was pretty
good, but th’ job they ’ad getting th’ tucker
up to th’ diggin’s kept us all pretty near
starvin’. I was pannin’ out fairly good, but
I’d ha’ given it all fer a square feed. I went
into old Jim Hogan’s store one night pretty
near desprit, and there was Jim and ’is
missus in th’ room at th’ back, with a
damper th’ size of a pan. ‘Gimme a slice of
that damper,’ I says, chucking a bag of dust
on th’ table, ‘and that’s yours.’ Jim looks at
me, and ’e looks at th’ dust, and ’e looks at
th’ damper, and at last ’e tells me to cut a
slice. So I gets out me knife, and I ’olds
th’ damper by me fingers and thumb, and
I cuts it as close to me thumb as I can,
and I ’ands that bit to ’im. ‘That’s yours,’
I says, grabbing the rest of it quick. I
must ha’ looked dangerous, fer Jim ’olds off,
but ’e never forgive me, and th’ language ’is
missus used near closed down th’ diggin’s.
Up an ’apenny a loaf, is it? Pretty near
four ’undred quid that slice cost me!”
!|: * * *
“Bohong” : Ants are not as silly as some
writers would have us believe. At the little
village of Na Muong, in Siam, I laughed in
derision at a colony which was building, a
nest in the fork of a tree. Twice daily
about 15 battalions would emerge from the
nest, form up into column of route, and
plod off to the river bank. Each private
would load himself with a minute particle
of a blue clay which showed in the bank
in a stratum' about three feet below the
surface. Possibly the blue mud was the
best available material, but I could not see
any reason for the ants carrying it to a
tree nearly 200 yards from the river. Shortly
after the neSt was completed the rains
set in, and I discovered that the selected
tree was the only one in the vicinity above
flood level.
* * % *
“Cooramin”: Two-up is played even on
the wallaby. The other day a police sergeant
discovered a school of a dozen swagmen on
a sandhill near Parkes (N.S.W.). There
was a small heap of loose matches in the
ring, and each player had a few in his hand,
while the man with the kip was tossing two
halfpennies—which proved to be the only
money the group possessed. Of course no
action was taken by the police. Many of
the nomads have card-parties in the evening,
squatting on the grass alongside a blazing
fire. The stakes are usually a couple of
matches or a bit of tobacco each, a small
plug being cut into half a dozen pieces.
ON THE HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I’ve breasted many a bar,” said Pete, “and
known ’most ev’ry kind o’ Bung,
An’ some of ’em was good to meet, and
some, I reckon, better ’ung.
But ’e’s a misfit, spare me days! a pretty
miserable louse,
'Oo never loosens up and says a round o’
drinks is on the ’ouse.
“There’s times,” said Pete, “I’ve melted
cheques an’ found the mornin’ after ’ard,
Awakin’, with the other wrecks, out at the
dead’ouse in the yard.
But there! the cat I’d never w’ip, though
stony-broke, or snarl and grouse
W’en someone in my swag would slip a
flask o’ snakejuice—on the ’ouse.
“There’s Bungs that’s ’earty blokes an’ free, - ’
said Pete, “it cannot be denied,
An’ there’s the sort ’oo’d skin a flea to get
the taller an’ the ’ide.
But you’ll forget a cove’s as mean an’ lean
as any church-loft mouse
’Oo sometimes tells you, shouts between, the
drink that’s comin’s on the ’ouse.
“I take it as a message clear, a signal
flashed across the bar,
That you an’ I that drinks the beer an’ ’im
as draws it brothers are,
True brothers underneath the skin,” Said
Pete. “You needn’t be a souse
To get the pleasant music in ‘Now, boys, the
drinks are on the ’ouse.’
“I’ve known,” said Pete, “a mighty lot o’
Bungs, an’ I’d forgive them much,
The very worst, if they ’ad got this savin’
grace, this ’uman touch.
It gives the job a bit o’ style; wot’s more,
’e shows ’is bizness nous,
The chap ’oo once in ev’ry w’ile remarks
that drinks are on the ’ouse.”
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


STOCK FOR MARKET
Every Head Full Value
im
£s®
2s-
- those are the figures you want to secure
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs, Pigs, to
Winchcombe.Carson
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney; or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
OFFICES:
Winchcombe House, 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney. Brisbane.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
m
Q QQ
iTOTTI
m
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Ground s and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4-i Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking
ior and Ocean.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
m 7hp cen/f'e of Queen s/crnc/s
d/s/mgutsftec/ Soc/o/ Life.
a&
Wotel
RDT<?R
BRISBANE
s_ Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
sdf
“Vil N.”: Barkey, well known as the
owner of 50 good laying hens, entered Jowds’s
general store up Ivingagong way, and, after
selling his daily output of 50 eggs, bought
a yard of dark velvet and a perpetual calen-
dar. The following day Barkey brought in
100 eggs. “Hullo, when did you buy more
“GRIPES, DAVE! ’ERE’S A COPY OF THE PICTURE WE’VE GOT ON THE
WALL AT WAGGA!”
fowls?” asked Jowls, who was the district’s
purveyor of live chooks. “I haven’t bought
any more,” 'said Barkey. “I’m getting two
eggs a day now from each hen!” “That’s
impossible,” snapped Jowls. “To most
people,” replied Barkey gravely, “but .not
to me. As I’ve applied for patent rights I’ll
tell you all about it. I feed them at 7.30
a.m. Between then and 9.30 they always la*y.
You remember I bought some velvet from
you? Well, with strips of it I blindfold
each hen at 10.30 and put her on the perch.
She goes to sleep, thinking the. darkness is
night. That’s when I a*lter the date on the
perpetual calendar which I’ve hung in the
fowlhouse. Unblindfolded at 1.30 that after-
noon, fed at 2.30, they take a kink at the
calendar and being convinced that it is next
day, they lay a* second egg each!”
❖ # ♦ ■ ♦
“Populo”: Hiram K. Swash, the oil-mag-
nate from Snake Creek, Mo., decided to
take a look at the beauty spots, if any, out-
side his native ‘Murka. He arrived in Maori-
land and engaged a native guide to pilot him
oyer the Rotorua and Lake Taupo coun-
try. Henare served his new boss very
well, and Swash enjoyed talking to him.
On taking his departure from the district,
Hiram remarked, “Say, Henare, are you a
full-blood Maori?” “Yes, poss,” replied
Henare, “Father Maori, mother Maori, gran’-
father Maori —-all Maori.” “That’s strange,”
mused H'.K.S. “In the States, yew know,
we have people of every nationality. We
have Englishmen, Irishmen, Chinese, negroes,
Indians, Turks —white men, black men,
yellow men, red men, brown men—we have
every nationality in the .world represented.
As a matter of fact, I wouldn’t be a bit
surprised if I had the blood of at least 11
races in my veins.” Ilenare regarded him
in utter astonishment. “Py korry, poss, your
mother must peen pretty tam good sort!”
he ejaculated.
* # * *
“1440”: Like “Tributer” I have my doubts
as to whether there’s anything a horse won’t
eat. In France during winter, when our
prads were tied up on each side of horse
lines, it was common to find in the morning
that some of the nags had torn rugs off their
neighbors and completely eaten them. Also
on many occasions I have found line posts
completely eaten through below the wire.
It was useless to tie up those old cam-
paigners with anything but chains, as they
throve on head ropes.
* * * »s
“Bad Australian”: I agree Avith “Mataki”
(B. 2/7/’3O) that, other things being equal.
the man using a
short - handled
“banjo” will load a
dray or truck with
mullock in less time
than one who em-
ploys a long-handled
shovel; but it
matters little whether
the shovel is square-
cornered or round-
nosed, provided the
capacity is the same
and the mullock is
shovelled off a smooth
bottom; on a rough
bottom the round-
nosed shovel would
give the operator a
slight advantage,
“Ma'taki” doesn’t say
how long it took the
winner to load his
yard of gravel; but
as he finished seven
minutes ahead of his
opponent the job
could not have been
done in less than 25
minutes —a mighty
poor performance.
Any good navvy
should load a yard
of sand or gravel in
half that time, and
it would not be diffi-
cut to find men who
could do the job in
ten minutes.
“H'omfrey Beale”: Prior to the advent of
the white man, children born out of wedlock
never survived long among the Motu and
Motu-Motu tribes of New Guinea. _ When
such a birth occurred the male relatives of
the mother held a conference, and one of
two procedures was followed. Either the
child was smothered while the mother slept,
and she was led to believe that she had over-
lain it, or it was taken during her slumber
and thrown alive into a near-by alligator
haunt, with prayers to the tribal god to accept
it as an atoning sacrifice for her guilt, and
she was told that the god had taken it away
because she had no right to it. The latter
method was followed by the more devout
families. Some of the ultra-devout used to
prick the child with spears, or torture it by
various amputations, as punishment for com-
ing to an unwedded woman, before casting it
to the ’gator. It took a lot of missionary
and police vigilance to stamp out the practice,
and some missionaries allege that even yet
it is occasionally secretly done by fanatical
followers of the old faith.
❖ % :J:
“C.8.H.”: “FY7’s” nomination for the
vegetable stink stakes (B. 16/4/’3O) is an
also-ran. So is any other nomination whilst
the small shrub the majority of Papuans
plant on the graves of the departed is a
starter. No European has yet been found
game enough to investigate after the initial
whiff. Billy the Priest, who accidentally
walked on a plant one night, had to burn his
boots, and the fact that he has had to go
barefooted till he could get another pair
supports his contention that it smells nearly
as bad as politics. The general opinion that
it is planted on the graves to keep away the
devil-devils has the endorsement of all who
have ever sampled it.
* * * *
“Omega”: Rabbits dispose of the soil
excavated from.their burrows by spreading
it over the surrounding area. After scratch-
ing up a heap with his front paws, through
his back legs, dog fashion, Bunny turns
round and pushes it further with liis front
paws cupped together, and continues till he
has levelled off all the earth thrown out.
$ * * *
“Dr. Mivart”: The most musically-
minded of all my cats was No. 237, whom I
called Elvira —a long-legged scraggy creature
with French-grey blood in her veins. She
used to howl discordantly if the piano or
violin was played in her hearing, and if
anyone sang she made such a row that I
had to put her in a compartment at the
remotest end of the cattery. But gramophone
records of famous singers had charms to
soothe her savage breast. Galli-Gurci she
listened to with luminous staring eyes, her
claws working convulsively. Caruso lulled
her into such an ecstasy that she would sit
peacefully on my lap and relax as softly as
the tiniest kitten so long as that glorious
voice continued to vibrate. Her favorite
piece was the battlefield duet from Verdi’s
“La Forza del Destino,” sung by the great
Enrico and the basso Scotti. It was the
cause of her doom, poor feline. One night as
she lay dozing at my feet some uncouth
un pedigreed Tom on the tiles outside opened
up his serenade with a couple of bars that
sounded just like Scotti’s opening contribu-
tion to Elvira’s favorite vocal symposium.
She awoke, sprang to her feet, and chimed in,
note-perfect. But the Philistine on the roof
TAKING OLD McSTINGY DOWN.
“Ah, so old McStingy’s got you workin’ for him?”
“No fear! This big-pfeller joke. OP McTingy him bet me ft'
bob I couldn’ chop this plurry little bit of ’crub in free
day. My word, ol’ McTingy him be wi-i-ild—I do it easy
two day and win his ft’ bob.”
modulated off into raucous and unmusical
caterwaulings. Like a shot Elvira bounded
through the open window; there were sounds
of a terrific battle and then silence. Sallying
forth I found Elvira expiring from a thou-
sand wounds. Near by lay the body of a
dissolute one-eared black cat, which looked
as if it had gone through a chaffcutter.
THE SOUND OF WATER RUNNING IN
THE TANK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If for months you cart or truck it, or just
carry by the bucket
From the waterhole or dam out on the flat;
If, hard scratching on the gravel, with two
kero.-tins you travel
Weary miles with water —stagnant, too,
a*t that —
You will understand the feeling, the blissful
balm of healing,
When the clouds we’ve watched all day a-
gathering bank,
Our patience-limit straining, break and really
do start raining
And we hear the water running in the tank.
You’d imagine none admirin’ tunes on cor-
rugated-iron,
But you’re wrong if you suppose this
tune a dud.
We who’ve gone through all the _ toiling,
lugging stuff that needed boiling
And straining to remove the grit and mud.
Hear old Mum with eyes a-glisten cry, “O
children, listen, listen!”
And we stay our idle chatter or our prank
When Dad shouts, “Hey, Susanna! Stop
that noisy d—n pianna,
And let’s hear the water running in the
tank!”
Like a girl whose notes are winning, faintly
voiced at the beginning,
Soon, as if to give of earnestness the proof,
On a merry scale ascending its laughing trill
is blending
AVith the deeper diapason on the roof.
Then suddenly Dad mutters, “By the Holy
Smoke, them gutters!”
And forthwith grabs steps, buckets and a*
plank;
And though with wet he’s wringing, at his
work we hear him singing,
For the water’s running faster in the tank.
In the mud wo hear him trample with a
jug “just for a sample,”
And we taste the fairest nectar gods e’er
drank,
For it’s winking, beaded bubbles mean a
spell from household troubles
With that heavenly water filling up the
tank.
It’s good-bye to hard-graft rubbing at the
weekly wash and scrubbing,
And the brackish tea that tasted, too, of
sheep.
To such thoughts in deep vibrato now a
treble obligato
From the running spout will sing us all
to sleep.
DEFERRING THE EVIL HOUR.
POLICEMAN: “Shall 1 open the door, sir? You seem to be in difficulties.”
TIPSY GENT: “Not in diff’culshies yet, m’boy. But shoon as I open zh’ door I
will be.”
So to-nigfft your tone-professors and all
such fancy-dressers
Of melody designed for sighs or tears,
Yea, your Backhaus and your Grainger, and
your famous fiddling stranger
Provoke us not to envy or to cheers.
And I swear upon my honor that your high-
priced prima donna,
However great her reputation rank,
Though with trills and such she twist ’em,
has no notes within her system
Like the sound of water running in the
tank.
s.a.
BILL O'C.


THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL
SOCIETY OF VICTORIA.
GRAND ANNUAL EXHIBITION
NINE DAYS.
THURSDAY, 18th, TO SATURDAY, 27th
SEPTEMBER, 1930.
Comprehensive Display of Stock,
Agricultural Produce and Industrial
Exhibits.
Intensely interesting, exciting and varied
Arena Events.
Liberal Programme of Prizes amounting
to over £BOOO
(including Champion Prizes of Australia).
COMPETITIVE ENTRIES (EXCEPT RING EVENTS')
CLOSE AT NOON, SATURDAY, AUGUST. 16.
ENTRIES FOR ARENA EVENTS CLOSE AT NOON,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 30.
MEMBERS’ SUBSCRIPTION COVERING BADGE
AND TWO LADIES’ TICKETS AND GENERAL
PRIVILEGES, £l/10/- PER ANNUM.
LIFE MEMBERS’ SUBSCRIPTION, £l5/15/- EACH.
EXTRA LADY’S TICKETS, 10/6 EACH.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, ENTRY FORMS, ETC., ON
APPLICATION TO
HENRY SCHWIEGER, Manager.
Note address: Temple Court, 9th Floor, 422 Collin*
Street, Melbourne, 01.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. FARNHAM, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
SR PARK& CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
WE MUST GROW MORE TOBACCO
“Tuart”: In Australia last year there were
372 tobacco-growers. In the U.S.A. there are
460,000, the average size of their farms being
just under 3| acres —and Australian money
helps to keep a lot of them going. Our
annual imports of unmanufactured tobacco,
nearly all of which comes from the U.S.A.,
rarely fall below £2,000,000, and one year
(1920-21) went as high as £3,437,200; and
manufactured tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and
snuff account for another £600,000 or
£700,000. In 1915-16, 1,730,0001 b. of Aus-
tralian leaf, 13.79 per cent, of the whole,
was worked up in Australian factories; last
year only 978,0001 b. of Australian leaf was
used, 5.11 per cent, of a total of
19,135,7001 b.
This information is taken from the report
of the Federal select committee which has
been inquiring into the state of the industry.
It is very disappointing, considering the tine
local market available and the export possi-
bilities. Britain gives Empire-grown tobacco
a preference of 2s. 5.8 d. a pound. Largely
because of this, production increased in
Rhodesia during eight years (1918-261 from
1,065,0001 b. to 21,246,0001 b; in Nyasaland
from 2,594,0001 b. to 10,978,0001 b., and in
Canada from 14,232,0001 b. to 28,824,0001 b.;
in little Cyprus it shot up from 137,0001 b. in
1921 to 3,584,0001 b. in 1927. In Australia,
on the other hand, the output declined from
2,664,1001 b. in 1918-19 to 1,807,9001 b. in
1927-28 —and that was a pretty good year.
Two union witnesses, one secretary and the
other vice-president of the Federated Tobacco
Workers, pronounced a very hostile verdict on
the quality of Australian leaf. The secretary,
however, admitted that Rae Brothers and
Eugene Kneebone, of Victoria, were “putting
in a satisfactory product.” Mr. Kneebone
grew 25| tons of tobacco in 1926, 23! tons
in 1928 and 26 tons in 1929, and did not
deny a newspaper statement that he had
received £6OOO for one of these crops. “With
proper encouragement,” he said to the com-
mittee, “we [Australians] could grow our
own tobacco, and in 10 or 15 ysars smokers
should be able to get it for half the price
they are now paying.” He mentioned, inci-
dentally, that he had received numerous
letters from fine types of young men begging
me to take them on and teach them tobacco-
growing, and had taught as many as he
could find room for. So success is not lacking
in individual cases, nor is the will to succeed
in others.
The modern demand is mainly for bright,
aromatic flue-cured tobacco, and there are
indications that we are trying to grow it in
the wrong places—in districts suitable only
for the production of the dark pipe tobapco,
which has gone out of fashion. Dr. Darnell-
Smith, who carried out investigations in the
U.S.A., found that this bright, aromatic
tobacco is grown in very poor soil —“so poor
that it would not produce a worthwhile crop
without manure,” and “in a humid atmo-
sphere.” The best comes from Carolina, and
when the doctor was in that part of the
country “the atmosphere was as still as it
is it in this room for two months at a time;
it was so saturated with moisture that it
resembled the atmosphere of a glass house.”
C. J. Tregenna, the N.S.W. Government
tobacco expert for 15 years, has been sharply
criticised for saying that “North Queensland
is the only place in Australia that I have
visited -which I think will produce high-
grade tobacco.” He repeated the statement
when questioned by a member of the com-
mittee, adding that it was quite likely that
conditions equally favorable as to soil and
climate prevailed in North Westralia; “the
destiny of the tobacco industry lies in the
North.” It will be a great thing for the
North if these words come true; and the
ricegrowers on the Murrumbidgee have
shown what can be done in a neglected field
of agriculture in a few years when Aus-
tralians bend their backs to the job.
HARVESTING THE RICE CROP.
“ J.G.”: From the time the water is drained
off till harvesting is finished, the average
N. S. Wales rice cocky is as restless as a
hen with her first clutch of chickens. So
many things may happen: a hailstorm may
beat the heaviest stuff flat or continuous
light rain may delay operations for weeks.
But I have never known a rice crop on
the Murrumbidgee Areas that wasn’t har-
vested by some means. Recent rains caught
growers who were late in draining off, with
the result that the machinery bogged axle
deep. To overcome this, some have bolted
sheet-iron discs on the sides of the wheels;
others have mounted the headers entirely on
sleighs drawn by 10 or 12 horses; others
again, where the crop has fallen over or
storms have beaten it down, have requisi-
tioned the old-fashioned reaper and binder,
with a thresher, and so the grain reaches the
sheds.
After draining the water off and before
the harvest commences it is a good thing
to flatten out with a plough the check banks
dividing the smaller plots. This gives the
header a longer and straighter run without
turning, and saves labor.
Although flag and stalks may be still green,
it is easy to ascertain when rice is ready
for harvesting, as the grain becomes white
and hard. Care must, however, be taken,
as any harvested green shrinks visibly. In-
spectors sample each load at siding or shed,
and bags so affected are returned to the
grower as second-grade, or if the sample is
not extra bad to be regraded. Testing is
done as with wheat; a long sharpened tube
is jabbed into the bags and pulled out full
of grain.
When we first started rice culture here
it was found that the straw was too tough
and dense to be worked with an ordinary
wheat-header, so a new and bigger model was
constructed, carrying a small petrol or oil
engine to do the winnowing and keep the
knives moving, the team’s job being simply
to haul the machine over the ground. Eight
to ten acres may be covered in this way per
day. The header costs £4OO to £500; the
engine will use about £1 ss. worth of fuel
a day.
The big yields are invariably on virgin soil.
It pays to let land that has grown rice to
lie fallow or grow wheat or oats each alter-
nate season. A grower this season took
four tons per acre from a hundred acres,
which is considered a world’s record; and
prices run from £lO 5s to £ll 10s. per ton.
This man’s neighbor, harvesting rice grown
on second- and third-year land, averaged less
than two tons per acre.
After harvest, stock may be grazed on the
stubble, the fresh straw being eagerly eaten.
If the season is dry, stockowners from sur-
rounding areas rush it for agistment pur-
poes. And after the dry straw has been
trampled flat, if it is burnt off and then
watered, another ’ crop, called ratoon, springs
from the old roots. When about eight or ten
inches high', it is one of the best stock fat-
teners I know of; but it is hardly worth
saving it for grain.
The cost of a rice harvest per acre, with-
out allowing for depreciation, is approxi-
mately £2 6s. —bags and twine, £1 Is.;
insurance, 10s.; horse feed and fuel, os.;
labor, 10s. The carriers who take the rice
to shed or railway are paid union rates, so
this cost varies according to the distance.
The Marketing Board controls three storage
sheds; two, with 500 tons capacity, at Lee-
ton and Yenda, and the third, holding 1000
tons, at Murrami. Officers of the board take
delivery of all first-grade rice at these sheds,
and payments are made to the grower from
time to time as sales proceed.
THE BLOWFLY CURSE.
“W. D. McC.”: “Jackpot” (B. 18/6/’3O)
says ewes are struck before lambing. My
experience is the direct opposite; but I
have seen all classes struck if conditions are
favorable to the fly.
If I were in a bad fly district I would
dip twice a year in a full-strength powder
dip; or dip once, and spray, jet or swab
after crutching with’ full-strength powder
dip; and I would crutch carefully inside the
thighs and up over the tail. Leaving two
or three joints of the tail is a great pro-
tection ; some people advocate leaving all the
tail on, but that is a mistake. The late
Mr. R. Rand tried it for one year at
Mahonga station, but one shearing settled
that plan.
I have not seen a dressing to beat the old
Scotch one of whale or fish oil and spirits of
tar. It is sudden death to maggots. , Youatt,
the great authority on stock diseases, men-
tions it in his book.
Burn all dead carcases wherever possible.
If too dangerous to burn, bury them after
throwing a bucket or two of the residue out
of the dip over them.
“Old Blue” : During the past season, con-
sidered one of the worst on record in our
district (Baradine, N.S.W.), the number of
struck sheep was less than 4 per cent.;
losses, nil. I attribute this result to the
constant use of raw turps mixed with
butcher’s salt at the rate of one pint to 201 b.
the rock salt must be kept away while
using the mixture. Whether the turps was
exuded through the sweat glands or excretory
organs is a subject for an analyst; but
there was one noticeable feature —the
majority of grown sheep that had been
struck ridded themselves of the fly within a
few days. Incidentally, can any grazier show
in his books expenses in connection with the
blowfly (oil-dressing, crutching) prior co
1902?
PERENNIAL VELDT GRASS.
“Cayenne”: I am pleased to note from
“Garrabarra’s” par (B. 11/6/’3O) that
perennial veldt grass promises well in
Queensland. For over 20 years E. calydna
has been in evidence about Perth, but no one
knows who introduced it. The most likely
theory is that bales of horse fodder imported
from the Cape were responsible.
It is a densely tufted, tussocky plant, with
rooting tillers which spread to a diameter
of about 18 inches, and may attain a height
of four feet without the flowering stems. The
flowers are pale purple, being later replaced
by a dark golden seed head. The seed
matures unevenly, making harvesting dilii-
cult. Experience shows that the best way
is to cut sheaves of the grass just before
the first seeds mature, and stack indoors. The
sap in the stalks is sufficient to mature the
greater part of the seed, which can be shaken
on to a sheet and easily gathered.
The fodder value of E. calydna was not
recognised in Perth until John Heath, the
King’s Park superintendent, noted its
vigorous growth at one end of his domain.
Publicity brought good results, and during
the past three winters about 250 chaff-bags
of roots were sold from the park at £1
a bag; in addition a good quantity of seed
and roots from other sources has found its
way to country districts. At the Esperance
pine plantation the thing has received ex-
haustive tests, and the manager intends estab-
lishing pastures among the growing trees so
that sheep may bring in some revenue while
the timber is coming to maturity. Ten
clumps of roots were secured in September, .
1928, subdivided into several hundred indi-
vidual roots and planted out with super. In
December the grass was over two feet high
and seeding heavily; early in January it
was cut back and the seed gathered. 'A top-
dressing of nitrate of soda was given, and the
grass grew strongly through the summer,
seeding again in April and being again
cut back. In May seed and seedlings from
the ten clumps planted eight months before
were sufficient to plant a plot of 1J acres
with 5000 plants. This area (sandy loam)
had been ploughed in the previous November,
and harrowed, ploughed and harrowed again
in March. Planted on May 20, the plot
yielded 401 b. of seed on November 15, 1929,
and 301 b. on February 2.
At Bruce Rock,_a 15-inch rainfall district,
veldt grass kept 'green throughout the long
dry summer of 1927-28 and seeded well.
Other reports bear out the view that this
grass has a useful future in wheat-growing
and pastoral areas.
DO PIGS PAY?
“Korumburra” : Well, consider the figures
I have kept on my Vic. dairy farm. In
1924-25 sales of pigs realised £134 9s. Id.,
and expenses (feed, etc.) came to £24 4s.
5d., a credit balance of £llO 4s. Bd. In
1926-27: sales, £163 17s. lOd.; exes., £4l
Bs. 3d.; balance, £122 9s. 7d. In 1929-30:
sales, £l4B 19s. 6d.; exes., £34 10s.; balance,
£ll4 9s. 6d.
The year was from May 1 to April 30.
No allowance was made for skim milk, as I
have no other way to dispose of it, nor for
the use of sties, buildings, shelters or fences,
nor for grass, nor labor —I do all the work
of attending and caring for the pigs myself.
On the other hand, I did not show credits
for empty bags or manure from the sties,
which, saved, and applied to the land, is
certainly of some value.
Of course pigs pay—unless you have no
judgment or no luck.
FARM SIDE-LINES.
“Disc Harrow” : These are times when the
man on the land cannot afford to let slip
any chance of increasing revenue. Every
penny counts. Sidelines should be tried
where it is possible at all. A small patch
of ground, sown with a hit-or-miss crop on
a chance, may bring in more money than
areas 20 times its size.
Cauliflowers will sometimes drop from
365. to 10s. a dozen in a sinele week.
Similarly, a week may make n difference of
a pound a case in cherries. The men who
get in early on such occasions coin money for
a while. The small patch may be given the
extra treatment necessary for such results,
treatment which would be impracticable in
the case of large areas. _
Any commodity, of course, will bring a
good price if it gets in on an empty market.
Keen men not too far from the city market
may do well with violets, passion-fruit, cab-
bages, cauliflowers, tomatoes, strawberries,
a few early apple-trees, pruned hard to sell
for early cookers, lemons, which either bring
a good price or can always be used in the
house, and plums such as Wickson, grown
particularly for size. Experimented with in
this manner your ground may reveal unex-
pected powers in the way of growing some
particular crop, and it is then easy to extend
operations.
I have worked beside a man who told me
that it was his violet beds that kept his
car running. Another, who now owns three
properties, owes his position to his straw-
berries, which pulled him through in his
hard first years.
USES FOR HOLLOW LOOS.
“Booraby” : A hollow log is usually regarded
as merely a harbor for vermin, but there is
nothing in the bush that has a wider range
of utility. For dog kennels and cribs for
sitting hens you can’t beat 3ft. lengths of
a big log, boarded at one end. A clean gum
log about 3ft. in diameter also makes a good
water-butt and brine-cask, and may be used
for sinking in sandy creeks to form dipping-
holes when the water is low or permanently
shallow. The inside is easily trimmed smooth
and clean with a long-handled chisel. The
life of the casks is lengthened when they are
tarred inside and out.
Washing-tubs and bins for holding flour,
grain or chaff can be fashioned out of
hollow logs, while clean, hollow limbs make
good buckets. For pig and fowl troughs,
split a small log down the centre, and nail
a hardwood board on each end. Horse-
troughs, either for feeding or watering, are
fashioned similarly, with logs about 18m.
or 2ft. in diameter. , Straight hollow sap-
lings, cut down with adze or axe to about
half, serve for spouting or guttering. Unsplit
saplings make down-pipes and water-pipes.
If of grey gum, box or ironbark, they last
many years underground. Water may be
stored in log wells at the, sty and in the
vegetable garden by running rain water from
the roof into them through wooden pipes.
There is generally plenty of hollow timber in
a forest of gum ironbark and box trees,
and it can all be put to some useful pur-
pose.
In ferneries and bush houses the hollow
log or spout is ornamental as well as useful.
ITor a corner or centre, a hollow stump, sft.
or 6ft. high and sunk a few inches in . the
ground, is more suitable than anything else,
and looks neat and natural. Before erect-
ing it cut holes into the hollow _ here and
there around the sides with a mortising axe;
then fill with good soil and leaf mould. Top
the stump with a bird’s-nest fern, and plant
maidenhair and other small ferns in the cut
holes. The whole stump may be covered in
this way with ferns.
I saw a 10ft. length of a dead tree, which
was partly covered with the thumb-nail
orchid, transferred to a bush house, where
it was topped with a large fern and the red
species of the “Wandering Jew.” Places
that were not covered with the thumb-nail
were made to receive other tree orchids.
A CHEAP SEPTIC TANK.
“Bendee”: A septic tank is a great farm
convenience and health-saver, particularly
where there are children. I constructed one
on my place nine years ago, and it is in
excellent working order _ still. An assured
water supply and sufficient slope to allow
for drainage are essential. If you have these
you can build a serviceable tank for £lO.
The materials required are cistern and
fittings; water-pipes; patli-cock; pan and
seat; one 6in. “P” trap; three 6in. bends
with dropping arm at least one foot long
(if this length is unprocurable, piping can
be cemented on) ; at least 50ft. of. 6in.
drain-pipes; two 6in. “T” drain pipes;
cement, sand and bricks, and 18. feet of 4in.
and 4ft. of 3in. gal.-iron down-pipe.
Sink a hole in the ground, at least 50
feet from the house, 4ft. sq. by 4ft. 6in.
deep, and build into it a watertight tank
of concrete or bricks (I used bricks), with
inside measurement about 3ft. 6in. square by
3ft. 6in. deep. Provide concrete slabs for the
lid, which can be lifted off ; it should fit closely,
so as to seal the tank and when finished can
be covered with soil to surface level. Abutting
this septic tank is a shallower, tank of
higher level, the top of its walls being level
with the top of the septic tank. This second
chamber should be about the same width as
the other, from 2ft. 6in. to 3ft. deep, and
sft. long. The discharge drains are cut
straight out of the lower end of it from
floor level. The sides can be slabbed; mine,
being in stiff soil, are left as I dug them.
This pit can be filled with broken tiles or
drain-pipes, or with rubble and charcoal, and
roofed 'with any 1 rough strong slabs. There
should be two drains from this tank at
least 30ft. in length. I have kept mine
underground, with four leads to the roots of
fruit trees; in some cases it will be found
better to bring the drains out in the open.
They should be filled with rubble, broken
tiles or bushes.
(Continued on page 25.)


1
ss
os
"S'
9*
s*
Sri
■
1*
SifeSS-igg
IS
I 4
111
P
11
m
I
II
<•::>*:
*J
iihm
»S S
■
■
ISSSSK
s:sj»:
11
r I
II
-.■■■■v.-.-y ••»:•%£:
“Now that you are going to put up a new fence, Bill, why cWt you make a job
of it and use a 'Cyclone Ring-Lock Fence like mine?
“What’s the good of breaking your back sinking post-holes every few yards and
boring half-a-dozen holes to every post like you’re doing now?
“It’s not worth it when you can get a Cyclone Ring-Lock Fence for less cost
than the old style plain-wire fence you re erecting.
“Look at my fence—those heavy upright wires won’t move an inch. They re
gripped to the line wires with the Cyclone Ring-Lock, and they stay put for
good.”
“Besides, I’ve only put down one post every 22 feet—that s all I needed—and I
didn’t have to strain each wire separately. It’s easy to erect five chains of complete
‘Cyclone’ Fence in one simple operation, and you only need two holes to each
post.”
“Listen, Bill, before you do any more to your fence, why don’t you send to
Cyclone Fence and Gate Co. for an Illustrated Catalogue of Fences and Gates? ft
won’t cost anything, and will be worth your while. Do it to-day while you think of it.
We will lend you a Special “Cyclone”
Fence Strainer Free
Cycl
lock fenceJ
fto W6MHng
"Cyclone” Ring-Lock Farm
Fence comes to you exactly
as you see it in the picture
above. It is already built for
you. and all you have to do
is to strain it up to the posts.
Sold in 5-chain
rolls, ready to erect
“Cyclone" Ring-Lock Farm Fences are manufactured from
hard-drawn galvanised wire, and are made in various heights
and spacings to suit all classes of stock.
“Cyclone” Fencing does not pass through the posts, but is
tied to the face of the posts with “tie” wire. No staples are
needed. The fence can be "taken down and easily moved as
often as you wish. “Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fences will not stretch,
sag, or burn.
The fence illustrated in the picture above is the “Cyclone”
six lines, 28in. high, Ring-Lock sheep and lamb proof fence.
Spacing of wires from bottom: 5in.,.5in., sin., 6in., 7in.; stiff
upright stays are 12in. apart.
“Cyclone”
Metal Farm Gates
All “Cyclone” Metal Farm
Gates are manufactured from
1 fin. or 1 fin. metal tubing.
All joints are electrically
welded for greater strength.
Upright cables and cross wires
are of heavily galvanised wire.
“Cyclone” Metal Farm
Gates are absolutely sheep-
proof, and will swing easily for
years.
STIFF STAY
FARM FENCES
Manufactured Only by
CYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
189-191 William Street, Melbourne; 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney;
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Fully Illustrated
Catalogue Sent
FREE on
Request.
Use the a
Coupon . il I
m
COUPON
¥
IP I would like you to send
' me, free of charge, your big,
fully Illustrated Catalogue
and Price-list of "Cyclone"
Gates and Fences.
Name _
Address -
r“
Bulletin ?>O/7/'3O.


DOES ANY
OTHER CAR
AT THE PRICE
OFFER YOU
ALL THESE
FEATURES
Silent, adjustable timing-
chain cuts out the rattle
and grind of gear drive.
Finger-tip control of
lights, horn and starter
gives added safety and
driving convenience.
EQUAL beauty, you may say. . .and
just as comfortable, perhaps.. .
and maybe you're not keen on
the extra performance Whippet gives
you (as proved by numerous public
tests) . . . But you can't overlook these
additional expensive-car features which
mean so much to your pocket book. . .
expensive engineering features mean
longer life, greater freedom from trouble
and repair bills, and an all-round
economy of operation.
Compare specifications before you decide
. . . does any other car at the price give
you (1) full forced feed lubrication, (2)
finger-tip control, (3) silent adjustable
timing chain, (4) invar-strut pistons, (5)
a high efficiency engine developing 2\
times its rated horse-power?
There is only one car at the price which
gives all you ask in comfort, appearance
and performance. . .and gives you this
additional value for your money... it s
the 1930 Whippet Four. Get behind
the wheel of a Whippet, and test out
this low-priced car for yourself. It
involves you in no obligation. You
owe it to yourself to get the utmost
value for the money you propose to
spend.
Extra heavy crankshaft,
with full-force feed
lubrication, gives longer
engine life and vibra-
tionless running.
1930
WHIPPET
FOUR
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY.,
LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead,
Brisbane.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


r-
-4*-
m mmmm
m
Lightest and
most practical
Hard-wearing and pliant, with strong
elastic ankle pieces to preserve
suppleness and close fit, the Abbey
Riding Boot is both smart and com-
fortable. It is lined throughout with
soft leather. Strain over the instep
arch is guarded against by the special
curving of the upper. The lining is
snug and smooth with no raised
seams.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 427-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 37/6
Sports Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 187
sdf
tFUI/pL
u§
We suggest that
you ask your nearest
distributor to show you
the complete line of RAY-
O-VAC Electric Torches
and RAY-O-VAC Bat-
teries. There are no
better made.
<r
BLACV^
sdf
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
~ CHICAGO U.S.A.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
a AS
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
/M.OUO
ao
,o.ev
You owe it to yourself to collect the
interest that is your due.
Form that most profitable of all habits—
the bank habit —by making regular deposits
in the Primary Producers Bank, where
interest is paid on all monies.
Have a Bank Account —Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Head Office: it tv,arun Place, Svdney.
Branches througnout the
Commonwealth and at London.
I MARCH
FEBRUARV
JANUARY
Save Your Harness
by using' a
POLE STRAP LINK
d
ďf
Instead of slipping the pole strap through the
collar', and thus causing damage to both horse
and collar, the Pole Strap Link (patented) is
fitted between the hames, and the pole strap
is slipped easily through.
The illustration shows Farm Hames with POLE
STRAP LINK attached for use with two Pole
Straps. The Pole Strap Link is attached to
the right hame by means of a connecting link,
and on the left is attached to a link of the
chain.
Price, 1/6 each.
The price of the Pole Strap Link is practically
negligible when compared with the money
saved in harness repairs.
POSTAGE SHOULD BE ADDED TO PRICE QUOTED.
m
fjkc BICCEST HAKPWA«E HOUSE, IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.)
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
And at Warrnambool, Bendigo, Horsham, Ballarat and Portland.
The inlet to the septic tank is at the top
of one end, ! tlie outlet into the second
chamber being 6in. lower Both inlet and
outlet pipes are made with 6m. bend pipes,
the long arm dropped inside the septic tank
in both cases. Thus the water is always at
the level of the outlet pipe and the inlet •
nine will always be free. The arms are
dropped in the tank so that all inflowing
sewerage and outlet water will be to and
from the lower level of the tank, and the
surface crust will not be broken or dis-
“P” trap should be just before the
entrance to the tank to shut off all smell.
Just outside the lavatory, the 18ft. of 4m.
° a l -iron down-pipe is let into the sewemge
pipes A length of “T” drain-pipe, with the
opening up and a cement connection are the
easiest way of fixing this down-pipe, which
should be stayed to the side of the building.
The 4ft. of 3in. down-pipe, the end covered
with a piece of perforated gal.-iron to keep
out foreign matter, is let in likewise, to the
sewerage pipes just before the “P” trap.
These two down-pipes create an air current
along the sewerage pipes.
The 6in. pipes from lavatory to tank
should have a slight fall. As each pipe
is cemented a stick with a rag tied round
the end is pushed inside the pipe, to rub
off any rough cement at the joints, which
might tend to cause a stoppage in the pipes.
The path-cock leading from the water-pipes
to the lavatory cistern allows the water to
be cut off.
The lead down-pipe from cistern to pan
is best sealed to the junction by being bound
with strips of rag dipped in a mixture of
three parts resin to one part fat, heated
together. , „ T ,
My tank is used by a large family. It
was cleaned for the first time last year;
there was no smell during the process, nor
had it ever given forth an unpleasant odor.
Bath water may go through the tank, but
not wash-tub water, kerosene or disinfec-
tants. I shall be pleased to send a rough
plan or any further particulars to readers
requiring them.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What tvpc of machine is used for
reaping and threshing lucerne seed? (2}
Sydney agents and price? (3) What is a
fair yield per acre in good alluvial soil? —,
7426.
(1) Crop is first cut with mower, then
when dry carted in and stacked. Full details
of this work are given in free pamphlet
entitled “Lucerne,” obtainable from N.S.W.
Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney. The crop is
threshed from the stack with a special
lucerne thresher. The “header” may also.be
used. For this purpose the seed must be
allowed to harden in the pods. The machine
should be set just low enough to cut all the
pods. Some alteration of the blast will be
necessary and the riddles should be reversed.
A high yield of seed would be hard to obtain
by this method. (2) Price of a “Birdsell”
lucerne-thresher is £615 and the agents are
the Farmers’ Implement Co,, Concord West,
Sydney. (3) Varies considerably according
to the stand, soil, district and seasonal con-
ditions and ranges between 1801 b. and 4001 b.
per acre.
(1) What sort of insect does the cock-
chafer grub turn into? (2) What does the
grub attack? (3) Can grasses attacked by
the grub be saved? —-7871.
(1) Scarab or digger beetle. The one
most commonly found in Vic. is Ileteronyx
picius, and is about half an inch in length,
lioney-brown, with a darkened thorax and
head. They frequent the tops of gum-trees
in the early summer evenings when the
weather is hot. (2) The grubs on hatching
dig into the ground and attack the roots of
plants, mainly strawberries, raspberries and
grasses that grow in tussocks, (3) No satis-
factory control method has been evolved.
Have leases to discoverers of new pastoral
country been granted in recent years, in
Q’land?— 79oo.
No. The whole of the State was explored
many years ago.
(1) How is shell lime manufactured for
agricultural purposes —by drying or by burn-
ing? (2) To what degree of fineness must
the shells be ground? —7692.
(1) As a rule it is collected and crushed
without drying or burning. The process has
never yet been exploited on a large com-
mercial scale. (2) Into particles of not
more than l-25in. diameter.
(1) Where does the Aust. Light Horse
obtain its remounts? (2) Arc breeders of
pedigree stock invited to furnish supplies.
(3) What standards in remounts are de-
manded? —7901.
(1) and (2) Each member supplies his
own horse, and either breeds him or buys
him in the district to which he belongs. A
few remounts are purchased each year, in
each State of the Commonwealth, from mem-
bers of the A.L.H. or from dealers. (3)
The horse must be capable of carrying 16st.,
about 15 hands 2in. high, and compactly
built.
Is it possible to construct a home-made
wind-recorder? —7646.
If you refer to a wind-direction indicator
or wind vane, the nearest Commonwealth
Meteorologist will supply detailed instruc-
tions. If you mean an instrument which
automatically records the wind direction or
mileage, or both, the task calls for consider-
able equipment, skill and scientific know-
ledge.
(1) Can rabbits swim? (2) Would a run-
ning river like the Macquarie be rabbit-proof?
—7712.
(1) Yes. (2) A rabbit could easily swim
the Macquarie, but it wouldn’t be likely to
do so voluntarily.
(1) What varieties of ducks breed best
at Townsville ( Q .) for table purposes? (2)
Best feed' for mature ducks in that district?
(3) How much water per day would be
required ? —7821.
(1) Muscovy. (2) For breeding stock:
41b. pollard, 31b. bran, lib. meatmeal, mixed
with an equal quantity of lucerne chaff or
other green food. For fattening growing or
adult stock, make use of as much cheap food
as possible. (3) Better fertility is obtained
when a swimming pool is allowed breeding
stock. Ducks otherwise only require sufficient
water to dip their heads into. Keep the
water supply constant.
(1) Will any assistance be given this year
to settlers under the N.S.W. Shallow Boring
Act. If so, to what extent? (2) Prospect of
expert driller securing employment in the
western division?- —-7870.
(1) Yes. Extent will depend on money
available. (2) If funds can be found to
cope with the requirements of all settlers
during the year, there should be fair pros-
pects of employment with one of the con-
tractors.
(1) When is the open season for kangaroo
shooting in South Australia? (2) Must a
hunter hold a license? (3) Districts where
kangaroos are most plentiful? —7B99.
(1) In most parts of the State from April
1 to September 30; on Eyre’s Peninsula,
south of the 33rd parallel of latitude, from
August Ito the end of February. (2) If
you want to sell the skins, yes. Fee £1 per
annum. (3) Eyre’s Peninsula.
What is the most efficient chemical weed-
eradicator for use in Fiji, and what strength
solution is needed? —7687.
Arsenic pentoxide, a 10 p.c. solution, or
sodium chlorate, fib. to the gallon of water.
Wash clothes which become soaked with the
chlorate, as they become very inflammable.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Arrub” : Destroying rabbits? I say net
the paddock, dig out all burrows, burn all
hollow logs and trees, and follow up with
a pack of dogs. This method is expensive,
but it is cheapest in the long run. Trap-
ping, poisoning or fumigating only keeps
Bunny in check for a few months.
“Bung” : In the paddocks leave here and
there a square-cut stump about four feet
high, on which to place the rock-salt for the
stock. While the animals lick frorn that
elevated position there will be no kicking
among the horses or horning among the
cattle. „ „ ~
“Bar K.”: The crutchmg of all dirty
sheep prior to shearing saves a lot of waste
in stained wool. The correct method is to
take the wool off closely, from just below
the hock, right up past the root of the tail,
keeping a fairly wide cut all the way. Re-
move all dirt, as this attracts flies. Special
stud ewes or ewes in lamb are best shorn in
the standing position—one man holding and
another on the shears. If ewes in lamb
are thrown they must be handled very care-
fully, and not unduly pressed iii the flank
with the knee. They should be led from the
pen, and not jostled about through the gates.
“Disc Harrow”: Don’t make a fetich ot
your gates and fences. Unless there is need
for rabbits to be kept out it is nearly
always possible on small mixed farms to
dispense with a lot of the time- and ground-
wasting structures. Next time a piece falls
down, ask yourself if it is really necessary
to put it up again. And see if there aren t
any gates that can be permanently retired.
“Bullswool”: Don’t leave the heifers until
they calve before bringing them into the
baiis. In a slack time of the day coax them
in for a bit of feed and handle them, giving
the udder a bit of massaging. You’ll find
that it pays well. , , „ , .
“Cumnock”: “Fysh’s” method of making
cheese (B. 25/6/’3O) is unsatisfactory.
First, you need to put the thermometer in
milk, not in water; second, you can’t get
the curd sufficiently cooked within the 20
minutes allowed for increase of temperature
from 84deg. to 96deg.; it is still junket
Then “Fysh’s” cheese is in the v press m 68
minutes; it should take 4-1 times as long as
that. There are other weak points (compare
the chapter on elieese-making in O’Calla-
ghan’s “Dairying”) ; and “Fysli” is oft the
menu as far as I am concerned.
“Orel”: Touching the erection of wire-
netting. On a slope always put netting on
the low side of the fence, and where there is
likely to be any run of water after a storm
leave it out of the ground. Bend it over and
put a few stones on top; it is easier to,
replace the stones than to re-erect washed-
away netting. Where there is a .snarp fail
into a hollow a strainer on either side is
better that one in the middle, which only
serves to stop rubbish from getting away.
If. using iron wire in the fence use a steel
one on top of the netting; it stays tight
longer. Two wires between the top and the
o-round are better than one. To make a good
flat job, put your strainer on the netting
at the end of every rise and fall in the con-
tour of the ground.
“Disc Harrow”: If you grow cabbages
or cauliflowers in any .quantity, try to get
hold of an old sugar-cane slasher. Sharp-
ened up, it’s the best thing out for comfort-
able and lightning cutting. . . .
“Sting” : Merely to have bees m the vicinity
of an orchard is not enough. About a
colony per acre shou’d be placed in it during
the blossoming period in such a way that they
will have easy access to the blossoms m
weather when they are unlikely to travel far.
Not only is the percentage of _ the setting
fruit increased through pollination by bees,
but the set is firmer and the number of wind-
falls is reduced. ,
“Iloni Pikau”: A pinch of moistened
cement will stop that leak in your can. Not
as good as soldering or painting, perhaps,
but far quicker.
“Moke”: The claim of the tractor sales-
man that the horse is being petrolled out of
existence is not borne out by recent sales
at Toowoomba, in the heart of the great
Darling Downs farming country. All farm
classes were in strong demand, up to £2o
,being given for quite ordinary sorts. Any-
one with a few weighty, well-bred young
Clydesdales will have no difficulty in getting
them off his hands at a good price among
the Downs farmers.
“Columbus” : I had a bore equipped with
an old 30,000-gal. tank which had been
cemented without reinforeemjent and had
cracked badly; in places the iron had com-
pletely fallen away. To merely apply iresh
coats'of cement on the old smooth surface
would have been difficult and ineffective;
to attach netting was also a problem, as
there is no practicable means of piercing
tlie concrete. I managed by stapling the
nett-in<>• on with lin. wire staples driven
into the cracks, and I didn’t have to pay
£lOO for another tank.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell !j; or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, N.S.W., exp. motor- and tractor-
driver, wants work anywhere,-—-7809-.
Young nurse, Sydney, seeking exp, in maternity
work, wants position in private hospital—77B9,
Athletic girl, N.S.W., wants job as jackeroo on
station or assistant on farm,—77l7.
Male cook, N.S.W., wants job homestead or hotel.
Exp. all kinds of cooking. Refs. —7723.
Lady clerk (26), N.S.W., 10 years’ exp. in legal
offices as book-keeper, stenographer, etc., wants
employment.—7736.
Sober man (57), Sydney, wants work. Handy
in garden; exp. at private hospital, poultry farming,
etc.—7733.
Man, Sydney, wants contracts. N.S.W. cleaning
land, brushing or fencing.—773o.
Wanted middle-aged man, energetic, sober, as
partner in fruit, vegetable and berry growing,
Southern District (N.S.W,). Good land, orchard
bearing. Small capital needed.—7776.
Governess (27), wants position on station, N.S.W.
Could assist with sewing.—7763,
Bachelor, literary -tastes, Sydney, will share com-
fortable furnished cottage with another; board self,
10s. a week. —7823.
Nurseryman and storeman (Sydney), young and
active, wants job of any kind. —-7839.
Young man, Hobart, 10 years’ farm and orchard
exp., wants job on sheep station on mainland.-—7843.
Returned soldier (37), Q’land third-dass steam
certificate; well-borer’s license; exp. with windmills
and blacksmithing; can drive car; wants job any-
where. —7862.
Young man with car (Tic.), wants companion on
trip to N.T., taking jobs cn route , £5O required.
—7859. *
Young lady (30), domesticated, own typewriter,
seeks position as companion help or company
secretaiy. Would travel if required.—7B4B.
Station-hand (33), N.S.W., married, exp. on stud
stations, wants job. Refs*—7Bsl.
Young couple, , man used to cattle, horses and
sheep; wife domesticated; want positions on farm
or station any State.—7B49.
Bushman-journalist, writing travel series, wants
lift, Sydney to Bourke or border. Useful companion.
License. Refs.- —7824.
To buy "Australian Coins and Tokens,” by S. E.
Whellams.—7B27.
To buy Hull’s “Postage Stamps of Tasmania” and
“Postage Stamps, of N.5.W.”—7728.
To buy “Australian Nursery Rhymes,” published
by The Bulletin.—7Bo4.
To buy Rowcroft’s “Bushrangers of V.D.L.” (3
vols.) 1846, and “Tales of the Colonies” (3 vols.),
1843; Bonwick’s “Last of the Tasmanians” (1870);
“Echoes by Two Writers” (small booklet) ; and
The Bulletin’s “History of Botany 8ay.”—7816. ' '
To buy “Cartoons” by Claude- Marquet, published
by the “Worker,” Sydney.—7Bo3..
To buy up-to-date histories of Mexico and Brazil.
—7864.
Words of verse “Riding Round the Sheep.”—7B66.
Whereabouts of Ted Hawkins, one-time member
A.L.H. and late of Atherton, Longreach and Barcal-
dine. —7874.
To hear from ex-members 22nd Batt., A.I.F.
(To Fred Russell,- Sec., 22nd Batt. Ass’n, 11 Raleigh-
street, Windsor, Vic.)
Words of verse “Tubal Cain.”—7766,
Words and music of “Dying Stockman.”—77l4.
Information Sought.
What conditions must be observed and fees
paid by a man and woman, adults and resi-
dents of Adelaide, who wish to get married
before a registrar? —7B2o.
Fourteen days’ notice must be given to the
Registrar. Fees are 2s. 6d. for notice and
11s. at celebration. The parties should bring
two witnesses. Arrange date and hour
beforehand. A personal interview with
the Registrar is desirable.
My wife obtained a decree nisi in divorce
last month, returnable in six months. (1)
Until the expiration of that period are toe
still married in the eye of the law? (2)
Should I receive official notification when the
decree is made absolute? (3) Gan.my wife
claim maintenance during the interim? —
7781.
(1) Yes. (2) The Court will give you any
information required if you apply for it. (3)
Yes, and the Court may grant her alimony
thereafter.
What was the amount of England's war
debt to the TJ.S.A. which was funded when
Mr. Baldwin went to America, ’also the' rate
of interest and period for repayment of
same?— 77o2. :
Total amount was 4,6Q4,125,085 dollars. A
cash payment of 4,128,085 dollars was made
in 1923,; the balance -being funded at 3 per
cent, for the first 10 years and Si per . cent,
thereafter. Actual payments are -J per cent,
in excess of these rates. The i" per cent,
comes off capital and is calculated to wipe
off the debt in 1985.
A steel ceiling has been painted with oil
paint and is slightly discolored by smoke.
How can I apply a flat white finish? —7470.
Wash the ceiling with soapy water and
then with lime water, then give two coats of
flat white paint. But it isn’t good practice
to apply a flat paint to a glossy surface, and
you would get a better result by applying
two coats of glossy white.
What arc the Jainas of India? —7s9S.
A Hindu religious sect, best described as
nonconformist Brahmins. They are mostly
traders, and many of them are very wealthy.
They follow the precepts of a line of 24
prophets called Jainas; hence the name.
(1) On payment of last p:n. on second-
hand car bought on t.-p., am I entitled to
a receipt.to^sliqw.that ] .own the car? (2)
Should the agreement for hire-purchase, of
which T have no copy, he handed to me?
(3) Should the insurance policy, for which
1 paid, he returned to me? (4) Why should
the vendor’s, name appear on the policy for
the coming year, when their interest in the
car is finished? —7037.
(1) Yes. (2) No. You should have in-
sisted on receiving a copy. (3) Yes. (4)
Usually in such cases insurance is effected
in the names of both vendor and purchaser
“for their respective rights and interests.”
If this has not been done, apply to the insur-
ance co. for transfer. /
(1) What parts of the British Empire
have not adopted decimal coinage? (2)
In what parts is there decimal coinage, and
what are the systems of decimal coinage in
rogue in thoso parts? —77os.
(1) U.K., South Africa, Australasia, West
Indies, West African Colonies, Malta, Gib-
raltar, Falkland Islands and Bermuda. (2)
Canada. Newfoundland and British Hon-
duras, based on the U.S.A. dollar; India,
Ceylon, Zanzibar, Somaliland, Mauritius and
the Seychelles, based on Indian rupee ; Straits
Settlements and Malay States, based on
Straits dollar; British East African Pro-
tectorate, based on decimal divisions of
pound and florin.
(1) When were the first Papuan postage
stamps issued? (2) Denominations, colors
and present-day value? —7865.
(1) Jan., 1901. (2) 4d. (green), Is.;
Id. (red), Is. 6d.; 2d. (violet), Is. 9d.;
23d. (blue), 55.; 4d. (brown), 10s.; 6d.
(green), 12s. 6d.; Is. (orange), 17s. 6d.
All stamps of the issue have black centres
and rosette water-marks.
At what age and hoio should a termer pup’s
tail he docked?— -7668.
At three weeks to a month old. Clip the
hair around the joint, and paint place to be
cut with tincture of iodine. Tie a ligature
of silt thread, above the joint. A sterilised
knife or pair of scissors should be used.
Apply a little tincture of iodine to the raw
end, and in about half an hour’s time remove
the ligature.
I wish, to huild a isingle-acting oscillating
engine to he run hy compressed air. (1)
Will such an engine run satisfactorily at a
pressure of 30 lb. per sa. in.? (2) Bore and
stroke for a speed of 250 r.p.m.f (3) Text-
books 011 subject?. —766s.
(1) Yes, if you use a suitable light lubri-
cant. (2) No connection between the two.
Cylinder capacity must be adjusted to load
and volume of air available. (3) Popple-
well’s “Compressed Air,” 14s. ; and Daw's
“Compressed Air Power,” 265. Bd.; from
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney. Prices
include postage.
(1) ‘ When and hy whom teas a new*planet
discovered recently? (2) Has it been given
a'name? (3) How far is it from the sun
compared with the of her planets? —769s. >
(1) By C. W. Tombough, a sistant at
Lowell Observatory, Flagstaff (U.S.A.), on
January 2.1 last. (2) Several names have
been suggested, the most favored being Pluto,
and an astronomical symbol which would
perpetuate the name of Dr. Lowell. (3)
Estimated at 41.3 units from the sun, a
unit being the earth’s distance from the sun,
roughly 93 million miles.
I wish to build at Gosford (N.S.W.) a
wooden swimming enclosure, a small jetty
and a boathouse (extra high tides would
surround portion of it). What N.S.W.
timbers do. you recommend for each job? —
7869.
Piles or stumps of tea-tree or turpentine,
for jetty and. boathouse, also for top work
ot the jetty. Framing and weatherboarding
of boathouse should be of turpentine or any
N.S.W. hardwood.
(1 )Duty on yachts from British and
foreign countries, assembled or in parts?
(2) Duty on shaped wood moulds? —7l94.
(1) British preferential (applying only to
yachts from Britain or M.L.), 25 per cent.;
general, 35 per cent, on both assembled and
unassembled yachts. (2) British preferential
(applying only to imports from Britain and
M.L.), 50 per cent.; general, 65 per cent.;
with an addition of 50 per cent, to the duty
payable at those rates. In all cases there
is a primage duty of 24 per cent.
I have a Webley and Scott single-barrel
choke-bore shot gun, in perfect condition .■
The charge when fired at a range of 40
yards spreads over many feet and the least
likely thing to get hit is the object fired at.
Can the bore be altered so as to make a
better pattern? —774B.
Nothing can be done. A choke-bore gun
can be opened up, but a choke cannot be put
into a gun once it is finished. At 40 yards
range, using No. 6 shot, the charge should
group within a 30in. circle.
(1) Names of reliable books on how to
tender for. all classes of contract work? (2)
Can a correspondence course on such ', work
be obtained, and where? (3) What are the
prospects for a young man with limited
capital?— 73ls.
(1) Mayes’s “Architects, 'Builders and
Oontrac I ,tors’ Price-list,” Evershed’s
Surveying for Builders” and “Specifications'”
(published by Aus. Press). (2) Sydney
Technical College. (3) Not good at present.
(1) What is the exemption under the
Federal Income-tax Act for personal exer-
tion? (2) Has the exemption been lowered
by tJie’Scnllin Government? —7s93../
(1) £3OO less £1 for every £3 by which the
net income exceeds £3OO. (2) No, but as
the Act to cover income for the year ended
30th June, 1930, has not yet been passed by
Parliament, it cannot be definitely stated
whether any alteration in the general exemp-
tion will bo made.
(1) .What arc the qualifications for. admit-
tance to the School of "Forestry. Canberra?
(2) Any premiums required? (3) What
remuneration or allowances are made stu-
dents while attending such courses? (4) Do
Federal or State Governments find positions
for qualified men after completing the course?
What is the remuneration and status in such
a case? (5) Would the Federal Bankers’
Institute certificate, three I.C.S. advertising
diplomas and an accountancy degree (senior
fellow), together with considerable experi-
ence in the timber business, qualify me for
ad m ission ?■ —7792.
(1) Students must be uni. graduates or,
by special arrangements with the State
forestry services; undergraduates who have
taken a minimum of two years in science.
Men already in the State services who have
been recommended by the head of the service
may be admitted provided their educational
standard is equal to leaving certificate. (2)
No. (3) The amount of allowance paid by
the different States varies slightly. The
range is £l5O to £2OO a year. (4) Positions
are found for successful students who
received nomination prior to taking up the
course. Amount of remuneration is about
£3OO per annum and the position carries pro-
fessional status. (5) No.'
Must an unnominated alien ( European )
possess a specified amount of money before
being admitted into Australia? What further
conditions must he comply with, other than
dictation test, before and after entry? —
7904.
He must be in possession of at least £4O
unless he holds a landing permit issued by
the Department of Home Affairs, Canberra.
It is not the practice to apply the dictation
test to European aliens who are eligible to
land in Australia, but there are quota restric-
tions on the migration of certain classes of
aliens. Further information is . obtainable
from the local Customs' authorities o.r from
Department of Home Affairs, Canberra.
(1) Is Parramatta-road ( Sydney) d rein-
forced concrete road? (2) Is it necessary to
have expansion joints in such roads?. (3)
Name of a textbook on concrete road con-
struction?—7724.
(1) Sections reconstructed by the Main
Roads Board have been laid in reinforced
concrete. (2) Transverse bituminous joints,
spaced not more than 502 feet apart. (3)
“City Pavements,” by F. S. Besson, and
“Management and Methods in Concrete High-
way Construction,” by J. L. Harrison, both
published by McGraw-Hill Book Co., New
York. Main Roads Board’s standard specifi-
cation for cement concrete pavements is on
sale at the Government Printing Office,
Sydney.
Is it an offence against the law to carry
firearms in Vic. on a Sunday? —7B9B.
Yes, with exception as regards travellers
carrying firearms for the protection of their
lives and property on the public roads,, or to
members of the police force and other per-
sons carrying firearms for lawful purposes.
(1) What qualifications are required, to
become an inspector in the Agriculture
Dept, for the control of bunchytop? (2)
Any appointments likely in the near future?
—7666.
(1) Practical experience in the growing
of bananas; knowledge .of bunchytop disease
in its various stages and departmental regu-
lations for the'control of the 'disease;.. prac-
tical knowledge of banana beetle borer and
control of same, and administrative ability.
(2) No.
(1) What is the basic ivage in Sydney?
(2) Minimum wage for adult male clerks?
(3) Temporarily employed? —7sll.
(1) £4 2s. 6d. per week. (2) £4 10s. for
a . male clerk -23. years of age or over. (3)
One and a half times weekly rate.
- (1) I have. built a short-wave receiver
using a screen-grid valve for the R.F. stage,
and g t good results without biasing, although
14 volts is stipulated by the makers. Would
.an improvement result if a bias battery were
included? (2) What are the names and
wave-lengths of ; stations PLE, W2XA.F,
PCJ. SSW, VIC3ME, VPD and PHI?— 1 7903.
(1) No difference will be noticed, but an
unerase in the life of the H.T. battery will
result by placing the correct negative bias
on the control grid. Use a small torchlight
dry cell, or, if a filament rheostat is employed,
utilise the drop in potential across same. (2)
P.L.E., Bandoeng, Java, 15.94 m.; W2XAF.
Schenectady, U.S.A., 31.48 m.; P.C.J., Eind-
hoven, Holland, 31.4 m.; SSW, Chelmsford,
England, 25.53 m.; VK3ME, Melbourne,
31,56 m.; VPD, Suva, Fiji, 20.7 m.; PHI,
Huisen, Holland, 16.88 m.
What is the meaning of “casual employee”
under the N.S.W. Workman’s Compensation
Act, and what must be the terms of employ-
ment, to free the employer from liability in
case of accident? Suppose, for instance I em-
ploy a charwoman for .one or two days a week,
the day not particularly specified, with no
understanding as to the employment being
permanent, would I be liable under the Act?
—7552.
A textbook on the Act says: “Where the
work is more or less regular, although
separated by intervals, the employer ought
not, and probably will not, be allowed to
escape liability by 'adopting a system of
hourly or daily re-engagements.” It would
be wise to insure; it is a matter of only a
few shillings in the ease you mention.
An Australian resides and dies in a.
British Protectorate, and leaves by icill to
his wife and children an estate consisting of
money., on fixed deposit' in. N. S. Wales and
M L., land, in M.L., and property, mgrtgarms
and cash: in the Protectorate. What are the
rates of death duties and how .are they
allotted to the respective• Governments? If
death took .place in M.L. or-Australia would
the amount of ■ duties be affected?— 7777.
On final balance of estate; in respect of
N. S. Wales property £lOOO exempt; £lOOO.
but not exceeding £5OOO, 2 p.c.; £5OOO but not
exceeding £6OOO, p.c. ; and an additional
\ p.c. for each additional £lOOO until
h 50,000 is reached and then 20 p,c. In
respect of MX. property: £lOOO exempt;
£lOOl to £2OOO, 1 p.c.; £2OOl to £3OOO, 2 p.c.
and thereafter an additional 1 p.c. for each
successive £lOOO. until £lOO,OOO is -reached
and over that 20 p.c. . Duty in a Protectorate
would depend on lo t cal law. Each State
collects its own duty irrespective of the place
of death, probate being registered in each.
In Australia a Federal duty also is imposed. ’
Duty, on metal■ foil letters?— 7soB.
British preferential, free; general, 15' per
cent. Primage duty of. 24,'per cent, applies
iii both cases. " ’
Brief Answers.
J.H.G.C.: Arabesque, in the Arabian
manner; La Fileuse, the spinning-girl; La Cinquan-
taine, the golden wedding; La Fille aux Cheveux de
Lin, the girl with flaxen hair ; Une Larme, a teardrop ;
Aquarellen, water-color sketches; Humoresque, in a
humorous, impish manner; Ungarische, in the Hun-
garian manner E.R.M.: Jack Lindsay’s transla-
tion of “Catullus” was published at £6 6s. Pro-
curable through Bennett Galleries, King-street,
Sydney... .A.E.8.L.: Price, 7s. 6d. Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .L.C.: (1) Through Sydney
and Brisbane, then on main road due west to Roma ;
(2) 1668 miles via Sydney-road. (3) Winter time
for northern section. (4) With luck, 18 to 20
days for complete journey. (5) Prince’s Highway
is better road but is 130 miles longer. (6) Apply
R.A.C.U. or Melbourne booksellers for route to
Sydney and Sydney and Brisbane booksellers for rest.
. ...C.M.: Kikuyu grass roots are obtainable from
seed merchants at 7s. 6d. per 100 roots or 525. 6d.
per 1000 roots. 2500 roots are planted to the acre.
. ...J.W.: (1) Secure literature on subject from
Agriculture Department, Brisbane. (2) Can’t say.
An advertisement should produce results. .. .H.L.C.:
(1) To allay irritation following sandfly bites, use
tincture of iodine. (2) Butter made with goats’ milk
is white, unless artificially colored, when it is in-
distinguishable from ordinary butter.... Kelvin:
Briefly, thunder is the sound which accompanies the
sudden expansion of air brought about by the heat-
ing effects of lightning and the rapid rush of air
along the track where rarefaction has taken place... .
R.M.: Write Capt. W. R. Westland, Trincomalee,
Ceylon. .. .J.W.D.: At Sydney Cricket Ground, June
5, 1920, 65,378 spectators saw England play N.S.W.
in a Rugby League match. At Wembley Stadium,
England, on April 28, 1923, 126,047 paid to see a
Cup Final and thousands more broke in....T.M.:
Broadly, the books . that live. .. .F.C.: See Zora
Cross’s. “Introduction to the Study of Australian
Literature” and 11. M. Green’s “Outline of Australian
Literature”.... J.A.L.: See R. E. Pinkerton’s “The
Canoe” (6s»), Dymocks, Sydney... .H.N.L.: (1)
Drop a line to their office, 13 Park-row, New York.
(2) Get in touch with the publisher, Rand'McNally
and Co., 540 South Clark-street, Chicago.. . .V. 0.:
(1) Always pleased to consider drawings submitted.
(2) Not necessarily. (3) Payment is made for all
accepted. .. .T.H.D.: The clergyman had six wives,
the last, Catherine Parr, surviving him... .A.M.N.:
(1) If you predecease your husband he will become
sole owner of the. money in the joint account. Your
sisters would have no claim. (2) ss. Id., sent
by money order... .J.C.M.K.: Your mother had a
legal right to bequeath her property toi her children
in such portions as she thought fit. ;. .R.E.P.: (1)
It will not be honored by the bank prior to the
date on the cheque. (2) No, provided that the
person receiving it is aware that it is post-dated....
G.A,: Not aware of any local legal, firm specialising
in such inquiries. A letter to the Assistant Paymaster-
General, Whitehall, London, may help you... .S.E.:
Write to Registrar of Probates and Administration,
Law Department, Melb. Cost will depend on length. ...
M.M.G.: Lyster Ormsby, 235 Castlereagh-street, Syd.
W.S.: See Service Page (B. 17/7/’29)....
W’.T.G.: Pin us insignis would make an excellent
breakwind at Stanthorpe (Q.).... M.11.W. ■: Seven-
oaks (Kent) is in the Rochester diocese. It is not
an episcopal see... ,W.A.C.: See “The Leisure of
the People,” also works on social welfare and
workers’- recreations in N.S.W. Public Library....
A.8.J.: Jauncey is a variation of Chauncey. The
name is , Continental and almost certainly Norman.
. ...A.W.H.: The Bremen arrived in New York on
July 21, 1929, after crossing the Atlantic in 4
days, 17 hours, 42 minutes. The Mauretania crossed
in 1924 in 5 days, 1 hour,-49 minutes... .H.C.P.:
Apply to Sec. Victoria Racing Club, 491 Bourko-
street, Melbourne, . for forms. The committee fills
vacancies in either ring. .. . J.H.R.: (1) The life
insurance premium is deductible . for income-tax
purposes. (2) The reversionary bonus is not taxable.
~... .F.C.W.: Obtain from Government Printer, Can-
berra, reports issued by Development and Migration
Commission sub-committee . which investigated the
application of producer-gas to motor vehicles in
Australia... .S.C. and R.M.1.: Write Patents Office,
581 Bourke-street, Melbourne. .. .1.D.H.: Available
evidence indicates that the articles were written by
a member of the staff after an interview', and that
the articles were read by the person interviewed
before publication... .C.F.D.: H. B. Selby and Co.,
Ltd., Bulletin-place, Sydney... .H.G. : Write Buzacott
and Co., 7 Market-street, Sydney.... P.C.: if cannot
afford to pay for legal opinion, apply to the Legal
Aid Department, Queen’s-square,. Sydney... .A. 8.:
Write to Registrar of Probates and Administration,
Melbourne, giving full particulars... .W.G.: If you
assigned all copyrights, the assignee is the person
entitled to a remedy... .H.F.: Such a power can be
exercised by a constable only where there is good
reason to suspect that the person searched has
anything in his possession which may have been
stolen or unlawfully obtained... .L.A.: There does
not appear to be an infringment of copyright, but a
filching of ideas and material under a plausible
pretext. Communicate with the Incorporated Society
of Authors, Composers and Playwrights, 11 Gower-
street, London... .S.J.F.: (1) He could do so. (2)
He could do so and state the grounds for his action.
(3) Not in itself, but the chairman might construe
it as such. (4) The mover could ask the chairman's
leave to withdraw it and the request could be
granted with the agreement of the meeting. The
chairman could refuse leave... .W.S.: (1) Hoe is
an Old English word for hill. (2) Scotland Yard, a
short street off Whitehall in London, was till 1890
the headquarters of the Metropolitan Police Force
now located at New Scotland Yard on the Thames
Embankment. (3) The Pantiles at Tunbridge Wells,
England, is a fashionable walk, so called because
it is paved with pantiles, a double curved tile.
. ...W.8.M.: New Guinea Trade Agency, Com-
monwealth Offices, Martin-place, Sydney... .A. D.S,:
See Robert Kaleski’s “Barkers and Biters”..,,
.T.M.M.: Get in touch with some, of the wholesale
chemists... .A.R.P.: Write to Sydney Book Club,
89 Castlereagh-street, or Dymocks, 424 George-street
—both Sydney... .C. 0.: (1) Rarely, if ever, as out-
siders; generally as members of family. (2)
Advertise... .W.T.R.: No available records. The firm
no longer exists,.. .0.W.T.: Write W. C. Penfold
and Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney. They suggest
artist’s modelling- clay... .11.D.L.: The safest method
by which the husband can be excluded is for the
wife to make a will appointing two persons to act
as her executors and trustees and, directing that her
interest in the home be held in trust for her
children upon such terms as she may desire. It
would be wise to get a solicitor to draft the will.
F.A.: (1) He is looking at his son. (2) The
case commenced in November, 1901, and was tried
a second time in the early part of the following
year... . J.0.J.: Write Deputy-P.M.G., Brisbane....
L.8.F.: The owner of a farm is not liable in respect
of a share-farmer under the N.S.W. Workers’ Com-
pensation Act, but the definition of “share-farmer”
is a matter of legal interpretation of the contract
between the parties.. . .A. 8.: Can’t compute area of
four-sided block of irregular shape unless you -send
us. a sketch showing the exact ; angles... > (Many
other's mailed.)


PHILIPS LAMPS
of Auitralian manufacture
will rhortlv be available!
sdf
Behind the fifty million Philips lamps
which have now been bought by the
Australian public, has ever been the
genius of Philips scientists and engineers.
Philips produce a lamp for every lighting
purpose from the tiny torch bulb to the
colossal twenty-kilowatt Lighthouse lamp.
And now Philips make their most
important announcement for years :
PHILIPS LAMPS OF AUSTRALIAN
MANUFACTURE WILL SHORTLY
BE AVAILABLE !
d


ďf
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
VTARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
-1 selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
'new conditions of to-day and to-morrow
PRODUCERS # CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
•Ohiirman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: 11. Fell
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
NSW Agents: Farmers,* Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and J
' ' ' Agency Co., Ltd. yg
'
7 1
f
:Z% T
StCeor^e
STO
i
A
A
-the Paste with
the Oyster flavour
Made from the world-famous,
j luscious Stewart Island
| oysters. St. George “OYSTO”
is a daintily flavoured oyster
i paste that will provide, as a
1 relish dr for sandwiches, that
‘something different’ for which
i you are eternally seeking.
.Just try it. From all grocers
Delicious Oyster Soup, too,
can be easily made from
•OYSTO’ paste. Instructions
on wrapper.
Irvine & Steven son’s St. George Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, New Zealand. 4
SMOKE-OH!
£1 ME RICK.
Said John to Australia, I teyer
Of your debts, which mount heyer and heyer;
As you flatly refuse
To keep off the base
You’ll make terms with Sir Otto Niemeyer.
* *
“The new Budget has taken away practically
everything taxpayers had.”
It lias —even? their breath.
* *
“Senator Daly said that an application to import
elephants into W.A. for farming purposes had been
refused.” — “Argus.”
The decision was probably influenced by
the ravages of the white ones at Canberra.
* #
From happenings of the coalfields it’s to
be feared that there’s life in the old Darg
yet.
* #
Some of these street musicians are aston-
ishingly versatile; they hum even better
than they sing.
¥ *
SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM.
(Advt.)
There is an impression that it takes brains
to become, an up-to-date journalist. Quite
wrong. My system ensures success for the
humblest intellects. I specialise in the pro-
duction of Sporting Experts. The master-
NOTHING TO FEAR.
“If I go away to make my fortune, I’m afraid you will marry
someone else."
“Oh, but I woul'd be divorced long before you had made it.”
piece below was completed for a leading daily
by one of my pupils seven minutes after the
arrival of the cable: —
Cable:
Bradman n.o. 200
McCabe c. and b. Geary 68
- Jackson b. Larwood 28.
Ponsford not playing.
Elucidation: —
The Boy from Bowral is still zestfully smiting
the English trundlers, a double century being the
latest from his prolific bat. Bravo Bradman! Aus-
tralia’s Wonder Boy is now 200 notches nearer his
5000 for the season—a goal that the ever-glorious
“W.G.” himself never succeeded in attaining. Mc-
Cabe, less skilful, sent an uppish one to Geary, who
took the chance, this at a time when the “baby”
of the team needed but 32 for his century. The
pity of it! Jackson was beaten by Larwood after
playing a chanceless 28—always assuming he gave
no chances that the cable has omitted to mention.
Ponsford’s health is still troubling him. Other-
wise he would be playing. At the first intimation
of his return to Test cricket, his admirers, whose
name is legion in Sunny Australia, may reasonably
conclude that he has recovered. ( Copyright in Aus-
tralia, Britain and the U.S.A.)
The Staccato Style (useful for those who
aspire to be “Tabloid” leader-writers) is not
difficult to pick up:—
“So there is to be more taxation! Well 1 well!
Movies taxed! Ponies taxed! Dogs taxed! Beer
taxed! Where will it end?” groans John House-
holder. And Echo answers, “Where?”
Let the Government understand this, once and
for all. The “Tabloid’s”. patience is at an end.
Speaking for approximately a million registered
readers whose dependants under our Insurance
Scheme will be paid £lOOO apiece if drowned at
sea by the capsizing of a battle-cruiser (but not
if pushed overboard, or drowned by enemy action),
we say that this farce must end. And now.
Otherwise we will strike, and strike hard. For
our only Masters—the Sovereign People!
Emotionalists are always in demand: —
Came a cry in the night—the poignant cry of a
woman whose heart was nigh to breaking. “What
have they done with him?” sobbed the girl. Ah,
God, it were pitiful to hear her! Out in the murk
of the fowlyard a grim-faced worker, himself the
father of eight, bowed leonine head on horny hands
and yielded him to grief. Aye, openly and un-
ashamedly Big Pat Muldoon sobbed and sobbed
again.... Once more that searing heart-cry “What
have they done with him?” And none dared make
reply. Only from the fowlyard came sob on sob.
(N.B. —Equally useful, with slight variations,
where the lost one has been run over and killed by
’bus, tram, car or motor-bike; drowned ; gaoled;
burned to death or hanged.)
Jauntily familiar work is required for
Exposures, acquaintanceship with the victim
not being necessary
—in fact, it is a
handicap:—
It is sad to have to
deal frankly with the
career of a friend, and
“Chiller” Be'egle, our
hitherto respected Mini-
ster for Drains, ;is a
life-long friend. But
needs must when the
public interests and those
of the “Hoot’s” circula-
tion demand honest
speech. “Chiller,” ' as
old “Gussy” Smith, the
Supreme Court Judge,
remarked the othet day
in an exclusive Saloon
Bar not a thousand
mnes trom this office,
would be a desirable
companion were he pot
a congenital crook and
liar. Who got away
with the funds of the
Orphans’ Prudential
Assoc. ? Who black-
mailed our spineless
Premier into giving him
Office, and has been
boodling ever since ?
Those on the inside know
that “Chiller,” so pro-
minent in Society circles,
so assiduous as a church-
goer, is the man. Alas
that we should have to
disclose it!
(N.B. —When the writ
arrives get your news-
paper to offer Mr. Beegle
the choice between taking
£5O and going to the
Privy Council. He will
probably take the £5O,
leaving you free to ex-
pose sontosbody else.)
My methods of
doing literary criti-
cisms without read-
ing books, and theat-
rical notices without going to shows are
included in the curriculum. Join the classes
now, and remember the grand old school
slogan: “The Morons the Merrier.”
10-2-4.
“At the fairs in those old days a common amuse-
ment was the sport of shin-kicking.”— English weekly.
The sport survives to this day in bridge-
playing circles.
•# * -
“Wanted It In Writing: Refused to Accept
Promise.” — “Sun.”
A believer in deeds, not words.
“She was not beautiful, but as a wife few could
better her.”— “S. M. Herald
It’s axiomatic that really good wives are
scares.
¥ *
“Woodfull has been criticised for wearing his hat
while talking to the King.”
Sing a song of Woodfull, what a shocking
thing!
He failed to take his hat off when talking to
the King.
But that was not the worst of our boys'
paralysing deeds.
Both he and Bolshie Bradman wore bowlers
down at Leeds.
THE PIONEER.
ARITIST ( hungrily ): “Did you tell him it was an original joke 's
BOY: “Yes, an’ he said it was— the original joke.”
“It is only a fraction of the people of Sydney
that does not know the way to behave on public
occasions.’’ —Police Commissioner Childs.
Meaning the vulgar fraction, of course.
ANOMALY.
The flapper takes the surf-beach path,
Dressed in the merest frill,
Yet when undressing for her bath,
She dresses up to kill.
& ¥
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.
(School examination paper, 1940.) v
Q. —Who tvere the chosen people during
the terrible 1930 depression?
A. —Commonwealth
Public Servants.
Q. —Who suffered
decreases in income
and increases in
taxation during the
same period?
A. —Everybody but
Commonwealth Pub-
lic Servants.
Q. —What was the
strength of the de-
fence forces of the
Commonwealth at
that time?
A. —Umpteen hun-
dred Defence Depart-
ment clerks.
Q. —With what
implements of war
were they armed?
A. —T y p e writers
and red tape.
Q. —Would these
weapons have been
effective against
enemies?
A. —The idea was
that there were to
be no more _ enemies.
Q. —During this
crucial titne what
governing forces
were at the head of
affairs in Australia?
A. —Commonwealth
Public Service.
Q. —What good
did these forces do?
A. —One and all did a tremendous amount
of good for themselves.
DRIVEN TO DESPERATION.
The husband was alone with his sleeping
wife. “I’m sick of you,” he hissed furK
ously. “You’re ruinous. I won’t spend
another penny on you! You y° ur
slim hands! You’re always at the jewellers.
I’ve got to hate the sight of your silly
round face! Pah! I’m always late at the
office through you; you deceiving wretch!
He grasped a hammer. ‘ I won t put up with
vou any longer,” he yelled, and with one
bash of the hammer smashed the cheap
alarm-clock to pieces.
“Taxpayers will know how- to treat the nine
Minister over these latest impositions.” —• Sun,
He’ll be bard, of course.
V ¥
Few paperhangers that I’ve met
Disclose a wish to shirkj
In fact, they very often get.
Quite wrapped up in their work.
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
It came as a shock to the Twelve (they
used to play the twelfth man in those days)
US0(1 1 J when the sporting
press of Jerusalem
began to talk of the
doings of a recruit to
the game.. Saul, or
Paul, as the cricket
scribes and Phari-
sees called him, had
not played with the
Christians before;
but after joining
them he did so well
that several impas-
sioned leaders
appeared insisting
that he should be
included in the
Apostles’ team. In
due course public*
opinion, as the He-
brew press' boys had
the infernal hide to
call their yelpings,
asserted itself, and
Paul was given his
gaberdine or, as we
would say, blazer.
Came a surprise.
Paul stood up before
the Twelve and was
bowled.
The critics de-
clared that he was
undoubtedly a fine
bat, who must not be
judged by one failure.
If, they pointed, out
the ball instead of
beating him had been sent to the pickets, and
he had made another 96 runs he would have
scored a century on his first appearance in
big cricket. In fact, they wrote the kind of
stuff that cricket writers usually do write.
His reputation was made. He not only
found a place in the Twelve but was shortly
its captain. Some of his most notable per-
formances were made subsequently against,
the Corinthians themselves. Oddly enough
he seems to have been given a rough time by
the barraekers.
Later, like all champions, he became a
pressman, and entered the best-seller class
with his “Epistles,”
NQ NEED TO DEPEND ON HIM.
MAUD: “Constable, grab that man—he wanted to kiss me!”
MIKE: “Oh, let the poor shrimp escape. There’s many a, better
man would be glad to do it. Why, I d do it myself.
Incidentally, Peter the great wicket-keeper
was a* member of the Twelve. Of Peter
something more than that is to be remem-
bered—his association with the first bank-
ing transaction mentioned in the scriptures,
when he lodged with one Simon — : a tanner.
H. M.
HIGH COST OF TICKETS .
I once had tickets on a girl.
On her I squandered ev’ry “brown,”
And then she harshly turned me down.
Though now I shun love’s costly whirl
I still am stony broke, for note —
I now have tickets on the tote
POM.


10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
sdf
m
£
m
m
u w
on the hundreds of
things you use daily in
your home, your factory,
office, store or farm.
Price
POST FREE
NEW REVISED AND
ENLARGED EDITION.
TN every can of baking powder
or paint you buy—in the
hundreds of things you use in
your home or business —is a
goodly profit you can now save
and make your own through
the priceless knowledge con-
tained in HENLEY'S
TWENTIETH CENTURY
BOOK OF RECIPES,
FORMULAS AND PRO-
CESSES.
It places at your finger-tips,
over ten thousand separate
recipes, preparations, form-
ulas and processes containing
the latest scientific discoveries.
In simple, non-technical terms
it explains how you can make
every conceivable thing in
general use, from inks and
toothpastes to asphalt, cement
and battery solutions. It con-
tains the discoveries of civilisa-
tion itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for the first time —
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European
scientists and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think what it would mean
to have ten thousand to choose from!
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it the factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams
or boiler compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on
fertilisers, cheese-making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this
remarkable one volume encyclopajdia to-day?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
The
“Kero tin”
Spray Pump
A Strongly-made Pump of Brass through-
out, fitted with a Stout Iron Foot. Very
suitable for use in small orchards and the
flower garden. Also useful for applying
lime-wash and disinfectants to cattle-
sheds, fowlruns, etc., and fitted with
Special Nozzle, is extensively used by
breeders of cattle as a Veterinary Pump.
tin
VI X*
a**
anmnttminnini^
INOS*
mm ~
'Zl^'
miiimiimnimu
NHOP I
“MYSTO”
Knapsack Sprayers
Mysto” Pneumatic Knapsack Sprayer,
as illustrated, in 2 sizes, supplied com-
plete with Hose, Nozzle, Pressure Gauge
and Shoulder Straps suitable for all
Spraying Mixtures, including Lime-
Sulphur.
No. 9, Full Capacity, 4 gals.
Working Capacity, 3 gals.
No. 10, Full Capacity, 5 gals.
Working Capacity, 4 gals.
“Mysto” Knapsack Sprayer No. 3 (not
illustrated), with Tinned Copper Con-
tainer, unaffected by the use of Lime-
Sulphur, with polished Brass fittings.
Sent out complete with Hose, Nozzle,
etc.
Full Particulars and Prices on
Application.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
WALTHER S STEVENSON'S COWBOY SADDLERY
d
WRITE FOR NEW
CATALOGUE
Showing also New
and Low-priced Aus.
STOCK & PARK
SADDLES
Lassos —braided cotton
with brass honda, 15/-
Braided linen, 40ft.,
with brass honda, 22/6
Cowboy Quirts —made of latigo leather, shot-loaded, 8/6
Fancy Breastplate —as illustrated 757-
Fancy Bridle —to match breastplate, complete with gold-
color cowboy bit 767-
Cowboy Cartridge Beits —single row, 10/6; double, 207-
Cowboy Chaps —of dark; flexible hide, with fringe . . 87/6
Cowboy Spurs —gold color, with nickel horsehead, without
straps, 35/-. Straps, fancy, pair .... 7/6 and 8/6
Texas Ranger Cowboy Saddle —double-rigged, with cord
cinchas and wood stirrups £l3/18/6
Add postage to above —the saddle is freight, free.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
ď
\
VI
siir
WS^
OBt
Put Gumness in-
in the interval
Put GUINNESS in in the lun-
cheon interval; it can be depended
on to “ score ” —to provide you with
a good “innings” —to increase the
“ total” of your strength and vigour.
Brewed only from Malt, Barley,
Hops, Yeast and Water, the inviting
colour, the delicious flavour, the
tonic and strengthening powers of
Guinness are due only to the natural
goodness it contains. Guinness is
easily digested and rapidly assimil-
ated —you feel invigorated at once
when you’ve had a Guinness.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo-
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.


>-
T'vSVl
V-
m ■ xx
‘zZ
55 % i 4- j •■
-z**>ssn£*z£*&£t3^ . *£n
r
STI
rc= in « a
W;K
M
‘V i .' r '
Si
«©.
- Vx NCf.
%-U^
3^^vvjf'yf
St»v va v-ota '.^ZMI'Am
.'J*-
(tF\
Vhk2?-
S't
m
ns
!;;./!////'
P'"
.Tv
«\
J.
SSfe
BRMI
“ftp**
Hfcsi
v\
TTY
%m\M.
-X
vS£
'a >
§s
ss
11 wm
>g
■ :i!
,*;////h
1 M
S 3
ft ' \, -
5 I V>. .'' -? —J.-)
7
V?
< 11
1 • i ■ (
(L
&
= 0
V \
FI
US
lUillii
i -CV
rv i
mmrz^m
nwmrv
Is
mw
A\W~-
~.-rA\ :1 11l
fts I
I I
*
P
Q
40
ft
" UcX,
HAMPiON RESERVE
PORT
tin y
P/
BY THE makers :
Thomas hardy &sons limited
i r ’„PLAIDE MELBOURNE & SYDnev
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN W| NE^ EV
-V «*> « *
Ki
5
~§=X~ MET 1 PINT 6 FLUID OZS.'
SWUM
SSx/3.
£ gSS
2£
£
s
£n
Fortunate Tintara
OLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


Gathering Cocoanuts.
NOUMEA
Excepti o n a l
opportunity for
a South Sea Holiday
is offered by the
popular twin - screw
steamer M o e r a k i,
bringing the Fiji
Islands and New
Caledonia within
easy reach and open-
ing up a glorious
scenic circuit. The
18-days’ tour em-
braces Suva, Levuka,
Lautoka and Nou-
mea at an inclusive
cost of £3l to £34.
MOERAKI
THREE
WEEKS
SUNSHINE
TOUR
A-U-S-N-6> UNION LINES
TWO SPECIAL SAILINGS: AUGUST 1 and AUGUST 22.
Reservations may be made with, Union S.S. Co., or A.U.S.N. Co., at
any Australian Port.
Dr. De JONGH'S
LIGHT BROWN
COD LIVER OIL
is prepared from a blending of the purest
Norwegian Oils, by a process which does not
destroy the vitamins. It is the purest) most
palatable, most easily digested and most
speedily efficacious and has, for upwards
of 80 years, been highly recommended by the
leading medical authorities in the treatment of
Consumption, Diseases of the Throat
and Chest, Chronic Coughs
and Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma and
ALL
Dr. De Jongh’s Cod
Liver Oil can be ob-
tained from high-class
Chemists and Stores.
Sole Proprietors:
z t|U!d—
•Jnov^Wa^
l ll»lll»‘ ."•••'III 1,,.,.
" lIIIHII MIIM 111 I,
<iinin«n
L L
1
DWJfi
ANSAR, HARFORD & CO., LTD.
182 GRAY'S INN ROAD. LONDON, W.C. 1
Beware of attempts to substitute Fraudulent Imitations
AN INEXPENSIVE
BLADE RAZOR GUARD
lUKy'
With this simple, nickelled guard the Plum or any other blade razor is converted
into a safety razor of the most efficient type. No “dragging”.... all the velvet
keenness of the hollow-ground blade is preserved. Sent post free to any address.
Suitable for fin., tin. and gin. blades, 27-
PLUM RAZORS—Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each 15/6
Real Ivory Handle, each 21/-
7-day Sets — 7 Razors in Case—Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set jor me and kept in order jor two years free.
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each .. . 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 27-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
Poverty
Point
“Vil N.”: Rignold, in fine mettle, was
defying the villain to do his dire damnedest:
“But, remembah! If you do but dare
molest his defenceless gur-il, I am lieah, and
with the help of Providence, I will ker-rush
you, ker-hum what may, as sure as my name,
is—as my name is”— Cosgrove, rather
mellow, was in the wings with the prompt
script, and to him George appealed: “For
God’s sake, what’s my name?” Cosgrove
(raising his eyebrows) : “Name? Why,
George Rignold, sir!”
“Finn”: In a one-act play competition
for a prize given by the Australian Literary
Society, Melbourne, the various writers gave
the amateur producers the task of staging
a ghost, an angel, a vision of Christ, a por-
trait being painted, a person seen by tele-
vision, a boisterous storm, and an Eskimo
dog near the South Pole. Considering the
size of the usual amateur stage it’s a wonder
someone didn’t think of an elephant.
“Niente”: Tom Sutter by, now with the
Allan Wilkie co., is a Victorian country
youngster who used to pull his own apples
at Mildura. “If I had a voice as grumpy
and a face as lovely as yours, I’d be on
the stage!” a vindictive employee told him
one day. Six months later Sutterby was
chief of the mirthmakers for William Ander-
son in “The Rudd Family.”
“Cine Ma”: A visitor from Darwin
recently arrived in Melbourne. He admired
the artificial flowers and the statuary in
an enormous vestibule. Then he climbed a
flight of stairs, examining the antique
plaques and other exhibits. He drifted
through a doorway and discovered a collec-
tion of Louis Quatorze furniture. He was
ushered through swing doors into the foyer
and was pleased at the fine display of Aus-
tralian paintings; also the cabinets of
Napoleonic relics, the vases and the glass
cases full of miniatures. Then he found
himself opposite a door marked “Exit” and
stepped into the street. Asked later what
he thought of the Regent Theatre’s talkies,
he said, “Talkies? I didn’t hear any talkies.
I thought it was the National Gallery.”
“M.” : Sydney’s latest amateur group—the
Independent Theatre —-is at least beginning
on the right lines. Its moving spirit, Doris
Fitton, has been working on it for months—
ever since the Turret, after a string of
mostly squib highbrow efforts, fizzled out.
Her bunch includes several really good play+
ers; producing has been in the hands of play-
wright Harry Tighe, and rehearsals, which are
usually dispensed with in all genuine ama-
teur theatricals, have been going on for
some time, and will continue till August S,
when the premiere show, “By Candle Light,”
a modern Viennese comedy, will be given.
Place, St. James’s Hall; profits to help dis-
tressed actors.
“Adelaide” : About the silliest of all endur-
ance contests is that of listening-to-radio.
Six men and one woman—they were selected
from a crowd of entries—have been ’ sitting
in the public view in a Rundle-street win-
dow playing cards or otherwise amusing
themselves, while broadcasting stations, with
phonographs during the dead periods, made
noises to them. A man was declared winner
at 4 days 18 hours, the rest being down and
out. He says the fourth day was the worst;
“harp-strings, with knobs on them, every-
where across my eyes ; after that I got my
second wind, so to speak.”
“The Listening-Insect”: Local broadcast-
ing cos. profess to be bewildered because
listeners don’t like their programmes, especi-
ally the talks on world-peace, disarmament
and blight in potatoes. The 8.8. C. in Eng-
land has recently printed some of its
addresses. They include forthright state-
ments of individual opinion by men like
11. G. Wells, J. B. S. Haldane, Oliver Lodge,
Dean Inge and Lowes Dickinson, and they
range from spiritualism and agnosticism to
criticisms of democracy. I have yet to hear
a prominent Australian speaker who shows
any “guts” over the wireless. When con-
fronted by a microphone the average Aus-
tralian publicist gets stage fright. He has
the courage of the opinions—of others ; and
the others are the mass of the unthinking.
Perhaps it is not his fault altogether. I
have seen an address which was to have been
delivered over the wireless and the official
blue pencil had gone right through it.
“G.R.”: Legit, in Melbourne is at last
beginning to sit up and take nourishment after
a severe attack of talkieitis. Latest clinical
report: Tivoli doing well with S. Australian
Ken Duffield’s “Pot Luck.” Bijou reopened
and interest in Jim Gerald undiminished.
“Country Girl” co. departing from the Royal
after excellent Season, and “New Moon”
rising with every sign of a propitious sea-
son. Queues of devotees of Leon Gordon
outside the Comedy. Vaudeville occupying
a larger portion of the programmes at the
State Theatre. Even musical fixtures are shar-
ing in the renaissance (Austral-Amadio con-
certs packed at the Town Hall). The
Firm has picked a favorable moment for
reducing prices. Stalls and d.-c. at the Royal
have been reduced to seven bob and upper
circle to two shillings. Top prices at the
Comedy are down to five shillings, which is
the lowest figure at which he-man Gordon
has yet been offered to the populace.
“Cauboy”: The appalling mediocrity of
the plays seen on the legitimate Stage in Aus-
tralia is not entirely due to a shortage of
playwrights. Not long since a leading
management announced a forthcoming attrac-
tion to be performed by one of its companies
which was headed by a» “great international
star” (imported). The co. duly set to work
and learnt its parts and there wer e a few
rehearsals. Then suddenly it was discovered
that the play was “unsuitable” for an Aus-
tralian audience. As a matter of fact, it was
a very good play, but the famous interna-
tional star had ascertained, presumably by
measurement, that lie had fewer lines than the
Australian leading lady, and he flatly refused
to go on with it. The co. then turned to
a puerile piece in which the leading man
occupied the limelight for 50 minutes or so
out of an hour and a half’s performance.
“Say Bo": Some time ago a paragraphist
reported in this column that tradition existed
in Victoria that Pavlova was born in the
Mallee. Now it has been discovered that
Mary Pickford has all these years been
concealing her true birthplace under the
pretence that she saw the light in Canada.
According to the local story, the World’s
Darling was born of a French-Canadian
father and an Irish mother in Dorcas-street,
South Melbourne, in the early ’nineties, leav-
ing for Canuck land five weeks later. If
the exact location can be ascertained, a
movement for purchasing the house on behalf
of the nation may receive more support than
the proposal recently mooted to acquire Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s home in Brighton.
“S.T.S.”: The best theatrical item in Adel-
aide lately is the arrival of Hugh Mclntosh
with a promise of the Prince of Wales reopen-
ing. The big and comparatively modern
house is away from the fashionable amuse-
ment centre, and has always had a struggle—
though wdth bright spots at times. The
Rickards co. leased it to the Williamson co.,
but it has long been closed. Mclntosh
definitely promises Noel Coward and other
attractions. The recent Australian slump is
due, he says, to poor productions. “They
would lose just as much money if the talkie
theatres were closed. A poor talkie draws
no more than a poor play.”
“Cine Ma”: The same actor often appears
in two different theatres at once these days,
but it is surely unique for one to be show-
ing simultaneously on the ground floor and
in the basement of the one building. This
is happening in Melbourne to Louis Wol-
heim, whose rugged visage is appearing
attached to the corporal of “All Quiet” at
the Regent and at the same time as the dia*-
bolic steward of “The Ship from Shanghai”
at the Plaza underneath.
“MacFlecknoe”: Played his last part,
Sydney Stirling, well known on the Aus-
tralian stage for the last 30 years. He first
toured Australia with Musgrove’s company
and Nellie Stewart in “Swell Nell.” After
that he never carried any very big part,
but his acting always showed the care-
ful attention to detail characteristic of actors
of the old school. H'e claimed the same birth-
place as Amy Johnson.
“R. Volt” : Broadcast television threatens
to be a worse horror than the first talkies
until it improves its manners or dies natur-
ally. Recently the 8.8. C. disseminated
Pirandello’s “Man with a Flower in His
Mouth” throughout Britain. The sound
transmission was stated to be poor, but
lookers-in were more or less gratified by
seeing on their screens the faces and hands
of the actors, which gave a distinct impres-
sion of personality. In a private demon-
stration I saw a year or two ago in Mel-
bourne a girl two floors above sang, and we
saw a fuzzy image of her face, which bobbed
up and down and waved to and fro and
occasionally ran amok and broke into pieces
or multiplied into dozens of physiognomies.
It was a depressing experience.
“Cauboy”: The following item is shorn
from Melbourne “Argus” of 80 years ago:—
At the police office on Thursday his Worship the
Mayor, R. Jacomb, and E. P. S. Sturt, Esquires,
having constituted themselves a Court of Petty
Sessions, an application was made from Mr. Walter
Raleigh, secretary of the Melbourne Garrick Theatrical
Club, for permission to give a theatrical entertain-
ment in some public building in the city. The
club, having been foiled in its attempt to procure
a theatre for the purpose, the proceeds of which
entertainment it is intended to hand over to the
Melbourne Benevolent Society, had therefore come
before the Bench for their consideration. After a
short consultation the chairman announced that the
application had been refused, and added that private
theatricals were not deserving of encouragement*
no good having been found to result from them. In
the case before the Court when the performers were
all young tradesmen, to grant the application would
encourage in them a taste for the stage and divert
their minds from other pursuits.
The official interferer is always with us.
Nowadays he is known as the Censor.
The Inky Way
The Bulletin’s Jubilee Number goes on
collecting bouquets—for itself and The
Bulletin. One that landed last week was
flung by “Ireland’s Saturday Night,” the
brightest thing in dour Belfast. It sends
its congratulations to The Bulletin —“One
of the most artistic publications journalistic
enterprise and energy have ever produced.”
“Sheelah”: The Bulletin Prize Novel
Competition has penetrated further than the
Dandenongs (B. 25/6/’3O). The first name
in a Tas. race-programme to catch my optic
was “Coonardoo.” Inspection proved him
a rakish-looking black, but a local authority
informed me he had no recent form to war-
rant the risking of my lingerie, or words to
that effect, so I merely plumped a modest fivq
bob on the tote. It stayed there.
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : Australian press-
men thinking of heading for Fleet-street
might as well know that the Street was never
worse.* The sudden end of the “Daily
Chronicle” has lately put dozens of good
men out of work. Nevertheless, there are
many Australians in good jobs, including
two literary editors in G. C. Dixon of the
“Daily Mail,” and W. J. Turner of the new
“Daily Herald.” Turner’s latest verse, a
satire on the modern woman, called “Miss
America,” is just out. Brian Penton, whose
Gallery Notes once brightened the “5.M.H.,”
is doing work for the “Sunday Express.”
“P.X.” : Sydney “Freeman’s Journal” has
just got into its eighties; it was born in
ISSO, and has never changed its name—
which can’t be said for most of the old in-
habitants on the Australian Inky Way. The
“S. M. Herald”. (1831) was the “Sydney
Herald” in its weekly, bi-weekly and tri-
weekly days. Brisbane “Courier” (1844) was
the “Moreton Bay Courier” to start with.
“The Advertiser” was the “South Australian
Advertiser.” The “S. A. Register” (1836)
—the oldest living paper in Australia except
the “S. M. H'erald” —kept to the original
name until a few months back, when if
became a pictorial. The “Argus” dates
from 1846, the “Age” from 1854.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .* £629,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. . • • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji,’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, YV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ARE YOU A
Mr. MICAWBER?
Waiting for Better Times
won’t make you prosperous.
You’ve got to “go after”
business if you want it.
START NOW!
ADVERTISE
YOUR GOODS
AND SERVICES
IN
ilhelßrisbane(Eouriec
Queensland’s
Leading & Largest
Newspaper,
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
LTD..
Queen-street, Brisbane.
’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative :
Robert D. Fisher, 74 Pitt-street.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative :
L. S. Marks, The Argus Bldg.,
Elizabeth and Latrobe streets.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
d
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep,: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A/OIV-THE WORLD
m
N
- i
A' 5
Hon
vs&l
EWVORK
ovw
t^ov
NOW to the real business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings and plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
■v
i
Cl
v.
Sunny South Seas
Enchanting'Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water—Sandy Beaches—T ropica!
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands Quaint
Native Villages and Customs Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and
ADELAIDE.
Read “,B-I\ Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color.
1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WAEES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ď
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929 £9O 806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAMDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT, foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL:
CAPITAL PAID UP -
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL ------
£12,000,000.
- - £4,739,012 10
- - 4,200,000 0
- - 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (CJwirmanU
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the o*Horn 0 *Horn JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.G.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R.‘ DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and h<e\v Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world:
<ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted,
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
ColllnsStreet, Melbourne : Uriuge Su eat. Sydney.
ck
tsys
o'*
hSt
rt* 1
e*«*
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
te Oceanic SteamshipCoi
MATRON LINE
Dept. Mls, 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
£be
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—-
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1029.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


Still cheaper Sulphate of Ammonia
A reduction of £ljll|6 per ton in the price of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
will take effect as from the Ist July
The new price will be £l2/12/- per ton free
on rails, less 2i% for cash, and at this price
supplies of Sulphate of Ammonia can be obtained,
as usual, from all fertiliser manufacturers or their
agents, or direct from The Australian Gas Light
Company, Haymarket, Sydney; The Broken Hill
Proprietary Company, Newcastle, New South
Wales; The Metropolitan Gas Company, 196
Flinders Street, Melbourne; and The South
Australian Gas Company, Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Sulphate of Ammonia literature, and advice regarding the
use of fertilisers direct from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
360 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
©
10 fj
| I 0 IJ r=^
j r
Were you on time
this morning ?
_ Westclo^"
/
□
L_3
a
= '/I N
Big Ben ' \ '
%
X
Base Model
L\
2
0
& 4.
3
8
1 ah
' Years ago Big Ben set a
new high standard of alarm
clock efficiency. His fame
has spread all over the
world. His name stands
as an emblem of good
timekeeping.
And t-o-day, millions
know that Big Ben can be
relied upon to get them
up on time.
It was Big Ben, too, who set a delightful new style in
alarms... combining attractive up-to-date beauty with
practical utility.
There are many other WESTCLOX ... alarms in nickel
and beautiful colours ... a new model Pocket Ben Watch
and a good-looking Auto Clock.
Prices range from 8/6 to 25/-.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE
If any illustration in ‘THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
wmm
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
BIRKMYRE S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “BIREMYRE’S CLOTH” be-
ing a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each com-
plete in itself.
“BX” “H” "S" and “K”
“L” “OM” “M” and “N”
Any one of these marks will protect your
interests ,
GOUROCK
Ropework
Export Co.
LTD.
379 Keut-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vie.
Cnticura
Ointment
Pure, Soothing and Healing
Soft, smooth skin and a
scalp that is in healthy
condition is assured you
by using this OINT-
MENT, together with
CUTICURA SOAP. Do
not trifle with itching,
burning and scaly skin
affections —eczema and
dandruff —banish them
by applying this effective
emollient regularly!
Soap Is., Oint-
ment Is. and 2s.
Talcum 19. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address:
"It. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N .S.W .”
&
sc*t>"
futi
\> OIK
t
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Condemned,” at Sydney Lyceum, pro-
vides Ronald Colman with the best part of
his talkie career. As Michel, he is sent to
Devil’s Island for a theft which is as excus-
■ible as the housemaid’s baby—it is such a
little one. Compared with the uncouth des-
peradoes he meets on the convict ship he is
a Bayard. Vidal, the warden —a large,
truculent person with a resonant English
voice, disgusting table manners and a beauti-
ful wife —unwisely makes Michel his butler,
and the inevitable happens. Vidal’s well-
founded jealousy ends in Michel being given
solitary confinement on another island. The
new butler, who is chosen for his hideous-
ness, happens to be Michel’s friend Jacques.
So Michel’s escape is arranged with ease,
and after some exciting pursuits, shootings,
drownings and so on the proceedings come to
a fairly satisfactory end.
Colman has an ideal talkie voice—light in
tone but audible whether he shouts or whis-
pers—and he manages to make a likeable
being of the flash young hero-thief. Ann
Harding is meekly lovely as the warden’s
martyred spouse, and Louis Wolheim plays
Jacques, the noble-hearted monster who
smooths the path for true love by drowning
the warden. A splendidly produced show,
with some beautiful and imaginative photo-
graphy.
# * *
Basil Rathbone supplants William Powell
as Philo Vance in “The Bishop Murder
Case.” This healthily sexless series of assas
sinations began its Sydney career at the
Regent before a packed audience. Vance is
called in when the nephew of a white-haired
professor of saintly mien is found dead in
a garden with an arrow in his back. George
Marion —more sinister than usual, with a
large hump—inspires suspicion at first owing
to his habit of skulking in dark places, but
his character is soon cleared. Someone
strangles him, A cadaverous friend of the
professor’s has murderer written all over him,
but he gets bumped off too. So does a young
man whose very inoffensiveness is beginning
to excite unfavorable attention amongst Van
Dine fans. Vance, a police chief, and an
idiotic detective-sergeant examine clorpses
and swap theories with ineffectual industry
until the homicide goes a step too far, by
gagging and binding the heroine and dump-
ing her in a garret.
Rathbone,'whom Sydney has seen in “The
Last of Mrs. Cheyney,” is a more actorish ’tec
than Powell, but that is only to say he is
English. Roland Young gets all the laughs
as the sergeant, and Leila Hyams’s shudders
and whimpers add considerably to the atmo-
sphere of suspense.
* # *
Sydney Haymarket has been contributing
to the boom in British talkies with “Sleep-
ing Partners,” which was originally a Sacha
Guitry farce. It has many bright lines, and
it moves at a brisk gait, but most of the pro-
babilities have been bowdlerised out of it. A
modern wife, who pays a clandestine visit
to- an admirer’s flat after discovering that her
husband is carrying on with a rival, is so
horrified when the admirer kisses her that
she swoons. The lover carelessly gives her
a sleeping-draught in mistake for sal volatile,
and then falls asleep in an armchair, and
remains asleep till next morning. Shortly
after they awake the husband, who has been
out all night with one whom he has menda-
ciously described to his wife as “an Argen-
tine banker,” turns up at the flat to ask the
lover’s advice in the matter of further domes-
tic lying. He is given a dose of the medicine
that overcame his wife, and she is told sig-
nificantly that there is nothing to fear for
another 12 hours. However, she proclaims
that she loves the drugged one in spite of his
infidelities and absurd beard, so nothing
occurs to offend the film censor’s suscepti-
bilities. This is the kind of adaptation that
makes Continentals hoot with scorn. Why,
they ask, play about with sleeping-draughts,
aphrodisiacs and other Palais Royal props,
and then jib at carrying the ideas to their
logical conclusion?
Seymour Hicks is a lively and virile
seducer, though the years threaten to double
both his waistline and chin. Edna Best
plays the Gallic wife as a demure little
English girl, and those fine actors Lyn Hard-
ing and Herbert Waring are the husband and
Emile respectively. This might fairly be
classed as an educational picture; it gives
a series of lessons in the way English should
be spoken.
* * *
A producer with a brain like a falling
piece of paper could not have made a worse
muddle of “The Pavement Butterfly” shown
in Melbourne by Cinema Art Films. Anna
May Wong, the Chinese actress whose visage
is a denial of the legend that all Celestials
look alike and never have any expression,
doe's as well as she can with a story which
oscillates between low life in Limehouse and
high life in Paris. Amongst the numerous
absurdities in the picture, the characters all
keep turning up at the same places without
previous arrangement. This is a convention
which is overlooked in musical comedy, but
is hard to reconcile with a realistic picture.
Miss Wong, who wears an extensive ward-
robe with the ease of a European woman, is
the mistress of an artist, Kusmin, who lias
a habit of drawing on the tops of caf£ tables.
The present critic has seen some terrible art
passed off as work of great genius on the
stage, but Kusmin’s drawings excel in awful-
ness even the paintings of Cavaradossi in
an Italian presentation of “La Tosca.”
However, they appear as great art to a
girl of Kusmin’s own nationality, and she
buys a table. An acquaintanceship develops
into love and th e Chinese mistress is con-
veniently suspected of robbing the artist.
He casts her forth with the usual display
of what passes for virtue on the screen, but
would be classed as mere caddishness off it,
and departs to the Riviera with the new girl
and her mother. Anna duly follows and is
caught robbing a roulette player. When she
explains that she did it in order to return to
Kusmin the money she didn’t steal from him,
that gentleman an air of sentimen-
tal regret, while his ex-paramour walks out
of the picture, whether bound for a suicide’s
grave, a nunnery or merely for her dressing-
room to prepare for another classic of the
screen isn’t stated.


You cannot realise what joy and comfort the keen rigid edge of
a Probak blade can bring to your shaving unless you put a
Probak in your own razor. Test for yourself how it glides like
silk through the stubble on your own chin. Learn by actual
experience how it goes on giving you the same velvety close shave
day after day. Probak blades are guaranteed. They never vary,
for they are made from continuous ribbons of steel, ground, honed,
finished in one unbroken operation. Five blades 1/8, ten blades 3 4.
probak blades fit all three -
prong razors • make
shaving just like
wiping your face
PROBAK
BLADES
Made and Guaranteed by The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng.
Managing Agents for Australia.
PHIPSON & COMPANY; LIMITED, 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW
18
FOR
FIVE
■~x
h
\
>
V
*
o
.^fslG'LANp
JBT
“ De WITT’S ” WILL NEVER FAIL YOU
—they show their effect within 24 hours. Persevere and your
cure is certain. De Witts Kidney and Bladder Pills are never
sold loosely. Ask clearly and distinctly for De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. This remedy, sold by the millions of bottles, is
guaranteed to prove effective in all cases of
Pains in the Back Aching Limbs Sallow Complexion
Bad Taste in Mouth
Rheumatism
Rings under Eyes
Sciatica
Lumbago
r •* , - i \ y -
Loss of Vigour
Bad Nights
Pains in Joints
Urinary Trouble
/
V
j
k \
lV
EVERY SUFFERER
FROM
MUST READ THIS
Every sufferer from the dread-
ful pains of rheumatism, chronic
backache or sciatica will surely
read this extraordinary letter
written by Mr. Bickley, who is 70
years of age, and who ended five
years of suffering in a very simple
way that everyone can test.
Mr. Bickley, of Hall’s Creek,
North West Australia, Drover,
Farmer and Prospector, writes :
“ I have been very bad for five years
with rheumatics in my arm and shoulders
that I could not work, and I have tried
everything to cure me, but all failed.
I was advised by a friend of mine to try
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
and eventually he bought them for me.
I said to him ‘ Oh, it may be like every-
thing else I have tried.’ I took them,
and to my surprise I can go about and
work in all weathers, and I do all kinds
of work. lam 70 years old and I always
keep a bottle of Pills at hand.
I am now quite free from rheumatism,
thanks to De Witt’s Pills.
I am a man known nearly all over
Australia and you are at liberty to make
what use of this you please, as it is the
genuine truth, no advertising. I tell all
my friends about your wonderful Pills,
as they are a boon to sufferers. ”
There is a message of hope,
ringing with truth, written by a
man who knows what rheumatic
torture is. Why not follow Mr.
Bickley’s example and get a sup-
ply of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills ? The only possible
means of ridding the body of the
pain-giving poisons which are
ruining your health, making you
look and feel too old, is to prompt
the kidneys to purify the blood—
that is their all-important work.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills cost but 3/6 (or larger, more
economical size 6/6). per. bottle. In 24
hours from the first dose you will see
from colour of urine they have started
their health-action. You can end your
pain and build up splendid health, vigour
and vitality if you will only give this
guaranteed remedy a fair trial. Per-
severe and you will be glad to find Mr.
Bickley’s experience your own —pain
and suffering gone for good.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are
no mere purgative or heart-exciting
drug. They are a medicine which
regulates the urinary system
and cleanses and heals the
kidneys, gently helping
them to filter off poisons from which
backache, rheumatism, pains and weak-
ness in limbs and joints arise. They
cannot possibly harm the weakest and
can be taken by women at all times.
After even a few days with De Witt’s
Pills you find yourself
able to enjoy life
once again.
The
Remedy
with a
Guarantee
<s
f'-
De WITT’S PILLS


LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
LEFEVER NITBO SPECIAL
PRICE
£7/15f
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price.
The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
say it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77,000
times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years.
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
“WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
wb-
THE GUN PEOPLE.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
đ
/
. aeste*’
t t a* ®
-***•* ttvA re *«a s * w !W e
\t» tV \ ,^ e v pr es4 °
V
*ct>®\ vtV& tliT er»>
ti°f\ e r- „ }lanu! act
t'iSS- VJ< §GVf‘ lit>
Will fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
the a
RENRUTA
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 55/-
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative?
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With the Australian Hurdle set down for
decision on Saturday, the racing at Moonee
Valley (Vic.) was uncommonly interesting.
Several candidates for the event in question
were saddled up for the Gellibrand Hurdle;
but Satyrus (5 to 1) and Sutton Grange
(25 to 1), who dead-heated for first, are
not engaged at Caulfield. Satyrus was un-
placed when Rossgple, from Sydney, scored
on the previous Saturday. Stewards investi-
gated his running, and accepted the explana-
tion tendered by P. K. Padfield, trainer, and
others associated with the Demosthenes geld-
ing. Padfield won the Jumpers’ Flat later
in the afternoon with Swahilli (6 to 1),
who lowered the lf-mile course record from
3min. HQsec. to 3min. fifsec. Swahilli
should win the Australian Hurdle if he stands
up. He fell in the G. N. Hurdle, but h.s
trainer maintains that no rival can outjump
him at Caulfield. Despite his list. 121 b.,
Mosstrooper has been first fancy for the
race. Twelve months ago he took the Aus-
tralian Hurdle and Australian Steeple, but
it is asking a terrible lot of the chestnut to
do it again on top of his Flemington suc-
cesses.
Charles Quinn landed the First Steeple-
chase at the A..J.C. Autumn meeting with
Adit, who came to grief and was injured in
the Second. Steeplechase, won by Namera.
At Moonee Valley this son of lownit regis-
tered-such a meritorious victory in the, Lind-
say Gordon Steeplechase, for which he was
favorite at 7 to 2, that lie must be hard to
beat at Caulfield on August 9 in what used
to be known as the “four-miler.” Ebony
Prince, from the same stable as Swahilli and
in the same ownership, opened favorite for
the Valley contest; ultimately Adit was in a
point better demand than Ebony Prince and
Kaituna. Quinn binds himself to no jockey.
This time he gave the mount to Winks,
who now is located in Adelaide, but originally
was associated with the Mordialloe establish-
ment of J. Holt. Giving Adit plenty of
time to find his legs, Winks took charge half
a mile from home and won handsomely from
Kaituna, with Mowgli third. Bombard-
ment, an Australian Hurdle aspirant, was
rather a disappointment, but came home in
advance of Ebony Prince, whose jumping left
much to be desired.
Immediately after the steeplechase Winks
weighed out for Spang (5 to 1) in the middle-
distance' Glen Orla Handicap. Favoritism
was entrusted to Waicullus, who deposed
Bessemer. At no stage did Bessemer look
dangerous, but Waicullus, with a decent pas-
sage, would have been much nearer than
fourth. Spang crossed the line a neck in
advance of Grapepicker, with Amanthus a
creditable third. There was a distinct
Adelaide flavor about the racing. Spang, like
Adit, . hails from South Aus., as also does
Bang Bang, runner-up to Swahilli in the
Jumpei*s’ Flat. Bang Bang is seeking Aus-
tralian Steeple honors, and has no mean
prospect of success.
Adit was the only first favorite that came
to light at the Valley. However, the soli-
tary winner at a double-figure quote was
Lady Backbite in the Derrimut Handicap,
and McShortodds did not repeat the haul
made at Caulfield a week before. There is
woe in the ranks of odds-mercliants because
of the imminence of totalisator opposition
in Victoria. Clubs are busy selecting types
of machine which they will severally use and
fixing sites for tote buildings. Mentone wants
to pioneer the new form of betting in Mel-
bourne at its September meeting, but has
been held up by official delay in drafting
regulations. Lessening of the number of
bookmakers is anticipated; many have had
difficulty in carrying on.
Both first and last races at the Valley
resulted in a dead-heat for first place, and
the rules now forbid a run-off. The judge
could not separate Bunker Hill (6 to 1) and
Gracwin (4 to 1) in the Sunset Welter.
Gracwin is owned by the elder son of the
late Walter Hiekenbotliam, who trained Car-
bine ; Bunker Hill belongs to Dick Bradfield,
trainer of numerous Melbourne Cup winners.
jjs s}* He
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Australian Hurdle: Swahilli; next, Ross-
gole.
Malakoff Stakes: El Rey; next, Lord
Essex.
* * * *
Bad weather pursues the Canterbury Park
club ; another Saturday meeting has been post-
poned till Thursday. In the first division of the
Maiden Handicap, Williams may have a win
with Tinwald, and Walker holds a. strong
hand in the Canterbury Handicap with Glas-
gow and Zeeland. The better of the pair
should encounter most trouble from Eden
Hall, who likes the course. Leisure Hour
looks attractive in the first division of the
Highweight Handicap and Prince Verderer
in the second division; and Gleaner, if
started in the Campsie Handicap, should run
a good race. His most dangerous opponent
is likely to be King William, who is looking
very bright again.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Denham Court Handicap: Casque d’Or;
next, Luita.
Farm Stakes: Gareon Blue; next, Blue-
dale.
August Handicap: Dark Isle; next, Vertoy.
Edensor Handicap: Black Douglas; next,
Roley.
GETTING ’EM VP.
BOTTOM OF THE PACK (to referee, whose whistle is faint): “Sing the National
Anthem, quick!”
For Moorefield on Monday:—
Manager’s Stakes: Miss Vara; next, Our
Liz,
Commercial Stakes: Black Douglas; next,
Tetrawa.
Bank Holiday Handicap: Spearshot;
next, Promara.
Staff Welter: Beau Dennis; next, Black
Dina.
* * * *
“Bob” Baillie, who died suddenly in
Sydney last week, was one of the most uncon-
ventional of trainers and a good deal of a
“character” personally to 1 boot. He did
not belive in coddling his charges, and was
the first of Sydney trainers to • leave his
horses in the yards in all weathers, though
he saw to it they were fittingly rugged. He
was very successful notwithstanding, and
many of his contemporaries who began by
scoffing at his methods ended by imitating
them. Among the good ones he owned was
Don Moon, when the gelding won the 1927
Doncaster, while King of the Forest won
two Summer Cups for him. Perhaps his
best coup was the purchase of David for
40 guineas, and, after winning many races
with him, selling the Baverstock horse for
four thousand.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Owing to the misguided enthusiasm of a
section of the Sydney press, Mr. John
Shields, a country-show pug, was given a
Stadium match with .Jack Haines, Aus-
tralia's* middleweight champion. In spite
of the fact that one of his press mentors
had advised him specially as to Haines’s
methods, the tent trouper failed to rise to
the occasion. H'aines, who has a punch to
stagger a hippopotamus, belted the lad from
the wide open spaces so viciously in the
first round that he had to appeal to the
third man to save his already beaten oppo-
nent further slaughter. The appeal being in
vain, Haines continued with the second
course of treatment —so convincingly that the
referee’s doubts were set at rest and the
verdict awarded to the champion.
* * * *
The reappearance of the one-time attrac-
tive Billy Edwards opposed to Dr. Sarpolis
was responsible for the best crowd and the
worst show of the year at Melbourne. Palp-
ably overmatched, the ageing William cut
a sorry figure, and had to resort to all his
old circus tricks to be in the party.
an unedifying display, Billy was disqualified
in the fifth round.
The Fifteen
At the end of the second day’s play the
chances of Australia in the fourth Test at
Manchester looked distinctly rosy, with 345
on the board and 5 of the best English bats
out for 221. Most reassuring was the failure
of the boomed new English bowlers,
Peebles and Goddard, the former taking only
3 for 150, and being soundly punished on a
wicket hostile to the batsmen by the Aus-
tralian tail. Peebles has been acclaimed by
the hysteria press for dismissing Bradman at
14, but that Tate got him for 8 and 1 in
the first and second Tests has been over-
looked.
Batting on a soft and easy pitch, Wood-
full and Ponsford opened finely, if slowly,
the Australian skipper going at 106 for a
sterling 54. With a drying wind the wicket
gradually developed trickiness, and though
Ponsford played one of the best shots of his
career for 83—easily worth a century, con-
sidering the sodden outfield —Bradman, Mc-
Cabe, Richardson and Oldfield went for a
trifling total, 5 wickets falling for 190.
Kippax, though batting streakily, provided an
invaluable 51, and then a great stand by
Fairfax (49) and Grlmmett (50) changed
the complexion of things. Hammond had the
best English bowling average with 2 for 24.
England also started well on a pitch in-
clined to kick in spots, and 108 was up before
Wall got Hobbs caught by Oldfield for 31.
Sutcliffe was in his best form and was un-
lucky to be caught by Bradman off Wall at
deep square leg when 74—the shot would
have been a sixer nine times out of ten.
Wall, now bowling like a demon, skittled
Hammond and then Duleepsinhji and key-
land got together,. The Indian batted delight-
fully for 54, when Hornibrook took him in
the slips off McCabe. Chapman went to
Hornibrook for a single, and Leylaud (34)
and Tate (5) were the not-outs at stumps.
Wall’s performance was invaluable, his
average reading 3 for 61. Hornibrook also
bowled in fine form, though he took only one
wicket for 41. Fairfax was little used, evi-
dently held in reserve.
(Continued on page 36)
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Vic. League games emphasised
the point that has been sticking out for a
month—that there are only two teams with
a chance for this season’s pennant, Carlton
and Collingwood. Carlton’s win over Fitz-
roy was by no means convincing—76 points
to 69. The losers had the better of the play
throughout, but failed when the pressure was
applied in the closing stages. Collingwood's
game against North Melbourne, resolved itself
into a black-and-white procession from centre
to goal, and the tiredest man on the ground
was probably the scorer. Collingwood scored
121 points to North’s 39. Melbourne kept its
position by outing St. Kilda wi’ deeficulty,
only a strenuous last-quarter effort snatch-
ing the lead from the Seasiders-—Melb., 82
points; St. K., 65. Richmond and Essendon,
battling for fourth place, both crashed, the
former finding South Melbourne too fast and
clever—South, 77 points ; Richmond, 7l —
and the speedy Essendonians being outpaced
and outpointed by Geelong, going down by
92 to 63. Hawthorn and Footscray pro-
vided their barrackers with a bodyful. as
distinguished from a soulful, scuffle. that
ended in Hawthorn winning by 3 points—
-76 to 73. Players and barrackers will now
adjourn for a fortnight while the Adelaide
carnival proceeds to its ultimate issue and
the Carlton and Richmond teams visit Bris-
bane and Sydney to show the natives the
finer points of the game.
* :!: * *
The All Blacks won the third Test against
Britain at Auckland by 15 to 10—3 tries, one
converted, and a field goal by Mark Nicholls
to two converted tries. The home side played
great football in all departments, and won on
their merits. Spong, the crack English half,
just back in the team after injuries, was
again hurt, but finished the game after a
magnificent display. The fourth and final
Test at Wellington on August 9 will give the
tourists a chance of drawing- even, at least,
they having won one Test to M.L.’s two. -
* :l: * *
The Rugby Union competitions in Sydney
saw Randwick, leaders for the Schute Shield,
well beaten by Glebe-Balmain at the Cricket
Ground. It was the old story of a much
superior forward division overwhelming a
side relying on flying backs. The winners
scored 4 tries, 3 being converted, and a
penalty goal, all from Cant’s boot, to a
converted try by Carlton, or 21 points to 5.
There was a capital crowd in spite of the
weather. On its own Oval Manly won 16-13
from University after a fast and attractive
game. Western Suburbs had an easy time
with Eastern Suburbs at Uni. Oval, coming
out ahead by 20 points to 3. At Hurstville
Northern Suburbs just scratched home from
St. George by 6 to 5.
:J i Sj:
Balmain provided the surprise of the
Sydney Rugby League fixtures on Saturday
by downing the much-fancied Eastern
Suburbs by 22-15, or 4 tries and 5 goals-—-
4 of these kicked by Bishop—to 15, made up
of 3 tries and 3 goals. Balmain forwards, led
by Kangaroo Bishop, held the upper hand
throughout, and were well suited by playing
conditions in the mud. South Sydney had a
colorless victory over University on a fear-
ful quagmire at Wentworth Park, scoring
17-8, while North Sydney, at home to West-
ern Suburbs, scared the life out of the
premiership leaders, who just scraped home
by 3 to nil. St. George drew 8-8 with New-
town at Earl Park in another mud-bath.
* * * *
The Maoriland League footballers in
Queensland were well towelled in their
second match with Queensland in Brisbane,
the home side scoring, 32 to 6 (8 tries, 4
goals to 3 penalty goals). The visitors
never had a look in against their clever and
speedy opponents, though they battled
valiantly enough against the heavy odds.
(Continued on page 30)
France retained the Davis Cup at Autenil
by winning two of the singles matches ami
the doubles. On the opening day, honors
were easy, Tilden downing Borotra by three
sets to one, while Coehet obliterated Lott. In
the doubles, Coehet and Brugnon came out
ahead of Allison and Van Ryn by three sets
to one, and America needed both the remain-
ing singles to win, Lott made a valiant
effort, forcing Borotra to five sets before the
Frenchman secured the verdict with an 8-6
score. France has now won the pot four
times in succession.
BAT AND BALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
With centuries as thick as flies
In Dago steak-and-oyster shops,
\\ e cricket fans might well revise
What once were well-established props.
1 rank him high the score who tops
With runs that none may stay or stem,
But even higher him who stops
The other fellows making ’em.
The scoring-boards that meet the eyes
To-day can scarcely hold the crops
Of figures that epitomise
The batsmen's skill at drives and chops,
At steering cuts and pulling hops.
Their runs you count their diadem.
I’d crown him twice as quick who stops
The other fellows making ’em.
Each year the bat the ball defies;
The trundling’s scorned as “tripe” or
“slops” ;
The tallies swell to vaster size;
The hoped-for demons turn to flops.
And up, each year, some youngster pops
Hundreds to hit with stolid phlegm—
But oh ! how rare is he who stops
The other fellows making ’em.
'Tis glorious mammoth scores to cop,
And ev'ry one acclaimed a gem.
I'd hold him dearer, though, who’d stop
The other fellows making ’em.
n;s.w.
IFORD.


BERT: a \ SEE A WOV\AN YMON
THE KINGiE) PRIZE AT
Easley. ll
Gert : "Good shooting, ! “
hit ten e>uuJs>-e.YE=>
AT A THOUSAND YARDS
RAKQE
Gert *. “ Poor Beasts *. I th\nk the
S. R c.a. Shoulo make
them use targets ?'
for another tliree-figure score (140 against
the West of Scotland) by Bradman. A
third game against Durham, a second-class
county, was abandoned, because of bad
weather. However, the rest was very wel-
come, coming as it did before the crucial
trial at Manchester.
• * H! * *
“Olf-leg”: Don Bradman has been smash-
ing so many records that a minor perform-
ance has passed unnoticed. Up to the fourth
Test he has made more double centuries than
any other Australian batsman in England.
Warren Bardsley previously held the fort
with three, two in 1909 and the other in
1921. Armstrong, Murdoch. Noble and
Woodfull have each made two, Armstrong’s
double being- scored in the one season. The
Bowra'l batsman had put up his tally when
the season’s programme was just past half-
way.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“Aigburtli”: Hardly had the atmosphere of
abuse and recrimination following on the
third Test died down when a fresh agita-
tion was stirred up, and all hands have been
at it again, hammer and tongs. The cause
of the trouble was the publication of a book
by two eallow youths who visited this,
country for a couple of weeks last year
with a third-rate Marylebone team, en
route for M.L. These young persons, Turn-
bull and Allom, disapprove of Australia
generally and of Australian umpires in par-
ticular,’ It appears the ruffians gave the
visitors out at every opportunity, and once
even declared the light unfit for play when
the sun was shining! Sydney, at least, will
delight in Turnbull’s reference to the Mel-
bourne O. G. dressing-room as “dungeon-
like.” ‘
* * :i= *
“Shrewsbury”: In spite of the inhibitions
contained in the Board of Control agree-
ment, the Australians have found loopholes
through which much good money is trickling
into their pockets. The latest manna fell
from the cheque-book of a firm of cigarette-
makers, who handed each player a hundred
of the best for the exclusive right to his
autograph, this to be reproduced on the cards
which go so far to improve the value of a
packet of fags. Collectors of a sufficient
number of these cards will be able to get a
genuine autographed photo of the hero, so. I
can see a multitude of British youth acquir-
ing the gasper habit.
i\i ❖ ❖ ❖
“Tenth Slip”: There is interest in the
publication in an English paper of the
alleged decision of Ponsford and Woodfull
to retire from cricket after the present
season. The wish must have been father to
the thought, for both parties referred to
have denied any intention of giving the
game best, or of having said they would do
so. The communique then, must have been
in the nature of a gentle hint, though it’s
a mystery why the system wasn’t tried on
Bradman.
* * *
“Hill Addict”: I note that the M.C.C.
has presented Duckworth with a silver-
mounted cricket ball used in the third Test
because he permitted only 6 byes in the long
Australian innings of 729. I and my fellow
frequenters of the Sydney C. G. hill were
imbued with the same idea, but not for the
same reason, when the vociferous little
Lancastrian was yelping his way to fame
with Chapman’s side. Nothing came of it,
opinions being divided as to whether we
should present him with a voucher for a
free laryngeal operation or a specially-devised
silencer.
* * * *
“Hamer” : Entlioven and Price, in a Middle-
sex v s Essex match, added 107 runs for the
last wicket, Enthoven, who played for strike,
making 102 of them, while two came from
sundries. This sort of performance, which
requires skill and is the most entertaining form
of cricket, seems to be Enthoven’s specialty.
Playing for Cambridge against the Aus-
tralians in 1926 he was 48 when the last
man came in; he added 45 out of a total of
50 for the last wicket.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Hurwood’s failure . to get
going with the ball in England has its Aus-
tralian parallel. When the South Africans
came over in 1911-12 the side included A. E.
Yogler, acclaimed by English and South
African critics as. the greatest googlie expert
yet seen. He had been very successful in
his own country and England, but here
could do nothing right. He was dropped
from three of the five Tests after drawing
a blank in the opening match in Sydney.
Racquet and Brawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Byron’s heroine who
consented after swearing she wouldn’t wasn’t
a circumstance to Bill Tilden. Every sea-
son, when the challenge round of the Davis
Cup approaches Bill comes out with the
announcement that he will not play with
America. In due course he figures in the
team, after much urging and blandishment.
Added humor attaches to the situation, for
Bill, whenever he “retires,” signs up with
Footbrawl
“Ilotham”: By way of combating pro-
fessionalism, it has been proposed in Vic-
toria that a conference of municipali-
ties be called to consider the taking
over by the councils of all the football
grounds. This would wipe out professional-
ism, the kidnapping of town and country
players, and put the game on an amateur
basis. The money taken at the gates would
then go to improving the sports grounds
and providing others. The support of the
Victorian Association and the Amateur Asso-
ciation has been promised, and with their
help the League could be overcome.
* * * *
“Fernie”: liugby was never a very lady-
like game, and Maorilanders, as the world
knows, play it hard. Exactly how hard is
a matter of conjecture, but the president of
the M.L. Rugby Union, Dr. J. G. Adams,
who has been touring the Shivery Isles with
the British team, has given testimony that
in a match at Timaru one of the visiting
forwards received a “certain grave injury,”
and another came oft the field bearing on
his body “two sets of teeth-marks.” Further-
more the local referee, according to Adams,
refused to see no fewer than five fair
“marks” (not teeth marks) taken by the
British, with the result that the players
who scored these points were knocked down
with great brutality. To cap it all, the
local newspapers accused the British team of
unsp rtsmanlike conduct!
* * * .
“Basin Reserve”: Maoriland’s obsession
with Rugby Union football is seen in the
manner the reserved seats for the final Test
against Britain at Wellington have been
snapped up at a pound a time. It is evi-
dently going to be a harvest for some canny
speculator, for the best of these seats have
been selling like hot cakes at £3 and £2
apiece, with 30s. offered and taken for the
inferior variety. How the Australian foot-
ball follower would yelp if asked a pound
for a Test-match ticket! Yet prices as
high are common in other countries. Our
admission prices to football and cricket are
the lowest in the world.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Avon” : A crisp comment op the Rugby
fever raging in Maoriland is a notice posted
on the walls of offices, warehouses and fac-
tories : “All requests for leave of absence
on account of sudden illness, weddings,
funerals, etc., must bo handed in the day
before the game.”
* sS * *
“Fitzcray”: The Rugby Union game is
getting more space in the .Melbourne papers,
which can be taken as an encouraging sign
of growing popularity. There has been
disappointment at the cutting out of the
match against England, but two Victorian
reps., Sturtridge, who gained an Australian
cap against the All Blacks last year, and
Cowper, have been invited to play in the
Rest of Australia side against the Waratahs.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“Cash Amateur”: The Leeds Northern
Union club, which has for years carried on
a brisk trade in the importation of Aus-
tralian professionals, lias made another
purchase. This time it is Busch, the
N.S.W. and Kangaroo scrum-lnalf. He gets a
thousand down, £7 for a win, £6 for a
draw and a fiver for a lost match, in addi-
tion to a job at £2 10s. a week. To do the
young man justice, he doesn’t like the idea,
but as he has been out of work for some
time the chance is too good to miss. Pro-
fessional football in the North of England is
no bed of roses, and Australian importations
are apt to be unpopular with the local gladi-
ators.
jjc * ❖ ❖
“Comrade”: North Queensland has sup-
plied another football precedent (B.
23/7/’3O). Because two men chosen to repre-
sent Innisfail against Townsville were volun-
teer wharfies, the local Trades Hall hopped
in with' the threat that unless the outcasts
were dropped it would “so organise both
spectators and players that it will not be
hard in future for any sporting body to
realise that volunteers are worth less than
unionists.” The match was cancelled.
Solidarity for Ever!
% ❖ ❖
“Inverleitli” : The late Conan Doyle was
an athlete of some distinction. At one time
he played cricket regularly for the Surrey
second eleven, with occasional games in the
county side. His favorite game, however,
was Rugby football, and he came near get-
ting a Scottish cap as a forward while he
was at Edinburgh University. More than
one of his books contain references to the
game, notably “The Stark Munro Letters”
and “The House of Girdlestone,” the latter
containing a spirited account of a Scottish-
English international at Inverleith in the'
1870’s.
The Fifteen
Prior to the fourth Test, the Australians
filled in time with two matches against
Scottish teams, both of which were drawn
through rain, and were chiefly remarkable
newspapers to write tennis stuff for them.
This is professionalism in a player accord-
ing to Yankee rules, but the American
authorities always turn a blind eye to the
fact when the much-wanted William returns
to the fold.
sfc * sjs %
“Top Spin” : A tennis ranking list compiled
by Tilden for the season just passing is of
interest to Australian jilayers because of
the inclusion of Hopman and Moon in ninth
and tenth places. Crawford is placed twelfth,
rather a flop for the in-and-out Jack. Not
many Australians will agree with the ranking
of liopman ahead of Moon on general fornq
but the youngster seems to have been play-
ing the best tennis of the Australian bunch
in Europe. Among the women, Helen
Wills-Moody comes first on the list, of
course, with the German Fraulein Aussem
second.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The Australian tennis heads
are noted for their canniness in the matter
of cash. The Davis Cup team was to return
to Australia as soon as Wimbledon was
over, but, Germany having hung out a good
expenses bait, permission has been given our
men to do what they like “as long as it
does not cost the L.T.A. of Australia any-
thing.” What will happen if the gates are
crook and the troupe gets stranded is not
clear. Possibly they will have to swim home.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Finding that none of its
players jumped at the invitation to play
tennis against Queensland in Brisbane at
their expense, the N.S.W. Association
has grudgingly consented to go halves in the
expenses, Queensland shouldering the other
half, and each side cutting the profits—if
any—so-50. The moderation of the Ma
State body will come as a surprise to its
acquaintances.
❖ ❖ * *
“Cut Shot”: The Australian and M.L.
tennis authorities are still parting brass rags
over the proposed South African visit. The
original idea was that the two should finance
the trip of the Afrikanders, but there was
a clash when the question of dates came
up. M.L. wants the team in the Shivery
Isles at the same time as Australia desires
it. The Pig Islanders have a pull in that
they first issued the invitation, and the men
from the Cape will have to go there first.
Whether they will be released for any
matches in Australia now depends on how
much M.L. will concede.
$ $ * $
“Top Spin”: Helen Wills Moody isn’t
called “Pokerface” for nothing. After Wim-
bledon she acidly demanded to know what
had become of her cup, which, though she
had won it several times, she had never
seen. It was explained in hushed tones
that the cup was never handed over to the
winner, but that her name was engraved on
it before it was stowed away in its safe
for another year. By all accounts the
explanation didn’t cut much ice with the
lady.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Huon” : The Tasmanian professional golf
championship was won last week by L. R.
McManus, of the Royal Hobart, from
J. Robertson, of Kingston Beach, by the
comfortable margin of 4 and 3. The winner
hails from Sydney and went to Hobart a
couple of years ago. He learned the game
at Rose Bay, where he was apprenticed to
Carnegie Clark, and was considered one of
the most promising of the younger genera-
tion of golfers.
* % * *
“Glenelg”: South Australian golferettes
are getting in early with their championship
publicity. The ball will open with the
country championship on September 11 on
the Kooyonga course, and will be followed by
the conflict for the State title, the final fall-
ing due on September 19. There will also
be handicaps with valuable trophies for the
pot-huntresses, and the whole show will take
place under the approving eye of Lady H'ore-
Ruthven, who is patron of the Ladies' Golf
Union —no mere women play golf in South
Australia.
* * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Many golfers have con-
signed bunkers to the bottomless pit, but
few have visualised their being sent to the
laundry periodically. This happens, how-
ever, on the Royal Bombay club’s course.
For some reason or other the bunkering
there is not done by digging holes or raising
mounds, hut by stretching canvas screens
across the fairways and about the greens.
When these get too dirty to be clearly seen
from the tee, they are sent to the dhohie to
be laundered. The things are about 18 inches
high, and by all accounts are more difficult
to negotiate safely than the ordinary pit or
mound bunkers.
* * * *
“Cranoustie”: America having definitely
adopted the larger and lighter golf ball, it
remains to be seen whether the rest of the
golfine world will fall into line. The chief
objection hitherto has come from the noble,
army of mugs, who have taken 'fright"at the
idea that it has been designed to make the
game harder. It certainly will be harder to
control in a wind, on account of its larger size
and lightness, than the present pill, but it
has advantages, even for the dud player. It
will be easier to hit through the green, for
one thing, and as- it is less lively than the
ball in use should be easier to stop in
pitching up to the green. '
* * * =l>
. “Hoylake”: Golf-course architects arc in
a quandary to-day as to ways and means oi:
making links longer. The tremendous
length from the tee and through the green
which has resulted from the evolution of
the modern golf ball makes something of the
sort imperative, unless the American idea
of a larger and lighter ball with less “carry”
is generally adopted. Few golf courses, even
in Australia, have enough land adjacent for
purposes of extension, apart from the ques-
tion. of additional cost, and there is a limit
to the most ingenious faking of holes.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : Very interesting is the
return of Fred Popplewell to the Royal
Sydney at Rose Bay, where he first set up
in the golfing business as an assistant pro-
fessional in 1905. From there he went
to Newcastle, and thence to Kensington,
■where he has been for over 20 years.
A player of high class and attractive per-
sonality, Fred has been prominent in big golf,
winning the Australian open championship
in 1925 and 1928, and the N.S.W. pro-
fessional title in 1923, the year of its insti-
tution.
* * * *
“Sarah Slicem”: The British Ladies’ Golf
Union has been at hair-pulling point over the
question of sending associate teams abroad to
compete in international and inter-Dominion
matches. Opinion is pretty evenly divided,
one side arguing that if the men can travel
round for Walker and Ryder Cup fixtures,
.what is sauce for the gander should be
O.K. for the goose. Another section takes
up the attitude that international tours open
the door to professionalism. That argument
probably originated in the Scottish section
of the union, the Land o’ Cakes being
notoriously opposed to tours of the kind,
taking, as they do, much good money out of
the country.
* * * *
“Hoylake” : An interesting aftermath _of
the war is the Sunningdale G.C.’s restoration
of one of its old captains to the list from
which his name was erased in 1914. The skip
was Prince Albert, of Schleswig-Holstein,
keeper of Windsor Forest, who returned to
his native Germany when hostilities broke out.
An old Charterhouse boy, he did not take
part in active hostilities against the British,
but devoted his time in Germany to Red
Cross work and the interests of British
prisoners of war. His name has now been
restored, not only to the Sunningdale roll,
but to that of his old school, from which it
was also removed.
Car and Cycle
“Wliizz” : The first of the two Irish Grand
Prix road races for motor-cars, run over a
circuit totalling 500 miles, was a spin
for cars below 1500-c.c. capacity. Victor
Gillow. in an English Riley, finished first
averaging 72.2 m.p.h. Waite, the Australian
driver who won the first Phillip Island
(Vic.) Grand Prix a couple of years ago,
was fifth. The big senior event was taken
by the Italian Caracciola, driving a big
German Mercedes. He averaged 85.88 m.p.h.
The same man and the same car won the
Ulster Tourist Trophy last year.
* * * *
“Salford” : The second international speed
test between English and Australian teams
of dirt-track motor-ey»clists drew 50,000
people to Bellevue Gardens in Manchester to
se e the English team victorious by 56 points
to 39. The teams were eight a side and there
were 16 heats. The Queensland riders,
Grosskreutz and Huxley, won four and two
heats respectively, Lament and Arthur each
collecting one. Burton, of the English team,
did the fastest lap, 32 3-ssec. The result
leaves the two sides level with one win
each, and the decider should draw a record
gate.
jj: * * *
“Gear Drive”: The recent international
motor-cycle race in England was not the
fii’st of its kind (B. 9/7/’3O). In 1912 the
then champion of Britain, G. R. Collier, met
J. De Rosier, of the United States in a
challenge international fixture at Brooklands.
Three heats were run, and the American, rid-
ing an Indian, won the third and only deci-
sive one, the first two being duffed for one
reason or another. There have been one or
two other contests of the kind, but all
between two individual riders. The match
won by the Australians was certainly the
first international teams race ever staged.
* * * *
“Kick Starter” : World’s records for motor-
cycles pop up with such frequency that they
give those exposed to this sort of thing a
headache. The very latest has been put up
by an English specialist in small-powered
motor-cycles, Alec Denly, who already holds


BALANCE SHEET of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
At 30th JUNE, 1930.
(Including London Office at 17th May, 1980; Dam-in (North Australia) at 31st May. 1930: New Zealand, Currie, Cairns, Cloncurry, Home Hill, Ingham, Mochay, Julia Creek
and Townsville Branches at 16th June, 1930.)
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
211,735 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per
share .. .. £2,117,350 0 0
3,694,182 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per
share 1,847,091 0 0
7,959 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 7s. 6d. per
share .. .. .. .. .. .. 2,984 12 6
288,731 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to ss. per
share .. 72,182 15 0
9,128 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 2s. 6d. per
share .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,141 0 0
4,211,735
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss Account
£4,040,749 7 6
.£2,160,000 0
. 273,051 18
£6,473,801 5
230,137 15
5
Notes in Circulation
Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including Reserves for Contingencies 1,634,023
Government Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest.. .. .. .. .. £131,835 1 3
Bearing Interest .. .. .. .. .. 225,831 6 3
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest.. .. .. .. .. 8,091,677 14 4
Bearing Interest .. .. .. .. ..13,715,891 7 1
-22,165,235 8 11
1,654 5 8
541,812 7 11
Balances due to other Banks
Contingent Liabilities, as per Contra
£31,046,664 8 7
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes and Cash at Bankers. .£2,944,910 12 4
Money at Call and Short Notice in London . . .. 1,517,500 0 0
Short-dated Commonwealth Treasury Bills . . . . 1,300,000 0 0
Government, Municipal and other Public Stocks and
Funds, and other Debentures .. . . . . 762,636 15 1
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remit-
tances and Drafts in transit . . . . .. 2,022,560 13 10
Notes and Bills of other Banks .. .. .. 113,209 210
Balances due from other Banks . . .. .. 95,076 14 7
Stamps . . . . .. .. . . .. . . 16,533 11 9
Bills Discounted and other Advances exclusive of provision for Bad
£8,772,427 10 5
or Doubtful Debts
Real estate, consisting of —
Bank Premises ..
Liabilities of Customers and others in respect of Contingent Liabilities
as per Contra
. .20,677,514 10 3
1,054,910 0 0
541,812 7 11
t
£31,046,664 8 7
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Salaries and Allowances —Head Office, and 636 Branches and
Agencies .. .. . . .. ....
Rent and other Charges ..
Net Profit for the year ~
Reserve Fund
Reduce Bank Premises
Interim Dividend at 4 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares
paid February, 1930
Interim Dividend at 15 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares
paid February, 1930
Balance
£484.031 0 6
By Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Current; paying Income, Land and other
Taxes, and providing for Bad and Doubtful Debts, and other
contingencies
Balance from last year
Net Profit for the year
.£1,157,783 18 11
£1,157,783 18 13
. £94,190 0 5
, 389,841 0 1
£484,031 0 B
£273,051 18 1
By Balance
I, CHARLES HERBERT TRANTER, General Manager of the Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund and
accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Statement and Balance-sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
And I make this solemfi declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons
making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 19th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and thirty.
Before me—G. A. MALLOCH, C. H. TRANTER.
A Commissioner foi' taking Declarations and Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1915."
a sheaf of records in this class. Riding an
1J S 500-e.c. machine he was clocked over
the 'flying mile at 119.76 m.p.li. This super-
sedes ‘ Le Vack’s 118.93 m.p.h. done on a
machine of nearly twice the power.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The German rider Henne
having put up a world’s record for motor-
cycles, 134 m.p.h., on a German machine,
English makers are after his scalp. One
firm is busy now on a 1000-c.c. machine
with a V twin-cylinder overhead-valve engine,
which is expected to knock spots off the new
figures. The engine capacity is something
of a departure for British makers, most of
whom like to keep below the four-figure
mark, though both American and French
firms have turned out machines of greater
capacity. Incidentally, since Henne’s feat
an American rider is credited with having
done 142 m.p.h., so the new British design
will have to be equal to all that is asked
of it.
“Na Pooh”: We Australian cyclists are
getting on very nicely with our French
since Hubert Opperman and his pals returned
from Europe, and some of us can almost
emulate the feats of the A.I.F. in that direc-
tion. The very latest addition to the big
road racing season approaching is the “Tour
de Tasmania,” which lias a saucy swing.
The Tas. Tourist Bureau has swung its
weight behind the event. It will be run on
Continental lines, in stages, these being from
Launceston to Burnie, back to Launceston,
and then, hey! for Hobart, where good beer
comes from. The race starts November 20.
* * * =!=
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman has been
trying to impress the Victorian cycling com-
munity with the advantages of Conti-
nental methods of conducting road racing,
as compared with those in use in Australia.
Here the big events are handicaps. On the
Continent all are from scratch, riders being
graded into several classes. The experiment
was tried in the Dunlop Grand Prix held
in Victoria a couple of years ago, and was
a success. Adoption would at least cut out
the prevalent practice of running byes in
minor events in order to get a good mark in
the big handicaps with their lucrative prizes.
* * * *
“Garry”: Some historical research has
been done recently in an endeavor to discover
when the pneumatic tyre made its dfdmt
in Australia. One of the earliest recorded
appearances was in 1891, when G. R. Broad-
bent, a Melbourne cyclist, made fastest time
in a 50-mile road race on a machine thus
equipped. He bestrode a grid of the “safety”
type weighing 571 b. (“safety” was right),
geared to 53, and his single-tube sausages
were 2£in. in diameter. The new contrap-
tion didn’t make much headway till the
double-tube tyre of J. B. Dunlop entered
the market. I cherish a recollection of
testing about the first set of that breed
that entered M.L. in 1893 or '94. It was
a quite unofficial test. The iron steed that
was shod with them was in # for repairs, and
I and other graceless young cubs in a Christ-
church cycle shop spent a happy hour barg-
ing it over lengths of steel tubing on the
workshop floor. Growing more ambitious,
w r e essayed to ride it over a 4-by-4 beam,
and if our foreman hadn’t been a merciful
and erudite man who knew—-even in those
prehistoric days—how to repair a bad blow-
out, w r e would all have been sacked.
*■* * *
"Sprockett”: Victorian cyclists have long
been at loggerheads as to whether Lamb or
Opperman is the better road rider. The
pair met for the first time in a long road
race the other day, a 50-mile open event.
Lamb was with Opperman, Nicholson and
four other Victoria" cracks on scratch and
LISLE BROOKS, one of Maoriland’s lead-
ing road racing motorists, and an
amateur boxer of note.
won easily. There was no fluke about it,
either, for the scratch men set such a hot
pace that the Victorian record for the dis-
tance was beaten by four minutes, the
winner’s figures being 2hr. 3min. 37sec.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne’s Henley-on-Yarra
committee has had such a bad spin with wet
weather that it has resolved to fix the date
for the regatta a month later than has been
the custom. The show will be held on Novem-
ber 29. There will be no King's Cup race
next year, so it is possible that the States
which generally hold their rowing champion-
ships in December may carry them over to
the New Year, to enable their crews to enter
for the Melbourne events should they feel
like doing so.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: Lipton’s Shamrock V. set
off across the Atlantic last w r eek to battle
for what is known colloquially as the
“America Cup.” The correct title is “The
America’s Cup,” since the British-donated
trophy for all-comers was won in the first
race in 1851 by the United States entry,
the schooner America. Converted to a yawl
for the trip across the Atlantic, Shamrock
will be accompanied by her owner’s steam
yacht, the Erin, as tender. She has had a
great run of success in her first English
season, scoring 15 firsts and four seconds in
19 starts. She has a hard job ahead of her,
meeting the stay-at-home American opposi-
tion, but her owner and designers are very
confident.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Mercantile Rowing Club in
Melbourne has just been the recipient of two
interesting rowing trophies of the long
ago. The donor is A. B. Tummer, for 40
years treasurer of the club and now living
in Sydney. The first is a cup shaped like
the straw-boater hats of yesteryear; it was
presented for a race at an aquatic carnival
held on Albert Park Lake in ISB4 in honor
of a visit from Edward H'anlan, Beach’s
famous rival The other is a piece of plate
of about the same vintage, and both were
won by the donor. The cup. which boasts
three oars for legs, is an intriguing object,
and how anyone could drink out of it with-
out spilling the beer is even more intriguing.
“Bamboo”: The Ashton brothers picked
up quite a lot of polo trophies in England,
and have shipped the pots to Goulburn while
they invade America. They would probably
give the lot for the famous championship
cup. the blue ribbon of English polo, for
which they were only beaten by a goal. This
was first set up by the Hurlingliam Club in
1890. and the Ashtons are the only overseas
combination to compete in the tourney. It
is now up to the English polo authorities to
send a team to Australia in the near
future. Colonel Melville, here with the
Army-in-ludia team and a leading light in
English polo, knows all about requirements
and conditions on this side.
* * * 1|!
“Hotham” : A blithe young man who refused
to bow his head beneath the bludgeons of cir-
cumstance turned up in a Melbourne police
court the other day. His wife had sued
him for maintenance, and he announced that
if she would only come and live with him at
Wagga, life would be always afternoon. In
that rural paradise he earned £3 a week
for playing football in addition to work-
ing three days a week for 15s. a day. Better
than all. he said, he was a most successful
two-up expert, and would guarantee to give
all his winnings to wifey. The beak, how-
ever, ignored the shadow and grabbed at the
substance. This typical “sport” will pay
355. per week for his family and can keep
the rest for himself.
**# ' $
“Blue Chalk”: A great comeback was that
of the veteran G. B. Shailer, who regained
the N.S.W. amateur billiards championship
after the lapse of several years, among those
he outed in the earlier rounds being Emp re
champion Hayes. Shailer won the title as
long ago as 1913, when he put up a break of
268; this stood for seven years as an Aus-
tralian record for an amateur until J. R.
Hooper ran up 292. G.B.S. made one trip to
England for the amateur championship there,
but, though he did well, failed to show his
best form.
“Spike” : The Australian Amateur Athletic
Union, which has been angling for a long
time for a visit from Nurmi, is confident that
it has landed its fish. Invitations to him and
his fellow Finn, Larva, have been issued, and
word has been received that they will be
accepted if the Finnish athletic authorities
are agreeable. Another overseas pair to come
out next summer may be Lord Burghley, one
of the finest living hurdlers, and Williams,
the Canadian middle-distance runner. Both
are figuring in the Empire Games.
* :S * *
“The Gaffer”: Some of the contesting
countries are showing a fine sporting spirit
in regard to the Empire Games. Little
British Guiana is the home of four out-
standing athletes at present in other coun-
tries. Edwards, the mulatto who ran so
brilliantly for Canada in the middle-distance
events at the last Olympiad, is one, and
another is Spence, who figured in the sprint
swimming events at the same time. Canada
is paying all the expenses of these athletes,
who will appear as representatives of British
Guiana. Britain is doing the same by Jack
London, Olympic sprinter and till recently
British 100-yards champion, and Colin Gor-
don, the Oxford high-jumper, both of whom
come from Demarara and will turn out for
their native land.
* >K * *
“Windage”: Marjorie Foster’s victory in
the King’s Prize at Bisle.v (B. 23/7/’3O) was
by no means a flash in the pan. All through
the meeting she shot most steadily, and col-
lected a number of prizes. The lady keeps a
poultry farm, and in the intervals of her
visits to the mound used to scoot off on a
motor-cycle to feed the chooks. It is pos-
sible that the relaxation helped her a lot oo
her return to the targets, by preventing her
from brooding over her shooting prospects.
“Centurion”: Though he would assuredly
take his defeat in good part, Lieutenant
Eccles, of the Seaforth Highlanders, who was
beaten by a point by Marjorie Foster . for
the King’s Prize at Bisley, is probably
thinking of sending in his papers. Military
messes are proverbially prone to lacerate the
finer feelings of anyone in his situation, and
a subaltern’s sorrows are a jest for all and
sundry. The defeat itself meant nothing,
but to be outed by a woman on the last
shot would give the raggers a handle they
almost certainly grabbed with grateful-
enthusiasm.
* * * *
“Enoggera”: Queenslanders are unmoved
at the feat of an Englishwoman in winning
the King’s Prize in the Old Dart. They
reckon that in Jessie Snodgrass, of Rock-
hampton, they have a she shot who can keep
the marker busier than any other feminine
rifle wielder in creation. The lady has
figured on most of the leading Australian#
ranges of late years, and seems to be getting
better with every shoot, so a State K.P. or
even the Australian event is by no means
beyond her grasp. Other prominent Austra-
lian women shots are Mrs. Patterson (Bris-
bane), Mrs. Scott, of N.S. W., and the appro-
priately named Mrs. Bull, also of the Ma
State.


I?!?!?!?:
:::::
:::::::::
:::
::::::
Hi
!•! I
HHHiiiii !
:::::
i:: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
!
I;
m
i Hi
: :
HHIHHiIHHIH
Hi iiHHH HIH
I i
•
Hi: i
:
ISfl
::
ill!
ii!i||:iii!iiiiii:iiii
:::::::
&
• :
Perth
i iiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
I::::::!::!::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::: :
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
ill
:::::::::::::::
iiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
iiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiH
:::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::
Hi!
f it’
i iiii
:::::
1
A
111 11111
iiiii ::
::::::::::
::::::::::
iiiii
: :
eur
IP!
iiiiiiii i
§
iiii
in
min
i •liiiliili
: :: ::::::::::::
! HHHHHiiHj
iiii
iiiii
IN
To
::::::
::::
& wgstSnD Clubs
John'DewaroSons Ii
:::::::
iiii
Distillers PERTH,(ScotlaAd)* LONDON
PRO
OTL AN
ii: :::::i
!
iiiiiiii
liHlillllnilin
11111111111111111 111
i
iiiiiiii
i::i::iHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iriiiiiiiii
:::::::::
WONDERFUL WHISKY-
Dewar's
STANDS SUPREMELY ALONE


WOMAN’S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kroft Cheses?
Real flowers by day as well as night will
be worn in the shoulder spray, an observant
correspondent who was at Ascot predicts.
The outsize hat and the ankle-length skirt
have won the day, and extreme simplicity is
quite out of date. However, the turban hat
of twisted satin ribbon in contrasting shade
was popular, too. One side of these turbans
is two or three inches wider than the other,
and they are worn in such a manner as to
display half the forehead. If you are really
fashionable, with your turban you wear
plucked eyebrows. Foreheads and ears are
definitely in.
The 1930 Journalists’ Ball was a great
feather in the cap of the male scribes of
this city. Very few of the women writers
were on the committee, although on the two
previous occasions they had practically car-
ried the affair. This year they felt reluc-
tant, owing to the arch-enemy General
Depression, to approach the phalanx of
friends who had been so generous
formerly about the purchase of tickets.
But the men carried on in great style,
and there was a roll-up of 1200 on
the Narkunda. Only about 800 had been
expected, but the F. and O. Co., which had
lent the boat, came to the rescue with
further supplies, and the dance was merry on
all three decks. Six hundred clear is hoped
for —it goes to the Journalists’ Benevolent
Fund —and ’ that’s about the biggest haul
made by any dance this year. However,
last year and the year before the harvest
was £lOOO, all expenses having been blown
away by a battery of bridge parties and
guessing competitions. Chief Justice Street’s
lady was the capable president of the com-
mittee, and the P. and O. Mackay couple and
the State Exes, were the honored guests
of the party. Rosalie Faulkner, Iris Savage
and Jessie Montey were the night’s debs;
and Mrs. Roy Evans and Mrs. J. M. Daven-
port were a good deal responsible for the
success.
Keith Anderson, the airman who lost his
life in the search' for the Southern Cross,
may not have the most imposing monument
in Sydney; but surely the site of it, stand-
ing lone on the highest point of Rawson
Park at Mosman, is the most superb. Only
to the north-west is the eye held by the
ridge that presently makes Bradley’s Head;
for the rest it ranges over a glorious pano-
rama that sweeps in city and harbor and
the ocean beyond the green links of Rose
Bay and the white dunes of Bondi; it looks
out through the Heads and rests lovingly
on the pine avenues of Manly and the
beaches and ragged foreshores of Middle Har-
bor. The Governor, with the help of Padre
Macdonald, unveiled the memorial on Sunday
afternoon, while thousands of returned
Diggers and uniformed men and plain citi-
zens stood around and a covey of ’planes
circled overhead. Wreaths were placed on
the monument from Kingsford Smith and
Charlie Ulm, the former by the hand of his
mother; and among the onlookers was the
sad-eyed fiancee of the gallant airman.
Honolulu is calling to women with a pur-
pose and the tongue to give it expression.
The Pan-Pacific Conference has beckoned
so urgently to at least five women in this
State that last week they sailed away with
a gallant barque (no, not bark!) to join
in a word-jamboree to which women from all
the shores washed by the Pacific are hasten-
ing. Before the N. S. Walers left, women-
citizens of Sydney gave a tea-party to their
glory. The big' moment of the afternoon
came with the presentation by Lady Game
of a flag of Australia which is to be carried
as an emblem of goodwill by Dr. Georgina
Sw'eet, of Melbourne. Mrs. Glanville took
possession of it as Dr. Georgina’s proxy, and
did it in very well-chosen words. Mrs.
Seery, Ruby Board (National Council of
Women) and Miss Preston Stanley loosed a
full stream of rounded sentences. Our own
delegates include Mary Yeo, Miss L. M.
Macdonald, Mrs. J. A. Wilson and redoubt-
able Mrs. Jamieson Williams. Dr, Constance
Davey and Mrs. Tennant Cooke (S.A.) and
Eleanor Moore and Mrs. David Munro
(Vic.) also sipped Boliea and admired the
flag, -which is the gift of knight Sam Hor-
dern’s lady—too little heard of in these
latter days!
To the Town Hall on Monday afternoon
to meet the great Kubelik. The violinist,
with his £25,000 Strad and its guardian
Hindu, has been a pictorial visitor to the
other cities. Last week Brisbane was en-
raptured by him: he has never had more
appreciative listeners than he found at the
Rosemount Hospital for Diggers. Men
strong enough to do so sat in the recreation
hall; others not so well, in dressing-gowns,
leaned against the windows; on the adjacent
verandahs men listened in bed.
All Australians sympathise with the vic-
tims of the earthquake which has devastated
Naples and the Basilicata region, and they
feel more admiration than they can express
for the gallant and self-sacrificing work of
the Red Cross people and soldiers.
There is this difference between cataclysms
of Nature and man-made horrors like the
last war: the first-named leave no cause for
bitterness or shame afterwards. The stub-
born Italian peasants endure recurrent catas-
trophes of the sort with fine resignation, and
their leaders get busy clearing up the mess
with wonderful pluck and energy. Soon
the houses and cottages go up again, and the
old life is resumed cheerily on sites from
which Italians have wrested livings for
nearly 3000 years. Only the thoughtless
would try to disparage a race with such a
record.
E. J. Tait was discovered sitting on a
gilt piano-stool the other morning, as though
he might at any moment begin to emulate
Moscovitch’s thunders at the player-piano
in “The Terror.” But instead of suggesting
that he was the big noise, he just sat down
and talked New York and London theatres
—with a strong bias v to the American school
as far as the ballet work and dancing are
concerned. Nevertheless, he says “Mr.
Cochrane’s young ladies” made a great hit
in the American production of Noel Coward’s
“Bitter Sweet” because of the atmosphere of
romance they created —they make a more
subtle appeal than their more dashing Ameri-
can sisters. But the real New Yorker prefers
the Ziegfeld Folly girl. Even though after
she folds her pretty costume into a hand-
kerchief sachet she goes home to her Swedish
exercises, a cup of hot milk and a hard
hygienic bed, she is still by training the
butterfly of Broadway. Judith Anderson
is starring in Eugene O’Neill’s “Strange
Interlude,” which won’t come to Sydney as
a commercial venture —the types are too
neurotic for us. O’Neill himself is a shy
bird, not to be caught with chaff or salt.
Novelist Carl Van Vechten is an old friend
of E.J., who is always amused to meet
the stalwart chap with the great head of
white hair and to compare his rough viril-
ity with the erudite exquisites in his books.
The talkie does not seriously threaten the
stage, Mr. Tait thinks. Wherever a good play
puts out its sign there the audiences gather
like flies around the honeypot. Still, after
23 years in the business, he is forced to own
that Australian audiences are very tricky.
Plays that are successes in England and
America flop heavily here, and moderate
successes abroad are often great, favorites.
In the same way Tallulah Bankhead, Mar-
garet Bahnerman and Maisie Gay, though
devoured by London, are not heart-reaching
types for Australia; whei'eas Australia’s
darlings, Dorothy Brunton and Gladys Mon-
erieff, didn’t get under the skin of London
audiences. E.J. says there’s something in
race. Your own people and your own home
town are yotir own best, after all.
But, though that seems quite true about
the women, it doesn’t seem as much true
about the men. There’s a puzzle for the
psychologists here. It seems to be that the
local flapper (of any age) puts the local
female star on a pedestal to show the young
man that the local female is something extra
and that he would be very foolish to look
elsewhere. And it may be that on the other
hand she exalts the visiting male, partly
from the sex’s love of variety, but more to
bring the local male to his place—which, of
course, is at her feet.
E. D. McMaster, of Dalkeith, up Cassilis
way, who has just handed over 500 rams
worth £4200 to the Department of Agricul-
ture for the benefit of the smaller flocks of
the. State, lives in a dream of fair merinos.
The walls of Dalkeith are hung with the
photographs of prize-winning sheep, and the
family’s suite at the Australia, which is
rented from year to year, boasts many pic-
tures of the sheiks of the Dalkeith pastures.
H'ighly-paid newspaper men from every
State of Australia would give their second-
best boots to know what the girl in this
picture knows. She is Olive M. Wilson, and
she’s private secretary to banker Otto Nie-
meyer. She has come from the seclusion of
the Bank of
England to
look after his
intimate cor-
r e s p ondence,
and what she
doesn’t know
about the
finances of
Australia by
this time would
probably go
on a pawn-
ticket She's
discretion it-
self, though,
and has such
an air of un-
sophistication
that a violet
would look
worldly beside
her. In Lon-
don she is
one of “the
Bank’s’’ young ladies: lesser banks may be
given their full title, but an Englishman
would not dream of qualifying the Thread-
needle-street institution by adding “of
England.” She works behind tho?e great
thick walls which stare blindly at the world
of streets. There’s not a window in those
ramparts; the lighting comes from a central
courtyard and roof windows. The masonry
is very old and very strong, and through it
the London traffic comes a silken whisper of
sound. In the streets just about the Bank
are seen more silk hats than anywhere
except perhaps at a Buckingham Palace
garden party. No, it’s not the Otto Nie-
meyers who wear them —it’s the bank mes-
sengers. To balance things another army
of young (and not-so-young) men dash about
this neighborhood liatless. They are the law
clerks. Weather doesn’t trouble the Bank
young ladies —tubes and ’buses minimise the
dangers of wet feet and spoiled hats —but
their coats they have always with them.
Miss Wilson has been in the bank all her
working days and has long been Sir Otto’s
private secretary. She has never been away
from England before and never dreamed of
a voyage to Australia. She says naively that
the other girls thought she was very lucky. But
it’s not a pleasure jaunt. The days are filled
with work. This picture was made for us
by May Moore at the Commonwealth Bank,
where the visitors have their well-fortified
headquarters.
Dramatist Harry Tighe and Padre Me-
Farlane, who is vicar of Frankston in Vic-
toria, were recent guests of the Society of
Women Writers. Mr. Tighe, unlike most
of the society’s guests, had prepared an
address-in-reply, which turned out to be a
diverting list of stories concerning notables
he had met. - One was of the meeting be-
tween Lady Oxford (then Mrs. Asquith) and
Mussolini. The witty lady had managed to
penetrate to the Italian dictator’s office, and,
after the polite preliminaries, he listened to
the flimsy pretext on which she had sailed
in. Then the lady rattled on in her usual
witty and fascinating manner, but was dis-
turbed to see that his eyes, instead of resting
on her, passed her shoulder and turned to
something beyond her. At last she said:
“What are you gazing at so intently?”
“Madam,” he sighed, “the door!”
Mr. Tighe told of having seen Duse, Mrs.
Patrick Campbell and Bernhardt play
Pinero’s “Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” and de-
clared Duse’s the finest performance—she
showed you the tortured soul of the woman.
Over Mrs. Pat’s performance in “The Mat-
riarch” London went mad. The dialogue in
this is so good that even the exacting
actress was satisfied with it. Often she has
been known to pour her own brilliance into
conversation which she considered a bit
heavy.
Yesterday (Tuesday) Lady Game ate lunch
with the sisters of the pen—three courses
served with flowers in season.
These limpid eyes are used to great advan-
tage by Mattie Doyle, star of the Playbox
company. Mattie (now Mrs. Robin Copp) is
musician a s
well as actress.
She studied
music at the
Con., and dra-
matic art from
Walter Bent-
ley. Her parts
with the Play-
box have cov-
ered a wide
range, and
she has been
a lead in such
varied plays
as Miles Mal-
leson’s “Four
People,”
Brooks and
Lister’s
“Spread
Eagle,” Mau-
rine Watkins's
“Chic ago,”
Ben Hecht’s “Front Page,” and Eugene
O’Neill’s “Strange Interludes,” in which
last she was the neurotic Nina. The Play-
box, by the way, recently introduced Dr. Bill
McKay’s dramatic effort, “One False Step,”
to Sydney audiences.
Remember Antoinette Aussenac, the round-
faced pianist who toured Australia with
Clara Butt in 1925? A young woman of
tremendous ambition, she took an afternoon
off at Armadale in Victoria to marry a
Prince de Broglie, who had followed her
with strictly honorable intentions. from
Europe, he and his wife, Princess Wagram,
having been divorced earlier in the year.
Clara Butt, Ivennerley Rumford and the
French Consul were present at the wedding.
Married life was not all harmony, however,
and the Prince now seeks an annulment of
his marriage, alleging that the wedding did
not fulfil French legal conditions. When the
Prince came a-wooing to Australia, he also
had a business interest—connected with elec-
tric clocks. He was also interesting because
he believed he had discovered a cure for
T.B. and was anxious to talk about it, and
because he was reported to have the most
marvellous repertoire of hand-made shirts,
pleated, tucked and frilled, of any Prince
who had ever come this way.
Basil Burdett and Gladys Owen are busy
over the George Lambert Memorial Exhibi-
tion in November. The idea is to make a
loan collection which can be viewed for
a half-crown at the Education Galleries.
This, of course, will be quite distinct fx*om
the show of the artist’s unsold works in the
Hordern Galleries in the same month, the
proceeds of which will go to George’s widow.
Cheques from admirers are already falling
in, and two fine pencil-sketches have been
donated.
Which recalls that, at Norman Lindsay’s
suggestion, Lambert was invited to illustrate
the first-prize story in The Bulletin’s
Second Novel Competition. George, who in
earlier days made over 200 drawings for the
pink-frocked lady, liked the idea; he realised,
he said, that it was up to him to do some-
thing for Australian letters, and he had a
good enough opinion of Lambert illustrations
to know they would bring in readers who
otherwise might not be interested. But he
couldn’t undertake to illustrate what he had
never seen; and by the time the proofs
were ready the artist was no longer avail-
able.
About a thousand incurable romantics
waited in the rain and then slipped into St.
Mary’s to see sweet-faced Mary Currie, of Can-
terbury, marry Surgeon-Commander Jim Flat-
tery. The ’groom, a smiling broth of a boy, is
as well-beloved as flattery in. any other dress,
and nearly every fellow officer on the Penguin
turned up in dazzling raiment and afterwards
unsheathed his shining cutlery for the
triumphant exit. Mary made her entrance
through the big doors near the statue of-
Cardinal Moran, and, preceded by two little
girls in jacaranda blue, Kate Greenaway
frocks and swinging baskets brimming with
blue flower-heads, she gravely drew her bil-
lows of ivory satin and tulle up the long
aisle to the high altar. Two little ones in a
flutter of blue frills looked after the train,
and sister-in-law Mrs. C. L. Currie (Mel-
bourne) and Margaret Beaumont stepped in
the procession, their rose-pink georgettes
swinging shoulder-capes. When Fathers
Loneragan and Smith had tied the knot, the
principals paid the soloist who was singing
an “Ave Maria” the courtesy of standing till
the last note had died away. Usually there’s-
a quick step into the vestry to sign the
marriage lines, regardless of soaring notes or
splendid chords. Mr. and Mrs. J. Currie
beckoned about 200 guests to the Arts Club,
most thrilled among them the two Morgan
O’Neill fledgelings.
Earl Beauchamp, one-time Governor of this
State, did daughter Lady Lettice Lygon
proud when she married Mr. Richard G. C.
Cotterell at St. Margaret’s, Westminster.
Sydney’s old friend handed his 24-year-old
daughter a diamond tiara, and the Countess
dug into the kitchen money-box and bought a
diamond cross, a tortoiseshell-and-gold dress-
ing-case, and a brooch crusted with diamonds,
pearls, emeralds and rubies. The ’groom’s
father. Sir John Cotterell, Bart., threw in
a necklace of pearls with a diamond clasp.
Other jewels in the dazzling heap were a
diamond brooch —horse and jockey—and a
diamond-mounted regimental brooch from
the ’groom. His mother, incidentally, was
the eldest daughter of the seventh Duke of
Richmond and Gordon, so all tlie blue blood
isn’t on the Beauchamp side. The wedding
dress was very simple. The bodice was per-
fectly plain, and the ground-long skirt was
made witli full flares. From a belt of orange
flowers fell the long satin train, which was
bordered with tulle and draped with old
family lace. The veil, too, was of soft old
lace, and the bride carried a sheaf of white
lilies presented by the bridegroom’s troop
of the Royal Horse Guards. Wreaths of
velvet roses were worn by the four ’maids,
and their soft vellum frocks were brightened
by the apple-green satin coats of the two
tiny train-bearers. There were three Prin-
cesses, two Dukes, four Duchesses, two Vis-
counts and Viscountesses, Marchionesses by
the dozen, and as many lords, ladies, honor-
ables and baronets as Will Shakspeare could
have lavished on a Court scene. But the
Princesses showed the least originality in
their presents; they all gave china lamps
and shades.
Still another of the Falkiner girls is to
marry a Maorilander. Enid, the elder
daughter of the late F. 8.5., met him while
holidaying with sister Mrs. Jim Lowry, of
Hawkes Bay. He is Eric Nelson, of the
same woolly district, to which he has returned
after a rush visit to Sydney to meet the
rest of Enid’s family at Bellevue Hill.
Jess Hammond, whose wedding to Bob
Fairley, of Dapto, this Letter reported
less than a year ago, has died. She was
a daughter of the late H'arry Hammond and
Mrs. Hammond, of Hughenden (Q.), and a
sister of Harry, who was A.D.C. to Sir
Matthew Nathan. Rev. R. B. S. Hammond,
who performed the wedding ceremony, went
to Dapto last Thursday to perform the
second »ad ceremony for his niece. Bob
Fairley is an old Newingtonian who rowed
in Head-of-the-River Eights.
Dr. Purdy, as Peter the Hermit, and Doris
Fitton, as Sister Übaldasca —-we are told
she was a picturesque serving sister in the
early days of St. John —will be highlights
in the pageant arranged by Mrs. John
Maund and Don Finley in the interests of
the St. John Ambulance. The affair is
booked for August 2 in the grounds of Cran-
brook. It will start witli a procession
heralded by a roll of drums, and will cover
all the activities the good old saint started
when he invented the original first-aid kit.
Margaret Clift promises to be a striking
figure as Sister Veronese. Florence Nightin-
gale will be very suitably represented by
Matron Cashin, whose own war work reads
like an epic. Ambulances frolicking about
amid carefully staged accidents will add a
spirited finale. Sir Philip and Lady Game
are to be chief guests of the tourney, which
at five shillings a head is to be free to all.
The Agricultural Conference at the
Hawkcsbury College ended with a dance.
About 30 girls from Sydney went up to the
frolic—mostly members of the Kooroora
Club and the junior members of the House-
wives’ Association. Railway Commissioner
Cleary and his lady also went to the dance.
But he doesn’t like to be reminded of that
because in the cold early hours of the morn-
ing his car was bogged. Breakfast-time found
him back at the College asking what time
the first train left for Sydney. Now he’s
trying to persuade his friends that he didn’t
do it on purpose—to show, of course, the
undependability of all motor-cars.
City Tatt.’s Ball reported a full field for
every event on the prog ramie'', with 29
fillies for the Debutante Stakes. The winner
in this race was hard to pick, and Hie judges
declared it a dead-heat. Last week's Palais
Royal meeting of the club was among the
most successful, and as the gate money goes
to St. Vincent’s, secretary Thomas Bourke
wore the smile of one who’d put his shirt on
an outsider and saw it romp home. The
Governor and Lady Game smiled on the 29
young things who sought to pass through
the turnstile into the grown-ups’ paddock.
Mr. and Mrs. James Clarke, the Owen Maid-
ments and the. E. Johnstons did the honors
for the club. Lud Mayor Marks and sister
Hilda were among those in the official stand,
with Miss Crowdy, Lieut.-Commander Gif-
ford and Town Clerk Layton.
Every woman who went to the dance at
the Masonic Club last week carried home an
alabaster powder-jar, a puff and a posy.
There was bubbly, too, at the party, and no
sign of depression. Everybody was as gay
as a lark—-*an initiate confided that it was
because every Mason lias a clear conscience!
Lily of the valley all a-blow smiled shyly on
the official table, where president Askey
and his well-dressed lady entertained. Mrs.
Dyson Austen, sheathed in gold brocade, was
an eye-arrester. Mrs. ,T. Goulston wore im-
peccable black georgettes.
Sydney is to have its first Music Week in
September, and, besides lectures and recitals,
there will be a round of sociabilities among
the brotherhood. But the Pageant of Music,
which was to have, been a feature of the
ball, is off. The International ball and
pageant had already been planned for Sep-
tember 2, and it was felt that two such
spasms in a week might result in an earth-
quake. The International threatens a com-
prehensive show, which will include tableaus
of art, sculpture, painting, music. Lady
Game is the president.
A friend just back from her travels has
discovered still another pretty on which to
squander father’s lucre. Her latest fad is
green amber, which she dangles in a long
string, and which she declares is the genuine
goods artificially .colored. This opaque green
amber is not to be confused with mere Sili-
cian green amber. The latter, however,
sounds delightful: it is translucent and
marked by the presence of fossilised flora
and insects.
Australia is developing a little Samurai
class in the person of its volunteer trainees.
Most of them are the sons or relatives of
Diggers, and they look and behave like it.
Sydney’s 9th Brigade A.F.A. for example,
which had a church parade at Victoria
Barracks last Sunday, before marching off
to St. Stephen’s and St. Mary’s, is entirely
composed of lads whose fathers, uncles or
brothers saw active service. The papers don’t
give them much publicity, but they are the
guardians of the spirit that makes Australia
safe for cricketers.


The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Incorporated 9th September, 1909, in the State of Hew South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
THIRTIETH REPORT
of the Directors, presented at the Annual General Meeting, held at the Banking House, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 29th July, 1930, at noon.
1. —We submit the Accounts for the Year ended 30th June, 1930, which have been examined and
certified to by the Auditors, and show the following results:
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year, after making full provision
for all Bad and Doubtful Debts, deducting Rebate on Current Bills,
and Expenses of Management, Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
Interest on Fixed Deposits, Rates, etc., amounts to .. .. .. £246,179 18 4
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes for the year .. .. b 0,487 0 0
Profit for the Year
From this amount the following appropriations have been made
Transfer to Reserve Fund
Interim Half-yearly Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent.
per annum was paid in January last absorbing .. £77,280 0
and a final Half-yearly Dividend at the rate of
7 per cent, per annum is now recommended, amount-
ing to .. 77,280 0
0
■ £180,692 18 4
£180,692 18 4
£25,000 0 0
154,560 0 0
179,560 0 0
Brought forward from last Year
Balance
Leaving to be carried forward
£29,802 16 6
2 —During the vear Receiving Offices of the Bank have been opened at West Tamworth and Evans
Head in New South'Wales. The Branch at Whitton has been converted into a Receiving Office; while
the Branch at 449 Newcastle Street, Perth, Western Australia, and the Receiving Offices at Binya,
Ulong, Glenreagh, Weston, Goolgowi and Stones Corner (South Brisbane), have been withdrawn. The
business of the Branch at 61 Pitt Street, formerly known as Exchange Branch, lias been transferred to
the George Street North Branch, and that Branch is now known as the Bridge and George Streets Branch.
8. —It devolves upon this Meeting to elect two Directors in the place of Thomas Lloyd Forster
Rutledge and James Kell, who retire in accordance with the provision of Article 93 of the Articles of
Association. Both are eligible and offer themselves for re-election.
4-In terms of Article 155 of the Articles of Association, it is also necessary to elect two Auditors
in the place of Eric R. Mitchell, F.C.A. (Aust.), and Milton F. Johnson, F.C.A (Aust.), who retire
in accordance with the Articles of Association, and of whom the latter is eligible and offers himself
for re-election. William H. Perry, F.C.A. (Aust.), has given notice that he is a candidate foi election
in the place of Eric R. Mitchell. MARK SHELDON,
, T Chairman.
Sydney, 25th July, 1930. _• —_— ——
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED,
(including London Office by cable) 30th JUNE, 1930. inan
PRESENTED AT THE MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS ON 29th JUU% 1930 g
Cr.
• LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
To Capital paid-up
„ Reserve Fund
„ Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities
„ Government Deposits
„ Bills in Circulation and other amounts payable
„ Balances due to other Banks
„ Profit and Loss Account: —
For Dividends i£77 ’?f2 -.q
To increase amount carried forward .. 1,134 is
Brought forward from 30th June, 1929
£3,319,880 5 0
14,338,040 17 9
107,082 16 6
£17,705,509 19 3
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit, etc.; for which customers are responsible to the
6 Bank, £682,684 13s. 7d. '
ASSETS.
By Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes and Cash with Commonwealth
Cash at London Bankers and at short call in London.. . . • •
’ British Treasury Bills and other Government and Municipal
Securities
„ Balances due by other Banks
Bills Receivable and Remittances in transit
£1,814,495 8 3
229,622 2 1
749,182 10 4
390,489 14 9
1,382,557 13 6
Bills Discounted, Loans, Advances, all other Debts due to the Bank, and other
Assets . . . • • • • ’ ' ‘ • • ‘ ‘ ' ‘
Bank Premises
£4,566,347
12,795,307
403,865
8 11
9 4
1 0
£ 17,765,509 19 3
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Transfer to Reserve Fund (now £1,111,880 ss. Od.)
„ Interim Half-yearly Dividend paid
Final Half-yearly Dividend recommended
’•£77,280 .0
77,280 0
. £25,000 0 0
0
0
154,560 0 0
Balance to be carried down .
By Profit for the year ended 80th June, 1930
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes
£246,179 18 4
65,487 0 0
_ £180,692 18 4
By Net Profit for the Year ..
By Balance to be brought down—after payment of Dividend £77,280
„ Balance brought forward from last year
To be carried forward ..
MARK SHELDON, Chairman.
C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
Auditors.
ERIC R. MITCHELL (
MILTON F. JOHNSON J
Chartered Accountants ( Aust .).
Stuart Crystal is made
hy craftsmen -who have
never done anything hut
make beautiful glassware.
Their skill has been
handed down y from
father to son / for many
generations. Every gcn=
uine piece bears theregis=
tered name y/ Stuai td
y
......‘j
SB
m
u&*
-Wkvg,
wtw
WM
wm
m
m
■
Si
I
Mai
m
m
I ■
■
M
Hi
:
a *
*r*fr
■
BP :
233
MM
,•
HE
••♦-•*■
■■■
***«&
«sws@»r
■
Sb«
■ 1
m
mm
Z ’V
ms
■ ■
1 mm
I H
■I
■7;,:
' "■ .
mm
I ■
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/«
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
Wentworth Hotel’s New Tariffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 15/-
Single Room, Inclusive, from 20/-
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from . 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 3/-
&/>e WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
Undei s
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
S witt & Company u mltai
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAC Ht
Qfirieslieidsie&
Reims
gz?
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agen ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
buckley's
Eliza bethan
Tea Rooms
P[?] Contral F[?]
Buckley s-Num, L[?]
so[?] so M[?]
Saturday's race gathering at Moonee
Valley was held in such foggy weather that
the colors of the jockeys were indistin-
guishable save at very close range, but there
was a big roll-up of the public. For the
committee’s luncheon the tables were deco-
rated with wattle and Iceland poppies. Pre-
mier Hogan and the Lud Mayor were seated
next to chairman Alister Clark, and Mayor-
ess Luxton, black-coated with a small felt
hat, and Mrs. Hogan, in powder-blue en-
semble, were near. The member for the dis-
trict, A. S. Drakeford, was accompanied by
his wife, who was in bottle-green. Mayor
Fenton, of Essendon, accompanied Mrs. Fen-
ton, also in green. Mrs. Ben Chaffey favored
the same hue. Mrs. J. B. McArthur, the
Rogers Thomsons and Kathleen, and Mrs.
Sam Mackay were also guests.
Black-and-white costumes were chosen by
many. Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie’s tailored suit
of black cloth was topped by a toque carrying
out a magpie effect in velvet. Mrs. Percy
Blackbourn’s black suit had the fashionable
pin spot of white. Mrs. Mortill sported black-
and-white tweed beneath a squirrel cape.
Dr. Stuart Ferguson’s wife chose kasha
cloth of almond-green tint, with a matching
hat. Mrs. D. P. McKay's attire was in
nigger-brown tones, and her sister Dulcie
Hallett was a study in blended fawns. Nancy
Hewlett wore a beige-and-grey tweed coat
with a swathed toque of the same material.
The Newman Students’ Club’s dance
served as a celebration of the victory of the
college team in the inter-college football
cup matches. The school colors, black, red
and royal blue, and the Newman badge were
added to the palms that decorate the St.
Kilda Plaza, where over 500 danced. H. J.
Sinn and J. L. Kelly were the hon. secs.
The rector of Newman, Father Murphy,
welcomed old and new friends, and the matron
of the college, Miss N. Egan, who topped her
wine-colored georgette gown with a match-
ing velvet coat, shared the duties of hostess
with Mrs. A. L. Kenny, who wore black
lace. Among official guests were tlm warden
of Trinity, Dr. J. C. V. Behan, and Mrs.
Behan, she in bois de rose georgette with
embellishments of bronze-tinted lace; Mrs.
I). K. Picken, in peacock-blue lace; Miss
Enid Joskes, in a frock of cinnamon hue, and
Mrs. C. A. Scutt, in platinum-hued lace,
Oath England danced in voluminously-skirted
blue georgette, and Carmen Hill was encased
in white lace that modulated into a deep
flounce of white tulle. The gold and straw-
berry shot taffeta frock worn by Laura Law-
rence was early-Victorian in mode, with a
detachable cape-wrap. Joyce Dean’s fair-
ness was set off in fussy frills of narrow
black lace, and Eileen McDonagh sported a
confection of similar design in white. A
forget-me-not blue bow dangled over Doris
Ryan’s pink chiffon gown. Dr. and Mrs.
J. G. Hayden, Dr. and Mrs. T. Daly, Laura
Brennan, in red ninon ; Phoncie St. Ledger,
wearing blue satin, and Mr. and Mrs. Ray
Connolly, she in floral-blue taffeta, were
in the throng.
The A. L. Johnsons gave a dance at the
Oxford Club at the week-end as an revoir
to H. G. Seccombe, Victoria’s Rhodes Scholar
of this year. Of those at the farewell were
Padre Kernick, Master of Queen’s, and his
wife, and Prof. Wadham, of our Uni. Mr.
Seccombe was a resident of Queen’s, and
his distinction in sports was earned mostly
»n the hockey field.
The Prefects of St. Catherine’s School
held a dance the other night, to which the
principal, Miss Langley, gave willing aid.
Mementoes of their term of office were pre-
sented to Mayor and Mayoress Lucini, of
Fitzroy, at a citizens’ ball last week. The
Mayor slipped an opulent looking gold watch
into his pocket, and Mrs. Lucini said “Thank
you” for a diamond pendant. Their daughters
Amy and Rosa were not forgotten. Each re-
ceived a dainty little addition to her jewel-
case.
Thirty hostesses officiated at the dance of
old collegians of the Presentation Convent,
Windsor. No. 0 was the rendezvous and the
president of the 0.C.A., Mrs. T. Murphy, did
the honors in black taffeta. Mrs. M. Bren-
nan, hon. sec., chose draperies of black lace,
and the hon. treas., Agatha Moran, danced
in scarlet moire.
At the Oaklands Hunt Club’s point-to-
point meeting at Sherwood, Gwen Johnston,
on Indicate, was first past the post in the
Ladies’ Cup race over fences. She has won
the event before and has a goodly collection
of trophies won in similar circumstances.
At the Geelong Racing Club’s meeting
recently her horse Sir Carrillon won the
steeplechase, but she figured as owner only,
and not rider as well, on that occasion.
Bi-idge was played at the Bowes Kelly
home at Malvern lately to provide funds for
the St. Kilda-Caulfield Girl Guides. Miss
Lyell Kelly, District Commissioner, in black
with a scintillation of crystal, engineered
the party. Mrs. Bowes Kelly, whose mid-
night-blue and black gown had a glint of
gold, was among those who took a hand.
Many folk took a hand at bridge in the
Tudor lounge of the Victoria, to supplement
the funds of the Central Catholic Library.
Mrs. J. H. Moor, Lena O’Hehir and Patricia
O’Dea were the organisers.
A knot-tying of last week was that of
Lucie, daughter of J. Lyons, of Launceston,
and Bernard, son of Mr. and Mrs. J. Conry,
of Caulfield. The and white tulle
which cascaded as the bride’s veil and train
blended with the gilded embi-oidery on her
white georgette gown. Two ’maids attended
in pink, with matching felt hats.
The Miller lady, wearing figured black
velvet beneath a mole fur cape, and millin-
ery of cire straw and satin, was guest of
honor at a tea-drinking at the Lyceum Club
last week. She lately resigned oflice as
president of the central executive of the Mel-
bourne Hospital Red Cross Auxiliary, be-
coming patroness, and her successor, Mrs.
Joseph Levi, with Jessie Bage, arranged the
meeting of co-workers, which included Slat on
Bell, of the institution, and Agnes Mclntyre,
head of the almoner department.
Henry Schwieger, who manages the
R. A. S. Show, was chief pilot of a return
ball to Mayor and Mayoress Fenton, of
Essendon. Mrs. Schwieger, in deep blue
lace, helped her husband. The Mayor re-
ceived, as a reward for his stewardship,
a portrait of himself by artist Crozier; and
Mrs. Fenton and daughter Mavis received
platinum-and-diainond watches.
The Governor and Lady Somers went to
the Home for the Blind at Brighton to
open the new hospital wing. The cost of the
addition was £l6OO and there still remains a
debt of £5OO. The women who comprise the
Brighton Auxiliary of the institution
gleaned sufficient money and gifts to pro-
vide all the furnishing and equipment. After
the speech-making there was tea and Madame
Joy McArden and others made music.
Mayor and Mayoress Luxton were there.
The kettle' was boiled at the Women
Citizens’ headquarters one afternoon last
week, when some delegates to the Pan-Paci-
fic Women’s Conference at Honolulu looked
in on their way to Sydney to board the
Niagara. Mrs. Britomarte James gave greet-
ing to Dr. Constance Davey, Mrs. T. Cooke
and Miss Walters, of South Australia, and
Mrs. David Munro, of Colac. Mrs. Munro,
who is a vice-president of the W.C.T.U.,
received from Mrs. J. MacLeod, the president
in this State, the gift of a fountain-pen.
Nancy Guest, who looks out of this window,
lately returned after two and a half years
of art study
abroad. She
has hung out
her sign as a
portrait-
painter and is
at w'ork upon
com missions.
She won the
Trav e 11 ing
Scholarship of
the National
Gallery after
four years in
the painting
school under
Bernard Hall.
On arriving in
London she
enrolled at the
Slade School,
which has
among its
heads Prof.
Tonks and
Wilson Steer, the latter a notable landscape
painter. Miss Guest also attended classes
at the Byram Shaw school, which affoi-ds
training more particularly in mural work.
With Cecily Goodyear, of Melbourne, a
musical student, Miss Guest toured the Con-
tinent, not omitting Spain.
Unlike Melba, who is an acccomplished
speech-maker, Madame Austral dodges public
speaking. At the various receptions ten-
dered to her in Melbourne the duty of
replying to orations of welcome has always
been delegated to her husband or her accom-
panist. Though announced to do the sayings
at the opening of Justus Jorgensen’s show of
pictures at the Athenaeum Gallery last week,
the diva pleaded a cold, and John Afiiadio
acted as her mouthpiece. Percy Leason’s
small daughter Pat handed the singer a yard
or so of red roses and slipper orchids that
chimed in nicely with the x-ecipient’s suit of
huntsman green. Among the throng at the
opening were knight o’ the brush John Long-
staff, Mrs. Philip Glass and Mrs. E. Buller
Allen. There was a whole raft of painters,
including many Meldrumites, identifiable by
the r flowing locks or Van Dyck beards.
There was skirl of pipes at Scott’s on
Friday night, when the Caledonians gath-
ered under the leadership of their president,
P. R. Sutherland, who was accompanied by
his guid wife. In the lulls of talk music was
furnished by Dawn Harding, Gertrude Healy,
Archie McLean, Lennox Brewer and Mrs.
W. B. Carnegie. Dr. and Mrs. Gilruth,
Mrs. Watson Robertson, Knight William
Brunton, secretary Bruce Lang and Mrs.
Lang, the lastnamed with a dewdrop sparkle
on her pale daffodil frock, were in the throng.
The Australian Authors and their friends
annihilated the annual spread at the Lang-
ham Cafe on Saturday. Professor Har-
rison Moore was the guest of honor, and
gave some interesting details of a discussion
on international copyright which he attended
at Geneva. The impression gained was that
the law —like Heaven, according to a certain
famous militarist —is on the side of the big
battalions. Captain Peters also revealed
some aspects of the book trade, but none of
the eminent authors present contributed any-
thing of moment to the argument. Possibly
they were too busy having their first good
feed for a week to bother about literary
politics. Sundry pairs of ears were pricked
up when president Bernard Cronin an-
nounced that sweetstuff manufacturer Mac-
Robertson had offered £5O for a playwright-
ing contest, the Repertox*y Society to add
£l5 and the Authors’ Society £25 thereto.
It is understood that Frank Clewlow will
produce the winning work and pay a 5 per-
cent. royalty to the dramatist.
Looking out of this window is W. K.
Reynolds, a
newcomer to
M e 1 b o u rne,
who is one of
our Repertory
players. He
made his first
appear ance
with the Mel-
bourne troupe
in Granville
Barker’s “Voy-
sey Inhe r i-
tance,” which
recently had a
font- - nights’
season at the
Playhouse, and
put some good
character - act-
ing into the
role of Hugh
Vo y sey. lie
has been a
member of
am. dram, clubs in Hong Kong and Gib-
raltar.
The Repertory Society opened a four-
nights’ season on Saturday, with Moli&re's
“Rogueries of Scapin,” translated by Lady
Gregory. The setting of a street scene in
Naples, with a glimpse of the bay, was color-
ful, and the costuming was good throughout.
Alice Lardi and Coral Brown wore charm-
ing frocks. “Colombine,” a short play in
verse by Reginald Arkell, preceded the
Molibre comedy. Colombine made her appear-
ance in a sky-blue Watteau frock, scattered
with rosy velvet bows, and wore a sort of
beret. Harlequin sported his pantomime
motley, and there was a quaint pierrot in a
grey blue suit and tall felt hat.
The Rickards management and Kenneth
Duffield gathered an afternoon tea party at
Menzies’ to meet Byrl Walkley, who is being
starred in “Pot Luck” at the Tivoli. This
actress, who hails from Newcastle, is making
a reappearance on the Australian stage
after two years of theatrical experience in
England and the U.S.A. She was brought
back principally to take a role in the Aus-
tralian production of Noel Coward’s musical
play “Bitter Sweet,” which had a success-
ful run in last year. Miss Walkley
and tenor Harry Kitts, who will also sing in
the Coward play, warbled some excerpts from
the music. The soprano, who wore a black
chiffon frock with a fichu cape and a toque
of fine straw, received a beautiful bouquet.
Hugh D. Mclntosh made a solemn rite of a
cocktail mixing, introducing a ra're Russian
spirit discovered (so the story ran) in a
remote and cobwebby corner of the hos-
tery’s cellar. The party included D. R.
Hall, of Sydney, Knight John Longstaff,
Mrs. Barry Thomson and Effie Ball. Gaston
Mervale appeared in an unusual role, playing
the pianoforte accompaniments for the
singers.
Phil Thorley, oldest inhabitant of Stanley,
near Beechworth, completed his century re-
cently, and wondered why his neighbors were
making so much fuss about it. He saw the
light at Richmond, on the Ilawkesbury River,
N.S.W., on July 18, 1830, and lured by the
gold rush came to the Beechworth d strict 71
years ago and made Stanley his home. A
widower for 30 years, he has latterly been
I’ving alone and doing his own chores. He
boasts of 150 descendants, including great-
aud great-great-grandchildren.
Cricketer Richardson’s remark, cabled
from Britain the other day, that English
players should be better than Australians
because they get more daylight to practise
in, recalls the experience of a Melbourne
girl at present in Scotland. She writes
that she and some friends had dinner at a
golf house and then went on the links. It
was 10.30 p.m. before they had to give up
play owing to the failing light.
Old girls of Melb. High School are taking
a hand in the agitation for the erection of a
new school on the site fronting Spring,
Lonsdale, Evelyn and Victoria streets. Origi-
nally the old building was a model primary
school. Then it became a continuation school,
and was a co-ed. establishment until the
£lOO,OOO building for boys was put up at
South Yarra. There was a sort of under-
standing when the old place was set apart
for girls that only the best parts would be
used, but there was a big demand for entrance,
because Miss Montgomery, the principal, has
a big reputation and the fee is only £6 a
year per student—and that is charged only
when the pupil is over 14. Five times as
much is levied for day girls in the principal
private schools. The Hogans propose to
put up a new school within a year.
Several of solicitor Anna Brennan’s friends
met at dinner to bid her good-bye and a
pleasant time on the occasion of her first
trip to the Old World. The legal lady leaves
for London with her brother, the Attorney-
General, and his wife.
A man who has played many parts is
Captain Max Wardall, 8.A., LL.B., who has
been lecturing on theosophy and psychology
at the Queen’s Hall. His degrees were
acquired at Washington Uni. He saw ser-
vice in the Great War, has travelled in
S’Africa, and now has a home in Hollywood.
He has dabbled in politics in the U.S.A.
Mrs. Wardall, who is accompanying her
husband, stepped on to the platform one
afternoon last week to discourse about Holly-
wood. With a crimson velvet cloak over
a pale grey frock, the vivacious lady looked
like a modern Portia. Among other things
she said that intelligent, educated Americans
have nothing but contempt for the melodra-
matic and sex-appeal movies, which they con-
sider misrepresent the life of their nation.
A rumor comes from London that Will
Dyson, the Australian caricaturist, is en-
gaged to Mrs. Clarice Zander, the widow
of a returned soldier who died in the U.S.A.
She was a Miss Peel, and for some time
managed Robertson and Mullens’s art gallery.
She has a flat at Chelsea. Will Dyson’s
first wife was the beautiful Ruby Lindsay,
of the famous family of artists. She died,
leaving one daughter, Betty, who is at
present with her father in London.
Mervyn Skipper’s book of jungle stories,
“The Meeting Pool,” is being translated into
Finnish, which Cuts, so far as this Page
knows, a new notch in the tally of honors
accorded Australian authors.
Linda Parker’s farewell concert at the Audit-
orium—she’s off to Germany for further
study—was only sparsely attended. Madame
Austral, John Amadio and Nils Nelson were
in the audience, the diva sporting an ermine-
collared black fur coat over purple-toned
raiment. Miss Parker, whose dark hair curled
about the nape of her neck, wore white
crepe de Chine, with a cape and a flounced
skirt- The young pianist, who has a nice
touch and an adequate technique, showed her
paces in the Schumann “Papillons,” Lizst’s
“Rigoletto” paraphrase, some Chopin num-
bers and Mendelssohn’s “Capriccio Bril-
liante.” In the last-mentioned item her
teacher, Harold Elvins, joined her at a
second piano.
Late Speaker Mackey's widow has gone
into business as a florist. For some time her
friends have known that she was learning
the art of flower manipulation, and now she
is ready to hang out her sign, which she is
doing at her residence at Narong-road, Caul-
field.
A woman of some social tonnage recently
confronted a prosecuting lawyer in a Mel-
bourne court —a low fellow. Her age was
an important item in the evidence and her
account of it varied from time to time as
the case proceeded. Finally the counsel
asked sharply, “Now, madam, without
equivocation, how old are you?” “Approach-
ing 50,” remarked the lady. “From which
side?” retorted the gent, one briskly.
Stanley Argyle, Acting-Opposition Leader
in the State talkery, had a bad time while
at his orange grove at Lake Kangaroo,
Kerang way. Influenza and asthma troubled
him, and his bungalow was part hospital.
He appears to be fully recovered now.. Wil-
liam McPherson, the party leader, who has
been having a jaunt in Europe and America,
is due back about the middle of next week.
While James Barrett goes to Canada to
represent the Vic. branch of the B.M.A. at
a conference at Winnipeg, his lady will stay
with their daughter, Mrs. H. B. Marks, at
Suva.


IN RETROSPECT.
The aged delight to contemplate the past, and it is natural that
they should.
With the inactivity of declining years it is a genuine pleasure
to dwell upon the activities of the past, but thriftlessness in early years
makes poor retrospect, and contemplation of the pleasures of youth
will be poor recompense for discomfort in age. Better to do without
some things you can afford now than later to be obliged to forego
actual necessities you cannot afford.
Open a Savings Bank Account and make it ensure your future.
Every Post Office is an agency of the
faionwealtl) savmos JM of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
CHAPTER I.
IT was a great day for Illawarra. At
twelve noon, so the announcements ran,
to make certain that none of the visitors
might imagine the ceremony was at mid-
night, the official opening, of the new line
from Illawarra to Jimbuk was to be per-
formed by the Honorable the Minister of
Railways, while the blue ribbon which even
now was stretched across the front of the
flower-decked locomotive was to be severed
by a pair of silver scissors held by the more
or less fair hand of the Mayoress of Illa-
warra.
The town was in that state of municipal
paranoia known as en fete. Everyone who
owned a flagpole raised as many colored
streamers as he could lay his hand on. Those
who could raise some flags but lacked the
poles hung them over their front verandahs.
In Kembla-street, the business thoroughfare
of Illawarra, the shopkeepers made a brave
showing; though naturally the pride of place
was held by Horace Egan, licensee of the
Illawarra Grand Hotel, who, with the true
public spirit of the hotelkeeper all the world
over—and the extra public spirit inspired
by the catering contract —had imported a
couple of bales of bunting from Sydney and
decked out his premises till they quite bore
out the “Illawarra Herald’s” description of
being a veritable fairyland.
Horace Egan believed in doing things well.
It was that belief which led to his being
proprietor of the largest and most important
hotel in the town, wherein the nicest people
always stayed. When a Parliamentary party
came, it was a foregone conclusion that it
would put up at the Grand. When the
younger squatting crowd foregathered from
over the mountains for polo in winter or the
surf in summer, the possibility, of staying
anywhere but with Horace Egan was out of
the question. On circuit, it was Horace
Egan who entertained the Judges—and
sometimes the prisoners.
There is, indeed, a dark story, attributed
by Horace Egan himself to Stokes, who
conducts the Metropole, to the effect that
the most reserved and severe of the State’s
criminal Judges, staying one night at the
Grand, found himself a diner beside a
gentleman of such culture and charm of
personality that he so far forgot his reserve
and his severity as to shout the stranger
a cigar and beat him handsomely at bil-
liards; only to find next day, when the
court opened, his acquaintance of the previ-
ous night ushered into the dock.
Enemies of that Judge—especially those
who, like Elijah Moon, regarded all Judges
as emissaries of the capitalistic class, used
to assert that he gave the cultured stranger
six months extra for the deception. From
hia soap-box at the corner of Kembla-
street and Main South-road, Elijah Moon
repeated the story with cumulative exag-
geration so many times that it might have
reached dangerous quarters had not some-
body raked up the fact that the prisoner
was himself a member of a family of
extreme wealth and respectability. Elijah
Moon’s well of sympathy instantly dried
up. He told the story once more with an
addendum about thieves falling out and
honest men getting their due and then let
it drop for ever.
Elijah Moon himself was out to-day. He
had prepared for the event with more care
and discrimination than the Mayor and
aldermen of Illawarra—more even than
their wives. In the privacy of the little
shack where he lived alone, he studied
himself carefully in his mirror before ven-
turing out into the golden sunlight which
bathed the whole South Coast as if Nature
itself was co-operating with the Illawarra
council in doing justice to the occasion.
For three days Elijah Moon had omitted
to shave, whereas he usually shaved daily,
for he was proud of the lines in his
thin ascetic face, proud of the deep blue
the razor painted on his cheek, proud
of the stringy muscles of his neck.
Elijah Moon wore a straggly moustache
under the impression that it was
more democratic to be' moustachioed than
clean shaven. He noted that the sons of
the mighty were clean shaven and felt hate
rise in his bosom towards the clean shave,
entirely overlooking that the sons of the
people were also clean shaven. In his
forgetfulness, Elijah attached 'much im-
portance to that moustache. The socialistic
republic towards which he looked with hope
would inaugurate an era of freedom in
which everybody would be compelled by
.law to wear moustaches. In the meantime
ho wore his own, convinced that the spec-
tacle made the capitalistic class wince every
time it saw it. To Elijah it was not merely
a moustache; it was a flag.
To-day Elijah Moon had raked out of
odd comers his oldest and most disreput-
able*. clothes—a pair of dungarees so tom
and battered that they would no longer
serve him in his daily toil, a coat which
had reached a green old age, a shirt from
which he had washed all the original color,
substituting one acquired by contact with
the floor, a pair of battered boots and a
cloth cap to which Elijah still clung, in
spite, of years of residence in Australia.
Never was exquisite of the ages more
pleased with his personal appearance than
was Elijah Moon as he strolled out to
witness the ceremony. All ceremony was
ostentatious mimicry—part of the trickery
of the capitalistic class—and one by one he
had seen his disciples backslide in the pre-
sence of temptation. Even Perkins, the
secretary of Elijah’s own union, had accep-
“He was very clean , very stiff, very uncomfortable.
His best clothes were very best; he had not worn them
sufficiently for them to be softened to his movements.”
ted an invitation to join the committee of
celebration and had proved the best
organiser of the whole affair. Lesser lights
had fallen before lesser temptation, and
Elijah felt that, like Private Murphy, he was
the only man in the whole regiment in step.
While the rest of Ulawarra forgot its
differences to rejoice over the opening of
the line, Elijah Moon remained true to his
principles, and he determined that nobody
should lose sight of the fact. He was to
be the Protest, the Discordant Note. He
had hopes that there might be afforded him
an opportunity of speaking, and in his
mind’s eye he saw an addition to the news-
paper reports of the opening—an addition
detailing his own actions in a shocked tone
and under the heading “A Discreditable
Scene.”
Elijah had been the Protest, the Dis-
cordant Note on several occasions; some-
times he had contrived to be a Discredit-
able Scene and an Unpleasant Incident, and
the reports of all. were carefully pasted in
his scrapbook, the one which bore on a
flyleaf the quotation in Elijah’s schoolboy
hand:
Right for ever on the scaffold
Wrong for ever on the throne.
As Elijah Moon swung down Kembla-
street towards the station, proud as all the
combined gallants, macaronis, exquisites,
dudes and knuts in sartorial history, he
passed a cottage wherein a tragedy was
being enacted. A small boy too weak to
resist, too young to realise his treachery
to the doctrine of class-consciousness, was
being decked out as a tribute to the in-
satiable maw of ravening capitalism. The
cottage was a very small affair. It did
not cover as large an area as many a city
fla.t. There were two rooms and a kitchen
within its walls. When that same boy
learned in the Ulawarra State School No.
1189 that “everything within that cot was
wondrous neat and clean,” the thought
struck him for the first time that the descrip-
tion applied to his own home.
Like most of its fellows, the little house
was constructed of weatherboards with a
galvanised-iron roof; but, for-
tunately, little of either was visible,
for an enormous creeper of bougain-
villea almost covered the premises,
in its glorious bloom, making Mrs.
West’s one of the purple patches of Illa-
warra. In the twenty feet between the
verandah and the picket fence Mary West
grew flowers; in the fifty feet behind the
back verandah she and Jimmy Packington
—the sacrifice to capitalism—grew vege-
tables and tended the fowls and ducks and
watered the passion-fruit which covered
the cottage, and the fig-trees which grew
here and there, and the choko-vines which
almost completely encompassed the long
galvanised-iron wash-house. This dispro-
portionate wash-house had a reason, ex-
plained by the neat black-and-white notice
board attached to the front verandah:
“Washing and Ironing. M. West.”
Mary West, fifty-five years of age at
the date of the opening of the Illawarra-
?SSt,
Really she had no claim to it. The Federal
rolla described her condition as spinster,
an( j though she had filled the place of a
mo^ber Jimmy Packington since he was
two years old she was not related to him.
TT ,„ •
Cl .bus ness was a piospe ous o e a
washenes and ironies go; that is to say,
? ie ne \ ei ll ’. Y 1 PP. , ~
border-line of starvation which the wars
of peace thrust^forward all too frequent y
owaics , , . >„ . vLreolf limy,! iri
occasi n » i a - .
expulsion from the Illawarra branch of the
° I , ICII f ' 7 f ,, ” '
employer of labor, a-member, of the para-
sitical capitalistic cas , i w ion iic \
an I P^ U - X Y ISI 01h fining e summ i
months, sometimes she took on as many
as three local girls to assist her little in-
d^ s ,V J ‘ 1 mis m\e_ <n awaie
of tho /«& the L° ffi . cials of tbe PLJ “ novor
worried Mrs. West nor called on her to
show cause, noi cance e in ai } Ka 0 °
democracy, am as ie nea u< no
oCClll j , .Pi-- slp ™ l * lou [ lt 01 . ,
people s rights h ija i oon, sie lomainci
m unmtciiup e< possession o lei me e-
| bl P> a c °* m . th f, steering-wheel of the
State a factor m the making and unmak-
in £ ° Mmistnes


Clothes
jor Men
d
and their
Sons.
The WILD WEST
Wide-leaf Hat
A big shady Hat for
Men who work out-o’-
doors—made of good-
quality fur felt, with a
cut-edge leaf of 3£in.
Steel and Fawn shades,
all sizes. Won
derful value at
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
30/-
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
Toowoomba. Longreach. Townsville.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
ď
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
\
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ”
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
0 THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki g, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. * C. HARDTMOTH. of " KOH-I-NOOR ” Pencil fame,
London Office—39. Kiwruwny. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGAIjLi. P O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
Physically Mrs. West was a plump, round
woman with a plump, round face. She was
not the least like the old maid that she
was. She looked as if she had stepped right
off the cover of some sentimental song
about Mother, with her brown hair only
slightly tinged with grey, her red cheeks—
the red cheeks of a girl of twenty—and her
perpetual air of jolly good-nature.
To-day she was determined that Jimmy
should do justice to her household. He
was standing bn a chair in her parlor
while she put the finishing touch to his
toilet, setting him on the floor to impart a
final polish to his hair already plastered
on his scalp as if it had been varnished.
It was an uncomfortable operation. Jimmy
knew none he liked less, unless perhaps it
was a private interview with the head-
master of Public School 1189. But he set
his teeth and pretended to be not seriously
aggrieved, because he loved Mary West
as the mother she had been to him, and
knew that it was her pride in him which
was behind the agonies of the torture-
chamber. At last, a stiff boxer hat was
jambed so tightly on his head that it com-
pressed his scalp, and with a kiss and a hug
that paid for much suffering, Mary West
slipped sixpence in his hand and sent him
forth, an object-lesson to the less com-
petent in the training of children, and
being as unlike a natural boy of twelve
as could be imagined.
He was very clean, very stiff, very un-
comfortable. His best clothes were very
best; he had not worn them sufficiently for
them to be softened to his movements.
There was still a crease down each of his
knickerbockers. His boots were even stiffer
with newness. His collar was an atrocious
survival from the dark ages, adapted to
modern uses by some particularly malevo-
lent outfitter. And, to crown all, there was
his boxer hat, not the soft felt in whicli
he revelled on week days, nor even a more
recent one of the same type, but a stiff,
hard, brutal thing which prevented his
thinking with ease. As he turned the corner
he thrust it on the back of his head, where
it could do the minimum of cranial injury,
and began to forget the inhumanities of
life.
Here and there along the street walked
groups attired in their Sunday suits. At
the corners, others were encountered drift-
ing the same way; and down the bush
tracks on the far slopes leading to the
mountain ranges, twos and threes were
moving in the direction of the railway
station.
Only one figure was stationary, that of
old Joe Gurner, the carrier, who for the
past thirty years had driven people and
goods to and fro- between Illawarra and
Jimbuk. Joe was seated on the horse-
trough outside Knight’s Royal Hotel, which
had been the leading caravanserai- when
Joe started business; had become second-
rate when the Metropole got its license
twenty years ago; and third-rate when the
Grand was built ten years ago. It was one-
storeyed, with a verandah from which you
entered the bar, and the floor had a spring
in it that you miss in more up-to-date
establishments.
“Old Joe’s shikker,” thought Jimmy as
lie approached. He knew old Joe and
liked him, for he always had a word for
the youngsters and a jocular word at that.
Joe was their steady comedian, sure of in-
voking a laugh, and they accorded him the
honor that the mediieval court accorded
its jester.
Jimmy’s diagnosis was incorrect. Joe had
not been drinking. The strange look in
his eyes was the result not of drunkenness
but of extreme sobriety. Though in that
proximity to a bar which means danger, he
had not been inside the Royal that day.
“Hullo, Sonny,” he said, looking steadily
at Jimmy.
“Hullo, Joe,” returned Jimmy courte-
ously enough, for in the country town there
is nothing disrespectful in twelve years
addressing seventy years by its first name.
“Well, Sonny,” went on Joe, “take a bit
o’ sound advice from an ol’ man. Never
do anybody a good turn, never be honest,
always bite the hand that fed yer and ye’ll
git on.”
The advice was utterly at variance with
what he had heard at school and from
Mary "West, and Jimmy could find no logic
to meet it. More important still, he felt
sure that there was no logic extant which
could overcome that strange look in old
Joe’s eyes.
“So long, Joe,’’ he said, hesitatingly, and
moved, off, hearing from the man as he
left the greatest surprise of all, a loud
laugh, but a laugh which sounded strangely
different from all the other laughs he had
enjoyed from Joe in the:past.
As for the ceremony of opening the new
railway line, Jimmy saw little. Only a
select few citizens whose wealth and posi-
tion led to their being the recipients of
invitations from the Government, and of
the title of silvertails from their uninvited
fellow’s, were admitted into the hollow
square formed by the local battalion of
senior cadets. Of the speech of the Minister
of Railways, reported to the length of half
a column by the special reporters of the
Sydney dailies, he heard nothing. Neither
did he witness the embarrassment of the
Mayor of Illawarra in having to speak in
such distinguished company. Neither did
he see the Mayoress dexterously clip the
blue ribbon which let the locomotive
through.
Had he done so Jimmy might have
proved the Unpleasant Incident which
Elijah Moon aspired to be, for there was a
long-standing vendetta, between him and
the Mayoress concerning an amount owing
for washing a pair of socks. Unable to
account for the discrepancy in any other
way, she had shifted the blame on Jimmy,
who had been entrusted with the task of
returning the socks with the rest of the
mayoral washing—a blame which Jimmy
indignantly refused to admit. Consequently,
it was fortunate for the harmony of the
occasion that Jimmy was not admitted,
otherwise he might have cried “What about
them socks?” just at the moment, above all
others in her life, that the Mayoress desired
to look most gracious and dignified.
Jimmy saw her later and glared at her
from several angles. He was determined
Elijah Moon.
that she should see him glare at her, so he
shifted his position from place to place
until he made sure she noticed him. Then
he glared with all the glare-power at his
command. And there were other bright
spots in the day’s proceedings. He was not
long meeting some schoolfellows of his own
age and his own push—Bert Burnett, Stan
Carlisle, Patsy Quirk and Des Quirk; and
wherever they were fun would follow. If
Bert could not make a baby cry to the
mystification of its mother by pulling a
grotesque face, Stan Carlisle would need
only a piece of chalk or charcoal to fresco
the walls with insulting caricatures of all
the leading silvertails, or the Quirk boys
would dispel the greyest depression by the
absolute irresponsible gaiety of their tem-
peraments.
There was life and amusement at the
town hall, for no rigid distinctions were
there. People simply gathered, and when
the town band came out and marched to
the station everybody followed in joyous
disorder. They caught sight of Elijah
Moon, soap-box in hand. That soap-box
meant something to the boys. It was a
veritable Pandora’s box which threatened
at any moment to release miracles in plenty
—masterly invective levelled against those
in high places, laughable ridicule of
accepted institutions, delightful satire of
constituted authority in general and Sergt.
Dunn, its Illawarra representative, in par-
ticular, satire which at any moment might
develop into physical conflict.
The boys followed Elijah Moon, but, to
the profound disappointment of all, Moon
included, they found the crowd so thick
outside the hollow square of cadets that
his voice failed utterly to achieve its
object of interrupting the speech of the
Minister of Railwaj r s. At best it was
only an obligato, though to those immedi-
ately in Moon’s vicinity it was a duet in
which “development of the great natural
resources of this magnificent district dove-
tailed and tangled with “the forces of
organised capitalism working their will in
human flesh an’ blood.” And the crowd,
mostly of the class which applauded Moon
at Sunday-afternoon discourses, wanted to
hear the Minister this time, and so fre-
quently implored the people’s tribune to
“Give it a rest” and “Git work” tha.t Moon
eventually stepped down, lifted his soap-
box and went home more firmly convinced
than ever of the ingratitude of democracies.
Left to their own devices, the boys found
that they could see nothing. Fragments ol
speeches they could hear, but they were not
interested. Things had begun to pall
until Des Quirk noted the dragging boot-
laces of one citizen, and, stooping behind,
attached it to the parasol of a strange
lady beside him. The uproarious joy of
the quartet when the people began to move
excited suspicion, and they thought it best
to run round to the far side of the station.
They arrived there just as the cadets
opened for the guests of honor. The Mini-
ster led and they contrived to press into
the front row.
“Here, Bert, you git in front,” said
Jimmy, for Bert’s prowess was famous.
Bert slipped forward, stood out of the
line of the crowd, in defiance of loudly-
cried police instructions; and, as the Mini-
ster looked his way, rolled his nose around
his face. This was the most glorious of
all Bert’s glorious feats of facial acrobatics.
Long ago he had discovered his possession
of a unique gift—power over the muscles
of his face that is denied to the majority
of mortals; and such respect and applause
did it bring him among his schoolfellows
that he had developed that gift to its
highest possible limits. And now, to accord
with the exalted office of a Minister of the
Crown, he treated him to his most difficult
and exclusive act—the rolling of his nose
till it completed the entire circuit of his
chubby countenance.
The Minister’s gaze became fixed. He
was not sure that he had seen aright. So
Bert gave him an encore number. He
flapped his ears at him, rolled his nose
again and swung his mouth until it seemed
to touch each of his ears in turn. The
great man was no longer puzzled. He
burst into a roar of laughter and so did
Jimmy and Carlisle find the Quirks.
He had not been a Minister of the Crown
long, this one. Many human attributes
were still left him, and one was the pos-
session of a sense of humor. He stepped
up to the push. “Here, kids,” he said,
smiling, “would you like a trip to Jimbuk
and back?”
Bert raised his nose like an elephant
raises a prehensile trunk in acquiescence.
He felt that such a decent sort as the
Minister was deserving of something
special.
“My oath, sir!” said Jimmy. “Thank
yer,” he added, remembering Mrs. West’s
careful training in the courtesies. The
others added murmured thanks.
“Here, Guard,” said the Minister, “put
these nippers in the van and let them look
out of the windows.”
The trip to Jimbuk and back occupied
two hours, and the shadow of Mount Keira
had fallen over the town when they left
the station for their homes. At the Royal
they found Sergt. Dunn and a couple of
men bearing a stretcher on which was some-
thing covered with a blanket. Four or
five people followed. A woman was crying.
“What’s up, Mister?” asked Jimmy.
“Poor ol’ Joe. Hung himself from a tree
in Smith’s paddock. The new line’s cut
Joe’s job out, y’ know. Before he done it
he took his ’orses an’ turned ’em all into
Martin McDonough’s best feed-paddick.”
Joe always was one for a joke.
CHAPTER 11.
The boys were eager to escape from the
presence of death. Old Joe alive was a
welcome figure which each of them met
with a thrill of joy. Old Joe dead had
become a terror—something which they
knew could not harm them, but which sent
a chill into their hearts. They hesitated to
lfeave without some tangible excuse, lest
the elders might deem them cowardly. Then,
unable to bear the pressure, Patsy Quirk
turned and walked fast, a walk which a” few
yards later became a run. The morale
of the others was broken. They followed
hotfoot, slowing down only when they had
turned the corner, from which the Royal’s
yard with the horror it held was no longer
visible.
“Rest his soul in peace and glory 1” said
Patsy Quirk. He remembered that it was
the correct thing to say in such circum-
stances. “Rest his soul in peace and glory!”
repeated Des Quirk reverently. Bert Bur-
nett, whose father always put himself down
on the census as a Methodist, and Jimmy
Packington, whom Mrs. West, as a devout
atheist, had always instructed in the in-
herent viciousness of all faiths, were silent.
“Poor ole Joe!” said Jimmy after a pause.
“He was a nice ole feller.” Instantly to all
was recalled some pleasing encounter with
Old Joe, some encounter filled with the
joyous gaiety of the man whose heart was
ever young, some of his effervescent quips
and cranks and stories, some of the evi-
dences of his invariable good nature, his
love of all humanity.
It was too much for the Celtic senti-
mentality of the Quirk brothers. Almost
simultaneously they burst into tears and
scampered off ashamed of having disgraced
themselves before their mates.
“Well, so long, Bert,” said Jimmy.
“So long, Jimmy,” returned Bert. Each
was eager for solitude, each was eager to
reach home, the place where wounds arc
healed, where turbulent minds are com-
forted.
It was a relief to be alone. Jimmy felt
more at ease as .he strolled along to Mrs.
West’s, but he was bursting to tell the
news and was glad to find her in the front
garden.
“00, Mum,” he cried, running in from the
gate. “01’ Joe’s gone an’ hung himself.”
“What, old Joe?” she cried. “How do you
know?”
“We seen Mr. Dunn and the others
carryin’ him inter the Royal yard on a
stretcher—hung himself in Smith’s paddick,
they says, an’ before he done it he turned
his horses inter Martin McDonough’s feed.”
“Do they know why he did it?” asked
Mrs. West.
“A feller tole me as the new line’d done
him out of his job.”
Mrs. West mused. “I suppose it would,
poor old chap! There’d be little carrying
on the road now with the trains running.
The motors have cut out pretty well all
Joe’s passenger traffic this five years. The
railway’d take the freight, too.”
Elijah Moon hove in sight. He was prob-
ably sorry to hear of Old Joe’s death; all
the same, it provided him with a text for
an argument, and that was something
always to be cherished.
“Another humin sacrifice cast on th’
blood-stained haltar of capitalism,” he
announced as soon as he came within hear-
ing distance.
“Don’t be a fool, Elijah,” retorted Mrs.
West. “Capitalism’s got nothin’ to do with
old Joe’s death. It’s ignorance, bad manage-
ment, bungling—whatever you call it.
We’re all equally to blame, you and I and
the capitalist and the rest of us. You make
me tired sometimes with your idiotic rub-
bish.”
Moon sighed. He shook his head sadly.
“It’s ’ard,” he remarked as he walked off;
“yer wear out yer ’eart an’ soul try in’ ter
’elp them as prefer ter swaller th’ stories
’anded out ter them by their enemies.”
Moon was in a depressed mood. The
reception he had been given by his own
people at the opening ceremony had come
on him as a blow. At ordinary times the
opinion of Mrs. West, whom he regarded
as a lukewarm, if not actually a mugwump,
would have caused him not a passing qualm;
this evening it was a hit on a raw wound.
Elijah frequently met these rebuffs. Then
he would be silent for three or four days
putting in all his spare time inhaling the
oxygen of Marx and Spencer, till, feeling
with the religious zealot “Thy labor has not
been vain,” he would resume the fight for
freedom like a giant refreshed.
Mary West and her foster-son sat down
to tea. The boy said very little until .they
had almost finished. Then he spoke.
“Mum, it’s a rotten thing to build that
line an’ kill ol’ Joe.”
He had been puzzling over the sociological
aspect of the affair. Everybody seemed so
delighted that the line had been constructed.
Even Elijah Moon had had previously noth-
ing to say against the scheme. Jimmy knew
that humanity was divided roughly into
(Continued on page J/5.)


Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directois: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tail, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTYS: MR. CINDERS.
CRITERION: LITTLE ACCIDENT.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD..
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE NEW MOON.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
VILMA BANKY as
A LADY TO LOVE.
(Children under 16 not admitted.)
ALSO
AILEEN PRINGLE in
THE PRINCE OF DIAMONDS.
(Children under 16 hot admitted.)
“THE BARRIER MINER”
is classed AI by the highest authori-
ties for quantities circulation, quality
circulation and profitable circulation.
The one and only newspaper read by
everybody west of the Darling.
All the wise men of the East know
the best medium for the West.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HERBERT WILLIAM MEDCRAFT formerly of
Ulverstone in Tasmania but now of parts unknown.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of this Court
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
Melva Eva Myrtle Medcraft for dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of desertion.
TAKE NOTICE that unless before the Thirtieth day
of August next you cause an appearance to be
entered in the Registry of the said Court Macquarie-
street Hobart to answer the said Petition the Court
will proceed to hear the charge proved and pro-
nounce sentence your absence notwithstanding.
Dated this Seventeenth day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty.
(Sgd.) C. S. SIMMONS,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Missing Friends.
J~)AWE.— WILLIAM DA WE. formerly of
Boort and Kerang, being the son of
Daniel Da we, late of Tyrendarra, Victoria,
graziex*, deceased, is requested to forward
present address to MYLES O’BRIEN,
Solicitor, Kerang.
YY/ILL JAMES STEVENS, formerly of
” Christchurch, N.Z., clerk, and last heard
of at Broome, W.A., in 1899, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, communicate with
McINTYRE A TAYLOR, of Feilding, N.Z.,
Solicitors for the Estate of his late uncle
William Henry Webb.
FOR STAMP COLLECTORS.
PIFTY diff. Jugo 1/6, 100 diff. French 2/3,
* 75 all diff. 6d., 500 unpicked assorted
mixtures 1/-. A photo stamp to all buyers
free. Postage extra. Price-list and approvals
on request. Standard Stamp Co., Sydney
Boulcvarde, Her Majesty’s Arcade. For
letters : G.P.O. Box 3561 RR.
Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distingushed Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin attended
the Westminster Glee Singers’ concert in
the City Hall. There was plenty of variety
in the programme, which ranged from a
fifteenth-century Avc Maria to old English
folk songs, Irish airs and sailors’ chanteys.
Various Catholic charities will benefit
from the annual Catholic Ball in the City
[Tall. Archbishop Duhig was there, and
Mrs. J. B. Harvey presented the 17 debs.
Ivory and white, in satin, mariette and
chiffon, was their garb, and they carried gold,
violet and white posies. For the debutantes’
waltz, the girls all wore white tulle scarves
veiling neck and arms.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin were at the
Kubelik concert with Mrs. N. A. H. Camp-
bell and Eileen and Patricia Bell. Others
in the audience were Premier and Mrs.
Moore, the Mayor and Mayoress, Archbishop
Duhig, Bishop and Mrs. dc Witt Batty.
Mr. and Mrs. George Brooke and Edward
Cahill. Kubelik’s own concerto in B flat
major, No. 4, was the chief event.
Mrs. Leslie Buchanan died very suddenly
in Toowoomba, where her husband, who was
killed in the Great War, was formerly
editor of the “Darling Downs Gazette.” As
Alys Leach, a M.L. girl, she joined J.C.W.
in “The Geisha,” at the age of 18. After
her husband’s death she taught singing in
Toowoomba, and was responsible for many
successful productions of musical comedy.
Excellent acting made up for the failings
of the rather badly constructed play “At
Mrs. Beam’s,” a comedy by C. K. Munro
which the Repertory chose for their last
production. The part of Miss Shoe, the
gossipy old maid, was well portrayed by
Irene Silvestei - , and Rhoda Felgate, Duleie
Scott, as the French vamp, George Eaton,
villain, Jack Reading and Dr. Whitehouse
were effective supports.
At King’s College, Montgomery White
M.Sc., of Cairns, married Jessie Isabella
Smart, M.A., of Toowoomba. The bride-
groom, who taught chemistry here, has just
won one of the two 1851 scholarships avail-
able to Australians, and the brwte is a
resident teacher at the Women’s College.
Headmaster Trigge officiated at the ceremony.
The bride was given away by her father,
in ivory bridal satin with a veil of rose point.
Jean Smart and Vera Smirnoff ’maided in
almond green. Students of King’s and the
Women’s College formed a guard of honor
for the bridal pair. The reception was in
the Women’s College, where Mr. and Mrs.
Smart and Freda Bage, the principal,
received.
St. Paul’s Presbyterian Church saw the
wedding of Edward Whatmore and Doreen
Reid. The bride was in ivory ring-velvet
with a BrusselsMacc veil. Gwen Reid,
Vivienne Ruddle and Ena Whatmore
’maided in jonquil yellow, wild-rose pink and
jade green respectively. The reception was
at the National. The honeymoon is being
spent in Sydney and at Kosciusko.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Tatt.’s Club meeting at Morphettville
drew only a moderate attendance. P. J.
Flannigan and his wife did the entertain-
ing, the lady in a black tailored coat, with
a fox fur and a black velour hat. A few
bright felts gladdened the landscape, but
the weather was dreary.
Salvation Army bonnets were featured at
the reception given by the Mayoress (Mrs.
Lavington Bonytnon) to Commissioner and
Mrs. McKenzie, who have just returned to
Adelaide after an absence of 27 years. They
have come direct from China, where they
had some of the hair-raising experiences with
bandits which missionaries are always liable
to encounter in that benighted land.
Tom Barr Smith, jun.. and his sister
Ursula, also the Clifford Deeleys, returned
by the Niagara after some months abroad.
Charles Symon was another who travelled
by the same boat' from Vancouver.
Mrs. Wallace Sandford gave a large bridge
party at her home on East-terrace on Wed-
nesday afternoon. Almond blossom and roses
everywhere gave the gathering a touch of
spring.
The music-traders are coming into the lime-
light next week with a ball in the Palais
Royal in aid of the Mayor’s Unemployment
Relief Fund. Special dance items will be
given by leading artists. The Shell Charity
flail at the Palais on August 14 has
secured the services of two dance-teachers,
Nora Stewart and Phyllis Leitch, whose
pupils will provide ballets during the even-
ing.
Arrangements for the Movie Ball are
promising a lot of entertainment. The latest
prize is a free permanent wave “after the
ball” for the best fancy costume among the
women.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Hale School Old Boys escorted a bevy of
pretty lassies to tlieir -Alma Mater’s annual
dance. Platinum and jet broideries sparkled
among Mrs. Le Couteur’s lobelia-blue georg-
ettes ; silver beads ornamented Mrs. Horan’s
dawn-pinks; apricot taffetas swayed about
Gwen Male’s ankles; Yvonne Renou’s hya-
cinth chiffons were attached to a hip yoke;
Ednq Piper was in black; prettv Jane Shan
had a dipping hem-line to her rose-petal
satin; Lesley Mackintosh wore citron-shaded
taffetas; Joan Newberry loquat moire, and
Gretchen Hardie orange chiffons merging
into pale primrose.
Chinese lanterns and a good mileage of
streamers decked the R.S.L. Hall for the
Toe H hop. Nora Stow wore black tulle;
Josephine Fox sunset-pinks; a pri.dominance
of green patterned Hazel Peploe's ninon;
shell-pink chiffon velvet was favored by Miss
Ledger: Sheila Lightfoot chose black net;
satin and laces in convolvulus-blue fashioned
Barbara Pretty’s frock, and green georgettes
Marjorie Ridley's; Mrs. B. Summers had a
silver glint about her white crepe romaine.
Tall May Angel exchanged marriage vows
this week with Frank Parkes in St. George’s
Cathedral. An embroidered tulle veil foamed
over the parchment satin gown made with
long sleeves and a fitting hip line. Freda
Lunt- attended in peach-mnk taffetas scat-
tered with shadowy forget-me-nots, millinery
of powder-blue felt and blue slippers. Inti-
mate friends and relatives wished the couple
happiness at the Savoy.
The French community made merry upon
July 14. The Alliance Frangaise produced
two one-acters at their guest evening, in
which Mrs. Croyle, Mrs. Sharlock, Mar.iorie
McKniglit, Miss Hamilton and Miss Rees
took part. Among the guests at a dinner-
dance at the Palace Hotel on the same date
were M. Antoine with Madame and their
daughter; the De Latours, the Ben Provosts,
Madame Jefferson, Mr. and Mrs. R. Smith,
M. Brisbout and his wife, Madame Blotiere
and the R. S. Boyds.
Alongside is a Bardwell Clarke picture of
Helen Ambrose, who recently became Mrs.
Tom Moore.
The bridal
gown of ivory
chiffon was
embroidered
and appliqu6d
with a shower
of tiny taffeta
petals. Silver
lame shim-
mered through
the chiffon
train and fairy
cobweb of
tulle, which
formed the
veil. Small
Bet tine Mc-
Intyre, in
white frills to
her toes, and
three ’maids,
Gwenyth Am-
bro s e, Joy
Lathlain and
Freda Weir, followed up the aisle. Their
color scheme embraced moire frocks, little
tulle caps of apple-green and bouquets of
red roses. Rejoicings were at the Palace, and
the ’moon will shed.its beams in Spain and
later in the Cold Country. The bridegroom
is a direct descendant of Sir John Moore.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Parliament opened with the usual mild
formalities and a full display of war-paint
worn by all entitled to it. His Ex. was
met at the steps of Parliament House by
Col. H. Cox Taylor and Naval-Lieut. R. S.
Symonds, and escorted to the Council Cham-
ber. After the formal business, Knight John
Evans, with his lady and daughter Lila,
entertained a representative crowd at tea in
the dining-room and on the terrace.
His Ex. and party patronised the Orches-
tral Society’s second concert at the Town
Hall. There was a liberal helping of modern
Russian music in the programme. Myra
Gillon’s solos were very successful, and a
small violinist, Mollie Whitelaw, made her
bow to the public. Mrs. Saunders’s accom-
paniments were finely executed.
L’Alliance Franeaise took the Lyceum
Club for the setting of their National Day
celebrations, in the absence in England of
their president, Mrs. Henry Dobson, who
usually puts her house in Elboden-street at
their disposal. Miss Ash, as deputy-presi-
dent. and Mdlle. Golembiowski did the
honors. The musical programme was entirely
French, and the French Consul, W. H.
Burgess, rounded up the proceedings with an
address.
The University Union held its annual ball
at the Continental, and a highly successful
function it proved. The social committee
consisted of Elinor Hurst, C. Jillett, G.
Roberts afid V. T. Fitzgerald, with B. B.
Smith doing the secretarial spadework.
Although Government House wasn’t formally
represented, Miss Margaret O’Grady and her
guest Miss Clemons were present. The frock-
ing was extraordinarily pretty, long skirts,
of course, being worn by almost every
woman.
Among Tasmanians who made their bow
to Royalty at the last Court were the wives
of the two Foster cousins, Francis and
Lister, both honeymooning in leisurely fash-
ion in Europe, and Breda, the young tennis-
playing daughter of one of our members of
Parliament.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORT T T WIND.
Darwin.
The Darwin Golf Club came into exist-
ence when the Government Resident, Colonel
Weddell, opened the club house and drove
the first ball from the first tee. The links
are in a splendid position, two miles from
the town, with an outlook across the bay
on one side and over the racecourse to the
hills on the other. There are already nearly
100 members.
The Town Commission, appointed by the
Commonwealth Government in place of the
Town Council, which recently resigned in a
body, consists of Messrs. Brogan (chair-
man), Brennan, Callanan, Bowman and
Connors. They will remain in office till
October next.
Passed out at Katherine, Mrs. Catherine
O’Shea, proprietress of the Railway Hotel
and mother of six charming daughters. She
had lived here for over 20 years, and trav-
ellers along the line will miss her sorely.
The Civil Service Association held a
smoke-social to farewell Mr. Dempsey, retir-
ing Governor of Fanny Bay Gaol. He has
spent 49 years in the Government service
and 24 in the North.
Hoppe, known all over the world for his
photography, is giving Darwin a look-over.
Another visitor is J. Cain, of the Overland
Telegraph Department, who spent most of
his early years in the North.
“Lichtenberg” (Solomon Islands) : As you
walk round the plantation the cocoanuts
are dropping all the time, and you have a
lot of narrow shaves. Mostly the crack
gives warning, but old palms are so high
that the crack is out of earshot, yet invari-
ably the nuts contrive to miss. My Chinese
carpenter explains it by saying that the
cocoanut has three eyes, and before falling
always looks beneath to make sure it won't
drop on somebody’s bead.
Leonard Matters, Labor M.P. for one of
the Lambeth divisions in the House of Com-
mons, is an Australian who has wandered
the world more widely than most. A S. Aus.
native, he made a name for himself as a
clever writer on the Perth press a quarter
of a century ago. Then Loudon called, and
then America, and after some belt-tightening
experiences in ’Frisco while he sought a
market for descriptive sketches, he drifted
down to the Argentine and ran a paper at
Buenos Aires. Matters returned to Australia
in ’23,' and had the project for starting a
second morning newspaper in Perth been
successful he was to have remained as
editor. But fate intervened and sent him
on his travels again, with a. result that even
he could hardly have dreamed of. He is
not the only one of the family to distinguish
himself; a sister, Muriel, was well to the
fore in the stormy suffragette campaign of
the pre-war days.
“Aix-Les-Coogee” : Millionaire Abe Lincoln
Erlanger, recently dead at 70, was dubbed
the “little Napoleon” because of his domin-
eering ways. He filled his home with things
Napoleonic. Abe, in earlier days, invariably
came to his theatres in sweater and cap—
even on first nights—and his voice, bawling
directions from the wings, was quite familiar
to permanent patrons. He said shortly
before his death that he thought he’d buy
a new motor-car every week, and regarded
himself as the greatest moneymaker in the
theatre business. He probably was, for his
wealth is estimated in dollars at anything
from twenty-five to a hundred million.
“Imbaga” : It seems anomalous that f Aus-
tralia, many parts of which are fairly “stiff”
with crocodiles, pythons and the larger
lizards, should annually import £25,000
worth of reptile hides. The Australian
Reptile Farms and Marine Products Co. is
out to change all that. Crocodile farms in
the N.T. and N.Q. are to exploit the
saurians on the lines of the American alii-
gator ranches in Florida and elsewhere.
Australian tanners have undertaken to make
a market for croc, and other skins, while the
company also intends to deal with sharks,
turtle, beche-de-mer and other sea products
of the northern waters.
“Uramao” ; Touching the half-century anni-
versary of the arrival in London of Aus-
tralia’s first shipment of frozen meat, there
a*re several points of resemblance between the
exp riences of Thomas Sutcliffe Mort and
those of the M-L. pioneer of the industry,
Thomas Brydone—the Dominion landed her
first frozen meat at the London docks in
May 1882. Mort established a dairy settle-
ment at Bodalla in 1556. His ori-
ginal shipment by the Northam, threat-
ening to be a failure, was taken off
the vessel and sold in Sydney. There
is a monument to him at Bodalla, as
well,as in Sydney. Brydone established the
first dairy factory in M.L. at Edendale,
Southland, and collected a £5OO Government
bonus 'for producing the first 50 tons of
cheese. His first shipment of frozen meat
was loaded in the Dunedin at Port Chalmers,
but, owing to defective machinery, had to
be taken off and sold. A monument stands
to his memory on a hill overlooking Tot&ra
estate (near Oamaru), where the sheep were
slaughtered for the home market.
“Mudurup”: Most countries insist that
their very worst pests have been imported
from some other country, and Westralia,
rich in poison plants of its own, always
debits South Africa with providing it with
the so-called “double-gee,” which I suppose
is morelv a variant of the Eastralian Bathurst
burr and the Alabama (U.S.) cockle burr,
immortalised bv O. Henry in “Cabbages and
Kings.” The double-gee is reckoned to have
been imported from the sub-continent m
the middle of last century in a load of fodder
It may have been, though I don’t recall ever
seeing or hearing of it in South Africa. It
certainly has spread over the length and
breadth of the State, and it 'is bad for
rubber tyres ancl hell for bare feet. The
name has always puzzled me, and I have
never heard it explained. The burr might
have suggested to some dead-and-gone
philologist the spikiness of two capital G's
placed back to back, but that is pure con-
jecture.
Uncle Hoover is girding up his vocabulary
for a House of Representatives election,
which occurs every second year. Prohibition
is expected to be a more infuriated bone of
contention than usual. It was brought
about by amendment of the Constitution
on the elaborate plan which requires the
assent of three-fourths of the State Legis-
latures (36 out of 4S). In this ultimate
decision New York, with over 10 million
people, may be nullified by Nevada with
77,000, and when a big State is riled at
being nullified there is apt to be trouble.
The police are a town or city institution, and
their attitude is that the Federal law may
put down drink if it can. The idea which
seems to be growing is that liquor regulation
should be left to the States. Then it is
reckoned that big States would go “wet”
without being any wetter than they are now,
and that city rulers like Big Bill Thompson
would lose a few million annual dollars which
they collect now for winking at alcohol, their
wink being no longer a saleable commodity.
Russian Communist propaganda is glar-
ingly visible and insolent all over the
Empire. The MacDonald Ministry was
lately asked whether it; felt like suppressing
those Muscovite institutions in England
which habitually wipe their boots on - J.
Bull’s coat-tail, and Henderson replied in
terror that if any such thing was done the
debt-repudiator at Moscow might stop giving
us orders. Soviet Russia bought £2,716,000
•worth of British goods by the latest year’s
figures, which was about Bs. in the £lOO
of J. Bull’s total sales. It is a diminishing
trade, also it is a one-sided trade, for Ivan
Blankovitch sells J.B. seven times more than
he buys. Meanwhile the Government is
wrecking the protected British lace. industry,
which is worth a great deal more than the
sale of a few oddments to the crooks in
Russia, in the name of Freetrade, and pro-
mises to wreck more as soon as it can spare
the money. This should make room for
more imports, including Russian imports.
But surely it isn’t worth while buying so
much loss at the price of so much degrada-
tion.
“Simmer and .Tack”: The average Aus-
tralian is apt to take it for granted that
S’Africa knows everything worth while about
gold extraction. But it still has a long way
to go, in the opinion of Robert Kotze, a
world-famous metallurgist and former Gov-
ernment Mining Engineer for the Union. He
told the Union Parliament recently that at
least two of the big Rand mines were work-
ing at a loss, nine were making a profit of
no more than 2s. per ton, and six others
showed between 2s. and 4s. per ton. There
are 200,000,000 tons of ore in these mines
too poor to work at present, with a similar
tonnage of a quality so low that no one has
ventured to touch it. A new process in-
volving lower working costs is imperative.
S’African working costs, with the elaborate
equipment of the mines and the cheap manual
labor, arc the lowest in the world. If that
country cannot make a profit save on the
higher grades, the dear-labor mining indus-
try of Australia has little hope of reviving
without a gold bonus.
“New Briton”: Nakanai (New Britain),
where white prospectors were murdered so
sensationally in 1926 by natives while on
their way to a reported rich gold and copper
strike, is now being quietly opened up again.
The place was declared an “uncontrolled
area” immediately after the murders,. which
were followed by a punitive expedition, m
which the alleged use of a machine-gun
caused the devil of a rumpus in the Federal
Parliament. The Administration thereupon
declined to admit anyone except authorised
officials into the area, on the plea that care-
ful action on the part of the authorities
would first be necessary to quieten the wild
men. There were many heartburnings over
the decision, particularly on the part of the
survivors of the copper-prospecting venture,
but the Government was adamant. All that
is changed now, and permits are being
issued in limited numbers and subject to
safeguards and guarantees. A rush wont
be allowed.


All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
legalemiT
LUBRICATING SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
I
A
can be serviced by
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W.10, England.
FOSTER’S FAMOUS FLOWER SEEDS
Produce Flowers for Exhibition..
CARNATION. CHABAOD GIANT. Best Carna-
tion from seed.
STOCK. MAMMOTH PYRAMIDAL,. Double,
globular flowers, delightful colors.
ANTIRRHINUM. MAJESTIC. The \great advance;
exquisite colors.
1/- packet.
FOSTERS, LTD., Seed Growers, Sydney.
jCctrllon
UVENWARE
English Manufacture.
Direct from
Oven to table
f ARLTON OVEN-
WARE is fashioned
for oven and table use,
and quite different to
other ovenware.
EASY TO CLEAN
No pots and pans are
necessary and the grease
simply won’t stay on after
the ware has been used.
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc., (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
&
rm
Price of
medium size
Round Casserole
12/9
Smedley Service.
w HAIR
need
here's
11
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Alien’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&cUUis (.MEXICAN)
VkUnut Stedfit
THE GREY #
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6), 6d. being postage.
fj?
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN METERS.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 10483/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
DISH-WASHING MACHINES.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 2935/20 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PROCESS OF
TREATING VEGETABLES IN PRE-
PARATION FOR CANNING.
'T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 3741/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, pse
and vend the' invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TAONOGHUE. —Last heard of three years
ago in U.S.A., Willie Donoghue is urged
to write to his anxious mother at 31 Scho-
field Iload, Peel Green, Patricroft, Man-
chester. American papers are requested to
copy the inquiry.
"TO JAMES DOUGLAS DEVITT formerly
of 742 Malvern Road Toorak in the
State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known Station-hand.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife JEMIMA
MELVILLE BROWN DEVITT has com-
menced proceedings in the Supreme Court
of Victoria for a divorce on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the 30th
day of August 1930 the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs.
This advertisement is inserted by C. M. S.
Power, of the Titles Office, Melbourne, Pub-
lic Solicitor for Victoria, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
A NY person knowing the whereabouts of
a female child named DORIS KING
or DORIS BARRON, now about five years
of age, last heard of in the care of Sister
Fitzgerald, of Melbourne, about three years
ago, please communicate with
Messrs. WALTER KEMP & TOWNSEND,
Solicitors, 340 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Re THOMAS GUCKIAN, Deceased.
TO MARY MONA FAULL, daughter of
MARY FAULL, and to all persons
claiming by or through either of them.
The Public Curator of Queensland, as
administrator of the estate of Thomas
Guckian, deceased, hereby requires you to
prove on or before the first day of February,
1931, your claim to share in such estate.
After that date the Public Curator will dis-
tribute the assets of the deceased havihg
regard only to the claims of which he shall
have received notice.
DATED this seventeenth day of July
1930
W. G. WYATT,
Acting Local Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton.
i &
rfl
A
đ
two classes of people; the labor people who
did all the work, were invariably honest and
deserving and received only a fraction of the
money which should rightly be paid them;
and the capitalists and their sympathisers,
who were invariably rapacious and dis-
honest and callous to suffering, and whose
one desire in life was to secure more oppor-
tunities for robbing the poor man. Both
sides had rejoiced when the line was first
mentioned, both sides had done their best
to hurry up construction, and -both sides
had put on their best clothes and hoorayed
loudly when the first train puffed out with
the distinguished visitors (including him-
self) on board. It seemed an awful thing
that everybody should have conspired to
kill Joe. Elijah Moon certainly seemed
to be putting the blame on the capitalist
now; but during the three years that line
had been discussed, Moon had never
entered a protest against its construction.
Mary West guessed what was passing in
the child’s mind. She welcomed his puzzle-
ment over these problems. “One of the
things you’ve got to learn, Jimmy,” she
explained, “is that it’s hard to do a good
action without hurting somebody, as things
are now. That line had to be built. It put
Old Joe out of a job, but it will put five
or six hundred other men into one. Do
you understand? When there was only
Old Joe and his carts to cany the milk
and the fruit to the station there was a lot
of good land at the back of the mountains
that people couldn’t use to grow things on,
for there wasn’t any way of sending it to
town. Then the train’ll take them for a
penny where Joe had to charge a shilling.”
“But if Joe hadn’t carried them, they
wouldn’t have used any land,” protested
the boy.
“That’s right; Joe did good work when
the place was small and there were only
a few people. But now we can’t let the
land lie idle. It’s waste. Can you see
what I mean, dear?”
“Yes, Mum,” replied the youngster, “I
can see all right what you mean. But
what did they kill poor 01’ Joe for?”
“Because of bad management, as I told
Moon. The world’s a badly managed place,
Jimmy. If the Electrolytic Works - at
Kembla were as badly managed as the
world, they’d either sack the manager in
a week or be bung in a year.”
“Then why don’t they get the man from
the Electrolytic Works to manage the
world?” demanded the boy.
Mary West smiled. . “I don’t think it
would be a bad idea,” she observed. “But
people won’t do it till they’re wiser.”
“Goin’ ter school makes yer wise, doesn’t
it, Mum?”
“It helps,” replied Mrs. West; “but school
won’t make you think, if you’re too lazy
or too careless. It’s thinking that makes
you wise, not learning alone.”
“I say, Mum,” announced Jimmy, “when
I leave school I’m goin’ ter have a shot at
thinkin’.”
“You needn’t wait till you leave school,
dear. I’ve always tried to help you to
think since you could take notice. Never
believe what you’re told, Jimmy; the world’s
full of people, telling lies without know-
ing it and they’re the most dangerous liars
of the lot. Don’t believe what I’m telling
you, now or any other time, without think-
ing it out yourself. When people are afraid
to think they’re afraid to do anything else.
And its the coward and not the bad people
who is the cause of all the trouble. Jimmy,
be a game man.”
“I’ll try to be a good one, Mum.”
Mary West gave him a mother’s smile of
pride. “It’s much the same thing, Jimmy,”
she said.
CHAPTER 111.
During the year following the death of
Old Joe, Jimmy took to heart the advice of
Mary West to such effect that at the annual
examinations of Public School No. 1189, he
came out at the head of the scholarship list.
He was the only one of his push who gained
distinction, though Patsy Quirk and Bert
Burnett both found themselves labelled as
possessing an education which freed them
from further scholastic servitude. They
were men, entitled to go forth and earn
their own living. Half a dozen children
altogether gained the scholarships which
entitled them to free secondary education
at the public expense, Kitty McDonough,
the eldest daughter of. Martin, coming
second to Jimmy on the roll of honor.
“That’s the pathetic part of it,” said the
headmaster to the inspector, who had come
down to Illawarra. “That boy’s one of
the most promising I’ve handled. He’s fit
to become anything, and here he’s got to
go out to be a wheeler in a mine or rouse-
about at a pub. And he’s not alone,
either. I’ve had a score of his sort through
my hands, working now for two pounds
ten a week when they’re lucky enough to
get a place and when there’s no strike on.”
“Are his people so hard up?” asked
the inspector.
“He’s got no people—an orphan looked
after by a decent old woman who has a
laundry here. But she’s getting on in
years and her business isn’t what it used
to be. Certainly she can’t afford to do
without the boy’s help, even if she could
do without his wages. It isn’t the cost of
the education; it’s the loss of earnings and
keeping the youngsters unproductive that
beats the object of the system all the
time. And there’s no help for it either,
that I can see. It’s just a ghastly joke
the State’s playing.”
“Is he the sort of boy who’ll go out of
his way to improve himself?”
“Yes. Of course, I’ll do what I can.
He’ll come to night school for certain, and
I’ll try to direct him as well as it’s pos-
sible to do. But what can you do when
the money’s wanted at home and has to be
got?”
The inspector had no solution handy. He
changed the subject. “And thp girl—l
understand she isn’t going to take it up,
either?”
“No, that’s an avoidable tragedy. Her
father’s one of the wealthiest men on the
land about here. They reckon he stands
behind five thousand pounds, if it’s a penny,
but he won’t hear of her going on. ‘Who’s
ter do me milkin’?’ he says. ‘D’ye think
I’m gointer pay some lazy slut of a girl
ter come in and eat me out of house and
home?’ That’s the sort he is. W T hen this
kid was too young he took on State
children till the department dropped to how
he treated them. You may remember the
case. He was fined £2O or three months
for beating an unfortunate kid with an
axe-handle. He pleaded it was the only
time. The neighbors agreed about that;
they said that he usually reserved the axe-
handle for his wife. I’d like to get little
Kitty away from him for her physical
good as well as her education; but what
can you do?”
The inspector passed this problem, too.
He met many such problems in his work
of directing the education of the State
into proper channels, and though he
thought and thought sufficiently to satisfy
even Mary West, he could advance no
solvent theory.
As for Mrs. West herself, she did some
strenuous thinking and innumerable sums
on pieces of paper to ascertain if she could
enable Jimmy to pursue his studies. But
it was useless. Illawarra was not a centre
sufficiently important to be dignified with
a high school, and it was out of the ques-
tion to send Jimmy to the city and pay foi
his maintenance. She thought of shifting;
but for an unknown elderly woman to start
a laundry business in the city she knew to
be attended with extreme risk. Jimmy
noticed her mental struggles, noticed her
arithmetical devotion, and, obedient to her
advice, thought out the reason. In a few
days it became clear to him.
“Don’t you worry yourself about that
scholarship, Mum. High schools don’t
teach you to think. You taught me that
and if you go on teaching me perhaps it’ll
do me more good than the high school.
I’ll get a job here and go! to night school.”
She rose, crossed to his chair and kissed
him. Then she kept her head close to hi?
that he might not note the moisture in her
eyes.
“Besides, Mum, Mr. Wellington’s pro-
mised to help me get on. He can put me
on to right books to read an’ all that
sort of thing.”
“Can he give you a billet in his office?”
Her hopes rose. Mr. Wellington was editor
and proprietor of the “Illawarra Guardian,”
and printing is a good trade if you can
avoid the long period of unremunerative
apprenticeship.
Jimmy shook his head. “He said he
wished he could, but he’s got the limit of
his apprentices”—the law in its wisdom
ordaining that there may be only a certain
proportion of apprentices to journeymen.
“It’s a good law,” commented Mary
West. “And it’s like all good laws; it
hurts somebody. This time it’s you it’s
hurting, Jimmy. You remember what I
told you when Old Joe killed himself. Now
you see it again. Before they passed that
law places were swamped with apprentices
who learned nothing and were sacked when
their time was up. They had to bring it
in to stop that, and now it stops you
getting into something where you’d have
a chance.”
“Don’t worry, Mum. I’ll get a chance
anyhow. Don’t you fret.”
{To be continued next week .)
ďomenclature.
Why <lo they give the diseases
Such beautiful names?
Diseases and hurts that ruck and disjoin
and distort
Our poor frames.
They should have been given
To flowers nr girls;
And Lord! what chaplets ami strings could
the pc ta make
Of such pearls!
Aneurism, hernia,
Malaria, guttu gsrcti».
Erysipelas, rose-rash, dyspepsia, neuralgia
And scarlatina!
Is the doctor so proud
When he makes u uew find
To christen it lovingly, sprinkling the lovely
Syllables?
Or is he just kind.
Wanting to help mankind,
The ways to grease,
That lead to the grave, so that we may
the dark road
With a semblance nt ease?
MAORII AND. ARNOLD WALL.
Gone West.
He was a mate of mine,
And it isn't quite the same
Since he hopped the bags of the last great
Line
When the final Zero came.
Under the Jack for pall,
He went to his earthly end—
But the wistful notes of the Last Post’s call
Still sound in the heart of liis friend.
N.S.W.
GEOFFREY CUMINE


CfV:
mmm
sgli®;
Ssflgby
■ iS
rsss^
m&z
m&vjgr
5^3
gasssas
pssfs^f
ZHrffr-ifir?**- *c J liS>-sMW:'
a:w
m
ss^m-^f
ag
*k
BStffm
K&
ss®®®
Wa^xAi;u : ;- r *.*;;V
BS
wm
*s7*
WfSVs
oar
Jr'
KfcS** **,
§£4l?®v
g-'" V'/*'
8K?
c r ; ;
mm
-m
W£f:V
vrof.£«B
ffiftassa
Sfe&S
*i%^<
SS^EfcS
sas
•VKi
*r*i
■•-V;
ESsgijSs!^
■«£&-'
gpgfr
SJW7
M
/" ! ‘
s*aw
KVjgr
*-7r
,;'*A- ;
ssssssss
mmm
<-~- <*
‘SH'V
-. « SitiS
?••* ; <£v
t£&lk£Eo&& Vv"'
S I
arss
9®^fe&s?^.:,uv-
s£fj
go;
Man
®S»B&r<','
Safe
£tet>
gig
IBS
m
:, y VJH
%
'•'■ Pt
s*
w
sy*sv"
mm
feggfSS?^
fctt
ZZ.\3
WStt'
w*
the sales of British Made
OsramVaives are soaring
fast as the makers of wireless sets turn to the
British made Osram Valves for assured per-
formance, so do radio enthusiasts follow suit.
“To think we’ve been missing real recep-
tion because we’ve not yet tried Osram
Valves” they are saying in effect. In
replacing with one or more Osrams
those valves that no longer func-
tion properly you’ll be linking
up with the definite movement
towards better reception.
Mt
Ask or write for a free
copy of the “Osrara
Valve Guide”, a most
useful booklet detailing
Osram Valves.
Va*ve s
rnOQ
&
Get Osram Valves for
your Set or a new set
that’s Osram equipped
—-especially as Osram
Valves cost no more.
MADE IN ENGLAND
AT THE FAMOUS OSRAM LAMP WORKS
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co., Ltd. Head Office and Public Showrooms: 10i-W, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices and Public Showrooms at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle and N.Z. cities. Sole Agencies at Brisbane and llu ■
VS2


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
’know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
NVi
re
)
I*
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
HUNGER'S FOOD. Ltd.. MANCHESTER, Eng.
Breast fed.
The healthiest, strongest
children are reared this way.
But as soon as feeding begins
to overtire, mothers should
partially feed with Benger’s
Food. Nursing mothers should
also take Benger’s.
d
Food
Regd. Trade MASS.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A. Sin, of Charters Towers (Q.), was
hauled before the local Dogberry for steal-
ing a pair of shoes. A Sin on two soles.
A man from the country applied lately to
a respectable solicitor for legal advice. After
detailing the circumstances of the case he
was asked if he had stated the facts exactly
as they had occurred. “ ’Ow, ay, sir,”
rejoined the applicant, “I thought it was
best to tell you the plain truth; you can
put the lees till’t yersel’.”
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co., of
North Queensland, consists of a million
shares, which are now [7/5/’B7] worth in
the open market about £2 10s. each! Of
these no less than 250,000 are the property
of Mr. Tom Hall, a Rockhampton bank
manager, whose original outlay in the mine
did not, we believe, exceed a couple of thou-
sand pounds. The company’s dividend for
last quarter -was only £50,000, but when the
new chlorination plant, etc., is erected and
got into full working order the net returns
will average £15,000 a week just as surely
as the day follows night. The company has
already stacked thousands upon thousands of
tons of ore all of the same splendid uniform
richness, which has so long (owing to insuffi-
cient appliances) been awaiting treatment
that young gum-trees are growing out of the
heaps.
The lank and lonely cow that moons about
a suburban paddock with one _ horn grown
into its eye and a whole jubilee of years
weighing on its head is the very last animal
which would be expected to indulge in
legerdemain or low comedy. It is generally
a weary-looking beast, with its tail cut
short; it has an unhealthy appetite for old
clothes, mutton-bones, boots and scraps of
waste-paper; and its duties are usually light.
If it. belongs to a dairyman the latter, as a
rule, makes the milk himself with chalk,
water and sundries, and imparts a frothy
aspect to the beverage by dropping in a few
snails, the cow being kept merely to give an
air of probability to the story; and if it
belongs to a private family it is useful
chiefly on account of its rural aspect, and
serves instead of a change of air for the
children. A Victorian clergyman, until last
month, owned one of these animals, but he
doesn’t own it now. Through much hay and
chaff diet it had acquired the morbid taste
peculiar to many aged cows, and used to
eat the family washing or the window cur-
tains, or even the Melbourne “Telegraph”
with gusto. But on St. Patrick’s Day this
beast signed its own death-warrant. Bridget
had a day out on that occasion, and through
a misconception on the part of her master
she was locked out at night and left to
shift for herself as best she could. As a
result of this the parson was roused up at
6 a.m., and in answer to the call he went
downstairs to admit Bridget. To fully de-
scribe the state that damsel was in would
wreck this invaluable illustrated sixpenny
paper. The parson himself never speaks of
what he saw, but his wife gives Bridget’s
explanation: “Ye see, Mum, I couldn’t get
home till about 12. and, as the lights were
all out, I didn’t like to disturb ye, so I
lay down in the paddock and went to sleep,
but the cow, the baste, she tuk a male off
my clothes. She ate everything she could,
but the stays was too much for her. I hope,
Mum, you’ll make it up to me.” The story
stops here.
The N.S.W. Parliament has voted £lOOO
to the widow of Henry McGrummin Keight-
ley, Police Magistrate, of Albury. Both the
deceased gentleman and his widow have inter-
esting episodes in their life’s history. In
1563 Keightley was P.M. at Rockley, a
dusty bush town
some 20 miles from
Bathurst. The dis-
trict was badly in-
fested with busii-
r a n g e r s, and
amongst other
houses “stuck up”
was that of the
P.M., who, not
being disposed to
sit by and see his
household goods
handled by persons
of. the Ben Hall
and Johnny Gilbert
breed, took down
tli e_ family gun and
deliberately shot
dead one of liis
assailants, a man
named Burke. The
gang, having over-
powered Keightley,
were about to put
to death the Slayer
of their mate, when
Mrs. Kei g h tley
appeared upon the
scene, and pleaded
for the life of her
husband. Ben Hall
induced the gang
to promise his
liberty on payment
of £5OO in gold.
This was agreed to,
and while the party
held the house
Mrs. Keightley, un-
attended, saddled a
horse and rode into
Bathurst to her
father, the late
Henry Rotton, who
hunted up a bank
manager and pro-
.cured the coin re-
quired. Mrs. Keight-
ley returned—still
alone, this being a
condition of the bargain—at the dawn of
morning in time to save her husband’s life,
the time allowed having almost expired. The
Government refunded the ransom to Mr.
Rotton. Lintels of the house, of Rockley still
bear bullet-marks as mementoes of that event-
ful October night. Mr. Keightley died after 33
years in the Government service, but his
widow is not, as has been said by some
papers, “in indigent circumstances.” Mr.
Rotton died_ wealthy, his Blacktown estate
alone realising £20,000. He was for more
than a generation a well-known man out
west. When the terminus of the Western
line was at Penrith he contracted to carry
the mails to Bathurst. In several Parlia-
ments he represented Hartley and other
Western constituencies in the Legislative
Assembly. A little story anent his mail-
contracting days is still current in Bathurst,
and shows the looseness with which clerical
work was done by Government officials in
the “good old times.” On the first day of
his contract he handled the ribbons himself,
and when the official brought out some ple-
thoric sacks of newspapers, Mr. Rotton
objected, and blandly informed the aston-
ished official that newspapers were not in
the bond; and so it proved, for letters only
were mentioned. A fresh bargain was struck,
under which Rotton agreed to bring the
newspapers 'to Bathurst, but as the post office
was not mentioned he calmly brought all the
papers to his own hotel—where the Joint
Stock Bank now stands, and where he had
pigeon-holes fitted up. The Bathurstians who
w r anted their newspapers had thus to visit
Mr. Rotton’s hostelry for them, and this
helped business much. There wex-e some
queer people in Bulloeky Bathurst a genera-
tion ago. There are some queer people in
Bathurst still.
,
Ladies who like to keep abreast of sassiety
customs will he o-lfld to know that it i« rmw
nssTl thp pnrrfpt o 7 „I w ,-!
LlBBtJ the coriect caper on board a mail
steamer for the fair creatures to have a
cigarette in the smoking-room along with
the men. At least one lady and one man
did it regularly on a recent voyage in a very
sw’ell boat and didn’t seem any the worse
f Ol . .
'
...... , ■ ,
1 a lking about self-denial week reminds
me LSapph.o bmith] of two Melbourne
society girls who went to spend the result
of seven days’ self-abnegation in the slums.
They hit a deserving case—father out of
work, mother destitute and with a large
family tapering down to a young baby.
After setting them up in necessaries it
transpired that the mother was too ill to
nourish the latest recruit, but the girls, not
to be baulked in the good work, set out with
their maid in search of a foster mother and
a doctor. They found a little Buttercup and
left the puling infant in her charge, and
the girls dispatched a doctor; but guess their
horror when he sent word that the interest-
ing. family had silently stolen away in the
interval and left them with a flabby and
[Australia was blowing bubbles in 1888, too.]
mysterious infant at nurse to be for ever
accounted for by them! And what amount
of talk it would take to satisfactorily ex-
plain away that bald-headed baby out at
grass I am at a loss to conjecture.
r Scene: Grandstand, Yabbaville races, up
North. Conversation between four or five
leaders of the very best set. Mrs. B.: “How
cruelly plain those Miss C.’s are! It is
really quite a misfortune for a girl to be
so ugly as the eldest one is.” Mrs. P.:
“Yes, poor thing, that is the one, too, who
is engaged to young S- ,is it not?” Mrs.
B.: “Yes, they are engaged, but he is just
ordered to Blanktown, and I hear he applied
for the removal to get away from her. He’ll
never marry her —they say he was drunk
when he proposed.” Mrs. G.: “Well, one
could hardly blame him if he never does.
Poor girl, it’s bad enough to be as ugly
as she is, but her mother is even a worse
infliction.” (Mrs. C. and her daughter have
been sitting exactly one seat behind and have
heard every word.) Mrs. C. (who has a
particularly clear and penetrating voice) to
her daughter: “My dear, some of the people
in front know all our affairs as well as we
do ourselves. My poor darling, they pity
you for your ugly face. And Mr. S- is
not going to marry you, after all; he has
applied for the move to get away from us.
Ah, well, every family has its troubles. You
see Mrs. B. there? Her sister ran away
with a married man—a fact, my dear. You
were a child at the time it happened. And
when the injured wife appeared, Miss W
actually shot him. He borrowed the money
from your papa to pay the doctor. I really
don’t know whether it isn’t better to have a
plain face than such a* sister.... As for Mrs.
G , the whole town rings with the scandal
about her and that lanky person in the bank.
Well, well, perhaps it’s better to be ugly and
have a dreadful mother as an infliction than
to be”—(here four seats suddenly became
vacant).
The other day a N.S.W. commercial
traveller, who was asked by his employer to
furnish a detailed account of his travelling
expenses, for some time refused to comply
with the request. Ultimately he gave in, and.
having procured a roll of wallpaper, spent
a fortnight in compiling a list of drinks.
It transpired that Lady Duff [the wife of
the new Governor of N.S.W.] means to
encourage “cottage and window gardening by
artisans,” writes Sappho Smith —a flowery
idea set going by Lady Carrington, you re-
member. There is really no reason why the
workman, or any other man, should not
grow his own boutonnieres; and the idea is
pretty enough. A flower on the window-sill
gives an air of rustic innocence even to the
most doubtful street in the city, and the
objections of jaundiced bailiffs, the dog-tax
and policemen, who view elevated flower-pots
as elevated missiles, must be counted out.
But isn’t the advocacy of windows gardens
rather a waste of energy in Australia, where
the average artisan can have any amount of
flowers a-blowing and a-growing round his
suburban cottage if he likes to fence the
fowls off? It’s quite an English notion—
the last frostbitten geranium left blooming
alone on the sill. Almost everybody in Aus-
tralia outside the wharf-boilers runs his
own backyard, even in the thickest neigh-
borhoods, and edges it off with kerosene-tins
full of floral loveliness if he feels drawn
towards Nature—or with broken beer
bottles if he doesn’t, and leaves his window-
sills alone in either case. But, sill pots
certainly are pretty—until they topple over
and lay the returning house-father low on
his own lintel.
A N.Z. paper remarks in a casual way,
apropos of Kimberley and delusions of the
same description, that there are still a
few old pioneers in that colony with large
ragged holes in their ears which they find
it hard to account for. As a rule, they put
them down to bullets, boomerangs, mis-
directed spears and the like, but their friends
talk sarcastically of a habit the early dig-
gers had of getting hold of anybody wild
started a “storekeeper’s rush” and dragging
him round by the heels or the hair, and kick-
ing him from Dan to Beersheba, and then
nailing him by the head to a bullock-dray.
They generally left him alongside the dray
all night, and then in the morning when
the vehicle was wanted they would tear him
off by the legs. The opinion in these early
days was that this treatment promoted a
healthy moral tone in the community, but
the tattered and dilapidated condition of the
old pioneers’ ears could never be entirely
cured, except by amputation.
The author of “Lovers Five and Maidens
Four” says that if a girl’s nose is cold when
her lover gives her his first kiss it is a sure
sign that her passion is 18 carat; otherwise,
trust her not. Would that we had remained
in ignorance:—
We kissed our girl—her nose was cold
As that of any pug.
We whispered her the story old
And “sealed it” with a hug;
We pressed her waist with trembling arm,
As we thought of this advice—
To accept a maiden’s love as warm
Whose nose is cold as ice.
But soon there came a dreadful day
(Some week or two ago),
And now we brush the tears away
That all unbidden flow;
Our Liz and we are quite estranged,
We trust the darling not —
That day we knew her love had changed
Because her nose was hot.
A strange fact has come to light regarding
Dr. Driver, the lI.C. Bishop of Perth
(W.A.), who is now in Paradise along with
George W., Sergeant Ballantine and John
Brown. When his body was prepared for
the grave it was found that he wore on his
back a wooden cross about a foot long, which
was kept in its place by five large iron
spikes driven into the flesh. Whether this
affair was worn by way of penance, or
whether his reverence carried it for fear
he might some day get belated and be short
of wood for boiling the billy, is not known.
TO OUR BEST GIRL IN ENGLAND.
Haste to the land of warrigal, of frog,
Of stringybark, of kurrajong, of creek,
Of thirsty drought, of flood, of native dog,
Of platypus (that strange mammalian
freak) ;
Of syndicate, of fern, of cedar log,
Of pelican’s exaggerated beak,
Of strikes, of sport, of pugilistic slog.
List to thy lover’s melancholy shriek!
Forsake the land of Socialist and fog
And book for New South Wales next Tues-
day week—
Thy love to seek.
Then shall the savage throw his boomerang
High in the air his frenzy to express ;
The dingo yelp while bucks the wild mustang
To greet thee in thy queenly loveliness.
The bullock-bells upon the ranges' clang
(Be sure you wear a pretty muslin dress),
The eucalypti branches proudly hang,
The measure of thy beauty to confess ;
The ’possum and the sweet' orang-outang
Shall climb the trees to worship thee, I
guess—
While joy-bells bang!
The poinciana’s gorgeous ruby hue,
The wallaby’s sweet song,' the mopoke’s
hoot
Shall all unite in homage unto you ;
But, far beyond, fhe rapturous bandicoot
Shall startle nature with a wild halloo
To all the South thy qualities to moot.
The platypus shall join the cockatoo,
The wattles throb with pleasure to each
root;
And in thine honor every scenic view
Shall be presented in its Sunday suit—
In Woolloomooloo!
J. H. KNOWLES.


///W' //a
fy/'vmfr'
Columbia
v t
CoiiimbuVo^/e
V "“"' Warmest:*'
X
\J
A*,™
a ■; v
s\
;-'7
VS?S:
I
a
4 S
//mm
y
V
M
r//
m
V/A
/"/
K>iW..,.
all the Wealth
that Music
provides, is you rs
if you own a
MODEL LI? ICQ a
MODEL N? 112 a
10*0
each Model ■with carrier in lid for eight records
MUSICAL science has produced no more efficient and self-contained unit
of harmony than this portable.
Learn to enjoy its blessings to the fullest, and to savour its deep and
enduring source of pleasure and entertainment to your friends and
companions. * ' „
With a Columbia Portable you recapture the zest and vim ot the latest fox
Trot the haunting cadence of a celebrity singer, the rollicking c “P ri J s . °*
your favorite musical comedy, and the inspiring wistfulness of a “ Talkie
ballad.
It is sturdy, compact and neat —its weight and size is a negligible ta( ; ar
Take it with you on your travels. It will always be there, readily accessible,
the unfailing friend.
rmrrrmrmS
d
ď
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
GRAFONOLA LTD., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
COLUMBIA DISTRIBUTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD.,
300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
QUEENSLAND:
KING & KING, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. HARROLD, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA!
PHONOGRAPHS, LTD., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PHONOGRAPH CO., LTD.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
COLUMBIA SUPPLIES (TAS.) PTY., LTD.,
Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


Mr. J. Longstaff has won the gold medal
and “travelling scholarship” at the exhibition
of the Art Students of the Victorian National
Gallery at Melbourne. This scholarship is
worth £l5O a year, and the holder is sup-
posed to spend his time in Europe sucking
in art at his pores by contemplation of the
works of the Old Masters. There are miles
of these Old Masters in the different galleries,
and the young Australian will be kept in
good physical training in trotting around.
A deal of fun can be got out of £3 a week
in France and Italy. A student is rich oil
300 francs a month in the Quartier Latin.
The Australian scholar may bring back a lot
of studies of grisettes and contadini, whom
some novelists rave about, although we will
back our Woolloomooloo and Collingwood
F. W. HADDON, for many years editor of
the “Argus” [ 27/10/’88 ].
Flat girls against them for poesy of expres-
sion. He will also learn how to make salads
and roll cigarettes, and swear in foreign
tongues. Altro! Mr. Longstaff is the son of
a popular storekeeper and J.P. at Shep-
parton, in the Goulburn Valley, and is one of
a highly talented family. His prize picture,
“Breaking the News,” is full of feeling.
The young ladies therein are portraits of
his sisters. We wish the young Victorian
artist bon voyage, and good luck! —7/5/’B7.
You don’t believe in phrenology? Don’t
you! “Professor” Wilejr, mesmerist and
stipendiary bump-groper, is now travelling
in N.Z., and we write this item to point out
why he needn’t come back. A few years ago
he was ranging through Victoria, and at the
desolate village of Mansfield he dropped
on the skull of the local bank manager,
and gave him an excellent character on
a large sheet of foolscap, which he designated
“a chart.” The banker then lent him a
buggy that he might call on a squatter some
nine miles distant, whom he represented as
prepared to give a wholesale order for bumps,
and while the deluded Wiley was rumbling
along a series of exasperating country roads
he, the manager, took a short cut on horse-
back and got to the station before him.
On arrival, the Professor read the heads of
several children at a guinea each, and
cheered the heart of their fond parent by
assuring him they would all rise to great-
ness, and finally it was suggested that he
should experiment on a dirty, round-shoul-
dered man with greasy hair, who was sup-
posed to he semi-idiotic, and who did odd
jobs about the premises. This animal quar-
relled fiercely with the Professor about terms,
which were ultimately fixed at 10s., and
then the scientist commenced his task, ask-
ing, as he did so, why the patient “didn’t
wash that grease off his head?” When the
operation was finished the squatter learned
that the “handy-man” whom he had taken
into his household was a notorious thief and
incipient murderer, at which information he
only smiled. The Professor smiled back.
The whole family smiled, so did the handy-
man, who somehow did not look so imbecile
as before, and as Wiley gazed at him it
suddenly dawned on him that he had been
taken in by the banker in a ragged suit and
with his hair greased. It was partly owing
to this that the phrenologist did not stay to
dinner, and for the same reason he really
needn’t go back to that part of Australia
any more.
For 30 places in the London Post and
Telegraph Office (at 10s. a week) there were
800 young women candidates. And yet
society wonders at female dishonesty while
the wages of educated and industrious virtue
are half a< sovereign a week.
Sea-bathing is becoming general again,
and easily-shocked old ladies who keep
marine telescopes to detect mermen with
may congratulate themselves on having the
usual scandalising experience a*head. I
[Sappho Smith] don’t mean to say anything
about the clergyman with the field-glasses, or
the pillar of the Church who comes innocently
round the corner in a boat when the mer-
maidens are out, for to tell the truth none
of these make any protests, but the old
ladies ring another chime. I heard of a bevy
of Christian scientific virgins who were very
neatly taken in the other day at a Sydney
watering-place. It was ’orrible ’ot, and these
dear creatures observed a man—not two
hundred yards away—beginning to ta*ke off
his coat in the shade of a rock. After the
coat came the vest, and after the vest the
collar—the disrober throwing his wearing
apparel over the boulder (for they couldn’t
actually see him). When the tie was also
thrown over, the damsels arose and—fled?
No, egged on by a sense of moral rectitude
they hurried to catch and caution him ere
he got to the water. But when they burst
around the rock there was the depraved
creature sitting coolly and modestly in his
shirt-sleeves, reading a novel. Then they
fled.
About four years ago an unkempt, foot-
sore sundowner limped up to the homestead
of a station in the Wimmera (Vic.), a
station famous amongst the great fraternity
of bush footpads for its inhospitality, for
there no wayworn deadbeat was gladdened
with the pannikin of damper dust and scrap
of old ewe—if he got a long list of curses
and a bite from a staghound it was as much
as he could reasonably look for, unless per-
chance he was pressing and got two bites.
The boss spotted his visitor, and froze on
fn Mm o+• finna “Now wliat 1
to lm at once. JNow, wliat
’r’ ye wantin’ here?” he
growled. “We_ don’t feed
none of your kind, so you’d
best cut afore that dog gets
excited.” The sundowner
dropped his bluey, pulled
down his old rag hat, and
snullled: “I thought, boss,
y’ might sling a cove a bit
o’ mutton an ’ernuf dust fer
a damper, seein’ he’s near
starved.” “Like y’r blanked
cheek! I tell y’ we don’t
feed loafers ! Now, mind that
dog!” “I heard y’ wasn’t a
good mark, but thought y’
might spare a trifle fer me.”
“Well, I’m d—d! Why the
blazes should I give you
tucker any more’n others?”
“Cause,” said the sun-
downer, removing his tat-
tered tile, “I'm your brother
Dick!” The squatter stared
for a moment and said:
lUI (X LUUIIICIIL Clllu saiu .
“Great Scott! I thought you was dead years
ago! Here, yon can have the flour, but I
ain't got no mutton to spare.”
In N.S.W. 513 persons hold between them
17,251,000 acres of freehold land; 130 of
these hold amongst them 10,620,845 acres —
81,698 acres each! In ScStland 1700 persons
hold nine-tenths of the whole country. In
N.S.W., already, 513 persons hold more than
these 1700 in Scotland. Two-thirds of Ire-
land is held by 1942 persons; in N.S.W.
an area equal to the whole of Ireland is
held by 1095 persons. These N.S.W. large
estates 'are all'untaxed by the State. In the
sister colony of Victoria, as a contrast, 14
great property-holders pay £24,402 in State
taxes—an average of £1743. Sir W. J.
Clarke has to pay every year £4253; Mr.
Chirnside, £3166; and Sir Samuel Wilson,
£2999. [B. 28/5/’B7].
A South Australian journalist who visited
New South Wales during the progress of the
last general election reports that the most
marked feature of Cornstalk politics is the
comprehensive profanity of everybody con-
cerned. What impressed him most of all was
the language used by a certain venerable
politician in support of the absent “Jack”
Want. “Gentlemen,” he said: “You all know
that Mr. Want is a dashed good man at sea,
a gory good man on land, a blasted good
man in court, and an infernal good man in
the Assembly, so you can’t do better than
put him at the head of the darned Sheol of
JACK-IN-THE-BOX.
“Sir John Robertson was a witness in a case in the- Police Court yester-
day [Sept., 1888].”
MAGISTRATE: “Do you know the nature of an oath, Sir John?”
[Sir John had a wide reputation for adjectival (and other)
fluency .]
a poll. ’ (Loud and prolonged applause.)
Ihen a crushed-looking elector rose to put
a question: “Wot I wanter ax is this: Is
Mister Want goiu’ ter hopen the pubs on
Sunday so as a pore wurrukin’ man kin git
’is beer? Is Mister Want hin favor o’ that,
I wanter ax?” “How the shrieking Hades
do I know whether Mr. Want is in favor
of beer or not? He’s in Japan, and any
dashed gorilla that would like to know can
blooming well go there and ask him. Any
other bald, old deranged ass want to ask any
more questions?” And yet Mr. Want got in!
[The “venerable politician” who supported
Mr. Want was John Robertson.]
A pig fell out of a butcher’s cart in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, one day last week.
“Where did it run to?’ we hear you ask.
Why, to the door of the Legislative Assembly,
of course; one more swine who wanted to
get into Parliament.
When you resemble a 5 wrinkled pippin
writes [Sappho Smith] go to Paris. You
are never too derelict to be patched up there,
for you can obtain false eyebrows, false
eyelashes—to be stuck on with special gum—
eye-pencils for shading the lids, and bella-
donna for increasing the brilliance of the
pupils; rouge, paint of every kind, paint for
the lips, paint for the cheeks, paint for the
fingers and finger-nails; false hips, false
thighs, false calves, false busts that move
by machinery in imitation of the real article,
false ears, false hair—-even false fingers can
be obtained which screw on to a maimed hand,
and not only present a very complete effect
under a glove, but really look very creditable
without. The junction is hidden by a row
of large rings or an elegant mitten, and,
provided friends do not grasp the hand too
tightly, the deception is very complete. Which
explains the improvement in the personal
appearance of several of our “leading ladies”
who have just returned from the Exposition.
Parson (who has been summoned away
from a dinner-party to attend a dying man,
and is in a hurry to get back) : “Now, my
good man, you have lived a sinful life, and
must prepare to meet Him who is ever
merciful.” Hard Case (impatiently) ; “Yes,
yes, parson, I know; He’s all right. He’s
always merciful. It’s the thought of the
other fellow that’s bothering me.”
Queensland mining must be based on
better grounds than the bulk of our ventures
in New South Wales; for it is apparent
every northern goldfield indicates at the end
of 1888 a steady advance in the number of
dividend-paying mines. Mount Morgan is
very much to the fore with £lOO,OOO per
month — £1,200,000 per annum! By Maho-
met and the prophets!—may its shadow and
dividends never become less. The Anglo-
Saxon, on the Palmer, is keeping up its
reputation; lOoz. of stone per ton and plenty
of it. Charters Towers is prouder than ever
—of the Queen and Day Dawn lines of reef,
turning out thousands of tons every month.
Ravenswood boasts of a lode of copper and
gold—known as the Old Man claim—4o feet
wide. From Calliope and Carrara, once the
scene of the old Port Curtis rush, come
glowing reports. On the former place the
cream of the old goldfield had been secured
as freehold —nearly 2000 acres—containing
a network of reefs and enormous masses of
alluvial. The action of the Queensland
Government in allowing such an extent of
auriferous ground to be quietly annexed as
homestead areas about 15 years ago was in
effect a direct robbery of the rights of the
miner. He lifteth up his voice and objecteth
strongly in local newspapers, and the lucky
owners of the Calliope Freehold merely drop
a sympathetic tear, but won’t abandon an
iota of their rights. The well-known New
Zealand gully, which returned tons of gold
in the past, is contained in the freehold.
This gully has enormous banks of alluvial
which will shortly be worked by English
capital. Only recently Queensland has been
twitted with the absence of silver-mines, but
the late development of the Star district, near
Townsville, discloses argentiferous country
said to put Broken Hill in the shade. The
Hero Freehold appears at present to be the
crack company—Bo bags of ore (under three
tons in weight) sent down as a sample from
the main lode gave a return of about 900 oz.
of silver and nearly 3oz. of gold. It is said
that the lode is both strong and good. News
comes from the Gilbert of a large silver lode
being opened there —some 20 feet in thick-
ness. At Agate Creek, near Gilbert, a hot
spring was discovered, the mud thrown up
being heavily impregnated with gold. The
prospectors were driven off by the blacks, one
man being speared,
but the undaunted
Geordies propose
to return with the in-
tention of making it
hotter for the niggers
than the thermal
springs. The now
notorious Taran-
ganba never found
favor with Queens-
landers, who, as a
rule, are modest men
with an aversion to
grow rich too expedi-
tiously. The measure
of their avarice re-
fused to take in 26
million tons of stone
averaging lOoz. of
gold to the ton!
Mount Morgan was
good enough for
them —so they gener-
ously gave up Taran-
ganba to certain
amiable Philistines
resident in Sydney,
who, alas! didn’t
distrust the gifts
the Graeco-Queens-
landers sent them. It
was generally under-
stood that the Taran-
ganba stone resem-
bled its neighbor
Mount Morgan in ap-
pearance. Strangely
enough this doesn’t
surprise the local
resident in the least, lie says the sample
stone is very like— very!
At Brisbane, Mount Morgan shares art?
quoted at 625. buyers [B. 28/5/’B7|. This
makes the total value of the mine £8,100,000 !
I really think some girls are born without
brains. I [Sappho Smith] know for a posi-
tive fact plenty of boys are. I saw in the
tram the other day two nicely-dressed girls
with rings on their fingers —outside their
gloves.
Mr Aldred, aged 70, who makes a humble
living by purifying a Wesleyan Church in
Melbourne, seems likely to have a streak of
luck before he dies. In his old age he has
come into possession of a pedigree measuring
48. square feet, and nearly 4cwt. of written
evidence, which goes to prove that he is a
descendant of Thomas James Selby, whose
property has been accumulating in Chancery
as fast as ever the lawyers would let it, for
115 years, until now it amounts to about
£3,000,000. This sort of thing is awful
fun for an old man of 70, and if the money
is paid over before he is 85 he will be able to
smoke big cigars in fashionable clubs, and
whirl round with the ballet in hansom cabs
if he wants to, and pay a doctor to keep him
alive until he has sown his wild oats.
Bit UN TO A STEPHENS , the Queensland
poet [26/6/’88].
A 3470 z. nugget of gold has been found
at Mudgee (N.S.W.) by three working miners,
17 feet from the surface [25/6/’B7].
IMO PECTORE.
A knot of dead roses crushed on her breast,
Crushed ’mongst the lace of her ballroom
gown;
A bunch of red roses in sweet unrest,
flocked as her breast throbs up and down.
And I stood in the garden and watched her
there,
Queen of them all with her turquoise eyes,
And banded tresses of golden hair,
Bright as the sunlight—soft as sighs.
And I envied the roses their favored place,
Crushed to her throat so soft and bare —■
Crushed in confusion amongst the lace
With one or two blood-red buds in her
hair!
And I envied the roses their sweet abode
As I stood on the lawn with the moon
above,
While inside the strains of “Auf Immer”
flowed
In their throbbing cording of hopeless
love!
When out of an open door she stept
She bade them leave her—just for a whim,
And strolled where the fountain sprayed and
leapt,
And laughed and leant on its marble brim.
And I stept from the shadow into the shine,
And fell on my knees at her lightsome feet,
And I trembled as one who is drunk with
wine,
And I murmured only “My Love! My
Sweet!”
And a blood-red rose fell out of her dress,
As she touched me with her gloved finger-
tips,
And raised me with a half-given caress
On my bowed down head, with her crim-
son lips!
And I envied no more the favored place
The dying red roses held on her breast,
Crushed in the torrents of filmy lace,
flocked on her heart in a sweet unrest!
Ina M. Wildman.
[lna Wildman was “Sappho Smith,” the
first writer of The Bulletin’s Woman’s
Letter.]
A SUMMER MIDNIGHT.
Athwart the star-lit midnight sky
Luminous fleecy clouds drift by,
As the mysterious, pallid moon
Sinks in the waveless still lagoon.
Now that the queen of night is dead,
The starry commonwealth o’erhead
(Softer and fairer than gaudy day)
Sheds lustrous light from the Milky Way ;
While the Dog-star gleams, and the Sisters
Seven
Float tremulously in the misty Heaven.
Faintly, afar the horse-bells ring;
And the spirit voices of the night
Sing snatches of fairy music bright,
Old-world melodies —lang syne sung—
Recalling days when the heart was young,
Whose wonderful cadences fall and rise,
As the wind in the casuarina sighs;
And the world seems ’gulfed, this summer
night,
In a flood of delicious, dreamy light.
THE BREAKER.
AN IDLE HOUR.
A little, sleepy, silent stream
That flanks a flat of flowering weed;
A row of willows and a gleam
Of meadow where fat oxen feed;
A sudden bend of nestling reed,
Faint odorous hints of oats and hay;
And here I lie in an age of speed,
And dream an idle hour away.
Afar I hear the roar of steam,
Afar I see his iron steed;
Right useful in their way, I deem,
But here I give them little heed;
Yon pair of doves that pour their meed
Of song toward the golden day
Are more to me —they hold my creed,
And dream an idle hour away.
What sage was it who launched the theme
That idle hours bear bitter seed?
Poor fool! He lied ;he dreamt Life’s dream—
Was his more sweet than mine indeed?
Enough for me if every need
Be satisfied and find its pay;
Then, free, I seek some grassy mead,
And dream an idle hour away.
Envoy.
O merchants ! misers ! slaves of greed !
Time flies, the years are growing gray;
Come, leave your desk and leave your deed,
And dream an idle hour away!
GEOGE HENRY.


The Passage.
By VANCE PALMER.
CHAPTER XXXV. (Continued).
CLEM’S voice from the kitchen came to
Lew in a sort of dream. She had just
arrived that day; the Wiegert boy had
driven her out with all her worldly goods
stacked in the car. And she had been busy
most of the afternoon getting rid of the last
traces of the carpenter and painter, and
making the house her own. What a picnic
it had been!
He heard her outside, speaking apparently
to the horse, and then she appeared with
a tray, sitting down opposite him as he ate,
and talking of this thing and that in a
matter-of-fact way. How far had he come
that day? Had he found things in a muddle
when he came home the week before? The
Wiegert boy had told her rather alarming
tales about the boats having to go down
to town nearly empty! But what either of
them said did not seem to matter very
much. Lew’s voice had a strange sound in
his own ears, as though it came from some-
one else. He was aware of Clem’s eyes just
beyond the narrow circle of lamplight, of
the still darkness outside, of something
domestic and intimate in the atmosphere of
the room. Crumpled clothes and unframed
canvases! Somehow they carried him into
the heart of her life. He had a feeling they
had been living together for years.
She was stacking the things together on
the tray, draining the spilt tea from the
saucer into an empty cup, absently dowsing
the lighted butt of a cigarette. Rousing
himself from the spell that had fallen on
him, he said with a note of self-accusation.
“Damn it, I forgot that mare! She’s come
a long way, and must be pegging out for a
drink and a feed. Ought to have thought
of her long ago.”
Clem said in a level voice, without look-
ing at him :
“That’s all right. I took the saddle off
and let her go.”
The very quietness of her averted face
brought a tightness to his throat. Then
she took for granted he came to her as
one coming home? Understood the instinct
that had drawn him to her light at the
end of the journey! All this hunger that
was heavy on him, unable to cope with
words....
Yet as man and woman they were strange
to one another. The life seemed to flow
out of her when he came from behind and
, laid his hands on her shoulders.
CHAPTER XXXVI
Fulfilment.
The Callaways were back again at the
Passage. They had taken over Kunkel’s
store, and for some weeks the builders had
been renovating the tumbledown building,
adding a couple of rooms at the back,
mending the roof, putting a fresh coat of
paint on the blistered sides. It was said
that Hughie had all sorts of plans about the
business and was going to branch out in
new ways, running his own delivery trucks
to the range, and gradually scooping the
trade of the whole district. He hadn’t
come back for nothing; everyone was quite
certain about that! And now that the chief
storekeeper at Lavinia had gone, he had a
clear run as far as the coast was con-
cerned.
“I wouldn’t have sold out to no one but
Hughie,” old KunkeJ told people before he
left. “Over twenty year I have Cat busi-
ness and make it grow out of not’ing. And
Cat boy is the right one to keep it grow-
ing. You don’t catch him sitting at the
burrow-mout’, like Lew, waiting till the
rabbit come out. Goes after what he want's,
all the time, Hughie does. I owe him
somet’ing for the way he helped me with
the books when he was a little fellow.”
He was getting out, he said, only because
Mina couldn’t keep up with her work any
longer, and so they were going to open up
a little place at Ardlethan, where except for
her housework she would have nothing to
do but attend to people coming in for fruit
and soft drinks. Women bom in the wrong
sort of climate hadn’t any staying-power;
they wanted nothing but to lie on their
backs and go to sleep. Not like in the
Old Country!
Hughie laughed when men like Haig or
Dave Wiegert asked him what his game
was in coming -back to run the store; they
were so certain it was part of some far-
reaching scheme of his for opening up the
district. And he was content for them to
think just that, t- "-lived his sense of
failure, made ms leiurn less humiliating
than he had expected. He had more cards
up his sleeve, he hinted, than he could
afford to show for the time being. A man
didn’t want to open his mouth too wide
about future plans.
It was the only matter on which he wasn’t
quite straight and open. A breath of his
early freshness had blown through him
again; he was happy skimming about the
sandy roads in his old sports car, with its
dented, aluminium body, in overhauling the
engines for McEvoy or old Tom, in rigging
up a new wireless set for his mother. The
evenings he spent in a canoe, paddling
along the shores of Rathbone Island, or in
lounging on the verandah. of the McNair
bungalow, putting curious questions to Clem
about Francte or England while they waited
tor Lew to stroll over from the jetty or
Dot to drop in on her way down from
the lighthouse. For Dot had taken over
Andy Williams’s job at the post office, now
that he was getting too old and long-
sighted to read the addresses on the letters.
It was just the sort of work she liked, the
little flurry to get the mails off in the
morning, the casual yarning over the
counter with people who dropped in for
stamps, the long afternoons of dreaming
with a book at the window overlooking
the tea-tree slope to the beach. Hughie
joked about the way she sometimes stayed
late to cook an evening meal for Andy
Williams.
“It would be just like Dot to chuck
herself away on an old chap like that.
Whenever there’s a gap in anyone’s life
she’s always ready to fill it up. Pour her-
self into it like oil!”
He was drawing a lot of pleasure from
the little humors of the life around, yet
inwardly he knew that this was-merely a
fallow time for him. He had had a bad
knock, and some of the confidence had been
jolted out of him, but he would come again.
A man couldn’t spend all his days in a
place like this, where there was nothing to
whip up his pulses when they flagged.
Sooner or later he would have to make
a break and get back to the air that stimu-
lated him. Next time he wouldn’t burn his
fingers, though: he would use his head
and keep his hands away from the fire.
But such thoughts were for himself, not
for others.
“Hughie seems to be settling down,” Lew
said to his mother. “Finding plenty to
keep him interested, isn’t he?”
“Oh, he’s always cheerful enough,” Anna,
told him. “Has a joke for everyone who
comes in. Hughie’s never likely to get much
contentment, though,, from inside himself.
Looks as if there’s something nagging at
him when he ha 3 a bit of time on his
hands.”
Through some instinct she herself didn’t
understand she was drawn towards Lew
again, and liked coming down to the jetty
to talk to him while he was loading. It
satisfied her even to watch his turned back,
and hear him give his quiet orders to the
men. Yet she had a feeling that she had
put too much weight on those broad
shoulders of his when the family was strug-
gling, and that against his own will some
part of him remembered it against her.
They were never quite comfortable when
they were talking together. And wasn’t he
really relieved when she got up to go away?
He seemed to like his own company best,
and had held out against coming up to live
with them at the store.
But perhaps he had other reasons for
keeping away! From what she gathered
from Hughie he seemed to spend most of
his spare time under the roof of that
McNair woman. She was curious about
this, even a little uneasy. Didn’t everything
show that Lew was the sort of man women
would only influence to his own hurt?
One evening when Dot and Hughie had
gone to Lavinia in the car she wandered
down to the breakwater to sit on the piled-
up stones and watch the few lights flicker-
ing along the shore and the dark boats
moving over to the sandbanks with their
nets. The still night cast a spell on her,
steeped her in reflection. How often she
had come out there for a breath of air
when the washing-up was done and the
children in bed, staying to stare across the
water in a kind of dream! There wasn’t
a deal of change in the thirty-six years
since Bob had brought her to the cottage
a hundred yards away. It wasn’t a par-
ticularly long time to look back over,
either, now that she was home at the old
place and memories flowed into one an-
other. Yet it was the best part of a life-
time! She . had borne a family of children,
reared them, helped them find their footing
in the world. With a sense of strangeness
she remembered the passion that had
filled her to get them schooling, so that
when they grew up their lives would be
away from this Passage. The lives of all
of them except Lew! She took for granted
he would stay here, just plugging along,
because of something he had missed in the
beginning.
Sighing of the she-oaks in the faint breeze,
the skirl of a curlew from the flats by the
saltwater creek, muffled voices from higher
up the bank! Anna turned slightly to see
two figures moving past, a man and a
woman, vaguely large and mysterious
against the sky. Although they were a
mere blur on the night, she knew very
well who they were; knew, also, with a
sudden rush of conviction, that there was
something likely to hold them together
for more than a day or a season. Some-
thing that would bud and bear fruit!
She felt her emotions gradually gather
around Lew and this woman he had drawn
to him. Perhaps he was the one whose
life would prove richest, after all! It wasn’t
a small thing to have taken over Tony’s
work and extended it, keeping the family
name alive along the Passage. And he was
a. bigger man than his father, left a deeper
mark wherever he trod.
“There’s been Callaways here from the
beginning,” she thought. , “Most likely there
always , will be now.”
She sat brooding on the image of Lew her
mind evoked from the night, the dark eyes
so like her own, the potency of the slow-
moving body, the way he drew power from
the earth beneath him. He gave her a
sense of her own permanence, satisfied an
instinct deeper than affection. All hdr
struggles for her family had been con-
cerned with this: that the life she had
brought forth in pain and uncertainty should
throw down strong roots and not be blown
away by any chance wind. Her first a ««„ r -
R f c!t had Seemed to come from Fred
and Hughie. now it came from Lew
Lost in a dream of her own fulfilment *he
remained there staring down at the velvet
water, immobile, unconscious of time as
profoundly at peace within as the clump
of dark she-oaks twenty yards away that
had always been a landmark of the Passage.
[The Exd.]
Vacation.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS
INTRODUCES THREE LADIES WHO HAVE BEEN
AT the forlorn station on the way to
the city three passengers intruded.
There was just room enough for them,
and they flung themselves down on the padded
seats with relief.
At the i first glimpse I did not quite like
the look of them. They were dingy in their
rather out-of-date clothes. One was a woman
of middle age, who had evidently seen much
of the wrong side: of life. Going home,
perhaps, to a dismal, fretful little household
where there was always some lack, of food
perhaps, or with sickness in the house. The
other two were of a different type—girls
full of life, boisterously excited.
We had heard the girls giggling in high
glee as they rushed along the platform to
find a compartment. It was, evidently, an
event in their young lives, this journey to
the city. Yet they did not seem to want to
get to their homes; the journey was suf-
ficient for their almost hysterical glee. They
were bubbling over with delight. Going
back, no doubt, after a holiday, eager to
tell all the incidents to those waiting at
home.
As they bustled in and found that there
was room in the train they seemed not to
know one another, or at any rate, had met
only recently. They were strangers casually
met on the platform. Wherever they had been
staying, they were almost nervously anxious
for the train to start. When it pulled out
they sighed happily.
As soon as the train, a slow one, had
gathered way, the dark vivacious girl jumped
up and pulled down the window and loaned
out, letting her handkerchief, recently laun-
dered, flutter in the wind. It struck me that
it was curious. The only person on the
platform was the guard, blowing his whistle
with an air of boredom. I wondered vaguely
to whom the dark girl had signalled. There
was nobody across the road. The only
building in sight lay a distance from the
railroad tracks, and in the intervening stretch
of desolate land there was no sign Of!
humanity. Yet she had certainly waved to
someone, and I came to the conclusion that
her fluttering bit of cambric had been a
vague signal of relief. As she turned from
the window, she seemed to shrug off her
vague preoccupation, and a sigh of gladness
escaped her.
The other girl was of an obvious type.
She was a precocious bit of femininity, crude,
casual without being vicious, with a mop of
rusty hair and a figure that would attract
any man in the street. Just a piece of
femininity, careless and untidy, though . she
had evidently dolled-up herself for the journey
to the city. Her figure was plump and well
built. And she knew it.
Seldom have I seen such glee as when the
two girls snuggled down into their scats,
squirming with happiness. I wondered why
there was such a glow upon their faces;
they were so ready to make friends with the
other passengers, yet there was no attainnt
on the girls’ faces to start a conversation
with the others.
Presently I realised that the three, though
strangers to one another, had been thrown
together in some way. Yet they were not
companions. They did not use any Christian
names in their talk. They all knew the city
however. They spoke of the suburbs—mostly
of the poorer quarters.
Every station now there was some piece
of badinage with the guard, who seemed to
know them, or had seen them before.
The older woman lapsed into her thoughts
or her memories, but now and then thawed
to the torrent of the girls’ nonsense.
“What’s the matter with you, Granny ?”
asked the girl with the red hair. “Ain’t
you goin’ home to the family, eh? And I’ll
bet they’ll be glad to see yer. How long was
it? Three months? Of course, I remember.
Not likely I’d forget.”
The woman sighed. “It’s the bird I'm
worryin’ about. The people what I left it
with might fergit it. The first thing I’ll
look fer when I get back is to see that -
bird. I bin thinking of It all the time, won-
derin’ ’ow it was gettin’ on. He used to
whistle so pretty. I’m wonderin’ if he’ll
start when i come ’omc.”
“I’m wondering,” said the red-haired girl,
“if somebody I know’ll be there waiting to
meet me. He promised he would.”
“Promised! You needn’t take much of
‘promised.’ I know ’em—he’s got another one
by now.”
The old woman with the grim mouth was
not comforting; and a silence fell on the
compartment. Each of them had her problems
still ahead even though it was only a caged
bird or a doubtful boy-friend.
“Well, girls,” said the red-haired girl,
“we’ll soon know. The train's slowing down.”
At the approach of the end of the journey
there was a hurried toilette; noses were
dabbed and features carefully scrutinised in
little cracked mirrors.
“Better put on plenty,” advised the woman.
“You got to get that sallow color out of yer
cheeks. Plenty of red is what you want,
though it don’t matter much to me.”
“Only one more station!” exclaimed the
red-haired girl.
The train was drawing into the terminus.
The girls and even the old woman glanced
eagerly out of the windows.
Suddenly, as if with a concerted movement,
the old woman and her companions ducked
away from the windows.
There was a stolid constable on the plat-
form, apparently merely out for a stroll.
There was the slightest flicker in bis eyes
as he passed the opened door.
He took out his book and noted three
names whose owners were back in the city
again.
Fallow Time.
Clear morning tops the 1 planted bill
And spies the roofs of Weddmville,
Which holds my first affection still
And cheers the tasks of day;
Then striding down the furrows long
My team moves like a marching song
That speeds the pulse of legions strong
To join a clashing fray.
Lit frondage plumes the gracious hour
That watches earth’s renewing power
Bestir the bud and wake the flower, ,
While victory is won.
The clean shares cleave their track from
home
And cut the trembled sod tp foam,
Leaving a wahe of folded loam
As tribute to the sun.
A starry dew illumes the grass
Where distant teams approach and pass
Like craft on glinting pools of glass
In zones reclaimed for pea*ce.
A lavish gift of liquid gold
Is laid upon the russet mould
Of spacious fallow-ways unrolled
To win the year’s increase.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.
Red Geraniums.
Those dear, stout denizens of garden ways
With their clean grassy scent and scarlet
bloom,
Reminding me of tiles all newly washed
And shining pewter in a sunny room,
Of blue Dutch jugs on dressers filled with
cream,
Of willow-patterned plates and pots that
gleam
Below where to the rafters hangs a bunch
Of chosen herbs that are the very witch
To cure all ills; and where, above the hearth,
Swings from the smoky eaves a bacon flitch.
This is the homely pleasant thought that
comes
In sunken gardens of geraniums
A plump housewife in her wide crinoline
Of green, piped round with brown —these
friendly leaves!
A scarlet knot she wears upon her breast,
Till looking down at her one quite believes
She, too, can have her roguish hours, and
chance
A lifted kirtle in a country dance.
QUEENSLAND.
M. ORREST.
The Plain of Stars.
Arc ye swords of light in the hands of the
tall, unseen
Angels, whose sable wings
Fill without tremor of movement the spaces
between,
Ranked about us in rings?
The rays strike straight and thin like terribly
brilliant blades,
Crisscrossing rapier-wise,
For there is no air to blur the black lattice
of shades;
They strike where onyx lies
In lake-like floors that are smooth as the
ultimate calm,
And a flower of light
Steadfastly blooms ’neath each star-stroke
like a changeless charm;
So night is glassed in night.
We’ll cross the onyx floors with stars under
and over
(Oh, if our feet were flesh
The sheer white-heat of the cold would slay
us, my lover,
In this keen, star-steel mesh !).
Now rise in tiers the pale houses of porce-
lain stone,
Long dead as these crater-heights;
’Tween the carved walls brittle as ice lies
never a bone,
Nor a blind skull affrights.
It is too long ago—yea, the grey dust has
perished
Of the bodies we had
When I trod this onyx, soft-sandalled, man-
cherished,
And your eyes dark and sad
Regarded me under the priest’s crown of
loveless flowers,
And the invisible knife ■ _
Smote each double-edged, and death-in-lii'*'
. blackened the hours
Till death led us to life.
It is so long ago! We’ve trod so many
stages
In the sun’s pageant-play.
But ah, now, between acts (take my hand!),
nothing cages,
And we smile as we stray
Over the man-laid onyx—than death how*
much colder;
Free of ice as of air.
See! 1 Earth lifts huge and white o'er a
moon-mountain’s shoulder.
The next stage, is set there.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


.
t.... .
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
youth Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A,
“THE AGE”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established 185 J/.
ADVERTISERS!
Th« Court .instructs every Jury to keep an
open mind, and record a verdict, according to
the evidence placed before thorn.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age."
Audited net Sales 122,501 daily
(60% Metropolitan—4o% Country).
Over t)O% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading' during
the. day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually,
"The Age’s” dominant' note is “Australia
First,” and its effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
' the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3fis Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State,
ts news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA.
*ts circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
asmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
Deloraine (140 miles) and
£ agt mterme diate towns before break-
davies brothers, ltd.,
na PUBLISHERS,
* 99 Macquarie Street,
Cable ~ Hobart, Tasmania.
Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
F. L ttii Sydney Office:
3u’carrf«Hi Representative, Lisgar House,
arrmgton Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
° s Bu dding, Elizabeth Street.
Che /favertlser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
pf Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” map be
obtained at all interstate ayencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, SO Carrington
Street, Sydney. telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
O. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
(^Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 ( George Street, Sydney.
d digestive
coVuctive,iestoiatwe,
and curative
medicine
titeduv*
i-atjfc-
ma
res
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
d
FOR 87 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION/COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
R. ROLPIT& SONS,
75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper*
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, 0.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £ *
NAME
ADDRESS ,
RATES:
Australia—l 2 months, 24/-;
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-;
6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
6 months, 15-/6; 3 months, 8/«
*
"WV
a
k
0-
0
0
0°
e
S 6 ><^
<oV
0
5 e
o^o
0
*0 ;
#
%*&■


travellers of the old world
A Peking Gart built for roads' that are unusually
rough. The heavy wheels are iron-tyred for
strength. A lengthy journey in one of these carts
is anything but a pleasure jaunt*
•fut U\\
V\\
W,
£
If it)
ft?
Ir 40
m
*
/
M
-rr
CVS
illill
I
■I 111
SSI
:
.
&
4C
ii
=*?
m
i
:
Ah
Mlii
ut
m
l Nli
W 1
#*l4
t)
ii
S;
Ml
we#
h*==Er
£&
JSS^K
Ssk
E^~r
*52
kJt
i
8G.16M.30
Barnet Glass
Tyres
Jot Endurance- an d Comfobt
