

■PHI■
mm
HI
22
;-v
&
• %
1
\
.. **S"
U 4&
■ .
mir
y :ll^
- >-\< < ■•V. „
I "
■■■'<■■ .
'
*****
k^TR^
\ \
I ml ' !
13&
to
i • 5'
VtoLY i’ ow ,» t * ‘t*H
***> aortLrOv'fe
J 7 1
‘°Qt &
TH &. C°m~* J
£y N£, V : A^ l !
«
TOOTH
'
* ' I | •' 4
j<:; ' - —•
a true
COOL
COMFORT
A FTER work or play in the heat of the sun there’s
** nothing you’ll better appreciate, nothing from
which you’ll derive more benefit, than a glass of
cool K.B. It effectively prevents exhaustion, re«
freshes and sustains under the most trying con-
ditions, and is the one essential to complete comfort
that is appreciated by everyone. Keep a bottle or
two in the ice-chest for the times when you’ll need it.
AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH 8i CO. LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
ŵ
Vol. 51.—N0. 2609.
Wednesday, February 12, 1930.
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Vf/RITE for the Library Catalogue and
” terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
GET INTO PRINT! THERE IS A
STRONG DEMAND FOR STORIES
Articles, Sketches, Paragraphs. Many STOTT
Students pay for their Complete Course before com-
pleting it. Send this Coupon for FREE Brochure,
“Successful Authorship,”
To STOTT’S Correspondence College
100 Russell-street, Melbourne.
My Name
My Address ;.....
S.B. 307
O-YSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
■vr",
SN.
W/
HWS
HHBH
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
THE OWE-BLADE HOLLOW OE.CMINP SAFETY
-THAT STROPS AND HONES ITSELF
Obtainable at all hirh-class Stores. Chemists and Tobacconists. THE ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA. MENDES CHAMBERS. CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ẁ
w HAIR.
<0 * tED
here's
•ujku-
ẃ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfroJL&rCs (.MEXICAN)
WcUtud Stouwi
Removes the grey"
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (416), 6d. being
ẅ
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN**
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
IMUSTDIE
AON PDI3IJNOUJ POWDCR
THEfißwiwseaDtsrmyffi:
(Flies,
fleas
Bikjs.
Mosquitoes
ha
11-
w
ŵ
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney*
The Red Page
Cream—or Skimmed Milk?
I agree with all Arthur Adams says (R.P.
29/l/’3O) in praise of Australia’s verse
anthologies. They are beyond criticism, at
any rate as regards the representative
character of their poems. That is where
they seem to me to differ from our prose
anthologies. I have collected Australian
anthologies ever since Bertram Stevens gave
me a signed copy of his first, and I also
possess most of the heavy-weight articles
which have appeared about Australian
writers. They have two defects—and this
is not my opinion only, but that of a dozen
or more working journalists who have dis-
cussed the subject with me: (1) those respon-
sible for them are never front-rank writers,
and often they are not writers at all; and
(2, which may be the result of 1), they
ignore many writers whom those who fol-
low the writing trade would put at the top
of the tree, or near it, as a matter of course.
In the preface of one of the anthologies
in my collection the compiler says that he
has taken “the cream of thousands of
stories,” and offers the result as “the best
stories by Australians, collected for the
whole English-speaking world.” That, pre-
sumably, is the spirit which actuates the
others. Yet in none of their compilations
is there a story or sketch, short or long, by
James Edmond, whom every Australian
journalist regards as a past-master in his
genre. Hugh D. Mclntosh gave his friend
H. G. Wells Edmond’s book of short stories
some years ago. “Supreme genius of its
sort,” was Wells’s comment. “I didn’t know
such work was being done in Australia.”
The only excuse for ignoring Edmond’s
sublime humor is that, though such stories
as “The Row in Our Boarding-House” were
written in Australia and are about Aus-
tralians, the writer was born in Scotland.
This does not apply to Norman Lindsay.
His bush studies of small boys and adoles-
cents, male and female, rank with similar
work by Mark Twain and Booth Tarking-
ton. He is a great literary craftsman, apart
from his matchless eye for the ridiculous
miseries, triumphs and hatreds of youth.
Why have our anthologists put him on their
Index? If there is a better living short-
story writer of his type than Dale Collins,
then I have not had the luck to see his
work. He was contributing fine stories to
The Bulletin before he -went to London,
and he has published at least two since
which deserve a place in any short-story
anthology. He is not represented in the
prose anthologies of Australia; neither is
that picturesque romanticist Roj r Bridges,
whose book of stories (“The Immortal
Dawn”) created such a stir in England;
neither is William Hay, whom London
“Times” has compared to Conrad and who
is our chief authority on Early-Victorian
Tasmania; nor Adam McCay (best of all
press-yarn writers); nor C. A. Jeffries, whose
“Rail and Semaphore” and “Squatter Kings
of Canterbury” stories have delighted
thousands of Bulletin readers; nor Frank
Middlemiss, a subtle humorist; nor Mon-
tague Grover, another brilliant writer of
Bulletin stories.
The amateur critics are no more dis-
cerning, as a rule. I have an authoritative
article on Australian writers by a Mel-
bournite before me now. No mention is
made in it of Edmond, Lindsay, Dale Col-
lins, Handel Richardson or Hay, whose
“Strabane of the Mulberry Hills” is con-
sidered by eminent writers in London and
New York to be the one great novel Aus-
tralia has produced.
“Kodak,” who used to be exasperated by
the tendency of critics and anthologists to
star his yarn about the lodger and the
lioness (by no means his best, of course),
often expressed a theory that these
authorities never read anything, and based
their appraisements on the opinions of some
long-dead pundit with an impaired sense of
humor. Fantastic as a theory, no doubt,
but not more so than the fact that one
anthology of Australian prose excludes
Edmond, Lindsay, Bridges, Collins, McCay
and Grover, and gives a specimen of the
art of Lance Skuthorpe, the buckjump
rider!
JOHN DALIEY
The Gully.
Furnley Maurice’s The Gully (Cole’s
Library, Melbourne) is the most notable
distinctively-Australian poem since Bernard
O’Dowd’s “The Bush.” There are no points
of comparison whereby the scope or worth
of the one or the other might or should be
assessed, though both proceed from the
same sense of our country’s natural charac-
teristics, and both derive from those char-
acteristics some sort, of national aspiration:
For this unstorjed forest rails fresh ways,
Fresh words, fresh music, arts not told nor tried.
From the complex allusiveness of
O’Dowd’s poem, which is an epic of things
yet to be done, there emerges the strong,
clear purpose and heat, of prophecy, and he
takes the humanities along ( with him in his
stride by transcending them. But Furnley
Maurice’s much shorter poem, though it
has as deep an underlying earnestness, has
the different intimate charm of hesitation
—more of the quietness of the cloister. He
is a poet who is always concerned with
experience :
I turned my steps to that remembered glade
I wandered listlessly, without a care;
I went down by a track that someone made
For love, for simple love of maidenhair.
Any element of strong climax seems to
be avoided throughout; it is not a matter
for rhetoric:—
Measure me by my love and let me go,
Sweet spirit of this gully; if you heard
My utterance, baying loud or murmuring low.
Measure me by my love, not by my word,
Aud let your damply pungent, loaded air
Be all the breath of all my breathing day,
And let your presence stand for all things fa>
And heartening and never far away.
Then I’ll be you, Australia, like a" priest
Mho dreads that he is faltering in faith.
I have a fear ’tis I that love you least
Of all your children laughing at the feast—
A fear that’s bitterer than utter death.
The poem is continuous in the manner of
the suite-form in music rather than as nar-
ration, and' it acquires from the varied pen-
tameters in which it is written, and which
are a feature of much of this poet’s more
recent work, a casualness appropriate to the
strolling meditation of its theme. The
opening glimpses of the green world of the
gully stir the heart to the need of solace
there:—
.... little trees
And trees immeasurably old and wan
Make home for all the bush-folk and the bees.
Somehow, curiously, the bush-folk seem to
be present all the time, though the team-
ster, waving his “Good day,” is the only
actual person who passes through this
verdant dream:—
While miracles of bush-flowlx-s burst and move
About him, these he will not turn to share.
Yet like a child eager for things to love
He’s hungry to be told what things are fair.
If there be, in the quiet magic, the wistful
consolation of the poem, anjdhing that the
poet would have us learn, it is nothing
more didactic than the suggestion gathered
as he goes along the track to the gully
winding, “like love through danger, to the
falls”:— .
Joyously frail the joy I have found here.
There breathes a tremulous sadness in these groves,
But ’tis not cruel; ’tis the radiant fear
That hovers round whatever thing man loves.
The dread that huddles into shuddering minds,
The false philosophies of frightened men,
Desire that sways and falls, binds and unbinds,
Shall not awake my foolish care again.
If some devoted wanderer could devise
This passage through the scented underwood,
May not men’s thoughtful habit, dumb yet wise,
Bring back a careless people to its good ?
The book has a proper elegance of print-
ing, setting and binding, and contains a
score or more of other poems, most of
which have appeared in The Bulletin.
The most, arresting of these is the 50 or
so lines “To a Telegraph Pole,” contriving
an effective comparison between the pole in
its present, surroundings and its original
associations as a tree. Then, to pick an-
other of a different sort, there is the little
lyric “Bush Night,” which has a simplicity
so disarming that it might almost seem
trivial, until it is seen to embody, no less
than the longer poems, that steady assimi-
lation by which alone life and nature trans-
fused into thought, are articulated in mood
and become poetry.
FREDERICK T. MACAETNEY.
Academic Education
An unobtrustive but progressive revolu-
tion in our State education systems has
taken place within the last 20 years. Previ-
ous to the establishment of State high
schools, and later of junior technical
schools, the elemental school was con-
sidered to answer all the requirements of
State education, with its curriculum so
arranged as to give all children a broad,
general education upon which they could
build up a typical secondary or technical
education. To-day the elementary school
is relegated to a minor position, the two
top primary grades have been abolished and
the children have been sent on (often willy-
nilly) to the various types of post-primary
schools.
The underlying motive is undoubtedly a
good one—to give children the higher and
more specialised education that modern life
demands. Whether the change is desirable
in every instance, however, remains to be
seen. Each type of post-primary school is
rather an exclusive institution. For in-
stance, the high schools, which form the
bulk of the post-primary schools, have
such a strong academic bias that it weighs
heavily on those pupils who have no 1 in-
clination, or ability, to follow a,professional
career. In Victoria departmental regula-
tions allow the first two years of the high-
school course to be occupied with an indus-
trial curriculum leading to technical and
trade pursuits, as well as a common curri-
culum which leads in the third year to the
professional course, domestic arts course or
agricultural course. But in practice the
industrial curriculum is usually omitted,
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"Truth in Advertising”— expression the policy which has built Anthony Horderns’
Only 2 More Days
of
Anthony Horderns'
Gernirn
SALE
And so of course there are only two more days in which to take advantage of these striking reductions
in Lowboys Service Waggons and “Bridge” Card Tables. If you will compare quality for quality and
price for price we feel certain you’ll realise that The Senior Store is the place to buy these much-neede
pieces of furniture.
19/11 Service
Waggon, 14/9
A saving of more than 5/- on this
already low-priced Waggon is,
we think you will agree, a truly
remarkable reduction. This Wag-
gon is the “Senior,” made in our
own factory of oak, finished
either a light or dark brown shade.
Strongly built, it measures 25 x
]4i inches. Fitted with easy
running rubber-tyred swivel
wheels and push handle. Price,
19/11. Sale price 14/9
A £6/5/- Lowboy,
99/6
This handsome and invaluable “Neaton
Lowboy for men is obtainable in Pacific Oak,
finished in a light shade, or Pacific Maple,
finished a medium brown tone. It is 46 inches
wide, 59 inches high and inches deep.
Fitted with pull-on clothes-hanger and full-
length compartment bn left —three sliding
trays, sliding trousers rack and hat shelf on
right. A tie-grip is on inside of door. Price,
£6/5/-. Sale price 99/6
14/9 “Bridge”
Card Table,
11/9
Although this is called a Bridge
Card Table, it is really a table for
scores of uses because it is so con-
venient to handle and tuck out of
sight when not in use. It is a fold-
jjjg table, stoutly constructed and
covered in fine quality cotton
baize (either blue or green). Top
measures 29 x 29 inches. Price,
14/9. Sale price \\/9
{Dept., Ground Floor. We deliver jree city and suburbs only.)
To Our Country Patrons
Orders posted before February 14. closing date of our Genuine Sale, will be
executed at tbe prevailing reduced prices.
Anthony Horderns’
(The Senior Store)
Telephone M2JtOl
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


DELIGHTFULLY EASY TO HANDLE
appeals tg
LADY DRIVERS
rn
2Z
's-
Hi
i.
D
u
\ZjS£u
?5
0
w
“ Finger-tip Control ”
—A single button in
centre of steering-wheel
starts the engine and
operates the lights and
horn.
TNDER all driving conditions the
Superior Whippet Six has proved
extremely easy to handle —a feature which
drivers of both sexes have keenly appreciated.
By the refinement of the mechanical layout
and re-designed steering gear, together with
the important feature Finger-tip Control,
the minimum of effort is required to control
the car, and parking is a simple matter.
The low graceful lines, higher radiator,
and full crown mudguards set an ultra-
modern style trend for all light sixes.
Bigger bodies, providing greater head, leg
and elbow room, result in maximum riding
comfort.
The Superior Whippet Six offers the
important engineering advantages of silent
timing chain, full force feed lubrication,
aluminium alloy invar - strut pistons, and
Finger-tip Control.
Call at your nearest Willys - Overland
Dealer. Get behind the wheel of a
Whippet; test out its capabilities and ease
of handling, and you will then realise the
outstanding value offered.
c lle
SUPERIOR
WHIPPET SHI
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
. 117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A,
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A,
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.


w
BUY ANY
CAR FROM US
mil BUY IT BJUK
We will sell you any car, for your unrestricted use, telling
you in writing when you order it how much we will pay
you for it if you should wish to sell it in three or six
months time. This is far better than buying a car and
having the anxiety of needing to sell it in a hurry, and at
a sacrifice, at the end of a short period. Your driving
licence will be ready for you on the day you land and one
of our instructors will be lent to you for three days free
of charge if you want him.
Write for full particulars now and get this fixed up in
advance. We originated the scheme and we offer you
better terms than any of our imitators.
AUTO AUCTIONS
BURLINGTON GARDENS
OLD BOND ST. LONDON W.I
World distributors of the Blackburn Bluebird Li?bt Aeroplane
and agriculture is almost, if not wholly,
ignored. The common course is supposed
to contain a certain amount of practice in
manual arts, or some form of technical
work, but in the main it, too, is discarded.
Girls receive training in domestic arts, but,
except in odd instances, boys have no
manual training, save drawing. Perhaps
the idea is that, such should be given at
the technical schools. But in many places
where there are high schools there are no
technical schools, or, where there are both,
the one has no dealing with the other.
Consequently many parents are alarmed
at the slow progress their children make
as soon as they leave the elementary school
at eleven-pfois and enter upon the high-
school course. Some have tried to remedy
the defect by transferring their children to
a junior technical school, but this often is
impossible. The fact is that these par-
ticular children are of the less intellectual
type. That is not to disparage them;
equally desirable qualities other than in-
tellectual ability go to the making of good
citizens. The curriculum, with its academic
bias, is not suited to these children, and
too often they are glad to leave school at
14, their education incomplete, and the last
two years of school life practically wasted.
They need the more practical industrial
course of instruction that will enable them
to pass into industrial pursuits of all
descriptions, and not into dead-end jobs.
COUNTEY PED.
The New Despotism
From time to time expert investigators
have tried to arouse the public to the
existence of a revolution which threatens
the basis of English constitutional govern-
ment. The latest of these Cassandras is
the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Hewart of
Bury, author of The New Despotism. The
new despot is simply the civil servant.
As the classical exponent of British con-
stitutionalism has insisted, the most sacred
of constitutional statutes is of no more and
no less legal consequence than the Dog Act.
Unlike those of continental countries and
the United States, the English self-govern-
ing institutions are to be found in no
definite instrument of government. They
have evolved by an empirical compromise
between the claims of individual liberty
and social purpose, with rather considerable
emphasis on individual rights. The his-
torical conflict between the monarchy and
Parliament was, viewed in its broadest
aspect, a conflict between the community
(as expressed through a single centre of
government) and the individual desiring to
free himself in order to work out his own
purposes. The culmination was distinctly
in favor of the individual, and expressed
itself in two general principles—the sov-
ereignty of Parliament and the Rule of
Law. It is a humiliating thought for a
people who pride themselves upon being
practical that the whole of our constitu-
tional system can find no more concrete
expression than these very general concepts.
While a theoretical nation like the French
can point to a written instrument of gov-
ernment, and Germans filled with meta-
physica! inclinations can worship with an
almost American ferocity the Weimar Con-
stitution, English communities can point to
nothing less abstract than these two legal
conceptions.
In fact, however, these two conceptions
have proved extraordinarily practical. By
insisting that every governmental authority
must find its justification for interfering
with citizens in the legal authority of Par-
liament-made law, and by equipping the
ordinary courts with a power to correct
officials who cannot “vouch this warranty”
in defence, we have succeeded in putting
a ring through the nose of Leviathan. The
process is an intensely technical one. Take,
for instance, the question of .personal
liberty. The very name for the legal in-
strument by which this is realised—Habeas
Corpus—is mediaeval Latin jargon. The
machinery is as technical as the term. But
it works. And so with all those rights—
freedom of speech, of public meeting, free-
dom from arbitrary exactions, unrepresen-
tative taxation—the stuff and substance of
government.
Where in this complex of legal techni-
cality does the New Despotism epter? The
attack is subterranean. That it is real the
Lord Chief Justice is himself sufficient
witness. A despotism must be both novel
and substantial before one of his Majesty’s
Judges will engage in the hurly-burly of
popular controversy. Lord Hewart, how-
ever, is directly in the tradition of the
greatest common-law Judges in that he con-
ceives the highest duty of the English lawyer
to be the defence of the individual against
the official. His task, however, is more
difficult than that of some of his predeces-
soi’s precisely because it is less popular. My
Lord Coke, who filled this role 300 years
ago, could play his part in a rebellious
House of Commons upon a platform where-
on the full glare of public interest lighted
every actor. Loid Mansfield, a century and
a half later, earned the plaudits not merely
of the London Clubs but of the apprentices
of the town when he declared that the
blackamoor who escaped from his vessel
in the Thames to the dry land of Middlesex
became a free man. But the jurist who
■would attract attention to-day to the threat
to our civil liberties must talk of such
matters as certiorari and mandamus, of
statutory rules and regulations and of the
pre-emptions to be found in the texts of
statutes and in the minds of their official
draftsmen.
It is in the hope that citizens may see
the political substance behind these tech-
nical details that Lord Hewart has written
his book. His story, shortly stated, is this.
Departments have found that the power to
make rules and regulations granted to them
by busy legislatures may be used to over-
turn the whole system upon which our
governmental methods have rested. Not
merely does the law become a hopeless
labyrinth of departmental devices, unknow-
able to the citizen and almost unknowable
to the lawyer, but in the very same process
the salutary control of the courts can
be excluded.
“The New Despotism” is necessarily a
technical book, but it should not, for that
reason, fail to be a popular one. There is
a vigor about Lord Hewart’s prose; in his
day he spoke with success to common juries.
There is also precision and accuracy about
his attack that should commend it to the
citizen innocent in these matters. . On the
whole this canker has grown to larger pro-
portions in Great Britain than in Aus-
tralia. But the indictment, which should
be a call to reform in Whitehall, should
also sound a note of warning in Canberra.
P. D. PHILLIPS
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a ccynmit-
tee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
issued as a guide to books of merit, though
not necessarily with the Red Page’s endorse-
ment :
General Literature. —The Life of Sir
Edward Marshall Hall, by E. Majoribanks ;
James Ramsay MacDonald, by H. H. Tilt-
man ; The Universe Around Us, by Sir
James Jeans; Open-Air Studies in Australia,
by Frederick Chapman; Isles of the iEgean,
by P. C. Scott O’Connor ; Sophia Cleugh, by
the Countess Russell; Do What You Will,
by Aldous H'uxley.
Novels of Literary Merit. —-A High Wind
in Jamaica, by Richard Hughes.
Novels for Popular Reading. —How Amus-
ing, by Denis Mackail; The Idolaters, by
Dale Collins; Pirates, by “Taffrail”; Pet-
ruchio, by G. B. Stern; Jim the Con-
queror, by Peter B. Kyne; False Spring,
by Beatrice Kean Seymour; The “Crying
Pig” Murder, by Victor MacClure; Ginger
for Pluck, by Daniel Hamline; Dickon, by
Marjorie Bowen.
A Satchel of Books
The Britannia and Her Contemporaries,
by B. Heckstall Smith (Methuen). A de-
scriptive story of the King’s yacht, which,
though built for Edward VII 36 years ago,
is still good enough to beat many moderns.
She and the most important ones she has
raced against are described in pen and pic-
ture, making a book of special interest to
yachtsmen and not confined to them in its
sporting appeal,
Margaret Dashwood or Interference, by
Mrs. Francis Brown (John Lane). The
writer is Jane Austen’s great-grand-niece.
The principal characters are taken from
“Sense and Sensibility” and shown as they
might have developed. An amusingly Austen-
ish story ends with the heroine’s marriage
to her sailor lover —a happy marriage “which
resulted from Richard’s lapse in manners
and Margaret’s inattention to decorum.”
Romantic Ceylon, Its History, Legend and
Story, by R. 11. Bassett (Cecil Palmer). The
writer has a pleasant vein of humor and
the gift of presenting dull facts attractively.
His manner of recounting the famous
Ramayana legend is a refreshing change
from the solemnity with which that long-
winded epic is usually handled. The Por-
tuguese and Dutch occupation of the island
was the customary bloody chronicle, but it
had one bright spot in the tale of Gascoigne,
Prime Minister to the King of Kandy, and
the mole on the Queen of Kandy’s leg.
Life and Work. In this series of small
books Geoffrey Bles tries a . risky-looking
experiment. The idea is to give general
readers an impression of both the life and
the T work in various professions. In the
first three actress Lena Ashwell writes
of “The Stage,” Clough Williams-Ellis
does “The Architect” and Lt.-Gen. Sir
George MacMunn does “The Army.” Each
is expert enough, but the writing is
amateurish. Williams-Ellis’s book has good
points and the General manages an elemen-
tary treatise that should help youths think-
ing' of an army career, but the famous
actress’s work is gushful and her bowdleris-
ing of well-known stage stories is sticky.
The Thunderer, by E. Barrington (Har-
rap; Robertson and Mullens). The defect
of this Napoleonic romance is in its treat-
ment of Josephine. In order to explain
Napoleon’s promiscuity she is shown as a
moron whose faithlessness embittered him.
During the Directory, however, and for many
years afterwards, disregard of the marriage
tie caused as little fuss in France as it is
causing now in Russia, and Josephine’s infi-
delities did not modify Napoleon’s charac-
ter or habits in the least. However, “The
Thunderer” is an entertaining version of
the familiar story which goes with a swing,
from the first mention of the earth-shaking
little Corsican to the carefully-written and
dramatic epilogue.
Portrait of a Chinese Lady, by Lady
Ilosie (Ilodder and Stoughton; Dymocks).
This is a charming book, charmingly inti-
mate, delightfully written. Lady Hosie was
born in China and speaks with uniform
affection of her adopted country. Neverthe-
less. the “portrait” fails to give an illusion
of absolute reality. The impression is con-
veyed that if foreign relations with China
were only in the hands of dear old ladies
with a habit of always looking on the bright
side there would be no Chinese problem.
This presupposes that China is populated
entirely by people with temperaments like
Lady H'osie’s. Having been present when a
Chinese city was being looted by a Chinese
national army, the present reviewer doubts it
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the Mi S’. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. unit be returned unless stamps accompany.
John N. : Much obliged. You’ve got the
best memory of all the ancients who have written
us H.L.P.: Quite right; but you don’t put so
much as a new frill on your old truths. .. .Utol:
Simply don’t agree with y0u.... Misfit: We didn’t
get so far as the fit; we shied at the material....
M. W. Staple: Would like it better if you put it
through the press. . . .Stellsby: Thanks; it seems that
“Bundawaal” confused the Despatch and the Alert. . ..
G.A. : Fact that you feel shy when buying a hat not
of national interest. .. .A.R.D.: Lay sermon takes
up no collection.... Iona: Too ponderous .... E.E.k.:
Now, where did you get the idea for that yarn?....
G.M.W.: Far below Bulletin standard, and the good
Lord knows we’ve printed too many of them already.
... . 5.H.8.: Sorry to discourage you ; but you’d better
put your pen away for a few years. .. .Prickly Bush:
Glad to hear from you; the bush contributor was
never more w armly w elcomed than he is to-day....
Fly: Gave the nightwatchman a permanent blush.
.... J.M.: Try another subject. You should manage
good bush verse.... Elbatt (and all the others):
Thanks for the jubilee congratulations, and con-
gratulations on the fine way you all have of saying
’em. . . .N.8.D.: So many have been affected the
same way by beaches... .W.S.: Too much moralising
for us; might go down elsewhere.... Lalirra: Have
another fly, but try something brighter. .. .R.T.K.:
Idea first-rate, but you don’t quite bring it 0ff....
Pen: Shroudy stuff... .Broadcaster: That’s forced.
Try something you feel and want to say. . . .E.D.:
You’re like that, too, but more so. Not one of them
reads as if you felt it J.T.H.: Can’t send the
hat round for “The Magpies”... .N.N. : Effort to
rhyme “full” with “still” has at least some inebri-
ate truth in it J.O’R.: “The Road to Anywhere”
cannot be taken... .E.D.S.: Dismal... .R.G.G.: One
question:—
Might not the oscillatory motion or velocity of
the electron be imparted by a frequency as yet
unrecorded by physicists, and the various compila-
tions of the atoms be the response, in a space of
five dimensions, to a series of wave-lengths in a
somewhat similar fashion to the patterns formed
by sand or other particles on a plate of glass (a
geometrical two dimensional space) vibrating to the
sound produced by drawing a violin bow across the
edge of the plate?
The answer is, as it were, on the face of it and in
view of the circumstances, why not?. .. . J. 8.: Good-o.
A.H.: A field that has been ploughed too
often. M.C.: Sorry; have a man there who looks
after anything worth looking after.... S.L.: Rather
incredible H.A.8.: Can't see anything like a place
for it....M.W.: Nothing there at all for that page.
.... Muldoon: Hope you found it up to expectations,
though they’re pretty high... .C. 8.: Not bad. The
subject’s its weakness.... Ground F.: Suspect you’re
right, as usual: —
What the theatre wants isn’t grumbling like this,
But an audience that knows how to hiss.
In the good old days why did the drama bear fruit?
Because the people knew how to hoot.
Now they only sit and clap,
Though they growl about the talkies and all that.
Someone who will throw a good hoot is badly in
need,
Then we won’t see our actors all going to seed.
... .A.G.: Rings true, but it’s terribly rough. It
broke the office emery-stone.... Y.L.P.: Had high
hopes for about 14 stanzas; the last 50 beat us.
. ...H.J.: As you describe it, “A Broken Melody.”
. ...M.M.E.: Frail little fellows.... Pat O’Rea: Far
too long. Anyway, if 99 out of 100 insist on liking-
imported noises preaching against them looks futile.
... .L.R.W.: Gruel too thin for this taste... . H.F.S.A.:
Probable statement of fact, but it doesn’t ring true.
.. . . j'.D.: Can’t sight anything like a harvest in
“Memory Land”. .. . E.L.S.: Misery is deplorable,
and so is its market value. .. .R.8.A.: .Verse a shade
rough, but it at least expresses what you want to
say. Yes, several of his books have been published.
. ...0.H.G.: No space for that variety of
child verse... .C.A.H.: Can’t find any place for
Omar parodies... .E.N.Y.: (1) The laws of quantity,
fixed and rigid in Greek and Latin verse, are so
elastic in English that a trochee is frequently
accented into an iambus, and vice versa. Seems no
reason why an iambus and an anapiest should not
jostle one another, e.y., the beginning of Kipling’s
line:—
Then home, get her home, where the drunken rollers
comb.
(2) Metrical pauses, instead of actual syllables, are
employed more frequently in modern verse, but it
may be only a passing phase... .H.F. : Twelve
volumes of the “Official History” have appeared: 1
and 2, “The Story of Anzac,” by Bean ; 3,4, 5 and
0, “The A.I.F. in France,” by Bean ; 7, “Sinai and
Palestine,” by Gullett; 8, “The Flying Corps,” by
Cutlack; 9, “The R.A.N.,” by Jose; 10, “Rabaul,”
bv Mackenzie; 11, “The War Effort in Australia,”
by the late T. W. Heney ; 12, “The War in Photo-
graphs.” Vols. 8, 10 and 11 cost 18s. each, the
others £1 Is. each; Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.H.: All old friends; some of them have been
visiting us for years.... D.8.J.: Doubt whether you
will ever learn how to handle a pen.... C.R.W.:
Gruesome jokes and dreary drawings L.K.: Try
knitting for a change T.M. : Encourage the lad
to draw from memory; can’t judge his ability from
imitative efforts sent H.H.: Pirated gag—per-
haps that explains your fondness for skulls and cross-
bones F. 0.8.: Poster-size skit on shark-proof
fences.... R.P.: Too many scraggy and uncertain
lines. .. .F.P.: Where did you learn anatomy?
A.M.N.: At least, you can manage to put a straight
line down. .. .E.U.: Scratchy and labored... .J.V.L.:
Mid-air argument between aviator and actor failed
in the handling. . . .R.A.: Like your sense of humor ;
can’t stand your drawings W.A.T.: Preferred
covering letter to enclosure.... H. A.: Not a dog’s
chance. .. .N.U.: Linework resembles tracks of a
runaway tramcar J.R.: At least you help Imlian-
ink manufacturers to pay divs H.L.: Very little
improvement noticed; better take a rest. . • . W.R.11.:
Sketch refused; also rum....C.G.: Victim of paint-
er’s colic has . died on our doorstep already....
H.J.: Hopeless.


ŵ
ẁ
V
■
■c
,
mSKSHMKHM
m
HSR i I
m
Hi
■
.
-3S
n
■ i :
m
1 H
X
' :
-
i
£%’- V :
.
\
r
\
I
■
m
U
m
I fl
>]
■
i
ST
4
■
'
w
...■
5
ẃ


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2609.
February 12, 1930.
“NOW, HOW DID I COME TO WIN THAT WAR!”
We are submerged by a flood of so-called war books which pretend to depict the men who fought for us. Some of these are conceived in sirt, and are piblished
for the profit dirt will bring.” Hay to a congregation of men in England.


The Bulletin
The National. Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IVi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s,; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Singlo copies. — Commonwealth, Sew Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l/oz. to lOoz., lid.;
each additional jos., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: .'/oz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
AUSTRALIAN ANTHOLOGIES—
By John Dailey .. . . .. .. 2
FUR'NLEY MAURICE—
By Frederick T. Macartney . . .. 2
IS OUR EDUCATION SYSTEM RIGHT? 2, 5
HEWART’S “NEW DESPOTISM”—
By P. D. Phillips . . . . .. .. 5
BOOKS WORTH READING . . . . . . 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .... 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
MR. SCULLIN’S JOB . . . . .. . . 8
BEWARE OF THE MOB! S
TROUBLES OF SOUTH AFRICA . . . . 8
LABOR AND DISARMAMENT 8
THE CHAOS OF TRAFFIC REGULATION.. 9
- AUSTRALIA AND ITS SCHOOLTEACHERS 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with a Prophetic Cartoon
by “Hop” printed in 1888) . . .. 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . . . .. 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“DESIRE UNDER THE ELMS”—(Sydney
Playbox) .. .. . . . . .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
MELBOURNE GAS 18
PATERSON, LAING & BRUCE 18
HUME PIPE 18
RED FUNNEL FISHERIES 18
MUSdROVE-CARROLL PICTURES .. ..20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
THE ROLY-POLY PLAINS, Ijy Dr. Souter .. 23
COUNCILLOR JONES, J.P., by E. J. Brady . . 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
LOOK OUT FOR THAT POISON . . . - 28
THREE CHEERS FOR CACTOBLASTIS! .. 28
ROOT-ROT ON FRUIT TREES . . - . 31
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 31
SMOKE-011 (with three drawings) .. . . 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
■NEWEST TALKIES 35
GOSSIP OF THE INKY WAY 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 36
SPORTING (illustrated) .. ..39,41,42
CANTERBURY PARK RACES 39
WILLIAMSTOWN RACES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
New Serial—“ Men Are Human”—
By Vance Palmer .. ..47, 51, 52
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
Two Complete Stories
“THE GOAT PLAINTIFFS,” by F. Hives and
G. Lumley . . -. • ■ ■ • 55, 57
“AT EMU PLAINS,” by J. H. M. Abbott 57, 58
VERSE—By Ronald McCuaig, E. J. Brady, Pat-
ricia Murchison, R. Crawford, J. M. Pren-
tice, J. Holloway .. . . .. 52, 55, 58
NEXT WEEK.
“The Bulletin” wants Every Farmer to
keep books and understand Book-keeping.
Therefore in the “Land” section a very
valuable series of talks about Figures and
Farm Accounts will be begun.
Two Complete Stories will be printed.
Vance Palmer’s Prize Story, “Men Are
Human,” magnificently illustrated by
Daryl Lindsay, will be continued.
FEBRUARY 26.
With this issue “The Bulletin,” having
had its Jubilee, will begin a weekly page of
reproductions of the gems of prose, pic-
ture and verse it published in the
’eighties, so that pleasant memories may
be revived in old readers and a new gen-
eration may enjoy the things that delighted
an earlier one.
TTtfTfyitlZeiz/n,
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1930.
MR. SCULLIN’S JOB.
“I have every confidence in the resources of Aus-
tralia and its powers of recuperation.”— Mr. Scullin
to the British investor.
Unfortunately it will not be quite suf-
ficient for the British investor that Mr.
Scullin endorses Australia’s IOU. Fortu-
nately there is something else he can and
should do.
The average man untrained to figures is
inclined to say that he “doesn’t understand
finance” and let it go at that—as though
finance was something that could well take
care of itself. Not unnaturally the men
who don’t understand finance choose men to
represent them who don’t bore them with
speeches on finance; in short, who dont
understand it either. So we have Legislatures
whose members with rare exceptions do not
know the most elementary principles of
national credit.
This extraordinary state of things does
not exist in any other country to anything
like the same extent, because no other
ŵ
SOUTH AFRICA HAS TROUBLES TOO.
The writer of this article is a South
African journalist, who has been
watching his country’s politics for
many years.
Racial cleavage in South Africa has devel-
oped almost to the point of open hostility
between Dutch and English. Since General
• Hertzog’s National (i.e., Dutch) party, in
league with Labor, voted Smuts out of office
in 1924, the atmosphere has changed en-
tirely. The Nationalists’ political utterances
are in many cases distinctly Republican. The
sincerity of Hertzog himself, though his
speeches at the 192 G Imperial Conference
for the moment allayed- suspicion, is now
frequently questioned. General Smuts’s
influence among his own people has shrunk
small, and his efforts to weld the races
have definitely failed.
An analysis of the Dutch policy offers
striking evidence of the widening gulf. By
peaceful penetration the National Govern-
ment has succeeded in introducing Dutch
influence into all the public services. State
jobs are no longer available to the anti-
Nationalist; of the-British, only those who
are prepared to knuckle down to the new
order of things are secure. Exploiting the
fairly general recognition of Afrikaans
(low Dutch) as an official language, the
Government has made bi-lingualism essen-
tial in State service. Scores of old British
servants are retiring voluntarily (and some-
times involuntarily) because of non-desire
or inability to qualify in the two lan-
guages-. Yet there are hundreds of Afri-
kanders in the services hopelessly inefficient
in English, and this is no bar to their
employment. Even unilingual British
magistrates are not spared, and the Dutch
interpreter, common in courts a few years
ago, is disappearing. The police force is
crowded with youthful Afrikanders from the
backveld who can scarcely write a report
in English. Afrikaans has first place in
Government gazettes and othgr publications.
ẁ
TRANSVAALER.
BEWARE OF THE MOB.
London “Financial News” concluded an
article on Australia last week by remark-
ing that “in the last resort the vital asset
which sustains Australian credit is the good
sense of the people.” No doubt most Aus-
tralians have good sense; like courage in
battle and honesty in commerce, it is fairly
common amongst the white races. But
good sense by itself has never saved a coun-
try from disaster after a certain stage.
Australia is passing through a phase
which has confronted most of the European
Powers—some of them more than once—
which is confronting Britain, and which
threatens soon to confront the U.S.A. It
began with the steam-engine and indus-
trialism 170 years ago. Population started
to move from the country to the towns.
The town-dwellers realised their numerical
strength, and began to make their feudal-
minded bosses realise it. Next, eloquent
adventurers—mostly lawyers and journalists
—went into the profitable business of weld-
ing mobs together and directing them, for
personal gain. The French Revolution was
begun by well-meaning men who were very
like modern Labor leaders. Because the
well-meaning ones were talkers and pro-
misers first and administrators afterwards,
the revolution got away from them. The
German Revolution began half a century
later in the same way—in the cities, and
at the instigation of well-meaning dreamers
—and anarchy followed. Then Bismarck
took charge, uttered his famous aphorism,
“Revolutions are only dangerous under
cowardly Governments,” and imposed peace.
Mussolini dealt with a similar problem on
Bismarckian lines the other day. Russians
have been slain and starved by the million
in the past 10 years, and their rich country
is still the most poverty-stricken in Europe,
not because the Russians have less sense
than, say, the Germans had 80 years ago,
but because they did not have the luck to
evolve a Bismarck,
There is a close analogy between the
present position of the U.K. and that of
Australia, both of which have been pre-
served from revolutionary violence hitherto
by that sovereign prophylactic prosperity.
Their cities are filling up at the expense of
agriculture. Both have qwasi-Communistic
Governments which specialise in doles and
disarmament, and are led by Kerenskys.
Just as Treasurer Theodore promised the
N.S.W. miners that “the mines would be
opened on their terms in a fortnight” if
his party was returned, so Treasurer Snow-
den promised the British miners that they
would get “a seven-hour day, a revision
of wages and a National Agreement” if his
party was returned. Snowden has since told
the British miners that they “cannot get
more out of the coal industry than there
is in it,” and Theodore is beginning to
drop hints to the same effect in N. S. Wales.
It has been at this stage, or very shortly
after it, in other countries that the Keren-
skys have got out and left the Lenins to
handle the mess. The good sense of the
people has been as powerless to influence
subsequent developments as it was in
mediaeval times when a tyrant king was
functioning. A well-organised little political
or industrial section operates on exactly the
same lines as a tyrant king and his army
used to operate. The modem adventurers
are as incapable of independent reasoning
as the mediaeval ones were, and their
generals are as unscrupulous. They are
after loot, and when, as always happens,
they discover that the promises made by
their leaders are lies, and that there is
little or no loot to be picked up, violence
begins.
Where a Government has a disciplined
army behind it • the need for good sense
amongst the citizens is not great. Britain
demonstrated this when its general strike
began in 1926. In Australia, which is now
without an army (the Kerenskys, who are
destined to bolt later, always begin their
ruinous work by demobilising their nation’s
defence forces), the need for good sense is
very great. But it is the duty of every
lover of Australia, of every class and sec-
tion, to emphasise that good sense requires
to be exercised here before serious trouble
begins. Australia differs from Britain inas-
much as neither good sense nor anything
else may save it from a shocking experience
if trouble is once allowed to get a real start.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Labor and Defence.
Reports of the Five-Power Naval Confer-
ence which is dragging on in London
suggest that only one party to the proceed-
ings is full of brotherly love and enthusiasm
for beating battering-rams into reapers and
binders, and all that sort of thing.
As at Washington in 1921, France refuses
to consider the scrapping of submarines, of
which it plans to have 108, in addition to
being strong in cruisers and destroyers.
Italy’s attitude is that it must have parity
with France, and the well-informed naval
correspondent of the “Daily Telegraph”
notes that the Italians have built, or are
building, six 10,000-ton cruisers, six 5300-
tonners, 46 destroyers and 30 submarines.
Japan won’t listen to the proposal to abolish
submarines, and is holding out for a cruiser
strength seven-tenths of the British and
American standard. It accepted a 10-10-6
ratio at Washington, and that was long
before the British slowed down on the
Singapore base and the Americans aband-
oned the notion of fortifying the Philip-
pines. The U.S.A. has. “deferred the laying-
down of two 10,000-ton cruisers,” but not
cancelled the construction of them —“the
mountings for the guns are being manufac-
tured.”
The British Labor attitude, on the other
hand, shows a touching faith in these mutu-
ally suspicious countries and in all the copy-
book virtues. Charged with the defence
of (1) an island country which depends on
the sea routes for food and (2) the one great
trans-oceanic empire, the MacDonald Gov-
ernment has wiped two 10,000-ton cruisers,
four destroyers, three submarines and sub-
sidiary vessels off the 1929 programme sanc-
tioned by Parliament. It has done this
unconditionally as a gesture to the Con-
ference—without eliciting any response
except a polite statement that the American
delegation is “genuinely impressed.” This
sacrifice of tonnage will mean, the Aus-
tralian Press Association is informed, that
before long the U.S.A. will have 18 battle-
ships to Britain’s 16, 37 cruisers to Britain’s
58, 309 destroyers to Britain’s 152, and 127
submarines to Britain’s 63.
And with British sea-power thus weak-
ened the Australian _ Government has
skittled compulsory training. A year ago
there were 48,000 men on the active list of
the A.M.F.; at the present time there are
not half that number, although good sol-
diers, with little help from the politicians,
are doing their best to whip up recruits.
And Australia has a race-exclusion policy
which is supposed to be backed by force.
And there are only 2.15 Australians to the
square mile.
N.S.W. Legislative Council Reform.
Ex-Premier Joseph Carruthers, leader of
the Nationalist campaign against the Bavm
Government's scheme to modernise the
N.S.W. Legislative Council, last week
uttered one of those wails which win popu-
lar sympathy in spite of their irrelevance:
“Mr. Bavin’s reward for the splendid
services of the Councillors—the men who
held the fort against big odds —is to abolish


GET TO IT!
THE CHAUFFEUR: “Here, damn it, what’s the good of you all sitting there groaning? Get up and give us a hand to lift her out.”
them without one mark of gratitude or
thanks. His action reminds one of Kaiser
William dropping hi s pilot.”
But the past services of the Councillors
have nothing to do with the State’s present
obligation, which is to preserve some kind
of check on its new tyrants—irresponsible
dictators, Nationalist and Labor, who
manipulate political parties in the obscurity
of offices and Trades Halls. The Council
has done good work for democracy in the
past irrespective of party (its handling of
the Income-tax Management Bill, which had
met with no Labor criticism in the
Assembly, is a recent case in point), but it
is a nominee Chamber, and therefore an
anachronism and an anomaly.
The Carruthersites object to a Council
elected by members of the two existing
Houses. But what other form of reference
Chamber would be acceptable as a matter of
practical politics? Not one elected by uni-
versal suffrage; that would merely be a
second Assembly. And certainly not one
elected by Ministers, which is to say, a
House of party hacks. The Bavin plan of
a Chamber elected by preferential voting,
the electors being the members of both
Houses, has been experimented with in the
Free State, where it has produced a Senate
about equally divided between party men
and independents of brains and character.
In any case, it is now the Bavin plan or
nothing. For if on the referendum which
will be taken presently the electors say No,
nothing is surer than that Lang will seize
the first opportunity of sweeping away the
second Chamber altogether. On the other
hand, if the vote is Yes, automatically a re-
formed Chamber will come into existence
which cannot be swept away without its
own concurrence.
*
A Typical Scrap of Railway.
In January N. S. Wales opened a new scrap
of railway, West Wyalong to Wamboyne,
an addition to a clutter of six little scraps,
all short of business and losing money
wholesale, like the solicitor who backed the
wrong horse with the trust funds. Mean-
while the Public Works Committee is hard
at work considering other scraps. The
P.W.C. is paid by the sitting and not by
the year as Parliament is, so it doesn’t
want to rush home and leave public busi-
ness unfinished.
A current effort is a proposed 60-miles
enterprise in the same locality (from Com-
bining to Grong Grong) which, if built,
will make eight unpayable lines jostling
each other. The latest mass of evidence
was discouraging, but was the regulation
sort. Many landholders with 2000 or 3000
acres (for it isn’t a region of big holdings)
will be able to subdivide into living areas
of 1000 acres when the line happens along,
and they may or may not do so. Even if
they do the increase of population won’t
be dazzling. With or without the sub-
division there is alleged promise of an in-
crease of wheat-growing, now greatly ham-
pered by the road charge of Is. per ton
per mile. The official estimate as regards
the railway is: Working expenses and in-
terest, £32,944 per annum; earnings, £8748
per annum; loss, £24,196 per annum, or
over £4OO per mile.
The moral is that the railway will make
no reduction of freight except by charging
its losses to the taxpayer. If it was re-
quired to pay its way like the private
vehicle it might make conveyance even
more expensive. And the old road has to
be maintained in some sort of repair as
it was before the railway arrived. If cheaper
wheat-shifting between Combaning and
Grong Grong is a dire necessity, it would
thus be better to subsidise the dray for a
while, paying 3d. or 6d. out of the Is. per
ton per mile freight. A guarantee might
be added that if the subsidised dray made
a boom and showed that there was real
business to be done, the (moderately) sub-
sidised railway would follow. In the great
majority of cases it would be found advis-
able to postpone the railway for a long
time, the pace of construction having been
absurdly overdone of late, and to go on
paying the subsidy to the dray if the re-
sults justify it, but not otherwise.
+
The Chaos of Traffic Regulation.
Inter-State motor traffic is now heavy, and
there are thousands of drivers who use the
streets of more than one capital. Passing
from the one with which they are most
familiar, they are almost sure to commit
some punishable traffic offence within the
first 24 hours. As a matter of fact, the
traffic police almost everywhere make allow-
ances for the newcomer and put him right
without even “booking” him. But mean-
time his failure to observe a regulation
entirely opposite 'to one he has been follow-
ing elsewhere has imperilled life; and life
will be imperilled until a common code is
agreed upon.
In Sydney the complaint of the pedes-
trian grows louder and louder. There is
justice in it, too. The eye of traffic regu-
lation is kept so constantly turned upon
the motor vehicle that the rights and the
safety of the foot traveller are lost sight of.
This is conspicuously exhibited in the right
of the motor vehicle to turn a corner, say,
to the east, after through traffic east and
west has been stopped. In other words,
though vehicle traffic east and west is
stopped so that vehicle traffic north and
south may proceed unhampered, no safe
and clear passage for the foot traveller is
ever assured. The present system is an
official death-trap. The foot passenger,
observing that through east and west traffic
is blocked, proceeds to cross a street run-
ning east and west, only to find himself
under a motor vehicle which has been
allowed to buzz around a corner into the
east-west street.
In other cities this incredible regulation is
unknown, which makes it all the more
dangerous for inter-State visitors.
<s>
It’s an 111 Wind
While the coalminers have dropped
£2,000,000 in wages, and the community in
general much more than that, the wheat-
growers of the Commonwealth have bene-
fited by the strike to the extent of not far
short of £2,000,000. The steamers bringing
coal to Australia have caused a glut in
tonnage that is accentuated by the smaller
wheat surplus available for export from the
1929-30 harvest. The result is that freight
rates to the U.K. are now about 20s. per
ton less than in a normal season. Of that
amount at least 12s. 6d. per ton, or, say,
4d. per bushel, is due to the coal tramps
cutting rates to obtain return loading. That
means an extra 4d. per bushel over the
whole marketable crop, approximately
105,000,000 bushels, excluding seed.
Another factor increasing producers’ re-
turns this season is the bursting of Aus-
tralia’s borrowing boom overseas. Because
Australia now has considerable difficulty in
raising money in London, “Telegraphic
Transfers” from London to Australia (the
exchange upon which Australian wheat
shippers operate) are now at a premium of
425. 6d. per cent. That premium means
slightly more than an extra Id. per bushel
on Australian wheat, and is worth in the
aggregate £400,000.
Probably wool-growers and other primary
producers have benefited as much as wheat-
growers from the two factors mentioned,
thus bringing the total benefits up to the
respectable sum of £4,000,000.
And so, to this small extent at any rate,
the wind has been tempered to lambs that
Would otherwise find the times pretty bleak.
♦
Young Australia and Its Teachers.
If any section in Australia ought to have
a wide Australian outlook it is the school-
teachers, since they have more opportunities
for travel than most people, and are ex-
pected to possess high educational qualifica-
tions. Yet the Vic. Woman Teachers’
Association has unanimously passed a
resolution expressing “its disappointment
at the recent appointments made by the
Film Censorship Board, women’s posts
being filled by N. S. Wales applicants to the
exclusion of applicants from other States,
inclusive of Victoria.”
From another point of view such a reso-
lution is, however, not unexpected. So often
isolated from their fellows, there is a tre-
mendous lack of cohesion between teachers,
who thus tend to view life in a narrow spirit.
Then, because he (likewise she) is employed
by a State Department which always con-
siders its own system the best in the Com-
monwealth and which demands standards
of education and attainment different from
those of the other States, and pays salaries
on a widely different scale, the teacher’s
widest view tends to be limited to the
boundaries of his particular State. So pro-
nounced is this State attitude that a teacher
transferring from one State to another finds
his previous educational qualifications not
wholly acceptable by other Education De-
partments.
As the basis of a nation is the school
and the teacher, is it to be wondered, then,
having teachers holding such unfederal
views, that after 30 years of Federation
Australians are still torn by the conflicting
motives of old inter-State jealousies? An
Australian XI or Davis Cup team cannot
be selected without the cry of State Rights
filling the columns of the press. In national
affairs, such as the eternal break-of-gauge
problem, there is seldom any other approach
except from the State angle. If Austra-
lians are to think as Australians and not as
citizens of separate States, the teachers will
first have to think nationally instead of
parochially; and so will their administrative
officers. This means that, just as account-
ants have their certificates acceptable all
over the Commonwealth, so teachers will
need to possess not State-acceptable acad-
emic and teaching certificates, but an Aus-
tralian-standard certificate, backed by
standardised training and standardised salar-
ies and conditions.
4
Returning German Property.
There has been a good deal of apprehen-
sion in Mandated New Guinea as to the
position of those who had purchased former
enemy properties from the Australian Man-
datory. It was known that the Ramsay
MacDonalds in Britain were all for falling
on the neck of the repentant prodigal and
returning him the fatted calf of his forfeited
possessions. In Australia persons of such
eminence as Frank Anstey, M.P., had pub-
licly announced their eagerness to renounce
the entire New Guinea mandate in favor
of the previous owners.
However, the recently-published details
of the agreement entered into at The Hague
should allay the fears of those who have
entered into commitments in regard to ex-
enemy estates. Both in Mandated New
Guinea and in Maoriland-run Samoa, tb.
Mandatory has only to restore what is n»‘
already liquidated. This means that tbr<
returned soldier who has fettered himself for
a generation with a New Guinea copra
plantation on the t.-p. system will find his
title good as long as his payments main-
tain it. Other holders on the same terms
are, of course, in the same position. The
not inconsiderable areas remaining unliqui-
dated are to go back to Fritz.
But that does not mean they will be
given back by the Mandatory to the former
owner direct. Through the Imperial autho-
rities they will pass to the Reparations
Committee, which will credit the German
Government with the value. That Gov-
ernment in its turn will reimburse the indi-
vidual owner.
4
The Rifleman in War.
Dear Bulletin, —Let me, too, exchange a
shot with the various writers who assert
that modern warfare is running more
to machine-guns and automatic rifles than
to the ordinary service weapon. A rifleman
cannot be said to be trained until he is
capable of rapid fire, and of accurate rapid
fire without drawing the rifle from the
shoulder. One of the feats of the Great
War was the covering rapid fire of the
trained British infantry during the retreat
from Mons.
There are several aspects of massed rifle
fire, especially of the independent kind,
that give it value. One of these is the
increased area of destruction due to the
varying degrees of skill of the marksmen.
There they beat the machine-guns, where
elevation and direction are not so “spread.”
At Tidworth in 1917 I saw five Tommy
instructors beat a Lewis-gun hands down
at finding a row of small targets one by
one. The group-fire of the riflemen had the
row of targets down before the Lewis
secured the correct elevation.
Lastly, machine-guns jamb much more
frequently than the rifle. In the 1916 winter
in France the Lewis often was frozen into
inaction when needed. I shan’t mention
how the crews of the A.1.F., at any rate,
thawed their Lewises.—Yours, O’D.


in the dance
it’s GRACE f
n
#|ag4
■
in a cigarette
• O
it’s TASTE /
POLITICAL
POINTS
“London financial and business circles,”
according to a cable, thought it of “the
utmost importance” that Scullin and Theo-
dore should issue an explicit statement that
Australia won’t default. This, it was
pointed out, would be following an example
set by India. Scullin and Theodore promptly
took the hint, and swore that default is out
of the question. They should go further and
repudiate the repudiation propaganda of the
“Labor Daily” and its noisy friends. Beyond
question this pestilent rubbish has helped to
make J.B. suspicious.
During 1929 Uncle Hoover sold motor-
cars to most of the habitable world, and Aus-
tralia, with less than the population of
Holland, was his third-best customer. This
country has a knack of being the third-best
customer of almost anybody save itself.
The N.S.W. Public Works Committee sat
lately at Narrandera, and heard 24 witnesses
about a proposed railway from Combaning
to Grong Grong. They nearly disembowelled
each other about the route, but no one
turned a hair over the fact that annual ex-
penditure was estimated at £32,944 and
annual income at £8748. Big losses of that
sort seem to be considered rather desirable
than otherwise.
Absurdly high land values are one cause of
Australia’s troubles, and trafficking in them
is still profitable—to some people. A small
cane-farm in the Mackay (Q.) district
changed hands the other day for the sixth
time in 10 years. On the first occasion it
brought £lOOO and was perhaps worth it;
with no improvements added, it has been sold
for £lB5O. Each time an agent got a cut
of from £5O to £Bo—about £4OO altogether.
Australia is cordially invited to lend the
Commonwealth Government £10,000,000 at
six per cent. The money is wanted to renew
a short-dated six per cent, loan, and this
new loan is short-dated also. Every time
a loan has to be renewed it costs a good
deal in expenses, so the short loan which has
to be renewed five times in 35 years piles
up five times as many expenses as the long
one which starts now and runs on to 1965.
There are far too many short loans falling
due between now and 1937. And a great
deal too many times a year Australia must
face the question whether it can get over
one more financial hurdle.
“In order to relieve the distress among
unemployed painters the Government has
allotted £lO,OOO for the painting of public
buildings in city and country.” To relieve
other unemployed artists it might not be
amiss to offer £lOOO for the best historical
masterpiece showing Theodore settling the
coal problem inside 14 days.
One cheering circumstance these times is
the National Travel association, which set
out to raise £lOO,OOO so that the world may
be told what Australia can offer the tourist,
and has £BO,OOO in sight. Clapp helped to
start it, Charles Holmes is director, and two
newspaper men, Arthur O’Connor and Peter
Fenton, are under orders to invite Britons
and Americans, per the spoken and printed
word, to come out and see the Blue Mountains
and Kosciusko ; the fern-gullies of Gippsland ;
the lights of Adelaide from the Lofties;
Melville Water, Perth, from the avenue of
flowering gums in King’s Park; Hobart and
Mt. Wellington; and the glories of tropical
Queensland and the Great Barrier Reef.
Free schoolbooks make a Vic. Labor plank,
but every time the party gets into office
the provision of £200,000 or £250,000 a year
for the purpose is found impossible. For
one thing, the Other Place won’t consent
to tax the same old 150,000 people to pro-
vide the wherewithal. H'ogan is faced with
a deficit of £400,000 for the current finan-
cial year, and may be forced to save a little
from the education vote instead of adding
to it.
The Newcastle-Maitland coal struggle is
partly a fight against a reduction of wages,
and partly a Bolshevik scrap to prevent
men working for unreduced wages. The
associated mines stopped because the owners
said they couldn’t work at the old rates,
since the export trade, a considerable part
of their business, couldn’t stand up against
cheap foreign competition. The non-associ-
ated mines were stopped out of Bolshevik
cussedness in order to cut off local supplies.
The first may have been a lockout; the second
was a strike. The Miners’ Central Council
has given positive orders that the men shall
TO KEEP HIMSELF WARM.
What it may come to if the coal trouble lasts much longer.
[From THE BULLETIN of Aug. 18. 1888.]
go back to work at the non-associated pits,
and a furious struggle is now being waged
by the Bolshevik element to persuade them
to revolt against their own authorised tri-
bunal.
Minister Fenton went to England dressed
entirely in Australian clothes, which was
much to his credit; though the fact angered
English manufacturers, who held that he
should have come naked and bought things
on arrival for the good of Freetrade industry.
Since Fenton’s advent cablegrams have
appeared saying that he has considerably
reassured the public concerning this country’s
credit. But as loans are still wholly unob-
tainable it may be that he hasn’t reassured
the public which has money to lend us, but
only the one which doesn’t mind if other
people lend ns money.
The new Commonwealth “Year Book” esti-
mates the cost of Parliamentary government
for 1927-28 at £1,276,400. Westralia, with
405,000 people at the end of that year, gave
its Cabinet Ministers £11,663 and its mcm-
bers £70,707, perquisites included, whereas
Victoria (pop., 1,760,000) distributed
£30,000 among its Ministers, and £46,758
among its members, the figures for South
Aus. (pop., 570,000) being £8395 and
£29,733. The 30 Westralian Leg. Council-
lors, nearly all of whom are well-to-do, got
£28,461 in .salaries, railway passes (£8177)
and postage for three months’ “work.” West-
ralia, in common with the other States, must
cut its expenditure down, and there is an
obvious field for economy here.
Australia has lately borrowed abroad
(counting only the sums required to foot
the bill for absurdly excessive imports and to
pay foreign interest) at this rate: —
1915-18 Annual Average £13,500,000
1918-21 „ „ 8,800,000
1921-24 „ „ 29,900,000
1924-27 „ „ 18,200,000
1927-28 One Year 54,300,000
When the complete figures for 1928-29 are
available they will show a big reduction,
which was compulsory; so will those for
1929-30. However, hopes are entertained
that Australia’s new tariff, with •improve-
ments to follow, will help this Commonwealth
out of the habit of thinking that its life
depends on its luck in raising £54,300,000 in
a year from outside capitalists.
A habit which tends to make the cranium
of the visiting foreigner more bfachycephalic
than necessary is that of the editor who sends
his talented Jefferson Brick to ask what
should be done with poor Australia. One
Sydney daily got the opinion of German-
sprinter Peltzer, and gave him five big head-
lines. The sprinter’s opinion was that there
isn’t much hope in our high-tariff policy
(though a high tariff may be a good thing
for Germany). He said that we depend
mostly on the agricultural and pastoral busi-
ness (the agricultural and pastoral gross
output was worth about 260 millions in
1927-28, and the gross output of factories
416 millions) ; and he added that Australia
ought to “pay less attention to the develop-
ment of secondary industries.” People from
countries with manufactured goods to sell
are shockingly unanimous in urging Aus-
tralia not to make any.
All this century Australia has been wait-
ing for a Federal Government to make use
of Section XIV, Clause 51, Part V of the
Constitution. Part V contains a lot of un-
used powers, and if they had been assumed
and exercised with vigor and intelligence the
Administration at Canberra would be vastly
more respected than it is. Section XIV
authorises the regulation of insurance com-
panies. Within recent years the swindle-
some new insurance concern has begun to
rival the surreptitious drug trade as a curse.
The Bruce-Page Ministry,, despite its
habitual languor, drafted a very good insur-
ance measure just before the unexpected
struck it, and if its successors hadn’t been
so anxious to get into recess they might
have done something with it. Possibly some-
thing will be done in about 12 swindles from
now, though the fact of the last Cabinet
wanting to do something is generally held
as proof that the present one need do no-
thing.
The latest batch of official figures marks
the year from June, 1927, to June,
1928, as a turning point. For the first time
since the war year 1916 the number of
people employed in factories diminished. In
1926- factories employed 965 out of every
10,000 inhabitants, and the figure dropped
to 745 a year later. The number of people
employed on the land decreased by 2577 in
1927- but this decline has been going on,
after a variable fashion, for years; the
number of miners employed also diminished
by about 3000. On the other hand, loans
for other than war purposes climbed to a
height never before dreamt of. The loan-
spending frenzy put up costs till productive
industry found it hard to live, and it
attracted men from productive industry, only
that they might be thrown into the dust-heap
when the loan jobs were finished.
Doubts arise as to whether the Rammac
Government is not going too fast in abolish-
ing Consular protection for Britons all over
China. In one provincial capital the pay of
the police fell into arrears, so they turned
robbers and seized the city, with the usual
massacre. When the Government troops
arrived the rioters were defeated. About 40
ringleaders were summarily tried and stabbed
to death on the parade-ground. Bystanders
then scrambled for their hearts and tongues,
as well as other organs, and made children
eat them —this was to give the children
courage. The law is a bit of an ass still in
civilised countries, but in parts of China it
looks more like a tiger.
The refusal of a Russian passport to H. S.
Culnane, an Australian Labor man who
wanted to learn the truth about Bolshevism
for himself, is significant. Stalin and co.
have suffered several severe shocks at the
hands of supposed admirers recently. A mill-
hand from Bradford whose employer had
heard him praising the Red Republic was
sent to Russia to report at the boss’s
expense, the wagepayer undertaking further
to help him to settle in the country if he
found it better than England. The investi-
gator perused the Russian economic system
incognito and in due course returned to
Bradford. His subsequent remarks so upset
the Soviet that the officials who had let him
through without a guide were sacked.
Four States have issued financial reports,
more or less complete, up to January. Vic-
toria said that revenue was £1,279,945 less
than at this date last year. Tasmania men-
tioned that income had dropped by £21,488,
which was rather creditable in the circum-
stances ; the islet swore off borrowing to a
great extent some years ago, and is: feeling
the good effect. Westralia put it that the
deficit for the seven months was £535,546,
January being a bad month. The tale from
Queensland was that the seven months’ short-
age had reached £1,335,798, the worst on
record. Treasurer Stevens, of N.S.W., pre-
served the murky silence which is called
“reforming the system of accountancy.” The
reform lies low about the railways, which
represent half the total State income and pro-
vide more than half the trouble, and the sum-
mary of the other figures is of very moderate
value.
A statement has been issued that unless
loans fall from Heaven, or rise from the
other place, within a fortnight work may
have to stop on seven partly finished N.S.W.
railways, throwing 1000 men out of work.
The policy of “opening up the country” with
lines like the new one from Richmond to
Kurrajong, which spends £20,635 in the pro-
cess of earning £3877, was sure to make
trouble, as people of intelligence have long
observed. A proposition reported by the
disappointing Stevens as having been debated
in the Loan Council is that the Railway
Commissioners should raise their own loans.
But if money can’t be borrowed on the security
of Australia and all its contents it may be
hard to raise it on the security of Riclimond-
Kurrajong enterprises separately.
Glenelg, Adelaide’s front-door seaside
town, has a grievance against the Butler
Government over the closing of one of its
two lines to the city. Two parallel tracks
were laid down long ago as a bad joke. At
the city end they diverge widely, and import-
ant suburbs have grown up round stations
on each of them. The more important line
was lately electrified and handed over to the
Tramways Trust. The North-terrace track
was then closed with a similar object. But
the loan to be floated for electrification is
not forthcoming, and the Government, which
hasn’t a feather to fly with, is being hotly
accused of “a scandalous breach of faith.
THE SIPLOMAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A telegram was received from the Prime Minister
at Canberra expressing regret at his inability to
attend a public meeting in the Collingwood Town
Hall to protest against the exclusion of Ryder from
the Australian cricket team for England.”
What with the dismal price of wool
And various other things beside,
A fellow’s hands get pretty full,
His ev’ry minute’s occupied.
I can’t be there. I may not spare
The time —I only wish I could —
A lance to break for Ryder’s sake
At justly fuming Collingwood.
It keeps me going for my life
Till into bed at night I drop,
This suicidal coalfields strife —
I wonder will it ever stop.
Yet ’mid the great affairs of State
It irks me that selectors should
Deal such a hurt and do such dirt
To Ryder and to Collingwood.
The stern demands of high finance
Demand my unremitting care,
Yet have I time to look askance
At rank injustice anywhere.
I dodge half-bricks from Nats. —'and kicks
From some of Labor’s brotherhood.
Withal I feel how raw a deal
They gave the King of Collingwood.
My post I may not leave. I stay
To battle for the nation’s good.
But, oh ! the very heart of me
Goes out in generous sympathy
To blighted, slighted Collingwood..
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Poverty
Point
THE DIE-HARD.
“I intend to cast my vote and use my influence against a bill that flouts tradition and discards old and faithful Councillors.” — Ex-Premier Carruthers on the Bavin Govern-
ment’s scheme to reform the N.S.W. Council.
THE OLD SOLDIER: “I don’t hold with them innovations, sir. This weapon was good enough when I joined the army, and if it was good enough for me it ought
to be good enough for my children.”
“Isaac Email” : The publicity man’s first-
hand knowledge of the temperamental lady
star doesn’t incline him to love her any the
more. My friend Spriggins had a whole four
weeks of the tantrums of one of the species,
but bore it meekly. On the last night of
the season she commanded Spriggins to her
presence. “Spriggins,” she said with queenly
air, “I am very pleased with you. You may
kiss my hand.” Spriggins’s eyes started
from their sockets. “What!” he cried. “I
may kiss your hand! My God, woman,
haven’t I been kissing your foot for a
month ?”
“D.McM.”: The ballyhoo artist was ex-
horting all and sundry to step up and view
“Stringybark Joe, the wild white man, cap-
tured in the ’eart of Australia.” In his
canvas pit Joe was uttering guttural snarls
and making vicious snaps at a piece of raw
steak. His oily carcase was adorned with a
sugar-bag loincloth, and he rolled the whites
of his eyes to good effect beneath long,
matted locks. His almost profane obesity
proved conclusively that the hop-plant was
a flourishing and virile institution in the
“ ’eart of Australia.” A small woman, pos-
sessing a face that brooked no arguments,
planked down her shilling and edged in with
the crowd. At the rim of the canvas pit
she gave one gasp, her eyeballs dilated and
she wrenched the nearest stake from its
moorings. Joe’s interest in the raw steak
was suspended. With a mad lunge lie tried
to make the distance to the tent door. The
stake landed beneath the ear and sent him
down for the full count. To the enraged
showman and an attendant policeman the
lady shrieked : “I’m a wild man ! My oath !
’E was the wildest man in Surry ’llls the
day I kicked ’im out! An’ to think ’e ’ad
a good job like this an’ never thought o’
me an’ th’ kids!” The policeman left it
at that.
“O. Kay”: “Choom’s” objection to the
Bowery accent in the English spoken by
fanatical tribesmen in “The Black Watch”
(B. 29/l/’3O) is hard to understand. Roy
D’Arcy (fanatic-in-chief) is down on my list
as an Australian-born; Mitchell Lewis is a
French-Canadian; and Walter Long (here
some time ago to play the scoundrel in
“The Adorable Outcast”) is a Western
American born of English parents. Myrna
Loy, the lady of the picture and leader of
the tribe, is a Scotch lass. Victor McLaglen
is the son of a London Bishop. He was
born in London, and was a British officer in
the war. Much of this “Bowery accent”
outcry is groundless.
“Cauboy”: Another aspect of stage moral-
ity may appear illogical to the outsider.
When wives and husbands are travelling
with the same show they must remain faith-
ful to one another. If either intrigues with
another member of the co., he or she is ostra-
cised by the rest, together with the para-
mour. The isolation is complete. Nobody
will walk, talk or cat with them, be they
ever so high in the histrionic hierarchy.
On the other hand, if one of the legal part-
ners is with another show, and the other
solaces himself or herself with a temporary
mate for the currency of a tour, no exception
is taken.
“Lizzie Wirefeiice”: When Beaumont
Smith staged “Stop Your Nonsense” at Syd-
ney Royal some years ago with a group of
swell English legit, stars lie decided after the
last rehearsal that the show needed more
“guts,” and “imported” the late Jack
(“Porky”) Kearns from the Princess Theatre,
then carrying on near the railway. The
news gave frightful pains to the legit, stars,
especially as Smith took great delight in
explaining to them that the incoming vaude-
villain would probably come to the theatre
in a red sweater and spit all over the floor
and probably on to the ceiling. When the
time came for the extra final rehearsal
“Porky” staggered everyone by turning up
in his Sunday clothes-, and was so overawed
by his proximity to real actors that he was
too nervous to rehearse. “Give me my part,
Mr. Smith,” he said. “I’m not used to this,
but I’ll be all right to-night.” He was. He
not only made the hit of the show but the
hit of his life with fellow performers, and
in the tour that followed was easily the most
popular man in the co.
“Craiser”: The incident at the opening
night in Melbourne of “A Messenger from
Mars,” when some snowflakes which blew in
with the red planetarian refused obstinately
to melt, was capped at the Comedy the other
night during the performance of “The Land
of Promise,” Maugham’s melodrama of the
Canadian snows. In a temperature sup-
posed to be below freezing-point but actually
nearer 90deg. F., Mary MacGregor pro-
duced a pound of butter, the consistency of
which was, unfortunately, closer to that of
milk.
“O Blin”: Si-ng Sing, New Yoik’s most
fashionable gaol, frequently entertains the
inmates and adds to the Prisoners’ Welfare
Fund by producing its own shows with
casts composed entirely of garrotters, 4-gun
men, forgers, Wall-street speculators and the
like. Recently it staged the popular Schwab
and Mandel ’musical comedy “Good News”
for five consecutive nights. Friends and
relatives of the guests, to the permissible
maximum of 900 each evening, paid 2 dollars
50 cents a head to see it. Two or three
lightly-built young gentlemen, whose faces
were not absolutely smudged by crirpe, were
good counterfeits of females, and there was
a glorious “female” ballet whose real sex
was loudly advertised by the moss on their
shins. The greatest feat of the run, however,
was put up by several lifers, who ushered
and sold sweets with an arctic decorum that
staggered the warders.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The Actors’ Federation
has a record of over 20 theatrical stand-
ings in N.S.W. during the last five years.
Secretary A. C. Winn was himself one of a
company left at the Opera Plouse without
salaries when part of the management dis-
appeared with what funds the show pos-
sessed. The union wants travelling com-
panies to put up the cash for return fares
and a guarantee of salaries, but some mum-
mers are themselves the strongest opponents;
they would rather take a risk with a job
than not have a job at all. Twenty-five years
ago the M.L. Government introduced legis-
lation requiring companies arriving in the
Dominion to put up the amount of fares
to their home ports. The Holloway company
was the first to be affected; but its members
made a hole in the legislation by landing
in M.L. as individual travellers. The com-
pany duly “formed up” in Auckland.
“D”: “A Woman of Affairs,” the Metro-
Goldwyn version of “The Green Hat,” has
an error that will evoke derision in England.
“You kept David waiting for hours,” says
Jeffrey, reproachfully, to the Lady of the
Hat, “and he is rowing for Cambridge to-
morrow!” And, next day, the Putney-
Mortlake race is shown being rowed at
Henley! The absurdity, unlike those of
“Ouida” in the same tradition, seems to be
deliberate. It is clear that the director
wanted a summer scene with house-boats.
But to the English, and particularly to
Londoners, it will be as ruinous to illusion
as if he had caused the Derby to be run
over the Liverpool Grand National course.
“L.H.P.”: Comic Opera is flourishing in
Maoriland, and Williamson’s “Whoopee” co.,
plus revivals of “Lilac Time,” “The Maid
of the Mountains” and “The Student Prince,”
is causing a rush on the money-boxes.
Jack Ralston and daughter Edna,. Lilian
Crisp, Doris Hopkins, Don Nicol, W. Perry-
man and Ted Butterworth are- the principals,
with Alf Burton holding the baton.
“C. 8.” : William Faversham, liis wife and
co. will make a first appearance at Sydney
under the Firm’s aegis in March. Faversham
is an Englishman who gained considerable
repute in America as a Shakspearean actor.
Profiting by Moscovitch’s sad experience
when he opened in Melbourne with “The Mer-
chant,” he will not begin with the Bard but
with “The Prince and the Pauper,” fol-
lowed by other romantic and comedic plays.
“ J.G.”: When The Bulletin made its
debut practically every town and township
in Victoria had its own fife-and-drum band,
and they kept the various localities alive,
particularly on Saturday evenings. Now,
with the exception of one or two attached
to schools, not a single flute band is to be
heard. Why did they go out of favor? They
could certainly turn out far better music
than the mouth-organ bands that have been
getting publicity lately.
“Santander”: “Peter Pan” has had its
usual month in London with pretty Jean
Forbcs-Robertsou in the part of Peter. This
is the twenty-sixth consecutive annual pro-
duction of the classic and a particular huzza
went up at the appearance once more of
the veteran George Shelton in the part of
Smee. Shelton has never missed a session
of the play and has played Smee all the time.
His monopoly of the rOle of the old pirate
must amount to a world’s record. An in-
teresting reappearance, after an absence of
24 years, was that of Sir Gerald du Maurier
in the double roles of Mr. Darling and Cap-
tain Hook. Marie Lohr made a pretty pic-
ture of Mrs. Darling.
“Santander”: St. John Ervine must be
the only first-rate writer living who has
successfully combined the functions of drama-
tist and critic. As critic he has a large
audience in the London “Observer” and his
recent weekly review for New York “World”
won him international approval. He has suc-
cessfully launched the powerful dramas
“John Ferguson,” “Jane Clegg” and “The
Ship” and lately staged a delightful comedy,
“The First Mrs. Fraser.” Ervine doesn’t
know how much money his play will earn
him. Its neatly balanced scenes and sophisti-
cated comic note have appealed considerably
to Broadway, and European translations are
also doing their bit for the bank. The Hun-
garian version under the title of “The First
Wife” was the big draw in Buda-Pesth
when the last mail left.
“Spokeshave” : During their t( ir of Aus-
tralia Walter Hagen and J. H. Kirkwood
are to appear on the ’alls. Both the Yank
and Australian internationals are trick
golfers, and to add interest to their act they
are bringing an American soprano with them.
Entrepreneurs Edgley and White are respon-
sible for the stunt.
“O. Blin” : Frank Vosper, author of “The
Murder on the Second Floor,” lately staged
at Melbourne Comedy, was accused of pour-
ing his recollection of the notorious Tliomp-
son-Bywater case into another murder drama,
“People Like Us,” so the British Lord Cham-
berlain refused to give it a license. The banned
piece was taken up b'y one of the numerous
repertory societies which are perpetually
clamoring for notice in the Smoke, and it
had a ten-day run. One of the outstanding
identities of a rather gruesome epitaph was
the brilliant Marie Ney, who is becoming so
prominent that she threatens to push
Michael Arlen, Edgar Wallace and the last
actress to slap Hannen Swaffer from the
best positions in the illustrated press.
“Luiz A.”: Kate Howarde’s Australian
company has produced a panto, in Rock-
hampton with a woman, Cora Warner, as
the Dame. The only other instance I have
heard of was when Maggie Moore took the
usually masculine role.
A note from- Scott McKee (Hollywood) :
Dear Bulletin, —A Scotch actor is permitted to
play a Scotchman in a Scotch talkie. It is so hard
to believe that I enclose proof. In fact, it is so
unusual that the Hollywood papers comment on it.
The picture is “A Wee Bit of Scotch,” and
there are at least a dozen other Scotties in
support. Even Hollywood must be waking-up
to the absurdity of having British soldiers
with Bowery accents and such-like. McKee
is quite a good character actor, to be in-
spected at the moment in “The Last of
Mrs. Cheyney.”
“Argus Eye”: Sydney’s showy State and
Capitol theatres have chucked stage presen-
tation and ballets and will stick entirely to
talkies, which puts them on the same plane,
except for the architectural differences, as
the suburban houses. But here’s one Poverty
Pointer who’s game to bet that Union
Theatre’s policy of the future will be four
big vaudeville acts and one talkie. Neither
the talkies nor vaudeville can stand firmly
much longer on their own, but each has at
least one good leg. The writing on the cellu-
loid is that short subjects are doomed, and
the human element will take their place.
“Pawang”: Tim Nolan, the murderer of
“To What Red Hell,” could scarcely have
strangled his victim during a cataleptic fit
(B. 29/l/’3O). Catalepsy involves a sudden
suspension of the senses and of volition, the
body and limbs preserving a fixed position,
hardly a suitable condition for doing a hefty
woman to death. Further, the playwright
says Nolan remembers his throttling per-
formance. Even if he were capable of doing
it, an epileptic would retain no consciousness
of the deed.


Iv-K
m
<
I I
mm
.
and batter *
“COUNTRY LIFE” the biggest cigarette
success in a decade selling far faster than any
cigarette in its class. Why ? Better quality plus
extra value - that’s the reason.
Tens of thousands of Australian smokers have
found that the 23 “COUNTRY LIFE” Cigarettes
they get for the usual 1/6 are really better cigarettes
—well made, evenly packed, refreshingly different,—-*
and “three more for ij6 n/
fOK
16
ClndlSfbrV-
also_ irv ting
of 50 £ 100
Country Life
CORK-TIPPED VIRGIN
CIGARETTE
co >
Made in Your Own Country at the
Garden Factory Raleigh Park
-by W. D: & H. 0. Wills
(Australia) Ltd.j


Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
15th to 26th April, 1930.
ELEVEN DAYS FIVE NIGHTS
£14,000
£14,000
PRIZES
ENTRIES CLOSE:
EXPORT BUTTER and CHEESE . .
WINES
HORSES (including Trotting Events)
CATTLE
PIGS
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS
DOGS and CATS
AGRICULTURE (including Fruit and Apiculture)
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes)
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS . . . .
Schedules and Unify Forms on Application
Emteavw House, G. 0. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
3rd to 12th February
4th March
Bth March
1 Oth March
1 Oth March
1 Ith and 1 2th March
13 th March
14th March
1 4th March
24th March
m
MANGROVITE BELTING
ST Utmost Strength
E in everjt Length -ifly i,
tki
mvt
TROUBLE-FREE
POWER
TRANSMISSION
Machinery equipped with Man-
grovite Belting gives the greatest
percentage of efficiency, because it
gets an even, steady flow of power
without slip. It pays to instal
MANGROVITE WATERPROOF
LEATHER OR RAWHIDE BELTING
for its efficiency is lasting, and ensures the most economical service.
Consult our engineers without obligation. Mangrovite service is
behind every belt.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
For years past the tens of thousands of
Sydney motorists who have to cross
the harbor by ferry have cursed the Navi-
CAPT. SANGSTER, Superintendent of
Navigation Department (N.S.W.).
gation Department’s regulation which in-
sists that, whether it is a physical possi-
bility for them to open the doors of the
closely packed cars or not, they shall switch
off tail lights while on the ferries. Various
suggestions have been made to overcome the
difficulty ; but Captain Sangster, the Super-
intendent of Navigation, has insisted that
whatever else is done the lights must be put
out. The Government has decided that, in
view of this, it cannot do anything to relieve
the absurd situation.
There was a true story of adventure behind
a dinner-table set for three at Arthur Peck’s
home in Melbourne the other evening. Peck
is the septuagenarian architect who sailed
the small yacht Maysie in the ocean race to
Tasmania recently, and he also accompanied
Elliot Giles on his 14,000-mile cruise in the
Pacific a couple of years ago. His guests
were Robert Herbertson, one time Queens-
land M.L.A., and Captain James Bull, a
Gippsland farmer. They are all who remain
of the 17 young
men who 50 years
ago set out in the
schooner Dove
from Sydney to
look for gold in
New Guinea. They
found no gold,
although one of the
places they search-
ed was Edie Creek.
Four died of
malaria, the rem-
nant was rescued
from the sinking
Dove on the return
voyage by a tea-
clipper bound for
Japan, from which
country they were
shipped home by
the British Consul.
Mrs. Agnes Cox,
who died at Mud-
gee (N.S.W.) this
month, was the
widow of Alex-
ander Cox, a direct
descendant of Lieut.
William Cox, who
joined the N.S.W.
Corps in 1797 and
was made pay-
master in 1798.
The Coxes, like the
Lowes, Lawsons,
Bayleys and Rouses, were pioneer squat-
ters, and in the early ’fifties owned
Mount Forster and Ellengerah stations
on the Lower Macquarie what time
the distinguished William Charles Went-
worth owned Cullumburrawang.
Harry Chauvel, Chief of the Commonwealth
General Staff and Inspector-General of the
Forces, will be 65 on April 16, and due for
retirement. One of Australia’s only two
full generals, he received his first commis-
sion in the N.S.W. Cavalry in ’B6, and
joined the Q. Mounted Infantry in ’9O. His
first war service was in South Africa as
adjutant of the Ist Q.M.1.; after command-
ing the Ist Infantry Division on Gallipoli
he returned to the mounted arm to earn a
reputation in Sinai and Palestine unexcelled
by any cavalry leader’s of our time. His re-
placement is troubling the authorities. Major-
General Bruche, now in London, is next in
seniority, and it is rumored that General
Blarney, Monash’s chief of staff in France,
may be lured from the Victorian Police Com-
missionersliip. It is, however, just possible
that Chauvel’s term may be extended.
Japan took no chances in sending Reijiro
Wakatsuki to the Disarmament Confer-
ence. He is one of its keenest intellects, a
brilliant debater and an expert Parliamen-
tary tactician, although not yet 30. Wakat-
suki has served a term as Premier, is an
expert archer and a famous chess-player;
and while the American delegates dare not
take a hard drink in public, he is proud
of the fact that the Japanese press regards
his ability to absorb good liquor as out-
standing. His wife recently told the papers
that “my husband is very fond of saM.”
Dr. John Corbin, dead of pneumonia, was
one of Adelaide’s best-known surgeons. He
left with the First Hospital staff in Novem-
ber, 1914, was at the Gallipoli landing, and
nearly went out to enteric on Lemnos. Later,
as a colonel, he had charge of the Third
Australian clearing-station in France. Since
the war he has been hon. surgeon at Adel-
aide Hospital, a lecturer at the university,
and in 1928 president of the local branch of
the British Medical. Popular and a keen
sportsman, he never looked his age, which
was only 51 at the end.
“10-2-4” : Edgar Wallace, who told J. E.
Fenton at a St. James’s Palace luncheon
that ho “was anxious to visit Australia
soon,” should get on well here. I met him
during the war (the paper he was editing
had printed a story of mine), and the differ-
ence between him and the other London edi-
tors I ran across was remarkable. I had
the curious experience of having tea with
him and the whole of his staff at a large
table in the editorial sanctum. He is a
stout, bald medium-sized man, with a critical
mind and the remains of the Cockney accent
he had when he was a ranker. At the time
(1917) he was acidly derisive about the
brass-hats, and expressed a great admira-
tion for the Australian infantry (classing
them with the Guards) and strongly
GODFREY MORGAN, Minister for Rail-
ways, Queensland.
approved of their habit of saluting nobody
in London. In fact, in many ways, he was
very like a Digger himself. I fancy one ol
his reasons for wanting to come here is to
see the racing. It is safe to say that no one
in England knows more about flat-racing
than he does.
Whitmore B. (“Doc”) Carr, who is resign-
ing the presidency of Adelaide Stock Ex-
change, is its senior member after Sydney
Beach, and has occupied the president’s
chair for close on 26 years. He was sport-
ing editor of the “Register” before becoming
a sharebroker; as horse-expert he succeeded
Moxon Cook, who had moved up to Mel-
bourne “Argus.”
He has been chair-
man of Adelaide
Racing Club, and
is now at the head
of S.A. Jockey
Club (which post
he is not resign-
ing). The new
Stock Exchange
president is Walter
Gurner, who has
been “vice” for over
10 years.
Sydney Uni. owes
its three newest
professors to the
munificent Bosch
bequest. Charles
George Lambie
takes the Chair of
Medicine at £2500
per annum, a billet
previously held by
that born 4 teacher
Professor "A. E.
Mills, who will be
missed in the lec-
ture-rooms. Mills
was none the less
effective because he
was an actor rather
than a lecturer —
every disease pro-
vided him with a
field for acting.
He would walk the floor like a paralytic
or contort himself in any position to typify
a disease, and he enjoyed it. Harold Robert
Dew, a Melbourne graduate whose researches
into hydatids have given him world-wide
fame, replaces Professor Sandes, who has
given himself up to the study of cancer.
Hedley Duncan Wright is a Tasmanian who
graduated in medicine at Edinburgh. He
fills a chair that has only now been insti-
tuted. All three men have seen war service
on the medical side.
A small group of Sydney newspaper
artists and pressmen journeyed to Rookwood
Cemetery last week to pay a last tribute to
the late Jack Waring, black-and-white artist,
who died of consumption in the Prince of
Wales Hospital, Randwick. Waring was
born at Belfast 34 years ago and learned
process-engraving as a youth. At the out-
break of war he enlisted, still in his ’teens,
in the Royal Irish Rifles and served 3J
years in France, his war injuries undoubtedly
contributing to his premature death. He
came to Australia in 1919 and was soon a
regular contributor of clever and humorous
sketches to several publications, including
The Bulletin.
Ex-coalminer Tom Glassey. Queensland’s
first Labor member —he was the whole party
for some years—is still hale and hearty in
Brisbane, at 86. The old stalwart was
greatly cheered recently by a letter from a
friend of his youth, that Walter Runcimau
who rose from being cabin-boy in a collier
to become a shipping magnate and a Cabinet
Minister. Runciman recalled “young Tom’s”
fight for the Northumberland miners 60
years ago, a fight which compelled the young
crusader to seek fresh woods and pastures
new. It was Glassey who shoved Thomas
Burt, first Labor member of the Commons,
to the forefront in those troublous times
as the miners’ representative.
The rev. and eloq. Ruth (B. 5/l/’3O)
says it was the reporter:—
I did not say: “The ideal of White Australia is
against every doctrine of the Christian faith.” On
the contrary, I said: “The White Australia policy is
a magnificent ideal. And it is attainable. It is an
experiment the success of which would be a valuable
contribution to international well-being.” And other
things to like effect. But I insisted that we cannot
keep Australia white and empty. It is the dog-in-the
manger game which is “against every doctrine of the
Christian faith.” To accuse me of opposing a White
Australia is like accusing The Bulletin of opposing
humor. But you wouldn’t publish The Bulletin if
it were not read. And we shall not keep Australia
white by making British immigration “black.” You
base your little sermon on a press report. And I am
not responsible for the intelligence of reporters. They
seldom listen through (small blame to them!). Cer-
tainly Tiie Bulletin can’t blame them. You preach
to me on “What do the Scriptures Say?” and go
back to a passage in Deuteronomy. There is a New
Commandment. What’s wrong with the Sermon on
the Mount? The Scriptures say a good deal after
Deuteronomy. Australia must take count of the
fact that we are living in a new world. There is
an international mind, an international conscience.
We cannot ignore world conditions. We can’t claim
a continent and keep it empty.
Died last week in Brisbane, at 59, after a
long illness, Robert Russell Love, Queensland
State manager of the National Bank. Bob —
to distinguish him from his brother Harry,
also in the bank’s service—spent most of
his working life with the Bank of North
Queensland, and was its manager in London
for many years. He was a sound banker,
with a vast knowledge of his native Queens-
land.
No man has left his impress on Melbourne
more than Clements Longford, master builder,
who has just laid down the plumb-bob at 77.
Amongst the alterations to the city’s sky-
line for which he was responsible were Myer’s
emporium, Ball and Welch’s, the Comedy
Theatre and Scott’s Hotel. One of his last
jobs was putting spires on St. Paul’s, and he
gladdened the hearts of the ecclesiastics by
agreeing to do it at cost.
J. Wharton White, -who has passed out
in W. Aus., sat in S.A. Assembly for the
district of Light in 1890-06. Of the 54
Assembly members of that time there are
eight survivors; Fred Coneybeer (now
“Father of the House”) is the only one in
Parliament. Lance Stirling, the octogenarian
President of the Leg. Council, has been in
that Chamber since 1891; D. M. Charleston,
elected to the Council the same year, is 82.
Forty years ago on Feb. 6, the first Aus-
tralasian Federation Conference was opened
at Melbourne. It was convened by Henry
Parkes and decided that the time was “ripe
for union of the colonies.” Dr. Cockburn,
of S.A., who died in England last November,
was the last survivor of the 13 representa-
tives who attended that gathering, as he
was also of the 45 delegates to the National
Convention held at Sydney the following
year.
Patrick Kelly, dead at Red Hill (S.A.) at
92, was one of the party with Charles Todd
when the overland telegraph line was built
from Adelaide to Darwin in the late ’sixties.
Another of that party was George John
Hay, who died within a week of Kelly at
Tenterfield (N.S.W.). H'ay saw another
page of Australian history open; he was on
Mt. Gipps station when boundary-rider
Charles Rasp found silver there in ’B3 and so
started Broken Hill.
Severed his connection with the business
world, Charles O. Sherwood, for 34 years
with the Dunlop Rubber Co. and for 28
N.S.W. manager.' Born in London in 1868,
Sherwood came to Australia young and was
the first bagman to travel on behalf of
pneumatic tyres in this country. Pie has
been associated with the Royal Automobile
Club since its inception.
Commonwealth
Solicitor - General
GARRAN.
Bob Garr a n,
C o m m o nwealth
Solicitor - General,
who is interesting
himself now in the
Canberra Univer-
sity project —he
has been gazetted
chairman of the
“Canberra Uni.
Council” has
never had the plea-
sure of pocketing
a senior counsel’s
fee in his life,
though he is one of
this country’s most
distinguished law-
yers. Back in last
century, almost as
soon as he had
finished his bril-
liant Sydney Uni.
career, he got a
Government job,
and Barton took
him across to Adel-
aide as his secre-
tary when the Fed-
er a 1 Convention
opened. So he
devilled for Barton, O’Connor and Downer,
the drafting committee; that was in ’97,
and he has ever since been trying to tell
Governments what the Constitution means.
His father was that very learned Dr. Garran
who used to be editor of the “S. M. Herald”
and was afterwards the head of the first
tribunal ever set up to settle industrial dis-
putes in N. S. Wales.
HIS EPITAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
our city pavements trod,
Highly regarded all his days;
He made a pretty tidy wad
In an infinity of ways;
Some, possibly, a trifle odd,
a uone that earned intense dispraise;
And more than once, he would relate,
He d done some service for the State.
That he was paid therefor direct
His patriot pride could never dim ;
Nor was he given to reflect
On what the State had done for him.
But few commanded more respect,
The papers emphasised with vim,
M hen John’s remains, amid profound
Lament, were lowered underground.
A most imposing tombstone gives
A brief synopsis of liis worth;
In richly-graven lines he lives,
The J ery salt ’ you ’ d say - of earth.
1 ore God ! But such superlatives
Might purchase any man a berth
In realms wdiere Peter keeps the keys,
If they will pass as guarantees.
Tom Jones his course terrestrial ran
Out in the peaceful countryside;
And reached, like Smith, the Psalmist’s span
And as inevitably died.
But, verily, ’tw-ixt man and man
Were no resemblances beside.
While one amassed a goodly bit
The other did the opposite.
Tom toiled and spreed, and worked and
spent,
And none could “lead him up to grace.”
He was, by general consent,
A tolerably hardish case
Who never seemed to care a cent
There’d be a reckoning to face
(If what the parsons say is right),
Though all admitted he was “white.”
They buried him, a gathering small;
His only epitaph was spoke.
’Twas when the sods had ceased to fall
An earnest voice the silence broke
Asseverating: “Still and all,
He wasn’t half a had old hloke
And every head as one was bent
To ratify the sentiment.
Mayhap, where Peter keeps the keys,
They’ll count as much, such words as these,
As all your tombstone rhapsodies.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Jairus”: While I dug on industriously
behind the cypress hedge I heard the boss
of the gang of go-getters asking an under-
ling how he had fared at my home. “You
didn’t sell,” he hissed. “You didn’t sell!
What kind of a salesman are you?” The
Miserable Failure was nettled. “I’ve only
been at this game three days,” he pointed
out. “You know Rome wasn’t built in a
RELATIVITY.
DULCIE FARNIENTE : “I think it’s dreadful —a young girl of twenty marrying an old man.
of seventy-five.”
SYLVIA CYNICUS : “Well, it might have been worse—he might have been only seventy.”
day.” The First Robber seemed mollified,
“No, that’s right,” he said. “But I wasn’t
sooperintending that job.”
* * * *
“Cochon” : During the recent N.S.W. Leav-
ing Certificate exams, one of the overseers
noticed that a damsel seemed to gain inspira-
tion by gazing at her silk-clad knees. When
he approached she modestly drew her skirt
over them. He ordered lxcr to uncover them
again and discovered a closely written list of
trigonometrical formulas printed on her skin
with indelible pencil, and easily visible
under the silk. The unimaginative male
student seldom goes farther than the crib
pasted on his watch glass or written on Ins
ruler. Another method is to cram the foi-
mula just before entering the exam, room,
walk straight in and write it down on the
exam, paper—a device perfectly legal since
no written mnemonic is brought into the
room.
* ' * * *
“C.C.A.”: A N.S.W. country hospital is
built on the side of a hill, the nurses’ home
being near the foot. This home is known to
the Nightingales and their friends as “The
Canardly,” because sometimes they “can
’ardly” climb up to the hospital. Recently
a metropolitan daily referred to it as “the
staff residence, Canardlee.” That must have
set the abo. philologists guessing.
* * *
“Mei” : It happened in one of Brisbane’s
liilliest suburbs. Jones having a day off
decided to clean out his house tank and mend
one or two weak spots in the bottom. He
got the thing off the stand and placed a
chock of wood in position to keep it from roll-
ing downhill. Mrs. J. came out to see liow
the job was getting on. “Hand me in a bit
of wood, will you?” said her lord from the
interior of the tank. Mrs. Jones picked up
the piece lying at her feet, and tank and
man started downhill. It was a bruised and
dusty Jones who emerged from the tank at
the foot, and he was saying ferocious things
about women.
* * * *
“Centurion”: January 29, which saw the
publication of The Bulletin Jubilee num-
ber, was also the birthday of the Victoria
Cross —its 73rd. The scope of the decora-
tion, originally intended only for soldiers
and sailors in the Imperial service, has been
considerably extended; for example, native
troops of the Indian Army are now eligible,
as also are civilians engaged in war service.
Only 1039 crosses have been awarded, 637
ijti the Great War and subsequent minor
campaigns." Australians have collected 68.
The first went to Captain—now General—
Neville Howse in the South African War in
1900; the last to Corporal A. P. Sullivan,
of South Aus., while serving with the North
Russian Relief Force in 1919.
* * * $
“Sturt”: The turning of the seven-mile
Adelaide-to-Glenelg railway into an electric-
tram system has, incidentally, seen a bad
old blunder wiped out. When the line was
laid some years ago by a private co., a rail-
way to the Hills —and so to the Murray and
to Melbourne —was scarcely foreseen ; but it
came in the ’eighties, and crossed the Glenelg
track at a right-angle on the level —a cardi-
nal sin in track construction. The co. brought
an action against the Government, and it
was referred to the arbitration of Dick
Speight, then Vic. Railways Commissioner.
Richard’s verdict was, in effect:—
Level crossing impossible to continue. Local line
easiest to shift. What would an ovenvay bridge
cost? About £ll,OOO. Judgment for that amount.
As usual, the taxpayer suffered. No bridge
was built. The State bought out the co.,
and the level-crossing was worked —without
any serious mishap, as it happened—till the
other day, when it was abolished, the new
Glenelg trams being taken aloft.
* « * :J:
“Harold Hardup”: The queer variety of
swank which makes it easier for a man to
destroy himself than to admit that he de-
ceived the girl about his financial position
has claimed another victim in Sydney, a
Czech. He married a young thing of 15,
having promised to take her to America,
where, he said, a wonderful job was waiting
for him. Being really without enough money
to pay the fares, the too-imaginative Slav
shot himself, leaving behind him a lame
excuse about having been robbed of £5OO.
I am reminded of another young man who,
becoming enamored of a waitress in a Syd-
ney pie-shop, told her he was heir to a title
and big estates, and proceeded to live up to
the character. He took in other people
besides the girl, and an estate-agent, a car
proprietor and others agreeing to accept post-
dated cheques (backed by plausible explana-
tions of the circumstances), it appeared to
the dazzled bride-to-be that he had bought
house property, cars, furniture and jewellery
for her on a lavish scale. But the impassioned
youth was missing from the expensively
arranged wedding ceremony, and a search rc-
suited in the discovery of his corpse, with
no further evidence of wealth about his
clothes than a few coppers and a sweep
ticket. The optimist had relied upon a win
in the sweep to make his pretences good,
and the ticket had proved a dud.
“Clarence Cafeteria”: The new span
across the Yarra at Spencer-street is an
insignificant-looking structure. All oppor-
tunities for making it dignified or graceful
have been scrupulously avoided. The authori-
ties can still do something to render the
bridge noteworthy, however.
Right alongside it is Little
Dock, once the resort of the
mosquito fleet of Bass Strait
ketches. Concreted and with a
filtered inlet, this would make
a magnificent open-air bath,
within five minutes’ walk of
the centre of the city. With
SHE’D HEARD ONLY HALF THE TRUTH.
ELLICR: “What’s this—I hear you and Tom were married one day last week!”
FELICITE: “We were married two days, dearest, to be exact.”
lawns, trees and seats set round it for
onlookers, and dressing-sheds for patrons, it
would be a superb asset for people who now
spend their lunchtimes disconsolately patrol-
ling Collins-street.
* * ■? *
“X.S.” : Those writers who use the word
“pinkie” to give local color to their tales of
Little Bourke-street, Melbourne, need to
overhaul their vocabulary. In fining a
“drunk and disorderly,” a P.M. remarked
that “this is evidently the result of drinking
cheap wine, or lunatic soup.” Whereat the
members of the forree present nodded
their appreciation of the right word.
Hi * * *
“Pawang”: Melbourne dailies profess to
be impressed with the telepathic powers of
Argus, a young man who, with the assist-
ance of his father, has
revived the venerable
turn of mind-reading.
To further stagger un-
sophisticated journal-
ists, Argus offered to
read from the Tivoli
stage the thoughts of
sundry incorruptible
citizens standing 1 u
front of the 3DB
microphone sever. l !
blocks away. He even
boasted that he could
do it if the gentlemen
were in a broadcast-
ing studio in London.
A second microphone
and loud-speaker were
arranged on the stage
at the theatre so that
the audience could see
there was no decep-
tion. The only con-
dition was that
Argus’s father should
be at 3DB to pass on
the questions. The
condition recalls the
refusal of spiritualists
to conduct seances
except in the dark, on
the gratuitous assump-
tion that the spooks
shun daylight. I will
be ready to believe
that Argus possesses
a sense not shared by
his fellows when he
dispenses with his
voluble assistant. Until then I prefer to
regard these tests as a display of mental
nimbien'-ss coupled with a code evolved by
generations of showmen.
:k * *
“Pic-crust” : The assistant town clerk was
used to receiving all sorts of complaints
from ratepayers, including dead cats found
in the road and dustmen swearing at
the contents of bins. One afternoon
the refined wife of an alderman rang
up to say that the men repairing the.
road had broken her water-pipe, and she
couldn’t have her bawtli. Our new office-boy
took the message, and carried it on. The
assistant town clerk was busy and fed-up;
certainly he wasn’t prepared for the literal
rendering of his snappy reply as it went back
over the ’phone in a shrill pipe: “Come down
to the basement o’ the Town ’All, missus, an’
the caretaker ’ll ’ose you down.” The lady
did come down, but not to the basement;
and only the assistant town clerk’s masterly
lie saved the lad from the sack.
“Uramao”: Arthur B. Crouch (alias
John Grey), who was taken to Temple
(Texas) from HelenSville (M.L.) on an ex-
tradition warrant, met with the reception of
a returned citizen who has made good
in furrin parts. During the 13 years Crouch
had been in M.L. he had made
considerably more than the
150,000 dahlers which he paid
to the Texas banks in restitu-
tion, and the indictments
against him had no sooner been
read than the banks’ attorney
secured the dismissal of the
charges. In an interview
with a Temple paper, Crouch expressed
pleasure at being in his home town once
again, adding that only the fear of bank-
ruptcy had driven him from it to make
enough money to pay everyone. He is
returning to Helensville to take up the
threads which were so rudely snapped by
the Sheriff from Texas six months ago.
$ . $ * *
“Abdul O’Grady” : What was the longest
period any member of the A.I.F. succeeded
in remaining a.w.l. ? One war-hater grew
a goatee beard and ran a barber’s shop and
billiard-room in Alexandria; he stayed
adrift for 18 months at one spell and nine
months at another. When Tel-el-Kebir was
Base Details prior to the embarkation for
France in 1910, the M.P.’s used to bring
down a train-load of drifters from Cairo
once a week. They ran the whole gamut
of masquerade, but the most popular disguise
was a tanned skin and the blue burnoose
of the native. One genius posed as a
Greek merchant in frock-coat and spats that
even Bruce might have envied. And an
Italian from Sydney was driving a taxi when
I left Cairo in November, 1919; he had been
“missing” since 1915. He told me he was
looking forward with enthusiasm to the post-
war tourist traffic.
* * * *
“Tarwoona”: Messages were among the
minor horrors of trench warfare. There were
the routine messages, which had to be sent
daily, situation (twice), intelligence, casual-
ties, patrol, company strength, and numerous
others. All through the day and night order-
lies and signallers were stumping into the
dug-out with messages that required imme-
diate reply. In 1915 when our Tommy bat-
talion was getting strafed to bits at fiooge,
a brigade runner staggered into H.Q. dug-
out with a message marked “Urgent.” It was
to the effect that a village priest had lost
four stuffed birds, which he valued, and
“as your battalion was billeted there before
proceeding to the lines, you will imme-
diately search all ranks, and, if found, return
the aforesaid birds immediately.” The C.O.’s
reply helped him considerably to obtain a
Home Service appointment. On another
occasion at Arras I was awakened at three
o’clock in the morning by a note reading:
“Please submit as soon as possible a list of
all Chinese-speaking officers and o.r.’s in your
company.”
Hi * # *
“Ces”: Cute dodges of s.-p. bookmakers?
Warned that the police were swooping down
on him, a Melbourne billiard-saloon pro-
prietor who did a little s.-p. work on the
side rushed into the kitchen where his wife
was making a pie and popped the betting
slips into the dough. The bobbies might
have suspected, but they got no evidence.
A few days later, though, they caught the
lady. Billiards gave her the betting slips
again, but when he returned to the saloon
he was held by one J. Hop whilst two others
went to interview the missus. “Come on,”
they said, “your husband has told us he
handed the slips to you. Where are they?”
“I haven’t got them,” replied the flustered
lady; “I threw them out of the window.”
Incidentally, all sorts of people one might
not suspect run books on the quiet. One
of the biggest s.-p. men I know in Melbourne
is a grocer who never goes near the race-
course. The receptacle for his (and his
agents’) betting slips is a chaff bin at the
back of the shop. He pays out on Monday
mornings. He has been known to add bets
to the fortnightly grocery bill, particularly
when husbands object to the wife punting.
They go down as butter or eggs.
TEN YEARS AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
t’™ , t .
* rp °l old . J f cara tke thought!
a,,A kairs that I have are few,
A i m ®f. e .P ace ’ n( ?t distance, wrought
1 e albinism of their hue.
sjeui T m °lu P r ? ae to wai t my cue,
p , J, cserve the status quo-
;i- Ut a lia S 8 are n °t, twixt me and you,
Du te what they were ten years ago.
Youth is the season, sages wot,
To pluck from off thf fruited vine
Those ripe delights that linger not,
Like pretty girls and song and wine.
Well, once in season song was mine:
But now—ah! “most unkindest” blow'
They murmur, candid friends of mine:
“You could write verse ten years ago 1”
And one dear lady known to me
Named—well, ’tis neither here nor there
Since it may change in days to be
And leave her not ,a whit .less fair.
And, anyhow, why should "you care"?
If Nance it were or Nell or Flo
Who laughed—“ Old boy, you’ve scarce the
flair
For us you had ten years ago!”
Eheu! Youth’s king and “Vivat Rex!”
As Tennyson has said before.
Yet kings have cares, and there are flecks
On the sun’s self, say they who pore
Upon such matters. Ah! be sure
There still are blessino-s here below
‘r nf nf i-m, v
TW wknJn t t ill ™ ’
They whom we loved ten years ago!
And youth’s growm younger than it was!
Age, too, it seems, is not so old
Nor Time so terrible because
A grain implicit in the
Within the dimness of Fate’s mould
Made bright by chafing, seems to glow
On the blank die, now kindlier scrolled,
That stamped our hearts ten years ago.
King am I still on Bondi Beach,
Sans favor and sans flattery,
And—give wffiat’s due to all and each—
I ne’er cry off upon the plea
Of drivelling senility
A champagne supper or the show.
But still things aren’t, ’twixt you and me,
Quite what they were ten years ago.
Ah, Prince, time flies ! (Yes, mine’s a pot)
And here’s a thought, since funds are low:
I’m very glad that I forgot
To post this verse ten years ago.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“Whitehall”: Privy Councillorsliips (Scul-
lin’s is the latest) have definitely entered
the class of “ration” decorations. W. B.
Dailey was the first Australian to get one;
and it created a stir at the time, the mediae-
val right to advise the Sovereign being
SHE’D TAKE DIRECT ACTION.
“You remember Eva? She’s been down here, too—trying
to regain her lost youth, I suppose.”
“I wonder she bothers. I’d just sue him for breach of promise.”
regarded as a distinction even as recently as
half a century ago. Since then P.C.’s have
become almost as meaningless as knight-
hoods. The swiff degeneration of “honors”
is an interesting modern phenomenon. The
war was largely responsible. When it began
an M.C. was a coveted decoration. Then
staff officers who had never been near the
firing-line started to grab M.C.’s. Finally
one was pinned to the floury bosom of
an army baker, and the order lost
its last shred of significance. D.S.O.’s
became ration decorations much earlier;
■about SO per cent, being conferred for admini-
stration work, and the rest for gallantry
etc., in the face of the enemy. The foreign
decorations suffered a similar fate. A con-
signment of Croix de Guerre (Belgian) or
Orders of the White Eagle (Serbian) would
blow in at a Corps H.Q. After the G.S.O.’s
and their subordinates had been suited the
balance would be sent on to a division, and
if there were two or three left, Brigade
might sling them at genuine fighting men.
The sale of hereditary titles became a recog-
nised political business under the Lloyd
George administration, and titles are still
bought at fixed prices by arrangement with
the party organisers. There are only three
unpolluted decorations left —the V.C.; the
K.G. (which still has “no d—d merit about
it”) and the O.M.
* -i= * *
“Feng-Shui”: Code signalling between
crooks reaches a high degree -of excellence
in Asia. Frequenters of
an underground den in
Tokio were relieved of
their superfluous yen by
a method which com-
mands respect if viewed
from any angle. The
proprietor catered for
rural visitors, who were
invited to play cards with
him. While they played
the yokels were cheered'
with the sound of the
owner’s wife preparing
tea for them in an adjoin-
ing room. The pouring
of hot water, clattering of
cups and click of spoons
lulled their senses, and
they were not to know
that by an 'arrangement
of mirrors their kindly
hostess was reading their
hands and telling hubby
all about it.
“F.S.”: Ecclesiastical architecture has a
tendency to decay when it immigrates to the
“colonies,” and the Chinese josshouse at
South Melbourne is a painful illustration
of the fact. I am not an architect, but I
was able to identify in the edifice Gothic
windows, Corinthian columns, a Roman
fagade, and a Georgian door; and amongst
the orgy of decoration the fleur-de-lis, the
York rose, some early Victorian pineapples
and a dolphin or two. One of the specifically
Chinese things is a stone lion looking like
an enraged spaniel, on the base of which
some joker seems to have carved a golf-bag
with midiron. Comparing this erection to
the beautiful monasteries and temples that
adorn the mountain-sides in China is like
comparing St. Paul’s, Melbourne, to Notre
Dame. Ah Loong’s piety matches his archi-
tecture. • His shabby fane is seldom open
more than once a year.
❖ * J{t
“Murkah” : Double-headed trains are faulty
mechanically. Haulage, of course, is the
sum of the two engines, but because one can
supply air to the pressure-limit brake-power
is not increased by even an ounce. A pair
are thus able to haul loads far beyond
their stopping-power, and in these circum-
stances long heavy trains are apt to “get
away.” At Beaufort (Vic.) about 22 years
ago a bolting double-engined wheat-train had
to be dead-ended —there was a passenger
train ahead. The Beaufort smash and the
recent accident on the Blue Mountains had
a tragic point in common. In each case
the lighter engine was out in front, and when
trouble came the heavier one astern tele-
scoped the leading cab, which caused the
death of the first crew.
“D. McM.” : Noggins fell back on his last
line of defence. “Some day,” he shouted
hoarsely across the table, “this damnable
nagging at a man will end in tragedy! Mark
my words, Mrs. Noggins, the limits of' human
endurance will be reached! Picture a body
blood on the carpet, a smoking revolver and
two blank eyes staring at the ceiling My
friends will say, ‘Poor ole Noggins!’’ But
you, what will you say? And how will you
face the world? How are you going to feel
about it? How are you going to feel about
it, Woman !” Calmly Mrs. Noggins folded
her paper and readjusted her glasses. “I’ve
road, Noggins,” she said, “that under the
stress of a great joy people go mad. Per-
haps I shall go mad!”
* * * *
“Guilford”: Westralia’s gift of two black
swans to the Worshipful Company of Vintners
in London is a reminder that the Company
already owns a “swim” of the sooty Aus-
tralians (the only one of its kind in England)
at Goring on the Thames. By immemorial
custom only the King, under the title Seig-
neur of Swans, the Vintners’ and the Dyers’
Companies are allowed to keep swans on the
THE POOR FATHER.
ANXIOUS FATHER: “What—what sex, nurse?”
NURSE: “It’s a beautiful baby girl, sir!”
A.F.: “Thank God for that! It won’t have to go through hours of suffering like I
have this night!”
river that someone called “liquid history.”
The Companies’ swans are marked every
year, ownership being decided by the mark-
ing on the old swans with which the new
cygnets swim. The Royal swans bear no
mark and are looked after by the Royal
Swanlierd. Time was when the Master of
the King’s Cormorants and the Keeper of
the King’s Otters also figured on the Royal
pay-roll, but these have long vanished with
their picturesque charges.
* * * *
“C.V.R.” : Reading the forms filled in by
applicants for Government jobs is no joke
these times, but sometimes the harassed offi-
cial has to smile. In response to the ques-
tion “Married or Single?” a Ma State youth
wrote “Single; still a man has to live.” A
second reply was, “I am living with a
friend.” “Military service?” is another
question. One*answcr was, “Three years in
the Boy Scouts.”
* * * *
“A.E.H.”: Touching old Tasmanian
houses, about the most interesting place I
saw when I was in the islet was a farm-
house at Oakhampden Bay, about four miles
from Triabunna. It belongs to two ladies
who take in boarders. Except for tea,
sugar and a few other items, everything
is the. product of the farm or garden; even
to candles. The house was built by .Colonel
Lord, some-time commandant of the prison
settlement of Maria Island, which is not
far off. The Colonel had his bedroom win-
dow (still to be seen) made manproof by
the aid of iron bars. At the southern end
of a spacious beach are the remains of pro-
bably the last whaling station on the Tas.
coast. The Oyster Bay pine used in the
old structure seems to be quite sound.
*}•
“Barnacle Bill”: There is something re-
freshing to the returning traveller in the
spirit of camaraderie extended by shop assist-
ants in Australia after the “Moddurn” and
“Sir” of England, and the foreign substitutes
in the parlous States of Europe, where ser-
vility becomes confused with civility. I
went to buy if shirt in Perth, and the lad
behind the counter couldn’t produce the size
I wanted, “’Fraid your luck’s out, Sport,”
he informed me. “Blanked if I can find the
blanky things anywhere.” That puts you on
a nice friendly footing right away.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : There is a touching
candor in the inscription on a memorial
stone in Sydney’s Wavcrley cemetery: “He
was a brave man; we lived together for
14 years. A tribute from his Devoted Wife.”
* * *
“Flaming Youth”: To see lovely woman
in her most ruthless guise one must go to
the shabby court in Surry Hills where lius-
ands who have declined to go on living with
their wives are brought to book. A man
who said he had been out of work for months
was rounded up to explain why he had
fallen into arrears, the threat of gaol being
in the offing. Some friends undertook to
raise flO if proceedings were stayed; and
the proposal was put to the lady by her
solicitor. “Can’t you get the ten pounds
and send him to gaol, too?” the gentle crea-
ture said.
* * * *
“Lounge Lizard”: St. Mark’s School, near
Dflrling Point, Sydney, is being pulled down ;
flats are to go up instead. Built of solid
stone in the early ’sixties, it consisted of
two floors which accommodated 250 pupils.
When I was a pupil in the ’seventies the
headmaster was Charles Edward Bracken,
a brother of Tom Bracken, who wrote
“Not Understood.” A strict discipli-
narian, he caned us all impartially when
he thought we deserved it, his own children
along with the rest. We marched along
Darling Point every Sunday morning to St.
Mark’s Church, and any incautious youth
who misbehaved during service would be
summarily dealt with after the proceedings,
on the principle of “the better the day the
better the deed.” For Bracken was always
on hand, a cane up his sleeve,
*** ' *
“The Listening-Insect”; The psychology of
the amateur radio experimenter is interest-
ing. While the broadcasting companies were
making their abortive attempts to connect
up with Georgius Rex their telephones were
working at double pressure answering the
calls of amateurs, who were getting Majesty
“quite 0.K.” Asked to bring his loud speaker
up to the telephone, one of 3LO’s informants
said he was sorry he hadn’t a piece of wire.
Pressed to repeat what the King was saying,
the sanguine one paused for a few moments,
then he began declaiming a piece about dis-
armament which quite impressed his hearer
until he remembered reading it in a recent
“Argus” leader!
❖ ❖
“Sturt”: Old English weather traditions
die hard. The South Aus. Government
Meteorologist issued a shuddcrsome forecast
for Foundation Day: “Fine and warm to
hot; east to north winds.” This, being in-
terpreted, means “Temperature rising from
90 to 105; drying wind, veering to breath
of Hades, from the middle of the continent.”
A Saturday paper in presenting this to its
readers summed up the “fine and warm,”
exactly as an Englishman would do, as
“every indication for an ideal day.” The
day was ideal, but only because the north-
wind forecast proved to be wrong.
* * * *
“Kappa”: There is a periodicity about
crime in the cities which makes it possible
for the police to anticipate with fair accu-
racy the type of offences to be expected in
any particular season. Burglary, house-
breaking and robberies with violence are
always more frequent between September
and March than at any other time. Cheque
frauds and embezzlements generally show an
upward tendency in the first quarter of the
year. Arson seems to reach its high-water
mark each June and December, and offences
against women are most numerous between
October and February. Forgeries and
offences against the currency are about the
only crimes which do not exhibit this periodic
incidence.
=is * * *
“Macquarie”: I lately met a Tasmanian
who had lost part of his middle finger. Not
a novelty, of course, but this is—although
the digit had been removed below the first
joint, the remaining stump had grown a
serviceable nail. A freak or a protective
tactic of old Mother Nature?
* * * #
“Mako”: We had been watching the red-
faced individual racing for the train, and
when he hurled himself and his bags into the
carriage reserved for women only one of the
seven passengers already established showed
hostility. This was an acidulated dame in
the corner seat, who fixed the perspiring male
with a chilly stare. “What do you mean by
getting into this carriage,” she demanded.
“Didn’t you see the notice, ‘Ladies Only’?”
The red-faced man ceased mopping his brow.
“Yes, I saw it,” he said ; “but, like yourself,
I took no notice!”
ifc Jj: sj:
“W.1.U.”: Dr. Ross, surgeon-superinten-
dent of Broken Hill’s hospital, has been say-
ing hard things to shake the people from
the complacency with which they regard
the annual typhoid epidemic. After referring
to the incidence of the “entirely-preventable
disease with its necessarily high death-rate,”
the doctor points out bitterly that his insti-
tution offers immunity by inoculation with-
out charge. He asked for a campaign to be
directed towards inducing every citizen to
protect himself against the disease, and thus
help to remove “a state of affairs which is
a disgrace to the city and civilisation.”
Nothing is being done except to go on filling
the wards. Broken Hill never did have much
time for the “fads” of doctors.
THE BAY BOAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The the Bay Boat is making from
Bounding by the Quarantine across the
choppy sea,
v\r^ n< ? er * wallowing
NVith, hungry seagulls following,
Lashed by the spindrift from a racing
southerly.
Sports-shirts and berets, Oxford bags and
bathers,
Sunburnt sheiks and surf-queens moving in
a steady stream,
U e’U meet the old Weeroona,
\\ ho couldn’t tie up sooner
Because the Rip let loose the wild white
horses on her beam.
Two white mushrooms have sprouted from
the pier-head
- nd their stalks are two tall Johns uniformed
m blue.
“Clear, stand clear!”
And there gathers up his gear
lhe man who caught a skipjack Christmas
week in ’twenty-two.
Heads ! ’TV are heads ! For the rope is flying
overside!
Now she bumps against the pier-head and the
gangways clatter down.
Captain, glancing at his wrist,
Gives the siren-rope a twist—
She was due an hour ago to start fo£ Mel-
bourne town.
Sad-faced men with saxophones, flappers pert
and gigglesome,
Clucking mothers with their broods, alder-
manic eld,
Sapience,' inanity,
Multiform humanity
Clambered deckward in a qujue the while
the Captain yelled
Red-faced, through his megaphone, “Hurry
on ! Hurry on !”
Swish! Along the chute went all the luggage
and the trunks;
Streamers rippled to the wharf;
Siren wailed again. “She’s off !”
But the Captain’s glancing down the pier,
■waiting for the drunks.
Half-shot, blotto, brotherly and bellicose,
Blithering and slithering while the Captain
rubs his chin,
Pushed, pulled anyhow,
Almost frog-marched, one poor cow. . . .
Now he rings the engine-room, for all the
drunks are in.
The Bay Boat, the Bay Boat is churning up
a milky wake,
The boy that tends the windlass he has coiled
her cable short.
She’s floundering and wallowing,
Expectant seagulls following,
And.... I guess they’ll get some pickings
ere she berths at Melbourne port!
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


S 3
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directorsz Messrs. EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sun: assured and no
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evoiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO, BRUCE SMITH, General Manatrer
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
MaJESTY ’ s “The New Moon”
Statf RI ° N “Journey’s End”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
® OYAI i, “Follow Through”
t™a,?° MEDY (C ° m - Saturda y) ••• “The Poppy God”
iJSHL Vaudeville
Statf M? vi ? s and Ta]kies
ATE Movies and Talkies
«
The Bulletin Picnic is a periodical out-
break of uncertain antiquity. Sometimes all
bands, throw in and shout it for themselves;
sometimes, as in the Jubilee commemoration
on Saturday, it is one on the House. At
J.lo a.m. the staff, its wife, children and
other props, board a ferryboat at Fort Mac-
quarie, eat ice-creams and read a libellous
journal called “The Picnic Annual,” and
eventually get off at a place called The
Avenue. Why it is called The Avenue is not
conspicuously apparent; the nearest thing
to the name part that this Showman noticed
on Saturday was an avenue of four policemen.
There are always four policemen at a
Bulletin picnic, whereas at the Cordial
Makers’ annual wayzgoose there is only one.
That is no reflection on this paper’s staff,
but rather a proof that the Foorce has
more acumen than some try to make out.
At Saturday’s performance the princi-
pal event was the cutting of a fiftieth birth-
day cake, a formidable pile in pink granite
or some such masonry that the small fry
demolished in one onslaught. Other sorts
of food was put out of its misery in sundry
offensives during the day, and there was a
wet canteen abundantly set up with kegs
of brown, foaming, delicious beer for those
who indulge in such deplorable stuff. Lemon-
ade, tea, coffee and cordials in general frater-
nised with the nobler fluids, and there were
a few short patter turns by the proposers
of tbasts, interspersed with the rattle of
crockery and other applause. The favorite
came home in the principal sporting event,
a 75 yards’ handicap sprint for The Bulle-
tin Cup, a capacious utensil, in winning which
the successful colt also gets a few pounds’
worth of suitcase or table knives or some-
thing equally undrinkable. There were also
handicaps for men in their prime (from 35
to 50 summers), for the ladies (single, mar-
ried, etc.), for the children, for the bald and
old, and even for the visitors, who included re-
nowned apostles of Omar, business asso-
ciates of the house and several gentlemen.
Then there was dancing, bull-in-the-ring and
BEATRICE FISCHER, who has been helping the Gordon season
at Melbourne Comedy.
such like anaesthetics until about 10 p.m.,
and then another boat ride.
Altogether a clean, rollicking show, full
of ginger and joyousness. It was a much
better picnic than the last one. It alwa'ys is.
The most notable show Sydney has to
offer at the moment is wooden —not figura-
tively. but literally. It is a replica of that
Venetian antique, the Doges’ Palace, done
into Australian maple by two gentlemen the
most industrious—Enrico Davanzo and
Giovanni Driussi. It is an extraordinary
piece of work; it might be called, without
any disrespectful intent, a masterpiece of
futility. As one dear old soul who inspected
it in this Showman’s presence remarked,
“How good of them to design such a lovely
dogs’ home.” It took its constructors three
years to make and is larger than a full-
grown wheelbarrow. The price asked is 700
guineas, which is obviously mild as far as
time spent goes. The time went in making
and fitting the scores of figures, faces,
columns and what not that enrich the
original, a good black and white reproduc-
tion of which can be inspected beside the
replica for purposes of comparison. Out of
that comparison the wooden edifice emerges
brilliantly. There are rows of faces each no
bigger than a match-head and all done with
amazing skill and flabbergasting detail. And
so with other minutiae. What on earth any-
one who bought it would do with it this
Showman will not even try to guess; but
if it is a masterpiece of futility, it is no
less an enshrinement of something like
divine optimism. The wonder about it is
not that it is so well done, but that it ever
was done.
¥ * ¥
„ That good entertainer Steele Rudd con-
tinues to make war upon a sea of talkies.
Sundry Sydney suburbs have already had
the pleasure of hearing him, and The
Bulletin makes no bones about saying that
those who miss him will miss a treat. Of
the long string of writers that this Showman
has listened to Steele Rudd is the only one
to give a completely satisfying entertain-
ment. He is not a lecturer, nor a reader,
nor even a talker in any accepted sense. Off
stage he is a fine fellow roofed with iron-
grey hair, the Bush still upon him in spite of
years of city living. His description of a
six-o’clock rush in a pub would still be
“like pigs at a trough.” On stage he is
more bush than ever. Even rigid tailoring
can’t disguise him once he launches out to
tell Dave’s courting or some other fine
piece of humor balanced whimsically upon
the border line of fun and pathos. His
voice is one of the most personable things
•about him. There is a curious plaint in it
that nobody seems to have found in the Aus-
tralian bushman, but which is there more
often than not. It is as perfectly adapted to
getting the full weight out of his written
words as his pen is to writing them.
* * *
“Desire Under the Elms,” at Sydney Plav-
box on Saturday, is described by Duncan
Macdougall as one of Eugene O’Neill’s finest
plays. If that is
true, either of two
things stands —(a)
O’Neill is a very
thin dramatist:
(b) Macdougall’s
male quartette, in-
cluding Duncan,
himself, is a very
thin shadow of the
genus mummer.
This Showman be-
lieves (a) that it
isn’t true; (b)
that the aforemen-
tioned male quar-
tette is thin any-
how. Before pass-
ing definitive judg-
ment on the piece
he will wait until
he sees it acted.
It has certain clear
distinctions from
the artificial stuff
that passes current
for drama in some
quarters; but on
the Playboxers’ at-
tempt alone
O’Neill, if he has
to depend on “De-
sire” to carry him
to even the pos-
terity of Saturday
week, might as
well at once set up
his epitaph, “Here
lies yet another
mediocrity.”
It is a drama
wherein the adul-
tery of a young
man with his aged
father’s young wife
leads to a son, the
murder of that son
by the mother to
prove that she
really loves her
Accomplice in Sin, and the two of them
going off to have their necks stretched or
to enjoy together whatever was 1850 New
England’s recipe for such occasions. The
action takes place in one room of a farm-
house. There are two older sons bitten by
the bug of Californian gold, and a young
son who aspires to own the farm. He re-
moves his older brothers by buying from
them their prospective share in the pro-
perty, using the old man’s secret hoard to
do it, and thus providing them with fares
to the fields. Old man Ephraim is 76. He
attempts to commit suicide; or at least he
takes a young wife, which has been known
to amount to the same thing. This young
lady tries to seduce the lumbering youth
Eben. Rebuffed, she tells her old-man hus-
band that Eben had tried to put it over her.
Ephraim declares that he will blow Eben’s
brains over the top of the elms (off .stage),
but is plausibly talked out of that innocu-
ous ambition by the lady. She puts it to
Ephraim that if he
did elevate his
son’s brains as sug-
gested, he would
not be able to re-
place the young
man as a worker
on the farm; Eben
can be got rid of
later. This, after
the ultimate seduc-
tion and the child,
is passed on by
Ephraim to Eben,
who, when the old
man tells him that
the baby is now
the son and heir,
boasts his share in
the nipper. Eben,
who began by sus-
pecting the young
woman of intent to
jockey him out of
the farm, has that
suspicion rekindled,
and the old man
having gone off on
one of his frequent
ambles among the
cows, or, as he
theatrically dubs
them, the beasts of
the fields, Eben
calls liis Accom-
plice in Sin a lady
of easy w r ays, or a
word to that effect.
It is a good Eng-
lish word, and
after its third re-
petition the lady
tells Eben she loves
him loves him
bettern everything
in the woorrlldd.
She will prove it.
That blessed off-
spring, she says
(or something of
the sort), has come between them. Her
proof of affection is to drop a pil-
low on the youngster’s face, where-
upon the little fellow gives up the ghost
(unhappily a week or so too late to be of
any service at Sydney Palace). This heinous
deed she confesses to Eben, who, instead of
being delighted, tears off stage to tell the
sheriff (an unimpressive actor with a copper-
plate in his buttonhole). Before the sheriff
turns, up Eben realises that he does love the
lady in spite of ALL, so he gallantly claims
a share in the pillow act, throws his arms
around his love and industriously kisses her
what time the sheriff turns modestly away
and old man Ephraim stalks off bellowing
“God Almighty” and other traditional epi-
grams.. There is deliberate intent to ghost
the thing, up by spooky suggestions that the
late earlier Mrs. Ephraim is still nosing
around the premises, and there is evidence of
a masterly hand in the general construction.
There are also some attempts at humor, all
dismal; a sermon delivered by Ephraim Mac-
dougall that would blight a “Hamlet” into
a mere outhouse, and a dance that is about
as necessary as a dead tomtit and as effec-
tive as an anti-aircraft gun.
Or so it all seems on this Playboxing.
There is, nevertheless, one bright spot. Miss
Tory Taunton is a discovery. She has poise
and restraint; can submerge herself into a
part, and yet be herself. She has fine looks and
all-round.control.. She rings as true as a good
sixpence in a thirsty hour. And she is well
cast. Macdougall is good at that, except
when he introduces Macdougall. He and his
plays are the only amateur offerings around
Sydney that this Showman has so far found
worth taking at all seriously. Almost every-
thing he puts on has body, punch, kick and
sting. Even when they fail, artistic intent
is always noticeable about his productions.
As an actor, however, this observer views
him with reservations. Once he heard him
refer to one of the Irvings as “the last of
the barnstormers.” In that Macdougall was
unduly optimistic. Nothing can be gained by
mincing about it —he lelloics. He roars. He
shouts. He hasn’t Bottom’s regard for the
ladies. It is the lion all the time—no suck-
ing dove whatever. H'e has a fine voice, but
Providence has denied him a safety valve.
Even when seated on a bed beside Mrs.
Ephraim lie speaks as if he were trying to
converse with Wilkins without wireless. He
is unquestionably an artist (off stage). Could
he but keep himself out of his plays, or, fail-
ing that, moderate his language, he would
win every decent word in this writer’s reper-
toire, for he is providing some of the best
drama that is to bo tasted around Sydney,
if not the very best.
%. % }{.
Sydney musicians have taken a long while
to follow the lead of their comrades in
Melbourne, where a bit of punch was put
into trying, with orchestral concerts, to solve
the talkie problem. Many of Sydney’s re-
trenched have drifted on to the streets, and
a back-lane violin or cornet solo that really
sounds like music has become fairly common.
Present Showman struck one old hand with
his hat down on the edge of the gutter in
MAIDA JONES, soubrette with the George Wallace party at
Melbourne T'ivoli.
an outlying suburb. The old boy had played
in various theatre pits for 30-odd years till
the canned imports put him out. He con-
fessed that he probably would do better in
the city streets, but he had enough pride to
believe that he’d be recognised there by one-
time occupants of the front stalls. Now a
crowd of the unemployed blowers, thumpers
and fiddlers has been organised. It will try to
find out whether Sydney likes good orchestral
music or not at the Town Hall to-night
(Wednesday). Further concerts are billed
for February 2G and March 8, 15 and 22.
Fred Quiutrell will have charge of 50 players
at the first performance, and there will be a
new conductor for each show. Vocalists
Vladimir Elin and Gwladys Evans will add
variety to the opening bill. There is noth-
ing ambitious about the admittance charges
—3s. (reserved), 2s. and Is.
* * *
Despite, or perhaps because of, its exag-
geration, “White Cargo,” revived at Mel-
bourne Comedy, is good stuff dramatically.
In the current presentation, which ends on
Saturday, Frank Bradley paints the best pic-
ture yet of the H'arley-stfeet surgeon who
makes an ally of drink and sticks to it after
it has turned dog on him. Mary MacGregor
wears the beads of Tondeleyo and actually
looks the part, which her predecessors didn’t.
Leon, Gordon’s Witzel requires no description.
Worshippers are asked to note that “The
Poppy God,” a new play by Gordon and
others, will be enshrined on Saturday.
# * *
“Follow Through,” at Melbourne Royal,
can be cordially recommended, to the flapper
and the tired business man who found “Hold
Everything” up to plans and specifications
for a light and noisy evening. The only
difference between the two is that “Hold
Everything” was supposed to be concerned
with boxing while “Follow Through” shows
a remote affiliation with golf. The relation-
ship is not worked out to 10 places of deci-
mals, possibly because the builders found
the intellectual effort beyond them. The
piece is not over-rich in opportunities _ for
Gus Bluett to murder time in his familiar
manner; nor does the world seem to slip
away when Molly Fisher is singing. Cecil
Kellaway airs golfing rigouts which range
from breezy to cyclonic, and he and Bluett
secrete themselves as plumbers in a ladies’
bath-house from which they are only
enabled to make their escape when two of
the girls have been deprived of their under-
clothing.


w
SJHIBH
Ml IWd
m
H
m
:
/-
mm
SSS
ib: ; -
m
s-
(ft
He seldom things)
/ need a change!)
"Since the boss started using Union Red
Super Spirit he seems to forget my
existence —he just flicks me into 'top 5 and
leaves me there. Never seems to think I
need a change. I s ve got a cushy job .. .
thanks to Union. Friend Carburettor tells
me he is enjoying life, too —says Union is
the easiest thing which ever entered his
jet. It suits the Piston Brothers, too —
doesn’t knock ’em about. Compels ’em to
work, of course, but does it in a strong,
silent way. No spluttering or blustering.
Three cheers for the red, white, and
blue pumps!”
Till up at the red, white and blue
pump if you want years of
perfect service from your car .
Union Super is coloured RED. The modern
practice of colouring premier motor fuels for
purposes of distinction has proved eminently suc-
cessful. In the U.S.A. over 5 00,000,000 gallons
of tinted Motor Spirits were sold last year and
gave perfect satisfaction. Bearing in mind that
the Red colour of Union is achieved by adding
only one part of an absolutely harmless dye to
over 1,000,000 parts of spirit it seems hardly
necessary to indicate that the Atlantic Union
Oil Co. Ltd. guarantees that the red colour will
not affect any part of the engine in any way.
te
aUNION
rum - detonating
SUPER SPIRIT
m
, /
m
® 1
iiiiiiliiiiii
N
Mk
plil
**R*SaMe*
sa
*aa22sßiki3Qsa
U6a
“THE RUNNING MATE OF ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL”


R°NC.°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
91 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
ŵ
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE,
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
ẁ
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
Are You Too Busy
Making a Living
To Trjr to Make a Fortune?
THE trouble with most salaried men is
that they are too close to their jobs.
In order to win the large rewards of
business, a man must have a broad
knowledge of business. He must know
something about every department be-
sides his own. Only men who know the
principles which apply to all executive
work can handle the really big jobs.
The fortunes of to-day and to-morrow are
to be made in executive management, and
they will be made by the men who have
the knowdedge that is in, the Modern
Business Course and Service. Write to-
day for “Forging Ahead in Business” —
the book that gives you full particulars
of this course.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses controlled in Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
7
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne).
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
(lends, to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profits. (13 p.c.) venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ - £ £
June, ’21.. 63,495 65.000 Nil Nil 611,563
Dec., ’21.. 109,160 65,000 21,276 Nil 634,447
June, ’22.. 138,202 65,000 49,293 Nil 658,356
Dec., ’22.. 139,520 65,000 28,800 Nil 704,076
Refund of income-tax . . £23,545 727,621
June, ’23.. 58,679 65,000 29,070 8264 683,966
Dec., ’23. . 103,000 65,000 13,789 4262 1 roc
Cost of Govt, inquiry, £7662 (
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 46,871 5,533 704,234
Premiums on shares .. £43,528 747,762
15 p.c.
Dec., ’24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
.Tune, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,500 50,603 4,194 751,176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 .. 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
13 p.c.
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906,047
Dec., ’29... 100,772 84,500 36,184* 3,748 882,387
*old plant written off.
The heavy cost of importing coal from Eng-
land and Maoriland, on account of the
trouble on the northern N. S. Wales field,
is reflected in a sharp drop of £55,565 in
this co.’s declared net earnings for the 12
months to Dec. 31 last. Another result was
that the consumer had to pay an extra 5d.,
making the price 7s. 6d. per 1000 c.f. as
from Oct. 12. And then the div., which was
lifted a couple of points- to 15 p.c. five years
ago, had to be dropped to 13 p.c. again. It needs
to be remembered, however, that the 13 p.c.
means nothing of the sort to most share-
holders. Scrip, fully paid to £5, sold at
auction since the amalgamation in 1878, and
representing 73.7 p.c. of the paid capital,
has averaged £lO 10s. 3d. per share, which
makes the average return at the current
rate only 6.1 p.c. Assisting the £1,300,000
of share and £819,201 of premium capital
there was £2,119,200 of debenture money,
bearing interest at from 4 p.c. to S p.c. at
Dec. 31. Thus the average rate paid last
year in divs. and interest on total share-
holders’ funds and debentures combined w r as
a moderate 6.9 p.c., leaving the margin of
earnings over distributions at £21,128. But
all that and £18,504 of reserves besides was
swallowed up, mainly in the loss on obsolete
plant scrapped during the year.
This next comparison of revenue and ex-
penditure figures shows where the trouble
lies :
1925. 1928. 1929.
Gas sales .. .. £1,281,311 £1,466,706 £1,512,781
Residual sales, etc. 291,503 273,350 262,832
Total income .. £1,572,814 £1,740,056 £1,775,613
Manufacturing and
distributing exes. 1,051,544 1,215,629 1,296,432
Other charges . . 274,521 278,734 289,053
For the 12 months to the close of accounts
in 1928 enough was netted, despite a shrink-
age of £47,786 in returns from residuals, to
pay a 15 p.c. div., stifike £50,562 off old
plant and add a trifle (£131) to reserves.
For the year to Dec. 31 last gas sales
brought in an extra £46,075, but the return
from residuals fell away £10,518, due chiefly
to smaller returns from tar and ammonia,
reducing the net increase in revenue to
£35,557. As against that manufacturing and
distributing charges were £80,803 heavier,
and other outgo was upu £10,319. All told
the year’s net profit of lid. per 1000 c.f.
of gas sold was Id. less than the profit
claimed two years ago, when the price to
the consumer was lOd. less than it is to-day.
What imported coal is costing the co. the
•‘Wild Cat” does not know. But it does
know that the board’s foreign orders tot
up to about £690.000 to date. The effect
upon the co.’s production costs does not end
with the payment of a higher base price.
Because the English coal is less volatile, from
10 to 20 tons more of it has to be carbon-
ised to produce the gas that can be got from
100 tons of Maitland coal. And it is doubt-
fult whether the quality of the gas is the
same then. So, besides meeting the extra
cost of production, the consumer has to use
more and dearer gas to get the same results
as formerly. From the national point of
view the co. has been sinfully compelled to
swell the adverse trade balance.
The co.’s real position largely depends
upon whether the sums spent upon works,
etc., and charged to revenue, which is equi-
valent to writing down fixed assets, prove to
be sufficient to cover actual depreciation.
YV hat has been done in this way of recent
years is seen in the next comparison :
Charged
, r Works, etc., to Meters
Year ended Repairs and Paid for out Renewal
Ilec., Maintenance, of Profits. Reserve.
1923 .. 239,409 42,859 12,526
1924 .. 275,833 88,614 9,911
1925 .. 258,505 69,231 9,464
1926 .. 250,830 72,593 15,24-4
1927 .. 229,459 58,156 4,585
1928 . . 244,911
1929 .. 243,568 3,743
If the expenditure to date turns out to be
inadequate, then profits have been overstated
the past, and future results are likely to
suiter. As already reported, reserves have liaa
*°m e bitten into to cover obsolescence.
The next table shows the co.’s position
as balance-sheet figures reflect it:—
. Dec.,’24. Dec.,’2B. Dec.,’29.
Paid capital . .. £1,100,000 £1,300,000 £1,300,000
Debentures .. 1,584,200 2,119,200 2,119,200
Creditors . . .. 250,537 274,142 244,175
Fixed assets . . 3,113,090 3,923,086 4,044,002
Stocks and stores 255,750 257,093 252,270
Book debts, invest-
ments and cash 406,214 511,853 333,990
The increase of £120,916 in the book value
of fixed assets during the year was mainly
on account of the new carburetted water-
gas plant, which came into operation in May
last. The unexpended balance on capital
account has been thus reduced to £194,398.
Coal in stock (47,129 tons', together with
undelivered orders, is sufficient to meet re-
quirements for the next three months.
The McPherson. Government had intended
to bring down a bill dealing with the gas
question in Vic. Chief features were to have
been (1) an alteration of the testing stand-
ard from illuminating to calorific value, and
(2) a sliding scale for prices and divs. Thus
far the new Ministry has not announced its
intentions, b.ut legislative control of divs.
and prices now seems certain.
The depression on the Stock Exchange,
and the drop in the div. rate, has brought
about a sharp fall in the price for the scrip,
which is now at £8 17s. as against £lO 3s.
a year ago. The return at the current
figure is 7.4 p.c. on a 13 p.c. div. basis.
Paterson, Laing & Bruce, Ltd.
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1919.. 70,499 21,000 10 p.c. = 25,000 24,499 71,011
1920.. 94,105 29,750 124,, „ 31,250 33,105 104,116
Loss.
1921.. 13,746 30,000 74 p.c. = 18,750 41,620
Profits.
1922.. 51,961 30,000 7 1 „ „ 18,750 3,211 44,831
1923.. 84,545 30,000 10 „ „ 25,000 29,545 74,376
1924.. 67,014 33,000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,014 83,390
1925.. 61,377 36,000 74 „ „ 18,750 6,627 90,017
1926.. 58,321 36,000 7| „ ~ 18,750 3,571 93,588
1927.. 61,756 36,000 10 „ „ 25,000 756 94,344
1928.. 63,550 36,000 10 „ „ 20,000 2,550 96,894
1929.. 59,875 36,000 7J „ „ 18,750 5,125 102,019
Transferred to Pension Fund, £5000.. 97,019
Since retailers generally restricted their
buying programmes, keeping stocks down,
and, on the whole, turnovers were lighter,
I’., L. and B. did well to register a profit
only £3675 short of the 1928 figure.
There is £850,000 of share capital to feed,
including 600,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. Also
the co. has the use of £230,000 of 4| p.c.
first-mortgage debenture stock, redeemable
in 1950 at a- premium of 10 p.c., so £830,000
of the total share and debenture capital
combined is costing the co. only 5.6 p.c.
Nevertheless, after attending to the deben-
tures and the prefs., the balance of last
year’s net earnings was only 9.5 p.c. on the
£250,000 of ord. capital compared with 11,
11.3, 8.9 and 10.1 p.c. back to 1925. More-
over, the immediate future threatens a fresh
crop of difficulties, so the board snipped
24 points off the div., reducing it to 74 p.c.
and making the average for the last five years
8.5 p.c. Thus, after sending £5OOO to the
staff pension fund, the visible prop for
capital was strengthened by only £125,
making it £97,019 in excess of the £161,192
at which goodwill figures in the books.
Unearned increment, however, has provided
some inner strength in the freeholds, which
were claimed to bo worth approximately
£600,000 five years ago, when their book
value was just a trifle more than the figure
at which they last appeared (£390,811).
But trading results would not justify the co.
in occupying premises of any greater capital
value, so the margin there is not as useful
as it might be in other circumstances.
One factor which has operated seriously
against wholesalers lias been the extrava-
gance of their premises. But the most acute
and common difficulty throughout the trade
has been to make the circulating assets earn
enough. This is the direct result of the
changes and developments in retailing
methods which have followed the growth of
department and chain stores and of the Aus-
tralian textile factory and specialty house.
And the co.’s troubles have been aggravated
by liquidations which have flooded the
market with warehouse and other softgoods
stocks, making it impossible for the sur-
vivors to show any profit at all on some
lines. Also, since the last balance was
struck, tariff increases and a vigorous push-
ing up of the exchange rate on London have
strewn fresh and substantial difficulties in
the path of the importer.
Though the Australian wholesaler has
been hit harder than most other traders,
his days are by no means numbered. One
thing, however, becomes steadily plainer:
his chief hope lies in working in with Aus-
tralian industry. This would mean smaller
stocks, an advantage that should lessen the
dependence on outside support, as well as
narrow the opportunities for capricious
fashion and price fluctuations to play havoc
with profits. A feature which threatens
early trouble is the shortage of cash owing
to the shrinkage in returns from primary
products and other causes, wherefore turn-
over will be hard to maintain. Those con-
cerns best equipped financially and otherwise
will come through with least damage to
earnings.
The large risks to which the co. is exposed,
and how well equipped it is, are seen in
this next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
] 921. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Ordinary .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Preference .. 500,000 600,000 600,000 600,000
Debentures .. 233,642 233,642 233,642 233,642
Liabilities .. 682,664 487,675 379,323 390,811
Freeholds, etc. 341,901 383,285 380,968 379,519
Stock.. .. 959,713 678,303 729,175 715,753
Book debts . . 305,085 509,457 373,754 390,028
Investments and ,
cash . . 125,542 121,233 109,587 118,547
When the books were last ruled off the
amount coming to trade creditors, up £11,488
during the year, was almost covered by book
debts alone, which were £16,274 heavier than
at the previous balance. Taking stocks and
debentures into account, there was little
change in the more or less liquid surplus
(£599,875). Stocks, which were worked
down £13,422 during the year, are the big-
best and most vulnerable item in the sheet.
They are regularly reported clean and
healthy,' and are claimed to have been vigor-
ously discounted to ensure continued
mobility.
Headquarters are in London, but both lots
of prefs.—3so,ooo A’s and 250,000 B’s, the
divs. on the latter free of income-tax to
6s. in the £ —and the ords. are listed on Aus-
tralian ’Changes, though there is little busi-
ness in the scrip here. The net tangible
backing amounts to 545. Id. and 475. 9d. for
the A and B shares respectively, and to
275. 9d. for the ords.
Hume Steel, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Net Towards
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 35 Nil 35 251,700
Added to intangibles, £2OBO .. 253,780
1925.. 795 Nil 755 252,985
Added to intangibles, £1139 .. 254,124
Pref.
10 p.c. Ord.
1926.. 8,870 5201 Nil 3,669 250,455
Added to intangibles, £791 . . 251,246
1927.. 19,183 5567 Nil 13,616 237,630
Part foreign rights sold, patents
reduced, £152,824 .. ' . . 84.806
1928.. 21,348 5567 Nil 15,781 69,025
Reserved for depreciation,
etc. £19,400 88,425
1929.. 23,362 5567 Nil 17,795 70,630
Until recently lack of working capital ham-
pered this member of the Hume group ; and
shareholders were timid about putting up
more money. The co. began in 1923, and
paid £250,000 for patent rights, etc., which
are not treated as an asset in the table. The
public put up £50,000 in A and, later, £5670
in B profs., thus making the total dn the
share register £305,670. Nearly all the
available cash was tied up at first in a con-
tract with the Melbourne Water Board, and
small orders were difficult to get. About
three years ago the management was able
to raise £30,000 on debentures to finance
contracts with the S. Aus. Government. The
work was profitable, the debentures were re-
paid, and more definite, progress has been
made with the development of the business
since. After the second Tlievenard (S.A.)
contract was completed, in 1928, the factory
there was dismantled and, the plant trans-
ferred to new works at Adelaide, Perth and
Singapore. Also, early in the last term a
factory was put up in Sydney.
For the 12 months to Sept. 30 all the
co.’s plants, except the one at Singapore,
were kept busy. At Singapore the Govern-
ment drew in its horns following the slip in
the rubber market and the drop in the price
of tin, and the co. received no orders there
during the first half of the term. Nevertheless,
after writing off the usual 10 p.c. for depre-
ciation and setting aside £B5OO for taxation,
the year’s net result from all sources
(£23,362) was £2014 better than the pre-
vious year’s. After the prefs. had got their
10 p.c. the balance was 7.1 p.c. on the ord.
capital as against 6.3 p.c. and 5.4 p.c. for
the two preceding years. But no ord. div.
was paid. Instead £19,400, making a total
provision of £20,000, was earmarked to pro-
vide against obsolescence of the plant, and
for the transport of equipment, the board’s
policy being to put up a factory wherever
business can be got. There is another
£26,492 set aside for taxation and contin-
gencies.
Another development was the sale in 1928
of most of the co.’s foreign rights to a sub-
sidiary, Steel Pipe and Lining Co.(Hume’s).
Ltd., for £500,000 in fully paid ords. These
shares the parent took into its own accounts
at £154,528, reducing the book value of its
patents (now £100,900) by £152,824 net.
But the arbitrary sum at which patents figure
in the sheet does not matter much; they
could appear at one or one million pounds
without at all affecting the earning capacity
of this co.’s plant or the prospects of the
venture. Nor will their multiplication make
it any easier for the new co. to win good
returns on its ord. capital. The idea is that
the pup will float subsidiaries to work the
patents, and negotiations are proceeding in
London, New York and S. Africa. Ilume
Steel has put up £12,000 in 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. for working capital, but nothing is
said as to what further capital, if any, has
been raised.
This next comparison of balance-sheet
figures reflects the growth in the co.’s
activities:—
1925. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities .. .. £17,343 £44,250 £80,670
Freehold and leasehold. . 3,975 9,792 16,688
Plant • . . . . . 17,680 59,375 82,246
Stocks 7,758 25,069 56,526
Contracts . . . . 23,960 26,397 17,950
Book debts .. .. 5,433 15,704 15,494
Cash and deposits .. 7,563 24,339 9,555
Shares in other cos. . . 154,584 166,528
To carry stocks £31,457 heavier than at the
previous balance, and spend £22,871 more
than was written off on plant, the board
went outside for an extra £36.420, and drew
upon liquids for the balance. Thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£15,855, including
stocks) was £28,404 lighter than at the close
of accounts in 1928. The addition of £6896
to the property item was on account of a
freehold bought at Wellington, Maoriland,
where a new plant is now being assembled.
The co.’s own earnings are very largely
governed by loan expenditure, and apart
from a marked slackening in that respect
there is a steadily growing competition in
pipe-making in Australia. But prospects at
Singapore, where another one of the Hume
family has done well, are said to be very
promising, and with the extension of opera-
tions to Maoriland the board anticipates
satisfactory earnings for the current term.
The future for the scrip will partly depend
upon how things pan out with the new
subsidiary.
The prefs. carry a non-cumulative 10 p.c.,
which was more than four times covered by
last year’s net profit. Also they advance
with the prds. in any distribution the latter
may receive. But all shares rank equally
as to capital, and the'net tangible backing,
excluding the depreciation and contingency
reserves, is approximately ss. each. For
the A shares buyers offer 21s. 6d., with
sellers standing off at 265. At 235. the
return is 8.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Red Funnel Fisheries, Ltd. (N.S.W.).
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 9566 74 p.c. = 4304 5262 1814
Deficit.
Added preliminary exes., £4392 .. 2578
1927.. 8605 8 p.c. = 6645 1960 618
Reserves.
1928.. 1963 Nil 1963 1345
1929.. 1953 Nil 1953 3298
This four-year-old Sydney trawling enter-
prise, which has been making heavy weather
of late, has reached a crisis in its affairs.
The annual meeting on Jan. 13 was
adjourned for a month to give dissatisfied
shareholders a chance of putting up their
own nominees for the board. The retiring
directors are chairman Captain Frederick
Waley and Captain B. J. Hales, the co.’s
manager. The opposition candidates are
D. P. Hann, one of the founders and the
first chairman and manager of the business,
and Peter McWilliam. Discontent is at
flood over the non-payment of dividends for
the last two years. In a circular to share-
holders the insurgents point out that ‘‘a
number of dissimilar assets are grouped to-
gether. No details of depreciation for the
last two years have been shown. It is obvi-
ous that if excessive depreciation, etc., has
been provided for, this would absorb profits
otherwise available for dividends.” Also the
board’s action in selling two of the co. s
trawlers is questioned.
The co. bought the trawling business, of
D. P. Hann and the business of the New
State Fish and Ice Co. for £35,000 in scrip
in Dec., 1925. To finance the purchase of
additional trawlers the public was asked
for £40,000, and more was got in as the
fleet grew; thus paid capital advanced to
£124,850 at Nov. 30 last. For the first two
years net profits aggregating £18,171 were
claimed, divs. of 74 p.c. and 8 p.c. were
paid, and all but £6IS of the capital re-
mained intact. Prospects were declared to
be then encouraging.
Meanwhile the present board had taken
control. It decided to put the co.’s trawlers
on Lloyd’s register, and about £6500 more
than in the previous year was spent on
reconditioning the fleet, etc., and charged
to revenue. Of course there was a sharp


PROSPECTUS of
BOND’S INDUSTRIES LIMITED
To be registered under the Companies Act of New South Wales.
CAPITAL. - - £500,000 Divided into 500,000 Shares of £1 each,
of which
25,600 Shares have been applied for at par and will be allotted to certain creditors of Geo. A. Bond and Company, Limited (In Liquidation), and paid for
m cash free of brokerage and underwriting commission.
124,400 Shares are now offered for public subscription.
150,000 Shares are specially reserved for subscription at par by the Preference Shareholders of Geo. A. Bond and Company, Limited (In Liquidation).
200,000 Shares are held in reserve.
500,000
The shares offered for public subscription are payable two shillings and sixpence on application, and seventeen shillings and sixpence on allotment.
DIRECTORS*
FREDERICK JOHN LESLIE DUNLOP
(Chairman and Managing Director The Australian Investment Trust Limited).
SIR HUGH E. POYNTER, Bart.
(Director The Australian Investment Trust Limited;
Chairman Baldwin’s and J.C.M. (Aust.) Pty. Limited).
ALBERT EDWARD BARTON,
Consulting Chartered Accountant (Aust.), O’Connell Street, Sydney.
JAMES BLACKWOOD
(Managing Director J. Blackwood and Son, Ltd., Engineers,
Sussex Street, Sydney).
HAMILTON THOMAS
(Thomas and Ross Limited, Knitted Goods Manufacturers).
[Two additional directors may be appointed.]
SOLICITORS’
MESSRS. MINTER, SIMPSON* & COMPANY,
' Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS;
MESSRS. ROBERT W. NELSON & CO.,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Challis House, Sydney.
BANKERS’
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BROKERS:
PHILIP PRING & DOCKER,
Q. N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
OBJECTS.
The company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring from the liquidators of George
A. Bond and Company, Limited (In Liquidation) and Geo. A. Bond Cotton Mills, Limited (In
Liquidation) the whole of the assets of the two companies as going concerns, and to carry on the
business of Hosiery and Underwear Manufacturers, Cotton Spinners, and such other activities as
are authorised by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company.
the formation of the company is the outcome of offers dated August 16, 1929, made by a
creditors known as the offerors to the liquidators of George A. Bond and Company,
Lumted (In Liquidation) and George A. Bond Cotton Mills, Limited 1 (In Liquidation). These
otters provide {inter alia) the formation of a company with .a capital of £500,000 to purchase
the assets and undertakings of the aforesaid companies, to relieve the companies in liquidation
trom all liability to secured creditors, to pay in cash all liabilities of the Cotton Mills Company,
all other debts not exceeding £lOO, and all liabilities incurred since the commencement of
liquidation, to issue debentures and deposit certificates to all other creditors of George A. Bond
and Company, Limited, and to the preference shareholders of George A, Bond Cotton Mills,
Limited. These offers have been approved by the Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Lqintable Jurisdiction, and accepted by the liquidators. Copies of the offers may be obtained at
the office of the company’s brokers, Messrs. Philip Pring & Docker, Q. N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and
Hunter Streets, Sydney.
PURCHASE PRICE.
The approximate purchase price for the two undertakings, based upon the balance-sheets of
June 30, 1929, is £833,378/4/10, to be satisfied as follows:
Issue of debentures (and deposit certificates for frafitions of £ 100) to
creditors of Geo. A. Bond & Co., Ltd. (In Liquidation) estimated at £395,641 6 5
Issue of debentures and deposit certificates to Preference Shareholders of
Geo. A. Bond Cotton Mills, Ltd. (In Liquidation) 114,000 0 0
lo take over and discharge other liabilities, viz.:—
George A. Bond & Co., Ltd. (In Liquidation) :
Mortgages £126,676 15 6
Bank overdraft .... .. . . .. .. 76,711 10 8
Creditors in liquidation under £loo—creditors since
liquidation and secured claims .. .. .. 71,970 2 5
George A. Bond Cotton Mills, Ltd. (In Liquidation)—
Creditors .. .. 48,378 9 10
323,736 18 5
£833,378 4 10
DEBENTURE ISSUE.
The debentures and deposit certificates are repayable in five years and carry interest at
seven per cent, per annum payable half-yearly. The debentures are to be charged by way of
floating security upon all the assets and undertakings of the purchasing company both present
and future but subject to the amount of the charges existing as on the date fixed for the delivery
of possession of the purchasing company in respect of the secured debts owing by George A. Bond
**7} Company, Limited (In Liquidation), and subject also to the right of the purchasing company
(Bond’s Industries, Limited) to maintain or create specific mortgages or floating charges upon its
assets and undertaking ranking in priority to the said debentures, but so that the total amount
of such prior mortgages and/or charges (including the amount of charges for existing secured
debts) shall not exceed £280,000.
VALUATION OF ASSETS.
For the purpose of the recent application by the liquidators to the Supreme Court in its
Equitable Jurisdiction to approve of the sale, valuations of the assets as going concerns were
submitted by the liquidators and are summarised hereunder:—<
Freehold Property and Buildings (as per valuations by Richardson and
Wrench, Ltd., and Stanton & Son, Ltd.)
Plant and Machinery (as per valuations by P. A. Wells,aF. R. Banyard and
J. Sonnerdale), Motor Cars, Lorries, Office Furniture, Fittings, etc.
Stock on hand
Sundry Debtors and Bills Receivable . .
Cash and Commonwealth Loans ..
Prepayments ;
£223,729 0 0
212,271
383,487
88,887 19 10
16,616 16 8
1,782 18 5
Approximate Purchase Price
£926,774 18 7
833,378 4 10
£93,396 13 9
Approximate Surplus of Valuations over Purchase Price
The book values of tangible assets at June 30, 1929, as disclosed by the balance-sheets of the
two companies, amounted to £1,235,220. Accepting the lower figure as submitted by the
liquidators, it will be seen that the new company already possesses a very substantial reserve of
about £93,396, representing the surplus value of the transferred tangible assets over the purchase
price. This surplus will he increased by the amount of the anticipated net profit earned from
.Tune 30, 1929, to the date of taking over. There is no goodwill item, although the goodwill of
the two concerns is probably worth a considerable sum.
The assets and liabilities at the date of delivery will necessarily differ from the June balance-
sheets by the movements in the financial position during the intervening period.. The debentures
to be issued will be increased by interest on “interest-bearing” debts from July 1, 1929, and by
further accrued dividends on the Cotton Company shares, but this will be more than offset by
reductions in other liabilities and/or variations in Stock and Book Debts. On the whole the
financial position should be considerably more favorable on the date of delivery than is indicated
by the June, 1929, figures.
FINANCE.
The directors are confident that there will be no difficulty in obtaining a transfer of the
company’s mortgages or in procuring sufficient accommodation from the company’s bankers, so that
the share capital now being offered will provide adequate working capital apart from any amount
that may be subscribed by the preference shareholders of George A. Bond & Company, Limited
(In Liquidation), who have the right to take up 159,000 shares. The capital subscribed by these
shareholders could therefore be used to redeem or purchase a portion of the debenture issue at an
early date.
. NET PROFIT.
The net profit disclosed to the Court by the liquidators of George A. Bond and
Company, Limited, for the year ended June 30, 1929, amounted to
After allowing liquidators’ commission (non-recurring in future) £24,934 19 11
And provision for taxation in liquidators’ account .. . • 4,740 12 4
£80,864 2 7
29,675 12 3
Making a total of .. £110,539 14 10
The Cotton Mills business has been conducted by the liquidators of Geo. A. Bond & Co.,
Limited, on a profit earning basis during the 12 months, and in order to cope with the increased
demand for yarn owing to the additional protection given by the new tariff will shortly be working
three shifts daily.
Taking the figures given above as a basis, the profits of the combined under-
takings would be ..
Less directors’ fees, £3OOO per annum, and management and secretarial charges,
estimated at £5OOO per annum, iribome tax, estimated at £15,000 per'
annum ..
£110,539 0 0
23,000 0 0
Leaving
Deduct interest on say
£87,639 0 0
35,700 0 0
Surplus available for dividends on capital and for reserves on the basis of a
paid-up capital of £150,000
£51,839
Xue loiiowing extract from the liquidators’ report for the year ended June 30, 1929, shows
that the stock then on hand was either checked or taken by independent accountants and by them
certified as correct:—
“Stocks on hand at June 30, 1929, have been valued upon such a basis as would allow a
full margin of gross profit if disposed of in the ordinary course of business. On this occasion,
stocks have been independently taken and certified to as to quantities in all centres by leading
firms of Chartered Accountants, and in our opinion, manufactured goods on hand were reasonably
clean and merchantable, having regard to the seasonable nature of the business.
“....The company’s accounts for the year have been subjected to or ’ r * +hi= work has
Deen carried out in Western Australia by Messrs. Flack & Flack; in £
and Victoria by Messrs. Davey, Balding & Company; and in Queensl:
and Sharland. In New South Wales a cash audit has been conducted. 1
and Company. In all centres stocks have been —as to quantities—eit
or taken, and debtors’ accounts scrutinised by the several firms menti
covered by their certificates.”
Provision amounting to £33,
George A. Bond & Co., Limited, in l
on the basis of original values.
In view of the purchase price
would not be necessary in future, and the proms euiuu “•> --
in this respect.
TARIFF.
The new company will reap the benefit of the heavy additional duties now levied on hosiery
which werfe introduced since the liquidators closed their books on June 30 last, as the field for
the company’s products is widened by the exclusion of many of the cheaper lines formerly
imported. The goods produced by the liquidators are in active demand, and the company should
be on a dividend-paying basis from the date of the transfer of the old undertakings.
MANAGEMENT.
Arrangements have been made to continue the practical management of *the undertaking, as
established by the liquidators, and which has proved so successful. The failure of George A. Bona
and Company, Limited, was due to causes which are sufficiently widely known. The unsatisfactory
features of the past management have been totally eliminated.
PRODUCTS AND TURNOVER.
The products of the company are well and favorably known and enjoy wide distribution
in Australasia and the Islands. Branch warehouses of the company are situate in Brisbane,
Newcastle, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Launceston. During the past two years modern
machinery has been installed, and the output is believed to be second to none of its kind in
the world, and certainly has no superior of local manufacture. .
For the five years prior to liquidation the sales averaged £975,000 per annum, and during
the two years of liquidation have exceeded £1,000,000 per annum, and since 30th June last
the combined sales of hosiery, underwear and cotton yarn have been fully maintained.
ADVERTISING.
Since the inception of the company in 1920 a sum exceeding £250,000 has been disbursed
in advertising its products. This expenditure has created a goodwill of considerable value, an
should ensure that the company’s output will continue to be freely in demand.
FINANCIAL SUPERVISION.
During the liquidation the operations at the company’s branches have been subject To
the continuous audit and financial supervision by leading firms of Chartered Accoutants, and the
directors propose to continue this policy. The new company will also secure the services ox
Robert W. Nelson and Co. as auditors, the principal of this firm formerly being co-liquidator
and latterly sole liquidator of George A. Bond and Company Limited.
CONTRACTS.
No contracts have been made on behalf of the company, but copies of the offers dated
respectively 16th August, 1929, above referred to as being made by a group of creditors to
the liquidators of George A. Bond and Go., Ltd., and George A. Bdnd Cotton Mills, Ltd.,
together with the liquidators’ acceptances of such offers, are available for inspection at the
offices of Messrs. Minter, Simpson and Company, 31 Hunter Street, Sydney, or Messrs. Philip
Pring and Docker, Stock and Share Brokers, Q. N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and Hunter Streets,
Svdnev. The group of creditors referred to comprise: Messrs. J. Blackwood, Hamilton Thomas,
Abel Lemon and Co. Pty., Ltd., Winns Ltd., Alfred Edward, William Allen, R. R. Morrison,
W. Ainsworth, J. O. Ainsworth, L. J. Foster and J. T. McKee. .
A copy is also available at each of the .abovenamed offices of the contract dated 16th
August, 1929, between The Australian Investment Trust, Limited, as underwriter, and the liquida-
tor! of George A. Bond and Company, Limited, to ensure the underwriting of one hundred
thousand of the company’s shares.
INSURANCES. ✓
The assets of the company are insured against fire risk to their full book value, and the
profits and standing charges are also covered by insurance.
LISTING OF SHARES.
Application will be made in due course for the listing of the shares now offered for sub-
scription on the Stock Exchanges of the various capital
UNDERWRITING AND BROKERAGE.
The Australian Investment Trust Limited has entered into an agreement to underwrite
100,000 shares for a consideration of 7i per cent., out of which a brokerage of sixpence per
share will be paid by the underwriters on allotments in respect of applications lodged by
members of recognised Stock Echanges.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES
Expenses attendant upon the formation of the company, including brokerage and commis-
sion, will be borne by the company.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
Form of application for shares is attached hereto and must be accompanied by a remit-
tance of 2/6 per share. In the event of over-subscription, the directors reserve the right to
make a pro rata allotment.
GENERAL.
The directors have no hesitation in recommending this issue to intending investors. The
business is now firmly established; its trading conditions have been placed upon a reasonable
basis, and the quality of its output vastly improved, while it is being acquired upon excep-
tionally favorable terms. This will give the company a substantial advantage over present and
prospective competitors not so favored as regards capital outlay.
On the basis given ths profits are sufficient to allow the payment of an attractive rate of
dividend on the capital subscribed, and to provide for substantial reserves and retirement of
debentures from time to time.
Application for Shares,
BOND’S INDUSTRIES LIMITED.
To the Directors
BOND’S INDUSTRIES LIMITED,
C/o The Australian Investment Tn, :t, Lid,, 11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
I request you to allot me on the u corporation of the Company.... Ordinary
Shares of One Pound each in the above Co oipany, and I enclose herewith the sum of £
being . .per share on aprl iatien.
I undertake to pay the sum of per share on allotment.
I agree to accept the said s ares or any smaller number which may be allotted to me,
and I authorise you to register me ox the holder of the said shares and to be bound by the
Memorandum and Articles of the Ccompany.
DAIED this day of 1930
Name in full .
Signature
Description
Full Address
Witness to Signature


YC
POORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney,
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call jor our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
FORESTRY
BONDS
During the past two or three
years hundreds of thousands of
pounds have been invested in
Forestry bonds and shares.
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly ’*
for February will discuss some of
these ventures, and show what
Forestry results have been in
S. Australia.
It will show that figures which
have been quoted are grossly mis-
leading.
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly’* is a guide
no Australian investor, great or
small, can afford to be without.
It is independent and plain-
spoken.
Let it help to save you from
losses.
FEBRUARY NUMBER NOW
ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Investors. —Have you'an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
iDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Svvanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
:J: * * *
Competent authorities are loud in their praise of
the many excellent qualities of Pioneer Wood Pipe
as a conduit for the conveyance of any type of fluid.
Being absolutely non-corrosive it is an ideal pipe for
water, and where acidulous water, acids or alkalies
are to be carried Pioneer Wood Pipe has proved
absolutely efficient. Many important installations
bear testimony to the long life, trouble-free service
and economy of Pioneer Wood Pipe. Illustrated data
book post free. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt,
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MaDE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
[ PREPARED Jl
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ONI”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
%
IS
decline in the declared profit (£1963), which
fell away £6642, and no div. was paid.
Last year competition sharpened. The direc-
tors report that fish on the N. S. Wales
coast became continually scarcer, and had
to be trawled for at much greater distances
from Sydney; the average trip occupied
about 15 p.c. more time than in the pre-
vious year. Also, owing to the large number
of trawlers operating from the port, the
total catch exceeded market demands, and
there was a drop of 5 p.c. in the average
price realised. The shrinkage in revenue,
however, is said to have been offset by lower
repairs and maintenance costs, and by sav-
ings in marketing and administration exes.
50.. apparently, it was operating charges
which ate into earnings. After setting aside
unspecified amounts for taxation and depre-
ciation, the board wrote the net result at
£1953. Owing to the way in which the
figures are presented it is not possible to
form a worth-while opinion as to whether
the co. did any better than was claimed. But
to pay a dividend without making whatever
provision is considered adequate for depre-
ciation would simply be storing up trouble
for the future.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
tell
1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. . . £57,389 £124,122 £124,850
Liabilities . . . . 43,885 14,885 14,425
Fixed assets, invest-
ments, c.c 103,201 134,459 136,591
Book debts .. .'. 3,816 3,617 4,939
Cash .. . . .. 375 5,852 1,043
There are good grounds for complaint against
lumping “vessels, trawling equipment, plant
and machinery, stocks on ha 17 r and in
transit, investments, etc.,” i v j one untidy
entry, up £2132 during the year. Also pro-
vision for taxation is ’ included with sundry
creditors. From the published accounts it
is not even possible to ascertain the co.’s
real financial position. All that can be
said definitely is that each pound of capital
was covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 20s. 6d. at Nov. 30.
Since the close of accounts there has been
a further sharp drop in the price of flathead,
and the co. has been trading at a loss. The
board considers conditions are likely to
worsen before they get better, so it sold
two of the co.’s old boats. If the alternative
was to lay them up, the sale was a wise
one, though no hint has been given as to
whether there was any profit on the deal.
However, the chairman gives his assurance
that shareholders’ money is “safely in-
vested,” and says a scheme for the “reduc-
tion” (which probably means return) of
capital is to be put forward during the year.
Carroll-Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
Written
June, Loss. r Dividends N Off. Deficit.
£ Pref. Old. £ £ £
1924.. 2,955 6* p.e. 64 p.c. = 6,048 17,430
Add preliminary exes., £531 .. .. 17,961
Profit.
1925.. 13,417 64 p.c. 61 p.c. = 6,968 11,512
Reserves.
1926.. 39,831 174 „ 30 „ ~ 20,000 8250 69
1927.. 17,821 124 16§ „ ~ 13,333 4000 557
1928.. 20,830 124 ~ 161 „ ~ 13,333 3000 5,054
1929.. 15,548 124 „ 16§ „ ~13,333 4000 3,269
This co. owns and runs the Prince Edward
Theatre in Sydney; and, despite the opening
of additional picture-theatres, the co.’s busi-
ness has been satisfactorily maintained, the
report says. The drop of £5282 in the year’s
earnings is thus left unexplained. Earnings
included £2500 transferred to the depreciation
reserve (£10,747, drawn upon for £753 dur-
ing the year) and £l5OO visibly written off
the “talkie” equipment. The items are shown
in the “written-off” column of the table,
and though part of the depreciation reserve
may be true profit, it is not included with
reserves in the last column.
It has been a trying time for picture-
theatre showmen —three very big new
theatres have been erected in the Sydney
metropolitan area within the last couple of
years, and it looked as though someone was
going to be squeezed out. So far the theatri-
cal people seem to have suffered most; at
least two big houses have turned over to
talkies, and that hasn’t made it any easier
for the other picture-shows. The whole
entertainment business is in a state of flux
and consequent uncertainty. The presenta-
tion of the co.’s accounts this year was
delayed—they were not published until
November, four months later than -usual and
after the Federal elections were out of the
way. Though the proposed Federal amuse-
ment-tax came to nothing, the State Gov-
ernment has imposed an additional tax, but
that is well on this side of the close of
accounts. In July last shareholders were
informed that, though business had been con-
sistently good, possible improvements in the
mechanism of talkie equipment made it de-
sirable to provide for obsolescence on a larger
scale; hence, the special appropriation out
of profits. It was recommended that the
final div. be reduced to 5 p.c. (making an
all-round 10 p.c. for the year), but in the
final accounts the usual rates were recom-
mended. Last year’s earnings may have
been subject to a larger allowance for
special depreciation than the accounts dis-
close. One thing seems obvious: though
the noisies in this case were quite successful
from the point of view of patronage, there
isn’t much (if any) more profit in showing
them than the silents.
The co. was formed in Sydney in 1920,
primarily to build the Prince Edward
Theatre, which commenced earning in 1924.
The co. had the advantage of a clean start,
there being no goodwill to weigh down the
earning power of capital, and preliminary
exes, were commendably small —£8816 in
1924, since wiped out altogether. The fat-
ness of the 1926 profits was due to a
surplus of £24,619 on the sale of the Vic-
torian Arcade. The disposal of this property
enabled the board to reduce the mortgage
from £161,793 to £60,350, at which latter
figure it still stands.
The Prince Edward Theatre appears in
the balance-sheet at cost, and including
equipment, £179,967, up £5383. Since the
close of accounts a big contract has been
entered into for a heating and cooling system
in the theatre. Outgoings on refurnishings
and renewals, which so far appear to have
been chai’ged against revenue, have probably
been small to date, but they are likely to
grow more substantial in future. Liquids
(£12,065), mainly cash and Government
stocks, were £2948 lower. Sundry creditors
(£4084) were £3474 higher.
Paid capital is £lOO,OO0 —80,000 prefs.
and 20,000 ords., the latter originally taken
up by E. J. and Dan Carroll and Harry Mus-
grove. Something like half these ords. were
bought by the Union Theatres group late
in 1928. Only the prefs. are listed, but their
interest as an investment is enhanced by
tlieir participating rights. Besides having
priority as to capital they share in surplus
assets. Also, they are entitled to a cumu-
lative 10 p.c., after which the ords. get 10
p.c., and the remaining profit, whether dis-
tributed or not, belongs 60 p.c. to the prefs.
and 40 p.c. to the ords. Last year, after
allowing for the £4OOO written off, the usual
distributions on both classes of scrip called
for £1785 more than the year’s earnings,
and reserves were drawn on for that amount,
reducing them to £3269.
The market prices the prefs. around 265.
6d., at which price the return is 9.4 p.c.
on a 124 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to £l ss. lOd. in net tangibles, and
last year’s earnings were slightly less than
twice their minimum div. requirements,
Bond’s Industries, Ltd.
.This Sydney float is the outcome of an
offer made by a group of creditors and
sanctioned by the Court to buy the George
A. Bond business and that of its cotton-
spinning associate. Nominal capital is
£500,000 in £1 shares, of which 124,000 are
offered, 25,600 have been taken up for cash
by the promoters, and a further 150,000 laid
aside for subscription by the George A. Bond
Co.’s pref.-holders, who missed the ’bus witli
their own scheme of reconstruction. The
other 200,000 shares are in cold store.
The money is wanted to pay off small credit-
ors and provide additional working capital.
The deal has been put through on the
basis of the new co. undertaking to dis-
charge the liabilities of the two old ones.
By amalgamating the undertakings about
£77,000 of the parent co.’s debt has been
cancelled and a 20-year guarantee of 8 p.c.
on the cotton co.’s £lOO,OOO of pref. capital
wiped out. Thus the debts to be taken over
totalled £833,378 at June 30, 1929. The
value placed upon the tangible assets as a
going concern was £926,775; so the new co.
g»ts a flying start with a reserve of £93,397,
though it is all in plant, worth what it can
be made to earn.
The new co. will issue to ibe parent co.’s
larger creditors (£395,641) and to pref.-
holdcrs in the Cotton Co. (£114,000, includ-
ing accrued divs.) £509,641 7 p.c. deben-
tures, redeemable at par in five years,
together with deposit certificates for frac-
tions of £lOO. It will also take over £126,677
of mortgages, an overdraft of £76,712, and
pay off all other creditors (£120,348) in
cash. The assets acquired in return com-
prise freeholds with a book value of
£223,729 ; plant, £212,271; stocks, £383,487 ;
book debts, £88,888; cash, etc., £18,400.
The position is an unusual one.. The
liquidators, called in a couple of years ago,
converted a business previously carried on
at a heavy loss into one capable of earning
reasonable profits. For the year to June
30 last, after striking off £33,314 for depreci-
ation, but before deducting the liquidators’
commission, etc. (£29,676), the business
cleared £110,540 net. Allowing for deben-
ture interest (£35,700) and management
charges and taxation (£23,000), the prospec-
tus thus figures on a net profit of £51,839.
equal to 34.5 p.c. on a paid capital of
£150,000, or 17.2 p.c. on £300,000. The
net tangible backing is 325. sd. and 265. 3d.
respectively at the capitalisations stated.
Though an extensive goodwill has been
acquired it does not figure in the accounts.
Turnover is reported on the up grade; and
recent tariff: increases should help. The
Australian Investment Trust has under-
written £lOO,OOO of the issue at 74 p.c.; and
the scrip is to be listed. On the board are
F. J. L. Dunlop, Sir H. E. Poynter, A. E.
Barton, J. Blackwood and H. Thomas.
Since the B. H. Central power scheme will
call for 30 or 40 thousand tons of concrete
“metal,” the cos. are collaborating with
local bodies for the re-opening of the B. H.
to Tarrawingie Railway. Run at a loss for
many years, this line was officially closed on
Dec. 31 last. Apart from occasional picnic
trains to Stephens Creek and the racecourse
the only revenue was from a weekly service,
bringing down rock for the municipal roads
and carting out feed for stock, mostly at
starving-stock rates. The camels and motor-
lorries have carried the wool and stores
that would have paid. The line was built
privately in the late ’eighties to provide
limestone flux for the early-day smelters.
E. J. Horwood, now the B.H.P. Co.’s super-
intendent of mines, was the surveyor on the
job.
* * ❖ Hi
Dr. Woolnough, Commonwealth Geologi-
cal adviser, has just returned to Canberra
after a visit to Queensland on oil matters.
H'is field examinations were limited to the
Moreton district, particularly around Beau-
desert and Fassifern, where boring is in
progress. Longreach looms on the Queensland
oil horizon as the only district that has actu-
ally produced crude oil. But the position of
affairs there—cementing is in progress—did
not promise any worth-while information, so
his visit to, Longreach has been postponed.
The bore at Blytliedale, near Roma, in
which a core of sand carried crude oil, has
let shareholders down. Someone forgot to
notch down the exact depth at which the oil
showed, and when it came to a test the oil
sand could not be located. Allender has left,
and a new bore is being put down to the
oil showing. It will all cost a lot of share-
holders’ money.
* * * st-
One of Australia’s best-known mining en-
gineers writes to the “Wild Cat” :
Minister for Expatriation Frank Anstey, who has
been on the New Guinea goldfields recently, says it
will he impossible to move such a bulky plant as a
dredge to the mountain field until a solid road from
the beach to the hills has been constructed, and that
the task of transporting a dredge by ’plane is
impossible. I am glad to believe that Mr. Anstey
doesn’t know what he is talking about.
The Southern Cross flew from Sydney with about
1100 gal. of petrol aboard (say 10,0001 b. dead
weight), and landed on the other side of Australia.
The heaviest part of a bucket dredge can be cut to
70'001b., so why should it not be transported 100
miles by air? The Southern Cross is only a pup
compared with some of the huge machines now in
use in Europe. The dredge parts will be packed in
light crates, correctly balanced to fit the specially
constructed ’planes.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s accounts for the
16 months to June 30 last show a profit
of £7939. Nominal capital was increased
to £540,000 by creation of 1,200,000 -4s.
shares. Of these 200,000 were issued at 15s.
per share —half to New Consolidated Gold-
fields, the other half offered to Lake View
shareholders. New Consolidated was given
an option on a further 100,000 at rising
prices until May 30, 1931. The remaining
900,000 shares were allotted, fully paid, to
the liquidator of Golden Horseshoe Estates
for that co.’s mine and plant. The amount
received in premiums was £llO,OOO, of which
£69,742 was used in writing off the cost of
special development on Chaffers and Horse-
shoe leases, and £2471 in writing off stamp
duty, leaving £37,787. In connection with
the purchase of the Horseshoe property Lake
View lias accepted liability for loans of
£56,500, guaranteed by the Westralian Gov-
ernment. As against that the co. has re-
ceived from Golden Horseshoe £50,000 in
cash.
Ore reserves are put at 1,040,919 tons,
averaging 31s. to 515., with prospects of
more good grade stone in Nos. 3 and 4 lodes.
By June next it is expected that the plant
will be ready to treat 20,000 tons ore
monthly.
* * * *
Old shows at Southern Cross (W.A.) die
hard. Gold is still being won in small
quantities from Hope’s Hill and Jacoletts,
which were worked in 1892.
* # * *
Tongkah Harbor, Australia’s oldest tin-
dredging show in Malaya, held its annual
meeting at Hobart recently. In spite of
reduced prices the co. had a good year. Re-
coveries totalled 1075 tons of t.o. as against
705 for the previous term. Sales brought in
£139,751, an increase of £31,377, though the
average price for oxide (£130) dropped £7.
For the present, Nos. 6,7, and 8 dredges,
working on the Bidor and Chelong areas,
will have to be depended upon for the
sinews of war. The old Harbor lease is nearly
worked out, and the Bang Neang dredgable
area proved less extensive than expected.
Many new properties offered had been in-
spected, and some scout bored, but none had
been taken up. Others now being prospected
might turn out worth while. The year’s
outgo was £123,306, leaving a profit of
£16,445. Actual working costs were 5.425 d.
per c.y. as against 6.280 d. the year before.
Credit to profit and loss, deducting cost of
plant depreciation, stood at £59,286. Owing
to the low metal prices it was decided to
pass the dividend. Joe Darling, M.L.C., the
Australian cricket captain of other days,
was elected a director in place of the late
Alfred Ashbolt.
Ashbolt’s severance from the co. broke
a very old association. Back in last cen-
tury Capt. Edward Miles was connected
with a harbor-dredging board in Tasmania,
and subsequently, finding things going
against him, asked Henry Jones, who had
lately started his IXD jam factory,, for a
job. Jones offered him a commission on
sales in Asia, and financed his trip. While
knocking about looking for orders Miles saw
the Chinese recovering tin right to the edge
of the Tongkah Harbor water, and guessed
that there must be a lot of metal in the shal-
low harbor itself. He sent particulars to
Henry Jones, and the IXD syndicate was
formed. Which led to the Tongkah Harbor
Co., followed by the Tongkah Compound,
and so on to the present tremendous develop-
ment. Ashbolt was the accountant-member
of the little Henry Jones firm at the time
the IXD syndicate was formed, and it was
he who suggested the name of the syndicate.


J
i
f
Vi
m
m
it’s a GENERAL
Motors car.....
Whenever and wherever there appears a press
announcement on behalf of Chevrolet, Pontiac,
Oldsmobile, Oakland, Marquette, Hindi, Vauxhall,
o Salle or Cadillac cars, the above line appears.
Its purpose is to clearly identify the product of
a great Australian industry, and to remind the
reading public of the many advantages zvhich
this association implies.
Thicker in the details that
make a motor car more
personal, more expressive of
good taste and refinement
TN excellence of apparent
detail there usually lies
proof of excellence in less
obvious parts. This is as
true of motor cars as of
many other things.
In the General Motors
car there is greater excel-
lence and added value at
its price. One has but
to look inside to note the
difference .
Whether it is in the
lowest or highest price field
of the General Motors car
range,' there will be noted
finer craftsmanship, applied
to finer materials than is
usual at that price.
Depth and quality of
upholstery ? for example;
charm of appointments;
the richness and unstinted
proportions of metal fit-
tings ; the details provided
for passenger comfort;
important in themselves
and so vital to the securing
of “finish.” These make
their appeal to the sense
of beauty and of value,
but they also reflect the
hidden qualities of the car.
Many things make it
possible for General Motors
to provide this added value
for every purse and purpose.
In the General Motors
Australian plants, modern
production methods result
in substantial economies,
and further economies
naturally result as the pur-
chases made by General
Motors from allied Aus-
tralian industries increase
in ratio.
Thus the purchase of a
General Motors car not
only brings the satisfaction
of greater value secured, of
longer and more satisfactory
ownership, but it means the
furthering of Australia’s
greatest motor industry and
the industries it supports.
CHEVROLET, PONTIAC, OLDSMOBILE, MARQUETTE,
OAKLAND, BUICK, VAUXHALL, LA SALLE, CADILLAC
—also CHEVROLET TRUCKS, PONTIAC EXPRESS DELIVERIES,
GENERAL MOTORS TRUCKS
Mill
GENERAL
BRISBANE
MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH


In Three Sizes WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
(As good for women as for men)


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike.
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
Bre akfast
- jfi//
lf desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
ft
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Teiesrmphie Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydnev
ẃ
A delightful Black Coffee Set in
finest quality Silverplate.
Perfect design and workmanship characterise this
dainty Coffee Set, which is fashioned in finest-quality
silverplate on hard, white metal. Capacity of Jug
and Coffee Pot is each.
Price,
£6
complete.
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic T’isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers' Compensation,
etc., et~
ABORIGINALITIES
MAD E AUST RALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Bad Australian”: “You cant tell me
larfin’ Jacks don’t cat snakes,” said the man
with the wall-eyed dog. “Crossin’ a bit o’ a
flat on th’ Wild Dawg Crick I spots a ol’
man Jack actin’ funny near a big; gum.
W’en I gits dost up I see a two-foot-six
copper-’ead squirmin’ ’round. Jack lobs down
agen, grabs tli’ snake, flies up inter th’ tree,
an’ starts ter swaller ’im ’ead fust. Larst 1
see o’, that . bird ’e’s tryin’ ter git ’is second
wind afore stowin’ th’ remainin’ nine er ten
inch in ’is craw.- ’Bout three-four munce
arfter' I’m ridin’ ’round near th’ same place
an’ I finds a bee-’ive in a yaller-box. In a
coupler days I’m out arfter the ’oney. W’en
I chops ’er down th’ fall shatters a big,
dry, ’oiler limb an’ empties out th’ skellinton
o’ a big Jack, ’bout arfer bushel o’
feathers, an’ th’ savidgest copper-’ead
I ever see. I kills ’im an’ tapes
’im —-’e’s jist two foot nine an’ a ’arf. Yer
see ’ow it was, young feller? Jack muster
took on more’n ’e could digest, or th’ copper-
nob mighter bit ’im as ’e was bein’ swallered:
then th’ Jack begins ter feel crook, an’
flies orf inter ’is ’ome in th’ oiler limb an’
throws a seven. O’ course, th’ sudden’
’wakenin’ frum ’is winter sleep would account
fer th’ copper-’ead bein’ so savidge, an’ I
reckon ’e growed th’ extra three an’ a ’arf
inch w’ile ’e wuz ’iberniatin’. Wot do you
think?”
“Murwillumbah”: “Jacky” Lynch, an
identity of the Tweed (N.S.W.)' district,
lias eaten his last ’possum. He was a
Queensland abo., and was a sportive fellow
with a sense of humor. Caught up in a
police raid on a two-up school, he protested
liis innocence. “But why did you run away?”
the magistrate asked. “I heard someone call
out ‘Traps,’ ” Jacky replied, “and I thought
it was a runaway.” On such occasions the
sentence was usually “two days’ hard labor,”
and Jacky became the police gardener. But
once the beak gave him seven days. “Seven
days!” he exclaimed. ‘‘Cripes, dat’s hot—
only took me two days to do the garden
last time.”
“Jimmy Geebung”: The, launch ploughed
through the varied hues of the island-dotted
channels. Breakers combed over the reef. A
sharp dorsal-fin showed once or twice above
the surface. Soon it appeared behind us;
then to starboard; and another was sighted
ahead. With sinister ease they sped past
us, dropped back, seemed to run rings round
as. They ventured closer, though submerg-
ing to a slightly greater depth. How mar-
vellously graceful those speeding shadows!
SPOILING THE POOR BRUTE'S CHANCES.
THE BOSS (to newchum): “Heigh! Stop kickin’ him — l’ve got him entered for the
Show!”
How effortless their motion through the
glassy water ! One of them swept down on
our port bow, not six feet from the boat.
With an astonishing side-slipping manoeuvre
it flashed right athwart the bows, missing
contact by inches. Its mate joined it. Like
two advance guards they kept ahead, one on
either side of the craft, rising to the sur-
face, then sounding again, but never dis-
appearing entirely from view. They were
playing with us, those two,, sporting to their
hearts’ content. And some of the southerners
still aver that two tiger-sharks followed
them ceaselessly.. They had never seen
dolphins frisking before.
=!: V * >!=
“Pawang”: The horses at the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratory at Royal Park,
Melbourne, have lately been working overtime
in the service of a snakebite vaccine. The
method is to inject some of the
venom into the blood-stream of the
animals, and after a period of
incubation to draw off the serum,
which constitutes an anti-toxin
suitable for human use. While the
patient mokes have attained such
immunity from constant infection
that they are able to withstand
half a gramme of tiger-snake venom,
Eades, the official “catcher,”
has acquired hypersensitiveness of
another kind. He has lately been
unable to handle his slippery charges
for long without suffering a sort of
asthma, believed to be due to some
emanation from the reptiles’ skin.
Even this tough problem has been
solved by the serum magicians, who
have cured him by injections of
extracts made from cast-off skins.
“Mundowie” : The original Toma-
hawk Joe was a wild white man,
the last of the tribe, who was
rounded up and taken into Charle-
ville (Q.) about nine years ago.
He was a big fellow, with hair
and beard a yard long, and matted
like a brumby’s tail. For years
Joe had wandered about the Queens-
land bush, SO to 100 miles west of
Cliarleville, always alone, always
without a humpy of any kind
that lie could call home, and hiding
whenever he saw a stockman or a
foraging abo. He lived on what
he could find or catch, his only
possessions being a long-handled
knife and a tomahawk. The wild
birds and animals, he said, were his
friends, and he didn’t want any
other company. After his capture he quickly
became civilised again, but he stuck to his
long hair and his tomahawk.
Sji JjJ v *
“S. S. Severn” : The finds of stone pestles
and other Egyptiandikc relics on the Sepik
River (B. 29/l/’3O) reminds me that whilst
I was on the Lakekamu in 1913 Davy James,
whose mining claim was across the creek,
blasted a huge pestle and mortar and a fos-
silised bird’s head, remarkably like that of
an ibis, out of solid rock. The pestle was
three feet long and very heavy. I was also
shown a bow that had been dug out from
the same locality; it was six feet from tip
to tip and so strong that none of tlie native
boys could shoot an arrow from it. Held
up at Motu Motu on the mouth of the Tiveri,
I frequently visited the Samoan missionary’s
station on the other side of the village. He
was a cheery soul. With his wife and sister
lie taught Inglees to the Motuans after this
fashion :
Question: “Were rar our ’and ?”
Answer (in high-pitched chorus) : “ ’Ere rar our
’and.”
Question: “Were rar our eye?”
Answer: “’Ere rar our eye.”
Many of the pupils were of a distinctly
Egyptian type. One in particular, a boy of
12, might have stepped from a Theban bas-
relief, for he had the same patrician profile,
the same elongated eyes shadowed by heavy
eyelids, the same arrogant lips, slender legs
and waist, delicate hands and feet. ITis
head was shaved, save for one braid falling
over the right ear. The missionary told me
that Mosi-amu was boss of the boys, who
did all his work for him —ever an attribute
of kings.
* * * $
“Cooramin” : Old Belar, whose camp was
alongside the Darling, had been fishing
nearly all day, and returned with an empty
bag. "Have to get one for supper out of
the paddock,” he remarked as he took up
a scoop-net and went down the bank to a
hole that was enclosed with stones and
stakes. It contained about two dozen fair-
sized cod. “Why do you go fishing for more
when you’ve got plenty here?” I asked him.
“Well, it’s this way,” he said. “Sometimes
-I get a lot, an’ I put the surplus in here.
Other times I mightn’t get one in a week,
an’ that’s when the paddock’s handy to fall
back on. Once the river come down with a
rush an’ swept me stock away afore I ’ad
time to think about musterin’ ’em. Now
when there’s signs of a flood, out they come
and into the smoke-house.”
* ■ * ♦
“Ess”: Mrs. Daisy Bates, who has been
raising the question of cannibalism among
some of the Australian blacks, is credited
with being the first woman to undertake a
long droving trip. She purchased, a mob of
cattle at Roebuck Plains (W.A.), and trav-
elled them to her own run on the Ethel
River; that was in 1902. Her venture was
later bettered in the Territory by Elsie
Bohning, then a girl of 14, who travelled
SOO miles from her home at Helen Springs to
the railhead. Dad was in charge, Elsie and
a couple of boys were his only assistants,
and Mum was cook. But some of the women
of the West Darling made far more perilous
trips as far back as the ’.sixties.
❖ V
“Pila”: The goldfish, at the Newport
/Vic.) railway workshops garden are know-
ing little customers. They emerge from their
miniature under-water jungles only when the
lunch whistle screeches; then the, surface
of the pond is broken bv a swirling multi-
tude of fishes, each anticipating titbits from
the employees. Somehow thev have learned
to distinguish the lunch whistle from the
many other workshop whistles.
(Confirmed on page 25.)
THE ROLY-POLY PLAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old ’Rashe Robinson were.sittin ’ by the door
His feet were on the lintel, and his hat were
on the door;
His tea were on the table, and his billy on
the fire,
And he watched the rain a-drippin’ from the
old bullock-wire.
And Old ’Rashe were thinkin’, as he loved
to sit and think;
It served instead of readin’, and it served
instead of drink ;
And it come a darned sight cheaper than
what some amusements do.
That is why he didn’t smoke—it cost him
less to chew.
And while he sat a-tliinkin’, and a-starin’
at the rain
That curtained orf the edges of the Roly-
poly Plain,
He ran his mem’ry down the list of coves he
useter know,
As left the Roly-poly for the cities years ago.
Tom Liveridge, as made a handsome for-
tune “lambin’ down”
And lorst it on a flash hotel he bought in
Sydney town ;
Bob Rix, as rung Cudjinnie shed, and spent
the lot on girls ;
And Bourke, who cleared for Broome and
went insolvent fishin’ pearls !
And there was many others took the shadder
for the bone;
And some was dead (or married !).... and
Old ’Rashe were left alone.
And as he sat there thinkin’ and a-starin’
at the rain.
“The silly, blanky cows,” lie says, “to leave
the blanky Plain!
“They didn’t know,” says he, “when they
was blanky-well well-orf.
Where are they n0w?.... And look at me!
A-livin’ like a torf!
THIS WEEK’S PROBLEM PICTURE.
Who wears the breeks in this family?
I wouldn’t leave the Plains,” says he, “to
be the Prince o’ Wales!
All stuck in stuffy mansions with a lot of
silvertails!
“I got me meat and damper, and me tea and
sugar, too;
Me plug o’ ‘Lucy Hinton’ when I’m feelin’
like a chew.
The magpies of a mornin’ and the curloos
of a night
Is better comp’ny than you’ll get in any
town—too right!
“Tlie myalls wavin’ in the wind ; the clover-
burr in spring;
The brolgas dancin’ in the dawn; the plovers
on the wing;
The horse-bells in the teamsters’ camp; the
sounds of trav’lin’ stock —
Ain’t these enough for any cove as. hasn’t
lorst his block?
“I love it in the winter when the trefoil’s
green and high ;
I love it in the summer when the billabongs
■ are dry.
But I love it best of all when I’m a-starin’
through the rain
From my little shingled shanty on the Roly-
poly Plain!”
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


An Attractive & Permanent Floor Covering
The floors and corridors of many leading Business Houses,
Banks, etc., in Australia are now brightened and rendered
silent by Dunlop Perdriau Inlaid Rubber Matting. In
many Private Homes, Hotels, etc., it is also much in
evidence. You have probably admired many of these
attractive floor coverings—their brilliancy and design has
appealed to you—whilst the quietness and comfort of
walking on the resilient rubber incorporated in Dunlop
Perdriau Matting has been very noticeable. “It's fine!”
is the usual remark. It is more than that—for this
Matting confers so many advantages that it is destined to
become one of the most popular forms of floor covering.
In the world’s leading centres Rubber Matting is now
recognised and accepted as the ideal floor covering. There
are many benefits that follow its use—it is comfortable
and silent to walk on, non-slipping, easy to keep clean,
non-absorbant and waterproof, thoroughly hygienic,
permanent in design and colouring, and —most important
of all—lT LASTS A LIFETIME ! No other floor
covering offers so much. It is made in the sheet in two
thicknesses — T V' and i" —in runner formation up to 72"
wide, in any length. The design and colouring go right
through the rubber, ensuring absolute permanency. Being
made of rubber, and a non-conductor, the coldest or
hottest weather has no effect upon it.
gftfg ; i
M&: <
*•>
m
V.
iffM
H
• j
i
i
m
s s
■ ■
55
' '
Wjmim' ** 2hL Wb fi *1 *
; ; , ‘ - T„ -
;
■mlll , . •.'
m
»L*j
■
■■ . _
' V r - '
I ■ • .-
§pk p 3 ;
Illustration depicts an attractive application of Dunlop Perdriau Matting and Non-slippina Rubber Stair Nosings
IDEAL
0
o *n *n o
L®
because at las
uy sagms
o
DUNLOP PERDRIAU
RUB
MATTING
The cost of having Dunlop Perdriau Matting
installed is the first and only expense—and on
account of its wonderful durability, it is the
most economical floor covering extant. It
is made in plain colourings—marbled effects
•—and in many attractive inlaid designs,
whilst a wide range of colour schemes
is available. We shall be pleased to
submit samples, designs, prices,
etc., to those interested. Cor-
respondence invited.
DUNLOP
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
Co. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Brisbane,
Perth and Hobart
■ <{"?.- '■ •!
' ~ ’ C^^SS^S
/■/.;; ■ ,
S *&£!%% *IHT ’a 1 / :.V ')
"’■~™
|i ~
ggg v
Exu£*m mmmmmmmmm
mi
»3S
.. "-
-#-
■^T
rfcr
asQaafe
»*s
ggg rsaßßwsww
sasss«^^s«»^^»
A beautiful Dunlop Petdtiau design carried out in buff, black, royal blue and white


ẅ
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
buy as cheaply as possible. Wincheombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Homebush Yards, or
Sydney,
LTD.
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£l 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
<£bmmonwealtl) §avfnos JBank of Hustralia
C Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government).
Ask the Man
Who ? s Been There
and he will tell you that “the best
holiday he ever had’ was at
Mi. Buffalo
National Park
Book now for the snow-sports
season.
Particulars at
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
“Toggle” : Binghi is a gambler born. He
will take any sort of chance rather than
be out of the game. Near Adavale (Q.)
half a dozen of us, including a couple or
sable brethren, had written a bumper mail,
using up all our news (and, incidentally,
our last envelope) on the chance of inter-
HOW QUARRELS BEGIN.
WAITER (mixing orders) : “Lemmesee, sir. Are you the curried giblets or the fried
flathead?”
cepting a mail-coach. The boss, giving our
combined output the oncc-over, found an
envelope, well stuffed and gummed, but
innocent of stamp or address. All hands
mustered round and each man tallied out
his own contributions except two abos., Tiger
and Daylight, who both stridently claimed
the cleanskin. The situation might have
baffled Solomon, but the boss happily sug-
gested that the two toss for it. In two
minutes the winner had got the trophy
addressed to his girl. We thought the inci-
dent ended; but next day our cook put in
a belated claim. He declared that the en-
velope contained nothing but, a eouple of
X-ray studies of his wife’s interior.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“V.D.L.”: Anyone who had had any ex-
per’ence at all with “bee” trees would not
be so silly as to
fall a tree m the
circumstances de-
railed by “Copa-
b e 1 1 a” (B.
22/l/’3O). Even
if comb was pro-
i aiding from a
spout, it must have
been evident that
there were no bees
left, and bees will
not leave a hive
with honey in it.
I have fallen many
trees and have
often had poor re-
sults. but the bees
at least were
always there. I
remember my best
tree, a grey box,
about two feet in
diameter, which was
filled from the
roots to the first
fork, about 12ft.
from tne ground.
We had to get a
horse and cart to
carry the honey
away. I have found
bees in rocks and
in an old kerosene-
tin. The queerest
place was in the
ceiled roof of a
two - roomed
thatched house occupied by a man and his
wife in Zululand. By appearances there
must have been many colonies there, but
as I was only a visitor I did not explore.
* * * *
“Barangkali” : Just how hard it is to kill
a cat was exemplified the other day when a
case of cars from Italy was found to contain
a cat with a large family of kittens. The
case was under hatches near a ventilator,
which might explain how tabby managed to
get air, but what she and her kittens lived
on during the trip is a mystery. A parallel
case is reported from Mosman. Three months
ago an elderly lady left her Mosman home for
an inter-State visit, locking the place securely,
but forgetting to put the cat out. A week
ago she returned, to find the mouse-catcher
almost at her last gasp. Anything that had
borne the faintest resemblance to food had
been eaten; artificial flowers had even been
gnawed from hats. During her enforced
detention Tabitba had increased the cat
population by five, and 1 the owner arrived
back just in time to save the whole 54 lives.
“Sister”: Among
the left-overs in
the scheme of
things were sev-
eral old men of
different nationali-
ties, whom a pater-
n a 1 Government
domiciled at Dar-
win hospital. Each
had a duty to per-
form. Carl’s was
to light the copper
fires for the Chi-
nese dhobi. Though
that functionary
never began his
wash until seven
o’clock, Carl rose
every morning at
a quarter to three
and, making as
much noise as pos-
sible, got a fire big
enough to roast an
ox going by three.
A harassed ma-
tron - remonstrated
with him on two
counts, noise and
waste. The reply
was “At t’ree me
always got up; at
t’ree me always
get up.” Old Harry
was the lampman.
Every day he used
a full tin of kero-
s e n e. “Henry,”
matron expostu-
lated, “I want you
to use less oil.”
Henry drew himself
up to his full five
feet. “Madame,”
he said, “do you
suggest that I im-
bibe the stuff?” It
being a hospital financed from Canberra we
let them have their way.
ij: 5 ' J *
“Up North”: Near where the Strickland
joins the Fly a canoe shot out into inid-
stream, its eight Papuans standing like
statues when they saw our craft. Naked
were there bodies, but their heads were
covered with plumes of the golden bird ot
paradise. They shot their canoe back to
the bank and vanished in the grass, leaving
behind two large bags of beautifully plaited
cane. One bag held many betel-nuts, a cocoa-
nut husk full of dried “bunia” paint, a pine-
apple-headed stone club, some rolls of sago,
the lower jawbone of a man with its teeth
red-ochred, and a small drum-like instrument
made out of a gourd and painted in black
stripes. Out of the other bag we pulled a
stuffed human head, its hair tufted like a
horse’s tail. A hideous thing, the smoke-
dried skin was painted in black qnd red
bars. Following it came a woman’s grass
rami, prettily dyed and made to fit a very
slender waist, an ornament of cassowary
feathers, a necklace of dogs’ teeth, some
poison bark for stupefying fish and a roll
of paper-bark full of fish bones for barbing
arrows. The canoe itself was long and
slender, being made especially for negotiating
the huge grass swamps that extend inland
from the Fly. A wild place, and the canoe
smelt distinctly of wild men.
* # * ■?
“Tally”: Most of us reared in the bush
are familiar with methods of . counting sheep
through a gate. The Yankee Fisheries
Bureau in Alaska has gone one better —it
counts the salmon making up the rivers to
spawn by running them through a gate. The
law insists that 50 per cent, of the fish com-
ing upstream must escape the cannery nets
and traps. Thei quota is arrived at by drop-
ping fences across the rivers and counting
the fish as they pass through gates. The
rangers lie face down above these gates with
the familiar enumerating machine in hand,
ticking off the fish as they show against the
canvas laid down for the purpose.
“Dr. Nil”: “Trevdee” (B. 22/l/’3O) asks
for an explanation of “haze” occurring sud-
denly in a clear atmosphere after the passing
of a motor-car. A definition of “haze” may
help. When minute and invisible particles of
solid matter exist in air, these, in certain
atmospheric conditions, form the nuclei of
groups of air-molecules so arranged that
they refract the light in the same way as
the “frost” on a window-pane. The frost is
made of pure water, but certain of its forms
are not transparent. The emanations from
the motor-engine—gas, smoke and water-
vapor—may supply the conditions necessary
to produce haze in an otherwise clear atmo-
sphere.
*jc i)i
“Sydneian” : Is the golden-crested eagle to
be classed with the kookaburra as an
habitual snake-killer? While luring the un-
willing trout with me recently on the
Tuross, out from Countegany (N.S.W.), a
brother-medico disturbed and put to flight a
fine specimen of golden-crested eagle carry-
MILK, MILK EVERYWHERE, AND NOT A DROP TO
DRINK.”
ing in his beak a brown snake some four
feet long. He did not go through the cus-
tomary ritual of dropping and picking up
the victim, like Jacky, but being for the
moment entirely absorbed in his own safety
quickly made out of shooting distance and
sight of my surprised companion. None
of the local bushmen could recall a similar
exhibition. Was it habit or merely an
isolated attack of a bird in search of dinner?
COUNCILLOR JONES, J.P.
[FOR THE BU LLETIN.]
im humble manner (as becomes
A meaner member of the tribe),
With mental flags and moral drums,
Herein I make attempt to scribe
With ink refined that should proclaim
Through Time and through Eternity
The virtues and the civic fame
Of Councillor Aitch Jones, J.P.
Let no irreverent reader see
Ironic meanings in this rhyme ;
’Tis solemn as Eternity
And likewise serious as Time.
No quadrupedal bard would dare
A subject such as this approach
Who was not —let me loudly swear —
Sans fear and also sans reproach.
Through Sunburst Shire, from east to west,
His words and worth for long have rung.
High o’er his gates no feudal crest
Or mediaeval badge is hung;
But in a street of Sunburst town
Through constant dust or mud hath he,
According to report, flung down
The three-fold gage of Lombardy.
“A friend in need’s a friend indeed,”
Though well the errant debtor knows
A slight default may often lead
The watchful creditor to close.
More potent than a steel-tipped spear
In some grim baron’s grasping hand
The law 7 of mortgage (so we hear)
Can be applied throughout the land.
And thus (’tis stated) hath this knight
Of commerce made by patience great —
Allied to practice keen and bright—
Fair fortune and a fine estate.
Though envy scratch and slander claw
And business rivals wag the beard,
A subtle difference stands in law
Between the shearer and the sheared.
So in the Hall of Council stands
On meeting nights, with shoes ashine
And rotund chest caressed by hands
Obese, this Paladin of mine.
And when he speaks ’mid civic peers
Of culverts or the cost of drains,
I’ve heard that sympathetic tears
Gush freely forth like wun’ter rains.
His famed oration re the track
From Sunburst to the Sugarbag
Was printed under headlines black
Verbatim by the local rag.
And when, to lay the case before
The late Augustus Thomas Brent,
He led a deputation o’er,
They spoke to him of Parliament!
And who shall say that in the years,
With wealth and oratoric fire,
He may not rise to higher spheres,
This Alexander of a shire?
Such things have been, again may be;
The records of our land relate
How 7 men like Aitchless Jones, J.P.,
Become the rulers of the State.
SAFETY FIRST.
MRS. LEGHORN: “What’s up, Bill—anything wrong?”
MR. LEGHORN: “Yes, Matilda, there’s a man in the yard with an
axe. Get up—I want to hide under the bed for a while.”
A scrivener small, a roaming bard,
Upon his honored head I lay
My chaplet of poetic lard,
And meekly go my humble way.
But as I with my muse depart,
I merely make one last comment—
They do possess the blessed art,
These Joneses of a continent.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. . , 1
The right of selection, and rejection is _ reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wan ts.
Bush-worker (25), S.A., expert with horses, drive
car, wants job anywhere.—462s.
V oung man (26) wants permanent job on wheat-
farm, N.S.W. ; exp., honest worker.—46s2.
Station book-keeper (44), 2 years present posi-
tion Queensland, desires change any part Australia;
qualified to act as tutor to b0y5.—4632.
I oung man (21), five years’ clerical exp., wants
position enabling him to continue as evening student
at Sydney Uni. —-4681.
Queensland bushwoman (36), desiring change in
Sydney for six months, open for engagement; well
educated, good organiser, domesticated, nursing and
child welfare ; refs.—4669.
Tasmanienne, refined and capable, seeks position
as companion to lady travelling overseas.—4672.
Journalist, editing two N.S.W. country papers,
wants change, anywhere, anything in newspaper work.
Not less than £5OO. Ret. sol., ,46, honest, enthusias-
tic Australian. —4679.
Young man, exp. station book- and store-keeper,
mechanical ability, windmill and pump maintenance,
drive ear or lorry, desires post S.A. or Yic. ; willing
tutor youngsters.—467s.
Young woman (22), desii-es position as companion
with refined people or elderly lady, Adelaide. Refs.
—4644.
Young man, N.S.W., single, wants position as
overseer on station, wide exp., including book-
keeping.—4624.
Station manager, Q’land, lifelong knowledge sheep
and cattle, wants management property, ■' any size,
any State.—4623.
Young Scotsman (23) wants work, market-garden
of orchard, N.S.W. mountains preferred.—4ss2.
Man (25), Sydney, wants position in advertising
firm, slight exp., steady, honest worker. —4595.
Young man (26), Sydney, exp. buyer and sales-
man retail softgoods, go anywhere for position.—
4656.
Caterpillar-tractor driver (21), N.S.W., would like
to hear of position town or country, exp. logging.—
4655.
Young man, slight physical incapacity, wants part-
or whole-time job Sydney; legal, commercial, cashier,
literary exp., typist.—46s9.
Englishman, late Imperial army, would like station
job Q’land or N.T. Good hand with sheep, pumping
engines and windmills; drive car or truck. —4523.
Station carpenter (34) wants job concrete work,
painting, repairs, etc., any part Australia. —4590.
Young man, English public schoolboy, requires
position as companion-secretary to author or public
man.—4536.
By middle-aged lad}', N.S.W., good cook, position
as housekeeper on station. —4467.
Practical man, healthy, single and mechanically
inclined, wants pos. outside Australia, preferably on
tropical plantation.—4sl6.
To buy “Genevieve de Brabant” and “La Fille
de Madam Angot,” music and words (English).—
4571.
By Scotch housekeeper, Q’land, charge of station
or country house where two children could also stay.
—4610.
To buy bound volumes of Harmsworth’s “Self-
Educator,” all except Vol. 5. —4685.
To buy “Pickwick Papers” and other old books
issued in parts.—46l4.
To buy Australian publications, Jan.-July, 1893.
—4589.
To buy early editions of Australian books, particu-
larly Bulletin publications.—464s.
To buy or exchange Louis Stone’s “Jonah,” first
edition, and Crowley’s “Diary of a Drug Fiend.”—
4684.
To buy. boiler feed pump, 10 or 12 h.p., Robey
steam-engine, also smoke-stack for same and set of
Pickering-type governors with throttle valve attached,
llin. to liin. —4703.
To exchange collection of modern novels for copy
of “Australian Encyclopaedia.”—4694.
Address of W. J. Daley, late Victor Daley’s eldest
son. —4676.
Whereabouts of Hector Macdonald, late of Arcadia
(N.Q.).—4640.
Copy of short story by Victor Daley entitled
“Hogan’s Keeper.”—4693.
Information Sought.
(1) Can a reduction of the capital of a co.
equal to its liabilities or more extinguish its
liabilities? How? (2) How are the liabili-
ties got rid of, or depreciation accounted
for? (3) Is there room for subterfuge? —
4657.
(1) Yes. If shareholders have put up cash
for their scrip and it still remains in
cash form, then they can pay liabilities
to the extent of the capital put up. If the
liabilities are not represented by assets —in
other words, if they are really losses—the
only way to pay them is out of either capital
or undistributed profits. If there are no
undistributed profits, the only way to pay
them is out of capital. And if they are
paid out of capital, then that capital, since
it is no longer represented by assets, ought
to be written off. (2) The mere writing-
off of capital does not wipe out liabilities.
Liabilities are got rid of only by actual
payment or by compromise. If capital is
represented not by cash but by stock, plant,
etc., then liabilities not represented by assets
can be got rid of only to the amount which
stock, plant, etc., will realise. (3) Cer-
tainly. We don’t know anything that is
absolutely rogue-proof.
Is it necessary to (1) insure a salesman
on commission under the N.S.W. Workers’
Compensation Act; and (2) affix a 2d.
duty-stamp on receipts for payment of com-
mission f—-4229.
(1) Yes; Section 6 (6) of the Act says:
“A salesman. .. .paid wholly or partly by
commission shall. . . .be deemed to be a
worker in the employment of the person by
whom such commission is payable”.... (2)
Yes.
Can ordinary salt be prepared commerci-
ally by boiling salt water until only the solid
is left? —4639.
Coarse salt can be produced by boiling
salt water in open pans. Fine salt is made
by boiling salt water in a vacuum evaporat-
ing plant. These methods are used in Eng-
land ; they have been tried in Australia, but
found to be a failure on account of the brine
containing magnesium chloride and calcium
sulphate. The calcium sulphate is precipi-
tated at an earlier stage than the sodium
chloride, and causes incrustation, which dis-
colors the salt.
(1) Does John Brown own mines on free-
hold property on the N.S.W. northern coal-
fields? (2) Can a person start coalmining
on N.S.W. freehold property and close the
mine at any time without permission of the
mining warden? —4340.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes, if he owns the coal.
Formula for making a permanent varnish
for gun-barrels? —4sBl.
Dissolve one ounce of shellac and two
drachms of dragon’s blood in a quart of
methylated spirits and filter the solution
through blotting-paper into a bottle, which
must be kept tightly corked. After the var-
nish has been applied, let it dry thoroughly
on the barrel and then rub with chamois
leather vigorously so as to render it smooth
and glossy.
Would a traveller in women’s wear have
much chance of making a living in Papua?
—4412.
Not much. The feminine population is
small, there are local stores, and ladies in
the Territory send to Sydney for special
requirements, besides replenishing their
wardrobes when on vacation in Australia.
In a Soccer match a penalty was
awarded. The captain of the attacking side
deliberately kicked the ball a few yards so
as to give the defending goalkeeper a chance
of picking up and kicking the ball clear. In
such a case should not the ball be kicked
beyond the goal line (unless stopped by the
goalkeeper) irrespective of whether it goes
through the posts or not? —4551.
No. It is quite a common practice
for the taker of a free kick to pass to another
of his own side in a better position to score.
(1) What exams, must be passed before
a youth can commence apprenticeship as a
pharmacist in Vic? (2) Amount of fees he
would have to pay before he can be regis-
tered as a pharmaceutical chemist? (3)
■Wages of such apprentices? (4) Are pre-
miums required P—4583.
(1) The preliminary exam, of the Phar-
macy Board (Latin, arithmetic, English,
algebra and geometry), or the school Inter-
mediate exam, of an approved University
in six subjects at least, including English,
and one other language and one branch of
mathematics. (2) Approximately £55 for
the complete course. (3) Wages Board.
Minimum: First year of apprenticeship, 15s.
per week; second year, 205.; third and
fourth years, 30s. (4) Usually amount
varies from £75 to £l5O.
(1) When is it proposed to take the next
census? (2) Will it contain any new fea-
tures ? —-4620.
(1) July, 1931. Midnight between June
30 and July 1 has been appointed the point
of time to which the information furnished
by the census shall relate. (2) Yes. The
basis of collection is to be in the form of a
“Householder’s” schedule, containing the par-
ticulars of all persons in each household,
instead of the slip for each individual per-
son, as was the case in 1921. Information is
to be collected under the following additional
headings: War service, income, persons
sleeping out on verandahs, orphanhood,
number of horses and poultry. And it is
proposed to distinguish between crafts and
industries in the tabulation of data relative
to occupations.
(1) In cricket, how does a bowler produce
a “floater” or hanging ball? (2) How does
he swing a ball? (3) What makes a ball
shoot on a perfect pitch? —4622.
(1) Bowlers have different methods. The
essential is the use of under-spin, as in the
“cut shot” in tennis. (2) With the new
ball almost any bowler can swing. The
grip is with the first and second fingers
along the seam. (3) Overspin. This acceler-
ates the pace of the ball after pitching, and
helps it to keep low.
Is it possible for an Australian to get a
position in China ivith a European busi-
ness firm ?- —4621.
It is possible, but anybody without a definite
contract should be discouraged from seeking
a position in China. Unemployment is rife,
the cost of living is high, and most British
houses fill their ranks with young cadets
trained at home. Special qualifications are
usually required. MacDonald, Hamilton and
the Canadian Pacific Railway are firms
operating in China which have branches in
Australia. Refer to them.
(1) Method of making gunpowder used in
fireworks, and cost of ingredients? (2)
Where can I buy small quantities of nitric
and sulphuric acid? —4507
(1) Under the N. S. Wales “Explosive
Act 1905” gunpowder may only be manu-
factured in a licensed factory, irrespective of
the amount involved. In the circumstances
information cannot be furnished. (2) From
any wholesale chemist.
Is a man who worked on transports dur-
ing the Great War eligible to take up land in
Queensland under the same conditions as a
returned soldier? —4456.
No; moreover, discharged soldiers and
sailors now desirous of selecting land in
Queensland can only do so in competition
with the general public, the scheme under
which they were granted financial assistance
under the provisions of the Discharged Sol-
diers Settlement Acts having been discon-
tinued for' a considerable period. The only
persons eligible under that scheme were
those who held honorable discharges from
the naval and military forces raised for ser-
vice abroad.
(1) What method is used in extracting
eucalyptus oil from gum-leaves? (2) Is there
much demand for eucalyptus extractions? —
4300.
(1) Too lengthy and technical to describe
here. Get “Guide to the Extraction of Euca-
lyptus Oil in the Field” (6d.) from Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Sydney. (2)
It varies a lot. Mr. A. R. Penfold, Curator,
Technological Museum, would be pleased to
furnish detailed information.
(1) Value of deerskins in N.Z.? (2) 1
have read that the N.Z. Government wants to
get rid of deer infesting mountain regions.
Is that correct, and is there any bonus? (3)
Would it pay a kangaroo-shooter to go over
there? (4) Second- or third-class from.
Adelaide to the South Island? (5) Would
dogs be any good for catching deer or should
I have to shoot them? —4208.
(1) A private firm is offering ss. 3d. per
skin free on rail. (2) Correct to an extent.
Owing to the depredations of deer protection
has been removed in certain portions of the
South Island, and here a bonus of 2s. per
tail is paid. (3) Hard to say. A conference
to consider the question of dealing with the
deer menace is to be held in March, and it
might be as well to await the result. (4) No
direct service from Adelaide. Single fares
from Melbourne, second-class: To Bluff
£6 55., to Dunedin £7, to Lyttelton £8 35.;
Sydney to Wellington los. second;
steamer fare to Lyttelton, £l. Then there
would be rail fare to whatever point it is
desired to reach. (5) The regular method
of destroying deer is by shooting. Dogs
might be useful in routing the deer out of
cover. But dogs might not be permitted by
owners of properties ; in some cases owners
or occupiers will not permit even shooters
to enter for the purpose of killing deer.
(1) Are the roots of delphinium plants
divided as gerberas are? (2) If so, at what
time is the operation done? —4511.
(1) Yes. (2) After the plants have fin-
ished flowering cut them down and divide
the crowns, being careful not to injure the
roots. When replanting add plenty of rotted
cow manure to the soil, and the flowering
next year-will be improved.
What gives the ocean its peculiar color?
—4712.
The molecular scattering of sunlight in
water. The sunlight penetrates the water
and the blue component is scattered in all
directions; some of this blue light emerges
and reaches the observer’s eye. By means
of a Nicol’s prism the skylight reflected
from the sea can be cut off and observed.
When the surface reflections are thus sup-
pressed the hue of the water is of such
fulness and saturation that the bluest sky in
comparison seems a dull grey.
Two gum-trees in my Vic. yard are almost
covered with small white eggs which attract
insects. How can I rid them of the disease?
-4409.
Eucalyptus scale ( Eriococcus ) is evidently
the trouble. Give the trees a spraying with
“Volck” or any of the other white oils
obtainable from proprietary seed shops.
I wish to sluice for gold a piece of ground
about 100 yards long by 50 yards wide , ivith
an average depth of four feet. Heavy shotty
gold is embedded in pug clay which rests on
the bedrock; water can be dammed to the
level of the ground to be sluiced. What . sort
of pump would be required? Could it be
driven by an ordinary Ford engine? —44l7.
Much would depend on the nature of the
overburden and pug clay. A centrifugal
pump would be used. The water would have
to be brought to sump close up to pump.
Possibly a Ford engine could be adapted for
small-scale operations. Tin has been sluiced
in a small way at Stanthorpe (Q.) using a
tractor to drive the pump.
I propose to put a tooth-paste on the
market. Should I submit it to the Pure
Food. Branch of the N.S.W. Health Dept.?
—4498.
It is not necessary. You should, however,
get a copy of the regulations under the Pure
Food Act from the Government Printer,
Sydney, Is. 9d., plus postage.
I have some very old gum-trees on my
property at Lake Macquarie. Branches large
and' small arc dead. Is it advisable to cut
the dead timber off? —4473.
If the trees are not too far gone a good
lopping will probably put new life into them.
In any case it' can do no harm.
Whereabouts in Sydneif can I learn sculp-
ture? Length of course, fees and hours ? —
4661.
At the Art Department, East Sydney Tech.,
Darlinghurst. Classes begin on February
24. Sculpture is included in the diploma
courses, and entrance is gained by success
in a preliminary test. Intending students
should submit (a) a drawing from the
antique, (b) two drawings from life, (c) an
anatomical rendering in pencil (bones find
muscles) of one of the drawings from life,
and (d) photographs representative of their
general work. Students will also be called
upon to model a bust from the antique within
a given time. Length of course is normally
three years, although a student of excep-
tional ability can qualify, with permission
of lecturer-in-charge, in a shorter period.
Fee, £3 3s. per year. Hours of attendance
vary considerably and will be found in the
Art Department’s syllabus obtainable from
the college.
I have converted my four-valve receiver
into a screen-grid model. (1) How is the
screen-grid valve connected up. and (2)
what voltage should be used? —4695.
(1) The filament and grid terminals on
the valve socket are identical with the ordi-
nary three-electrode valve. The terminal
marked “P” on valve socket is connected
to the screen-grid lead, and the normal-
plate lead is taken to the top of valve. (2)
Filament volts, 4; plate volts, 100 to
150; screen-grid volts, approximately half
the plate voltage.
Can a child for whom half-fare has been
paid be compelled to surrender its seat in
a crowded N.S.W. ’bus?— 4s97.
No. If the surrender is enforced, the
conductor is not authorised by any provi-
sion in the Regulations for Public Vehicles
under the N.S.W. Motor Traffic Act.
Brief Answers.
Sligo: (1) and (2) No. But associated
banka fix deposit rates; and deposit rates help to
govern rates for overdrafts and other accommodation.
T.W.S.: (1) Supplied by Fred Johns, author of
“Notable Australians,” etc. (2) Springwood (N.S.W.).
M.D.: Things seem to be going a little its way
again. Inclined to hold N. 8.: “Rodeo” is of
Spanish origin; as used in Western U.S.A. it means
to round up, and in recent times the word has been
applied to exhibitions of cattle-roping, -throwing
and buckjumping. .. .C.W.: “Photography Simpli-
fied,” by Salmon (25.) ; “Photography for Beginners,”
by Bel] (2s. fid.) ; “Photography Made Easy,” by
Bayley (3s. fid.)....Curious: (1) and (2) Yes. (3)
Yes. In each case it is presumed the delegate was
clothed with authority. (4) Club rules or precedent.
P.P.T.: “Clans, Septs and Regiments of the
Scottish Highlands,” by Adam ; “History of the
Scottish Highlands,” by Iveltie; “The Highlands of
Scotland,” by Lang; and “Romantic Story of the
Highland Garb,” by Mackay. .. .N.G.: Green dia-
monds are rare and of high value. There is no
simple test, exact tests being a matter for a gem
expert or mineralogist.... H.M.: (1) Yes. National
Airways, Challis House, Martin-place, Sydney. (2)
Harkness and Hillier, engineers, Parramatta-road,
Five Dock, Sydney. (3) D.H.53 (about 12 h.p.) now
out of production. (4) No. (5) and (6) Nothing
definite has been decided regarding route and beacons.
. ...J.D.: Write Amalgamated Coffee Plantations
(New Guinea), Yorkshire House, Spring-street, Syd-
ney .... E.C.D.: Buckeye Incubator Co., 168 Thomas-
street; Multiplo Incubator Co., 741 George-street;
H. S. Patterson, 263 Goulburn-street; Poultry Acces-
sories Co., 72 Church-street, Parramatta; and
Preddy’s, 567 Forest-road, Bexley... .F.H.8.: Not
available T.M.G.: Write District Naval Officer,
Beach-road, Edgeclifi, Sydney, for free booklet, “How
to Join the R.A.N.”. . . .H.A.L.: “Stars of the
Southern Heavens,” by James Nangle (Angus and
Robertson), contains the information you require....
S.N.: Ivnochen oil (2s. 6d.) is suitable for the pur-
pose; most watchmakers stock it....E.J. (1) Yes.
(2) Depends on length. (3) and (4) Registrar, H.M.
General Register House, Edinburgh; write for in-
structions and estimate of cost.... 8.M.: Send a
sample to Art Editor ; he will tell you whether you
need lessons or not. . . .A. 8.: March, April and May
are the most suitable months to cross the Pacific
en route to Vancouver. April and May are spring
months there and weather usually is very good,
though colder, of course, than spring in Sydney.
Summer-time is delightful, with very little rain
J.E.T.: (1) Leeches are not often prescribed nowa-
days except in cases of iritis and the like;
drugs produce the same effect more quickly
and efficiently. (2) Most of the chemical warehouses
keep some on hand. .. .S.S.: Shark Fisheries, 17
O’Connell-street, and Marine Industries, 105 Pitt-
street —both Sydney J.F.: Cannot trace such a
body. . . .H.D.N.: (1) If security is of value given
you should have little difficulty in mortgaging pro-
perty for £6OO at 7 or 74 p.c., though money is
tight. (2) By consolidating two loans in one the
cost should not be as great as in the case of two
mortgages. (3) Mortgagee may at any time call on
you to repay the money lent, the mortgage not
having been renewed. .. .C.P.: To obtain a patent,
fees are £1 on application, £2 on acceptance of
complete specification and £5 for preparation of
letters patent for sealing forms from Patents Office,
Commonwealth Bank Buildings, Martin-place, Sydney.
D.E.K.: See Manning’s “Fourth Dimension Sim-
ply Explained”; also books on the subject by
Maeterlinck, Bragdon, Browne, Hinton, Neville and
Smith, all in the Public Library, Sydney D.R.8.:
(1) You couldn’t pick a worse time to sell. (2)
Any Stock Exchange broker will handle them; they
are listed. (3) The buyer J.R.R.: We have seen
nothing to justify the estimate. Look up “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly” for February... .L.A.P.: It is a
gamble. That recognised, it has its merits, though
estimates may be heavily discounted.... Wake: It
is a thoroughly good office. .. .D.C.: Cooper’s “Prac-
tical Cold Storage” (505.) ; Arrowood’s “Refrigera-
tion” (125.) ; Audel’s “Answers on Refrigeration and
Ice-making” (10s.)—all from Dymock’s, Sydney
8.C.: If you smoke or drink, stop for six months and
note result. Get a nasal balm at the chemist’s and
place it in the nostrils morning and evening. Gargle
your throat with salt and water. Attend to your
bowels and general health. .. .P.M.W.: Cause is un-
known ; treatment is difficult and uncertain. Sun-
shine is considered satisfactory if affected parts are
exposed. Continue with your medical treatment
A.D.: You should consult an ear specialist. Use
hydrogen peroxide to dry it up, night and morning.
Put some cotton-wool on the end of a smooth wooden
stick, dip it in the peroxide and wiggle round the
ear without using force. Repeat this several times
and dry; wash out with warm water in a similar
manner. If pain comes on use hot fomentations in
combination with this treatment. If the Flying
Doctor comes round your way any time, ask his
advice J.T.C.: Write R. B. Davies Pty.,
Sussex and Druitt streets, Sydney D.R.8.: (1)
You have no claim. (2) Registrar of Probates,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. Inspection, 25.; cost of copy
depends on length. .. .N.L.: Call and see drawing
school master, National Gallery, Melbourne....
A.F.M.: Dates are cured by being dried in partial
shade without any treatment F.M.: Australian
Corriedale Sheep Breeders’ Assoc., 10 Bligh-street,
Sydney M.T.S.: Write E. J. Pollard, 16 Esk-
dale-road, Caulfield, Melbourne W.8.N.: No prize.
.... Anon.: Sydney Municipal Library contains about
200 books on book-keeping and accountancy. There
is no other free lending library from which you
could borrow R.T.: Schneider Cup was won by
Flying-officer Waghorn (Britain) in a Superiqpine
Rolls Royce ; average 328.63 m.p.h D.A.W.: It
is from Goethe: “No greater torment could there be
to me than to be alone in Paradise.”... .R.K.P..
Prof. Gilbert Murray’s address is Yatscombe, Boar’s
Hill, Oxford, Eng J.G. : Never heard of a reliable
one. Sometimes courses under skilled physicians do
give results, but in the long run the success of any
method depends on the patient’s will power. .. .
G.P.S.: Canadian figures for 1928: 3,418,992 sheep
and 19,611,4301 b. of wool produced, valued at
5,099,000 dollars.... L.W.C.: Suggest you obtain
prospectuses from other institutions and weigh them
all before you decide. .. .R. 8.: Apply Commissioner,
Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Ottawa. .. .F.G.:
(1) Can’t trace exact date. (2) No, he wrote a few
other stories and many articles. (3) Don’t thmk
50... . R.M.: London Purple Powder, obtainable from
most wholesale chemists... .H.E.H.: All awards deal-
ing with the theatrical profession are procurable at
Sub-Treasury Office, Commonwealth Bank Buildings,
Martin-place, Sydney V.J.C.: Curing fish tc > pre-
serve them for three or four months is accomplished
usually by means of dry salting or pickling in brine,
and is a technical business requiring skill and ex-
perience. Detailed account in Tressler’s “Marine
Products of Commerce,” obtainable at Public Library.
The salmon imported from America is preserved by
pickling in brine....E.W.M.: Gordon and Gotch,
Sydney, could get you a copy ; their London address,
42 Gerrard-street, Shaftesbury-avenue .... (Many
others mailed.)


FE.RRODOR
0>
A
N \
r
I
I
5^
L^V
r«
imDiiiimiium
£
: \
arc
o>*
&»•
Uj_x>-'
<1
cc*~
l
8
8
(ofl
r
«Ev
ANTI-CORROSIVE
PAINT
Fill in this coupon and post to us for Color
full particulars of FERRODOR PAINT.
WILLIAM ADAMS AND CO., LTD.,
G.P.O. Bos 8995 FF, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,- ■—Please send me, without obligation on my part, a
Full Particulars of Ferrodor Paint.
Name
Card and
Color Card and
Address
Bulletin, 12/2/’3O.
You Insure Your Home Against Fire
Why Not Insure It Against the Weather?
RUST AND CORROSION attack
all surfaces exposed to the weather
that have not been protected. * Unless
prevented they will cause decay and
ruin! To insure your home against
these destroyers you must keep it
properly PAINTED, Not with
any paint, but with FERRODOR
Anti-Corrosive PAINT.
IT The tough film of FERRODOR PAINT
successfully resists heat and cold; sun and rain
and salt air cannot penetrate it. Even sulphuric
“FERRODQR” PAINT.
acid cannot harm it in any way!
It will not crack, blister or chalk
off. It has great covering capacity,
and one painting will keep fresh
for many years. There are cases on
record of one painting lasting 22 to
25 years. FERRODOR Anti-
Corrosive PAINT is packed in
paste form for greater economy —you
only mix what you need —and has a range
of 20 colors. Full particulars and color card
sent on receipt of the coupon above.
w


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
WHEN ORDERING YOVR NEXT SUIT
ASK YOUR TAILOR TO SHOW YOU SAMPLES OF
VICARS’ MARRICKVILLE
High-Class Worsteds and Tweeds
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Also Makers of the Famous “Marrickville” Travelling Rugs.
ALL PRODUCTS GUARANTEED PURE WOOL.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European. Plan.
"Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
HI
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
LOOK OUT FOR THAT POISON!
“P- Aitch”: Great care is necessary in
handling arsenical solutions. A South Gipps-
land farmer used arsenical spray to get rid
of a blackberry growth. (By the way, the
ordinary arsenious mixture is not nearly so
effective for this purpose as the arsenic
pentoxide. largely employed for the destruc-
tion of prickly-pear.) A few hours after the
operation heavy rain fell, and in a couple of
days the farmer had lost four valuable
draught horses. At the end of the gully
containing the bramble growth there was a
small_ dam. The rain washed sufficient
arsenic into the dam to contaminate the
water and poison the stock.
A young dairyman in the Western District
( V IC. ) bought a wooden trough at an auction
sale. He installed it in the home paddock as
a watering trough for his milkers. In a few
days nine of his best cows were dead —-
arsenical poisoning again. The trough had
been used by the previous owner as a recep-
tacle for dipping sheep. In this case thorough
cleansing with a two per cent, solution of
caustic soda and subsequent washing- and
scrubbing with water would have saved a
couple of hundred pounds.
Before using poisonous arsenical solutions,
weigh all the pros and cons, always with
due regard to life—human and animal. And
remember that most weeds can be destroyed
with non-poisonous mixtures, such as sodium
or calcium chlorate (the latter made in Aus-
tralia and very effective), sulphate of iron
(green vitriol), copper sulphate (bluestone)
or even common salt. Try a non-poisonous
mixture before getting to arsenic. Should
you have to use the poison, buy it ready-made.
No, you can’t be too careful in the
matter of poison. I remember my father
losing a couple of cows, and sending the
stomach of the second beast to an analyst.
His report was “lead poisoning”; then we
found the lead! Our tea came in chests
from the metropolis, and the sheet-lead lin-
ing was thrown out. Mineral deficiency
apparently enticed the cows to chew the sheet-
lead, which they picked up around the home-
stead, and dad lost their services.
Cattle and sheep have been poisoned by
eating the grass environing rifle-butts, which
had become contaminated with splashes of
lead from contact of the bullets on the targets.
Beasts have been lost through licking dis-
carded paintpots and calves poisoned by
eating the lead-paint off their pens. To
provide against this danger paint the pens
with distilled tar broken down with 5 per
cent, benzine; it makes a good job.
Recently a poultry-farmer lost a number of
his birds by feeding them with a concen-
trated cattle-lick. Fed sparingly it would
have done them good, but the soluble salts—
a tonic in a small amount —would be toxic
in large quantities.
THREE CHEERS FOR CACTOBLASTIS.
“Ooline”: “C.II.P.’s” wail (B. 22/l/’3O)
about the grievous things that will happen
if the prickly-pear is wiped out in Queensland
leaves _ me. unmoved. The cactoblastis is
operating in dense patches in south-western
Queensland and is doing good work. In
most instances it has killed the tops only,
leaving the old butts to shoot again. After-
each hatching, however, cacto. eats out the
young shoots, and as its food becomes scarcer
it bores into the butts until the whole is
removed. To set a fire in pear that was
waist-high 12 months ago and has been eaten
down . by cacto. is almost a crime, for the
sfeed is thick in infested country and ger-
mination will take place for the next 10 years
at least.
Control of the pear is all that can reason-
ably be looked for. The existence of the pest
in countries from which cacto. was imported
supports this view. As for the danger of
the cacto. tackling grain and other crops
after it has disposed of the pear, the Prickly-
pear Land Commission has given repeated
assurances that all imported pear-destroying
insects have been thoroughly tested in huts
enclosed with gauze, any insect that affected
crops grown in Australia being carefully
destroyed. Cacto. has eaten out pear in some
places and died of starvation alongside of
cabbages, tomatoes and other plants of the
same nature —proof that there is no need to
worry. Of course there are other caterpillars
that affect the plants mentioned and very
often the cacto. is blamed by persons who
have never seen it.
Respecting the fodder value of the pears,
it was proved by the Queensland Govern-
ment years ago that the curse is 90 p.c.
water and 10 p.c. fibre of little worth as
feed. “C.H.P.” asserts that he can turn
out his cows in a dry spell and pick them
up, minus' a few, when conditions are favor-
able. _ What about the months lost when
they yield no milk, and the profits lost while
they are building up in condition? His
system is not dairying but cruelty to animals.
In 1915 drought caught most of the
dairymen in the Roma district with no feed
but the pear, cultivation having been allowed
to drop out. The result was that 75 p.c.
of the milking cows died; and a lot of the
poor milkers that survived for the time turned
up their toes through accumulation of pear
fibre in the stomach. During the past two
years £ll,OOO has been spent on pear poison
and apparatus in the Roma district by land-
owners alone. Surely it would be better for
all concerned if they could have spent it on
ringbarking, cultivation and fodder conserva-
tion.
In southern Queensland millions of acres,
since ruined by prickly-pear, used to be occu-
pied by hard-working selectors, who became
broken in spirit and pocket in their losing
fight with the pest. Three cheers for cacto-
blastis, I say!
TREATMENT OF PEAR LAND.
“Coolibah”: “C.H.P.” deplores (B.
22/l/’3O) the possibility of the eradication of
prickly-pear from his Queensland district;
but he really shouldn’t get downhearted.
The country referred to has an average
annual rainfall of 24 to 30 inches. The
spring months are generally dry and favor
burning.
Tell “C.H.P.” to apply his match about
November, when he is almost certain of a
clean sweep. Then let him sow Rhodes
grass seed as soon as the summer rains set
in. Kikuyu will make a valuable addition
to the pasture, but as it does not seed the
roots need to be planted with a grubber. Or
where the fire has done its work well, the
stump-jump plough will provide a cheaper
method.
The result will be a pasture that will
leave no room for regrets about the vanished
pear.
TREE-MURDER IN WESTRALIA.
“Halcyon”: I support “Larrapinta” (B.
8/l/’3O). Here in Westralia I have been
astounded at the lack of foresight shown in
the bare clearing of farm and pasture land.
Take the Miners’ Settlements, just out of
Southern Cross, now being cleared arid fal-
lowed under the control of the Lands Depart-
ment. The soil is rich, but it is a 104 in.
district. The settlements have been cleared
so ruthlessly that the only trees for many
miles are those left along the roadsides,
and even they are fast being used up for
firewood. There will be nothing to prevent
the hot, drying, easterly winds from sweep-
ing over the growing crops during the criti-
cal months, September and October, and
doing damage. “Preserve as much timber as
possible” should have been the instruction
to the miners, but it was the other way
about.
This year, in districts with a better rainfall
than the Southern Cross area gets, the yield
was reduced owing .to the hot winds blowing
with unabated force through the crops at
flowering time. The spring was unusually
dry, and the root systems frequently proved
insufficient during the critical period to main-
tain an adequate supply of water to the
ears. The result was that the wheat heads
over large areas were either tipped or empty,
owing to the killing of the male and female
parts by desiccation. Many farmers expect-
ing to get 15 to 18 bushels actually har-
vested 9 to 10 or less, as many of the ears
were quite devoid of grain. Had they left
bands of timber around the boundaries and
across their properties much of the loss
due to drying out would have been obviated.
The same lack of imaginative foresight is
apparent in the apple-growing districts of
Mount Barker, Kendenup and elsewhere.
Orchard after orchard stands exposed, with-
out any protection whatever, to the full
force of the hot easterlies. Heat -waves occur
during summer at more or less frequent inter-
vals, and the orcliardists cry out in desperation
as to the cause and control of the so-called
“bitter-pit” in their apples on the trees,
Let them grow a few windbreaks and their
losses from this trouble (now called “cork”
by the scientists) would shrink to a negli-
gible amount.
So far as science can ascertain, trees do
not cause more rain to fall in a district
than would occur if they were all removed,
but they do most decidedly exert a stabilising
influence upon the local climate in respect of
heat and moisture.
WHEAT PRICES AND F.A.Q.
“Tuart”: “Yeoman’s” statement (B.
5/2/’3O) that Australian wheat “sold on the
f.a.q. standard for the season commands a
higher price than Canadian No. 1” does not
tally with information contained in recent
London wheat cables. These mention, among
other things, that “shippers have sold a part
cargo of 4500 tons, first half December ship-
ment from W.A.. at 455. 6d. per quarter,”
and smaller parcels at 455. 6d. and 465.;
on the other hand, “the value of parcels
.Tanuary-February shipment No. 1 Northern
Manitoba wheat is 495. per quarter.”
Perhaps there is something wrong with the
f.a.q. business. It is significant that Mr.
G. L. Sutton, the Westralian Director of
Agriculture, has no use for it as far as his
State is concerned.
For seven or eight years Mr. Sutton has
been convinced of the necessity for a change
in the method by which wheat for export is
sold. He proposes the abolition of the f.a.q.
standard and the adoption of a permanent
standard to be known as Westralian stan-
dard white.
“The feeling in favor of a change,” the
“Primary Producer” reports, “is gaining
ground. When the proposal was first men-
tioned, it received very little support; last
year the grain committee of the Perth
Chamber of Commerce passed a resolution
approving of its adoption. The present
method of issuing certificates for export
wheat has been largely responsible for this
altered attitude.”
WRINKLES FOR BEEKEEPERS.
“Grey Box”: Given young queens of a
sound Italian stock, good factory-made hives
and frames, full sheets of foundation as the
basis of combs, three (or, better, four) sets
to each colony, the beekeeper is in a fair
way to face a good season without much
trouble from swarming.
At the beginning of spring, colonies are
generally in one body. As they increase to
the extent of occupying eight or nine frames
in a 10-frame hive, give another body on top,
and lift a frame or two of brood up into the
centre of this box. Close the open space
below by pushing the frames together and
put empty frames at the outsides. The queen
has now double the space to operate in, and
she will get to work in a manner that would
make an egg-farmer green with envy. To
shut a good queen down to a single storey
in the first flush of spring is to look for
trouble. When the second body is fairly
well populated put on a third.
If these operations have been carried out
just before the bees feel the need of more
elbow-room, there will be little trouble from
swarming. If cells are started, pinch them
off at once; if started again, the bees want
to swarm, and it will be just as cheap in
bees and honey to let them do it.
Generally speaking, swarming lets up after
the first few weeks of spring, if the colony is
given plenty of room to store honey. It is
during the first flush of the flow, when ripen-
ing is rather slow and a lot of room is
required to keep ahead of them, that one has
to do things. Once the extractor gets going
it’s easier. I like to have colonies “boiling
over” all the time. The trouble is to keep
them so. I would not take brood away at
the close of a flow; there is something wrong
if they swarm towards the end of a season.
Weak colonies may consume less stores,
but will not build up as quickly as those that
go into winter with plenty of young bees
which these frames of brood represent.
A HOME-MADE FORGE.
“Gwabegar”; An excellent forge may be
built with the frame of an old push-bike,
the back wheel and an oildrum. The
frame is clamped between posts bolted above
and below the w r heel, which points towards
the forge, being upside down and driven by
the chain and sprocket wheel, with the pedal
as a handle.
The oildrum is cut with a hacksaw six
inches from the bottom and the lid removed
from the top portion and fitted in the bottom.
Fans are.fixed on a spindle, and may be cut
from the waste part of the oildrum. An
outlet for the air may be made by a cross-
cut in the oilcan wall turning back the
points, A spout tapering from four inches
to an inch is then riveted on the drum to
convey the blast to the fire.
An axle-box is very good for bedding in
clay at the back of the fire. A belt over the
wheel of the bike driving a cotton reel on
the end of the fan-spindle gives a great speed
to the fans.
Strips of tyres make an excellent belt if
fastened together with bale-fasteners.
BEATING THE MUD.
“Con Greet”: Every time it rains for a
few days farmers avow they will put a load
or two of stone near the gate and a bit or
gravel on the track to the road, and make a
few drains to run the surface water off.
The missus generally wants a bit of con-
crete near the back door, too. Now’s the
time for the job, things being a bit slack.
The weakest places on the farm are the
gateways and the yard. Built up a bit,
with a slope, the yard will turn off most of
the rain and make the job a bit easier. It’s
rotten having to open a sliprail with a few
yards of liquid mud on each side. A few
cubic yards of concrete round the dairy, and
for a feeding area in the pigsty won’t break
you, and will be a blessing in the rainy
season.
A great deal of the surface water that runs
about on the farm can be diverted by channels
to creeks or dams, or turned to moisten up
some dry cultivation. Drainage from yards
and sties should be turned off on to grass.
Big drains that catch rubbish need a break
now and again, so as not to silt up the catch-
ment areas. Coarse netting or a bit of
woven pig-netting will do, tacked on to a
few stakes driven in slantways against the
current.
There is really no excuse for mud, and a
few cemented tracks about are better than
floundering in it. A decent track to the
front gate makes the farm look better, adds
to its value and your comfort. A few
waggons of gravel, and the wife won’t bother
you to make that new scraper for the back
door.
FLUSHING A BREEDING SOW.
“C.H'.P.” : Flushing aims at increasing the
number of pigs produced at farrowing time.
It is accomplished by increased feeding of
grain or fresh pastures. The most beneficial
results are obtained if flushing begins two
or three weeks before the breeding season
opens. If the sows have been running on
pasture alone, at the beginning of the breed-
ing season or when they are about to be
mated turn them into a patch of lucerne,
rape, or any other green stuff that is most
succulent.
In the case of a single sow, begin by feed-
ing a slop of milk and pollard and giving
more than the usual amount of green stuff.
The idea is to stimulate without putting on
any great amount of fat. It is important
that the sows should be in medium breeding
condition and be gaining in flesh and weight
at mating time.
After mating, turn the sow back into the
stimulating greenstuff or continue the richer
sty-feeding for a fortnight before putting her
into the ordinary pastures again. All sows
should be kept in good condition during the
gestation period, but they should not be
allowed to become overfat.
SALT-AFFECTED FRUIT TREES.
“HALM.”: A few months ago several
orange-trees on my fruit farm at Berri
(S.A.) were very badly affected as a result
of the long dry season, which caused the
salt in the soil to rise and damage the trees.
The measures I adopted may interest Bulle-
tin readers.
After cutting out all the dead limbs and
pruning very hard I dug a trench round each
tree. With each irrigation the trees were
flooded for about half a day to a day. At
the same time I applied heavy dressings
(Continued on page 31.)
FARM ACCOUNTS
ẁ


OtCTEO
T&
■
:WS
m
A
m
The man about town
pays no subtler
compliment to his
own perfect taste
than he does when
he insists on ~
or
m
Vim
i^nST
frim
<r
MADE- IN LONDON
&
&
m


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Endless Adventure
By F. S. OLIVER, author of
“Ordeal by Battle,” etc. With
portraits. 1 ss. net.
Book I consists of an Introductory Essay on
Politics and Politicians; Book II deals with the
period from the flight of James 11. to the
accession of George I. (1688-1714) ; Book 111
covers the Administration of Stanhope and
Sunderland (1714-1721) ; and Book IV those of
Townshend and Walpole (1721-1727).
A Short History of
British Exnansion
By JAMES A. WILLIAMSON.
New edition, greatly enlarged.
Two vols. Vol. I, The Old Col-
onial Empire. 15s. net. Vol. 11,
The Modern Empire and Com-
monwealth. 1 ss. net.
newnovelX
Rogue Herries
By HUGH WALPOLE. March 18.
[Dominions Edition.
Mr. Walpole’s new book recounts in about
730 pages the history of Francis Herries (1700-
1744), a rake and spendthrift, a faithless hus-
band, an untender parent, a capricious master
and a dangerous neighbor, yet a man inwardly
haunted and tormented by those very ideals his
conduct seems intended to outrage.
Turn Back the Leaves
By E. M. DELAFIELD, author of
“Messalina of the Suburbs,”
“What is Love?” etc.
[Empire Library. Immediately.
An intimate study of a section of English
Roman Catholic society, especially in its rela-
tions with the Protestant world.
Whiteoaks
A Selection of the Book Society.
By MAZO DE . LA ROCHE,
author of “Jalna.”
[Empire Library.
The “Sunday Times’’: —“A splendidly-told
story of very real interest.”
The Devil and the Lady
An early play by ALFRED LORD
TENNYSON. Edited by Charles
Tennyson, his grandson. With
facsimiles in collotype. 1 Os. 6d.
net.
This play was written by the poet when he
was fourteen years of age.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
c
<y
a
S'
N
Safety
Weed Tyre Chains pre-
vent dangerous skiddingl|
accidents.
Protect your passen-
gers, yourself and your
car by carrying always
Weed Tyre Chains,
ready to be put on when
needed.
Look for the name
“Weed” on every hook.
Order from your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE ----3 d.
It deals with every subject ,of
interest to women.
xn
i'Z r
*4
>v
s£s
i
You’ll find things easier
and crop-growing a good deal more profitable if you use Sulphate of Ammonia.
This quick-acting fertiliser puts new life into farm, orchard, vineyard and
garden crops, makes them sturdy and healthy and pushes up the yield. It
takes that sluggish feeling out of growing crops and puts them on the high
road to yields that really pay. Growers throughout the country have tested
it —not half-heartedly, but earnestly and with a definite purpose in mind;
and, almost without exception, this productive fertiliser has demonstrated
its sterling worth.
As an indication of the increasing popularity of Sulphate of Ammonia, it
might be mentioned that Australian growers are now using nearly four
times as much as they did 1 0 years ago. If you have not used it, make up
your mind to try it out at the first favorable opportunity. You will probably
be surprised by the results.
If you would like to have free literature regarding Sulphate of Ammonia,
write to the following address, and when doing so mention the type of crop
in which you are interested.
fHE AUSTRALIAN SULPHATE OF AMMONIA PROPAGANDA COMMITTEE.
Sydney Address:
Box 481 AA, G.P.O.
Melbourne Address:
360 Collins Street.
w
/v
/PLANT and STOKES
1
comprising:
Buildings, Machinery, Turbines,
Air Compressors, Boilers, Elec-
tric Motors, Switchgear, etc.,
Gyratory Crushers, Tube Mills,
Winches, Locomotives, Rolling
Stock, General Stores, Pul-
leys, Shafting, Piping, Valves,
Etc., Etc.
and
Stores, comprising Assay Goods,
Belting, Bolts and Nuts, Elec-
trical Material, Hose, Machinery
Spares, Pipes and Fittings, Wire
Ropes, Rock Drills and Parts,
M.S. Bars and Plates, Drill and
Special Steel, Wire and Wire
Screens, Boiler Spares, Engine
Spares and Mill Spares.
Also Pulverised Coal Equipment [practically new}
capacity 3 tons of coal per hour
A special Sectional Catalogue is prepared, giving details
and photographs, and may be had on request. Prices
also on application to—
IVANS DEAKfIN & m. LTD
ENGINEERS AND REPRESENTATIVES
RYAN HOUSE - CHARLOTTE STREET. - BRISBANE
w
PROVED!
THE
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
U STATE of EDWARD NOLAN NOONAN,
late of Porangaliau, in the Dominion of
New Zealand, Farmhand, Deceased.
The children of the late MARY ANN
TRACEY, a sister of the above-named de-
ceased, or any persons knowing of their
whereabouts, are requested to communicate
with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
W'aipukurau, New Zealand.
’T'U GEUUGE MOORE of Alberton in the
State of South Australia Cook’s Assist-
ant.
AND TO ROY JOY of Semaphore in the
State of South Australia Clerk.
TAKE NOTICE that citations bearing
date the 23rd day of August 1929 have issued
from the Supreme Court of South Australia
against both of you citing both of you to
appear and answer the petition of Horace
Stanley Bell of 18 Clyde Street Norwood
wherein he alleges that each of you has been
guilty of adultery with Florence May Bell
of Gloucester Street Prospect in the said
State the wife of the said Horace Stanley
Bell In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition and pronounce sentence in respect
thereof AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within
42 days from the date .of this publication
to attend in person or by your proctor
solicitor or attorney at the office of our said
Court at Victoria Square Adelaide and there
to enter an appearance.
IV. L. STUART,
Master.
Kevin Leonard Ward, Epworth Building,
Pirie Street, Adelaide, Solicitor for Horace
Stanley Bell.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In additiou to “ BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH ” be-
ing our Registered I’rade Mark the follow-
ing are also our Registered Trade Marks,
each complete in itself.
■‘L” “OM” “N”
“BX” “H ’ "K" and “S*
Any one of these marks will protect our
mutual interests.
"■CODEOCKSSLTD.
379 Kent-sireet, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
480 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.


>-v
'
6. "
.
* • M
Width and length of
foot exactly suited
Leather of an unusually high
quality, pliant and durable, is
built up on a specially designed
Abbey last to make this top-
grade boot.
WIDTHS.—Each full and half
size is available in three widths
narrow, . medium and wide;
A comfortable fit is assured.
CURVED UPPER.—The boot
arches over the instep, so that
close lacing doesn’t cause any
strain. It allows complete
muscle freedom.
ORDER BY POST.—S tate
width as well as size needed.
Ask, also, for a supply of the
correct Abbey preservative
polish (6d. per tin), or a con-
venient outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf . . 57/6
Black Glace Kid . . . . 57/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 52/6
Sporting Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address; “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 163.
>e
*2
Wl
u
~J*rrrr~
"U
Complete your toilet with
Cuticura Talcum
After a bath with Cuticura Soap, there
is nothing more refreshing than Cuti-
cura Talcum dusted over all the body.
Antiseptic and fragrant, it is an ideal
powder for every member of the family.
Talcum Is. 3d. Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
] Second-hand Saddles
w
We have a few
GOOD SEC-
OND - HAND
and shop-soiled
SADDLES for
sale. So here’s
your chance while they last,
which won’t be long.
SNAP No. 1.—3 slightly
used Poley Saddles, as
photograph, in perfect con-
dition ; fully mounted.
Worth £lO, for £6/15/-
SNAP No. 2.—4 shop-soiled
Poley Saddles, good shape,
in perfect order ; with stir-
rups, leathers and girth. Worth
£6/10/-, for £4/15/-
n SNAP No. 3.—2 shop-soiled Stock
Saddles with kneepads, soled'
leather panel points, fitted up
complete with stirrups, leathers
and girth. Worth £6/10/-, for £4/J5/-
BUY NOW AT BARGAIN TIME.
Send for New Catalog.
JOHN BRUSH,
The Saddle Specialist,
BRISBANE, Q.: 434 Queen Street.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: 371 George Street.
MAY’S
BROADCAST
FERTILISER SPREADER
When purchasing a Fertiliser
Spreader, bear in mind that the
following features are exclusive
to the “May” and have helped
considerably in placing the
“May” in its present pre-
eminent position:—
FIRST.—The supreme sim-
plicity of the “May”—both
in mechanism and operation.
SECOND.—The “May”
spreads at least five times
quicker than the ordinary
box or drill machine.
THIRD.—T h e double -piece
hopper makes “Chamber-
ing” of the manure impos-
sible.
FOURTH.—T h e CURVED
spoons on the CONCAVE
bronze distributor plate en-
sure a perfectly even dis-
tribution.
FIFTH.—The regulator is so
sensitive that the quantity
may be gauged to within a
few pounds per acre.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New South Wales:
DALGFETY AND 00.,
A-rgyle Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Parramatta Road, Camperdown.t
South Aristralia:
W. Y. SCRUTTON,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
THE AUSTRALASIAN ; IMPLEMENT CO.,
North Terrace, Adelaide.
Queensland:
• s CLARK AND PAUSE,T,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
West Australia:
EASTWOOD’S HARDWARE STORES,
Murray Street, Perth.
Tasmania:
W. HART AND SONS PTY., LTD.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. STUTTERD,
Wynyard.
H. G, BUCHANAN,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Manufactured by
D. §W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
VICTORIA.
ŵ
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
JjCueslmgJhr
Piling up every little surplus so profitably and
wisely that full financial independence comes at
a very maximum of speed— that is what our NEW
Investment plan means to you
WRITE FOR A PAMPHLET
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Qroiving
The Primary Producers Bank of Australia Ltd.
Head Office: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Braaches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
mg
of sulphate of ammonia, 71b. or 81b. per
tree.. This was repeated at intervals of six
to eight weeks.
Now after the fourth irrigation the trees
are looking well again. From the first treat-
ment new growth was noticed, and at the
end of about six months some of the trees
have put on nearly 12 inches of new growth.
root-rot of fruit trees.
“Mt. Lawley”: Armillaria mellca, a fun-
gus of world-wide distribution, is perhaps
the. most important cause of root-rot of
fruit trees in Australia. It is commonly
present on the roots of the native eucalypts,
and in Westralia is very prevalent in ,red
gum and jarrah country. It is never of any
consequence in orchards where grubbing-out
of all roots and stumps has been efficiently
done before planting the young trees, as it
can only gain entrance to the living roots
from decaying roots or other plant parts
remaining buried in the soil after clearing.
The first indication of attack is a sickly
yellow color in the foliage, and a tendency
for the trees to become sluggish and to
die-back. If the soil is removed and the roots
exposed some, at least, will be seen to be
rotting to a jelly. Long black strands like
rounded bootlaces will be found running
among the affected roots, half embedded in
the case of citrus, and running free on the
surface in apples and stone fruits. These
black strands are a certain means of iden-
tification. If the bark of the affected roots
is removed a layer of whitish material will
be found between it and the wood. Rotting
spreads to the butts of the roots and up
the lower parts of the trunk. In an ad,-
vanced stage of the disease, groups of mush-
room-like bodies may in the cooler months
of the year be found at the base of the stem,
or where a root lies close to the surface.
These are the fruiting bodies of the fungus.
The black strands gradually work through
the soil to the roots of other trees, and in
course of time a large number of trees may
become infected from a single diseased tree.
The following measures are recommended
as simple but effective: —
(1) When clearing make every attempt
to remove all stumps, roots and branches of
the native timber from the soil so as to
prevent subsequent attack.
(2) If possible grow vegetables or cereals
for several years after clearing, so that
roots, etc., left may decay thoroughly before
the orchard is planted.
(3) See that the drainage is satisfactory ,
bad drainage aids the fungus.
(4) If the trees should become attacked
in spite of all precautions, remove the soil
from around the trunk so as to expose tne
main roots. Cut off affected roots, follow
them up and remove completely. Burn. Cut
away any rotted areas on the stem, and dust
the parts with sulphate of iron, or better
still with Bordeaux-oil paste made by mixing
commercial Bordeaux powder to a. thick paste
with raw linseed oil. Then scoop the earth
at the base of the tree into a saucer-shaped
depression about three feet in radius and
pour in a solution of sulphate of iron, one
pound of sulphate to five gallons of water.
Fifteen to twenty gallons will be required
according to the size of the tree ; the treat-
ment is best given in the autumn or spring,
although it may be successfully used at
other times also. When the water has
soaked into the soil fill in the depression,
except for a hole a foot or more in radius
around the trunk. This should be left open
indefinitely to allow plenty of air and light
to get at the base of the tree. For the same
reason any very low-hanging branches on
citrus trees should be cut back to two feet
from the ground. Dust any Armillaria mush-
rooms lightly with sulphate of iron.
Trees treated thus usually recover and
continue to yield very heavy crops for many
years. If too far gone before the trouble
is diagnosed it is best to dig them up, burn
on the spot and treat the hole well with sul-
phate of iron, as recommended, before
another tree is planted.
STRAIGHT PROPS.
“Curlew” : Prolific crops of fruit frequentlj
mean broken limbs and damaged trees. Tc
use forked sticks to prop up heavy limbs is
not always practicable. Straight props may
be used, having a crossbar three feet long
nailed at right angles about six inches from
the upper end. The bar will support a
number of limbs.
Have the prop long enough to raise the
drooping limbs ; the weight will tend to keep
it in place. If a number of limbs are
supported by one prop, swaying and damage
are prevented.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) How is sterilised bonemeal prepared
for stock licks? (2) The method of pre-
paring meatmeal for stock fodder? What
portions of carcase are chiefly used? —4495.
(1) By the application of super-heated
steam within retorts or digesters at a pres-
sure between GOlb. and 801 b, This, when
supplied sufficiently long to insure even and
complete internal heating of all the bones,
absolutely insures sterilisation. The materi-
als are then cooled slowly in order to
insure a maximum of digestibility in the
phosphoric and protein content of the bone-
meal. (2) Similar to the foregoing in so far
as temperatures and time of cooking are
concerned, but on account of the wetter
nature of meat and its adhering nature,
agitation is necessary within the cooking
retorts or digesters. Meatmeals are made
from carcase portions and trimmings, livers,
lights and washed offal. It may be mentioned
that during the past decade the preparation
of animal foods in the form of meat concen-
trates has become a specialised business.
The State Abattoir, Homebush Bay
(N.S.W.), was the first to undertake it;
the standards and methods there adopted
have been copied by our American friends
in the treatment of their slaughter-house
wastes. Even a small plant for the treat-
ment of these products could not be erected
under £3OOO or £4OOO. The Homebush
Abattoir probably has £lOO,OOO worth of
plant doing this work.
How to kill ticks on fowls. Would dip-
ping in sliecp-dip do the j0b?— 4545.
It is not advisable to dip birds to kill
ticks or other vermin. The best means or
getting rid of the “seed” ticks which remain
on the birds is to lightly smear them with
salad oil; to eradicate the ticks it is neces-
sary to spray the houses. Pamphlet en-
titled “The Fowl Tick.” issued free by the
N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture, is recommended.
Cause of big crop in turkeys, and cure?
Mine get it at any age; and gobblers suffer
most. —4455.
The eating of roly-poly seed or any fibroin-
material in large quantities would cause
the trouble. If the fibrous matter remains
in the crop an operation would be neces
sary to remove it, sewing up the crop
again afterwards. If the crop is only dis-
tended and full of watery matter a quarter
teagpoon of bi-carbonate of soda in a
little water, followed by a teaspoon of
Epsom salts an hour or so later, will help
to cure. The soda could be given twice
daily till the birds have recovered.
Can chillies be grown in Q’land? If so.
suitable kind of soil, best varieties to grow,
and any other information? —4732.
Chillies can be grown in almost any part,
of coastal Queensland, where they are gener-
ally treated as annuals. But the quantity
grown is estimated at under three acres
throughout the State, so the product is
rarely seen on the market. Small supplies
may be supplied direct to factories turning
out pickles and sauces. A loose humus soil is
best suited for cultivation. Plants are
raised on beds and transplanted to permanent
positions, a crop being obtained in about
eight months from the time of planting. The
yield may be from 8001 b. to 12001 b. of dried
chillies per acre. The three principal species,
of which there are several varieties, are
Capsicum minimum (bird-pepper), C. fon-
tiseens and Q. Grossum.
(1 )Is Scotch pine (Pinus sylvesiris) , known
after milling as pitch pine, white-ant proof?
(2) What would it cost per 1000 super, feet
imported to Sydney?- (8) How is wood-pulp
formed? (4) Are Australian boxwoods,
ironbark, gums and mallees any use for wood-
pulping?—4ss2.
(1) It is not white-ant resistant, and is
not ordinarily known as pitch pine after
milling; it is more commonly called Baltic
red deal. (2) Under the new tariff dressed
flooring would probably cost about 38s. per
1000 super, feet landed in Sydney. (3)
Either mechanically—by grinding—or chemi-
cally—by treatment with acids or alkalies.
(4) All woods can be made into pulp of a
sort and at a price, the test being in quality
and cost. The ordinary dense Australian
hardwoods cannot be treated economically
under existing conditions and do not pro-
duce pulp of high quality, but tile softer
mountain ashes of N. S. Wales, Victoria and
Queensland offer possibilities. A co. has
been formed to operate in Tasmania, but
has not yet started production on a large
scale.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bung” ; If ringworm is attended to early
a cure is easy. Wearing old gloves for your
own protection, clip the hair round the ring-
wormy patch with horse-clippers, and soften
the parts by repeated washings with warm,
soapy water. Then paint with tincture of
iodine, taking care to cover a margin one-
quarter inch around the ringworm. Two
or three such treatments will be sufficient.
“R. K. Deea”: When a valuable dog is
found to have swallowed a strychnine bait,
the best emetic is one milligram of apomor-
phine.
“Prad” : Putting powder into an animal’s
eye is no easy job. An ordinary salt-shaker
makes one of the best containers. It is also
useful for dropping liniment or oil on some
sore spot.
“Hatter”: Glasgow Agricultural College
lately conducted a series of investigations
to discover at what age a cow gives its
highest butterfat percentage. The conclu-
sion reached is that heifers three years old,
under good management, reach their highest
point at the first lactation. Hence it is
useless to retain a young animal with a low
butterfat percentage in the hope that it may
improve.
“Jay Gee”: A slipping Walker belt is an
annoyance when harvesting, particularly
when you have turned a corner in a heavy
crop. Tightening of the belt will help in
some cases, but in others is of no avail.
My device is to attach an old billycan lid
to the top pulley spokes by means of two
small clamps. The belt will never slip off
again.
“Gwabegar”: When you have auger holes
to bore in posts for barbed-wire, take a piece
of 3 x 2 six inches longer than the height of
the required hole. In the bottom drive a spike
protruding three inches, and then bore with
the auger to be used at the height required.
Put a right-angled handle in the auger, using
it like a windlass, with the piece of 3 x 2
acting as a windlass stand. You will then
bore straigliter and more easily.
“Comb”; A simpler and more effective
method of keeping ants away from beehives
than placing the legs of the stand in kero-
sene-filled insulators is to mix borax and
sugar paste and place a little on the stand-
supports, or here and there on the ant-tracks.
In 24 hours the ants will have disappeared.
They tackled my hives in early spring, but
after this treatment they have not since
returned.
“Awani”; When driving nails into pine
timber which is on the green side, force them
in a trifle slanting. This prevents the
timber from splitting.
“Dejay”: Improved soil condition can be
obtained by careful cross-ploughing. Tod
many farmers stick to the straight up and
down, with the result that a hard pan is
created that affects both moisture and drain-
age. A broken surface at the bottom of the
ploughing is essential. Regular cross-plough-
ing will give a criss-cross or draughtboard-
banked bottom, better for aeration and mois-
ture retention, as well as drainage and
general soil condition.
“Bushman”: In planting out your next
batch of shade trees, try a few quandongs.
They grow into trees of good shape and foli-
age. The fruit—what there is of it —makes
a decent pie, too.


w
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men —P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H, Fell
9S PRODUCERS £/CITIZENS
e=_ COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
§2l-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 he Standard ot Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
IT SELLS AT SIGHT
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars.
...
.-■■ ..•••
«<•"
-f' tU
r
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘I make my friends amongst the successful, be-
cause, after all, the successful are the brains of
the community,’ he said.” —Sydney Sun.
He knows a fat lot, evidently!
* *
“Australian Bodies on British Cars.” — “Herald.”
As if corpses care about the make of the
cars they travel in !
H- *
“Carlyle became a sad bore in his later vears.”
—“Sun.”
Yes; a time came when even his grave
yawned.
* *
Convention’s laws do not deter
Some girls from making things red-hot.
A girl who’s got a way with her
Can get away with quite a lot.
* ¥
“It’s an ill wind that blows nobody any good.”
Remark attributed to Socrates on being
informed of the basic wage for saxophone-
players.
BALANCING THE LEDGER.
“Yeh know, you’re my skirt an’ yeh gone out last night wiv a
bloke what yous only known since Sattydee!”
“But it’s all right, Billo. I come home wiv a boy I used to go
ter school wiv.”
“Defendant said he had been employed in the
Mercy department of a large warehouse.”—Sydney
“Guardian/ 1
One of those departments where the goods
are “positively given away.”
“The number of entries at the Pom and Pug
ihow was disappointingly small.”
Still, every little yelps.
THE CLINCHER.
“Darling,” he breathed passionately, “I
want you to marry me. I love you, and
should the day ever come when the sky of
our happiness threatens to be blotted out
by the sinister clouds of indifference, the
sea of my adoration will surge to the
welkin’s cheek and wash the clouds away.
My devotion, dear one, will”
“But. Gerald, I have been advised by
those with experience to choose a man
with opposite characteristics to my own,
and we have so much in common. I have
wealth”
“Exactly, precious. This very morning
I filed my schedule in bankruptcy. It is one
0<- the chief reasons why I am asking you to
marry me.”
* X-
THE CAME.
lie plays, when she has won his heart,
His diamonds; thinks he has the rub,
Finds he has lost it, with a start,
And promptly falls back on his club.
* *
As an adage, “Strike while the iron is
liot” has lost its punch. They strike now
whether it is hot or cold.
# *
“There has been a record number of prosecutions
for shoplifting in Melbourne this month.”
Shopkeepers are evidently feeling the pinch.
“Marriages are mad in heaven.’’ —Sydney “News.”
And so are a good many on earth.
“Inveterate gambler, he ventured in every game
wherein Chance took a hand, and made a six-figure
fortune.”
The sport of circumstance.
* *
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
The story of “Adam and the Rib” is the
first known essay in Aramaic literature.
Blob (his name in later days became Mud),
a citizen of Gosh, was its author. The
narrative has come
to us, down the
ages, in a muti-
lated form.
Adam, according
to Blob, was a
young countryman
who went on the
spree at the Gar-
den of Eden, and
was jocosely given
permission to
sample everything
in the house but
the contents of the
cash register, or
“Tree of the Know-
ledge of Good and
Evil.” Adam, in
his bemused state,
imagined that he
owned the earth —
was, in fact, the
only man in it —
and, much to their
chagrin, was obli-
vious of the pres-
ence of women.
His arrogance
finally got him into
a fight in which
he __ received in-
juries to his ribs
and was “put into
a deep sleep.”
When he awoke
he found a bar-
maid named Eve
beside him. She
said she was his
wife, and had been
specially made for
him out of one of
his ribs, pointing
as evidence to the
bandages. Unper-
turbed by the dis-
covery that he was
broke, and that
there was a war-
rant out for him,
she persuaded him
to help her rob the
cash register. They
then made a quick
getaway to a
farm where Adam
had to live by the
sweat of his brow.
Eve had the satisfaction of knowing that he
could never return to the Garden of Eden ;
an “angel” with a warrant was waiting there
for him.
How greatly the story has changed is
shown by this passage from the original
Aramaic: —
And Eve spake unto Adam: “Behold I am naked.
I have no dress that is fit to wear. But the frocks
at David Horrncrs are many, though costly. Thither
will I go with thee, and thou shalt buy.”
Then arose Adam from his couch and did search
his clothes diligently; but all he could find was
half a shekel.
“Behold,” he raged, “my vest pocket and the
pockets of my pants are empty.” But Eve blushed
not. “How, then, shall I buy thee Paris frocks with
half a shekel ?” he bellowed.
She spake in anger: “Wouldst thou have then me
walk naked in the sight of men?” Long she argued
with him.
“Lo” (so spake Adam at last), “the storekeeper,
Fig, still trusts me, though I am into him for a
fortune already.”
GIVING HIM A PROFESSION.
THE INQUIRINF FLAPPER: “How thrilling! I didn’t know you were
engaged! What is he?”
THE WIDOW: “A sailor. I’m making a second mate of him!”
Then said Eve: “Even so, must I clothe myself
in Fig-leaves. Nor shalt thou squander thy sub-
stance in the city dwellings wherein extra pants
are free. Even thou shalt wear- Fig-leaves also.”
11. M.
* *
There was a young man of Cow Creek
Who wanted to shine as a sheik,
But the girls wouldn’t fall
For the poor bloke at all.
He made only three quid a week.
* *
“Every conceivable convenience for camp life has
been installed for the few police at Rothbury. A
huge cooking range, in parts, which took seven men
to lift, is being set up.”— Melb. “Age.”
It seems a lot to get for a few coppers.
* *
INCREDIBILITIES.
“A man who was knocked down in Surry Hills and
slashed with a razor got up and gave his assai’ant
a good thrashing.” — News Item.
Another one
An unknown man was knocked down and left for
dead by tlie Weary River express yesterday. Imme-
diately after the last carriage had passed over him
the unknown one got up and gave pursuit. Two
miles further on the engine-driver jumped down
and struck across country. His victim pursued the
horrified fugitive as far as Alice Springs, where both
died of thirst, it being four minutes past 6 p.m.
when the engine-driver arrived.
Also:—
James Nobbs, after cutting his own throat, chased
himself to the gallows, hanged himself, cut himself
down and then flogged himself all the way to the
hospital with the knot-end of the rope. After
several hours’ agony he hit himself on the head with
a bottle to put himself out of his misery, and then
had himself arrested for inflicting grievous . bodily
harm on himself.
But here is one that even a reporter would
hesitate to tell: —
When he went home late last night Henry Hen-
peck (44) was assaulted by his mother-in-law. She
hit him on the head with an axe, amongst other
weapons. Merely pausing to wipe away the blood,
Henpeck attacked the enraged and powerful woman
with her own axe, and only desisted on receiving her
promise to bo a good girl for the rest of her life.
B. O’C.
* *
An acrobat I’d like to be ;
Soon I would live in clover.
The profits might not heavy be,
But look at the turnover!
# *
IDENTIFIED.
He staggered into the room, switched on
the light, and stared at the enraged woman
who was sitting up in bed.
“Whoosh wife are yoush?” he demanded.
“You know very well, you drunken waster,
coming home at this time of night, that I’m
unlucky enough to be your wife. You”-
He waggled a discouraging hand against
the torrent of her words.
“No needsh to shay mo’, m’dear. Thasli
shettles it. I mush be me.”
P. P.
SATURDAY OFF.
“He came home drunk seven days a week.”
Drinking with him was but a fad;
He never went completely gay.
Had he done so he might have had
A matinee on Saturday.
H- *
DIRTY WORK AT THE CROSS
ROADS.
In the darkness under the trees a furious
struggle was going on. Cursing and the
scraping of feet mingled with the wheezing
gasps of the combatants. The wind whistled
eerily through the treetops, and shreds of
black cloud tore across the face of a gib-
bous moon. Steadily the rain teemed down.
It was a man’s
voice, lioarse with
rag e. “C hoke
her!” the voice
gasped. “C hoke
the cow!”
“I’m doing my
best,” came the
answer in a wo-
man’s voice.
Suddenly the
man cried in
agony, and momen-
tarily the ‘struggle
halted. “My back!”
he yelled. “My
b 1 a n k y back’s
broken!”
A heavy piece of
iron flew through
the night. “Hush!
Hush! Someone
might hear!”
“I don’t give a
damn! Let ’em
hear. Choke her,
I say!”
The struggle
raged on. Sud-
uenly with a roar
the engine woke to
life and the start-
ing-handle again
jumped out of the
man’s hand.
“Advance the
blanky spark,” he
yelled to his wife
as he rushed to the side of the car. “And
Lordelp the cow who sold me that battery
when I meet ’im next!”
L. Y.
* #
Interesting proof of the truth of Conan
Doyle’s theories supplied by a Vic. police
report (31/l/’3O) : •
The wife of the Ouyen farmer who died mysteriously
on December 19 was arrested and charged with
having murdered her husband.
¥ *
“Lindrum has made an unfinished break of 1001.”
Our new maid’s record of 1012 still stands,
then.
THE KNOT.
With trembling fingers he tightened the
knot. As he felt it press against his throat
lie shuddered, and loosened it. Coward! He
reproached himself bitterly. Weaker men
had tied similar loops, and passed on, care-
free; He smiled bitterly as he thought of
VERY IMPORTANT, TOO.
“I think I’ll marry him. He’s a dear. He
can always be trusted.”
“U m -ah — yes! But—can he be deceived?”
the sensation it would cause among his
friends when the noose was found around
his neck. Hesitation was at an end now.
With a resolute frown, and a jaw set in
an iron line, he tied the blue, green and
crimson spotted tie that his wife had given
him for Christmas, and walked down stairs.
THE AMENDMENT.
In Sydney Town with sudden fire
A, modern Homer smote his lyre,
Then strained his cars to hear the call
Of blue lagoons or gum-trees tall.
But pitiable was his lot.
The calls he heard were polyglot —
A siren’s shriek, a motor’s Hast,
And clanking trams that thundered past.
His soul was filled with blank dismay
By saxophones across the way,
By cornets shrill that sank and soared,
And mighty Wurlitzers that roared.
At last, “Dear Bush,” he moaned in pain,
“I fear my call to you is vain.
I’ll write about the city’s spell.”
He called his poem “Perfect Hell.”
D. McM.


j
»2r
Wli)
o
Hb.
m
. iZis*
fe;. /
£5
«SB*£!
It&£*
.
'VLv.,.,,, . \>sd
■<iv %\ ,rtajF
4.
v;>‘j-a£^
ŵ
A TWISTER
£ s
3sS
u
Z*
<
&’ •V’?
O
0
7
Born 1820-
StiHgoing Strong
In the matter of whisky it’s the
wise man who knows his own
mind. And the great majority say
"Johnnie Walker, please” without
doubt or hesitation.
The foolish man tries first one whisky,
then another, betraying his mental
twist and his pathetic indecision.
But once acquire the Johnnie Walker
habit, and you won’t need to twist
... no corkscrew is needed. The
stopper’s a "corker”!
Lift the tag —remove the capsu'e —and
a turn of the finger and thumb Will
give you the one whisky which never
r varies in quality from one generation
to another.
%
JOHNNIE WAWK.ER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER 8C SONS LTD.. SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK


ẁ


ẃ
S k
Dynamic Unit A.C. Model
£7/15/-
0 i
Dynamic Unit D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY
“THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR”
‘ ‘lt saves its cost in food not lost.
Packed and delivered rail or boat, Sydney
Everything complete; Price, £37.
Safe, sure and automatic refrigeration
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs ljd. per day to run.
Vou will marvel at the clever idea of
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurable
it is worth its weight in gold.
To operate: —
Once a day—take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about your
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that the
temperature is right for the Freezer
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long,
18in. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Shelves
and Primus Stove.
Write for pamphlet concerning “ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR,
“Keeps food nice without the Ice.
Manufacturers’ Representatives:
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129.
which
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
FOR 87 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Pen snd Picture
The
STATE
THEATESSY
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“Hold Your Man” (Universal) is as empty
as a bottomless jug and as silly as a
chloroformed hen. It concerns the endeavors
o_f a vampire _ lady to draw the atten-
tions of a foolish husband away from his
vapid wife. Morality would be equally well
or badly served either way and art isn’t
served at all, the talking being extremely
poor and the acting indifferent. As the
wife, Laura La Plante performs with jerky
monotony. On the other hand, on the same
bill when The Bulletin saw it, was a short
piece, called “Forget-me-not,” also by Uni-
versal, which was thoroughly artistic. It
was a Christmas Eve fantasy about an
orphan adopted by a burgomaster and her
subsequent quaint history. The art of the
camera is here exhibited at its highest.
Possibly “Salute” (Fox) would make a
fair entertainer for adolescents in the land
of its origin. It has a faint story running
through it, but its obvious mission is to
glorify the U.S.A. Navy and Army services
and their games. Even the humor is strictly
local, and so is the sport—that curious-look-
ing business of gathering like ducky hens
round a ball which the Americans call foot-
ball. Such story as there is is wildly in-
credible. The family weakling, having pro-
HELEN CHANDLER,
in “Salute.”
mis e d hi s
grand-dad to
keep up the
old family
t r ad itio n,
joins the
Navy. His
brother is
Army: a big
cove; cham-
pion footballer
of the service.
There is a girl
—one of those
adoring - from-
t h e - back-
ground pieces
of insipidity.
She loves the
weak chap all
through, but
he can’t see
it. A poor
specimen o f
homo sapiens,
he gets what
might be ex-
pected from
the Navy bullies, but hangs on until eventu-
ally he shows himself greater than any of
them, as the dear girl knew T all along he
would do. If the movie had appeared in
1900 it wouldn’t have made a ripple.
How the house managers of moving-picture
palaces retain their youthful appearance and
their sprightly air of not having a care in
this world is a mystery. In a large city
theatre recently all but one of the items on
a lengthy bill were eligible to be surveyed
by children under the age of six and over
the age of 16. The remaining feature, last-
ing but a bare 10 minutes, bore the warning
made familiar by the censors that persons
outside the above category were not admitted.
The transportation problems of the late war
must have been as nothing to the problem of
getting all the forbidden children out of
the theatre during the currency of the item
and back again without creating a dis-
turbance. Apparently it was done, however.
The big picture of the bill in question was
“Chasing through Europe” (Fox), a length
of agreeable celluloid that it would be a
shame to let any youngster miss. It is a
delightful travelogue ; the slight but amus-
ing plot is merely an excuse. Sue Carol,
always attractive on the screen, is escaping
from wicked guardians desirous of making
her give up a fortune. Nick Stuart, a
motion-picture photographer, assists the fugi-
tive, and their adventures take them through
France and Italy, where, by a happy coinci-
dence, everything happens in the vicinity of
one or other of the most notable scenic or
architectural masterpieces of these two
lands —an ingenious method of covering the
pill of instruction with a coating of romance.
Nick Stuart’s acting is great.
The Moore brothers. Tom, Matt and Owen,
are the stars of “Side Street” (Radio).
Consequently the theme is one of brother
love. Brother A is a prominent gangster
who hires assassins to bump off leading citi-
zens —presumably after having gone through
their pockets, because he is able to rent
a magnificent mansion and call on his
humble and unsophisticated Irish parents in
a majestic limousine. Brother B is a heroic
copper who is put on to the job of running
the gangster to earth, not knowing that he
is Brother A. Brother C is an honest God-
fearing surgeon, who accidentally discovers
the identity of Brother A when he is called
in to mend the skull of one of the gangster’s
friends. The plot coagulates when the police-
man’s girl, Emma Dunn, gets mixed up
with the murder firm and is taken for a
“stool pigeon.” In the end Brother A, the
gangster, obligingly solves a knotty domestic
problem by allowing his friends to shoot him
in mistake for Brother B. The story is
ingenious enough, but the method of working
it out is as slow as a garage attendant.
The acting is very realistic and the manner
of speech is that of the stage. Hence most
of it is unintelligible. The impression
given by the picture is that there is a tech-
nique of the stage and a technique of the
screen and that never the twain should meet.
There is a kiss in “A Woman of Affairs”
(Metro-Goldwyn) which beats one this Show-
man saw a couple of years ago in a Mar-
seilles cinema. They can stand a lot in Mar-
seilles, but this show was closed down soon
afterwards as “destructive to public mora s.
The embrace referred to is a prelude to the
betrayal of John Gilbert by Greta Garbo.
Greta has a ring which she explains re-
sembles herself; it “falls easily. Ihe audi-
ence is denied the spectacle of the whole o
the proceedings on Gilbert’s double-bed- the
sofa. Instead, there is a black-out which
leaves no part of the clinching stars in view
but Greta’s hand. The ring begins to slip;
it slips further; it falls to the floor. W ha-
effect do such scenes have on children wlio
are not debarred the joys of this version ox
Arlen’s “Green Hat”? Are modern young-
sters so innocent that screen-seductions
convey nothing to them ? And, if so, are they
so dull as. to be satisfied to remain innocent
after seeing their favorites in action on
the lines described? Absurd! It is pro-
bable that the sooner children learn about sex
facts the better for themselves; but, speak-
ing as a life-long anti-wowser, it seems to
present writer that such pictures supply
the wrong kind of inspiration. Most ot
them are aphrodisiac, impure and simple.
To a man of the world it seems oddly illo-
gical to gaol a seller of Port Said photographs
(disgusting, no doubt, but surely the most
comically unprovocative of all art forms)
while allowing anyone to sell movies of Miss
Garbage doing her luscious worst.
The Inky Way
“Upbusli”: By way of striking up a con-
versation with the editor of the local sheet,
I put my face into his den and asked, “Have
you seen The Bulletin jubilee number?”
He looked up from a table of clippings.
“Seen it?” he said. “I’ve pinched half of
it!”
“Rosa Bonsoir”: Tell “Bristol B.” that
Mick Paul has often equalled Frank Jes-
sup’s score of five drawings in one Bulletin.
He did the trick three times in 1919, when
his average for the year was just on four
drawings an issue. Paul must hold the
freelance record for the greatest number of
published Bulletin drawings. His first, a
sketch of S.eddon, appeared in 1905.
“Herodot” : One of the queerest apologies
an editor in Australia has ever been called
upon to print appeared in the Wentworth
(N.S.W.) “Advocate.” In its report of a
Methodist Sunday-school picnic the “Advo-
cate” said the usual games were played, in-
cluding kiss-in-the-ring. After the local
elders had visited the editor in a body the
libellous statement was contradicted and an
apology published which mentioned that the
immoral kiss-in-the-ring had had no place
in the celebrations, and that, in fact, there
had been no unseemly merriment at all.
There were pirates in those days, too.
The “Wipe and Water” verse, the first pub-
lished over a signature in The Bulletin,
just 50 years ago, and signed “F. E. Dia-
mond, Paddington,” was written by Ella
Wheeler Wilcox. The lady called it “The
Two Glasses,” and “F. E. Diamond” didn't
improve the lines in transcribing them.
Officially announced that “the proprietors
of the ‘Sunday Guardian’ and the pro-
prietors of the ‘Sunday News’ negotiated an
agreement under which the ‘Sunday Guar-
dian’ ” has “acquired the ‘Sunday News.’ ”
Both are (or were) owned by the acquiring
“Sun,” so the meeting was probably held
in front of a mirror. It is the first suppres-
sion to follow Sydney’s wholesale news-
paper merging; but by the look of things it
won’t be the last. The “Sunday _ News”
has been rocky for a long time, a
standing (or going) evidence that the Sunday
reader likes his reading tidy. There had
always been something smudgy-looking about
the deceased. The killing, of course, heaves
out another parcel of journalists and those
their work supports. Sydney’s a barren place
just now for an ordinary reporter to look for
a job in.
The sixth edition of the “Press Directory
of Australia and N.Z.” is a vastly improved
reference book of Australasian newspapers.
Make-up is entirely new and a considerable
amount of new information has been packed
between the covers. One of the most wel-
come improvements is the additional space
allotted to metropolitan papers and the
classification of those listed.
Died in harness at three score T. F.
Porritt, proprietor of Beecliworth (Vic.)
“Advertiser.” His father, Andrew Porritt,
one of the early Victorian printers, set the
type for a poster offering a reward for the
discovery of the miscreant who had shot
the newly-imported buck rabbit, and also
penned a par incorporating the vet’s, report
on the health of the widow Bunny—at the
time expecting additions to her family.
The Palette
“F.S.”: A small section of Melbourne’s
art intelligentsia is clamoring for the Felton
Bequest to buy a Cezanne. I see no reason
why it shouldn't. By so doing it would
at least be in the fashion, as it was when
it bought the pompous Millais. Millais is
to-day regarded merely as a joke in England,
artistically, and Cezanne will eventually be
in the same case. In the meantime he is
fashionable and therefore highly-priced, and
the Bequest \vill be obliged to pay for him
through the nose —a form of exercise its
nasal organ is thoroughly used to.
Visiting Australia, E. O. Hoppe, an Eng-
lishman world-famed for his artistic photo-
graphy. Hoppe has released his shutter in
many remote corners of the globe and has
published no less than 14 books illustrated
by himself; also he has collaborated with
Bett Ridge, ,T. D. Beresford, St. John Adcock
and other authors in the embellishment of
their books. Municipal and national gal-
leries in Britain have specimens of his art,
and there are 400 on permanent exhibition
at the International Museum of Arts at
Tokio. The National Gallery at Perth is
the only Australian gallery to take effective
cognisance of cameraic art. Other institu-
tions are inclined to regard photographers as
below the artistic salt.


-jCarll on
OVENWARE
.
Dainty
yet unbreakable
in oven use
Price of
medium size
Round Casserole
13/6
Carlton Ovenware adds
grace to any table; its
design is pleasing and its
utility unquestioned. It
holds the heat far better
than other cooking ware,
and the sunken handles
make for safety and
economy in oven space.
DOES AWAY WITH DISHING-UP.
w
Will not break
with heat or sud-
den chill, and this
is guaranteed!
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc., (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SON PTY., LTD.,
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
X 2. Smedley Service.
A Complete Ftrst-Aid
In ACCIDENTS!
amllttk
14
J
%
"s'
71
*
Quickly Heals
CIITf.BURNS.SCALDi
Sprainußruhes
IT SOOTHES PAIN
PREVENTS BLOOD-POISON
Zant-Buk Ointment 1/5 5- 3/6,
Medicinal Soap - 1/- per tablet.
GET A BOX TO-DAY
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ŵ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office^: 41 Bridge Street. Sydney.
I N3WOM 51 mm\H 103biqi
IOIUIVd 3HI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. lIINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Some of the finest old cut glass, prized by collectors,
was made in earlier days by Stuarts of Stourbridge,
England. Descendants of the very craftsmen who
made it are making glass as beautifully to-day. Below
is a group from a modern Georgian pattern service.
Each piece—which can be bought
separately has the name
'Stuart' etched on the glass.
m
i '
ss«,r,:
t
English Hand-made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
You can own a Car
while in England for
as little
as
Under our “Buy Back'
Plan, we can sell you a
brand new British made
car for your own use*
while on holiday, for as
little as £4O, or even less
7
Let us explain.
We will sell you a car at its list price and we will then fix a
figure at which we will buy this same car back, two or three
months later. On some of the popular cars, with a good second-
hand value, our buy back price comes within £4O or £5O of
the new price of the car. Certainly there is no more satisfactory
or economical method of running a car while in England than on
Henlys’ “ Buy Back ” Plan. It is much cheaper than hiring and
infinitely more pleasant.
Illustrated Brochure obtainable from ‘‘The Bulletin” Office
214 George Street, Sydney.
HENLYS
England’s Leading Motor Agents
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
and at Manchester, Leeds and Bristol.
an
V
3
Q © (A
|j § ITS
k%«rf 4fc .... ft
WSS-. M £
tti
_ I 2$
© Zo
p* Kiii >
*A oJjVJ
2 3*
° li-s
Jfi
u a^m
•m ■ --gM&k
Im *0 «
55 w
: 0«| a «
- 3u“
•c
O)
pah*
ur>
■ {£
0
BE ill
Wo
*
*n
Business, Robbery, etc.
“R.V.”: The canned Christmas wish is as
much a part of life in this mechanised ,age as
canned music, drama and food. During the
last festive season the Post Office carried no
less than 100,000 greetings inscribed accord-
ing to the official form.
* * * *
“Chev.”: An Australian-made aeroplane,
the Lascondor, runs the latest imported
motor-car close in the matter of interior
luxury. It has smokers’ requisites, a fold-
ing bridge table, and windows of unsplinter-
able glass. The Lascondor is being built by
the Larkin co. at its factory at South
Melbourne. Almost everything in it but the
Armstrong-Siddeley engines is Australian,
including the design.
* * * *
“Nut Quad”: The Shepparton (Vic.)
fruit cannery has developed into an enter-
prise that is employing at present 600 hands,
half of them women and girls. Last year’s
output of 12 million tins of fruit and jam
has been disposed of, and £153,000 was dis-
tributed in the district, the growers’ cut
being £76,000, while the railways collected
£19,000 for freight.
:!•• * * *
“Lapin”: Queensland is the latest to be
bitten with the fur-rabbit bug. The Gov-
ernment has granted permits to farm the
beasts under the usual conditions as to
enclosure, etc., and intending investors are
already counting up profits. Like those of
poultry-farms, these are based on the rapidity
with which the stock are expected to multiply,
Nevertheless, few poultry-farmers have ever
died millionaires.
=!= $ *
“C.Q.” : Melbourne’s latest tallest building,
the new premises for the Australian Pro-
vincial Assurance Ass., is nearing completion,
and architects have been shaking their heads
over the height of the edifice, the tower of
which rises 250 feet above Collins-street.
Yet the new Chrysler Building in N’Yoik
has 67 storeys and the topmost peak is
1030 feet 'above street level.
❖ $ * s*s
Innisfail (Q.) is tremendously proud of its
progress. During the past 13 years it is
estimated that a million and a quarter has
been spent on buildings, roads, bridges,
wharves, factories, pubs, churches and other
testimonies to vigorous enterprise. Nearly
half the amount went on the South Johnstone
mill. During the past year 112,000 tons of
sugar were produced from the Goondi,
South Johnstone, Mourilyan and Tully mills.
* * * *
“Quis”: The Huon pine of the Speck’s
West Coast is probably the most durable of
all timbers, either above or below ground or
between wind and water. It is soft, easy
to work, and practically free from shrinkage
and there is no finer wood for small boats
and sailing craft. It is a pity that its
limited habitat and its extremely slow growth
are making it increasingly scarce. Strahan
has been the home of the “piner” for nearly
a century, and the sawmills there still fill
the air with sweet odor.
* * * *
“Sniff” : An interesting tale attaches to a
small eau-de-Cologne factory recently started
near Gosford (N.S.W.) by two ex-soldiers.
Both had been chemists in civil life, and
when this was discovered by the Huns who
took them prisoner, they were set to work
in what had been a scent factory in Cologne.
They there picked up a lot of information
and now, settled in orange-growing country,
are turning out the stuff from the orange
flowers whose perfume is the basis of the
scent.
•** * $
“Norfolk Islander” : Articles in Australian
and M.L. papers depicting Norfolk Island
as the Paradise of tli e Pacific, the Land
of One Long Holiday, etc., are probably
responsible for its invasion by a type of
undesirables who have selected it as an
easy place to make a living in. They
dwell in tumbledown sheds and have a rooted
objection to anything resembling work. Even
petty thieving was never heard of in the
good old days, but of late houses and some-
times barred shops have been broken into,
and court cases are frequent. Norfolkers are
in the main a friendly as well as a hard-
working people, but they can hardly be
expected to welcome visitors of this class.
SR
“G.M.” : At the end of 1892 £275,000 was
paid by the Equitable Life Co. of New
York for the .small square block at the
corner of Collins and Elizabeth streets, Mel-
bourne, and another £250,000 was spent on
the building. It was reckoned that the net
yield of the property in the first 10 years
was exactly half a crown per cent. p.a. The
latest property deal in the city is said to be
the sale of Temple Court for £500,000. This
seems to be the crest of a second wave. The
land was bought some years ago for £123,500,
and the new building cost £300,000 to erect.
There are 200 tenants, but when new offices
are being made available every day rents
cannot be raised. The parallel between 1892
and 1930, or 38 years of recovery, is in-
teresting.
* =i ! *
“Queensland Native” : Have prices in any
line of goods in the world soared up like
those exacted by the picture-show people,
who squeal so desperately at any attempt to
make them contribute a little more to the
revenue? Before the war you might see
good daytime programmes for threepence
in places like Brisbane, Rockhampton and
Townsville, and as late as 1918 I have had
a good night’s entertainment for sixpence.
Nowadays it is my usual experience to be
asked six or seven times that amount for
a seat. The films mop up the ready cash,
to the detriment of storekeepers, grocers,
butchers and bakers, and far too much of it
goes to America.
* * •-!: #
“R. Volt” : 3IJZ, the Melbourne broadcast-
ing station, which depends entirely on ad
vertisements for revenue, has established two
records lately. It claims to have broadcast
the King’s speech clearly when the official
stations got only a painful noise, and it has
just committed the offence of disseminatin'.-
music continuously for 15 hours. The last
feat was performed to the order of the
“Argus” and consisted mainly of canned
items.


ẁ
Also ask about omei
Winchester Flashlights
serviceable, durable,
dependable and adap-
ted to every use.
Light Wherever You
Turn Your Eyes
COMFORTABLY fastened to your hat or
forehead by a wide web elastic band,
this unique Winchester Flashlight turns
with your head, tilts at any desired angle
and throws its light wherever you turn
your head. Current is supplied through a
flexible cord connecting with a standard
Winchester Flashlight Battery in a special
case that slips into your pocket or clips to
your belt, thus leaving you both hands
free. An ideal light for farmers, mechan-
ics, doctors, dentists, bandsmen, motorists,
sportsmen and all others who need light
while using both their hands.
WINCHESTER REPEATING
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A..
19
TRADE MARK
HEADLIGHT 1
THE SILENT
BILLABONG”
DELIVERS
THE WATER
The semi-silent “Billabong” is Aus-
tralia’s favorite mill. It is unusually
strong and rigid. It is ball-bearing and
self-governing. It needs oiling only
half-yearly. It is moderately priced.
The mill for you.
DOUBLE THE WATER
WITH THIS
PATENTED "BILLABONG'
PLUNGER VALVE
For mill pumps, it increases the output
of water up to one hundred per cent.
This new invention allows the mill to start
without the load in light breezes when other-
wise it would be idle.
The pump will function and start pumping
exactly the same as with the older type of
valve.
Make use of the light winds.
Have water when formerly your mill was
idle. Have thousands of more gallons in
normal winds.
Adaptable to most plunger pumps at a
moderate outlay. Can you do without it?
Write now for descriptive leaflet; also for
information on any other pumping matters.
ẃ
ẅ
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BGURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
THE SUNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc Cultivating Plough
10-DISC
SIZE
CUTS sft.
14-DISC
SIZE
CUTS 7ft.
Supplied
with •
levers for
either
team or
tractor
use.
j
m
& *
4s ,
"' :.*' 'A
mm
; M
The
Summer
fallowing
implement
supreme.
Deals
effectively
with
Paddy-
melon
and other
heavy
weed
growths.
The "Sundercut” has a greater sale in Australia than any other disc implement. It works successfully in any type of country, amongs s u m P
and stones, in hard set fallow, in virgin Mallee soils, and in fallow rank with weeds. The alternate 1 8 and 20-inch discs set wit un e^ cu »
a level bottom and leave a lumpy tilth ideal for moisture conservation. Differential Cog Jump allows high jump without increase o iaug
SOLE MANUFACTURERS-.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Descriptive Folder, Price and Terms posted free on request.


w


A BRITISH
leads the
The remarkaW' '* „ Quadruple
BRITISH “RE N *"aa OB it* *?«-
Hand Pump «ba eng ineering
less construction and of
excellence, it 1S __ ra te—-due to
all hand pumps to °P n<Jer> which
a double-acting pW ard and
Procurable jrora
Will jully inflate the average motor tyre in
one minute. .
THE
Ut
QUADRUPLE
Price, 45/-
{With Gauge,
5 /- extra.)
Tf vmable to °^ tain
I'rlte tt our Factors
KThn arnou>:
ẃ
A great drink this
RESCH’S D. A.
The famous DINNER ALE
NOW A PRODUCT OF TOOTH’S.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Jack Holt and big-wagering followers re-
garded High Syce as a certainty for the C.
F. Orr Stakes at Williamstown on Satur-
day. Holt was also represented by High-
land, who started at 10 to 1. Both horses
belong to Mrs. L. R. Buxton, having been
given to her by her father, an automobile
salesman. From a nominal quote of “take
6 to 4,” High Syce eased to evens. He
firmed to a shade of odds on, but eased to
5 to 4; then more stable money was piled
on the chestnut, bringing him back to evens.
Lineage and Gallopade, two locally-trained
fillies, were saddled up by Sinclair. Gallo-
pade had 201 b. less weight than the Oaks
winner, and her owners were confident of
success.
Though he finished last, Highland began
faster than High Syce, and was lying second
to Lucie Manette until deposed by Lineage
after going three furlongs. At the half-
mile High Syce was forward enough, but
Gallopade left him standing near the home
turn, and scored, running away, by two
lengths from Lucie Manette, with Lineage
a close third and the favorite fourth only.
The form of High Syce was woefully dis-
appointing, but it might be dangerous to
conclude that the 1929 iCaulfield Cup hero
has retrograded to such an apparent extent.
His next essay ought to determine that
point.
By putting up an apprentice on Figure in
the first division of the Marine Handicap,
Donoghue reduced that mare’s burden to
9st. 31b. She had bled after a track gallop
on the previous Thursday, and this encour-
aged bookmakers to field against her. How-
ever, Donoghue and his; friends took the risk
of speculating heavily, and Figure short-
ened to 6 to 4. Cleave, another Sydney
mare, shared second favoritism with Bird-
cage. Billy Leyshon trains Cleave for Jim
Carpenter, who conducted a Melbourne hotel
before moving to the Harbor City. To all
intents and purposes, Figure and Cleave had
the race to themselves. Nearing the post
Cleave held a slight advantage, but Figure,
ridden with cool judgment, reversed posi-
tions and gained the verdict by a short half-
head. The previous course record for six
furlongs (lmin. 12isec.) was lowered by a
quarter of a second.
_ Figure’s time was equalled in the second
division by Wise Force, a colt from Queens-
land. He was only third favorite, King
of Revelry being at evens and Fission at
7 to 2. Wise Force came from behind to
win handsomely from Fission. After assist-
ing Fission to make the running, King of
Revelry hung out badly, and was unplaced.
Wise Force has opened up his Melbourne
career in a blaze of glory.
The Wyndham Handicap was one of the
most falsely run events ever witnessed at
Williamstown. Amanthus led past the
stand, but “Tich” Wilson did not want to be
in front, and disorganised the field by rein-
ing-in sharply. Out of a crawling mob,
Iventle, last year’s Grand National Hurdle
winner, took control at the mile, while Cim-
brian, the 7-to-4 favorite, trailed behind. His
irate backers would have loved to explode
dynamite at the heels of . Cimbrian, who
loafed until all chance of triumph had van-
ished. In a ding-dong finish Prince Viol
beat Mountain Prince by half a head, with
Unique a head behind E. M- Pearce’s chest-
nut. This was the first appearance of
Prince Viol since a racing accident in the
spring led to his withdrawal from the Mel-
bourne Cup. He promises to play a . pro-
minent part at the autumn carnival.
Les Franklin, who distinguished himself
as a lightweight jockey not many years ago,
squeezed Honorium home in the hurdle race
by a narrow margin from Ember. The favo-
rite, Triplex, had to' be content with third
honors; but _he jumped . better than on-
former occasions, and will yet make good
over the battens. Neoxena credited “S. A.
Rawdon,” the club chairman, with the
Juvenile Handicap, and Red Sea showed a
return to form by landing the February
Welter.
'[t ']• %
For Caulfield on Saturday :-—" '
Oakleigh Plate: Wise Force; next, Fis-
non.
St. George Stakes: Amounts; next, Phar
Lap.
;]!
Not a favorite won at „ Canterbury Park
on Saturday, although there were nine races.
There was a pony meeting also, and two of
the 13 winners were favorites, three being
15-to-l shots. The moral is that betting is
a good thing to give up in pinched times,
but morals are wasted on punters.
A lot of people went to Canterbury with
the feeling that Prince Verderer was a good
thing for the first division of the.Higliweight
Handicap, and their fingers tightened on
their tickets when they saw him get the
better of Gun Club, who had led for most
of the journey. But Gun Club, a speedy
bit of stuff, took some shaking off; and when
Head On challenged Prince Verderer could
not get up steam again, and was beaten
by a narrow margin. Head On’s price was
20 to 1; Prince Verderer’s 6 to 4. Very
unwisely the chestnut son of The Ver-.
derer was saddled up again for the Flying
Handicap, but he had had enough racing for
the day and stopped at the post, Rozener;
(5 to 1) winning from unlucky Eve Pad-
dington and Margarethal, both better backed.
Rozener left the six furlongs behind in lmin.
131 sec., fast time for the Park, and has
evidently come good.
Black Dina (6 to 1), a mare, that pro-
mised well in her two-year-old days, carried
off the second division of the Highweight
from Beau Dennis (4 to 1) and Greehloph
(12 to 1), who looked a sure winner when
they had gone half the distance. For the
third division consistent Gritall (3 to 1)
just pipped the favorite, Leisure Hour (2
to 1), after a great race.
A WINDY CORNER.
SECOND: “keep at him. Bill — he’s all skite.”
PUG : “Yes; it was just his bloomin’ blow that sent me down for six.”
Frances Cyllene (5 to 1) ran away with
the Canterbury Handicap—her third race
of the kind this year. Denham was on
her on each occasion; mare and jockey know
every inch of the course, which bothers other
horses and horsemen. Octember was favo-
rite, but he was obviously troubled by the'
sharp turns, though he came home well in
second place. Perhaps he will run another
creditable race in the Australian Gup, for he
is racing into first-class condition and can ■
stay for a week.
Colin , Stephen, chairman of the A. J.C.,
received genuine congratulations on the suc-
cess of his little mare Voleuse (3 to 1) in
a division of the Maiden Handicap. Voleuse,
who is by Magpie—Vole, ran a good race
against Phar'Lap at Rosehill last year, but
hasn’t lived up to that form this season,
though she may do better yet. Hunter
White, another pillar of the A.J.C., also col-
lected a race, the Juvenile Handicap, with
n thing of his own breeding—Rogerson. by
Roger .de Busli-Sweet Alison —and 11. C.
Osborne’s colors were carried to victory by
Bronze Fuze in the Campsie Handicap.
But this old picnic horse, who, like Roger-
son, was ridden by Johnstone, was quoted in
vain at 14 to 1, whereas Rogerson was well
backed at fours.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:— ...
Glenficld Handicap: Greensca; next,
Prince Verderer.
Farm, Stakes: Sylvisto; next, Wally Iv.
Warwick Handicap: Promara • next,
Eubul.
Minto Handicap: Magdaff; next, Moorgas.
* * *
The death in Melbourne of W. R. Forster,
at 45, has removed a distinguished
figure from the world of sporting journalism,
and a charming fellow withal. Forster was
sporting editor of the “Herald” and editor
.of the “Sporting Globe” since its founda-
tion. Wlien in Tasmania he played cricket
against A. O. Jones’s English team, and
also represented the island State in big foot-
ball. His father edited newspapers in
Westralia, and is now T on the Hobart “Mer-
cury” staff.
* * * *
Adelaide gets the King’s Cup this year.
It will be run on the last day of the Cup
meeting in May: mile and a half, worth
£IOOO, weights not over 9st. 51b. or under
7st. The Adelaide Cup remains worth £2OOO,
and the Goodwood Handicap £IOOO.
* * * *
“Harry the Head” : Another contingent of
wage-plugs has been thrown on the scrap-
heap by the minions of capitalism. I refer to
the noble army of urgers, ©arbiters, tick-
tackers and crushers whose-activities'have
recently been invaded by the Sydney racing
and-pony officials. Fathers of families who
have been in practice for years have been re-
moved in battalions from the courses, and
tlie probability is that before long the Sydney
slop press will be publishing columns of
maudlin tosh about, the pretty daughters
who have been compelled by a ctuel fate to
soil their lily hands by taking in washing
or going out to service.-
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
With the advantage of half a hundred-
weight of meat packed round his huge frame,
Pat Redmond (16st. 21b.) battered r Ted
Dargin into unconsciousness at the Sydney
Stadium. The abo. put up a game, showing
but never had a chance. Propping a stiff left’
to the face, and driving, his ponderous right
to the midriff, Redmond gradually sapped
the blackfellow’s strength. Dargin launched
a’ desperate two-handed attack in the ninth
round, but the big fellow-was not srreatly
troubled. Over the concluding stages Dargin
ẁ


ẅ
w
30-22 D


COMMONWEALTH 6 PER CENT. CONVERSION AND REDEMPTION LOAN 1930.
INTEREST: 6 PER CENT
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR.
CONVERSION PRIVILEGES.
Holders or Stock or Bonds in the 6 per cent. Commonwealth
Loans maturing on the 15th March, 1930, and 15th December,
1930, are invited to convert into this new Loan as on 15th
March, 1930.
After 15th March, 1930, interest on all converted holdings will
be paid half-yearly on 15th September and 15th March at the
rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Cash subscriptions may also be made to this new Loan. Sub-
scriptions may either be paid in full at the time of application,
or a deposit of 1 0 per cent, may be lodged with the application,
and the balance paid by instalments.
On all cash subscriptions to the loan, interest at 6 per cent, from
the date of lodgment of the money to 15th March, 1930, will
be paid on 15th March, 1930.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
"Do YOU PV-A.V Morn?
Bert :" Not eacessw elv' 1
<3e-RT; Well, do e>e carefol-
THIS IS ONLY A. NINR
HOLE: COURSE,”
BeRT ’/Oh 'WELL SOOM ALTER
that r
The Ins and Outs
The Queensland-Victoria match at Bris-
bane petered out abjectly, as far as the home
side was concerned, Victoria winning by an
innings and 33 runs. Ryder confounded his
critics by taking his score to 168, his second
consecutive century in Shield cricket. Ellis
(32) and .sundries (28) helped to bring the
total to 313. Hurwood (4-88) and Hornibrook
(3-87) shared the bowling honors, both being
badly let down by the fieldsmen. In Queens-
land’s second try a vigorously-hit 79 by
E. Bcnsted was backed with 65 from E.
Hubbard. The remainder of the team also
ran. Ironmonger (3-51) and Blackie (3-62)
were chiefly responsible. This victory makes
the Victorians 18 to the N.S.W. point score
of 20 in the Sheffield table. A win of any
sort, first innings or otherwise, against South
Australia will see the Cabbage Gardeners in
possession of the Shield again.
* * * *
Arthur H'enry (“Tod”) Callaway, who
died in Sydney last week at 54, was one of a
family famous in N.S.W. cricket. A member
of the old Paddington club in the golden
days of Victor Trumper and his contem-
poraries, he would probably have risen to
prominence in first-class cricket, as his
brothers Syd and the international umpire
Dick did. A clever comedian, the stage lured
him from the cricket field, and for some years
he was a prominent performer on the
Rickards circuit, later appearing with suc-
cess at the London halls.
Hi * * *
The end of the month will see an unusual
cricket visitor in Sydney in the shape of
a Tasmanian XI. The Apple islanders will
open their mainland tour in Melbourne next
week, and Sydney will see them in action a
few days later. Though Tasmania-Victoria
matches are annual affairs, having been in-
stituted as long ago as 1866, the Islanders
are rarely seen in Sydney. N.S.W. should
hold them in special esteem, for it was
against them that Victor Trumper first
opened the eyes of the multitude to his cricket
genius with a score of over 200, in those days
of good bowling a comparatively rare feat.
* * * *
In beating Westralia by an innings and
234 runs at Adelaide, South Aus. put up
the biggest score in its history, 614 for S.
Nitschke (172) and Lee (TOO) were the
centurions, while Victor Richardson got a
lively 80. Lee made his runs in 76 minutes
hitting 10 fours and three sixes. Westralia
made 266 (Horrocks 58) and 114 (Grimmett
6 for 40).
* * * *
“Stuff” : Cricket law is like all other kinds
of law, man-made or divine, varying accord-
ing to the interpretation of the judiciary.
Take the case of Halcombe, the Westralian
bowler, no-balled in Melbourne by one of the
umpires, while the other never lifted his voice,
though he was officiating at the bowling end.
The same thing happened in Tasmania, one
umpire condemning and the other satisfied.
Then to South Australia, where G. A. Ilele,
esteemed the best umpire in Australia, foxind
no fault with the fast bowler’s deliveries,
his opinion being endorsed by his confrere
at the other end. It would seem that Hal-
combe has a just grievance against someone.
* * $ #
“Old Q”: Unless Bill Howell be excepted,
few Australian bowlers have hopped so swiftly
from comparative obscurity to 1 top-notch
cricket as Hurwood of Queensland. He was
given a trial with the Queensland Sheffield
team in 1927-28, but did little good, taking
only nine wickets for an average of 44.39 each.
The following season he was dropped, and he
was left out of the first Sheffield Shield
match against N.S.W. in Brisbane this
season. Owing to some of the regulars being
unavailable against Gilligan’s team, he was
given a chance, and took 5 for 86. On the
Queensland tour south he did w fH i n evei T
match, finishing up the first-class season
with 35 for 685, an average of 19.60. In
the Sheffield games his figures are 30 tor
599, averaging 19.99. The only other
Australian bowler approaching these figures
is a’Beckett, who averaged 16.50 tor
first-class games, but took only 16 wickets.
Grimmett, with 52, alone tops Hurwood m
number of wickets taken, and he had the
trial match and an extra game against West-
ralia to help him.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: Disciplin’ as the old
regular sergeant majors loved to call it, will
be strictly observed with the new Australian
cricketers. They will be fallen in and
marched cn masse to all official functions,
the old go-as-you-please practice having given
offence in the past. There are to be no wives
or relatives about, so even a hard-up player
wishing to visit uncle to realise on his watch
will apparently come under suspicion. Press-
work, interviews and broadcasting are also
banned. The side musters in Melbourne on
March 7, and after playing two matches in
Tassy, gives a final display at Perth. Each
player will get £660 for the tour, of which
£l5O will be deferred, and a weekly allowance
working out at about £SO for the tour in
addition. Members of the team must con-
tract not to return to England within two
years after the tour.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The itinerary of the Aus-
tralian team in England has been varied
somewhat from that of former sides. lhe
opening match will be against Worcester-
shire, instead of Leicester, as has usually been
the ease. It will close with the match against
an England Eleven at Scarborough, but, alas,
the opposition will not be known this time
as C. I. Thornton’s XI, that great sports-
man having carried liis bat to the Elysian
meads. The first Test is down for Trent
Bridge on June 13-17, the second at Lord’s
from July 27 to July 1, the third at Leeds
from July 11-15, No. 4 at Old Trafford
July 25-29, and the final at Kenmngton
Oval from August 16-22. Failing an earlier
decision in the four matches, this last will
be played out.
The Watermen
“Hotham”: The Victorian Rowing Asso-
ciation decided last week that funds did not
permit the sending of a crew from Victoria
to the Empire games in Canada in August
next. However, it sportingly _ announced
that if the N.S.W. Association decided to send
Bobby Pearce over to meet Canadian Peter
Wright in the sculling event, it was prepared
to chuck £25 into the hat towards expenses.
* * * *
“Hutt” : Wellington (M.L.) boasts a great
old rowing identity in George Norton, the
city’s veteran boatbuilder. H'e was one. of
the pioneers of rowing in the early 'sixties,
and has a reputation as a builder of racing-
craft and shells which has travelled far
outside the Shivery Isles. His first essay in
rowing was at Port Chalmers, when he was a
boy of eight years old and took part in a
dinghy race. As he-is rising 75 now, he has
a rich fund of reminiscence to draw upon.
* * * *
“Bow” : M. G. Mackenzie, who is stroking
the N.S.W. eight in the coming race for the
King’s Cup, has rowing in liis very bones.
Ills dad, G.H., who devotes much time and
attention nowadays to coaching the Sydney
Scots’ College crew, was a fine oarsman in
days gone by and rowed for Victoria wheu
the Dark Blue crews were practically in-
vincible in the inter-State races. Later he
pulled an occasional oar in Tasmania, where
lie first devoted himself to coaching—that
solace of every good Oarsman when the
years forbid active participation in the
sport itself.
Racquet and Bawl
As was generally expected, the Australian
Davis Cup team will consist of Crawford,
Moon, Hopman and Jim Willard, Willard
sailing under the guise of manager. An
important change in routine is the appoint-
ment of a selection committee, this being
composed of Crawford, Moon and Willard.
Hitherto the captain has been sole selector
and arbiter of the touring party. Moon is
the first Queenslander selected for a Cup
team, and for the first time since 1918 no
Victorian figures on the side. Given a decent
run of luck, the tourists should be well up
when the whips arc cracking at tin- finish.
The team leaves Australia on March 11.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The draw for the Davis Cup
made in Taris last week gives Australia
Switzerland in the first round of the Euro-
pean zone, which must be over by May 8. If
our side emerges victorious, the next oppo-
nents will be the winners of the Monaco-
Ireland clash, and after that the winner from
Poland, Roumania, Germany and Britain.
Germany has been greatly weakened by the
loss of Moldenhauer, so it looks as if the
Australians will meet Britain. The winner
will then take on the survivor of Norway,
Austria, Italy and Egypt in the zone semi-
final, and the final will lie between the
winner and the leader of the other half of
the draw, probably Japan, this year rated a
very formidable side. In the American zone
the draw is Mexico v. Cuba, and Canada v.
U.S.A.
* * * *
“Stoushimai”: For the first time in the
history of the Davis Cup, Japan has elected
to enter in the European zone, her efforts hav-
ing previously been confined to the American.
The recent tour of India and Japan by a
strong French team, which included Cocliet,
Borotra and Brugnon, showed that the stan-
dard of Japanese tennis has again risen to
the level of five years or so ago and, perhaps,
topped it. Ito Sato is said to be a top-
notcher, and since he has victories over
Borotra, Brugnon, Landry and Rodel, as well
as over his formidable countryman Harada,
to his credit, he really seems hot stuff.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The Germans carry
their reputation for thoroughness into
tennis even. According to a British tennis
journal, a linesman or umpire who makes
an incorrect decision is at once taken off the
job. It sounds interesting, and most people
who have played games from football to two-
up will feel a glow of satisfaction at the
thought that there are some places where
retribution overtakes the tyrant. When the
news leaks out I am tipping quite a lot of
Australian tennis players of both sexes to
book up for Berlin by the next steamer.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Centurion” : The annual competition for
the N.S.W. A.I.F. Cup will be played off
on Ivillara links on February 19. As usual,
the entry is a heavy one, and play from
daylight to dark will be necessary to get
through the list. It is a handicap stroke
event over 19 holes, for the customary dinner
and concomitants follow on the actual play.
To many the occasion is marred by the
refusal of those in authority to admit pro-
fessionals who have been members of the
A.I.F. Year after year this blatant bit of
snobbery is objected to by golfers and the
public alike, without apparent effect on those
responsible for it. There can be no fear that
the superiority of the professionals would
make the event a walk-over for them —the
handicapping would correct that. Queens-
land runs a similar competition, to which
amateurs and professionals are admitted
alike, and so far there does not seem to have
been any loss of caste on either side.
“Bingera”: The newly-formed Bargara
club not far from Bundaberg (Q.), near the
month of the Burnett River, promises to
possess a course with some unusual features.
One of them is that the rough on one side of
most of the fairway is the miles-wide Hervey
Bay, where the Australian Navy is fond of
carrying out its gunnery and other exer-
cises. It is evident that the club will have
to fix up some local rules for balls played
into the bay, which cannot be treated as
casual water, since it is part of the Western
Pacific. In the old days of floating balls
matters would not have been so bad, for play-
ing out from a canoe paddled by a caddie
might have been possible. With the modern
ball, which sinks like a plummet, nothing
short of a diving suit wall be any good.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: In most golfing communi-
ties the only reward a golfer who holes in
one can hope for is the knowledge that he has
been a benefactor to his drought-stricken
fellow-members. In Queensland a weekly
newspaper has instituted a prize for all per-
forming the feat who are subscribers to the
journal. It has just been won for the third
time, and on this occasion by an associate
member of the Bundaberg club. In the
words of the journal aforesaid, “having ful-
filled the conditions attached to the feat the
lady was presented with a gold-mounted
fountain-pen and an inkstand.” AVhat the
“conditions” were is not stated, but the venue
being Bundaberg, where the rum comes from,
they probably included the traditional ritual
at the nineteenth.
**■'**
“The McHaggis”: Though the rule on the
subject is plain enough, golfers are always
getting into trouble under that special enact-
ment for stroke competitions which insists
that competitors shall start in the order and
at the times arranged by the committee, and
shall not delay for any reason, save one satis-
factory to t}ie committee, on penalty of dis-
qualification. Instances are always cropping
up in Australia, where the golfing horde
is perhaps more ignorant of. the rules than
elsewhere, but a peculiar one is reported from
England. A player discovered at the first
tee that he had left his putter at the club-
house. He sent his caddie back for it. and
waited until two couples had passed, being
under the impression that the committee
would accept the explanation. It did not, and
he was disqualified.
% * * *
“Nark”: One aspect of the N.S.W. golf
Donnybrook (B. 5/2/’3Ol is that the right
of selection for the Kirk-Windeyer and inter-
state teams still lies in the hands of the Golf
Association, which at present consists of the
Royal Sydney, the Australian and the Con-
cord clubs. Concord having crayfished on its
suburban brethren and joined the big bat-
talions. The same coterie, under present
rules, has control of the championship meet-
ings. In view of the venomous antagonism
between the two factions, the anti-associa-
tionists are wondering whether their members
have any chance of being selected in the
teams or of being permitted to enter for the
amateur and open championships in June.
Such entries are supposed to be limited to
members of “affiliated clubs,” and much de-
pends upon the interpretation of “affiliation”
as matters stand at present.
* * #
“Iconoclast” : The usual American has come
along with a scheme for converting golf
from a nuisance by day to a terror by night.
The tees are roofed in and open only on the
one side toward the fairway and green, which
are illuminated by beam lights. Practice
may thus be indulged in in any weather, the
mental case in the loose box playing as many
shots as he likes in snug security. After he has
driven his fixed quota of balls, a caddie goes
out with a basket and retrieves as many as
he can find, when the process begins again.
(Continued on next page.)


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
*
to/0!
Sho^
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, CM.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.: M. J. Ryan. Esa.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
2
IMakes
the Finish
Last
Every
Car Needs
SIMONIZ
Have you ever stop-
ped to realise how
important Simoniz is to
* the finish of your car?
It’s just about indispens-
able in the care of DUCO
and lacquers.
Simoniz withstands the tests
of time and weather and gives
lasting protection that is so neces-
sary to make the finish last longer
and keep colors from fading. It
leaves a hard beautiful surface that
lasts for months and stands the wear
and tear the finish usually gets.
Then, too, it’s so easy to keep a
Simonized car looking clean and
bright, as all dust and dirt can be
wiped off with a dry cloth without
danger of marring or scratching the
finish.
Anyone can Simoniz a car, for Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener are easily applied
with a cloth. Dull-looking, tarnished and
discolored finishes can be quickly re-
stored to their original lustre and beauty
with Simoniz Kleener. Then use Simoniz
for that beautiful lasting protection.
Insist on SIMONIZ.
It makes the finish last longer.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
ŵ
ẁ
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IF YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
.
m
■;
zrsrgl
. ...
Dl
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
“Trembler”: Fired by the success of his
attempt on the 10-mile world’s record, Nor-
man Smith lias returned from Maoriland to
Australia determined to tackle the, world’s
best for a mile, which Kaye Don is also to
attempt shortly. The new car will be fitted
with a Rolls-Royce aeroplane engine of the
type used by Lieutenant Waghorn when he
won the Schneider seaplane race. The
engine will be built into a chassis in Syd-
ney by Don Harkness, whose ingenuity and
skill wedded the 'plane engine and Cadillac
chassis in which Smith and he put up their
10-mile spin in Maoriland.
* * * *
“Whizz”: While it is not so difficult to
get up a high rate of speed in the modern
record-chasing motor-car, stopping the. darned
thing within reasonable limits is quite
another matter. This is giving the designers
of Kaye Don’s 4000-h.p. car furiously
to think. Don anticipates reaching 300
m.p.h., and if he gets anything near this
applying brakes would be equivalent to sui-
cide ; even the removal of a foot from
the accelerator would probably mean a flying
somersault. Experiments are being made
with a system of air brakes in the form of
wings dropped vertically from the side of
the car, wind pressure gradually slowing up
the momentum. In addition, wheel collapse
is provided for by the speedboat construction
oL the chassis, which will enable the car to
skim over the sand, or the water should a
swerve into the sea take place, as in Frank
Lockhart’s fatal accident at Daytona.
* * * *
“Robertson”: Paris has been going cranky
of late over what is termed a new form of
automobile racing, a low-speed hill-climb,
the winner being the car which crawls from
start to finish in slowest time. A recent
trial on Montmartre was won by a Graham-
Paige, which did the climb at a speed of less
than a mile an hour, though the length of
the run is not stated. Paris at least cannot
claim to have originated this useful form of
reliability and driving-capacity test. For some
years past various N.S.W. motor-car clubs
have been holding similar contests.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: News of an exacting petrol-
consumption test comes from South Africa,
where “juice” is even dearer than it is in
Australia. A Pontiac car was driven from
Johannesburg to Petersburg in the Northern
Transvaal, a distance of 221 miles, at an
average mileage of 37.6 m.p.g. The tank,
with 8i gallons in it, was sealed at Jo’burg,
and when inspected at the end of the run
still held 2i>- gallons. Much of the going
through this busliveldt country is heavy and
sandy, so the performance, made under the
supervision of General Motors and the Trans-
vaal Auto Club, was a remarkable one.
* * * *
“Glenelg” ; The mile dirt-track champion-
ship of Australia for motor-cycles at the
Wayville Speedway, Adelaide, was won by
the local rider Jack Chapman, who cut out
the distance in lmin. 1 2-ssec. Chapman had
a great run in the various heats and final,
winning six firsts and a second. Good as his
NORMAN (“WIZARD”) SMITH, the Aus-
tralian speed motorist, who recently put
up the world’s record for a 10-mile spin
on a Maoriland beach.
time was, it was bettered by Frank Arthur,
the international rider, who fell in the final.
In his heat Arthur was clocked to do the mile
in lmin. Isec., which is claimed as a world’s
record. Sig and Cyril Schlam, the Westra-
lian cracks, each scored in their heats* but
did not reach the semi-finals, Cyril retiring
with a badly gashed leg.
=s * * *
“Sprocket” : A new 'amateur cycling lumin-
ary appeared on the N.S.W. horizon the
other day, when D. McGregor, a young
Goulburn rider, won the final of the State
mile amateur championship from the holder,
Olympic representative D. Gray. To show it
was no fluke, he repeated his victory in the
five-mile championship, Les. Standen being
second this time. His time for the mile
was.2min. 1 l-ssec., and for the five miles
lOmin. 10 l-ssec., a record for the race.
Westralia scored a win with the State cham-
pion, Harold Smith, who took the Omnium
inter-State match race with 13 points, his
nearest rival scoring only five.
Miscellaneous
“Centurion”: The Military -College at
Duntroon put up a rare record the other
day by winning the Lafferty Shield for the
third year in succession. The shield is open
for competition among all the military col-
leges of the Empire, and the contest con-
sists of athletic events, rifle shooting, and
J. SCAIFE, the pony Victorian batsman,
who is rated also as the finest cover-
point in Australia.
kindred items. Each college carries out the
programme on its own midden, and the
results are compared in Britain, and points
awarded. Duntroon scored 18 points, and
Sandhurst 14, Cranwell Air Force College
coming third, with, the Canadian Military
College and Woolwich Academy (where the
gunners and engineers are ripened) follow-
ing in that order.
“Blade Sight”: Sydney Uni. is sticking
on some extra dog this week, the rifle team
having won the championship of the Empire’s
universities with 1432 points out of a pos-
sible 1600. Oxford was second, while West-
ralia, Melbourne and Adelaide were third,
seventh and eighth respectively. The Sydney
score broke the record of 1415 previously held
by Cambridge.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Dr. Peltzer and the other
members of the overseas athletic team lately
in Australia are now in Maoriland in com-
pany with the N.S.W. middle-distance runner
G. Golding. In departing, the German crack
was. enthusiastic over the quality of Aus-
tralian athletes, but joined with American
Leo Lermond in expressing amazement that
Australia was content to do all its running
on grass tracks instead of the cinders which
are in universal use in other parts of the
world.. Perhaps the Australian athletic
authorities will now take notice of an
anomaly upon which the writer has dwelt
time and again. We can never hope to put
up world’s records on grass, while our athletes
going overseas to run on cinder tracks are
heavily handicapped by the unaccustomed
conditions.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spike”: Australian athletic authorities
chucked a fit last week when it was revealed
that the real name of “G. Empton,” Dr. Pelt-
ier’s young German protege, who appeared at
several big athletic meetings, was Obermuller.
Peltzer explained that the nom de sprint was
recognised in Germany, and he had supposed
it would be all right here. The question is
whether “Empton’s” list of performances for
entry purposes has been correctly given. That
being so, and his identity established, the
irregularity might well be glossed over, even
if it shows up the notorious casualness of
Australian amateur sporting organisations
where a good draw card is concerned.
*,* * *
“IJmtali” (Rhodesia) : Yes, “The Gaffer’s”
Sequah who toured out-back racecourses in
Queensland and the one “Hamer” saw in Eng-
land are the same! I saw him in both
countries and a few years later in Durban,
S. Africa. The old “Medicine Man” looked
the worse for wear in Durban, and had given
up selling Prairie Flower and Magic Oil.
He told me he had gone through three
fortunes, and I quite believe it. I have
since heard that he is dead, but am not sure
whether such is the case.
sj: ❖ ❖ $
“Bumpkin” : A strange miscalculation gave
comic relief to a swimming carnival at the
Camberwell (Vic.) baths the other day. In
the 50-yard race the limit man was within
six feet of the finishing point before the
scratch competitor was ordered to dive in.
The handicaps were hastily re-examined but
all was found O.K. The crowd booed, the
indignant starter said “Whaffor,” and the list
was handed back to the handicapping officials
with a request for an explanation.
* * * #
“How to Swim,” by Dudley Helmrich,
chief coach to the N.S.W. Amateur Swim-
ming Association, is one of the, completest
works of its kind which haye been published
anywhere. The writer is an outstanding
authority on Australian swimming, and his
instructions to beginners and detailed de-
scriptions of the various strokes are invalu-
able. In addition to articles on water-polo and
diving, the book contains a most compre-
hensive record of Australian swimming per-
formances at home and abroad and a list of
the world’s best performances. Apart from
its instructional value, the book is a wel-
come addition to any reference library.
* * * *
“Callan Park”: The amateur-status howl
rose to the heavens again the other night at
the Australian diving championships in Mel-
bourne. The winner of one of the events,
Alan Mcllaffie, was objected to by other com-
petitors because he was a professional, hav-
ing accepted payment for teaching gymnastics
and physical culture to an athletic club. To
the outsider the connection with swimming is
not very apparent, but under the fool system
at present prevailing anyone ranking as a
professional under the rules of one branch of
sport is a professional in all others affiliated
with it.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The 12-9 victory of
Scotland over Wales at Edinburgh last week
confirms the impression that the Rugby in-
ternational struggle for the Calcutta Cup
will be a close one this season, for none of
the winning sides has got home by a con-
vincing margin. France, with wins over
Scotland and Ireland, is in the lead, while
England lias also downed Wales. Ireland
and Scotland have -gone down once each,
while Wales has lost her first two matches.
Only 28 points to 15 have been scored in
the four games.
* * * *
“Der Jong” : R. G. Smith, secretary of the
Transvaal Rugby Union,' approves of the
Australian request that a Waratali team be
invited to tour South Africa, Smithy states
that Billy Warbriek founded the game in
N.S.W., “particularly round about Sydney.”
The game was played in N.S.W. long before
Billy ever handled a football, and it was
the visit of N.S.W. to M.L. in 18S2 and
1886 that taught the M.L. players the essen-
tials of Rugby. Billy settled in Brisbane in
1891, after he had toured Britain with the
N. Z. Native Team, so-called. He did a lot
for the game in Bananaland, but it was
flourishing there before the great Maori
player ever saw Australia. Mr. Smith
also remarks that the “N.S.W. team” may
be worthy of the S.A. boot, since they won
“three out of the four Tests” against the All
Blacks. Only three were played and Aus-
tralia won them all.
*
W. E. Henley, the young Otago medical
student who recently got his Rugby Blue at
Oxford, was a prominent player for the
Combined M.L. Universities in the Tests
against the Australian ’Varsities last year
in the Dominion. He first started football at
Napier High School and then went to that
great M.L. football nursery Wanganui
School. While at Otago Uni. he played for
Hawkes Bay in the Ranfurly* Shield com-
petition. A big chap, with pace to boot, he
should prove a valuable find for Oxford.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The trend of Victorian football
to the extremes of professionalism gave the
delegate, meeting of the Victorian League
last week a lot to chew over. The growing
practice of paying prominent players con-
siderable sums down in addition to a large
salary has led to the preparation of a plan
by a specially appointed committee which,
it is hoped, will mitigate the evil. As it is,
the wealthy clubs, or those willing to take a
gamble, are denuding their less affluent
brethren of the cream of their players. The
plan will be announced in a fortnight and
in the meantime the clubs are asked
to observe “an honorable understanding” in
the matter of stealing each other’s players.
* t- * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum, who
began a fortnight’s match with, Maorilander
McConachy this week, will play only two
more matches in England this season—against
Tom Newman from February 24 to March
8, and a grand final against his old adversary
Willie. Smith. It is a thousand pities that
the grip of commercial interests on the game
has prevented the Westralian wonder from
taking part in the English professional cham-
pionship, especially as the holder of the title,
Joe Davis, gave him one of the hardest goes
he has had in Britain.


CK
b
AaVsuW.
a p^ s w a
S<* e4 l a ve» » U ,„ ro <
VO.
V*
e&
\n^ ve !“’ e d *<#
Mo’c 6 lllv " a d\e nee
* V»ve '“ ,Ce4 , \»X
A ttvote
Fleetmaster is the logical out-
come of to-day’s demand for
rapid, efficient transportation.
All the engineering advance-
ments which are to be found in
the Republic Fleetmaster are
the result of La France Re-
public’s many years of truck-
dealing experience. Unit by
unit everything about the
Fleetmaster adds up right in
the profit column.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
LnrJce, Hoskins cC- Co., Ltd.,
177-85 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
lilt Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle cC Motor Agency {Queensland), Ltd.,
Creek c€ Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: '
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth,
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. cG Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets, Wellington.
Factory Representatives:
W. A. CROWTjFj, LTD.,
Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


At the pinnacle of cjualitu
MflH
sue
.
*
i
%
>
$
v
<
O
D
$
Ik
*
$
$
ss
w
«
Prove
for yourself
the truth of our
claim that REX'PYE
stands absolutely supreme
in quality. As you open the
can, note the delicate aroma and
the clear, firm jelly. Note the
fresh colour of the meat and its
perfect texture —no gristle or
scraps of inferior meat. REX-
PYE never goes dark and stale-
looking in the can; for the raw
materials are the very choicest
meats, perfectly cooked. REX-
PYE is the finest meat in the
world.
w
Always say REX-PYE
REX-PYE
In lib and hygienic cans.
FOCGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon.


s
Comfort tit Service
at Low Cost
Quiet refinement, perfect service,
superior cuisine—these things make
the Grosvenor a good place to live
in—for a day or forever. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms, spacious lounge,
yale locks on every door. Tariff,
from £3/10/-.
cJldelauks Finest UnUceneed Fiotel
Opp. Railway Sm. North Terrace. ADELAIDE.
rIMUUI
1j
v.
-n
w
Saving
Time
in Sydney
SO many interesting things to do and
see in Sydney that every minute
must be considered precious—essential
that your hotel be absolutely central—
in a word, that it should be “The
Australia which is socially and geo-
graphically the centre of Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIA
Capital Paid Up, £422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel,
Sydney"
Illustrated
Folder sent
on request
ŵ
tJnde?
Royal
Warrant
ToH.M.
Kin 6
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAI\/IPAGIME
(Mslleifcdt
MIMS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGN*
OttilesHcidsiecv
Heims
[TgJ?
PELLISSOiM
Cognac Brandy,
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Affanw—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Chcese?
Congratulations to King’s at Parramatta
on the 9Stli birthday cake it cut last week!
Saturday was Commemoration Day, and to
the. historic school hundreds of Old Boys
rallied, looked over class-rooms grown un-
accountably small, and lived again with
old mates or their families the days of
long ago. From all over the State the Old
Boys came, and in nearly, every case a
junior of the same name, smart in the up-
turned hat and uniform of the school, walked
beside the older man. A cricket match
between past and present students was a
spirited fixture of the day.
Nice and Ningpoo can no longer swank
over Manly in the matter of crackers. Last
Saturday night the Venetian Carnival con-
cluded in the most exclamatory show of
fireworks this Letter has seen. Judging from
the ferries, half the citizens of Sydney had
come by water to see how the village did it.
Literally the harbor was alight, for when it
was not reflecting floods of red and green fire,
flower-pots arose from its deeps and bur-
geoned gorgeously. Also fashioned in fire
were youngsters see-sawing and trying to
ride buck-jumping donkeys; firedogs rode
bicycles, emus strode jerkily, kangaroos
bounded, and flaming green dragons derisively
spat red fire at swans that gracefully glided
between illuminated canoes and skiffs. An
aeroplane .whirring just overhead dropped
reverberating bombs, but no one stirred until a
blazing timepiece showed it was nine o’clock.
That was the end of the fireworks, and every-
body then turned to the sideshows —mostly
run for charitable objects. To the strains of
a mounted jazz band hundreds of couples
danced in crowded main streets, while no
more than 30 yards away an earnest band of
devotees labored no less enthusiastically to
win a Heavenly blessing.
Chief Justice Street’s lady is back on the
job. of remoulding the world of Sydney’s
afflicted a bit closer to her heart’s desire.
The guest of the Limbless Soldiers’ Provi-
dent Fund committee last week, she con-
fessed she had not done one useful thing all
the time she was away; but she added that
she. was going to make up for lost time.
Incidentally, the Appeal Fund, having just
about reached its objective of £50,000, is
about to be closed. An auxiliary will be
formed to work in conjunction with the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association, as there are
still 1200 members, most of whom make
calls on the provident fund.
Ailsa Cullen takes side-stage towards the
end of February as bridesmaid to Barbara
Littlejohn, who is marrying Bill Cullen ;
shortly afterwards she will take centre-stage
during the short hiatus that will occur be-
tween the departure of the De Chair house-
hold and the arrival of the whole Game
family. When our ex-Chief Justice becomes
Lieut.-Governor, Ailsa plays hostess, reliev-
ing her mother of most of her public duties.
She always looks as though she thoroughly
enjoys these moments—like a small girl
playing at being queen.
The ’maids’ dresses for the Littlejohn-
Cullen nuptials are to be a felicity in
Granny Smith green georgettes made with
little flat capes and skirts like a curling
wave. The flat cape has become a furore
among bridesmaids. Yet it was first de-
signed for the ’maids at a fashionable R.C.
wedding, as a delicate concession to a church
which does not approve of even its evening
brides being too bare about the arms and
neck.
The only crowd this Letter didn’t see re-
presented at Shirley Bavin’s wedding was the
coal-miners. The rest had trundled out to
St. Mark’s at Darling Point and stood like
patient oxen in the afternoon sun. Of
course, if you were a guest you waited in
the soothing dusk of the old church, but a
police sergeant and his stalwarts turned the
cold Nay of officialdom to the merely
curious or romantic. Choir-boys in full
feather heralded the bride’s progress up the
aisle on her father’s arm, and her sheaf of
white-and-gold lilies of Japanese culture
stood out, amazingly beautiful, against the
ivory satin of her frock. There was a
touch of mediaeval Italy in the frock, with
its long tight bodice, rounded neck, long
tight sleeves and trained skirt. The veil
was of Honiton lace, mellow with over 100
years, and was lent by Mrs. V. Blomfield, of
Bowral. Nancy and Valerie Bavin followed
their sister, and brought pink frocks of that
fascinating needle-run net into the picture.
The slightly-bloused bodices were girdled, with
soft pink satin ribbons, the skirts dipped
swayingly at the right side, and their hats
were the pink crinolines tipped as the uni-
versal wear for next summer. Dudley Hardy
best-manned, and Venn Wesche was grooms-
man.
The Queen’s Club resounded to the toasts,
and here, in an atmosphere heady with mag-
nificent blooms from Camden Park and the
Wahroonga garden of Mrs. R. 11. Bode, Mrs.
Bavin helped the Premier lead the party in
a navy and ivory georgette oufit that won
unanimous approval. There was a great
roll-up of the Winchcombe clan —Grandma
Winchcombe and Ken Winchcombes and
Phil Winchcombes. Bride’s brother John
was there, and his bride of last year, Marcia
Allen. Little-cousin Anne Bevan, in a ger-
anium-red hat and white chiffons, over which
some artist had scattered geranium heads,
was decorative; so was her mother. Mrs.
Archie Bevan, in hydrangea-blue chiffons.
Miss Macarthur Onslow came, and Elaine
de Chair. There was only one speech, and
that was made by Dr. Mieklem.
Shirley Bavin has always been a great
worker for the R.S.P.C.A., so much so that
for a time the society’s ball was known as
Shirley Bavin’s Ball. One of the family
friends, congratulating the new husband,
said : “Shirley will make such a good wife.
She’s always been kind to animals” !
The ’groom, Lieut.-Commander J. L.
Horn, R.N.R., is a son of that Willie Horn
whom many old S. Australians remember
with affection. Willie, one of several brothers,
mixed squatting, mining speculation and poli-
tics with unusual success: he was one of
the first directors of the great Broken Hill
Prop. Co.
.Tour n alists
used to be
very fond of
him in the
few years he
was in Parlia-
ment; mali-
cious people
said that
hard-up press-
men could
always sell a
bon mot, to
Willie Horn.
The family
moved to Eng-
-1 a n d many
years ago.
Alongside is
a Dayne pic-
ture of Shirley
Bavin, the
most photo-
graphed bride
of the week.
Miss Preston Stanley is back on her old
perch at the Feminist Club, and will once
again as president guide that group of
workers in the cause of the female rampant.
Somehow the club never seemed the same
after Miss Preston Stanley left the chair.
She was the first president, and after being
regularly re-elected for nine years it was
natural she should have created her own
atmosphere. For a time Mrs. Kenneth Street
reigned, but Mrs. Kenneth Street can’t handle
her Feminists like Miss Stanley. The pro-
posed amalgamation with the United Associa-
tion brought about a “difference of opinion”
and Mrs. Street resigned. Miss Stanley
promises to reorganise the club on “an
effective fighting basis,” but says “Please
excuse me from the tea parties.”
There was a fine roll-up of the members
of the Society of Women Writers to the
weekly lunch last week. Only once has the
attendance been larger, and that was when
Lady de Chair was the guest. To farewell
popular Jo O’Keeffe, who goes sleuthing
fashions in Europe, and to welcome Mrs.
Gaynor, who has for two years been con-
sorting with men and women of letters in
London and Edinburgh and getting the home
society affiliated with its English sisters, was
the twofold purpose. Jo, very smart in a
suit of tiny black and white checks, and
Mrs. Gaynor, in salad-greens, sat to the right
and left of president Mrs. Baverstock, while
Ethel Turner Curlewis, who sticks to blue
even as the oyster to his shell, wore her
favorite hue in fragile chiffons. Miss Stops,
clever craftswoman and organiser of the
Women’s Institute of England, came with
Dora Wilcox, and sat near poetess Mary
Gilmore, who had brought her son from the
Far North country with her. Mrs. John
Barlow (Catholic Women’s Association) and
Mrs. Goodison (Racial Hygiene Society)
were across the table from one another.
But Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones, in a white
felt hat cut straight off the brows, and wear-
ing its back brim Roman centurion fashion,
stopped the gaze of every woman. Even if
Sappho had arrived, lyrics and all, she’d
have had a tough tussle for attention against
that hat.
The writer of this Letter felt quite blasd
when Mrs. Gaynor announced the other day
that Lady Burnham (the president of the
society to which the Sydney writing women
are now affiliated) had given a luncheon
for her in London, and the guests ate
oft: gold plate! Lady Doughty,
the Eugenia Stone whose picture is in the
Jubilee Bulletin, one time Melbourne Chat-
terer, has a marvellous service of gold-plate
from which visiting Australians have often
dined. That’s almost as good as having it in
the family, isn’t it?
The Society of Women Writers has
launched a testimonial fund for Mrs. Foth-
eringhame, who for nearly half a century has
been an Inky Wayfarer. The testimonial
is to culminate in a monster bridge party,
and all good presswomen are pledging them-
selves to assist by making up tables. Many
men and women who, as small boys and
girls, read with joy “Young Australia,” the
paper edited by Mrs. and Miss Fothering-
hame in the long ago, will no doubt be eager
to help the fund. Etta Cowan is the secre-
tary, Mrs. Liddell (Y 4130) the treasurer,
and Mrs. William Macleod the president.
The death of Mrs. Whear Roberts, of
Vaucluse, snaps another link with the writing-
world of a former generation. Mrs. Roberts,
wife of a well-known journalist and mining
man, was herself known to Melbourne readers
as “Erica.” She was a Kennedy, a direct
descendant of Admiral Viscount Duncan,
Earl of Camperdown. She was a native of
Armagh, and came to Australia over 50
years ago. All her people were musicianly.
The famous Daisy Kennedy is a niece, and
Laurie and Keith Kennedy are other connec-
tions. Amateur actress Wynn Whear
Roberts is a daughter; she in the near future
will face London with a determination to
win success on the professional stage.
The dressing at the wedding of Dorothy
Fay and Jack Field was impressive. The
bride herself, arrayed in a shimmering satin
frock that the hands of Mr. Worth had built
in Paris, was steered up the aisle of All
Saints’, Woollahra, by her father, Harry
Fay, to where Padre A. H. Gallop waited to
buckle the youthful pair into double harness.
She wore a Brussels-lace veil, with an armlet
of stephanotis and frangipanni, and two
’maids in a cloud of pink tulle, armlets of
pink tiger-lilies streaming in their wake,
finished up the colorful procession. Romano’s
spread the wedding-meats, and at the
entrance to its intimate little ballroom the
bride and ’groom passed under an archway
of blue birds. Mrs. Harry Fay hostessed
in a lace frock and hat which carried all the
tones of the turquoise; the ’groom’s mother,
Mrs. Herbert Field, was smart in beige lace,
worn over vellum satin, with a gold-lace cape
and a gold-tulle turban.
St. Mark's at Darling Point will echo to-day
with its cascade of Mendelssohn when Irma
Collins, eldest daughter of the H. M. Collinses,
of Neutral Bay, becomes Mrs. Talbot Fran-
cis Featherstonliaugh. This is a Queens-
land romance, and Irma is wearing chiffons
as green as the grass that since the Heaven-
sent rains is already carpeting her bride-
groom’s sheep-run. The two met nearly
three years ago in the home of the junior
Scot Skirvings, who are also Queensland
sheep people. (If you remember, this Mrs.
Scot Skirving was a daughter of Edmund
Barton.) Mrs. Colin Rodgers, bride’s aunt,
is spreading the eat-drink-and-be-merry at
Cheddington, her Woollahra home, and Mrs.
Collins hands her daughter over. The Scot
Skirvings’ cottage at Blackheath will frame
the honeymoon.
When Phyl McLachlan, the girl in this
Dayne picture, marries Lieut-Commander
John Collins, Squadron Gunnery officer of
the Australia,
novelist Dale
Collins won’t
be the. only
genius in the
family. Phyl,
though young
in years, is a
black - and -
white artist of
d i s t i n c tion,
and lias exhi-
bited with the
Society of Ar-
tists, the Royal
Art Society
and the Women
Painters, and
once burst into
a fully fledged
one-man show.
Dale and John
are brothers,
so while her
bridegroom is
oiling up his guns, and getting an exhibi-
tion glitter on his cannon-balls, Phyl can be
designing illustrations and jacket-covers for
Dale’s novels. Solicitor Alec McLachlan
is already practising his part of giving his
daughter away.
Dale Collins, by the way, left Sydney for
home and work last week, going via Canada.
Dale finds it much easier to settle down to
toil in London than in Sydney ; here there
are too many facilities for doing the other
thing, he finds.
Joan Wilmington, whose father runs the
Bank of Commerce in Inverell, sought St.
Philip’s on Church Hill for her marriage
with Norman Ditchfield, of Strathfield. Tho
floral entanglements about the aisle and chan-
cel were worthy of special note, and the
bride’s armful of stephanotis and bouvardia
that trailed Cecil Brunner roses more than
lived up. to them. The lace veil, which is the
moment’s fashion, was sported, the brand
being Honiton, and the vintage ancient.
White satin and orange buds made up the
shining apparel. Leila Wilmington ’maided
in apricot laces and the übiquitous and be-
coming summer felt, and bride’s mother and
father beckoned the guests to the Ambas-
sadors.
When Eileen Sutherland signed the regis-
ter at St. Pat’s on Church Hill on the day
she became. Mrs. Felix Hurley, she was
merely copying her mother and grandmother.
For three generations to be married in one
church is not exactly rare; but in this parti-
cular case it was 91 years since grandma
wore her bridal veil, and 41 years since
mother did it. Both the mother and the
bride of last week were younger daughters in
large families—which explains the long
stretch of years.
Slim and pretty Mary Brigham, the belle
of Kirribilli, who is off with her mother to
Europe next month, will take with her an
engagement ring. It was clicked into place
last week by Reg D. Cook, of Manly. While
Mary is investigating the ancient architec-
ture of Greece and Rome (her pet subjects
while at the ’Varsity), the young man will be
busy building bridges at Nowra—he’s a
dental surgeon. Mary’s pa was Commissioner
for many years of' the Auckland Harbor
Board.
Sparkling little Mrs. Bob Sutherland is
up on furlough from Apia with her lean,
brown husband. When the holiday is over
—it’s been packed with dentistry and so-on
-—the two go on to Wellington in Maoriland,
where Mr. Sutherland, who is an Enzed
civil servant, lias been transferred.* Before
her marriage Mrs. Sutherland was one of
our most popular and consistent V.A.D.’s.
Shopping in Apia, she says, is easy, and
silk and cotton goods are by no means expen-
sive. Woollies are never asked for, and
Mrs. Sutherland is waiting to buy hers till
she reaches the lai : where all the good
mutton she has eaten during her married life
came from. The Tofua goes regularly from
Auckland to Apia loaded with Maoriland
carcases, and the nearest the women of the
small colony get to rebellion is when they all
want legs of mutton.
One of the saddest sights Mrs. Sutherland
saw during her spell in the tropics was
the blowing-up of the science yacht Car-
negie. She was gazing at it, all white and
sparkling on the deep blue placid waters
within the reef, when suddenly disaster shat-
tered the serenity, and within an hour no-
thing remained but a blackened rim above
the water’s edge.
Daisy Hay, who died at Lewisham H'os
pital last week, was the youngest and per-
haps the best loved of the sisters whose
family has been associated with Coolangatta,
near Berry, for over a century. She had a
quick wit and an impulsive generosity of
nature which endeared her to a very large
circle. She was a sister of Alex. Hay, some-
time M.P. for New England, and of the
late Mrs. Philip Morton. She lies near her
mother, who died last year in the only
family cemetery in the State. It is a lovely
little graveyard which looks down from a
hill on Coolangatta homestead and the ocean
beyond.
The Anzac Fellowship of Women is dat-
ing its farewell lunch to Lady de Chair and
daughter Elaine for March 17, so a profusion
of the Vice-reine’s favorite green can be dis-
played in the decoration. Tickets (55.)
from Mrs. Jessica Lee, Empire Service Club.
Songstress Emily Marks believes that
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
She herself has not been touched by the
dearth of work, but she is helping to make
a new avenue for orchestras and bands to
march on to the elusive £ s. d. She is
instituting the Harbor Community Night,
and for February 18 has chartered the Burra-
bra, which will leave the Quay at eight and
carry Cecil Morrison and his dance band in
addition to a broadcasting apparatus. This
will waft to those on land the community
singing and the jazz programme which are
to be the night’s) entertainment for the
company aboard.
The Kitchen Calendar arranged by the
Warwick branch of the Queensland Country
Women’s Association is a splendid booklet,
light enough to hang on a nail on the kitchen
wall beside the gas stove. Under every
date a recipe tried by a Queensland house-
wife is given, and the whole 365 sound so
toothsome that it must have been of such
Bacon was thinking when he wrote “reading
maketh a full man.” The calendars, sold at
2s. 6d., are to help finance the C.W.A.
hostel for country children in Warwick.
OVERHEARD.
The Spending One : “Aren’t these crystal sweet-
dishes nice! I’ll buy two of them, I think.”
The Saving One : “Oh, I’ve seen nicer ones in
china.”
The Spending One: “But I can’t afford to go to
China to shop.”


Its Marked Supremacy
in both Beauty and Behavior
confirms your Judgment • •
* | TOGETHER with other motorists, you
have seen in the new Buick the qualities
which have caused Australia to acclaim it
the year’s masterpiece of beauty and
brilliance.
Observe how thoroughly it justifies your
good opinion. Appreciate why, in this
age of progress, Buick has retained its
leadership—why Buick owners, in greater
volume than ever, are re-purchasing Buicks.
You’ll find the answer in the new
features of comfort and safety —as well as
in the new splendour and increased power
—that have made this the greatest Buick
of them all. There is wonderful handling
ease in the new steering road shock elimin-
ator, and riding ease in the double-acting
shock absorbers; there is safety in the new
Servo internal 4-wheel brakes, and in the
new non-glare windscreen. There is 8%
more power in the new valve-in-head
engine. There is a distindl appeal in the
longer, lower body lines —in the superb
new colour combinations.
Just to see the new Buick is to admire
it. To drive it is to respect its power
. . . to thrill to its speed, acceleration, and
climbing ability ... to admit its Marked
Supremacy in all that makes a car desirable.
»
1/
nt
m
35
r
\
PRICES from <^445.
Prices given subject to change without notice.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Metropolitan Distributors:
BRISBANE:
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Boyd Edkins, Ltd.,
109 Phillip Street.
MELBOURNE:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd,}
Franklin Street.
ADELAIDE:
City Motors, Ltd.,
95 Waymouth Street.
PERTH: .
Oldfield Motors,
Murray Street.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
BUICK 1930
It ’s a General Motors Car -
look inside and note the difference


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
ms
NATURE’S REMEDY, HEALTH-GIVING AND REFRESHING.
Burgoyne’s Fruit Saline is world-
famous for its wonderful health-
giving properties—it is an agree-
able, invigorating and cooling drink,
and is a speedy cure for Bilious-
ness, Sick Headaches and all fever-
ish conditions. Acting, too, as a
mild aperient, it cleanses the system
of all impurities.
AH chemists sell Burgoyne’s
Fruit Saline. Keep a bottle in the
house; all the family will enjoy it.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR
BURGOYNE’S FRUIT SALINE.
<23
The cen/re of Queens/onc/s
' eft's ft'ngutsfec/ Socto/
'fata
to RDI<SP
BRISBANE
ẃ
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
ẅ
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTI?faiOH£> E.vr
DARYL* LINDS/Y.
Synopsis : Old McCurdie, incapaci-
tated with a broken collar-bone,
grumbles at his luck in having to send
station-hand Duncan in with the buggy
to meet Boyd, who is returning to
Abernethy station after years at the
war. Boyd had left Abernethy before
the war to study law in Sydney, where
he enlisted. There were other rea-
sons for his going. His mother had
been dead some years, and his father
had proposed marrying again. Also,
old McCurdie’s dominating energy had
rather overwhelmed him. Meanwhile,
McCurdie had married, but his young
wife had never become quite recon-
ciled to station life. McCurdie, who
had represented his electorate in Par-
liament, had lost the seat over too-
pronounced utterances during the
tear, and financial troubles had made
him sell out various station and other
interests and concentrate on Aber-
nethy. The story begins with him
anxiously awaiting Boyd’s return. He
is delighted, but uncertain, and this
uncertainty of how they will now get
along together is shared by Boyd. Met
by Duncan, Boyd is being driven out
of the township, when a girl waves
to him from a passing car. He asks
Duncan who she is, but Duncan is
too busy getting the horses under con-
trol to answer. At Abernethy he
feels influences at work to hold him
to the station. He meets again Josie
Duncan, who has a tinge of black
blood in her and is the homestead
housemaid. He is visited by the girl
of the car.—his neighbor, Barbara
Mahon.
CHAPTER VI ( Continued ).
YOU’VE still got that little mark on
your forehead where Leo hit you
with the bat,” Barbara said. “Fancy
carrying that through four years of war!
And your eyes are grey, not blue. How
long are you going to stay?”
“That’s what everyone’s been asking me,”
Boyd parried. “Honestly I haven’t thought
about it very much. Haven’t I earned the
right to just laze along for awhile?”
“Oh, twice over,” she admitted; “but
you’d better do it here. Your father’s been
as lonely as the last dingo on a sheep-run
while you were away. And what doesn’t
he think of you!”
He laughed sceptically.
“No, dinkum!” she insisted. “I used to
nearly live here when I was back before.
I’m a pet of his, so he opens out to me.
Now tell me all you’ve been doing.”
Leaning back and crossing her legs she
tapped the end of a cigarette on the arm of
her chair, watching him with bright, inter-
ested eyes, and shooting out questions
when he halted. In spite of her femininity
there was a lack of self-consciousness about
her that hinted at experience in a world
filled with men’s interests rather than
women’s. He found he could talk to her as
easily as if they had lived all their lives
together. It was strange, but there was
something in the way her eyes fastened on
him that made him feel it was a permanent
vision of his essential self she was looking
at, rather than the boy he had been or the
man he had become. As for herself, she had
come back from Sydney two months before,
she told him, and was keeping house for
Leo; but it was only a temporary arlange-
ment. Leo was going to be married to one
of the Aiken girls very soon.
“He’s the same big, good-humored baby
he used to be,” she told him; “never happy
unless he has a woman to fuss over him.”
But she was not inclined to talk about
the background of her own life. With little
evasive movements she glided from it into
the past they had shared, evoking the
tastes and scents of childhood with a
gusto that was almost extravagant. There
was the musty smell of old chaff in the
saddle-room where they had hunted for
rats, the pungent, salty flavor of the yab-
bies they had cooked in a treacle-tin down
by the lagoon, the breath of dried mul-
berry-leaves and cardboard that came from
the boxes where they kept their silkworms.
In that game of conjuring up pictures and
atmospheres she was quicker than he.
From the kitchen Josie Duncan emerged
soft-footed with a tray, and from her quiet
face as she spread the tea-things on the
bamboo-table she might have been as deaf
to the memories they were recalling as an
image of wood. She arranged the cups and
saucers, picked up an ash-tray that had
fallen to the floor, and then glided away
like a shadow.
“And the kingfishers’ nests in the sandy
bank of the little waterhole!” Barbara was
saying.
It was the flash of a ring on her finger
as she poured out the tea that aroused
Bojffi to a realisation that life had moved
on since they had last met. Sentences in
old letters from his father, letters he had
never read very carefully, floated vaguely
before him. Hadn’t Barbara married some
doctor or other, who had been putting in
a few months at the township hospital? And
if that were so, how was it she was keeping
house for Leo now? Only occasionally,
when her face was in repose, did she give
a hint of some dark, impenetrable patch of
undergrowth at the back of her mind to
which her thoughts returned. When she
was talking the light on her face and the
bright immediacy of her manner, even her
trim, crossed legs and short skirts, sustained
the illusion that she was still a girl.
“No, I must go home,” she said, when he
pressed her to stay till the others came
BARBARA.
back. “I only came to borrow a few books
—and to see you. Oh yes, I can’t pretend
I hadn’t a flapperish eagerness to see you
again, Boyd. You can catch your horse and
ride part of the way home with me if
you like.”
She went through the house, searching for
new magazines with the quick, avid eyes of
a bower-bird looking for colored things to
adorn its playhouse. It was apparent that
she was quite at home at Abernethy. She
gave a quick glance at the gramophone
records in the cabinet, pressed her nose for
a moment against the glass panes of the
bookcase, and then fastened on a couple of
paper-covered novels lying in a comer.
“I’ve got my own books, just a few,”
she explained, “but sometimes I like to
stuff myself. Anything in the nature of a
story!”
She was gay as they rode off together,
putting their horses at logs beside the track
in the old way, and it was only when he
was coming back that he felt she had left
something unexplained behind her. For a
person so frank she had told him singu-
larly little of her life, and had been mainly
concerned with asking about his. His mind
travelled back over what he knew of the
family—old Wally, with his grey, pointed
beard, and his habit of talking copiously
about the last thing he had read ; _ the
mother with her water-colors and her inca-
pacity for keeping a house tidy; Leo, a fat,
awkward boy, inclined to blubber if he
barked his shins or get knocked over when
they were playing. There had been a
charm for him about Niva Downs, with its
impromptu meals and its general air of a
place that carried an overdraft; it was so
different from his own home. And
strangely enough there had been a charm
for his father about the place, too. The
old man had always been ready to stand
behind Wally Mahon, tiding him over bad
periods, and carrying stock of his without
agistment-fees when Niva Downs was suf-
fering from drought.
“Barbara was here this afternoon,” he
told the old man that evening at dinner,
“Barbara Mahon. But no—that can’t be
her name now. Married, isn’t she?”
“Married?” grunted McCurdie. “Yes,
worse luck. Made a fool of herself when
she was quite a youngster.”
There was a rumble of resentment in his
voice, as if some underground current of
emotion had been set moving in him. Boyd
caught a gleam in Ada’s china-blue eyes
behind the teapot. There was no malice in
that sudden brightening, but it seemed to
betray a pleasure in the irregularity of Bar-
bara’s position at Niva Downs. Had Bar-
bara said when she was going back to
Sydney? she asked. It must be very dull
for her over there with no one but Leo
and the housekeeper!
“Frank Day’s got such a good practice in
Sydney,” Ada said irrelevantly. “Built it
MRS. McCURDIE (Ada).
up out of nothing. Every one says he’s
quite clever.”
“Quite,” chimed in McCurdie ironically.
“One of the new sort who’s grown rich
through a sort of butcher’s skill with the
knife—that’s Day, Diagnosis through cold,
steel!”
Yet he did not seem to want to talk
about Barbara, at least not in front of Ada.
She had come to the place a good deal,
Boyd discovered, when she was back at
Niva Downs a couple of years before, and
together she and his father had followed
his own movements on the big map in the
office, sticking in tiny flags that could be
changed when letters and cables came
through. There was nothing strange in
that, of course; nothing strange even in the
fact that the old man resented Barbara
marrying a fellow he disliked. After all,
she was the only daughter of Wally Mahon,
his closest friend, and what more natural
than that he should feel bound to keep a
paternal eye on her? Especially since he
had no daughter of his own!
But when her name cropped up later in
the evening, Boyd felt that the question of
her marriage roused more warmth in the
old man than the facts warranted. His
father did not know Frank Day; had only
met him casually once or twice when he
was locum tenens at the township hospital.
And he had no positive knowledge that
Barbara was not happy enough in her mar-
ried life.
“Of course she’s unhappy with him,” he
asserted dogmatically. “Would she be run-
ning back so often to stay with Leo if she
wasn’t? But you can’t get anything out of
Barbara. Talk? Yes, about everything
that doesn’t matter, but when it comes to
her own affairs she’s close as an oyster.
Even with me.”
It flashed upon Boyd that his father
would have been perfectly happy if he had
married Barbara and settled down at Aber-
nethy, or on a place somewhere near. The
idea struck him as odd, for he had never
thought of Barbara that way. When her
image had come before his eyes in the years
he had been away, it had been that of a
changeless girl, with a slight eager stutter
in her voice and a habit of taking little
skips when she walked. And, to tell the
truth, he had not thought of her very
often. From the time he went to school
the emotional side of _ him had been en-
grossed by an intermittent succession of
girls, all real enough for awhile, but fading
like phantoms as soon as they had passed
from his immediate range.
Barbara was different, perhaps. Her
teeming memories of their childhood, and
the warmth and glow of her presence, had
roused a sense of continuity in him; it was
pleasant to feel that his days had not been
altogether spent among broken, fragmen-
tary things, but could be resolved into a
definite pattern. And their meeting had
stirred a certain excitement in him; he was
stimulated by the memory of those dancing
eyes of her, the way her lips parted, the
sound of her voice when she said, “Oh
Boyd!” But as for feeling angry with the
man she had married, or even very curious
about him, there could be no question of
that. For the time being the object of his
father’s hostility was just a shapeless figure
on the edge of the horizon.
“Barbara’s the sort of woman who could
always keep her end up,” he thought, as her
image came back to him on the verge of
sleep. “No hint of the crushed and broken
wife about her!”
CHAPTER VII.
At Niva Downs.
He did not make his way over to Niva
Downs till nearly a fortnight later, since all
hands were needed at the station for the
preliminary work of getting the fat cattle
ready for the road. They had been waiting
in the spare paddock, five hundred of them,
while the plant was being assembled—pack-
horses, stores and men, the most difficult
job being to procure the men. It was
always the overseer’s privilege to take the
cattle down the three hundred miles to the
trucking-station. He liked the long days
in the saddle, the meetings with other
cattlemen at wayside pubs, the endless
speculations about the sort of country he
would like to settle on as he rode over
the sheep-dotted plains of the Culgoa. A
long journey down in the stock-train, a
couple of days in Sydney looking at the
surf-beaches and the shipping, and he would
return contentedly to the old routine again.
“Jeff’s periodical burst!” Larry said
maliciously. “He’ll buy a couple of neck-
ties and a new pair of spurs and come back
feeling he’s had a hell of a spree.”
Boyd found Barbara practising golf-shots
on the strip of cropped grass in front of
the homestead, her hat off and her arms
bare to the shoulder. There was the same
look of concentration in her eyes, as she
measured the distance and swung, that he
remembered when she was playing draughts
(Continued on page 51.)


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff ' from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station ; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
w
Ohe
Church Hill,
Sydney
.Is fit
111
tm
in
#l4
AUSTRALIA’S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
ŵ
TO MARKALL LINEN
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.’
dsc ffinV2ttccun&'
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
'Write for Name Style Circular to
1 Sr I f ASH AUSTRALIAN
«/• WEAVING C 0 PTY. LTO
85 CUBITTST.. RICHMOND MELB
f^CEs
12 d
7/6
6d
5/.
•3 do*.
3/6 ,
Sil
WASHING
RIBBONS
I
for
Lmdeirie
AS NEW AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING
Papers 1
Melbourne
Chatter
There will be a recurrence of social gaieties
about the last week of this month, when the
Australian Gup meeting and the polo tourna-
ment will be a substantial background to
dances and bridge parties. State Government
House will put on a hop; and the Polo Ball
of the period, to be staged on March 7 at
the Rex, will be another popular whirl. As
at Sydney, the proceeds of the P.B. will be
handed over to the local branch of the Coun-
try Women’s Association. Lady Somers is
on the organising committee.
Archbishop Head is much taken with
the scheme of the C.W.A. to provide an
occasional view of our coastline to women
and children from the Mallee. He means
to tell them about it overseas, and next year
>.nere will be bed and board at Bishopscourt
for a few of the guests from out back. The
announcement was made at the afternoon-
tea party given to Malleeites in the Botanical
Gardens at the mid-week, a general gather-
ing of the women and kiddies scattered at
various spots along our beaches. The
women’s section of the Royal Automobile
Club and some other kindly persons with
ears motored the guests to the rendezvous.
It was a cheery afternoon, with Boy Scouts
to stage the games for the boys, and Elsie
Bennett, general secretary of the Y.W.C.A.,
and some associates to do the same for the
girls. Tea was served beneath the trees
about the kiosk, while the orchestra of the
Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind went
through a musical programme. The Mitchell
lady, as president of the C.W.A., and Mr.'
Edgar, M.L.C., gave a greeting to the guests;
and the Archbishop converted himself into a
clerical Santa Claus and distributed gifts
to the youngsters.
At Menzies’ there was a tea-drinking in
honor of Littleton Groom’s lady, who is
down from Bananaland for a few weeks.
John Quick’s wife sent out the invitations.
The guest wore a black chiffon gown pat-
terned in fawn and rose, topped by a large
hat. The hostess’s figured sapphire blue
satin frock had millinery of the same hue.
Jessie Groom had a posy of pink and mauve
blossoms nestling on a crinoline hat that
was allied to biscuit-colored satin upholstery.
Mrs. Albert Miller, the Higgins lady, Mrs.
Robert Hunter and Mrs. R. McDonald were
among those present.
A gay party assembled at the Hesperia
Club last week to celebrate the birthdays of
the founder, Ramigio Budica, and engineer
Leslie Buddie. Mrs. Balaam, who left by
the Trans, line next day to board a liner
at Fremantle, made her last appearance at
the gathering. Others present were Mr. and
Mrs. Alec Beach, she showing touches of
red on black furnishings; Dr. Lily Jorgensen
and her artist husband; Isobel Gordon,
Marcel Crevelli, Thelma Bucknell, several
medicoes and a few legal lights.
The Railway Department sacrifices a lot
of income by running very few trains on
Sunday morning, and no trams at all until
after luncheon. Another consequence is that
every Sabbath sees dozens of motor vehicles
unlicensed for passenger service, such as
lorries, covered waggons and vans, danger-
ously crammed with picnickers. Hundreds
of people go to the beaches at their own
peril in this way .during the warm week-ends
owing to the Government’s obstinate refusal
to provide cheap, means of locomotion.
Bridge is to be utilised to keep the flag
of orchestral music flying in Melbourne.
Mi's- Harry Emmerton, lately back from a
tour of Japan and China, is lending her
home, Raveloe, South Yarra, for a card-
gathering to put a handful of silver into
the Million Shillings Fund for a permanent
orchestra.
Another local singer, Gertrude Hutton, is
off overseas next month. She is well known
as a teacher, and practically demonstrates
her own good mezzo-contralto notes on the
concert platform, and on the Sabbath at
the Australian Church, where she is a solo-
ist. A farewell concert has been arranged
for March 5 at the Assembly Hall, when the
Musical Society trio of pianist Rita Hope,
violinist iCoral Trenerry and ’cellist Eliza-
beth Lester will assist their co-musician.
Girls who lose a hankie a day should wel-
come the reappearance of the feminine
pocket. Many years have gone since we
deplored its passing. At present the restored
adjunct to a frock is little more than orna-
mental, but it is certain to develop in the
utility direction. A Bond-street (London)
house is making a letter-box slit across the
back of its latest models, just a trifle above
the normal waist-line, intended for the
hankie. Husbands whose pockets have been
commandeered to carry odd trifles will be
glad to see wifie’s come back, wherever its
situation.
The Vic. Lawn Tennis Association is
giving a dance at Kooyong Clubhouse on
the 22nd, a curtain-raiser for the festivities
that will attend the race-polo season. John
F. Koch is the secretary.
The Victor Whites, of Lalworth, Roslyn
Gardens, Sydney, and of Belltrees, Scone
(N.S.W.), are in Melbourne. They came
down to meet their son Paddy, who is re-
turning after five years at Cheltenham Col-
lege, England. With Mrs. G. Williams and
Mrs. Gilruth, they were present at Williams-
town Races on Saturday.
The Percy Berry couple returned from
an English tour the other day, bringing their
daughter Lulu back with them for a short
stay. She became Mrs. G. F. Granville
about three years ago. She was always in-
terested in politics, and quite accustomed
to public speaking. Soon after their mar-
riage her husband, who is a Liberal, won
a seat in the House of Commons for
a Suffolk constituency, his wife throw-
ing herself into the campaign with a Will.
Mrs. Granville returns to England at the
end of this month or the beginning of March.
Another Maorilander is embarking in the
same line as Thurza Rogers as a demon-
strator of the classic dance. This is Rona
Vaughan, who returned last week from
London, where for two years she has been
studying the Russian ballet at Novikoff’s
School. For a few months Miss Vaughan
was attached to the Carl Rosa opera when
it was touring England.
Some years ago India and Ceylon were
such happy matrimonial hunting-grounds
that Australian girls who went holidaying
there frequently equipped themselves with a
trousseau, “just in case.” During the war
and after there was a lull in the demand
for marriageable young ladies, but the latest
accounts suggest that the travelling Aus-
tralienne is once again liable to be rushed
with offers from lonely bachelors in the
Army or the Civil Service and wealthy
planters. As several brides-elect have rushed
back home to collect lingerie and sacrificial
white satin, tulle and orange buds, girls
contemplating a stay in such places as
Colombo would save money and time by
leaving these shores properly equipped for
altar contingencies.
Mrs. Her old Kyng, pictured here by Jack
Cato, is a pianist who will appear on the
concert plat-
form this
year, and has
already joined
the Univer-
si t y Conser-
vatorium staff
as teacher.
She is the wife
of the English
baritone who
came last year
to teach at
the Con. A
daughter o f
Dr. and Mrs
W. F. Paul,
of Brisbane,
she has revert-
e d to her
maiden name,
Gwendo Paul,
for profes-
sional use.
She studied
under Emily Suter in Brisbane, and later
at the N.S.W. Conservatorium, and won an
exhibition which took her to the London
Royal College of Music.
There is a “Henley on the Maribyrnong”
in January, and the month seems more judi-
ciously chosen than that for the parent fix-
ture on the Yarra. The Maribyrnong stream
wanders around the back of the Flemington
racecourse and is a tributary of the city’s
better-known waterway. On its banks, with
due gala accompaniment of bands, houseboats,
decorated canoes, gay umbrellas, airiest
frocks and smartest hats, Essendon and
Maribyrnong gathered the other day and
watched a programme of 46 events. The
reserve near the bridge is in process of becom-
ing quite a picturesque park. The Mayor
of Essendon and Mrs. Fenton poured tea for
their guests in a well-shaded houseboat;
while the North Suburban Club and the
Essendon Angling and Fish Protection
Society dispensed similar hospitality on
flower-decked covered pontoons.
Florence Herd, who is back in Melbourne
again after nearly five years on the other
side of the world, will have her future home
in London : she is to be married early next
month to James Shuter. She met her future
partner during her tour, and he came with
her to have a glimpse of Australia. Her
people are the David Herds, of Yurnga.
Croquet still has its ardent votaries, especi-
ally down Brighton way, where experts
gather. Mrs. J. W. Stranger, who has
relinquished her strenuous job of club secre-
tary after 14 years’ service _there, was fare-
welled with a glittering timepiece and a
wallet.
Given in marriage last week, Jean Ruther-
ford Brown, only daughter of the Norman
Browns of Tarpunga, Balldale (N.S.W.), the
receiver being Murray Withers, station owner,
of Kildonan, Cobram. He is the younger
son of Mrs. John H. Withers, of Brung
Brungle, Toorak. The Rev. Dr. W. Borland
tied the knot at Scots’ Church, which had a
floral setting. White chiffon and silver lace
made the bride’s frock, which dipped at the
sides and mingled with the cascade of white
tulle, from an orange-bud wreath. There
were three ’maids, whose flesh-pink felt hats
had the backward droop that followed the line
of their flounced upholstery of gold-toned
ninon. After the ceremony there was dancing
and a wedding supper at No. 9, the bride’s
mother wearing filmy black lace draperies
allied to shiny black millinery.
This is Mrs. Herbert Brookes, formerly
Ivy Deakin, the eldest daughter of the
memorable
Alfred. She
and her two
children went
with her hus-
band to New
York when he
took on the
billet of Aus-
tralian Com-
missi o n e r
there. She has
inherited much
of her father’s
ability and de-
lightful sense
of humor and
not a little of
his eloquence.
Her first visit
to America
was made
when she was
two years old,
and she was
there again as a schoolgirl.
Lola Meredith-Plall came from Seymour
to whisper her “I will” to Val B. Johnson,
of Caulfield, at All Saints’, St. Kilda. Gloss
of white satin, strewn with pearls and rhine-
stones, formed the bride’s gown, which melted
into an uneven scalloped hem-line. There
was the usual surrounding of tulle suspended
from an orange bud trail and guarded by a
wee maid in Kate Greenaway dress. The
two attendant ’maids wore apple-green ninon
frocks made in the fashionable oddments
mode, with softly green felt hats, and car-
ried cool-looking water-lilies. The bride’s
mother, Mrs. C. Meredith, of Tervue, Sey-
mour, hostessed the reception at No. 9.
Ivory satin that deployed into graceful pleats
at the sides and fell in a flowing train behind
was the upholstery in which Marjorie Kimp-
ton changed her name at the Mtelb. Grammar
School Chapel on the 3rd. The severe plain
cut of the robe, and the tulle and lace veil,
fashioned cap-like, emphasised -the wearer’s
tall and shapely figure. The bride, who
carried a sheaf of white roses, is the elder
daughter of the A. E. Ivimptons of Toorak ;
the ’groom, Aubrey Hicks Lawson Gibson, is
the son of Mrs. John Gibson, also of Toorak.
The ’maids were Bea Kimpton, Helen Mac-
Millan, Mollie Neil and Barbara Bryans,
wearing chiffon of dawn-pink hue that wan-
dered from the straight path into the fulness
of godet flares. A gold ribbon circled felt
hats of the delicate blush tint, and roses to
blend were carried. Fully three hundred
guests stepped into Menzies’ for the after-
celebration. A trip to England via America
by the Niagara is the setting for the honey-
moon.
A 6ft. sin. bridegroom stepped into St.
Patrick’s Cathedral last week. He was
Trevor Wilton, whose family live at Jerilderie
(N.S.W.), and the bride was Alice Margaret
Lardi, who came with her mother from
Adelaide for the event. Orange blossoms
were twined in the shining hair coiled about
her ears, and a rich lace veil flowed down
over a shimmer of satin. Though a well-
grown girl, she will go through life looking
up to her partner. One pink-frocked atten-
dant followed her to th e altar.
The engagement is announced of Ralph
E. May, of the Stock Exchange and the
firm of John May and Sons, and Gertie,
youngest daughter of the late R. W. Kennedy
and of Mrs. Kennedy, of East St. Kilda.
The bridegroom-elect is the youngest son of
the John Mays, of Toryburn, Darebin-
street, Heidelberg. His father gave up the
job of classical-master at the P.L.C. to
plunge into the maelstrom of stocks and
shares.
On the 17th the G. Downtons, of Braca-
dale, Caulfield, will motor their youngest
daughter, Lilian, to All Saints’ Church, East
St. Kilda, where George Jones, of Bedford,
England, will be waiting to claim her. The
wedded pair will take the express for Syd-
ney and travel to America in the Tahiti, and
thence to the U.K.
Various exhibitions are open for competi-
tion at the University Conservatorium ex-
aminations on the 18th. The public exami-
nations in music, which return between £4OO
and £6OO annually, provide the fund for these
exhibitions, three of which entitle the holders
to free tuition for three years at the Con-
servatorium.
If one could believe the Firm capable of
such a thing one would have imagined they
had given a free ticket for “Follow Through’’
at the Royal on Saturday to every out-of-
work actor and assistant wrapped up in
instructions headed “Applaud in the Follow-
ing Places.” Not only did Gus Bluett, Cecil
Ivellaway, Mary Lawson, Molly Fisher and
Michael Cole get a tumultuous hand which
interrupted the proceedings for long periods,
but perfectly obscure persons whose names
were previously barely known to this Letter
received the same treatment. Even the fre-
quent Ivellaway changes of raiment were not
allowed to pass without prolonged clapping,
accompanied by screams expressive of feminine
astonishment; items of scenery and chorus
ensembles received the same tributes. If
the famous Theatre Royal cat had only
walked 0n... . but that animal seems to be
another victim of the talkies.
The job of creating an impression of in-
tense heat was largely taken off the hands
of Leon Gordon, Frank Bradley and others
at the Comedy on Saturday by the weather.
The dirty rags with which the “White
Cargo” inmates wiped the sweat of tropical
Africa off their faces were duplicated by the
fans and lace hankies in the audience. There
was nearly a full house despite the tempera-
ture. There had been speculation as to how
Mary MacGregor, hitherto seen exclusively
in ingenue roles, would carry the load of
immorality and unbridled passion of Ton-
deleyo. However, the ingenue is the same
the world over, whether she goes about in a
loincloth or a silk come-hither. The Austra-
lian girl came up to expectations and the
audience got the usual thrill from the seduc-
tion scene in the disreputable-looking bun-
galow.
The Tom Luxtons staged a jolly dance at
their home at Frankston during the week, a
sort of grand finish to the golf tournaments
that have been enlivening that seaside.
The Joseph Fells, whose town domicile is
at Cliveden Mansions, are among those leav-
ing for Europe this week. Mrs. Jervis Crespiu
is accompanying her parents. Mr. and Mrs.
Percy Russell, also residents of the one-time
Clarke mansion, gave a bridge party as a
farewell to the travellers.
H. E. Spry and his wife, who is profes-
sionally known as pianist Violet Ewart, are
due to return this week from a European
tour of over a year. They are bringing back
many new works, including several orchestral
scores., for .production here by the Melbourne
Symphony' Orchestra under Fritz Hart’s
baton.
Hilda Meadows and William Johns, presi-
dent of the Victorian Optical Association,
have a date for the Methodist Church, St.
Ivilda, next week. The bride-elect, _who will
be attended by Agnes Ludlow, will reject
usual trappings of tulle and orange blossoms
for floral chiffon with a shady hat. Only
relatives will be present at the ceremony.
Miss Meadow's is one of Melbourne’s most
talented pianists, and has several composi-
tions to her credit.
Another travel book is being compiled by
G. Hermon Gill and his wife (Esther Pater-
son). The materials were obtained during
their recent trip to England, when they
motored all over the country and found time
for a run across to Ireland. Their joint
handiwork will have little in common with
the ordinary guidebook; it will be brimful of
breezy anecdotes and illustrated with sketches
by Mrs. Gill as well as photographs.
People who have sick or injured animals
will be able to get free treatment for them
next month, when the Animal _ Welfare
League will open its animal clinic in the
grounds of the University Veterinary School.
Lord Somers wall be present to give the
kindly work his official blessing. The clinic
will receive patients on Monday and Friday
afternoons from two to five, when there will
be a skilled vet. to consult. Mrs. C. Lort
Smith is the hon. organising secretary of
the A.W.L., and Mrs. E. H. Davidson the
president.
A woman well wrapped in an expensive
pelt -regularly deposited her baby at the
local free erbehe every Thursday. The com:
mittee decided that so affluently-attired a
person had no claim on this species of alms,
and the secretary was bidden to interrogate
the lady. Then'it came out that she was a
mere shareholder with six others in the
garment, and her tenancy of it was limited
to one day in the week.
The Government Tourist Bureau is try-
ing a new method of advertising Melbourne’s
beauty spots. A. E. Williams, one of its
officers, visited the Comorin on the incoming
liner’s tying-up at Prince’s Pier, and distri-
buted printed information about the most
attractive short trips to the hills, the beaches
and around the city. He found a brisk
demand for liis propaganda.


JEWELLERY OF SPECIAL VALUE
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
Drummonds are at present showing an unusually
attractive range of fine Diamond, Pearl and Precious
Stone Jewellery, made in • their workshop on the
premises, and full of character and distinctiveness,
equalling in superlative quality and perfect workman-
ship the finest importations, and infinitely superior to
any selection of jewellery ever made in Australia.
m, Bt'ummontr & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ŵ
y> BO*ti>£jrs tc co'vrftstcro&s' f*Jt/cc 800/r
SS i<X\ 'srw i r* j r-.,i..i,
MAYES’ AUSTRALIAN
Builders and
Contractors’
PRICE BOOK
Practically Re-written in every
Branch of Construction, greatly en-
larged, illustrated and alphabetically
arranged .
9th EDITION
Price 15/-. Posted 15/4.
Right up-to-date. Invaluable for
ARCHITECTS, SHIRE ENGINEERS
AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
ESTIMATES FOR
All kinds of House Building Costs, Fitting and Lighting, Wire and other Fencing, Automatic
Closing Gates Plough and Scoop Work, Tank and Well Sinking, Excavation, Dam Making,
Septic g Tanks, Pumpsf Windmills, Hydraulic Rams, Tractors, Pelton Wheels, Oil and other Engines,
Wood Stave Pipes, Boring for Water, Tree Rooting and Logging Plants, EeUmg and Squaring
Trees and Working of Timber, Pneumatic Tools for all classes of Boring, Dulling and Hammer
Tools. Different Air Compressors illustrated, with prices. Concrete Mixeis Modern Road-mak g
Plant, Modern Construction Tables for Reinforced Concrete Facing of Buildings (Faence)
Terra-cotta, Sandstone, Ceramic, etc.
All Building Costs can be checked with the aid of
MAYES’ BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS’ PRICE BOOK.
ẁ
Absolutely and Definitely
NO
Increase in Price
The finest batteries in Australia for long life, reliability
and clearer reception, available at the best value.
Old Tupe
2>.
2*
2*
1
oiam
BATTER
Rad
8 Weeks
"[TheWhole One Solid
Mass of High Grade
Insulating Material
Drawn Zinc Can Wrapped in
Special Insulating Parchment
and Paraffined as an Extra
Peircaution
\
0
Cardboard Strip
The Cells that Excel.”
Diamond Radio Batteries are constructed on
the distinctive “Section Protection” principle—
they are extra insulated, and thus safeguarded
against leakage—advancements and refine-
ments that make for leadership in the Diamond.
Illustrations show the ordinary type, and the
latest Diamond.
NOTE THESE FEATURES.
]. Solid Drawn Zinc Can (absolutely no leakage).
2. Each Cell individually insulated with special parch-
ment.
3. Each Cell further insulated by cardboard strips.
4. All Cells then embedded in highest-quality insulat-
ing material.
5. Protected Top Seal.
Diamond Cells are supplied to Government Depart-
ments —they pass a rigid factory test, and have been
proved over a period of 1 0 years.
are superior—they
Diamond Batteries,
Diamond Radio Batteries
are better value and are Australian-made. Recently, owing to the increased demand for
the number of employees at the Diamond Battery factory has been increased by 38%.
CATALOGUE FREE.
PRICES:
“B” BATTERIES.
AT ALL RADIO DEALERS.
Direct Factory Distributors:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY
Ground Floor, “Whitehall,” Bank Place, Melbourne.
N.S.W. Representatives:
REG. ROSE & COMPANY, Kembla
Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
W.A. Representative:
CARLYLE & COMPANY,
Hay Street, Perth.
V*
m
w %
, ■>(
ND


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds - -- -- -- -- -- £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed ----- £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in the following departments:—
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS.
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
All Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim, Bonus.
E. H. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait,
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
FOLLOW THROUGH.
With GUS BLUETT, CECIL KELLAWAY.
IVJEW COMEDY THEATRE,
' Commencing Saturday Next.
LEON GORDON in
THE POPPY GOD.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
Two 100 Per Cent. Talkies.
See! Hear! DOROTHY REVIER in
LIGHT FINGERS.
(G.A.F. All-Talking Feature.)
Also See! Hear! REGINALD DENNY in
EMBARRASSING MOMENTS.
(Universal All-Talking Picture.)
Legal Notices.
HTO COLIN CAMPBELL ROBERTSON
formerly of the Military Camp Maribyr-
nong in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ROSE
ROBERTSON has commenced proceedings
in the Supreme' Court of Victoria for a
divorce on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before Wednesday the 12tli day of March
1930 the suit may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs If
you intend to defend the suit you must also
file an answer in the said office on or before
the 22nd day of March 1930.
This advertisement is inserted by C. M. S.
Power, of the Titles Office, Melbourne, Pub-
lic Solicitor for Victoria, Solicitor for the
Petitioner..
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1697 of 1929.
BETWEEN IVY MYRTLE MAIN Peti-
tioner and RAYMOND MAIN Respond-
ent.
TO RAYMOND MAIN late of Broken Hill
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Ivy Myrtle
Main has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirtieth day of April One thousand
nine hundred and thirty and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard your absence
notwithstanding A copy of the petition nled
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this fifth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
F. C. Sinclair, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
2b Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
L-lAY, EDWARD LIND (commonly known
as Ned Hay). Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the above-named is asked
to communicate with Waddell, Davies and
Sharpe, Solicitors, Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney. He was last heard of in
Townsville, Queensland, in 1915, and then
expressed an intention of going to the opal
fields.
DENJAMIN JOHN HODGES, Deceased.
BE MRS. MARY ANN HOPES, De-
ceased.
IF the children or descendants of Ben-
jamin John Hodges, formerly of Doulting,
Somerset, England, who went to Australia
many years ago and is believed to have sub-
sequently died there, will communicate with
NALDER & LITTLER, Solicitors, Shepton
Mallett, Somerset, England, they may hear
of something to their advantage.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ẅ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND
15
GLORIOUS
DAYS FOR
£ 3 3
MELBOURNE TO MELBOURNE.
Sixteen days of sheer enjoyment!
In the wonderland of the South—
New Zealand Nature has been
most lavish with her gifts—snow-
clad mountains, sparkling lakes,
evergreen forests, flashing water-
falls and crystal-clear streams —
and sport unlimited.
You NEED a holiday. Spend it
in the South of New Zealand
16 glorious days for £33. Steam-
ers sail from Melbourne to the
Bluff on:—
Thursday . . . February 20
Thursday March 13
Thursday April 3
and every three weeks thereafter.
Write for booklet.
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT
AGENCY,
E., S. & A. Bank Building,
Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me FREE Booklet, “16 Glorious
Days for £33.”
Name
Address
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
ẃ
walked up
the aisle
of St. George’s
Cathedral on
the arm of
brother George
to keep a tryst
with S i d-
ney Bell. The
beautiful gown
of ivory moire
was cut with
period bodice
and lon g
sleeves, and a
glint of silver
lame peeped
among the
flares of the
1o n g skirt.
A swirl of
tulle veil
foamed over
the silver lame
train. Atten-
dants Pliyllis Hadley and Betty McDonald,
clad in lapis-lazuli georgettes and matching
blue hats, carried sheafs of pink carnations,
lilies and rosebuds. The merrymaking was
at Temple Court. Bardwell Clarke clicked
the lens.
Walter James’s lady packs trunks this
week for the Cold Land. She goes on a visit
to her mother at the old family home in
Carmarthen, Wales, and a clever sister, who
is matron of one of London’s biggest hos-
pitals. Members of the Red Cross said fare-
well in the Legislative Council Hall, where
Mrs. John Nicholson in a black suit stitched
with white and Mrs. Cowan in blue foulard
did the honors. Bouquets of pink and mauve
carnations were presented to the guest, who
murmured her thanks in a blue patterned
crSpe de Chine gown and a blue and white
hat. Daughter Judy chose summery white
with sprays of French embroideries. Tea
was served in the president’s room.
More teacups clattered for the departing
ones when members of the executive of the
National Council of Women bade their vice-
president God-speed in the Karrakatta Club.
The lady will be a delegate at the quin-
quennial International Conference to be held
in Vienna.
Alison Baird and Nessie Horgan will
demonstrate in Botany and Zoology respec-
tively when the Uni. opens in March. Both
are old P.L.C. girls and got their B.Sc.
degrees at Perth. Since her graduation Miss
Horgan has been teaching physics at her
Alma Mater, and Miss Baird has looked
after the chemistry department at Perth
College.
From February 25 to March 7 classes in
rural household science will be conducted at
the University. The Railway Department
has recognised their worth and will issue
return tickets at the price of single fares.
The R. O. Law mansion in Colin-street
was festive during the week when daughter
Margot in a gown of maize gaze-de-soie raised
a welcoming hand to a bevy of youthful
dancers. Mrs. Law chose a black toilette witli
scintillations. Among the guests, nearly all
from deb. and sub-deb. circles, were Mary
Forrest, Yvonne Brinkley, Josephine and
Dorothy Temperley, Tom Stewart, Noel
Hampshire, Alec Forrest and Dick McMichael j
(Adelaide).
Surfers and others who make a detour
down Cottesloe-avenue will be repaid by the
blaze of color in Mr. Dyer's garden. Perfect
specimens of Australia’s most beautiful
native flower, the Sturt desert pea, make a
riot of scarlet through two round beds. Some
of the dozen seeds came from Carnarvon and
the rest from Broken Hill. Incidentally,
Sturt desert peas were plucked by William
Dampier on our north-west coast 150 years
before they received their present name;
fragments of them are preserved in a museum
at Oxford.
Motorists should be hardy to tackle a
transcontinental jaunt in midsummer. Re-
cently a young couple started off from Syd-
ney, had a delightful trip down the Prince’s
Highway and on to Adelaide, crossed S.A.
without mishap and had broken the back of
the desert section when a skid and a tree
combined to wreck their car. The man,
after filling up the water-bags from the
radiator, had to leave his young wife uncon-
scious, walk 18 miles under a scorching sun
and ride bareback for another 16 before he
reached Fraser’s Range station, where he
found good Samaritans, who lost no time in
effecting a l’escue. But it took an all-day
trip per truck over a bumpy road to bring
the patient to Norseman, and a week was
spent in the hospital of that sunbaked town.
The travellers bore up philosophically, al-
though it was nearly the last straw when
they found that a particularly good camera
and other possessions had been pilfered from
the abandoned car.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Adelaide has been in the throes of a heat
wave since January 28, and every night the
beaches are thronged. It is years since there
has been such a sustained run of dog-days.
The attendance at TattersalFs meeting
suggested that it was beginning to tell. At
the ladies’ luncheon and afternoon tea Mrs.
P. J. Flannagan (wife of the chairman) was
supported by only two committeemen’s wives,
Mrs. ,C. R. J. Glover and Mrs. H. A. Morris.
But neither heat nor cold would keep our
greatest woman sport, Mrs. W. T. Mortlock,
away from a race meeting. She takes no in-
terest in the fashions on the lawn or in the
grandstand ; it is pure love of the sport that
is the magnet. Both her sons run horses,
and her brother, F. A. Tennant, and his viva-
cious little wife are equally keen racegoers.
The llore-Ruthvens are reluctantly part-
ing with their son Pat, who is returning to
his studies in England. Government House
will seem quiet without him and the late
Hugh Grosvenor. His Ex. was at the races
on Saturday at Victoria Park, but Lady
Hore-Ruthven is content to remain at Marble
Hill among the gum-trees.
The Comorin brought back Mr. and Mrs.
Dick Legoe; the latter has been on an exten-
sive tour of India, where she and her sister,
Ursula Barr-Smith, were the guests of Gen-
eral and Lady Bird wood. Ursula has gone
on to England. On the same boat were
Mrs. H. K. Wendt and her daughter Lois,
who have spent over 12 months’ travelling
in Europe and Egypt.
Display bookings have already closed for
the 1930 All-Australian Exhibition of the
Chamber of Manufactures. Exhibitions
seem to be our long suit; we can show points
to all the other States in the attractiveness
of our displays. The show will be on from
March 21 to May 17.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Lord Stonehaven and Sir Dudley de Chair
arrived by 11.M.A.5. Australia. Lady
Stonehaven and the family put in a few days
in the north, the former being the guest of
Commander and Mrs. Eardley Wilmot.
During Launceston Cup Week their Exes,
were the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Hogg. Gov-
ernor de Chair stayed with the O’Gradys,
and among other unofficial amenities enjoyed
a couple of days’ fishing at Penstock Lagoon.
The O’Gradys entertained the Allan
Wilkies and their company at Government
House a day or so before the close of their
season, in which full justice was done to
Shakspeare, Goldsmith and Sheridan. “The
Jealous Wife,” an eighteenth-century play
by Coleman, drew good houses. It was
well acted and staged and superbly dressed,
but it lacks the wit and humor of the
master dramatists.
Sisters and nurses at the Alexandra Hos-
pital are entitled to be house-proud of
their new wing, full of all sorts of comfort-
able gadgets. Claude James performed the
official opening ceremony, and Mrs McAulay
presented Mrs. A. C. Parker, who has been
chief organiser of the building fund, with
a gold key and a gold brooch in key shape
to mark the occasion. Dr. Constance Ellis
(Vic.) and Dr. D’Arcy (Sydney), who were
in Plobart at the conference of women gradu-
ates, spoke appreciatively of the addition to
the hospital."
The D’Arcy Addisons, who were on the
point of returning from a long visit to the
Cold Country, have been bidden to stay on
in London, where the head handy-man of
our public service is to be acting Agent-
General vice Snowden, who has taken a job
with a London firm. Mrs. Addison’s son,
Alick Downer, is at Oxford, studying law
and qualifying for the profession in which
his father, the late John Downer, of S. Aus.,
rose to distinction.
The Hobart Chamber of Commerce gave
a lunch in honor of the Barrow Cadburys
and their two daughters during their visit
to the Speck. Among those present were
president H. H. Cummins and Mrs. Cum-
mins, Mr. and Mrs. M. G. Butcher, the
Thomas Murdochs and Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Cummins.
Lister, younger son of the late J. Dow-
biggin and Mrs. Foster, Rosedale, Campbell-
town, was married recently in Melbourne
to Margaret, only chick of Dr. and Mrs.
J. A. D. Nish, Moonee Ponds. Sister
Dorothy Foster and his aunts, Mrs. Wilfrid
Hudspeth and Miss Leake, went across the
straits for the function. The newly-weds
boarded the Ormonde the same day for a
long trip abroad.


St. George
A
MB'
.7.^.
%
• A*
New Zealand?
Greatest Delicacy
—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST* GEORGE Delicacies
e
fl z//f/
is Scott’s, because it is the most centrally situated
hotel in Melbourne (near Railway Stations, Wharves,
Warehouses and Offices), because the service is unim-
peachable, and the hotel is equipped with every
convenience—direct and inter-communicating telephones,
and hot and cold water, electric fans and fires in
every bedroom.
5s
w
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and Breakfast Rate
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD
Telegrams: “Scottsotel, Melbourne*
’Phone: Central 9011 (10 lines)
SlßCifl
Collins St. Melbourne.
with him in the evenings at Abernethy. He
had been watching her for some minutes
from the verandah before she saw him,
and then she waved her hand and picked up
her clubs.
“How did you guess I was all alone?”
she said, coming over. “The housekeeper’s
had to go into hospital with a bad leg.
Don’t think I’ve been playing all morning;
I’ve been fighting with damp wood and a
rotten stove. Stay out here till I bring you
some tea.”
He picked up a magazine and dropped
into a canvas chair while she brisked off
to the kitchen, and the clatter of cups and
saucers, mixed with a few bars of song,
came floating over the intervening strip
of grass. The homestead was as bare as
ever, but it had somehow lost its air of
misfortune. There was no garden in front,
and from the long, low verandah one
stepped on to a slope that fell away to roll-
ing plains, shimmering with the yellow of
everlastings, and cut by the deep bed of
a sandy creek. A hundred yards away to
the right stood a new woolshed, the sun
sparkling on its tin roof, and a big truck,
loaded to its full capacity, was taking away
the last of the wool. Everything, even
the homestead itself, looked modern and
run by routine, very different from the ram-
shackle place Boyd remembered as a boy.
“Where’s Leo?” he asked Barbara, as
she appeared with the tray.
“Running round the fences in his car,”
she told him. “He’ll be in for lunch, though.
You’ll stay?”
“If I’m not interrupting,” he assented.
“What is there to interrupt—unless it’s
my solitary game of golf?” she asked him.
“I can do all the housekeeping there is to
do here on my head. The men have their
own cook, and Leo’s out most of the day.
Such lashins of free time there is here,
especially now the shearing’s over. I feel
like Pippa every morning when I awake.”
In her voice
there was a sug-
gestion that she
regarded Niva
Downs as an
avenue of escape,
or at any rate a
place where she
could breathe
freely. One
couldn’t do that in
a flat in M osman,
she implied. When
Boyd had finished
his tea she took
him inside to show
him some photo-
graphs she had
been talking
about, and he was
surprised at the
way the little sit-
ting-room reflected
her. The prints
and water-colors
on the walls, the
books in the cor-
ner and the piles
of music on the
piano suggested
anything but a
bachelor’s home.
Especially a
bachelor like Leo!
While she was
talking he let his
glance stray to a
canvas near the
window, an impression of river-flats in
the morning light, with the sheen of dew on
the young corn, and a man leading a plough-
horse in the middle distance. Obviously
a picture that hadn’t been bought merely
to fill up a space on empty walls!
“That’s mine, of course,” Barbara ex-
plained, seeing his puzzled look. “I simply
had to bring some of my own things with
me. Don’t you hate living—well, in the
nude? Even if it’s only for awhile. Leo
would be quite content in a barn if only it
had a telephone laid on and a place roped
off for an office.”
There was something almost defensive
in the way she repeated that she liked to
have her own things around her, and re-
counted her little conflicts with Leo. There
was the question of the gramophone, for
instance. Leo liked to have something
turned on in the evenings while he smoked
in his canvas chair, but he didn’t mind
what sounds came out as long as they pur-
ported to be cheerful. She had. carried a
box of his records to one of the out-
houses, and covered it with chaff-bags, sub-
stituting her own; but what a row when Leo
found out he had been listening for a
month to Debussy and Cesar Franck! It
was almost as if she had put lysol or sheep-
dip in his tea! She laughed in whole-
hearted enjoyment of her own joke; yet
all the while she rattled on, taking for
granted that this return to Niva Downs
was only a jolly interlude in her life, Boyd
found a note of interrogation rising in his
mind.
“This rs bluff, Barbara,” he was thinking.
“You’ve had some sort of a smash-up down
there. And you’ve come away bringing
most of the things you value.”
He suppressed any curiosity as well as
he could, though. He did not want to know
what Barbara herself was anxious to hide
from him, and he guessed that the old
women of the district would soon be at
work on the reasons why she was stopping
so long with her brother.
While they were talking, Leo came along
the verandah, his hearty voice booming out
as he brushed a couple of cattle-pups off
him like flies; there was a vigor in his
handshake and a
boisterousness in
his greeting that for
the moment ban-
ished any specula-
tions about Bar-
bara from Boyd’s
mind. Leo was a
couple of years
younger than his
sister, but the re-
sponsibilities of the
place had matured
him early. His
round head was
set firmly on
thick shoulders,
and there was a
“It was the flash of a ring on her finger as she poured out the tea that aroused Boyd
to a realisation that life had moved on since they had last met."
decisiveness about his gestures, as if he
were used to giving orders and seeing them
carried out. Yet the brown eyes that
laughed cheerfully in the sallow, rather
fattish face had no complexity in them.
He looked a man who always lived happily
among his sheep, his ledgers and his dogs.
“Meant to look you up before this, Boyd,”
he said easily, “but I’ve been up to the
neck in it. God help the man whd has to
run a place these days.”
The complacency in his voice showed that
his complaints were merely a matter of
form, a sort of ritual he had copied from
the older men around. With wool still at
a high price in the world’s markets he was
doing well, and knew it. At lunch Barbara
twitted him with the way he had grown
stout since he had given over riding and
taken to driving even to the most inacces-
sible parts of the run in his car, but there
was an air of complete understanding be-
tween them, and Leo could make caustic
retorts without affecting his sister’s good-
humor.
It was an agreeable place to visit, Boyd
felt, thinking of the warmth of Leo’s wel-
come and the radiance that hovered round
Barbara when she talked. He found himself
riding over there fairly often during those
days of early summer, for there was little
to do at Abernethy now that the fat cattle
were on the road.
In his leisure moments his mind was still
troubled with the question of whether he
would give himself up to the life at Aber-
nethy or go back to the law. It seemed
to him that the whole future hung on the
decision, and that whatever choice he made
would be final and irrevocable. He had
no particular hankering after his old pro-
fession, but a desire for independence
lurked in his soul, nourished by the re-
straints that had been laid upon him during
his years abroad. And Abernethy was his
father’s place, after all, not his. It bore
the impress of the old man’s will on its
fixed routine, its orderly arrangements, the
very way the men moved about their work.
“Look out; here’s the boss coming!” the
very dogs and horses seemed to say when
the old man swung open the gate of a
morning.
Not that his father ever drove anyone
too hard. No one could say that he tried
to strip two hides off one bullock, or that
his gusto didn’t make the work more enjoy-
able instead of less. Yet even the cheer-
ful Larry Byrne seemed to speak in a
different voice and to be only a shadow
of himself when “the boss” was around. It
was because of something that went out
from the old man unconsciously: you
couldn’t live with him without surrender-
ing to its influence in the end. There was
Duncan, for instance. He had camped on
Abernethy once when his wife was sick,
taking on some odd job or other, and had
remained for twenty years, his very children
becoming as tied to the place as if
they bore its brand. And rotting under a
bough-shed by the creek stood his old
spring-cart, in which he had wandered about
trapping as a young man, its tyres rusting
and the last trace of paint gone from its
warped and blistered sides—a sort of symbol
of his lost freedom.
“Duncan’s an old crock,” McCurdie some-
times said, “but he’s tough as fencing-wire.
Reliable, too. The Devil alone knows what
I’d have done without him all these years.”
The figure of Duncan was continually in
Boyd’s mind when he pondered the question
of staying on. There was no likeness, he
told himself, between his own case and that
of the old wood-and-water joey; it was
absurd to imagine so. Yet when once a
man gave over his will to another Deep
within him was a weakness known only to
himself, and he feared the subtle spirit of
domination his father was able to exercise.
It was a spirit that was bound to assert
itself, sooner or later, in spite of the affec-
tion they bore one another, and there
would be conflicts like
those he remembered
in his boyhood. Dull,
exasperating little
scenes in which they
both gave out smoke
without flame. He
hadn’t come back to
go through all that
again.
“I wish you could
persuade your father
to retire and take
things easy,” said Ada
one day when they
were driving out to-
gether. “Just fancy,
he’s been here for
forty-five years, and
carrying the heavy
end of the log all the
time. Except for that
one little spell in
town. It’s enough to
kill a man twice
over.”
“W ild horses
wouldn’t drag him
away from the place,”
said Boyd. “It’s his
life.”
“My dear boy, don’t
you believe it,” said
Ada with the lofty
air of superior know-
ledge. “His life? It’s
only his living. If he
were satisfied that
you’d take the place
over he’d fling himself
into new interests as
easily as a boy of
twenty. You don’t
know how restless he’s
been. And as for
me” ....
She broke off with
a little laugh, as if
diffident to press that
side of the matter.
“Well?” said. Boyd,
looking at her directly.
“Oh, I’m quite con-
tent,” she said se-
renely. “At least I
was while there was
no alternative to staying on here. Things
are so different .now, though. Your father’s
only waiting on here because he’s grown
used to the collar. If you were to point
out quietly that the place isn’t big enough
for the two of y0u.... My dear Boyd, you
haven’t realised how ready everyone is to
eat out of your hand.”
She gave him a smile that was like a
smooth hand stroking the back of his head,
but he felt himself stiffening automatically.
So that was what she expected of him, he
reflected! He had often wondered what
she was dreaming about as she sat shuffling
a baby pack of patience cards of an even-
ing, or lay on the verandah with a
magazine in her lap. Behind the smiling
tolerance with which she had accepted life
at Abernethy he had sensed a deep bore-
dom. She was not really fond of reading,
(Continued on next page.)


A WHIP TO BE PROUD OF
ŵ
the:
APEX STOCKWHIP
Nowhere else in the world can any
whip be produced to equal this Aus-
tralian-made Apex Stockwhip in its
skilled plaiting or in its wonderful
serviceable qualities. It is artistically
plaited in two colors with a neat
swastika design on both handle and
thong. The thong is Bft. long and
20-plait. Price complete .. . .82/6
For 2/6 extra you can have your initials up to four
letters plaited in handle.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
Plain plait without fancy stitches. Guaran-
teed Kangaroo Leather right through with
life-like fall.
THONGS. 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait 18/6 21/- 28/6 27/6
16-plait 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
20-plait 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
Post Free for Cash.
HANDLES. 16-plait,
17/-; 24-plait, 19/-; 32-
plait, 22/6. Loaded
handles for 9ft. thongs,
1/6 more.
Write for our Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
395 George Street, Sydney.
Box 785 G.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful —Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
MMi
1
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,100,000
Total Assets
£47,431,823
505 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
w
and she had no taste for music; all her
mental life was devoted to discovering
bright little humorous things about the
people around her.
“That’s all very well, but I’m not going
to be the one to edge him out,” he said
definitely. “Good Heavens, no! Besides,
I’m not sure I wasn’t cut out for the law
rather than for work among cattle.”
He turned the conversation quickly, for
he did not want to talk about the future
with Ada. There was a duplicity about
her, even when she had an air of being
frank, and he did not relish the idea of
acting as a pawn in some game she was
playing with his father.
Meanwhile he found unalloyed pleasure
in riding across to Niva Downs, and going
shooting with Barbara over the tawny
plains where the rabbits were all too plen-
tiful for Leo’s liking and the quail rose
with a whir from the bleached winter
grasses. The days were changing to sum-
mer: a haze took the color out of the sky
at noon, the dry earth began to gape, there
was a smell of burning grass in the air.
Usually they took their lunches with them
and boiled their quarts by some waterhole,
sprawling under the shade of a tree at noon
and tramping home in the cool, tired and
dusty. Sometimes McCurdie himself went
with them, swinging along with his reversed
gun over his shoulder and a silk handker-
chief knotted loosely round his throat;
silent as long as they were walking, but
loquacious and. overflowing when a halt
was called. He was at his lightest and gayest
with Barbara. It was as if she unsealed the
springs of humor in him and allowed him
to see himself from the outside.
“Uncle Mac,” she always called him, and
there was something in the title that de-
fined their relations.
Dinner at Niva Downs, a little music,
and then a long ride back in the dark!
Boyd and his father had never been closer
together than during these journeys home,
letting their horses amble neck to neck and
humming snatches of tunes they had just
heard. Sometimes McCurdie spoke of his
political defeat, a rumble of passion coming
into his voice. There would soon be an
end of the easy money flowing into the
country, and then they would see if they
could do without men of character at the
head of affairs! At other times he talked
about Ada, though with a touch of em-
barrassment, as though he were giving away
confidences. A wonderful woman! Full of
pluck as an egg was full of meat, and always
ready to make the best of things! He had
never had a moment’s unhappiness since
the day he had married her.
But all the while, even when they were
talking of things unconnected with the
place, Boyd was conscious of a silent pres-
sure being applied to him.
“Abernethy will be yours when I’m off
the map,” his father seemed to be saying.
“Better chuck overboard all ideas about an
independent career and settle down in the
collar here. Now’s the time to decide.”
“Wait!” an inner voice urged Boyd. “If
you stay on, let it be on your own terms.
You’ve only got one life, and you want to
make it your own.”
CHAPTER VIII.
Boyd Makes His Decision.
“There’s a horse for you, Boyd,” said Leo
Mahon one afternoon when they were
standing smoking by the rails of the yard.
“I gave it to Barbara, but she doesn’t
know what to do with it. No more do I,
for the matter of that. This place only
wants a few plugs with just enough life in
them to poke round after sheep.”
With a casual nod of his head he indi-
cated a black colt that was pacing round
and round in the fine dust of the circular
yard like a newly-captured beast in a cage.
Even as he spoke it pricked its ears and
looked at them, its lean head held high and
its thin nostrils quivering in a trumpet-like
snort. In the lazy heat of afternoon, with
the dogs lying stretched in the shade and
a dancing haze hovering over the strip of
plain that rolled to the creek, there seemed
something almost uncanny in its sheer
vitality. The muscles rippled like live
things under its skin when it moved, and
its light feet hardly made an impression on
the powdery dust. Yet there was a trace
of malevolence in its large eyes, as though
it were not mere primitive terror that made
it so ready to lash out with its heels.
Boyd, who had ridden over with some
books from where his father and the men
were camping, fixed his gaze on the horse
with a growing concentration of interest.
“Looks to have some breeding in it,”
he said. “A nice clean head and a good
barrel. Where did you pick it up?”
“Bred here,” Leo told him. “The old
man had a few good ones. It was a hobby
of his, but they’re mostly scattered by now.
This brute’s rising seven, and it’s never
been properly broken, so probably it’ll buck
till the end of its days. Most of the men
keep clear of it, as you can guess. I could
have got thirty notes for it a month ago
if it hadn’t been for Barbara. She took a
fancy to it and wouldn’t let me sell.”
“It’s worth more than that,” said Boyd
judicially.
“Not to me,” said Leo with a grin.
“They’re shooting horses for their hides
over on Garramundi, and that’s what we’ll
all be doing soon. The day of the horse
is just about over, and I won’t shed any
tears when it goes. There’s a lot of senti-
mental tosh talked about horses, but it’s
mostly because people haven’t found any-
thing better to gamble on yet.”
He took the pipe out of his mouth and
spat in the direction of the black colt, as
if indicating his contempt for the whole
breed. The sight of it moving restlessly
round the yard, as if on the point of dashing
at the high rails and sailing over them like
a deer or smashing itself utterly, roused no
challenge in his blood. His energy was of
the steady, unremitting kind, that depended
on sound organs and needed no external
stimulus.
With Boyd it was different. The nervous
life of the horse communicated itself to
him, filling him with a pleasurable excite-
ment and making the blood tingle in his
scalp. He felt the drive of an almost pas-
sionate eagerness to grapple with the half-
broken horse and pit his strength and
cunning against its own. There was the
sense of strength and fulness that all such
struggles called forth. He had known the
feeling as a boy, even when he dreaded
an encounter, grew almost sick, in fact, with
a desire to shirk it.
“If Barbara’s willing I’ll take it back with
me to-night,” he told Leo. “A bit of hard
work will take the rough edge off it.”
But it was late in the evening before he
went. A bathe in the creek left him
indolent, inclined to do nothing but lounge
in a canvas-chair on the verandah, while
Barbara knitted near by and Leo tinkered
with the engine of his car. It was very
satisfying to him to sit and watch Barbara’s
hands. Such small sentient hands they
were, beautifully shaped, and moving among
the silk as if they had a life and purpose
of their own. He noticed for the first time
that there was no ring on her finger; had
she left it off by chance or design? But
he did not wonder very much. Cicadas
sounded out continuously, so that the
quivering heat-haze on the plain seemed the
vibration of their chirring; the cool drip-
ping of the water-bag drugged the brain;
Leo came in to throw himself full-length
on the bare boards, going into a doze with
his mouth open, and a dog sprawled across
his feet.
{To be continued next week.)
Sunday Night.
From the window seat,
My evening perch,
I watch the ladies
Walk to church.
As Joan goes past
She smiles to me;
And I pray that Joan
Will pray for me.
For Joan is good
And kind and true;
But she frowned when I did
What I wanted to.
“You’re a very, very bad
Bold man!” said she—
So I pray that Joan
Will pray for me.
n.s.w.
RONALD McCUAIG.
The Open Ways.
They shed their bondage long ago
Of houses standing row by row
In dull, right-angled squares,
With asphalt walks and garden plots,
And ruddy tiles and chimney pots
And carpets, comforts, cares.
TTncounting all the world’s regard
For riches, titles or reward,
And all its civic schemes,
They bade the settled ways farewell
To woo whatever else befel
The lady of their dreams.
They wander now in fashion free
Through sunlit bush, by starlit sea;
Their vagrant footsteps fall
Where wild witch maids with magic shoon
Dance down the pathways of the moon,
And when fair fancies call,
As Knights of Chance, they idly ride
Through pathless forests dim and wide,
And in some quiet glade
On pallets _of the bracken brown,
’Neath stainless skies, they lay them down
Content and unafraid.
By cypress-pines or wilgas far,
On edges of the dark belar,
Or by grey myalls burn
Red camp-fires through the lonely land
Of this' wide-scattered, roving band
Who never homeward turn.
Where screw-palms rustle in the bright
Warm glamor of a northern night,
Anon their beds are laid ;
Betimes at noon they waiting rest
Where throws along the lone Nor’-West
Some baobab its shade.
No more shall custom govern them,
But where their love a diadem
Of sapphire distance wears,
Each roving knight in service yields
His tribute won in furthest fields,
Then on, unresting, fares.
Naught shall their stubborn spirits vex;
No saltbush grey nor spinifcx
Seems hateful to their eyes
Whose inward sight, whose visions fond
Are turned to where, on hills beyond,
A magic castle lies.
A rainbow of unfading arch
For ever lights their errant march,
And gently as they pass
The winds sigh through enchanted trees,
And softly sing the summer seas
And sweetly waves the grass.
These careless knights ne’er couch a lance
For silver Spain or golden France,
But all unhelmed they wend
Fyom north to south, from east to west,
A-dreaming each what likes him best
Until the journey’s end.
And in the end, who knows, who knows?
It may be well indeed with those
Whose souls beyond the maze
Of streets and crowds and sordid streams
Of flowing life, can find their dreams
Along the Open Ways.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRAFY.


r
ft
Before Taking
0.
n
42
X
i 7 7— '
After Taking
ABetterWay
C
9
*
u
\
u;
To legain Your Youth
Every few weeks the newspapers record some new triumph in the fight of Science against Weak-
ness, Pain and Old Age. Famous doctors and scientists have earnestly devoted themselves to
seeking out the reasons why people so soon lose their early vigor, and the results ac leve y
medical men during the last few years have considerably added to the span of useful, com-
fortable life. Some authorities claim that diseases caused by uric acid are more far-reaching than
had previously been supposed—a greater evil in some respects even than consumption. It is
certain that many grow old and painfully deformed-some even die -years before their time on account of
disorders caused by uric acid or genito-urinary trouble .
What a Byron Bay Doctor
Says:
“Dear Sirs, —Several of my patients
having tried Harrison’s Pills and bene-
fited when all other pills, drugs, etc.,
failed, a confrere suggested 1 should
myself take them for a stiff leg that
had been worrying me. 1 did so, and
can get about now; the ankle joint
that was quite stiff, painful and life-
less is now good, and I want no better
proof if Harrison’s Pills can do what
they did for me. —(Signed) Sarsfield
Cassidy, M.D.”
A New Man.
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and
severe rheumatism, I was practically
dead at 77. In spite of the severity
of my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have
made a new man of me, and I feel
not a day older than 50. I have
never known any remedy act in so
remarkably beneficial a manner.—
(Signed) B. Jacobson, Blackman’s
Point, N.S.W.”
Acted Like Magic.
“Dear Sirs, —Only those who have
suffered from Neuritis know the pain
of it. My right drm was paralysed and
the pain was cruel. My mother sent
me some Harrison’s Pills and they
acted like magic. I am so much better
my husband has decided to take them
too.—(Signed) A. Y. Gooding, Goben-
ella, via Oberon.”
Wonderful Relief.
“Dear Sirs, —I must write you about
Harrison’s Pills, as I have had such
wonderful relief from them. I was
under five doctors and in five hospitals,
and was discharged as certain to be-
come a cripple. I could not walk
without aid had terrible knees, and
my feet and ankles were so swollen I
was giving up hope. Then I saw
Harrison’s Pills praised in ‘Truth,’
and deoided to try them. . . .the swel-
ling has all left; 1 get about alone,
can go to town without aid, and am
so pleased I could not help writing.—
(Signed) Margaret Keating, 42 King-
street, St. Peters, N.S.W.”
Of Chemists ai
Stores Everywhe:
m
n qu
HARRISON S
KIDNEY » BLADDER '
PILLS
AIMLTSONIS
KIDNEY and BLADDER.
PI LLS
Find the Cause
Instead of banishing the cause of their troubles, thousands have, unknowingly been treating mere
symptoms! Some have tried tonics; then anti-acid stomach compounds; then old-fashioned liver or
kidney pills in the hope that they would find relief. Many obtained relief; but it was the temporary
kind that can only come from treating symptoms instead of causes. But with the new remedy
Harrison’s Pills—all that is changed. Harrison’s Pills have shown people they can definitely throw
off their ageing aches, pains and weakness, gaining such energy, freshness and vigorous youth as they
have not known for years. By getting rid of the deadly uric deposits as well as uric acid itself,
Harrison’s Pills give REAL improvement in health—positively, surely and safely.
Feel Younger—or Pay Nothing!
Many thousands of men and women have gained remarkable benefits Jrom them trial of Harrison’s Pills.
Men who were losing their virile strength—who were being termed old-timers —have_ come back h
a power startling to all who knew them; women who were fast losing their capability and charm have found
in Harrison’s Pills a new way to glowing health and happiness -
Wonderful Testimony
Hundreds have written of their own accord in grateful praise of Harrison’s Pills, many of them eminent
people in responsible walks of life. The four letters here published are selected simply because they are brief
ancUo the point, but they are absolutely typical of the great numbers of genuine letters we are continually
eceiving.
Since You RisK Nothing'— Why Delay ?
There is nothing to equal Harrison’s Pills for Aches and Pains; “Nervy,” _Dizzy Spells, certain Blood
Disorders, and those special ills that make so many men and women feel old 10 to 30 liefore the
time. Harrison’s Pills will drive out the Poisons that cause Rheumatism, Lumbago, Backache, Go t,
Neuritis, Sciatica and Arthritis; they will give you lack the elastic step of youth or cost you nothing.
Simply get a package from the barest chemist. Three sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. Take as directed and if
nit astonished at the prompt improvement in your health, strength, looks and general bearing,-return the
empty bottle to Amalgamated Laboratories, Dept. B. 12, Kembla Buildings, Sydney, and get youi mo y
back.
Why go on suffering? Why drag through your days? Why not get had your grip on life Me safe,*sure
easy way? Get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the nearest chemist or store A Oil and become a pouter
once more!
YOU
MUST
TAKE GENUINE
w
FOR
HEALTH
TRIUMPHANT
They Drive the Uric Poisons from the Blood, Remove the
Cause of Aches and Pains, and Make You Young Again.
£lOO will be oaid to anyone Droving this is not a Safe, Effective Remedy, bearing a Qenuine London Doctor s Signature,


Three years of service
have established Pontiac
as pre-eminently
a reliable car
~y^
i
T¥THEREYER you hear owners and garagemen talk you
W will learn that their opinion—based on facts ! —-
is that Pontiac is pre-eminently a reliable car. ,
. Owners will tell you of its freedom from trouble, its
lack of need for repairs,' and its consequently low main-
tenance cost. Garagemen know that it is rare for a Pontiac
to require other than purely routine adjustments and that
the negligible demand for replacement parts is remarked
upon throughout the trade.
Pontiac’s reliability and long continued trouble-free
operation are the natural results of its inherent sturdiness;
and staunchness —qualities that, combined with its dis-
tinctive appearance, its many exclusive mechanical features
and its riding and driving ease, are turning an increasing
number of discriminating buyers to this fine product of
General Motors. '
There is a Pontiac dealer near you, wherever you live.
He will gladly demonstrate Pontiac to you, and tell you
how easily possession may be made yours on the G.M.A.C.
convenient payment plan. He will tell you, too, how
your satisfaction in Pontiac ownership is doubly ensured
by the General Motors one year Warranty., ; • ;
Prices from £298
(Subject to Change without
Notice)
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane • Sydtiey - Melbourne. • . Adelaide • Perth
dr
Big car features
combined in no
other car of its price
1. A 200 cubic-inch L-head engine.
2. The Harmonic Balancer.
3. The G-M-R cylinder head.
.4. The cross-flow radiator.
5. Automatic Temperature con-
trol.
6. Fully counter-weighted crank-
shaft.
7. Aeroplane-type interchange-
able bronze-backed bearings.
8. A 1| inch carburettor, includ-
ing an internal economizer
and an accelerating pump.
9. A petrol pump, in place of
the conventional vacuum tank.
10. Special patented expansion-
type piston pins.
11. Full-pressure lubrication.
12. Crankcase ventilating system.
13. Internal - expanding 4 - wheel
service brakes of the most ef-
ficient type.
14. Special moulded, non-squeak
brake bands. Positively no
squeaking when stopping.
15. Smart, specially designed
bodies.
16. Flaring mudguards—7o inches
between outer edges.
,17. Unusually high radiator of
distinctive design.
18. VV type windshield on closed
models.
19. Coincidental - ignition and
trasmission lock.
20. Individually mounted instru-
ments, including petrol gauge.
21. Foot-controlled headlights.
22. Small wheels with ten massive
spokes. ;
u: i:
V.. .
It’s , a Qenerdl Motors Car
V.i .... . .V” ■% . JL
inside arid note the difference 1
.... ... •:. ' . " ”•" f
/ * f>, ■ ■ *' r r <-%
«■'£ i* .... x. ' - v ' < ‘ ’ - '


The
“HIGHLANDER”
Work or Lounge
SHIRT
A new idea in Work or Lounge
Shirts —and a very smart one, too.
Fine cotton twill in six plaid and
fine cheek motifs on grounds of light
and dark fawn, blue and grey.
Strong, cool, may be boiled—colors
guaranteed fast. Two
breast-pockets; attached
collar. All sizes
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
9/6
•
VICHY
=*
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT,
Special Table d'hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant —
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 131 for your reservation.
The Goat Plaintiffs.
BY F. HIVES
ẁ
THE native courthouse at Bende was
typical of the best type of building
erected by the natives of Nigeria. It
►as of red mud plastered smoothly over a
wattled framework, and roofed with mats
made from the leaves of the raffia palm.
A doorway at one end gave admittance
to the main body of the court, which was
fitted with benches made of the same red
mud as the walls, but polished to a maho-
gany color by the rubbing of many perspir
ing skins. At the other end was a raised
platform, also of mud, on which stood the
District Commissioner’s chair and table.
Below was another table used by the native
court clerk; and on either side of this the
dock and witness-boxes, made of roughly
hewn planks. On either side of the platform
were doors, one giving access to the Com-
missioner’s retiring-room, the other to the
room used by the native assessors, who sat
with the Commissioner to advise on matters
of native law and custom.
It was Court day, and the building was
packed with people of both sexes who had
come from far and near ; for few would have
missed the spectacle, or the opportunity of
meeting their friends that the occasion gave.
Not a seat was unoccupied ; and those who
could not obtain one stood outside, their
arms resting on the top of the low mud wall
and looking through the wide space separat-
ing it from the roof—left for very neces-
sary ventilation.
Small groups were standing at varous
distances from the court, discussing with
much gesticulation of head and arm the last
judgment given; or, if their cases had not
been heard, instructing their numerous wit-
nesses in the tales they should tell when
they were called.
The District Commissioner sat at his table
on the platform. At his right were four-
assessors, these being chiefs of various
towns or villages, selected in rotation from
those in court to sit as advisers, and who,
at the conclusion of each case, were asked
their opinions before any decision was given
by the presiding officer.
These chiefs, like others in the court,
were dressed as they considered best suited
to their status. Some wore long gowns, like
old-fashioned nightdresses, reaching to their
ankles, made of flannel and covered with
fancy patterns. Others Wore the ordinary
loincloth and a shirt with the tails hanging
loose; a few wore only the loincloth. But
all were adorned with heavy ivory bracelets,
coral or leopard teeth necklaces, and all
carried staffs, the insignia of their office as
subsidised chiefs.
Among the audience were some half-
dozen court messengers, or ushers, clad ill
uniforms of blue dungaree tunics and shorts,
with red facings and blue peaked caps. These
minor officials all carried canes, which they
used on the heads of the public, indiscrimin-
ately, to enforce silence whenever the talk
became too loud.
The dock was large enough to hold six
accused persons at a time; and there was
a second witness-box, so that opposing wit-
nesses could be kept apart when entering
or leaving, Avery necessary precaution.
The dock was empty, the criminal cases
having all been disposed of, and suitable
sentences passed on several prisoners found
guilty of larceny, unlawful wounding, slave-
dealing and child abduction. Outside the
sun baked the cleared space in front; inside
the heat was stifling, the only breeze being
made by the crazy punkah that rattled
and wheezed according to the degree of
wakefulness of the “boy” whose duty it was
to keep it moving.
The District Commissioner was in hm
shirt sleeves, which were rolled up to the
elbows; and as he wrote evidence he rested
his arms on sheets of blotting-paper to
absorb the perspiration. He smoked a well-
seasoned briar pipe, and another lay ready-
filled on the table ; for the odor arising from
the sweating skins of the audience needed
some antidote. Flies were everywhere and
heeded not the fumes of the strong tobacco.
Altogether he was feeling weary and longing
for the list of cases to come to an end.
Listlessly he closed the criminal case-book,
and opened another to write the opening
clauses as the interpreter called the first
civil case. It was numbered 154, and was
between Ewu-Woke [He-Goat] and Ewc-
Wainie [She-Goat], of Bende, plaintiffs, and
Obona, also of Bende. defendant. The plain-
tiffs claimed twenty brass rods, which were
stated to be owing to them ; a brass rod being
worth threepence.
After much shuffling of naked feet and a
babel of voices, order was restored by the
court messengers’ canes, and the District
Commissioner looked up from his case-book.
He was surprised to see only one box occu-
pied, Obona, the defendant, being installed
there. The other box was apparently empty.
“Where are the plaintiffs?” he asked.
“They are in the box, sir,” answered the
interpreter.
Rising to his feet so that he could see
over the rail of the box the Commissioner
was surprised to see there two goats, a male
and a female. He was somewhat taken
aback, and was at first inclined to censure
the interpreter and assessors for having
allowed this. But, after glancing at their
faces, and seeing that they were quite serious,
he knew that this was not meant as a joke,
and that no contempt of court was intended.
The case was evidently going to be an
interesting one, more so than some of the
wearisome debt actions that generally took
up so much of his time. Accordingly he
asked the defendant, through the interpreter,
if he admitted the claim made against him.
“No. I do not admit the claim. They are
lying,” began Obona.
“Baa! Baa!” protested the goats.
“Silence in the court!” called out the
court messenger.
“As neither I nor the interpreter can
speak the plaintiffs’ language _ they must
have a spokesman,” said the District Com-
missioner, gravely.
Thereupon a tall, middle-aged native rose
from the audience and announced that he
would act as spokesman. He gave his name
as Okereke, and was duly sworn in by the
method of licking the Ju-ju (a bundle of
bones, sticks and feathers). Then, after
passing it three times round his head: “May
this Ju-ju kill me and all my family if I
do not speak the truth.”
This formality being over, the District
Commissioner ordered him to state the plain
tiff’s case.
“It is like this, your Highness. I am
the father and mother of the plaintiffs. They
live in my compound and are good people.
My farm adjoins that of the defendant, who
is not a good man. I know he is not a good
man, for his mother was a loose woman, and
all his relations are adulterers.”
“He lies! He lies !” shouted the defendant.
“Baa ! Baa !” bleated the goats.
“Silence in the court!” ordered the ushers.
Order being restored, the spokesman could
again be heard.
“Unfortunately,” he continued, the
plaintiffs, who are good children, were very
hungry one day, and, not knowing the
boundary between my farm and the defen-
dant’s, they inadvertently crossed it, and
quite unintentionally they ate a very little
of the defendant’s yams and green stuff.
The amount they ate would not have tilled
a mosquito’s belly.”
“He lies. They ate plenty !” shouted the
defendant.
“Silence!” called the court messengers,
one of them taking his stand over the defen-
dant’s box, ready to use his cane at the
next interruption.
“Proceed!” ordered the Commissioner.
“Then the defendant’s w T ife, who is a bad
woman, saw some green leaves in the plain-
tiffs’ mouths, and at once started to cry out
that the plaintiffs had thieved all defendant’s
farm. Then the defendant, who was born of
a baboon and is without sense, came and
used bad words to my children, and drove
them away, threatening to kill them. The
plaintiffs, knowing they had not done any
really bad thing, ran away and hid them-
selves in my kitchen, crying out at the fool-
ishness of the defendant. Then the defen-
dant, being foolish and unable to think, took
out a summons against me, although I had
not been near his dirty farm, and claimed
forty brass rods [los.] for damages caused
by the plaintiffs. Of course I had to obey
the summons, and the case was heard ju
the last sitting of the court. Unfortunately
your Highness was not present that day,
and the foolish chiefs gave judgment against
me for the forty brass rods.”
“We were not foolish,” interrupted one
of the assessors. “The case was proved
against the plaintiffs.”
“Silence in the court!” proclaimed the
ushers.
“Of course I had to pay,” continued Okercke,
“as if I had disobeyed the order of the
Court, I should have been sent to prison,
which would not have been a good thing for
an honest gentleman like I am. So after
I had paid the forty brass rods and anotaer
twenty for the cost of the summons, which
hurt me very much, being innocent, I re-
turned home to my children the plaintiffs,
and told them what had happened. At tuis
they were very angry and refused to eat or
sleep. They told me. too, that the judgment
was most unfair, as they had not eaten
anything like the value of what I had been
called upon to pay. After consulting with
the plaintiffs, who advised me to take_ action
on their behalf, I decided to bring an
action to recover at least half of what I had
been compelled to pay. So, hearing that
your Highness would be sitting in court to-
day. and knowing that I should get justice,
I did what the plaintiffs advised me and took
out a summons against that evil man the
defendant. That is all the plaintiffs have
to say ; but I know they speak j true words,
as I have never heard them lie.”
Having touched a pen, in acknowledgment
of the correctness of liis evidence, read out
to him by the Commissioner through the in-
terpreter, the witness stepped down and sat
among the audience again.
Then the assessors were asked it the w
wished to put anv questions to the plaintiffs.
Very solemnly all four of them rose and
walked to the box containing the two goats
and, after a critical inspection of them,
returned to their seats, their spokesman
gravely stating that they had no questions
to ask. . . . .
Then the District Commissioner, trying
hard to keep his amusement from showing,
called upon the defendant for his statement.
Obona, after having been sworn in the
same manner as Okercke, and after his wife
who was a witness —had been ordered to
leave the court, began his story.
“What Okereke has told is all lies, lie
said. “I am a good man, as your Highness
knows, and Okereke is a thief and a fatliei
of thieves.”
".Baa ! Baa !” interrupted the goats, who
somehow seemed to know when to protest.
‘•Silence in the court!” from the ushers.
“The plaintiffs ate far more than the
amount claimed,” continued the defendant.
“Only, being such a good man, I claimed a
very little. My wife is my witness and she
is a good woman who never tells lies. That
is all I have to say.”
Again the assessors were asked if they had
any questions to ask the defendant; and after
a whispered consultation, accompanied by
many grunts, seratchings and expectorations,
the foreman rose to his feet and said they
would prefer the white man to put the ques-
tions.
The Commissioner then proceeded to cross-
examine.
“Did the plaintiffs eat all the produce on
your farm?”
“Yes, every bit of it. There is nothing left
for me to eat.”
“ITow big is your farm?”
After having gazed out of the court for
a few seconds the defendant described an
area about two acres in extent.
Having made a note of this the Commis-
sioner asked: “How many yams did the
plaintiffs eat?”
“I did not count them, but they must have
been many hundreds.”
The Commissioner could hardly refrain
from smiling at this answer; for the weight
of an average yam in that part of the coun-
try is about three pounds.
“And how much maize and other green
stuff did they eat?”
“All there was. Enough to fill the court-
house.”
“Did your wife see the plaintiffs eat all
this?”
"Oh yes, and she was very vexed.”
“Did she try to stop them from eating up
all the yams?”
“They had finished them all before she
noticed.”
“How long had the plaintiffs been on your
farm and eating all this produce?”
The defendant thought a long time—pro
bably wondering what answer his wife would
give to this question when her turn came. "1
uon't know ; but at least one moon [one
month],” he answered at length.
“How far is your house from the farm?"
“It is in the middle of my farm.”
“Do you work on your farm every day?’
“Yes, every day.”
“And all day?”
“Yes.”
At tliis reply a murmur arose in court
and there was much shuffling of feet until
silence was once more obtained. Then the
defendant was told to stand down, which
he did while licking his lips; perhaps, as
was suggested by one wit in the court, to
wash off the lies.
Then his wife was called. She answered
to the name of Etchi. She cast reproachful
looks at the plaintiffs as soon as she entered
her box and could see them, and then spat
viciously in their direction.
For this she received a blow on the head,
delivered smartly by one of the court mes-
sengers with his cane. After this lesson in
manners she was duly sworn on the Ju-ju,
and then proceeded to give vent to her wrath
long pent-up.
“The plaintiffs are thieves and liars,” she
shrieked. “So is Okereke; he is not my
friend, and his wife has borne twins!”
At this horrible insult —for to bear twins
is a disgraceful thing that brings humans
to the level of the lower animals —Okereke’s
wife raised an uproar, shouting abuse suited
to such an occasion. “She is a liar, a liar,
a liar! A mother and daughter of bad
women, whose children know not their
fathers.”
Then the goats joined in, for a time pan-
demonium reigned, and the court messengers
got busy with their canes, at last succeeding
in restoring order.
Then Etchi, having received several
strokes of the cane on her head, proceeded to
give her evidence in a more subdued manner.
“I saw the plaintiffs come to my husband’s
farm,” she stated. “They ate up all the
yams, and I saw green stuff in their mouths.
When I shouted to them they laughed and
ran away. I told my husband what I had
seen and he was very angry. _ He took out
a summons against the plaintiffs’ father,
Okereke. He was given forty rods as com-
pensation, and that is all I know.”
When she had finished one of the assessors
questioned her, both question and answer
being translated into English by the inter-
preter for the information of the Commis-
sioner.
“Was your husband on his farm when the
plaintiffs ate all the yams?”
“No. he was drinking tombo in the house
with his friends.”
“Does he work every day on his farm?”
“No, he never works there after the plant-
ing. I and my children do all the work
after that.”
“How big is the farm?”
The witness described an area of abo. :
five acres.
“Did the plaintiffs eat all the yams?
“No, only about half.”
“And the other stuff?”
“They ate lots.”
“ITow long were the plaintiffs on the farm
eating yams ?’
“Not long—only about two minutes. I
saw them and drove them off.”
At this answer, which was so different
from her husband’s, a murmur of derision
arose in court, and there were loud grunts
of d’sapnrov 'mm the assessors; not be-
cause of the obvious perjury of one of the
witnesses, bn 1 because the evidence had been
so badly prepared. It was, to their minds,
bad staff work.
They were then asked their opinion on
the case, but had nothing to say until, at
the Commissioner’s suggestion, they inti-
mated that they wished to retire for consul-
tation. . .
During their absence the District Com-
missioner went over to inspect the two goats.
They were lying at the bottom of the box,
asleep and taking no further interest in the
proceedings, evidently confident that they
would obtain justice.
After an absence of about five minutes the
assessors returned.
“Have you anything to recommend?” they
were asked.
“We know nothing,” answered the fore-
man. “All these people are liars ; what they
say means nothing. So we would prefer that
your Highness should decide the case.” .
The District Commissioner smiled. He had
expected this, and had been quietly sorting
out in his mind the good liars from the bad.
So he proceeded to sum up.
(Continued on page 57.)
The Farmhouse
My man and T are safe at home:
The hearth is red, the lamp is lit;
Small creatures from the darkness come
Against the window flit.
Comfort and love and light I have:
The door is shut; the house is still.
0 woman, lonely in your grave
In darkness on the hill,
How can you sleep? You loved the
light;
Your house teas rearm and fair as this ,
And children called you, who to-night
Know neither voice nor kiss!
Yet I should sleep, and one day shall,
On some high hill beneath the sky,
VICTORIA.
Not wanting any roof or wall
Or hearing any cry,
If only, yoivder in the town,
My daughter’s children go and come,
And where the country road goes down
My son has built his home.
Love lights this hearth, and I am
warm:
The shadows dance, the room is
bright;
Pale moths against the window sicarm
Like spirits of the night.
O woman on the hill, who sleeps
With fears all hushed and tears all
done,
Within these walls a woman keeps
Love’s watch beside your son!
PATRICIA MURCHISON.


Kiinkiiiii, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARE
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares ...
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland
£529,988
1.875,000
'703,125
3,750,000
4,042,591
Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS jSS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bitmsn Australia n
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Beading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends- use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
®!je Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, £2 Fleet Street,
London, L.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
U z. RACING CONFERENCE
N Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEI* DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —•
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of tit* World's Leading
Advertising Ageii Mes.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
price .. .... . • 3d.
Contains everythin!) a woman needs to Ttnoio.
Shipping, etc.
Sail the South Seas
for CANADA
... UNITED STATES
... EUROPE
1U O amount of planning can
* devise a more perfect trip!
Seas of Romance . . imposing
ocean liners . . a choice of two
charming routes. Go by Auck-
land, Suva and Honolulu to Van-
couver (Canada) or by Welling-
ton, Raratonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco. Then, if Europe is in
your mind, you may cross from
either point. Discuss your plans
with the—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melb., C. 3.
, m
#
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION Royal Mail Lines.
,tr«r
I
Kf'-
m
r ,w\ s /
yjM & v*
:
s
ji®K
111
Gill q/the i?olonioitf
Full of charm and interest the Solomon
Islands are only 7 days’ steaming north-
east of Sydney.
To those in search of an Ideal Sea Trip
the opportunity should he now availed of
for a Holiday Cruise among these Wonder-
ful Coral Islands.
The S.S. ‘‘MATARAM” sails from Sydney
19th March and 30th April, visiting more
than a score of Picturesque Island Ports. ,
Round Trip 4 i Weeks.
Fare £4l Return.
Write for Booklet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED IS 17
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
w
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Corftipany
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
APITAL PAID UP - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Jltvcctorfi
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman );
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYEURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
ill Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengeu
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAIl —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALEIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Phiip Si Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddarl Parked!
in a Magnificent
Faat Pasae.iget
Steam3hijM
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as ner dailv papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART pARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge An ear, Sydney.
TO ALASKA
via
The Scenic Inland
Waterway
+*=**st tv
\ V
ttv« a
tf 4 *
vC * stceV
W* 4 * 4 h
tß* oag v, a te
str» lts
moO n
p u*P lc
co«
V»»*
fto®
BO* 4 * 4
t es
tt oVJ
S B°
be*
aet
\>o*
ttlgS
oie*
g\»
»a
tß*
t£*U s
\o»*
Mas* 54
taios
»te
Ugft ts
cW«*
tvi'
me*
tß*
sol* 4
tttle
r»* e
vfi'
*»c»
pae
rXrvc.;^
\\ive
e oio?
_ o to*°
p A”irx.' 55, »">’
*'*’ »< w ““ _ v CV* lC
aft*-
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS • STEAMERS - HOTELS
The Worlds greatest travel system
I
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Sydncv Representative: N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.


'lll\
i
'S
4,
L
v
%
THIS
INEXPENSIVE
LUEPICATING
ECU I PM ENT PAYS
ENCPMCUS PPGEITS
1
/ /
4
Alemite offers you an opportunity to elim-
inate wear and tear in the operation of your
farm machinery and equipment. In only a few hours you
can remove all old style grease cups and replace them
with the proper fittings. They are made in all sizes and
angles—even drive fittings to plug the old oil holes.
Every bearing on every machine may be equipped and
lubricated in the same efficient Alemite manner.
The cost of Alemite is small, indeed, indi-
vidual fittings being but a few pence each. And lubri-
cating is simple once you have made the change. Each
bearing receives its proper amount of fresh, clean lubri-
cant. No waste —no unnecessary friction and wear!
Alemite is now standard equipment in 80%
of all farm implements manufactured in the United
States today. Why not let this improved modern lubri-
cation system earn for you these added profits?
The Alemite (Push Type)
“Barrel-to-Bearing” System
How it works: Alemite provides a method
for positively and easily lubricating all your farm imple-
ments. It is simple, yet insures proper lubrication. No
grit nor dirt can possibly work into Alemite Lubricant.
At no time is it even exposed to the air.
1. The lubricant is first pumped from its original
drum into
2. The handy, portable Alemite Filler Tank, which
holds 20 lbs. of lubricant. From this container, which
can be easily carried about the farm, lubricant is
pumped directly into
3. The Alemite Push Type Compressor. By means
of this gun you can easily develop tremendous pressure
which forces clean lubricant through
4. The Alemite Push Type fitting, into the bearing
—cleaning it as it is lubricated.
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING
CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., . . . 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. ...... Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. Machin & Co. Pty.,Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122Pirie St., Box G.P.O. 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand;
Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefield St., Wellington, N. Z.
High Pressure Lubrication
He began by pointing out that if the two
goats, which were not very big ones, had
eaten the quantity of stuff they were stated
by the defendant and his wife to have done,
they would have burst. And, further, it was
quite impossible for them to have done it in
the time given by the defendant’s wife. If
the plaintiffs had been on the farm only two
minutes they could not have eaten any yams,
and not much green stuff, so it was evident
the compensation of forty rods was excessive.
Therefore judgment would be given for the
plaintiffs, with five shillings costs, to be paid
into court forthwith.
At this there were cries of “He! He!” de-
noting general approval of the finding, and
the noise awoke the goats, who, probably
being hungry, baaed loudly.
Then the foreman of the assessors rose to
his feet and solemnly addressed them. “The
Court says you are not guilty; so you are
discharged,” he said.
Thereupon, the door of the box being
opened by the attendant usher, the two plain-
tiffs leapt out with many baas of joy,
emerging into the open without a stain on
their characters. .
They were followed by their father and
their mother,” who also leapt with delight,
the man snapping his fingers with loud
cracks, and receiving congratulations from
numerous friends who had been waiting to
see which side won before declaring their
sympathy.
The only disconsolate person was the
defendant, Obona; amidst the jeers of his
former supporters, he advanced to the clerk s
table to demand a summons against the
chief who had given judgment in liis favor
in the absence of the District Commissioner,
claiming the refund of twenty brass rods.
“Why should you claim twenty brass
reds'?” he was asked.
“Because I paid twenty brass rods to that
chief to give the case in my favor,” he
replied, pointing to the foreman of the
assessors. “H'e did what I paid him for;
but now that has been changed, I want
justice and my rods back again.”
He got justice ; but not his rods.
At Emu Plains.
J. H. M. ABBOTT
VIVIDLY PICTURES A GREAT CHARGE THAT HAS
COME OVER OUR GAOLERS.
I.
FOR purposes of classification the prison
population of New South Wales is
divided into seven grades, and in the
last of these are grouped youths under
twenty-five having their first experience of
prison discipline. Sometimes a lad is given
a second clalnce arid is allowed to participate
id.the advantages of being numbered amongst
“the boys.” The thing aimed at is to keep
him from becoming a regular customer of
his Majesty’s prisons.
The great point about being a seventh-class
prisoner is that you may be sent to serve
your sentence at the agricultural establish-
ment at Emu Plains. Here are 107 acres
of rich alluvial flats on the bank of the
Nepean River, where it winds northward
along the foothills of the Blue Mountains
ere it changes its name to the Hawkesbury
and flows by the old-time towns of Richmond
and Windsor down into Broken Bay. These
rich lands ate farmed* scientifically and with
Care, by Some forty young prisoners of tile
seventh class who, though they are expected to
giye the best that is in them to the work,
afe, scarcely treated as prisdhers at all;
Except fdr the merits or otherwise of the
system Of administration, One Australian
prison of the present day is monotonously
like another —a more or less imposing gate-
way, high surrounding walls and ranges of
cells and workshops geometrically con-
structed about flat yards divided from one
another by spiked steel bars. Everywhere
is spotless cleanliness, the smell of soap-
suds and fresh paint, and occasional flower-
beds arranged with mathematical precision.
Everywhere are pallid men who give no in-
dication of the possession of exuberant
spirits—or, indeed, of any sort of spirit at
all. Everywhere are uniformed warders,
locked gates, steel bars, the jangle of keys
and clank of bolts. There is no change in
the scenery the prisoner Sees, except over-
head in blue Or cloudy skies, and there is
always .an atmosphere of constraint, of
watchfulness, of mutual distrust. After you
have Seen one gaol, so far as a cursory in-
spection goes, you have seen them all. But
when you go to look over the prison-farm
at Emu Plains you realise something dif-
ferent, something that is as little like the
conventional prison as it is possible for any
place to be where offenders against the laws
are housed, fed and compelled to work. It
is not like a prison at all, and you have
got to remind yourself that it is one.
All the inmates of the establishment are
young men who have had no opportunity of
graduating as gaol-birds, and have been kept
hway from every chance of evil associations
within the regular prisons. Its peculiar ex-
cellence, as has' been said, lies in the fact
that these young men are out of the “gaol
atmosphere.” But, quite apart from this,
the stimulus to better things is very great.
They are not shut out from a view of the
world by high stone walls,, and can see that
it is still a good place wherein to enjoy
the blessings of freedom. And the work they
do is healthy, educational and interesting,
and has the added merit of showing tangible
results.
llow greatly the change from the life of
a real prison to the comparative freedom
of the farm must react upon a young man's
mental and physical condition is obvious
enough. From the close confinement of
cells and the little less irksome hours of
labor in the workshops to what is really a
sort of camp life in the open air must be
a glorious change to any healthy young
man. All day long, with the exception of
meal hours, he is at work beneath blue or
grey skies. In the evenings he may associate
with his companions in the recreation-room,
where games like draughts and dominoes and
the reading of only slightly-censored news-
papers and periodicals afford him means of
distraction that are never his in prison
proper. It is not until 9 p.m. that bolts
and bars come into his life at all; then
he is locked up in one of the forty com-
fortable little huts that is his trim and neat
private residence. It is only after that hour
that he is really under the watchful care
of an armed guard.
_ Every Saturday afternoon he may receive
visits from his friends, who are allowed to
bring him little luxuries in the way of food
and tobacco. He may be a member of a
cricket or football team which plays matches
with outside cluhs, and he is given a course
of physical drill, apart from ordinary routine
work. He is well fed, well housed and well
clothed, and has the use of a well-stocked
library. He is, in short, taught that it pays
to be good, and that honesty is not an un-
wise policy. Of course, if he will insist upon
being bad, he goes back to four tall stone
walls and a narrow cell. Seldom, however,
has he to be returned to prison, and very
rarely does he come to find himseif
again behind bolts and bars and all-encircling
stonework. Emu Plains has saved him, and
maybe made a man of him.
11.
Tommy Trapp had been caught poaching
in Buckinghamshire—a dreadfully heinous
affair in Bucks or, any other part of England
ft hundred years ago—and had been_ giveu
a passage overseas, without the option of
returning until five years should have elapsed
from the day of his sentencing. In Sydney
he had been assigned to a shopkeeper who
might, for the purposes of this story, be
named Mr. Potiphar. When Tommy, fear-
ful of further trouble, declined to play the
part of Joseph, Hell had no fury like _ the
scorned madame, who promptly complained
to her husband that the too-virttious Tommy
had made improper overtures to her, Tommy,
who was too much one of Nature's gentle-
men even to hint that it had been the other
way about, was haled before the police
magistrate, who, after stating that he had
a damned good mind to order him a flogging,
committed him for twelve months to the
agricultural penal establishment at Emu
Plains, which had been founded about ten
years previously by his Excellency Governor
Macquar,ie.
So we find him arriving there at sunset
one. evening, after having tramped from
Sydney in the of a constable, who,
being disgusted with his excursion of sixty
mileft to the Nepeftn ftnd back, had given
Tommy more than fine chalice of escape after
passing Parramattd. But being determined
upon good conduct, Tommy had. failed to
make the most of his chances, which, Since
he was a mean man and did not like long-
walks in the country during the summer,
induced his custodian to remark, when he
handed his charge over to the authorities
at Emu Plains:
“Ye’ll need for to keep an eye on this
’ere young warmint. A desprit young black-
guard, an’ no herror. ’Ad to watch ’im ’aid
all th’ way, elst I dunno wot ’e mightn't
ha’ got up to.”
Whereupon Black Joe Jolliffe, the camp
constable, struck Tommy on the nose with
his leg-o’-mutton fist, observing genially, as
the handcuffed prisoner picked himself up
with a blood-smothered face out of the dust
of the roadway:
“There ain’t nothink like gettin’ a good
himpression, me lad. Mebbe that’ll larn ye
we don’t stand no hanky-panky at Emu
Plains. Now wipe y’r hugly mug,, an’ come
along o’ me. I gotter take ye afoor th’
Super. Bide. a moment,’ an’ I’ll unlock th’
darbies. Nar then, take a bunch o’ grass
an’ clean y’self. An’ ’urry up abart it, elst
I’ll shift y’r ear for ye. Look lively,
now!” " ■
You may see the site of the old prison
camp to-day as you pass westward along the
railway or the road. It is on the other side
of the line and a little closer to the moun-
tains than the modern prison farm, with
its neat quadrangle of little weatherboard
huts, that is situated half a mile north of
the Emu Plains railway station. It used
to be, a century ago, just about where the
pretty stone church stands in its churchyard
on a low eminence to the left of the line as
you travel towards the mountains. A col-
lection of some thirty roughly-constructed
huts of different sizes and styles, of archi-
tecture —they were all very primitive styles
—with bark roofs, lined each side of the
road, and were miserable and wretched
humpies in which pigs would not be housed
to-day. The slabs of which they were con
structed had been split when green, so that
they had shrunk considerably, and a wide
chink gaped between each pair of them.
They were well ventilated —but that was the
only virtue the filthy hovels possessed.
“My man,” said Lieutenant Pickering, the
Superintendent, after reading particulars of
Tommy from, the papers that had arrived
with him, “you’re a foul young swine. Well,
we’ll endeavor to convince you here that it
doesn’t pay to attempt interference with the
virtuous wives of indulgent masters like Mr.
Potiphar. with whom I have some acquaint-
ance. Put him in Tim Beasley’s gang,
Jolliffe. I think we can trust the genial
Timothy to teach this young blackguard
better manners —don’t you agree with me?”
“Aye, y’r honor,” grinned Mr. Jolliffe.
“I’d back Tim for to tame th’ werry
damndest of ’em. Come along, you!”
Mr. Timothy Beasley was reputed to be
the worst terror that the camp at Emu Plains
had to offer its inhabitants. None of the
overseers were soft or gentle in their methods,
or fair and equitable in their treatment of
the half-starved slaves whom it was their
task to drive to the last ounce that was in
them. The most brutal and tyrannous prac-
tices were merely matters of course with
them, and part of a routine which, though
possibly against the spirit of the regula-
tions, was easily tolerated by the Superin-
tendent. He had to make a good showing, in
order to keep in favor with the authorities in
Sydney. To this end he took the utmost
care that there should be no slackness, and
that his serfs made good also.
So it was the judicious custom of Roland
Pickering, Esq.. .T.P., lately senior subaltern
of lI.M. 57th Regiment of Foot and now
in charge of the agricultural establishment at
Emu Plains, to choose from amongst the
convicts employed in the establishment the
laziest and worst behaved for appointment
(Continued on next page.)


w
V/'/i
A
m
M
v.
Mi
S'.it
31
*
r
7
g^jf
23
4"4.
It is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-tim© Sufferers
which enables us to state that if you will commence a course with a
simple, straightforward remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
you will start again on the road to health. Under guarantee, we say
that if you will test this 40-year-old remedy, in 24 hours you will
see results.
Read this letter, just one of thousands
Mrs. E. Deacon, J,B Locksley Avenue, Merry lands, Sydney, says:—“For nine
months I suffered with had backache. It was just as if a fork had been dug in
my back. 1 could not sleep with the pain. As for doing my cleaning, when
I got down on my knees I could hardly get up. The pain attacked me every-
where. No one knows ichat I icent through with my kidneys. I started taking
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. They have done me the world of good. I
get up better, fresher at five in the morning without pain. I blame myself for not
taking ‘De Witt’s’ before.”
Why hesitate longer when such a wonderful offer of health is placed before
you? Why forego the pleasures of life? Why continue in constant nerve-
destroying pain? Why be weak and ailing, when you can, just by visiting
your nearest chemist, start once again building up full vim, vigor and vitality?
BREAKDOWN!
Kidney Trouble Causes Your Weakness
THIS FAMOUS FORTY-YEAR-OLD REMEDY HAS BROUGHT
HEALTH TO THOUSANDS—IT WILL SURELY BENEFIT YOU
If you are run-down, feeling worn-out, hating work, and with no zest for
pleasure, your strength just “giving out,” back aching, complexion sallow or
spotted; if you are having bad nights, it is practically certain that kidney
trouble is poisoning your system.
You may call your trouble rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, chronic backache,
but it is no less certain that the kidneys are at the seat of all your ill-health,
Your chemist knows how good this is
Do you know thousands of men and women have found that by
taking a course of treatment with De Witt’s Pills, they have enjoyed
a new lease of life? Women once crippled with pain, bed-ridden,
tell you that thanks to this simple inexpensive remedy they noW
enjoy splendid vigor and vitality. Men old before their time have
regained new strength. This remedy, which sells by millions of
bottles the world over, acts directly on the kidneys so that they
purify the blood of all pain-giving poisons. Invaluable, too, in all
cases of Bladder Trouble. Why not ask your chemist about De
Witt’s Pills. He will tell you all about the splendid prescription
printed on the box, and why, if you purchase a 3/6 or 6/6 supply,
you will surely be on the road to splendid health.
For your own health’s sake do not accept any substitute for
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
to overseerships and other subordinate posi-
tions. His theory was that men ot this
description, not being over-fonjd of hard
labor and hard fare themselves, would not be
too nice about the methods they employ eu
in getting all the work they could out of the
gang's, so that they might retain their own
jobs. Accordingly there was a regular and
quite well-recognised spirit of competition
in severity amongst the overseers. If one ot
them, with fifty men under him, had ten ot
them paraded for flogging during the week,
it was quite certain that another in charge
of half that number would have at least five
tied up to the wliipping-post in order not
to be outdone.
Similarly Mr. Pickering would put to work
alongside one another at the same kind ot
labor two numerically equal gangs, so that
each overseer would do his best to beat the
tally of his neighbor and drive his men to
the limit of their endurance. It is easily to
be understood that: such a system of healthy
competition did not make for great ease
amongst the unfortunates composing the
gangs engaged in it. „
But Tim Beasley loved his work for its
own sake, and was not naturally an indolent
shirker of the sort his fellow-overseers mostly
were. He could be trusted to get the very
utmost out of his gang, simply for the sake
of goading its members. So it had become a
custom to send all recalcitrants to be dealt
with by the genial Timothy. As Mr. Jolliffe
had said, he could tame the very worst of
them. There were not many pebbles who
remained in the rough after a week of Over-
seer Beasley’s handling.
It was a windless day in mid-December, and
the swarthy green of the ranges stood out
against a blue sky that seemed to blaze
with heat, as Overseer Beasley’s gang
employed itself in burning off a large area of
timber that had been felled in the clearing
operations of the year.
Timothy reared liis massive carcase on the
top of a broad stump, and watched bis slaves
with narrow eyes. Some had been told off
with axes to cut up the fallen timber, whilst
others dragged and carried the fragments of
wood, piled them round the stumps, thrust
firesticks into the stacks, and stoked the
roaring, roasting flames with all the care and
diligence that fear of the overseer could
instil into their efforts.
One of this invaluable' taskmaster’s favor-
ite methods of “trying out” his men during
burning-off operations was to have a heavy
tree-trunk rolled on to six sapling handspikes,
with a man at each end of the latter, in
order to have it carried to the fire, and that
not necessarily the nearest or most con-
venient. As' tii.9 _ party staggered along
towards their destination, he would note
which was apparently the weakest couple,
and order them to drop the ends of the sapling
at which they strained and stumbled, and
fall out. That would mean that they would
have an interview with the scourger in the
evening, as a reproof for their indolence.
“Ah there, Mounsey, and you, Billy
Small,” lie would roar after the sweating,
straining, staggering, procession moving
slowly towards some distant blaze— me
pore fellies, tli’ work’s too hard for ye.
Drop y’r load now, me delicate darlin’s, an’
I’ll see ye gets some stimmylant at knock-
off time. We mustn’t put too much on ye,
me pore boys—dear Gawd, no ! W e must
treat ye fair. Take a liddle rest—now do!
The five remaining pairs would struggle
with the great log towards the selected fire,
and on the way he would fall out two moie
couples. Should the remaining six men fail
in tlieir task, the whole dozen knew what
their fate would be after sunset. If, by the
exertion of superhuman effort, and a grim
determination of the surviving six to cheat
Mr. Beasley of the full measure of his
pleasurable anticipation, the log should reach
its destination and be successfully rolled
upon the fire, the overseer would indulge in
reproaches of those whom he had bade
desist from the task.
“Nar, then,” he would bellow, I thought
ye was tired, but I se e now ye was loafin’.
Ye crawlin’ lizards, ye! ’Tis a tonic ye need,
an’ ’tis a tonic ye’ll get.” .
As the sullen dozen picked up their hand-
spikes and moved off to where another great
bole lay waiting transportation to one ot
the-fires, Mr. Beasley having lingered for a
few moments to engage in conversation with
a fellow tyrant, Tommy heard one of them
growl out in a low tone:
“Boys, this Beasley’s lived long-
enough. W’en Jimmy Mason goes back to
his gang, there won't be no one nearer than
’alf a mile away. Wot say we take im an’
tie ’im to th’ nex’ log we shifts, an’ puts
’im on tli’ fire, too?”
A low growl of approval greeted this
amiable suggestion. The gang’s temper was
raw. They had been driven ijesperato, and
were ready for anything. What matter the
inevitable hanging match? Death itself was
better than the miseries they endured, and
had endured for weeks, at the ingenious
whim of their taskmaster. .
“Strap ’im wi’ y’r belts, an’ gag him,
counselled the proposer of this scheme- of
vengeance. “An’ mum's th’ word arterwards.
There won’t be nothink of him left. They 11
think ’e’s done a bolt, an’ ’ooked it. We 11
burn th’ alive, an’ watch ’im roast!
Suddenly, whilst he was slouching along
with liis companions, Tommy heard his name
bellowed by Mr. Beasley.
“Tr-a-app ! Hi, you, Trapp ! Come here,
I want you. Hurry up, you!'
Dropping his sapling, Tommy hurried as
fast as his weak legs could carry him to the
overseer. It was not wise to keep Mr.
Beasley waiting.
As he ran, Tommy turned oyer in his
slow-working mind what lie had just heard.
He had no reason to love the overseer, and
nothing that could happen to that obnoxious
personage could give him much cause for
sorrow. He owed Mr. Beasley a score for
injurious treatment that was at least as
much in need of payment as that of any of
his mates. But he had no wish to be hanged ;
also, he had a distaste for burning men alive.
Even though they might be such men as
Timothy Beasley. He could not stand the
notion of roasting a human being—the very
idea sickened him. He decided to save the
overseer.
“Lookye, Trapp, I’ve left me ’baccy box
in me hut. Go vou and get it,” commanded
Mr. Beasley. “Tell th’ hut-keeper I sent ye.
’Tis on th’ winder-sill. Look alive, now.
“If ye please, Mr. Beasley, for God’s sake
don't say I told ye, but don’t go near the
gang. Not too near. They’s a-plannin’ for
to put ye on one o’ th’ fires. Best keep
away from ’em, sir.”
“D —n ye! Go an’ do as I told ye!”
bellowed the overseer. “And if ye’re over-
long about it, I’ll ha’ ye skinned alive. Off
wi’ ye, now!”
The other overseer had walked back to
his gang, but Mr Beasley did not hail him
as Tommy half-expected Irm to do, in view
of the news he had brought. He was walking
up and down, frowning and muttering, as
Tommy departed at a jog-trot in the direction
of the huts. However, on looking back from
a distance of a quarter of a mile he saw
that the overseer was keeping aloof from his
men. In his simple soul Tommy was glad that
he had prevented such horrid murder being
done. He could not stand by and see a man
roasted alive. Not even Tim Beasley. He
kept repeating that to himself as he neared
the camp, and turned in the direction of Mr.
Beasley’s hut.
As lie came round a clump of trees, a
hundred yards from the lines of bark shanties,
he encountered Mr. Pickering, who was on
horseback, starting out to visit the clearing-
gangs.
“Hi, there!” shouted the Superintendent.
“Where the devil are you going? Get back to
your gang.”
“If you please, y’r honor, Mr. Beasley
“I> —n you, don’t answer me! Get back
to your work.”
Tommy found the overseer still keeping
well away from liis men. He told him of his
encounter with the Superintendent. Where-
upon Mr. Beasley knocked him down.
“D —n my eyes,” lie roared, “why didn’t
ye dodge th’ Super, ye fool? What’ve ye
eyes in y’r head for? Damme, I'm goin’ to
get th’ "rest o’ them crawlers two dozen
apiece. You'll get three, me lad, for bein’ a
----- - fool.”
To the Sun.
O happy sUii-, all of . thy days are good*
Whether, a rhry ball, thou rise to slay,
Or gently, in a more benignant mood,
Thou dost, a lover, with the green things
play.
While ±he light zephyrs touch the golden
day;
Or through rain-clouds thou stealest in thy
sphere
Almost Unseen; till haply before night,
When few have looked for thee to reappear,
Thou smiling movest the wet hills above,
As if to listen to the birds’ delight,
Or see on his way home a lonely love;
Ere that with a last flush of beauty thou
Dost hide thyself from all—-as thou dost
now.
O happy sun, that so began with all
That here inhabit, or in other airs
All who have had a heavenly festival
Since the beginning—the creation shares
All of its days with thee, and shall until
(If ever) thou, a god, art overthrown,
Cast as a pebble in the Lethean rill,
Forgot as all that is in the Unknown!
R. CRAWFORD.
Ballade in Praise of Beauty.
Thy beauty, Helen, as a flame
Destroyed a towered city’s pride;
The winds of earth bear far the name
Of Guinevere, King Arthur’s bride,
From ruined Camelot; the tide
Scarce moves that bore Elaine away—
Yet in men’s hearts doth still abide
Beauty as Woman, day by day.
A nameless wraith of Beauty came
The Unknown of the Seine, who died
No man knows how, nor dares to blame*
Sad Deirdre’s lovers none may chide*
The Scottish Queen can open wide
Her heart of passion to display .
Emblazoned names—men who descried
Beauty as Woman, day by day.
Beauty itself becomes a frame
For fleeting glimpses unified
To oneness. Many a noble Dame
Had perished, but that poets tried
To save them; pictured side by side
On leaves Time’s fingers touch and
sway
In secret hearts —there strives to hide
Beauty as Woman, day by day.
L’Envoy.
Ah, Princess, to thy courts men ride,
And, seeing, ride no more away—
For each tliy presence doth provide
Beauty as Woman, day by day.
N.S.W.
J. M. PRENTICE.
Unvanquished.
Shall I not sing one song more, though
but one, . .
F‘or the old day’s sake and the old time s
pride, . . .
For years that knew the morning and the
sun,
When hills were far and fabled waters
Wide?
Not one! O fool, these things have waned
away!
Outworn and withered to the naked stem-,
The royal rose that once teas yesterday
Knows not to-day’s dreams, nor is known of
them.
Ah, yet the high-sailed clouds are fairy-wliite,
The crested seas keep all their magic still,
The slim grass sways with delicate delight
To kiss the young wind dancing down the
hill.
Aye, hut the light is gone that lit these
things,
The elfin flame that was the youth of you:
Nor shall you find again the heart that sings
Though all the seas of all the world are
blue!
1 feck not! Faun and dryad dome rio more
To the dim pools, and all things pass ill
vain,
Dimmed, broken, lost to the grey mazes
core....
Yet, still unconquered, I will sing again .
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


w
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
rHE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—UOtMiss a cHVKCB, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—l)3*lo7 X'eatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—'"Cliancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDSR. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, 8. A.
Queensland’s
Largest and Most
Effective Advertising
Medium —
THE “BRISBANE COURIER”
These amazing comparison figures should prove beyond all doubt the
superiority of the “Brisbane Courier” as an advertising medium:—
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1929.
29,152!
columns of advertising.
Two other Brisbane dailies—one a
morning, the other an evening:
28,672*
columns of advertising.
This is easily the strongest evidence, too, that the “Courier” is first in
CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Specimen copies and Rate Cards from Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 h.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Ootch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
O. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian’
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
tlx mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT by the experience of the
1 leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
JT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
1 and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square.
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
EYES BRIGHT
m
w%m
Hi
$£
g&j&
SK%
Bright eyes — clear eyes — reveal a
cleansed system working in har-
mony—a system from which real health
is obtained. Let the whites lose
their brilliance, let them become dim.
dull and discoloured, and it tells 01.
Constipation—elimination is irregular,
incomplete, or both. Biliousness.
Headaches, Flatulence are other
symptoms.
The remedy is simple Beecham*#
Pills. This famous medicine does
its work gently thoroughly—
is not habit forming. Beecham’s at
night will soon put you right.
PILLS
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
-SSSsar-
*
: -** i
A JOURNAL FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
64 PAGES 3d. INTERESTING AND INSTRUCTIVE READING.
THE NEW SILHOUETTE
Fashion’s Latest Decree.
SKILL IN BRIDGE
Hints for Advanced Players.
Jl DANCER’S LOVERS
A KING, A LORD AND A
CHANCELLOR’S SON!
ŵ
SUMMER DIARRHOEA
Its Risks are Greater than War Risks,
PETTICOAT APPEAL
FREE PATTERN
of
Schoolgirl’s Pettie
Complete with instructions
for making.
TWO
GREAT
SERIALS
IN
THIS
ISSUE
bo^.J
0
G°
6
..
O.F
f
c«»
..***<«£
..•**,
c*V«S>


ẁ
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS s
N.S.W. Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland . . . Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane and Townsville
S.A. . . Waymouth Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
W.A Winterbottom Motor Company, Limited, Perth
Tasmania .* Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
