

/
. :
' * f <■* % »> • ’V>*v -
r * * W„W«M »
-
■
' : *F'\
;■■■[: .
'
»
IS#®
? ■
:
si
CELEBRATED for Style;
Celebrated for Value, which means
reasonable price and remarkable wear!
Akubras are Australian in the fullest
sense of the word. They are made
to meet Australian preferences
and Australian needs.
High Quality, 251 •
Thousands more, each year, choose
Akubras for the comfort and service
that are in them. Remember! You
are not asked to wear Akubras out of
sentiment, but because you cannot do
better. “You can buy an Akubra
wherever good hats are sold.”
Super Quality, 3216
|» r>:
|| $
i i
fr *
' •'■r'-iprf*-*
The Bulletin
w
Vol. 51.—N0. 2605.
Wednesday, January 15, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the Qeneral Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ŵ
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name •
Mv Address
'L-YSAGHT
0
O
R
AUSTRALIA,
Support Australian Industries*
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron*
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
w
HWS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
HAIR.
V
NEED
NO
HERES
•umy
ẁ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and - safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
t&OM&ris CMEXICAN)
llkdnuJt S&dn
'"REMOVES THE GREY*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (}/6), 6d. being postage.
ẃ
Literary.
pOLONIAL AUTHORS are invited to
submit MSS. of all descriptions for
immediate consideration —with a view to
magazine use or book publication. £5O
Cash Prizes for poems. Music and lyrics
also published. No reading fees; prompt
publication. Current catalogues and speci-
men copy of “Writer’s Own Magazine”
(6d. monthly) free. ARTHUR H STOCK-
WELL, LIMITED, 29 Ludgate Hill, Lon-
'on, England.
REFRESH
YOURSELF
after a tiring day
\
Soap, Ointment,
and Tatleiim
Soap la., Ointment la. and 3a.
Talcum la. 3d. Sample each ftee.
Address: “B. Town* A Co., Sydnay, H. S.W "
SWAN INK
FOR "SWAN” PENS AND
ALL PENS.
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
June 11, 1929.
‘Examiner” Office, Launceston.
Dear Sir,—lt may interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
wood, Sulphur Creek’, Moorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield Hobait VVinnaleah.
I must CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE LOU GIVE ME
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS. ...
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information. Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W.. R.
■Rnrpir ,V SONS PTY. LTD., 73-7 i) Paterson Street, Launceston,
M S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne’;
W. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sure Death to AH Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A. Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
MUSTDIE
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitoes.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
KILL
VOAT FLY
Showing: tht
rough hairy
body and
head and
legs, on
which
Microbes of
Disease
The Red Page
Vance Palmer’s Poetry
In the first Bulletin Novel Com-
petition nothing worried the judges more
than Vance Palmer's "Men Arc Human.”
They thought it a splendid Australian
novel. It was sincere. It held, as the
writer of this article finds Vance
Palmer’s verse holds, atmosphere as
opposed to mere local color. One judge
who read it on a Sunday afternoon
hailed it as the winner. Then “A House
Is Built” came along. There was no
more sincerity in it, but its “ canvas'’ was
considered greater. Then “Coonardoo”
came. There was no more sincerity in
it either; but it ivas, perhaps, "stronger.”
Thus it teas “Men Are Human,” written
from the heart of one who is as Aus-
tralian in spirit as a bush of banksia,
was given third prize. Did it deserve
higherf Bulletin readers can judge.
“Men Are Human” begins as a serial
in The Bulletin’s Jubilee Number,
January 29. If only for one reason,
because it is so positively Australian, it
merits that place. An article on Vance
Palmer’s prose by Mary Gilmore will be
published in the Red Page next week.
Vance Palmer, one of the few who are
doing Vital literary work in this country
and for its own sake, has a place here in
drama, novel and short story. But lately I
have been re-reading his two volumes of
verse, “The Forerunners” and “The Camp,”
and I am convinced that the work in them
has real value also; is so fine that the
author ought to be told.
To the average Australian, to all lecturers,
leader-writers and visitors, Queensland
poetry means Brunton Stephens and Essex
Evans. Every professor and schoolmaster
knows that no one else is worth mention.
Nobody reads them; but it is safe ground,
something handy and established. Actually,
Vance' Palmer is a finer Queensland poet
than either. What has chiefly impressed
me in this re-reading of his verse is his
splendid Australianism. It is not some-
thing he has to show off, something put on
for poetic effect; it is essentially a part of
the man and therefore of his work. He
is as conscious of his own country and
takes it for granted as naturally as Words-
worth or Burns.
The hills that bred us shall know our voice, beauty
shall spring from our soil,
There’ll be song-making and dream-sharing, a
spending in fruitful toil,
And lest the terror should hem us round or a chief
betray our trust,
The swift sword, the freeman’s sword, shall never
grow dark with rust.
There is something robustly national in
him; and that is the value and the signi-
ficance of his poetry. The essence of it is
in “The Firebringer,” “The Awakening,”
“The Harbinger.” It is a note rare in our
young literature; it looks like the begin-
nings of a national Australian poetry. I
cannot share his enthusiasm for the pioneers,
so often glorified in verse and made a
present of high motives which they never
had. To-day they or their families seem
to me the most conservative and un-Aus-
tralian class in Australia, and the least in
sympathy with our own native democratic
ideals. The pioneers of intellect are much
more actually our nation-builders; and here
Vance Palmer himself is one of the fore-
runners. His drover’s “God’s truth,”
Clarrie playing poker with the girls, the
cattlemen in camp carving whip handles,
plaiting greenhide, boiling the next day’s
meat—these things would have been re-
jected as unpromising poetic “material” by
the writer of colorful verse, who gives us
not so much what is as something he
invents as typical of Australia. His work
has atmosphere, as distinct from “local
color,” which may be dragged in by any
versifier. The magpie,, the gum-tree, the
swag do not make a poem Australian.
Whether in the far West, which he knows
intimately, or “back in the ploughed land,”
he is never merely picturesque nor con-
cerned with externals only. He seizes on
the real significance of the life around
him. Names native to the soil —the Con-
damine, the Barwon, the Bree—-hold their
places with him as rightly as the Yarrow-
in Old World verse. And the landscape is
individually our own, as it should be. A
day of sunshine in the Dandenongs:—
And all is magic clear to-day,
The ririgbarked trees are white as bone;
Surely a man could throw a stone
To peaks ten miles away,
Or touch a tree-top bird at play!
He is Celtic, though in nothing bdt verse
forms; in a flair for stress instead of metri-
cal feet; his manner of managing rhythms.
He would agree with Coleridge’s theory of
counting the accents in a line rather than
the feet, and Coleridge never heard of the
Celtic Twilight. It is not easy to analyse
this and say just what it is, but it is
beautiful and most effective, and it is
here:—
Here nothing changes, seed-time or harvest-time;
—and here:—
No more we’ll go a-droving in the long, summer
days,
No more we’ll bring our lean herds home along
the Bree;
Settled is the white dust, the mob turned out to
graze,
And the galled horse now runs free.
Lines like these, read aloud, would be a
pitfall for the reader without a perfect
ear.
In war verse (which, considering the
scope, has been disappointing) his “The
Camp” seems to me to have permanent
literary value. The title-poem is one of
the most powerful and direct things I
know—a piece of harsh realism, merciless,
without art or evenness or any of the
niceties that do not matter in such a theme.
It is spontaneous, original, daring work.
Vance Palmer is never only descriptive
or only emotional. He is attracted by many
important aspects of the war, but not the
actual shambles of the trenches: —
The sunless days drag on with leaden feet,
Life moves to boasts and taunts and waving flags,
And every noble word is torn to rags
By sleek belligerents mouthing in the street,
Youth herds in camp and trench, the iron sleet
Hemming it round, crushing it in the mire,
,While old men feast on battles by the fire,
And hucksters raise the price of bread and meat.
Yet when our world is faded like a breath
Our children’s children shall lament the dearth
Of wonder in the peace that folds them then,
And turn from trees and flowers and living men
To dream upon our days of war and death.
When heroes, tall and marvellous, walked the earth!
All Australian poets seem to go the same
way—they jilt the Muse at last and take
to novel-writing. Not that it matters, any-
way, in most cases. But of the 500 Aus-
tralian poets (or is it 600?) who else is
doing work of Vance Palmer's standard?
He has published some half a hundred
poems (Gordon’s whole output) but no
new verse in the last 10 years. Which is
a great pity.
JAMES DEVANEY.
The Australian Stage in 1929
The achievement of the native drama in
1929 was even more disappointing than it
was in 1928. The output of 1928 was small
but choice; that of 1929 was o.nly small. No-
body arose to carry on the good work begun
by Betty M. Davies with “The Touch of
Silk,” though that there is a public waiting
for sound and sincere attempts to portray
the Australian scene was shown by the
fact that the play was performed by
amateurs in Brisbane and Sydney and
attracted the attention of most critics worth
their salt. Of the fresh contributions to the
local drama “Iron Out of Calvary,” written
by A. Danvers Walker and inadequately
produced by the Proscenium Club. Mel-
bourne, was a promising attempt to depict
the reactions of a group of average people
to the war neurosis. Most Australian play-
wrights, however, contented themselves
with tentative essays in the shape of one-
acters, some of which were fair, some bad
and more awful. A lonely phenomenon was
“The Good Oil,” by Edward Carroll. This
was a comedy carefully founded on the
domestic-realistic school to which belong
such engaging American pieces as “The
Alarm Clock,” “Pigs” and “Applesauce.”
The background was Queensland and the
thing was as cleverly done as the average
of its imported brethren. Handicapped by
the lack of an attractive feminine person-
ality, it had a short commercial run in Mel-
bourne. Fritz Hart produced another of his
Celtic operas, “The Woman Who Laughed
at Faery,” and the excellent rendering pro-
vided by four Melbourne amateurs earned
it a second hearing.
If the record of the indigenous dram
was poor, that of the drama from overseas
was no better. Entrepreneurs, their liver?
turned to water by the menace of the
movies, staged the same sort of egregious
rubbish. The ghastly and ineffective
“Dracula,” which contains a bloodsucking
human, was succeeded by the equally
ghastly and even more ineffective “Zeppelin
Terror,” whose star attraction was a char-
acter suffering from leprosy; and by
“The Gorilla,” whose purple patch was ar.
anthropoid ape which roamed and moaned
amongst the audience. None of these
masterpieces brought a rich reward into the
pockets of its sponsor. The public was busy
supping less expensively on horrors else-
where.
Nevertheless, the success of “Youn<'
Woodley,” a brilliant delineation of the
psychology of the schoolboy, and “Journey’,*
End,” a poignant and realistic picture of
the trenches, showed that the would-be
theatregoing public is not exclusively either
unripe or degenerate.
In the realm of the intellectual drama a
detruncated version of o‘Neill’s “Strange
Interlude,” staged by Duncan McDougall in
Sydney', stirred the morality complexes of
the daily-paper critics but earned encomium-
from the less-inhibited critics. In Mel-
bourne the repertory movement continued
to show signs of shell-shock due to its disas-
trous alliance with the Taits. The only
noteworthy incident was a brilliant perform
ance of O’Casey’s “Juno and the Paycock.”
Not to be outdone, Gregan McMahon pro-
claimed his conviction that the land was
pullulating with playgoers aching for artistic
nourishment, and so put on DrinkwaterV
“Bird in Hand” and then “A Message from
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


This
mi
Question
Answered
will
be
m
a
Mighty Wi
ay
on
Pi
54
e
it's


V
Am?
9
1
f/
if//
rrf
n
I— i
TH E pleasant practice of taking
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” leads to the
enjoyment of really good health. Do
you know days when everything
seems to go wrong and you don’t
feel up to the mark; work becomes
an effort; and, when playing your
favorite game you can’t do anything
right? Usually the reason is not far
to seek. The most important of
the bodily functions is working
imperfectly. Yet how easy it is to
remedy this! An invigorating glass
of Eno’s “Fruit Salt,” sparkling and
refreshing, before breakfast, will help
your body to free itself thoroughly
from waste and poisons, and put
you on the “top of your form” all
day long.
Eno contains no purgative mineral
salts, so that its regular use does not
form an indispensable habit. Follow
the lead of countless healthy people
the world over —start your day with
a glass of water sparkling with a dash
of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
Jn two sizes at Chemists and Stores
fcfc
TRADE
ENOS
FRUIT SALT
M
MARK yw
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sales Jlgents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE ac CO. LTD. SYDNEY, N.S.W,


&Sf/+/*/***
*/«*
r/f/#/#
vjxji P4r«r
*sex9j
Fit
&s#s*y*
ex**#
*s&*v/*se
/*xex*
*****#£#;'?#>*#,* es+s*s
* c* .* e / 0 / * * # >• #*•* / * ,>
r scj/
w
0S&
FOR
WOMEN
ALSO
COMFORT in the tropics is almost entirely dependent
upon “ keeping cool,” and in the incessant war against
the fierce heat of tropical suns Aertex Underwear is
man’s most powerful ally.
All day through the wonderful cellular weave allows the skin to breathe
freely and healthfully, and counteracts the ill effects of an intem-
perate clime.
Ladies who live in the tropics will find, in the wide range of attractive
garments fashioned specially for them in the Elastic Aertex weave, th«
perfect Underwear; at once dainty, cool, and comfortable.
ipst
S’WAERTEX
*3
{■ONDO**
Label on all Garments
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers, and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO., LTD.,
313-15 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
A,6 u >ho supplies Wholesale Trade only.
Mars, both carefully interpreted in terms
ol the upper circle. The Immortal Bard
waa not neglected. In Sydney Allan Wilkie
began well and collapsed suddenly with a
season at Newtown; while in Melbourne
Bernard Hall, artist, and Mr. Hart, citizen,
warmly discussed whether Shakspeare was
Shakspeare.
Show Boat ’ was the musical event on
the commercial boards. There was a tawny
richness about, it, but expense of produc-
tion is said to have been its downfall. There
was the usual procession of solo virtuosi
from abroad. Pavlova returned; but now-
adays, apparently, good wine does need a
bush, and it was not till towards the end
of her sojourn in the different cities that
the public woke up to her presence.
The sudden eruption of the talkies at the
beginning of the year dwarfed everything.
One legitimate theatre, after announcing
that it would have none of them, reluc-
tantly allowed itself to be “wired,” and its
first, speaking film, of no remarkable merit,
ran lor five months, with four presentations
daily. Old and tried houses innumerable
rap.dly iollowed, and huge new citadels,
extravagantly furnished, ferociously over-
staffed and in the worst possible taste
architecturally, sprang up overnight like
fantastic mushrooms. For entertainment
that was often of no high order frames
were provided which would be excessive
even for the noblest productions of human
genius.. Nevertheless, it would be foolish
to imagine that the vocal picture is a
fad and a return to the dumb film immi-
nent. One unfulfilled prophecy is that
concerning the inevitable triumph of Oxford
or academic English over the American
variety. Some may deplore it, but the fact
remains that Australian audiences have be-
come so auricularly proficient in the Ameri-
can accent as to be able to follow with ease
a dialogue which to the newcomer to the
talkies is wholly unintelligible. The few
English challenges to the Yankee monopoly
have been more remarkable for promise
than performance. The chief charge to be
brought against the talkie is that up to date
it has not displayed the courage of its con-
victions. Its technique is still the technique
of the flesh and blood drama, although
there is as much analogy between them as
there is between a black-and-white drawing
and a painting. But just as the dumb film
developed its own peculiar and enormously
effective conventions, so the talkie will
emancipate itself and evolve a character as
distinct as that of grand opera.
What effect this consummation will have
on the legitimate theatre may be left to
the professional prophets. Still, some ten-
dencies are evident. The travesty of human
speech and human personality provided by
the screen is already having its repercus-
sions. Last year the crush of people anxious
to witness the wedding of a real, live actor
with a local damsel caused a constable to
faint and the street traffic to be diverted.
The inadequacy of the canned melody of
the screen synchronised with a remarkable
renaissance of music in Melbourne. The
greatest works of the greatest demigods of
harmony attracted packed houses to the
Town Hall and thousands assembled again
and again to hear Nancy Weir, the child
pianist. An orchestra of professionals who
had been thrown out of work by the talkies
held a long and successful season at the
Auditorium.
The conversion of numerous theatres to
the talkie left the remainder in a position
to improve the standard of their entertain-
ment. If the owners of legit, show as much
of artistic courage as the movie impresarios
have displayed of business enterprise and
daring, 1929 may some day be regarded as
the Pride’s Purge of the Australian theatre.
M.G.S.
About Mrs. Eddy: Part II
The statement of “M.G.S.” (R.P.
11/12/’29) that E. F. Dakin’s biography of
Mrs. Eddy is well balanced and scientific is
not convincing, because not only did the
publisher of the book decline an offer from
the authorities of the Christian Science
Church to check the manuscript for
accuracy and veracity, but while compiling
the work no effort was made by the author
to obtain information from any of the co-
workers of Mrs. Eddy (some of whom had
resided in her home for long periods) nor
from any of the students who had sat in
her classes (many of whom are still living
and pncnlv * g
ana easily accessible). *
Une example of the inexcusable lack of
accuracy in the book is the statement, “she
built an immense palace.” Mrs. Eddy
never built a palace. She purchased, on
her retirement from Boston, a quite modest
country home in Concord (N.H.). Later
she purchased a home at Chesnut Hill,
Boston, which in “pretentiousness” is over-
shadowed by many of the surrounding
homes, none of which could be termed
palaces. The innuendo that S-e retired from
direct participation in the management of
her Church for ulterior reasons, the charges
tViof i , r ’ , 7>,
that the woman who went for a daily ride
was not. Mrs. Eddy but a substitute, that
her officials lived in dread of excommunica-
tion that she was in the habit of taking
morphine regularly, indicate a positive bias
instead of a balanced and scientific presen-
tation of facts. All have been amply dis-
proved time and time again, some of them
legally, others to the complete satisfaction
of the American press, which at the time
wa- anvthino- but friondbr i e
caum y hei ' ° r her
~
In Mrs. Eddy’s eighty-seventh year a
group of her enemies instigated a plot to
challenge her mental competency to man-
age her own affairs. The case was known
as the “Suit of the Next Friends.” Mrs.
Eddy’s mental vigor and alertness wofi the
admiration of the Masters who had been
appointed by the Supreme Court to try
the case, and the “Next Friends,” realising
their untenable position, themselves asked
the Court for a dismissal. Dr. Allan
McLane Hamilton, a famous alienist, who
interviewed Mrs. Eddy professionally
during the progress of this trial, stated :
“For a woman of her age I do not hesitate
to say that she is physically and mentally
phenomenal.” No biographer claiming to
give an impartial account could fail to
record that and the rest of Dr. Hamilton’s
statement.
I he claim of Mr. Dakin that Mrs. Eddy
was indebted to P. P. Quimby for some
ideas contained in Christian Science is so
hackneyed and has been disproved so many
times that Christian Scientists had begun
to think no one would venture to raise it
again. Quimby’s treatment was partly
physical and partly mental. In so far as it
was mental it was mesmeric. Prior to
practising healing he had been a travelling'
hypnotist. Mrs. Eddy’s method, on the
other hand, was a purely spiritual method
based on the recognition and realisation of
the omnipotence, omnipresence, and omnis-
cience of Spirit, and is therefore primarily
a religion, having for its object the evan-
gelisation of thought. From this it will be
seen that Christian Science eschews sug-
gestion and all forms of mental manipu-
lation.
JOSEPH F. TURNER.
Christian Science Committee on Publica-
tion for New South Wales.
“M.G.S.” says that Dakin’s biography of
Mary Baker Eddy is the first full and un-
biased account of her life. It may be the
first full one, but it is certainly not the first
unbiased inquiry into the life of the lady
whom Mark Twain, three years before her
death, summed up as “the most erratic and
contradictory and untrustworthy witness
that has occupied the stand since the days
of the lamented Ananias.” For an exhaus-
tive exposure, fully documented, of Mrs.
Eddy’s hocus-pocus, nothing has so far been
published to equal Georgine Milmine’s
“Life of Mary Baker G. Eddy and the
History of Christian Science.” The English
edition, bearing the imprint of Hodder and
Stoughton, appeared in 1909, and the faith-
ful are expressly warned by the Christian
Science panjandrums against reading it. The
faithful are permitted to read only Miss
Sibyl Wilbur’s concoction, which does not
stand the test of impartial investigation.
Every statement of Georgine Milmine,
however, is backed up by documents and
sworn evidence.
During 1908 and 1909, a controversy
raged in the pages of “T. P.’s Weekly” over
a novel called “Christian Murderers,” by
Winifred Graham. “T.P.’s” allowed the
Pros and Cons to slangwhang each other
for five months, and then delivered the fol-
lowing judgment:—
Mrs. Eddy and her followers are simply medicine-
men, witch-doctors and dealers in ju-ju. They are
white in complexion, they dress in civilised fashion,
their headquarters are in Boston, supposed to be
the most “cultured” city in the world. But they
and their “treatments” smell most vilely of the
African swamp; and the “Churches of Christ,
Scientist” are but fetich-groves in stone. To the
anthropologist these revivals and survivals. must be
cf the deepest interest; he sees that “civilisation,”
“culture,” “democracy,” the domination of the
machine, the rush and strife of industrialism can
by "no means eradicate the primeval instincts of
hunmanity. Boston, at heart, is as Borrioboolah Gha.
As for the “results” which seem to
have captured “M.G.S.’s” fancy, they are
not to be compared with those obtained by
accredited psychotherapeutists, who are
systematically tapping mental forces that
the Christian Scientist “practitioners” occa-
sionally succeed in using haphazardly.
L. L. W.
A Satchel of Books
The Autobiography of Calvin Coolidge
(Chatto and Windus). And very dull, too.
Bib and • Bub. Good reproduction in color
of May Gibbs drawings of Australian oddi-
Les. It is, unlike most comics, real small-
ry stu ®> w kh a perennial appeal,
The Characters of Jean dc la Bruy ere,
translated by Henri van Laun (Routledge).
A bright translation of the famous essays
“ aphorism with effort rather strained at
times ■to identify Lruyere s disguised charac-
ters. Certainly where the’ allusion can be
clearly sheeted home some piquancy is added
to the racy sallies, but in any case Bru-
yere is always readable and often sparkling,
Seven etched portraits illustrate a handsome
hit of book-making.
More Biography, by C. Clerihem Bentley
(Methuen). “Biography” in quatrains
ranging from Petronius to H. G. Wells and
sounding like this: —
Tlle digestion of Milton
S'VTonlv leeW^-'so
When he wrote il Penseroso.
Gen '- V th l E j!$SL. f
Took a thuctheththion of mateth.
He inthithted that the monkth
Were a lathy lot of thkunkth.
, r „ „
Was composed of cells.
He thought the human race
Was a P erfect disgrace.
With _ each biography goes an even more
engag ’ n S verdict upon the accused in black
i uul lro I ,". tbe pens Chester-
ton’ W cto y Beinganum, Nicholas Bentley
and the author. Chesterton and E. C. Bent-
h'.v collaborated in a very early effort—a
similar work produced in their schooldays.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
A ame and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tai ily submitted; and no MS. will be return ed unhss stamps accompany.
I’j.E.K. : You don't make us believe it’s
true... .W.R.K..: Much obliged. Inquiries are being
made... .Seascape: We’d rather be excused... .8.C.:
Length of run depends upon support. The other
reasons are mostly fairy tales L. 8.: “Crashed” a
bit too jingly. Appreciation appreciated C.P.:
Try a paper that puolishes child verse E.P.: The
“power to tell” is missing. ... M.E.: Thin, very
thin.... Pen C.: Gave the Religious Editor the pip.
....Weathercock: Creaky M.T.: Mere list in jog-
jog metre. ... T.E.O’D.: Lines like “A vague unrest
to brood upon my soul” far too reminiscent. .. .F.H.:
Anything of that length must be superlatively good.
.... Granny: Has merit, but fails to satisfy....
J.A.P.: Smell of haste about them all Atlas: Hate
to pass it all back Y.L.: Burned “Coal”
Neil S.: “Dead at Sea” is a corpse in George-street,
too. . . .L.K.N.A.: “Anna Asthore” is a synthetic young
lady. .. . D.W.8.; Nothing like a winner there....
C.N.: Getting a bit tired of that “ever restless sea.”
S.H.: You keep off the track 8.D.K.: Fragile
sort of punning C.H.H.: The academic note which
you condemn rings rather loud in your own product.
.. . .R.M.: Even imagery has to convince... .E.P.L.:
“In a Barber’s Shop”—yours is a singe, sir.... Pa-
rable: Fallen among flames A.U.D.: Flat as a pint
of stale jokes... .Jackeroo: Afraid interest would be
restricted only to the libelled K.W.: As you have
it, “strange thoughts, half formed” A.W.E.:
“Misery” now reigns in the w.p.b T.E.: Write
direct to the author at the address given. .. .P.S.:
Moves too tardily M.S.J.: Try one of the uplift
journals... .L.S.: Weighed and found heavy... .Spec:
It’s in W. S. Blunt’s “Poems” H.D.: Still misses
by that much G.D.M.: Might “illustrate the
present industrial condition,” but it is jingling sort
of verse... .A.W.R.MeN.: Like so many of their
kind. . . .P. 8.: They sound, but that is a11....H.8.:
Did a barber tell you that old tale? A.T.: Kind
of verse that needs packing. .. .Ole Blue: Terrible
idea of dialogue. ... Sam S.: One might d 0....
F. : Surprised at you standing on the mountain-
top “robed in thought”. .. .D.H.: If that’s an
example, the songs that may be sung to a lute are
“somewhat restricted”. .. .O.B.: Not quite good
enough for this week’s “Answers”... .Ninette: Did
you make a resolution after writing “New Year’s
Eve” ?... .H.D.: Nothing there U.P.1.: Reads as
if you did it for a bet:.. .A.MeA.: Might amaze you
to know how many people can, and do, write like
that... .R.C.8.: “The Bell Train’s Record Run” has
been lowered. . . .M.G.: Idea threadbare. . . .W.N.D.:
“The Blood of Men” looks suspiciously like beetroot
juice. .. ,P. 0.: Can’t embrace the scheme... . J.M.:
No, it’s a separate publication. .. .F.S.: Have heard
worse musical-comedy ditties... .M.M.C.: Belonged
to the Royal Welsh. Will be reviewed later. . . .P.D.:
You’ll have to try new bait in the Muse trap....
G. : With practice you might do, better....
H. :.“Birthmark” gets a black mark. . . .G.R.B. :
Badly constructed and spun out. .. . H.V.M.: No pull
in “The Near-side Leader”.... E.H.T. : A character-
sketch, not a story.... M.DeK.: No footlights for
the tragedy of Mrs. B 8.J.M.: A dry subject for
a youthful writer. . . .A.D.8.: Stale dishes. . . .R.H.M.:
No space for reviews founded on cable notices. Book
will be handled when it arrives. ... H.W.: Begin to
fear the harbor bridge will deal spring a dirty left in
the solar plexus... . F.S.T.H.: Well done, but inter-
est too confined. .. .J.R. : No salt in our tears for
the late fisherman... .F.W.W.8.: Suffers from
general sluggishness.. . .0.H.G.: Poem ending on the
crescendo, “There never was a road too rough for
love to find a way,” destroyed without compunction.
....Adrian: All fail to soar.. . . Q.T.: No thrill in
your “Summer’s Night”.... R.T.: Too much length
and er—wind.. .. J.A.C.: Can’t see anywhere they’d
fit.... R.F.C.: Like a bit of concrete in the duff.
. ...R.R.: Not much interested in the alleged
American language... .E.H.: No space for it....
G.H.C.: Can’t place Mussolini, but you might try
again... .R.M-H.: “Everyone who can read, or who
have eyes to read, should avail themselves of
poetry.” To start like that is as good as burning
the thing yourself.... L. A.C.: Wait till he dies....
JVi.D.A.: No space for prolonging that affair....
J. 8.8.: Sorry, an article on it had been in print
some time when yours arrived.... J.D.: Had tiptop
chances, but the crush has beaten it....K.H.: Can’t
get excited over whether Australians are wistful or
just lighthearted. ... B. A.: Not enough in “The
Storm” to fill the teapot... .T. 0.: Washed out in
Bill’s bath. .. .O.G-N.: “Grundy” sent home to Mrs.
G S.V.D’A.: Much ado about a commonplace tabby.
.. . .H.S.W.: “March of the Mosquitoes” smoked out. . .
D.V.K.: Has no interest beyond raising a suspicion.
. ...W.L.: Idea would fit better into verse....
W.H.8.: End thwarts the reader’s expectation....
L.L.W'.: Fact that the Gaits wanted to murder
missionaries is not admissible as evidence of insanity.
....Gooni: The Vic. Leg. Council franchise is con-
ceded to owners of freeholds rated at an annual
value of £10; owners of leaseholds created origin-
ally for five years; occupying tenants of land rated
at £l5 annual value; graduates of a British univer-
sity ; matriculated students of Melbourne Uni. ; bar-
risters and solicitors, medical practitioners, mini-
sters oi religion, certificated schoolmasters (in all
these cases, women as well as men), and naval and
military officers, active and retired. .. .P.F.: The
Federal Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
has been spending thousands along those lines.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.S.: Determination to draw only horizontal lines
will get you nowhere.. . .U.P.: Shun mouldy jests and
balance your drawings. .. .E.T.11.: No room for your
gawky friends... ;W.C.: Could have forgiven the
flappers had they remained silent... .8.J.D.: Can
quite believe that no artist, living or dead, has
influenced y0u....N.R.: Specimens show an aptitude
for black-and-white work, but the lad needs lessons.
... .I-'.W. (You should improve with practice. .. .S.L.:
Bores trying to be humorous.... M.C.P.: Leave the
grotesque alone till you master the rules. .. . A.M.P.:
Lugubrious gags and careless penmanship R.C..:
He’s sleeping it off in the basket. .. .H.D.8.: Irreso-
lute linework. .. . A.J.: Verdict is against y0u....
K.J. : You keep bowling off the wicket.... P.E.: Why
these blots and smudges?... .C.T.: You’re making
no progress.


w
7UM(7
Y
/
"X.
/.f
fl
■
: .
-
G
H
■m m
EM s i
1
m
HR., j
H 10
■ ms
m
■ ■
■
»p
2
J
W§mm-,
m
■
I
I
■
■
,
H
Hi
11
■
J
■
m
,
m
m
l *
HH
j-
m
:
■:1l
/
Uf/w:
V MV
■


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2605.
January 15, 1930.
“ONE-TWO-THREE—OFF!”
"Every State begins the concluding half of the year with a deficit.” —Review of the first six months of the financial year.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
VANCE PALMER’S POETRY—
Bv James Ddvaney .. .. .. .. 2
AUSTRALIAN STAGE IN 1929
By Mervyn G. Skipper . . . . 2, 5
MRS. EDDY, by Joseph F. Turner .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
LET’S SETTLE THIS STRIKE! .. ..8
JOHN BULL’S POCKET 8
WE, THE MAU AND MAORILAND . . . . 8
RAILWAYS—BIG CHANGES PENDING .. 9
WAS THE GREYCLIFFE-TAHITI FINDING
WRONG? 9
A CARTOON BY ARIA 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with caricatures) . . . . 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . .. ..13
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. .. 16
SYDNEY’S MOTOR SHOW 16
PASSING OF MELBOURNE ROYAL . . . . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .18, 20
NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE 18
SOUTHERN UNION INSURANCE . . . . 18
BUCKLEY & NUNN 18
NATIONAL TRUSTEES 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with four drawings) 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
THE WATER OF THE SOIL 28
LUCERNE ON LIGHT SOILS 28
NABAWA’S FINE RECORD 28
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 31
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
NEWEST TALKIES 35
GOSSIP ON THE INKY WAY 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 36
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
CANTERBURY PARK RACES 39
EPSOM RACES 39
SHEFFIELD SHIELD CRICKET . . ■ ■ 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
THE TIRRANNA RACES 45
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!” 47, 51, 52
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“GREATER LOVE,” by Dr. Alys Brown ..55, 57
“THE BOOYA,” by lon Idriess.. .. 57, 58
VERSE —By Georgia Rivers, R. Crawford .. 52, 58
NEXT WEEK.
Three remarkable complete stories.
“THE SURGEON’S LADY,” by J. H. M. Abbott.
“BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS”—
By Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting
“PURPLE Q,” by Jim Grahame.
JANUARY 29.
“BULLETIN” JUBILEE NUMBER.
Extra copies of this Great Souvenir
Production should be ordered at once. It
will not be possible to publish a second
edition.
It will contain a miniature reproduction
of the entire First Number and portraits
and drawings of all the great men who
have ever contributed to these pages, with
reproductions of old verse and cartoons.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1930.
LET’S SETTLE THIS STRIKE.
Doubts arose whether Judge Beeby, of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, had any
right to butt in on the N.S.W. coal trouble.
No sooner was the question raised than the
union bosses said: “We’ll soon put that
right. If there isn’t an inter-State dispute
we’ll make one.” And they proceeded
to make one. It illustrates what The
Bulletin has said again and again—that
Federal arbitration as we know it nowa-
days is a trick played on the Constitution.
And when all is said and done, what
is all this horribly expensive litigation going
to settle? Nothing whatever that matters
two straws! If Mr. Beeby has a right to
tell the owners to open their mines—well,
he has the right. But he cannot compel
them to do it. The law has no more power
to force them to open a mine on terms
which are not acceptable to them than it
has to enslave men to work for wages and
under conditions which they are not pre-
pared to accept. Yet there is no doubt
whatever that hundreds, if not thou-
sands, of miners are hanging .on, relying
upon these ridiculous proceedings to get
them back to work in some mysterious and
magical way. Of course they will be de-
luded again, just as they have been deluded
a dozen times during the past 10 months.
And, of course, their collective temper will
get uglier and more dangerous with every
fresh disappointment.
The only streak of light showing is a very
murky streak. If it should be decided
sooner or later that the Commonwealth can-
not butt in, then presumably Mr. Weaver
will be entitled to go ahead with his Roth-
bury venture on behalf of the State. The
Bulletin can conceive of few more un-
satisfactory solutions of the problem. The
Government says that it is its business to
maintain essential services. But is it its
business to do the thing in this way? Its
business is to protect the citizen in doing
whatever the law permits. Its business is
to say to the coalmine owner: "If you can
show us that you are entitled under the law
to work your mines under certain terms,
and you desire to so work them, we will
see that men who offer to work are pro-
tected.” The Government should never
have thrown down its hat and joined in
this fight in any other way. Its part was
to maintain the law, and that done, essen-
tial services would maintain themselves.
As it is, the Government has made itself
a partisan, and any conciliatory action it
might take would inevitably be miscon-
strued. There ought to be still somebody,
nevertheless, in whom both sides have con-
fidence, or could have confidence. But
there are tremendous difficulties in the way.
As we have insisted again and again, you
can’t decide these industrial questions like
you can an ordinary debt case or one of
trespass. Here the decision is largely gov-
erned—must be largely governed—by what
one thinks a fair thing, and what Mr. Pid-
dington thinks a fair thing may be quite
different from what Chief Justice Knox
thinks a fair thing. That is why industrial
arbitration should have been kept out of
the courts. No so-called “decision” is at
all likely to satisfy both sides. The only
hope of anything like satisfaction lies in
conciliation —in conference; in give and
take. The parties have met before and
have failed to agree. Well, let them meet
and try again. They owe that much to the
public. Both of them owe it. There were
reasons which operated to make a failure of
previous conferences but which no longer
exist. For one thing, the officers of the
Miners’ Federation have just been chosen
for the year, and they can proceed now
without certain qualms and reservations
which maybe affected some of them
previously.
If the next conference fails, then the
Government will have to ask Parliament to
review the whole situation. The ques-
tion may then have to be raised whether
the law should provide for the fixing of
a general hewing rate for the whole of the
Northern District. It is certain that some
mines could comfortably pay what the
miners demand; it is equally certain that
others cannot. It is a question whether a
State which possesses rich mines should
permit itself to be robbed of the benefits
that should accrue from the possession of
them because there are poor mines whose
owners naturally want their mines worked
—at a profit if possible. At present the
State does more than permit itself to be
robbed in this way. It provides in its
industrial law the instrument by which the
robbery can be conveniently and safely
done.
No doubt the fixation of different prices
—if prices must be fixed—will lead to the
closing down of poor mines which can only
be worked at a low hewing rate; but why
not? This trouble, if it has done nothing
else, has proved that we have been strug-
gling to keep far too many mines open.
JOHN BULL’S POCKET.
Efforts are constantly made to combine
two hostile theories—one that Britain is a
land of poor people whose standard of liv-
ing is far below that of the advanced Aus-
tralian; the other that it is a land of un-
limited wealth which can and should lend
poor Australia all the millions it wants
without inquiring whether the investments
are good or otherwise. As a rule the
same man says both things. By swearing
to the first he attests that he and other
politicians have raised Australia to a pin-
nacle of prosperity and made it an object
of envy, and that they are entitled to admi-
ration and gratitude. By sticking hard to
the second he justifies them for charging
everything possible to loans, thus avoid-
ing the wreckage of their fragile popularity
by combining heavy taxation and bitter
economy.
In the year just closed, J. Bull dug out
of his capacious pocket £285,000,000 for
subscriptions to companies and for loans
to Governments and Local Governments.
The bulk was wanted for his own country,
which is tremendously in need of reconstruc-
tion, but £61,000,000 was available for the
empire outside England, Scotland, Wales
and Ireland. Of this, £36,000,000 went into
private railway enterprises, into mines such
as our own Mount Isa, and into municipali-
ties, some of them Australian. The other
£25,000,000 was for Dominion and Crown
Colony Governments, and the seven Aus-
tralian Governments complained that their
proportion was quite inadequate to keep up
the high national standard of living, which
has got into the habit of not resting on
the country’s own resources nearly so much
as it should do. Hence the expedient of
shipping away large sections of the Com-
monwealth Bank’s gold reserve to meet
ordinary liabilities abroad; the acquisition
of authority to commandeer the gold re-
serves of joint-stock banks; and lamen-
tation about the insufficiency of even these
devices. . \», ’
Though 1929 was a bad year in Britain
it is a question whether there are likely to
be any more really good years according to
the ideas which our seven Governments
have recently acquired. This is how these
Governments have progressed, according to.
the latest Federal statistics:—
Average Additions to Australia's External Debt.
1914-15-16 . . £21,109,000 per ,111110111
1917-18-19 . . 25,460,000 „
1920-21-22 .. 21,495,000 „
1923-24-25 . . 17,358,000 „
1926-27-28 . . 35,455,000 „ „
It was during the last period that the Com-
monwealth Government discovered Uncle
Hoover in New York as a lender on a
large scale. It exploited him in a generous
way—about £11,000,000 per annum. This
didn’t actually elevate the Australian
standard of living, because so much of the
new borrowings go to pay interest on old
loans, but for the time it prevented any-
thing going down with a historic wallop.
Then Uncle Hoover went out of the Aus-
tralian loan trade as suddenly as he had
gone into it—went out for a time, anyhow,
and possibly for a long time—and there
was a tendency to hope that the Old Man
in London would lend for two, himself and
Uncle Hoover. There are three notable
difficulties in the way, and some minor ones
in reserve: (1) Australia wants more over-
seas loan money in peace time than it did
in the war years (1914-18 inclusive), for
though it boasts of having reduced its
foreign war debt'a little it has borrowed
all the redemption money back and a lot
more besides; (2) Australia’s credit is natu-
rally on the down grade, for a country
which wants more outside assistance in
peace days than it did while taking a hand
in the Great War is viewed with suspicion;
and (3) the Old Man is paying about
£60,000,000 a year off his own war debts,
and his bill for interest to Uncle Hoover
alone amounts to nearly £28,000,000 per
annum. With this burden to carry he has
less to lend to improvident people who
aren’t reducing their own war debts.
The Commonwealth represents per
cent, of the population of the British
Empire outside the United Kingdom, and
about 25 per cent, of the area, which is of
less importance. Its recent requests for
accommodation appear to be based not
only on an inflated idea of its own credit,
but on a reckless misconception of the Old
Man’s resources. The recent situation in
England may have been abnormal, and the
present situation, though a trifle better,
may be unusual; but even the possibilities
of a normal and usual situation are not
unlimited.
ANNALS OF A QUIET NEIGHBOR-
HOOD.
I live a quiet life in a quiet town on a main
railway line not too far from the great city.
The town is quiet for the same reason which
makes peace prevail in a cemetery, where
the inmates are busy mouldering for want
of other occupation. The neighborhood is
of a fairly good farming sort, but perhaps
there are not enough farms. I suppose this
can’t be helped. In the United States the
average size of a farm is 145 acres, and
61| per cent, of the farms measure less than
100 acres. That, though it wouldn’t be
called close in Western Europe, supplies
population to keep the railways employed
and to make business in the little towns,
which often have some factory industries
of their own that help. Australia endeavors
to combine closer settlement with very
much more space for each settler, so there
is apt to be lack of support both for rail-
ways and for small towns. And the lack of
small-town manufactures is amazing. Four
farms to about seven square miles isn’t
close settlement in the plain, tough, squalid
sense of the term.
There is a very big public loan job in
progress in this Quiet Neighborhood, and
it is the centre to which unemployed con-
verge from every point of the compass.
It is very seldom that any more labor is
wanted, and at the best the prospects are
poor for those who need work most. Well-
meant legislation has saddled the employer
with new and extensive liabilities on account
of his employee. These tend to add seri-
ously to the cost of a job, and cause even
the State to go cautiously. So the medical
examination for a pick and shovel job is
akin to that for entry to a conservative
life insurance office. Odd jobs on the land
are almost extinct, like the megatherium.
Thanks to well-meant interferences of
various kinds, a tendency has arisen to view
Henry Lawson’s old-time mate as a man-
trap and a person to be avoided. He may
be loaded. It is better not to engage him
without first looking up the awards, and
they may not be handy.
Loan works at the reconstruction of roads
are in progress, as in many other parts.
The object is to make smooth concrete
highways, on which the imported motor-
car, driven with imported petrol, will scoot
like the very Devil while the locally made
horse falls down and breaks his neck in two
places. The Yankee makes splendid roads
in his own land in order to make a boom
in his own motor-cars and his own petrol,
and does it with his own money, not with
loans, and especially not with foreign loans.
Some gaping Australian genius seized on
the Yankee road idea without stopping to
notice the discrepancy in the circumstances.
Certain of these fine motor highways are
said to be costing £17,000 per mile, which
is about £5OOO per mile more than the
average Australian price of a railway, the
Sydney underground system included.
Swagmen are more numerous in this
Quiet Neighborhood than at any previous
time within the memory of man or dog.
But they don’t walk so much as in olden
days, being able to snatch many rides on
motor-lorries. The owners of the vehicles
don’t like this arrangement, for the bene-
volent law has laid it down that the pas-
senger can collect damages from the person
who gave him the passage if he is damaged
en route. But the man at the wheel recog-
nises the odds against him. So he often
paints a notice on the side of his contrap-
tion that any human freight travels at its
own risk; but whether the notice constitutes
legal protection is a matter which calls for
the opinion of eminent counsel. In a large
proportion of cases the swag-wanderer is
either heading for a Government loan-job
in the hope that he may be wanted, or is
heading away again when he finds that he
isn’t wanted. He isn’t bound for the local
factories to try his luck, for they are strik-
ingly non-existent outside the Sydney and
Newcastle districts, and there is now no
demand for workers there. As a matter of
dire necessity some of the swag fraternity
time their passage through a small town for
the very small hours of the morning, and
burgle a store on the way. As a rule they
only take necessaries and avoid wanton
damage, so there is less objection than
might be supposed. Though the blame is
automatically laid on the swagman, it is
sometimes whispered that a respected fellow-
townsman may have been replenishing his
store in a surreptitious way.
There is a very limited demand for town
property in our Quiet Neighborhood. The
outstanding exception is the main-road
pubs, which have boomed out of all reason
and may continue to do so. They don’t
flourish much on the sale of board and
lodging, but there is a bounding trade in
the supply of refreshment to road hogs in
unpaid-for or stolen motor-cars, and to
more respectable motorists who don’t go
a-hogging and drive on the proper side
instead of all over the shop. Something is
done, too, in imported petrol, and now
and again an imported car wants to be half-
soled. If we could buy a beach and a few
sharks the Quiet Neighborhood might
develop into a week-end resort with a trade
in scandals, divorces, private detectives, cor-
roborative evidence and the like, though
even that wouldn’t compensate for the lack
of permanent, productive and self-support-
ing industry.
SOLOMON MALAPROP.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
We, the Man and Maoriland.
The recurrence of the Mau trouble in
Samoa has revived the curious partisanship
exhibited by a section of the Australian
press and certain publicists following on the
original outbreak. These propagandists
held that, though the Polynesian could do
no wrong, their own flesh and blood in
Maoriland were capable of any iniquity.
The origin of the Mau is simply explained.
Realising that the natives were being ex-
ploited, the Administration of Mandated
Samoa put a fixed price on copra. This
cramped the style of important trading
interests, with the result that these organised
and financed the Mau in order to combat
the restrictions on their profits.
The Samoans, a notoriously turbulent
race, took to the idea like ducks to water.
They refused to pay taxes, mass-picketed
Government offices, disregarded the sanitary
laws, and otherwise flouted the Administra-
tion. Those responsible for the upheaval,
white and brown alike, were temporarily
deported. A flood of expensive propa-
ganda against the Mandatory was launched
in Australia and Maoriland. The League
of Nations reviewed the affair. It con-
firmed the action taken by the Adminis-
trator. Further, it pointed out that it was
the Mandatory’s duty to preserve law and
order in its sphere, and to take what steps
it thought fit to do so. It also added an
opinion that the Administration had been
too easy-going. The tumult and the shout-
ing ceased in the face of this finding.
Memories are short, however, and when
a recent refcrudescence of the trouble re-
sulted in determined measures being taken
by the Administration, following on what
was practically the instruction of the League
of Nations that it must uphold its autho-
rity, the press and the publicist again lifted
up their voices. The League’s findings of
last year were conveniently forgotten, and
another pro-rebellion campaign undertaken.
Most remarkable among several remark-
able statements made of late is that America
may step in and “annex” Mandated Samoa,
so dissatisfied is she with the recent trend
of events and the persecution of the hapless
Samoans. To those who recall what
America did to her own section of Samoans
when these played up some years ago, there
is grim humor in the suggestion.
Maoriland’s mandate is a “C”-class one.
The League, deriving its authority from
the Treaty of Versailles, has laid down that
a “C”-class mandate is “to be administered
under the laws of the Mandatory as an
integral portion of its territory.” _ This
makes it clear that Mandated Samoa is not
Samoa, but an integral part of M.L., and
thus subject in all respects to M.L. laws.
Maoriiand has been sufficiently harassed
in the execution of its duty by its insurgent
subjects, whose reputation for lawlessness
and aggressiveness is known throughout the
Pacific. It would seem to have some ground
for complaint against the big sister on this


A REAL WHITE MAN’S COUNTRY.
"Major H. C. V. Portus, O.B.E., in the ‘Army, Navy and Air Force Gazette! published in London, describes Australia as a black man’s country. He
writes: ‘This is a land for the bachelor or “grass widower,” and I hesitate to suggest it as a field of exploitation even for them. It contains 3,000,000 square miles, and
only 6,000,000 population, so there is no lack of space. It is really a black man’s country.’ The Prime Minister has replied to Major Portus."
THE ENGLISH OFFICAH: “Now, my boy, there’s a real white man’s country; none of your poisonous open spaces!”
side of the Tasman for the liberty accorded
every irresponsible to impugn its honesty
and capacity and to back those in rebel-
lion against its properly constituted autho-
rity. That the M.L. Government has not
uttered a protest against this campaign of
misrepresentation is a striking tribute to
the patience and forbearance already evident
in its attitude towards the deluded members
of the Mau.
♦ '
Railway-gauge Unification.
Dear Bulletin, —“Roleystone” is right (B.
25/12/’29) in his argument for postpone-
ment. Australia should not tolerate any
fooling with the matter on the basis of a
3ft. 6in. or any other gauge until the future
of steam in rail traction is cleared up.
Many correspondents appear to be -ignor-
ant of the revolutionary developments
which are occurring with respect to internal-
combustion locomotives. The future iron
horse promises to have, amongst other
advantages, a less voracious appetite for
fuel, water and livery charges. Experience
in Canada, the U.S.A. and Europe with
oil-electric locomotives is rapidly providing
evidence in support of this view, and the
next 10 years should be very fruitful in
progress in this direction. We have put up
long enough with the uneconomical steam
job, which extracts from the fuel only 10
or 12 per cent, of its energy as against 30
to 35 per cent, obtained by the oil-engine.
Shipowners have long since realised the
vital economy of the oil-engine in running-
cost and space conserved, with the result
that the tonnage of motor-ships now build-
ing is greatly in excess of that of steamers.
The gauge question is so closely tied up
with the future type of locomotive that it
would be a colossal blunder to embark on
unification at this juncture. Whatever the
attractions of the 3ft. 6in. gauge, it is
becoming evident that this dimension im-
poses a serious limitation on the haulage
power of oil-electric locomotives, due to
the narrow space between frames in which
to dispose the engines and motors.
If Australia seeks to cut the costs of
railway operation by the adoption of more
efficient rolling stock, it is vital that no-
thing be done to handicap such a desirable
course by shortsighted gauge unification.—
Yours, etc., Decapod.
*
Smut.
Victoria has to thank a Sydney journal
and local Judkinses for the most drastic
act of press censorship that has ever been
fastened on the State. The. sheet in ques-
tion specialised in reports of rape, murder,
adultery and sexual perversion, and the
local demand for this provender quickly
exceeded the supply. Within a few weeks
the circulation is said to have reached
200,000. It is true that the boom was
dying before the authorities took steps to
deny the journal the use of the mails. The
wholesome intelligence of the average
reader soon revolted against the mono-
tonous succession of sordid chronicles, and
whistle to call the other vessel’s attention.
In my opinion, if this case goes to the
Admiralty, the decision of Justice Halse
Rogers will be put aside and the blame laid
on the Tahiti.
From J. Vaughan, late senior pilot of the
Port of Shanghai:—
The case was a simple one of collision
occurring in a harbor singularly free from
elements likely to cause complications —■
narrow waters, strong tides and shoals. So
the case resolved itself into one governed by
tw T o rules of the road applicable to the
open sea. One of these is that a ship
which is overtaking another ship shall keep
out of the way of the overtaken ship. The
ship which is being overtaken shall keep
her course and speed. The evidence clearly
shows that this was not done, as the Grey-
cliffe altered her course to port and thereby
produced a converging angle for which there
was no reason or justification.
" The next rule reads that nothing in these
rules shall exonerate the master or crew for
the neglect to keep a proper lookout, or the
neglect of any precaution which may be
necessary in any particular case, and which
may render a departure from the rules neces-
sary in order to avoid immediate danger.
'Hail this rule been observed by the master
of the Greycliffo when he saw a vessel in
close proximity, and that, failing an imme-
diate action on his part, an accident would
be inevitable, it w r as his bounden _ duty to
take that action in order to avoid it. Had
lie blown one blast of the whistle and altered
his course to starboard a couple of points
for as many minutes, nothing would have
happened ; and as there was plenty of room
for so small a vessel, the alteration of course
would in no way have endangered his vessel.
A great amount of _ legal and technical
evidence was called which had little, if any,
bearing on the cause of the collision, such
as bow-waves and suction; in fact, too much
theoretical and too little practical knowledge
resulted, in my opinion, in a miscarriage of
justice by saddling the pilot of the Tahiti
with the blame. _ . .
I cannot escape the professional conviction
that the accident, divested of sentiment, was
a simple case of collision, which finds a
parallel nearly every day on shore in vehicu-
lar collisions and their attendant deaths and
injuries, many of which would not occur
if those in charge would only realise that
the mere fact of having the right of way
is no justification for standing on for a
collision, nor does it relieve them from taking
such action as may be necessary to avoid
trouble.
And that ends the matter for the present
so far as The Bulletin is concerned. It
is quite obvious that discussion will lead
nowhere. Thus far four experts—three of
them with exceptionally high qualifications
—and they are hopelessly divided.
Judging by the two letters printed above,
the layman will be apt to agree with Justice
Halse Rogers in declaring that there was
fault on both sides.
O
Why Our Railways Don’t Pay.
P. Airey (Queensland ex-Treasurer) writes
from Brisbane:—•
“Clerk” alleges that our railway deficits
are due not to overmanning but to over-
capitalisation, which, of course, entails an
enormous interest bill. If the railways. m
addition to being overmanned, are also over-
the paper would soon, have sunk to
obscurity. But the purity brigade burst
into the picture and forced the legislators
to take action.
The new law, called the Judicial Proceed-
ings Act, makes it an offence for anyone
to sell, distribute or give away any news-
paper or document which reports any
judicial proceedings and includes in such
report any matter deemed indecent, or
which includes in the report of any divorce
suit any information other than the names
of the parties, charges and defence, any
point, of law submitted to the Court and
the Judge’s summing up. It means that
if the Public Library places on its shelves
any paper from any Australian State or
any country outside the Commonwealth
that gives the banned particulars, the
librarian, though a-Government officer, is
guilty of an offence. So is the visitor who
brings such a paper into the State and
hands it to an acquaintance.
The Act was passed in haste by the last
Government and will probably become a
dead letter, with bad results for the general
respect for legal enactments. If it is applied
it will certainly be challenged for infring-
ing the Constitution, which provides that
State laws must not interfere with inter-
state trade and commerce. In the mean-
time, no local newspaper or public body
has the courage to fight pornography with
the effective weapon of frankness; so that
what should reach the lad as natural truth
comes to him only as furtive “smut.” Every
year thousands of youths and maidens reach
puberty. The mysterious tide of life, one
of whose inescapable ingredients is sex,
courses through their veins, imposing strains
to the power of which every doctor can
testify. For the most part parents do no-
thing about it. It can be said for the Jud-
kinses that at least they do go on depu-
tations to Parliament demanding the sup-
pression of Sunday trains and the regula-
tion of bathing costumes!
*
The Greycliffe-Tahiti Collision.
From a sheaf of correspondence space can
be found for only two further representa-
tive notes (condensed).
“Bows” relies on what he affirms is “com-
mon practice”:—
I was the offender in an overtaking ship
collision case; so I speak as one who has
had cause to study this question.
By speeding alone the Tahiti was damned!
And doubly damned for navigating so close
to another vessel that an alteration of course
by the overtaking ship resulted, almost
within a few seconds, in wholesale killing by
drowning.
“X.N.0.” (B. 1/1/30) affects to put the
“deep-sea sailor’s view.” He says in
substance that the Tahiti as overtaking
ship was not obliged by Regulations for
Preventing Collisions at Sea to give
warning of her approach. I say that
the common practice of seamen governed
this approach to close quarters more than
any other case that has come within my
knowledge; and the common practice of
seamen is to give a prolonged blast of the
capitalised, to what is this trouble due t
Simply to political control, compelling the
building of lines which Railway Commis-
sioners know perfectly well cannot pay, but
against which they protest in vain.
Just as long as our railways are run by
politicians, the evils of overmanning and
building non-paying lines are bound to con-
tinue ; for if one Government should 1 make
an attempt at restriction and comparative
economy, the next will probably reverse it.
Many of our lines have been built as pure
vote-catchers; others have been made as a
species of poor relief in bad times, while
overmanning, especially as elections ap-
proach, is one of the commonest forms of
political prostitution. These things are the
inevitable concomitants of political control,
and will be as long as the system continues.
If anyone ( including the ingenious
“J.E.”) will show me how railways can
be managed by a politically-bossed depart-
ment and these evils eliminated, I shall be
pleased to listen and learn; or if those who
object to management by a skilled expert
unshackled by Ministerial control will indi-
cate some method of profitably running
Government lines, apart from leasing them
to private syndicates, I, as a taxpayer, will
be unfeignedly thankful.
P.S. —I am not in the “political swim,” as
one critic alleges, but have been leading a
comparatively virtuous life for 20 years or
more.
A ♦
A Reward of £IOO Is Offered.
They look so clashed near and yet they
are so damned far. One of the latest
writers with a brief proposition for putting
the State railways on a sound basis is “a
union official in the Department,” and
this was the scheme (B. 25/12/’29). —
“The only way to m.ake railways (or any-
thing else) pay is to cut away the capital
debt, reduce overhead to the absolute mini-
mum, make sure that you get the right man
at the head of affairs, and give him supreme
control.”
It is an old remedy—in fact, it is almost
everybody’s remedy—and the blot upon it
is the lack of information as to how the
capital debt is to be “cut-away.”
A private concern in difficulties repudiates
capital as a matter of course; that is to
say, the shareholders “cut away” their own
lost money. To repudiate the money which
other people put in the railways, two-thirds
of them people in England, and yet keep
the railways is a different matter.
Being desirous of arriving at a solution
of the problem, and tired of hearing plati-
tudes about writing down or writing off,
The Bulletin offers a reward of £IOO for
clear-cut specifications of a method for
“cutting away,” say, one-fourth of the rail-
way capital of Australia in general, so that
the people will really, be relieved of the
burden of debt and interest to that extent,
and for doing the job honestly and, in con-
sequence, safely. So many writers have
alluded to this method of gaining relief
as so simple and obvious that it will be dis-
appointing if there isn’t at least one appli-
cant. The offer will be open till the last
day of 1930. and candidates are requested
to write legibly.


w
S
/.
\ \
r . \
SK! ? !®J|II*J*W s
ŵ
POLITICAL
POINTS
Blakeley, the Minister of Home Affairs,
was summoned to Broken Hill last week “to
explain the attitude of the Government and
himself in relation to the coal dispute.” He
obeyed the injunction, for there are always
ways of dealing with a disappointing Labor
Minister. It might be arranged to have him
expelled from the union, and from the
movement, and made a “scab.” That would
be the end of everything for him. A medi-
cal certificate of leprosy would be no more
effectual.
After the melee at Rothbury last month,
Baddeley, Lang’s deputy, reported that he
had been hit on
Ex-Minister Baddeley.
the head with a
police baton.
He made a
swift recovery,
and a few days
later, according
to the “Labor
Daily,” inform-
ed a mass meet-
ing at Cessnock
that he “wanted
the Common-
wealth Govern-
ment to put the
military in to
shift the
‘scabs,’ ” shout-
ing also, “If
you are going
anywhere, there
I ' will go; if
there is any-
thing coming to
you, then it
may come to
me.” A mob of
miners marched
towards police-
guarded Roth-
bury on Friday, feinting in that direction
while another mob “cleaned up the scabs'
at Ashtonfields” by means of trespass, assault
and destruction of property; but in the news-
paper accounts of the foolish and danger-
ous proceedings there is no mention of this
hero as either encouraging or trying to
restrain. The miners have been singularly un-
fortunate in their leaders.
Vic. consolidated revenue will benefit to
the extent of a quarter of a million during
the current financial year from liquor
license fees and fines. This balance will
be left over after the Licenses Reduction
Board has paid compensation for closed
pubs, £BO,OOO to municipalities, and a sub-
stantial contribution to the police super-
annuation fund. It may be possible to
tap a source of revenue as ample if pro-
hibition is carried at the end of March,
but nobody has suggested one.
Somebody has put it to the ScuHidores
that a few more thousands could be saved
by paying off the R.A..N. survey ship
Moresby. It is a crazy notion, for after 142
years of white settlement the coastline of
this continent is still imperfectly charted.
Charts employed in the Gulf even now were
drawn from the sketches of Matthew Flin-
ders, and when the Kanowna piled up the
chart in use was 60 years
old. The old naval sur-
veyors did their work well,
but their means were
limited.
The bit of ground on
which the city of Sydney
stands (suburbs are extra)
has been officially valued
for 1930 at £71,854,117.
In 1923 the figure was
£36,918,354, and in 1926
it was £45,675,896, so the
accumulation of paper
wealth has increased its
pace wonderfully in a few
big loan years. All the in-
stitutions which collect
rates from the city, includ-
ing the Federal Land Tax
department, will ask the
landowner for a bigger
cheque. The Federal tax
strikes every bloated estate
valued at over £5OOO, even
if the frontage is only a
few feet, the object being to
cut it up for closer settle-
ment, and every valuation
promotes more estates into
the bloated category.
With the deposition of
Labor in Queensland the
point of a stock wheeze
trotted out for the benefit of
strangers has disappeared.
The state of the weather
is of vital importance in
areas near and north of
Capricorn, and news of a
cyclonic depression or some-
thing of the sort is sig-
nalled by the flying of a
red flag from the post-office
staff. Visitors were ' gravely informed that
this was a Lenin touch. Sometimes it was
said to indicate that the Commissar of This or
That was approaching. Now and then the
victim of legpullers wrote the dreadful intel-
ligence home to his local paper in Little
Mudheap-by-the-Drain, and another batch of
immigrants was lost to Australia.
Those who wanted Australia to go bald-
headed for the beam are singing small since
Amalgamated Wireless refused to take over
the Canada-Australia station from Marconi’s,
after two years’ experience, because of the
precariousness of the service. One reason
given is that the Canadian end is too near
the north magnetic pole and is subject to
severe electrical disturbances. The Canada-
Britain service suffered in the same way and
drastic alterations had to be made before it
became workable. Even so, it is not so
satisfactory as the long route from Ballan
(Vic.) to England.
Fremantle is reckoned a dear port, but it
was not so dear during the 12 months
following the resumption of work after the
last waterside strike. The local Harbor
Trust manager, reporting for that period,
says that “job control was eliminated and
work was done for thousands of pounds
less than formerly”; for one thing, “the
handling of general cargo showed an increase
from 11.94 tons to 12.85 tons per hour.”
These results were achieved under the
“iniquitous” licensing system and the “per-
nicious” Beeby award.
It is given out that the referendum to
secure larger powers for the Federal Parlia-
ment will be held about July. ' If the tax-
payers were considered, this vote and the one
relative to the N.S.W. Leg. Council pro-
posals and the Vic. prohibition poll would
be arranged for the same day; but the tax-
payers are never considered in these matters.
Both Federal Houses have to authorise a
referendum, and even if the powers are
granted they can’t be used in any one Par-
liament unless both Houses feel that way.
The nation has twice refused them, and
should the suspicion arise that the idea
this time is to abolish State Parliaments, or
“take over the mines,” or make work a
trade-union monopoly, or all three, it will
assuredly refuse them again.
ARTHUR BLAKELEY,
Federal Minister for Home
Affairs, who “prematurely”
announced during the week
that his Government proposed
to ask for powers sufficient
for the abolition of State
Parliaments.
The four Vic. honorary Ministers are all
running departments or bits of departments.
Strictly speaking, honoraries cannot order or
sign anything of any importance, but in Vic-
toria and elsewhere they act just as if they
were responsible Ministers, an abuse of
power which will almost certainly be chal-
lenged some day, with massive costs. Frank
Clarke, the Leg. Council president, suggested
two years ago that it would be better to have
three or four Parliamentary secretaries and
pay them another £3OO p.a. each. At present
Vic. honoraries get £2OO p.a. apiece from
their salaried colleagues.
The only prophetess in the Scriptural
record who foretold Australian affairs was
Jezebel, the great queen. When she threw
out the taunt, “Had Zimri peace who slew
his master?” she clearly intended to convey
that Billy Hughes would gain nothing by
the political slaughter of his chief, Bruce.
The period between the prophecy and its
fulfilment was 2813 years by the most fre-
quently accepted reckoning, which makes the
1 n /I I--. n A/m 11 r, /ITT zr 1 1 4-Tl
lady s accuracy all the
more remarkable.
When Scullin was only
hoping for office he pro-
mised a referendum on the
question of “unlimited leg-
islative powers for the
Commonwealth Parliament,
and such delegated powers
to the States or provinces
as the Commonwealth Par-
liament may determine
from time to time.” If
Blakeley is trying to force
his leader’s hand he is a
very awkward colleague,
for Seullin’s powers of
summary dismissal are
limited. Possibly the Trea-
surer may speak to Blake-
ley. During his great days
in Queensland Theodore is
said to have developed a
gift that way.
The Vic. Hogans are
talking about exempting
legitimate theatres from
their entertainments tax
(a ha’penny in the six-
pence when 2s. or more is
charged) ; but it will need
amending legislation, of
course, and Parliament is
in recess. The threat of
the Williamson firm to sell
Melbourne Royal and not
rebuild His Majesty’s
stirred up the theatrical
employees, who in turn ex-
ploded verbal bombs in the
Trades Hall; and the
fumes reached the Pre-
mier’s office.
Vic. Premier Hogan considers live drama
much more worthy of encouragement than
the canned article, if only from _ the
economical viewpoint. “One is mechanical,”
he points out, “whereas the parties in the
other eat food and buy clothes.” Doubtless,
but couldn’t the same argument be used by
bookmakers against Hogan’s Totalisator
Bill?
Many British people and papers are mak-
ing a deuce of a row about Theodore’s mild
new tariff. British Freetraders seem glued
to the myth that Australia has for a long
time banged the door on the Old Man, crush-
ing his tenderest affections and his bell-
topper in the doorway. The truth is that
the Commonwealth during 1928 bought
£7,000,000 worth more British produce than
the United States and its colonies combined,
and £21,000,000 worth more than all the
South African States combined. It was
about the same amount ahead of France
with all its colonies and Canada, and it
bought 20 times as much as Russia did. A
commission might be appointed (the Bruce
Government left spare commissions lying
about) to inquire if the ungrateful British
Freetrader, is off his head, and whether his
case is hopeless.
N. S. Wales is a topsy-turvy land these
days. The militants of the northern coal-
fields, who have formed what they call a
“Labor Defence Army” and go in for mass
picketing, assault and other forms of lawless-
ness ; who tried to take forcible possession
of the pit leased by the State Government
and issue dark threats as to what they will
do next time, meanwhile enforcing a boy-
cott of the police and the Government-mined
coal —these gentry line up every week at
the police stations for State relief. And
the Government doesn’t even talk of depriv-
ing them of it.
Australia should be ready to negotiate
with any Power when it sees anything
about which negotiation may be advanta-
geous. But if it is invited to meet a crowd,
most of whom have axes to grind, the same
being wholly different from our own axe,
it is best to keep out of that crowd lest it
steal our axe. The Commonwealth couldn’t
and didn’t want to keep out of the Peace
Conference. It was in the World War as
a matter of self-defence, and it got to Ver-
sailles without any option. But it isn't
involved in any world-wide tariff discussion,
and the Scullin Government has done well in
notifying other countries that the Austra-
lian tariff isn’t open to debate.
Cuthbertson, whom Albert Park rejected
on November 30, is not persevering with his
candidature for the East Yarra seat in the
Uppish House. Proudfoot, Eager, Robertson
and Moss, who were already in the field,
showed no disposition to make way for Cutli-
bertson because he is president of the Nat.
Fed.
All save a fraction of Australia’s bills
fall due on fixed days, and some of these
days happen every year till\ 1958. So if
the new loan to build the railway from
Camurra to Bogabilla costs 6 per cent., its
shadow follows it in the shape of the loan
floated 20 years ago to build the line from
Cryon to Walgett. That loan has to be repaid
and another loan floated, and even if the
money cost only 4 p.c. originally it will cost
6 p.c. now in accordance with the new
precedent. This helps to explain why the
States owed £40,000,000 less at 3| p.c. in
1928 than in 1923, and £158,000,000 more
at 5. p.c., also £25,000,000 more at 51
p.c. and another £25,000,000 more at
6 p.c. Every time the country buys another
loan-drunk and pays an enhanced figure, it
is adding to the price of drinks which were
consumed so long ago that the flavor is for-
gotten.
Steel girders are wanted for a bridge over
the Derwent, and Australian-madh girders
were offered, with the reservation that the
date of delivery is subject to the coal supply.
A British offer was £4OO higher, including
duty, and the Freetrade “S. M. Herald” wailed
that “Tasmania will thus be called upon to
pay duty of over £4OO on steel which it is
at present impossible to obtain in Aus-
tralia.” On the other hand, it may be pos-
sible for the bridge to wait a little (waiting
isn’t an unknown art hereabouts) ; and the
coal trouble may simmer down so that there
won’t be any waiting; and the vessel bring-
ing the goods from England might capsize,
which would lead to considerable waiting.
Anyhow, if the order goes to England the
amount will be added to the next expensive
loan, for it will make more surplus of
imports over exports, and that always goes
into the permanent foreign debt for want of
another place to put it. And Australia
may wait a long time for the next loan,
raising an overdraft in London to go on
with.
Butler’s appointment of L. C. Hunkin as
Public Service Commissioner threatens to
an issue at the S.
Aus. general elec-
tion. Public ser-
vants protest that
the man is not a
public servant, and
the R.S.L. that he
is not a returned
soldier (preference
to Diggers is strict-
ly observed in at
least one depart-
ment, the Rail-
ways) ; then Lib-
erals complain that
the job should not
have gone to a
Labor man, and
Laborites that it is
“a not h e r Gunn
affair.” Gunn was
the Labor Premier
whom Bruce ap-
pointed to the De-
velopment and Mi-
gration Commis-
sion. Hunkin was
a Labor member
L. C. HUNKIN.
for six years, and was a strong tip for a
suburban seat until Butler put him out of
the way.
“Danny Boy”: At Dubbo (N.S.W.)
£90,000 of good loan money is buried in a
sewerage system which cannot be used. No
provision was made for supplementing the
water supply, which, though a line river
is handy, is pumped from two underground
springs and has a trick of giving out in
hot weather. When a fire broke out in the
business quarter the other day two firemen
had to stand at the end of a hose waiting
for water which would not come, while a
third did his part with a watering-can.
“Freetrader”: I had a good Australian
breakfast this morning. First came grape-
fruit from California; then South African
sole (with a lemon grown in Italy and salt
from the U.S.A.), and, to wind up, mar-
malade from Scotland. The coffee was
from Java. The cutlery was English, the
tablecloth Irish, and the toast was made on
an electrical gadget from America. The
grape-fruit might have come from Queens-
land and the lemon from the garden next door
so far as their flavors went; the marmalade
might have been made locally with local
oranges and sugar, so closely did it resemble
Australian marmalade, and the sole tasted
like a Port Phillip flounder that had been
in a freezing chamber for many weeks.
THE CLERKS’ UMBRELLA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The rules of the A.L.P. demand that a Labor
candidate must be a member of the union operating
in his calling; hence the Clerks’ Union has been
described as an ‘umbrella’ organisation. Holman and
Beeby belonged to it in their Ministerial days ; Lang,
Theodore and Garden are among those who maintain
their status as unionists by membership of a body
that has been elastic enough in the past to include
time-payment collectors and bookmakers’ clerks.”
— “S. M. Herald” article.
If you would help to frame the laws
For Labor’s weal essential,
A burning ardor for the Cause
Is not enough credential.
With sturdy tribunes would you mix
In Caucus’s communion?
Impassioned speeches go for nix,
You must be in a union.
Yeh!
You gotter join a union.
What though you never handled spade
Or axe, or swung a pick at
A face, or mastered any trade
That Martha’s sons are slick at,
Though nought but ink you ever spilled,
Deem not the outlook dark is.
You’re eligible for a guild;
They’ll fix you up, the clerkies,
Mate.
Roll up and join the clerkies!
No budding Ramsay Mac shall look
To them in vain for succor,
Who’s ever helped to write a book
(Or made one) for his tucker.
Soft hands and collars white might make
Some unions’ hearts to harden,
But here all clerkly coves they take,
From Holman down to Garden.
Straight!
From Johnny Lang to Garden.
Step up, you blokes, some day who trust
In Labor ranks "to caper—
That’s if you’ve ever earned a crust
By setting pen to paper.
A refuge and a port-of-call
Is here. Step up and swell a
Loud hymn of thanks; there’s room for all
Beneath the clerks’ umbrella.
’Ray!
The good old clerks’ umbrella.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Poverty
Point
“STRANGE BEDFELLOWS.”
THE BASHER: “Here, you blokes, I’m cornin’ in, too!"
“L.H.P.” : There is another version of the
Huglies-Rignold episode (B. 8/l/’3O) which
looks true to me. Billy was supermg during
the run of “Henry V.” at Sydney Majesty s
on the then basic wage of 2s. per night. lie
agitated for 2s. 6d. Kignold heard of it,
and ordered a parade of the supers, before
the rag rose, and they appeared in their
stage togs. When they saw Rignold in his
armor most of them ratted on Billy. A big
super., who had been the right-hand man
of the future P.M., was asked by Rignold
if he would take 2s. or 2s. 6d. He looked
at Rignold, then at Billy, and decided that
2s. would do. He was told to stand aside.
They were all sorted out, and all turned
the sixpence down. Then he came to Billy.
“And what do you want, little man.' 1 asked
Rignold. “Half a crown,” said Billy, stick-
ing to his guns. “Hazlitt,” thundered George,
“take this worm, pay him off, and chuck
him out!”
“R. 8.”: Victims of the Wall-street crash
included A 1 Jolson, reputed the wealthiest
player on the other side of the Pacific; his
cut from his two picture successes and gramo-
phone royalties ran into millions of dollars.
Another vaudevillain to suffer was Eddie
Cantor wdio co-stars with Jolson in the
TJ.S.A.’ as its leading popular entertainer.
Jolson seems the hardest hit. His latest film,
“Say It with Songs,” not yet released
here is a second-rate reiteration of the sob
sentiment of his two earlier spasms, and
was a wash-out in the States.
“Wilhal” : A heavy visitation has befallen
the house of Pantages —or, rather, houses,
for the number of vaudeville and picture
shows he controlled in America ran high in
three figures. While he was defending a
charge brought against him by a 17-year-old
performer, Eunice Pringle, ending in a sen-
tence of from one to fifty years, his wife was
fio-hting for a modification of her conviction
for manslaughter—the result of having killed
a Jap in a motor collision. The term
heaped on Mrs. Pantages—one to ten years
has been suspended conditionally on her
paying the relatives of her victim 75,000
dollars, but her driving license is perma-
nently ’ suspended, and she is forbidden to
touch booze for 10 years. Now Pantages,
for a reconsideration of his sentence, is
prepared to pay compensation up to
1,000,000 dollars. The big show business is
being'carried on by two sons.
“L. de R.” : “The new 42-storey building
is certainly one of the city’s noblest, rising
pale and sheer from the murky waters or
the river. The interior has been carefully
guarded, especially since a tapestry worth
£BOO was stolen. From the standpoint of
comfort, audibility, mechanical and electrical
equipment, the theatre is unique. Patrons,
whether they be in the last row in the
upper balcony—which sells as low gs one
shilling a seat —will find the same comfort.
Seats in the upper balcony are of the finest
materials obtainable and the aisle carpetings
are as soft to the foot as those of the golden
circle of boxes. The huge auditorium seats
3471 and three elevators eliminate stair-
climbing.” That is not a description of a
new Australian picture-palace but of
Chicago’s new grand opera house, erected by
the municipal council, which expects to pa y
the whole cost of productions out of othce
“D.P.M.” (Lond.) : If the English theatre
is in the decline, it has made a very good
attempt to disguise the fact this Christmas
season. Plays running at the time of writing
(early December) include . Shaw s Apple
Cart,” Sean O’Casey’s “Silver „ Tassie,
Hubert Griffith’s “Tunnel Trench, Ashley
Dukes’s excellent version of Feuclitwanger s
“Jew Suss,” Ostrovsky’s “The Storm. Lons-
dale’s “Canaries Sometimes Sing, St. John
Ervine’s “The First Mrs. Fraser, Barries
“The Old Lady Shows Her Medals, done
by the Ardrossan Players, and the same
comfortable author’s “Dear Brutus. Jour-
nev’s End,” Tchekhov’s “Three Sisters and
Galsworthy’s “The Roof” are other good ones
on. Other productions of some, but lesser,
merit am Noel Coward s operette, Bittei
Sweet” Pertwee’s “Heat Wave” and Dennis
Bradlev’s “The Amorists.” The classics are
represented by “Richard I^-”” (<^ e
Carte G. and S. operas, and “The School
for Scandal.”
“Craiser” : Patriotic lines may get instan-
taneous recognition m wartime, but during
the piping times of peace references to the
weather will always get the best hand from
a Melbourne audience. On the first night of
on the Second Floor n cnaiacter
exnressed a desire to go to Australia, the
land of eternal sunshine.” Up to Christmas
Melbourne had had no summer, and the recep-
tion given to the line surprised even the
speaker.
“Con”: The Gilbert Emery who played
Ginger Mick is not dead. In a note
iust received from Los Angeles, where he
has been for some years, he says: See me
in ‘The Studio Murder Mystery’—l played
the gateman.” In “Disraeli.” yet to be pub-
licly shown in Sydney, he figures as a soap-
box orator. Anyone who sees this Gilbert
Emery will realise that he does not bear the
slightest resemblance to the Gilbert Emery
in “Behind That Curtain.”
“S T.S.”t Don’t know where —if ever —it
was actually practised, that staging of a
performer so atrocious (B. 25/12/’29) that
he was used to empty a continuous variety
house and make room for newcomers. But
the idea, with its obvious possibilities for
humorous writers, came from the U.S.A.,
which called the dud performer a “chaser
—the local name for a draught of water
taken after neat spirits. O. Henry long
ago gave it this cynical twist into a vicious
circle. (1) Young man was so atrocious
that he had a steady job as “chaser.” (2)
Job seemed so steady that on the strength
of it he got engaged to be married. (o)
Engagement made him so happy that his
stage-work improved. (4) He lost his jib,
“Jewnee”: Cyril Gardiner, who is Captain
Stanhope in the London production of
“Journey’s End,” was in Australia after
the war jackerooing in N.S.W. and .Banana-
land. He stepped on to the boards in
Maoriland, as a pirate in “Ambrose Applc-
john’s Adventure.” In one respect he must
be tliq most remarkable actor alive —he
asserts that he cannot act.
“L.H.P.”: “Caesar’s Ghost’s” story of the
vanity of opera tenors (B. 8/l/’3O) reminds
me of Mongini, one of Mapleson’s Italians,
The opera was “Rigoletto,” and Mapleson
being tired went home early.. Anon came a
cab and messenger to say Mongini had gone
mad, and was marching around with a sword.
Mapleson raced to the theatre, and found
the house tumultuous, as the rag had not
risen on Act IY. He burst into the tenor s
room. Mongini explained that the tailor had
made his tunic two inches too short. It
lay torn on the floor. Mapleson persuaded
him to finish the opera by promising to sack
the tailor. Then he told the tailor, who
was a single man, that he was supposed
to be married with four children; and
Mongini was called to see him sacked.
Mapleson told him gravely he must go, and
that his wife and children could starve.
Mongini, touched by the scene, begged Maple-
son to relent, and offered to sing one night
for nothing.
“Prog”: Dorothy Helmrich, who proved
at Sydney Con. a little while ago that her
mezzo-soprano could do fine things witn
German songs, has had a great reception
from Warsaw critics. The daily Kurjer
Poranny” said that in a “long list of liede
she proved the fulness of her musical
judgment, artistic taste and technique. She
has been eagerly booked for a season oi
eight concerts in Holland, after which she
will give 10 concerts in Germany, then go
south to Spain, with Paris next on her list.
“Cine Ma”: Projected Fox releases for
1930 include “Why Leave Home?” a talkie
adaptation of “Cradle Snatchers. H it
retains tliei full savor of the legitimate
version, the Rev. Judkins will burst into
flames. When it was done in Melbourne
there was a terrific outburst of moral indig-
nation, started, curiously enough, by a couple
of newspaper critics who laughed heartily on
the first night. The morality brigade got up
such steam that Commissioner Blarney was
obliged to take cognisance and sent a couple
of constables to report on the offending
object. Blarney went too —perhaps lest he
should have to stop the performance before
he had been able to survey it. One officer
dictated the juiciest items to the other,'who
tried to take them down in shorthand; but
they both laughed so much that I doubt if
their report was a model of coherence. As a
result of the press campaign against it, the
piece had a magnificent run, laymen finding
it hard to get a seat for the crush of rev.,
clergy anxious to get a text for a sermon.
Actually “Cradle Snatchers” was a harmless
bit of nonsense, not half as deliberately
salacious as _a t hundred others that have
passed unnoticed.
“L.H.P.”: “Turned Up,” now trans-
formed into a musical comedy, was the first
piece produced by the Brough-Boucicaults
in Australia—at Melbourne Opera House
on October 6, 1886. Sydney saw it at the
Criterion in 1888. As the comedy was
short the bill was always padded out, either
with “Vice Versa” or “In Honor Bound.
“Mac O.”: Alfred O’Shea, who in Aus-
tralia sang mostly about the picture-shows,
is to do Pinkerton in a big radio production
of “Madame Butterfly” in New York His
first American concert was a success finan-
cially and otherwise. Nearly every critic ot
note had something kind to say about him.
I take it that he has censored the senti-
mental sob from an otherwise quite re-
spectable voice. Or perhaps they like that
sort of thing in New Yoik.
“L.H.P.”: Orchard promises to put on
“Fidelio” at the Sydney Conservatonum
this coming winter. Beethoven’s two-act
opera is a distinct novelty to Sydney. There
is no record of a previous performance;
even the energetic Lyster did not stage it.
The opera has four overtures, and the
libretto was founded on the French opera
of “Leonore.” Napoleon was occupying
Vienna in 1805 when “Fidelio” was first
produced; but the audience, composed mostly
of Frenchies, could not understand the
strange language, and after the third per-
formance it was withdrawn. In 1914 it
scored a great success. In the Italian
version the spoken dialogue is set to reci-
tative by Balfe, the composer of The
Bohemian Girl.”
“C. 8.”: The people’s welcome to the new
Archgaiters in Melbourne was a remark-
able performance on the musical side. Dr.
Floyd the organist at St. Paul’s, had the
job of marshalling 2279 choristers under his
baton, the vast majority of whom had never
sung together and without a single joint
rehearsal. Nevertheless, the time they kept
was excellent.
“Adam Ant”; In an article in Melbourne
“Herald,” Frank Neil, now running Clowns
in Clover” at the King’s, mentions that he
made £47.000 net profit in four and a half
years. This was wrung from the public
in Sydney and Melbourne, with the excep-
tion of one season of 13 weeks in Perth
and one of a few weeks only in Adelaide.
It is better than Musgrove’s £37,000 profit
out of “The Belle of New York” at the
London Shaftesbury. Yet Neil is suddenly
clearing off to South Africa after shutting
up “Clowns in Clover.” He asserts that
the Victorian tax and arbitration awards
have made further profits improbable, and
he-is getting out while he still holds some
of his winnings.


and
better
mmmM
'Mli
v. >*:•>;
? pVE(?- s
CQlilffßY U#
I
illll
■
l v - j^ R ’s
iin
IB
#
VIRG^
m&m
718
SHU
23
/or
Vq
and 15 for V-
—also- in tins oP
50 and lOCL^
rtss v - -" %c
cof v >i>-
c V' 0V
> x115
\oS
e>
$>
•’s
v*
S A, d?)
rw^
rt^ v ' ' C'^'^
<"#& * i Kt#" °v*
**\ c o< t *'f & S^’
«C
s<s&
feso^
*eS* °** *\ *\6 <%s&&
„\6” s
g
dt
f“ r 1
Ac. e
&**" , t*tM e 6
0»W
&P”
Made, in
Your Own Country
at the Garden Factory
Jtaleiqh Park.
by W.D.&Ji.O Wills
7 (Australia.) Ltd.'
VI R.G INII A*
CORK-TIPPED
m
LLI
l-
I—
LLI
cd
<
o
u


DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
w
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send tor
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
MMMB
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN!
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association ER;
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
r; /
n
FOR DURABLE, ECONOMIC
AND EFFICIENT SERVICE
USE
MANGROVITE
WATERPROOF
LEATHER OR
RAWHIDE BELTING
Machinery operates at its maximum efficiency where power transmission is
entrusted to Mangrovite Belting. No finer belting is made and its record
of service bears testimony to its great economy. Cemented throughout wi
waterproof cement, it is impervious to wet or damp conditions. 1 est it ou
on your most difficult drive
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“S.T.S.”: The late Captain Hugh Gros-
venor was more than the conventional good-
fellow of most obituary notices. Only ten
days before his death he flew from Adelaide
to Kangaroo Island, in a heavy storm, to
bring a 12-year-old Scout to a city hospital
for urgent operation.
Air Vice-Marshal Sir Philip Game, men-
tioned as likely to succeed Sir Dudley de
Chair as N.S.W. Governor, is 53. A native
of Worcestershire, like Stanley Baldwin, he
was educated at Charterhouse and. entered
the R.A. 35 years ago. He served in South
Africa and in the Great War, subsequently
being appointed the Air Ministry’s Director
of Training and Organisation and com-
manding the R.A.F.-in India for a couple
of years.
Joseph Alexander Browne, Iv.C., counsel
for .the Miners’ Federation in recent court
cases, was a teacher at Fort-street School,
Sydney, 30 years ago, known to the boys for
some inscrutable reason as “Klondyke ’
Browne. He always held radical views and
was one of those who opposed the Boer War
when such an attitude was quite likely to
lose a man his job. Spare half-hours usually
BRIG.-GENERAL
PRICE WEIR,
appointed Chairman of
the Public Welfare
Board, S.A.
saw him deep in
a law book with
a determination
to escape from
the drudgery of
school - teaching.
Also reading for
the Bar about
that time was
W. A. Holman,
and the two found
much in common.
Browne, whose
early combative-
ness suggested a
political career,
settled down as
a solid Equity
man and eventu-
ally took silk. In
1912 Holman put
him in the Leg.
Council as one of
a Labor batch.
Although a firm
believer in the
Upper House
principle, he still
stands well with
Labor, and may
finish on the
Bench, should he
so desire.
Hugh Raufe
Grosvenor, one of
the victims of the
seaplane accident
in Melbourne, put
a fair measure of
achievement into
his 26 years. An
Etonian and a
cavalryman—he was in the 7th Hussars —his
tastes ran early to flying, and when he came
to South Australia as A.D.C. to Governor
Hore-Ruthven he found full scope for his
hobby. He made a round Australia flight last
year, and he was gaining experience for a pro-
jected flight to England by seaplane when he,
with pilot Briggs and mechanic Ewan, came
to their untimely end. A fine horseman, he
rode twice in the Grand National. lie was
heir to the Stalbridge barony, a Gladstonian
creation of 1886.
Vic. has eight ex-Premiers, five of whom
are in and three out of politics. I eacock is
Speaker, and Prendergast, Allan and
McPherson are members of the Assembly.
Lawson is a Senator; Irvine, at present holi-
daying at Colombo, is C.J., and Lieutenant-
Governor. Bowser, after holding the Premier-
ship and Speakership, has gone back to
Wangaratta to devote himself to Ins news-
paper. Watt, who made his mark m f ederal
as well as State politics, is company direct-
ing.
South Aus. kept its 93rd birthday on
December 28 on the shore at Glvnelg. where
Governor Hindmarsh landed from the Buf-
falo in 1836. There is nobody left of the
original arrivals, and Paul
Martin was the only one pre-
sent representing 1838. He
claims to be the only man
who ever got through with a
bullock-team from Adelaide
to the Bendigo gold-diggings
and took the same team back.
The eighth Duke of Graf-
ton died the other day, aged
80; his father, the seventh
Duke, lived to be 97. The
elder brother of the late
Duke, who would have suc-
ceeded to the title had he
only lived long enough and
who bore the courtesy title
of Earl of Euston all liis
days, had some connection
with Australia; he was an
A.D.C. at Government House,
Adelaide, in the late ’seven-
ties, and subsequently did a
bit of jackerooing on sheep
stations.
Irwin Hunter, recently
dead in Dunedin, was one of
the most brilliant surgeons
the Dominion has produced.
He established his reputation
as R.M.O. at the Tropical
Diseases Hospital in London.
Later he practised in Mel-
bourne before going back to
his native Dominion. A
fine athlete, his hobby was
Rugby football, and in his
earlier days he was a great
player himself, representing
Otago. His book on the
game is something of a
classic in football circles.
Almost the last thing that
the late T. P. O’Connor
wrote —it appeared in his
weekly letter to the London
“Sunday Times” a day or
two before his death —was an
appreciation of Tom Wil-
ford, M.L.’s new High Corn-
missioner. “Tay Pay” referred to a former
meeting between himself, as “Father”
of the House of Commons, and the veteran
of the M.L. Parliament, whose, “open jolly
face and pleasant manners make him an
immediate and acceptable acquaintance.”
Sydney “Sun” said last Sabbath that Jus-
tice Isaacs, president of the High Court
Bench which is doing something or other
in connection with the coal trouble, is the
only one left of the 50 brilliant intellects
that framed the Federal Constitution. But
things are not quite so bad as that. Even
of Isaacs’s colleagues in the representation
of Victoria Dr. Quick and Peacock are left,
and the veteran Symon and Glynn are still
alive in S. Australia. But only Joey Car-
ruthers remains in N. S. Wales.
William McPherson, Vic. Opposition
leader, will avail himself of the Parliamen-
tary recess for a business and pleasure trip
to the Cold Land, after keeping liis nose close
to the grindstone during his 13 months
of Premiership. The newly-knighted Dr.
Argyle will deputise for him in his absence.
Seventy this week, Dr. Spence, R.C. Arch-
bishop of Adelaide. He is an Irishman, who
came to Australia 30 years ago. In 1915 he
had the hard task of succeeding Archbishop
O’Reily, and the completed St. Francis
Xavier Cathedral stands as a memorial to
the energy of both.
Edward Hawker, head of the South Aus.
pastoral clan of that name, has an 80th
birthday this week. Preceding him by a year
or two are Lance Stirling, still president of
S.A. Leg. Council; Langdon Bonytlion, still
head of Adelaide “Advertiser” ; Herbert Phil-
lipps, who has just been re-elected chairman
of the State Savings Bank board (a position
he has held since 1902) ; and Lewis Cohen,
politician and municipalise who, however, is
seldom seen in public life these days.
Hawker is the only one of the five without
a title.
The most prominent victim to the heat-
wave in Adelaide was L. H. Sholl, latterly
very frail, at 85. He gave all his life to the
ARCHDEACON CHARL-
TON, of Sydney—he has
been shepherding around
the Harbor for 46 years.
Public Service, being the chief permanent
adviser of Treasurers and Chief Secretaries
for nearly 40 years. His principal recreation
was hard work in literary interests; he was
president of the widespread Institutes
Association, and v.-p. of Adelaide Public
Library. Tall and handsome, he had the
unusual handicap of not caring to hear his
own voice, and he always left the limelight
to others.
A well-known prospector, mostly in the
Northern Territory and the Kimberleys, was
Jack Dooley, who shot himself on the beach
at Fremantle owing to eye trouble which he
believed incurable. A big, jovial bushman,
who. as one' of his erstwhile mates puts it,
“only needed a bit of flour, tea, sugar and
a rifle, and he was ready to start for any-
where.” He was accounted a
good man on a cattle camp,
and sufficient of a sailor
to handle a small craft with
anyone. Despite his tire-
less optimism Jack never
had much luck on mining
fields. He was a brother of
James Dooley, N.S.W. Pre-
mier eight years ago and
subsequently Speaker".
“J.D.’s” theory:—
The death of Captain Grosvenor
indicates why every aristocracy
soon becomes effete. Immediately
a war arrives men of this stamp
rush to the front —not to the
“side,” as someone has wittily
called the bases, and still less
into home-service jobs—but into
the thickest of the fighting. On
this principle entire families of
supermen (the Grenfell family of
poets and sportsmen is an English
example) were wiped out in all
the belligerent countries. The loss
to Australia of the children who
might have been produced by its
60,000 dead is> thus inestimable.
But nations only suffer in war;
aristocracies (meaning the leisured
grades which contain such men as
Captain Grosvenor) are being
depleted of their best and bravest
all the time. The type of affluent
youth who keeps the base or home
fires burning during a war is
similarly careful of his skin in
peace time. It is the Grosvenors
who are mauled by tigers and
lions,, smashed up in steeplechases,
get their necks broken in the
hunting field, lose their lives in
’plane accidents, and deprive their
class of their courage and energy
in countless other ways.. Most
aristocracies only survive as long
as they do because they are peri-
odically reinforced by the blood
of families whose young meiy.would
have risked their lives with plea-
sure if they had been able to afford it.
“Hamer” : A little old man named Frank
Polglaise, who died in one of East Sydney s
crowded streets the other day, had one ruling
passion that persisted to the last, a hatred
of all machinery. He had never travelled
further than a pony and buggy could carry
him: the Almighty, he would insist, never
meant man to travel in such things as
trams and trains, or they would have been
created at the start. Hence every person
using such conveyances was in his eyes a
sinner. He kept a hairdressing saloon when
first I learned his queer religious opinions ;
he not only impressed them on his customers
but would frequently preach in the Domain
and publish tracts on the same thesis.
Another diversion of his was to paste
accounts of tram, train and motor accidents
on sheets of cardboard, which he headed
with “The Wrath of God,” in large caps,
and exhibited in his shop. He died whilst
arguing with the men who had come to take
him to hospital in a motor-ambulance; that
he should make his last journey in a motor-
liearse seems like a jest of Fate.
“S. M. Herald” made a queer blunder
in reviewing Piddington’s book of small talk.
Piddington said it was difficult to tell how
the future would regard the first Chief Jus-
tice, Griffith, so. many of his Constitutional
interpretations having been later over-ruled.
“True,” says the “Herald” ; “but being one
of those who fashioned our charter, Sir
S'amuel had the advantage of knowing what
the intentions of his colleagues were.” As a
matter of fact, Griffith was the only one of
the first five members of the Federal High
Court who wasn’t a member of the Federal
Convention. Of the first three all are dead
now ; of the next two only Isaacs remains.
C. 11. Clatworthy, who passed over in
Sydney the other day, was one more example
of the long trail of trouble that war ser-
vice entails. Born 41 years ago in Towns-
ville (Q.), he went through Brisbane and
Sydney Grammar Schools to Sydney Univer-
sity, where he followed in his father’s foot-
steps by becoming a medico. He served
the full issue at the war, and for a long
time past had suffered from the consequences.
He was a Sydney Uni. Rugby Blue, and
was also one of the best of his day on the
University running track and in the boats.
A daughter of Matthew Hale, the first
Bishop of Perth, died in England the other
day at an advanced age. Hale was appointed
to tln> diocese from Adelaide in 1556, and
the Westralian capital therewith ceased to
be a town, letters-patent from the Colonial
Secretary of the period raising it to city-
hood. His son R. D. (Bob) was the first
assayer on the Broken Hill mines and is
still there after more than 45 years of it.
“Carcoar Charley” Garland died in Syd-
ney last week, aged 76. He dated back to
the time when the best mining expert was
the one who could write the best report, and
Garland knew enough about newspaper offices
and mining fields to fill the bill splendidly.
Still, in course of time he did get to know
a good deal about the game, and wrote and
talked very usefully about gold-dredging
when it had few friends. He was M.L.A.
for Carcoar in three Parliaments, but got
dissatisfied with the prospects—and that was
somewhere in last century. An active little
man, he made a very good honorary trea-
surer of Sydney Hospital for very many
years. His wife, who had been a tremendous
help in his Carcoar days, died only a month
ago.
Westralia has no better-known cleric than
Canon Collick, of Fremantle. A Londoner,
Collick put in nearly a quarter of a cen-
tury on the goldfields, where his unconven-
tionality as well as goodness of heart made
him a rare favorite. One of his practical
institutions was a Christmas dinner for
natives; prospective guests from hundreds of
.miles away used to converge on Kalgoorlie
for the annual banquet. Collick was an
A.I.F. chaplain for four years in the war;
he had previous experiences in the same line
in South Africa in 1901-02.
Sam Barnes, who was Vic. Minister for
Railways under Lawson, is back from a trip
to Cornwall. There has been less camara-
derie since he left the Assembly three years
ago. One of Jack Murray’s best jests was
prompted by Sam. Martin Hannah, a
former member, had a habit of placing an
“s” where it was superfluous. One night he
twice used the phrase: “Now, Mr. Speaker,
with regards to the Government.” A whis-
per from Barnes, and Premier Murray
drawled: “Couldn’t you say ‘with kind
regards to the Government’?”
Mrs. Scarffe, of Traralgon (Vic.), is be-
lieved by her family to be 105. She can do
fine sewing without glasses and walks a
mile into the town for her mail.
Will Lawson,
poet and journalist,
lias been appointed
to take charge of
the newly-opened
Sydney branch of
the Mount Cook
Tourist Motor Co.,
of Maoriland. Law-
son’s assistant is
Mildred Russell,
many years on the
staff of her father’s
paper, the Christ-
church “Spectator,”
where David Low
received his early
training.
Australia has at
least one legislator
who can claim Can-
berra for his birth-
place. This is
W. F. Dunn, the
N.S.W. L a b o r
M.L.A. and ex-
Minister.
Dead suddenly in
Adelaide, Frank
Thorpe, advertising
manager of the
“Register.” He
was only 49, but
had been in the
office for 35 years.
Brig.-Gen. T. A.
Blarney’s five-year
term as Vic. Chief
Commissioner of
Police will finish
L. E. STEVENS,
Secretary of the
Sydney Mo to r
Show, which has
been filling the Syd-
ney Show Ground
with color this
week.
in August. Blarney
is only 46, and earned a great reputation in
the war. ultimately becoming Chief of Staff
A.LF., but whether his term will be ex-
tended depends on the Hogan Government.
It is not certain that he will accept a
renewal unless he can be sure of a pretty
free hand, particularly in regard to pro-
motion in the Force by merit instead of
seniority-eim-merit.
A recently deceased Vic. _ divine owned
the somewhat ambiguous Christian name of
Evelyn. As a young clergyman he often
engaged in vigorous newspaper controversies,
and after one rather embittered argument an
opponent launched at him the sneer that
Evelvn “evidently possessed few of the graces
of womanhood and should undoubtedly have
been a man.” Nobody enjoyed the joke
more than the Canon.
TO A FRIEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not grudge you now the peace
That calms your features to repose.
The world about its business goes,
And love and laughter do not cease.
Still of the wine of life we quaff,
Yet lonelier my heart must be
That I no more your face will see,
Nor hear the stirring of your laugh.
Rough tracks we trod and turned to mirth,
In sober venture or in quip
You gave the same loyal comradeship;
And there were times we owned the earth!
Now when the broths of trouble brew
Shall I not miss a friendly aid
That faced all trouble undismayed,
And stronger feel, remembering you?
In every merry group of friends
Will stand one shadow of regret:
I’ll wish again that you were set
Where kindliness with laughter blends.
Who knows but to your dreams will pass
Some knowledge of that thought of mine,
And in that wise, with ghostly wine,
Dear friend, w r e still shall share a glass!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“The Hippogryph”: It’s not poverty that
counts, but the way you meet it. I dropped
in unexpectedly on N.S.W. pountry people
who, as I knew, were having a tough time.
They pressed me to stay to dinner, it being
conveyed that for me to ride on to the village
MERRY ( HIC) CRISHMASH!
“What’s ailing you, mother?”
“Just look at that blithered father of yours—trying to play patience with the cheese
biscuits!”
pub would be regarded as evidence of un-
friendliness. The family board shone with
spotless napery, industriously-rubbed cutlery
and the well-washed faces of a quiver of
seven sturdy youngsters. The only pro-
vender visible was home-baked bread and
dishes of treacle, -but plates were laid for a
chief course of something mentioned vaguely
as “roast.” I guessed rabbit, foresaw even
wallaby; but Mother entered bearing a gigan-
tic ironbark pumpkin, evidently roasted
whole in a brick oven. This Dad carved
with all the dignity of a mattre d’hotcl, and
the ten of us fell to, washing down the pump-
kin with black tea. Nothing wrong with those
people or with the country that breeds them.
* * * . *
“Murkah”: In the golden days of Bendigo
a more than usually popular lady (women
were infrequent and all were popular) offered
herself as the prize in a raffle, and sold the
tickets personally. They cost five pounds
each, and were not transferable; thus the
field came under scrutiny. A young Ameri-
can won, and with the proceeds the pair
opened a hotel. The marriage panned out
a success. When the nineteenth century was
in its last chapter they died in South Mel-
bourne within days of one another. They
never made a secret of how they had come
to meet. 1
* * * *
“Key C.”: Probably for the first time in
Australia a mouth-organ band has played
requiem at the burial of a late member at
Geelong. A like band did the “Wedding
March” at a marriage at Collingwood about
two years ago.
H: * Jfc $
“Prickly Jack” : The 550 Y.A.L. boys who
have been visiting Westralia, where the
organisation was founded by the enthusiastic
J. J. Simons, were carried over the Com-
monwealth line in two trains, and everyone
had a sleeping berth. The first train, with
sleeping, dining and showerbath accommo-
dation for 350 passengers, was easily an
Australian record in long-distance passenger
transportation.
* * * *
“Amity Point”: Queensland is grinning
over the ingenious way in which an in-
dividual confined as a leper on Peel Island,
Moreton Bay, tricked the authorities and
got home to celebrate the New Year. He
watched the office until the superintendent
had gone on his rounds of inspection and
the clerk was absent; then he telephoned
for a launch to carry him to the mainland!
using the “soop’s” name. The launch arrived
and the scheme worked out perfectly. The
patient had himself examined by a medico
at the Commonwealth lab. in Rockhampton
and got a clean bill of health. Now he is
talking of ffiiing newspapers which referred
to him as an escaped leper.
* * * *
“Meteren”: One of my happiest recol-
lections of Belgium is of a crowd of girls
at a Benediction service offered as thanks-
giving for the advance of the British Em-
pire troops. Diggers half-filled the village
church and gazed in admiration at the blue-
cloaked and white-veiled procession fer-
vently singing. The spectacle started off
more good resolutions than a dozen church
parades could have done. As a finale R.C.
Diggers sang in English one of their familiar
hymns, with numbers of the mob staring into
space trying to drag the words back to
memory. Before the verses ended those of
ns who. didn’t know any words were mumbling
the refrain—our bit towards the most im-
pressive service I’ve been at.
=l= * * :J:
“Currambin” : Mob psychology is a curious
thing. When the Melbourne police went on
strike and city stores were raided, many of
those caught in the act of stealing were
persons of previously unblemished reputation.
Tweed Heads, on the Queensland-N.S.W.
border, has just supplied a corresponding
incident. A crowd of holiday-makers watched
some fishermen haul in a netful of mullet.
Suddenly one individual broke from the on-
lookers and seized a fish from the not. At
once the others followed him, and in the
turmoil the net was ruined and half the
catch was stolen. Yet until the madness
seized them they were just au average lot
of trippers who would have scorned to pinch
each other’s corned beef.
* * * *
“P. Pawnticket”: A long flight of stone
steps finishes in front of the lifts in Brokers’
Buildings, and the other day a drunk leaving
the premises avalanched to the bottom,
apparently bumping every step on the way.
We thought he would be killed, but he seemed
little the worse when he was helped to his
groggy feet. He stared at the still-emptying
elevator in a dazed fashion. “Tha’sh
roughesht lift I shtruck anywhere in
’Stralia,” he said.
* * * *
“Parapet”: The Yank is not the only one
who is grabbing at the frosted cake called
Antarctica. With envious eyes on the whal-
ing wealth of Adelie Land, France, by a
Presidential decree now five years old,
claimed that slice, on the ground that it
was a natural dependency of French Mada-
gascar! The Australian National Research
Council presently pointed out that the
claimed country was geographically more de-
pendent on Australia, and the Imperial Con-
ference of 1926 held that both Wilkes Land
and West Adelie Land were British because
the Australian Douglas Mawson discovered
and charted them during 1912-13. Of course,
whale oil is the big lure, and recent expedi-
tions hint that there are many potential
hunting-grounds that may equal the one at
South" Georgia, which at present provides
half the world’s oil and whalebone.
* *
“Herodot”: False teeth have a pawnable
value and have become a favorite medium
for raising the wind. Some pawnbrokers
will even hire their teeth back for special
occasions, the charge being 6d. a day or
THE TOURISTS.
“Bui what’s your wife doing alone up in the mountains?”
“Oh, she’s trying to have the last word with the echo!”
3d. a night. A Sydney Uncle has been
known to hand over a full set of grinflers
for a small consideration, to enable an
honest fellow in reduced circumstances to
get outside a pound of rump steak, his
favorite dish. Pawnbrokers in slummy parts
of Melbourne used to cater for customers
who had pawned their boots by supplying
“relievers” for a penny a week. The sub-
stitutes, evidently retrieved from rubbish
heaps, were in paper parcels and no in-
spection was permitted, sizes being approxi-
mate only. Sometimes a parcel was found
to contain a boot and a shoe.
“Si Anu”: Dutch and British
residents recently assembled in
Batavia to do honor to Sir-Stam-
ford Raffles. Raffles was at one
time as horrible a bogey to the
Hollander as Boney was to Eng-
lishmen. His first offence was
to occupy Singapore in the name
of the English East India Com-
pany ; his second was to recom-
mend and organise the occupation
of Java in 1811, when Holland
was temporarily a part of France
and hence England’s enemy. He
pacified parts of the Dutch colony
which the Dutchmen themselves
had never been able to penetrate;
started the excavation of the
famous Hindu ruin of Borobudur ;
founded the Batavia Society and
generally spread the light of
scientific inquiry where the Dutch-
man had previously been content
to grub solely for money. The
Dutch have since handsomely
acknowledged the great English-
man’s services, but there is one
thing they have never forgiven
him. He introduced individual
ownership of land, selling large
blocks of the soil, including a
whole province, to a Chinaman.
When the Dutch returned they
were faced with the problem of
buying the alienated soil back,
and they are still doing it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Soapy Sponge”: In spite of
attempts to abolish it, fox-hunting
flourishes in England, but the old
element has been supplanted by
a new, wfliich throngs to the
counties from places as far parted
as New York and (let’s say)
Bagdad. The newcomers have
not the remotest idea of the old-
time etiquette of the hunting-
field, and would not observe it if
they had. The roar of their
motors at the covert side has
every fox on the move for fresh
woods long before the hounds are
put in, and the stink of the
exhausts is calculated to ruin the
hottest scent ever laid. They
don’t even know how to wear
their kit. One of Britain’s greatest hunting
tailors, whose forebears made breeches for
the Prince Regent, actually advertises in the
press that his customers will be given les
sons in tying a hunting stock. Truly the
glory is departed.
* s|: $ ' $
“Scintilla”: The conviction of a Johannes-
burg reporter for contempt of court in re-
fusing to divulge the sources of certain in-
formation obtained by him and published by
his paper is a reminder that journalists have
gone to gao] in this country for the same
principle. Priests, doctors and newspaper
men have all claimed immunity for secrets
confided to them professionally. Neverthe-
less, English law does not openly allow it
even in the case of the Church, although no
Court is likely to try to interfere with the
seal of the confessional; and as regards the
other professions Judges have explicitly re-
fused to recognise it in any way. The thing
may be in process of becoming unwritten
law, but British Courts are not expected to
take any account of that nebulous commodity,
however much juries may be swayed by it.
* * * *
“Toggle”: Has any motorist ever hit a
goat? There cannot be many species of
pedestrian that some enthusiast has not added
to the national bag. Humans come an easy
first, with dogs and poultry filling the
places. Cats have been flattened; horses
have straddled bonnets and cows crumpled
horns. Kangaroos, snakes and emus have
gone the way of flesh ; but in s.-w. Queens-
land, where the goat out-breeds the rabbit
and nothing cramps the motorist’s style, we
have a superstition that no car can touch
the plaguey beasts. It is not their presence
of mind, and it’s certainly not their absence
of body; it is just Satan guarding his own.
* * * *
“Mudros”: You don’t need to go back to
the last century for a case of theft of a
woman’s hair. About fivb years ago a
damsel with two long plaits reaching well
below her waist was seated in the stalls
at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide. Unfor-
tunately she neglected to take the precaution
of sitting on her hair, and when the lights
went up at the end of an exciting act she
made the sad discovery that the pig tails
had vanished —presumably with the gentle-
man who had been in the stall immediately
behind her.
* * M: *
“M.P.”: “Natal’s” list of Sydney street
characters (B. 7/l/’3O) reminds me of
others of a later vintage. There was “Specs,”
who held up his wares in George and King
streets, and monotonously cried “Specs” ; he
was a favorite subject of Fred Leist’s. Joe,
a little Jew with thick glasses and cards
of- studs and laces, and an old gentleman in
a black hat and ulster, who parked liis pram
of haberdashery in George-street, also figured
in many Bulletin drawings; Low made a
fine sketch of the old fellow. And a very
popular amateur model was old “Army” who
minded the hansom cabs at the top of Moore-
strect while the cabbies went to lunch; he
was Norman Lindsay’s satyr. “Army” also
wrote verses for the Answers to Correspon-
dents Column. The best of the professional
models were Nat, Pat and Jock. Nat and
Jock sat for most of The Bulletin artists
of the first 30 years, and both are immor-
talised in the Sydney Art Gallery, Nat in
a bust by Nelson Illingsworth, and Jock as
the corpse in Joe Wolinski’s “After Life’s
Fitful Fever.” Pat sat for many of Nor-
man and Lionel Lindsay’s Bulletin draw-
ings. He and Jock were Indian Army pen-
sioners, and Nat had been a circus per-
former.
“Vil N.”: A Sydney character of 30-odd
years ago was “Dr.” Lascelles, a turbaned
Indian, who spoke in the Domain. At one
of his meetings a robust patriot accused
him of being a pro-Boer. The healer from
Hindustan drew himself up to his full
height. “How can I be?” he protested. “I
love Queen Victoria because my mother was
a woman!”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Dind’s Hotel, North Sydney,
has been demolished to make way for the
approaches of the Harbor Bridge. “Dind’s
Hotel” was the name of the last long poem
that Henry Lawson wrote; in it he described
a ride from the old pub, which he used to
frequent, to the H'awkesbury. The building
has housed three generations of Dinds. As
I stood and watched it being razed to the
ground an old chap addressed me with the
remark, “I wonder what Henry Lawson
would say if he were here.” Then he pulled
a Bulletin cutting from his pocket and
handed it over, and I read “Dind’s Hotel’'
once more.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Of the private banknotes in
circulation before the Commonwealth notes
arrived in 1911, £199,276 worth is still un-
redeemed. The strays continue to dribble
in. Recently the Wellington (M.L.) branch
of the Union Bank of Australia handled a
note which showed that it had been issued
at Britannia in 1840. The note was genuine,
but the bank had to turn up records of that
branch. It transpired that Britannia, moved
around the bay, had become Wellington;
thus the wanderer had returned to the iden-
tical branch whence it had issued 90 years
before. It was found in a ship-board Bible.
The Launceston branch of the ’Asia has
cashed an even older note, issued in 1835,
and also discovered in a Bible.
DRIVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is said that the motor-car takes people away
from the church,’ declared the Rev. 0. Irving Benson
at Wesley Church. ‘I don’t believe it can take the
people away from church unless it is driven. Do
you ?’ ” —Melbourne “Sun.”
Pity the plight of Timothy Tode,
Who hankered after Heaven,
And, cliurchward-bound to learn the road,
Sat in his Sudden Seven.
Was ever trust so sore abused
By car, the sleek miles spurning?
Was he to blame if it refused
To take the proper turning?
The way was clear, the sun was bright;
Along the level reaches
That motor looked nor left nor right,
But led him to the beaches.
Pity the plight of Tim, because
For shame that ’bus lias marked him;
On Monday (rather warm it was)
Right in a pub it parked; him.
On Tuesday, too (ah, bitter cup!),
Guileless and neat and dapper,
He drove to pick some parcels up—
His car picked up a flapper.
Was his the fault, whose purpose keen
To work like any stoker
Was side-tracked by that bad machine
Straight to a game of poker?
On Saturday he blandly sought,
Of all innocuous places,
A cricket match—the monster brought
Him slyly to the races.
Pity the plight of Timothy Tode,
Who hankered after Heaven,
Yet every other path was showed
By his sinful Sudden Seven.
Pity his plight! Condole his lot!
It grieves even to tell it.
Well-meaning but car-driven.... What?
Well, no ! He wouldn’t sell it!
victoria.
HASEN.


“S.S.S.”: Plow do you account for this?
My husband, a soldier man, was apt, when
provoked, to rap out an oath he had learned
in the Hussars. He was killed in 1916, and
never saw our little girl. One day when
she was three years old, sitting on the steps
of our bungalow at Darwin, she asked for
a glass of water. The glass slipped through
my mother’s fingers and the water splashed
over the child, who, in her father’s accents,
shouted, “D your eyes, what did you
do that for!” His expression ! Never in
her little sheltered life had she heard it.
And I had forgotten it.
* * * *
“Coot”: Scott’s H’otel, Melbourne, is held
under a license which dates back to 1836.
The first licensed house on the site was called
the Lamb Inn, a name which was changed
in 1852 to the Clarendon Hotel. Scott
bought the place in 1860, and it has been
Scott’s ever since.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“H. Hardupp”: The long arm of coinci-
dence got in some queer work in a motor
accident in Dunedin (M.L.). Two men -were
killed, one a passenger in a sedan car and
the other the driver of the van that had
crashed into it; and the Christian names
of both were David Yernon. It reminds
me of one Ebenezer Clunes McClure (although
that is not the precise name), who came from
Maoriland and set up in business in a Syd-
ney suburb. Immediately he was deluged
with summonses for unpaid accounts, and
was actually arrested for overdue alimony.
It was not difficult for him to prove that
another Ebenezer Clunes McClure had con-
tracted all these liabilities, but the reputa-
tion that had become attached to the name
embarrassed him so much that he moved to
a new suburb.
“Murkah”: Two years of failure is
a short history of the Canadian-Aus-
tralian beam circuit. Radio-waves are
attracted towards the poles of a huge
magnet—the Earth. Which, in my
opinion, explains that failure, and
the success of the Britisli-Australian
ether-link. From both ends of the
longer circuit clouds of magnetic waves
are shot almost directly at the distant
pole. They spread widely at the
Equator, but concentrate again as they
near the pole, and so deliver power to
spare at the re-
ceiving ends. The
Canadian-Austra-
lian waves miss
the poles, and in-
stead of concen-
trating, become
more attenuated,
THE LAW AND THE PROFITS.
“But how on earth did your divorce come to cost your
husband £5000 after you’d settled it?"
“Well, you see, we fought over the custody of the canary.”
and are lost. This
causes “fading”—
the chief difficulty.
Even the ridicu-
lously short Brit-
ish-Canadian link
works less satis-
factorily than the
Australian circuit.
That it should be
harder to pelt a
message across
the Atlantic than
to throw it
around the world
is one of the un-
expected difficul-
ties radio engineers have had to face.
* * *
“Chevroford”: A bit of historic Victoria
has been thrown open to the motorist by
the completion of a road to the top of
Arthur’s Seat. The bold headland attracted
the attention of Lieut. Murray when he
entered Port Phillip in 1802 and was named
by him after a supposed resemblance to the
Auld Reekie eminence. It was thus the
first Vic. inland feature to be given a name.
The übiquitous Flinders was the first to
climb the mountain, which is an abrupt
1031 ft.; Franklin paid it a visit in 1844,
and a trig, station was set up in 1853. From
the summit you get one of the finest views
in Australia —Port Phillip Bay to the west,
Westernport to the cast, and to the south
Sorrento, where the attempt to populate
Victoria with convicts failed. The failure
is annually commemorated with thanksgiv-
ings at a local kirk.
* * * *
“Ajax”: At Coondle (W.A.) recently six
Lee boys, all related (two are twins) and
all born at Toodyay, foregathered to cele-
brate their coming-of-age during Westralias
centenary year. They are great-grandsons
of Frederick Augustus Lee, who in 1804,
being then 20 years old, left England for the
Swan River settlement with a flock of South-
down sheep, arriving on January 1,3 Sot).
After a long pioneering career, he died at
Toodyay in 1905, leaving four sons. The
boys hope to have their own centenary cele-
bration on New Year’s Day, 1935.
* * * *
“Tee Essbie”: When I was at the
Hawkesbury Agricultural (College there
were fellow-pupils from Japan, the New
Hebrides, New Caledonia and the U.S.A.
The recent exams, show that the col-
lege preserves its cosmopolitan character..
Of 41 students who graduated H.D.A.,
three came from England, three from
Maoriland and one from India ; of 32 second-
year students who passed, three were from
England and one from India; of five who
graduated H.D.D., one was from Scotland
and one from England. That students should
continue to come year after year from places
so remote is evidence of Hawkesbury’s high
reputation.
* * * *
“Exdig.”: We had dropped down by the
roadside and were reclining against our
packs, when a staff car came up. A Tommy
officer got out and approached one of the
nearest of the Diggers, demanding a direc-
tion. With languidly outstretched arm Sam
Sprigg started to oblige. “What’s wrong
with your legs that you don’t get up?” said
the officer sharply. “What’s wrong with
your eyes that you didn’t see Third Divi-
sional ’Eadquarters when you passed it down
the track?” retorted Sam.
:!: sj: * *
“Right U. R.” : Mention in “All Quiet on
the Western Front” of German soldiers sing-
ing by command reminds me. A prisoner of
war for eight months, I was interned in a
camp near a main road. Trainees returning
from a route march would, on topping the
rise approaching the camp, get the order to
beef out “The Watch on the Rhine,” or it
might be “The Hymn of Hate.” That was
the signal for the prisoners to line the
barbed-wire fence and pipe up “Sons of
the Sea,” and “Australia Will Be There,”
and the confusion of sounds resembled a
mighty Wurlitzer at its worst.
❖ ssc #
“The Ghoul”: They have their own way
of gathering in “fees” at what remains of
the old prison at Port Arthur (Tas.). One
of the guides has evidently been permitted to
erect a locked door in one of the walls.
Arrived there he stands on a step, key
in hand, and announces: “At this spot I
usually collect a shilling a head from the
visitors.” It is a case of no shilling no
entry. When you have paid your shilling
the guide goes behind a locked turnstile
and intimates that all visitors are expected
to pay sixpence to provide a fund for
repairs and maintenance. Our party got
another shock when it was informed by the
guide that one of the most interesting
portions of the ruins—the large Windsor
Castle stone tower and two smaller sup-
porting turrets of what was once the powder-
magazine—had been sold to a private buyer
for £6O.
“Ayess” : The fundamental law of chemi-
cal reaction is that interaction will only
take place where such reaction will form
a less soluble salt. It is therefore impos-
sible to produce the more soluble corrosive
sublimate from the insoluble calomel and
common salt. The former, however, is found
as an impurity in unrefined calomel, and
this was probably the source of the corrosive
sublimate which caused the death mentioned
by “Kappa” (B. 1/1/30). I remember a
case in England of a man who went out
suddenly through taking a seidlitz powder
the wrong way. He first drank the con-
tents of the blue packet dissolved in water.
and followed this with the contents of the
white packet, similarly dissolved. Acute
dilatation of the stomach was the cause of
his death, which occurred a few minutes
later.
BIG GAME .
“I want a revolver for my husband.”
“Yes’m —what type does your husband prefer?”
“Oh, that won’t matter—he doesn’t even know that I’m going to shoot him.”
“Odyssey”: Travellers on the Bollon (Q.)
road used to whiz by a store at the 40 Mile,
lately rechristened Boolba by the authori-
ties. The store was the one building in
the place. Recent visitors to this lonely
region have been surprised and cheered by a
roadside sign reading:—
Only 100yds.
To the Boolba Bush Caf6.
Try Boolba Bottled Beer.
The cafe is a bough shed. In front of it
hangs another sign :
Thirsty ?
Bob’s
Boolba
Beer
Bob a Bottle.
Better’n Booze.
Boolba Bob, I am pleased to say, is doing
well.
“Larrapinta” : The O.T. line between
Adelaide and Darwin is copper nowa-
days, but I can show spears I collected
after we had been attacked by blacks
in the Territory in ’B6, and most of
them have points made by doubling a
two-foot piece of No. 8 fencing-wire,
stolen from the telegraph line. A lines-
man told me that the natives shinned
up the poles like monkeys and hung on
to the wire like flying-foxes until there
were enough to bring the wire parts
(and themselves) down in a heap. Then
they bent it about at the other end
till it broke, and bolted away with
above a chain length of Government
property, and the line went dead. “And,”
he concluded, “we poor blanks have to
go out and fix it.” Pieces of that same
No. 8 wire were traded right up into
Cape York Peninsula and over into the
Kimberley country in W.A. by the blacks
long before
1890.
* *
“Eureka”:
Once a man
has mastered
the Morse
code he quite
uncon-
sciously
listens for it
in every-
thing, and if
h e suffers
from nerves
it gets on
them. A
teleg r a ph
operator that
I know can
detect dots
and dashes in
the twitter
of birds, trotting horses, purring of
engines, clicking of typewriters and
even a man tapping railway wheels
for flaws. The other day he was having his
hair cut and I could see that he was very rest-
less. Eventually he snapped at the barber:
“For Heaven’s sake alter your stroke with
those scissors; you’ve been % sending SOS
with every cut and it’s getting monotonous.”
* * '-!• *
“Stevenbury”: Did anyone mention re-
source? Cecil Hall, of Windsor (N.S.W.),
lost a 40ft. trading launch two years ago
in a flood. Three months ago he discovered
it in Oft. of water, keel up, with only the
after-third above the sand, a mile and a
half down the Hawkesbury River. Hall
extended the shaft of a home-made speed-
boat with a length of water-pipe and
added attachments which allowed of a lifting
and lowering action. To the end of the pipe he
fitted a fan from an old lorry, and later
an ISin. launch propeller. He moored his
speed-boat over the wreck, started his ancient
Cadillac engine, and by progressively lower-
ing his shaft extension, pumped away six
feet of sand from round the hull in such a
way as to cause it to roll on to its keel. He
then attached a rope to the hull, and with the
aid of a winch moved it with successive
tides above normal low-tide level. The
launch was again submerged by a fresh, but
was towed to Windsor and reconditioned by
the same handyman. Then he took her out
on a trial run with the original engine and
even the same spark-plugs. The magneto
lias been changed, but that was not abso-
lutely necessary, as the old one when dried
in the oven gave a fair spark.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: There is a Macaulayan touch
about a London journalist’s picture of the pack
of “throneless royalties” at the Rome wedding
“still blazing with the medals of forgotten
battles and decorated with the ribbons of
obsolete orders.” A king may lose his job
and be hunted out of his country, but a
certain aura still clings about him —other
royalties, in accordance with the established
tenets of trade unionism, see to that. Even
if he is no more than a pretender to a van-
ished throne he can still rely on some sort
of recognition at alien courts. He may
come back some day, or his descendants
may, and that contingency not only saves
him from obscurity but ensures him a little
limelight on occasions like the nuptials of
Marie Jose and Umberto.
* * * *
“Proserpine”: When my ship sailed I
was left behind in Lulea, a town in the north
of Sweden, and knocking about the country
I was struck with the provision made for
bathers during the long Every vil-
lage' has one or two “badstugor”—little log-
cabins hermetically sealed. In the middle, of
the floor is a fireplace built of stones, with
more stones piled on top and around. Round
the walls are benches, one over the other, to
within two feet of the ceiling. A fire is lit
and kept going for half a day. Bathers enter,
close the door and throw water on the red-
hot stones. The resultant steam and heat
made me think of the hottest corner of
Tophet. Only the very strongest men
ensconce themselves on the top bench. After
they have steamed and stewed to their satis-
faction they rush out and roll in the show. I
tried it once on the bottom bench, but I
hadn’t the courage to cool off in the snow.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Three old Parliamentary hands
foregathered the other day and produced
their best-remembered retort. Queerly
enough one of them was attributed to the
Victorian Alan McLean, the not generally
frivolous half-Premier. He had said that
from one source he had learned this, and
from another source he had learned that,
and from a third source he had learned some-
thing else. “Much learning doth make thee
mad!” exclaimed G. D. Carter. “Well,”
snapped McLean, “the hon. member cannot
attribute Ms madness to that !” The second
man remembered Duncan Gillies’s swift reply
to John Hancock. “Thank God for the
sacred right of revolution!’’ exclaimed John
with his usual melodramatic fervor. “And
thank God for the sacred right of hanging!
dour little Duncan cut in. John, I suspect,
half his time had his tongue in his cheek.
“If elected, will you take up your residence
and live in this district?” he was asked when
first he wooed Footscray. “Yes,” said .John,
throwing his eyes to Heaven —‘‘yes, if you
elect me I will do even that!” The third—
but no; the third never reached Hansard-
CRASHED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The air was all a-quiver
With the music of the band;
She gave a little shiver,
Then gently squeezed me ’and:
Sent the ’ot blood swiftly surging
’Neath ’er velvet finger-tips,
And me spirit knew no urging
As I fastened on ’er lips.
But the pills of Life is bitter,
And you’re mostly sold a pup.
By the wavelets’ wond’rous glitter
She told me all was up.
Oh, the words I ’card ’er utter
Turned me blinkin’ ’eart to clay,
And I could only stutter
She sniffed and turned away.
’Ow many times I’d kissed ’er
With burning words of love?
And now —“I’ll be yer sister,”
She says, and smooths ’or glove.
Says that we two ’ad better
Avoid young Hymen’s snare,
And ’opes that I’ll forget ’er
In some fond woman’s care.
“Is it a coot with money?
Yer boss? Is that the lurk?
Too true! ’E’ll spill ’is ’oney
On ’is lovely lady clerk!”
I didn’t pass the butter,
Fierce anger made me gulp.
“I’ll fling ’im in the gutter,
I’ll smash ’is face to pulp!”
The moon ’as lost ’er glamor,
The stars ’ave ceased to shine;
No more will they enamor
This broken ’eart of mine.
Me bitter thoughts commingle
With the wavelets’ ’ollow moan
As I spui’n the broken shingle,
F'orsaken and alone.
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


n
5,1!
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BO I'D.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
v „ , , „ o 1 to Policy-holders (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
«> future premiums wiU be paid b, Private hospitals, varying iu amount uncording to the sup. assured and no
the 1 Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from poacy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith.and the premium reduced proportionately.
L. PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
' NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications lor Agencies invited from men <.' integrity. _ , „
_ „ _ . 1 GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manaeer.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The New Moon’-
Criterion “Journey’s End’’
Palace “In the Next Room”
iSTATB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Turned Up”
New Comedy “Murder on the Second Floor”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
“Yesterday the temperature outside the
Comedy Theatre was 106 degrees; inside
it was only 62” runs an ad. in the Mel-
bourne press. During the run of “Young
Woodley” in the same playhouse, judging
by the remarks of the more unsophisticated
critics, the situation was reversed.
The Firm dropped a depth-charge into the
already sufficiently agitated theatrical pond
in Melbourne last week by announcing that
the Theatre Royal was to be sold to a
drapery firm. The reason given was the new
Hogan entertainment-tax coming on top of
the competition of the talkies. Promptly
the sob-sisters of the dailies dallied a
moment on their way to spend the evening
at their favorite movie-palace—dallied to
drop a reminiscent tear for the passing of a
great playhouse, which, since it was built in
1850, had done so much for the uplift of
the community.
It was pointed out that in this very theatre
G. V. Brooke had upheld the glories of
Shakspearean drama and Walter Montgom-
ery had strutted his brief hour, while Maggie
Moore, Nellie Stewart, Dion Boucicault,
Madame Ristori, Robert Brough and the
almost legendary Williamson himself had
carried on the great tradition. Thus embold-
ened, Mr. Tait was heard declaring in the
press that “the Firm claims that the theatri-
cal business should be exempted from the
entertainments-tax because it, is part of the
higher education of the people in the culture
that helps to build a nation.” Not to be out-
done in his zeal for culture, Mr. Hogan let
it be known that he intended to make an
intensive investigation into the effect of his
tax “in view of the fact that the theatres
found employment for many Australians,
who, in turn, provided by their purchases
employment for many more.”
The present writer is inclined to regard
the utilitarian remarks of Mr. Hogan with
MOLLIE FISHER, the Tasmanian girl who is leading in “Turned
Up” at Melbourne Royal.
more respect than the pseudo-altruistic ex-
pressions of opinion of Mr. Tait. Mr. Hogan
lias at least the moral courage to recognise
that the activities of Mr. Tait as carried
on at the Royal are in the same category
as those of a jam-maker, and are entitled
to just as much consideration and no more.
Throwing his mind back over the last many
years present writer is unable to remember
more than a negligible half-dozen plays
staged at the Royal whose cultural signifi-
cance was greater than a pot of strawberry
conserve. “Journey’s End” was one of them;
“They Knew What They Wanted” was an-
other ; “Interference” was a doubtful third.
A few plays bad in themselves have never-
theless been of some cultural value to this
country inasmuch as they provided brilliant
Australian actors like Frank Bradley in-
adequate opportunities in small character
parts. There have been some farces that
have had a rough but robust commentary on
life running through them. But that is all.
For the rest the record of the Royal is of
a dreary succession of imported box-office
attractions, mainly drivel.
At this late hour the spectacle of the Taits
assuming the role of defender’s of the legiti-
mate drama looks a trifle odd. It suggests
a man cutting his throat with one hand while
he rings up the police station with the other
to complain that he is being foully mur-
dered. Unless the writer has been grievously
misinformed, the people who are now com-
plaining of the competition of the talkies
are the same people who a twelvemonth or
so ago nearly broke their necks to beat a
rival firm and present the first vocal film to
Melbourne. Memory may be at fault, but
the writer’s recollection is that at the same
time the same people were feverishly building-
two motion-picture theatres, more idiotically
gorgeous, more fulsomely extravagant, more
fantastically sumptuous than any amuse-
ment emporium previously erected in Mel-
bourne. It was ihe same people who joined
forces with a rival combine in the flicker
business; and it was this joint organisation
which subsequently made a highly satisfac-
tory arrangement with its biggest competi-
tors, the amalgamation being sufficiently
powerful to set nearly all the remaining
home's of legit, tumbling like ninepins.
Which brings us back to our original con-
tention, that Mr. Hogan’s realistic but dis-
concerting tendency to treat the demise of
the Royal purely as an economic question is
the only honest way to look at it. The
present writer has a love for the drama
which amounts to a devouring passion, but he
refuses to drop a solitary tear at the thought
of shop-assistants demanding Is. lid. for a
yard of ribbon on the spot where the great
G. V. Brooke demanded his pound of flesh.
And he would as soon look for the re-estab-
lishment of a vital dramatic stage to the
people who at present provide Melbourne
with 90 p.c. of its amusement as he would
look for the next Cup winner in the ele-
phant-house at the Zoo. Those people have
bigger fish to fry. The real sufferers by
the present wholesale skittling of the flesli-
and-blood theatres in Melbourne are the
ushers, the scene-
shifters, the lime-
light operators, the
call-boys and their
humble and hard-
working like.
* * ¥
Drama tically
speaking, the an-
nual Motor Show
at Sydney Agricul-
tural Ground is
defective. It hicks
humor. There is a
gorgeous glitter of
several- hfindred
cars that the en-
vied rich and the
•envious poor are
going to owe for in
1930, and not a
solitary hear s.e
among ’em ! It is
like a Parliament
without an Usher
of the Black Rod,
Frank Neil with-
out his trousers off,
a war-play without
a sermon-—■ no
honest slapstick
whatever. The Reo
people missed a
rare opportunity.
They' had intended
presenting that old
reliable farce, A
Model Built in the
Earlies, with the
engine under the
seat and the petrol
in the bonnet. In-
stead, they have
nothing more
ticklesome than a
lot of real motor-
cars, so serious
under their veneer
of pigment that no
millionaire could
afford to be without several in each of his billi-
ard-rooms. Moreover, they look as if they’d go!
All the cars do. As cars they are won-
derful. No one could look at the general
layout, the lissom beauty of line, the no-
Kruschen-tliank-you perfection of innards,
the twice-round-tlie-park-please comfort of
upholstery, without being impressed, not to
say flabbergasted. They are present in
hundreds, covered in glory, exclusiveness
and elbow-grease. To walk through either
pavilion is to tread a maze of prosperity.
Example: Beside the Fords stands a guar-
dian who will tell you that Mr. Sydney Ure
Smith, Mr. George Lambert and Miss Thea
Proctor were taken from Sydney to Geelong
to decide upon the colors of Henry’s new
models. There is something rich and right
in this idea of commercial and art brains
communing in the sacred cause of Service.
The watcher by the Ford will back up his
statement with a pamphlet which lays down
that “this committee of Australian artists
is marvellously endowed for such work as
the determining of color harmony for motor-
cars.” Anyway, these Fords are so unlike
the old Lizzies
that it would not
greatly matter if
their colors had
been fixed by a
whole Royal Art
Society.
A yard or two
away is a green
Buick whose color
might have been
planned by a half-
sozzled garage
hand. That is to
say, it is compara-
tively perfect. It
ranks, with sundry
other color pieces
of the show, as a
thing that might
make even an
American poet
write poetry. You
'could be one of the
five persons in
Australia who
don’t know a
Sedan Straight
Six from a Sun-
beam, ' a Coupe
from a Cadillac,
an Accelerator
from an Austin, a
Clutch from a
Chrysler, an 1 Ex-
haust from an
Essex, and yet you
would still appre-
ciate its careful
beauty. There is
a Marmon, also
close, that arrests
the wandering eye
and fills it with a
joyous harmony of
black, and thin red
lines, and silver. It,
according to the
stand-keeper, was
colored by a
Frenchman. Yet they will tell you that
art is not degenerating in France!
Surely; else how come, the spanking
beauty of this? Another masterpiece of
tone is a Sunbeam. . . .maroon, rich red
seats, Queensland maple at its loveliest;
price, £1595. The body was done in Aus-
tralia, as was that of the show’s cheapest
car, a Chevrolet at £245. The American
makers’ aim- appears to be to produce some-
thing that will look like money; the Eng-
lish, using a fibre material, to produce a
thing that will look like Bond-street, home,
holidays and a suitcase. The Australian
work varies between these objectives, and
might almost cheer up a Federal Treasurer.
The show, of course, has its records. Per-
haps the most important is that cars are
dearer. Everyone blames “the recent tariff.”
Another of the records is proudly painted
on a battered Whippet. It broke a record
from Sydney to Bourke, and looks like it.
At the same time, it looks as if it could
do the same again. There is nothing of
that battering about a near-record holder
which is parked outside the pavilions under
the trees. This is the Cris-Craft speedboat,
in which one Smith had a fly at beating the
best train time from Sydney to Newcastle.
The effort failed by barely six minutes.
Irvine Douglas, scribe of Sydney “Sun,” who
risked the trip with Smith as part of the
day’s round, told present writer that it w T as
as thrilling as anything of his experience,
and he has toured with all the leading poli-
ticians, as well as having lived for some
time in Tasmania. For the record attempt
there were seas as tall as a motor-salesman’s
fact, and, therefore, the boat averaged only
20 miles an hour. Mr. Weaver ought to
hire it to bring down that piece of coal
he has so diligently and dangerously dug
for. It would look bosker on Mr. Bavin’s
watchchain.
In the sports department you can’t well
miss a group of Essex and Austin models
for the very sportive. Their outstanding
feature is careful .sub-editing. If you see
Reggie getting up the street in a flash of
green and yellow,- you can safely bet you
won’t see Cecil in a like job when you turn
the corner. Of course, gentlemen, if you
don’t fancy that sort of thing we can fit the
same chassis with a body that would make
a flapper at least start off with the inten-
tion of sitting demurely in the corner.
Altogether, it is a splendid show of its
kind. It has some novelty, which is more
than can be said for, say, a musical comedy.
There is a new Nash, a new Citroen, the
Lynx aeroplane engine that pulls Kingsford
Smith’s giants about, a new Oldsmobile,
Hudson, Dodge, Graham-Paige, Vauxhall-
six, a new Dennis truck, a new Bean truck
and a new Diamond T truck. Also, there
are trim oil company exhibits, a sparking
plug at work in a bath of oil, a Chrysler
stripped at work, and vast exhibits like those
of the Chamber of Auto-Motive Manufac-
turers and General Motors. The music from
the loud-speakers, mechanical and otherwise,
could be better, and the dearth of hearses
might be attended to. Otherwise, there is
nothing at all wrong about the show, except,
GWEN MATTHEWS, helping George Wallace to fill Melbourne
Tivoli.
perhaps, that something remarkably like it
can be seen on any extensive parking area
any day of the week.
&
For every change of bill at Sydney Prince
Edward the bosses contrive to do something
fantastic. If they don’t introduce a new
organ-grinder they scent the theatre or give
bouquets to the ladies. On Friday they
induced the audience to arise and sing “For
They Are Jolly Good Fellows” and give
three cheers for the benefit of Byrd and his
companions round about the South Pole. At
the close of the, show it was announced that
Byrd and co. had enjoyed the treat and had
sent along their thanks. Soon there will
be nowhere for such poor beggars to retreat
to. The main offering on the bill is the new
Maurice Chevalier single, “The Love
Parade.”
The Regent also has a tip-top bill of the
light-hearted order, with American wise-
cracker Will Rogers leading in “They Had
to See Paris.” Other new pictures on offer
include “The Saturday Night Kid” (State),
“The Trespasser” (St. James), “Welcome
Danger” (Haymarket).
* * *
The Fuller presentment of “Rio Rita” at
Newtown Majestic has been drawing first-
class houses, and the company, headed by
Gladys Moncrieff, more opulent as to charms
than ever, gives a capital account of itself.
V * *
At Sydney Fullers —now renamed “The
New” —Ernie Lotinga continues to provide
excellent froth and frivol. This week’s show
is entitled “August, 1914,” and bears a sus-
picious resemblance to- a former production
called “Khaki.” However, there is plenty
of laughter in it.
* # ¥
Thanks to the fulminations of the rev.
clergy, “The Cock-eyed World,” at Mel-
bourne Plaza, continues to give less concern
to its promoters than any other film in
town. At the Regent, Lon. Chaney com-
menced to be heard in “Thunder” on Satur-
day, reluctant children under 16 being
dragged from the theatre by their reluctant
parents for the succeeding picture, “To-night
at Twelve,” in which Madge Bellamy per-
forms some sensational feats of amorous
pantomime. The attention of patrons of
the State is evenly divided between the
gymnastics of Hamilton Webber, Mus. Bac.,.
and Wizard of the Wand, and “Welcome
• Danger,” starring the engaging Harold
Lloyd.


Judging Pontiac by
big car standards,
its low cost is an
agreeable surprise
THE people who buy Pontiacs are not con-
cerned primarily with low first cost al-
though Pontiac is not an expensive car. For
three years this fine product of General Motors
has been winning to itself the loyalty and admira-
tion of a select group of Australian motorists
people who appreciate its sturdy, staunch
qualities.
Their experience is that Pontiac is thoroughly
reliable —that its freedom from trouble, and its
lack of need for repairs, are only two of the
items which make Pontiac outstanding in their
estimation. They could buy more expensive
cars —they could buy other cars near Pontiac s
price—hut they know Pontiac. They know that
its appeal is not a matter of the moment, but
that its fine appearance, its array of exclusive
mechanical features, its riding and driving com-
fort and its lasting reliability, make it a car which
will give them satisfaction for years to come.
They judge Pontiac by big-car standards; then
its low cost comes as an agreeable surprise.
There is a Pontiac dealer near you, wherever
you live. He will gladly show you how easily
you may take over the ownership of this car
how you may enjoy the satisfaction which pos-
session brings. The G.M.A.C. convenient pay-
ment plan applies to Pontiac —and it is warranted
for one year by General Motors
Prices from £298
(Subject to Change Without Notice )
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane
Sydney • Melbourne
Adelaide • Perth
■it
Big Car Features Combined
in No Other Car at its Price
1 A 200-cubic-inch L-head engine.
2 The Harmonic Balancer.
3 The G-M-R cylinder head.
4 The cross-flow radiator.
5 Automatic temperature control.
6 Fully counter-weighted crankshaft.
7 Airplane type interchangeable bronze-
hack bearings.
8 A l?in. carburettor, including an internal
economizer and an accelerating pump.
9 A gasoline pump, in place of the conven-
tional vacuum tank.
10 Special patented expansion-type piston
pins.
11 Full-pressure lubrication.
12 Crankcase ventilating system.
13 Internal-expanding four-wheel service
brakes of the most efficient type.
14 Special moulded, non-squeak brake bands.
Positively no squeaking when stopping.
15 Smart, specially designed bodies.
16 Flaring fenders—7o inches between
outer edges.
17 Unusually high radiator of distinctive
design.
18 Fisher VV windshield on closed models.
19 Coincidental ignition and transmission
lock.
20 Individually mounted instruments in-
cluding gasoline gauge.
PONTIAC
A BIG SIX AT LOW COST
its a GENERAL MOTORS Car look inside and note the difference l


DIARY
FOR 1930
NOW
READY.
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 9f x 6^
Price 107-
post, 1/- extra.
A
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
m
'PTk
PIONEER
BUILT TO
ENDURE
Pioneer Belting has a tremendous
reserve of wear resistance not found
in belts less carefully, less conscien-
tously, built. Properly specified
Pioneer Belting assures you that
your machines will deliver full rated
horse-power and that you will have
continuous transmission at mini-
mum cost per year of service.
PIONEER Leather Belting
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (our only city address).
The Fortunes of
To-day and To-morrow
Await You in the A.H.I.
The, splendid courses compiled by
the Alexander Hamilton Institute
(U.K. and U.S.A.) deal in a
broad and far-reaching manner
with the trend of modern business
to-day. Controlled and adapted
as they are for Australia by so
old and well-known a tutorial
organisation as H. & R., they
bring to the Australian executive
a wider vision and breadth of
knowledge that has already bene-
fited more than 350,000 business
principals.
Write to-day for the 78-p.p. book,
“Forging Ahead in Business
which gives full and complete
details.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses controlled for Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
SYDNEY : 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place;
P4] 410-12 Collins Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association.
Ex- Writ- Addedto
Sept., Income. Claims. peases, ten Off. Funds.
£, £ £,£,£,
1900.. 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 140,678
1905.. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173 165,655 692,440
1919.. 2,116,562 1,063,275 237,716. 815,571
1920.. 2,352,957 832,177 275,846 1,244,934
1921.. 2,519,203 912,321 262,925 1,343,957
1922.. 2,722,513 969,145 267,064 1,486,304
> Equitable of U.S.A. business taken over.
1923.. 3,940,177 1,343,406 286,188 206 2,310,377
1924.. 3,260,737 1,460,483 303,336 1,496,918
New York Life business taken over.
1925.. 4,278,979 1,704,680 332,209 6899 2,235,191
Added to Investment Reserve, £8779
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve. £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
The National, a purely mutual institution,
was founded by Colonel Templeton in 1869,
so with the close of last accounts it cele-
brates its diamond jubilee. In point of
size it is Australia’s second-biggest life
office; it exhibits satisfactory results
wherever crucial tests can be applied. It
always was well managed. At the end of
its first five years, after paying claims and
exes, of every sort and setting aside £3OOO
for contingencies, it divided £3098 amongst
policy-holders as bonuses. It claims the dis-
tinction of being the first office in the world
to apply non-forfeiture principles to life
policies with a surrender value. It took
10 years for income to pass the million-
pound mark, but gatherings doubled in the
next 10 years, and more than doubled dur-
ing the last decade. This expansion has
been accomplished without the aid of any
Industrial business whatever; but the
figures got a nice lift when the Australian
businesses of the Equitable and later the
New York Life were taken over a few years
back. The management’s energy has carried
the business far afield. Nearly one-half of
the annual income is now gathered outside
Australia —from Maorilaud, S. Africa, Great
Britain, Ireland, India and the Straits
Settlements. Whether this is always an
advantage to the Australian policy-holder is
another matter.
In some respects the office is still a bit
old-fashioned. The actuary still makes a
triennial investigation of the liabilities
under policies. The last overhaul of this kind
was at September 30, 1928, but the figures
were not sent out until half-way through the
last term. They show splendid progress
compared with the two previous valua-
tions :
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922.. 16,557,695 14,882,160 1,705,499 1,455,499
1925.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2,118,974
1928. . 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,518
The bonuses distributed .over the last
triennium were equal to 27 p.c. of the
aggregate net premiums as against 25.7 p.c.
in the preceding three years, notwithstanding
that £1,234,318 was earmarked to provide for
the change from a 31 p.c. to a 3 p.c. basis
of valuation at September 30, 1928. By
thus guarding against shrinkage in the rate
of interest to be realised, the management
is providing for the maintenance of fat
bonuses. Under the reversionary bonus
system each successive bonus, when declared,
has a higher reserve value than its predeces-
sors when they were declared; hence the
necessity for widening margins in the future.
The method of valuing by a low rate of
interest meets this need by locking up during
the. early years of a policy sums which
otherwise would be available as divisible
surplus and by releasing them with interest
at a later stage.
Another effect of the change is that it
trenches upon the loading allowed for ex-
penses, etc. At the 1925 valuation the
margin allowed was 18.5 p.c. of the office
premiums; it was reduced to 15.2 p.c. at
September 30, 1928. Actually, exes, con-
sumed only 13.6 p.c. and 12.2 p.c. of the
net premiums for the two years in question,
and 13.4 p.c. last year. By handling the
business at less than the cost assumed,
the management has made handsome con-
tributions to the surpluses available for dis-
tribution amongst policy-holders. The ratio ‘
of exes, to total income was £9 Is. per cent,
as against £8 Bs. for the .previous year;
they are exceptionally low rates and place
the National amongst Australia’s best.
The less favorable experience last year
was due mainly to (1) a drop of £269,442
in the amount of single premiums gathered
(these are payments made for policies in
one amount instead of by annual premiums
in the usual way) and (2) a sudden leap
of £73,262 in the taxation bill (£125,678).
Thus, after paying all claims and exes, and
sending £7898 to the investment fluctuation
reserve, making it £131,027, the amount
added _ to the life fund was £40,912 less
than in the previous year. Nevertheless,
nearly half the year’s total income remained
in the business, advancing the assurance
fund to £31,547,595 at September 30.
The £9,568,350 of fresh cover taken out
under 20.078 policies during the year was
£60,505 greater than was written under 650
more policies in the previous term. Apart
from endowments, the average per policy was
£479 compared with £439 for 1928; and the
average premium per cent, for all policies
was £3 16s. lOd. as against £3 14s. 2d. The
drop in single premiums and the growth in
taxation again show up in new business
costs: —•
Exes. New
New Chargeable Business
Business to New Expense
Sept., Premiums. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 .. 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1920 . . 250,796 176,694 70.5 „
1925 .. 255,402 184,547 72.2 „
1926 .. 276,814 187,326 67.6 „
1927 .. 297,301 199,806 67.2 „
1928 .. 340,930 223,424 65.5 „
1929 . . 356,253 250,677 70.4 „
The calculations are based on the assumption
that old business takes only 7 p.c. of the
renewal premiums and that single premiums
cost 3 p.c., the balance of the year’s exes,
being charged against new business. It is
very doubtful, however, whether old busi-
ness can be written so cheaply, in which
case new business costs would be less. Few
can show better than even the 70.4 p.c.
Another fruitful source of distributable
surplus is the difference between the actual
and the assumed return on the assurance
fund:—■
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900. . £4 13 2 p.c. 1926. .£5 11 6 p.c.
1910.. 4 12 3 „ 1927.. 5 10 9 „
1920. . 5 3 8,, 1928. . * 5 11 0 „
1925.. 5 11 3 „ 1929. . 5 6 0 „
The drop of ss. per cent, in the rate realised
was due to taxation. Nevertheless, after
paying rates and taxes last year’s £1,608,616
of interest, rents, etc., was 2.6 p.c. more
than was actually required. All this and
the highly favorable mortality experience-
it was 59.7 p.c. of expectancy last year as
against an average of 5S p.c. for the three
preceding years—augurs well for future
benefits, though it may be a while before
any increase in the rate of bonus is made.
Funds are invested in these proportions:—
’l4. ’2O. ’25. ’27. ’2B. ’29.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities . . 6.9 39.9 43.2 39.8 37.7 39.4
Mortgages . . . . 59.3 34.8 27.7 28.3 29.2 27.2
Foreclosures . . .. 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.8 0.8
Freeholds .. .. 9.9 6.0 4.9 5.0 4.7 4.7
Loans on policies .. 9.4 7.8 14.3 13.6 15.6 16.2
Other assets .. ..13.9 11.3 9.7 12.5 12.0 11.7
Last year £1,452,760 was added to public
securities (£12,657,146). The increase of
£111,711 in the premises item (£1,522,414)
represents the outlay on new buildings in
Brisbane, Maorilaud and S. Africa. The
holding in the Fourth Victoria Building
Society, which pays 12 p.c., has been in-
creased by £95,226 over the last five years.
Southern Union General Insurance Co.
To Reduce
June, Surplus. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£ £ £
102,210
1922*.. 3,724 Nil 3,724 98,486
Additional flotation exes. £86.. 98,572
1923 . . 8,454 Nil 8,454 90,118
1924 . . 16,244 Nil 16,244 73,874
1925 . . 2,234 Nil 2,234 71,640
Loss.
1926 . . 10,724 Nil 82,364
Surplus.
1927 . . 26,513 Nil 26,513 55,851
Assets written up, £44,448 . . 11,403
N.Z. business sold; added re-
serves, £6552 . . . . . . 4,851
1928 . . 4,158 Nil 4,158 . 693
Loss.
1929 .. 75,855 Nil 76,548
*lB months.
It has been a queer history; and the figures
exhibit a curious combination of weakness
and strength. From the policy-holder’s
point of view the position is quite satis-
factory, but the experience of shareholders
has been sad. It was an impudent pro-
spectus on which the co.’s capital was gath-
ered nine years ago; but money was plentiful
then, share-selling was easy, and, indeed,
so lucrative that the co. was quickly over-
capitalised, and at the same time over-
loaded with intangibles. When the first
balance was struck (June 30, 1922) no less
than 1,796,805 £1 shares had been sold;
these were called to 4s. and £353,885 of the
money had come in. Share-selling, etc., had
run off with no less than £102,210. Actually
the position was much worse, because many
of the shares had been sold at premiums of
from 2s. 6d. to 4s. each, and that money
was gobbled up, too.
Thus hamstrung as a dividend-earner, the
co. has limped along endeavoring to build
up an adequate premium income. What it
has actually done in this way, and its very
unfavorable underwriting experiences, are
shown in the next table: —
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1922. . £55,971 £18,753 £46,242 33.5 p.c. 82.6 p.c.
1923.. 85,209 46,532 46,356 54.6 „ 54.4 „
1924.. 122,228 71,056 51,904 58.1 „ 42.4 „
1925.. 142,360 99,114 57,828 69.6 „ 40.6 „
1926.. 150,012 116,069 62,160 77.3 „ 41.4 „
1927.. 197,390 124,870 62,620 63.2 „ 31.7 „
1928.. 187,918 138,862 58,694 73.9 „ 31.2 „
1929.. 164,867 200,812 50,408 121.8 ~ 34.2 „
The underwriting result for 84 years’ trad-
ing has been losses aggregating £151,325 net.
Only once has the underwriting balance been
on the right side; that was in 1927, when
the surplus was £9900. Considering the
keen competition, the co. has been able to
gather a fair premium income at very mod-
erate cost, notwithstanding wide policy-
writing ; but perhaps the percentage cost
would have been greater had the risks been
better. Incidentally, the co. got out of Maori-
land a couple of years ago, having sold its
business there at an apparent profit of £6552.
The losses have been shocking. Maybe much
of the business comes by way of reinsurance,
which, of course, would mean light field ex-
penses. In 1926 the co. singed its fingers
in a big fire in Colombia, S. America, as a
result of reinsurances through the London
office. The underwriting loss that year was
£28,217. After that the London business
was overhauled, and treaties considered weak
were cancelled. Last year underwriters gen-
erally had a very trying time, and the
Southern Union caught more than its fair
share of the troubles. Again London was
a sinner. The latest figures include 15
months’ trading in that centre, and, after
allowing for ail known losses and making
provision for outstanding claims the net
underwriting result from all sources was a
loss of £92,353. But interest and rents
turned in £16,498 —they have hovered around
that figure for several years—thus reducing
the deficit on the year’s trading to £75,855.
Still, policy-holders could see net tangible
assets equal to 163 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, and that is a trifle more than is
usually considered adequate, so there is noth-
ing to worry about there. Here is a view of
the position, with comparisons, as the
balance-sheet presents it: —
1924. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £378,573 £378,573 £378,573 £378,573
Liabilities . . 102,535 162,957 153,244 157,383
Freeholds, etc. 112,982 160,094 204,376 204,832
Equipment . . 7,029 6,224 4,402 3,823
Debtors .. 54,863 97,748 101,015 52,889
Mortgages . . 34,319 26,712 34,388 29,576
Investments,
cash, etc... 198,040 194,902 186,942 168,287
The co.’s heavy losses show up in the de-
cline in investments (Government securities)
and cash, etc. In 1928 the co.’s Sydney
premises, in Martin-place, were written up
£44,448, after independent re-valuation. That
and the profit on the sale of the Maori-
land business enabled the board to strengthen
the reserve for unexpired risks by £33,000
—the reserve was £81,077 at June 30 —
create a general reserve of £BOOO and strike
£lO,OOO off charges, reducing
them to £85,000, the figure at which they
stood at the close of last accounts. There
was then also £80,625 on the wrong side of
the p. and 1. account.
To wipe out the intangibles without
trenching upon present reserve figures Is. 9d.
is to be struck off each of the 1,892,864 £1
shares, thus reducing paid capital to £212,948
in 18s. 3d. shares paid to 2s. 3d. Last
year’s return from investments was equal to
7.7. p.c. on the reduced capital as pro-
posed, and that looks as if shareholders
might at last get into the picture. Dividend
prospects, _ however, will be governed by
underwriting results, and how these are
likely to pan out it is impossible to say.
In the circumstances the cut in capital is
a wise step.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.).
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Proflt. (7 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1919.. 42,659 10 p.c.=18,274
Preliminary exes., etc., written ■ 10,972 4,880
off, £13,413.
1920. .102.626 10,780 10 p.c.5r18,521
Preliminary exes, written off, 72,086 76,916
£1239.
Reserves capitalised, £63,613 .. 13,303
1921.. 71,447 10,500 12ip.c.=31,804 29,143 42,446
1922.. 67,816 10,904 15 „ „ 38,165 18,747 61,193
1923.. 73,318 10,500 15 „ „ 38,165 24,653 85,840
Hidden reserves disclosed .. 24,149109,995
Reserves capitalised, £69,608 .. 40,387
1924.. 74,548 10,500 15 p.c.=48,23C 15.854 56,241
1925.. 59,583 10,500 124,, „ 40,505 8,578 64,819
1926.. 63,117 10.500 124,, „ 40,505 12,112 76,931
1927.. 72,025 10,500 164,, „ 52,656 8,869 85,800
1928.. 60,476 10,500 134 „ „ 44,555 5,421 91,221
1929.. 65,213 10,500 13f ~ „ 44,555 10,158 101,379
There have been big changes in the methods
of retail trading since the co. transferred
its headquarters from London to Melbourne
10 years ago. The quick development of
Myers, next door, and of others, including
newcomers into Bourke-street, has put an
edge on competition, profit margins have
narrowed and turnovers have had to be
livened up. Still, it has all done Buckley
and Nunn no harm. Of the co.’s £324,041
of ord. capital £133,221 has been provided
out of reserves, visible and otherwise, during
the last nine years; thus the 13£ p.c. paid
to the ords. for the past term was worth 23.3
p.c. on the ord. capital as it stood at the
close of accounts in 1920.
The surprising feature is that, though
trading became increasingly difficult and
prices were a bit finer, the management was
able to further brisk up sales last year and
exhibit an extra £4737 of profit. It looks
like good 'buying and the weeding out of
lines slow to move, combined with a quick
response of turnover to good service, vigor-
ous advertising and increased facilities pro-
vided by improvements to the premises.
Although the year’s result was not equal to
the returns won during the post-war boom,
it was, after allowing for the pref. require-
ments, 17.2 p.c. on the. ord. capital com-
pared with 15.4, 18.9, 16.2 and 15.1 p.c.
back to 1925.
To provide for still further expansion the
board bought the adjoining premises of Hugo
Wertheim Pty., Ltd., in March last for
something like £lOO,OOO. To finance the
deal £83,900 was added to mortgages, rais-
ing them to £125,900, or 30.8 p.c. of the
book value of freeholds, which increased
£109,736 during the year. Since the pro-
perties are in at cost, unearned increment
has probably provided a nice inner reserve
in the _ old freehold. At the moment the
board is said to be negotiating with the
J- C. Williamson Co. for the purchase of
the Theatre Royal site in Bourke-street. But
whether the next few years will prove to be
an opportune time for expansion and develop-
ment remains to be seen. Immediate indi-
cations are that trade generally will be
quieter, and for the time being recent tariff
adjustments and the increase in the Lon-
don exchange rates will not make things any
easier for big retailers.
The steady expansion of the business over
the last eight years is seen in this next
comparison :
1921. ' 1926. 1928. 1929.
Ord. capital .. 254,433 324,041 324/141
Pref. capital .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities .. 172,199 245,939 232,392 332,390
Premises, etc. . . 165,109 291,404 297,999 407,735
Plant, etc. .. 34,234 80,734 87,456 83,132
Book debts . . 105,415 90,003 95,937 90,496.
Stock .. . . 279,151 338,638 339,821 313,801
Cash . . . . 56,876 34,488 21,927 58,969
Excluding goodwill (£60,741), which the
“Wild Cat” has not treated as an asset,
51.4 p.c. of the balance-sheet total was in
fixed assets at the close of last accounts, as
against only 31.7 p.c. in 1921. Notwith-
standing the property deal, more or less
liquids (£463,266, including stocks) were
still £130,876 in excess of the total outside
debt when the books were last ruled off.
Much, of course, depends upon the figure
at which stocks have been written; they
were £26,020 lower than at the previous
balance, arid do not appear to have been
overvalued in the past.
In the market the ords.- fetch 425., the
return at that figure being 6-J p.c. on a 13f
p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts to 265.
3d. per share in net tangibles. The prefs.,
which carry a fixed cumulative 7 p.c. and
have priority as to capital, are priced at
225. 6d., the return being 6.2 p.c. Last year’s
year’s profit was over 64 times their annual
requirements, and the cover amounted to
£3 16s. Bd. in net tangibles.
Gehrig’s N.S.W. Wines, Ltd.
, Dividends To Re- De-
Profits. Pref. Ord. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 13,475
1927.. 1606 10 p.c. = 829 777 12,698
June,
1928.. 849.10 „ „ 963 5 p.c. = 150 12,962
Loss.
1929.. 54 5 „ „ 1040 Nil 14,056
This co. was got off the slips at the second
attempt in 1927. Its last prospectus was a
much more modest document than the first;
amongst other things the vendors’ considera-
tion was cut down by over half. The co.
took over the then 76-year-old wine and
spirit business of Gehrig and Co. for £22,320,
and that of the N. S. Wales Wine and Spirit
Co. for £13,627, as from July 1, 1927. Pay-
ment was made £6OOO in fully-paid ords.
and the rest cash.
, The public was asked to take up 34,000 £1
10 p.c. cum. par. prefs. (convertible into
ords. when a reserve of £6OOO has been
accumulated), but only 20,960 of them had
been issued at the end of the first year, and
preliminary exes. (£5298) were heavy owing
to flotation difficulties. Goodwill figured at
£8177; thus the co. set out with no less
than £13,475 of its £26,000-odd of paid capi-
tal represented by intangibles.
Profits have never reached prospectus esti-
mates. No details of gross profit and exes,
are given in the accounts, and the directors’
report is not informative. For the first 12
months (to June 30, 1928) £2455 was netted,
which was only £264 more than enough to pay
(Continued on page 20.)


For that t-i-r-e-d feeling! WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.


&
YG
nOORD 8c SON
LONDON. ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney.
IDEAS FOR YOOR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call jor our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
WHAT WILL
t
1930 BE?
Are things going to
be bad?
How bad?
What should the In-
vestor do?
Can he save himself?
If so, how?
In these uncertain
days every investor- —
even though it be only
in a life insurance
policy—owes it to him-
self and his family to
keep himself informed.
Let the “Wild Cat
Monthly’’ help you.
JANUARY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Inventobs. —Have you an idea worth patenting-?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
# * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * 4i
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
The non-corrosive qualities of Pioneer Wood Pipe
make it an ideal conduit for the conveyance cif any
type of fluid, for the strongest acids or alkalies
will not harm it. For water supply it is to be
highly recommended, for it maintains constant purity
of the supply. Durable, light, easy and cheap
to handle, lay, freight and transport, there is much
to recommend this modern conduit to those respon-
sible for the specification of pipe lines for any
purpose. Illustrated literature is available from
The Australian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd., Bums
Bay Road (near Figtree Dridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used ah
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
m
WMj
W
<§>
i
ig
[PREPARED]
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
D
m
IS
p-nIP
the prefs. their 10 p.c., hand the ords. 5 p.c.
and write £513 off intangibles. For the 12
months to June 30 last a loss of £54 was
incurred. The first half of the term was
profitable, so an interim was paid on the
prefs., but trade depression affected earn-
ings during the second half, and no final
div. was paid.
Altogether the business is not as healthy
as it might be. Finances are weak to start
with. The prefs. are backed by only 12s. 3d.
in net tangibles, and the ords. by nothing
more than that will-o’-the-wisp, goodwill.
The outside debt (£24,882, of which £15,000
bears interest at 10 p.c.) is almost the size
of paid capital, and was £6796 in excess of
stocks, book debts and cash at June 30 last,
and only £13,422 short of total tangible
assets. Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
Dec., June, June,
Capital: 1927. 1928. 1929.
Ord £6,000 £6,000
Pref £17,086 20,372 20,928
Loans, etc. . . .. 21,000* 17,000* 15,000
Sundry creditors .. .. j. 1,770 11,258 9,882
Freeholds .. .. 6,590 6,893 6,904
Leaseholds .. .. .. 8,867 8,431 10,387
Plant 2,957 3,295 2,927
Stock 10,738 14,832 9,954
Debtors 7,748 9,158 8,045
Cash, etc. . . . . • • 1,412 723 87
*lncludcs unpaid purchase consideration.
Freeholds and leaseholds include an unspeci-
fied amount for licenses. The book value of
leaseholds, etc. (£10,387); moved up £1956
during the year; stocks (£9954) are down
£4878.
To what extent, if any, the co. depends
upon the export trade the “Wild Cat” does
not know, but a reduction in the export
bounty (now Is. 9d. a gallon) has not helped
the co. in any case. The local market has
been over-supplied in consequence, and prices
have suffered. Lack of organisation by the
wine-producing industry generally, particu-
larly at the marketing end, has placed the
trade in an unfavorable position, and it is
likely to be some time before any definite
improvement is shown. But the recent
appointment of an Export Control Board to
supervise the grading and marketing of Aus-
tralian wines abroad should help.
On the board are two of the Gehrigs
(H. J. and C. F.) and W. M. Westphal. all
wine experts. But until the co.’s finances
improve it will be unable to take best advan-
tage of any improvement in trade conditions.
The co. has a heavy load to pull.
National T., E. and A. Co. (Melb.).
To
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 4118 10 p.c. = 3000 MlB 33,136
1920.. 3921 10 „ „ 3000 921 34.057
Transferred to capital, £3750 . . 30,307
1921.. 4603 10 p.c. = 3375 1228 31,535
1922.. 4680 10 ~ .. 3375 1305 32,840
1923.. 4117 10 „ „ 3375 742 33,582
1924.. 4109 10 „ ~ 3375 734 34,316
Transferred to capital, £3750 . . 30,566
1925.. 5503 12 p.c. = 4500 1003 31,569
1926.. 5502 12 „ „ 4500 ) o-, r, 71
To superannuation, £lOOO ( ”
1927.. 5653 12 p.c. = 4500 153 gl 724
To superannuation, j
1928. . 5553 12 p.c. = 4500 ( to oi '77*7
To superannuation, £lOOO j ’
1929. . 5578 12 p.c. =: 4500 ( jg ggg
To superannuation, £lOOO j ’
The National docs not disclose the volume
of trusts in hand, but the number of estates
that came into the co.’s care last year is
declared to have been the greatest yet, and
that is encouraging for future earnings.
However, it looks as if a period of credit
restriction is ahead; already capital values
have begun to readjust themselves, and this,
of course, won’t help the co.’s commission
earnings, or the return from its own funds
either. Still, apart from their own funds,
these trustee cos. do not actually risk much.
While this one appears to have a solid
little business, and has paid a run of good
divs. sweetened by two gift issues (these
make the present 12 p.c. worth 15 p.c. to
old holders), it has never been a tremendous
money-stunner. On capital and reserves
combined, earnings have been no more than
8 p.c. clear for each of the last three years.
The figures will be helped a little when the
endowment of the provident fund on the pre-
sent scale is discontinued in a couple of
years’ time. , ...
At the moment chief interest lies in the
prospects of a new share issue. For some
years premises have not brought in a fair
return on the money invested, and difficul-
ties concerning “ancient lights” stood in the
way of a remedy. These difficulties were
overcome a couple of years ago by the pur-
chase of the adjoining property. The board
went to its bankers for the money, as this
comparison of balance-sheet figures shows: —
1910. 1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities .. £705 £1,207 £1,620 £51,490 £51,685
preciation (£678). The intention is to build
up-to-date offices designed to bring in better
returns than the present building, and, ot
course, to provide a more impressive-looking
home. But a hitch in connection with the
consolidation of the property titles and other
difficulties have delayed the work.
Paid capital is now £37,500 in 70,000 £-
shares paid to 10s. Of the uncalled 30s.
two-thirds is a reserve liability that can be
got in only in the event of liquidation. Ihe
scrip has been steady around 245. for the
past 12 months; the immediate return at
that figure is 5 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
But it is not certain that returns from the
new building, which, when complete, may
take some time to develop full earning capa-
city, will enable a 12 p.c. div. to be paid
on a much-increased capital. At the cur-
rent price a one-for-one par issue, called
to 10s., would make the average return a
shade under 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Willmore and Randell, Limited.
The abridged prospectus on which this
co. is inviting the public to apply for pre-
ference shares is an unsatisfactory document;
and the full prospectus is very little better.
The co. is in the land-sale and it
appears that on a capital of £90,594 dis-
tributed among seven owned by
the parent co. a net profit of £51,035 was
made last year, “which represents a return
of 56.33 p.c. p.a. on the paid-up share
capital.” These arc very magnificent figures;
but a few other things ought to be con-
sidered.
First, the profits in a concern of this
kind are largely a matter of estimation. A
speculator buys a block of land and sub-
divides it. He then offers the allotments for
sale on terms. It may be that a third of
them are sold within the period covered.
The other two-tliirds remain to be sold.
Obviously, the profit depends on (1) the
price at which the unsold blocks are valued
in the books and (2) the provision made
for bad debts —that is, for the non-completion
of sales made on terms.
Next, much depends on the amount of out-
side monqy in the business. To purchase
blocks for subdivision it may be necessary
for a speculator to raise money by mortgage,
debenture or otherwise. The interest charged
on these advances is usually high, and it is
a continuing charge whether the subdivision
market is brisk or dull. These loans are
invariably first or second charges, and the
interest upon them has to be satisfied ahead
of even preference shares.
If the outside capital of a co. of this
character is heavy, good times, with a brisk
subdivision market, will show a large profit,
because the borrowed money will be earning
more than it is costing; but when times are
bad and the subdivision market is dull, the
interest on the borrowed money is liable to
absorb all the profits, or more'.
Take, for purposes of illustration, a co.
with a capital of £20,000 and mortgage and
other outside capital of £lOO,OOO. If the
co. can make a gross profit of only 12 p.c.
on the entire capital, this will be equal to
£14,400. If the borrowed capital costs the
co. an average of 7 p.c., there will still be
left £7400 for the co., equal to 37 p.c. If
next year the gross profit on the entire
capital shrinks 4 p.c., the co.’s profit will
be reduced to £2600, or 13 p.c. Thus a
shrinkage of only 4 p.c. in the total gross
has made a difference of 24 p.c. in the co.’s
net profit. And if in the following year
business is bad and only 5 p.c. is earned,
then, assuming that the debt still carries
7 p.c., an actual loss of £lOOO will have been
made by the co., notwithstanding that its
own capital has been earning 5 p.c. net.
The worst trouble, though, is liable to
occur when some of the subdivision! sts’
creditors want their money; and they gener-
ally want it when it is hardest to get. That
may mean forced sales, with consequent
probable losses of capital. And it doesn’t
take a big percentage shrinkage in an estate
heavily financed to play havoc with a com-
paratively small share capital.
The full prospectus does not disclose the
liabilities of the subsidiary cos.; and this,
as will be seen from the above, may be a
very serious omission.
Investment in these real-estate subdivision
cos. is for the optimists who think that
prosperous conditions will prevail and that
subdivision sales will be brisk and payments
well maintained. For them there are few,
if any, things that offer more attractions.
In this case, of course, those who apply for
pref. shares only are limited in their profits
to 10 p.c. (for every five -profs, applied for
they may also apply for one ordinary). But
both their capital and divs. are protected to
some extent by the ordinary capital. It has
to be remembered, however, that that ordi-
nary capital has first to protect any outside
money in the business.
* "cash etc... 15,239 12,332 11,684 10,400 10,400 Davidson of Tanami.
Foreclosures' '. Iff s °ff WV 'V * T - Beckett writes
Mortgages . . 4,906 Nil Nil Nil Nil Following on a par. concerning Tanami (B
Other assets. . 2,966 3,711 5,789 5,876 6,127 (l/l/’3O) conies the regrettable news from London
Freeholds are in at cost (£108,667) less do- that mining-engineer Allan Arthur Davidson, the
discoverer of Tanami, has gone on his last quest. The
bush brotherhood will learn of the passing of this
great prospector-explorer' with sincere regret, for his
work in the centre of Australia is so accurately
mapped that gold-seekers regard his graphs with
the reverence that navigators pay to Admiralty charts.
Allan Davidson’s trail with camels through the heart
of the continent occupied three years, 1898-90,
during which he prospected and proved a block of
27,000 square miles and rode only 200. Though
a noted horse and camel man he believed that
prospecting could be best done on foot. He walked
through the soles of many pairs of boots, several
sets of hide soles, and strode into Barrow Creek on
the uppers of his last pair of greenhide sandals.
His father and his mates w r ere in much the same
plight.
Davidson discovered a score of gold-bearing de-
posits and worked several down to water-level,
which he found to be shallow and copious even in
the so-called waterless desert. He was looking for
lOoz. rock, but it was not until he found Tanami
that he struck it. Tanami rockholes were found
August 12, 1900, and on August 14 prospects equal
to looz. and 20oz. were knocked off the reef.
Tanami was, and still is, the furthest-out goldfield
in Australia, and this fact, together with the tre-
mendous dry stages to be covered in reaching it,
caused him to leave it with regret. Four years
later, using Davidson’s maps, Lynott, Budd, Maurice
and Moore tracked across from Borooloola, and Bill
Laurie, Campbell and Turner reached it from Hall’s
Creek. They all found gold, but could not stay
by reason of water shortage. It was not until 1909
that Laurie succeeded in digging himself in and
providing a meagre water supply by camel team.
He was given a Reward claim, and Warden Lionel
Gee was sent out to proclaim and regulate the
field. Laurie and party dollied 120 oz. from 211 b.
stone, and a lot of alluvial was won by dry-blowers
from Hall’s Creek. Twice all hands, including the
Warden, had to desert the field for want of water,
and once, after sudden rains, they could not get
back to it because there was too much. When the
alluvial finished, the field was left to the reefers,
Laurie and party, and eventually only Bill Laurie,
with his brothers Tom and Jack, remained.
After Bill broke his neck and Jack died, Tom
granted me an option, which led to the formation
of a Sydney co. This co. spent all its cash in
hauling a plant to the mine and had to give up
after putting through enough to prove the payable
nature of the formations. Authorised by the Syd-
ney co., I was able to interest George Bellingham
and Allan Davidson himself in Tanami operations,
and a parent co. was formed to absorb the Sydney
co. I am very recently back from Tanami, where
I took E. O. Watt to inspect and report, and, as
the result of this visit, work will be restarted vigor-
ously at the termination of the wet season.
The head of the railway at the Alice is now
within 300 miles of Tanami, and it remains for the
developments by British capital to justify the con-
tinuation of the line to a most promising field.
From 1923 three years were wasted by
South J aicknow (N.S.W.) on its new shaft
job, practically wiping out this company’s
contributing capital. The remnant was in-
sufficient to completely exploit the 1926 dis-
covery s.-w. from the old or No. 1 shaft.
Efforts in 1929 to float a new co. were not
successful. An option over the leases for
two years was then given to the Lucknow
Pups Co., which obtained money by reviving
its forfeited contributory shares. The ss.
shares, paid to 3s. 3d. each, were placed at
3d. apiece. At No. 1 shaft a strong hauling
and pumping plant was installed before
Christmas, and the 125 ft. level workings were
unwatered. In 1926, at this level s.-w. from
the shaft, 15 tons of ore yielded 550 z. gold.
The intention is to thoroughly crosscut the
untried ground w.-s.-w., as discovered for-
mations are considered sheddings from some-
thing better. About 300 ft. s.-w., Pups’ joint
drive s.-e. in 1926 was about 100 ft. from
South Lucknow’s boundary.
* * * *
The New Year saw tin over the £lBO
mark again, and the prayers of the tin-mining
congregation are that the price of the metal
may rise yet further. The market suffered
a lot of ups and downs during last year,
but the closing quotation for 1929 was £43
below that for the end of 1928, when spot
fetched £223 15s. The highest price for the
year was £229 155., the lowest £173 7s. Od.
At Dec. 31 tin stocks warehoused In
London were 15,839 tons compared with
11,727 at the end of 1928, and 10,382 at
the close of 1927. This is a pretty clear
indication that production is increasing, for
there has been no falling off in demand.
During the current year it is estimated
that at least 20 new dredges will begin
digging in Malaya alone, hence the pro-
duction problem is likely to become more
acute.
What effect the proposed control of output
will have on the situation cannot be fore-
casted, but it looks as if, for a while at
anyrate, market manipulators will keep
prices hopping up and down, as they did
during the past year.
Austral Malay now has five mines pro-
ducing, though Puchong, the baby of the
family, is still in the opening-out stage. The
December recovery for the group was valued
at £20,130; costs took all but £6580.
Puchong’s gross earnings were £2450; profit,
£225. Ulu Yam was £395 to the bad,
recoveries being worth £1730, while costs
totalled £2125. Kampong Kamunting, as
usual, made the best showing, recovering
ore worth £6300, while costs were £3600.
Assam came out £l9OO ahead of it, with
recoveries at £4050 and costs at £2150.
Tliabawleilc cleaned up for £5600, but showed
only £2.150 profit. Costs are always heavy
with this Burmese show.
* * * *
The seven Alluvial Tin shows in Malaya
earned £52,848 in December, and, with
costs totalling £25,084, there was a profit of
£27;,768 to cut up. Changkat provided
£10,500; profit, £7467. Rawang Tin Fields
was a good second with an output of £10,033,
but here costs cut down the profit to £3617.
Kundang, £ll7 down, was the only loser.
* * * *
North Ivalgurli, Ltd. (W.A.), has just
issued another year's accounts —£21,761 to
the bad, due to heavy expenditure on de-
velopment and reconditioning of mine work-
ings. As a result of this outlay, however,
prospects are said to have materially im-
proved. Receipts . from ore treatment
amounted to £923, sales of surplus plant
brought in £1267 and royalties on tributes
totalled £1373. Since the close of the finan-
cial year on June 30 last, 65,249 unissued
shares have been taken up by shareholders
at 3d. premium. The show hasn’t much
left in the higher levels, but may have some-
thing at depth.


I
DESIGN APPEARING ON C.M.A. LABELS.
COPYRIGHT
LEWELLYN BIRCHALL ATKINSON,
1919.
Jam
and
SP
ID
WIRES & CABLES
Trade
ẁ
Mark
Agents in N.S.W. and Queensland for
BRITISH INSULATED CABLES LTD
“CORAUNE”
Soldering Paste
dot
SwiMmA SoCdstuMg
Packed in ilb. Tins
Will not corrode the
most delicate work
The best flux for BRASS, TIN,
COPPER, IRON and LEAD
Support Australian
Industry
•V
n
c
COPPER ALUMINIUM
Wires
Cables
Rods
Bars
Strips
Wires
Cables
Rods
Bars
Strips
WILLIAM ADAMS <T COMPANY
_____ LIMITED
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
93 ALBERT STREET
BRISBANE
17 BOLTON STREET
NEWCASTLE


ẃ
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car. .. .1 was looking
at the poster ”
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?”
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah, the blade’s the thing!”
“ —are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.”
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?**
“Any dealer’s. 3 '’’ Wl ' or 22,6 for the
entire set, all with the same principle.”
PAINFUL POEMS
My housekeeper, from some
unknown cause.
Stupidly forgot to order,
Fresh provisions from the Stores
She's buried in the herbaceous
border,
!
5b
r% //
■■>; f,.V Urcri ■ •}&£ t ,y
/ ‘M?
< *. 1 <*). <$
llUlll—on**-,
’ «c/»-‘ --*•
? -
*-/-.75
%U A ?
-:'VV> * . ,-t. __
-
:^5
•z . «:?L /- :
"A*
Wi
R
Between the pinks (the double
sort)
And the primulas of many colours,
—And all because she ran so short
Of cigarettes .... ABDULLAS !
—Fougasse
SUPERB (Tgarettes
VIRGINIA TURKISH EGYPTIAN


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your yisit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
an d
fceakf;
a st
Tariff
lf desired
Special tarifl or inclusive terms.
Utiherfft
HOT E L
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SIDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS
a
BAROMETER.
Dark Oak Frame, with _4in. dial,
very handsome, plain
design-
“ £l/15/'-
for Station or Farm
Made in Great Britain by one of the
oldest manufacturers of high-class
scientific instruments, the articles
illustrated are essential equipment
for the progressive man on the land.
With their aid an accurate forecast of
weather conditions is available, whilst
the thermometpr faithfullv records the
temperature.
FAHRENHEIT THERMOMETER,
with brass dial on rosewood mount
The fluid is red, which ensures
accurate and quick reading. 1 7/fi
UJih. long .......... "
Cheaper foreign makes from 2/6.
ŵ
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS, LTD.,
Scientific Instruments Dept., Ist Floor,
23-25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., et~.
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
“Bad Australian”: “Yes, young feller,”
said old Wirewhiskers to the tea traveller,
“this river is subjec’ ter pretty Ugh floods
at times. Djer see them trees down there?
said he, indicating a row of pines about
90ft. or 100 ft. high growing at the bottom
of the orchard.' “P’raps yer mightn’t 'believe
me, but I’ve seen ’er cornin’ down well over
th’ tops o’ them vegibles.” The traveller
THE JOYS (ETC.) OF A HOME PORT.
“Want shore leave to-morrow —what for? Want to see your wife?"
“No, sir. Want to, dodge her!”
didn’t believe him, but he kept his opinion
to himself until he called at Smith’s place,
when he began telling about the ridiculous
lie that Wirewhiskers had tried to put
over on him. “But there ain’t nuthin’
ridicklus about it,” said Smith. “I seen it
meself!” But do you mean to say > that
this river sometimes rises more than 100 ft.
above summer level?” inquired the
doubting traveller. “I don’t mean tei saj
nutliin’ but the truth,’ Retorted. Sm •
seen them trees o’ W irewlnskeis &
under water in the ’93 flood. O A
you’ll unnerstan’ that they wuz on y about
four er five foot ’igh then.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The immunity of the fire-
walkers of Fiji, described by L>ubug 113.
25/12/’29) may be due to the thickness of
their soles, but that doesn’t explain the pheno-
menon as I have seen it in Malaya. At
Tai Pussiim celebrations in (Singapore a
Hindu temple is the site of the annual es-
tivity. The participants are not profes-
sionals, but ordinary citizens, Tanging Irom
youths to old women. A box-office is opcinx
at which tickets are sold to all and sunary.
On the occasion I viewed it there were abou
100 aspirants. When the word go was
given they rushed in a fanatic mob over a
stretch of glowing coals about oO yards in
length by a breadth of TO. All except one
got across all right, and were —or pretende
to be—little the worse for it. ihe excep-
tion was an old lady who was bowled head
over heels in the middle of the stamper e.
After the attendant Brahmins had raked her
out and dusted her down, even she seemed
quite happy about it.
* * =i= *
“Murkah”: Recently two N.S.W. South
Coast telegraph lines commenced to give
trouble. At 9 a.m. both were unworkable sig-
nals sent out on one returned to Sydney on tne
other. The fault gradually vanished, and bj
ten o’clock the circuits were O.K. JNext
morning the fault recurred, and an electric-
measuring instrument indicated that a
“cross” existed at a pole 32 miles and -A)
chains distant. The linesmen found a parti-
cularly dense rope of spider-web bridging
two wires. Dust had become _ incorporated,
and when wet with dew the link conducted
well enough to short-circuit the telegraph
current. As it dried in the sun its conduc-
tivity vanished.
* * * *
“Eureka” : Dave was busy- scuffling corn
when one of these bush-walking enthusiasts
shouted out to him from the roadside: _ How
long will it take me to get to Woopermce.
Dave merely grinned and tin 1 tourist walked
on, thinking Dave must be a shingle short.
He had only gone a hundred yards or so
when Dave shouted out to him and beckoned
to him to come back. “It’ll take yer three
hours,” he said. “Why didn’t you tell me
that before instead of letting me walk on and
then calling me back?” “Blime!” explained
Dave. “How was I to know how fast yer
could walk? I didn’t see yer comin .
* * * *
“Ferm Naturae”: Wild things aren’t half
as scared of humans as many suppose. Mem-
bers of the . Yeerongpilly (Q.) Golf Club
lately discovered a > nest of young groilnd-
larks in the middle of the fairway, just
about pitch-shot distance from one of Ahe
greens. Hundreds of players must have
tramped over and round, it without driving
the occupants away.'- ‘ A .stranger instance
occurred on the old • Bowen. Bridge Rugby
Union football ground, in'Brisbane at the
close of a senior match , years ago. As the
teams were coming off one of the players
spotted a ground-lark’s nest with the eggs
intact in a part of the ground where 30
men had been trampling and battling like
the hulls of Bashan for an hour and a half.
The caretaker took out the sod
with the nest in it and removed it
to a quiet spot off the field. I
never heard whether Mr. and Mrs.
Lark sought out their family and
reared them.
* * * *
“Atherton” : The Australian abo.
must have kept himself in a state
of grand isolation from time im-
memorial, otherwise the bow and
arrow would have been more gener-
ally introduced among them. Only
on the Fingerpoint were these wea-
pons used, brought across as barter
by the Prince of Wales islanders.
There was a yearly trade from the
Fingerpoint across Torres *Strait
to New Guinea at one time. The
Strait • islanders were always the
voyagers, coming in huge canoes
bought from the New Guinea Kiwai
canoe-builders and paid for with
human skulls. The universal abo.
weapon, the boomerang, is seldom
found in, the Strait or New Guinea,
for the majority of the islands
THE GIRL WHO PUT THE GO IN GOANNA.
are too small for it to be of much use, and
In New Guinea the jungle doesn’t permit its
Use. On Prince of Wales Island, the largest
in the Strait, boomerangs were
used, always bartered from the
abos. just across- the water. An-
other abo. invention, the womera,
is used in the Strait, ■ but all I
have examined were undeniably
made by mainlanders. But the
latter never took to the favorite
Torres Strait weapons, the bow
and arrow and the gubbagubba.
Possibly Binghi feared that the
instruments had been bewitched.
* *
“Up Top” : Binghi, except when
he loses his temper, when he is
liable to throw his offspring to the
ground, is an indulgent father.
Throughout the toddling stage he
makes toys for the baby: balls of
clay in which are thrust brilliant
parrots’ feathers, wooden discs
which roll funnily down hills, top
spears which can be thrown accu-
rately enough to kill a bird or bush-
rat. As the youngster grows; up
education is cunningly intermixed
with play. A favorite game is
“catch the lizard.” The child is
shown the track of a lizard across
the sand and in a state of sup-
pressed excitement watches every
move of its father as with puck-
ered brow he traces the lizard from
grass tuft to grass tuft until it is
finally run to burrow under a sheet
of bark. After a few years of
such training the child can track
anything that walks, hops or
crawls upon the ground. Then he
goes out with the women, learns
to distinguish . between edible and
non-edible roots, how to “smell
out” a sugar-bag and note the
flights and nesting-places of birds.
Long before lie is a man he knows how to
win a liying from the , bush.
“F.A.H.”: Railway enginedrivers now
have a new trouble to contend with. I was
at Narre • Warren, Gippsland, the other day
and saw the line covered with dry silver
grass which had blown ijp from the Ilallam
Valley flats, and was in some places piled
as high as the platform. The driver of an
incoming train tried to stop as usual, but
before the train came, to a standstill it
had slipped right through the station, with
brakes hard on. It was a badly scared
driver who backed cautiously in.
*
“Tamornie”: “Truthful Ned” notwith-
standing, the Undercliff mosquitoes are not
the worst in the world. Try the Ramu
delta and the Sepik River in New Guinea.
During daylight the natives carry large
switches made from cassowary feathers and
have to employ them briskly to enjoy a
small measure of comfort. At night whole
families sleep in huge closely woven grass
bags. Sometimes the dogs and smaller pigs
are admitted too. When the sun sets, the
whining of the clornls of mosquitoes resembles
the sound of wind amongst telegraph wires,
and if one carelessly allows any portion of
the body to touch the netting over the bed,
that spot immediately becomes black with
the ravenous insects.
* * * *
“Frigid”: In Cairns (Q.) there used to
be a Chinese herbalist who could extract
the toughest molar with his fingers. He
told me that, when learning, he was pro-
vided with a board into which a number
of pegs were driven. He then practised
drawing pegs with his fingers. To gain
greater strength he drove nails into a board
and pulled them out again, increasing the
depth of the nail each time. His usual pro-
cedure with a patient was to rub a dark-
brownish powder on the doomed tooth. This
caused a sneeze, during which John whipped
out the l ivory. The tinkling of the tooth
in the bottom of a tumbler notified the
patient that the operation was over.
❖ #
“Rotom”: Bush toilers sometimes take a
very persistent hold on their yakker. Tom
Cupitt, of .Mol.ong (N.S.W.), has spanned
the,. years to 90. Most of his days he was a
fencer and woodcutter. He still walks a
couple of miles, every day to go on with his
work, cord-cutting for tlie lime-kiln. And
after grafting hard with the axe all day he
walks back to do a bit in the garden by
twilight
(Continued on ppge 25.)
AN UNFAIR DEDUCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas thirty years ago he took my plug to
fill his pipe
Upon the Greenough (W.A.) when wheat
was waving ripe—
A worn and grizzled veteran. I tpok him
for a type.
“Old hands” were what they called them then
aliout that neighborhood,
Chaps who had left their country less, ’twas
vaguely understood,
For individual betterment than for old Eng-
land’s good.
He bit a generous quantum suff. from off my
Barrett’s twist
And let it lie a moment in a hairy, dirty
fist,
Surveying it appraisingly, that ancient
colonist.
He set to work an iron thumb and sev’ral
fingers tough
Determinedly to tear to tiny shreds the
precious stuff.
I made a mental summary, accounting this
enough.
He noticed I was watching him and turned
an eye my way,
And warned me that I shouldn t heed the
things them smarties say.”
I tried to look quite innocent and hazarded
an “Eh?”
“They say,” he growled, “that it’s a test
which hardly ever fails,
That when a fellow tears a plug o’ baccy
with his nails
It’s proof he’s spent a lot of time behind the
bars in gaols.
“Don’t take no stock in y;arns like those, not
on your bloomin’ life!”
He lifted up his quavering 'voice as shrill as
any fife.
“Mister,” he said, “it simply shows he liasn t
got a knife!”
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


X
m
m
m
mileage
<s
n
that
m
! ■*
pleases
♦
l
w*
gn
a
H
///
\\
'//////
m
L
/
//
m
is|s\
*gs?<S
Who travels on
&
I
•m>
%
travels well!
SPECIFY DUNLOP
-.THEY COST NO MORE!
8000 GARAGES
STOCK THEM-J


'9%
m
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year, after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. I»XD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£1 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
<£bmmonwcaltb Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Cyo e\y <*S MJtJbA
hcCCct<X*y • aJ- IfU jjjajc»r^,<x£y
&*xd* O- XU*£tJb‘ £v\jji
-*vt lo ’ TnflWiA^).
(}<y\, Jkjis <^<jdsviJtA^)uies-is t 'ftvLs
alLs - ■Hm<s Cook ■kru ct- mjlAls id
29/x,
s\JL4ts hxxAtxJ ~
IfdaJL lo rni. cjchxfj-aJo a^-db
kv ftfivsdis l <KxJ <ueffi
c»J- 4kx, i)kajkj.
- VtjlS clctujk+M-
, Qaj. 'tfTaJUb ,
'l-'V- " (JycUwj.
WIRELESS.
IFor The Bulletin.]
“The world is goin’ far too fast,” I heard
Maloney say.
The pace it’s travellin’ cannot last. You
r mark me, Dan, one day
You’ll see some cove’ll up an’ blast the ’ole
dam’ show away.
“Per’aps I am a bit be’ind—it’s where I
wanter be;
The spring cart, Dan, I alius finds, is good
enough for me.
An’ this ’ere wireless—strike me fat!—it’s
got me up a tree!
“Jim ’Ogan, down at Seven Creeks, ’as one
o’ them there things,
An’ ’arf the time it grunts an’ squeaks an’
other times it sings ;
It ain’t gone right for weeks an’ weeks, an’
yet ’e says, ‘lt brings
“ ‘The news o’ murders an’ o’ fights an’
accidents an’ sales,
O wot they do in town o’ nights, of oo’s
broke out o’ gaols,
O’ rain upon the inland heights an’ snow
an’ frost an’ gales.’
“But wot’s the use o’ things like that? I
get the Farmin’ Man.
It tells me wot the world is at as good as
wireless can,
An’ it don’t yell. Aw, strike me fat! I’m
quite contented, Dan.”
He whipped the roan mare on the flank.
“This flamin’ drought is bad.
I can’t raise fifty at the bank. My oath,
the world’s gone mad!
An’ it’s that wireless we can thank for
causin’ it, me lad!”
victoria. P. T. F.
* * * *
“Purple Brigadier”: Recent little unpleas-
antnesses in Samoa wherein various fat
natives who say they are chief chiefs, head
chiefs or grand supreme chiefs have gdt
damaged, move me to emit the old aphorism
that the only way to govern is to govern.
If you don’t know what that means, ask
any governess. Once you start arguing
with Willie as to why he has) to eat his
crusts when he knows that you dodge yours
you might as well insert a “Position Wanted”
call in the Service Department page. When
I was on the Island of Kyzooti in 1864,
I had to contend with a bad attack of
malarial fever, rheumatism in my right
arm, and 20,000 more or less cheeky and
rebellious niggers. So I set ’em all to plant-
ing’ yams, and the crew —such of them as I
could see from my verandah —were working
well when a hefty 16-stone buck decked all
over with bones and other filth knocked off
SATURDAY MORNING AT GOOPERVILLE.
without permission and bowled up to me.
I was so damn weak I could hardly keep my
eyeglass steady. “Master,” he says in his
vernacular, “we have dug a hundred hundred
holes in the hot sun, but we have no yams
to plant in them.” That was perfectly' true
—I hadn’t thought of it. So I reached for
my Smith and Webley and put a 44 through
his hat. I had no more trouble. The only
way to govern is to govern.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Willis Island, in the Pacific,
described by “Murkah” (B. 25/12/’29), must
be something like Cocos, in the Indian
Oceaji, the site of the Emden shindy. Its
peak'is less than a man’s height above high-
water mark. Cyclones are infrequent but
possible visitors, and stout steel ropes passed
over the roofs secure the quarters and offices
of the cable company. When a circular
storm hit the group about 20 years ago
the seas swept clean over the island into
the lagoon, and there was an anxious hour
for the staff of 30. There were about 50,000
cocoanut-trees on the island before the
tempest and 90 after it. Nevertheless, the
visitation was a blessing. The ducking the
island received finished an epidemic of rats
so numerous that the terriers imported to
fight them had become too blase to catch
them.
* * * *
“Shearsmyth”: “Tallama’s” assertion (B.
18/12/’29) that in 1892 Jack Howe won
the medal presented by the Wolseley
Machine Co. for the highest tally with
machines by shearing 237 ewes at Bar-
caldine seems astray in the matter of date.
The record that year was Jim Power’s
323, at Barenya, near Hughenden, which
still stands.
* * * *
“Jimmy Geebung” : The little N. Queens-
land township of Cuttabul, just beyond Mac-
kay, lias given itself a lot of room in which
to spread. Coming south, you first pass
the post office. Two miles further on are
the butcher-shop and the store, about a
quarter of a mile apart; then, another mile
and a half onward, comes the pub. I think
it was planned by the people who also laid
out Canberra.
* # * *
“Pawang”: A resident of Camberwell
moved two years ago to Warrnambool and
took his faithful feline with him. Recently
he returned to Melbourne, and after moving
from one house to another settled down in
Malvern. The other night he went to put
the milk bottles out and was rapturously
hailed by Tabby. It was the same animal
and not an accidental replica.
“Monaco”: It is doubtless natural that
much the same horror and detestation should
be directed at a shark which has attacked
a human being, or is suspected of having
done so, as at, say, a man-eating tiger, but
it is none the less illogical. The two are
not in the same class. Frank Bullen, one
of the keenest students of marine life, points
out that practically all fish are omnivorous
and that the shark doesn’t seek for human
prey; he simply takes it because it is easier
to get than any other when it happens to
be in the water where he is foraging for
food. And food he must have, for there
is nothing on sea or land that lives in
such a state of ravening hunger as a shark,
whose liver is out of all proportion to his
size and whose voracity overcomes his
natural timidity. Another reason for not
regarding the shark us merely a cold-blooded
murderer and loathsome horror was men-
tioned by a Sydney expert after the grue-
EXPLAINED.
“Ow is it, ’Erb, that blokes take to glasses when they gets a bit old?”
“Too flash to drink outer bottles, most of ’em!”
some tragedy at Balmain; the male shark
is never so dangerous as in the mating season,
when he is hunting for his mate as well as
himself. The female shark is not to be
feared.
* * * *
“Soc”: I nominate the old girl on the
next dairy for the queerest New Year’s Day
celebration. One of the things that have
stopped her from visiting
the city is the idea, gath-
ered from newspaper pic-
tures of women smoking
cigarettes, that the place
is overrun with hussies.
Any woman who smokes
cigarettes is, as far as she
is concerned, outcast. But
every New Year’s Day,
after a solid 14 hours’
graft, she sits in her
dining-room and smokes
a six-inch cigar, a pre-
sent from dad. It’s her
one puff of the year.
❖ *
“D.L.”: The news that
two more poisonous
snakes have been added
to the list of Queensland’s
herpetology is full of in-
terest to me. For years
I have been studying our
curious colubrines in
many places from Thurs-
day Island to Tweed
Heads. The discoverers
of the two new species
state that, in common
with other dully-colored
serpents, such as the
copper-head and the tiger,
they are much more
venomous than more
brightly-colored varieties,
such as the Queensland
coral snakes. This has
been my experience, too.
Some years ago, after
delivering a mob of cattle
at St. George in s.-w.
Q’land, I had to retire to
hospital because of the
persistent attentions of four varieties entirely
new to me, all extremely brilliant and varie-
gated in color. They must have been
plentiful in the vicinity, for they frequently
invaded the hospital, though both nurses and
doctors denied their presence, yet I emerged
practically unscathed. Afterwards I wrote a
brilliant little brochure on the subject, and
addressed it to the trustees of the Q’land
Museum. I never got an answer, but I am
thinking of publishing it in book form.
One of my Sydney artist friends, an ardent
herpetologist, has promised to illustrate it.
* * *. *
“Up North”: The Fingerpoint (extreme
Cape York) tribes smoke-dry their dead and
carry them about. At agreed-on camps rela-
tives arrive and hold a sort of wake or tangi
around the departed. The corpse becomes
hard as wood but very light, a development
appreciated by the old gins, who have to
carry the relic. When the carcase rattles
to pieces it is bound up in ti-tree bark,
and it is not finally disposed of until every
totemic relation has mourned over it. As
relatives may be far afield it is sometimes
years before the departed goes underground
or up in the branches of a tree. The gins
will carry a baby’s knee-cap for a lifetime.
It brings the owner luck, they say.
* * * *
“Avon”: New Zealand flax (Phormium
teriax) has been so much in the Australian
public eye (and in the eye of the Maori-'
lander also) as a producer of dividends that
its peculiar place in the minds and memories
of the first three generations of Maoriland
colonists is apt to be forgotten. It is a
noble and pleasant spiky plant of heroic
mould, towering 10 or 12 feet in simple fronds
that emulate nothing more exotic save in
size than the narcissus. Its flower is a
primitive thing of woody husks that scarce
burgeon before they wither and discharge
their cargo of seeds. The stalks are elliptic
in section, up to two inches across at the
greatest thickness —a wood unbelievably
light, porous and amenable to pocket-knives.
Several millions of armadas of Spain and
fleets of Sir Francis Drake have been
fashioned out of it and sailed in muddy
creeks and the beginnings of suburban
gutters. Tenax grows in the bottoms of the
valleys. The valleys separate the hills. Hills
are so many in Maoriland that no child can
be born out of sight of one. And as soon
as his stubby legs are grown he begs a
day’s provender from his mother and with
other infants similarly born he sets out to
climb the hills and see what is on the
other side. AH the time he is climbing-
on a still, hot, summer’s morning—he smells
the flax in the valleys. And when he gets
to the top of the hill, wherever it is, he
sees a new heaven and a new earth and
takes in his breath in a way that will only be
allowed to him once or twice more. And he
takes back with him a bigger universe and
the scent of flax. The universe keeps on
getting bigger, but flax stays flax till the
end of one’s days.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Digger (29), N.S.W., married, wants position, any
kind, anywhere; eight years’ exp. telephone line
w0rk.—4177.
Returned soldier (36), married, N.S.W., requires
position on station or hotel, self and wife. Husband
able perform light work; wife, housemaid or
laundress.—4l3s.
1 oung man, six years’ exp. hand- and machine-
milking, wants job N.S.W. dairy farm. Refs. —4096.
Young man (25), used to handling labor in Islands,
working knowledge Hindustani, wants job in India;
would pay own passage.—4o74.
Mechanic (26), South Aus., knowledge electricity,
motor fitting, wireless, telegraphy, clerical work,
storekeeping, handling horses, wants work anywhere.
Used to native labor.—4ll3.
Youth (17) wants job as jackeroo on sheep
station, anywhere in Aus.—4ll4.
Married man (33), S.A., sober, reliable, wants job
station; conversant all station work.—4l7l.
Youth (17) Sydney, wants position cadet mech-
anical draughtsman; one year’s experience; previous
employer closed down. —4143..
Ret. soldier (35), Sydney, married, cert, engine-
driver (electric, steam, oil and gas, Diesel), refriger-
ating exp., able overhaul motor trucks, sober, wants
work urgently.—4ls3.
Dressmaker visiting N.S.W. country districts will
do all kinds sewing.—4124.
Male teacher, N.S.W., seeks engagement school,
subsidised preferred, excellent credentials. Go any-
where.—42o3.
Lady, Sydney, wants position as housekeeper,
country preferred. Refs. —4201.
Ploughman (36), N.S.W., married, 12 years’ exp.,
seeks permanent rural work, any kind. —4154.
Cook (43), 22 years’ exp. ashore and afloat; good
baker, wants job men’s hut on station ; Broken Hill
district or Central Australia preferred. Disengaged
in February.—4lsl.
Ret. soldier (42) wants job, Sydney, clerical or
pharmacy work. Could purchase interest in sound
business.—-4156.
Exp. male teacher (54), Sydney, would supervise
lessons or prepare for any exam, in return for room
and breakfast. Abstainer. —4164.
Instrumental solos or studies in bass clef with
piano accompaniment.—4l37.
Educated, travelled man (40), N.S.W., requires
home with refined people; interested research or
literary work, art, dogs, poultry ; handy tools, car,
light duties, mountains preferred.—4l62.
To buy “The Flogging Parson,” by Forbes. —4145.
To buy book “The Captain-General.”—4lBo.
To buy “Wood’s Almanac” (1908), containing
Herschell’s weather chart and forecast. —4215.
Exchange banjo-mandolin, first-class order, for
Ericcsson telephone.—4l6s.
Young man (N.S.W.) would like to correspond
with young readers of The Bulletin. —4152.
Names of brothers of “The Racing Baronet,” par-
ticularly brother who was father of Frederic Edwin
Hawley.—4o3o.
Words of “Where River Shannon Flows.” —4189.
Whereabouts of Alf Macdonald, late of Swan Hill
(Vic.).—4146.
Information Sought.
I have a policy with the Australasian
Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd. (1) Is it a
good office? (2) Any bonuses been declared?
(3) Has it any connection with the R.C.
Church ? —4104.
(1) It is one of the soundest of the younger
life offices, and is making good progress.
(2) Only on death claims. (3) No, not
directly.
Under what conditions are eucalyptus-oil
licenses granted in Victoria? Charges? —
4228.
In the case of Crown lands, the Lands
Dept, issues a license in respect of an area
on which leaves may be obtained, charging
£1 per annum. Royalty on the oil extracted
is paid to the Forests Commission, the
amount varying from to Id. per lh.
In State forests the site is granted by the
Commission at £1 per annum, to which are
added 10s. per annum for a factory site,
2s. 6d. for a license to strip leaves and
from |d. to Id. per lb. of oil distilled.
At ichat Adelaide hospitals are probation-
ary nurses taken? Educational qualifications,
age for admission and length of training ?
—4226.
Nurses may do their training at any of
the large private hospitals in Adelaide, most
of which are four-year training schools;
also at the Adelaide General Hospital, which
is a three-year training school. The educa-
tional qualification necessary in any train-
ing school is the seventh-grade Qualifying
Certificate. Age for admission, 19 years. A
£5 bond is payable on appointment to the
Adelaide Hospital.
Work which used to occupy me for a full
week now requires two days only. I should
like to try fishing during the four days. What
are the prospects within 60 miles of Sydney?
I am prepared to buy a launch and gear
up to £250. What average return, may be
expected when I have had experience? —
4032.
The prospects for an inexperienced person
are not good. Since the advent of trawlers
men with years of experience are finding it
hard to make a living close to Sydney. A
partnership with someone who has had the
necessary experience and is familiar with
all the local grounds would be best for you
if you are determined to try your luck. It
is not possible to give even an approximate
average return, as results depend upon
catches made, class of fish caught, market
conditions, etc.
A pamphlet accompanying the Philips
A 415 valve mentions that the slope is
2.0 mA/V. What does this mean? —4204.
The slope or mutual conductivity of a
valve is the relationship which exists between
the change in grid volts and the change in
plate current. For example, three volts
negative bias is applied to the grid of a valve
which passes a plate current of 4 m/amps.;
if this bias be reduced to two volts and the
jilate current rises to 6 m/amps., then the
slope is said to be 2.0 mA/V. because one
volt change on the grid has produced two
m/amps, change in the plate circuit.
(1) What method of coupling is recom-
mended for an audio-amplifier suitable for
use ivith a gramophone pickup? (2) How
many stages would be required for loud-
speaker operation? (3) Has an all-electric
amplifier any advantages over a battery-
operated model, other than low running
costs ? —4205.
(1) Transformer coupling is the most
satisfactory method provided high-grade L.F.
transformers giving good frequency response
down to about 75 cycles are employed.
Transformer coupling gives greater amplifi-
cation per stage and operates on a relatively
low value of anode voltage. (2) Two trans-
former-coupled stages. (3) The plate voltage
does not fall off after a few months’ use,
and a much higher plate voltage may be sup-
plied than would be practicable with dry bat-
teries. It is more compact and there are no
“A” batteries that need charging.
Is there a State award covering poultry-
farm workers in the County of Cumberland
(N.S.W.) ? —4207.
No; wages and working conditions are
matters for arrangement with employers.
What constitutes a classic in music? —
3954.
A work that has stood the test of time,
and has been generally regarded as a stan-
dard of excellence. For example, a Mozart
string quartet, a Beethoven symphony, a
Schubert song and a Brahms intermezzo.
Where could a Sydney youth receive in-
struction in organ-playing ? And is there any
institution which conducts examinations in
the subject and issues diplomas or certificates
of merit? —4206.
At the State Conservatorium of Music, and
exams, are conducted by the Australian Music
Examinations Board. Send for a Conser-
vatorium prospectus and the Board’s manual.
If I pick up a friend while driving a car,
and there is an accident, can the friend sue
me for damages? Or am I protected by a
third-party clause? —4178.
If by inviting him without qualification
you accept the risk, he can sue. Read the
third-party clause carefully. In certain
policies (some of them issued to members of
the Royal Automobile Club of Australia) it
is provided that the underwriters will pay
all sums which the assured shall become
legally liable to pay to any person, excluding
any person being conveyed in the car, as
compensation for accidental loss of life,
bodily injury or damage to property.
I have several boxes of photographic plates
that have not been exposed to light; also
several packets of old gaslight papers. Any
way of making them good again? —4o66.
Stale photographic material is bad pro-
perty. As a rule, photographic dry plates
will remain in usable condition for several
years after coating, but much depends on
the conditions of storage in the meantime.
Stale plates will give a foggy image, which
can only be partly corrected by the addition
of pot. bromide to the developer. Stale gas-
light paper may be improved by the addition
of 2 to 6 drops of a 10 p.c. solution of
potassium bromide to each fluid ounce of
developer in use, but really stale photo-
graphic sensitive goods are not worth the
trouble entailed in handling.
What is the Plimsoll mark? —4o97.
A mark painted on the outside of a British
merchant vessel’s hull to show how deeply
she may be loaded; it is a circular disc 12
inches in diameter, with a horizontal bar
18 inches long through the centre. Samuel
Plimsoll was a British M.P. who ushered in
this loadline reform; a statue was recently
erected to him.
Any line of steamers trading from Sydney
to New York via Panama Canal that ivill
take passengers? Fare, second- or third-
class ? —4050.
No, but there are regular sailings via
New Zealand and the Panama Canal, tran-
shipping at these places; also direct to San
Francisco, transhipping thence to a steamer
for New York via the Canal. By this route
second-class through fare, Sydney to New
York, is £77 10s. and third-class £5B 10s.:
by the other, £7l and £4B 10s.
A brief biography of “Banjo” Paterson? —
4112.
Andrew Barton Paterson was born near
Molong (N.S.W.) Feb. 17, 1864; educated
at Sydney Grammar School and trained for
the law. He contributed verse to The
Bulletin and in 1895 his first volume, h “The
Man from Snowy River,” made a hit. He
was war correspondent for the “£j. M.
Herald” in South Africa, editor of Sydney
“Evening News” and “Town and Country
Journal”; and an officer in the Remounts
Corps in the Great War. Now on the
editorial staff of Sydney “Sportsman.”
(1) Has the Act to prevent dumping
ever been enforced? If so, against what
classes of goods? (2) Is its presence on the
Statute Book a sufficient deterrent? —3879.
(1) Yes, in respect of many and varied
lines. Dumping duties are imposed on such
goods as are specified by the Minister by
notice published in the “Commonwealth
Gazette,” after inquiry and report by the
Tariff Board. The principal grounds on
which action has been taken relate to dump-
ing arising from depreciated currency. De-
preciated currency duties are not now being
imposed, all gazettals under the Act based
on depreciated currency having been cam
celled. At the present time there are 45
gazettals in operation covering a total of
51 lines from various countries. These goods
are gazetted as follows: Section 4—sold for
export to Australia at less than fair market
value in the country of origin or export;
section s—sold5 —sold for export to
less than a reasonable price; section 6
goods which may be sold at less than a
reasonable price; section 7—goods on which
the sea freight charges are less than the
ordinary rate of freight. (2) Dumping
duties are additional to the duty payable
under the Customs Tariff. It is considered
that the existence of a “Gazette” notice speci-
fying goods subject to dumping duties acts
as a deterrent to imports detrimental to
Australian industries.
I rent a room by the week. If my land-
lord were sued for debt would my belongings
be liable to seizure? —-4109.
No; the writ of execution, if the matter
went that far, would be directed against the
goods and chattels of the judgment debtor.
What form of oath would an atheist or a
deist use in a law court if he objected to
being sworn on the Bible? —4102.
When called as a witness he might make
the following declaration: “I solemnly de-
clare that the evidence now about to be
given by me shall be the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth.” In any
other case; “I do solemnly, sincerely
and truly affirm and declare,” etc.
I own a cottage in Sydney worth £6OO, and
have about £6OO invested. I have made a
will leaving this property to nearest relatives.
What would be the death duties? —4106.
Assuming that the value is £l2OO net:
State, 2 per cent.; Federal, 1 per cent., with
a Federal rebate. of one-third if the estate
passes to a widow, children or grandchildren.
What ails my kelpie dog, 2 years old? He
was in good form up to a week or two ago;
then I found him too weak to stand up, yet
unable to lie down more than a minute or
so; he would stagger round with head and
tail down, lower jaiv quivering, .a discharge
from the mouth and muscles very jerky. He
has improved since, but his hindquarters
are weak and the lower jaw seems slightly
paralysed. —39Bl.
Without examination, it is difficult to give
a correct diagnosis, but apparently there was
gastric trouble followed by symptoms of
partial paralysis. A nerve tonic is indicated.
Give a small teaspoon of syrup of iodide of
iron in a little water twice daily, if neces-
sary. Reduce the diet and cut out cakes,
biscuits, etc.; feed once daily on meat or
milk, gravy and green vegetables.
My five-year-old Pomeranian bitch is sub-
ject to fits. She goes in the hind legs, which
grow stiff; then comes the turn with gasps
and frothing at the mouth. There have been
two attacks in a day, though sometimes
only one in a week. —3966.
This is apparently a form of epilepsy. It
may have followed distemper, or it may be
an hereditary taint. As soon as an attack
is evidently coming on the dog should be
placed in a dark place and made as comfort-
able as possible. The bowels must be kept
open, and a dose of castor oil or olive oil
should be given, and if necessary an enema of
soap and water. When the attack takes
place give a half teaspoon of syrup of iodide
of iron in a little water every four hours;
stop medicine as soon as fit is over. Reduce
the diet —one feed per day is sufficient —and
don’t give cakes or biscuits.
(1) Having a good speaking voice and
some knowledge of dramatic art I should like
to get on the talkies. Are talkies manu-
factured in Sydney? (2) If so, to whom
should I apply? —4lo7.
(1) Not yet in the dramatic form, but a
plant is being imported. When this is
established it will be in Union Theatres’
studio at Bondi Junction. (2) Watch The
Bulletin, in which it will be notified when
production is about to commence. Then
apply to the studio manager at Bondi
Junction.
A Sydney youth wants to become a piano-
tuner. Period of apprenticeship, prospects
for a qualified man, and wages paid? —4l6B.
The apprenticing of lads to piano-tuning
is governed by the award; at present there
is a limitation of one apprentice to three
journeymen, and firms seem to have their
quota pretty full. It is only by keeping in
touch with the large houses that an appren-
ticeship can be arranged. Lads start at 16
years of age and are apprenticed for five
years. Prospects for journeymen are good.
Award wages are £5 6s. 9d. p.w. for a tuner;
a player mechanic gets £5 9s. 9d.
I should be grateful for some hints on
preparing kangaroo hides for sale? When
pegged out, should they be painted while wet,
or should they be dry? And does rain harm
the hide? Also, in sending them away should
they be rolled or packed fiat? —4067.
The skins should be pegged out as squarely
as possible; naturally all the meat should
be taken off. They should be dried in the
shade and painted when they are thoroughly
dry; and kept out of the rain, as the water
harms the pelt. They should be packed flat.
How to re-paint a cast-iron bath? The
paint work has become chipped and rusty in
places? —4ol4.
If it is badly worn, best results would be
obtained by cleaning the whole surface off,
using a paint and varnish remover and scrap-
ing, afterwards wiping down with benzine
and washing thoroughly to remove all grease.
If, however, only small patches are gone,
sandpaper them to take away all rust, then
lightly sandpaper the whole bath so as to re-
move the gloss. Apply one or two coats of bath
enamel undercoating to the worn patches;
then complete the whole job with bath
enamel finishing. It should be noted that
ordinary white enamel is not suitable to
use on a bath. Special enamel is made which
will withstand the action of hot and cold
water.
A retired farmer with about £5OO in hand,
I wish to take things easy. Could I get
land in Lord Howe Island and make a com-
fortable living on it? —4169.
If you are a non-resident you could not
acquire land. Moreover, there would be no
possibility of getting work on the island.
Does Anybody Know?
Method of preparing used engine oil for
burning in a hothouse lamp or flare? — 4173.
Brief Answers.
J.0.H.: Yes; see “ ‘Wild Oat’ Monthly”
for Sept., 1929. If you want a gamble, fair; if you
want safety for your capital, n 0... .R.R.T.: “Amateur
Movie Making,” by McKay; “Amateur Cinemato-
graphy,” by Wheeler, and “Motion Pictures for
Amateurs,” by J. R. Cameron... .W. 0.8.: Royal
British-Colonial Soc. of Artists, 77 Bedford Gardens,
Kensington, W.8....E.V.: “Ignorance gives one a
larger range of probabilities”; it is from George
Eliot’s “Daniel Deronda”. .. .N.M.K.: Apply Society
of Arts and Crafts, 8 Rowe-street, Sydney, describing
nature of breakages, and quote will be given for
repairs. Crystal drilling and other expert work are
undertaken by the society. It may be necessary
to submit the glass for examination... .F.N.: The
Mataram was built at Port Glasgow, 1909; 332 ft.
long by 44ft. wide; 3331 tons gross. The Makambo
was built at the same place in 1907; 211 ft. by
32ft. and 1159 tons gross. .. .A.J.: Appleby and Co.,
217 Jesmond-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne; D.A.P. Model
Aeroplane Co., 187 Replingham-road, Southfields,
London, 5.W.18; and A. E. Jones, 97 New Oxford-
street, London, W.l. .. . J.W.D.: Proposal for an
exhibition in Sydney to synchronise with opening of
the Harbor Bridge was abandoned by the Bruce
Government ; there is no suggestion of the kind
under consideration.... E.G.: Get in touch with
Advances for Homes Dept., N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank, Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .C.F.A.:
The Workers’ Educational Association may be able
to help you; address, Edward-street, Brisbane....
D.R.P.: Q’land Education Dept.’s correspondence
courses in primary school work are for children, but
permission to enroll is not refused to adults....
F.G.: Write Brunning and Co., Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne. .. .L. 8.: There are no vacancies for keepers
at Taronga Park Zoo. It is usual to engage boys
and then train them to be keepers; appointments
are never made direct... .R.J.K.: (1) See “Common-
wealth Year Book, 1929,” pages 911-912. (2) An
official statement is that “except in a few places
where the blacks are under missionary influence,
the numbers generally tend to decline”.... E.H.D.:
System is established and reputable; many persons
have found it a valuable aid to a defective memory.
F.C.: N.S.W. Photographic Society conducts
competitions now and then. Particulars from sec.,
Box 829 G, G.P.0., Sydney R.R.G.: (1) Yes, pro-
vided the person holds a license, and is resident
within the counties of Cumberland and Camden. (2)
Should not think so A.W.W.: If facts are as
stated, no relationship exists. .. .J.C.A.: F. R.
Strange, 3 Hamilton-street, Sydney L.N.P.T.: (1)
Agreement refers only to land under cultivation at
date of signing. (2) To additional land, A gave his
labor gratuitously on an expectation that was not
realised; he is not entitled to wages.... G.R.: Cer-
tainly not. The industry may turn out well, but
it must get into the hands of the right men; and
that involves too big a risk for you to take E.J.:
May do well in the long run; but others will show
you better bonuses for a good many years to come.
. ... J.T.G.: If it is the only provision you can make
for them, no. If you want to gamble for their
possible benefit, you couldn’t do better W.C.D.:
No, you cannot claim an overdraft on the security
of a fixed deposit with the bank. If you could it
would for all practical purposes be a deposit at call.
. ...0.Q.: Depends entirely on what risks you are
prepared to take with your capital. If safety is
important, don’t... .N.R.: We don’t regard these
timber cos. as wholly gambles, though many accidents
may happen before the harvest; and there can be no
close estimate of the harvest. It may be as large
as they say Jack T.: If safety of capital is im-
portant, neither... .J.P.: Dragon’s blood is a resin
from a cherry-like Sumatran fruit, Calamus draco.
It has many uses; on account of its acid-resisting
properties it is employed in line-etching by process-
engravers G.K. Yes; “The Bernard Shaw Diction-
ary and Bibliography,” compiled by C. L. and U.
M. Broad, and published by Black, London, 13s. 6d.
. ...A.E.8.: They’re all Gaelic words. Luaireagan
means a grovelling person; cuaille, a club or blud-
geon; ludair, a slovenly fellow; sgriodan, a stony
ravine G.C.: It would be hardly worth a qualified
accountant’s while to register at a N.S.W. Govt.
Labor Exchange; applications are seldom made to
the exchanges for this class of labor... .F.J.R.: State
name of publisher and date of publication V.S.:
(1) See Service Page B. 5/6/’29. (2) Bell and
Co.; Electric Motor and Dynamo Co.; and Machining
and Electrical—all Sydney.... L.P.: Get in touch with
F. A. Coombs, Sydney Tanning School, Waterloo, Syd-
ney, who has * carried out successful experiments
described in the “Leather Trades Review,” January
14, 1928. Difficulty in the treatment of shark hide lies
in the removal of the shagreen; this has been
accomplished by a mixture of hydrochloric acid and
common salt E.D.: Further details necessary
H.A.AI.G.: Administrator, Norfolk Island, would put
you in touch with growers... .Kew: There are two
authorised institutions for inebriates in Vic., one
for men at Lara, and the other for women in
East Malvern; charges are fixed according to patient s
means. For particulars apply Inspector-General of
Insane and Inebriates, Old Treasury, Spring-street,
Melbourne.... C.C.: (1) Craig and Aitken 604
George-street, Sydney. (2) Write Dept, of Labor,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane. (3) and (4) Doug-
las’s Encyclopaedia” (255.), and Schwaab’s “Secrets
of Canning” (195.), Dymocks, Sydney... .M.J.W.:
(1) Try any recognised art school. It is possible
to learn by correspondence provided you have an
aptitude and are prepared to study. (2) 11.M.5.
Hood has a displacement of 41,200 tons and carries
eight 15in. guns, 12 5.5 in. guns and four 4in. anti-
aircraft guns. (3) Any bookseller could get you
a copy. An ordinary edition would cost no more
than 5s D.J.R.: A break in the wire may be
caused through some defect in manufacture or
through the straining or incorrect fitting of the
cover. For the former the manufacturer would be
liable; for the latter the user. You should wait for
the manufacturer’s report, if the defective tyre has
been referred to him, before pressing any claim under
the warranty....R.R.F.: A Gov. Macquarie holey
dollar issued in 1813 is worth £9 or £lO if m
good condition....P.W.P.: (1) He is out. Law 24
says the batsman is out l.b.w. “if with part of his
person he stops the ball which in the opinion of
the umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall have been
pitched in a straight line from it to the strikers
wicket and would have hit it.” (2) Yes. La\\ •
(3) No. (4) A wide must not be called until the
ball has passed the wicket. The batsman was out.
E T.A : (1) Probably a non-bearing variety was
budded or grafted on. (2) Cut tree right back and
re-bud with suitable buds. (3) Lolek, to be had
from Buzacotts, Brisbane. (4) Yes; 21b. sulphate
of ammonia, 31b. sulphate of potash and 51b. bone-
dust per ton... . J.T.: N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture
has just issued a pamphlet on tobacco growing and
sends it gratis on request.. , .E.M.F.: Regular occur-
rence of ringworm is extraordinary; the raw places
in between the toes point to a form of eczema.
Cleanse kennel, cleanse and disinfect utensils for
grooming, etc. Feed lightly and don’t give sugary
or starchy foods. If it is true ringworm, iodine is
practically a specific; if eczema, storaxol ointment
will be found effective E. 8.: You probably have
in mind Thomas Griffiths Wainewright, who was trans-
ported for forgery. The story is that he justified the
poisoning of his sister-in-law by saying “she had such
thick ankles(Many others mailed.)


. . . . “Climbed for the first time
in top gear by Marquette” is a phrase
that’s current everywhere ♦
TT/THEREVER motorists discuss motor cars, sooner
or later comes the query —“Have you tried
Marquette” ? For the imagination-stirring per-
formances of Marquette have made it popular with
critical motorists —with the connoisseurs of motor
car performance.
Beginning with its mastery of the gruelling
Razorhack in Queensland (here illustrated), its
spectacular ascents including Buckland Gap,
Tollbar Range and the rest, have set it firmly in
the mind of motordom as a car of unusual per-
formance qualities.
But its sterling performance is not for hill-
climbing records alone. Those same qualities are
winning for Marquette popular favor as a car for
city and average driving. That same performance
offers an immediate response, an easy manoeuver-
ability which with quick and relentless braking
make it possible to use to the full the tremendous
reserve of Marquette power.
Prices from £365
Sold and Serviced by Buick Dealers Everywhere
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged
on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney • Melbourne • Adelaide . Perth
Ma rauette
B U I LT
B Y
BUI C K
and its a General Motors
car
a


PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
The Prizes (£25, £10 and £5) for the past half-year’s contributions
that have been judged most helpful to the man on the land will be
announced on January 29.
At the same time arrangements with regard to future prizes will be
published.
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have ,your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
O. PARNHAM. Manager.
Sydney Grammar School.
Day and Boarding School for Boys.
Applications for prospectus or interview should be made,
by letter to the Head Master, as early as possible. New term
begins 4th February, 1930.
Special features are the Preparatory Form, for boys of
9 to 12, in its own self-contained building and grounds, and
the New School House, with excellent accommodation for
60 boarders
Early application is desirable.
Headmaster: H. S. DETTMANN, M.A., B.C.L.
Chairman oj Trustees: SIR MUNGO MacCAELUM, K.C.M.G., M.A.,
LL.D., D.Litt.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
"Oiiiing Service a Iff Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
illipm ESEEESPw
g£9
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
THE WATER OF THE SOIL.
“Noah Fraid” : Some years ago a farmer
in Gippsland sowed lucerne on a piece of
flat. It was not a success, and in the second
year it died out. During the following year
I suggested that the flat be sown to potatoes.
The result was a 12-ton crop.
The winter water-table of the soil was
approximately 21 inches. This receded in
the summer to over four feet. The high
water-table drowned the deep-rooted lucerne,
but the adaptability of the shallow-rooted
potato plant to the high water-table proved
the soil to be the most valuable on the hold-
ing.
The water-table is the zone at which the
soil is fully saturated with water. In most
cases it can be controlled by drainage, and,
provided the summer table is not too high,
the soil is particularly valuable for the
growth of shallow-rooted annuals.
Water may exist in the soil as (1) free
water in the pore space, (2) surface ten-
sion or film water, present as a film around
each particle, and (3) hygroscopic moisture
which the soil retains -when thoroughly air-
dry. The quantity of film water will vary
with the soil, being least in sandy soils and
most in peats or those of a peaty nature.
A soil to be in the perfect mellow condition
should contain approximately 60 p.c. of its
water-holding capacity.
Water rises in the soil from the subsoil
reservoirs by the force of capillarity, the
subsoil, and under-subsoil being more or less
saturated to the limit of its water-holding
capacity. The rise is due to film water,
and the reason is that a dry soil particie
cannot rest on a wet one without robbing it
of some of the moisture; this loss in turn is
made good from down below, and so on ad
infinitum.
Film water and free water constitute
fully 90 per cent, of the water of the soil.
Hygroscopic moisture is of doubtful value
to the plant. The soil is nearly bone-dry
before this moisture —the last form of water
released —becomes available and it occurs
on the immediate surface — i.e., where no
roots exist.
Research has shown, in the case of fallow,
that the loss of moisture from the surface
layer of soil is greatest during the day when
tht‘ air is sun-parched—it is not nearly so
great in the shade. During the night the
evaporation drops and the force of capillarity
picks up some of the day loss, but the
increase is due to “film” —not hygroscopic
moisture.
The moisture lost from the soil will depend
upon (1) water-holding capacity, (2) the
crop, (3) the conditions of the atmosphere
(the nortlierlies in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia are great moisture-robbers), (4) the
system of tillage, and (5) the amount of
shade provided by the crop. Intense cul-
tivation aids soil moisture by absorption and
retention.
LUCERNE ON LIGHT SOILS.
“Kell”: Farmers who are working light,
porous soils often imagine they cannot grow
lucerne. While it is true that stands are
more difficult to establish on such soils and
do not last as long as those on heavy, black-
soil, river-bank flats, a stand of lucerne can
be established that will last five or six years.
% Work on the plot selected should be. started
several months before it is desired to sow
lucerne, a legume crop suitable for plough-
ing in, such as cow-peas, being sown first.
After this has been done cross-plough and
harrow, working the soil to a fine tilth. Sow
lucerne seed at the rate of 101 b. to the acre
and harrow lightly, using lcwt. of super,
to the acre. During the early stages pay
careful attention to the plot and keep grass
out. The new stand should be harrowed at
least once a year, and regular applications
of super, will increase its life. The area
may never bear a wonderful crop, but it
will form a valuable adcntion to the fodder
on the farm.
THE MALLEE BURN,
“Yeoman”: A very important factor in
malice farming is the burn. If subsequent
conditions are favorable a good burn not only
assures a profitable crop the first year, but
also goes a long way in checking the sub-
sequent growth of suckers or shoots from
stumps not destroyed by the fire. And with
the aid of a good stubble burn 12 months
later, the shoots will not give much further
trouble.
Many Mallee farmers believe that the
ashes from the burnt scrub are a good fer-
tiliser and are largely responsible for a
vigorous crop grown the same year. But I
don't think there is anything in that. Gener-
ally speaking, our soils do not respond to
potassic fertilisers; and even if they did,
there is very little potash in wood ashes. The
amount of phosphoric acid in the ashes is
also too small to have any influence on the
crop.
The more feasible explanation is that
the heat from a good burn destroys the
protozoa or denitrifying micro-organisms in
the soil, whereas the beneficial nitrifying
bacteria are immune. Thus through the
direct action of the fire the beneficial bac-
teria are able to multiply rapidly and fur-
nish the growing crop a few months later
with an abundance of nitrogen. As any
observant farmer will notice, the crop grows
strongly where the burn was most fierce,
even though all the ashes may have blown
away from that spot. Where scrub not con-
sumed had to be raked into rows and
burned. I have seen wheat 4ft. high, dark
green and vigorous; whereas immediately
outside the range of the heat from the rows,
the crop was only 2ft. high and lacked
vigor and color.
After the scrub has been rolled or logged,
every spring-back .should be cut and all
other precautions taken to assure a clean
burn. The first hot day in February is
a good time for burning. The area of rolled
scrub should be fired all round. Work rapidly
with the firestick each way from the side
towards which the wind is blowing. This
not only prevents a breakaway— =a serious
thing in a new settlement —but also provides
the right conditions for a fierce burn.
NABAWA’S FINE RECORD.
“Tuart”: Noongaar wheat, praised by
“Wescocky” (B. l/l/’3O), has certainly
given good results this year; but not so good
as Nabawa. That popular Westralian
variety has done exceedingly well in three
States, Westralia, N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria.
In Westralian crop competitions Nabawa
has won all along the line. It has come
out on top in wet districts and dry, on light
soils and heavy. In N. S. Wales competi-
tions it has been almost equally conspicuous.
For example, the R.A.S.’s silver cup, valued
at £35, for the field wheat championship of
the southern slopes, went to E. K. H. King,
of Uranquinty, for a crop of Nabawa, esti-
mated to go 38 bushels to the acre. In his
report on the competition crops, H. C. Sten-
ing, Chief Instructor in Agriculture, men-
tioned that the rainfall during the growing
period varied from sin. to 7|in., and affirmed
that ‘‘Nabawa demonstrated its superiority
in the conditions prevailing during the sea-
son—a superiority which was indicated _in
championship competitions in other divi-
sions.”
And consider the crop for which W. Bur-
rell, of Gilgandra, won first prize in the
local competition. Thirty acres of Nabawa
yielded 426 bags; 30 acres of Riverina, 316
bags; 15 acres of Waratah, 160 bags. This
on a rainfall of 419 points during the grow-
ing season, and from fallowed ground with-
out fertiliser.
Australian wheatgrowers owe much to the
Westralian experimenters in wheat-breeding.
G. L. Sutton, the Director of Agriculture,
who as a young man was closely associated
with the great Farrer, deserves honorable
mention in this connection, and so does
veteran journalist Catton Grasby.
COUNTRY STOCK MARKETS.
“U. Murray”: The country stock markets
to which my business takes me are out-
rageously ill-managed. If in our metropoli-
tan wool markets the clips of, say, Burra-
wong and Boonoke had to wait while appren-
tice auctioneers wangled off, bag by bag, the
season’s gathering of dead wool, where "would
those markets be after the first day? Yet
that would be but an exact parallel to the
present conduct of country stock markets.
Lines of bullocks worth thousands of
pounds, if the fall of the florin so decides,
may have to wait all day while oddments
worth a few shillings are laboriously got
rid of—or passed in, to be a renewed nuis-
ance at future sales. Meanwhile numbers
of men whose time is of value hang around,
often in discomfort, awaiting the chance to
buy or sell the stock in which they are in-
terested, and dwelling gloomily on the pros-
Eect of a long journey home at night over
ad roads. It takes more time to sell an
old cull cow or a piccaninny pig than a big-
line of bullocks. The vendors of such trash
are more exacting than the biggest buyers
and sellers who ever come to a yard. This
may continue to prevent the urgent and quite
practicable reform of inter-lotting or “star-
ring” which was forced upon wool-sellers
some years since—to their own considerable
advantage.
But why shouldn’t the sale of a number
of totally different kinds of stock be carried
on simultaneously? Surely the auctioneers
and their assistants, who always display a
remarkable readiness to help each other
when stuck, would not violently object to
an arrangement which would get their day’s
work over in one-third the present time—
especially as they often have 100 miles to
travel home. Series of three totally different
classes of stock could be carried on in every
considerable market without interfering with
anyone’s desire to watch sales of the stuff in
which he might be interested. For example:
(a) odd fats, (b) poddies, and (c) store
pigs; or (a) springers, (b) yearling steers,
and (c) odd horses. And so on, arranging
the order of the sales to suit the known re-
quirements of the different classes of buyers.
The dairyman buying milkers wants as much
daylight as he can have to drive his pur-
chases gently home. Most other lines, if
need be, can stay in the yards overnight or
be driven home in the dark at worst.
Nothing “makes the market” like smart
and straightforward handling. It is actual
and potential buyers and sellers who should
have the chief consideration, not saleyard
idlers and camp-followers.
BREAK IN WOOL.
“Curlew” : Wool consists of protein fibres,
and varies.much according to different breeds
and nutritional conditions. Wool, horn and
hair are peculiar among animal products in
containing high percentages of sulphur. Their
protein content breaks up into simpler com-
ponent parts which are mostly amino-acids,
owing their existence primarily to the activi-
ties of plants, having been transformed from
ni|rates in the soil.
These amino-acids are 19 in number. Some
of them are necessary for particular
functions; without one, lysine, animal growth
is not possible. Animals fed on oats en-
tirely cannot grow, as lysine is not present.
On a complete diet of maize neither growth
nor maintenance is possible; both lysine and
trylophane are lacking.
Wool-fibre contains a large amount of
cystine, one of the amino-acids. The animal
economy cannot manufacture cystine from
protein combinations in the body; it must
be obtained preformed in the fodder con-
sumed. There are plants having the power
of producing high proportions of cystine.
For the determination of these plants re-
search is necessary. In this one matter
research might recoup woolgrowers the 2s.
per bale they have been asked to subscribe,
and more.
Mr. Iledley R. Marston and Prof. Brails-
ford Robertson have gone into the question
of sulphur utilisation by animals with par-
ticular reference to wool. Break in wool
they find is due to a lack of cystine in the
food, particularly noticeable in time of
drought. Normally wool-fibres are of a
definite thickness, but lack of necessary wool-
producing food causes a thinning down of
the fibre. In manufacturing such wool the
portions are too short for producing the best
fabrics on the machines used in spinning
and weaving. Hence wool with a break has
a low value. When drought conditions
threaten a break the sheep require supple-
mentary feeding with a food rich in cystine
to allow normal wool production to pro-
ceed.
By spraying chaff with hydrolysate of
wool and feeding the mixture, wool-break
has been checked. It is possible to use the
hydrolysate incorporated in licks, and .so
administer it with the minimum of labor.
As the result of feeding it would mean wool
of normal growth and greater value, the pro-
posal seems sound economically, particularly
as the hydrolysate can be prepared from the
inferior wools.
Very certainly there is great scope for
economic research in pastoral matters.
YOU CAN’T TRICK STRAWBERRY.
“Jackpot” : It is the male germ cell which
determines the sex of the offspring. The body
cells contain chromosomes, which occur in
pairs, one pair being called the sex chro-
mosomes. The germ cells contain only one
of each pair of chromosomes. In the female
both sex chromos. are the same—black, we
shall say. Obviously all the female germ
cells must contain a single black sex chromo.
In the male, however, the pair of sex
chromos. are different; say one is black and
the other is white. Upon formation of the
male germ cells one half will contain a
black sex chromo. and the other half a
white sex chromo.
Now each egg cell of the female con-
tains a black sex chromo., and if it should
be fertilised by a sperm cell also containing
a black sex chromo, the resulting embryo
would contain two black sex chromos., and
therefore be female. Should fertilisation be
by a sperm containing a white sex chromo.
the. embryo would contain a black and a
white and be male. The chances of its being
of either sex are equal, and as during copu-
lation a great number of sperms are released,
only one of which is needed for fertilisation,
how can we hope to control sex?
Get some peas. Dye half black and leave
half white. Put a black one on the table
and let it represent an egg-cell. Put the
rest in a box to represent sperms. Shut
your eyes and pick one out. A black mate
for the one on the table stands for female,
a white one for male. The chances are
equal that you will pick either color, but
you have as much chance of picking the
color you want every time as you have of
tricking Strawberry to give heifer calves.
Nature wants the sexes to be numerically
equal. Is it likely that she will leave a
loophole for muddling man to step in and
upset her plans?
A METHOD OF WEIGHING PIGS.
“Moreton Bay”: Among pig-raisers a
proper weighing-machine is usually considered
too expensive (I know it is in my ease!),
and a method frequently seen is to tip the
pigs head-first into a cane basket and lift
them on to large clock-faced spring-balances.
This process entails hard labor, and is by
no means beneficial to the pig.
Here is my method. On the side of pas-
sage or crush leading up to the loading
chute, put a post about 6ft. high. To the
top of this bolt a 7ft. lever of Sin. x 2in.,
so that the one end hangs directly over the
centre of the passage. To this end attach
a book with a spring-balance, powerful
enough for weighing any pig required, hang-
ing from the hook. To fit the passage with
4in. clearance on either side, construct a
light crate the length of the largest pig it
is required to weigh. Have front and back
doors to it, preferably opening outwards and
downwards, on a pivot, like the sides of a
railway waggon. A piece of No. 8 wire
is attached to each corner of the top of the
crate, meeting in a loop over the exact
centre: The crate is then placed in the
passage, front door open.
The pig is driven along the passage into
the crate, the front door is lifted and shut;
wires are hooked on the scales, _ the lever is
pressed down, and the weight is registered,
deducting, of course, the weight of the crate.
CARE OF FARM MACHINERY.
“Bodangora”: Many farmers are careless
about their machinery. The effect of sun
and rain on these expensive contrivances is
worse than actual wear, yet we all know
men who merely cover the top of each
machine with a few sheets of iron. Wooden
parts soon warp where exposed to the
weather, and machines are made to run so
true that even a quarter of an inch out
entails extra work on another part of the
machine.
The plant should be housed in a good
shed, with gable ends in which ventilators
may be put so as to keep down the heat.
The shed should be enclosed with corrugated
iron; the less wood used the better. Remove
dust, oil or grease from machines before
putting them in the shed, and don’t let fowls
roost on them. Also don’t leave any fer-
tiliser in the feed-box of your drill. And
never house tractors or cars in your mach-
inery sheds. They should have buildings to
themselves.
BRANDING MIXTURES.
“P.W.D.”: If you’re afraid of tar in the
proprietary branding paints, or for any other
reason must mix your own, it is a simple
matter. For a good many hard years I
used lamp-black and oil with quite satisfac-
tory results. Lamp black is to be purchased
in lib. packets. Either linseed or sump oil
can be added, and some put a little kero-
sene in to make it thinner. There are no
fixed proportions; it is an easy matter to
judge when you have a good mixture. For
(Continued on page 31.)


Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY'S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful—Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4jj guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: YSOI2 (4 lines).
ff\ ii;
K*rJ23
&
hrsl i
. H'
yi
SjflFsTeKii^
2H?
5
R>>
£°l
£
€/
V»
M 3
'A'l
‘X?
/a?
*o,
A
/ - %
*//
553?
H
is by Car,
Bought on Henlys’
“Buy-Back” Plan
Henlys specialise in selling cars to visitors
from overseas, and fixing a definite price at
which they will buy back their cars at a later
date. This is easily the most convenient way
to see England: it is cheaper and more
pleasant than hiring; it is infinitely pre-
ferable to using the train. Henlys have the
largest stock of cars in England for you to
choose from, and they particularly recom-
mend such makes as Austin, Morris, etc.,
which having a good second market, can be
purchased on the tc Buy-Back ” Plan at a
. very low rate of depreciation indeed.
HENLYf
England’s Leading
Motor Agents
Illustrated Brochure obtainable
from The Bulletin Office, 21-’i
George Stre'et, Sydney.
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.
and at Manchester , Leeds , and Bristol
Danks’
Modern Surgical Apparatus
and Sanitaryware
ẃ
ẅ
HOSPITAL SUPERINTENDENTS SHOULD
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
324-330
Pitt St.,
Sydney.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
m
m
391-403
Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
w
m
i
m
BEAN COMPANY’S
TRUCK CHASSIS
SECRET TESTS IN
AUSTRALIA.
(“Pictorial” Special
Service.)
LONDON, Friday.
Mr. Noel Martin, man-
aging director oj the
Bean Motor Co., announ-
ced at a luncheon the
details oj a Ifi-50cwt.
Empire model truck
chassis.
He revealed that the
company built eight
experimental chassis
quietly, and shipped
three to Australia, with
instructions that they be
broken up if work could
break them up.
They were most
severely tested, and ran
collectively 150,000
miles before they were
reported on.
Extract prom the “Telegraph
Pictorial,” 7/9/’29.
ẁ
Chassis Available for Immediate
Delivery.
Particulars jrom.: —
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
163 William Street, Sydney.
ALL BRITISH MOTOR HOUSE, LIMITED,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LIMITED, Murray Street, Perth.
Inquiries regarding Agency jor other States to: —
BEAN CARS, LIMITED, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ẃ


SUNBURN
RASH
swwnnsoßEs
Don’t let Sun’s burning rays
dry up your skin, making it
irritated and sore. Regular use
of Zam-Buk will keep the skin
healthy and comfortable under
the most trying conditions. If
you are fond of going into the
sea Zam-Buk will prevent the
disco nfort of salt-water sores.
This refined herbal balm sinks
into the underlying tissues. It
stops pain and irritation, kills
bad germs and expels all im-
purities. Zam-Buk Balm and
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap are
both excellent for the skin.
ftm-Buk
All Chemist*
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM.
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. With a foreword by
the Rt. Hon. S. M. BRUCE. 7s.
6d. net.
Sir George Parkin
A Biography.
By SIR JOHN WILLISON, LL.D.
With portraits. 12s. 6d. net.
Times Literary Supplement : “A worthy-
record of an exceptionally interesting man and
a career of remarkably varied achievement.”
The Garden of Fidelity
Being the autobiography of
FLORA ANNIE STEEL. With
portraits. 1 25.. 6d., net.
The Times : “Her biography is exceptionally
well worth reading.”
NEW NOVELS.
Hans Frost
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Ed'tion.
Fortnightly Review: “In the creation of
people Mr. Walpole has no living peer.”
A Selection hy the Booh Society.
Whiteoaks
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE,
author of “Jalna,” the famous
novel which won the “Atlantic
Monthly” prize of 10,000
dollars. [Empire Library.
Hugh Walpole : “We have here a splendid
work, something with the firmness and solidity
of enduring patience and magnificent technique ;
something also with a never-slackening creative
power.”
The Wasted Island
By EIMAR O’DUFFY, author of
"King Goshawk and the Birds,”
etc. [Empire Library.
A story of Irish life some 15 years ago.
Extensively revised for this edition.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCIICLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ẅ
Sydney Address:
Box 481 A.A., G.P.O.
SYDNEY
Melbourne Address:
360 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IP fgZ Al|£
c^ddfjlavour
Ai J good hotels |
and tobacconists I
Special box prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG &AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET SYDNEY
ii urn
m
m
m
4 IM-il
QUALITY
She carries
GOUROCK
ROPES & CANVAS (s
“BIRRMYRE’S CLOTH”
GODROCK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
4 S O 'Flinders-st’-eot, Melbourne, Vic.
w


v/
c§
I
A doubled sole of the
strongest leather
obtainable
The upper, too, is doubled—
being lined throughout with
soft leather—so that this
Abbey Boot assures longest
wear under all conditions.
And, for comfort, it is cut to a
special shape. The upper drops
slightly at back of ankle—
ensuring a closer, easier fit.
Over the instep arch there is a
curve adapted to the shape of
the foot. The boot laces
closely and evenly, without
strain.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin), or one
of the handy, new cleaning outfits
(2/6 complete).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
New summer sporting catalogue post free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years ,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” Sydney.
PPL 159
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins .. 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
ŵ
J. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth
B.K,
ẁ
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Educational.
c)frr iheir
happiness
ENSURE the future hap-
piness of your Kittle ones
by i nvesting your surplus
funds in P.P. Bank DEPOSIT
CERTIFICATES. This is
undoubtedly the finest form
of insurance.
P.P. Bank Deposit Certificates
are safe, convenient, never below
par, and are issued for any
amount.
ẃ
Write us for full particulars or
consult our officers, free of
charge.
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London..
ẅ
w
Prices are free on rails Melbourne.
J
I
Kd
BIGGEST HARDWARE HOUSE IH VICTORIA
‘ * (D. &W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
red or blue mix ruddle ’of the color required
with kerosene, oil or water; but do not use
sump Oil for any but black brands. One of
my neighbors mixed red ruddle and water
with satisfactory results f<>r many years, and
our average rainfall is 24 inches per annum.
FRUIT PRESERVING.
“Cherry Ripe” : In the stone-fruit season
it is always a problem to ofehardists to
turn to advantage their surplus fruit. A
word with regard to preserving, canning,
bottling and pulping may therefore be oppor-
tune.
Only high-grade fruit—ripe but not soft —
should be used for canning or bottling. Peel,
halve and stone the fruit; place in tins,
leaving sufficient room for the syrup, which
should come to within half an inch of the
top. Solder the lids, but leave a small hole
in the middle. Place in boiling water for
seven or eight minutes'; then seal the hole
and cook in boiling water for 20 to 30
minutes. Remove and cool. Syrup is made
with 3|lb. of sugar and one gallon of water
warmed slowly until the sugar is dissolved,
then brought to a boil. Skim any froth off.
Sometimes the skin of plum's and cherries
cracks in the process, but this can be .obviated
by pricking them with a needle used for
the purpose.
Bottling is done the same way as canning.
All tins and bottles used should, of course,
be perfectly clean and free from any in-
jurious matter.
Ripe fruit with a good color is best for
pulping. Wash, take stones out and place
in cooking utensil with a little water to
start; boil for 60 minutes, remove and put
in tins. Solder caps, leaving the usual
small hole. Place in boiling water for about
10 minutes; fill up the hole, remove and
cool. Stone fruits do not require sugar.
To pickle cherries, place about 61b. fruit,
61b. sugar and f pint vinegar in a vessel
and boil slowly until the cherries are
wrinkled. Then bottle.
THE PROFITABLE SWEET POTATO.
“Go Do” : In my judgment, it is not only
unnecessary but a waste of time to re-root
sweet-potato cuttings. Grab a handful of
the vines when they are about 4in. high,
press fingers of the opposite hand on the
parent tuber and tear the vines off. These
can be broken apart, and will provide already
rooted cuttings; at the same time the
tubers,, being undisturbed, will carry on the
good work of producing more vine.
By sticking to bonedust and super.
“Potate” (B. 25/12/’29) will get more satis-
factory results than by dabbling with potash
and the like: Undoubtedly vines do produce
too much top at times; this is largely due to
seasonal influences or too much nitrogenous
manures. Gutting vines back will increase
the defect and prevent the crop from pro-
ducing tubers.
POTATO WILT EXPERIMENTS.
“Hatter”: Wilt is a comparatively recent
but very serious trouble, and is known by
various names ; whatever they call it the roots
always bear many cysts of the eelworm
Heterodera schachtii, and the fungus Corti-
cium ( Rliizoctonia ) solani is also present.
Many problems connected with the complaint
are still under study, but it appears clear that
the trouble is due not to a deficiency of any.
essential plant food in the soil, but to the
presence of, disease-producing organisms.
What is obviously, needed'then is a cheap and
effective means of cleansing the. ground. So
far the best is drained creosote salts, broad-
casted at the rate of Scwt. to the acre and
immediately ploughed in to the depth of
6in. This should be done 12 days before the
seed is planted.
“Drained creosote salts” is the name
applied to a crude form of naphthaline,
which contains small quantities of other coal-
tar derivatives. Last season’s experiments in
England show that a dressing of these salts
costing £4 per acre produced on “potato,
sick” land an increased yield of tons per
acre, which gave a net profit of £lB ss. over
the untreated plots! ‘
POISON SPRAYS FOR WEEDS.
“W P.D.”: Mix 41b. grey arsenic with
lib. caustic soda, and slowly add water to
make four gallons. Sufficient heat, is gener-
ated in the process to bring the solution
almost to .the boil. Or use washing soda'
instead of caustic soda ; 41b. is required, to
be dissolved in about three gallons water,
which is brought to the boil, the 41b. arsenic
added, and the solution kept boiling until
the arsenic, is dissolved, . which generally
takes about half an hour ; then add water
to make four gallons.
For spraying, dilute one pint of this solu-
tion with four gallons water. From 75 to
100 gallons of the spray is required per
acre.
Take great care that the fumes, when boil-
ing the solution, are not inhaled; and on
no account allow boots, socks or other cloth-
ing to become sodden with the solution. The
spray is effective with most weeds, but is
no good for couch. It should be applied
when the weeds are young.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Particulars relative to the Farrer Re-
search Scholarship? Who may compete for
it and what standards are set? —3862.
The scholarship is granted by the trustees
of the Farrer Memorial Fund, who are
vested with wide discretion as to the pur-
poses for which it shall be awarded and
the qualifications of the scholar. It can be
assumed, however, that the scholarship will
be awarded only for research work on some
phase of plant-breeding or wheat improve-
ment, and success is not likely to fall to
any applicant other than (1) a graduate or
an undergraduate in science ; (2) an Agri-
cultural Diploma student of Ilawkesbury
Agricultural College, or (3) a young farmer
or other person (apart from one of the
foregoing) who has the necessary qualifica-
tions and aptitude for investigating plant-
breeding for wheat improvement in the field.
It is required of the Farrer Memorial scholar
that’he shall apply himself to some specific
subject and for such period as may be
arranged mutually between himself and the
trustees. Remuneration is not on any fixed
basis, but is also a subject of arrangement
between the scholar and the trustees. It
you desire to be considered for the award ot
a scholarship, you should send particulars
of qualifications to the chairman, Farrer
Memorial Trust, Department of Agriculture,
Sydney. The trustees will meet before long
to discuss the making of another award.
Applicants may belong to any State.
(1) I have lost, IS head of milkers, and
suspect hot flies. I made a thorough exami-
nation of the last three that died and found
a parasite hut can’t get it identified. (2)
What quantity of hlucstone will he safe to
use for a drench for cattle six months old
to full-grown, and quantity of water used?
—4017.'
(1) It is highly improbable that the milk-
ers died from bot infection. (2) From 50
grains to 100 grains according to age and
size. The quantity of water would be about
a pint and a half.
(1) Is ostrich-farming permitted in South
A.us.? (2) Any profit in it these days? —
4227.
(1) Yes, and it has been proved that on
suitable land ostriches do well. (2) Several
different efforts to establish the industry
have been made, but they have not been a
success commercially, and with the fashions
as they are there is no warrant for encourag-
ing persons to take it up.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“C.H.P.” : The ability of a horse to work
efficiently depends largely upon the plia-
bility of his collar. If the collar is hard
his shoulders will soon become tender or
raw. Spend a couple of minutes at the end
of the day scrubbing the collar, and give
a good oiling at least once a week. And
after a hard day’s work .wash the horse’s
shoulders with salt and water.
“Watyle”: Horses suffering from dry or
wet mange should be isolated at once. . Clip
all over' and burn the hair; then dress the
whole body with a mixture of a pint of
paraffin oil, lib. common soap and a gallon
of water.
“T.S.S.” : It is not hard to detect flounders,
because the horse will stand with forefeet
well forward, placing the weight on the rear
part of the front heels, and will bring the
hind feet forward a good deal. Allow him
a roomy box-stall, well bedded with straw,
remove the shoe and trim the foot. A
quart of linseed oil should be given as a
physic, and only soft feeds. The walls of
the. foot should be kept short by occasional
trimming.
“Bushman”: If you value that piece of
greenhide in the shed look out for rats;
they will eat greenhide quicker than any-
thing else. A small length soaked in some
good poison will get rid of a lot of them,
but the treated strip will have to be kept
where cats and dogs can’t get at it.
“Baa Baa”: A good tonic for sheep is a
compound lick made up of Liverpool salt,
30 parts; sterilised bonemeal, 5 parts; sul-
phate of iron, 1 part. This should be pro-
vided at all times in covered-over receptacles.
“Grazier”: You may use either chloride
of iron or alum to clear water in a dam. A
pound of chloride of iron will clarify 3000
gallons in 24 hours; a pound of alum will
clear 2000 gallons in something like two
days. Either should be dissolved in water
and the solution sprayed over the surface
of the dam. Ordinary slaked lime can also
be used, but it is a slow method.
“Burrandong Bill”: When dealing with
green timber in burning off, fire-sap it first
with a quick-burning fire sufficient to give it
a good scorching. Leave for three to six
weeks (no longer), and it can then be
burnt down as easily as dry timber in the
usual way. Bad burning timber such as
woolly-butt should be sapped with the axe
before scorching.
“Deejay”: The dairyman looking for a
quick green-feed crop could do worse than
plant an area of white corn, broadcast, at
the rate of a bushel and a quarter per acre.
Hickory King and Giant White, when chaffed
green, cobs and all, are capital milk pro-
ducers and will buck the cream test up, too.
White varieties beat the others as a green-
feed proposition.
“Otnim”: Feed your fowls with their green
stuff early as you .like in the summer. Cut
it when the dew is on it and give it to them
before breakfast; it’s useless in the middle of
the day. Worked into the mash is best and
don’t overdo it, especially young corn, as it
affects the egg condition in the hot spells.
Grain in the morning and a moist mash at
evening is a reversal of the old order but is
a better liot-weather diet.
“Hortus” : To help on young tomato plants
add a little wood-asli to the soil round them;
this not only quickens their growth, but also
keeps .pests away. Prune .the laterals as soon
as.they appear, (leaving;the one central shoot.
This .will; produce a good central stem; aii'd
if the stem-is strong and- healthy there need
be no worry as to the quality of the-tomato. -
“H.A-.C.”: N.S;W. Department of'Agri-
culture recommends this • cheap home-made
tobacco wash, "which has been successful in
combating aphis: 21b. waste tobacco (dust),
3 gallons of cold water, 7oz. quicklime. Slake
quicklime with a little water heated nearly
to boiling point, add the mixture to balance
of the wgter in a.:s kerosene-tin, and add
tobacco dust. Stir well and allow sub-
stances to react for 36 hours, mixing from
time ,to-time; then strain through a chaff
bag. Dilute with an equal volume of water
when spraying.
“Y.” : Ants can Jbe prevented from raiding
beehives by putting the hives on a stand
supported on old telegraph insulators. For a
single hive a framework of 3in. by 2in.
hardwood is nailed together, and an inverted
insulator placed, at. each corner ; the metal
shank screws into each insulator and the
other end is screwed into the framework.
For stands to carry 5 -three; hives,-the frame-
work should' be Bft. long ■= and the support
1 s i x insulators. Break away the inside
collar of china in the insulator: the space
left, forms a cup, which is filled with kero-
sene. ' S' ; i‘
; “iY.”: ’ A- settler on: Eyre’s Peninsula
(S.A.), unable to grow ordinary feed for his
cows on a new mallee. selection, tried 50
i a hres of-sun flowers as a stopgap. Thejex-
nerimont’ wjas. sufficiently,; successful to con-
firm the good opinion some Americans have
of this big yellow-flowered fodder crop.


ẃ
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
9S PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LtD._.
IHv, 221-225 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. _Jj
NO6EL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
7 he Standard oi Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
IT SELLS AT SIGHT.
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for I 0 years for £ I 60.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars.
°v?»-
k - -v\
>l>
s«v
°’ W »-
0 '
«&*
>°l<e
«V*
■n & m 6
0 N<^
/-•
SMOKE-OH!
ẁ
IT’S AS TRUE TO-DAY AS EVER IT WAS.
“I’ll write you when I’m coming home.”
“All right, dear. Then no news will be good news — eh?”
THE FATAL SPRING.
Hope springs eternal in the punter’s breast,
Urging him on to back each stiffened moke,
Hope springs, alas! And with demented zest
It goes on springing till the punter’s broke.
„
MISCARRIAGE OF BRITISH JUSTICE,
Strange Case of Puzzlewit v. Pttzzlewit.
Puzzlcwit v. Puzzlewit, Damenblast misdc-
meanor, calls for swift elucidation, many
principles being involved, and some more so
than others.
Facts are that I met Grilly Nighlan,
the solicitor, and asked him to have a drink,
and he mentioned the case and asked me to
have one, and I asked him what it was about
and to have another, and he said shrewdly,
“Lornose. Juss one more,” and I said,
“Amazshin! Lessave anozzer,” and he said
“We’ll have a deoch and doris an’ go an’
hear it.”
His Honor, however,, was angry, charging
the complainant with false pretences in hav-
ing conducted the murder non sibi sed omni-
bus, thereby making himself liable for dam-
ages for trespass of champerty. He was
delivering judgment on these laws when the
omnibus lie had mentioned arrived, and we
all got in. Unfortunately, we had forgotten
to bring the accused, so the Judge said I
would have to be tried and asked me to re-
member a murder. The only one I could call
to mind off-hand was the Butler case; and
I thought it unfair when he put his black cap
on the chauffeur and sentenced me to death,
with costs as between solicitor and deceased
and a return of the missing will. He then asked
how I pleaded, so I said “Thirsty” and we
had another. By this time the waves were
rising fast, and we could not find the oars,
so an idea of escape suggested itself. Ascer-
taining that Nighlan had squared the- jury,
I seized the Judge by the whiskers and
with a sudden twist threw him overboard.
Then, leaping into a crowded taxi-’bus, I
walked briskly home.
There’s been a gross miscarriage of justice
somewhere, but I am afraid to go out in case
I should have drowned the Judge, and I
intend to plead Necessitas non habet legem
if I am caught. In the meantime the gritty
feel of the old ruffian’s whiskers gives me the
shivers whenever I think of that awful night.
And I can’t find the lobster I bought any-
where.
• Hamer.
¥
“A movement is on foot to abolish wine-bar
screens in Sydney.”
Our reformers can stand neither American
life on screens nor Australian life behind
them.
TED’S TROUBLES.
“I can’t open the mines,” he says.
Gentlemen whose young ladies are
annoyed by broken promises should
make fresh ones, says Miss Mix.
’
(By Maudlina Mix—Copyright.)
Dear Miss Mix,—l have been so impressed
by your advice to expectant mothers as
regards bearing and rearing children (given,
I hope, in the interests of our Xtian morality
.
entirely without
personal experi-
ence), that I ven-
ture to ask for
your help in a
delicate matter of
my own. I have
been going for
many years with a
popular and weal-
thy young lady
named Laboria. In
order to win her I
made a number of
rash promises, and
particularly that I
would open certain
mines in which her
people are finan-
cially interested. I
was foolish enough
to specify the time
—a fortnight. Now
I find that I can-
not open the mines,
and she threatens
to leave me for an-
other. The position
is desperate, as
Laboria is my sole
support. What
should I do?
Ted. '
This is an easy
one, Ted. Laboria
must be a born
idiot to have been taken in by you
in. the first instance. All you need do,
therefore, to regain her affectionate esteem
is to make a fresh lot of promises. Promise
as a .start to double her income and halve
her working hours—if any. If that fails
promise her the earth. She will at once
fly back to your arms. Girls like Laboria
always do.
■ Maudlina Mix.
* ¥
THE TREASURE.
“Gandhi never speaks on a Monday/’
He’s silent as the deep, calm sea
Each Monday of his life.
Ah! how delightful it would be
To have him for a wife!
* *
“Who can they find to complete the Davis Cup
team ?” —“ Sunday Guardian.”
And Echo —a syntax fan —answers
“Whom?”
# *
“Whisky is as dangerous as dynamite.”— Rev. R.
B. S. Hammond.
Quite true. Whisky-drinkers are always
liable to be blown up by their wives.
* *
LITERALLY.
I was sick of Bill’s everlasting blither
about sure things, good things, near-good
things and the like.
“Don’t you ever find a little time for
books?” I snapped. “Books!” he snorted.
“Big, fat, greasy robbers! D’y think I’d
fall fer them! Gimme the tote every time.
That’s me!”
* *
She knew that he was lying there
Out on the beach. She did not rue it
And impotently tear her hair,
For she was there and heard him do it.
* *
“Wanted a boy to sell oysters, 18 years old.”
-— “S. M. Herald,”
Tastes differ of course, but we like ours a
bit younger.
* *
“Defendant admitted that he was an undischarged
bankrupt. His father and his two brothers had also
sequestrated their etsates.”
A family failing. '
* *
“I was kicked out with a fortnight’s pay in lieu
of notice.”— “A.G.M.” in Sydney “Sun.”
At all events there was some money in
his kick.
THE CATCH IN IT.
“Women cricketers can’t field. A woman seems
incapable of catching anything.”
Men spend their lives in catching fish,
Trains, colds and fevers; girls don’t try.
It is a tcoman’s only wish —
Her single aim—to catch the eye.
* *
CRICKET CURIOSITIES.
(No. 127.)
In the early stages of a match between
3rd XI teams representing Hevesham
Y.M.C.A. and Blackrock Hibernians. Ernie
(“Underarm”) McGee bowled the Hiberni-
ans’ skipper, “Smiter” Clancy, with a
sneaker. The sectarian issue was imme-
diately raised, and the four spectators were
treated to the unusual sight of both sides
abandoning play for the day in order to
engage in a dcbate ; r oa “ fi al * e F B - £ U
xfcfw ] male<bate l y disqualified by the
N.S.W. Cricket Association and decla ed
bogus by the Trades Hall. Three months
later religious rioting broke out in Mexico.
[Copyright.]
(No. 128.)
The immortal Spofforth bowled wliat is
held by cognoscenti to have been the speediest
IDENTIFIED.
WAITER: “Let me see, sir! Was it tomato or asparagus soup
you had?”
DINER: “I don’t know—it tasted like nothing on earth!”
WAITER: “Ah — tomato!”
ball of his meteoric career on the old Albert
Ground on Boxing Day, 1879. It tore
through the whiskers of Dr. W. G. Grace,
who was taking strike, setting them on fire
in three places by the velocity of its momen-
tum, narrowly missed the post on the boun-
dary behind which the wicketkeeper was
crouching, and, passing clean through the
pavilion, was picked up by a boy on the
tramline nearly a mile away, and eaten in
mistake for a freshly-cooked muffin. Spofforth
was arrested and charged with malicious
damage to property, but the G.0.M., of
cricket refused chivalrously to prosecute,
and the proceedings were dropped. The
doctor’s lamented decease barely 36 years
later has been attributed to this terrifying
experience.
[Copyright.]
10-2-4.
* V-
“Sir, you have no business to hiss me!"
She sa/id to the stranger of leisure.
He answered, “Now do not dismiss me;
That was not business, ’tWas pleasure!"
> *
“On Wednesday evening ladies will have
a rummage sale. This is a chance for all
FASHION NOTE.
“Frocks will be worn below the knee this
summer.”
the ladies to get rid of anything that is not
worth keeping but is too good to be thrown
away. Don’t forget to bring your husbands.”
—Announcement by a Melbourne suburban
parson.
BIG GAME.
“Prince of Wales Again Hears the Call of the
Wild.” —Sydney “Sun” caption.
He’s off yet again at the call of the wild ;
In London he’ll never stay long domiciled.
The lion and rhino once more have beguiled,
The deer and the antelope claim him.
How England would thrill if he only would
hear
The call of a different species of dear
That’s been ready and trilling this many a
year
And would like nothing better, it’s perfectly
clear,
Than to take him: in hand and to tame
him!


11l
It
1
fm
1,
7
■n
m
UXM.
im*
Oil.
r
2
if
MORLtY
no»iou»
to
>c
drvf
Au
Hout -r
THE MARRIAGE OF
THE “WHITE HO
"WHITE HORSE” is Real Old Scotch. First matured
and then blended, it is again matured and re-blended,
so that the whisky becomes properly married. This
marrying of "WHITE HORSE” is a very lengthy process
and the result is a right noble spirit of subtle and dis-
tinctive aroma and bouquet, soft, smooth and very pleasing
to the palate, without a trace of kick or bite.
As a heart tonic and digestive, " WHITE HORSE” stands
supreme. It is the brand most favoured by Scotsmen in
their own country and they are the greatest connoisseurs
of whisky. Could you make a wiser choice when choosing
whisky for yourself?
was
Scotch
Screw-cap bottles —no corkscrew required.


iiiiilgip i I=s iplii I j|iiii| •:•' =
Sk..fc-m- I*
■
: : .
■
■■
mm
• 'I •::: : :i‘ r..
pHnfjjpniiii:
r\
<3
liMiHlliHa
<&
Si iSSBiSi'
lpB§--pp:
SfasillS
mill
"tl
m
a
w
.' ! R!Ji....!..ii‘
i=H=::i"
H 1::::::::::::::
111111 l
|
m
WM
*
m
m
$
=:".' ••: ::
*
♦
R
♦l<
m.
<
M
4 $
iiiiiii
a
l $
*
1
$ i
►n
♦
m
►K
1
S
4*l
*
\
ft
1
*
9
iipgl
■
%
n
a
BBi
wi
■
f
3
ra
ilil
pH 'i, - ' Pub n 1 n'
M-lSi I
m
11
Union Super is coloured RED.
The modern practice of colour-
ing premier motor fuels for
purposes of distinction has
proved eminently successful. In
the U.S.A. over 500,000,000
gallons of tinted motor spirits
were sold last year and gave
perfect satisfaction. Bearing in
mind that the RED colour of
Union is achieved by adding
only one part of an absolutely
harmless dye to over 1,000,000
parts of spirit, it seems hardly
necessary to indicate that the
Atlantic Union Oil Co. Ltd.
guarantees that the red colour
will not affect any part of the
engine in any way.
"Before the days of the red, white and blue pumps, my
life was a series of 'changes 3 ,’ 3 said Mr. Gear Lever, re-
cently. "Every hill of any importance meant that I
leave my comfortable top notch and be thrown into
second place. Since the advent of Union Red Super
Spirit, however, I am a gentleman of leisure. Hills are
matters for the accelerator, not the gearbox. The power
comes out of the tank. Great stuff this Union!
Union Red Super Spirit means added power on hills,
greater economy —and no detonation.
For your engine’s sake always fill
at the red, white and blue pump.
Ula.
t
*UNION
non-ddonaiiruf
SUPER SPIRIT
"The Running Mate of Atlantic Motor Oil
Visit our Stand No. 29 at the Motor Show in the Hall of Industries.


IT ISN'T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN'T A
. DYNAMIC
gL { « bow * Ko<* J
m.
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker.”
Moderately Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
ẅ
w
ŵ
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
A recent novelty in talking shorts was
“Curiosities” (Radio Pictures). In it are
strung together street scenes taken 25 years
ago and bits out of dead and gone movie
dramas, with all their flickers, starts and
stammers thick upon them. So recently as
1904 a busy thoroughfare in New York
contained but two alleged motor-cars among
hundreds of horse vehicles; and the develop-
ment of the pedestrian from the slow-
moving biped of the time to his nimble
descendant of to-day is a convincing de-
monstration that evolution is a continuous
process. The excerpts from defunct dramas
are almost as entertaining. The love tech-
nique of our rude forefathers was painfully
inefficient. Those were the days when lines
like “Lips that touch liquor shall never
touch mine” earned tumultuous applause
from unsophisticated gods.
“Married in Hollywood” (Fox) holds a
remarkable double for Gladys Mohcrieff.
Norma Terris has the pleasing Mon-
NORMA TERRIS.
crieff face,
her stage
in a n n erisms,
and even some-
thing of her
singing voice.
The Terris
speaking voice
is not so per-
fect, but it
tones with the
part. She is
an American
actress play-
ing in a musi-
cal show in
Vienna, where
she attracts
the youngish
ruler of one of
Europe’s 9000
departed
mythical king-
d o m s. IL e
sends his card,
is repulsed, and
next meets
her in a ’bus.
She shows
him that American girls are not like that,
and some thin-ice dialogue helps the sug-
gestion of the suggestive. Eventually they
drift apart, to meet again when she is on
in a picture at Hollywood and he, having
meanwhile lost his kingdom, walks on as a
super. The photography is above even the
usual high average, and the characterisa-
tion, though often incredible, is careful.
Reginald Dandy, who was lead here in
“Rose Marie” but now masquerades under
the name of John Garrick, is one of the
party.
“Street Girl” (Radio Pictures) presents
Betty Compson in the role of a waif with
a foreign accent whom a noble band of
indigent jazz musicians pick up on the
boulevards of the great cosmopolis—New
York, apparently. Having been assured
that their intentions are honorable, she
instals herself in their flat, civilises their
way of living, and eventually, by her sex
appeal and enterprise, places their act on
the map with the producers. The best-look-
ing member of the gang of minstrels duly
falls in love with her, but a serpent comes
into their Eden in the shape of a prince,
the heir-apparent to a mythical European
kingdom. When he implants a kiss upon
Betty’s brow in a crowded cafe the demon
of jealousy awakes in the breast of the
hero. However, like everybody else in the
cast, the serpent is afflicted with the best
intentions, the kiss being merely the homage
of a loyal subject. The thing is well done
in the spirit of light opera. More remark-
able than Miss Compson’s revelation of a
pleasant speaking voice is her violin vir-
tuosity. She plays the fiddle with positive
distinction. The Bulletin has seen so
much musical dummying on the legitimate
stage that it had its doubts about the per-
formance, but it is assured by authority
that Betty does actually manipulate the
instrument.
With a nice sense of proportion the
United Artists people compare the screen
performance of Eleanor Boardman in “She
Goes to War” with the genuine exploits of
Yera Botchkareva. Vera Botchkareva was
a horny-handed Russian peasant' woman who
for two years fought as a man in the Czar’s
legions. When the Revolution came and the
steam-roller began to go to pieces she applied
.to Kerensky for permission to form a
Battalion of Death, composed entirely of
women, hoping that the spectacle of members
of the frail sex resolutely advancing against
the German flamenwerfers would so shame
the fraternising and confabulating Russian
male army that it would advance with them.
Vera actually got 300 of her battalion into
the front line, went over the top and charged
the astonished enemy. Machine-gun fire
mowed down the devoted Amazons, but
they went steadily forward, and Vera was
gratified with the sight of an entire army
corps of Russians moving to support her.
But their frenzy speedily evaporated, and
the soldiers’ committees resumed their dis-
cussion of Utopia. Vera endeavored to
refuel the flames of war by shooting a
German in the leg, but it was useless. Her
battalion was disbanded and she arrested.
In “She Goes to War,” Miss Board-
man chases her soldier-lover to France
and gets a job washing down floors in a
canteen, a task she lias no time for. She
thereupon purloins the uniform of a
sergeant and accompanies the regiment in
an assault. The attack is prosecuted with
the maximum amount of idiotic unreality
and indifference to military requirements.
Finally Miss Eleanor shoots a German
machine-gunner and- saves the army. ine
really important thing, however, is that her
experience of Armageddon has worked a
moral revolution in the soul of a vapid
American flapper.
“Unaccustomed as We Arc” (Hal Iloach)
is described as an. all-talking comedy, but it
might just as accurately he described as an
all-stoushing enterprise. Anybody who is
contemplating booting a policeman or tak-
ing it out of his landlord or otherwise giving
his libido needed exercise may do it safely
and vicariously in this picture and have the
satisfaction of ladghing with an audience
while he does it..
The film in natural colors is still as far
to seek as the infallible weather forecast.
“The Doll Shop” (M.-G.-M.) purports to be
arrayed in the genuine hues of nature, but
when The Bulletin saw it, it was so
blurred that judgment had to be suspended.
Also, the fact that Pavlova did exactly the
same thing inevitably invited odious com-
parisons. There was no singing in Pav.’s
puppet ballet and there is singing in “The
Doll Shop,” but the marks are all in favor
of Pavlova. At one point, however, the
picture did impress favorably. Pavlova had
a talented and physically lovely cast with
her, but she had nobody quite comparable
to the sinuous charmer who dances in semi-
nudity in the picture.
The Inky Way
“Penfield” : The Bulletin’s oldest living-
contributor ? It may be a good many years
since he did contribute, but anybody who
got in before Nicholas Lockyer made a very
- early start. He wasn’t in the first number,
but he was a regular contributor of sport-
ing pars, at the end of the first month, and
thereafter looked after the paper’s aquatics
for years. (They were the days of the great
sculling champions.) Since then Nicholas
Lockyer has grown into the head of the
Australian (Customs Department, and is a
knight; half a century ago he was a junior
Treasury clerk.
“J. Eustace Garfunkle”: In attributing
the end of the “Capricornian” to the growth
of the “North Queensland Register” “8.8. ’
(B. 25/12/’29) should have let liis head go
and thrown in the Chicago “Tribune” and
the “Tung Wah Times.” It would have
sounded better and been just as accurate.
Also in miscalling the “Morning _ Bul-
letin” the “Daily Bulletin,” “B.B.” incor-
porates half the title of its defunct rival, the
‘‘Daily Record.” The old sheet must have
felt as the ex-Priminister would on seeing
himself described as “that great statesman,
William Morris Bruce.”
"Bristol B.”: All sorts of records and
performances are being talked about in view
of the approaching jubilee. Frank Jessup,
most modest of brush-and-pen men, almost
whispers his claim. In one Bulletin back
in 1912 he had five drawings. A staff man
may have scored as many on very rare
occasions, but . _ssup has never seen another
freelance do it.
With a suddenness that is not out of the
picture with him, John MacGregor, associate-
editor of “S. M. Herald,” moves out of the
Fairfax house, probably to the “Sun.” It
was MacGregor who, when T. J. Ryan was
running Bananaland, kicked that Premier’s
secretary downstairs and was fined a fiver
for it. He goes from the “Herald” just as
C. Brunsdon Fletcher moves out of the edi-
tor’s chair on a long holiday. A respectable
tipster hands the job of presently guiding the
“Herald’s” destinies to Lance Fallaw, who
only lately was brought in as leader-writer;
but according to present arrangements Wil-
liams, the financial editor, will sit in Flet-
cher’s chair while he is away. What will
happen on Fletcher’s retirement is another
matter. An Englishman, Fallaw has been in
Australia many years, editing, among other
papers, Cairns “Post” and Geelong “Adver-
tiser.”
“Bumpk”: One of the crew of the yacht
Oimara washed overboard and back again
in the Bass Strait race was Noel S. Monk,
Melbourne “Herald” representative. Monk
has packed a lot of adventure into his 25
years. He has covered most of the world’s
seas in tramp steamers, and has crossed Bass
Strait in ketches to get copy. He is a
Tasmanian and holds the Australian amateur
high-diving record.
The Palette
“11. K.” : Those who feel that way inclined
can find sample portraits of most Australian
birds in the Mitchell Library, Sydney, among
them those of our first bird painter, Thomas |
Watling. A Scottish artist, he was trans-
ported to Sydney in 1792, and was at once
set to work painting the feathered blokes
of the country. He made more than 300
paintings, which ultimately found their way
to the British Museum. Watling was an
ornithologist as well as an artist, and has
left detailed notes about his subjects and
their habits. It is a, pathetic fact that most
of the Mitchell Library birds are only-
copies. The originals of the best have been
sold elsewhere, some to America.
“F.S.”: An unlucky passenger on the
Manuka was Murray Fuller, the Wellington
(M.L.) art dealer who periodically goes to
England and collects pictures ' for sale in
the Antipodes on commission. His latest
collection was hung recently in Melbourne,
but there were few sales beyond a lucky one
to the Felton Bequest, an indifferent Orpen
at 600 guineas. Fuller had insured his stock
to Melbourne, but risked the voyage to the
Shaky Islands. At latest reports he was
patrolling the foreshore hoping to salvage
some of the £25,000 worth. An echo of the
disaster is the cabled death of H. La
Thangue. He had just recovered from an
operation, but the news that two of his
works had gone to Davy Jones is said to
have been too much for him. Fuller now
reports that both have been recovered, only
slightly damaged.


Whitest
Purest
Best
These are not idle words, they are backed by the
largest Gin Distillers in the World and guaranteed
by a reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded
for over 150 years ! Gordon’s Gin is produced in
London, England, by the original process of
distillation from the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of GORDON and
have been handed down through generations ! It
is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has the largest
sale at Home and throughout the World, having
no rival for Purity or Quality*
W
&
**£
«fi
G@ff > dl©wi ,l s
ẁ
ẃ
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Nikko”: An historic old chimney is about
to be demolished in Auckland (M.L.) with
more than usual care. This is the assaying
chimney at the rear of the Bank of New
Zealand, and when the dismantling is com-
plete each brick will be carefully scraped
and the result tested for its gold content,
which has been collecting for over half a
century.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : The news that the de Havillands
are erecting an aeroplane factory in Sydney
wherein all material used will be Australian,
only the engines being imported, is a re-
minder that the Qantas Air Service has been
doing the same thing at its factory at Long-
reach for some time past. The eight ’planes
turned out to date are being used to cover
the long n.-w. routes to the Territory border
and the Gulf, and have proved entirely satis-
factory.
* * * *
“Goldlip” : The Westralian pearling fleet,
just returned to Broome for its seasonal
lay-up, has had a better year than the
average of late, the 87 boats raising 840
tons of shell. The whole of the catch was
sold to a New York firm at £lB5 per ton,
the buyers parting up some £160,000. As
Port Darwin and Thursday Island both
report heavy catches, there are fears of a
glutted market, and the Westralians are con-
gratulating themselves on having got in early.
* * * *
“Frigid” : Steel sleepers, suggested in this
column recently as a substitute for wood,
were tried in S’Africa during the Boer War
and after. The purpose was to baffle the
white ants. The ants were baffled all right,
but the people who travelled over the steel
sleepers were severely buffeted. They lack
the elasticity of wooden sleepers, and pro-
duce an uncomfortable amount of vibration
and noise.
* * * *
“Tops”: The half-year’s wool sales have
worked out fairly well, after a shaky start.
It looks as if the average, which works out
for all sorts at about Is. a pound, will be
maintained or bettered by the end of the
sales in June. Germany, Japan and Russia
have all been solid buyers, while France,
coming in rather late, finished strongly, and
Yorkshire has shown more activity than for
some time past. Top prices for merino
fleece ran to 37d., as against 47d. the pre-
vious year.
* * * *
“Borom” : Back in the ’eighties the North-
ern Territory possessed a flourishing coffee-
growing industry, one plantation only a few
miles out of Darwin having 300,000 plants.
The quinine-tree (Cinchona calisaya) was
also cultivated, the bark being shipped to
England and Germany, where the medicinal
alkaloids were extracted, while large quan-
tities were also sent to Java and the East
Indies. At the then ruling price of 2s. an
ounce for the bark the average return per
acre was between £l5O and £l6O. Steadily-
rising production costs killed the qqinine-
growing industry, and the coffee plantations
went the same way.
* * * *
“Caveman” : About 20 years ago at Lin-
coln College, Canterbury (M.L.), the fence-
posts of the farm attached to the college
were marked with metal plates giving the
name and age of each timber used. These
records have supplied some useful informa-
tion. Oregon, 20 years old, lasted wher-
put in the ground two years; monkey-
puzzle, 30 years old, lasted no longer. Mac
rocarpa, 30 years old, remained sound fot
21 years. Robinia, 35 years old, gave 15
years’ service. Jarrah, age not known, but
apparently fully developed, has remained
good after being buried for 22 years.
❖ * ❖
“Glassware”: Tariff anomalies? Under
the Bruce tariff scientific glassware was
free British and 5 p.c. general, and the
Scullinites have not altered this item. The
number of articles enumerated, however, is
very small, and the bulk of laboratory
apparatus comes in under “Glassware n.e.i.”
—not elsewhere included. This has been
raised from 20 p.c. British and 40 p.c.
general to 35 p.c. and 60 p.c. respectively,
or one shilling per dozen articles —which-
ever yields the higher duty. The other day
a shipment of microscopic slides and cover
glasses came to hand, the invoice cost of
which was £7O. The consignee felt gloomy
at the thought of paying out £42, but a
conscientious Customs officer insisted on
counting the little bits of glass, and de-
manded one penny each on them or a total
of £550! Selbys were the importers.
$ # if *
“Finn”: Somebody in Eastern Asia has
discovered that the tiniest goldfish are
saleable products in Australian cities, and
hardly a steamer berths from China but a
whole horde of soft-footed coolies is presently
let loose on Sydney carrying their finny
wares (four to the glass container) and
stressing their cheapness at a couple of bob
or so, and their attractiveness as domestic
pets. The dusky pedlars are by way of
becoming a nuisance, and their importations
are pretty sure to perish in the first cold
snap unless they are assiduously coddled.
* * * *
“Cattle Camp”: English experts recently
pronounced a sample of Australian beef
superior to both Argentine and Scottish;
the trouble is that we produce so precious
little of it. One can get the best rump
steak or sirloin any epicure could desire
in a few favored Sydney dining-rooms,
or on a Hunter River or New England
station where they breed choice stock
and fatten them young. But the proportion
of really good to choice quality in our pro-
duction is shockingly low. Consumers, local
and overseas, demand good beef, and will
willingly pay pence per pound more for it. Even
in the United States, whose cattle on the
average lick ours hollow, they are always
starting campaigns for better beef. Aus-
tralian breeders must spend more on suit-
able bulls, they must market the cattle
younger, and they must pay more attention
to fattening—where practicable there should
be pasture improvement. Sooner or later
we will have to go in for the artificial fat-
tening of cattle, just as the Argentine, the
United States and Britain go in for it.


1
i
w m
m
. *
One half so precious
as the Goods
tkoV soli .
*
m
mm
SR
r
**r
n «* mhi o
■
t * w
r
»
- '■;■• '• ~, :"•ggg 11 |P&| \ \ '
, - . r : -•
*
m *-*7
till
1
&
ll.fi w<4 m if® W
* r i
s&*«
’ '■•'-'• ■ - --'v. w<v3Mp^’ v <^ : - •■ > a .oft. ■ **lWWwaw!wSo
SPWM
**»*#»«• "W**’**


PROGRESS
POINTS TO
nittumiiu
m. s
mm
■
£
lllill
mm
s«& % ‘ M '>'£®§p£ x £?P
44
VVw^
■
■
: .
■an
mmmmtm
m
i*. «*.-•■ **- - * —* i
wmm mbwpsm
•'.:;j^r
■
n
1 'V I ■
i
■sasß
: v
JH
I liil
i amm
■ • ■... ..
r*®
■B
44: ■■
m
■m:
lllflllflll
■llliill
M i
WHK| 4 fiBl^|
.
«s
■ *$
■lllill
■MI
; : : ■
....".' ....
<BB 11
I
.
w
1 ■
*
H
i i
■
r
*
w
1
;-; V*
,
iisi§ |gl|p
■fIHH
4
ill
■
.
4,4:
mm®
Ha
■^Hi
■ # f «
-, ,- I .V
pi | j.v^l
; ;
H IB
,
.
Fleetmaster is the obvious answer to the
need for absolute flexibility, speed and
efficiency in rapid transportation. It is a
truck which will bring operating costs
down to the lowest price per ton mile
possible. It will pay you to ask the
nearest Republic agent about it.
INTERSTATE AGENTS
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney,
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLE LTD., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22 calibre, and is
accurate up to 500 yards. 24in. barrel. Under-lever Martini action, quick and certain in extrac-
tion of empty shells. Detachable lock. Elevating ladder rear sight and protected bead front
sight. Fitted complete with cleaning rod and brush 77/6
Postage 2/6 extra. '
CARTRIDGES. —Long (actual size illustrated) 7/6 per 100
Short 5/- per 100
If cartridges are ordered with rifle, please state your nearest railway station, as cartridges cannot
be posted.
Va
PTY. LTD.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
A great drink this
RESCH’S D. A.
The famous DINNER ALE
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne bookmakers smote punters hip
and thigh at Epsom on Saturday. Only one
first favorite—Finsbury—caught the judge’s
eye, and his success wasn’t hurtful, owing to
solid support for three rivals, .j. E. Brewer
bought Finsbury from Ben Chaffey soon after
the split between Chaffey and his former
trainer, Harry McCalman; the half-brother
to Valamita lias not hitherto been a payable
proposition. In early manhood, Brewer was
Australia’s greatest rider over hurdles. He
went to England with horses for J. G. Clarke,
made a fortune as trainer, and came home
to lead a life of ease. Jack’s prads are
mostly prepared by Cecil Godb.y. He was
rather a plunger in years gone by, but bets
mildly now.
Gus Powell came into the limelight last
ydar as an owner of jumpers through the
medium of Mosstrooper, who won the Aus-
tralian Hurdle and Australian Steeple. Powell
captured the Brush Steeple at Epsom with
Seegur Ghat, a five-year-old gelding of strap-
ping proportions. Powell trained Mosstrooper
himself, but has entrusted the preparation
of Seegur Ghat to S. P. Casey, who proved
his competency with Tim Doolan, Roisel and
Epergne. In color and size Seegur Ghat
resembles his sire, Wedge (by the Welkin),
who, with the late Hugh Cairns up, van-
quished Desert Gold in a Caulfield Futurity
Stakes. As might be expected, Seegur Ghat
possesses fine pace. The Epsom victory was
most impressive; the price was 4to 1.
Irony, owned by F. W. Purdies, of Port-
sea and Patron fame, was a pronounced
favorite in a field of 22 for the Two-Year-
Old Handicap. Norman Wood was driven
nearly frantic in trying to dispatch the
youngsters On even terms. He wasted 30
minutes in a fruitless effort, and the start
was straggling. “Tich” Wilson hopped the
Chrysolaus filly Requena (7 to 1) off in front,
and she defied capture, scoring by a length
and a half from Lucky Saint (6 to 1) and a
rank outsider, Spearhurst. Lucky Saint had
tiie ill fortune to be galloped on early ; por-
tion of a hoof was chipped off, and he will
have to be thrown out of training. Lucky
Saint is a brother to San Antonio and is
raced conjointly by Ben Chaffey and M. S.
Cooper, members of the V.A.T.C. committee.
Shady Nook (9 to 2), a mare by Ethiopian
from the dam of Polytheist, registered a bril-
liant win in the Epsom Plate, to the high
satisfaction of her owner, D. Canny, secretary
of the Werribee Racing Club. Amanthus
shared favoritism with Lou Robertson’s neddy
Lowfield, the latter having been backed from
4 to 1 to 7 to 4. Lowfield. finished an; indif-
ferent third. Amanthus and Shady Nook
engaged in a duel to the distance, where the
mare drew clear and won running away. The
field included old Waranton, who kept in the
picture for more than three furlongs, but
punctured and was eased up.
. Billy Leyshon, who trains Amanthus, had
to be content with second honors again in
the Epsom Purse; liis candidate, imported
Running Wild, surrendered to the steeple-
chaser Master Meadows (8 to 1). Sup-
ported from 5 to 1 to 9 to 4, Plunderer missed
a place; Master Meadows led throughout.
Punters sank to the depths of sorrow when
a 15 to 1 pop, Lord Narcissa, took the con-
cluding event, the Apprentices’ _ Handicap.
R. Howes, who piloted Strephon in the Mel-
bourne Cup, was entrusted with the mount
on Subaltern, and H. E. Connolly’s imported
gelding always headed the quotes. He finished
outside of the money.
* * * *
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Anniversary Handicap : Balmerino ; next,
Nawallah.
Tooronga Handicap: Spanish Galleon;
next, Crowdel.
* •!" <!
There were some exciting finishes at Can-
terbury Park on Saturday, but favorites
fared badly. In two cases they were beaten
by rank outsiders —Ignore (20 to 3 ) in the
first division of the Maiden Welter and
Rozener (20 to 1) in the third division of
the Flying Welter. Randwick watchers had
a high opinion of Rozener a couple of
seasons ago, but he had shown no form for
a long time.
On his best Victorian form, Aga Khan,
winner of the Standish Handicap, would
have been regarded as a fair thing for the
first division of the Flying Welter, with
lOst. 81b. in an indifferent field, the minimum
being Bst. And he must have shown his 1 party
something or Pike wouldn’t have been
engaged. Backers were, nevertheless, shy, and
the Baverstock gelding drifted to sevens,
Greensea being favorite at 5 to 4. As it
happened, Aga Khan had the race won three
furlongs from home, winding up a length or
so in advance of Coercion (6 to 1), with
Gun Club (12 to 1) third. And the time
was lmin. 13fsec. —very good for the day.
Two or three big punters profited, but the
public was left lamenting.
Gipsy King (10 to 1), ridden by a little
chap named Britt, won the Canterbury Han-
dicap nicely from Octember (7 to 2) and
Frances Cyllenc, after doing nearly all the
leading. Octember might have beaten him
if that unlucky fellow hadn’t run out wide,
but Gipsy King finished well and the boy
came in all smiles. It was his first success
and it won’t be his last.'
ij{ s|i *i" *l*
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Gold Cup : Black Douglas ; next, Patadawn.
Moorefield Handicap: Gipsy King; next,
Our Liz.
Carlton Welter; Aorangi; next, Factor.
s': * S'
Carpeted by the A.,T.C. stipendiary stewards
over the running of his horse Shankara at
Warwick Farm, Tindall, the Sydney owner-
trainer, was disqualified for 12 months, as
also were the jockey (Webb) and the horse.
Tindall appealed, and called witnesses to
prove that he had informed them before the
race that the animal was not ready and was
incapable, of winning. He does not) seem to
have told the committee what his idea was
in starting an unfit horse, in spite of the
risk that confiding punters not previously
informed might waste their money backing it.
If lie did, the committee didn’t approve of it,
for the appeal was dismissed, amid the usual
maudlin commiserations of the PQny press.
A NUDE EFFECT.
“Does your fiancee know much about cars?”
“Good Heavens, no! She asked me if I cooled mine by stripping the gears.”
Tindall had some useful horses in his big
string (Shankara was about the best), and
did very well last season, though, his recent
operations had not been successful.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
Something novel in the way of stoush was
staged at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night,
when Ted Dargin (325 t.) and Roy Burns
(15st. 61b.) met. Both are abos, and Dargin
got the decision at the end of 15 rounds.
The close season for ’possums had effected a
big reduction in Burns’s usual fighting weight,
but he was still a large enough target to hit,
and Dargin did this to the best of his ability
with all sorts of punches. Although Burns
occasionally unwound and placed a few good
blows on the body, he was always running
second, and there were no murmurings when
the white boss crowned Dargin.
The Ins and Outs
After an excellent start —six of the best
N. batsmen were out for 198—-the South
Australians lost their grip of the game at
Sydney Cricket Ground, to finally allow the
opposition to get away with a score of 535,
N.S.W. was unfortunate in losing Bradman
early, the batsman being stunned by a return
from the field. He returned later, however,
to help the last batsmen with a very useful
47. Chief honors went to McCabe (81) and
Allsopp (136). The pair broke the back of
the attack, and were well aided by Everett
(62), Hooker (39 n. 0.) and Chilvers (52).
Whitfield bowled finely to take 5 for 106 in
the big total. In spite of steady batting by
H'one (42) South Australia collapsed, Victor
Richardson, who received a great reception,
going at 14 to an l.b.w. decision. Grimmett
(42) and Wall (33 n. 0.) carried the total
to 215. Chilvers came out with the good
bowling figures of 4 for 57, his victims includ-
ing Richardson and Pritchard. Batting again
on a sodden wicket under a drying sun,
South Australia collapsed for 100 (Whit-
field 19 n. 0.). Chilvers took 4 for 38; Fair-
fax 4 for 19.
!.! * * *'•
“Glenelg”: There promises to be some-
thing like a revolution in Australia if the
selectors overlook Victor Richardson for the
Australian Eleven. If ever a player out
of luck has been taken to the heart of the
public it is this great batsman and field.
Even in Sydney, the sentiment in his favor
is overwhelming. Few players from other
States have received such a reception as was
given him in the first South Australian innings
last week. There was more disappointment
over his failure to get going than there was
over the beloved Don Bradman’s knockout by a
return from Grimmett. As usual Vic’s work
in the field was superb, and the catch, with
which he dismissed the hard-hitting Allsopp
at silly point will live in the memory of all
who saw it.
* * * *
The Queensland-N.S.W. match at Sydney
Cricket Ground degenerated into a circus
after each side had completed the first inn-
ings. In order to allow Bradman to set a
world’s record for a first-class cricket score,
Kippax carried on the second N.S.W. inn-
ings to 759, by which time the indefatigable
Don had piled up 452 n.o. Queensland should
easily have held the home side to a first-
innings win, but the dog-tired batsmen threw
the points away, scratching up a paltry 84 in
the second knock. Their condition may be
realised by the fact that a bowler of Everett’s
class could take 6 for 23.
❖ & :Jc $
“Hotham”: Two stout old lads were on
view at Melbourne Cricket Ground when the
Cabbage Gardeners were tackling N.S.W.
One was T. Testro, 83 years old, who played
for Port Melbourne and was one of the last
of the underarm bowlers. We have had “lolly-
poppers” since—notably Walter Humphreys,
of Sussex, here with Stoddart in 1894-95,
and Hesketh Pritchard, of Hampshire —but
this most guileful form of bowling has been
sadly neglected of late years. Testro’s mate
was E. D. Heather, a pup of 81, who
represented Victoria against N.S.W. in 1871.
“Splice”: With only two more Sheffield
matches to go, Australia is burning the mid-
night oil endeavoring to anticipate the selec-
tors of the Australian Eleven. Prominent
among the new candidates is the Queensland
medium-pace' bowler Hurwood. In three
matches against South Australia, Victoria
and N.S.W., he has taken 28 wickets for
539 runs, an average of 19.25. It is a long
time since such a consistent bit of bowling
has been put up by an Australian, and if
the young man comes off against South Aus-
tralia in Brisbane he should read his title
clear, as the hymn-book says.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort” : One evident result of the
limitation of Sheffield Shield cricket hours
has been the greater speeding up of play.
There has been a tendency to linger when a
first-innings lead has been secured, some of
the sides having been disinclined to _ take
risks with a first-innings win practically
assured. This tendency can easily be
abolished, and the Board of Control should
take steps to do so by wiping off all point
scores save those, for an outright win.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: P. M. Hornibrook
topped, his 500 wickets for his club, Toom-
bul, in Brisbane the other day, the 503
actually taken costing 9.87 each. His best
season was 1922-23, when his figures were
86 for 8.73. In representative matches for
w


Effortless control
combined with
visible charm
are bringing to
Oakland Owner-
ship those who
seek the distinctive
ONVTIVO
\
fHERE is something
refreshing about Oak-
land that appeals to the
motorist who requires
the extraordinary whose
tastes run to the distinctive,
the charming, the modish.
Oakland is a car radiant
with vigor and charm —as
colorful as the moment de-
mands. Motoring is a tire-
less pleasure with Oakland’s
improved type steering
mechanism its new, large
diameter, slender rim steer-
ing wheel —adjustable driver’s
seat in the closed models
and its stout internal four-
wheel brakes that spell
security and safe driving under
all conditions.
Men know what .a fine
car it is mechanically ! Fine
motor car design is typified
by a smooth, silent engine;
by a dynamically balanced,
counter-weighted crankshaft;
exclusive patented rubber-
cushioned engine mountings;
harmonic balancer; accurately
balanced “line of drive.”
Your Oakland dealer will
be only too happy to let
you take the wheel for an
hour a wheel built for
dainty hands as for a strong,
firm grip you will then
be able to feel for yourself
the ease of handling, the
speed and power which
Oakland places at your
service.
He will explain the General
Motors Warranty and the
service facilities. He will tell
you of the convenient pay-
ment scheme available to you
under the G.M.A.C. Terms
Plan.
PRICES from
ŵ
It'S a GENERAL MOTORS Car— loo{ inside and note the differencel


n
i
I
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel,
Sydney”
Illustrated
Folder sent
on request
ŵ
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
1
-
.
• • ki swi-f
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES <a DUNN,
Write for Catalogue B.
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Gert ; c 'can you float ?"
Bert f-loat what ?''
GtEiRT S “ALONE y of course ”
Bert; Littue you platter.
me ! I couldn't P3a\se
A &EMA » ; „
The Ins and Outs
“W. G. Snort”; Someone has got to be
thrown to the demnition bow-wows by the
Australian selectors, so I am getting in
ahead of them by throwing Jack Ryder and
Ponsford over for a start. A great cricketer
in a pinch, the King of Collingwood doesn’t
seem to feel the pinching nowadays, and has
gone to the pack in bowling and fielding.,
Ponsford, a failure in England on the last tour,
hasn’t convinced anyone outside Victoria
that he is this season within coo-ee of the
Australian form which made the reputation
Larwood shattered. The team I select and
the selectors probably won’t is: Vic Rich-
ardson (capt.), Woodfull, Bradman, Jackson,
Kippax, McCabe, Oxenham, Hornibrook,
Grimmett, Hurwood, Oldfield, Love, Wall,
Whitfield and Fairfax. If 16 are to go, I’d
take a chance with Chilvers. Love is selected
because of his sound batting, and because
he is as good in the field away from the
wicket as he is at the sticks. Wall goes in
because he is the only person resembling a
fast bowler in sight.
* * # *
“Spare Wisden” : The orgy of big batting
scores which has marked the last few seasons
of Australian cricket —with a notable falling
off in some of the last Test series—has been
continued this year. For the second season
in succession, Don Bradman lias topped the
1000 in first-class cricket, and in the process
compiled the world’s record score for big
games. How much of the run-making has
been due to our indifferent bowling and often
villainous fielding cannot‘be estimated. Pro-
bably the most meritorious performance in
the line was that of Clem Hill, the first
Australian to hoist the four figures. There
were some bowlers of class about in his day.
Others who have topped the thousand are
Victor Trumpet’, Warren Bardsley, M. A.
Noble and Warwick Armstrong. In later
days, Kippax (twice) and Ryder have turned
the trick.
* * * *
“Gabba” : A good cricketer who has dropped
back badly this year is Leo O’Connor, the
Queensland captain and ’keeper. Last season
he more than deserved a trial in the Test
matches. He seems to have lost his batting
form, while there are too many candidates
for the two Aunt Sally jobs in the team for
England to give him a hope. Nevertheless,
he hag this season achieved a record held
by only one other Queensland batsman —the
compilation of 3000 runs in first-class cricket.
His average is 41.12 for 78 innings against
the best bowling of the other States and
visiting English sides. F. C. Thompson, also
out of form, is the only Queenslander ahead
of him. Thompson’s total is 3281 runs and
his average 44.94 for 80 innings.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: It is stated that G. Hele, the
Adelaide umpire who figured in all five Tests
in Australia last year and won the con-
fidence of both sides, has received an offer to
go to England and umpire there. The source
of the offer is not stated, but probably one of
the county clubs is responsible. The only
other Australian to do likewise was Vic-
torian Jim Phillips, who took 16 wickets for
the Cabbage Gardeners in Sheffield cricket
before donning the white, coat. In later
days James built up a reputation as one. of
the great umps. of. his day. How the English
umpires will welcome the advent of Hele
remains to be seen. About the only thing
the average English professional has to look
forward to after leaving active cricket is a
steady job as umpire with a county or the
Marylebonc C. C., so the market is heavily
over-supplied.
* * * t-
“Gabba”: Ironmonger, who figured for
Bananaland before taking up his permanent
quarters in Victoria —there was an inter-
lude in N.S.W., too, when he played for
Balmain —reached his 1000th wicket in first-
class and club matches while playing in
Victorian cricket during the match with
South Australia. A great bowler on his day
and a wicket doing a bit, he had taken 99
wickets for an average of 28.22 in Sheffield
games up to the end of last season, while
this year he is well over the hundred, and
several games to come. . Like Blackie, he
was ignored by Australian selectors until
past his prime. In his two Tests against
Chapman’s men last year he took 6 wickets
for an average of 51.16.
$ * * *
“Speck” : The Tasmanian Cricket Associa-
tion is bestirring itself to do honor to Joe
Darling, M.L.C., that cricket warrior of
other days having decided to retire from
active cricket. Incidentally, the retirement
is from the captaincy of a B-grade team,
which suggests that the ex-captaiu of Aus-
tralia in many a gruelling battle lias put
his love of the game before his own dignity,
the which is rather exceptional in cricketers
of his class. The Tasmanian authorities are
to hang up an enlarged portrait at Hobart,
and are suggesting to the South Aus. body
that it reciprocate by putting up a tablet
recording Joe’s services to the game at
Adelaide Oval.
The Watermen
“Topping Lift”: Australia’s oldest aquatic
carnival, the Anniversary Regatta on Port
Jackson, will be held on Monday, January 27,
which is to be observed as a holiday, the
actual anniversary falling on the previous
Saturday. The programme includes every
sport in which water plays a part, from
sailing races to rowing events. The fea-
ture of this year’s regatta will be the re-
appearance of the professional sculling races
which were once such an important item.
This should help to revive interest in a
sport in which Australia not long ago stood
supreme, and, perhaps, disclose a candidate
for the world’s championship at present held
by Londoner Barry.
* * * *
“Blade”: The races for the King’s Cup
and the Australian Champion Sculls will be
rowed at Port Adelaide on May 10, the-
event having been postponed for a week.
Mosman, holder of the Cup, will not be
represented, the famous Sydney crew having
finally and irrevocably disbanded. It is
probable, however, that Daly, who is in a
class by himself in Australia with the tiller
lines, will cox the Light Blue eight to be
chosen, as he has notified he is available.
Victoria will probably send over the heavy
Hawthorn club crew which won the Grand
Challenge Cup at Henley-on-Yarra, while the
Westralian crew has been selected and set
to work some time ago. Queensland, Tas-
mania and South Australia are still con-
sidering the matter, though all are expected
to be represented. Bob Pearce, the holder,
will again figure in the sculling champion-
ship, for which he already looks home and
dried —probably his last appearance as an
amateur.
# * * *
“Slide”: The committee of the Empire
Games to be held at Hamilton (Ontario) in
August next has forwarded particulars of
the rowing and sculling events which form
part of the programme. These comprise
single and double sculls, fours, coxswainless
fours —a ghastly idea —and eights. Two
scullers or two crews will be allowed to enter
for each event, but only one will be allowed
to start. There is little hope of any Aus-
tralian oarsmen taking part. Britain, much
closer to the convincing ground, will not
send any rowing crews, though a team of
track athletes may go.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”; The Australian champion-
ships in Melbourne at the end of the month
will finally clinch the Davis Cup selection.
N.S.W. claims are rated particularly strong
this year, and what the N.S.W. selectors
think about it is seen in their choice of
Crawford, Hopman and Jim Willard as the
State representatives. Willard and Hopman
were bracketed by the committee, but it was
decided to put Hopman first on account of
his youth, while at the same time sending
Willard down as an extra representative.
On this year’s form it is difficult to con-
sider any of the South Australians, and
unless something comes out of the bag .in
the big tourney it looks as if the Australian
team will be Crawford, Hopman, Willard
and Moon.
* * * *
“Humpybong”: If he can keep up his
form in the South Yarra championships when
the Australian meeting comes along this
month, the Queenslander Moon will make
his marble more than good for Davis Cup
selection. The tournament included the best
of the Victorian players with a sprinkling of
good ones from other States. Moon won the
singles championship in hollow fashion from
R. E. Schlesinger, and the mixed doubles in
company with Miss V. C. Anthony. Part-
nered by Gerald Patterson, he also came out
on top in the men’s doubles, bringing off a
meritorious treble.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The announcement that J. B.
Hawkes will not be a candidate for selection
to the next Davis Cup team has been received
with equanimity, even by his fellow-Vic-
torians. Good player as J.B. has proved
himself in the past, he has seen his best
days, while his interest in tennis has been
growing more desultory every year. As a
doubles player lie has had few equals in Aus-
tralia, but liis decision to follow the lead of
Gerald Patterson and hang up de racquet
and de shoe is well and truly due.
$ * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The recent Asian tour
of a French tennis team which included
Cochet and Brugnon, and played through
India, Malaya and Japan, has roused con-
siderable criticism in France. Protests have
been made to the French L.T.A., it being
pointed out that these prolonged tours are
not conducive to the true spirit of amateur-
ism. The authorities smoothed the matter
over by stating that the tour had been
approved by them “for propaganda purposes.”
None the less, the protestants are in the
right. Everyone who is in touch with
modern exhibition tennis knows that it is
impossible for players to undertake these
tours unless there is compensation for the
time employed in playing tennis which should
otherwise be devoted to working for a living.
If they do not draw money for actually
playing-, they do in “expenses” and by the
pushing of tennis requisites on the strength
of their reputation. The latter is as much
an act of professionalism as the former.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland golfers are look-
ing forward to the coming open champion-
ship, which will be held this year on the
Royal Queensland course at Eagle Farm,
estimated to be the stiffest in Bananaland.
If promises are honored the field will be a
record one, most of the N.S.W. professionals
having undertaken to come up, with a sprink-
ling from Victoria. Among the amateurs
the two Nettlefolds from Tasmania are
expected, as well as Ivo Wliitton, who won
the event in 1928, but did not defend his
title last year. J. N. Radcliffe, the local
schoolmaster who has won the State
amateur title on four occasions, will also
appear. Radcliffe is acclaimed by Queens-
landers as one of the finest amateurs'in the
Commonwealth, but his duties rarely give
him a chance of showing his paces in the
other States.
* * * *
“Brassey”: A curious; instance of. lost
form at golf is that of Arthur Havers, winner
of the British open in 1923. After that
feat, he toured America with James Ocken-
den, and since then has never made even a
decent showing in first-class company. Last
year, while chief pro. at the very swanky
Coombe Hill Club near London, he con-
tracted to tour l South America with a team
of brother professionals, having- first obtained
the club’s consent. The latter thought
better of it later, and told him he would
have to choose between his job and the
tour. He chose the latter and found it
difficult to get another billet on his return.
Most of the big professionals are now find-
ing themselves in the same fix. Clubs now
look for men who will stay on the job and
look after the members. They are getting-
chary of employing stars who are everlast-
ingly away taking part in one competition or
another.
***=!=
“Carnoustie”: Argument over the merits
of the new golf ball adopted by the American
authorities still continues to rage. Although
it has not yet been recognised by St.
Andrews, there is a-strong feeling that the
Royal and Ancient will eventually with-
draw its opposition, as it has recently done
in the case of steel-shafted clubs. Something-
will have to be done if international golf is to
continue. It is hardly reasonable to suppose
that American players will consent to play
big golf in Britain with the old ball, or that
touring Britons will take on the new pill
while playing in the States.
$ * * * .
“Carnoustie” : The British boys’ champion-
ship is gaining in popularity. This year’s
tourney was played on the Barnston links
outside Edinburgh, and, according to the
British golfing journals, discovered some
really brilliant youngsters. The entry of
172 was naturally mostly made up of Eng-
lish and Scottish lads, but there were one
American and a couple of French players,
while Wales, of which the world hears
in the golfing line, also contributed a small
contingent. The American Hamilton Wright
was a hot favorite, but was outed by a 15-
year-old boy from Loretto, one of Scotland’s
great public schools, named Miackay. The
foreigners and Sassenachs were all out by
the semi-finals, and Scott-Liddell, of Aberdeen
Grammar, fought out the final with James
Lindsay, of Falkirk. There’s an old proverb,
“Better meddle wi’ the Deil than the bairns
o’ Falkirk.” So it proved, for Lindsay won,
6 and 4. When are we going to see a
similar competition in Australia?
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: One of the cardinal
tenets of golf is that the use of the right
hand is to"be eliminated as much as possible
in making a stroke. Like most of the pundit-
made laws, the theory does not work out
in practice with every player; there. is
constantly appearing an individual who rises
superior l to the teaching of the schools. An
English journal has been quoting the opinion
of Douglas Rolland, who lias been called the
C. I. Thornton of golf. A stonemason, the
use of the mallet developed his right arm
to an unusual extent, and he ascribes his long
driving powers to the employment of the
right arm. He is recorded to have driven the
old style guttie ball. 300 yards, so what he
could have done with one of the modern
fliers must be left to the. imagination. E.
Blackwell, a plus three player at St. Andrews,
has been credited with a drive of over 400
yards with a guttie, but the claim was
never substantiated.
(Continued on next page.)


Visitors to Adelaide
WILL FIND
THE GRAND
COFFEE PALACE
AN IDEAL HOME.
Centrally Situated.
ALL CONVENIENCES —EVERY
COMFORT ASSURED.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
LARGE MOTOR GARAGE
ATTACHED.
TARIFF: £3/10/- WEEKLY.
HINDLEY STREET,
NEXT WEST’S THEATRE.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient.
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisim
Billiards,
Dancinsr.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4 j-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
aW this year.
-AND FOR YEARS TO COME YOU'LL
USE THE SAME BLADE IN YOUR
ROLLS RAZOR
rrtie ONE-Blade SAFETY
AUTOMATICALLY STROPPED & HONED
Obtainable at all hifh>class Stores. Chemists and Tobacconists. THE ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA. MENDES CHAMBERS. CASTLEREAGH STREET-
ẁ
Sold by Accessory Dealers everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves x% Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
3
PARIS
LE CHATEAU FROHTEHAC
CHAMPS ELYSIiES
54 Rue Pierre Charron
Latest Hotel of Refinement
J. G. Metrgiller. Managing Director.,
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
s’
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“G. Wash., Jun.”: America, always in the
vanguard of progress, has announced the
perfection of a motor-car which will he
steered and otherwise controlled by the
driver's voice. Details are lacking, hut the
invention seems full of possibilities. No
doubt the controlling mechanism can be
adapted to other languages _ than the
American, though, thanks to the influence of
the movies, this will hardly now be neces-
sary, in Australia at least. The most attrac-
tive aspect of the new idea is that it may
revive one of Australia’s old-time glories, the
command of blistering invective, which
passed with the bullock-teams of long ago,
in spite of strenuous endeavors by the mem-
bers of the A.I.F. to maintain the fine old
tradition.
* * * *
“Ampli.”: Germany is in the field, to
say nothing o.f on the water, with an
amphibian car, designed for the special pur-
pose of maintaining quick communication
between the mainland and the numerous
islands of the German North Sea and Baltic
coasts. The 22ft. 6in. body is boat-shaped,
covering the wheels, the 10-40 h.p. Opel
engine being carried in the middle of the
contraption. Electric lighting and starting,
with all the usual accessories of a motor-car,
are fitted. Recent experiments have shown
that the car, with a load of 12
easily averaged 18 m.p.h. on land and 7
m.p.h. in the water.. The new. invention
should prove popular in Sydney, if only for
the reason that it promises to alleviate the
terrors of the punt queues which are a
nightmare to motorists by the Beautiful
H'arbor.
* ' * * *
“Whizz”: Kaye Don, the English speed
motorist, is tuning-up for his attempt on the
world’s record of 231.362 m.p.h., held by his
compatriot Major Segrave. Whereas Segrave
and Malcolm Campbell went abroad for
their spins, the one to Florida and the other
to South Africa, Don will make his essay
at home, on the ill-omened Pendine Sands
in, Wales, where Parry Thomas was killed a
couple of years ago. He has had his first
trial with the huge new machine, and the
actual attack on Segrave’s figures is listed
for some time in February. Don already
holds the world’s record for a standing start
mile (100.77 m.p.h.), and expects to catch
260 m.p.h. when he makes the supreme effort.
$ $ * *
“Kick Starter”: Those in charge of pro-
fessional motor-cycle racing in Victoria
have decided on a new type of competition
to relieve the monotony of dirt-track meet-
ings. It is to be known as a side-car cham-
pionship, and will be run off on the lines
of the Victorian Football League premier-
ship matches. Bach competitor will i have to
meet the others at least once, and after the
first round the four leaders will compete
in semi-finals and a final, with no doubt a
challenge final to finish up. Good prizes are
being offered, and the Victorian kings of the
Puffing Billy are coming at the idea like
Aberdonians to a free drink.
* ❖ ❖ #
“Rat Yet another of the Aus-
tralian cyclists who have been cutting such
a figure in America, and Europe has cast
up in his native land in the person of George
F. J. BENNELL, skipper of the Victorian
yacht, Oimara, winner of the race from
Port Phillip to Tasmania.
Dempsey, the Sydney ex-amateur and
Australian representative at the Paris
Olympiad. In America Dempsey vied with
Harris Horder in the sprint championship
series which was finally won by Horder, the
latter being the first visiting rider to achieve
the distinction. The pair between them won
most of the 24 races in the series, Dempsey
being third on the point score list. He has
been a frequent competitor in the big Euro-
pean professional events, and returned to
America last year, racing there with, success
during the season.
* * * *
“Chain”: Hubert Opperman has had to
strike his colors to another Maoriland
rider (B. 8/l/’3O). In a spin over five
miles at Christchurch he was beaten by the
South Island crack, P. O’Shea, by a length
in lOmin. 39sec. The distance is a bit on
the short side for “Oppy’s” fancy, _ hut
O’Shea is a great distance rider, especially
on the roads, and holds the record for the
punishing 112-mile race from Timaru to
Christchurch, M.L.’s classic road event.
The best Australasian figures for the dis-
J. PRATT, the Sydney apprentice jockey,
who has had a great run of success lately.
tance are the lOmin. 15sec. put up by E.
Gibaud in Melbourne two years ago. Opper-
man had his revenge by winning a later
event over the same distance, O’Shea this
time filling third place.
Miscellaneous
“Hotham”: Three Australians long domi-
ciled in America have sent me a catalogue
containing descriptions of mechanical de-
vices which reproduce football, golf, baseball
and racing. The inventors add that, in order
to cater for British and Australian tastes,
they are perfecting an apparatus to add
cricket to the list. It hardly seems neces-
sary. In this country and in England the
flesh-and-blood cricketers too often take on
the semblance of mechanism in their manner
of playing matches to rouse a fierce desire to
see them emulated by any apparatus, how-
ever ingenious. There is one thoroughly
Australian touch about all the machines,
however. They are all based on a little
gamble, and can only be operated after the
two contestants have put a coin in the slot.
Manipulation of certain handles affects the
result, and the drinks follow as the night
the day.
* « * *
“Splash”: It is with mixed feelings that
admirers of a great swimmer will receive the
news that Andrew Charlton intends to return
to competitive swimming next season, with
a view to taking part in the Eos Angeles
Olympiad in 1932. Charlton’s races at the
Amsterdam meeting showed _ that he had
dropped much of the form which had gained
him a world-wide reputation in Australia
and later at Paris. Since then he has been
dangerously ill with rheumatic complications.
So it is highly improbable that he will be able
to pace it again with the world’s best in his
particular athletic sphere. It is his own
funeral, of course, and the affair of his guar-
dians, and it would be impertinence for an
outsider to advise. All the same, there ds
such a thing, for an athlete as well as an
actor, as lingering superflous on the stage.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: Two Maoriland expo-
nents of the craft of rolling ’em up
have lately scandalised the community by
mixing it in a come-all-ye on the sacred
green itself. It arose from a matter of
strategy. The player on the mat had not
seen eye to eye with his skip, in the matter
of putting one down. As he was about to
deliver his second wood, someone punched
him in the eye. In the fight which followed
both received injuries which, as the press
put it, “required medical attention.” Also
“objectionable language was used by both
contestants.” No wonder Frank Drake ana
John Hawkins licked the head off t*ie
Spaniard. Look at the game they were
traditionally reared on !
* * * *
“Ride Off”: This week-end will see the
departure from Sydney of the first Australian
polo side to seek honors overseas. Four
Ashton brothers, making up the Goulburn
(N.S.W.) team, are off at their own cost
to England to try themselves and their
ponies against the best that the country
which, first borrowed polo from India can
produce. Twenty-five ponies are to he taken,
and as the side will arrive in England in
February, there should be a chance of accli-
matising the mounts, since the polo season
does not open until May 1. The Goulburn
club has this to recommend it, that it was
the first, in N. S. Wales at least, to
play its ponies in bit and curb instead of the
snaffle so generally popular among Australian,
clubs. The result was seen last season when
the team put it all over the hitherto invinc-
ible Harden (N.S.W.) side in the Dudley
Cup. If the tour has no other result, it will
set us a standard for handicapping players.
So far the handicapping has been based on
Australian play alone.
❖ * ❖
“Ride Off” : Some of the English writers
on polo are deprecating the pushing out
of the pony bred for polo purposes by small
thoroughbred racehorses familiar in Australia
on pony-racing courses. In Britain there
is no demand for these runts for
racing, but the modern craze for speed at
all costs in polo has brought them into
strong demand for the game, while the tem-
perament and character so essential to a
first-class polo pony have been ignored.
Breeders are going out of business because
it no longer pays to breed ponies by thor-
oughbred stallions out of pony mares. There is
no height limit now to breed to, and small,
fast horses bring better prices than proved and
highly-trained polo ponies, the price asked
being in ratio to the nag’s galloping capacity.
'-i: * *
“Spike”: The Australian athletic autho-
rities got a bad knock when they discovered
that H. M. Osborne had failed to catch
the boat from San Francisco, as promised.
Still, with Deo Lermond and Dr. Peltzer to
hand, there were two assured draw-cards.
Then the doctor administered a shock by
stating that he had been instructed by the
German Athletic Federation not to appear
in more than three races. As arrangements
had been made to put the two stars through
their paces as often as possible in N.S.W.
and Victoria, the smelling salts were called
for again. However, with the help of the
German Consul-General and the cables, mat-
ters were adjusted, so both N.S.W. and Vic.
will see the great middle-distance expert in
action, after all.
* * * *
“Botany”: Great was the. surprise of
Dr. Peltzer to find that our athletes did most
of their running on grass. It certainly is
an anomaly that Australia, of all the countries
professing athletics, cannot boast a single first-
class cinder-track. No wonder our times are so
far behind those of Americans and English-
men, and that when our athletes go abroad
they have to learn the business of running
all over again. Peltzer has given it as his
opinion that if Jim Carlton could train and
run on cinder tracks he would be. in the
first flight of the world’s sprinters. In the
days of the professional running boom, good
cinder-tracks could be found all over Aus-
tralia. There doesn’t seem any reason why
they should not exist to-day.
jj: A‘ ❖ sjc
“Inverleith”: The first of the European
Rugby internationals provided a surprise
when France beat Scotland in Paris by 7
points to 3, or a try and a dropped goal to
a try. This is the first occasion on which
the Frenchmen have downed the redoubtable
wearers of the Thistle, who last year topped
the international table. The Frenchmen
are always at . their top on their own midden,
but the performance is a good one, never-
theless, since the Scots are reported to be
even stronger than they were last season. It
would be refreshing to see Jean Crapaud
clean un the other British sides and lift
the championship, for France is counted as
one of the keenest supporters of the great
amateur game. Such a victory would pro-
bably mean the admission of a French dele-
gate to the International Board, a distinc-
tion hitherto refused.
sit Sit Sit sit
“Birkenhead Park”: A fine old-time
athlete departed for the Elysian playing-
fields recently when Montagu Shearman, a
Judge of the King’s Bench Division in Eng-
land, heard the full-time whistle blow. He
was a double blue at Oxford, figuring in the
track t;eam and the Dark Blue XV, while
only an accident caused him to miss his
international cap. He was the 100 yards
and 440 yards champion of England in 1876
and 1880. At Oxford lie was a contem-
porary of C. G. Wade.
-!* b* v
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
has had a spring cleaning, the constitution
having been practically reconditioned, and
high time, too. The chief alterations have
been in the direction of cutting down the
personnel of the council and the executive
committees generally, which were far too
cumbrous and unwieldy. Metropolitan and
country football wilfj n future be under sepa-
rate control, while another innovation is an
appeals committee. The changes are all
for the better. The Union has been ham-
pered for years by its own cumbrous machi-
nery and the presence on its councils of
many old followers and exponents of the
game who were out of touch with modern ideas.


How You Can Eat Your
Cake and Have It, Too!
There is an old saying that “You can’t eat your Cake and have
it. Whoever originated that did not have in mind the one way
in which you can. That way is through Conservative Investment.
In “Conservative Investment” your principal invested is your
“cake,” and the interest is part of the “cake” that comes to you
regularly and that you can spend or save as you choose and yet
have your same prin9ipal which comes back to you at a definite
time. You can eat your cake and have it, too. It is through
conservative investment alone that you can build an investment
fund that will assure an independent future.
If you are seeking safety and yet a satisfactory income from your
savings, the investment service of The Commercial Credit Corpora-
tion of Australia, Limited, will solve your problem.
We have issued a booklet , “Investment or Specula-
tion—Which I)o You Choose?” that explains
the difference between investment and specula-
tion. Everyone should read it. We will gladly
send'you a copy free and without obligation.
CALL, WRITE OR ’PHONE 8221 1.
SEND FOR YOUR COPY TO-DAY!
fSSB&SSEOi
tin
of J\.ixstraKa. -CimitecL.
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send me your booklet, “Invest-
ment or Speculation—Which Do
You Choose?”
Name
Address
e
V QNV
am aoo)
Of course you want a car of your own
when you come to England. Here is a
plan whereby we will sell you any car,
and it is fully yours to use how you like,
where you like, as much as you like, and
we will buy it back from you in three
or six months time if you wish. And we
will tell you in writing the price we will pay
for it before you order it. So you will not
have to sell it in a hurry, and at a sacri-
fice. If you like, this car will meet the
boat; one of our instructors will be lent
to you for three days free of charge if
you want him; and your driving licence
will be ready in one of the pockets in the
car. Write for full particulars now and
get all this fixed up in advance. We
originated this plan and no imitators
offer anything approaching our terms.
è
ai/wo 4 venoms
BURLINGTON GARDENS
OLD BOND ST. LONDON W.I
JVorld distributors of the Blackburn Bluebird Light Aeroplane
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
A Camel
travels 11 days, SAFELY
on ONE water supply***
X
/
Your Car,
500 miIes,SAFELY on ,
ONE complete lubrication J
iRiVE a camel beyond his “lubrication” limit
and there is trouble. So it is with a motor
car. Then you meet the irresistible forces of
wear and tear and friction. You pay repair
bills of which 80 per cent are due to this one
easily avoided cause.
Of course you will not take this chance when
Alemite the scientific method of complete
lubrication —may be had so easily and econom-
ically. For with Alemite, used regularly every
500 miles, the chief sou[r!ce o|f mechanical
trouble is removed.
Alemite forces lubricant, under tremendous
pressure, to every Vital Chassis Bearing on
your car. It pushes out old, gritty grease, forc-
ing in clear, clean, solidified oil. That’s why 95
per cent of all American cars now manufac-
tured are equipped with Alemite.
We suggest you ask your nearest dealer or
write for full particulars.
What Alemite-ing Does
for Any Car
1. BEARINGS: Genuine Alemite High Pressure
lubricant forced into every vital chassis bear-
ing with Alemite equipment. Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thor-
oughly flushed out by a special Alemite process.
New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced in. Every
2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite
Spring Bath. They are sprayed with special
Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil —every 500
miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run
smoother.
Genuine Alemite-ing —every 500
miles—costs no more than ordinal,
inefficient “greasing.” Then notice
how your repair bills decrease; how
much better your car runs.
é
ê


ë
Kijf
■MI'S
/ 0 / , *”* , ‘* , \ mi
/•■••:•;, r ,-;;;
«.:i-
I
( jSfcifeJ
ft
\ WW L
S' l 'rt’V ,'( !
If 'l.' '‘l* |
f '!• 1 '[> 'I fl «
h ,V' ( -\b <1 \
iiy /r 1 N. V')
s **••••** i v y[ aj v \ y
>v< — y
♦
/ i; J :, - j, y ii>
' ~* V,. i
'' ,;:$L Tr” ‘ 'ri'i'i'r 'i : i'; A, \
t m
ifi \H’ V" tv
»i| ( 'mi »», ’* a'• , ( y «m» i|»
\ VrfWf .1"
~••••■>l / <!’ <! ii >,
* «y< '-I'- '


52 Madleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(.Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes Jrom G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: ’’Fifmac,”
S3 r dney.
St. George
New Zealand*?
Greatest Delicacy-
—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny incb-long fisb,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however,* can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word "delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
i
1
|tt*r
■jmuieyvi
leAoa
jspufj
è
ToH.M.
George V
Vintage 1920.
CH AIVIPAGIME
é
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Li mitatl
SYDNEY.
c HAM P AC N't
'JarlesHei<lsie»>
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asreriis—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kroft chease?
Tirranna was disappointing. The opening
day was notable for dust and the poorest
attendance for years. Perhaps it has grown
too citified,, with its totes and smootli-
plumaged visitors from Sydney. Anyway,
this year the entries were unusually few,
only 26 the first day, while the attendance
fell to 500. There were three women owners,
Mrs. Alan Binnie, Mona McLarty and Enid
Falkiner, whose nags were entered in the
name of Bettington. Because of her father's
recent death she had intended not to race
them at all; as it was, her Personne Blanc
won the Bachelors’ Bag, and had a game try
against Denis Allen’s Zeeland for the Tir-
ranna Cup. Mona McLarty’s Sherramoor
carried off the Gidleigh Plate, while Daayah
won the Ladies’ Bracelet for Mrs. Binnie.
So president Lucien Faithful!’s wife handed
over at least one appropriate trophy at the
end of the second day. She dressed for her
act in soft black satin brightened by a
flower-spattered georgette vest and a relieved
look, the latter due to the improved health
of daughter Mrs. Irwin Maple Brown, whose
illness had kept her away the first day.
The Lucien Faithful Is, of course, had a
house party, and so did the Irwin Maple
Browns and the J. C. Dalgleishes, of Pom-
eroy. But house parties were not very num-
erous. Goulburn is feeling glum over wool
prices, and General Depression has a word
even at picnic races. Still, Bill Moriarty,
the popular steward of the course, looked a
sight to chase dull care away. George Lam-
bert, of the Communist bear'd, waggled it
debonairely. Incidentally, he is pocketing
some of Goulburn’s money. Campbell Gib-
son, descendant of that Andrew Gibson who
le.nt. the paddock on which the first local
picnic race was run, has commissioned him
to do a portrait.
Tirranna is a pretty course, and. although
the grass was burned, the trees looked cool, and
the “colonial air” beloved by etchers is given
by the old Tirranna homestead and church.
But there is not much left that the fore-
fathers of the hamlet would recognise. And
this year stipendiary-steward Devlin and
starter Bryant flew to the course!
Before the first race was run on Thursday
the place looked like a tulip bed with the
gay raiment of summer girls. Flowered chif-
fons, patterned silks and fresh-looking linens
caught the light and seemed one with the
hot, blue sky. # Small Pamela Faithfull was
like another little buttercup bobbing in her
yellow hat between mother and father, Dr.
and Mrs. Geoffrey Faithfull. A grown-up
wearer of the quarantine shade urns Mrs.
Max Chisholm. But there was no isolation
in the gunyah where she and her husband
dispensed hospitality. Colonel Rutledge,
absent on the first day, turned up on the
second, and with his mother and Captain
and Mrs. Broadbent kept up the family
reputation for kindliness to the stranger
within the gate. All the smiles of Moss
Vale seemed gathered about the Elwyn Blom-
field family, who with the Norman Gibsons
bit the mid-day snack in Campbell Gibson’s
Tirranna gunyah. Shirley Dent, flashing by
in a red-and-black frock made with the high
princess waist, made an impression; and
Jean Anderson, in a sprigged cotton suit
and a bright red hanky as freely as
Captain Ividd might the Jolly Roger, was a
slim attraction; Mrs. Jim Gordon’s first
day’s attire seemed to shriek defiantly “Now,
where is that bull?” but on the second day
cool white and green suggested tranquillity.
White and blue were the slumbrous-eyed
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s special ravish-
ment, and Nan Garvan, who was with her,
hoisted a gallant orange scarf. There was
a burnt-orange frock worn by Mrs. Norman
Gibson to which tliis Letter would like to
give a word, as well as to the country lasses’
complexions, just 99| p.c. better than the
over-sunned cbeeks of many of the Sydney
visitors.
Night-time gaieties were started by the
Harold Prells, who gave a dance at their
home about 20 miles out of Goulburn. On the
same night the Royal Hotel was clamorous
in farewell to the four Ashtons—Jim, Bob,
Geoff and Philip—who are leaving on Satur-
day to play polo in England. Each of the
four brothers had to make a speech in reply
to all the jolly things said about them. The
dinner itself was a work of art. The courses
represented chukkas, and the menu-cards
were tied up with the Goulburn Polo Club
colors and decorated with a kookaburra, ’roo,
native-bear and emu. Now the brothers are
wondering whether the four animals were a
delicate compliment to their own appearance.
The two big dances on Thursday and
Friday after the races were held in the
showground pavilion. This is nearly two
miles out from the town, but as the moon
was bright and the night air fresh there were
no complaints over the motor run. Scarls
had transformed the corrugated-iron barn
into something that resembled a festive
courtyard. Gay awnings and window-boxes
suggested windows even when they weren’t
there. Innumerable golden lights glow r ed
like fireflies in a forest of gold streamers,
while garlands and ropes of golden flowers
stretched from wall to wall. Into this golden
scheme Mrs. Bill Litchfield toned perfectly
in her amber georgettes, while Rhyl Barclay
Haley was a rich contrast in burgundy laces.
Burgundy and gold lame was effective on
Mrs. Geoff Faithfull. Jade lace, flounced
Marjorie Osborne, and I'olly Moriarty was
a swirl of pink tulle. Doreen Paine flut-
tered white chiffons, and Molly McLeish was
like an early primrose. Helen Munro, a
pocket-edition Queensland belle, stirred the
fancy in lilac lace traced in green ; it swept
to the floor, and wore its sleeves tight and
long. Ethel Campbell, Beryl and Marjorie
Osborne, Frena Grace and Mrs. J. H. Baird
were other nominations for the best-dressed
dancers.
If the woman teacher’s lot in this State
is not a happy one it won’t be the fault of
Eita Cunning-
ham, the girl
in this pic-
ture. An en-
thusiastic
member of
the Teachers’
F e d e ration,
she is widely
known as a
member of
council who
ardently cham-
pions the wo-
men’s interests,
par ticularly
the principle
of equal pay
for equal
work. Of re-
cent years she
has taken a
spirited inter-
est in politics.
Labor is the
brand she favors, and she has been a
delegate to several A.L.P conferences.
She is a born controversialist. At
school she led debates among her class-
mates, carried on the practice at the Teach-
ers’ College, and later became a star mem-
ber of the - Sydney School of Arts Debating
Club.
This, Letter decided at the last minute
not to attend the Royal wedding in Italy,
and made arrangements to visit the Motor
Show instead. Picking up a battered but
rainproof taxi on the Quay in Saturday
afternoon’s downpour, it swooped down on
the million pounds’ worth of gleaming lac-
quer, streamline bodies, fabric sedans, and
raffish sports models that fill the pavilions
with an air of plenty in a lean year. But
the wealth wasn’t all in the painted ’buses;
quite a bit strolled along the avenues or
gathered around the camping-out models
with their roomy seats which can be turned
into a bed by simply letting down the
high front-seat back. With these go also a
table and, of course, stools.
Apple-green is the favorite color for sports
models. They can so easily leap , from the
road and hide in a tree top when an inter-
fering traffic cop is sighted. A long, low,
piratical-looking Willys-Knight was in this
spring coloring, with ivory running boards;
a scarlet line was cunningly introduced to
give extra dash, and the door was enamelled
in a check design of green and ivory. In the
face of that, who wants to lift up the
bonnet and poke an inquiring nose into
sleeve-valves and such-like? A salvia-red
Austin seven with a fabric body warranted
like a thermos to keep you hot or cool for
24 hours had an inspiring effect. It was a
car to live up to, and made this Letter feel
for its lipstick and its puff.
One salesman explained the absence of
glittering ornaments in his cars. “Oh, yes,
there are vanity cases arid cigarette canoes
to go with our model, but we do not place
them on exhibition here. Some visitors are
so forgetful!” But really the souveniring
appears to be so impudent that you wouldn’t
be surprised to hear that somebody had
flown off with the clover-pink aeroplane
that perched on the one dry spot outside
the pavilions. There were Whippets and
Chryslers, Buicks and Hups each more
splendid and vivid in color than the last.
There was an impressive black and silver
sedan just the right setting for the rich
man’s widow at the funeral, and near by
stood a little sister called the Black Hawk —
rustic sophistication in a green bonnet.
The lorries and those little pie-carts and
municipal waggons fastened to side-cars
always included in the impedimenta of the
men who tar the streets caught this writer’s
fancy. There was a cream lori'y surely
designed for a milk run, and a green one
with red wheels that would look just right
piled with cabbages and carrots.
Frank Leverricr, Iv.C., saw liis third daugli-
ter, Bobs, to the altar of St. James’s on a soft,
still night of last week. Leslie Herron, of
Strathfield, was on hand to claim the _ girl,
who surrendered in a soft swirl of ivory
chiffon tulle and lace spattered with seed
pearls. A coronet of orange blossom banded
the thick mop of pretty hair, which is a
feature of both Bobs and sister Yyonette,
the latter the youthful hostess at the recep-
tion at the Australia. Toning with the
bride’s shower of frangipanni and stephan-
otis were the golden callas and begonias car-
ried by ’maids Olga Lee-Brown and Jeanette
Herron. This Letter particularly liked their
frocks of moire, the shade of thin amber
glass, and their hats of fine straw and lace
in the same coloring. A frock like a spring
morning, tender green and starred with dew-
drops in diamente, supported Yvonette.
Joan Norton, only daughter of the late
John, of “Truth,” was married so quietly
that the affair jumped into the spectacular.
Joan, who has been many times abroad and
has visited many lands, flung the hanky
finally to a Mr. Ben Shashoua, who was
born at Bagdad, but is now said to be a
London stockbroker. He. is as expert a
dancer as Joan herself, but the two have
but one thought—the domestic life. They in-
tend, so the cable says, to live far enough
away from London to keep horses, of which
both are fond. The marriage took place
at the Henri etta-stfeet registry office, and
the bride kept out the January cold with a
grey squirrel coat over a grey morning frock.
The famous flapper-at-sixty actress Fannie
Ward and the Honorable Anthony Vivian
were the attendants. According to the regis-
ter Shashoua has been married previously
and is 34.
A pretty country girl who sought St.
Stephen’s last week was Jean Mackenzie, of
Burren Junction. Satin and georgette end-
ing in a froth about the ankles formed the
wedding garment, which was further adorned
■with a spreading tulle train. Enid Macken-
zie and Phyllis Main followed in anemone-
pink chiffons, pink slippers and pink felt
hats. Dr. Arthur Main was the bridegroom,
and the cake was cut at David Jones’s,
bride’s mother hostessing in an ensemble of
beige and blue.
A daughter of the late Harry Warren
Hammond, of Hughenden, North Queens-
land, was married at Bexley by her uncle,
padre R. B. S. Hammond, and is now Mrs. R.
Fairley. Harry Hammond, the bride’s
brother, was for some time A.D.C. to Queens-
land’s former Governor Nathan.
Thelma Allen, daughter of the V. F.
Allens, of the Bank of N. S. Wales at
Gunnedah, slipped into the kirk at Manly to
qualify for a honeymoon with Reg Vaughan.
This bride fashioned her own frock and
chose palest pink chiffons which spread and
curled like a prize chrysanthemum about
her ankles. A pale pink cloud floated from
her head, and there was a bouquet of frangi-
panni and orchids for the two Nile-green
’maids to attend to. Padre T. J. Williams
blessed the vows, and over 100 guests gath-
ered at the Manly Golf Club.
The old King’s School chapel was the
scene of the christening of the son of an
Old Boy last Saturday. The Rev. E. M.
Baker made a .Christian out of John, the
small son of Captain and , Mrs John
Anschau, who was Lucy Allen, of Wall-
roonga. This chapel is a most interesting
example of the • mason’s craft. In the riot
of carving which embellishes the casements
and cornices, the carver has never repeated
a design, nor are any two of the carved
heads on the pew seats alike. The centen-
ary of the old school is rapidly approaching,
and a multitude of descendants will share
the loaves and fishes that day.
When Chris Leo Gelling, of Manly, went
to Kosciusko he got himself engaged to Dot
Beardsmore, of Croydon, the girl ski-cham-
pion of the State.
Violinist Dagmar Thomson, resigning her
appointment ‘at the Con., will enter into
matrimony with Rupert Scammell on Janu-
ary 29 at St. James’s. It’s to be an even-
ing wedding, and sister Helen, Brenda Brown
and Joan Higgins are to be the ’maids.
Rupert is building a house on the Georgian
plan at Clifton Gardens.
Leonore Roche, who has been treasurer
for the Catholic Women’s Association for
eight years, is off to England by the Chit-
ral on the 22nd. She was the subject of a
gay and most representative party at the
club rooms one night last week, when presi-
dent Mrs. John Barlow handed over a
leather dressing-case and a bunch of crim-
son roses. Dean Crowley dropped in to say
a few words of appreciation, and there
was music. Sister Kathleen travels with
Leonore.
Five weeks ago Leo Ryan, of the R.A.A.F.,
flew over from Melbourne to Sydney to
visit his younger brother Gerald, a solicitor,
who had been smashed up in a motor acci-
dent. Last week the lad’s father, a veteran
of the N.S.W. Education Department, sped
from Sydney to Melbourne in an Air Force
’plane to see the last of Leo, who was picked
up dying from the ruins of his machine at
Laverton —his first crash and his last. The
bright young man distinguished himself at
Duntroon, and guided the party that brought
in the bodies of Keith Anderson and his
mate. An R.A.A.F. detachment helped to do
the last sad offices at Rookwood.
Mrs. Ben Osborne, who was drowned at
Narooma last week, was a Miss Dickenson
before her marriage to the owner of Red-
bank, which is one of the State’s show
stations. She was in Sydney for the greater
part of last year—-at the Trelawney-street
flat of the late Justice Matthew Stephen’s
widow. A keen fislierwoman, it Avas in pur-
suit of her hobby that she lost her life. Mrs.
Henry Forsythe, a friend of the Hope and
Ben Osborne families, met her end in the
same , way some years ago.
Elsie Segaert, who for a while was organ-
ising secretary for the Country Women’s
Association, is leaving Sydney on March 12
by the Eridan as courier to a party of 12
Australians who wish to tour Central
Europe. The tour has been organised by
Australian Travel Service, Ltd., and Prague,
Vienna, Budapest and the waltzing Danube
are specially featured on the bill-of-fare.
Country and town friends will roll up in
force at the Australia on Thursday to the
Eleven-o’clock in honor of Mrs. Jimmy
Ashton, who goes to England to watch her
four sons play polo. The party has been
arranged by Mrs. Matt Sawyer and members
of the Country Women’s Association.
There was a big crowd at the Prince
Edward on Friday to see Maurice Chevalier
in “The Love Parade.” Dan Carroll was
a front-seater, liis blonde wife on one side
of him, his mother, down from Brisbane, on
the other. Elder brother E. J. has dashed
Off to pull some more theatrical plums out
of the New York pie. With him have gone
Mrs. Carroll and the younger son.
It is not only in the numbers rushing its
doors that the N.S.W. Divorce Court is
putting up new records. It is probable that
the pyramid of costs built up in the Bake-
well case will be exceeded early this year;
the claim of a member of a wealthy stock-
dealing family against an affluent co-re.
for £lO,OOO will strike a new level in damage-
claims. Besides this, there are at least five
pending cases in which incomes of over
£2OOO are mentioned; and that generally
means heavy costs. Three other cases are
pending in which women are seeking to
recover a little pin-money from wealthy
women who have stolen their husbands.
An Australian invention, latex work, is
likely to prove popular. It uses rubber in
a soft form for decorative purposes on vases
and other
ornaments ; it
can be washed
and does not
chip. Samples
were shown in
the Arts and
Crafts sec-
tion of the
Royal Art
Society’s! show
a couple of
years ago, and
this year the
inventor, Myra
Blair (Mrs.
V. John Som-
merhoff),went
to England at
the invitation
of Newton and
Winsor, who
have now
acquired the
rights on a
royalty basis satisfactory to the lady. An
exhibition of the work was opened at
Australia House last week. Marketing latex
was not the only reason of Miss Blair’s Lon-
don visit; she is giving a final revision to
a collection of letters of early settlers which
an English firm is shortly to produce.
There’ll be a bishop in the Solomons one
6f these days. When Bernard Mercer went
back to Borneo from a recent furlough in
England, it was as an archdeacon. Back
when Bernard was a curate in London, to
the scandal of many of his friends he mar-
ried an actress suddenly and appeared with
her on the stage. Then there was another
just-as-sudden change—the pair entered a
missionary college, chiefly to learn something
of medicine and surgery, and then began their
work in Borneo. The island is really now
so civilised that this time the Archdeacon
took his mother back with him. She, by
the way, was the daughter of a clergyman
in Jamaica when she married a naval man,
so she knows something of missionaries.
OVERHEARD.
Blonde: "I met Billy at the Motor Show.”
Brunette : “But he’s broke —he can’t buy a new
car! ”
Blonde: “Oh no, he’s just restoring his, credit
by inquiring all about the most expensive ones.”


MISSING BENEFICIARY.
EORGE MACKIE, son of Robert
Mackie, deceased, and formerly of
Auckland, New Zealand, or any Person
knowing the present whereabouts of the sain
George Mackie, is requested to communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
at Hawera, New Zealand.
Educational.
WOODCOURT COLLEGE,
WARDELL ROAD, DULWICH HILL.
Day and Boarding School for Girls.
NEW TERM, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4.
Prospectus and Terms on Application.
The Principal, Miss Bessie C. Forster, B.Sc., will
be at the school by appointment after 27th January.
Missing Friends.
rVCONNOR, BRIDGET TERESA, aged
now about 60 years, born at Ballan, Vic-
toria, will hear something to her advantage
by communicating with NATIONAL TRUS-
TEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
Pretty Girls
Made
Unattractive
WHAT woman can
look dainty in a
bathing costume if
disfigured by growths of
superfluous hair? How
best to get rid of such hair
is a perplexing problem
for many women. Razors
only make the hair grow
coarser and thicker, and
old-fashioned depilatories
are most unsatisfactory.
More than three million
women have found a>
satisfactory solution in
Veet. Simply spread
Veet on as it comes from
the tube, wait a few min-
utes, rinse it off and the
hair is gone. Satisfactory
results guaranteed in
every case or money
returned.
2(6 and 4/- (double size)
per tube at all chemists.
REMOVES HAIR LIKE MAGIC
ê
A New Set of
LODGE
PLUGS
is a wonderful stimulus
to your engine.
Model C. T., as illustrated.
Suitable for most American
Cars.
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.,
RUGBY, ENG.
r
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ë
■
V
Children’s Table
UN for the Children is
Mabel Lucie Attwell’s
gift to the Shelley tableware.
Here a milk-jug that pretends
to be an elf, there a sugar-
basin that might be one of
Peter Pan’s mushrooms—a
laugh in every plate and the
cunningest skill in fashion-
ing ware that little spoons
and forks may pick their
food up easily.
TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
- China
Nursery Ware
Zy Lucie Attwell
& Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• AITISH MADE
IN CASE OP ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WHITE TO
ē
fiVS*\t mTI
1
*
fli^nhiMra
PrevmwChttm
Unless your engine is the i|
exception to the rule—the \
rare one - in-a - hundred—
it is losing power, making j
0
r:
carbon and eating petrol,
because of a rust-clogged
'iff) cooling system.
You know nothing about it Jt.
because you can't see inside
your radiator —you can’t see'
Jthe rust lodging in the narrow.
a
passages preventing free circtt-yj®
lation and ultimately causing
leaks.
•KED
er-' g 9 DIAMOND
liquid
SOLVER ,
ferrets out all rust, make* your
radiator as clean as a whistle, and
prevents further rust from forming.
In addition it
;Ob> STOPS LEAKS
immediately, positively, harmlessly.
Put Liquid Solver in your radiator
NOW, whether it leaks or not. Put
in three or four times a year.
3/6 per tin.
Your garageman can supply you V
—if unobtainable, write us and we
will see that you are supplied.
Made by j
the Makers
Leggett
Pty.
ĕ
i
of BULL
DOG GRIP
Products
Ltd.
Sydney and Melbourne.


ROOM 500
PLEASE”
0 JM
The comfort and success of your
visit to Adelaide, whether for a
week or a year, is assured when
you stay here. Yale locks on all
doors, fireproof, hot and cold
water in every room. Bed and
Breakfast, from 6/6.
><jROSVENOR
cAlelaides Finest Unlicensed Jiotel
Opp. Railway Sin. Norfh Terrace. ADELAIDE
ę
ě
Food
Retd. trade Mare.
The way
of a mother
“After struggling to keep
to the breast only, I
decided to try Benger’s,
together with breast feed-
ing. The result was won-
derful. I carried on, giving
alternate feeds of Benger’s
and the breast. He
straightway became a con-
tented and happy baby.”
Write for booklet to BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Tv centre of Queens/onc/s
' c// stt ngu/shec/ Soc/o/ Life.
emorn
lintel
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
Merry Christmas!
BY ARTHUR GIROOM
IIIUS'TDATED BY HAPPY J. WEXTON
CHAPTER XXV— (Continued).
WHEN the ambulance car had con-
tinued on its journey to the
Eldeetil Waterhole, Alf Eden
felt deep relief. Quartpot, his horse,
still plodded easily along. He seemed
to know the track very much better than
his rider did. Wasn’t he going home?
Wasn’t he going back towards the south-
eastern end of the great run where he had
been foaled, where he had run wild for
three years? He stepped off the track when
it took a scarcely perceptible bend, and
plodded on through the sticky mud in a
straight line towards the homestead. Per-
haps three hours later he stepped on to
the main track again. He had picked out
a short route through the darkness and
had saved between eight and ten miles;
and the man on his back, riding unsteady
with sleep, was not aware of it.
At the first glimpse of dawn Eden dis-
covered with surprise a flicker of light
well ahead. He had no idea he was so
close to the homestead. Judging by the
pace of his horse he expected at least
another ten miles. He swayed in the saddle,
made an effort to rouse himself, and par-
tially succeeded in casting the heavy feeling
from him.
Suddenly the horse, which had, been
moving stiffly, head down, pricked his ears.
He had seen the light ahead. He neighed
and plodded on.
Eden did not bother to ride across to
the stockyards to unsaddle, as was the
custom. He unsaddled before the silent
Men’s Quarters, and watched the horse lie
down. He wondered whether it would ever
rise again. The greying starlight glinted
in a near-by water-trough.
The slight dawn breeze refreshed him a
little and he found that the action of
walking roused him a little further. He
was not so tired, after all, though he felt
stiff-limbed and extraordinarily heavy
movement.
It was unusual for a light to be burning
in the house so early in the morning; and
he reasoned that they would be eager for
news of the ambulance car. He would let
them know as much as he knew.
Helen Delaney and Mrs. Hinton were
waiting for him. Helen came down the low
verandah, carrying a lantern.
“Who is it?” she asked tensely. “Is it—
somebody from the camp?”
“Yes, it’s me, . Alf Eden,” he answered
dully. “I rode in.”
“Did you see Mr. Hinton or the ambu-
lance car?”
“Yes!”
“What is the matter?”
“A bit of an accident. Jim Walters. His
horse fell with him on camp. He got a bit
crushed like—nothing very serious—but we
reckoned he’d need a doctor.”.
There was a heavy silence. Helen Del-
aney raised the lamp so that it shone on
Eden’s face. It showed little more than
the growing daylight could show.
“What exactly happened?” she demanded.
“You’re not telling me the whole truth.
You’re keeping something back.”
Within a minute he had given a fairly
accurate description of the accident. His
story was a little rough and callous, but
he put the injuries on the light side.
“They ought to be back here before
long,” he ended up. “To
get him to a doctor to have
his ribs patched up. That’s
about all. I reckon I’ll hop
off for a snooze now.”
“Oh yes, I’m sorry,” Helen Delaney’s
voice was gentle. “Thanks—thanks very
much.”
He approached the kitchen. The cook
was moving about and started at his entry.
“What the blazes?” he shouted. “Where
did you drop from?”
“Got a nip about the place?” Eden asked.
“Yes, yes; and cigars, too. Merry
Christmas, lad! You look all out for a
sleep.”
Alf Eden swallowed the whisky and
flopped down on the floor.
The cook started. “Steady, lad!” he
exclaimed. “Don’t die there. Wait till I
fetch a stretcher.”
“To Hell with the stretcher!” Eden
snapped. He spread out his arms and went
to sleep.
> For a few minutes the cook stood looking
at the sleeping form, then rolled it well
out of the way under the meat-safe.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Sandy Gets an Idea.
Jim Walters’s mind struggled through a
dim mist in which a white figure moved
in silence and peculiar looking objects
loomed towards him, and then faded again.
Vague sounds floated about.
He hung weakly in a state of semi-
consciousness for a further two days before
he discovered the white figure was a nurse,
and one of the dark blobs coming and
going was Sandy Jackson with his right
arm in a sling; the other was Dr. Lowndes.
He watched and pondered silently for a
long while before he found strength to
speak, wondering dully whether Sandy knew
he was conscious.
“Sandy!”
Sandy spun round. His face was swathed.
His nose peeped from criss-crossed band-
ages which ran over his ears. His neck was
bandaged. He resembled a lost war.
“Jim!” His voice was eager and un-
certain. “Did you speak?”
“What’s the time, Sandy?”
Sandy was transformed.
“ ’Arf a mo, Jim. I’ll find out. My
oath, I will. Just you lay there!” He leapt
to the door and disappeared. Back through
the passage his voice floated. “Hey, Nurse,
where’s the doctor? Hey, Nurse, Nurse, he’s
talkin’—dinkum! Strike me woolly, he’s
talkin’! Wants to know the time!”
The nurse’s voice sounded softly in eager
reply and her light footsteps tapped beside
Sandy’s clumsy beat. She entered the room,
placed a cool hand upon the injured man’s
forehead. He closed his eyes. His head
felt heavy—he was wandering—wandering
—and it was strangely dark; but Helen—
she had returned from somewhere. He was
struggling to place her—ho, yes! A voice
which was soothing, but was not hers, spoke
to him.
“How are you feeling—better?”
He opened his eyes again and saw them.
He was still not quite clear.
“What’s wrong?” he asked faintly.
“You fell. But you’fe going to get all
right now.”
He went to feel his head with his hand
but discovered his arm had lost all its
power. He could not move it. A sudden
twinge twisted his body.
“No, you must lie still,” the nurse warned.
“Your bones haven’t knitted yet—properly.”
“Bones?” Jim Walters gazed vacantly at
Sandy. “Where’s Helen—Miss Delaney—
Hinton, and the rest of them?”
“You ain’t at the homestead, James.”
Sandy’s smile was a happy one. “You’re
in hospital—in Warkon. You been here
for donkey’s years.”
Jim Walters stared. His brain refused
to do its job clearly.
“Swordplay fell with you on camp a
couple of days before Christmas—an’ it’s
Wednesday the—what’s the date, Nurse?”
“The fourth of January,” the nurse re-
plied.
“Longest sleep ever you had, James. We
close-up had to feed you by wireless.”
Dr. Lowndes padded into the room and
intervened. She pored over him.
“I’m proud of you,” she declared. “But
now you’re to have a long undisturbed rest.
Nurse will attend to you. Come on, Jack-
son—l’ll be glad of the day it stops raining
and you’re out of my charge. Come and
tell me more about those wild black-
fellows!”
As Jim Walters’s mind grew restful again,
he gradually discovered that there was a
nice, warm, soothing sound outside. It was
raining heavily.
When he woke next it was morning, and
the rain still continued, though lighter. He
recognised it at once. He could turn his
head a little, though it seemed almost to
roll away beyond his control. He had no
power in his neck. Before many minutes
Sandy was beside him.
“How’s she goin’, James? You’re lookin’
terrible pasty.”
“Sandy.” Jim Walters’s voice was
puzzled. “Tell me—just the ins and outs
of myself, will you? I can’t quite see
where I stand—or what happened.”
“Well, it was this way,” and Sandy
drew a deep breath and plunged. He em-
phasised the tale with many lurid adjec-
tives to the glory of “them ambulance
jokers.”
“Where are they now?”
“Buzzed off back to the ’Curry,” Sandy
replied. “They don’t wait nowhere, them
birds. Give ’em a wink of sleep an’
they can go for a week on nothin’. It’s
been rainin’ on an’ off ever since you got
skittled, James. Hinton had to ride back
to Boolgooroo after Christmas and we ain’t
been able to talk to him since, an’ his
flamin’ old car’s still here. The creeks was
all up an’ he couldn’t get his car across ’em
at all. See, it weren’t an ambulance car,
Jim. You can take them damn things any-
where, barrin’ up holler logs. It’s rainin’
like blazes outside now—you’d never think
of droughts now if you was to see the
water an’ mud round the landscape. Good
steady rain, too!”
“Did the homestead get it?”
“Mobs,” Sandy continued. “Everywhere
got it. There’s water for miles, James.
Yesterday doctor shoves her hand out the
back door an’ a duck lays a blanky egg
in it. You wouldn’t believe things since
you been sick. Everyone’s waitin’ for the
mail car to get through so’s they can write
off for goldfishes an’ water-lily seeds.”
Sandy talked volubly. Jim Walters re-
ceived a patchy impression that he was
only hurrying through a prepared sequence
of tales, prior to divulging something
serious. It came after a short interval of
deep silence.
“I been thinkin’,” Sandy’s voice came a
little falteringly.
“What’s up, Sandy?”
“This here partnership of ours, James—
how fdr does it go?”
“How do you mean? I’ve no hold over
you, lad!” Walters’s voice was still very
weak.
“No, I ain’t thinkin’ of the
partnership, James, not on your blanky life;
but I was wonderin’ about addin’ to it.
Makin’ it more substantial like. I been
thinkin’ mobs lately about—well, about
one thing an’ another; and you been sayin’
what made me think more till I couldn’t
get this out of me nut, one way an’ an-
other. I been thinkin’, like all blokes is
liable to, an’ I come to a lot of conclu-
sions. It’s like this—what happens if I
die?”
“Well, the respectable thing would be to
have a round of drinks, then bury you
fast and deep, Sandy.”
“Aw yes, I wasn’t ref errin’ to that; but,
see, when I peg out—well, there ain’t no
Sandy. See, I been thinkin’ about this.
When I die—well, that’s the end of me.
There ain’t no Sandy at all. An’ I been
thinkin’. an’ talkin’ to this here Peggy
Bryant”
“Oh, I see! Go on, Sandy.” A ghost of
a weak smile crossed Walters’s lips.
“An’, of course, I come to the conclusion,
James, that most blokes seem to get
married some time or other—you know?—
just to stop ’emselves dyin’ off altogether
like. What I mean to say is they leaves
another one or two of ’emselves behind;
an’ instead of Sandy Jackson dyin’—well,
he’s still livin’ when the old Sandy dies,
see, only the livin’ one’s a kid, an’ this
kid grows up an’ he has kids of his own
like—an’ so on. I reckon if it weren’t for
that there’d be no bloomin’ population.
Strike me, no, there wouldn’t!”
“In short, what you really mean is that
you want to get married, Sandy?”
“I didn’t say nothin’ about wantin’/’
Sandy declared. “But this here Peggy she
talks quite sensible, an’ I got thinkin’ one
way an’ another, you see, an’ she bein’
a good cook, too! It’s like s’posin’ you got
good horses—horses what’s good for stock-
work an’ one thing an’ another. Well, why'
let ’em die out, see? If you do, you got
nothin’ in the end but a lot of old harness.
You’re broke. That’s the way I look at it.”
“You’re quite right there.” Jim Walters’s
voice was soft.
“That’s just what I was thinkin’, James.
An’ there’s another thing. About your-
self. I heard you talkin’ about Helen—
Helen Delaney—once or twice, see!”
“Well?”
“Well, see, I used me nut, an’ put two
an’ two together, an’ asked Peggy about it
all, an’ she told me what she thought, an’
then we come to the conclusion that you
could do with a bit. of marryin’ your-
self—maybe?”
Jim Walters lay silent.
“So I rung her up, James, the day the
rain first started after Christmas an’ I
was let out of bed. The telephone line’s
been mostly bung an’ broke since, but I
got through an’ spoke to her for awhile.
She kept askin’ questions about you.
Where was you hurt, where wasn’t you
hurt, an’ how much, an’ would you die an’
all that dope. She yapped for close-up
ten minutes an’ I come to the conclusion
that there was others maybe was thinkin’
of marryin’, too.”
Jim Walters’s eyes grew brighter. “But
did she say any more, Sandy?”
“Aw, the line went bung, and nobody’s
been able to talk anywhere much since.
They reckon it ought to be all right by
to-night or to-morrow mornin’. But I been
(Continued on page 51.)


e
Attention to Your N eeds...
THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMPORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society. .
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write for reservations.
nAlert
'AND
<7 fie Wentworth
/ Church Hill,
- / Sydney.
□
è
“A Few Stitches
& They ’re On. ”
es
They safeguard all apparel and household
linen Neat. Distinctive and Fadeless.
cs.o3nVWUarn.4-
Actual Sire
Style No, 6
The Prices are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6; 6 doz. 5/-; 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. 8c J.
85 Cul
m pif Australian
LAbrl WEAVING Co. PTY. LTD.
itt Street, Richmond, Melb.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Last week’s temperatures caused a nightly
rush to the sea and a scurry of motors, from
South Melbourne to Brighton. Both sides of
the sea-front were parked with all sorts
and conditions of cars, from the latest in
sedans to the oldest in lorries. Many of them
served as dressing-sheds as well, our fore-
shores being indifferently equipped with such
conveniences. No place in Sydney’s surfing
areas presents a scene like St. Ivilda on a
hot night, with the high lights of Luna
Park’s scenic railway and the numerous
beach shows. But these high-powered lights
served chiefly to proclaim the superior
attractions provided by the sea to anything
in the merry-go-round line. There was one
deplorable fatality in the drowning of a
small boy on Wednesday, and it is perhaps
a mercy that there were not more, for, with
such crowds in the water, even within the
beam of radiance anyone could easily dis-
appear and not be missed for some time
Port Phillip, we have learned of late, has
its complement of sharks, too; but there
seems an idea that they are less voracious
than on other parts of the coast. Never-
theless, this Chatterer has not heard of any
St. Kilda swimmer waiting to pat the head
of a passing grey nurse, and inquire if he
(or she) “could keep one down.” '
Mount Macedon has its full quota of
visitors this season. The early settlers on
the Mount took up so much territory that
there is no fear of the place being invaded
by the camper. Some residents have even
their own golf links. Government Cottage,
the warm-weather residence of the State Ex.,
is perched upon a rise among a regular
plantation of English trees. Among those
\vlio put on special entertainments for the
New Year was Nancy Syme, daughter of the
Oswald Symes whose Mountain home,
Bolobek, possesses most of the amenities of a
city mansion. Governor and Lady Somers
were among the guests, also Colonel and
Mrs. E. H. Davidson, the Robert Knox
couple, the lan Curries, and lots of society’s
most-in-demand unattached. Mrs. Syme,
clad in chiffon of emerald hue, extended a
greeting hand, and the young hostess wore
deep amber upholstery of ninon that fol-
lowed the wayward zigzag lengths of the
present mode.
The dropping of the Widgeon 11. into the
sea near Point Cooke with the loss of three
gallant lives was a poignant tragedy. What
makes the cause of the catastrophe more
puzzling is that all three were skilled air-
men. The late Captain Hugh Grosvenor
had proved his mettle in many parts of
Australia. Flight-Lieutenant Briggs had
dashed all over this continent by air and
sea ; one of his latest undertakings was the
hazardous search per flying-boat in a very
rough sea for the three schoolboys who were
drowned near Frankston. There is the
deepest sympathy for Don Ewan’s widow;
they had been married only a fortnight. Mrs.
Briggs, who is on board the Jervis Bay, is
continuing her journey to England which
she undertook —the pathos of it! —so as to
be able to welcome her husband and Cap-
tain Grosvenor when they should complete
their proposed flight to England, for which
they were preparing when the end came so
tragically. It is unlikely that the sea will
ever give up its dead.
This is Bush-fire Week. The objects aimed
at are to wake up townsfolk to the urgent
need of preventing fires by being careful with
their.camp-fires and .cigarette-butts in the in-
flammable countryside, and to show them the
best means of giving aid when such calamities
occur. The churches are fully alive to the
necessity for precaution and advice, and on
Sunday some preachers switched off more
conventional topics to impress on their con-
gregations the horror and dangers of the
bushfire.
Lady Stonehaven and her two daughters
joined' the throng of bathers at St. Kilda
on one of our torrid days. After the swum
the vice-regal togs and towels were neatly
packed in a suitcase and left in one of the
pretty rockeries,, where some unscrupulous
person appropriated them. It doesn’t look
as if he (or she) would get much thrill
out of the acquisition, for the main attrac-
tion in such elegant garments lies in being
able to flaunt them.
Lord Somers’s camp for boys, which
proved such a successful experiment last
year, will be in full swing again next week.
On Saturday next a contingent of youth
starts for Anglesea under the direction of
the camp organiser, Dr. C. G. McAdam.
Dr. W. G. Price will play his last as
city organist at the Town Hall on the 23rd.
About 23 years ago he came to Melbourne
well credentialled from Belfast, where he was
also city organist. His being a council job,
he has to retire at 65, like other officials,
although his handling of the new organ
shows that there is no lessening in his skill.
Dunedin has requisitioned him, and he will
take up his duties as city organist over there
on February 15. Dr. Price’s farewell con-
cert should draw a bumper house, as it is his
own benefit entertainment.
Henri Verbrugghon, who directed the
N.S.W. Conservatorium of Music and its
orchestra in its earliest years, and whose
departure was so much deplored, has about
severed all links with Australia. His two
youngest sons, who were established on the
land in Queensland, have recently trans-
ferred themselves to Texas. Dr. Adrian
Verbrugghen is also settled in the States,
being associated with the Mayo Clinic
at Rochester. Old schoolmates of Gabrielle,
Henri’s only daughter, will be interested to
hear of her marriage to Georges Henri Le
Roux; the young people are continuing a
University course at Minneapolis.
The lady of the smile is Marie O’Brien,
better known as Marie Goll, after her step-
father, the pianist. Mary left Ballarat to
complete her education at the Sacred Heart
Convent, Roehampton, England. Since then
she has done a good deal of travelling; a
trip to America in ’27 was suddenly cur-
tailed owing
to the death of
her mother in
Mel bourne.
Miss Goll has
just returned
from another
ramble, which
included a
stay of _seven
months in the
U.S., with' a
halt in Min-
neapolis as the
guest of Henri
V e rbrugghen
and his wife.
Crossing to
Europe, she
visited France
and Corsica.
I n Brittany
h e r hostess
was Mrs. C.
L. Chcarnley,
remembered in this city as Myrtle Ballenger.
Her husband, Captain Chearnley, served in
the Boer and the Great War, and has an
estate in Brittany. Their home is a wholly
delightful place, says Marie, who is never-
theless pleased to get back to Australia and
explore her own town in her new car.
For some reason or other polo has never
drawn the crowd in Melbourne as it,
has in Sydney. At Moonee Valley, although
everything is done to ensure the comfort of
patrons, the attendance is always sparse and
often limited to friends and relatives of the
players. This year the tournament will get a
boost by the inclusion of the Governor-General
in one of the Moonee Valley teams, this being
Lord Stonehaven’s first public appearance in
Australia asi a polo-player. Lord Somers, of
course, has already proved himself in the
field as a good hitter; he will be in the
other Moonee Valley quartette. There will
be six teams to contest the Somers Cup;
play will begin to-day and conclude on the
17 th.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Mortill are back again in
their Hawthorn home after a year’s holiday
abroad. They spent six weeks in Egypt and
did a lot of motoring about .England and
France, with trips to Berlin, Brussels and
Riga They saw the Gold Cup run at Ascot
and the Grand Prix at Longchamps; stayed
in the Riviera and at Royan, near Bordeaux,
and had some air-trips. They saw the best
art shows in London, Paris and Berlin, and
bought 15 pictures, mostly oils, which will
shortly arrive in Melbourne to adorn Tay
Creggan. At the Spring Salon in the Grand
Palais they secured nudes by J. A. Rudel
and Guinaud, and a still-life; and at a
Berlin exhibition collected samples of the
work of Steiner and Arthur Kamff. In
Germany they voted the sculpture superior
to the painting. The London Academy didn’t
put up a specially good show, but there was a
notable exhibition by Japanese artists,
with pictures by Foujita marked up to
300 guineas. Another foreign artist whose
work made a hit in London was the
Spaniard Fredcrico Beltran-Masses. An
incident that caused some talk was the
removal of a nude Salome from this painter’s
exhibition, prior to its opening by the
Spanish Ambassador, on account of the
expected visit of Cardinal Merry del Val.
Though photographed in the catalogue, it
was not returned to the New Burlington.
Melbournites will be interested to 4 learn
that at the Salon Beaux Arts two full-length
portraits of girls by Max were well
hung and received splendid press notices.
Meldrum, they say, has been doing much art-
lecturing.
Of musical treats Mrs. Mortill rated
highest the recital at the Paris Opera House
by the 12-year-old violinist Yehudi Menuhin,
a plump, fair-haired lad who faced his audi-
ence in a white silk sports shirt and dark
pants. His programme embraced two con-
certos as well as several pieces, and Ins
execution is described as superb. Yehudi
was born in America of Russian-Jewish
parents. The Mortills made the round of
the London theatres' and liked best Bernard
Shaw’s “Apple Cart,” though The First
Mrs. Fraser,” “By Candlelight’ and Her
Past” wefe also approved. A word ot praise
is bestowed on some plays with a Repertory
flavor by a company of American negroes.
Mrs. Mortill is Russian by birth and went to
Riga to stay with a married sister.
The first guests from the New Mallee
under the auspices of the Country Women s
Association arrived during the week.
Arrangements had been made to put up
150 • it looked as if someone had blundered
when more than twice that number joyously
disembarked from the special train at Spen-
cer-street. The explanation was. that two
contingents had come together, instead or
separately, and all of them were soon com-
fortably housed within sight of the sea. Ike
mercury soared up to 107 next day, but
probably the visitors were the only folk
who didn’t growl. The kiddies are a fine,
sturdy lot —young Australia seems to thrive
almost anywhere—and their mothers looked
well and full of pleasant anticipation. In
these days of limited families one traveller
who had been married at 16 and possesses
a family of 12 —the youngest being not two
months old —deserves a word. She arrived
smiling, with eight or nine children, evidently
determined to enjoy every minute of her first
visit to Melbourne and the sea.
The Arts and Crafts Society decided to
publish! its own quarterly magazine the
“Recorder,” about a year ago, and a weli-got-
up production it is. The contents, consist-
ing largely of informative articles, travel
notes and interviews, 'are furnished by
members. The December number has the
first instalment of the history of the society,
which was founded on March 20, 1908, at
a gathering of 14 enthusiasts in Miss
Merfield’s studio, 46 Collins-street. The
first minutes were signed by Mrs. A. E.
Crcswell as the first chairwoman of the
society: and Miss E. Cliomley was the first
honorary secretary. Mrs. Eleanor Moody,
the present secretary of the society, is also
editor. of the “Recorder.”
Arthur Withers, who has stood by several
bridegrooms at the altar, is bespeaking a
best man for his own date with pretty Ethel
Macpherson at the Toorak kirk on the
22nd. Jean Brown, now also wearing a
decorative left-hand token, is coming from
Corrowa to be bridesmaid.
Another songbird, Cora O’Farrell, has set
her heart on a flight to Europe. Her friends
and admirers meet next month to devise
a plan for giving financial help. Cora has
a voice of such range that she has been
classed both as a contralto and a dramatic
soprano; she has a fine stage presence, too.
She is a student of the Albert-street Con-
servatorium and a pupil of Mary Campbell,
and has appeared on the concert and picture-
theatre platform with success.
Annie Croft, best remembered here as the
charming lead in “The Girl Friend,” has
acted in much the same capacity to her
associates of the Australian stage who have
wandered over to England. When Eileen
Starr, of the J.O.W. musical comedy co.,
landed in the Big Smoke a few weeks ago
Annie Croft was on the wharf to meet her and
pilot her round. Eileen was a student of
the Albert-street Conservatorium before she
joined the theatrical profession. Her sister
Elma has just announced her engagement
to Andrew M. Bergin, of St. Ivilda.
A dainty Australian dancer has trodden
her last measure. She was Mrs. W liite,
well known as Phyllis Amery in J. C. Wil-
liamson productions before her marriage
with Eric Edgeley White, of the theatrical
firm of White and Edgeley. Her last appear-
ance on the stage here was at the Princess
in the Robinson Crusoe pantomime under
her husband’s management. Mrs. White,
who was only 27, leaves an infant son.
Mrs E. A. Daunt has come from Ireland
on a six months’ visit to her mother. Mrs.
W. T. Webb, of Queen’s-road, Melbourne.
Her husband, Captain Daunt, is expected m
the near future. . „ _ .
Mrs. Ernest Whitehead, a sister of Lady
Doughty, intends returning to her home in
England in March. She has been in Mel-
bourne three years looking after her invalid
sister, Eva Stone, who died a few months
ba \Vith the arrival of Mabel Flanley to
take charge of its dietary department and
dieticians’ training school the Alfred Hos-
pital moves another step forward. Miss
Flanley is an American specialist who has
been dietician to the Massachusetts Eye and
Ear Infirmary and the Seattle General
Hospital.
Dorothea Buxton has returned to Ilughen-
den, her St. Ivilda home, after two years of
wandering. Everywhere she seems to have
met some familiar face. In Lucerne, her
sister, Mrs. H. Pitt, was waiting to show
her about Switzerland; afterwards they
drifted through the Riviera and mingled with
the carnival crowds. In Berlin she met
Mrs. Fred Delmer, an old scliool-chum, whose
husband- represents a London daily there.
In Paris she was taken charge of by Madame
E. Maneschi, formerly Lorna Pitt, a Mel-
bourne Uni. graduate, who, since her mar-
riage last year, has made her home in the
French capital. Tlie fortunate traveller
stayed with various relatives in the U.K.,
and particularly enjoyed her visit to kinsman
John Buckland’s lovely Kentish home, Hen-
don Hall.
The Merson Cooper couple, who have
returned to Cliveden Mansions from their
holiday home at Sorrento, leave for England
and the Continent in April. Before her
departure Mrs. Cooper will spare no effort
to raise the couple of thousand or so re-
quired to complete the purchase of radium
for St. Vincent’s Hospital, her pet charity.
Maude Ilarvie, who founded the Purple
Cross Society of Victoria, has just returned
from a two years’ stay on the other side
of the world. The admirable Purple Cross
had its genesis during the war as the Troop
Horse Fund. It still carries on the good
work as occasion offers; for 13 years Miss
Harvie was lion, secretary, and the first wel-
come she received on her return came from
her fellow-members.
Raveloe, the South Yarra residence 9f
Mrs. Harry Emmerton, put flowers in its hair
to welcome home its mistress after her
jaunt to China and Japan. Mrs. Emmer-
ton was one of the delegates to the Institute
of Pacific Relations conference in Kyoto.
Mrs. F. W. Eggleston returned with her, and
Miss Laura Nyulasy was another of the
party.
Melbourne’s younger set was stirred by a
recent cable about the assiduous attentions
paid in Paris by a Hungarian admirer to
a pretty girl from this city. The maiden,
only about 18, was said to have been finish-
ing her education in Switzerland when the
ineligible one came on the scene. Her
parents ordered her to come' back, but seem-
ingly it wasn’t until Australia House, Scot-
land Yard and the French police took a hand
that she was placed aboard a home-bound
boat.
Mrs. TJmplielby, who resides with her son
H. M. Umphelby at Torresdale-road, Toorak,
had a birthday on the 28th of last month,
when the fine old lady admitted to one oft
the century in years. Mrs. Umphelby is
of a pioneer family of Tasmania.
Here is Bessie Williams, a bride-elect who
will change into Mrs. Arthur Proctor,
at Christ
Church, South
Yarra, on the
29th. She is a
daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. T. H.
Williams, o f
East Caulfield,
and is one of
the younger
set well known
in amateur
theatricals for
charities. Bes-
sie has also
had a little
experience of
the profession
with a Marie
Burke com-
pany and a
Boncic ault-
Vanbrugh one.
After a short
stay in the
Apple Isle the pair will make their home in
Scotland. White satin has been chosen by
Bessi 3 for the ceremony, and her three maids
will be wrapped in leaf-green draperies.
Jack Cato made the picture.
The New Year-honored Dr. Stanley
Argyle and his wife just missed adding to
the casualties of the festive season. They
were in a sedan ear on the Bendigo-road,
after a holiday at their country home at
Lake Kangaroo, when the vehicle skidded
and overturned in a ditch. I ortunately the
doctor and his wife, with their niece Miss
Temple Smith, escaped with a few cuts and
bruises, and a long wait for a relief car.
Visitors to seaside resorts like Lome and
Portsea profess amazement at the amount
of suffering which bathers, girls especially,
are ready to endure to get their skins tanned
the correct shade. To become the color of
a dried onion they make nothing of dreadful
blisters, and even proudly exhibit these signs
of torture as if they were proofs of bravery
or self-sacrifice. Parents may regretfully
note the passing of the pink and white com-
plexion of their young daughters and reflect
that these' maidens will be sorry when they
have to don evening dress in winter, but all
they can do at present is to see that the
carron-oil bottle is kept filled.


DRUMMOND’S EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY
Magnificent Diamond
and Sapphire Brooch,
set in platinum,
£175.
m
Fine reari ana Diamond Brooch,
£BO.
Diamond Bar Broorh, set in Platinum,
£55.
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
Shoulders,
£35.
e
Circle Ring, set
with 25 Brilliant-
cut Diamonds. Best
value in Australia,
£lB.
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond, with Dia-
mond-set shoulders,
£BO.
Diamond Ring,
set in Pure Plati-
num,
£65.
Magnificent Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond-set
Shoulders,
£250.
Diamond Ring,
set in Platinum,
£35.
Diamond Bow Brooch,
£l5.
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond with Baton-
cut Diamonds, set
in shoulders,
£l2O.
Two-Diamond Ring,
with Diamonds set
on shoulders,
£35.
è
n m»«* m
tnoa
Lady’s 18-earat White Gold Wristlet Watch,
set with 90 fine quality diamonds. The
Lever Movement is fully jewelled and com-
pensated. Exceptional time-keeper,
£6O.
The Platinum Wristlet Watch illustrated has
a diamond-set fly-up protector over the dial,
operated by pressure. The 18-jewel lever
movement is the production of the famous
“Longines” Watch Factory, and is fully
guaranteed by Drummonds.
Illustrated Watch Catalogue on -application.
OTm. ®rummons & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
fSOOKS ON
AVIATION
MOTOR-BOAT BUILDING
and a Special Work on
Painting and Decorating
Price. Post.
MODERN AVIATION ENGINES—Design, Repair, Construction and
Operation—Complete, Practical and Up-to-date—Describes Many
Typical American and European Engines and Their Installation, in
2 Vols., by Page. Set 45/- 2/6
AIRPLANE ENGINE ENCYCLOPAEDIA—An Alphabetically-arranged,
Compilation of all Available Data on World’s Airplane Engines—Angle.. 36/- 1/8
AEROPLANES, SEAPLANES AN AERO ENGINES, by Captain P. Sumner. . 30/- 1/6
AERIAL NAVIGATION AND METEOROLOGY—Comprehensive Treatise in
Simple Language, by Yancey 20/- 1/3
AEROBATICS, by H. Barber 13/6 -/8
ABC OF FLIGHT, by L. Le Page 10/- -/6
EVERYBODY’S AVIATION GUlDE—Complete Simplified Treatise, by Page .. 10/- -/6
ABC OF AVIATION, Elementary Instruction Manual, by Page 5/- -/4
LEARNING TO FLY—Course of Elementary Flying Instruction, by Swoffer .. 9/- -/6
SEAPLANE FLYING—R. A. F. Manual 1/6 -/3
MOTOR BOATS AND BOAT MOTORS —Design, Construction—Operation and
Repair—Complete Handbook—Page 20/- 1/3
TWENTY EASY-TO-BUILD MOTOR BOATS—Book of Small Boat Plans and
How to Build Them —Chapman 10/- -/6
SIXTEEN IDEAL MOTOR BOATS—How to Build—Practical Treatise, by
Chapman 10/- -/6
MOTOR BOAT DESIGNS —Text-book Containing Complete Designs of 32
Ideal Runabouts, Cruisers and Auxiliaries, etc., by Chapman 10/- -/6
WOODEN BOAT AND SHIP BUILDING —Practical Course, by R. Van Gaasbeek 7/6 -/6
MOTOR BOAT MANUAL—With Special Section on Outboard Motors and Boats 6/6 -/6
OUTBOARD MOTOR BOAT MANUAL, by Smith 6/- -/4
BOAT BUILDING FOR AMATEURS —Full Instructions for Designing and
Building Punts, Skiffs, Canoes, Sailing Boats, etc., by Kemp 4/6 -/4
MARINE OIL ENGINE HANDBOOK—Handbook of Instruction 3/6 -/4
MOTOR BOATS —Construction of Marine Motors and Motor Boats by Strickland 3/- -/4
SMALL BOAT BUILDING, by Patterson 4/6 -/4
PAINTING AND DECORATING
WORKING METHODS
A textbook for Apprentice and Journeyman.
All about Colors and how to Mix them.
Tools, Materials, Outside and Inside work.
Kalsomining, Paper-hanging, Wood-finishing, Floor-finishing
With the help of this book anybody can become an expert Painter and
Decorator.
Plain language is used and the most difficult jobs are made easy.
PRICE, 12/6 POST FREE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Absolutely and Definitely
NO
Increase in Price
The finest batteries in Australia for long life, reliability
and clearer reception, available at the best value.
BATTER
«ACMO
Receiv»*g A
One Strip
of Cardboard
Plain Can
Cardboard Strip
A
m
BATTERIES
8 Weeks
“The Cells that Excel”
Diamond Radio Batteries are constructed on
the distinctive “Section Protection” principle—
they are extra insulated, and thus safeguarded
against leakage—advancements and refine-
ments that make for leadership in the Diamond.
Illustrations show the ordinary type, and the
latest Diamond.
NOTE THESE FEATURES.
1. Solid Drawn Zinc Can (absolutely no leakage).
2. Each Cell individually insulated with special parch-
ment.
3. Each Cell further insulated by cardboard strips.
4. All Cells then embedded in highest-quality insulat-
ing material.
5. Protected Top Seal.
Diamond Cells are supplied to Government Depart-
ments—they pass a rigid factory test, and have been
proved over a period of 1 0 years.
are superior—they
Diamond Batteries,
Diamond Radio Batteries
are better value and are Australian-made. Recently,
the number of employees at the Diamond Battery
owing
factor}
CATALOGUE FREE.
to the increased demand for
has been increased by 38%.
PRICES:
“B” BATTERIES.
AT ALL RADIO DEALERS.
Direct Factory Distributors:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY
Ground Floor, “Whitehall,” Bank Place, Melbourne.
N.S.W. Representatives:
REG. ROSE & COMPANY, Kembla
Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
W.A. Representative:
CARLYLE & COMPANY,
Hay Street, Perth.
art
1
m&jn »
'i
*• *
J
&ca o


Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY
THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR
é
.Safe, sure and automatic refrigeration
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs lid. per day to run.
Vou will marvel at the clever idea of
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurable
it is worth its weight in gold.
To operate: —
Once a day—take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about your
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that the
temperature is right for the Freezer
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long,
ISin. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Shelves
and Primus Stove.
Write for pamphlet concerning "ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR,
"Keeps food nice without the Ice.
Manufacturers’ Representatives:
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129.
which
The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.T.1., General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds - - - - -
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed £6I),UUU
Every desirable form of Policy issued in ttie foUowing departments
All Ordinary Policies> subject to Guaranteed secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and MarketStreetsj^Sydney.
ê
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930. .
rtTTYFRS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, tne
world's largest" Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition,
introductions arranged. Full information free on request to—
A
n ivpc. n n KEPPEL c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D Cr.P.O., Melbourne.
Authorised Representatives. C N S^NDA H L, 6 Dailey Street. Box 3127 P G.P.0.. Sydney.
Amusements.
QYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank T:ut.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
PALACE: IN THE NEXT ROOM.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY— 2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE • • -*«*•
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Amusements.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
111 MELBOURNE.
DORIS KENYON in
THE HOME TOW NEKS.
100 PER CENT. ALL TALKIE. -
(Warner Bi-os. Picture.)
ALSO
KEN MAYNARD in His First Talkie, as
THE WAGGON MASTER.
(Universal Talking Feature.)
If any Illustration in "The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
YOUR OPPORTUNITY
Policies effected under participating
Tables in the Ordinary Department by
3 Ist December
WILL SHARE IN THE CASH
SURPLUS FOR THE YEAR.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
On 30th June, 1929, distributed over THREE
MILLION POUNDS in Cash amongst participating
members in the Ordinary Department.
Assets - - - £74,000,000
F. T. BRIDGES , Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin have gone to
Canberra for a month, leaving Chief Justice
Blair in charge. The Blairs have just come
back from a trip to Melbourne. At Warwick
they were met and congratulated on his
Honor’s New Year honor, and they spent a
few days at Lennons before going to South-
port. The Judge’s lady was May Gibson,
of Newcastle (N.S.W.) before her marriage.
Rain fell on silks and chiffons at the
New Year races. The Governor and Lady
Goodwin, with Colonel and Mrs Campbell,
were there. Lady Goodwin was in a draped
black satin with ivory scarf and black straw
capeline. It was raining in Toowoomba, too,
for the final day of the Christmas meeting.
The Premier and Mrs. Moore, Dr. and Mrs.
Bruce Smith, the Cullens from Pampas, and
Dr. and Mrs. Randall wore amongst those
at Clifford Park.
Some very pretty dresses were worn at the
picnic race ball in the Show pavilion at
Toowoomba. Mrs. A. E. Moore was in
shell-pink with black G.. .ntilly lace; Mrs.
W. Kent in apricot and silver ; Mrs. A. C.
Morgan in moss-green mariette, with rhine-
stones. Mrs. Dick Sword, Longreach, wore
moonlight blue, the bodice outlined in crim-
son roses, the skirt finished by a wide band,
patterned in red roses; Mrs. Victor Bell,
black and gold; Mrs. Bruce Smith, Lido
blue, with seed pearls; Mrs. Ernest White,
flame color; Amy King, sea green; Del
Freshney. silver lace; Lorna Brookes, apple
green ; Enid BeLl, jade green. There was a
big roll-up.
For Margery Bush, who is here from
Maoriland, Mrs. W- E. Bush gave a party
at xVscot amid bowls of zinnias and gerberas.
Hither came Mesdames M. L. Reading, Digby
Denham, Firmin McKinnon, Aveyard, An-
ning and Gordon, Tessa Reading, Betty Ave-
yard, Margaret Gordon and Jean Annand.
Society is mostly at Southport, where a
ball was given in the Labrador Memorial
Hall by Joan Perry and Joyce Isles.
At Currumbin there was a fancy-dress
parade and carnival under electric light on
the beautiful beach.
A. J. Murphy had a supper party at
Lennons. His ' mother, Mrs. R. Murphy,
helped with the entertaining in sequined
white georgette and red roses. Red and
white roses and carnations adorned the
supper-table; amongst those present were the
Barcaldine Nasons, the Lethbridges, the
Douglases and Mr. and Mrs. L. Phillips.
Mrs. Ernest Tracey had a farewell party
for Stella Goldman, who goes abroad shortly.
Roses, gerberas and zinnias decorated the
tables. The hostess wore figured black and
white; the guest of honor was in blue
French voile with touches of mastic and
cherry. ' , ,
Two pioneering families were linked when
Bernard, son of Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Clark,
East Talgai, Warwick, and Eileen, youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. 0. J. Brabazon,
were married at St. Paul’s, Winton, last
month. All the wool kings (and queens) of
the district were present, and for a while
even the low price of wool was forgotten.
Brisbane Gardens zoo has been enriched
by a marmoset, some African and South
American monkeys, including a cowled
capuchin, some green passerina parrots and
a South American ’possum. One of the
native-bears released in the Gardens essayed
a trip to town, where he was arrested by
the police and returned to quarters.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The usual stream of cars rolled out to
Ascot on Cup Day. Lady Campion, with
Ross McDonald as escort, toured the
saddling paddock in tiers of black georgette
and a blue hat. Mrs. Sam Grimwood wore
beautifully fashioned beige lace and georg-
ette ; Mrs. Felix Levinson chose grey and
a pink hat, Miss Clement sea-blue, Miss
Stokes dawn-pink with a champagne-straw.
Mrs. Cairns Hill, in cream lace over shell-
pink, came with her daughter in autumn-
leaf patterned crepe de Chine. Flowered
chiffon had many followers, among them
Margaret and Grace Gavan Duffy, with little
coats over their draperies; Bay Alcoek and
Dorothy Bird in pinks, and Freda Weir,
with a rose under the brim of her pink hat.
Mrs. Moustaka and Mrs. Peck chose navy ;
so did Mrs. Lucius Manning. Mrs. Marillier
wore fawn; Olga Ainslie had an all-grey
turnout; Mrs. Morris Edwards was all jade-
green, and daughter Bess all delphinium-
blue.
There was perfect racing weather for
Imperial Handicap day. Secretary Marillier’s
wife was there in a navy gown and bat; Mrs.
Walter Dwyer mingled cream georgette with
panels of lace; Mrs. Dobson favored sand-
dune brown; and graceful Kitty Gillies had
a deep shade of beige for her draperies. Mrs.
Vigne was in flowered green chiffons; and
her youngest sister, Cecilia Brennan, in a
delightful confection of almond-green. Mrs.
McDonald, in mist-grey, brought her daugh-
ter in soft dawn pinks. Mrs. Dakin wore
black marocain; Mrs. Roy Mitchell had
splashes of pink on white pussy willow;
and Maude Mitchell set off her dove-greys
with sapphire necklace and hat. Mrs. Mor-
rison and Gwep Cadd walked together in
eau-de-nil georgettes; Mildred Gwynne was
in blue foulard; and a medley of tan-and-
white crepe de Chine clad Mrs. Guy Mc-
leod’s tall and graceful figure. Strings of
steel beads swung from Mrs. Doy Forrest’s
elaborate gown, worn with silver footwear
and a small black-and-grey hat.
Leslie Hodge gives a concert in the Albany
Town Hall on Jan. 20. The 15-year-old
pianist won an Ormond Exhibition of Music,
has gained unstinted praise from Prof.
Heinze and Mr. Hutchens, and lias come back
to see his native town after a year’s study
in Melbourne. Gwen Bray will be the
accompanist.
The Harold Boases are returning from
the U.K. and Europe. The Peter Vigne
couple, who are on leave from a Ceylon tea
plantation, embark this week for the Italian
Riviera and the south of France.
The engagement is announced of Neva,
younger daughter of the Ernest Hockings,
to John Yoe, of Sandstone and Mount-
street, Perth.
Scores of letters were published during
the recent heat-wave advocating reform in
men’s dress in the direction of kilts, shorts,
nautical trousers (wide enough at the bot-
tom to be rolled above the calf), white
umbrellas lined with green in lieu of hats,
and one-strapped shoes. Some shocked
ladies objected to the contemplated disclosure
of “hairy chests” and “spindle shanks,” and
Horace Minors, secretary of the Children’s
Hospital, has been trying to turn the con-
troversy to a charitable and practical account
by inviting correspondents to be photo-
graphed in their favored garb, with the idea
of displaying the pictures and taking votes
for the most sensible summer rig. It seems
an admirable idea.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The recent heat-wave, during which the
mercury climbed to 108, gave us the hottest
night since 1858. Naturally there was a
record attendances at all the beaches —a pant-
ing mass of humanity as far as the eye could
reach. Many motored down with their
families as 'late as 1 a.m., and hundreds
stayed all night.
The racing clubs were lucky to have got in
their meetings before the heat-wave. r Phe
S.A.J.C. fixture on Saturday was not as well
patronised as it might have been, but three
meetings in six days is a bit stiff. There was
much color in the frocking, some women being
in blazing scarlet and others in 100 dazzling
golden yellow ; there will be a reaction when
the Parisian fiair for all black reaches
Adelaide. Mrs. S. J. Jacobs, in black geor-
gette and beigei lace with hat to match, did
the honors for the chairman (Whitmore
Carr). The arrangements for comfort were
a credit to secretary Hynes.
The late
Hugh Gros-
venor, whose
photo appears
herewith, was
i m m e n sely
popular in
Adelaide, and
had done
much to in-
s pi r e others
with his love
of flying. His
Ex. had the
greatest faith
in his aide’s
skill, and flew
to all his
country en-
gage m ents.
The Hor e-
Ruthvens have
been on a fish-
ing trip in
M.L.; t h e y
return next week.
On Saturday two teams of girls at Clare
played the first polo match that has ever
been contested by women in S.A. The veteran
E. W. Hawker suggested the idea, and Betty,
the second daughter of R. E. H. Hope, of
Wolto Wolto, organised the match. Iwo
daughters of A. J. Melrose (captain of the
Clare Polo Club), with B. Hope and A.
Marshall, formed one team; V. and M. Arm-
strong and M. and J. Chomley the other.
Adelaide is chuckling over an experience
of Judge Napier’s wife, the absolute local
authority on the dressing of pageants. She is
as good-natured as clever, and was nearly
worn out with caring for about 550 cos-
tumes in the League of Nations pag. and
a smaller one at St. Peter s College. The
last straw was a letter from the Salvation
Army complimenting her highly, announcing
its intention to hold a pag. called “Blood
and Fire,” and asking her to dress that.
After .some hours of suspense and domestic-
argument she was allowed to learn the
truth: the letter was a practical 3«ke by
her sons.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The summer tournaments at the Kingston
Beach golf links drew a crowd to the little
seaside resort. Hotels and boarding-houses
were chock-a-block, and among those who
took furnished cottages were Hr. and Mrs.
E J Rogers, the Misses Maxwell, the Cray
girls and Margaret O’Grady, and Nancy
and Betty Giblin. Some spectacular golf
was shown, Dr. Nigel Smith (N-S.W.), .K-
Nettlefold and Miss Marshall (N.S.W.) being
among the stars. „ , ~
The Bishop-Coadjutor of Sydney and Mrs.
D’Arcy-Irvine, also Professor Mungo Mac-
Callum and his lady, are among recent visi-
tors from the mainland. .
The members of the Bush Nursing Asso-
ciation had a tea-party at the Lyceum Club,
when Mrs. Stour ton, the president, and Mrs.
Henry Dobson, patroness, were presented
with bouquets. Mrs. E. J. Rogers, Mrs. 1.
II Goddard and Mrs. F. T- Baxter made
music; Mayoress Soundy was among the
eV *There was a big attendance at the Tas-
manian Turf Club meeting at Mowbray,
where President Dr. George Clemons and
M’-s Clemons received the guests. I rocking
was various, like the weather, with winter
coats kept handy to slip on over summer
chiffons. Among Hobart folk who motored
up were Thos. and Mrs. Lyons with daughter
Sybil and the A. J. Millers. Others present
were the Ivo Agnews, the R. C. E lelds, Mr.
and Mrs. Tliyne, Dr. and Mrs. L. O. Mac-
namara, the Rupert Agnews the R. R.
Fields, Mr. and Mrs. Guy Meredith, Miss
M. Smith and Miss Perry. „ , ,
Those who went up to Busby Park for
the annual Show found the country green
as an emerald and most of the population of
the New Norfolk district making a day of it.
Races wood-chopping matches, a flower show
and cottage-garden competitions made an
attractive programme..


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
er
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cul wul) a Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
thinkin’ serious, James. How about we
go in for marryin’? I reckon Hinton’ll
give us a bit of land at the homestead about
as big as a night-paddock, an’ maybe he’ll
build us two little homesteads on it. We’ll
keep this here partnership of ours goin’ an’
we’ll settle down like.”
“You’re counting our chickens pretty
early,” Jim Walters replied.
“Aw, yes; but s’posin’ we are?” Sandy
answered with a cocksure throw of his small
head. “That chicken-countin’s as old as
Adam. It’s natural. Everythin’ in this
world counts chickens.”
“And what do you propose doing about
it yourself, Sandy?”
“Well”—Sandy straightened a little—“of
course I ain’t put the hard word on Peg
yet. I thought it’d be better t’ have a
conference with you first before I went tyin’
myself up. Peg’s got nice looks in her
dial, an’ she’s been makin’ me turn over
a new leaf an’ things. I got to have a
flamin’ bogey once a week”
“Yes, I noticed you’ve lost that idiotic
coat you had.”. t
“Huh! The dirty cows pinched that in
the hospital here. But they gave me a
rigout for nothin’, so I’m not mindin’ much.
And, anyhow, Peg’s in a marryin’ mood—
and that’s how me and
her stands. How about
you an’ Miss Delaney?”
Jim Walters grew
serious.
“ ’Cos we all get
married or we don’t
nobody get married,”
Sandy went on. “I’m
not desertin’ my cob-
bers, that’s straight.
Miss Delaney’ll be
willing—l’ll bet me
bottom bob on it. So
do I go ahead an’ make
all ne’ssary arrange-
ments?”
Jim Walters thought
slowly. “There’s the
cash to consider,” he
said.
“Cash me eye!”
Sandy exclaimed.
“Anyway, you got cash.
Peg’s got cash. I got
a few bob. Miss Dela-
ney’s got oceans of it.
We all got cash!”
“Righto, Sandy, I’ll
leave it to you,” Jim
Walters answered with
a breath of relief.
“Only keep off Miss
Delaney. No tales to
crack me up or any-
thing. Keep off it! I’ll
talk to her myself.”
Sandy jumped up.
His ears stood out well
from his head, farther
than ever they had
done before, mainly be-
cause Dr. Lowndes had
cut his hair almost off
to save soap.
“It’s a deal, James.”
“Yes, yes, Sandy. Go
and talk to Peggy!”
Jim Walters voice had
suddenly grown snappy.
Sandy cast a puzzled
glance towards the sick
man, then shuffled from the room.
CHAPTER XXVII.
Sandy Carries On.
The telephone rang—two long calls fol-
lowed by Itwo short calls, the recognised
signal for the Boolgooroo homestead. Jack
Hinton rose from the tea table, padded
out along the verandah into his office, and
raised the receiver.
“Hullo—hullo! Who’s speaking?”
“It’s me—l wanter have a yarn with Miss
Delaney. I been tryin’ to get you for a
fortnight.”
Hinton lowered the receiver and looked
at it; but he saw no vision in it. He
scratched his chin. Helen had never be-
fore had a male inquirer over the ’phone.
The call had been so cocksure and abrupt,
too!
“I’m afraid she’s busy at,present,” Hinton
replied with the idea of learning a little
more about the matter. A vision of Sandy
Jackson flashed through his mind, and he
paused; but that was not Sandy’s voice,
surely? “What name shall I give her?”
he asked.
“You just tell her I’m ringin’ her up,” the
voice answered abruptly. “She’ll come.”
The station-owner lowered the receiver
again. He felt a little angry, yet inclined
to laugh. He decided to tell Helen. Any-
way, it was her concern. She could scarcely
be injured through a telephone.
“Helen,” he said firmly as he entered the
dining-room, “you’re wanted on the tele-
phone.”
' “Who is it, Jack?” Mrs. Hinton asked
as Helen left the room. “Is it the Sheard
girl?”
“No, the Sheards’ line is still down. It
seems to be a young man ringing up.”
“A man! What man would ring Helen?
I didn’t think she knew any men in the
district except the station-hands.”
“She’s got her own affairs, I suppose,”
Hinton dismissed the matter with a shrug.
Helen lifted the receiver.
“Hullo,” she said, and then listened to a
low conversation being carried on many
mile's away.
“Stop yer yappin’, Peg. Here she is now.
She’s sayin’ hullo!” And then the voice
sounded close and quite clear. “Hullo, is
that you?”
“Sandy Jackson took the blow On his left shoulder.”
“Who?”
“Miss Delaney at Boolgooroo—is that
you?”
“Yes, who’s speaking?”
“It’s me—you know, Sandy Jackson, Jim’s
cobber. I thought maybe you’d like to
have a bit of news about James now they
fixed the line up. Maybe you might like
to tell all the other birds just how he’s
keepin’—like.”
“Oh yes.” Helen smothered closer to
the telephone. Her voice was almost
breathless. “Is he—is he conscious? Do
they think he will take long getting better?”
Anxiety vibrated in her voice, and Sandy’s
wide ears caught the anxiety. He grinned.
“Well, of course, Miss, when a cove busts
his nut and gets walked on by a mob of
bullicks, well, complications simply has to
arise. But he’s come conscious now a bit,
only he can’t speak more’n a few words.
He’s terrible weak, an’ likely to snuff out
almost any minute if they don’t watch
him; but all concerned up here reckons
maybe he’ll get over it if he can only get
this off his flamin’ mind what’s on it.”
“His mind—something on his mind?
What would that be?” Helen Delaney’s
voice was puzzled and pained.
“Well, that’s about the main reason I
was ringin’ you up. I thought maybe you
might know more about his fam’ly affairs
than I do. He’s all the time callin’ an’
callin’ out for a girl”
“A—a girl!” Helen’s voice was weak and
hushed. “A girl! What girl? I—l didn’t
even know”
“The lady doctor here says it’s important
an’ urgent to locate this here girl. You
see, Miss, his brain’s more or less busted
up a bit, an’ he bleeds from his ears when
he gets woiTyin’, an’ half the time he’s
worryin’ for this here girl. We reckoned
you might know where she lives.”
“But what is the girl’s name?” Helen
asked with a sense of suffocation. “Don’t
you know her name? I thought you knew
much more about his affairs than I did!”
“Aw, I know her name,” Sandy spoke
loudly. “He never says her second name
at all, but she’s Helen.”
“Helen? Helen —did you say Helen?”
Helen Delaney felt the office swirling about
her. She clutched at the telephone cabinet.
“Yes, Miss, that’s her name.” Sandy’s
voice sounded eager in the distance. “You
know any girls called Helen?”
“I—l don’t know. I’d better go and—
and look for the address.”
“Well, I’ll ring you up in the mornin’ if
the line’s not crook again, an’ you can tell
me if you know where this girl is.”
Helen did not return immediately to the
dining-room. She walked round on the
dark verandah, found a' canvas chair and
sat down heavily in it.
Tears came slowly at first. She felt weak,
exhausted, yet greatly relieved. She would
have to get to him somehow. The road
was impossible for a motor-car. All the
creeks were still running high. It was
doubtful whether even a horse could get
through.
She murmured a short prayer; then she
wiped, her face, stole silently through the
darkness into her room, powdered and tried
to remove all traces of emotion and entered
the dining-room.
Her aunt’s questioning gaze followed her
to a seat. Jack Hinton glanced broadly
at her and turned to read again. A strange
sense of restraint hung over the room.
They expected her to say something, yet
she knew she could not bring herself to
say anything.
There couldn’t be another Helen! No,
surely there couldn’t be another Helen!
if. SJS ❖ ❖
Sandy sat beside Peggy Bryant on the
back verandah of the hotel. Sandy’s left
arm was part of the way round Peggy’s
waist. His right arm was still in a sling.
There was a space between them.
“I been thinkin’,” Sandy started. “I been
thinkin’ about me an’ you in the same
little homestead —what about it, Peg?”
Peggy Bryant looked at Sandy Jackson
and a peculiar wheezing commenced in her
ample bosom. Then she flung back her
head and laughed; and her laughter sounded
well across the street.
Sandy Jackson cringed back. Sudden
amazement and anger surged through him
and he leapt to his feet.
“Get married!” she laughed. “What
next?”
Red flashed before Sandy’s eyes. He felt
as though dirt had been thrown in his face.
He turned and walked quickly away.
Throughout his life
trouble had always led
him direct to consola-
tion in liquor and now
the habit did not desert
him. It was long after
the legal trading hour,
but Sam Regan still
served a few late cus-
tomers, and in one
group a big burly
figure towered high.
Sandy beckoned to
an acquaintance and
they breasted the bar
together.
“What’re you hav-
ing?” Regan asked.
“Beer, Sam!” Both
men spoke at the same
instant.
The tall stranger
glanced back over his
shoulder, started visibly
as though seeing some-
thing queer for the first
time in his life, then
twisted round.
“Look what’s crawled
in out of the mud!” he
laughed.
Sandy’s bandaged left
fingers gripped round
his glass. He shifted
his right arm in its
sling on to the bar
counter. Slowly he
moved the glass back;
then with a sudden
movement he brought
his arm up and sent the
contents in a splather
into his tormentor’s
face.
He felt reckless. His
girl had laughed at
him. This man had
laughed at him. He’d
give ’em laugh! Laugh
—would they?
With a bellow of
rage the strange man
sprang. Sudden cries
of shame filled the
bar and reached Peggy, who still sat on
the verandah, suddenly solemn and listless.
Sandy Jackson took the blow on his left
shoulder. The thud brought a dull pain
into his right arm. He flopped back against
the wall and cursed violently.
The man came heavily forward again.
Trapped, Sandy found himself beaten—
almost. He shot forward, bent low and
kicked and kicked again, though every jar
sent needles of pain through his arm. He
heard his tormentor yell in pain and rage.
He felt a dazing thud across his right ear
and then realised that he was being picked
up from the floor. He felt himself twisted
suddenly in racking pain through a circle;
then he flew through space across the bar
and into a long array of bottles on a wide
shelf.
He felt himself sinking: then he over-
balanced and fell to the floor behind the
counter. Liquid trickled from a broken
bottle and ran down the back of his neck.
(Continued on next page.)


Lubricate
your machinery
as you do your car
by the
TecalemiY
High Pressure System
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Mjy Street Pert"
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Piri 6 Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
%
Sunny Smiles
and pretty frocks
EVERY woman who wishes to see her
children’s charm reflected in the
garments they wear will find in ‘Bo-Peep*
Print the ideal fabric. Although it is woven
to withstand the rigorous treatment of
healthy children, it is wonderfully soft
and thoroughly washable.
‘Bo-Peep' Print is 38 ins. wide, and is obtainable in many styles,
designs and colourings. Sold by leading Drapers and Stores,
( fUfUtterod
for Childrens Wear.
A
FABRIC
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline” —the equal to silk .
If any difficulty in obtaining, write
H. G. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original*
WONDERFUL VALUE FOR THE MONEY
Wm
B
: ■ j
.
m,
No. 113
KEMP STYLE
SADDLE
This saddle is built on the lines of the saddle
used by Professor Kemp in his buckjumping
shows, and is the best type of Poley Saddle
to ride a buck in. Note how the pads run
up almost level with the head of the saddle,
which is the secret of its success. It is
made throughout in long-wearing kip, and is
fitted with folded girth, surcingle leathers
and n.-p. irons.
£B/8/- Or £8 without Surcingle.
Freight paid for cash with order to any
N.S.W. Railway Station.
Write for Our Catalogue, showing Australian and
American Saddlery, Whips, Harness, etc.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.
Box 785 G. 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Within reach of his bleeding fingers a
bottle lay on its side. He gripped it, tried
to rise, stumbled, tried again and got to
his knees.
He screwed round weakly and almost col-
lapsed. His hand was held in a vyce-like
grip by Peggy Bryant!
She reached forward with her other hand
and twisted the bottle away from him.
She leapt forward and leant across the
counter and glared at the big stranger.
“You despicable beast! This man has a
broken arm! You damn crawler! For two
pins I’d wring your neck!”
As quick as a wolf she turned and
reached Sandy Jackson. She lifted him to
his feet, placed an arm about him and half
carried and half pushed him from the
room.
“What did you do that for?” Her eyes
glared. Her lips quivered. Angry red
tinged her cheeks. “Come on—what do
you mean by trying to get yourself killed?”
“I couldn’t help it, Peggy. You laughed
at me.”
“A woman oughtn’t to marry you at all!”
she snapped as she helped him into the
kitchen. “Going mad like that! You
ought to be fair ashamed of yourself!”
“But I couldn’t help it, Peg.”
“Couldn’t help it!” Peggy Bryant stood
back and surveyed him. “Just- you listen
to me. When we’re married, if you fight
I’ll smash your head like a cooking apple.
Now give me your arm! It’s a wonder
you haven’t broken it again!”
As she bandaged him she grew again
tractable. Then she became playful, until
Sandy pulled her upon his knees.
“You can kiss me,” she invited. “When
are we getting married?”
“There’s goin’ to be a double-bunger
weddin’,” he answered proudly. “I planned
it meself. Me an’ you an’ Jim Walters
an’ ”
“What the glory?” Peggy broke in.
“You planning my wedding? Right—we
don’t get married!” She rose from his knees.
“I do all the plannings, Sandy. When you
-ealise that, you can come to me!”
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Jim Walters Takes a Hand.
The sun rode an hour high when Sandy
Jackson knocked and was admitted to the
Warkon. Cottage Hospital. Dr. Lowndes
gave him a cold look, for he apparently had
been fighting. She allowed him to pass,
and then she stalked down the passage.
Jim Walters lay propped up among pil-
lows. He was still very weak and his face
almost had the color of death; but he
could speak with a little more vigor, and
Dr. Lowndes had explained to him that
all he had to do now was to rest and keep
thoroughly quiet, and within six or seven
weeks he would be able to walk about.
“Hullo, James!” Sandy’s voice was deep
with despair. He flopped in a chair. “Gawd,
ain’t it hot? A man ought to shoot his-
self this weather.”
“What’s up, boy?” Walters’s voice was
suddenly concerned.
“Aw, nothin’ much. Just got worries.
A man’s got to have worries, ain’t he?”
“Love affairs worrying you, Sandy? Won’t
Peggy give you that marrying look?”
Sandy sat in solemn glumness for almost
a minute. His left boot commenced to
tap-tap on the floor.
“Peggy’s a fool,” he declared suddenly.
“One minute she says she’ll marry me, next,
minute she ups an’ flies off the handle like
I was a murderer.”
“She said she would marry you?” Walters
asked weakly.
“Well, I’ll tell you,” Sandy commenced
with a slight sigh of relief. “I asks her to
marry me an’ she laughs like a blinkin’
hyaena. That makes me wild, so I jumps up
an’ off into the bar. I’m goin’ to get
blind paralytic, then commit suicide; but
I gets into holts with a hulkin’ great cow
in the bar, an’ he splathers me all over the
place. Peggy hops in, drags me out, falls
all over me, an’ fixes me up an’ asks me
when we was gettin’ married. An’ when
I tells her about this here double-barrel
weddin’, an’ that it is already fixed up for
almost, she clears out like a barb-wire tom- '
cat.”
“Humph. Sandy, why do you muck
everything up?” Walters grimaced at a
sudden twinge of pain. “Still, I think I
can fix it. I’ll get Nurse Thomas to ask
her to come over here”
“What you goin’ to tell her?” Sandy’s
voice was harsh. Jealousy blazed in his
eyes.
“Never mind!” Walters rapped out.
“Ring that bell.”
Sandy rang the little bell at the bedside,
though doubt, suspicion and rebellion
shadowed his small face.
Nurse Thomas entered the room.
“You rang,” she said. “Are you com-
fortable?”
“Quite. I was wondering just now
whether you could go a little private mes-
sage for me —just a few yards?”
“Certainly.” Nurse Thomas was good-
natured and willing.
“Well, Sandy’s young lady has cast him
adrift with scorn. I would like to speak
to her, if you would do me the favor of
asking her to come.”
Sandy Jackson jumped to his feet.
“James, a man ought to shoot you—
you’re interferin’ in love. Fights an’ mur-
ders has happened mobs of times over
blokes interferin’ in love, James. You
better be careful.”
Jim Walters tried to twist his body, but
found himself too weak.
“Look here, Sandy. You think I’m not
serious. I want to see you married. I
want to get married myself. I’m absolutely
serious about this.”
Sandy Jackson looked down into the eyes
of his mate. He faltered.
“Well, Jim, don’t you muck it all up.
Peggy Bryant met Dr. Lowndes on the
steps of the hospital.
“I’ve come over to see Jim Walters,
she explained. “I hope you don’t mind?”
Dr. Lowndes nodded. “Really, no one
should see him. You must not excite him.
He had that damn fool Jackson talking
to him a few hours ago; and Jackson brays
like twelve asses. You’ll have to speak very
softly to Walters, and not too fast. You
understand?”
Peggy explored until she found Jim
Walters’s room. He did not move, but
looked up at her. She felt a shock. He
looked like death, though his eyes sparkled.
“Hullo, Peg, this is good of you,” he
welcomed her warmly. “How are you?”
“Healthy and so on, Jim. Goodness,
but you look terrible.”
“I want to congratulate you; Peg.” Jim
Walters’s voice was. quite natural.
“Congratulate me? What?”
“You and Sandy. He told me you had
accepted him.”
“He told you that, the little”——
Jim Walters intervened hastily. “I’m
glad, Peg. No end glad. Sandy’s a fine
chap; and I’d give a year’s wages to see
the fac,es of those other girls when they
find out.”
Peggy’s lips tightened in a grim line.
She had seemed ready to lash Sandy to
pieces; now suddenly she altered. Suspicion
entered her eyes. She crouched forward.
“What girls?” she blazed. “Where? I’ll
skin him alive!”
“You didn’t know Sandy was engaged
before?” Jim Walters asked the lie with
a certain uneasiness in his mind. He had
to make a gamble and he did not wish to
lose. “There’s a girl in Cloncurry. She
told almost everyone that she could twist
Sandy round and make him many her any
minute—and the poor fool almost did
marry her, too! He didn’t want to; but
she defied anyone to take him from her. I
heard her throw out the challenge behind
the bar of the Southern Hotel. I ran
him out of town when he was half drunk
one day, and he hasn’t been back since.
I’m glad you’re marrying him, Peg. I
wouldn’t like to see a girl like that marry
Sandy.”
“What’s her name?” Peggy asked with
narrowed eyes.
“Hendon,” Walters lied easily. “Sandy
seems to have a fatal attraction for girls,
somehow. There are one or two others in’
Cloncurry would like to get him, only I
they’re frightened to death of—of Elsie I
Hendon. Elsie had them all bluffed.”
Peggy Bryant sat up firmly. An eager
light entered her eyes.
“I’ll scold Sandy,” she declared, “when I
see the little rat again. I told him not to
say anything about it; but we’ve been
making arrangements —we’re going to have
a double-barrel wedding, see? He didn’t
tell me who was the full double party; but
I reckon it’s up to me to congratulate
you and that Delaney girl”
“But we’re not engaged!”
“What?” Peggy Bryant shook a knowing
finger at him. “I can see through all that
talk of Sandy’s now. You’re engaged to
Miss Delaney, and you can’t deny it. And
you’re the other barrel.”
Jim Walters felt puzzled. Something told
him to humor her.
“Life’s nothing but a gamble, anyhow,”
he muttered. “Say, Peg, what about both
you and Sandy coming to see me just after
tea—about six, say? Both come, and then
you can tell me officially about your
engagement.”
Peggy grew serious. She thought heavily.
“And we’re all getting married in the
one bunch?”
“Yes, we’re getting married together.”
Peggy clasped her plump hands together
“That Cloncurry girl’ll go mad!” she said.
(To be continued next week.)
The Unborn.
In a far, small gentle country live the safe ones,
Freed people that the Stork will never call
for now;
What care you, who play unceasing, light
■as laughter—
Why should your rose-bright fingers long
for pen or plough?
Nothing there will ever harm you, sun or
shadow ;
Snake or angry, rushing river, fire or bee;
All the brooks are tamed and tiny, running
slowly,
Little brooks that never reach a
frightening sea.
Dawn you have and dew and birdsong,
nothing greater;
Never for you fairy ones the risen sun ;
In that pure and pallid light you run
for ever,
Sleeping loosely where you fall, when
running’s done.
You will never need their arms, their close
fine love-words;
Safe you are for ever with your tiny trees,
Low-bent sky and charmed birds and close,
soft grasses,
Sheltered from the dark eyes of tall
eternities.
If there are times when they fancy you
grown taller,
Tall, lovely, passionate, winged in tongue
or hand —
Laugh! You are safe from their hungry,
human longing,
Run free for ever through your limpid,
soulless land.
VICTORIA.
GEORGIA RIVERS.


ë
Twin-Ignition
Eight
m
fl
m
Twin-Ignition
Six
Single Six
WITH GREAT NEW FEATURES
THAT WILL FOCUS THE EYES
OF THE WORLD ON NASH
NEW Body Designs—Longer Wheelbases
—New Hood Length and Depth—New
Narrow Rim Radiators with Built-In Auto-
matic Shutters More Powerful Engine
7-Bearing, Hollow Crankpin Crankshafts
Self - Energizing, Cable - Actuated 4 - Wheel
Brakes Refined Fuelization Fuel Feed
Pump Centralized Chassis Lubrication
New, Double-Action Lovejoy Hydraulic Shock
Absorbers—Adjustable Driver’s Seat Steel
Spring Covers, Lifetime Lubrication—World’s
Easiest Steering—Starter Control on Instru-
ment Panel—lnsulated floor board and dash—
New Moderne Instrument Panels —And these
additional features in the Eight: Straight-Eight,
Twin-Ignition, High-Compression, Valve-in-
Head Engine—9-Bearing, Integrally Counter-
weighted, Hollow Crankpin Crankshaft
Aluminium Connecting Rods—Steering Shock
Repulsor—All windows, doors, windscreens,
Duplate Non-Shatterable Plate Glass.
You are cordially invited to inspect and drive
the 1930 Nash ”400”.
Distributors for New South Wales
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
'Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
NASH "4DO"
Leads the World in Motor Car Value
(35-1219)


ē
Telephone
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


CLOTHES
FOK MEN
e
AND THEIR
SONS.
“BIG NINE”
TENNIS SHOES
A Sports Shoe of heavyweight can-
vas, trimmed with horse-hide facings,
thick, gripping rubber soles—guaran-
teed for six months.
All Sizes .. 19/6
Pike Brothers
LTD.,
IN QUEEN-STREET, BRISBANE.
VICHY
iP'R-siSz-J5
mm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
°f Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
IO
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 13 1 for your reservation.
Greater Love.
ADYS BROWN.
ė
SAIL-0 !”
At the muffled hail Lilo stopped
digging. Lifting the rain-drenched
tapa hood from her head, she listened doubt-
ingly, straining her eyes seaward, trying to
pmree the squally curtain of lashing rain.
Sail-o! Sail-o-o-o !”
This time it came more clearly, though
from far down the mountain, chorused by
many voices, caught up and tossed along
from the village, dying away flatly in the
distant mists.
Quickly gathering the lialf-rotten yams
into a roughly-plaited piveni, the girl hur-
riedly swung the light load to her back, and,
pushing the carrying-band into place on her
uamp forehead, sped off down the path, slip-
ping and .sliding in the sodden black soil.
A hen within sight of home she cried the
news to her grandfather, who looked wearily
up from feeding the smoky fire under the hut.
“Sail-o, Tamusa !” she announced joyously,
her brown eye<§ dancing with delight. “May-
be Dandi and Keke will be home; then
there’ll be food in plenty for us and no more
black yams to eat!” Swinging the wet
basket from her back she tumbled its con-
tents out and kicked the slimy roots con-
temptuously aside.
Her grandfather shook his head despon-
dently, and, taking a length of knotted vine
from his rope-girdle, unwound it and began
to count the knots slowly and carefully,
mumbling to himself.
When at last he had finished the tally,
be said sadly: “I made no mistake; still
another moon before thy brother’s two years’
labor is finished ! And yet another for the
journey _ home—to find us all dead with
hunger!” he ended bitterly as he gathered
up the despised yams and carefully dried
them.
Food was indeed scarce. Such a long
rainy season had never been known before.
Yams and sweet potatoes were rotting, half-
grown, in the little terraced gardens, where
flu pockets of soil so toilfully garnered
through the years had been washed away
down the steep face of the mountain into the
lagoon, the heavy rainstorms leaving little
but bare rock behind. Even the cocoanuts
were falling green from the palms, and un-
ripe breadfruit mouldered on the trees.
“Let us go dow T n to the wharf. Dandi
might have returned,” urged Lilo hopefully.
As the old man rose jerkily, liis joints
cracking and creaking as he straightened,
the girl called up through the hole in the
goru flooring to the close-thatched hut above,
where her mother lay in the damp darkness
trying to gather warmth from the heat of
the fire below, though the pungent smoke
from the sodden wood irritated her wasted
lungs. Staccato barks of coughing came in
answer, and the hollow rasp of it followed
them as they set off in the pouring rain
down the steep track to the wharf.
Tamusa was crippled and bent, but in the
tangle of liis grizzled hair dangled three
dunari shells, each the life of a man—tokens
that in his prime Tamusa had been a doughty
warrior. A pwona of thick padi rope en-
circled his waist, hanging in festoons, drap-
ing bony hip and shrunken thigh, garb and
weapon combined; for on this rain-soaked
emerald isle the worship of the Snake still
lingered, the rope being the symbol of the
cult—its devotees, men as skilled in lassoing
and strangling as the Snake itself.
Tamnsa’s grandchild, Lilo, was small and
slimly fashioned. In times of plenty she
had been blithe and free as a wood sprite,
but starvation had tamed her, and her once-
rounded limbs, bespattered with the black
mire of the garden, had lost their shapely
contours. Now, excited by the prospect of
the incoming boat, her soft eyes shone with
hope, and her eager feet oft-times carried
her so far ahead of the old man that she
had to wait here and there, reproaching her-
self for her impatience at his slow progress
down the slippery, root-encumbered path.
When at last the two reached the shaky
pole and vine-tied wharf, the lugger was
already at anchor, and a dinghy was pulling
towards the crazy jetty, which groaned and
trembled under the weight of crowding vil-
lagers impatiently waiting the homecoming
boys.
Shouts of “Hi. loani! Toula ! Biro !
Ahai, Jami-Jami!” greeted the oncoming
boat, loaded to the waterline with stalwart
plantation laborers, who eagerly scanned the
wharf where fathers and mothers, sweet-
hearts and friends were dancing, yelling,
gesticulating, all heedless of the heavy down-
pour, for hearts were light at this long-
dreamed-of welcome home.
As the wanderers leaped ashore they were
swallowed in the noisy throng of nose-rubbing,
embracing relations who swooped joyously
upon their baggage. Mats of rice, caddies of
tobacco and shining yellow trade-boxes were
borne shoulder-high in triumph to the village.
As the last boatload arrived and neither
her brother, Dandi, nor Keke, her betrothed,
bad appeared, Lilo’s tears fell fast as the
falling rain. She bad hoped against hope;
now hope was dead. Starvation faced the
little household in the lonely mountain hut.
Through her tears she saw the recruiter
come ashore, and listlessly watched the
anxious youths and men who crowded round to
offer themselves for his return trip. With
burly good nature he chaffed them, looking
them over critically, keenly scanning their
points. He could have his pick this time,
for, the season being so bad, either work
on the plantations or famine faced the
islanders.
Having chosen lii.s quota, the man turned
to Tamusa and Lilo, who still lingered,
watching the crowd.
“I suppose this little bird doesn’t want
to sign on?” he bantered. “She looks as if
she’d be the better for a feed of corn. What
about a trip with me, lass?” he joked, ogling
Lilo, whose wistful face peeped modestly
from her dripping hood. Shrinking timidly
from his bold, laughing eyes, she clung close
to her grandfather.
The chosen youths, who were hastily strip-
ping off their rope-girdles ready to don the
recruiter’s red calico ramis. laughed, and
one bold buck shouted, “Nay, Lilo! Stay
and wait for us! If there be not enough
wives to go round when we return thou
canst be «»r jelibio:’
A shout of coarse laughter greeted this
sa Uy> and Tamusa, a savage look on bis
b ‘ an . wrinkled face, drew the girl away in
wake of the disappearing crowd, mut-
tering curses on the white man’s loose tongue
and its evil influence on the young men.
“What shame,” he mumbled, “to speak
thus lightly before a maiden ! May the curse
of the Snake fall upon them !”
Though the heavens seemed in spate, in
the village by the lagoon cheery fires were
already blazing under the kitchen shelters,
and rice was cooking in sooty earthen pots
side by side with shining, new enamel billy-
cans. Tins of salmon and bulamakau were
gouged open with bright clasp-knives; black
syrupy tea brewed ; bottles of tomato sauce
and mustard pickles uncorked; jams and
tinned fruits shared out. For the first time
for many a day there would be enough
to fill all bellies. For the moment the grim
spectre of famine was forgotten, and, reck-
less of future need, they prepared for the
feast.
Swelling with pride, the work-boys un-
folded brilliantly-flowered ramis, gay waist-
bands of turkey-red twill, showed shining
steel tomahawks and ricli-hued satin ribbons ;
sucked. at new briar pipes; preened them-
selves in hand-mirrors and offered sniffs at
cakes of scented soap. The bell-locks of new
camphor-wood boxes chimed merrily as keys
were turned a hundred times for the sheer
pleasure of locking and unlocking, as the
treasures of the mainland stores were
brought out, to be passed round from hand
to hand to a chorus of admiring, envying
voices, rumbles of laughter, and the discor-
dant din of mouth-organs and tin-wliistles.
In a dim corner of this joyous, smoky,
steaming bedlam, Lilo crouched, forlorn and
heartsick with disappointment, hungrily
watching the bubbling pots of rice, thinking
dismally of the blackened, rotting yams and
the empty days ahead.
When she received her portion of the feast
she wrapped it in a banana-leaf and slipped
silently away from the busy scene, hurrying
up the homeward track to share it with her
mother, leaving the old grandfather in a
haze of smoke, belly full and content, gossip-
ing and puffing in his turn at the reeking
buu-bnu.
After her mother had been fed and soothed
to sleep, and the fireplace, replenished, Lilo
sat down to await the old man’s return. The
rain had stopped, but drips from the ragged
leaves of the thatch still splashed on the
rock-ribbed ground with a drowsy rhythm,
and the murmuring voices of a thousand
streamlets, spilling from ledge to ledge on
their way to the sea, filled the night with
music. The land breeze, crooning softly and
plaintively through the wet palm-fronds, lulled
her to a doze, from which she awoke with
a start as her grandfather poked the smoul-
dering embers to a blaze.
“Hast thou news?” she questioned eagerly.
"It is no use expecting thy brother and
Keke back next month,” he answered slowly.
“Biro tells me that they have signed to work
for another year.”
Lilo gave a despairing moan and began
to weep softly. The old man squatted before
the fire, staring into the leaping flames,
brooding sombrely. At last his husky voice
broke the silence: “The year hath been a bad
one, Lilo. Thou knowest many maidens have
died of the sickness, and there are but few
left for wives for those who returned to-
day.”
There was an ominous note in his voice.
Gulping down her sobs, Lilo stared at him,
a flicker of fear in her wide eyes. With his
age-blurred eyes fixed on the fire he droned
out: “The old custom must come back, Lilo—
the custom which hath ever held when maids
be few.”
Her little breast began to flutter. A vague
fear, rearing its head like a snake in a
thicket, crept forth as he continued: “There
be four men of Ngam who desire a jelibio.
They offer much for the maiden who will
serve; enough to keep her people from star-
vation and death.”
Lilo gave a low wail: “No, no, Tamusa!
Not me! Say it is not me! Thou knowest
I am promised to Keke,” and threw herself,
a choking, sobbing heap, at his feet.
He drew her between his gaunt knees,
and with wrinkled, shaking hands tenderly
stroked her crinkly, brown hair.
“What are promises when bellies are
empty and death beckons? Think of thy
mother, Lilo ! Think of me, thy grandsire.
I am old and crippled yet even the old
love life. Without help can we live that
year until thy brother returns?"
Lilo raised her tear-stained face. “I will
scour the hills for food. Tamusa. And there
are still a few yams left in the garden,” she
pleaded.
The old man shook his head, and the
dunari shells clashed like cymbals.
“The yams would keep death at bay for
scarce a week, and what dost thou get
from the hills but a handful of roots? Nay,
Lilo, I have already promised thee to Jami-
Jami and his friends. To-night they bring
the pay, and thou must go that we may
live.”
So Lilo went to dwell with the four men
of Ngam—Jami-Jami and the three brothers,
loani, Gwara and Biro —to work in their
gardens, cook their food and follow those
usages which time-webbed custom demands
of a jelibio; and in the evenings, though
no wife, she sat with the married women.
They, custom-bound, initiated her into their
mysteries, speaking in the secret language
which the womenfolk of the Stranglers’
Island use amongst themselves.
Pitying her weakness, with woman’s free-
masonry they shielded her from her masters,
especially from Jami-Jami, a lean and
swarthy crow, who of the four men Lilo
most hated. Too mean to buy a wife, though
as plantation boss-boy he had earned enough
and to spare, Jami-Jami demanded and took
more than his share of the services of the
little jelibio, and his petty cruelties lit a
secret hatred in her breast which smould-
ered like a hidden fire.
“He beats her as though she were his
wife,” grumbled one indignant woman, raking
the hot stones from her fire. “That is no
fashion to treat a jelibio, who attends to the
appetites of four men,” adding, as she buried
the leaf-wrapped fish for supper in the midst
of the hot ashes and replaced the stones,
“Did all men behave so shamelessly, there
would soon be no jelibios in times like these,
and our men would wive with foreigners, as
Mwe did.”
“Without doubt a malignant devil lurks
within him; I have seen it peep from his
eyes,” returned another, sweeping the hearth
clean of ashes, ready for baking.
After supper they whispered to Lilo of
secrctl herbs, iombi or gnara, to dry and
powder into Jami-Jami’s bowl of pu. “The
devil within him is devouring thee,” they
urged. “Therefore, kill him before he destroys
thee. Thou wilt then have but the three
brothers to serve, and they are easy men.”
But Lilo shook her head, replying, “I
swore by the Snake to serve.” And went
her weary way.
So, though in the hut of the four men of
Ngam there was food in plenty, and accord-
ing to promise Tainusa and her mother knew
no want, Lilo’s big brown eyes wore a hunted
look; and as the hollow cough, her mother's
heritage, shook her slender frame, her cheeks
grew thinner, her face more wistful.
At the year’s end, when her brother Dandi
returned, his wages barely sufficed to pay
for the wife he coveted, for the price of
brides was high. Nothing was left with
which to purchase Lilo’s freedom from bond-
age. Keke, once her betrothed, who returned
with Dandi, never sought her out, nor did
Lilo expect it. What man would marry a
jelibio?
When her mother died, and was quickly
followed by old Tamusa, Lilo scarcely grieved,
for her heart was numb and her brain
dulled. Life had become a dreary round of
hopeless servitude, to be borne patiently.
Though powerless to help, the women
watched her with pitying eyes, and pro-
phesied that the four men of Ngam would
soon lose their -jelibio.
Then Diressa came. Diressa the beautiful!
Mwe had left the island many years before
to work in a store in far-away Port Moresby,
marrying a girl of Hanuabada village, hard
by that town. Left a widower, with well-
filled boxes, he returned to his village of
Ngam, there to end his days and keep his
daughter Diressa away from the profligate
attentions of the white men and the wiles of
thriftless Ilanuabadans, until he could find
a profitable market for her as a bride.
Diressa, vain and pampered beauty, danced
with careless feet straight into the empty
heart of Lilo, for never had that forlorn
drudge seen such a vision of beauty as flitted
the first evening round the cooking fires
like some gorgeous moth.
Her glossy black hair, carefully combed
and oiled to a coronet of sheeny glory, framed
a pretty, rounded face. Between pouting
red lips, parted with ever-ready smiles,
flashed teeth untarnished with betel juice.
The waxen floret of frangipanni, peeping coyly
from behind her tiny beringed ear, was no
smoother than her own satin-sleek skin. As
she swayed her shapely hips in conscious,
studied grace, the host of thick skirts sh
wore, of fine pandanus leaf broadly striped
with purple, yellow and black, swished and
rustled coquettishly, half-concealing, half-
revealing pretty, dimpled knees ; making the
island no, a skimpy banana-leaf frill, look
mean and dowdy. Her plump arms, clasped
with heavy shell ornaments, tapered to soft,
tender hands innocent of garden work; and
whilst she laughed and chattered, watching
her audience with sloe-black eyes, greedy for
admiration, her slim fingers toyed restlessly
with the long chain of pearl beads which
circled her full throat and fell in shimmering
links to her waist.
Yet, in spite of her efforts to charm, the
village women held sullenly aloof, eyeing with
cold dislike, tinged with envy, this beauti-
ful Hanuabada belle. Lilo alone watched
her with hungry, love-starved eyes, and love
blossomed in that hour for the girl whom the
others disdainfully called “the foreigner.”
Finding herself shunned by the other
women, and debarred by stern decree of
custom from the men, Diressa accepted the
little islander’s devotion, and, flattered by
Lilo’s open admiration, now and again would
offer to help with the heavy pweni of taro
and loads of firewood, complacently con-
trasting Lito’s frailty with the plump,
seductive curves of her own ripening form.
When the little jelibio shyly offered a stick
of the colored shell-money which circulated
only amongst the women, carefully guarded
from masculine eyes, Diressa clapped her
hands gleefully, and Lilo, ever ready to bring
more smiles to the pretty face, soon gave up
what few treasures she possessed : a blue and
gold paradise plume, rarely beautiful, which
floated like a prisoned rainbow in Diressa’s
jetty tresses; a couple of blood-red hern-shell
earrings and the talking parrakeet which
loani had bought for her in Sud Est. Diressa
took all gifts and homage as her due and was
greedy for more.
Grieving that she had so little to give, with
cunning wiles Lilo coaxed gifts from the
three brothers; a pendant of carved tortoise-
shell inlaid with silver from Gwara ; a fan
of goura crests from Biro; fragile chains of
the rich pink Icaloma from loani, who was a
master-craftsman in shell-grinding. With
these love-offerings she adorned her friend.
From Jami-Jami Lilo neither begged nor
took, and never spoke his name to Diressa.
When supper was eaten and work done,
sitting over the glowing embers of Lilo’s
cooking fire, snuggled in a tapa blanket.
Diressa would relate stories of the marvels
of Port Moresby and her many conquests
thefe to the wondering and adoring Lilo, who
(Continued on page 57.)
THERE'LL BE THIS IN IT.
ě


IV-,inking, Public Companies, eut.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares . . 703,125
Ordinary Shares . . . . . ■ • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund ~ .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders ..- 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
Lon non Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British A ustralia n
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the homo
papers, meet tlieir friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can bo obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing-Agency, Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney;
or 484 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
e
IRegkte
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISUAND SHE El* DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. FODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
lanufacturers and distributors
>ifcrested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or Co any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agenjies.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
Sail for
Honolulu
on
February 6
AUSTRALASIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE
WHETHER on board the liner
en route for Honolulu or holi-
daying on the Sunny South
Sea Isle, your enjoyment is assured.
For Hawaii is a world-famous
holiday resort, whilst the vessels
engaged in this tour —the Niagara
and Aorangi are imposingly large,
wide-decked and splendidly fitted for
pleasure.
Last Summer Excursion Tour—via
Auckland and Suva:
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second
(return).
Leaving FEBRUARY 6.
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Inß
n
r
urn
2 % »
BURNS-PHILP
TOURS
¥ A \T A (The Wonderland
V £ TL of the East).
THE IDEAL HOLIDAY TRIP. JAVA OFFERS SOME-
THING FOR EVERY TASTE. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
QUAINT CUSTOMS. SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE.
WONDERFUL SCENERY.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and
situated only seven days’ steaming n.-e.
of Sydney. The comfortable and
popular S.S. “MATARAM” sails from
Sydney on February 5, and six-weekly
thereafter, visiting 30 picturesque
Ports.
ROUND TRIP 41 WEEKS.
FARE £4l
Write jor' Pamphlet No. 52/S to
TURNS, PHILP AND
COMPANY, LTD.,
7 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED IS 17
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
l’aid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
■S»-
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
688 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL * - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAII COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and ali other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping;, etc,
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OR A BA—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. YV OLLON GBAlt—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless lteceiving Se f s
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/L/-
Steamer and First-cla-s Bail, Single, £3/15/.
Steamer and Second-class Bail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIAU',IS? HOUSE.
MARTIN* PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL“-“=S«
* M,nv * u Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Begular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LUVIITa!
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
DINING CARS
ON EYERYJRAIN
Era I /' =
iL/v .jt A a
- \ \
-A
Hotel comfort—complete menu
—tempting dishes. Service
by white waiters. You’ll
linger over lunch or dinner
as you speed along—C.P.R.
trains are world-famous for
hospitality. Cross the Rockies
in complete comfort, via
Canadian Pacific. Write for
beautifully illustrated litera-
ture.
mil
_ ji ft-#*i*^ ™ *:.hr - In* 1
lIM ««I' I I • v - , -; :- - w'\^-OKa
j \,
a
T £LS
.HO
V? *
A«^ S
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
è
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect ot the
printing business*
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.


THE delicate charm of Eng=
lish Crystal made the art of
the old Stuart craftsmen tradu
tional To Hay descendants
of those men produce for you
glass which generations to
come will venerate as the
work o/ old masters. The
registered name / Stuart" is
stamped on every piece as a
proof of genuineness.
I f
rl
■■
i
IS
mi
m
m
mm
i
m
m
mm.
mm
m
mm
mm
r &m
m
■
« jfe,*
MSS
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
TRADE MARK
GUNS AND AMMUNITION
Safe — Sure —Accurate
THE BOY who does his first shooting with a
Winchester .22 caliber rifle, will shoot a
Winchester all his life. And he will always shoot-
Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Guns.
Winchester Staynless Rim Fire Cartridges are
ideal ammunition for a small-bore rifle. They
will not rust or pit the bore. This saves you
the bother of constantly cleaning the barrel and
protects the shooting qualities of your gun.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
.Wr Always use Winchester Ammunition with Wm-'ix jy. m
* Chester Arms they are made for each other.
0
m
•omit
££ter
w
SSYNI
vHLO
IS
STA
CIDER,
iV kitzs.
c &°Aai a ,dnd<&*'
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. T. Fernie, of London, states: —
Cider is not only the most wholesome and
hygienic of all drinks, but is a preventive
against and a remedy for
Stone, Gravel, Gout, Obesity
and Fermentative Indigestion.
Agents in all States.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
Inis hod her petulant outbursts against the
island s chill mists, and soothed her wounded
vanity with loving words when she com-
plained vehemently of its barbaric customs,
unresponsive men and sulky women.
The day’s labors were lightened and
sweetened for Lilo by thoughts of those even-
ings with her beloved, and even when Diressa
whispered of a secret meeting with Keke,
she listened With breathless interest, though
a pam tugged at her breast. Yet what could
be more fitting than that her two loved ones
should mate? Carefully she guarded their
secret, anxiously awaiting the time when
Iveke had promised Diressa he would be able
to speak for her. One more spell of diving for
shell, he told her, and then with the money
he had earned on the plantation there would
be enough to pay the heavy bride-price her
father demanded.
The longed-for time was almost at hand
When, one late afternoon, Lilo was busily
gathering taro in Jami-Jami’s garden a for
tile spot tucked away in a fold of the moun-
tain. As she plied her digging stick she was
smiling softly to herself, thinking of the reed
basket which lay in the near-by garden hut
in it bedded in velvety moss, were sprays
of golden, purple-throated orchids, fragrant
and honey-sweet, and green fronds of filmy
fern, gathered in the swamp that morning,
supper over, she would weave a garland for
Diressa. How beautiful it would look in the
midnight of her hair! If only Keke could
see his sweetheart decked by her loving
hands, what happiness she would feel! But
Keke was across the lagoon with the divers
searching the sea-bottom for bau to satisfy
Mwe s greed.
From a scented myrtle bush at the edge of
the jungle, a launi piped the first soft, bub-
bling notes of Ins evensong to a sky of
smoky opal, already throbbing with the crim-
son fires of sunset. Heeding his warning,
she hurriedly stabbed at the rich loam with
a stake, unearthing the crisp, fat lily-bulbs,
and filling her pwem. As she swung the bag
to her back, Diressa scrambled breathlessly
over the low garden fence and came running
towards her with woebegone face. Tear-
drops quivered on her long, dusky lashes,
like dewdrops on a petal, and Lilo, dropping
her bundle, took her to her hungry breast,
folding thin arms around her in protective
embrace.
What is it, my pretty one?” she inquired
anxiously, as with tender caressing fingers
she smoothed the satiny, brown shoulders.
I am so unhappy,” sobbed Diressa. “Mv
father hath just told me that Jami-Jami
spoke for me last night. He offered a fine
bnde-pnee, more, far more, than Keke can
giye, find my father would not listen when
I bogged him to wait awhile. I shall die
if. I must wed wi’tli Jami-Jami. Help me,
Lilo Oh; help me! What shall I do?”
Lilo clutched her convulsively, and Dir-
essa, with a tiny scream of pain, withdrew
from her close embrace, and pouting rue-
fully, rubbed the bruise on her plump arm.
For once Lilo took no heed. “Jami-
Jami . ’ she gasped, clenching rough, earth-
stained fists. “Never, never shall he have
thee! lie is mean and cruel. A devil!
He will suck the strength from thy body
as a spider sucks a fly, and then lie wiil
torment thee as he doth me,’’ she panted,
her mild eyes ablaze with the fire of hate.
Blinking away her tears, Diressa stared
Jrnr friend in amazement.
“But what hath Jami-Jami to do with
thee loani’s wife?” she demanded, her tear-
bright eyes wide with surprise.
Exhausted by her outbrust, Lilo leaned
against the rough fence and looked fear-
tully into Diressa’s amazed and question-
ing face. With her hand pressed to her side,
she stammered: “Dost thou not know what
I am. Have not the women told thee that
I am no man’s wife? I am jelibio to four
men of Ngam,”
“A jclibio F’ Diressa questioned, looking
blankly at her, puckering Her pretty brows;
then, as a half-forgotten memory of the
ancient island custom broke upon her, she
shrank back.
“Thou a jclibio, and I had thee for my
friend! How shameful!” she shrilled. “I
thought thee loani’s wife,” and, thrusting
aside Lilo’s imploring, outstretched hands
with a gesture of disgust, she fled from the
garden.
The girl gazed sadly after her, but made
no attempt to follow.
“Neither maid nor wife,” she murmured
bitterly, “and now I have lost her I love.
Never again will she be my friend.” A big
tear trickled down her cheek. “But Jami-
Jami shall not have her to spoil,” she vowed
fiercely. “Keke must not lose his bride a
second time.”
Turning into the garden-hut she took
down from a peg a coil of rope—tin
strangler’s rope which Jami-Jami had long
since discarded for a calico rami—and, mut-
tering and coughing, drew the dusty, cob-
wrnbbed loops of the emblem of the Snake
through her thin fingers to test its strength,
a paroxysm of hatred for its owner shaking
her. Through him she had lost all that sin
held dear, but he should never have Diressa
for his wife. Her pretty Diressa!
Coiling the rope about her waist and leav-
ing the loop of the noose slack and ready in
her hand, she waited in the hut, breathing
in the heady fragrance of the orchids and
fingering the smooth rope, a look of exalta-
tion in her brown eyes.
Presently a medley of song and laughter
floated through the grove of breadfruit-trees,
putting the launi to flight. A hunting party
was returning from the bush, and amongst
them were the four men of Ngam, on their
way home for the supper she had not
prepared.
Peering from the doorway, Lilo watched
them pass! and then called: “Hi, Jami-
Jami !”
She saw him turn his head and look
inquiringly over his shoulder, and she hailed
him again.
This time he turned back, scowling, bu!
the others strode on.
“Hither, Jami-Jami! Inside the hut,”
she called, swiftly climbing to the heavy
crossbeam of the roof. Crouching ther
rope in hand, she breathed the prayer oi
her forefathers—the strangler’s invocation
to the Snake,
As Jami-Jami stooped to enter the low
doorway, the noose dropped, circled his
neck, and with a jerk tightened. The
startled man, clawing the air frantically,
lost his balance, and as Lilo jumped, the
rope. snapped taut across the beam, and
Jami-Jami’s neck snapped with it.
For a moment his body hung inhert, ther
began to spin slowly round and round.
Panting and choking, with laboring breath
and starting eyes Lilo clung to the rope
until the quivering limbs had ceased tc
twitch. Then her numbed and trembling
fingers relaxed, and the tight coils around
her crushed chest slowly unwound as Jami
Jami’s sagging body dropped sprawling, over
turning the flower basket and spilling its con-
tents over the earthen floor.
Gasping painfully, Lilo fell headlong
beside it, blood spurting from her lips, soon
to slacken to crimson bubbles, then to cease
as she lay quiet amongst the scattered sprays
of gold and purple blossom.
The launi, returned to his perch in the
myrtle bush, trilled a farewell cadence to
the setting sun, whose last rays lit up the
hut with an amber glow. For a brief spac
it shone on Lilo’s peaceful, upturned face,
revealing with tender touch the look of deep
content; for the jclibio had given her last
and greatest gift to her friend, and “greater
love than this hath r.o man.”
The Booya.
HERE ION IDRIESS
ê
IF only we could find it!' exclaim and
ftawimgs for the hundredth time. “It
is worth millions!” He was walking
verandah, his face animated by desire,
» y ° U Say an ounce of ra dium was
worth.
“Priceless,” answered Musgrove. “There
are only a few ounces in the world.”
“And the Booya must weigh at least ten
pounds!” broke in Rawlings. “A hundred
and sixty ounces, worth”— •
“Millions!” answered Musgrove. “Really
billions, for it would supply light for the
cities of the world; its energy is inexhaust-
ible. And,” he mused, “its rays might van-
quish disease!”
“Damn disease!” exclaimed Rawlings as
he wheeled and gazed towards the massive
bulk of Gelam. “Think of the money, the
power! Two men owning the world’s
radium, selling it grain by grain, every
nation bidding! And it is here—where? We
have searched every cranny in the island;
you have won the confidence even of the
Zogo-le, and all we know is that it is here —
where?”
The two men were searching for the
Booya, the “spirit light” of the islanders,
a sacred stone which is alleged to throw
off an unquenchable light. There were
in existence, according to tradition, three of
these Booyas, one each held by the Zogo-le
of Mer, of Eroob, and of TJgar islands. When
the first missionaries took possession of
Torres Strait they, with their South Sea
henclimen, burned the Zogo-houses and the
Au-guuds—huge idols, these, of polished tor-
toise-shell—burned the sacred skulls and
masks and accessories of Zogo worship, de-
etroyed the Zogo-grounds and the sacred
; hrines, persecuted the priesthood of the
Zogo-le, and wrought general havoc upon the
religion of the islanders. But the Zogo-le
raved their innermost secrets. The Booya of
Mer was buried in its deepest cave, its where-
abouts a secret known only to the Zogo-le.
These had made a vow with their spirit
fathers to train their sons to the mysteries
of the priesthood, .so that, should Time over-
throw the white man, their descendants would
be able to recover the Booya and rehabilitate
the religion of their race.
The Booya in each case was apparently
pure radium, or a .substance stranger even
than radium. It was, so the story ran, set
within a socket held by a bamboo rod. The
. unposition of this setting was such that
the rays were directed upward to ascend
from the main Zogo-house only on the oeca
sion of an island victory, a calamity or th
death of the chief priest of the cult. Th
rays ascended in the form of a searchlight,
and were visible right across the strait,
Those few white men who have investi
§ a ted the stories have formed the conclusion
that. the Booya originally came from a lost
civilisation or from the vanished people who
have left those huge monuments on Easter
-island. the Torres Strait islanders say it
was , a highly-cultured people who in ages
pa ®t brought the Booya to Mer.
. Rawlings and Musgrove had been, each
JV bis different way, for years searching for
the Booya of Mer.
. Now Musgrove abruptly stood up. “Well,”
be said, only Gelam remains.”
Musgrove was a big man, his hair iron
I‘lis unsmiling face indicated the
thinker as lie stared towards the age-old
vo ,cano, the crater filled in centuries ago.
, }} bat of it.” inquired Rawlings cxpcc
ta “tiy.
, . by.” Musgrove exploded, “the Booya is
hidden in a cave We have searched every
9 av ?- Nut the whole inside of Gelam must
, hollow -we, have never searched there.”
b m ready, exclaimed Rawlings,
m, . , „ , .
searched Gelam for weeks, seeking its
ms-grown surface lor any trace of a cave.
j 7„ 0y examined especially its ravines; Raw-
-1 hS sear . caed with an eagerness turning t -
a fb , l eratl . on w ith failure. Musgrove searched
rpif eiiy ’ v ,o j but methodically, patiently,
* Ie J T ? omaec ' the hill of Zomar, the spurs
nr-i-. . nma ® ar ’ j ey roa ™® d the slopes < f
and traced the ravines right
.V’ 0 J f ,' arn - finally, as a forlorn hope,
; IRy , c ira bed down into the \ alley of Deau-
Tat, whose head is at the very base of the
° < Li Vo cail I l , c moua tain.
, ■ A , ey sOl * s °* porous ash; scat-
!; Rled 1 padns . peep v?®! stunted scrub en-
-3 „ and , by , bt is a parched valley,
£ ey and desolate. No people live in that
t,ai 'j' emiess . : it is the home only of spirit
30 , T . awaiting tlie return of the ancient
1 t
Ntter weeks ot patient searching and hope
deferred they located a . scrub-clad depression
ernttered with fallen rocks. Rawlings was
( Continued on next page )


“TOO-OLD”
TIRED-OUT
MEN
HERE IS A SIMPLE INEXPENSIVE REMEDY
Too-old, tired-out men,
of lack of vigor and vitality, you
will never be fit, well and happy until
you face facts. Your trouble in the
true sense is a blood trouble, starting
at the kidneys. The kidneys may be
said to rule the body’s health. When
the kidneys are failing to keep the
blood-stream pure, poisons and waste
matters accumulate. Thus, with an
impure blood supply surging through
the body, poisons are lodged in the
muscles, joints, etc., and every tiny
nerve centre calls out in pain. That
is why your “nerves,” as you say,
are on edge. The impure, sluggish
blood makes you tired, weak and
lacking in the vim and vigor to enjoy
work and pleasures.
This Remedy Bears
a Guarantee
There is a remedy for this depressing,
health-destroying state of affairs, and
a very simple remedy, too, that will
bring you health and happiness, as
for thousands of others. It is no
secret. It has been known for over
40 years under the name of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
Tens of thousands of people have
tested this remedy and found it reli-
able in all cases of Loss of Vitality,
Lumbago, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Bladder Weakness and Kidney
Trouble. Go to your chemist now and
secure a supply of this inexpensive
yet invaluable remedy. The 3/6
you spend will be the best investment
you will ever make. There is a
larger, more economical size at 6/6.
Ask him to tell you candidly his
opinion of this famous remedy. He
will tell you all about the table of
ingredients printed on the box, and
why they are so good for you.
JUST ONE FROM THOUSANDS
OF LETTERS OF GRATITUDE
Mr. Alfred Wall, 7 Walter Street,
Yarraville, Victoria, writes: “For six
weeks I lay on my back with rheuma-
tism, aching pains in my back, lum-
bago. I was told I could not be
benefited. A friend of mine told me
about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills and I started on them. I do
not regret it. I am now in perfect
health. I have told several people of
the little “De Witt’s” bottle and of
my return to health.”
/ 2
y
%
I
i
/
i
L
7/A
I
V.
e
■
De Witt’s Pills is not a new craze-of-the-moment remedy. For 40 years
it has been bringing health, vigor and vitality to over-worked, tired-out men
and women. It is recognised as a splendidly beneficial remedy in cases of
Rheumatism, Chronic Backache, Sciatica, Lumbago, Bladder Weakness, and the
nervous troubles and pains that accompany excess of uric acid in the system.
The very young, the weakest and the oldest can take De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, no heart-exciting chemicals,
but a scientific preparation that will do you good from the very first dose.
Get "De Witt’s” and get health and happiness. In 24 hours you will see
results. This is our guarantee.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, because of their wonderful popularity,
have been imitated. Other kidney pills there may be, but for your own
health’s sake and your pocket’s sake refuse all imitations.
ë
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
ē
tilled with excitement as he tore out these
rocks day after exhausting day. Strong
man though he was, and even with Mus-
grove’s help, those wedged rocks barred their
progress for a week. Then he broke through
into a cleft which clearly ran into the moun-
tain itself. But liow far?
They sweated, often lying on their sides,
gouging in between the rocks, and at last
they were able to crawl right into the cleft
until the roof abruptly vanished, and the
rock walls opened out into a tunnel. Stand-
ing erect in their torchlight, they stared
questioningly one at the other, then moved
carefully into the silence, Rawlings in
trembling anticipation, Musgrove well curb-
ing his joy.
Presently Rawlings flashed his torch at
a branch tunnel. Musgrove chalked a direct-
ing arrow on the wall beside them.
“I would never have thought of it,”
laughed Rawlings. “Your talks with old
Passi have been good training What would
the old heathen say if he dreamed we had
located their precious cave?”
Carefully choosing their path they walked
a quarter-mile or thereabouts, drawing to-
wards the heart of Gelam ; they passed the
black mouths of two more tunnels, and then
their own widened to a chamber with numer-
ous openings. They stopped, searching the
black roof, flashing their torches on to clefts
and twisted fissures in the towering walls.
Not dug by the hand of man, these tunnels,
but riven by Nature when the mountain’s
volcanic fires were slowly sinking back into
the earth!
“It’s waste of time and energy rushing
things,” said Musgrove at last. “We must
plan our search. God knows how many of
these passages intersect the old volcano. We
are in a labyrinth. If we get lost we perish.
Don’t walk'so fast! I’ll chalk a wall as
we go along. Watch your feet, too, or you
might drop into something.”
Still impatiently but now more cautiously
Rawlings moved on, straining his eyes, seek-
ing a light.
The feeble torches merely gave the black-
ness emphasis: there was cavern after
cavern encompassed by fantastic walls.
Queer shapes seemed to watch them,
hunched-up rocks left by the cooling lava.
“We must return,” Musgrove at last said
decidedly. “We have been hours in here,
and my chalk is nearly done.”
Rawlings swore impatiently; but they fol-
lowed the chalk line back, and emerged, to
Rawlings’s amazement, into starlight.
“It means a systematic search,” Musgrove
said—“perhaps of weeks.”
It meant months.
Then one day, deep in the belly of Gelam,
Rawlings spied a faint blue mist stealing
through a crevice near the roof a hundred
feet up. lie shouted as he climbed ; the rock
gave foothold in projections of twisted shapes
till the wall flattened into a broad ledge.
He ran across to the crevice, and peered
through on to a broad rock platform.
Musgrove began climbing also in answer
to a shout. He scrambled up on to the ledge,
ran across it, and stepped through the
crevice on to a platform flooded with a bluish
light Even the crevices in distant walls
showed startlingly plain. But his eyes were
instantly attracted by a pillar of violet light
arising out of a circular pit, evidently the
old volcano throat in the floor below.
Musgrove gazed astounded, for he could
see far into the solid roof, which the rays
made semi-transparent.
To Musgrove’s horror he now observed
Rawlings scrambling down further.
“Hold back, man!” he cried —“don't go
near the rays!”
An excited face looked up. “Rot!” Rawl-
ings answered. “The Booya is down there.
It’s too late, anyway! We’re bathed in the
rays.” " ,
"That is only the reflection from the roof
and chamber walls,” called Musgrove
urgently. “Look up, man ; look up ! The rays
are penetrating the solid rock!”
“We can go to the edge, anyway !” Rawl-
ings called back. “I’m near it, and the rays
don’t affect my eyes. It’s the Booya, man —
the Booya!”
“Wait for me!” called Musgrove insist-
ently. “I’m coming.... You fool,” he cried
as he got nearer—“remember the legends of
the Zogo-le! Even the priesthood suffered
awful death if they came in direct Contact
with”
But Rawlings was now edging across the
cavern floor'. A defiant laugh floated through
the chamber as, like a fascinated child, he
hesitated within yards only of the crater-
lip, staring at the pillar of violet.
Musgrove moved out towards him.
“My God, Rawlings!” lie whispeted, “it
is beyond our comprehension. It is some-
thing that has never been even imagined!
Powers never dreamed of miry exist there!
Don’t risk anything further!”
There was no glare, no sound, no smell;
just a pillar of intense violet light.
Rawlings tossed a pebble into the pit. It
fell noiselessly.
He turned a startled face to Musgrove.
“How are we going to climb down?” fie de-
manded. “It must be a frightful depth !”
Before Musgrove could stop him he had
peered over the crater-lip.
Horror chilled Musgrove. Tfi? rays per-
meated that portion of the man’s body lean-
ing over the crater-lip. His bones were
shadows within transparent jelly!
He turned back from the rays. His body
appeared normal again, but liis eyes blazed
with violet lire. “The Booya is down there. ’
he said tensely. "I could not see it—l
could feel it! 1 _ saw nothing but violet!
My brain is violet”
Without warning he leapt straight at Mus-
grove, shrieking: “You shall look, too, Mus-
grove—you shall look !”
But Musgrove sprang; then, wheeling
abruptly, he shot out his leg. As Rawlings
crashed, Musgrove raced across the chamber
and clambered' up the wall.
At the top lie glanced down, panting. His
blood ran cold as two violet eyes blazed up
from below. He scrambled over the flat
top, crept through the crevice, then, gripping
liis torch, steeled himself for the hundred-foot
descent into the darkness. He jumped the
last ten feet to the bottom. Then he glanced
up towards the crevice, and there, framed
in the faint blue glow, he saw two vioiet
eyes!
Musgrove trained his torch on the chalk-
line as he started to run through the mile
of winding passages.
He had not gone a tenth the distance
when he heard steps behind him. Wheeling
around, every hair of his head sprang erect
as he saw a living skeleton pursuing him.
In the darkness Rawlings’s eyes flamed like
molten gold, his body was as jelly enclosing
dark bones. Only his trousered legs seemed
normal.
Musgrove switched out his torch. He
ran panic-stricken; he crashed against the
wall, he crawled frantically forward to
crouch.
Rawlings groped towards him—that thing
whose legs were those of a man, whose
upper half was a luminous framework with
tiger’s eyes, feeling with shadow fingers—
a new thing in a world below the earth!
• Musgrove pressed back, and Rawlings came
groping past. The hunted man bteathed
again until Rawlings hesitated, his head car-
ried sideways, a hideous caricature, of listen-
ing. He turned to grope back. Nearer he
crept, feeling the wall with his bony claws,
toeing it.
Stealthily Musgrove crept to the opposite
wall. Stealthily Rawlings crept across, too,
listening, groping.
The luminous man came on. Musgrove
drew further and further back until he felt
his spine against the platform wall. Then
suddenly he realised that to climb might mean
salvation. Gropingly he begafi the ascent.
And Rawlings began climbing, too, following
jn Musgrove’s footsteps!
Musgrove reached the top of the. wall,
then waited. Rawlings climbed cautiously,
a luminous shell arising from the gloom. But
he did not come quite within reach of Mus-
grove’s foot. His glowing eyes searched
the rock crannies, then deliberately he
started to clamber around to the right,
chuckling as he passed: “Why, Musgrove,
I see you, I have seen you all the time!
Darkness for me no longer exists, neither of
sight nor of mind. Be sensible, Musgrove;
come and look into the rays with me!"
“By God, I won’t!” gasped Musgrove as
Rawlings sprang.
They fought as madmen might fight. They
tore at one another on the very brink of
the platform; they kicked and clawed and
howled as they rolled upon that ledge down
in the belly of Gelam, in its waiting silence.
Musgrove stiffened as skeleton arms
raised him bodily so that he stared down over
the brink. Rawlings threw him back on
the ledge and laughed.
“Why, Musgrove, you are paralysed!. I
am only playing with you—playing! Wait
until you gaze into the rays; you will have
the strength of a hundred men. Then we
can fight. Come” —he bent down and jerked
Musgrove towards the crevice.
They fought through it, out into the blue
light, and struggled right to the very edge
of the rock.
Rawlings planted his foot on the panting
man ; then he stood gazing at the pillar of
violet, fascinated. The blue light had re-
claimed Rawlings.
“The Booya is there,” he whispered; “all
alone, at the bottom of the earth,”
“Go down and get it, Hairy* whispered
Musgrove in a growing hope. .
“I’m not as mad as that!” shrieked Raw-
lings, and laughed to his own echoes.
But liis eyes gazed back to the violet pillar,
desire upon his face.
“I wonder,” he whispered. “It draws me;
it draws me!”
Desperately Musgrove rose to his knees.
Rawlings was climbing with an uncanny
ease and swiftness. Musgrove watched him
peer over ; further, further 5ti11!.... And
then he was gone.
Musgrove sped as if from devils —sped
seeking the open air and daylight, as a
man terrified for his reason. He found him-
self laughing with relief —and then ran
into a barrier of earth and rock raised at
the tunnel end!
Dazedly he flashed the torch back along
the wall. The chalk line was there; he had
come the right way, What in Heaven-
God! fresh earth—the natives had buried
him!
He cried aloud, clawing at the. earth,
snatching away the stones, throwing all
behind him as an animal might claw. He
shrieked aloud to Passi, Passi the descendant
of the Zogo-le; cried to him of the kind-
nesses he had done the islanders, of the
many times he had stood between them and
the whites; of how he had tutored them,
had taught them the values of pearl shell, of
troclius, of beche-de-mer. And as he cried
he dug ahead and flung the dirt behind him.
Then came a listening silence in which
he broke down altogether.
Into sunlight they dragged Musgrove and
laid him at the feet of Passi. He gazed up
at the brown, wrinkled face, the black eyes
that hid the thoughts of a savage and a
knowledge at which civilisation can but
guess. . , ,
“White man," Passi said at last, for long
you have lived amongst us, a friend against
the greed of your countrymen who are our
present masters. Otherwise your tomb would
have been Gelam. Know then that no white
man may even touch the Booya, though they
come in ships to get it. I only may reach
it. It means my death, but first I can hand
the knowledge of it to my unharmed son
and then he may direct its madness on any
number of men, any number of ships, ''bite
man, the Booya sent cities mad long before
your countrymen were known. Forget the
Booya, and go!”
And Musgrove went.
Regret.
The crag-heads look over:
Below is the valley
Green where the rivulets
Gurgle and dally.
Mountain goats spy there
The growth, too. and wonder
Why they have climbed thus
When so much was under.
Even thus may a soul, too,
Long moiling for money,
See where so free was
The wine and the honey—
How youth had secured there
The something that never
Age may enjoy now
' With all his endeavor.
N.S.Wi
R. CRAWFORD.


nr,-,
s 7 / Q LmSUnßi. *v v
fit’
' ' $
I ; '; '■
m
■ Ti-
i £>’
■ •'
M%,
/-■‘v
jpfs
Hsi
.
.
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear-
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Aceuw—miiuUiss w iJHUKCH, Brisbane. fflWpfinn WBCT U C UIIIVC
N.Z. Office—B3-10? Featberston Street, Weili«»ton. LUWbUKD WC-Ai, N. 0. n ALKo
Victorian Office—" Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian A*e«te: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S A
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
Newspaper
me
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier” gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country.
Tested campaigns have proved the “Courier” to yield 75 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined.
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85007.
"THE AGE *
Established 185.).
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G, N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR ,
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
JT is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
JT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania's ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square. '
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
muty
COMES FROM
REAL HEALTH
4 ''i* 9 "’’ 1 * ? °°
TO * ,„e »« *gS5;
need tbe cQBft depr e9B \ on ’ |Ai\tion®
coo? ii r,«
DuU.«2g a often th e
constip . a y. delay ed a y bO
P r °“ day® el Ai9 tbo
system regular- health ?“dache»
tui r s««TS“ a '
"NONA QUAYLE”
A New Australian Serial Begins This Week
in
e
64 PAGES FOR 3d. NOW ON SALE
Many Other Interesting Features
INFERENCES IN BRIDGE
Some Profitable Deductions
CARE OF THE EYES
Do the Children Irritate You?
Unconventional Adventures in Japan
FREE PATTERN OF CHILD’S PRETTY FROCK
Os*
0
0°
i6)‘
e
** «!*o
«* V#*


in
PULL
SIZE
PLYMOUTH
/
W)rlds Non-Stop Automobile
More than one year’s average driving
in 26 days! 11,419 miles of travel
in 632 hours—with never a moment’s
rest for motor or chassis! That is
the record-breaking feat performed
by a Chrysler-built standard stock
Plymouth 4-door Sedan over all sorts
of roads.
The finish was voluntary with . the
motor functioning perfectly. Official
examination showed scarcely a trace
of carbon, no need to grind valves, no
appreciable wear, no single part that
required either repair or replacement.
Here is proof of unduplicated engi-
neering soundness. Here is a low-
priced car that is built to last. Come
in and find out for yourself what
Plymouth performance means!
P 4 7 7
D U
MOTORS
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane's Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Aitwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, JVellington
New Guinea IV. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul
