

j) ENERVATION
ofman's rejreshment
V
INSPIRA t, °N
DETERMINATION
-fi
•rior
Al^'
v** c^-
m
X
TOOTH’S
J ll
CL tAAXgj
L E RL
Brewed and Bottled by Tooth & Co., Limited,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
DEL£CTA T,ON
jCA T1 °
0—
=. V
I
<l
<2
rr
£
\l/ /
V
(NV ,GORAr' 0^
The Bulletin
7)t J&ibCOvbtij ftjLad d~i (P. 49
Vol. 51.—N0. 2641.
Wednesday, September 24, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


•“THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
* now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
If inspiration spurs your soul
To reach, at. last, ambition’s goal,
Let this your guide and slogan be—
“ There Breathes No Greater Man Than Mel”
Let not pretensions of the rest
Dishearten or restrain your zest:
And when you cough or cold endure—
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
freelance
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Neat’ Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mv Address
S.B-316 ■
QJYSAGHT?
n
O
D
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaghts Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
WORCESTERSHIRE
S’XXN
THE PICNIC
Ho£t Holbrook Says:
“Those chops grill-
ed in the open air
over a bush fire!
Nothing more appetis-
ing when served with
my Worcestershire
Sauce.”
dsgd
ď
READ A. E. YARRA’S I
THRILLING AUSTRALIAN WILD WEST
NOVEL,
“THE VANISHING HORSEMEN”
“The best romance on cattle-duffing in Aus-
tralia.”- —Brisbane “Courier.”
6/- at all booksellers.
NOW READY, AT ALL BOOKSELLERS,
THE ABORIGINAL WORDBOOK,
By JUSTINE KENYON ,
. (With a Foreword by A. S. Kenyon).
The most authentic collection of aboriginal words
and their meanings ever published. This compila-
tion has meant many years of research, and the
author is an authority on the subject. With this
book to guide them, no one need be afraid of adopt-
ing a ludicrous or even obscene name for the home.
Price, 2/-, Neatly Boxed. (Postage, 2d.)
All Australians should read and enjoy a laugh
with
THE MAGICIANS,
A Clever Political Satire by Henry Chisholm.
This brilliantly written and caustic criticism of
present-day political iniquities provides considerable
amusement.
Price, 6d. (Postage, Id.)
The Lothian Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
497 Collins Street, Melbourne-
Sufferers
from
PIUS
EGLECT is
dangerous.
Don’t wait until it is
too late. Lifelong
suffering may be the
penalty.
At the first indication
of the trouble apply
Zam-Buk. Immedi-
ate relief will result.
Buy u box to-day.
□
sdsd
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH*' be-
ing a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each com-
plete in itself.
“BX” “H” “S” and “K”
“L" “OM" “M” and “N”
Any one of these marks will protect your
interests
Th * GOUROCK
Rope work
Export Co.
sd
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
I If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
j who will quote you price for the original.
sd
SPORTERS
For Sportsmen Who Want
Extra Value In Bolt-
Action, Repeating Rifles
•Calibers: .22, .25-20, .32-20
So much quality at such' a
moderate price ... no won-
der Savage Sporters are serv-
ing an increasing host of
sportsmen in all parts of the
world!
ďs
śgd
ďsg
sd
Model 23-A
in .n caliber: Note that the
stock and barrel are as large and
heavy as most high power rifles.
The action is unusually heavy,
and completely enclosed, 5-shot
detachable box magazine.
Model 23-B
(illustrated) is chambered for
the ,15-10 cartridges. A full-size,
bolt-action arm ideal for small
and medium game. It has a one-
piece Walnut stock, a smooth
operating action, and an ex-
tremely accurate barrel. Safety
... fine appearance and low price,
makes this one of our most pop-
ular rifles.
Model 23-C
Chambered for .31-10 cartridges.
Similar in other specifications to
the 13-B.
Use Savage
Ammunition
Since Savage cartridges
have been expressly de-
signed to get the best ac-
curacy from Savage rifles,
we suggest that you insist
on this ammunition.
Look over the Sport-
er line today —Or
write for complete in-
formation.
Exclusive Representative for Australia
and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD.
P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street
New York, U. S. A.
SAVAGE
The Red Page
Famous Navigator on Trial!
The case of Captain Cook, R.N.
(deceased), was continued in the Court of
Historical Causes. Judge Posterity pre-
sided. Grounds for resumption of the pro-
ceedings were fresh evidence tendered by
Sir Joseph Carruthers, K.C.M.G., LL.D.,
of New South Wales, the chief exhibit be-
ing Captain James Cook, R.N150 Years
After, a book by the knight. The writer
appeared on behalf of the accused, Jade
Rumor, K.C., conducting for the other side.
The case has dragged on since 1779. The
charges then and Subsequently laid against
Cook were that when on a visit to the
Islands in 1778 he allowed himself to be
worshipped as a god; that he subsequently
used the fences and images of a temple as
firewood for his ships; that he miscon-
ducted himself with the daughter of the
High Chiefess of Kauai; that his behavior
on that occasion, or the bad effect of his
lapse on his crew, led to the introduction of
a certain disease into the South Seas; that
he was directly or indirectly responsible
for the loss of several native lives; and
that his conduct generally was unbecoming
the “discoverer of New South Wales.”
Corporal Ledyard, called by the prose-
cution, said: “I was a member of Cook’s
crew. I was pres‘ent on the occasion when
the accused was elected a god. No, I was
not allowed inside the temple but I heard
about it afterwards. Cook liked being a
god. It made him very proud. He stole
the fence and images from another temple
and used them for firewood. No, I was not
present then but I was told about it after-
wards. Yes, it is quite true about the
daughter of the High Chiefess of Kauai.
No, I was not present, but I was told about
it afterwards. No, I never heard any other
stories about Cook of a similar kind but
then you never know. Anyhow, there was
a lot of talk for’ard about it amongst the
crew.”
Cross-examined, the witness stated:
“Yes, I am of American parentage. It is
true that I sat- for the position of lexico-
grapher to Cook and was rejected because
of my alleged flamboyant style and my
inability to be exact. But that was only
spite on the part of Captain Cook. Yes,
I later deserted from a British ship and
published my account of Cook’s voyage
just after America had been at war with
England. It is not true, however, that I
was prejudiced against the accused. No,
it is not true that I disliked Cook because
he was the son of an agricultural laborer
and worked up from the lower deck.”
William Cowper was then called.
“I am an Englishman and proud of it;
I was born in 1731 and died of dropsy in
1800. No, I am not an historian. I am a
poet, a very much greater thing. Yes, I
wrote ‘The Task,’ regarded as my greatest
poem. It deals with the life of Captain
Cook. I studied all the available documents.
I came to the conclusion that by allowing
himself to be made a god, the accused
earned the displeasure of the Almighty,
whom the Bible says is a jealous god. He
sent a storm which drove Cook’s ship back
to the scene of his death.”
In answer to a question from the Bench,
witness admitted that, he got the material
for his work from Ledyard’s book.
Cross-examined, Cowper denied that a
poet could be capable of inexactitude,
though he admitted that Keats had ascribed
the discovery of the Pacific to “stout Cor-
tez” when the real discoverer was Balboa,
and that Coleridge was wrong in placing a
star within the moon’s nether tip.
Permission to call 35 American historians,
an English professor, a number of mission-
aries and 249 writers of travel books on the
South Seas as witnesses to what happened
at the alleged meeting between the accused
and the daughter of the High Chiefess of
Kauai was refused on the ground that they
had got their knowledge from the two wit-
nesses already heard. The Court then
adjourned.
On resumption:
Midshipman Alexander Hume stated: “I
was with Cook. I subsequently became an
admiral. We all had the deepest respect
for Cookr I never heard anything about
any chiefess or chiefess’s daughter at Kauai.
Yes, Hawaiian girls often did come off to
our ships and they were only too ready to
be—well, kind to the men. But there is a
rule in the Royal Navy that women must
leave a ship before night and it was strictly
observed by Captain Cook. Yes, it is true
that a certain disease existed amongst the
crews. Certainly Captain Cook knew about
it. He was most particular for that reason
that every man, before he went ashore,
should get a clean bill of health. Shore
parties had to return at nightfall. When one
was stbrmbound and compelled to stay on
shore Captain Cook took the blame and
deeply regretted in his Journal that the
very thing he had labored to avoid had
happened by an act of God. I cannot say
whether any of Captain Cook's men intro-
duced syphilis to the South Seas. It is
quite possible, unfortunately. But Captain
Cook was mistaken about the disease he
saw on his return to the Islands. That has
since been proved to be yaws and to have
been in existence long before the white man
came.”
Seaman Henry Zimmerman, common
sailor of the Discovery, a German, and
Henry Roberts, mate of the Resolution,
gave evidence corroborating Hume.
David Malo was then called.
He said: “I am of Hawaiian parentage.
I lived and died long after Lono came to
Hawaii, but my parents knew him and told
me of him. Lono was their name for Cook.
It was because they thought he was such a
great man that they made him a god. All
their chiefs were regarded as gods. They
thought his ship was a temple. They
thought Lono was immortal and when a
wicked chief out of jealousy stabbed him in
the back they were horrified and astonished
to see him die. He died like a. brave man,
turning his back on death so that he might
stop his sailors firing on us. It is not true
that we Hawaiians hated Lono. It is not
true that we ate him. We took his bones
and scraped them clean because that is
what we do with the bones of all our
greatest chiefs; and the bones were pre-
served and venerated for many years.”
That closed the evidence for the defence.
After counsel for the prosecution had spoken,
counsel for the defence, addressing the Court,
said he hoped to prove to the satisfac-
tion of the learned Judge that there was
not a tittle of evidence to support these
ancient scandals against the character and
conduct of the accused. As for his accept-
ance of the role of Hawaiian god, there was
direct evidence that he was unaware of the
true significance surrounding his reception
and no direct evidence to the contrary.
The Kauai affair was beneath the attention
of the Court. Base minds reflected great-
ness in their own terms. Inhere was one
point, however, which had not been suffi-
ciently brought out. He referred to the oft-
repeated accusation that Captain Cook had
consistently blundered into murder in his
relations with the natives. All that he was
going to say about that was to ask where
in the record of Cook was there a parallel
to the insensate brutality of previous Por-
tuguese, Spanish, Dutch and even English
voyagers in Eastern seas? The accused had
never been charged with burning a shipful
of men, women and children in a spirit of
playfulness; or of putting 10,000 peaceful
Chinese citizens to the sword; or of impal-
ing infidels for the good of their souls; or
even of using one horde of headhunters to
suppress another horde of headhunters, as
the equally humane Rajah Brooke had been
compelled to do. Americans, he said, had
been the most caustic critics of Cook, but,
without reflecting on a friendly nation, he
would point out that it was an American
voyager who, coining some years -after
Cook, was constrained to kill 100 South
Sea islanders in the space of a couple of
hours. During eleven years’ sojourn
amongst warlike and suspicious tribes, his
client had been responsible for only ten
deaths. What voyager in similar circum-
stances had a record like that? He would
take his seat confident that the verdict of
the Court would vindicate the name of one
of the noblest Englishmen who ever lived.
On the application of counsel for the
prosecution, who stated that he hoped to
get fresh evidence from the next batch of
tourists to visit Honolulu, Judge Posterity
adjourned the Court sine die.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Acrobatics in Reading
“M.G.S.” (R.P. 17/9/’3O) missed one
word and all the spirit of an argument.
He took out a sentence, misread it, and
on his misreading hung some clever and
rather obvious remarks. The sentence was:
The number of persons who believe that you can
live in Australia and write authentic, not to say
great, literature wholly about Peru and the Peru-
vians, is as amazing to me as my modest theory to
the contrary appears to be to them.
“M.G.5.,” trampling down “wholly” as a
word of no moment, proceeded to re-estab-
lish rhetoric in the literary article:—
....One William Shakspeare lived in England
and wrote authentic, not to say great, literature
wholly about Venice, Florence, Denmark, the ancient
Romans, Athenians and Egyptians. One Dante wrote
authentic, not to say great, literature about the
Infernal Regions, where he had not been up to time
of writing-....
And so, of course, they did—if that, is
.your superficial way of taking literature.
But what sort of a tumbling act in reading
is it that can lead on to the suggestion that
Dante, when he was writing about Hell, was
writing wholly about Hell! What does it
{Red, Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH in ADVERTISING”—has built Anthony Horderns’.
Buy Your “White” Machine at
Saving' of £6
The new and heavy duties recently imposed on all Sewing Machines will mean an increase in price
of about £6. However, we have a limited number of “White” Machines in stock, which we are
clearing at the old prices. Immediate buying is advised, for as soon as this stock is exhausted we
will be forced to advance the price. Remember there is no more reliable machine and no better
value than a “White.” We are sole agents in New South Wales, and have been so for close on 40
years. In every corner of the State these machines are still giving sterling service.
All “White” Machines are supplied with full set of Sewing attachments and book of instructions.
tension
indicator:
WHITE
PINCH
TENSION
ACORN
DUST CUPS
AUTOMATIC
RELEASE
IL CUPS
“The White” Automatic Drophead Machine, £l3/10/-
This is a four-drawer Machine of straight design, finished in best polished American Oak. The drawers are enclosed
in casement, mounted on short ribbon type stand with ball-bearing wheel and pitman. A splendid roomy machine at a
most economical price. Complete with full set of sewing attachments.
With No. 8 Vibrator Shuttle. Price .... £l3/10/- With Rotary Shuttle. Price .£l4/10/-
£l4/10/-
CLOSED
Foofconirol
mil v' u g
“White” Electric, £24/-/-
Illustration shows this handsome Machine
both open and closed. The ornamental
front swings open on hinges to allow the
operator to sit right up to the machine.
The Cabinet is of polished Walnut and
measures, when closed, 24 x 19 x 31
inches high. It is electrically driven,.
being fitted with a sturdy 240-volt motor
for attaching to any electric light or power
socket. Price £24
Portable Electric, £l5/10/-
The base and cover of this splendid
Machine are in polished Walnut. Standard
size rotary-head machine, with electric
motor screwed firmly to the rear of the
arm of machine and operated by foot
control. Complete with full set of
attachments. Price £l5/10/-
CLOSED
“Sit-Strate” White
“Sit Strate,” from £l7/10/-
This is a handsome Dining Room automatic
drophead cabinet. The operator sits upright
when operating this machine. The cabinet is
made in our own factory from specially
selected woods and can be supplied in any
color to harmonise with the room. In Maple
or Oak, finished Fumed Jacobean, Mission,
Maple or Walnut. Polished
Fumed. any Color.
Vibrator Shuttle £l7 10 0 £lB 10 0
Rotary Shuttle £lB 10 0 £l9 10 0
LET OUR “D.P.S.” HELP YOU SAVE MONEY
Even though it is inconvenient to pay cash, do not miss this opportunity of saving money.
Pay a deposit on the machine, the balance in instalments to suit yourself, and on comple-
tion of payments it will be delivered in the usual way. You pay the cash price only.
(Sewing Machines—First Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.) \
Anthony Horderns'
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
(THE SENIOR STORE)
(Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd., Sydney)
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


The
AUSTRALIAN
and
NEW ZEALAND
BANKING CORPORATION LTD.
Directors:
ALBERT CARLYLE WILLIS, Sydney. Late
Manager E., S. & A. Bank, Ltd., Martin
Place, Sydney; Director Timberlands Wood
Pulp, Ltd.; Director Commonwealth Under-
writers, Ltd.
CHARLES A. COPELAND, Sydney- Man-
aging Director Smith, Copeland & Co., Ltd.
PERCY R. HIGGINS, Sydney, Barrister-at-
Law. Chairman of Directors Standard
Portland Cement Co., Ltd.
T. J. NEVIN, Auckland. Proprietor Murray
Shoe Manufacturing Co.; Managing Direc-
tor Stanley Faulkner, Ltd.
LLEWELLYN E. WILLIAMS, A.R.1.8.A.,
M.I.S.E. (London), Wellington. Architect
and Structural Engineer. Chairman of
Directors Provident Land and Investment,
Ltd.
JOHN ROBERT THACKER, Christchurch.
Chairman Banks Peninsula Electric Power
Board; Director N.Z. Marketing Associa-
tion; late Chairman N.Z. Dairy Control
Board.
A. G- NEILL, Dunedin, Barrister-at-Law.
Director Dunedin Wool and Skin Co., Ltd.;
Director Howell Piano Auction, Ltd.
(Three additional Australian Directors to be
elected.)
Note These Points.
For years, from the investors point of
view, shares of Banks operating in
Australia and New Zealand have been
considered sound, safe and lucrative.
Bank shares have been selling for years
at a high premium on the various Stock
Exchanges in Australasia.
This premium is paid for Bank shares
on account of the huge reserves which
have been created from year to year
out of profits.
i
During this period these shares have
steadily paid excellent dividends on
their paid-up capital, both in times of
depression as well as in times of plenty.
The Australasian and New Zealand
Banking Corporation, Limited, will act
as a commercial and exchange Bank in
the same manner as the existing Banks.
All Australasian banks operating in
both Australia and New Zealand are
established on a sound basis, their reserves created out of
profits in many instances being equal to or in excess of their
paid-up capital.
Sound business, with the greatest possible assistance to its
clients, will be the constant endeavor of the new Bank.
Authorised Capital
£5,000,000
Divided into 5,000,000 Shares of £1
each, of which 2,000,000 shares of £1
each are being offered for sale overseas.
1,000,000 Shares of £1 each are being
reserved for future issue.
2,000,000 Shares of £1 each are now
offered to the public for subscription
in Australia, to be paid as follows:
5/- per Share, being application
and allotment money, payable on
application.
Balance in calls of 2/6 per share,
at intervals of not less than six
months—that is, payment of
shares is spread over at least three
years.
The joint investment of capital monies, small
and large, in the establishment and develop-
ment of a Bank is the surest way of meeting
the undoubted demand for money for pro-
duction and trade purposes.
It is apparent at the present time in Aus-
tralia and in New Zealand that there is a
lack of sufficient banking capital to cope
with the genuine requirements of individuals
and of many concerns which are being con-
ducted on a sound financial basis, and it will
be one of the objects of this Bank to relieve
to some extent a situation which is existent
and which is retarding increased production
and consequently increased exports.
On this premise it is affirmed that the estab-
lishment of the Australian and New Zealand
Banking Corporation, Limited, merits the
closest attention of all who are seriously con-
cerned in the future of Australian commerce,
as well as those whose judgment in matters
of investment can be influenced only by the
most substantial evidence of stability.
Private individuals can do but little to finance
large undertakings, but combined in a Bank
their resources are a great factor in promot-
ing national progress.
Registered Office:
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Secretaries* Offices:
Wingello House, Sydney;
15a Princess Street, Dunedin.
Marketable
Security.
The Shares of Banks operating
throughout Australia and New Zea-
land are listed on all Stock Exchanges
and are dealt with extensively. They
are considered marketable security,
and a more or less liquid asset.
Allotment.
The Australian and New Zealand
Banking Corporation, Limited, went to
allotment on January 6, 1930, with
the requirements stipulated in the pros-
pectus more than fulfilled. The amount
subscribed has since been steadily
increasing.
Contracts.
The Dominion Brokers, Limited, were
appointed New Zealand brokers for
the Bank on the sth day of June, 1 929,
under a contract which may be in-
spected at the office of the Solicitors
to the Company or the Registered
Office of the Company.
The Australasian Brokerage, Limited, were appointed Aus-
tralian brokers for the Bank under agreement dated the ! 9th
day of June, 1930,. which may be inspected at the office of
the Solicitors to the Company or the Registered Office of
the Company.
Brokers for Australia:
AUSTRALASIAN BROKERAGE LTD.
SYDNEY: St. James Buildings
MELBOURNE: Collins House
(COUPON)
AUSTRALASIAN BROKERAGE, LIMITED,
ST. JAMES BUILDINGS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Kindly post, without obligation to me, a
copy of the Prospectus covering THE AUS-
TRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND BANK-
ING CORPORATION, LIMITED, Shares.
NAME .
ADDRESS
(Please write plainly.)
B. 24/S>/’3O.


SEE
im
Srvi&t**
BSE
Kit
igpga
V K
--~MS&fy
■mmwmi
•"Jr ■,■ ■ Sffrgs gM * 5
r < s&x «r #& /&
J&
' #v WMffi
: M $ M'
#'/ / / /
// ; /•'
; /
AW f>W f*
mw/%/A
smt */$//>
mmm
»'/.//'//.
W/.
/.:
Q
England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales, or
twenty-two European countries from
your own home or office via
A.W.A. RADIOPHONE
Telegraph
England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales,
North America, and all European
countries, via
BEAM WIRELESS
Cheap, Fast, and Accurate
Telegraph
To your friends at sea, via
COASTAL RADIO SERVICE
For full information regarding these
services, telephone A.W. A. Offices,
8W2211, and ask for "Traffic,” or
apply at any Post Office, or at
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A/SI A) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
COMMUNICATION
indicate, other than muscular development,
when one can read Shakspeare among the
Athenians and know nothing of the Eng-
land that is everlastingly with him! As
a matter of fact, each of these is a perfect
example, though perhaps a little outside
the company we were in, of that very neces-
sity of a writer’s being in his own time
and place that I had attempted to illustrate.
My example of one who had recognised
that necessity and was realising upon it
was Katharine Prichard. I believe that she
is writing authentic literature which, unlike
most that is being written in Australia,
could not have been written 30 years ago,
and I believe she is doing so simply be-
cause she has the courage to be alive in
her time and place.
The most obvious thing about all great
literature is that it is national at the base.
French literature is French, English litera-
ture is English, Scots literature is Scottish,
German literature is German, irrespective
of the fact that to be literature at all they
have to be international also. Australia
is clearly not yet a nation in the sense that
those others are nations. It has not yet
much of the thing from which all great
literature springs, national tradition. It is
still provincial to Britain, and the propor-
tion of unassimilated expatriates to the
number of nationals helps to keep it so.
But it is on the way to nationality, helped
there very largely by writers like Lawson,
and, in the same tradition, Katharine Prich-
ard. These are really the expression of that
forming nationality, and as such they are
hastening it on. There is at least this
much virtue in the give-us-time cry of our
literary loafers, that literature is not a
sudden flowering but a steady growth. It
may have its finest blossoms at any time,
but it does not stop with them. In the
lace of that, objection to the give-us-time
cry may seem paradoxical. I object to it,
however, because it tends to be a substi-
tute for using time. And that is chiefly
why I believe Katharine Prichard to be
such an important writer in Australia. If
she were writing wholly about Peru and the
Peruvians she would be of no importance
in Australian literature at all.
As to the assertion of “M.G.5.,” “I fancy
that the fallacy of Mr. Mann’s contention
lies in his overlooking the true nature of
reality,” it seems to indicate that Mesopo-
tamia has put on incorruption. As reality
the old word smells as sweet. But it
might be pointed out that 1 did not attempt
to link literary reality up with photography.
/ did not say that “Haxby’s Circus” was
the book I thought it wholly because the
author travelled round with Wirths’. I
merely mentioned her having travelled
round with Wirths’ as in itself romantic
and as a contrast to the customary method
of an author sitting down and trying to
recall what he has read of English circuses,
which is the same as a painter trying
to capture the atmosphere of a gum-tree
by looking at only some paintings of Eng-
lish oaks. However necessary it may be for
him to look at paintings of English oaks, I
think it is necessary also for him to look at
the gum-tree. “M.G.S.’s” mock-hypothesis
that Mr. Wirth ought to be a better novelist
than Katharine Prichard because he appa-
rently knows more about circus life than
she could gather in a temporary association,
has the merit of being “M.G.S’s.” own, and
a piffling thing at that.
1 inally, in case “M.G.S.” really has any
interest in what I consider Reality to be,
instead of merely wanting to load me with
what he thinks anybody but himself might
think it is, he will find it in Katharine
Prichard’s latest novel, and more of it in
the Negro fantasy “Green Pastures.” I
trust that he will be able to read these for
the spirit, instead of for the physical appear-
ance, and I trust that he will not skip
over too many words like “wholly.”
CECIL MANN.
Converting the Dead
Sydney’s Music Week, about which the
big drum has been banging, would, like all
movements, fail to arouse even anaemic in-
terest if it were not, by implication at least,
attacking something or somebody. The
something in this case—the half-concealed
butt of all this highbrow activity—is Jazz.
The organisers of the Week do not seriously
hope to convert those outcasts to whom
“sweet harmonies” are one with the. bookies'
raucous calls; they aim to win to their
sides the crazed devotees of the “Heebie-
jeebies” and “that Lowdown rhythm.”
Their belief is that these musical bolshev-
ists have lost ground, and the Week is a
public proclamation that the Old Guard are
taking the offensive.
Ihe attack has been delayed till the
battle is over. Jazz as Jazz is as good as
dead. The musical obscenities that enliv-
ened the post-war period—the “Yes, We
Have No Bananas” and “Thanks for the
Buggy Ride” type—were in tune with the
times precisely as “Drink to Me Only” and
“Sir Roger de Coverly” and “Lily of
Lagoona” and “After the Ball” characterised
their periods. The truth is, not as the
purists would have it—that music debases
the people—but that the people debase
music. Nowadays the post-war frenzy has
almost spent itself and the popular taste
in music changes to suit, and even the bigot
must recognise a world of difference between
the popular idols of a few years ago and
the delicacies of, say, “The Vagabond King.”
So, while the protagonist of broad-mind-
edness will concede that the admixture of
traditional Jazz with the stately phrasing of
Schumann and Verdi would be as appro-
priate as a painted clown at a Royal Recep-
tion, he will claim the time as ripe for the
reception and recognition of the New Jazz
as being in a class of its own. If anything,
it approaches the quite respected region of
ballads, but in any case the implicit attack
on Jazz by the Percy Graingers and the
Arundel Orchards is but the kicking of
the dead.
D. CAMERON.
Recantation
Edgar Fraser, hero of Frederick Howard’s
The Emigrant (Longmans), is 22 and a
militant Communist. He is sent down
from his university and kicked out of
Scotland (the Glasgow deportation scene
is hideously life-like) and drifts to Aus-
tralia by way of a Communistic London
lodging-house. In the steerage he meets
William Barrows, an Australian who has
fought for the Turks in the World War;
John Arthurs, ex-cavalry officer,, who dies
after an appendicitis operation which is
bungled by a drunken ship’s officer; and
other odd characters who are to influence
his future life. After which—Melbourne;
work on the wharves; discussions at the
Trades Hall; work at a Labor bureau of
propaganda, and doubts—doubts which were
first inspired by Herran, a disillusioned
Bolshie leader encountered in London.
Finally, the young man loses his political
faith altogether, and speaks heresy before
a Trades Hall audience:—
Unionism is leading you up a blind alley. You
are not on a high road at all. Your strikes, your
lock-outs, this constant fighting for an extra penny
or another hour—where is it leading you?
A riot follows, and he is thrown out of the
hall.
He feels weak and light-headed. He sits down
in the gutter presently, his head against a lainp-post;
he is going to faint, but he doesn’t care particularly.
He is free, free! *
After that the story becomes an idyll of
Gippsland, where young Fraser, now an in-
dividualist, repairs with his friend Barrows
in search of work.
Mr. Howard writes of the Australian
worker with rare insight and sympathy, and
he seems to love the bush. But Fraser is
the best thing in a fine book. This post-
war immigrant—contemptuous of authority,
resentful of restraint, a good mate, and a
trier—is the very type of youthful Briton
who pioneered Australia.
J. D.
A Satchel of Books
Empire Stock-taking, by L. St. Clare
Grondona (Simpkin Marshall). The author
of “The Romantic Story of Australia,”
which S. M. Bruce introduced, and “The
Kangaroo Keeps on Talking,” which had the
isame office from Stanley Baldwin, here
widens out his field. The title is to be taken
literally. The book is a stocktaking of
Empire resources, requirements, imports and
the like, set out in readable paragraphs and
simplified comparative tables. Colored dia-
grams help in making the already clearly
marshalled information easier to grasp, and
there are careful indexing and general divi-
sion and subdivision to make the work still
more a model of its kind. Sir Gilbert Vyle,
chairman of the preparatory committee for
the Imperial Conference, supports the book
as a “work that every intelligent citizen of
the British Empire will welcome—the more
so because it contains no propaganda of any
kind.” It joins The Bulletin’s library of
reference works.
The Link, by Philip Macdonald (Collins),
is an English mystery yarn in which the
principals are American racketeers. The
murder, which is as complicated as a Heath
Robinson scientific contrivance, is elucidated
by a modern Holmes named Colonel Geth-
ryn. Michael Lawless, the country vet., who
is his Watson, tells the story colloquially,
and his word-painting is excellent. Here
is one of the undesirables:—
Belton was the Canadian. I’d never liked him
much. Pleasant-mannered chap, forty-ish, with too
much money and one of those good tailors who seem
too economical with their cloth.
An exciting book, full of live people and
pleasant British humor and prejudice.
The Street Paved with Water, by Almey
St. John Adcock (Hodder and Stoughton>,
is another study of life amongst Britain’s
bargees. Welcome Tudway, born on her
father’s humble horse-drawn barge and
dragged up without educational or other
advantages, rises by her energy and brains
to be the owner of a fleet of motor-barges.
Through the web of her business struggles
runs the warp of her unhappy love affair
with a man of a superior social class. Wel-
come’s development from an uncouth child
to a masterful and charming woman is done
with great skill and understanding, and the
subsidiary characters all ring true. The
author seems even more at home in this
milieu than A. P. Herbert, and, though lie
lacks the “Punch” man’s critical wit, he is
a better storyteller.
Most of the characters in The Green
Valley, by Norman Giles( Collins), figured in
“Kcerboskloof,” but here Servaas de Roubaix
is only 50, Anna is unmarried (her future
husband, Dirk Langevelde, does not show
up till the last chapter) and young Vaas is
still at Groenvlei. Vaas wants to travel, but
Melt’s lascivious daughter Simonette has
induced him to compromise her, and he is.
miserably undecided whether to marry her
or shoot himself. The story is based on the
combination of circumstances by which he
is freed from his entanglement and enabled
to see the world. Not so dramatic as “Keer-
boskloof,” but equally brilliant in its pictures
of the social life of Dutch Africa, and
Africa’s engaging colored people.
Answers to Correspondents.
A o notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
D. J.R.; You have all the nautical material
but lack the art to make it float Honor Bright:
Not a bad yarn, if it weren’t told at such infernal
length.... Pom (and others) : Can’t you tell irony
when you see it?... .A.J.8.: The Bulletin doesn’t
reprint, much less pay for, sketches that have
appeared in other papers 8.K.: Like this best
of your lines to the Editor—“ You appear to be a
bogey, a horrible ogre” G.J.11.: “The Happy
Band must have fallen foul of its conductor. ...
A.C.F.: Made the Religious Editor take an oath to
walk round by the other bridge E.E.: Doesn’t
read as if you meant it V.G.W.: You might do
something if you would concentrate on one thing
and make a job of it S.W.: Sound as if they
were dashed off, and that’s what has happened to
them... .M.L.A.: To put it mildly, p00r... .C. 8.:
Gets closer to the point than most of the absurd
things inspired by that bridge... .Anon: And you
try to rhyme yourself with “dawn” !. .. .M.H.:
Don’t fancy the semi-facetious sonnets. Have
another shot... .G.D.C.: Believe the lines belong
to Dulcie Deamer. The item as a whole doesn’t
live up to them.... J.C.L.: Item about smoke proved
prophetic... .J. 1.: Why worry about ’em?....
A.M.H.: Humblest apologies for not being able to
understand it... .0.K.F.: “A Glimmering.” That’s
what it i 5.... Custos: Duly judged a contribution
to the depression M. de V. G.: “A Sailor Song”
and not a drop of rum !... .D.M.W.: Spring with
the petunias and things marching in column to
attack retreating winter caused another riot on
the testin’ front.... Bellerive : Thrills in
“SKATING.”
Brisk recreation and welcome—
Work for shoe-solers—
Is twirling and gliding
Upon skating-rink rollers.
Well-practised gliders
Speed to and fro.
Dazed learners topple
And over they go.
In jotting down verse
’Tis scribble and think,
I would I could skate.
I’d be off to a rink.
{Next week: “Among the Spectators at a Buck-
jumping Contest.”)
... .G.A.M.C.: Barely a ’weight to the ton in
“Nugget”... .G.8.F.: Not the place for it.. . .E.T.C.:
“On the track” still moving H. 8.: Labored
J.R.R.: Not for all the “inevertable drinks” in
Bananaland. .. .F.E.F.: Liked it, but too sketchy....
F. 1.: “Mr. Fantasy” lives up to his name. ... E.R.:
Leave crook stories to the talkies... .J. 8.8.: Not
far off... .C.C.M.: A bit long, and slight story
interest... .8.A.: Juvenile... .A.G.: No cake, despite
the fall in f10ur.... F.H.: Might be of interest many
years hence N.E.: Good of their kind, but it’s
not our kind....J. De S.: Makes an incident, not
a story... .W.A.: Your unguent of cheerfulness ought
to have a sale these days. .. . A.L.S.: A near thing.
. ...A.8.: Now Y.Z A.S.: Far-fetched. .. .H.M.:
You are old enough to do better... . H.E.8,: “Twenty-
four for Sixpence”—wouldn’t buy at tuppence a
gross.... .L.G.D.: Made each particular hair stand
on end... .A.A.G.: Svvaggie’s paradise—lost... .E.M.:
Might place elsewhere... .M.L.F.: No home for Lone
Carson... .E.P.M.: Uncle Bill on the outward track.
. ...H.F.W.: Don’t like your cocktail of goats, grog
and ghosts... .G.M.F.: What a gloomy yarn!....
W.D.Mc.: If the war were the whole trouble, Maori-
land ought to be in a worse plight than the Common-
wealth, though it isn’t; in proportion to population
it sent more men abroad, lost more and spent more
than we did. Bull can look after his ow'n concerns:
but blaming him for such of our difficulties as we
brought on ourselves will get us nowhere... .C.D.M.:
Havelock Ellis, 14 Dover Mansions, Brixton, London,
5.W.9; Dr. Norman Haire, 127 Harley-street, London,
W.l R.H.H.:. Mrs. iEneas Gunn (maiden name,
Jeannie Taylor) was born at Melbourne; a teacher
for some years, she married AHneas Gunn, the
“Maluka” of her stories, in 1901. Books: “We of
the Never Never” and “The Little Black Princess.”
. ...R.C.: No, they are two separate editions; the
one you refer to was published by Angus and
Robertson this year. Chief published works: “For
the Term of His Natural Life,” “Long Odds,”
“ ’Twixt Shadow and Shine,” “Chidiock Tichbourne”
and “Old Tales of a Young Country”.... Mullalyup:
No part of the Australian war debt is held in
America. Altogether the Commonwealth and States
paid £55,365,449 in interest last year—£27,769,743
in Australia, £25,184,802 in London and £2,410,899
in New York....W’less: No; the British Broadcast-
ing Corporation pays its way. It showed a profit
of £123,100 in the latest year for which figures are
available, after paying £BO,OOO in rent, rates and
taxes and issuing 14,000 free licenses to the blind.
....Jack Seaview: Most impressed by the adjective
in “Showing off his horsemanship when drunk was
his consuming pride” Democrat: So many cover-
ing-letter prophecies come true.... H.C.: Misses, but
the brightest spring offering of the week. P.A.:
You ought to do better J.O’C.: One of those
things that are neither good, bad nor anything else.
... .Vinjanlid: Congratulations on beginning your
“first contribution,” “Mary had a little lamb.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.F.8.: Joke a frequent visitor.... H.L.: Usual
thing happened... .F.E.S.: No salvage expert could
raise a bob from that wreck... .C.A.: Out it went.
. ...W.D.: Needs a lot of patching-up... .R.P.:
Counted ten over it. . . .B.B.B.: That ventriloquist-
taxidermist-vegetarian gag has whiskers on it....
G E.T.: Still turning out artistic corpses!... .S.N.:
Ever tried illustrating geometrical textbooks ?....
F.A.M.; Two shaky profiles above an inane gag.
. ...R.H.S.: There’s a wide gulf between intention
and "performance... .K.T.: Well, have a look at their
hands and feet... .0.L.: Undergarments flapping on
clothes-lines are not particularly funny.... G.M.:
Saw the “figures in repose.” Quite dead, aren’t
they ?... .E.T.P.: You must have a down on that tele-
phone girl.... H.M.G.: We also gave the bread-
carter a knockback... .F.S.: The lady bulges in the
wrong places.


mmmm
■ ~
ms
1- :
*
V
- ?<• -f <r 1 ’
V
d»j
c
IMP
*
w
:
■
, ft s
iV“:
m
.
5P
<Jj/iou/c/k/ioiu ~ cuicl7do /


The Bulletin
2641.
September 24, 1930.
“BOND OR FREE.”
Illustrating the effect of W. M. Hughes’s latest attempt to save the country.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21.', George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521II11; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 289 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6(1.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10$.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route.: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
STOCK-WATERING AND OTHER
MYTHS.
A committee has recommended to the
Trades Union Council in Melbourne various
schemes for getting Australia out of its
troubles, and among them are two that
always appeal to a section of the Labor
party. Convinced that one reason why
Labor gets too little is that Capital gets
too much, it recommended that laws should
be passed to de-water capital and limit the
rate of dividend which any company might
pay. Now, if these things would help Aus-
tralia out of its difficulties, they ought to
be done. But we had better inquire first
whether they are likely to do any good to
Australia. Further, before the Labor party
adopts them as part of its policy, it would
be as well for it to consider whether they
would do any harm to the workers.
First, what is this stock-watering of which
so much is heard, and which obviously the
Melbourne committee regards as a plan for
despoiling the worker? The committee
refers to the de-watering of bonus shares.
But the issue of bonus shares does not
necessarily mean stock-watering. When a
stock is watered the nominal capital is in-
creased without a corresponding increase
of actual capital. In Australia the instances
in which that has been done are exceedingly
rare. In the vast majority of cases where
bonus shares have been issued it has been
accompanied by a transfer of undivided
profit to capital. So far from being a bad
practice, this is wholly a good one. There
is no worse fault among young companies
than the payment of dividends which use
up all the estimated profits. Especially is
this a bad fault from the labor point of
view. A company without reserves of un-
divided profit is liable to be in difficulties
at the first onset of bad times and be com-
pelled to dismiss employees. On the other
hand, if a co. foregoes dividends, it is
surely entitled to put the profits into the
business. The money belongs to the share-
holders. If it was paid out to them they
could do what they pleased with it. They
could thus invest it in another concern
without any suggestion of stock-watering.
If it is retained in the business which made
it. and is used for the extension of that
business, they surely have an equal right
to be paid by an issue of shares to a corres-
ponding amount. To deny them that right
would be to encourage directors to pay
away profits up to the hilt, thereby check-
ing "the expansion of the business and the
employment of labor, leaving it susceptible
to every wave of depression, and making
employment under it precarious.
Admittedly there is another kind of bonus
shares—those which are issued not against
undivided profit but against a valuation
put upon goodwill or some such intangible
asset. But even in cases of that kind it
does not follow that the issue is improper.
Profit is not a thing which can be measured
up with a yardstick, and where one manage-
ment would show a profit of £5OOO another
might show £lO,OOO. It depends very largely
upon what the management regards as ex-
penses properly charged against that year’s
operations. Thus a co. may have spent
thousands in putting an article upon the
market or in otherwise increasing the value
of the property, whatever it may be. If
on a revaluation of this property it is found
to be greatly in excess of its book value,
there is nothing wrong in issuing shares to
represent that increased value, although
there is certainly reason for great caution
in accepting increases in the valuation of
intangible assets. There are rare cases in
which the valuation is found to have been
wrong and the increase of capital unjusti-
fied. When that happens, results soon show
themselves in reduced dividends and re-
duced share-market quotations. But to
attempt by law to do this de-watering in a
general way would be as unjust as it would
be to declare that no worker should get
extra pay because he had established a
reputation for doing special work specially
well.
It is suggested, further, that dividends
should be limited. Nothing could be more
damaging to industry than such a limita-
tion. The best employers in the world are
employers who make very large profits—
Henry Ford, for example. And they are
not only the best employers from the
workers’ point of view; they are the best
from the national point of view. On the
Other hand the worst employers, with hardly
an exception, are those who, lacking organ-
ising and other capacity, potter along, mak-
ing so little that they are forced to take
every opportunity to lower the pay and
working conditions of their employees. A
Henry Ford sets the whole industry a high
standard to live up to; the employer who
is always on the edge of the rocks di-ags
that standard down. Something may be
said for the idea that any £1 is the same
as every other £1 and that the pay for
the use of every £1 should be the same,
given equal risks. But you cannot dissoci-
ate capital from the men who own it.
Henry Ford’s SI may be the same as every
other American’s $1; but $1 in Henry Ford’s
hands is quite a different thing from $1 in
the hands of an incompetent muddler. It
is this tremendous fact which those who
propose to limit dividends overlook. They
might just as sensibly and just as fairly
declare that there should be a limit to the
number of bushels of wheat a farmer should
have for himself. Wiser people will know
that the better the farmer the more bushels
of wheat he will grow per acre, and the
more bushels of wheat he grows per acre
the more labor he will employ in tilling and
harvesting and shifting. The more en-
couragement we can offer the farmer to
become a, good farmer, the better therefore
for the worker and the better for the
country.
What is true of the farmer is true of
industry in general. Large profits can be
made—have been made—at the expense of
the worker. But the worker is well enough
organised now to see that he is not imposed
upon in that way. And the employer has
changed quite as much as the worker. It
is not the skinflint who succeeds any longer.
Find a growing and prosperous business of
any sort, and 19 times out of 20 you will
also find a fair employer and liberal beyond
the average. Big profits are not the worker’s
bane. Bad management and poor profits
are.
LOSING GROUND AGAIN.
The problem which overshadows all others
in Australia is that of making exports so
much larger, or imports so much smaller,
or combining one process with the other,
that exports will pay the bill for imports
and interest on external debt. That would
mean genuine solvency, and not the paper
variety which was created by the raising
of foreign loans until foreign loans failed
through the inevitable panic among lenders.
The country hasn’t made an attempt to
pay its way since June, 1922, and naturally
its apparently premeditated insolvency
began to excite alarm.
The very worst year was that which
closed last June, when the nation failed by
over £60,000,000 to meet its foreign liabili-
ties for the year out of the proceeds of
the year’s work. The yawning gap was
partly bridged by overdrafts and temporary
loans in London, which were available to
some extent after orthodox long-dated loans
left off; but when bank overdrafts in Lon-
don reached £26,000,000 a pretty clear in-
timation came to hand that the institutions
couldn’t tie up an unlimited amount of
money in that kind of investment. A
further good deal of bridging was done by
shipping the Australian banks’ gold reserves
away, the reserves of the joint-stock banks
being forcibly taken over for the purpose.
By the end of July about £27,000,000 had
been used up in this way, and the handy
local resource began to give out like the
external overdrafts.
Though 1929-30 was the most rotten year
in the most rotten period of Australia’s
financial history, it was also a year of hope
and promise. In July, 1929, exports were
so small, measured by value, which is the
only matter to be considered, and imports
were so insanely large, that Australia was
faced with the possibility of having to
borrow some £103,000,000 abroad for the
financial year, or facing dead-sure national
insolvency. No local paper-money loans,
however large, would affect the case. As
nobody abroad bad the least intention of
lending such an incredible sum to so tat-
tered a client, it was a straight run towards
bankruptcy. Then, in October, there arrived
a new Federal Ministry. There being no
possible assurance of an increase in the value
of exports, for the sufficient reason that
oversea buyers refuse to pay more than the
market price, the new Ministry turned its
back on the orthodox platitudinarians and
set itself to cut down the bill for imports
with all its might and give local manufac-
turers a chance to do better. In June, 1930,
Australia was drifting on the rocks at the
rate of about £5,800,000 per annum. Sol-
vency hadn’t been achieved, but the coun-
try was £97,000,000 per annum closer to it
than in the worst Bruce-Page days.
If the improvement had lasted for
another month at the same pace the Com-
monwealth would have been paying all its
current foreign liabilities out of its current
earnings, with something over with which
to reduce its £26,000,000 of overdraft in
London. The tide would really have
turned. But the progress wasn’t main-
tained, one reason being the desperate
struggle put up to maintain, or even
increase, the cost of production. In the
following table each month has been debited
with (approximately) a month’s interest on
the external debt, and credited with
(approximately) one-twelfth of the year’s
gold output. But no account has been taken
of sums raised by the temporary expedient
of selling the furniture, otherwise realising on
the banks’ gold reserves, that being a short,
and sudden expedient, which is already
almost exhausted:—
Before Definite Slump in Value of Exports.
Exports Imports Monthly
(Including and New Debt or
1929. Gold Output). Interest. Shortage.
April-May .. £21,987,825 £26,982,940 £2,497,557
Growing Slump in Export Values while Imports
Increase.
.Tune, 1929, to
January, 1930.. £64,566,736 £117,928,911 £6,670,272
Imports Reduced under New Tariff, but Export
Values Remain Low.
1930
February . . £9,072,690 £11,693,830 £2,621,140
March .. .. 8,861.779 12,765,416 3,903,637
April .. .. 7,603,682 11,192,409 3,588,727
May . . . . 8,411,923 10,946,820 2,534,987
June . . . . 8,176,151 8,655,944 479,793
July . . . . 6,559,536 9,563,787 3,004,251
So Australia has drifted backward in a
disappointing fashion towards the old situa-
tion from which it was extricating itself.
The renewed fall in the value of exports
can be blamed on no one in particular,
for oversea prices remain low. On the
other side of the account, our own manu-
factured products should have taken the
place of imports much more extensively
than they did and have made a balance in
that way. But a short-hours country, where
the average factory wage for men, women
and juveniles, except when they are out of
work, is returned as £2lO 12s. per annum, or
£3O more than the figure of six years earlier,
and which insists that pay shall keep up
no matter how the value of products goes
down, is at a disadvantage in finding work
for its people. The chance of an export
trade in manufactured goods is of the
smallest.
Some 18 months ago a situation like that
of July wouldn’t have been so bad, for the
local gold reserve hadn’t been eaten up
as it has been now, and overdrafts abroad
hadn’t piled up to the present extent. It
is important that the Federal Parliament
should meet early for two entirely different
purposes. One is to cut down the Govern-
ment’s expenditure, and this will involve
a cut in Federal Public Service salaries and
in the lavish pay of members and Ministers.
As the Federal Treasurer is still going into
arrears at the rate of over £1,100,000 per
month, there is little hope of the position
righting itself. The other business is to
cut down the private expenditure of the
people on imported goods (largely luxu-
ries), and in doing so to create work for
the unemployed at manufacturing for them-
selves. The problem of keeping these ques-
tions separate in the minds of muddle-
headed amateur financiers is something
enormous. Unfortunately the Federal Par-
liamentary Labor party, nearly half
recruited from N.S.W., seeks to delay the
opening of Parliament, no matter what may
go wrong in consequence, lest its doings
should have a bad effect on the chances
of the nefarious Lang at the State election.
REPUDIATION IN A NEW FROCK.
Repudiation proving to be both a nasty
and an unpopular word, the rogues and
rascals who approve of the thing itself
are taking other steps to accomplish it.
Naturally they can’t be mixed up in these
other schemes themselves, because that
might create suspicions; so they supply
the less acute leaders of the Labor party
with high-sounding phrases about the
mobilisation of credit, and about “freeing
the credit resources of the country by the
Federal Government making 20 millions
available.” If only there was more credit
available, these gentlemen say, everybody
would be able to get a job and there would
be no more talk of wage-reductions or
longer hours of labor.
In the first place, what 20 millions has
the Federal Government got? Here it is
compelled to poke around from bank to
bank in London looking for temporary
loans to pay its interest with, and 30 mil-
lions in debt on account of these temporary
loans, which can be called up at any
moment! But it could, if it got the neces-
sary authority, print 20 millions or 50 mil-
lions of paper money; and it is that without
a doubt to which the Communist section
of the Labor party is looking forward.
Well, the Governor and directors of the
Commonwealth Bank have charge of the
note issue; and suppose a measure to sack
them was put through the two Houses of
Parliament —not an easy matter, but still
not impossible—what then? Certainly
wages would rise. Certainly the worker
would get more of this paper for his labor.
And just as certainly he would have to pay
more of it away for his purchases. Which
would increase the more rapidly—wages or
prices—nobody who has any knowledge of
human nature can doubt. The notes would
be suspect; and, because a man would not
know what they would be worth to-morrow,
he would discount them heavily to-day.
Which means that the trader would regard
them as worth less than they were sup-
posed to be worth when they were handed
to the worker. We saw that principle
operating in London the other day. Aus-
tralian notes were suspect; and within a
few weeks Australians abroad were getting
rid of them on the basis that they were
worth only 14s. in the £.
And then, as always happens, there would
be a cry for more notes —and still more
notes. Every country which has tried
the plan of inflating the note issue has
found that out. In Germany in 1921-22-
23 the demand for new issues came so fast
upon one another that what was a 10,000-
mark note to-day became a 100,000-mark
note to-morrow by the simple process of
over-printing—the thing we did lately with
our three-ha’penny stamps. The time came
in Germany, as it had come in Russia,
when it cost 100,000 marks to buy a pair of
socks —the equivalent in the pre-inflation
days of £5OOO.
The man who had lent the Government
100.000 marks in the pre-inflation days
could now be handed a bundle of paper
which was worth less than 10s. Thus every
sort of debt was repudiated in effect, as
previously it had been repudiated in
exactly the same way by Russia. Without
any doubt that is what the repudiationists
are now aiming at. They are not suffering
from any illusions about an inflated paper
currency.- They know what it has done in
every country which has adopted it. It
has cheated the creditor out of his money,
whether it was advanced by way of mort-
gage to private individuals or by way of
loans to public authorities. And that is
its merit in the eyes of the rogues who
advocate it.
There is, unfortunately, a catch'in it for
Australians. They are the best patrons of
savings banks in the world. There are
over 4f millions of savings-bank accounts
open in Australia; and each account repre-
sents an average of nearly 50 pounds. In
the happy days to come, when millions of
paper money have been issued, gs they
were issued in Russia, the savings bank
will be able to repay the depositor his £5O
with paper which is marked £5O all
right, but which would buy no more
than a suit of clothes, if that much. And
when that happens a few million Austra-
lian working men and women will begin
to wonder what sort of soft fools they
were to be so easily tricked.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sugar Inquiry.
Australia will watch with interest the
inquiry which the Federal Government has
ordered to be made into the sugar industry,
and which was opened last week. This
country is prepared to pay something for
Protection; the question it wants answered
is whether it is paying more here than the
case calls for. The South hears of members
of cane-cutting gangs who average £ls a
week for the season, and it is duly horri-
fied. The inquiry will, The Bulletin
hopes, show, not what a gang can do here
and there, but what an average gang can
do under average conditions. In sheep-
shearing, in coal-mining—wherever, in fact,
men work by the piece—a few extraordinary
figures are sure to be available. And this
is especially likely to occur where men
work in gangs or parties and divide their
earnings equally; for in such cases not only
will the extra-good men get together, but
they will have the pick of the crop, or
whatever it may be, to work in. Australia
needs to encourage piecework; and it ought
to rejoice when it sees the system result
in high earnings for the best. All it has
to guard against is that it is not called
on to pay more than a fair wage for aver-
age men using average effort under average
conditions.
Australia will want a line also as to
what is this fair wage for the average Aus-
tralian under the conditions which govern
this industry. It is prepared to pay for
its sugar a price which will allow of such
a wage. As between Italians and people
of British race it naturally prefers that
British people shall get employment in
the industry. But nothing is surer than
that Italians can remain in it under con-
ditions which would not be acceptable to
the British race. Unless we want to
Italianate the industry we will therefore
see that the price of sugar is kept at a figure
which will enable men to live on a British
scale.
A final matter that ought to be clarified
is the position of the C.S.R. in the industry.
On this point we do not need to know
what aggregate profit it makes. That will
be governed very largely by the quality ol
its organisation. All that we are interested
to know is whether we are paying this co.
more than refiners elsewhere charge for
similar services.
♦
Bavin at Killara.
Experience has not been wasted on Pre-
mier Bavin, of N. S. Wales. In stating
his policy last week he made no reckless
promises, and asked the electors for a free
hand to do “whatever may be necessary
to meet the situation.” It was a speech
devoid of boasts and abuse, and concen-
trated, as it should have been, on the finan-
cial crisis that confronts Bavin’s State, in
common with the other States, and the
problem of unemployment that arises from
it. The Premier could claim that he had
given a lead to the rest of Australia—a
lead- that the vacillating Federal Cabinet
has not yet followed—by reducing Parlia-
mentary salaries 15 per cent, and those of
public servants above the basic wage 8;i
per cent. He could, claim also that he had
been the first leader of a Government to
foresee the coming of the present trouble
and to realise that only united action by
all the Governments could cope with it.
One of the things Bavin has learned is
that “the only permanent or effective relief


for unemployment is to be found, not in
Government relief works, but in the expan-
sion of private industries.” So he holds
now that Governments should “reduce their
demands on the already depleted financial
resources of the country.” He proposes to
balance the Budget—and that is what mat-
ters most at this juncture. Labor-leader
Lang, on the other hand, is bound by man-
dates of the Solons of the A.L.P. to repudi-
ate the Budget-balancing compact made by
the Premiers in conference; to declare the
Loan Council black, and to restore all
boom-time conditions without dismissing
or “rationing” anyone or reducing anyone’s
pay. Not for him the solution of financial
problems. He is not permitted to admit
that they exist.
The only specific legislation Bavin pro-
poses is a sort of moratorium on mortgages
and t.-p. transactions. As he himself admits,
that is a risky business. An object-lesson
on the point is provided in Maoriland,
where in consequence of a war-time mora-
torium, prolonged into the years of peace,
the onus of advancing money on land has
been almost entirely thrown upon the Gov-
ernment —private lenders fight shy of such
transactions. The Dominion has been able
to meet that situation largely through its
well-managed Public Trust Office, which
has over £50,000,000 in store, but N. S.
Wales is not so favorably situated. It is
natural to desire to help home-buyers who
are out of work, but it would be a cala-
mity if, as a result of an effort to help
them, a check were given to building and
an undue burden of the mortgage business
thrown upon the savings banks.
Country-party leader Buttenshaw says
he and his party are absolutely in accord
with the Bavin policy. That is very com-
forting, but the Premier will have to
restrain Buttonhole from indulging in his
favorite pastime—running round the coun-
try promising railways.
*
The Position at ’Berra.
Intimation that the Patents and Trades
Marks Department, the removal of which
to Canberra was to provide more human
society and an extra thrippence in the Sun-
day plate, is not coming till the Lord
knows when has increased the local gloom.
The department is a small concern, but
even a little company counts, as 11. Crusoe
realised when he discovered Friday. A
public meeting has protested that 90 per
cent, of the business community is “facing
ruin,” which is all the more aggravating, as
some of them have still over 90 years of
their ground leases to run, with six or seven
reappraisements, and these may mean in-
creases of rents. Tradespeople who have
no business connections outside Canberra
may possibly put the stock and goodwill
into trucks and bolt under assumed names
and the cover of night, but this doesn’t
apply to branches of outside concerns.
Canberra is in its seventh year as a
business proposition, counting from the first
land sale, and its fourth year of political
existence, dating from the day when the
Duke of York gave Parliament his official
blessing and left as soon as possible. It
has failed more and more to attract people
of fashion, affluent retired folk in search
of a congenial home in their latter years,
artists, poets, litterateurs, conspirators and
swindlers. With its freakish system of town
control and other peculiarities it is a col-
lection of experiments remotely akin to
New Australia in South America, and
experimental homes are wearisome. It was
recently proposed that the Government
shouldn’t wholly desert the seat of govern-
ment because complete desertion looks bad,
but that one portfolio-holder, however un-
important, should be always in residence.
One private member lived voluntarily at
the metropolis and practised medicine there,
but he passed out of politics. Now the pro-
blem is for Canberra to pass out respect-
ably and without being a world joke.
A Boycott We Ought to Share.
The Speck, casting round for sources of tax-
money, cocked an eye at the highly-lucra-
tive traffic in foreign movies, and decided
that it wouldn’t do any harm to make
attendance at cinema theatres cost a bit
more. Straightway the familiar threat was
issued that, if the Government persisted in
its designs some of the theatres would be
closed. The Maoriland Government, fol-
lowing the mild example of Scullin, decided
to tax the local profits of the movie
millionaires. At once piercing squeals
arose from Maoriland and Australian repre-
sentatives of the “industry”; then from the
other side of the Pacific came a threat in
the name of W. W. Hays, described as the
celluloid czar of the U.S.A., that supplies
would be cut off altogether unless the Gov-
ernment backed down.
A gentleman from Australia made two
visits to the Shivery Isles and discovered
that the Government had no intention of
altering its Budget to suit Mr. Hays. There-
upon the dreadful blow fell. So far as
Mr. Hays dominates the talkie business
there are to be no more shipments of
canned jazz and melodrama to the impious
country that has dared to defy his
authority when current contracts have
expired. Acting-Priminister Ransom is
nevertheless quite unmoved. He coldly
declares that Maoriland is “not prepared
to tolerate interference in its domestic
affairs by any foreign corporation.”
If the Commonwealth Government has
any spirit at all it will stand in with the
Government of the sister-Dominion in this
matter. If Maoriland is boycotted for
doing what Australia has done Australia
doesn’t want to be left out. The moving-
picture “industry” doesn’t own these coun-
tries, though it behaves as if the inhabitants
were a subject race.
0
' In Defence of Air Defence.
Dear Bulletin, —Air defence is cheap, and
the Auditor-General’s references to the cost
of developing types of ’planes really
designed for civil aviation (B. 6/8/’3O)
have no real bearing on the subject.
Each of our 10,000-ton cruisers cost about
£2,250,000. With £2,250,000 the Common-
wealth could purchase 470 aircraft, any one
of which might sink a 10,000-ton cruiser
with the 700 men it carries. Our submarines
each cost us nearly £440,000 per vessel,
equivalent to 87 aircraft. It would be
ridiculous to contend that one submarine is
equal in fighting value to 87 aircraft; sub-
marines are most vulnerable to attack from
the air. Again, our seaplane-carrier cost
over a million and a quarter. Without
its aircraft equipment it is of negligible
value for defence purposes, yet it cost the
Commonwealth 13 times as much as that
equipment and requires about 10 times as
many men to operate it. In short, for what it
took to build two cruisers, two sub-
marines and a seaplane-carrier, we could *
supply ourselves with over 1350 aircraft.
A similar comparison could be made with
big guns and other land armaments.
An air force costs less, requires fewer
men, moves with greater speed, covers big-
ger areas in observation and hits harder at
greater distances than any other form of
defence. It is the only service which
can be used to attack an enemy on the
land, on the sea, under the sea or in the
air.—Yours, etc., Flying Officer.
“Leave It to Ewing!”
The short and simple annals of the Federal
Sales Tax Act are that it was drafted m
haste, introduced to Parliament in nine parts
on July 30, and rushed through all stages
in both Houses on August 6, 7 and 8. A few
of the M’s.H.R. and Senators who took part
in the debate confessed that they could not
understand the nine measures; almost all,
outside Mr. Scullin and Senator Daly,
showed by their questions and comments
that they were groping in the dark as to
the operation of the tax—a darkness that
Ministerial replies did little to dissipate.
It is plain that neither the House nor
the Senate, even if members devoted to
it the most assiduous study, had time to
form a useful opinion on even the mam
features of the legislation, let alone the
multitudinous aspects of its application.
As in the case of so many other taxation
measures, the job of defining the meaning
of a law as cryptic as the Sphinx was
thrown upon a civil servant —in this case
Taxation-Commissioner Ewing. That con-
scientious but harassed official has been
trying to explain what it means since
August 2. His explanations, as published in
serial form in the “S. M. Herald,” had
occupied, up to September 19, 480 inches
of small type-40 feet of combined law-
making and law-interpreting. The task
continues, and may go on for another 40 feet.
There are thus three cardinal legal prin-
ciples that have been violated by the
highly-salaried gentlemen entrusted by Aus-
tralia with the job of making its Federal
laws. The first is that a measure—particu-
larly a taxation measure—should clearly
express the intention of the Legislature; the
second is that taxation liabilities should be
clearly understandable by persons of aver-
age intelligence, and should not be subject
to variation; and the third is that questions
of interpretation should be decided by a
judicial tribunal independent of Parlia-
mentary influence. As it is, nobody least
of all the people who have to pay the tax
in the first instance—is quite clear about
the incidence of liability. How can they
be when there is a daily shower of new
rulings? And as the rulings continue,,
setting up new liabilities and transferring
liabilities, there is no element of perma-
nence or finality about the phantasmagoria.
Further, the tax-collector has been con-
stituted the tax-maker, which is always an
unfortunate matter for the taxed.
A sales tax has been found useful m
Canada, though as a substitute for, not an
addition to, income tax; and as a substi-
tute for income tax it would very probably
have been serviceable in Australia. But it
ought to have been clearly laid down what
is taxable and what is not. Given about
10 times as much attention as Parliament
paid to it, the impost might have been but-
tressed with such a lucid statement of the
principles of incidence that everyone woula
have understood it within a week. It doesn t
seem likely, as matters are, that it will
ever be understood.
♦
British Freetrade Troubles.
Britain was just beginning to wade out of
the bog of an out-of-date Freetrade faith
when the Labor party bought its second
term of office by gigantic promises of em-
ployment for everybody, and the infatu-
ated Finance Minister, Snowden, made the
exposure of British industry to unlimited
competition his prime dogma. Snowden
got as far as to practically ruin the reviving
lace industry and one or two smaller in-
dustrial shows. He had to pause, in prac-
tice, for financial reasons, though in theory
his soul went marching on. But he stopped
the revival by suspending the new tariff
movement, which was a triumph in a
crooked sort of way. .
The number of registered unemployed is
now nearly a million- more than it was
when the Ram Macs set out on their en-
thusiastic and devastating career. The
receipts of the Dole Fund, which is nomi-
nally supported by contributions from em-
ployers, employees and the State, have been
so utterly insufficient to cope with the in-
creasing poverty that the Treasury has
lent the fund £60,000,000. It expects to
have to lend more, and sees no prospect of
getting anything back. And Snowden wants
to raise £45,000,000 per annum more revenue,
without finding it in any way that will help
British industry or provide British employ-
ment. As a minor issue it was recently
announced that the export trade of Ger-
many has got ahead of that of Britain for
the first time in history, which is not un-
natural when so many Britons can’t get
jobs at making goods either for export or
for local use.
The reason why the Old Man in London
has held out so long without falling into
visible decay lies in his habit of being an
international financier . and world-creditor.
He rose to that undisputed position when
the Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars
wrecked all his European competitors.
Britain has had the remarkable luck not to
have lost a war for over 140 years, and not
to have been compelled to fight a serious
defensive conflict in its own territory for
as long. Being a thrifty, industrious, enter-
prising and annexing person with a supply
of fairly cheap labor, J. Bull has piled up
remarkable resources in the Dominions and
abroad. It is estimated that in 1928 he
made 723 millions by the sale of goods to
people outside and 508 millions from other
outside sources. These include external
banks, insurance offices, mines, trading and
shipping enterprises, and investments in
external loans.
This external and accumulated energy,
mostly exercised in regions which don’t
worry about Snowden’s fiscal craze, keeps
Britain afloat despite Snowden’s craze, and
on the strength of it Snowden claims that
his is a very good craze. But it provides
little work for people at home. These are
about 2§ times as numerous as when Free-
trade first became an active superstition,
and have become a problem.
O ■
If Politics Were as Clean as Racing!
There was a dispute the other day about
the handling of Phar Lap at Warwick Farm,
some critics arguing that he should have
been ridden right out, others taking a dif-
ferent view. Then the A.J.C. chairman
gave his opinion, and the discussion ended.
The trusted expert had spoken. It empha-
sised the difference between the almost
universal public esteem enjoyed by the
administrators of the A.J.C. and the dis-
esteem, not to say scorn, which is felt by
about 50 per cent, of the populace for any
given politician.
The explanation is obvious. The A.J.C.
committeemen know their jobs. Their
chairman, for example, has had every kind
of experience from riding races to owning
racehorses. They have no axes to grind.
They are in the racing business for its
health, not their own. Politicians hardly
ever know their jobs. They get into Par-
liament, as a rule, by their ability to bull-
doze caucuses or selection committees; and
they get into Ministries at times by being
so offensive to the Government that it is
thought safer to shut their mouths with
office. Not one in ten knows anything of
the work of his department when he takes
it on, and the majority leave all the real
work to the departmental heads. Treasurers
who are ignorant of finance, Attorneys-
General whose legal abilities are derided by
the legal profession, Ministers for Agricul-
ture whose lives have been spent in city
offices —anomalies of the sort are so common
that electors have stopped complaining
about them.
One way to realise the burden of our
crazy political system is to imagine how
long the A.J.C. would remain solvent, and
keep the respect of racegoers, if most of
the committeemen lived on their screws,
and had to fight, lie and intrigue to keep
them..
♦
Roads and Railways.
A sign of the times is the proposal of the
Westralian Government to abolish that
State’s Main Roads Board, which it reckons
to be a too-costly luxury, replacing it
with a Commissioner. Coupled with this
is legislation to put motor competition with
the railways under control, as is being
attempted in N. S. Wales. South Australia
is also repealing its Highways Act. In fact,
the old slipshod ways of coping with trans-
port problems are being reconsidered at last.
During the Great Drunk the railways in
all the States were paralleled by expensive
motor highways, with no attempt at check-
ing motor competition. This went on even
while the railways were eating up tax-
revenue at the rate of £6,000,000 p.a. Not
till the loan boom burst did the politicians
responsible for the losses on the railways
and the expenditure on the highways come
down to earth. Now serious industrial, as well
as financial, complications have arisen as a
result of putting various phases of trans-
port into watertight compartments, of keep-
ing the right hand of the community in-
ignorance of what its left hand was doing.
Further extensions of the State railway
systems are quite out of the question. A start
lias been made in Queensland with the cut-
ting out of hopelessly unprofitable lines,
and this process wall assuredly go on. Never-
theless, there is a moral and a practical
duty imposed on State Governments to
provide isolated settlers with means of get-
ting their produce to market. If these
settlers are not to have the railways which
(in most instances) were promised to them,
they must be given an equivalent. The
equivalent will obviously have to take the
form of roads suited to motor traffic, and
in certain cases, probably, of subsidisation
of motor transport.
It may be objected that roads constructed
on the gorgeous M.R.B. scale cost more
to make than railways, and bring in no
revenue. But highways of the grandeur
to which boards flush with millions, and
intent on keeping great staffs busy, are
accustomed are not required by settlers.
A thoughtful countryman named David
Kelly suggested to the N.S.W. board that
inland motor traffic could be adequately
catered for by laying two concrete strips
on a roadway of the old type, instead of
concreting the whole surface, or most of it.
The board laughed merrily at the suggestion,
which it said was absurd—and went on with
its million-pound road from Sydney to New-
castle without providing an adequate means
of crossing the Hawkesbury. Undiscouraged,
Kelly backed his notion with his own
money. At a cost of £42 11s. he laid down
two parallel concrete strips, six chains of
them, at motor-car gauge on the Molong-
road; and though the strips were only Ift.
wide and 6in. deep, the job being done by
amateurs with poor equipment, they stood
the heavy traffic of two harvest seasons and
two winters without a break. A more
elaborate experiment on the same lines is
now being carried out by his local muni-
cipality. One argument in favor of roads
with, as it were, concrete rails, is that
Dobbin can find comfortable foothold—and
there is a reaction in favor of Dobbin which
is another sign of the times.
Kelly contends that thoroughly satis-
factory motor tracks —“18-inch tracks, let
in an inch or more below road level”—
can be built on his plan for £5OO a mile,
instead of £lO,OOO or £20,000 a mile. He
may be wrong, but his plan is at least
worthy of a trial.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES.. 2, 5
FAMOUS NAVIGATORS ON TRIAL—
By M. G. Skipper . . .. . • .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.. .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON. . .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
STOCK-WATERING AND OTHER MYTHS 8
LOSING GROUND AGAIN . . . • 8
REPUDIATION IN A NEW FROCK . . 8
THE SUGAR INQUIRY 8
BAVIN AT KILLARA 8
“LEAVE IT TO EWING” 9
ROADS AND RAILWAYS 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings—Ruby Lindsay’s
last unpublished drawing) .. . . 11, 12
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 18
PERSONAL (with four caricatures) . . . • 14
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 15
A New Feature —
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?.. • • 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ■ • 16
THE AIR PAGEANT (and some flips by
Frith) .... '• • • • • •
SOME SYDNEY MUSIC SHOWS .. ..13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . • ■ 17, 18
TOOHEYS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON 17
NEWS, LTD. (Adelaide) 17
McWIIIRTER’S (Brisbane) 17
MELBOURNE STEAMSHIP 17
AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. BANKING
CORPORATION • • 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED. . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 2o
THE ANTI-FLY CAMPAIGN • • • • 22
FARMING WITH UNDERSTANDING .. 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED.. •• 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. .. 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) .. •-35, 36, 37
RACING AT ROSEHILL 35
GUINEAS AND lIILL STAKES . . . . 35
MENTONE RACES 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 40
TRADE-MARKS AND RETAILERS . . 40
BANKING IN MAORILAND 40
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . .. 41
NEW SERIAL —
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover .. ..42, 43, 45
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by
Phil May and “Hop”) . . • • . . 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
"MR. CLAMBAKER’S CANNIBALS”—
By Alys Brown . . . . • • 49, 50
VERSE —By E. J. Brady 45
NEXT WEEK.
“WHAT’S WRONG WITH THE WORLD?” Ail inquiry into the causes of our troubles.
ad ” with some remarks about William Morris Hughes. <
“AUSTRALIANS ALWAYS GOME HOME,” a graphic story by Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting.


Supreme on Land
IRISH GRAND PRIX
The classic road race of 1930, over a 315 mile course, was won at an average
speed of 85 m.p.h., by Caracciola, with Campari second and Malcolm Campbell,
the world-famed British motorist third, at an average speed of 81 m.p.h.
J.C.C. "DOUBLE 12”
In the Junior Car Club "double 12 hours” endurance race, Ist and 2nd places
were won by Bentley cars. In these strenuous tests of sustained speed, all the
forementioned ears were fuelled and lubricated by Shell
The Choice of Experts Everywhere
SHELL OIL & SPIRIT
%
V
i
i
POLITICAL
POINTS
Scullin’s understudy, while declaring that
he won’t be dictated to hy organisations like
the A.C.T.U., views their dialectic activities
with benevolent approval. “When a country
is going through an economic crisis,” he says,
“it is the duty of the party to meet; public
discussion might be of very valuable assist-
ance.” Surely an excellent reason why Fen-
ton should summon a special session at Can-
berra straightway instead of waiting until
the N.S.W. elections are over.
The inferior Sculliners, otherwise the tail-
end of the Federal Cabinet, have evidently
not yet begun to realise the situation. They
talk the jargon of bygone years without the
faintest idea that they are bygone. Blakeley,
Minister for Home Affairs, is reported as tell-
ing a Sunday paper that the prospects look
like a Federal deficit, by the end of the
financial year (June, 1931), of £18,000,000
—judging, of course, by the present rate of
expenditure. This is in his opinion too much
to tackle in 1930-31, so he proposes that it
should be spread over “perhaps four years” ;
in other Avords, charged against future sur-
pluses. But if these years have deficits of
their oavh instead of surpluses, the position
will be difficult.
With Theodore out and Scullin and
Moloney abroad, the sane element of the
Federal Cabinet is sadly short of fighting
What might have been.
power at tliis crisis. If Scullin had to take
somebody with him lie ought to have taken
Beasley. He might have managed to lose
Beasley at one of the ports.
A deficit means that a Treasurer has spent
more than he .received, having borrowed the
money from the banks, as a rule, to go on
with. But he won’t spend more than he
receives unless he has it to spend. Nomin-
ally there are trust funds and so on that
can be used, but barring the comparative
trifle of loose money at credit in the banks,
they have been used already—that is to say
they are already “invested in Government
securities.” When a Government spends
more than its income (almost every Govern-
ment has some kind of income) it may either
have a shortage or a stoppage. In one case
it borrows the difference. In the other its
cheques go bad for the difference, or else it
doesn’t issue cheques but tells its servants
and possibly other creditors to wait. The
public servant in arrears lias been a familiar
spectacle in many periods and many coun-
tries. During the latter days of the Turkish
Empire lie was never in anything else.
Arrears were practically his only garments.
Another attempt to thrust a wheat pool
on N. S. Wales farmers and prevent them
from selling grain for ready money has
failed. A three-fifths majority was required,
and although the opposition was unorganised
the ayes were 2.16 p.c. short. As before,
thousands of farmers ignored or defied
Minister Thorby’s threat that they would
be fined if they didn’t vote.
It looks as if Victoria is about to have
another change of Government. The wild
men of a special Labor conference made im-
possible demands on the Hogans whicn
nearly goaded them into throwing up the
sponge.' Muttering bitter words such as
“rubbish” and “moonshine,” the Government
decided to come up for another round or
two, but it is obviously groggy, and that is
no condition to be in with the Budget to
come. Since March, 1924, Victoria has had
seven Governments —three Nationalist, _ one
Nat -Cocky and three Labor —-and has drifted
all the time. It is a clear case for an elec-
tive Ministry.
Queensland’s Moore Government is think-
ing of extending the life of Parliament to five
years. There is a lot to be said for the
notion if it is proposed to let the people
decide —a change made without their sanc-
tion would be a rank swindle. The Canad-
ian House of Commons is elected for live
years, and so is South Africa’s Assembly.
The old Queensland Constitution itself pro-
vided for five-yearly Parliaments, and there
were 10 of these until the Act of 1890
reduced the term to three years, although
only one of them saw out its full time.
There is a straightout contest for Haw-
thorn (Vic.) between the Nationalist Gray,
a local municipal councillor, and Labonte
Ilulse, who has tried twice to unseat ex-
Premier McPherson, now retired. The week-
end corroboree of the A.L.P. has not helped
Ilulse, but neither has Employers’ Fed.
advocacy of a 25 p.c. wage cut assisted his
opponent. Gray has youth on his side ; Hulse
is half-way through the sixties. It will be
a close go.
The British M.P. works longer for his
£4OO a year than the Australian does for his
£lOOO. The first Parliamentary session of the
second Ramsay MacDonald Ministry closed
at the beginning of August after lasting 13
months. Business is to resume in Octo-
ber, for the British M.P. not only goes to
bed late but rises early. One result of his
insomnia is that the last Acts of the session
aren’t thrown together anyhow, as is the
case when the Australian member is sacri-
ficing everything in his craving to get home.
Hughes’s “Australian” party has been
further depleted by the defection of the
Candid Friend. The C.F. —his name is
Duckham —was to have stood for Arncliffe.
He struck his first difficulties when he was
asked which party Ms party would support
if it found itself holding the balance ot
power. He scratched his head and frankly
admitted that he didn’t know, which seems
to have been regarded as an unsatisfactory
answer. Pursuing his canvas further he
found “a very hostile feeling to Mr. Hughes” ;
in fact, it seemed to be the one point upon
which everyone approached was agreed. So he
threw in his hand in preference to throwing
away his money. William’s comments on
the candor are unfortunately not available.
Staggering item from the annual report of
the S. Aus. Railways Commissioner:—
The accumulated deficit in working to June 30,
1929, was £9,461,646. The accumulated deficit to
June 30, 1930, was £11,257,874.
A loss of Hi millions on a mere 2500-
mile concern (1078 miles of it on the 3ft. 6in.
gauge) employing 8000 men! The war can-
not be blamed for that. The mad “repro-
ductive works” policy is responsible that
and the equally mad system of industrial
regulation whereby wages and working hours
on State Government railways are fixed by
Federal lawyers.
Queensland’s Income-tax Commissioner
called on the slieepowners to pay £646,527 in
1925-26, but in 1929-30 the profits had
dropped so badly that the notices sent out
were for only £223,671. Yet the gentle-
man’s voice was in good condition, and he
called for all he was worth.
Under pressure from Ramsay MacDonald
in England, and from other sources, Vic.
toria has appointed a royal commission to
decide whether the Imperial soldier-settlers
who were attracted under the agreement of
1922-23 are entitled to compensation, the
charge being that they were diddled by flam-
boyant bunkum. The little State spent
nearly £38,000,000 of loan money on spec-
A new Casabianca.
tacular settlement, and fell a prey to ail
manner of sharks; also, settlers got absurdly
small allotments at absurdly high prices.
Some time ago Justice Pike inquired into
soldier-settlement, and decided that Victoria
should write £7,721,891 off as loss or over-
charge. He added that there would be more
later on.
Germany has had a Federal election, and
the result is described as a landslide in
favor of the National Socialists, who shout
“Down with the Republic!” and are led by
an Austrian who is not qualified to sit in
the Reichstag. They want a dictatorship
similar to that of
Mussolini, bu t
many parties
want that with-
out having the
Mussolini. De-
spite the land-
slide, the National
Socialists a r e
only second
among 10 parties
which are big
enough to be
specified, and a
“I will stand shoulder to shoulder with the leaders
of Labor Governments.” — N.S.W. Premier Bavin.
Some assistance will be necessary in Mr.
Hogan’s case.
lot more which returned SO members among
them; so apparently the Republic isn’t down
yet. It has 18 elective Parliaments or one
for every 10,000 square miles, and they con-
tain about 2100 politicians. There is never
a shortage of politics.
The 2ft. 6in. line from Ferntree Gully to
Gembrook (Vic.) cost £74,000 to build. In
SO years just on £225,000 has been lost on
it 'last year’s contribution being ilb.iuu;
another £4OOO was dropped last year on
motor services provided by the Railway Com-
missioners. Naturally a competitive roadway
has been constructed alongside it—these jokes
have been played in all the States. Now
the Railway Committee has recommended tlie
letting of contracts for road services. These
cursed overseas capitalists!
The Hogans could save a tidy sum on the
Vic. Parliamentary library. Large consign-
ments of novels arrive there regularly, and few
are of a quality that reflects any credit on
the mentality of the politicians. If ‘Han-
sard” doesn’t satisfy the appetite of these
gentlemen for free fiction, the lending depart-
ment of the Public Library is available.
Federal Labor can’t decide what to do
about Canberra. The military and naval
departments have moved out at considerable
cost. As a set-off, the patents and trades-
marks department was to have moved in at
still greater cost, though an office with a
collection of records dating back to Captain
Cook and a reference library which every
inventor of perpetual motion wants to con-
sult is quite unfitted for the bush life, but
it is to remain at the old address
until further notice. There is still available
the simple device of stopping expenditure on
Canberra except out of its own revenue, and
ceasing to import population (which arrives
in a bad temper) pending developments.
Developments will come sooner or later.
“Tax on interest applicable to Govern-
ment bonds” is a plausible item which
appeals to people who don’t realise that
interest on Government bonds is I ederally
taxed already. The Red desire is to find out
how to put an indefinite or unlimited tax
on bondholders’ interest, and yet make it
look a part of the ordinary financial policy
of the country. Then there is the problem
of taking something from the bondholder
abroad when we have no taxing powers
abroad. The amateur financier has his
work cut out.
Gandhi has been sounded by some more
moderate brethren as to how he would behave
if released, the idea being to fix up some
compromise with the Government. He
demanded the right of secession from the
Empire, control of the army, an appeal _to
an “independent tribunal” as to all British
pretensions including the “so-called public
debt,” and meantime liberty to go on break-
ing a long list of laws. As a result he con-
tinues to be an unflinching liberator in a
safe place. The British raj doesn’t send the
political prisoner who gives it “slack to a
penal island in a frozen sea, or take a mean
advantage like that, which is something to
its credit.
Federation makes mighty small progress.
The other day a Queensland parson who had
the reasonable idea that his license to marry
was good throughout Australia, nothing hav-
ing ever happened in his quiet life to show
the contrary, joined a couple over the mvis-
ible border in Central Austraiia, Tlrb mi«j
take was found out. and a special bectei.u
Vet is promised, so that the couple who have
been unwittingly “living in may be.
lifted out of sin. It might he ? little mor<
difficult to enact that a parsons license
<>ood all over the Commonwealth, and to uate
the law back so that all the people who are
living in sin. from the same cause may be
purified without even hearing of their wicked
Trades Hall secretaries have
not done badly in the last quarter of a cen-
tury. Stephen Barker became a Senator.
Holloway got into the Reps., and is on the
Public Works Committee, which divides
£9OOO or £lO,OOO in a good year. Now Dutty
goes on the Commonwealth Bank Board at
£6OO p.a. Gray was an exception; he was
appointed'to the Vic. Prices Commission, but
that didn’t last long.
One of the Hill Government’s economy
measures, as they are called, is compulsory
retirement of S. Aus. civil servants over the
age of 65. Forty-seven of these veterans
have received a month’s notice; among
them are Under-Secretary Blinman and
Lands Secretary Messent, who have eaeti
seen over half a century of service;
Garnett, the Protector of Aborigines;
and McEwen, Superintendent of the Gov-
ernment Printing Office. They are all
entitled to pensions.
“Aileron”: There is no arguing against
the statement that the aeroplane has solved
the problem of representing vast electorates and
simplified that of reducing local members
(B. 17/9/’3O). Take the case of Defence
Minister Green, who represents Kalgoorlie,
reckoned the largest electorate in the world.
He has just returned from a visit to Derby,
Broome, Wyndham and other remote parts
of his division. A Westralian Airways ’plane
carried him over 4000 miles in four days.
Under old-time conditions the journey might
have occupied four months; in fact, thou-
sands of people in the constituency never
even saw their member.
Attorney-General Brennan claimed credit
at Geneva for Australia (meaning his
party) in that it had reversed the policy ot
compelling the young to “learn the art ot
war.” It’s a rankly misleading phrase; to
“learn the first elements of national defence”
would be a better one. “We reject the
theory that preparedness for war is the best
MR. BRENNAN: “There’s nothing to be ajraid
of now. We’re disarming!"
guarantee of peace,” the orator continued.
To be logical, he should also reject the theory
that strongly-organised unions, with plenty
of funds, make for industrial peace.
The Melbourne Trades Hall Council met
the other day, with Acting-Priminister Fen-
ton in attendance on the mat, and put that
political dignitary through a stiff catechism.
One question was whether Fenton wouldn t
consider it his duty to repudiate the over-
seas debt if the interest thus saved would
preserve the population here from starvation.
Fenton gave his masters a rather in-
sufficient reply. Councils of this sort have
loose and extensive ideas as to the quantity
of food which Australia could buy with the
prigged foi*eign interest money (about
£25,000,000 per annum), and they are
strangely unanimous in assuming that Gov-
ernments which represent the external credi-
tor, Uncle Hoover included, would take the
robbery with perfect resignation. The
Trades Hall programme included a reduc-
tion of the minimum working week to 40
hours, an immediate addition of 25 per
cent, to wages, and the appointment of
Judges who w r ould “interpret the Constitu-
tion in the direction desired by the workers”!
The last proposition was too complicated. It.
would necessitate having receptacles all over
the country in which “workers” could drop
their demands, and then a referendum would
be required on each demand to discover if it
was really desired by the “workers,” and if it
was desired the Judge would be superfluous.
In the confusion the disfranchised non-
workers” might upset the ballot-box.


SOCIETY
"and it's SOCIETY
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“X.S.”: Statutes of Charles 11. are fre-
quently cited in Melbourne courts, but Gor-
man, K.C., went much farther the other
day in a case wherein a woman sued the
city of St. Kilda for damages sustained m
falling down an unguarded hole in a public
park. Counsel quoted Exodus xxi, verses oo
and 34 : “And if a man shall open a pit, or
if a man shall dig a pit, and not cover it, and
an ox or an ass fall therein, the owner of the
pit shall make it good, and give money unto
the owner of them; and the dead beast shall
be his.” The jury must have been impressed,
as it awarded the lady £1149.
* # * *
“ Jungor”: There was a wedding by special
permission in Long Bay, Sydney s Bastile,
last week, the bride coming from without ana
the bridegroom being a prisoner who is serv-
ing an indeterminate sentence. There is at
least one instance in Australian prison
annals of a man being allowed to marry m
the condemned cell. It happened at I re-
mantle in 1903. The convicted murderer—
Maillat was his name—petitioned to be
allowed to make a legal wife of his mistress,
and authority consented. The pair were
French. The man was hanged next day.
* * * *
“Ratoon”: Innisfail (Q.) has just watched
the restoration to its place of honor over
the Italian Consulate of the coat of arms,
which some midnight roysterers pulled down
and threw into an adjacent patch of scrub.
The incident nearly caused international com-
plications, and tension was only relaxed
EXHIBIT A.
JONES ( visiting ): “You have no family, Smith?”
SMITH: “No, only the bare wife.”
when someone going through the scrub barked
liis shins over the heraldry, and restored it
to its disconsolate owners. It was rein-
stated with all pomp and ceremony, all the
Italian flags in Australia being hoisted simul-
tsneously to mark the occasion. It was
noted however, that the Italians are taking
no more chances. The shield was nailed,
as usual, to the front of the consulate build-
but some 20ft. higher than it was before,
m,,, out home -OIL. * *
“Morita”- I doubt whether the ballad of
the Annenti&res Mademoiselle was popular in
1 ranee before the war (B. 17/9/’3O). Had
it been its echoes would have reached Bel-
gium, whereas, even after the Armistice, no
one in Brussels knew much of the lady. All
that French and Belgian habitues of the
cabarets could do when orchestras played the
tune was to clink their glasses on the tables
to it, whereas the strains of “Tipperary”
would start a community chorus from every-
one, from portly burghers down to youngsters
sipping their near-beers. In 1914 they had
learnt the Irish ditty from the Old Con-
temptibles, and in 1918 they welcomed with
the tune the army that was chasing Intz
to the Rhine. But drinks were on the house
for a Digger who could render “Mademoiselle
from Armentieres” ; the more verses lie knew
the more pints lie got.
“Eureka” : “I thought they’d make a mess
of it,” said Long Ned disgustedly, as he sur-
veyed the Dorman-Long achievement for the
first time. “What's wrong with the bridge?”
I asked. “What’s wrong with it?" he re-
peated. “It’s too flamin’ high ! How can a
man fish off it?” _
“Oxmead” : “In Australian universities the
teacher was far removed from his pupil, who
regarded him as barely human.” Thus Syd-
ne y Un i. lecturer
Wood, in an address
on “Some Aspects of
Oxford,” where, he
claimed, the teachers
and the taught mixed
together to the advan-
tage of both. Things
must have altered a
lot if they do; in my
time at Oxford most
of the dons, especially
those of high distinc-
tion, were as remote
from the average un-
dergrad. as the gods
upon Olympus. By
contrast, some of the
brightest lights of Aus-
tralian .halls of learn-
ing strike me as free-
and-easiness personi-
fied. I have noted a
venerable vice-chancel-
lor dashing into news-
paper controversies
about the dog Latin
in the Canberra motto
and the trouble in a
O.P.S. boatrace just
as if he was a plain
man in the street: I
have heard another
erudite professor tell
how he once sat on
the kerb one summer
evening and shared a
meal of dry scones
with Henry Lawson;
and perhaps the great-
est living authority on
one of the sciences
has given me his sig-
nature for a school-
boy’s autograpli-book
as readily and cheer-
fully as if he were a mere cricket idol. Oem-
brit’ies of similar tonnage at Oxford find it
far harder to descend from their pedestals.
* * * *
“Bloggs” : A resident of Victoria realised
the dream of thousands of allotment-holders
the other day when he awoke to find himself
the owner of a block on which the R.C.
Church had mistakenly erected a £5200 build-
ing. The Church, on being offered the option
between demolishing the edifice and giving
£1250 for land which had been valued by
the municipal authorities at £4OO, looked
unpleasant and paid up. It doesn’t always
come off, though. A trusting friend of mine
rented an old house, and installed electiic-
liglit and modernised the bathroom on the
landlord’s plighted word that the rent
wouldn’t be raised. Hardly was the work
done than the rent was doubled. But the
landlord gained nothing by his perfidy. My
friend —a mug of considerable spirit—went to
the expense of having the gas put back and
the bathroom restored to its original ruined
state before moving out.
“R. Volt” : Melbourne has leapt into tele-
vision with startling suddenness the Argus
having started a service from 3UZ and ? the
Herald another from 3DB. When received
the photos frequently look very much bettci
than the originals, there being a tendency
for the ether to perform the function of the
artist—that is, to generalise and suppress
irrelevant detail. It is easy to under-rate
the new phenomenon. No great gift ot pro-
phecy is required to foresee a time when the
greatest masterpieces of painting will be
transmitted into humble homes, to be care-
fully removed from the receiver, framed and
hung in the sitting-room. This is what has
happened with music, for, although the
broadcasting stations mainly busy themselves
in disseminating tripe, they have also brought
the symphonies of Beethoven and the sonatas
of Mozart into homes which otherwise would
never have been aware of their existence.
“Fly Cop” : It isn’t often that one hears
of a motor-car capturing an aeroplane. It
occurred recently in about the only country
where such a happening seems possible, the
United States. A Yankee immigration in-
spector was patrolling the Canadian border
when he saw a ’plane land rather too unob-
trusively in a near-by field. He drove
HOW IT’S MANAGED.
MR. GLADSOME: “I never have any words with my wife now.”
MRS. HANDSOME: “I don’t live with my husband either."
[As far as THE BULLETIN is aware, this is the last unpublished drawing of the late Ruby Lindsay,
sister of Norman; she died in England some years ago.]
towards it, and the pilot attempted to take
the air again. The man in the ground
machine was too quick, and rammed the ris-
ing craft with comparatively slight damage
to both. His suspicions were justified, for
the ’plane was carrying two prohibited immi-
grants.
... * * *
“Elk”: The girl mentioned in a recent
English cable who left the baths at Torquay
by a 12in. outlet pipe and arrived two seconds
later on the beach 30 yards away, wasn’t a
pioneer in this sort of travelling. About 12
years ago two noys
remained in the Arm-
strong-street baths, at
Ballarat,. while the
water was being emp-
tied. One was carried
straight down the out-
let pipe, and the other
was sucked straight
across it —it took
three men to with-
draw him. The first
lad was given up for
lost, but before the
attendants could get
down to the spot
where the pipe opened
into the deep stone-
paved Yarrowee, a
man passing a gully-
trap half-way down
got the shock of his
life to hear a feeble
cry from the grating,
and to see two small
hands clinging there
in desperation. He
managed to extricate
the lad. who wasn’t
much the worse for
his hurried trip down
two city blocks. But
if the youngster hadn’t
had the luck to grab
that grating en passant he would have been
swept down to the creek and had his skull
cracked on the bluestone.
$ * *
“ \von” • Maoriland’s Prison Board, set up
in iflio and invested with very large powers
in the matter of releasing criminals, has
boon reviewing the results of its clemency.
Out of 3534 cases of persons sentenced to
reformative detention since 1911, 3176 were
released by the board, and only 793, or 2o
uer cent., got into trouble again. The
record in connection with Borstal insti-
tutions, which goes back only five years,
was also good. Out of 652 releases there
were only 109 relapses—l6.7l per cent. Of
992 cases in which clemency was shown
to hard-labor prisoners who came under the
board in 1917 only 35 came back—3l per
cent. But the board didn’t have so much
luck with habitual criminals. In 18 years
it let out 417 of them; 238 returned to
gaol and 33 absconded. The record, taken
as a whole, is considered very satisfactory;
out of a total of 7692 prisoners the board
befriended 5237 and made only 1208 bad bar-
gains.
b * * * *
“Perker”: A marriage which cannot be
proved by documentary evidence may never-
theless ‘be a perfectly legal marriage, as
appears from a recent decision in the 1 as.
Practice Court. Samuel Cave, a miner, lost
his life in the flood disaster at Derby la«t
year, and tlie Briseis Co. paid £5OO compen-
sation to the Public Trustee for Marion
Cave, the widow. Then it accidentally found
that some doubt existed about the marriage,
and applied for the return of the money.
The widow put in an affidavit, that she was
married to Cave in a Launceston church, in
April, 1902, but there was no marriage cer-
tificate in the Registrar’s office to support
the statement. On the other hand, 17 resi-
dents of Derby supplied testimony, also on
affidavit, that the parties had lived together
as man and wife for 27 years, and Chief
Justice Nicliolls held that, “despite the exist-
ence of modern compulsory registration, a
marriage might still be proved by reputation,
and that the evidence in this case was strong
enough to transfer the burden of proof to the
party challenging the marriage.” In other
words, although no certificate could be
found, the company had to prove that the
Caves weren’t married. As it couldn t do
this, the widow was awarded the ioOO, with
costs.
... * *
“Meteren”: An unofficial honor-roll rival-
ling “Flagwagger’s” (B. 17/9/’3O) was the
nominal roll at the area office of our old cadet
company after the first year of the war.
Officially there was no one who would turn
IS, the enlistment age, till 1916, but before
the war had lasted many months blanks on
the roll were being filled in “Abroad with
the A.1.F.” Within a year a score of 17-
year-olds were in khaki. The old area officer,
who could have stopped every enlistment,
merely asked to be notified of the units we
sailed with. At Pozieres alone two of our lot
were killed, two others badly wounded and
another captured by Fritz in a counter-
attack. Others sleep at Flers and Ypres.
They were all well in the scrap before the
“War Babies’ ” camps on Salisbury Plain
were thought of.
“Ibn el Issar” : “Strict Veg” (B. 17/9/’3O)
must have mixed a trifle too much bhang with
his hookah tobacco' before attributing to the
T. and G. building in Melbourne “a tower
resembling a Hindu fane.” Writer has seen
a good many temples dedicated to the mul-
titudinous phases of the Braliroinic cult, but
never one had a tower, unless the intri-
cately ornamented Jain spires can he con-
sidered such. All through Hind . the
characteristic though not quite invariable
feature of these temples is the dome, ihe
Moslem borrowed the Hindu dome and added
to it the towering minaret, expressly designed
to allow the muezzin to call the faithful to
prayer, the use of conch or bell being ex-
pressly forbidden to Islam for this purpose.
The conch, on the other hand, is universally
employed in Hindu temples, while the fol-
lowers of Buddha, though they delight
to adorn their shrines with small bells,
hearken only to the summons of the gong
when religious matters are afoot.
THE CHEAP-JACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Let the races alone for the next few weeks and
give the pictures the go-by. Labor has the first call
on you. Help your own cause and you will get the
other things twofold later on, if you want them.”
— N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lanrj.
Cut out the ponies, chaps, and give the flicks
A miss. I’ve something better than the
screens
Can show you in my little box of tricks.
These magic pills are better worth your
beans
Than the inanities of Thomas Mix
Or prads acclaimed as galloping machines.
Step up, and hear me do my pattering;
I’ve sure and certain cures for everything.
We’re up against it, Niemeyer avers.
Just as explicitly I tell him “Rats!”
Say, have you never seen slick conjurers
Produce plump rabbits out of empty hats?
Give me another set of Ministers,
I’ll guarantee to do the same, for that s
The sort I am. No maladies in life
But I’ll eradicate, without the knife.
Cure-alls I have for yawning deficits,
Powders that unemployment will assuage,;
And here’s a nostrum that unerring hits
The spot, and obviates a lessened wage.
In short, for comprehensive benefits,
My tray of panaceas, I’ll engage,
Immediate comparison provokes
With Blank’s Blue Boluses for Bilious
Blokes.
Step up, companeros, and hear me cry
The stunning virtues of the wares I vend,
And if you listen to my voice and try
The patent medicines I recommend,
Your zest will be the keener, by-and-bye,
And twice the money will be yours to spend
Upon those toil-alleviating things,
The lure of Filmland and the Sport of Kings.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Lao-dah” : Melbourne dailies found a re-
markable coincidence in the fact that a
Chinaman named Pack armed with a motor-
car ran into another Chinaman named Pack
who was no relation. Something of the sort
was bound to happen, sooner or later.
There are only 400 surnames in the Chinese
language, and they have to be apportioned
among 400,000,000 people. With possibly
a million Packs on this overburdened planet
it would be conceivable (in China, anyhow)
for driver Pack to run into pedestrian Pack,
the evidence being taken down on the spot
from Mrs. Pack, Miss Pack and Master Pack,
who happened to be passing, by traffic-con-
stable Pack, who was standing at the inter-
section.
* * * *
“Jonop” (Rome) : We were a party of
tourists visiting the Coliseum, one of us (a
lady) very deaf. Cook’s man held forth at
length, pointing out where the Emperor Nero
sat to watch the games. It took a full live
minutes of volubility to explain how Nero
removed from one seat to a higher one when
the lions in the arena became particularly'
ferocious. When our cicerone stopped for
breath the deaf lady asked an Aussie, “What
did he say?” Jerking his thumb upwards,
my countryman interpreted: “Nero’s possy
when he had the wind up.”
* * # *
“Runa”: The musty precincts of a Gov-
ernment Lands Office don’t suggest a romance,
but you never can tell. The time had come
for a land ballot in Maoriland, and among
the applicants for an out-back allotment was
a widow who always brought along her four-
year-old son. The youngster wandered off
one day and fell down a back staircase,
whereupon the nearest man rendered first
aid and led the yelling toddler back to paren-
tal control. Thereafter the couple fell into
conversation, during which he revealed that
he was a childless widower, intent on obtain-
ing land in the block under subdivision.
When the result of the ballot was announced
three days later the lady had drawn a lucky
number, but the man was still landless. A
sympathetic staff, : which had developed a
keen personal interest in the couple, watched
them depart together, and the whole office was
pleasantly thrilled when, two days afterwards,
NO SILVER LINING TO HIS CLOUD.
WIFIE: “Did you think I was lost, dear?"
THE BRUTE: “No—I was never an optimist.”
the gentleman arrived to have a word with
the chief. He had married the widow that
morning, and wanted to know just what tech-
nicalities were necessary' to enable her to
take possession of her new land plus her
new lord.
* * * *
“Spare Coke”: There is historical pre-
cedent as well as Blackstone to support the
contention that the eldest daughter succeeds
to the British throne in default of male
heirs (B. 17/9/’3O). In the troublous times
which followed on the death of Edward VI.,
only male heir of Henry VIII., of uxori-
ous memory, the principle was clearly estab-
lished. Mary, daughter of Henry’s first wife,
succeeded without any particular protest
save that coming from the supporters of
that unhappy pretender Lady Jane Grey,
When Mary died, her younger sister Eliza-
betli was accepted as the rightful successor,
though born of another mother, and for the
same reason. Failing male heirs she was
the oldest surviving daughter of the blood
Royal.
“Midford” : Westralian Governor Campion
is being mildly criticised for occasionally
overstepping the line that divides platitudes
from politics, as for instance when he as
good as told a goldfields audience that he
had no sympathy with secessionist talk.
Which is a reminder that it is an excellent
thing for a Governor to cultivate a non-con-
tentious hobby on which
he can dilate after he has
laid a foundation-stone
or opened a show. Sir
Harry Barron, the State’s
last figurehead but two,
never tired of urging
people to grow olives. It
was a sort of King
Charles’s head with the
old soldier, and crept into
all his speeches, even in
places where olives
weren’t in the least likely
to grow. I was running
a Perth newspaper when
his Ex., expatiating on
his favorite topic, de-
clared that the mer-
chants of Mincing-lane
would “jump for joy” if
they heard that West-
ralia had seriously taken
up olive cultivation. The
idea of a Mincing-lane
merchant leaping into the
air or cutting hand-
springs served me as a
peg for some humorous
verse, the only effort in
that line which ever pro-
cured me an invitation —
or was it a command? —
to Government House.
His Ex. was courtesy
personified, but he seemed
to think the subject was
hardly one for jesting,
and he talked olives to
me gravely for a quarter *
of an hour. I should like to add that the
interview terminated with one in a cocktail,
but it didn’t.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Animadverting on the criti-
cisms of Chinese Consul-General Sung re
missionaries in China, Dr. J. J. Kitchen,
Australasian director of the China Inland
Mission, said that “the divisions of Western
denominations have not been conspicuous on
the mission field except in the case of sundry
small cults.” My experience entirely contra-
dicts him. Staying at a mission in an interior
provincial city I found that its members did
not play speaks with the members of a
rival mission, and both belonged to big
denominations. When two rival workers in
the vineyard met in the street they ignored
each other. The rival sects struggled for
precedence at the provincial Governor’s table
exactly as do the diplomatic representatives
of their respective nations. At the moment
British missions in China are still sore
with certain American competitors who
sided with the Russian-controlled revolu-
tionary movement when it was seizing and
defiling British mission property three years
ago. The best commentary I ever heard on
missionary activities in China fell from the
lips of an official appointed to the govern-
ment of a distant province. When I con-
gratulated him on his promotion to a district
which had no famine, bandits, rivers likely to
burst their banks or rival military com-
mauders, he replied: “Thank you, but I
should be glad of your commiserations. We
have eleven missionaries and seven different
denominations!”
* * * *
“Dop”: Prime Minister Hertzog told the
Assembly of the League of Nations that
“South Africa was beginning to think of
asking Europe how much longer armaments
were to continue.” An admirable question,
doubtless, from wheresoever directed; and
there is no reason why South Africa, which
has seen more belligerency during the past
century than most parts of the world,
shouldn’t yet lead Europe along the ways
of pacifism, although it isn’t much more than
30 years since Oom Paul Kruger was coun-
selling the burghers to relv on “God and the
Mauser,” and the satirical “Mr. Dooley” was
moved to remark that “the Boers are a peace-
ful pastoral people who go about Africa
raising hell with everyone.”
* * * *
“Mells” • Ever since broadcasting became
part of the national life, it has been customary
THE ANALYSIS.
OLD JOBBS (a little smitten with new model): “They tell me she’s hard.”
YOUNG DOBBS: “Hard! Why, nothing but a diamond will make any impression on her!”
in England to furnish occasional guidance,
backed by high authority, on the proper
pronunciation of certain debatable words. I
wish somebody would tell me how to pro-
nounce “Premier” correctly. At Bavin’s
policy-speech meeting last week every speaker
but one who used the word made it “Premm-
yer.” The exception was W. A. Holman,
who never swerved from “Preemyer.” And
Holman was one himself for seven years
and is the son of an elocutionist.
H* «J* *!*
“Ller”: The bubbling fountains in city
streets are undoubtedly a boon, but they may
become a menace when the pressure on the
water is so faint that the mouth has to touch
the metal. One such fountain is outside
the gates of the .Children’s Hospital, Oam-
perdown, Sydney. Stepping hard on the
plate only brings the water just above the
fount, and hundreds of children passing in
and out of the hospital stop to drink. These
children are not all “accident” cases.
* $ $ $
“Dingley”: Discussing the libel which
Adam Lindsay Gordon is periodically accused
of attaching to his adopted country in the
lines
In lands -where bright blossoms are scentless
And songless bright birds,
“S. M. Herald” asks if the poet never in-
haled the perfume of the boronia or heard
the liquid melody of the magpie. But can
either of these be strictly called “bright”?
My theory is that Gordon has been mis-
understood, because those who quote him
w'ill.not put the accent hard on the adjective
where he meant it to be, if repetition counts
for anything. He didn’t say that Australian
flowers in general had no scent and Austra-
lian birds no song; only the flowers whose
most distinguishing characteristic is their
gorgeousness—Sturt’s desert-pea, for in-
stance —and the birds. with the most glitter-
ing plumage, the parrakeets and the painted
lories.
* * * t-
“Homfrey Beale”: Unusual names in the
A.1.F.? In my battalion there was a cor-
noral Cantsew whose civil
calling, appropriately
enough or otherwise, was
that of a tailor; and a cor-
poral Cowmeadow whose
statement that he hailed
from Bull Plain in South-
ern Riverina was accepted
with enthusiasm. On the
repatriation transport an
Italo-Syrian named Gave-
liertheslip and a Greek
rejoicing in the cogno-
men of Ileftheriou (I-left-
her-iou) helped to relieve
the monotony. Ileftheriou
ran a restaurant in
Bathurst-street, Sydney, for
a few years after the war,
and did a brisk trade with
Diggers, who reveiled in his patronymic.
* * *
“Mako”: Touching lost wheels (B.
17/9/’3O). Captain Peter Duley, until
recently in charge of Goulburn aerodrome,
was flying with a woman pupil the other
morning when someone on the landing-ground
signalled that the ’plane had lost a wheel.
The airman calmly circled round, instructed
his pupil to hold a cushion before her to
minimise a jar, and then attempted the land-
ing on one wheel. Only a wing-tip was
damaged.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Which is the more inhibited
sex? The other day Mrs. Britomarte James,
.T.P., was sitting on the South Melbourne
Bench with A. Cohen, J.P. The case was
one in which several women and a disreput-
able house were concerned, and the prosecut-
ing policeman mentioned that some of the
evidence would be so unpleasant that, if she
felt so disposed, the woman justice might
retire. Mrs. James frankly stated that it
was just the sort of case where her presence
was required, and she hadn’t the slightest
intention of retiring. Cohen then begged
leave to depart, as his respect for
the opposite sex was such as to prevent
him sitting in the company of women and
hearing revolting evidence. After this pro-
test from the primeval mud the case pro-
ceeded. ;| _ /
L,. « .
“Sol Malaprop : The learned and refresh-
ing Dean Inge has come out in book form
with the idea of putting the concubine on
a better footing, and, further, of disentangl-
ing the divorce situation, which, is much’ mixed,
The law of Moses permits divorce in a very
casual fashion. The New Testament de-
courses on the matter on four occasions. In
Matthew it permits divorce, but for one
cause only. In Mark and Luke divorce is
forbidden with no exception mentioned. And
Paul goes into the subject with the Corin-
thians at considerable length, and gives it
as a sort of private opinion that it is wiser
for nobody to marry at all, and there to be
no children. The Church, in a general way,
sets its face against divorce, hanging its hat
an d umbrella on one brief sentence of Mark :
“What God hath joined together, let not
man P u t asunder. But the State mostly
sanctions the putting asunder, it being better
f°r a man to part with his wife legally than
to inter her surreptitiously under the hearth-
stone a la Deeming. It also considers it
wiser to allow formal separation than that
the pair should make the neighborhood unm-
habitable with their brawls, or else go their
S” 8 .S b 7
. matrimony Dean InL lias thought
a compLmik lie collates
kinds of wedded existence. One is to be
marriage for life, recognised by both Church
an d State, and this would be probably far
be mosb j n demand, it being more respect-
able for all parties concerned, including both
mothers-in-law. When the wedded-for-lifers
g Tew tired of each other the old familiar row
would presumably start in the old way. The
other system ig to be a temporary union,
reC ognised by the State and with the Church
looking; on gloomily in the middle distance,
Tlle lady would be a sort of concubine, and
sbe was reS pectablc person in the first part
of the 01d Testament, though she tended to
drop out of f as hion like a crinoline later on.
ip be new concubine would apparently be a
solitary bird, whereas the old one was gener-
ally one of a flock . 0n the other hand, the
ancient Scriptural concubine was evidently
THE KIND A KIND
FATHER IS.
“And kind!—I don’t think there could be
a kinder father than he is.”
“Yes, I know the sort — let’s them do every-
thing their mother doesn’t want them
to.”
as fixed as a real wife, while her proposed
successor would be rather a tenant or lease-
holder. Her status would depend on how
society decided to receive her. It would be
low if the great majority of people took the
disapproval of the Church seriously, and
higher if they held that the Anglican estab-
lishment, of which the Dean is an ornament,
was a frump and out of date. The way to
put the matter to a test would be for Dean
Inge to drop in on the Queen at the Tower
of London and ask straight out if his new
brand of concubine would be eligible for
reception at Court. Should her Majesty call
him a depraved old man the situation would
be clear.
“FAREWELL!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once more to bid “good-bye”—
Yet nothing said;
No word of all the love
And tenderness
That dim my downcast eye
With tears unshed,
And no fond kiss can prove
Nor glance express!
But, if not now, nor here,
You understand,
Sometime, and far away,
Perhaps you’ll know
How much I hold you dear
And how my hand
Strove silently to say
“I love you so!”
S.A.
&
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


WAITING FOR ORDERS.
ACTING-CAPTAIN FENTON: “Well, what have the greasers and the shovellers decided that I’ve got to do?”
MESSENGER: “You ain’t got to do nothing, Cap'n, till they have had a conference with the stewards and pantrymen to consider a report from the deckhands’ committee.”


LONG LIFE
%
5?
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
py the popular
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, ttc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. * C. HARDTWUTH. of “ KOH-I-NOOR" Pencil fams.
London Office— 29, Kingsway. W.C.2
Australian BepresentaAive--
JOHN MACDQUG-ALL, P.O- Box 165, SYDNEY^
£lO/10/-
Diamonds for “Fx
and R” Rings are
chosen for their
brilliance and blue-
white colour, and
are set in hand-
fashioned rings of
gold, gold and
platinum or all
pure platinum.
Pre-tariff Prices for
Diamond Ring's
Our large stocks of diamonds enable us to offer dia-
mond rings of faultless quality at the prices
that existed prior to the tariff revision. Fx & R
Diamond Rings represent Sydney’s greatest value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
£l5/15/.
£2O
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
. Ex-Senator Josiali Symon, K.C., of Adel-
aide, who will be 84 on September 27, is the
doyen of the eight surviving members of the
Convention of 1597-98 which framed the
Commonwealth Constitution. The others are
Joe Carruthers (N.S.W.), Chief Justice
Isaacs (High Court), Dr. Quick and Alex.
Peacock (Vic.), Elliott Lewis (Speck),
Paddy Glynn (S. Aus.) and Walter James
(W.A.).
The longest corthge seen in Melbourne
streets for many years followed Hubert
Miller’s remains to "the Brighton cemetery;
over 150 motor-cars paced in low gear
behind the hearse. Hubert Miller was the
popular master of the Findon Hunt Club, and
was killed in the course of its last run.
“Militia”: No, Gordon Bennett isn’t the.
first Australian militia officer since the war
to be called to a higher rank than brigadier
(B. 10/9/’3O). Johnston, Grimwade and
Elliott, of Victoria, have all been promoted
major-general since the war.
The job of filling Lord Stonehaven’s
place, until the next G.-G. • arrives,
lay between the Vic. and N. S. Wales
Governors, and as the position usually goes
to the senior in length of service Lord Somers
gets it. He will fly his flag at his present
residence, Stonington, Malvern, the Gover-
nor-General’s shack in the Domain, Mel-
bourne, continuing to remain untenanted and
a charge upon the Federal revenue. Somers
has been one of the most active Governors
Vic has had. He put the bush-fire brigade
upon its legs and started the annual camp
of grammar-school boys and lads from the
industrial suburbs. Irvine, C.J., will resume
his old job of Lieut.-Governor of Vic.
Francis Davison, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
the oldest solicitor in Australia and the one
who had practised longest, has passed out at
91. He was four months old when he came
to this country. To see him riding his push-
bike along Bay-road, wearing a belltopper
and frock-coat, was a testimonial to his
virility and the climate of Mt. Gambier.
D. M. Ross, senior stock inspector in
M.L., has just retired. Besides being a
voluminous writer on agricultural subjects
he has two or three books of verse to his
credit.
E. W. ALISON, Maoriland M.L.C. and
owner of racehorses.
W. J. Dunstan, one of the Conciliation
Commissioners of the Queensland Industrial
Court, who died in Brisbane last week, at
57, saw a lot of Australia in his time. Vic-
torian by birth and miner by trade, he
joined the A.W.U. in 1892 when he was
railway navvying in Vic. He took a pro-
minent part in the shearers’ strike, and after-
wards followed mining in Westralia, going as
far north as Marble Bar. He became sec-
retary of the Queensland branch of the
A.W.U. in 1913, and after an unsuccessful
shot at politics, took an arbitration job
along with ex-Premier Gillies. A strong
and forthright personality, he had the con-
fidence of all parties.
“D.” : Acting-Priminister Fenton has sent
Creswell O’Reilly a “Please explain” on the
subject of his film-censoring vagaries. The
explanation is obvious enough; O’Reilly by
training, outlook and all else was about
the squarest peg available for the censor-
ship hole. It is alleged that previous to his
appointment he had never been inside a
movie cathedral, and the fact that he is a
Methodist local preacher supports the amaz-
ing yarn. No good Methody is supposed to
frequent plays of pasliun or nudity.
The prize for rams’ wool at Adelaide Show
was won by the Agricultural Society’s pre-
sident, Lancelot Stirling. It is his 55th
year as an exhibitor. He gave up law for
a pastoral life —mixed with politics; he is
a sort of permanent president of the Leg.
Council of S.A. —as soon as he came back
from Cambridge.
W. G. McKENZIE, ML.A. (Vic.). He
represents the Wontliaggi miners.
Dr. Laver, of Kalgoorlm, is the most
undiscourageablc mining optimist in Aus-
tralia, and has been for close on 40 years.
In the early days of the Westralian fields
he made a punch or two, and had a town-
ship named after him, but when he returned
years later to practise his profession where
he had once prospected and floated com-
panies, the gilt was mostly off the ginger-
bread. Still, it would be a hopeless pro-
position you couldn’t interest the doctor in.
He is a brother of the late Frank Laver
and somewhere in last century he presented
every member of an Australian team in Eng-
land with a gold tiepin.
Harry Mackellar, who died at his Edge-
cliff (Sydney) home last week, had been
starter for the A.J.C. for just on 30
years. No club ever had a better. A tall,
handsome, authoritative man who. had been
brought up amongst horses on his father’s
station, he knew every detail of . the
racing game, and ruled the jockeys with a
rod of iron. Patience and a judicial mind
were his strong suits. He leaves a widow,
two daughters, four sporting sons and a
sister, Mrs. Harry Chisholm, whose late hus-
band was an A.J.C. committeeman. He had
been a member of the Union .Club for 36
years.
Breaking her journey ’from Rabaul . to
America at Sydney is Miss Beatrice Grim-
shaw, author of some score of works of
fiction dealing with the South Seas. The
lady, who was -born at Cloona, Antrim, Ire-
land, has done much travelling off the world’s
beaten tracks. Like the late Rider. Hag-
gard, she has serious interests, the main one
being tropical colonisation.
N.S.W, Premier Bavin has none of the
more florid graces of oratory, but he has
a remarkable aptitude for putting a case
clearly and concisely, and he is never at a
loss for the right word. He, showed both
attributes, and a forcible earnestness, too,
in his policy speech. One. of Bavin’s
earliest jobs was that of Acting Professor
of Law in the University of Tasmania. His
legal training has stood him in good stead
for cutting out irrelevancies and padding and
going straight to the heart of things.
“Veronal”: Between 70 and 80 years ago
Pambula (N.S.W.), on the far South Coast,
had as medico Dr. Erasmus Bligh,. nephew of
the Governor who made so much history. The
cottage which served him as dwelling and sur-
gery still stands. The doctor was a tall,
spare, mild-mannered man, totally unreminis-
cent of his peppery-tempercd uncle. He died,
1 think, in Sydney.
“Whitehall”: Hail D. G. Souter, champion
all-rounder of Australian journalism! Most
people think of him as an artist only. But
he also edits the best countryman’s weekly
in the Commonwealth, and does nearly all
its literary work, from leaders to pars.
He is a poet, a prolific writer ol light verse,
and a first-rate short-story writer. And
yesterday I ran across the first instalment of
a serial by him in the “Woman’s Mirror,”
which so absorbed me that I intend to be a
“Woman’s Mirror” subscriber (though no
lady), at least till this novel ends. Scotland
should be proud of its small, bald, smiling
son. I doubt if you could find his equal for
versatility, combined with efficiency, in the
world.
Dr. T. G. H. Jones, of Queensland Uni-
versity, wdio has been awarded the H. G.
Smith Memorial Medal, was a munitions
chemist during the war. On his return he
became lecturer on organic chemistry at the
University. His valuable research work on
essential oils from Queensland flora won
him the medal.
The next Australian Antarctic expedi-
tion will leave Melbourne in the Discovery
in November. Douglas Mawson will lead,
and K. N. MacKenzie, the dour chief officer,
will take command in place of Captain
Davies, who is ashore in Melbourne writing
the memoirs of the numerous expeditions he
has navigated. The crew will be all-Austra-
lian and the officers and scientists will be
practically the same as on the last voyage.
The same angle of Antarctica south of the
Speck will again receive attention, and it
is hoped that something fresh in the way
of specimens will be discovered.
“Whitehall”: Neville Howse lias died
where he would have wished. He was a
good Australian, but he was a better English-
man. Nothing gratified him more during
the early days of the war than to point to
the large percentage of Britons who partici-
pated in the A.I.F. landing. He arrived in
Australia in 1889 as a young doctor of 26
in poor health. He returned to England for
his F.R.C.S. and started practice in Orange.
Here he met and married a daughter of ,
C. de V. Pilcher, the solicitor. Howse won
his V.C. in the South African war, and on
his return built up one of the finest practices
in Western N. S. Wales. Soldiering was
in his blood, and when the World War
began he wgs one of the first to volunteer.
After a spell at Rabaul he went to Egypt,
-performed distinguished services on the Pen-
insula, earned a C.B. and became Director
of Medical Services, A.I.F. At the
beginning of ’l7 he went to Ilorse-
ferry-road, with the rank of Major-General,
and made the organisation of the A.M.C.
a model for the allied armies in France.
The .end of the war found him with
a K.C.M.G., amongst innumerable other mili-
tary distinctions, and a reluctance to return
to' the humdrum life of a country doctor. He
won Calare with ease and was quickly given
office by Prime Minister Bruce, who admired
his prowess in warfare and sympathised with
his passionate Imperialism. But he was not
a success either as a Parliamentarian or an
administrator, and his work as campaign
director did little to avert the Nationalist
landside 12 months ago.
The late Neville Howse did many things
well, and soldiering best. He looked
the part, being a spare, handsome, well-set-
up man who knew how to wear a uniform;
his valor was indomitable, and his sense of
discipline was as strong as his sense of
duty. His ruthless pursuit of efficiency made
him enemies—particularly amongst _ the _ doc-
tors whom he stellenbosched —but his friends
loved him, and no one who crossed his path
questioned his conscientiousness or his whole-
souled devotion to the causes he served.
WALTER NAIRN, the Nationalist M.H.R.
for Perth. He is a solicitor and was a
newspaper man.
Walter Duncan, of S.A. Leg. Council,
replaces Charles Hawker, of the Federal
Parliament, as president of the Liberal party
in their State. Both are members of famous
S.A. pastoral families, though Duncan has
given more attention of late to city director-
ships. He is a younger brother of Duncau-
Hughes, lately of the House of who
adds the second name in memory of Walter
Watson Hughes, founder of the family
fortunes and also in great part of Adelaide
University.
Sir Thomas Lipton, who has devoted so
much of his life and his money to the con-
struction of yachts designed to regain the
America’s Cup from Uncle, confesses himself
HILARY LOFTING, writer of many
good Bulletin stories, mostly in colla-
boration with Margaret Fane. One of
their best will appear next week.
discouraged at last, as any man might be at
SO. He takes the point that no individual
can afford to go on building £200,000 yachts
even with’ the v laudable object of winning
international races, and that in future the
job will have to be done by syndicates. It
seems questionable if anything that involves
such a preliminary outlay is worth doing in
the name of sport, or worth calling sport. Sir
Thomas is a Glasgow Irishman, who laid
the foundations of his pile 50 years ago by
selling tea and bacon, and later found
another money-maker in 'rubber. He belongs
to 17 yacht clubs and has no heirs.
Chief Railway Commissioner Clapp
(£5000), Chief Justice Irvine and Gen.
Monash, chairman of the Electricity Com-
mission (£3OOO each), draw the highest
salaries paid by Vic. Government. There
are 72 others, including Supreme Court
Judges at £2500 and County Court Judges at
£l5OO, who are on the four-figure list.
Recently Premier Hogan said that there were
“hundreds” drawing over £lOOO a year, but
when asked for details he could scrape up
only these.
William Fane de Salis, who died in Eng-
land the other day at 85, represented Quean-
beyan in the N.S.W. Assembly in the days
when Henry Parkes was Consul, so to speak.
It was a sort of -family seat at that period;
his father, Leopold de Salis, held it before
him, and his brother George (now' of
Michelago) after him. William, who quitted
politics to become a station-owner in Queens-
land, had lived in England for the past 20
years.
Arthur Rickard, perennial president of
Sydney’s Millions Club, is in great trouble,
and has told the shareholders of the cos.
which he founded that if they can’t produce
an almost immediate £60,000 they must go
into liquidation. Rickard did a good deal
to promote the boom which had such di-
sastrous consequences; yet most even of
those who think so will sympathise with him
in his misfortune. He is warm-hearted and
generous, and but for his efforts hundreds
of people who are now comfortably settled in
their own paid-for homes would be still strug-
gling with the rent devil.
A piece of Victorian economy that
was fortunately averted was the retrench-
ment of Dr. Hilda Bull, head of the child-
ren’s section of Melbourne City Council’s
health department. Dr. Bull’s chief work
lies in the prevention of diphtheria by inocu-
lation The campaign started in 1925, and
the fact that the diphtherial death-rate
amongst school children has been nearly
halved in the metropolitan area is testimony
to the value of the method. Dr. Bull is
the wife of playwright Louis Esson.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
MANY CARGOES.
Work for Mr. Scullin in London.
Dear Bulletin, —There is one job in
London that Mr. Scullin might do better
than anybody else. One of our immediate
problems is to pay our interest to overseas
lenders —interest we have lately borrowed on
overdraft. The banks which have thus far
obliged us either cannot or will not carry
us any further, Sir Otto Niemeyer tells us,
unless we balance our budgets; and that
is going to be a matter of great difficulty.
Now, Sir Otto may be right, but, again,
he may be wrong. H'e may not rightly
represent London financial opinion in this
matter. Mr. Scullin, as Prime Minister,
should be in a position to check Sir Otto s
opinion. If he finds that that opinion is
correct, then what he has told us we must
do we must do, no matter how disagreeable
it may be. The first work Mr. Scullin
ought therefore to do is to take counsel of
London financiers and ascertain whether
Sir Otto has rightly interpreted their atti-
tude —whether what he has called upon us
to do is the minimum of their requirements.
That will at any rate let us know quite
definitely where we stand. —Yours, etc.,
Retired Banker.
The Gold Bonus.
Dear Bulletin, —Our committee has for-
warded Acting-Treasurer J. A. Lyons the
following telegram:—
At Hobart you stressed the importance of building-
up and fostering industries in which men would
find work of a reproductive character and work
that would show a direct return. Most of the things
that Australia produces are a drug on the world’s
markets. The one exception is gold. A bonus on
the amount of gold produced in excess of last year’s
total yield would give such a stimulus to em-
ployment directly and indirectly as you cannot hope
to get in any other way for the same inconsiderable
outlay. There would be, too, an immediate return
in the commodity Australia most requiies, and,
perhaps most important of all, there would be the
introduction of a fertilising stream of capital from
overseas which is only awaiting some such encourage
ment to investment.
I signed this on behalf of the Gold Bonus
Committee. —Yours truly, C. De Bernales.
Wars and Slumps.
Dear Bulletin, —These are headings from
one single recent issue of a daily :
ARGENTINA: Street Battle.
ELECTION RIOTS: Heavy Casualties in Germany.
FIERCE FIGHTING: Indian North-west Frontier.
FEARS OF WAR: Italy and Yugoslavia.
Yet idealists talk of doing away with defence
forces, and achieving peace by political
devices!
Similarly there are financial blood lettings
or slumps in almost every part of the world,
barring a few chastened countries like
France which have recently tackled and
overcome their difficulties. And theorists
say that they also can be prevented by poli-
tical devices, such as Communism!
Anyone w r lio has watched civilisation m
action for the past 10 or 15 years rejects
all such claims, having heard them made
repeatedly—more especially by the young,
emotional and inexperienced—and seen them
exploded just as often. The present slump,
in which Australia is participating, is based
on the under-production of gold; and this
country is suffering badly bee-apse of its
indebtedness at a time when less money is
available to buy its- products. There have
been plenty of sectional slumps before, just
as there have been plenty of sectional wars;
and, though there lias never been a world-
slump of the magnitude of the present one,
just as there was never a world war of
the magnitude of the 1914-18 affair,
yet the way out is exactly the same as in
other slumps. Money, whether dear or
deflated, can only be earned competitively by
producing desirable articles cheaply. The
communities that deliver the goods get the
markets. Their unemployed are absorbed.
Their taxes <J ecrease - Their prices fall. Their
national purchasing power increases.—Yours,
etc., Whitehall.
“Let’s Can a Few Fish.”
Dear Bulletin, —“Iron Chink” (B.
6/8/’3O) strikes a sound note in referring to
the large possibilities for canning fish in
S Australia. But Port Lincoln is nomi-
nated as the ideal place to start a cannery,
and “Iron Chink” should reconsider this.
Port Lincoln is in quick steamer touch with
Adelaide, where there is a ready sale for
catches at a good price without the cost
of canning. Therefore I nominate Streaky
Bay as the place. The adjacent bight is the
home of limitless tommy roughs, snook,
snapper, whiting and other fish, with only
a fortnightly steamer connection with the
city.
Arrange a cannery at Streaky Bay, where
the fish live. Can them on the spot, and
they can wait the arrival of the steamer or
go by rail or ketch at any time to supply-
markets that cannot get fresh fish at a
reasonable cost —Yours truly 7, Jae.
Let’s Make Motor-cars.
Dear Bulletin, —“Tuart” (B. 27/8/’3O)
suggests the motor-car as a cause of our
national woes. Mr. Frank A. Kirby (B.
3/9/’3O) answers that excessive limitation
of car imports would aggravate our diffi-
culties, as the industry is a vital necessity
in the life of the community. Both may be
right. If a car were manufactured in Aus-
tralia neither would have room for com-
plaint. And why should we not make cars?
To every model manufactured in U.S.A.,
Great Britain, France and other car-making
countries, there is less than a million popu-
lation ; in Australia we have 6J million
people and not one model.
Australian marine engines have proved
themselves, and motor-engine manufacture is
parallel.
The promoters of an Australian manufac-
turing scheme want at least £50.000 of its
first issue of 500,000 £ shares disposed of
before it can start. Some of the cash is in
hand. Why should not a company of such
national importance be given direct help by
the nation? Let the Federal and State Gov-
ernments buy between them, say, 30,000
shares. This would do more good than sense-
less sand-shifting and the dole, and would
be a patriotic enterprise that might go far
in extricating our land from the morass.—
Yours, etc., Raymond Neve.
The Burden of the Middleman.
Dear Bulletin, —Certainly the producer,
and particularly the fruitgrower, isn’t getting
anything like a reasonable percentage of the
price the consumer pays for his produce (B.
27/8/’3O). The obvious answer to the
equally obvious question is “Eliminate the
middleman!” But just how that’s going to
be done is a problem.
The time having come for every indivi-
dual in the nation to do his utmost and to
refrain from going to the Government, the
producer should have a go at his own market-
ing. The home market is undoubtedly await-
ing the enterprising grower who is prepared
to sell direct to his customers at a reason-
able price. Too often, however, orchardists
look only to the cities for their market,
neglecting the country districts. Why
shouldn’t an orchardist have a mailing list
of customers, whom he could circularise when
he had a crop due?
And this method of selling shouldn’t be
confined to fruitgrowers. Consider the tons
and tons of spuds that are dragged to the
capitals every week, and, after a stay of
from a few days to a few hours, are dragged
back again?—Yours, etc., Jack Point.
A Lesson from the Maori.
Dear Bulletin,— When it was suggested
in the M.L. Parliament that Maoris should be
included in the unemployment relief schemes,
Apirana Ngata, biggest of all big chiefs of
the race, smiled blandly and waved a plump
and deprecatory hand. The Maori, lie said,
could fend for himself much better in hard
times than could the pakeha. So he can.
He has accepted at the hands of the white
invaders such frills of civilisation as the
automobile, the gramophone, the player-
piano, the radio and the cocktail, and
relishes them all, but they don’t mean much
to him. He can find the means not only of
existence, but of luxurious life, on any sea
beach, which explains why he didn’t worry
much when Europeans grabbed the interior
of his country. To dig the pipi, to net the
whitebait, to spear the eel and hook the
shark are to Henare the suitable appetisers
to scrumptious feasts, and such garnishings
as kumara and maize can be grown any-
where. So while the white unemployed are
clamoring for a basic wage of two bob an
hour, and “full maintenance, including food,
light, clothing and housing” for the workless,
Wiremu and Timi flee the madding crowd of
soup-kitcheners, social-welfarers and blanket-
dolers, and, with their wahines and little
ones, make merry on what Ngata calls “the
good things the Almighty provides.” There’s
a lot of advantages about not being
thoroughly civilised. —Yours. Avon.
Can Australia Afford Crusades?
Dear Bulletin, —If Australia wants to
control one avenue of leakage of her national
wealth she might do worse than give some
consideration to the funds exported to mis-
sion fields. Statistics are scanty owing to
Australian figures being lumped in with the
rest, but it is probably safe to say that
the sums annually spent on converting the
heathen exceed three-quarters of a million.
The Australian Seventh Day Adventists are
by no means the most active in this depart-
ment, yet last year £183,344 was spent on
foreign mission work. When it is realised
that there are 41 Protestant societies operat-
ing in China alone and that most of them
have churches or committees collecting in
Australia, an idea of the cost to the Com-
monwealth of this twentieth-century crusade
may be gauged.
If the missionaries had anything much to
show for all this, something might be said
for them ; but if the general meeting of an
ordinary commercial concern had a similar
balance-sheet presented to it there would be
a riot amongst the shareholders. As long ago
as 1903 £2,500,000 went into Japan annu-
ally for the spiritual succoring of the inhabi-
tants of that benighted land ; yet to-day there
are only 5000 nominal Christians in Yoko-
hama, a city of nearly a million souls. In
China, where the greatest efforts have been
made to spread the light, the Christian popu-
lation is less than 2?. millions in a total of
approximately 400,000,000 souls —and this
after centuries of toil. The total Protestant
community numbers loss than half a million,
which is less than a sixth of the estimated
annual surplus of pagan births over deaths.
One boarding-house at which I stayed was
a sort, of clearing-house for recruits for the
China Inland Mission, and as many as 25
recruits used to pass through monthly, bound
for the mission field, while the same number
would return on extended furlough to their
homes. Even after the Great War broke out
the numbers never slackened and on one
occasion rose to 45, none of whom seemed
to think it curious that they should be going
out to spread a form of religion which had
failed to prevent the bloodiest breakdown
civilisation has ever known.
It would be grossly unfair to say that
true missionary endeavor is dead. In far
inland provinces I have seen delicately nur-
tured girls living in the filthy purlieus of
a Chinese city subject to constant danger of
sudden death and worse, sacrificing them-
selves for a cause in which they fervently
believed. But even the justification for this
has largely passed away. The native
Christian church, with the assistance of the
Government, has lately taken the manage-
ment of affairs into its own hands, consoli-
dated all tke warring sects introduced by
competing European missionaries into one
comprehensive faith, and has rendered the
foreign missionary largely superfluous. As
a result the missionary bodies are devoting
less and less of their energies to religious
aims and more to medical • schools and col-
leges. It would surprise many churchgoing
Australians to learn how little of the shilling
they put in the suburban plate is spent on
spreading the Word and how much on teach-
ing Darwinian evolution and the latest
truths of biology to students who have not
the slightest intention of becoming Christians.
—Yours, etc., Feng-Shui.
Enlighten the Elector!
Dear Bulletin, —You say (3/9/’3O), re
“Australia’s Handicap” and in reference to
Italy: “Unfortunately Australia has not got
such a Government, and is unlikely to acquire
it.” Why not? By regulating his country s
electoral system, Mussolini brushed aside or
nullified the stupid interference of balloted
ignorance in legislation and administration,
and in an incredibly short time Italy rose
from decadence and impending disruption
to peaceful prosperity.
As long as we regard adult suffrage as a
democratic fetich, and the attainment of the
age of 21 years as a guarantee of sufficient
knowledge to make decisions on profound
economic problems, and to discriminate as
to policies and the professions of public per-
sons, just so long will we have “financial
morasses,” depressions in trade and indus-
try and shattered credit abroad.
Constructively, the situation calls for the
following:—
(1) A course of economics, particularly
applicable to Australia, should begin in the
highest class of the primary school, and be
continued with widening scope through the
high schools into the university.
(2) Economics should be made a compul-
sory subject for the passing of all public
examinations and for a university degree of
any kind. Many degreed men know little of
economics and neglect the study of public
affairs.
(3) A cheap primer on economics should
be placed in every home.
(4) The membership of all Parliaments
should be reduced by 25 p.c., and we should
use some of the money thus saved to pay
committees of first-rate experts to advise the
Commonwealth and State Governments on
matters relating to finance, trade, industry,
etc. •
We might then safely retain our cherished
adult suffrage; otherwise we shall only do
it at great danger to Australia’s future. —
Yours, etc., F. ,1. G.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Follow Through”
Criterion “Bird in Hand”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
King’s “Let Us Be Gay”
Royal “Lilac Time”
Tivoli The Follies of 1930
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
*
On Saturday N.S.W. Aero Club had its
Air Pageant for 1930. The show is put on
near Liverpool, on and above and round
about a softly undulating countryside,
covered with short native grasses and popu-
lated with aeroplanes, really nice young
fellows in plus-fours, most charming girls,
beautifully frocked women, tailored men, cars,
scarlet loud-speakers, policemen, soldiers, the
Governor, lemonade and bull-ants. For back-
ground, medium-sized gums and hills; over-
head a clear sky; sunshine and fresh air.
The catering arrangements leave nothing
to be desired, except, perhaps, food. But
the mere thought of eating at an air pageant,
though the show does last all day, seems
somehow infra dig. Vulgar practice, eating
Surely the best people don’t do it. You know,
we might nibble a pie, perhaps, or munch
a few peanuts, or drink lukewarm lemonade
right out of the jolly old bottle through a
bally old straw, but only in a festive way,
deah boy, only in a festive way!
And look at what ripping fun it is hunting
out the places—or is it place?—where they
sell the jolly stuff. You know old Horace —
topping old card, Horace—well, he went off
on what he called a fodder hunt, and landed
back with a cooked rabbit. He found a boy
over among the public—across on the other
side of the landing field, you know —with
a little tin barrow thing full of them. Of
course, he didn’t eat the jolly thing, but he
thought it was too funny altogether not to
buy one. Oh, and he brought back a really
topping story. De Havilland or that chap
Ulm or one of them was doing some stunt
ing, and the fellow doing the ground broad
casting said, “He is now getting into a soft
roll.” And a big-looking fellow who was
leaning on the fence that keeps the public
off the ground over on that side positively
smacked his lips and said, “Getting into a
soft roll, is he? Gripes, I wish I was, with
a sav. and tomato sauce in between it!”
That is one grand thing about an air
pageant—all sorts go and watch it. The
ground is right away out in the distant
bush, 20 ’.miles, at least, from the city,
gome go by electric-train; but most go in
cars—all sorts of cars. The cars of the
general run of visitors draw up in a long
narrow enclosure running parallel with the
road, and the crowd stretches for a mile or
so along a fence, which encloses that side
“Getting into a soft roll, is he?”
of the ground. A few don’t go in at all, fly-
ing being the most perfect of all forms of
Scottish entertainment. As for the rest, they
go along a most exciting bush track,
among gum-trees and possibly wallaroos and
wallabies and things, park their cars in a
lawn-like paddock, and troop on to a little,
distinguished-looking knoll on the distant side
of the ground, where there are chairs to sit
on, and the sunshine is, if anything, more
select.
Of course, when the day wears on a little,
and you’ve had a few swigs of lukewarm
lemonade, you can get really sporty and
stretch out on the grass, after most amus-
ingly examining the ground through your
binoculars for bull-ants. But to begin with
things of that kind are not done. Neither,
for that matter, is talking. Everybody whis-
pers, or at least speaks with well-bred modu-
lation, so as not to spoil the effect of the
Avro Avians and Moths and Wapitis, drawn
up in neat rows along the fringes of the long,
undulating, almost completely car-bordered
field, and creating a perfectly thrilling, not
to say business-like, noise by spasmodically
setting their propellers whirring. But as
the day goes on, and the broadcasting chap
standing up on top of a lorry that looks like
a red black-maria has filled the scarlet loud-
speakers with all the correct aeronautical
words, everybody can talk with freedom, and
does.
And what things there are to talk about!
There is a race —all the races are the same,
so one description will serve. The ’planes
take off separately, or perhaps in twos or
fours, at intervals. There are a few bars of
spit and blurt, an car-splitting din of roaring
noise, a graceful steady rise, a sharp bank-
ing and turning about 300 yards from the
start —and the ’planes are sailing away in
column, in the general westerly direction of
Bourke. In a few seconds they are out of
ordinary human sight, and you can just wait
through the time it takes them to go down
and have a beer at Boggabri or pick figs
at Yanco or whatever it is they do to fill
in the time out tl*‘re. The chap up on top
of the red black-maria with his microphone
in front of him, being endowed with a sort
of broadcasting sight, can, of course, follow
them all the way. He describes the race
in detail, and very thrilling it sounds, pour-
ing out of the scarlet speakers. The idea of
those chaps away out west fighting it out,
struggling for position, going round bends
“Standing looking up with their mouths
open."
at a terrific bat, lying neck and neck turn-
ing for home —it’s as good as a description of
a boatrace rowed in circles round a Test
match.
And then he cries, “Here they come!” —
just like 'that. You get up and shake the
bull-ants out of your pants, and sure enough
there they are coming—fairly hurdling over
the low gum-trees; up and over the tele-
graph-wires ! Good Heavens, it’s a hurdle
race, with green horses, and yellow horses
with red points, and silver horses, and pink
horses with red-white-and-blue tails; winged
horses, Pegasuses, swooping down from
Olympus; roaring with the joy of life; buck-
ing and tearing and pig-rooting and shying and
side-stepping; down, down, over the crowd ;
fairly reefing at the bit, sweeping round the
turn, with their off wings, so to speak, in the
air, and then straightening up again, and so
off out west once more, on the second lap.
Or take what is called an aerial display.
Pegasuses again; silver fellows; charging
each other; missing each other by inches;
flirting their tails in each other’s faces; up
and over on their backs; on their sides;
heads straight down; snort and scream! And
the crowd down below, thinking in its heart,
and speaking out in its folly, that they will
hit each other! Men standing looking up
with their mouths open and a tighter clasp
on their walking-sticks; girls uttering shrill
little excited sounds; the masks off; the
false atmosphere gone; twenty-odd thousand
faces turned upward; twenty-odd thousand
hearts ticking a little bit swifter; twenty-
odd thousand groundling souls lifted up off
the earth by the grace, the rhythm, the
beauty, the visible poetry above them. Pega-
sus is tickled. So is his brother. They slip
about sideways; they cavort round their
paddock; they balance on their tails and
jig; they shake themselves; they go at each
other head-first; turn somersaults ; snort and
spit smoke.
Or take just one other example—this other
Pegasus, away hundreds of feet up there,
whose jockey is conversing with you in quite
a matter-of-fact voice as he goes about his
clowning. “I am now going to fly upside
down,” he says; and there he is, over, and
flying upside down. You are standing on
the ground and you can hear him quite well,
through an earphone.
It has been a long day; the first few
hours of it —out with the truth! —bored you
to despair; you are hungry as a crow, thirsty
as a poet’s dream of Heaven; it takes over
an hour of jerking along in a massed queue
of cars to cover the first mile of the way
back; the traffic arrangements leave nothing
to be desired, except, perhaps, arrangement
—'and you’d cheerfully go back again to-
morrow to see another show just half so
good!
# * *
Melbourne does not regard its Show as a
religious obligation in the way Sydney does.
Sydney’s record of 149,000 was not even
approached—except in cheerfulness —by the
29,000 who trod on each other’s toes at
Flemington on Saturday to look at the
streams of gold flowing from Danks’s Centri-
fugal Pumps; at the family Bible done in
cake from Warrnambool; at the collection
of farm produce grown and exhibited by a
bona fide farmer, who is R. Williams, of
Wangaratta, as heretofore; at the mystery
sea monster caught by B. Brown at Port
Melbourne, which dwindles from the size of
Mount Martha on the poster outside to sft.
3in. when you get inside; at the display of
engineless vehicles called buggies exhibited
by Coffey Brothers (“what do they use them
for”?), at the Rapid Rugmaker turning an
old chaffbag into an objet d’art by means
of colored wools and an ingenious needle ;
at the pumpkins, mangels and sugarbeets
The artist’s impression of an air race.
from Gippsland which are as gross exaggera-
tions as Mr. W. Walter’s Clydesdale colt,
Devonlea Norseman’s Hero; at the Million
Dollar Mystery which is given away for
sixpence; at the gentleman from the South
Coast of N. S. Wales who is so satisfied
that he is the biggest man in the world that
he offers no less a sum than £lOOO to any-
body who can produce a bigger; at the
perennial Mr. Briggs and his Pit of Death,
where F. Wade defies the bites of venomous
serpents because he has his antidote in the
shape of the blue cactus which grows at
Goulburn; at the American Giant; at the
Smallest Lady in Australia; at still another
giant, this time a Chinese one (“no, there’s
no truth in the rumor that he is engaged to
the Smallest Lady”) ; at the serious-eyed
girls sitting their mounts as if they were
welded to them in the Ladies’ Riding Com-
petition—there is no spectacle in the world
more lovely; at the Red Polls and the Guern-
seys ; at the motor-cars; at the streams of
gold flowing from Danks’s Centrifugal
Pumps Hullo, we’re back at the entrance
again.
However, the technical experts consider
it the best show yet and the number of
entries was a record.
* * *
“Governor Bligh” met a worse enemy in
Melbourne than Major Johnstone —namely,
General Depression. The Australian play
passed a miserable week at the Princess
before Wilkie replaced it with “The School
for Scandal.” Wilkie is like the Agricul-
tural Show. He turns up every year with
the expected outfit plus a few novelties. One
of the additional side-shows this year is a
large black star and a crescent moon painted
on Sir Benjamin Backbite’s face. Whether
poets in the period dealt with by “The School
for Scandal” went about with astronomical
charts on their countenances present writer
knoweth not, but the device raises an extra
laugh, so honor or art or the box-office is served
thereby. For the rest, Wilkie makes “The
School” a delightful entertainment, and if
the Princess weren’t marooned at the wrong
end of the town attendances might be com-
mensurate with his deserving.
* * *
Edith Taliaferro was introduced to Mel-
bourne at the King’s on Saturday as the
charming divorcee, Kitty Brown, in “Let Us
Be Gay,” and the attention of the audience
was immediately concentrated on Ethel Mor-
rison as the strong-willed, baldly cynical
Mrs. Boucicault. Miss Taliaferro probably
had the harder task in making the foregone
career of an illogical character interesting
but audiences don’t think of that. The play-
wright, Rachel Crothers, has merely torn
a few pages out of G. B. Shaw and bound
them into a box-office pamphlet.
* * *
The Show —the Agricultural—has been
the most striking of Adelaide’s shows for a
“Landed hack with a cooked rabbit.”
full week. A well-meant attempt to re-estab-
lish Variety at the Prince of Wales was
poorly organised, and quickly failed.
* * *
The Lynton-Stewarts conjtinue to give
good value for the price at Sydney Opera
House. The current bill opens with the
one-acter “The Recoil,” made out of a short-
story sermon against strikes —the striker
achieves a union victory by putting out
the lights of the city and losing his child,
whom a little light would have saved. The
other item is the mystery drama “In the
Next Room.” The farcical story of “Why
Smith Left Home” is down for hearing on
Saturday.
* * #
Sydney had a mild orgy of concerts last
week. The Con. Hall vibrated with sweet
sounds almost every evening, and the Town
Hall had two sessions. The Showman who
attends to such matters took with him
Cousin Gerald, in whose immature mind a
craving for acquaintance with the arts has
recently arisen. Gerald knows no more about
the classics than a cow, but he knows what
he likes. He expected the Showman to teach
him what he ought to like, and looked so
blank when told that he’d probably live
longer and die more happily if he stuck to
his own uninstructed opinions that —well, if
they ask for it they ask for it. Mona
Deutscher, one of Madame Goossens-Vice-
roy’s incipient Melbas, bewildered Gerald.
She sang stuff by Tschaikowsky, Dvorak,
Rachmaninoff, Brahms, Schumann, Strauss,
Moussorgsky, Rhone-Baton and _ Cesar
Franck. Gerald said she was a nice girl and
lie liked the “Gipsy Songs” of Dvorak best,
and was greatly cheered when told that he
did not have that on his own.
Next night it was the Con. Hall, where
the Con. Orchestra, under Alfred Hill’s baton,
revelled in Haydn. Mozart and Bach. L. G.
Smith did the solo part of the Mozart piano
concerto in A, and Gerald wanted ; to know
how the dickens he could wateh his fingers
and the conductor at the same time. He was
greatly bucked to discover that Smith got
out of the dilemma by looking at neither.
The Con. Orchestra grows in grace as time
moves on, but Gerald holds it in poor esteem.
Some excerpts from the “Meistersmger ’
towards the finish filled him with indigna-
tion. “They must be jolly well shot!” he
said —thus, of course, revealing his ignorance
of the fact that when anything by Vargner
is played the correct thing to do is to
applaud like mad. . , ~
Next night Gerald had a most instructive
outing, the programme including two tiddlers
in two halls —George White at the Con. and
John Dunn at the Town Hall. Gerald said
he had never heard of either of them.
Neither had this Showman till quite recently.
Young Mr. White has a clever pair of hands,
and he put such a lot of ginger into some of
Brahms’s Hungarian dances that Gerald said
he didn’t think anything could possibly be
finer. Luck was apparently with the party,
for at the Town Hall it was discovered that
Mr. Dunn or his agents had forgotten to
“There he is—flying upside down!”
hire a piano. So the city had to be scoured,
and all that could be garnered was a baby.
Owing to this delay J. Dunn was hardly
warmed up when the Town Hall was reached,
and the heard items included the Bach
“.Chaconne” and the Saint Saens Concerto.
Maynard Wilkinson treated the baby firmly
and wisely and John Dunn played like an
angel. But he doesn’t improve as a show-
man. H'e is liable to stop in the middle of
a cadenza to fiddle with tuning pins. Gerald
said John Dunn must be the greatest violinist
in the world, because towards the finish the
virtuoso played “Humoreske,” the Schubert
“Ave Maria” and Chopin’s E flat Nocturne,
the beauty of which couldn’t be escaped by
a hippopotamus. In fact, Gerald said he was
not a bit surprised to hear that if John
Dunn took a correspondence course in show-
manship and called himself Jan Donnstivi-
sky he would have to hide in a cave to avoid
the importunations of the Gravestocks and
the Taits and the other impresarios.
The next item on the programme of Gerald’s
“music week” was the two-piano recital of
Frank Hutchens and Lindley Evans —music
written for that medium by Tarenghi and
Reynaldo Hahn, and arrangements of a
Bach cantata, Mozart sonata, etc., appa-
rently played by two souls with but a single
thought. Then, to wind up the week, there
was Ernest Truman and the great organ at
the Town Hall. Gerald was impressed by
the great nimbleness of Mr. Truman, who
skips in like a linnet and hops on to his
bench with bird-like agility. Gerald was
duly impressed by the information that organ-
ists get like that because their job is worse
than that of a one-armed paperhanger with
the itch, since they have five or six key-
boards and hundreds of stops to occupy their
hands and another keyboard to toe-and-heel
upon. There were some Bach and the fire
music from the “Valkyrie,” and then, to the
vast delight of Gerald, who welcomed them
as beacons on a desolate sea, the “Blue
Danube” waltz of Strauss and the Mendels-
sohn “Spring Song.” One seldom hears
dance music on a great organ and this
Showman was as much interested as Gerald,
whose musical education, so far as this page
is concerned, is now complete.
H*
If acting for acting’s sake still has any
followers they should be satisfied, if not
surprised, by what they’ll find at Sydney Cri-
terion, where the Firm’s new comedy com-
pany is reviving “Bird in Hand.” It is a
small but uncommonly good bunch. Frank
Bradley, as the peppery parent, manages the
part with the completeness, understanding
and effectiveness that make him one of the
best mummers on the boards at the moment.
Tiptop support is given by Leonard
Stephens, whose sardines traveller (“Look at
“Where the sunshine is, if anything, more
select.”
the fin on the tin”) is a rare bit of comedy ;
and by Harvey Adams, Campbell Copelin and
the two or three others. A really well-
played show.
“Bird in Hand” also went on at Melbourne
Bijou on Saturday, when Gregan McMahon
once more appeared in, and spoiled, the part
of Thomas Grecnleaf. Somebody ought to
take McMahon on one side and tell him
quietly that he is not a low comedian. His
efforts in that direction are pathetic rather
than laugh-raising. No outstanding ability
was revealed in the rest of the company.


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5/ including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress .Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea }
Dansant j
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
m
B
m
jf«r.
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.—“B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ONI”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
D
Oder*
Where will you be
5 years from Q
NOW 5
Have you ever thought of the future
and what it has in store for you? By
looking ahead a little and using your
own initiative you cannot help but
advance to the height of business suc-
cess. The Alexander Hamilton Insti-
tute have opened this road to all far-
seeing and ambitious young men.
Write TO-DAY for a free copy of
their interesting book, “Forging Ahead
in Business.” It will show you where
you can be five years from now!
A 11
Alexander Hamilton institute
Division in Australia of
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
off 410-412 Collins Street.
p SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack St.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ * £ £ £
1920.. 64,726 81 p.c.= 37,954 26,772 195,991
1921.. 73,273 9 „ „ 45,901 27,372 223,363
1922.. 82,856 9 „ „ 50,360 32,496 255,859
1923.. 96,899 9 „ ~ 59,218 37,681 293,540
1924.. 117,570 9 „ „ 67,494 50,076 343,616
1925.. 129,132 9 „ „ 83,498 45,634 389,250
1-926.. 147,915 9 „ „ 90,000 57,915 447,165
1927.. 159,101 10 „ „ 113,675 45,426 492,591
1928.. 168,449 10 „ ~ 120,000 48,449 541,040
1929.. 170,294 10 „ ,; 120,000 50,294 591,334
1930.. 148,184 9 „ ~ 108,000 40,184 631,518
Reduced spending has affected turnover, while
increased company taxation and excise have
swelled outgoings. Both these factors, with
falling property prices, have in turn reduced
hotel values, making necessary a more care-
ful scrutiny of asset figures. Gross profit
for the last term (£756,554, after providing
for bad and doubtful debts—it is a
long time since that problem has been so
worrying) was £26,367 lower; management
and excise charges (£608,370) were £4257
lighter. Thus the drop in the net result was
£22,110. A moderate reduction, all things con-
sidered. The final figure was 12.3 p.e. on capi-
tal as against 14.1 and 14 p.e. in the two
preceding years; but the board decided to
still further strengthen the finances, so the
final div. was reduced to 8 p.e. p.a., making
9 p.e. for the year.
Speculation as to whether the co. would
link up with the newly-merged Tooth-Resch
interests, and thus form one big combine,
kept the price of Toohey’s 16s. shares around
38s. until Sept., 1929. Meanwhile circum-
stances compelled changes on Toohey’s board,
alterations were made in the method of
financing the business, and then economic
developments caused a break in the market,
and lack of buying support and fear of
further taxation have recently accentu-
ated the general weakness. So, from one
cause and another, the co.’s scrip, which is
backed by net tangible assets with a book
value of 245. 5d., has eased to 17s. 3d. The
return at that figure is 7.4 p.e. on an 8 p.e
div. basis.
Since 1919 capital has climbed from
£400,000 to £1,200,000 by par issues, the
div. has averaged a bit more than 9 p.e., and
£424,799 (30.3 p.e. of earnings) has been
visibly sent to reserves. Of course, the new
money has not been able to earn at quite
the same rate as the old:
Average Net Written Profit p.e.
Funds. Profit. Off. of Funds.
1915.. £547,041 £60,206 £lO,OOO 11.0
1919.. 599,732 45,974 10,000 7.7
1923.. 922,393 96,899 15,000 10.5
1925.. 1,266,228 129,132 15,000 10.2
1926.. 1,418,003 147,915 15,000 10.4
1927.. 1,600,628 159,101.. 15,000 9.9
1928.. 1,716,815 168,449 15,000 9.8
1929.. 1,766,187 170,294 15,000 9.6
1930.. 1,811,426 148,184 15,000 , 8.2
To pay 8 p.e. on capital shareholders’ funds
as at the close of last accounts had to earn
5.3 p.e.
An important development in the. co.’s
affairs during the year was the formation of
Tooheys Standard Securities, the aim being
to enable the brewing co. to make, its finan-
cial arrangements mainly a domestic matter.
The new co. offered 300,000 7 p.e. prefs. to
the brewery co.’s shareholders ; £296,075 had
been paid on these at July 31. With £12,500
called on 49,979 ords; (apparently held by
the parent) paid capital was then £308,575.
Net profit for the year was £11,621. Tooheys
appear as a debtor for £317,528.
The £317,528 advanced by the finance co.
enabled the parent to lop £235,690 off its
other debt and to invest a further £133,071
in plant, hotels, etc.: —
TQOU -IQ9K 1 Q9Q 1000
Capital . . £485,149 £999,591 £1,200,000 £1,200,000
Liabilities 91,320 309,225 497,220 579,058
Breweries,
hotels, etc. 442,379 1,114,334 1,593,197 1,726,268
Stocks . . 175,815 183,779 161,886 119,529
Book debts 158,445 445,011 584,413 564,771
Cash & public
securities 22,775 13,452 24,059 24,425
Shares i n
other cos. —•— 38,583
Though the book value of fixed assets lias
increased threefold since 1921, the visible
allowance for depreciation has remained
unchanged at £15,000 a year. It is obvious
that other provision is made before
the final figures are published. As usual.
plant is reported highly efficient. Stocks,
which are £42,356 lighter than they
were a year ago, are at the lowest figure for
over 13 years. The reduction of £19,642 in
book debts suggests that trading has become
more difficult.
Profit-writing will depend partly on the
provision which has been made for contin-
gencies, including the shrinkage in value of
hotels, etc. The fact that the trade in N. S.
Wales is in the hands of two brewing concerns
—Tooth’s, which has a lion’s share, and
Toolieys—makes the position safer. Both
are strong financially, and are not likely to
engage in rash competition in order to
retrieve a few points of lost earning power.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1920.. 26,360 7 p.e. = 14,403 11,957 48,679
1921.. 12,174 7 „ „ 14,578 40,275
1922.. 32,978 8 „ „ 16,860 16,118 62,393
1923.. 33,740 8 „ „ 16,860 16,880 79,273
1924.. 42,047 8 „ „ 17,372 24,675 103,948
1925.. 43,724 10 „ „ 30,007 13,717 117,665
1926.. 50,838 10 „ „ 31,613 19,225 136,890
1927.. 54,549 10 „ „ 34,427 20,122 157,012
Written off, £6OOO 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.e. = 39,820 10,253 167,265
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 117,265
1929.. 59,783 10 p.e. = 49,986 9,797 127,062
1930.. 43,653 7 „ „ 35,000 8,653 135,715
The sharp contraction of £16,130 in last
year’s profit is the inevitable consequence of
the collapse of prices in the wool, hide, pro-
duce and livestock markets. A small
windfall from Bawra, included in the 1920
figures, accentuated the decline. For the 12
months to June 30 wool averaged £l3 11s.
9d. per bale in Sydney as against £2l 17s.
3d. for the previous season, and Brisbane
figures were much the same; thus the wool
cheque for the two States combined
(£20,842,789) was approximately £12,600,000
lighter. And since over 12 p.e. of the total
sales was on this co.’s account, the drop in
its wool turnover alone must have been more
than £1,500,000.
Here is a comparison of the co.’s quantity
sales since 1914, when wool averaged about
the same as it did last year:—
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.,
1914 .. 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 .. 137,258 321,140 15,357
1924 .. 132,693 293,012 24,585
1925 .. 117,550 232,501 32,676
1926 .. 179,002 366,643 26,671
1927 .. 185.075 441,919 30,168
1928 .. 175,682 352,199 19,869
1929 .. 189,190 341,399 30,714
1930 . . 182,221 485,958 37,243
But last year’s big increase in sheep and
the better cattle sales softened the blow, so
the board was able to write the net result at
8.7 p.e. on average capital as against 11.9,
14, 15.8, 14.5 and 39.3 p.e. back to 1924,
when wool fetched hitherto unheard-of
prices.
For many years after the public became
interested, in 1910. progress was slow. The
div. did not climb beyond 8 p.e. until 1925;
then high prices and a run of good average
seasons enabled 10 p.e. to be paid with com-
fort for the five years to June 30, 1929,
approximately 30 p.e. of the net earnings
over the same period remaining in the busi-
ness. Last year the rate was dropped to
7 p.e.—the small capitalisation, one for
eight, in 1928, makes that worth the merest
fraction more to old holders —and the 7 p.e.
cannot be regarded as secure.
Though the seasonal outlook at the
moment is favorable, the coming clip pro-
mises to be lighter, and prospects of a sub-
stantial recovery in prices, and therefore in
earnings, are anything but bright. Besults
will largely depend upon the extent to which
costs can be got into line with fallen values.
The market, noting all this, and also the
heavy outside debt, has therefore eased its
bid for the pound shares from 28s. 6d. a
year ago to 14s. at last week-end. The
return at the lower figure is 10 p.e. on a
7 p.e. div. basis, or 7.1 p.e. should the rate
drop to 5 p.e.
To lighten the amount coming to sundry
creditors (now £350,511) by £27,377, and
reduce the overdraft (£18,504) by £28,183,
the board drew upon advances, etc., for
£47,794 last year :
1 090 IQ9C IQ9Q 1Q?(1
Capital .. £205,755 £414,018 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 461,352 553,490 424,575 369,015
Freeholds .. 160,856 199,965 200,221 200,949
Plant, etc. . . 35,687 31,656 30,780 29,668
Advances, etc. 505,048 899,365 817,478 769,684
Investments and
cash .. 21,396 21,865 21,821 21,929
Consignments 1,916 6,336
The more or less liquid surplus (£422,598)
was £1538 stronger than at the close of
accounts in 1929. Nevertheless, with the
book value of advances, gtc„ £133,969 in
excess of shareholders’ net tangible funds,
much obviously depends upon whether the
allowance for contingencies proves to be
adequate. A substantial part of the advances,
however, has been made against wool, pro-
duce and live stock, and these are fairly
flexible.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane).
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1925.. 65,396 10 p.e. = 55,000 10,396 51,192
1926.. 70,328 10 „ „ 55,000 15,328 66,520
1927.. 78,715 10 „ ~ 55.0001 g,479 74,999
1928 aX lMoi reS “o e p.c.t 5o!o66 J 20,001 95.000
1929.. 75,000 10 „ „ 55,000 20,000 115,000
1930." 65*000 10 ’’ ” 55*000 10,000 125,000
Notwithstanding that the ‘ public had to
dredge deeper into its pockets for its cash
and its lOU’s, and that competition got
more of an edge on it, as it always does in
such circumstances, this big Brisbane
retailer, which docs a large mail-order busi-
ness, served more customers than ever last
year Early in the term part of the salvage
stock of Collier and Son (Melbourne) was
bought, and that helped; later the glassware
and crockery section benefited by the pur-
chase of Geo. Myers’, Brisbane, stock, How-
ever, trading became increasing difficult as
the year advanced, and in these days of
falling prices stocks have to be cleared
quickly if satisfactory profits are to be won.
So a bit more was shaved off the percentage
of “mark up," which means that the co. was
trading on narrower margins. Hence results
were not so good.
What happened is clearly illustrated in
this next comparison :
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Gross profit.. £225,630 £261,380 £261,290 £245,361
hxes 160,234 186,379 186,290 180,361
Net profit £05,396 £75,001 £75,000 £65,000
The drop in gross profit was £15,929. Man-
agement charges (£171,168) were £1486
heavier, but provision for taxation (£9193)
was £7415 lighter, so the net shrinkage was
£lO,OOO. Thus the final figure was 11.8 p.c.
on capital compared with 13.6, 13.6, 14.3,
12.7 and 11.8 p.c. hack to 1925. And since
the finances are snug, the 10 p.c. div- was
not interfered with; it has been an annual
event since the public became interested nine
years ago. Nevertheless, with the prop for
capital none too stout, and fresh handicaps
by way of the new primage duty, increases
in the tariff, prohibition of some lines, the
sales tax and the acute position in the
exchange market, the 10 p.c. to shareholders
cannot be regarded as secure. The co., how-
ever, buys mainly for cash, its premises are
well situated in a busy part of the city, the
recently-opened London office is said to have
resulted in substantial economies, and quick
turnover on small profit-margins is the policy
on which the business has been developed.
While this policy has strengthened goodwill,
of which no account has been taken in the
books, it means keeping a tight hold upon
outgo, shrewd buying and clean stocks it
satisfactory results are to be shown.
Here is the position as the published
accounts disclose it:—
TOO- IQOC moo ioqo
1920. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. 17,633
Creditors 81 404 62 583 61 39-J 57 970
oieanors .. si,4U4 07,9/0
Freehold & plant 333,069 330,000 327,500 324,500
Stocks.. .. 272,282 270,117 248,755 296,908
Book debts 120,724 119,132 123,742 109,710
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 1,655 32,746 72,063 40 665
* he ff ; „ at W
previous balance. 8 ’ The chai/man however!
gives his assurance that they were all bought
before moat of the handicap! already referred
to became operative, and that due allowance
has been made for depreciated lines. Includ-
ing stocks the more or less liquid surplus
(£889,313) was £6145 stronger than at the
rdoso of in
The market, doubtfufof the future, prices
the pound shares at 225. 6d. as against 28s.
a year ago. At the lower figure the return
is 8.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis; the back-
ing amounts to 265. 4d. in net tangibles
’
m i , j ... , ,
News, Ltd. (Adelaide).
, Dividends—res
PmfiV Towards
June. I £ I Res | rves -
1925.. 2,019 8000* 75 485
(6 p.c.) ’
1926.. 16,227 4000 8,340 3887 71,598
ino „ on „ no (10 p.c.)
ml’.’ IS “So USIJ ffi}
1029.. 29,061 4000 10..56 0216 64,083
1930.. 12,651 4000 6,824 1827 53,156
*lncludes arrears.
This is the co. which took over the “Mail"
(Adelaide), “Recorder” (Port Pirie) and
“Barrier Miner" (Broken Hill) in 1922, and
set about establishing an evening paper,
the “News," in Adelaide. Activities were
also extended to Tasmania, but after
writing off a loss of £17,345 on the Hobart
“News," its publication was discontinued in
1926. A t the same time £85,000 of 71 p.c.
debentures were issued in connection ~ with
tbc purclmse of the Perth Daily News.”
Thereafter all the co.’s publications appear
to have contributed to the pool, and as the
circulation of the Adelaide “News” climbed
—it is the only evening paper in the S.A.
capital—advertising revenue increased, and
the ords. were handed 10 p.c. with incrons
in " comfort for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1929. Owing to the fall in
advertising revenue, income from all sources
(£210,314) was £16,266 lighter last year.
Exes. (£197,663) were £1044 heavier, but
they included a special charge on account
of old plant which was replaced by new
machines, in addition to the ordinary allow-
ance for depreciation. After attending to
the prof, requirements there was not much
more than enough to give the ords an
interim 2\ p.c., so no final div was paid,
An important developmentdunng the year
was the exchange of 150,000 £1 ords, tor
an equal amount of scrip in the “Advertiser"
Co., Adelaide. This was the outcome of a
new co-operative trade agreement with the
latter co., in which the Melbourne _ Herald
people had become substantially interested,
On these exchange shares the “News gets the
equivalent of its own div. up to 10 p.c.,
and anything more that the “Advertiser ’ Co.
may pay on its own ords. There is no men-
tion of anything extra being received m this
way last year.
This deal, and other things, are reflected
in the next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1923. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £151,875£244,856 £247,700 £398,555
Debentures . . 64,144 61,300 60,445
Creditors .. 18,243 37,901 71,684 83,040
Kreeho ld premises 39,322 82,035 102,475 117,351
plant & fittings 53,930 47,057 88,082 81,542
debt ‘ 9 ‘ 26,109 17,519 23,01 a 2a,797
shares in other
cos., etc. .. 7,082 119,743 123,903 266,09 a
etc. .. 4 > 248 30,977 . •
be hook value of shares in other cos.,
debtors balances, etc., increased £14219
last year. It is an untidy entry, winch
obscures the real financial position. Extern
sions to the Adelaide premises added £14,87L
to the freehold item; and the board went
outside for an extra £11,356 to finance the
work. The debentures mature next year;
the option to convert into shares expired in
February last.
On the market 225. 6d. is asked for the
ords. without attracting buyers; they fetched
365. 6d. a year ago. The prefs.—there are
50,000 of them carrying a fixed cumulative
8 p.c. with priority as to capital—are priced
at 235., at which figure they return 6.9 p.c.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves,
mo 102 f 527 G p . c . 10 p . c . 35?560 66,967 259,070
1921 88,363 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 52,803 311,873
1922.. 61,035 6 „ to „ 35,560 25,475 337,348
1923.. 36,127 6 ~ 10 „ 35,560 567 337,915
1924.. 46,374 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 10.814 348,729
1925.. 36,880 6 „ 8„ 28,760 8,120 356,849
iqoa qi ft in qf* fjfiO 352 349
1927 63*384 6** 10 ” 35*560 27 824 380,173
1928*. *. 47*524 6 \\ 9*,* 32*160 15*364 395^537
1929 41,455 6 „ 7„ 25,360 16,095 411,632
1930 65,409 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 33,249 444,881
Bigger profits and a lift in the div. are rare
fi lP op dnvs Much of the diffi-
cx P el iences tnese ciays. lviucn or rue uni
culty now being experienced by mter-State
shipping cos., which have invested heavily
g®
oecply into earm T >,,.
S J^S^aSS^TinteSSf
. b IVaiimili. work nml
411 oa l to a & e4l . c y a ]i d cariy „
bunkering supplies. The stoppage at • -
land interfered with the co. s earnings fo a
while, but it wss üble to secure supplies
j' roia oth f fields in N - , S - Wales
land, ail d sooa resumed regular deliveries t o
customers. Thus, despite a shrinkage n
other freights, due to lessened trade activity
the board was able to write last years, net
result £11,483 better than the previous
year’s at £35,524. But that leaves out. of
account a net addition of £29,622 to the
erve for depreciation, renewals, replace-
ments, bad debts and contingencies, making
it £358,281 (= 68.1 p.c. of the figure at
which fixed assets appear), so the real pro-
fit is probably better than the figure claimed.
Including the addition, but allowing for
minor adjustments and the pref. div., there
was enough to show 18.7 ? .e. on the ord
to W 25 The’ div ™ lifted
from 7 p.c. to 9 p.c.; the run of 10 p.e. dis-
tributions was interrupted by industrial
troubles a couple of years ago.
A feature which catches the eye is the
size of the nominal reserves (nominal be-
cause they include an unspecified amount for
depreciation), which were £78,881 in excess
of paid capital at June 30. These are
largely the product of the rich post-war
years, including profits on the sale of sur-
plus, tonnage when prices were at their peak,
Conditions have not since warranted re-
employment of much of the money in the
business, so £234,363 had been invested in
public securities, debentures and fixed de-
posits at June 30. But for the returns from
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step J
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffth, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
S'- * * s*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
* * * *
The great saving effected in pipe-line construction
by the specification of “Pioneer” Wood Pipe is not
solely due to the fact that its first cost is so much
less. Handling costs, laying and maintenance are
all on a similar low level—so that all-round econo-
mies are gained. The service rendered by this
modern conduit is of the highest standard of effi-
ciency. Write for interesting literature, post free,
to the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * v* *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * * *
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale.— Advt.
❖ Hs ❖
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
❖ ifc ❖ £
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
❖ * *i- *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
Winchester Model 56
Magazine Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post free.
śfgds
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN
Write for Leaflet B.
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Ban it offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call jor our Booklet “The Making oj a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
these investments, the board says it would
not have been able to declare last year’s
rate of dividend. The real position depends
largely upon what has been spent on re-
newals, etc., and charged to revenue.
b mancially the co. is in splendid trim to
weather a blow:—
„ . , . , 1921. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £366,000 £366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Liabilities . . 128,600 78,200 69,267 64,167
Steamers, etc. \ „ , j 432,647 472,993 474,026
Freehold, plant j { 52,319 52,229 51,932
Stores, etc. . . 38,256 11,757 17,622 13,916
Book debts .. 105,144 86,497 75,496 70,870
I n v e s tments,
. .. 365,621 232,800 242,938 280,384
r Llie year s surplus earnings were invested
mainly in Government securities, etc., to
which £40,363 was added. Including sharps
m other cos. (£41,016), the more or less
liquid surplus (£301,003) was £34,214
stronger than at the close of accounts in
1929. The subsidiary, Hobson’s Bay Dock
and Engineering Co., which was thrown off
as a separate concern in 1926, reports orders
scarce and not very remunerative.
The market prices the ords. at 235. 6d. •
at which figure the return is 7.6 p.c. on a
, di Y- basis. The backing amounts to
465. _ sd. m net tangibles, including the de-
preciation, etc., reserve. The well-protected
prefs. seldom come on the market; there
are only 26,000 of them, and they carry a
fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
Australian and N.Z. Banking Corp., Ltd.
About two years ago preparations were
begun in Maoriland for the launching of
two new banking concerns—the Australian
and New Zealand Banking Corporation,
Ltd., and the London Bank of New Zealand.
The latter has been granted a charter by the
Dominion Government provisionally on
obtaining a million of capital, which has not
yet been secured. The Corporation, which
aims at making Australian connections the
backbone of its business, has set up its head-
quarters in Sydney. Here it has been regis-
tered with a nominal capital of £5,000,000
in £1 shares, of which 4,000,000 are offered
at par., one-half in Australia and Maori-
la-nd and the other half overseas. In this
latter connection a representative has gone
to London. The money is wanted ss. on
application and the balance in 2s. 6d. calls
spread over three years.
The co. went to allotment in the Dominion
on January 6, 1930, over 400,000 shares hav-
ing been then taken up there; but the actual
business of banking is not to begin until
£750,000 has been subscribed. It is proposed
to open branches in the main cities of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, and in country and
urban centres where sufficient business offers.
The qualification of a director is a holding
of 1000 shares. No payment is being made
to promoters or vendors in connection with
the float. Share-selling is in the hands of
Dominion Brokers, Ltd., in Maoriland, and
Australasian Brokerage, Ltd., in Australia,
but the rate of brokerage, etc., is not men-
tioned in the prospectus, nor is any estimate
of the probable amount of preliminary exes,
given.
The intention is to transact general bank-
ing business, and therein to co-operate with
the associated banks. At present, the pros-
pectus says, there is not enough banking
capital available to meet genuine trade
requirements, and a good opportunity
therefore exists for the new institution to
get a _ footing. Also, the figures of the old-
established Australasian banks are given as
examples of what shareholders in this new
co. may reasonably look forward to.
Actually, the prospects for a new bank
are not nearly so bright as they might be.
Moreover, banking is not the lucrative busi-
ness that many people think it is, nor are
the profits therefrom so good as they used
to be. According to the last published
accounts the average net profit of the associ-
ated banks in Australia was 6.6 p.c. on the
average capital and reserves combined, and
mostly the reserves equalled or exceeded the
capital. These large accumulations have
been built up from two sources: (1) sur-
plus earnings from trading during the best
part of a century or more, and/or (2) pre-
miums on new share issues—as much as 100
p.c. and 120 p.c. having been charged on
some issues during the last decade. Thus,
what look like high dividends, but are in
fact mostly moderate returns, have not only
been made possible but inevitable- in some
cases. Also, the growth of the figures over
the last decade has been greatly aided by
abnormal conditions, which have brought
about our present economic ills and the re-
cent strong demand for accommodation.
Immediate prospects are that trade turn-
overs generally, both in the local and export
markets, will be lighter. This can be ex-
pected to affect the exchange and other earn-
ings of the banks, and is certain to mean
keener competition for all sound business.
Excepting the ’Asia, the shares of all the
Australian banks are now selling on the
market at less than their admitted net tan-
gible book value—A.B.C. scrip can be had
below par. This, and the tightening of money,
will not make it any easier to coax capital
yT*°n^n new > 7en , ture - Assuming that the
£<50,000 required to commence business is
subscribed, an adequate volume of deposits
will need to be gathered and substantial re-
serves accumulated before anything more
than moderate returns need be looked for.
Much of course, will depend upon the cost
hshment, including share-selling.
With deposits of nearly £1,900,000 the six-
£oooo, Primar y Producers’ Bank netted only
£2828. last year, or 0.6 p.c. on its £438,803
ot paid capital. It has not yet paid a div.,
y°u a «o re Sular distributions in sight. At
1 eb. 28 establishment, including the cost of
wide and vigorous share-selling which ren-
dered necessary the opening of many out-
puts, run off with £430,906, or all but
£61,706 of the share premiums.
. On the board of the A. and N. Z. Corpora-
tion are A. C. Willis, ex-manager of the
Martin-place (Sydney) branch of the E., S.
and A. Bank, C. A. Copeland and P R.
Higgins, all of Sydney; and T. J. Neviu,
P- E. Williams, J. R. Thacker and A. G.
Neill, all of Maoriland.
Forestry Pulp and Paper Co.
The Forestry Pulp and. Paper Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., is a Victorian concern which
took over the afforestation business of the
Forestry Co. of Australia Pty., Ltd., in 1927
for £250,000-—£50,600 cash and the balance
in fully-paids—including £104,298 for good-
will. Following changes on the board, the
vendors’ consideration was reduced to
£120,602 by the cancellation of 129,398
shares.
„ Allowing for this subscribed capital was
£92,483 and paid capital £"< 8.863 at Sept. 30
last; there was then £48,885 coming/ to the
vendor, £2083 to sundry creditors, and £5096
was reserved for the completion of planting,
etc., of sold areas. Freehold and nursery,
less £10,178 owing thereon, figured at
£25,762; buildings, plant, etc., £4871;
balances due on the sale of acre lots, etc.,
£86,950; cash, £3476; goodwill, etc., £26,514.
For the 14 months to Sept. 30 gross profit
on areas sold, after deducting the cost of
planting, surveying, etc., was £54,408; in-
terest brought in £133. Selling and general
office charges made off with £32,583, and
other exes., including £7915 for bad debts,
took £10,420, leaving £11,538 net, or 14.6
p.c. on paid capital. During the 1929
season 1272 acres were planted at Dart-
more (Vic.), making a total of about 4000
acres. The co. has another 7000 acres free-
hold there to dispose of, and over 3000 acres
at Pittwater, near Hobart, where about 300
acres have been planted. Such is the posi-
tion so far as shareholders are concerned.
The co. sells acre-lots at £3O each. For
that price it transfers its title to the free-
hold, undertakes to plant each acre with
600 Finns insignis trees, and to care for
the crop till it matures. Maturity is put
at 20 years if the crop is sold as timber, or
any time after eight years for pulping pur-
poses. The total income from the area
planted in any one year is to be paid into
a pool. After deducting the cost of harvest-
ing, marketing, milling, etc., the net , pro-
ceeds, if any, are divided 20 p.c. to the co.
and 80 p.c. to acre-lot holders, in proportion
to the number of acres held. At the moment
the timber industry is very sick, and has
been for years ; what the future holds is, of
course, impossible to say.
Prospectors on the Tauri River, Central
Papua, are advising their mates in Aus-
tralia to get up there, and parties are fitting
out with all dispatch at Port Moresby. A
correspondent who has been over the coun-
try says the wash shows coarse free gold,
with plenty of fine stuff among the black
sand—a typical prospect on the old Lake-
kamu field, which is on the same watershed.
So far all the testing has been done by dish
alone. The writer adds that in his opinion
it’s a payable proposition for a white man
with a dish, and better still with the sluice-
box. The sluice-box, of course, entails a
force of native labor, which is fairly plenti-
ful in the vicinity of the Tauri.
E. .T. C. Hunter, of Herberton, who
recently' went to Europe to find money for
the development of the old Palmer goldfield,
over a large section of which he and others
hold an option, has been successful in his
quest. Aporoma Land Minerals, Ltd., an
Anglo-French co., has undertaken to make
£lOO,OOO available. Colonel J. H. Riley, a
director of A.L.M., is to leave for Queens-
land in October to arrange details. The
holding co.’s rights are stated to include a
considerable amount of machinery (still in
reconditionable order) left standing when
the field was abandoned some years ago as
a non-payable reefing proposition. The
success or otherwise of the new venture
will depend largely on whether modern
recovery methods can deal with the ores
that experts of an earlier day found too
refractory.
* * *
Another gold find, claimed to be important,
is reported from New Guinea. The field
was located by prospectors backed by Cen-
tral New Guinea N.L., a co. formed some 18
months ago in Sydney as the result of dis-
coveries by R. S. and L. T. Haynes. The
two were engaged in a search for oil when
they came on an encouraging gold prospect
in the Mandated Territory. The co. was
floated with £20,000 of capital in 2s 6d
shares; the prospectors were to take 24,000
f.p. s when the mining area had been defi-
a.tuc* ’ the promoter’s bite was
oaVw t-p. s, a nd the public was offered
shares at 3d- a nibble; the balance
(68,090) was put m cold storage. According
to reports received in Sydney the latest find
was made by E. J. Übank, one of the earlv
men on Edie Creek. The exact location of
the new field is not stated, but is possibly
somewhere on the headwaters of the Mark-
liam. Central N. G. has leased a large area,
and will probably let the shareholders and
the public into its confidence shortly. It
would be well advised to do so.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie mining cos. arc finding it in-
creasingly difficult to make ends meet with-
out a gold bonus. The third schedule of the
W orkers Compensation Act is one drawback,
lhe previous Government paid premiums
under the schedule totalling over £30,000, but
owing- to financial stringency the present one
l efused to foot the bill. The pex* cent
sales tax will now have to be paid on
all stores and the 2-i per cent, primage
J? n imported mining requisites.
W ith these and other levies the extra amount
which the Kalgoorlie mine-owners will have
to dub up is estimated at between £75,000
and £BO,OOO a year. To some this will be
the last straw.
* * * *
Latest report of the Westralian Manganese
Co. isn’t very cheerful. In the beginning
millions of tons of visible ore were vouched
for by State Government officials and others,
and after paying for everything, both on the
spot and at ports of shipment and delivery
a clear profit of a pound or two a ton was
officially reckoned on. On the strength of
this a railway to connect the deposit with
Meekatharra was built, but the co. has waited
about two years, and will probably have to
wait another year or so, for the State to
provide proper shipping facilities at Gerald-
ton. Co.’s chief creditors are Westralian
State Treasury £128,896, and debenture-
holders £124,318. Some time ago the deben-
ture-holders agreed to forego accrued interest.
* * * :|-
The position at Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is
improving. Generally the appearance of the
mine at depth is better, and a little profit
is now being made. The co. has spent
most of the State Government advance of
£78,000 for machinery and development. In
the past Gwalia was a good gold pro-
ducer and dividend payer, but shareholders
have received nothing for a decade or there-
abouts.
# * * *
Lake View Investment Trust, formed in
1920 to sidestep taxation problems which
beset old Lake View and Oroya Exploration
(W.A.), appears to be doing well. Originally
shares in Kalgoorlie mines were its principal
holdings, but for some years past most of its
interests have been located elsewhere. Divi-
dends to date have ranged from 5., to
per cent, per annum. An interim 6-per cent,
on account of 1929-30 was paid in December
last.
$ $ Hi H*
Princess Royal, at Westonia (W.A.), has
favored shareholders with nothing better
than calls, and, for a long time, no better
prospects were in view. Recent developments
in the lower levels show a distinct improve-
ment on anything previously disclosed. At
the bottom level the lode is 4ft. wide,
average value loz.
Hi * . * ❖
Brown’s Reward (W.A.) has given 5000
paids and a little cash for an “oil area” in
the far north of Westralia. Only a handful
of white men, including a wandering geologist,
have seen the property. The co. has tried
several areas in the past, but all have been
a source of worry and expense.
* *
Prospecting south of Southern Cross, PI.
Toomey cleaned out an old costeen, and,
sinking a few inches further, struck quartz
showing gold freely. The find looks good.
❖ ❖ Hi Hi
The exodus from Edjudina (W.A.) con-
tinues, the latest to leave being Slavin’s
Block 8, Hall’s Associated and Austral. The
last-mentioned has combined with the Emu
Co. in backing a Central Australian pros-
pecting venture on a fifty-fifty basis.
Hi ❖ Hi Hi
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Wliat is the position of policy-holders in
the Federal Building Assurance Co.? Would
you advise me to surrender my policy? —9l34.
Negotiations are proceeding for the trans-
fer of all life policies in the F.B.A, and
Empire Life and General cos. to another co.
Finality in this matter is expected to be
reached in a week or two. It would be
much better to wait; the surrender value
Avould be low, and you would have to rank
as an ordinary creditor for the amount. The
position of those with claims against the
cos. vary, being subject to the amounts
deposited witli the Governments of their
respective States.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.0.M. : (1) There are Roma Blocks Co.,
N.L., and Roma Oil South Block 17, N.L. The
former is quoted Sydney, buyer Is. 4d., and
R. 0.5.8., buyer 4d., seller sd. (2) Any share-
broker will make purchases for y0u.... W.E.H.:
Prospects of either not encouraging. See “ ‘Wild
Oat’ Monthly” for June and August, 1930. Cos.
have power to enforce calls after forfeiture, except
where shares taken up again by some financially
capable person... .C.W.: See “‘Wild Oat’ Monthly”
for August, 1930... .H.L.H. (Oondobolin) : See B.
5/2/’3O. Interim on ords.'nil. Co. very susceptible
to slackness in the construction trades, and just now
they are particularly quiet. .. .F.H. (Mount Isa) : Share
certificates now being exchanged for allotment letters.
You should hear from co. any day. .. .W.J.8.: See
B. 19/2/’3O. . . .Banker: A. C. Willis, Wingello House,
Angel-place, Sydney... .L.C.S.: Bonus prospects are
not bright, but you will benefit by keeping your
policy in force.


vmmm
fry//////?
Capstans have become so popular
that today, out of every eleven
smokers, ten prefer Capstans.
There’s a very sound foundation
for such popularity a foundation
that was laid long ago. For 30 years
Capstans have been made from
the pick of the finest Virginia
Twenty- two for
one shilling, and in
tins of fifty.
11
0m
tobacco. Ever since their intro-
duction there has been no better
cigarette than Capstan and no
lower price than the Capstan price.
There’s, the reason for Capstan’s
consistent popularity and the
safety of the bet —
“10 to 1 it’s a
Oval heavy-weights
in tinsoftwenty-five
and fifty.
Capstan”.
CAPSTAN
Capstans are made by W D. & H. O. Wills
at the Garden Factory, Raleigh Park, N.S.W.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
¥ '
11? Hi
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals .. ..
Double Room and Meals ..
Single Room and Breakfast ..
Double Room and Breakfast ..
Telephone: F 4141.
Day. Week.
25/- 168/-
45/- 300/-
15/- 100/-
27/6 182/6
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE,
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff from
13/6 per day; £3/13/6 weekly. Special quotations
for sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite
Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter
carries baggage across if necessary. Please write
for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne,
is sufficient address.
ABORIGINALITES
“Bad Australian”: We were talking about
the widespread belief that peacocks and wil-
lows bring bad luck to any place where they
thrive, when old Dan Cassidy weighed in
with bis testimony. “Divil a doubt av it. Ye
know that hundhred-acre paddock av Jim
Williams’s? .Well, whin ould Otto Schwartz
owned it he planted willows along th’ creek,
an’ ruz up a thribe av shquallin’ divils av
paycocks, so there was no resht for th’
naybors day or night, an’ whin he wint bruk,
as he was bound t’ do, he offered me th’
farrm for 50 shillin’s an acre, an’ Oi’d have
t’ do wid it, be rayson av th’ pay-
cocks an’ th’ threes. Jim Williams he tuk a
chance wid it, an’ now it’s turned out
THE LEADEN FEET OF THE LAW.
PRISONER (to constable): “Struth, he’s a long-winded cow, ain’t he? I’ve never had
to wait more’n half a’ hour to be found guilty before.”
firsht-class lucerren land, wort’ at laste 15
pounds an acre.” “W’ich only goes ter
prove that yer barkin’ up th’ wrong stump,
Dan,” interposed Joe Wilson. “Have ye no
sinse?” retorted Dan. “Aren’t Oi tellin’,
ye poor omadhaun, that Oi cud ’ave had th’
land for 50 shillin’s an acre an’ now it’s
wort’ 15 pounds? Isn’t it as plain as th’
nose on your face that Oi’ve losht twelve
hundred and fifty pounds be rayson av thim
dam’ paycocks an’ willow-threes?”
“Bill R.” : Alf Witts, once sheep overseer
on Bibbenluke station (N.S.W.), had a black
horse and a white dog that became insepar-
able. The dog accompanied the horse in
his paddock roamings, trotted home for an
occasional bone, and immediately returned
to his pal. At night the canine
usually slept between the out-
stretched legs of his equine
friend, and displayed much
jealousy of other animals draw-
ing near. Nevertheless Snow-
ball’s allegiance to his master
often outdid his friendship. He
never allowed Darkie to gallop
away when his owner sought to
catch him, and once when the
Cambalong was in flood and Alf
discovered his animals on the
other side of the river, a few
whistles induced the dog to so
heel the horse that the latter
reluctantly plunged into the
torrent and swam over to face
his toil.
“Polycarp”: Strange how the
old bush belief still persists that
the dingo is a comparatively
late arrival in Australia. The
theory is that it first came with
visiting Malays a few cen-
turies ago, but fossil bones
prove that it was here
as long ago as 10,000 b.c. at
least. Some time ago at the
Brisbane Museum the director,
H. A. Longman, showed some
visiting naturalists a skin of
the Indian wild red dog, and all
identified it as a dingo skin. I
believe that our dog came origi-
nally from India with the first
abos., but reached here only
after several shifts. Like our
own animal, the red dog of
India has sharp, erect ears,
never barks, has the same color-
ing and white-tipped tail.
Anthropologists are now in-
clined to give Binghi a Dravi-
dian origin, with the dingo as
collateral evidence.
“MacFlecknoe”: He looked so hungry and
seemed ,so willing to work that the missus
took pity on him. “We are just going to
ave dinner,” she said, “so I’ll bring you out
some, and afterwards you can saw the wood
m the shed.” We had barely finished eating
when we heard the gate click and saw the
hungry one departing. “Here,” said the
missus, “you ain’t saw the wood yet!”
“Ain’t saw the wood ?” he repeated loftily,
“No, Madam, but I have seen it!”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” ; Amongst animals that
have taken to drink was an elephant which
travelled with Wjrths’ Circus. It acquired
its taste when being driven along Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, from the Hippodrome to
stables in Surry Il'ills. A drunk rushed out
of a pub with a mug of beer and held it out.
The elephant with a sweep of its trunk
emptied the pot into its interior, and passed
back the mug for more. After that it was
difficult to get the elephant past a pub; but
it created the great sensation of its life at
Forbes, where, getting loose, it poked its
trunk appealingly through the swing doors
of a hostelry and trumpeted for beer. A
drunk dozing on a bench in the bar woke up
to see a snake dangling and twisting in the
air not far from his head; but he had never
heard a snake speak in a voice like that
before. His dive to escape from the horror
wrecked half the bottles in the bar.
* * * *
“Shrdlu”: I was raising poultry in the
Illawarra district (N.S.W.), and discovered
FIFTY WOULD BE TOO MANY TO KEEP.
PARSON: “Now you’re married, Jacky, you must go fifty-fifty with Kitty.”
JACKY: “By cripe, no, Mister. I go six—no more.”
that some prowling beast was raiding the
nests. So my mate and I sat up one night
with shotguns, but the sight we saw stayed
our murderous hands. A gang of geannas
was led by an old saurian big enough to be
a crocodile. The team stayed outside the
fowlhouse while its leader entered, and, after
having had his fill, he emerged with egg after
egg in his mouth. These were fairly dis-
tributed and the raiders dispersed. So next
day we filled an empty eggshell with over-
proof rum, and at night we watched again.
Along came the same bunch. The old fellow
went into the fowlhouse and presently came
out in a most dilapidated state of inebriety.
Sitting on his tail, he leered with' blotto
benevolence on the assembly and waved a
flippant paw. The other geannas were deeply
shocked. With <a hiss of wowseristic venom
they pounced on and pinned the delinquent.
He was tossed on his back, and a piece of
bark shoved under him. Then while some
pushed behind, others grabbed his tail, and,
pushing and pulling, they skidded him off
into the bush. The place has never seen a
goanna since.
* * * *
“Turoar”: The boss’s two sons were up on
holidays, and old Mac, the head stockman,
was entertaining them. “The .’ardest job,”
he said, “I ever ’ad was ter bring a mob er
goannas down from Queensland.
Four ’undred I ’ad, an’ they took
some ’anfilin’. ’Owever, it
weren’t too bad until feed runs
short, an’ then the cows begins
to eat each other. One mornin’
when I takes a count there’s only
two ’undred; next mornin’ there’s
one ’undred; an’ th’ mornin’
after that there’s only one.” One
of his audience made a quick
calculation. “Here, Mac, what
could have happened when there
were 25?” Mac snorted. “Don’t
they learn yer anything at col-
lidge? Twelve’s arf of 24, ain’t
it? Well. 24 ate each other, an’ that left
one over!”
* •!= * ■ *
“L’Fou” : I was on the verandah when he
accosted me in a voice that would have
sounded fine on a gramophone record : “Good
morna, lady. I wanta fine de lend ofa fish.”
A good deal of borrowing goes on in our
little northern town, but never before ligd I
been asked by a total stranger for the loan
of a fish. Also I had nothing but canned
stuff. . As I hesitated, the man sought to
make it clearer by repeating in even more
musical tones (accompanied by magnificent
gestures towards the interior of Australia)
“De lend ofa fish, lady!” Even if I never
saw it again, it seemed easier, considering
the limitations of language, to give him fish
than to seek further explanations. I pro-
duced my entire repertory, a tin of salmon,
The young man (he was comely as a movie
sheik) gave an exhibition of eurhythmic
movements, and cried, “Notta that! Lena, ofa
fish I wanta!” I told him with voice and
hands it was my all. He shook his head
in sorrow, and drew in the air something
that may have been a barracouta or a cray-
fish. “Notta food. De lend ofa fish, lady !’’ he
wailed pitifully. I tried to sidetrack him;
explained Australia wasn’t 'a fisli-eating
nation; told him of great races raised on
roast beef, on porridge and haggis, on lentils
—T offered him the national cup of tea.
Suddenly he produced a gaudy district land
map and indicating himself, his jingling
pockets and many millions of acres of land,
made it appear that he wished to buy same,
“when fin’ de man ofa lend ofa fish.” 1
got it then —the Land Office! I directed
the exile, and he departed joyfully.
... * * *
“Lon'e-Piner”: The heat of the sun had
driven Pete the Painter from his paintpots
to the painted face of the barmaid, and
between pots he told her: “S’marvellous
how quick in thought an’ action some blokes
arc. Me an’ Ginger .Joe were once paintin’
a pigeon-loft. We stood on a narrow plank,
slappin’ on white paint an’ arguin’*whether
blue or red checkers made the best pigeon-
pie. Suddenly Joe slipped an’ fell from the
plank, hurryin’ to earth quicker than a
nose-divin’ aeroplane. Laws of gravity or
affection for Joe made the paintpot, paint
and brush follow, each keepin’ a few feet
apart. Joe landed flat on his back. Quick
as greased lightning he grabbed up an empty
tin an’ placed it on his chest. A second
later the paint fell into it, not a drop wasted.
The boss was pleased. That pot of paint
had cost him fourpence, an’ he was so
thankful that when Joe came out of hospital
he advised him how to go about gettin’ the
invalid pension. Did I mention that Joe
caught the paintpot in one hand an’ the
paintbrush in the other?”
ff * * *
“Pale Ale”: When McTodd the store-
keeper was a candidate for a vacancy in the
shire council he found his campaign speeches
were falling flat, so he decided that a little
inspired applause was necessary. Calling
old McPherson, his counter-hand, into his
office, he said: “Look here, Donald, I’m
making me big speech to-night and I want
you to be present to give me a hand.” Donald
stared aghast. “To gie ye a hand?” “Yes,”
explained his employer, “you won’t need to
speak—just give a bit of applause and a bit
of a laugh now and again. Now, we could
have signals like this : when I take a drink
of water you clap your hands, 'and every
time. I wipe me forehead with me handker-
chief, you laugh, see?” Donald gave a
cynical grunt: “Aw reet, Boss,” he observed,
“but ye’d better change the signals. It’s
much mail* likely to mak’ me laugh seein’
ye standin’ up there and deleeberately takin’
a drink o’ watter.”
BALLADE OF A VANISHED LID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is the gear our grand-dads decked
Their heads withal in the long ago?
Gone for ever, one may suspect,
Much of it, doubtless, better so.
Still, there are some regrets I know.
Travel from Mudgee to Bungaree,
Streaky Bay to Cargelligo,
And where is the old-time cabbage-tree?
Never a felt that could so protect
From baking sunshine the head below,
Or the beating rain and the sleet deflect
When cloudgates open and tempests blow;
Never a brim such shade to throw
By tracks where the rover wandered free,
Outward and onward and to and fro.
But where is the bushman’s cabbage-tree?
Durable, too, as I recollect;
Tough as is leather, well I trow;
Couldn’t be readily bashed or wrecked,
Not in the worst imbroglio ;
Suited a battler and served a beau
Just as bravely, I’ll guarantee—
Glory of races and pride of show,
Where is the old-time cabbage-tree?
Out on your Buffalo Bill chapeau!
Panamas hold no lure for me,
Though ever and aye they be comme il faut.
But where is the bushman’s cabbage-tree?
N.s.w.
IFORD.


Send
Your
Wool
to' 1...
inchcoi«be|
Uirson
Growers!
Grasp
and
Gain
the advantages
arising from
that advice.
Winch combe, Carson
LTD.
enjoy outstanding popularity as selling brokers
because clients’ results show the benefit of the
firm’s capable work in selling the clip.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.,
Winchcombe House, and 99-101 Eagle St..
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
0
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Fernie” : At the height of a recent gale
in Sydney a motor-car, caught rounding a
bend, was overturned by the force of the
wind, and the occurrence caused a great
deal of sensation. That reminds me of the
clear, cold, moonlight night when I, on a
motor-cycle, was popping merrily along on a
road beside the Rakia Gorge, which is in the
South Island. The wind was rising and
the temperature was falling as that icy sou’-
wester blast swept up the gorge. The tele-
graph wires were singing mournfully as
they contracted, and a grove of pines oh the
steep terraces of the gorge soughed dis-
mally, joining in the chorus. The gorge is
a huge funnel, through which the southern
and northern winds run with' the force of
water pumped through a powerful jet. All
went well, the wind being astern, till I
THE SHORTCOMINGS OF WILLIAM.
‘Billy do be awful suspicious, Nicholas.”
“Iss, Jabez, ’e be. But what I do like worst ’bout un ez ’e can awnly look ’ee in the
face from behind.”
essayed to cross the Arundel Bridge, which
spans the river. That brought me broadside
on to the gale. In a second my mount had
crashed into the side of the bridge, crushing
my leg cruelly. The carburetter was jolted
and the engine stalled. I tried to get off,
but only with the greatest difficulty could
I extricate my hurt leg. I was forced to
cling to the rail and, when a lull occurred,
cock my leg over to the lee side of the
bike. I crouched there for a while, both
feet on. the little foot-rest, jambed against
the railing of the bridge. Finally I managed
to edge backwards and tried to push the
machine across the bridge. But I couldn’t
do it. The wind clamped both me and my
steed against the rails, and there I remained
for what seemed to be hours. Taking advan-
tage of another lull, I then turned the
machine round, managed to get it off the
bridge into the shelter of a clump of trees,
fixed up the carburetter, and went back the
way I had come.
* ❖ :|c *
“Jasper”: The magistrate fixed Ginger
with a basilisk glare.. “You here again?
Isn’t, it about time you turned over a new
leaf?” “Yes, yer Worship, and I’m goin’ to,”
replied Ginger contritely. “That’s all very
well,” retorted the . beak, “but I understand
that it took four policemen to put you in
this time.” “That’s so,” Ginger returned,
humbly, “but I promise yer Worship it’ll
only take one to let me out!”
* * sj: *
‘‘Fiji”: There are many recipes for curing
a jealous. wife, but the method used by a
Fijian chief recently deserves a high place
in the list. The lady in question had reason
to - suspect that hubby sometimes used to
sleep on a mat in a house that wasn’t his
own, and that he didn’t sleep by himself.
So sure was she that she often told him so,
but he .used to laugh it off. However, she
kept it up, and one day accused him, in
front of some friends, of breaking the
promise he had made to her before the mis-
sionary. That did it. Early next morn-
ing, hubby and she set out for an island,
seme 10 miles away, in a canoe. A little
distance from shore, he seized her, jabbed
a fish-hook into her jaw, threw her over-
board and towed her behind for the rest of
the trip. By some miracle she survived and
turned up a few weeks later and batted him
over the head with a club. She then took
herself off to the house of a friend and
died. Hubby didn’t die, but he often wishes
he had, for his friends continue to cut him.
However, he comforts himself with the
thought that he cured her jealousy, once and
for all.
* * * *
“Mong”: Picturesquely situated at the
foot of Talbingo Mountain stands a solidly-
built little inn, dating away back to the very
early squatting days. Entering the bar for
the first time the unwary customer gets the
shock of his life. Coming out of bright sun-
light into comparative gloom he fails to
notice that the floor dips sharply, and, step-
ping confidently in, suddenly finds himself
plunging forward on a downward course,
until he fetches up with a grunt against 'the
A GLUTTON FOR TROUBLE.
PUDDIN’: “Mum says if yer hit me again she’ll send me father round to see yours.’
SKINNY: “Oh, she wants to have two deaths in the family, does she?”
bar counter. His discomfiture does not
end at that, for the floor being remarkably
springy he bounces up and down several
times before finally coming to rest. At
least three pints of beer are usually neces-
sary to restore mental equilibrium, after
which the victim waits a while in the hope
of seeing some other stranger go through
the same ordeal.
* * * *
“Ex-Loco” : After the 1903 railway strike
in Vic. traffic was very slack for a time.
I was one of a few railway men who lived
in an old gold-mining town, and my mate and
I decided to sink a hole in our plentiful
spare time. We bottomed at about 20 feet,
and got quite a decent prospect. One day I
was at the windlass and Sam was below.
He sent up a bucket of wash, which I dis-
posed of and sent the bucket back. Awful
language floated upwards from the bowels
of the earth. I had returned the bucket—
a heavy iron-bound oil-drum —hanging on the
tip of the hook! We tried to balance it
like that many times afterwards (but not
over the shaft) and couldn’t do it.
* * * *
“Mirridong”: Henniker Heaton in his
“Dictionary of Dates” (1878) wrote: “The
adjustment of titles to land in Tasmania,
granted by the various Governors, was a vexed
question during the whole of Governor
Arthur’s administration. Many of the limits
of the grants had been defined by a curious
expedient, said to have been practised in
Ireland. A string was tied to a dog’s tail,
and when the dog stopped running that was
taken to be a mile. Thousands of acres had
been so measured off, and endless confusion
resulted from the claims made in 1824, which
the Caveat Board rectified in 1831.” What
was Henniker’s authority, if any?
* * * *
“Quaker” : One of the things the Shivery
Isles don’t suffer from to any appreciable
extent is jerry-building. Not only is the
country subject to periodical earth-tremors,
but it is swept by all the fierce winds that
storm across the Tasman and the Antarctic.
What Sydney, for instance, would call a
“gale” or a “cyclone,” and which would
leave a trail of blown-off roofs and prostrate
fences in its track, happens almost every
week in the South Island, almost every day
in “windy Wellington” and at least once a
month in Auckland. The builder whose
bricks aren’t properly mortared and bonded
whose timbering isn’t as sound as the Rock
of Gibraltar, or whose reinforced concrete
isn’t as honest as Caesar’s wife hasn’t much
chance of collecting more than one .progress
payment on a job. The only notable instance
of failure under stress of a big building
I can remember in the last 50 years was the
case of the spire of Christchurch Cathedral,
which reaches 210 ft. into the welkin. Twice
it has been broken off at the top in severe
earthquakes, but now it smiles at the worst
the Lord can send. After the last smash they
lopped off the topmost 30 feet of stone-work,
replaced it with a timbered framing sheathed
with copper, and. set the great cross on the
summit on swivel bearings, so that it can
swing as it pleases. Incidentally, they
replaced the old solid wrought-iron cross
with a much lighter one, and the old one
stands in the city’s museum—a stern
reminder to all in the building trade that
they must watch their steps.
* * * *
“Ech”: Dwellers in wombat country
where netting fences are in vogue have good
reason to curse the powerful burrowing brute
who not only breaks through the obstacle,
but makes tunnels underneath which are
freely utilised by Brer Rabbit. Queens-
landers have no wombats to worry them, but
the hitherto inoffensive little echidna is
developing into a nuisance on the same lines
as the wombat. H'e does not attempt to
butt down the fences, but burrows a neat
hole underneath. As he is about the quickest
digger on record, and is fond of prowling
up and down fences, as pit traps often show,
it is not uncommon to find a dozen holes in
half a mile of fencing, all made, probably,
by one “porky” whose fancy has urged him
to change sides. In some parts of the Darl-
ing Downs the little fellows keep the boun-
dary-riders working overtime, and a suspen-
sion of protection is to be asked for.
* * * *
“Mirridong”: There is nothing new in
Ahmed’s method of skinning a sheep,
described by “Wattrce” (B. 3/9/’3O). The
disgusting practice of blowing under the
hide of a slaughtered animal by means of
the slaughterman’s mouth, in order to render
easier the removal Of the hide, is a very old
one. But Ahmed had better be careful, for
if he is detected by an authorised officer in
the act of so treating a carcase intended for
human food, he will have cause to repent it.
Here’s what;a N.S.W. Act says on the sub-
ject : “Whosoever designedly blows with his
breath into or upon any meat intended for
sale, or ejects any suet, liquid matter or
other substances from his mouth thereon, shall
for every such offence be liable to a penalty
not exceeding 20 pounds, nor less than two
pounds.” This law was enacted to prevent
what “Wattree” regards with such rapturous
admiration. The public is not free from the
suspicion that it consumes . a proportion of
tuberculous meat, but if it once got the
idea that its beef and mutton had been
deliberately breathed upon, possibly by a
T.. 8. subject, there would be a decided
slump in the butchering trade.
TEACHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pulley-chains are slackening, the swing-
bar scrapes the loam,
As brushing past the corner-post the leaders
turn for home;
And yonder where the schoolhouse stands
beside the river bend,
Across the rolling fallow land, the children
homeward wend.
Old Captain rolls a roguish eye and cocks
inquiring ear,
Where, teacher with her youngest charge is
bringing up the rear.
Oh, teacher’s cheeks are like the rose, and
teacher’s form is slim;
My childhood days are far away and
memories are dim.
But those who tried in boyhood years my
talents to assay
Were east in moulds quite different from
teachers of to-day.
The school-madams of yesterday were angular,
and spare—
But I have seen the dancing lights in
teacher’s golden hair.
The furrow horse is on the land, and Nancy’s
on the reins,
And Duke and Prince in sympathy have
fouled the leading chains;
That eight-horse teams and reveries can
hardly be combined
Is proven by the broken line the mould-
board leaves behind ;
The fields of undulating green will soon be
golden grain....
But I’d barter all the harvest just to be at
school again.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


<23
The cer>/r>e of Queens /crnc/s
'G/is/ingu/sfrec/ Socio/ Life.
Wotel
‘'^BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone. Central 83211 —6 Lines,
ds
TOWN OR COUNTRY.
From its inception the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
has extended its services to the people as a whole.
Recognising that the man in the country, equally with the city
dweller, needed efficient and widely extended banking service, the Bank
has made its facilities available from all points—by nearly 4000 Post
Office Agencies as well as by 94 full Branches in the principal towns.
In addition to local business, money may be transferred to and from all
States free of Exchange, and travellers may, by arrangement, make
deposits or withdrawals at any Branch or Agency.
There is no charge for opening an account, and deposits of from
I/- upwards may be made at any time.
Cbminonwealtl) savmaslM of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
FARMING WITH UNDERSTANDING.
“Stanwell” : The other day I picked up a
copy of the N. S. Wales Year Book for 1907-
OS. In a chapter devoted to agriculture
I read a solemn indictment of the wheat-
farmers—particularly the Riverina lot—on
the score of their slipshod methods. “It is
unfortunately true,” the departmental pundit
wrote, “that the majority of the farmers do
not get anything like the results from their
land that are possible under good treatment.
In many instances the land is badly prepared,
the grain sown too late, the methods of
harvesting wasteful (most of the grain being-
lost), and the use of fertilisers is not by
any means general. Experts place the loss
as high as two bushels per acre.”
Times have changed. To-day I read this
in the N.B.W. “Agricultural Gazette” :
iteporting on the year’s operations, Mr. H. C.
Stening, Chief Instructor of Agriculture, draws atten-
tion to the great improvement that has taken place
in wheat-growing methods' during recent years, as
evidenced by a yield of 33,948,000 bushels last year,
which was one of the driest seasons on record. The
average yield of 8.7 bushels per acre is a consider-
able increase on that obtained in previous drought
years. For instance, in 1902 the wheat crop was
a total failure, while in 1914 it was only 4.7
bushels, and in 1919 3 bushels per acre,
The Australian farmer is still represented
in yellow weeklies as a feeble-minded
creature who lives in Woop Woop,
sports wire whiskers, and is so unsophisti-
cated that when he comes to town for the
Show and goes to bed he tries to blow out
the electric light. As a matter of fact, he
would pass a much higher intelligence test
than the smarties who caricature him. As
for being a simpleton, you can see more mugs
in Sydney or Melbourne under one, roof
than you would meet if you toured the
farming areas for a year, from the Darling
Downs to the Greenough Flats. Look at the
city chumps who pay 21s. 9d. or 225. to
have their legs clumsily pulled by foreign
wrestlers! To succeed in agriculture nowa-
days a man needs to have brains and use
them. The right choice of wheat varieties
alone calls for knowledge and judgment; and
the knowledge can’t be acquired without
reading and research. Figures collected by
the Government Statistican show that 40
different wheat varieties have been planted
in N.. S. Wales this year to the extent of
1235 acres and upwards (Waratah leads
with 817,138 acres, Federation coming next
with 679,043) ; and over and above the 40
enumerated there are “other varieties” cover-
ing 257,996 acres.
Incidentally, years following exceptionally
dry seasons almost invariably give excep-
tional yields. The 1915-16 wheat harvest
was the greatest in our history; the yield
was 179,065,000 bushels, to which N. S.
Wales contributed 66,726,000 bushels, aver-
aging 15.94; Victoria 58,521,700, averaging
15.9; S. Aus. 34,134,500, averaging 12.46;
and Westralia 18,236,300, averaging 10.28.
Is 1930-31 going to beat 1915-16? It seems
likely.
EVAPORATION IN THE WHEAT
AREAS.
“Jamwood”: Soil moisture has been dis-
cussed by recent contributors to The Bulle-
tin. “R. K. Deea” (B. 27/8/’3O) deals
roughly with the theories of Mr. W. M.
Hedges, of Westralia, but Mr. Hedges’s main
contention is supported by Mr. E. S. Clay-
ton, a N.S.W. Government experimentalist,
writing in the “Agricultural Gazette,” who
insists that “the amount of moisture left in
the soil at the actual time the 'plant needs
it is the all-important factor; it is more
important than the amount of rain that
falls.”
Mr. Clayton points out that there is a
lack of soil-moisture data in Australia, and
that it is a field of investigation which could
be usefully explored. He quotes “a com-
petent authority” as saying that in the Great
Plains area of the U.S.A., which is semi-
arid, evaporation is as important as rain-
fall. He states, however, while allowing that
excellent wheat crops are grown in 10-inch
country in Westralia (and in Victoria and
South Aus. also), that on the scanty figures
available Westralia has a higher rate of
evaporation than N. S. Wales. This, he
adds, “is a disadvantage to Westralia, especi-
ally as the spring rains in the State are by
no means reliable. It means that to grow
wheat successfully the farmers have to
depend on early-maturing varieties (except
in their most favored districts), so that the
crops will be matured before the extreme dry-
ness, combined with the heat of summer.
unduly depresses the yield.” But are the
spring rains in Westralia “by no means
reliable,” and have the farmers to “depend on
early-maturing varieties” ?
THE ANTI-FLY CAMPAIGN.
From different parts of Australia come
reports that the blowfly pest is particularly
bad this year. Naturally there has been an-
other outbreak of suggestions for control
of the fly :
“Columbus”: Never destroy fresh offal' or
carcases in sheep country; they present the
most effective trap of all, and divert the
fly from the live sheep. If the spot can be
revisited in three or four days prepare for
burning and apply the match when it is
teeming with maggots. If this is incon-
venient throw the carcase into the fork of
a tree or across a branch or fence and slash
the hanging parts. It will then soon drain
out and leave the maggots without susten-
ance, while many more will fall to the ground
and perish before reaching maturity.
“Lotion”: Touching “Old Blue’s” notion
of mixing turps with salt-lick to prevent
flies attacking sheep (B. 30/7/’3O). When
dogs in Western Queensland are in-
fested with tick they are given sulphur in
their foods, and it is decidedly effective—
more so than dipping. What about a little
more sulphur _ in the sheep-lick? It stops
the tick, so it ought to stop the maggot.
Anyway, I am going to give it a spin.
BEATING THE BLOWFLY.
“Wetherby”: I note Mr. Donkin’s flytrap
(B. 13/8/’3O), and feel sure it is well worth
a. trial. But while the sheepman is busy
killing blowflies there is another gentleman
working against him all the time —the kan-
garoo-shooter. When on the job he shoots
80 to 150 ’roos a week, skins them, and leaves
an attractive bait for the blowfly. Of course
the man must live; but isn’t it time he should
be compelled, under heavy penalties, to spray
every carcase with an arsenical preparation?
TOO MANY BREEDS.
■ “Rendee” : One cause of our comparatively
slow progress in the production of pork and
bacon is that we are fostering too many
breeds. This is particularly the case in
Queensland.
The pig which reaches the 1201 b. mark
quickly may kill out too soft, too fat in pro-
portion to flesh, and with too great a per-
centage of moisture (an important point) ;
and the loss in bone and offal may be too
great. Breeders should see pigs first on the
hoof, then on the table after dressing, and
when cured. They would then discover the
faults of the outwardly prime pig.
White pigs do not as a rule stand the
heat well. Gloucester Old Spots are too
heavy in bone and offal, and pushed to the
1201 b, mark are immature and too soft.
Poland-Chinas, though excellent in some
respects, tend, like the Duroc-Jersey, to cure
out too fat and soft, and lose too much in
moisture content. The British Black is not
well sprung in the sides, and when dressed
displays more seedy-cut than is desirable;
nor is the breed hardy enough for Australian
conditions. None of our pure breeds, in fact,
furnishes the best results in the finished
article.
Of the crossbreeds the Berk.-Tam. has given
the most universal satisfaction. In pork,
the flesh is firm, sweet and well propor-
tioned with fat. Cured into bacon, the loss
by evaporation is exceptionally low, while
the sides and hams have the most desirable
qualities.
DRAINAGE OF COASTAL AREAS.
“Stonax”: Having had over 30 years’
experience of the class of coastal land re-
ferred to by “R.X.8.” (B. 13/8/’3O), I
can confirm what he says. Subsoil drain-
age is essential to good cultivation and con-
servation of moisture; but methods vary
with localities.
The land I took up was a stiff sedimentary
mud containing very little humus. Although
there was practically no seepage from the
higher levels, I found it necessary, after a
few seasons’ experience in conjunction with
an empty pocket, to put in a wide open
drain at right angles to the drift of the
underground soakage, making the drain the
boundary of a paddock and fencing it; and so
with other drains. The first ploughing I do in
winter, to the full depth of the cultivation,
leaving it in that condition till the winter
rains are over and excess of moisture has
evaporated. Then comes breaking down to
a suitable condition for shallow cross plough-
ing, rolling and harrowing firm so as to con-
serve the moisture. When brought to this
state the land is warm and moist, with a
mellow subsoil. It can be planted at the
beginning of the season and will bring the
crop to maturity even in a dry season, a
condition that in my experience is only pos-
sible with good drainage. The subsoil has
a tendency to become consolidated in time.
I have found that breaking up the surface
with the plough before the autumn rains set
in is beneficial.
Good drainage and cultivation will neutral-
ise acidity but not eradicate it.
HOME TANNING.
“Notwen”: “Kripple’s” par. (B. 27/S/’3O)
about saving odd skins and using them for
repairing harness, etc., is good; but why not
go one better and tan them yourself?
Over two quarts of bran pour five quarts
of boiling water; then drain. Make an
equal quantity of salt water by putting into
boiling water as much salt as will dissolve.
Mix the two liquids, and leave till luke-
warm ; then to each gallon of the mixture,
add an ounce of sulphuric acid. Now
immerse skins, stirring occasionally till they
are tanned. Sheep-skins take from 40 to
60 minutes. When tanned rinse in water
and stretch out and peg securely in a shady
place till dry.
Skins must be clean and free from par-
ticles of iiesh before immersion. It is also
a good plan to commence rubbing to make
them pliable before they are quite dry and
hard.
Cow- and sheep-skins make good bedside
mats; or, lined, can be used as driving rugs.
The wool from the sheep-skins can be cleaned
by soaking well in hot sodawater and then
rinsing several times; after which it should
be put on a sheet of iron and kept in place
by wire-netting. If done on a sunny day, it
will dry in a few hours. It can then be
teased and used for stuffing pillows. Teas-
ing it is slow work, but the stuffing lasts.
THE BRIDLE-BREAKER.
“Yarri”: An annoying horse is one that
can’t be trusted to tie up, that pulls back
and breaks away at the least provocation, or
no provocation at all. Besides damaging or
destroying a good bridle, the brute often sets
his rider a long tramp. The cause is mostly
in the breaking-in, some breakers not bother-
ing to teach the colt to tie up, though that
should be the first lesson after the youngster
has been mounted. There are many ways
of doing this, and of curing older horses of
pulling back, but the simplest is to tie them
up with a strong greenhide halter; if you
have a bad one, put it round his neck instead
of on his head. It doesn’t take many argu-
ments with that to cure him. When a
young horse is tied up with anything that
is easily broken the habit is formed.
I knew a selector who always broke in
his horses to stand anywhere with the reins
trailing. This is a convenience in any situa-
tion. Near his house he had a post sunk
out of sight in the ground, with a ring
bolted to the top of it. He used strong
plaited-hide reins on a young horse, and
when he dismounted he tied the ends of them
to the ring. For a few times the colt would
try to walk away, but only to find himself
securely anchored. Ever afterwards when
the reins were dropped, either in town or
in the bush, he would stand there under the
impression that he was tied up.
CLEAR BRANDING.
“P.0.T.K.” : First, cleanliness is essential.
Brands must be clean and with a good face;
horses must be reasonably clean. The proper
degree of heat is perhaps the most important
thing. A cold brand smudges and blisters; a
brand too hot makes a mess of complicated
letters and figures and leaves an unsightly
sore. Next, a smooth surface is 10 times
better than a rounded one. With horses, the
shoulder is an admirable place; with cattle,
there is nothing better than the flat bit on
top of the rump, between the butt of the
tail and the hip joint. Unless a horse is
particularly ragged there is no need to clip it
before branding. Nor is oiling the portion
or smoothing it with fat necessary.
It is a comparatively easy matter to
gauge the correct degree of heat. Pine or
deal is no good; light timbers scorch too
easily—you need an old and dry hardwood.
When the brand burns that immediately it
is applied with smoke and makes a clear im-
press without flame, the brand is right. If
there is a burst of flame the thing is too hot.
Any sort of a glow is too hot; it needs to be
just the other side of a dull red. If the brand
is used before it will scorch the wood it is
only inflicting pain and w T asting time.
With a good brand the correct application
is only a touch with horses, and a shade
heavier with cattle. Be firm, light and quick.
Don’t hold it on the part till it curls with
smoke. When the brand is withdrawn a
man soon sees whether it has taken or not.
If he doubts, let him rub the brand briskly
with liis hand. That will sweep all the
charred hair and skin aside. The brand
should then show plainly in crinkled skin.
If the skin is not crinkled the brand has not
taken.
Some try to get over the untaken parts
by applying the brand again; hence you read
in the waybill “Brand indistinct.” The best
way is to paint the untaken part with fat,
oil or a stripe of Stockholm tar — not coal
tar. If neatly done this will make the brand
complete.
Always the branding irons should receive
care. If they get pitted, and chips are knocked
out of them, they should be done up with a
file—the faces made smooth, knife-edges
blunted and the whole thing brought up to
order. After branding, and while the irons
are still hot, they should be dipped in a tin
of fat or tar. They should have sufficient
heat to make that fat or tar sizzle and smoke,
dissolve and let the irons sink in them.
That gives the brands a coat of preservative,
and then they may be hung up and put away
to come out in good order next time they are
required.
FLOOD RAILS.
“Lucerne Flea”: An alternative scheme to
that of “Mulyan” (B. 3/9/’3O). Instead of
a wire cable, use an old piece of three-inch
water-pipe across the creek. Hang a rail
from this by means of an eyebolt every two
feet, with a pin and washer at the outside
of each end one, to stop sliding along the
pipe. To the rail nail some old sheets of
galvanised iron, cut at the bottom to fit the
creek bed, and with another rail nailed
across the bottom edge on the downstream
side to hold them together.
When the creek is dry the iron hangs
vertically, and wind seems to have very little
effect on it. But, even when the creek comes
down a banker, flood waters simply swing
it up to the water level without any rub-
bish being caught; and, of course, it always
swings down as the water recedes. The best
of flood-rails will catch rubbish ; then other
stuff piles up and at last the whole show
goes west. But I know of an iron floodgate
which has stood up to the floods of a genera-
tion, and is still sound.
HOME-MADE LIME-SULPHUR.
“P. Aitch”: This is one of the most effec-
tive of sprays, and is easily manufactured. I
use it in three strengths: summer, 1 in 50;
spring, 1 in 30 ; and winter, 1 in 10. The
cost is about sixpence per gallon for a spray
equal in strength to 28deg. Beaurne.
The formula followed is what is known as
the 50-100-50 —501 b. of the best stone lime,
1001 b. of ground sulphur and 50 gallons of
rainwater. Place three gallons of water in
a 20-gallon boiler of the ordinary household
type and start the fire. Throw in 201 b.
of lime, and when slaking is well under way
add 401 b. of sulphur, with sufficient water
to make a thin paste. When slaking is
complete almost fill the boiler with water,
and stir constantly until the mixture is
boiling vigorously. If there is a tendency to
boil over put in a little cold water and keep
stirring. Cook for an hour or until there is
no sign of sulphur powder and the liquid
has become a rich amber color. Strict
attention to stirring and boiling is essential.
Go by the color; sometimes boiling for 45
minutes results in a good “cook.” Pour the
liquid into a storage barrel which has a tap
fitted a few inches from the bottom. This
permits the sludge (there should not be
much) to settle. Cover with a layer of
kerosene.
My plan prior to removing the spray from
the boiler is to dip out a small quantity,
cool by immersing the container in cold run-
ning water and when cold testing the strength
with a specific gravity hydrometer. If you
possess a Beaurne hydrometer all the better.
To convert the specific gravity of the liquid
into degrees Beaurne take a sp. gr. of 1.16
to equal 20deg. Beaurne, subtract this from
the hydrometer reading, ignore the decimal
point and add 20. The result is the approxi-
mate degrees Beaurne. For example, assume
the hydrometer reading is 1.28. subtract
1.16, ignore the decimal point, add 20 and
the result is 32deg. Beaurne.
Home-made lime-sulphur runs anywhere
between 25deg. and 32deg.; it all depends
on your experience and luck. Plot out a
spray-strength card and keep it handy. The
quantity of a concentrated spray having a
density of 32deg. Beaurne required to make
50 gallons of diluted spary is: Winter
strength, 4 gallons 3 quarts ; spring, 1 gallon
21 quarts; summer, 1 gallon. For every
degree below 32deg. add to the figures given
11 pint of the concentrate in the case of
the winter spray, one pint to the spring figure
and a half-pint for summer. It is not exact,
but I find it near enough.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
I have over 100 acres of black-soil flat
at Theodore, in the Dawson Irrigation Area
( Q .). The area was once flooded, but flood
waters are now diverted. The soil is very
(Continued on page 2o


/
30,000
20,000
10,000
\
\
t-ire
;^y<s
T '.o'V
1 00,000
forty
the fiffht
is hardest
60 7o
90,000
'fEAR.S , -tO 20 3o
50
40
a>»
i*> average Life
ends at
fifty-five
80,000
2
i in i mm mm
7 0,000
mill <<IIIIIM<W »<ww>Hi <r
TM mm
for mm life
U partly won
fo
60.000
//
fj
50,000
n
Wm:
iv
40,000
v*>
SB*
4^
Steeper \
and steeper
slants the XAne
&
>Sb-
=4
-a
55 60 05
80
35 40 45 50
20
Wears 5 10
85 90 95 too 105
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may be ex-
tended ;5, 1 o— or more —years
of life being gained by timely
attention to the symptoms of
disorder.
Why Age 40
is often the turning point in health
Start at 20 to guard against these insidious “ After-40 Ailments”
that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women...
ACCORDING to averages, you and I will
die at fifty-five—or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Average. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy —maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble—begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 1 00— though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in too-
concentrated a form. The delicate, over-
burdened kidney cells
HARRISON'S
k:~..cy & bladoeb
o PILL
UA—
]-harimson;s
KIDNEY and BUwDUt.
PI LLS
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Backache begins; pains down the groins;
swollen joints, limbs and feet; dizziness; pos-
sibly severe inflammation of the bladder and
urinary tract; rheumatism, which, in turn, may
seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
“After-40 Disorders.”
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should— if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrison s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful healthy
activity, five, ten —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-, and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISON'S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing Aches &. Pains at
Make You QUICKLY Young & Well Again !


a
OOK
‘"’practical
UNDERSTANDING
ELECTRICITY
PRICE 22/-
Postage 1/- Extra.
AUDEL’S HANDY BOOK OF
PRACTICAL ELECTRICITY
A quick, simplified ready reference, giving
complete instruction and inside informa-
tion. Handy to use. Easy to understand.
For Engineers, Professional Electricians,
Students and all interested in Electricity.
A reliable authority and a handy helper
for every electrical worker.
INFORMATION
The 10/fO pages and 2600 diagrams give
accurate, up-to-date and complete infor-
mation on: Rules and Laws, RADIO,
Storage Batteries, WIRING DIA-
GRAMS, Power and House Wiring,
Automatic ’Phones, Auto Ignition, Motor
Troubles, ARMATURE WINDING,
Cable Splicing, Elevators and Cranes,
Sign Flashers, Transformers, Practical
Management, Modern Applications—
READY REFERENCE on every elec-
trical subject. Pocket Size, handsomely
bound in flexible Red LEATHER.
m
• • -
5 ■
m
it
2>
S *
<Sk
ess
, 2
<2
*1
SCfe
<2
%
s*■
-
JUST READY!
Inside Trade Information
for Carpenters, Builders,
Joiners, Building Mech-
anics and all Woodwork-
ers on Care and Use of
Tools, How to Use the
Steel Square, Pile Saws,
Make All Kinds of Joints,
Draw and Read Plans,
Write Specifications,
Make Estimates, How to
Frame Roofs and Houses,
Lay Out Work, Put in
Foundations, Full In-
struction on In- and Out-
side Building Work, Stair
> Building, Sawmill Work,
Practical Painting, Thou-
sands of Short Cuts that
save time and money,
information usually
obtained only by hard ex-
perience.
AUDEL’S CARPENTERS AND BUILDERS’ GUIDES
1600 PAGES—37OO ILLUSTRATIONS.
Audel's New Guides consist of four handy pocket-size volumes of over 1600 pages
of practical data, thoroughly illustrated with 3700 charts, diagrams, including calcu-
lations for every job from making the excavation to constructing the complete building.
4 VOLS., PRICE 32/-
Postage 1/6 Extra.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
DANKS’ BEAUX ART
ELECTROLIERS
Achieve the true home spirit
We suggest that you call and see these and
dozens of other fixtures, including designs in
colonial and Spanish period designs, so popular
at present.
THE FINE LIGHT SHADE-O-
LITE LINE.
A graceful yet lively design in bronze.
It achieves the true home spirit as well
as efficiency in lighting. Pleasingly
embellished with grill-work and delicately
tinted honey-glass—it makes a central
feature for any room.
BEAUX ART FIVE-LIGHT
ELECTROLIER AND
FROSTELLE GLASS.
A Mediaeval design with delicately tinted
and specially mounted Frostelle Glass.
A graceful design to enhance the decora-
tive beauty of any living- or dining-room.
Call and inspect the above, and also the newest Cooking, Sweeping, Washing
and Polishing electric appliances.
flmmnmuinn
immmimma
&SONI
1 JOHN
mimitiiiuiiiis
siuiiiiiimummi.T
ixe.
pTY-
-324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
TRADE MARK
śd
12 CM-®®
Fos., A» i,oK ’
. a? same
,T>t! in the same
inchest !!idew used
tifteS 5 u " thewotld.
thtouS^ oUtttie . in .
That auaUtv «* ®
bJlt. *»**%&
andeasV acc ura-
° f Se^t.22Cal-
cv™ mc _ Rifles ate
ibet Tatge
ar-sra
Inthe making °f roar "'
records r a \.
Winchester.^
' b - Am Tduporrtor
bedePe (tre e straight
’^ dabl£
fP Quits.
mmmm
WJKOPPER WAD BULLET
■JfAOZ
gigSigl
IB
Wester
KDPPERKLfIO BULLET
STAIfN LESS
sd
■S
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN. CONN., U. S. A,
Always use Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Rifles —they j
are made for each other. TKeve’s a Winchester Rifle and there's
Winchester Ammunition for every .22 caliber shooting purpose, j 9
sd
Mf DOWELLS
SECOND SHIPMENT Of THE FAMOUS
fidborL^iamondmc
PHONOGRAPHS
WILL Al5O PLAY ANY NEEDLE RECORDS
sd
sd
mm
'IOM
"2S-
X
McDowells,
QU is7'lo'o
Schubert Model
Known the World over
for
TO EVERY
,a PURCHASER
rfj Cdiion Accord!*
yttV™ and an Extra
Ucc dk Speaker
THE DIAMOND DISC SCHUBERT MODEL
Ls beautifully constructed in high-grade
timber. It is an Edison, and there is no
more to sav.
£57/10/- Value.
SPECIAL PRICE £2l
We have also in stock the FAMOUS
BEETHOVEN MODEL.
80 guineas Value.
SPECIAL PRICE £29/ 157-
Prices quoted F. 0.8. Sydney.
Packing £1 extra.
KING 8 GEORGE STS
SYDNEY.


The Practical
Evening Shoe
Light and easy-fitting .... and
built for sturdy wear in spite of
all its suppleness. The sole is
welted .... the lacing shaped to
curve without tightness over
instep. The upper is of finest
patent leather. Full and half-
sizes available in three fittings,
narrow, medium and wide.
507-
Dancing Pumps
Low-heeled, with soles of
utmost pliancy. Upper made
entirely of patent leather. Full
and half sizes.
28/6
Order by post. —s t a t e
both width and size. Ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Patent Leather
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy,
new cleaning outfit.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
PPL 195
The
Shave
Plough
Increases
Cultivation.
sd
SHAVE’S PATENT STUMP-JUMP
REVERSIBLE DISC PLOUGH is the
lightest draught Plough on the
market, and requires only two horses
instead of four.
The SHAVE PLOUGH enables you
to make full and good use of all
uneven ground which is inaccessible
to the ordinary Plough.
The SHAVE PLOUGH is made in
FIVE different types:—
Type D.—The Standard
Plough (double furrow).
Type B.—Single - furrow
Plough.
Type M.—For Market Gar-
deners (with high wheels).
Type O.—For Orchardists.
Type H. —Hard Ground.
For further particulars, send for
illustrated Booklet.
CH£nm£RS
234-236 Flinders Lane, Me.bourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
fjfl (kl'tUqW
A cheque is a passport to business consideration.
A cheque is a receipt in itself. The whole of the
modern fabric of trading and production is based
on cheque payments.
Get into cheque circles with a bank deposit!
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London.
r>>
%
w
AUSTRALIAN & TEXAS SADDLERY
£
Jfi
THE “TEXAS
RANGER” COW-
BOY SADD LE,
double rigged' with
cord cinchas.
£l3/18/0.
Fancy Studded Cowboy
Bridles, complete with
gold color bit with
nickel horse head orna-
ment, 76/- and 72/6
Fancy Breastplates to
match, 65/- and 75/-
Cowboy Chaps, dark flexible hide 75/-, 87/6, 95/-
Cowboy Quirts, shot loaded 8/6, 15/-
Lariats or Lassos, braided cotton . . 15/-. Linen . . 22/6
Cowboy Spurs . . 7/6 to 35/- pr. Straps . . 5/6 to 8/6
Australian Stock Saddles, the “Pioneer” £7/17/6
The “Tambo” £lO. The “Bundy” £ll/18/6
Park Saddles —-“Pioneer Park,” £7/10/-; “Kemp” Style,
£B/8/-; Queensland Park, £9/5/-
Saddles all fitted'with stirrups, girth, surcingle and leathers.
Freight free for cash in N.S.W.
Station Bridles, lin. Ring head, with bit 15/-
Postage Extra on all lines except Saddles.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ďs
heavy, over 10 feet deep and requires level-
ling, as it is slightly holey. Would the soil
he too heavy for lucerne or pasture and for
irrigation generally ? —8440.
Analysis of the soil shows it to be'alkaline
on the surface, with rather low capillarity,
poor in nitrogen and phosphoric acid, hut
containing a high amount of lime and potash.
The soil should improve with cultivation and
green manuring, and prove suitable for cotton
and lucerne if phosphates are applied. The
area manager at Theodore could advise you
further.
(1) Best ivay to sterilise cows’ milk and
cream so that after placing it in air-tight
tins it will keep for an indefinite time? (2)
Approximate cost of plant required for fac-
tory ivith 200 gallons daily output? —B3s2.
(1) Pasteurisation, followed by shock cool-
ing, is recommended by modern authorities.
The milk or cream won’t keep for an “indefi-
nite time” however treated. Bottles with
cardboard stoppers are preferable to tins as
containers. (2) A recent N. S. Wales esti-
mate including all plant and labor, but not
buildings, was £742 ss.
Best treatment for a horse slightly touched
in the wind? —8424.
Keep the animal in high, dry and ventilated
surroundings. Feed on a well-balanced ration,
avoiding as far as possible bulky food, such
as hay. Water before feeding. Avoid sudden
and severe exercise or anything which would
cause much excitement, especially just after
feeding. Moderate work and regular rest
are advisable.. Split up over several feeds
during the day a powder composed of 14
drams powdered sulphate of iron, 3grs. pow-
dered arsenic and 1 dram peasemeal. The
arsenic must not be continued for longer than
10 days at a time.
Cheapest means of raising water 20 ft.
from river? Is it possible to make a wooden
pump ? —8512.
Instal a small oil-engine pumping set.
Details of a suitable plant could be obtained
on application to such firms as Buzacott and
Co., or John Danks. Can’t recommend a
wooden pump for a 20ft. draw.
(1) Is the tableland known as the
Granite Belt, around Stanthorpe (Q.), suit-
able for tobacco-growing? (2) Where to
procure seed? (3) Time to plant? (4)
Where to get information on culture, curing,
etc. ?-—8504.
(1) Can’t say definitely. It is considered
advisable to experiment in a small way
before engaging on. a commercial area. (3)
The tobacco crop is grown in the warmest
months of the year. The seed beds should
be sown six to eight weeks before the time
when rainfall to grow the crop is expected.
(2) and (4) Apply to Agriculture Depart-
ment, Brisbane.
(1) Best variety of tobacco seed to plant
in Stanthorpe district (Q.)? (2) Name of
firm that buys leaf? (3) Comparison of
prices between flue-cured and sun-cured?
(4) For flue-curing what is shed constructed
of, what fire is used, and is day-and-night
attention necessary? (5) Where, can I get
information as to culture and curing? —Bs29.
(1) Hickory, Pryor or Warne. (2)
British Australasian Tobacco Co., Kensing-
ton, Sydney. (3) Tobacco manufacturers
refuse to buy any leaf not flue-cured. (4)
Flue-curing barns are constructed of wood,
or wood and iron. Attention during cure is
necessary the whole of each 24 hours. (5)
Apply Agriculture Department, Brisbane, for
pamphlet.
(1) How much tobacco is grown in Aus-
tralia? (2) Is there an Australian-grown
and manufactured tobacco on the market and
its name? (3) What are the prospects of
the tobacco-growing industry in this country?
—8538.
(1) The quantity of Australian-grown
leaf used in manufacture in 1927-28 was
1,007,0891 b. (2) Several. “Sunday Best,”
“Bronzewing” and “Waratah” will do to
go on with. (3) Prospects are considered
very favorable in Queensland. Apply to
Agriculture Department, Brisbane, for
pamphlet.
(1) Is peanut growing profitable in
Q’land? (2) What area of cultivation would
yield sufficient to mgke a fqir living? (3)
What period must elapse between planting
and marketing? (4) What side-lines would
you recommend to be grown as well as pea-
nuts? (5) Would land round about Crows
Nest ( about 30 miles from Toowoomba)
be suitable for this kind of cultivation? (6)
Would irrigation be an asset? (7) Would
there be the same demand for peanuts in
Q’land as in. N.S.W.? (8) Where can 1
buy books on the subject?— BsB6.
(1) It has been profitable, but there is now
over-production. (2) Twenty-five to thirty
acres. (3) Sixteen weeks from planting to
harvest; add six weeks for drying, picking
and transport to market. (4) All crops
suited to the climate that succeed on a
friable soil for which a market exists. (5)
Peanuts do best in a warmer climate than
that of Crows Nest. (6) Probably. (7)
Owing to greater population demand is
greater in N.S.W. (8) Write to Agriculture
Department, Brisbane, for pamphlet.
(1) In reply to a recent query you state that
mushroom-growing has not been established in
Australia due to lack of good material. Does
that mean that imported spawn is unsatisfac-
tory? I have tried both French and English
spawn without success. (2) Is it possible
to obtain Australian spawn in Sydney or
Melbourne? (3) What conditions are essen-
tial to commercial mushroom culture?— B6s2.
(1) Imported spawn was meant. (2)
N.S.W. Agriculture Department knows of no
locally produced spawn that is available. (3)
In IJ.S.A., where mushroom-growing has
developed of recent years, large wooden
houses have been built for the purpose of
growing the crop, and temperature control
is possible in all seasons owing to the instal-
lation of heating and refrigeration. Mush-
rooms are grown in trays of prepared manure
which are located in racks within the houses.
All the manure is sterilised and the larger
concerns employ biologists for the preparation
of good type spawn.
(1) Is there in Australia a ready sale
for fat Indian game fowls? (2) Are they
decidedly preferred by buyers to other heavy
breeds as table birds? —8771.
(1) In Vic., as a rule, good prices are
obtained for them if young and in prime
condition. Recently chickens of this breed
about four months old sold at 7s. to Bs. per
pair on a weak market. (2) The buyers for
the best trade prefer a bird with white legs
and skin and finer texture of flesh, such as
Sussex, Buff Orpingtons, Faverolles or
Dorkings. With buyers for contracts where
weight is the main consideration, game, and
game crossed with Rhode Islands Reds, Ply-
mouth Rocks, etc., are in demand, but many
customers have an objection to yellow-legged
birds on account of the coarser flesh and
yellow fat.
(1) How many pounds of arsenic pent-
oxide to the gallon of water in a2O per'cent,
solution? (2) How much does a tree need?
(3) What is the difference between ordinary
arsenic and the pentoxide? —S4o3.
(1) Two pounds. (2) Approximately 10
ounces per 12in. of diameter. (3) Ordinary
white arsenic is arsenic trioxide. Arsenic
pentoxide is a higher oxide, in which two
arsenic atoms are combined with five oxygens.
HINTS FOR THE FARM,
“Bad Australian”: Mosquitoes have a
decided objection to the smell of bruised tea-
tree bark. Also if corn is stowed in a barn
or shed which has a layer of fresh, sappy
tea-tree bark on the floor and a dado of
the same material around the sides, 99
weevils out of 100 will decide that granary
is no place for them.
“Panurge”; Next time you make a set of
hooks for swings, have them a bit longer
than usual and shape them to fit different
nuts on your implements. They make excel-
lent wrenches and you can’t lose them. Try
starting the team before you’ve hooked up
again.
“Mug Cocky”: “Wongi” and “1.L.G.” (B.
13/8/’3O) tender sound advice on light-land
working in Westralia. I mean to give both
systems a trial over a 'small'area this season.
Another method found satisfactory in many
cases is to use a heavy set of harrows, giv-
ing a stroke about a month after ploughing,
and another after the first rain following the
harvest.
“Wrash”: A trap for sparrows that are
robbing the seed beds. With 2in. x lin.
timber build a frame 6ft. 4in. long, 28in.
wide and 32in. deep. With slab ting parti-
tions boarded on the faces, divide interior
into three parts, the upper sections 26in.,
24in. and 26in., the lower, on a level 3£iff.
from bottom of frame- —35in., Gin. and 35in.
Cover bottom 6in. section with canary wire-
netting haying three IJin, holes cut along
centre; close in ends, and .bottom tier with
similar meshed wire. Sprinkle grains or
crumbs on ground and place trap over them.
Sparrows will pop down through holes and
on under boarded partitions, and will be still
there when the destroyer calls.
“Go Do”: The cost of keeping growing
potato plants free of weeds can be greatly
reduced by judicious use of a light three-leaf
tine harrow. As soon as planting is complete
give the paddock a couple of harrowings, and
after each sliower the harrows should be
run up and down the rows to preserve the
mulch. They destroy weed seedlings grow-
ing between the plants, and harrowing can
be carried on until these are about 4in. high.
“Hatter” : Potato yields? Many Tas. far-
mers dug over eight tons per acre last season.
They are discarding the bag-of-super.-to-the-
acre practice for a balanced system including
s. of ammonia and potash.
“B. Sting”: Robber bees have a glossy,
hairless appearance, and when leaving a nest
run up the face of the box and then vol-
plane downwards—workers fly upward from
the opening. Kill the burglars; otherwise
when there is a scarcity of blossoms they
will lead their swarm in raids on neighbor-
ing hives. Having acquired the buccaneering
habit, they become reluctant to forage
honestly.
“Gladfield”: A spray that will kill bul-
rushes can be made by mixing 21b. of pent-
oxide in every gallon of water used. Stir well
until it is all dissolved ; get a hand spray-
pump, and use a fine spray. The hotter and
drier the weather the better, but keep stock
out of the way.
“Poker”: When sowing maize for green
feed and silage, use about two and a half
times as much seed as for a grain crop.
“Corncake”: If possible use dressed tim-
ber for the pig-house t it is less likely to
harbor vermin. 'Spraying with wood-preserv-
ing oil at intervals will keep pests and mos-
quitoes away—skeeters take condition off
the grunters.
“Bufforp”: For egg production there are
only three breeds worth considering—Leg-
horns, Black Orps. and Langshans. Leghorns
and one of the heavier breeds will give a
sustained egg production all the year. Exten-
sive use of free range, green food and milk
will bring production costs down and mean
healthier birds.
“Old Blue”: When sharpening the crow-
bar put a slight bend in the blade six inches
from the point. It acts as a lever and makes
hard sinking easier.
“Jamal”: The first essential in gate erec-
tion is to see that the gate length accurately
corresponds with the width between the
posts. Next dig a six-inch trench between
the posts, at the bottom level of which cut
a shallow mortise deep enough to hold a
four-inch sapling, which is then placed in
the trench and wedged into each post.
Covered over, and below the level of the
road, the sapling acts as a brace against
the posts creeping inwards. The usual stay
and wires prevent movement in the other
direction.
“Brady’s Lookout”,: In parts of Tasmania
farmers use a novel method of providing
shelter for spare cattle and horses. They
erect six or eight spars with forks on top
about six or seven feet out of the ground,
and drop spars into the forks, crossing this
framework with old rails, light bush spars
and branches, or anything suitable. Then
when the threshing machine comes along they
build the straw stack over the frame, leav-
ing the side away from the. weather open.
The animals feed on the straw and chaff
from the inside, and are warm and dry on the
roughest night.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’’ : or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Carpenter, Sydney, holding driver’s license, wants
work of any sort anywhere.—B9l3.
Young man (N.S.W.), exp. with sheep, wants job
on station or elsewhere.—B9o4.
Woolclasser (28), W.A. honors diploma, wants
wool-rolling and -classing, October to November.
Certified brokers’ credentials. —8868.
Young man, Sydney, exp. draughtsman and
engineer, wants employment with engineering firm
or on station in N.S.W. —8890.
Gentleman (40), Sydney, wants position in East
as representative of Australian manufacturer. Born
India; chief accountant oil co. 15 years.—BBB 9.
Scot, many years’ business exp. in Buenos Ayres,
now returning via London, seeks agencies, business
commissions, etc. —8885.
Lady, Sydney, wants position as housekeeper. Refs.
—8925.
Young man (26), Vic., ag. coll, training, six years’
exp. cultivation, wants job on farm or plantation,
anywhere.—BB9s.
Lady, Sydney, wants position as companion-help or
lady-help in Christian home.—BB 93.
Registered pharmaceutical chemist (Melb.) wants
position, town or country.—BB 62.
Returned soldier, Sydney, married, saddler, book-
keeper, storekeeper, gardener, wants position, go
anywhere.—B9B9.
Middle-aged joui-nalist, Sydney, wants any kind of
j0b.—8984.
Young man (20), Hawkesbury dip., wants position
in N.S.W. where there is chance for advancement.
Mechanical knowledge.—B966.
Engineer, fitter and turner, N.S.W., requires posi-
tion, used to steam and Diesel engines, motors, etc.,
go anywhere.—B967.
Canadian wants position on poultry farm, fully
exp. grading, record and hatching; can run large
farm.—B97o.
Erecting engineer, N.S.W., 8.0. T. certificate,
Diesel, steam, refrigerating and factory exp., wants
j0b.—8987.
Words of verse containing line “There’s a one-
eyed, green-eyed idol in the land of Chieftain Do.”
—8985.
Words of songs, “My Old Kentucky Home,” “Where (
the River Shannon Flows,” “The Dying Stockman”
and “Waltzing Matilda.” —8992.
Kindergarten governess, wishing make arrange-
ments for 1931, wants position with family in Q’land
or N.T. next year. Refs. —8978.
Yeung man, Tas., with farming and orcharding
exp., wants job on sheep-station or farm.—B979.
Lady, Tas., bright, cheerful, musical, wants posi-
tion as companion or governess. Refs. —8977.
Young man, born north-west cattle station; has
held executive positions in city, knowledge motors,
book-keeping, etc., wants position on station or in
Islands. —9 605.
Young man (23), Sydney, well educated, three
years’ exp. with wool and sheep, wants responsible
position on station.—B9s4.
To buy Brennan’s “XXI Poems,” Adams’s “The
Melburnians,” Tomlinson’s “Sea and the Jungle”
(1912), Conrad’s “Chance” (1913), McFee’s “Letters
from an Ocean Tramp.”—9oo3.
To buy slide rule, well scaled. —9000.
To buy second-hand copies. May, June and July,
“Cosmopolitan” Magazine.—B993.
To buy old-fashioned musical-b0x.—9002.
To buy “Steam Road Vehicles,” by L. M. Jones.
—8855.
To buy books relating to early Tasmania.—BB 92.
To buy early Australian playbills, broadsheets,
miniature editions of newspapers and ' trench news-
papers. —8896.
Wanted to purchase newspaper cuttings, etc., con-
cerning the Gun-alley tragedy and other Aus-
tralian murders. —8873.
To buy Churchward’s “Arcana of Freemasonry.”
—8902.
Words of comic song beginning “She Were poor,
but she were ’onest.”—B9l4. '
Information Sought.
What is paraldehyde, and what are its
uses? —8728.
It is a clear, colorless liquid, soluble in
1 in 10 of water arid freely in alcohol, used
medicinally as a sedative. As it does not
depress the heart when used in medicinal
doses it may be given to patients suffering
from cardiac disease, and it is much used
to produce sleep in the insane. Some prac-
titioners use it to alleviate bronchial asthma.
When taken continually the drug soon loses
its power as a hypnotic.
On what principle does the pedometer
register distances?— B6B4.
It is an apparatus in the form of a watch
containing a pendulum connected with a
train of cogs actuating pointers that indi-
cate yards and miles. Carried on the leg
of a walker, it registers the number of paces
he makes. The user adjusts it to Iris par-
ticular length of pace by walking a known
distance, and shortening or lengthening the
stroke of the pendulum by means of a screw.
Accuracy of recording depends on the uni-
formity of pace maintained throughout a
journey. j
What truth is there in the story that an
eccentric adventurer , claiming to he a mem-
ber of the Royal family, nearly secured con-
trol of Tasmania in the early years of last
century ? —8682.
The facts are that about the end of 1811
Jonathan Burke Hugo, son of a Dublin
tobacconist, arrived at Launceston (Tas.) in
a 100-ton brig which he had obtained, with
its cargo, on credit from a Calcutta firm.
He came under the name of McHugo, but
declared on landing that he was a member
of the Royal family, travelling incognito, and
represented that lie possessed authority to
supersede at pleasure all Governors at places
where he visited. He so impressed Major
Gordon, the commandant at Port Dalrymple,
that Gordon actually surrendered his com-
mand to Hugo. Other officers, however, in-
tervened, remonstrated with Gordon, and
finally sent Hugo to Sydney under a military
guard. In Sydney Hugo was examined by
a medical board which pronounced him to
be “in a state of outrageous insanity.” In
April, 1812, he was sent back to Calcutta,
was confined years in a lunatic asylum,
and eventually reached London, where in
1817 he was bombarding the Colonial Office
with petitions in which he claimed to be
descended from Earl Bqthwell and Mary
Queen of Scots, and to be the.. rightful heir
to the crown of England, but declared lie
would be content with a “moderate subsis-
tence.” What happened to him after that
is unknown.
Does the Australian anchovy differ from
the European species? Has it been com-
mercially exploited, and what ivaters does it
mostly frequent? —BG9B.
An Australian anchovy ( Engraulis aus-
tralis) is so similar to the European species
as to be distinguishable only with difficulty.
It occasionally occurs in enormous shoals
off the coasts of N.S.W., Vic. and Tas„ and
its range extends to south-western Australia,
southern Queensland and M.L. Though
abundant at certain seasons each year, it
is not utilised commercially.
What products can be derived from grass
trees, known in some localities as blaclcboys?
—B6Bl.
Several species yield a balsamic resin
known as “grasstree gum,” wdiich contains
picric acid (used in the manufacture of explo-
sives), but more profitable sources of supply
are available. The gum is also used in the
manufacture of varnish, and paper-pulp has
been experimentally manufactured from the
fibre.. Industrial alcohol has been extracted
from the trunk of the tree, which has also
a fairly high starch content.
(1) Is sales tax payable on goods ordered
for delives'y on August 1 last? (2) How
docs registration affect liability to pay sales
tax? (3) Is the payer of sales tax allowed
to pass it on to the ultimate buyer ?—BBB6.
(1) All contracts entered into on or before
July 9, 1930, are exempt from sales tax pro-
vided that the purchase price of the goods
was definitely stated in the order and was
not subject to any variation in the way of
market fluctuation, etc. (2) Sales tax is
payable by a registered person when he sells
goods to an unregistered person, that is, a
retailer or to a member of the public, or
to a registered person who does not quote
his certificate when ordering the goods. (3)
Purely a matter between seller and buyer.
My brother teas hilled at Gallipoli and
was buried in one of the military cemeteries
there. (1) Is it possible to secure a photo-
graph of his grave? (2) What icould it
cost? —-8799.
(1) Yes, from the-secretary, St. Barnabas
Hostels, 7 Hobart-place, London. Applica-
tion should be accompanied by money order,
and full regimental particulars of the soldier
concerned and name of cemetery should be
furnished. (2) One negative and two prints,
postcard size, are provided for 12s. 6d., in-
cluding postage.
(1) What branch of the Gommonioealth
voluntary military forces would you recom-
mend a wireless operator to join? (2) Con-
ditions of service? (3) Rates of pay? (4)
How promotion to commissioned ranks is
secured? (5) Where to enlist?-— BBOO.
(1) Australian Corps of Signals. (2) A
medical exam, must be passed. Age of enlist-
ment, 18 to 40; first period of enlist-
ment, 3 years; subsequent periods, 1 year.
(3) Rates of pay per day, private, 45.; cor-
poral, 95.; sergeant, ,10s. ; lieutenant, 15s. ;
captain, 225. 6d. (other ranks in propor-
tion). Separation allowance of Is. 3d. per
diem for wife and 71d. per diem for each
child is granted to married men and those
who support widowed mothers and who are
in receipt of less than Bs. per diem for camps
of continuous training. (4) First promotion
to non-commissioned rank is competitive,
according to the order of merit attained at
exam. Promotion to first commissioned rank
is made from warrant or non-commissioned
officers holding the appointment of lance-
sergeant or higher; also according to exam,
results. (5) Communicate with the mili-
tary headquarters at the capital city of the
State in which you live.
What was the cost of training the average
A.I.F, soldier from enlistment to . arrival on
scene of action? —8317.
Average cost of training, upkeep, equip-
ment, transport and pay until the date of
arrival in England was £lO9. Owing‘to the
many factors which existed subsequently to
arrival in England and prior to the.joining
of a unit in the field the cost for that period
has not been ascertained.
■ (1) I have a small Australian icrrwr\
bitch, and at times a foul-smelling, dark
liquid comes from the car. , Is this a. canker?
(2) What is the treatment? (.3) Can it be.
done without a vet.? (4) Is it dangerous?
(5) Is it contagious? —S692.
(1) Symptoms indicate canker, probably
caused by irritation due to the entrance of
fluid during bathing or to an injury. Can’t
say without inspection whether it is para-
sitic or not. (2) Cleanse the ear with a
10 p.c. warm solution of hydrogen peroxide,
and after drying swab with a lotion consist-
ing of a 1 p.c. solution of carbolic acid in
glycerine. Dress daily for at least a week.
A small forceps and cotton wool should be
used. (3) Yes. (4) It is a nasty trouble,
but serious complications are rare. (5) The
parasitic form may be considered contagious.
(1) What exam, must be passed to join
N.S.W. Public Service as junior clerk, especi-
ally Attomicy-GencraVs and Justice Dcpts.?
(2) Any informative literature regarding
entering Public Service? (3) Any exams, to
pass after admission? (4) Cost of tuition
for after-admission exams., if any f (5)
When ivill next entry exam, he held? —8411.
(1) There is an annual Public Service exam,
held in conjunction with the Intermediate
and Leaving Certificate exams. _ (2) A
pamphlet on the subject can be obtained from
the Public Service Board, 33 Hunter-street,
Sydney. (3) Yes. An officer must pass a
Higher Grades exam, in order to progress
beyond a salary of £449. (4) The majority
of officers study the prescribed textbooks
without coaching. (5) Can’t say. It has
been cut out this year.
How to treat anosmia in a dog? —B7o9.
The condition is uncommon, and is usually
observed in dogs infested with worms or
which have suffered from a debilitating
disease such as distemper. It implies a defi-
ciency in the quality of the blood, not neces-
sarily in the quantity. If worms are the
cause of the condition, the dog should receive
worm medicine —arica nut and extract. of
male fern —-followed by a mild purgative,
such as castor oil or olive oil. Tonics con-
taining iron are helpful, and one of the best
is Parrish’s chemical food. For small dogs
one; lialf-teaspoonful may be administered in
a little water twice daily. Large dogs may
receive •teaspoonful doses. Meat, gravy and
green Vegetables may be fed once, daily.
(1) What is the best market for crocodile
skins in .Australia? (2) What firms in
London would buy, what duty is payable in
England, and ivhat price would be paid? (3)
How to preserve the skins. (4) Is it pos-
sible to sell full-grown skins? ( Q’land buyers-
take only the baby ones.) —8181.
(1). There is only a small market for
crocodile skins in Australia. We understand
that Broomham Bros., tanners, Willoughby
(N.S.W.), have been recent purchasers, and
information as to state of market could pro-
bably be obtained from them. (2) Dyster,
Nalder and Co., 1 Pepys-street. Seething-
lane, E.C. 2 ; and S. Wright, 19 Richardson-
street, Bermondsey, S.E. —both London, are
leading hide- and skin-brokers that might pur-
chase. Advise that you communicate with
the “Leather World,” 177 Bermondsey-street,
London, S.E. 1, as to prices and tariff. (3)
Preserve by immersing in a strong salt solu-
tion (saturated solution using as much salt
as the water will dissolve), leave 24 hours
full out and drain, then cover with dry salt,
making a heap of the skins. After the skins
had been lying in salt for three weeks
they could be allowed to dry and shipped
in that condition. (4) Do not know of any
local tanners using large skins. English
requirements can be learned from the
“Leather World.”
(1) Is an Act in force in N.B.W. govern-
ing registration of opticians? (2) To be
registered, must a practising optician pass
an examination? (3) Is there a time limit
ivithin which one must register? (4) What
proof of bona-fides is required? (5) Where
can copy of Act be obtained? —8361.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes, unless he has practised
three years or over. (3) Within six months
from June 11,' 1930. (4) A matter for the
board (no regulations made yet). (5) Gov-
ernment Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney; 6d.
In answer to a Service query ( B. 27/S/’3O)
you say “There are no successful helicopters
anywhere in the world.” What about the
Gierva Autogiro, which has been tested and
found satisfactory by Sir Scfton Brancker
and other leading experts? —B793.
The Cierva Autogiro is not a helicopter.
Its -vertical propeller is not power driven.
The most promising of many real helicopter
designs seems to be that of Signor V. Isaaco,
an Italian, described in “Airways” (Lon-
don) over n year ago, but no more has been
heard of it.
Brief - details of the career of Russell, the
Sydney ironfounder ivlio in consequence of
the /increasing demands of his employees
closed down his works and returned to Eng-
land ? —iS624.
Peter N.icol Russell, ..a lad of 16, arrived
in Hobart from Scotland in 1832 with his
father, an engineer and ironmoulder. Settling
in Sydney in 1839, with two brothers he
established a foundry in 1842, and a success-
ful business was conducted for many years.
P. N. Russell retired in 1867, and went to
live in England. It was in 1875 that the
firm was closed down rather than meet the
employees’ demands. P. N. Russell gave
Sydney Uni. £50,000 in 1896 to endow a
faculty of engineering. He, gave another
£50,000 in i 904, conditionally on the Govern-
ment granting -£25,000 for new buildings
for the faculty. He died in London in 1905.
(1) What is the total indebtedness of S.
Australia, apart, from the State’s share of
the tear burden? (2) S. Australia’s annual
share of interest and sinking fund of war
debt? (3) Annual-share of war pensions
and repatriation allowances?■ (4) Annual
share of’ the cost - of treatment of soldiers
who were incapacitated? (5) Annual share
of defence expenditure? (6) Annual share
of old age and invalid pensions and the baby
bonus? (7) What payments are made• to
S. Australia under the Federal financial
agreement?- (8) Amount of S. Australia's
grant for Federal-aid roads and the sinking
fu n d contribution ? (9) Direct, , and indirect.
taxation levied on S. Australia by the Com-
monwealth?—-8324. , 1
(1) At June 30, 1930, the public debt
of S. Australia was £93,986,118. (2)
On. a per capita basis, the. S.. Australia
quota of interest is approximately £1,340,000
and of sinking fund ' £308,000. (3)
War pensions in 1929-30, £499,375. (Com-
monwealth; £7,919,476). Particulars of re-
patriation expenditure are not available. S.
Australia’s.;per capita share of the cost of
; war and Repatriation in 1927-28 (capital
liability) was- £62,855,274. (4) Not avail-
able. (5) On a per capita basis, £767,918
for 1927-28. Prior to federation £291,615
was expended by S.A. on defence works. (6)
For 1929-30, old age and invalid pensions,
£910,135 (Commonwealth, £10,910,796) ;
maternity allowances, £51,805 (Common-
wealth. £642,990). (7) In 1929-30 £831,185.
(8) For 1929-30. grant, £228,000; sinking-
fund payment, £3397. (9) For 1929-30,
customs, £2.176,693; excise. £517,062.; land
tax, £230,465; estate duty, £150,958; income
tax, £653.033; entertainments tax, £12,005.
Allowing for a credit of £2069 on war-time
profits tax the total is £4,068,253. These
figures represent collections in S.A. but it
must be remembered that moneys are col-
lected in one State in respect of goods con-'
sumed in or assessments made on account of
other States.
Brief Answers.
C.L.: Your capital liability on Jan. 3,
1931, will be £563 17s W.K.J.: The office of
Prime Minister of Britain carries no salary, but
it is usually held in conjunction with some salaried
Ministerial post. ...5.J.8.: Nothing to prevent a
lessee holding a- mail-carrying contract. .. VE.A.R.:
Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair is in Sydney Domain....
J.A.M.S.: They are paid a lump sum, all travel-
ling and housing expenses, and a weekly allowance
by the Australian Board of Control. The latter
shares all takings with the English authorities....
■ K.M. • (1) Yes. (2), (4) and (5) See pamphlet
“Coffee Growing,” obtainable from Agriculture Dept.,
Brisbane. (3) Seeds of Arabian coffee (variety most
free of disease) may be obtained from G. Broad,
Buderim (Q.) ... .W.K.: East Sydney Tech. Col.’S
furniture-drawing and -design course extends over
three years, students attending two nights weekly.
Details of fees and syllabus on application.... C.T.P.:
Bokhara clover is mainly used for renovating land
and green manuring. It is a biennial, and is
ploughed in at the end of the second year, before
seeding takes place. It has high fodder value, but
is likely to taint milk; also, flour, if it gets into
wheat paddocks N.C.: Eulomogo means “no finger
nails” ; douwingerie, “place of axe-stone”; wyanga,
“mother”; and koiyong, “native camp”. . . .W.A.W.:
Many signwriters are unemployed at present....
G.W.H.: Wash with soft soap and warm water, rub-
bing, briskly with'a cloth or brush ; then wash with
clean warm water and wipe dry.... J.M.M.: If you are
in employment unemployment relief tax should be
collected bv your employer. Consult Dept, of Taxa-
tion, Melbourne... .J.M.: Farm blocks on N.S.W.
irrigation areas are under the Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission, Sydney. To ascertain
eligibility under Returned Soldiers’ Settlement Act,
write Under-Secretary, Land Dept., Sydney... .M.B. :
No action can be taken if your husband is comply-
ing with the provisions of the deed... . J.E.U.W.:
Perennial veldt grass-seed is obtainable from the
superintendent, King’s Park, Perth, at about i£2
per lb G.W.F.: See report on the Q’land beef-
cattle industry, obtainable from Govt. Printer, Bris-
bane ; Is. 9d A.L.G.: From P. L. Benstead,
Crevecoeur Court, Ashgrove, Brisbane. .. .L.S.R.:
Unless you have a right to close the gates you
cannot claim a remedy... .N.R.: Your mother is
liable, and proceedings may be instituted against her.
....A.R.: No vacancies for clerks in connection with
N. country grain elevators. Applications, for
position in head office should be made to the secre-
tary Public Service Board, Sydney....S.B.: Write
Australian Gas Light Co., Sydney, asking for “Duratar
Handbook”.... A.M.D.”; Write secretary, Air Board,
Melbourne.... T.W.: Map compilers have a formula.
See officer-in-charge, Map Compiling Branch, Lands
Dept., Sydney.... J.R.: Capsicum thrives well in all
but the coldest districts. Sow late in spring when
danger from frost is over, in nursery beds or, if
the weather is cold, under a frame, and afterwards
transplant 3ft. apart into well-manured beds....
T.D.: Tobacco expert of Vic. Agriculture Dept, under-
stands machinery is being installed, and manufacture
will be started by end of year. E. L. and C. Baillieu,
360 Collins-street, Melbourne, are the agents....
C.J.C.: Write secretary, River Murray Commission,
Works Dept., Canberra. .. .R.D. ; Oats in N.S.W. are
practically immune from “take all”.. . . H.H.: You
cannot compel the bank to liquidate the bond. If
it is transferable you can sell it....M.W.: (1) The
tenant may hold them as a set-off against damage
done, not otherwise. (2) No, it would constitute
a trespass. (3) You are in the wrong. You should
keep the balls within your own ground... .G.L.D.:
Apply to the various shipping cos., but you would
be better advised to stick to your job... .R.J.P.:
(1) £2l third class per Aberdeen White Star. (2)
Very slight, but apply Mercantile Marine Office, Cus-
toms House, Melbourne. .. .J.J.E.; Yes, but the in-
formation will be treated as confidential. (2) No.
. ...H.8.; Vic. constables are paid 12s. Id. to 165.-
lid. per day; senior constables, 17s. 6d. ; second-
class sergeants, 18s. 6d.; first-class sergeants 19s. fid.
. ...H.P.; Write N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, for free
pamphlet, “Tobacco Growing”... .D.G.R.: Write
Sports Dept., Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney.
. ...E.T.: Shippers have appointed all grooms
for the coming season... .C.P.0.: There are
fitting and machining classes at the Trade
School, Lismore (N.S.W.). If unable to attend,
get in touch with correspondence schools....
E.C.L.: Write secretary, Main Roads Board, 309
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, giving particulars of your
land, when full information will be forwarded....
P.M.: “Knotting and Splicing” in Cassell’s Work
Series (2s. 3d. post free), Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.... L.R.: Books on the subject are written
for experienced men. Any carpenter should be able
to advise you. .. .C.E.; Write W. C. Penfold and
Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney... .E.E.S.; Furnish full
details to postal authorities in S.A C.M.G.: The
Master in Lunacy may put in a claim as a creditor
in the estate.. aG. A.S.; Lands Dept., Sydney, will
supply forms and particulars... .A.S. : Best equipped
is the lending branch of the Vic. Public Library,
Russell-street,' Melbourne. Free membership open to
general public on a ratepayer’s recommendation....
O. : No registration necessary. Fish smokers
usually buy their fish in the markets. Fish smoking
is carried on in Redfern.. . .D.G.M.K.: (1) “Solder-
ing, Brazing and Welding” (25.), and “Home Solder-
ing and Brazing” (25.), from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Sydney. There’s an article on the subject in the
“Encyclopaedia Britannica.” (2) Clean the plates
thoroughly, and when smelted rely on skimming for
cleaning.... Chad: The statutory exemption allowable
in the case of-N.S.W. income tax is £250, less £1
for. every £8 by which the net income .exceeds £250.
. ...E.M.G.: Early Tas. stamps with pen-cancella-
tions are common, and are worth only a few pence.
.. . .M.C.C.: (1) Producers’ Distribution Society, Val-
entine ‘ and Quay streets; or Robert Reid and Co.,
Municipal Poultry Markets —both Sydney. (2) Kero-
sene is too severe for scaly legs. Wood-preserving
oil (petroleum base) is most effective. .. .P.O’G.:
Hardly any chance of employment. Fruit-picking
in Q’land is all performed by the orchardist with
the assistance of his family or local labor. . . .C.A.M.:
George Arliss played the principal part in the Lon-
don stage production of. “The Green Goddess”....
■ L.H.: The , red-tailed tropic-bird breeds on Raine
Island and on the coasts of N. Q’land. It has also
been known to breed on the Houtman and Abrolhos
group, off the W.A. coast... .J.R.M.: So far as we
can ascertain, no Australian turf has been exported
to England for use at Lords or any other cricket
ground. .. .T.A.M.: A statement regarding the extra
shares received should be furnished with the return.
Adjustments will be made by the department....
W.D.8.: “Australian Philatelic Record,” Box 1991,
G.P.0., Melbourne. .. .W.M.: A cadetship with the
organisation mentioned is likely to prove a fairly
good training for a journalist, paving a lot of the
way to a job on the reading or reporting staff of
a daily newspaper. .. .W.C.R.: Argentina welcomes
farmers, but immigrants in other lines might find it
hard to make a living. .. .P.D.: Consult a dentist.
... .R.L.8.: The book has no value... .W.S.: It
depends on whether the discharge is coming from
the outside or inside of the ear. Consult a vet,
. . . .(Many others mailed.)


tU
CL <
t' J
;;
m
m
tm
CH
liJ
■ti£.m
New shaped holes distribute bending strain
and make 17 % extra weight possible. Blade
held steadier. Made, too, from steel strip in
one continuous operation so that every blade
must have the same perfect edge. Probak blades
fit two-edged safety razors. Sold everywhere at
fixed prices—l/9 per packet of 5, 3/6 per packet of 10.
a new and wonderful two-
edged safety razor
blade is here! #
result of twenty
years’ experience
in design and
manufacture
Made and Guaranteed by the Auto Strop
Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197 -207, City Rd.,
London, Eng.
NOW
19
FIVE
FOR
PROBAK BLADES
Managing Agents for Australia : PHIPSON & CO., LTD., 181, Clarence St., Sydney.
This group of Stuart Crystal gives
you some idea of the beauty of this
exquisite hand*cut glass with its varied
patterns and its diamond*like lustre .
Took for the registered name Stuart
etched on every piece.
1
■
IM
m
r
bHHHhKP ■ v;— . .
■
2S
l
wm
: m
m
il
L^
mm
am.
i
£
§ m
I
i
«*
■1
in
9PK43SSH
i s ■
■ i* y'V
Saw?
*
m*
vm&k
c^^Sll
m
7?***#**
. t'% f
*s j
1
m
SvSsS^^HAS^PaßKflKZft'il
IM
*—i*
SIS 11
m
* JF
■f : ;
*~ * ~“* a ' •"
M
SBfi
*
HP
Hi
a
m •
s
pi
;■■ ■
«
;r^ : .
■
.'•T
IV
&
#1
MH
B
y.
m
8—
■
11
BZ
&%§§*?
<BU
y ■
>Aa4>> '£«**;*. J".~ .
«««
tel
r
English Mand= made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.


ďs
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and O. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
6% PRODUCERS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJ AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents; Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. r =zz
7
>
/
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy-
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. George.”
śd
Irvine & Stevenson's Sf. George Co. Ltd.
Dunedin, Ntw Zealand.
SMOKE-OH!
New Hughes for old prayer:—
Maxwell, Marks and Stewart gone....
Blast the bed that I lie on!
* *
As a gesture of gratitude Sydney Trades
Hall proposes to change the name Moscow to
Milcheow.
* *
“Bernard Hall’s painting of the Cheese Kitchen
strikes a note of quiet craftsmanship.”— “Herald.”
“Kraftsmanship” is preferred by the office
purist.
GETTING HIS PRACTICE IN EARLY.
"That fellow will be a great statesman one of these
days.”
“Oh, Charles dear, do you really think he will?”
“Sure of it, old girl. Look how easily he wriggles out
of everything.”
“Sixty per cent, of motor-car fires are deliberately
itarted for the insurance money.”
This is called having a flare for finance.
* *
SLUMP IN CHIRPING.
He pleaded, being much in love,
“Darling, as yon blithe bird
,That, chirps upon the bough above,
Whisper me one sweet word!”
They’re married now. Her chirping fills
With weariness his cup;
And daily her sweet voice he stills
With, “Will you please SHUT UP!”
* ¥
HOW BUSINESS REALLY IS.
“My business is pulling up,” said Jockey
James, of Robbery Park, when interviewed
yesterday on the depression. Other replies
were:— i
Sydney Hospital: “Very sick here. ’
Frozene Ice Cream Co.: “We’re licked.”
Weather Bureau: “Our business is look-
ing up.”
Australian Airways: “No drop registered
lately, we’re thankful to say.”
Don Bradman: “I’m just knocking up a
living.”
The Morgue: “Absolutely dead.”
Judge Curlewis: “Okay with me, Baby;
on’y don’t shoot off your mouth about it.”
Reckitt’s, Ltd.: “Distinctly blue.”
ZWIG.
“The game of chess was first begun in India
over 5000 years ago.”— “Argus.”
Well, it ought to be finished any day now!
BREAKFAST ODE.
Sing a song of sorrow
About a vanished boom;
Every morning's paper
Filled with tales of gloom.
When the rag is opened ,
Each page seems to sing:
“ Isn’t this a cheerful tale
To tell you in the spring
' * *
“The Australian Party has been reduced to one
member —its founder.”— “Sun.”
And in N. Sydney, instead of greeting Billy
with “See the Conquering Hero Comes, ’
they have taken to singing “You’re My
Weakness Now.”
%. H-
RAVAGES OF THE TRUTH' MICROBE.
“ ‘I am no blooming good at my job as Dean of
Canterbury. I am just plain Dick Sheppard.’ Very
Rev. H. R. L. Sheppard made this declaration in
opening an extension to a miners’ club at Bettes-
hanger.”—-Cable.
“The Australian Party,” said Mr. Hughes,
on the 18th green of his favorite golf club,
“is a blanky washout. I only started the
crimson thing because none of the other
parties would stand me as leader.He
turned to his partner. “I took 10 in the
bunker over the hill,” lie confessed, “and 5
behind the trees where you
couldn’t see me. I’m on the
green in 22, blank it! And
it’s your sanguinary hole
and match.”
“I’m no more of a Com-
munist than you are,”
admitted the leader of the
Opposition to Mr. Jock
Garden over a glass of cham-
pagne at the Trades Hall.
"If one of these Russian
comrades, or any other com-
rade for that matter” (and
he eyed his friend signifi-
cantly), “tried to come the
share-and-share-alike busi-
ness over me in my Auburn
Estate Agency, I’d call in the
men who won the Battle of
Rothbury for capitalism, and
give him in charge.”
“Charities. my dear!”
smiled Mrs. Bellevue-llill, the
celebrated society beauty
“why, I simply loathe them,
and all the ghastly old
females in comic hats that
they get one mixed up with.
I wouldn’t go within miles
of a charity meeting, believe
me, if it weren’t for the
newspaper publicity.”
A smile of gratification
lightened the face of the Rev.
Ghoole, as the earth fell on
the coffin of the magnate who
had had half a column in
the leading dailies the previ-
ous Saturday. “The de-
ceased,” he said, “was a
crook, a profiteer, and before
his divorce a wife-beater. A
prohibitionist who was rarely
sober, an Imperialist who
never served in a war, and
a politician who freely accepted bribes, he
was a discredit to his King, his Country
and his Church. As the Bard observed, ‘We
shall not look upon his like again’—or, at
any rate, I sincerely hope so.”
“Please don’t call me an amateur,” im-
plored Don Bradman. “It makes me feel
a failure. I regard myself as thousands of
pounds ahead of the amateur class.”
10-2-4.
# *
“A man poisoned himself during the evening
session at Sydney State on Saturda3'.”
This must be about the harshest criticism
levelled at the talkies to date.
* *
The wholesale rejection of English talkies
by Creswell O’Reilly is easily explained:
they’re the only ones screened in Australia in
which the characters speak a language he
can understand.
CELEBRATED QUARRELS.
“A luncheon at the Savoy Hotel was interrupted
when Harry Mason and Ernie Rice, who had met
to decide who was to referee their forthcoming fight,
suddenly struck fiercely at each other. Waiters and
the boxers’ friends separated them.”— Cable.
It recalls the affair at the Splendiferous
where Miss Lulu Lymelights and Mr. Basil
Brilliantine; stars of “Nights of Frenzy,”
happened to be dining on the night of the
first screening of International Dope Inc.’s
masterpiece. Miss Lymelights suddenly rose
to her feet, and remarking ‘I reject your
base proposal with loathing,” dashed a help-
ing of boiled fowl full in her companion’s
face. Mr. Brilliantine responded with a
plate of spaghetti, and it took 15 reporters
to separate them. The inexplicable incident
was cabled all over the world, and Aignts
of Frenzy” attracted capacity houses tor
the following six months.
“Oil has been obtained in six out of ten boies
sunk at the Lakes Entrance, Victoria.”
Well, that’s lucky. We rarely get the oil
from the bores we strike.
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER LOYALTIES.
“ ‘I have resigned from the Australian Party, said
Mr. Walter Marks. ‘I am disgusted with Mr.
Hughes’s pamphlet. His criticisms of Sir Otto
Niemeyer are ■ caddish and unsporting.’ ” Sunday
Sun.”
“Yes, I’m a Nationalist again,” remarked
the member for Wentworth. “I didn t mind
when Mr. Hughes
called my leader, Mr.
Bruce, -a fat-headed
dud and a blithering
idiot; and I cor-
dially approved when
he said Latham and
Harry Gullctt were
half-witted. In fact,
I used much the
same language my-
self. But that was
six months ago when
there were no votes
in economy. (You
may remember my
campaign against
taxing the .movies.)
However, when it
comes to saying
about Sir Otto what
the Australian party
used to say about
my former colleagues
of the Nationalist
party, I feel that a
line has to be drawn.
Such conduct is re-
volting to one with
the instincts of a
gentleman. Besides,
I fancy the Nationalists will win if there’s
a general election when Seullin comes back
from England.”
* *
CHECKED.
“When plaintiff called for his money he was
assaulted. He had to be taken to hospital.”— “Sun.”
He came a debtor’s cheque to win,
And not quite fruitless was his quest;
He got a bang upon the chin
And one in his capacious vest.
“ ’Twas thus,” said his assailant grim,
“I handed out my cheek to him.”
* *
HUMBLE HEROES.
“When a deputation representing the Unemployed
Union met the Lithgow Council to ventilate griev-
ances in connection with relief work, the overseer
declared that two men who were put on to clean
out pipes under the main street sat in a pipe all
day.”
The secretary Confirmed Idlers’ Associa-
tion writes :
These two members of our Association were, I am
glad to see, true to the cause under the trying
circumstances. They earned their pay. Could there
be anything rfiore uncomfortable to sit in than an
iron or concrete pipe ? What stoicism! What
fixity of purpose! There is no mention of cushions
having been provided by the Council, T notice. Park
benches are quite hard and uncomfortable enough,
QUITE HEAVENLY.
THE FOOL ( raving): “Mrs. Darling was in
again to-day. By George, she’s a
stunner! I never saw such teeth. They
just sparkle!”
THE FLAME: “Like stars, I suppose. They
come out every night, too.”
goodness only knows, and it is only by padding
the seat of one’s trousers (the Sunday papers are,
by the way, ideal for the purpose) that one can
continue to occupy them for long stretches. The
man who will sit in an iron or concrete, pipe for
eight hours or so is as much a hero, in my opinion,
as the boy who stood on the burning deck. The
Association’s special order of merit is being fdr-
warded to each of these men. •
“Panic about the financial position—a feeling
that political sectionalism has become dangerous—-
is blamed for the ruin of Mr. Hughes’s party.”
Another promising speculation blasted by
the depression !
¥
“Two policemen, disguised as carpenters, spent all
dav yesterday waiting to catch an S.P. bettor in
Redfern.” — “Guardian."
And when they nailed their man he was
no doubt finished off on the Bench.
V
MESALLIANCE.
I was driving along with a heart free of care
When I got the glad-eye from a flapperling
fair.
I gave her a lift and my troubles began.
To-morrow she marries my new sedan.
NO LONGER COMPLETELY EMPTY.
ILMA: “Tommy has a frightful cold in the head ."
I RENE: “Well, that’s something!”
W. M. Hughes expected to score by his
pamphlet “Bond or Free?” However, he
lost Marks.
¥ *
More truth in journalism:-
“She entertained lavishly at the festive bored of
her Darling Point flat.”— “News."
* *
“Probably 25 per cent, of sitting members will
lose the number of their mess.”— “Guardian.”
Meaning, of course, the mess they’ll leave
behind them.
H- V-
SPEEDING UP SUNDAY JOURNALISM.
The “Sunday Sexaphone” —as always a
couple of skirt-lengths’ ahead of its rivals —
has pleasure in announcing the greatest
innovation in Sabbath journalism since
“Good Words” edified the Empire with its
Biblical acrostics as a counterblast to Dar-
win’s “Origin of Species.”
This unique feature will be appreciated
by all our readers these hard times — Free
Divorce Insurance!!!
We live in a hectic ago. “Truth” is
stranger than fiction, and makes more money
out of it. You may be cited next.
Get Under Cover! Make provision for
Your Flaming Youth!
Free Divorce Insurance is available to
every registered reader of the “Sunday Sexa-
phone” between the ages of 14 and 100. We
will not only brief counsel for you ; we will
also pay bonuses on all cases deemed worthy
of double-column headings. Special grants
for page-spreads. Husband and wife may
receive benefits under same policy.
Fill in and sign following _ form; get it
witnessed by your local Salvation Army cap-
tain or publican, and post to “Sunday Sexa-
phone.”
(1) Sex (male, female).
(2) Age (to nearest decade in case of
females).
(3) Were your parents divorced? Number
of times.
(4) Is your mother receiving (a) alimony,
(b) alimony pendente life.
(5) Jf so, how much?
(6) Has (a) your father, (b) your
mother been in gaol for perjury or false
swearing in connection with divorce litiga-
tion? Are both, or is either, solvent?
(7) If married, have you a lover or lovers?
(8) If single, do you believe in free love?
(9) Are you a Society Beauty? If so, are
you (a) under 60? (b) over 60?
In addition to the benefits of Free Divorce
Insurance .all registered readers will be
eligible to participate in our Best Divorce
Contest, by which we hope to stimulate
interest in the aims of the Royal Society for
the Propagation of Unfettered Restitution
Orders for the Masses.
Prizes will be given for (1) oldest co-
respondent (male), (2) most immoral inter-
vener (female), (3) most licentious respon-
dent (male), (4) best-dressed respondent
(female), (5) most hopelessly-bankrupt
petitioner.
Register at once. Yours May Be the Newt
Home Wrecked!
O’C.
CRY OF THE DISILLUSIONED,
“Mr. Bavin (Gordon) has been forced further
north towards Hornsby.”— “Guardian.”
It matters not if M.L.A.’s are shiftedl north
or south,
The same old rot will still pour forth from
each job-seeker’s mouth.
The only change that / would greet with
unaffected zest
Would be if one and all of them were forcibly
sent west!
D. McM.


f
- A-
m
smm
9
i
m
mm
sSs
!
Ssss
n
MM M
Johnnie Walker has by
far the largest sales of
any whisky in the world.
The reason for this is to be
found inside every bottle.
m
if
•S -1
w
JE
fe’
Sag
3?<
►*' ntV
V-f» V
>J-X-Z£-7
v^fcj
?'£&-
&
*£§£&
ccs,
rate
••s yp-*y
.‘■*S*n
**&
a»s
*M?
- .
L >^s>->
s^:
■j/ -4
/A
>.t4 *gs
HIGHEST EXHIBITION AWARDS
SSKofS'S'-S sl^'’
KIMBERLEY «l. £ qUAUTV
7H > W
JOHNNIE
WAMtER
WHISKY
Bom
1820*
Still
going
Strong
c
&
f
JOHN WALKER S SONS LTD..
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. LONDON and KILMARNOCK
ry
i.'v


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Strict Veg.”: Said tlie Beak to a female
witness in a Melbourne court the other day,
“Have you ever seen the prisoner at the
bar?” “Certainly not, sir,” was the reply,
"but I’ve often seen him leaving one.”
“Tet”: In Australia it is supposed
to be the right thing to doff your headgear
in a lift containing females, but to keep it
on in a railway carriage in similar condi-
tions. In England (in the best circles) the
rule is exactly the opposite.
“0.C.”: After the eighteenth pint Billson’s
cobber got nasty. Pulling Billson’s hat off
and putting it on top of his own lie said, “I’m
a better man than you, Billson. I’ve (hie)
got two ’ats on.” “’Sail right,” said Billson
peaceably; “you've got two faces.”
Mrs. Bruce Bairnsfather, who is suing for
the dollar-equivalent of £20,000 in the U.S.A.
on account of the alleged alienation of her
artist-husband’s affections, used to be Celia
Bruton, of Sydney. She married the Hon.
Michael Scott, son of the third Earl of Eldon,
who was a Victorian golfing champion 20
years ago. They were divorced after 15
years of wedded bliss in 1021, and she mar-
ried the creator of “Old Bill” and went to
America with him. The size of her claim
for compensation is based on the enormous
sums he is said to be still making out of
his “Old Bill” pictures.
“Methuselah”: Spiers and Pond, a long-
departed Melbourne firm of caterers, were
the first to set in motion the exchange of
visits between English and Australian
cricketers. That was in 1861, when the firm
brought out a team of English professionals
under PI. 11. Stephenson, among them being
W. Caffyn, who remained behind to become
the father of Australian cricket. Each man
got £l5O, with all expenses paid, a some-
what different condition of things from that
prevailing among our amateurs of to-day.
There was then no cable, and the first news
was received by the Surrey County Club from
Lloyd’s in March, 1862. This stated only
that the “English cricketers were victorious.”
The arrival of the ship with the mails in
London some days later supplied the details.
“Smilax”: In Queensland, as well as S.
Aus., a number of German place-names were
discarded during the war, often to be re-
placed by the name of some British general
or a compound thereof. For instance, Mar-
burg, Minden and Ivircheim became Towns-
hend, Frenchton and Haigslea. The other
day, however, Queensland Government de-
cided to allow Frenchton to become Minden
again, to the satisfaction of most of the
residents. In Europe I suppose this would
be called the Locarno spirit.
A doctor’s note :
The “peculiar air of lassitude’’ which C. K.
Bradish noted in the Englishman, and deplored, is
the Englishman’s normal and appropriate reaction
to his environment. Through such adjustments the
English business man, in capacity, reliability and
longevity, is the envy of French and Americans. Let
anyone compare the pink efficiency of the city with
the excitement of the Bourse or the marble-faced
high blood-pressure of Wall-street. Thus in the
“terrible slackness” of St. James or Piccadilly may
recline occasionally Montague Norman, the un-
ostentatious restorer of European finance; Hilton
Young, who saved bankrupt Austria; and Otto
Niemeyer, who visited Australia.
“Yo-110-Ho” : A Chinese half-caste, nabbed
while running an illicit still where rum was
being turned out in substantial quantities
and a workmanlike manner, was fined £2OO
by a Sydney magistrate last week. Counsel
for the defence pictured his client as a
simple soul, unversed in the Law’s require-
ments, who manufactured the spirit merely
for his countrymen, but the Beak remarked
that he had always found Australian-born
Chinese uncommonly alert beings, and' there
was police evidence that the distiller had
been seen delivering his wares at several
hotels. In fixing the penalty the magistrate
FORTUNE-STELLER: “You will die young.”
said he had taken into account the danger
incurred by drinking unmatured spirits. Yet
it wasn’t' indicated that any proceedings
were to be taken against the publicans who
sold Ah Sin’s rum over the counter, although
the Law frequently makes it clear when
other offences are being investigated, that
it holds the receiver a little lower than the
thief.
“Mot Juste”: Princess Astrid, of Belgium,
who has re-emerged into the limelight by her
recent provision of a male heir to the throne,
will always linger in my memory by reason
of an exquisitely courteous rebuke admin-
istered to 11.R.H. by a Belgian newspaper
at the time of her coronation m Brussels.
1 noted beauty, the Swedish princess
appeared in a frock so short that the staid
and it must be said, stodgy Belgians were
• a trifle shocked. Said the .journal comment-
ing on the new Royalty: “She has dazzling
beauty but her parsimoniously-measured
frock exposed her too much to the indiscre-
tion of a treacherous breeze. I doubt if
it could be put better.
“Whitehall”: The recent claim by Lord
Eustace Percy, formerly president of the
Board of Education, that both the public and
secondary schools of England are turning
out a “deplorably long list of misfits” was
interesting as the first of its kind from an
authoritative source. Wells, Shaw and
others have been damning the public schools
for years, and Lord Eustace’s late brother
(the Duke of Northumberland) used to
deride the secondary schools, but never before
has any public man
condemned bot h.
The difference be-
tween them is largely
one of class. A
public school is one
of the 170-odd whose
headmaster is eli-
gible for membership
of the Headmasters’
Conference. Second-
ary schools (some of
which are very an-
cient) may be en-
dowed like Eton or
Winchester, and
staffed by eminent
university gradu-
ates, and they may
turn out front-rank
scholars and ath-
letes, but they lack
prestige. A few
years ago Labor got
a majority on the
Sheffield City Coun-
cil and dissolved the
governing body of
Sheffield’s famous
King Edward YU
School. It was thus
brought under the
control of the
Secondary Schools’
sub-committee, and
ceased to be a public
school. The fury
aroused amongst the
scholars and their
parents was such
that the “Times”
published a soothing
leader on the subject,
and the reverbera-
tions continued in
the smaller papers
for weeks. Yet no-
thing had happened
to the school but loss
of social status.
Britain is heavily
handicapped indus-
trially by the pre-occupation of its prin-
cipal schools with this question. It colors
the whole of the national life, and is doing
more to put men into black coats who should
be in overalls than any other factor.
“O’Higgins”: It is possibly a sign of the
world-wide hard times that the latest South
American revolution, that in the Argentine,
was effected with commendable economy, an
unpopular President having been thrown out
on his ear at the cost of only 100 lives or
so. Revolutions in the smaller Latin-Ameri-
can countries are liable to be noisy, messy
and frequently protracted businesses, but
Argentina and Brazil generally manage these
things better. Forty years ago the latter
country threw out an Emperor with the
minimum of disturbance, politely but firmly
escorting the aged and slightly bewildered
ruler to an outgoing steamer and helping him
up the gangway with the equivalent of a
first-class single ticket to Lisbon in his hand.
Pedro, the second of his line, and the grand-
son of a deposed Portuguese king who had
bolted across the Atlantic, took the matter
almost as philosophically as his subjects,
and Brazil has had no more emperors.
Neither do alleged royalists make trouble
there, nor pretenders hang around, as in
most European countries which have switched
over to republicanism.
“Bad Australian”: William Bamford,
who was hangman and flagellator for Vic-
toria from 1857 to 18 id,
started life as a wool sorter,
but tiring of the job he joined
the 33rd Fusiliers, and after
serving 20 years was trans-
ported for some serious mili-
tary offence. After serving
his sentence he succeeded
Harris as the local Ketch.
Bamford was a repulsive-
looking ruffian minus an eye
and much addicted to liquor,
though he kept rigidly off it
whenever he was notified of
& an impending call for his ser-
vices. After pinioning his
victim he would shake him by
the hand and murmur, “Gawd
bless yer, matey!” before pull-
ing the bolt. He took a pro-
fessional pride in his grue-
some work, and was once
heard to mutter: “Aye, a neat
job. I dunno as I ever done a neater —an
that makes forty-seven.”
“Aix-les-Coogee” : The average _ English-
man’s fear of making himself ridiculous is
handicapping Britain in the film game.
Recently a team of footballers, engaged for
a new picture, refused to “doll themselves
up” in the paint required for getting correct
photographic results. But there have been
stage successes who never used make-up.
Star comedian Dick Henderson is the most
successful example: with the exception
of the hat which sits on his head like a
pimple, he uses his ordinary street attire.
When he arrived in Sydney his stage hat
went astray and he visited a local shop,
pushed aside all those the zealous assistant
attempted to sell him, and at last tried on
one at least four sizes too small. “I think
this’ll do,” he said, surveying himself in the
mirror. “Excuse me,” said the shop assis-
tant, “I don’t wish' to be rude, but I think
you are a stranger here, and I would like
to tell you, if you wear a hat like that,
everyone here will laugh at you.” ‘ lou
think so?” asked Henderson brightly. Well,
that decides me. I’ll take it.”
“Kerys” : I know one Maoriland man who
never wants to hear the word moratorium
again. He was farming in Taranaki, and in
an expansive moment ient a neighbor £5OO,
to be repaid by instalments in three years.
The war came along, and the borrower was
protected by the moratorium. The lender,
having no children and a name beginning
with “A”, was in the first conscription list
and early in camp. While he peeled potatoes
at Trentham and wondered how his wife was
getting on —he had been forced to leave her
with a minimum of cash —his neighbor used
kindly to run down to the camp in a new and
expensive car with little comforts for. the
soldiers, and thought himself exceedingly
popular until one day his infuriated creditor
emerged from a tent and threw a presentation
TAKING ONE CONSIDERATION WITH ANOTHER.
“Honestly, old girl, would you rather be beautiful or clever?”
“Beautiful, I think. You see, there are lots of stupid men, but
only a few blind ones.”
tin of jam at him. Still, he hung grimly on to
the £5OO until the law no longer protected him.
“Centurion”: Even the German General
Staff was not infallible, as some recently
published documents go to show. When Yon
Moltke the Younger laid his plans for the
invasion of France in 1914 before the
Emperor, he noted in writing half a dozen
reasons why attack was advisable that year.
One was that the French artillery was
inferior to the German. Nothing was further
from the truth except in the matter of heavy
howitzers, and the French field artillery
dominated the German Krupps from the
beginning to the end of the war. A recent
libel action in Germany has thrown, some
further light on the subject. In this it was
alleged that the Germans had a modern gun
in hand made by the Ehrhardt firm, and
that this gun had been recommended by
General Reichenau, Chief of the German
artillery. Instead the staff decided to pin
its faith to the inferior Krupp manufactured
by a firm in which the All Highest owned
a big parcel of shares.
“Nullarbor” : Some Perth unemployed are
said to be about to undertake “a hunger
march” to Canberra —how many months or
years it would take to get there, and how
many who started ever would get anywhere
near there, and what purpose would be
served if anyone did, being apparently
regarded as matters of no particular moment.
It is possible, of course, in some countries to
infuse a certain spectacular element into this
form of demonstration, as
when a band of Welsh or north-
country miners descends upon
London, and there have been
some long-distance treks in the
U.S.A.. well-advertised affairs
with flags flying and drums
beating. But the Westraliau
pilgrims would find the 1000-
mile stretch between Kalgoorlie
and Port Augusta a stiff pro-
position, and it is doubtful if
the Trans.-line fettlers wmuld
regard them as anything but an
unmitigated nuisance.
“Meteren” : The abolition .of
the death penalty for desertion
to the enemy (B. 10/9/’3O) may
have been largely due to the
difficulty of proving when deser-
tion was deliberate. Scores of
our men, when bushed at night
or patrolling in a heavy fog,
walked into the enemy’s lines
in mistake for their own—l re-
member a post at Pozieres where
a dozen stretcher-bearers were lost in a single
night in this manner. The most deliberate
case of desertion from the other side hat I
saw was in Polygon Wood. Night had
settled down after one of our barrages, when
an elderly and youthful Fritz helped each
other into our trench. Each had a full pack
aboard, and was overjoyed at getting into
our line safely. Saxons they were, the old
chap told us; “my own son,” he added,
proudly slapping the youth on the back.
“Spadassin”: The famous sword factories
of Toledo are reported to have descended
to the making of safety-razor blades. For
600 years Toledo swords have ranked among
the world’s best, their excellence being attrib-
uted to the steel from which they were forged
being smelted with charcoal instead of coal,
and the water in -which they were tempered
having a quality all its own, like that which
is claimed for certain breweries in the Eng-
lish midlands. Be that as it may, through-
out the Middle Ages and long after Toledo’s
supremacy was only disputed by Ferrara in
Italy, Soiingen in Germany and Damascus.
Now the glory of the ancient Mauro-
Spanish city is one with that of Cincinnati
or Pittsburg, or -wherever it was that the
modern American first devised the safety-
razor blade of to-day.
“Tidapa”: The Chinese fisherman can
teach us something about the art of captur-
ing turtles. First, and hardest, part of the
job is to catch a remora, a small fish which
has a sucking arrangement on its head. Sing-
Lee welds a ring around the tail of the
remora in such a manner that it cannot be
pulled off, and to this attaches a long,. strong-
line. Then putting out to sea with his
unwilling helper attached to the bottom of
his sampan, he cruises around till he finds
a turtle asleep on the surface of the ocean.
As soon as his keen eyes have discovered one.
he paddles silently in its direction, until
when within about six- yards of it, he ships
his oar, and with a long bamboo pushes ou-
tlie remora, which heads to the turtle and
fastens itself to it. Nothing in this world
will force the remora to let go by direct
pulling, and soon Sing has the turtle along-
side his sampan. Later it will be made into
gelatinous soup for some Oriental rich
enough to pay the price demanded.
“Nikko”: Mention of commercialised lion-
shooting (B. 10/9/’oO) recalls the story told
by a Sydney man who years ago was a resi-
dent of the Malay States and friend and
adviser of the Sultan of Johore in that
potentate’s vivacious younger days. To the
Sultan was consigned the scion of an Eng-
lish millionaire. The youth’s ambition was to
shoot a tiger. Probably he had visions of ele-
phants and howdahs, but the ever-reckless
Sultan organised a hunt in which cars car-
ried the sportsmen the first part of the
journey and emptied them out into the
jungle, where each was handed a rifle and
told to stand at an appointed place and inter-
cept any tiger that emerged after the uproar
of the beaters began. There was an imme-
diate shot, wild yells, and the party rushed
to a small tree that threatened any
moment to break and tip the heir to millions
back to earth, where his discarded rifle lay
in the dust, while a wild boar sniffed the
weapon inquiringly. The disgusted Sultan
declared the hunt off, and the trembling tiger-
seeker was rescued from the tree and assisted
back to a car. But liis ambition was still
unsatisfied. He purchased a fine tiger from
the Sultan’s private zoo, had the animal
killed and skinned, and departed with Ins
trophy. Years later the Australian visited
an English castle and saw the splendid rug
made from “the skin of the tiger the master
shot in Malaya.”
“Gad”: I wrnnder how many Australian
beefbreeders have heard of the Chillingham
cattle? This herd, the property of the Earl
of Tankerville, is the only one of its kind
to-day, and it has preserved through the
centuries the original characteristics of the
breed from which our present-day producers
of milk have been evolved. To get even a
sight of the Chillingham herd one has to
stalk them. They number about 45 head, all
white (no black calves are born, and this
is a point on which Lord Tankerville lays
stress as proving that his herd carries no
bar sinister). More than half are bulls,
and the herd is headed by a king bull, who
fights his way to his position. Sometimes
the king bull is shot, to give the younger
generation an opportunity. In 1872 the late
King Edward, then Prince of Wales, shot
the king bull when staying at Chillingham.
The cows breed at any season of the year—
which is remarkable in wild animals. The
young are hidden in the long grass. and
bracken to avoid discovery. The origin of
the herd goes back to 1220, when Chillmg-
ham Park was separated from the Caledonian
forest by a great wall and some of the wild
THE UNPARDONABLE SIN.
“I don’t care what yer call me or me
muvver, but yer ain’t gonna call me
dorg a mong!”
cattle of the forest were enclosed m the
Cliillingham estate. It is a rule which has
been kept through the centuries that no
animal that has once left the Cliillingham
herd for any reason shall return again. On
one occasion a young heifer was taken from
the herd—south—and brought up with
Tersev calves. This heifer grew up quiet,
but being mated with a shorthorn bull
produced a calf which proved so unmanage-
able that it had to be destroyed. In 1914
Lord Tankerville presented a bull and heifei
from the herd to the London Zoo (the
nrogeny did not survive). On this occasion,
when some of the mob had been P en ued up
in order that the zoo pair might be diafted
off, the breed showed its jumping powei.
In a small pen, with no take-off, a bull
beared a 7ft fence to regain its liberty.
Thus these cattle, through generations, beyond
count, must have preserved in them some ot
the qualities of the deer of their native lulls.


r.
4
¥
J WINEr Vr
V
Wayside Scene in Ceylon
The Special Ceylon Excursion
BY ORIENT LINE, the Special Ceylon
Holiday Return Excursion need
occupy only a few weeks. It pre-
sents the best opportunity for a sea voyage,
undertaken for either pleasure or health,
where a longer holiday is impossible.
The pleasure of a trip on an Orient Liner,
provided by huge decks, comfortable
cabins, excellent catering, is unsurpassed.
The natural beauty of Ceylon, together
with the racial interest of this lovely
Asiatic island, insures a delightful
experience.
FARES:
First Saloon Return
From Brisbane £67, Sydney £65,
Melbourne £63, Adelaide £6l
and Fremantle £59.
Third Class Return
From Brisbane £33, Sydney
£32, Melbourne £3l, Adelaide
£3O and Fremantle £29.
Tickets are interchangeable with the P. cfe 0. Company
Validity of Tickets
Tickets are valid for the following terms:
Brisbane 114 days, Sydney 100 days,
Melbourne 90 days, Adelaide 86 days and
Fremantle 78 days.
LINE
OKIE
V
Poverty
Point
* They call it the ill legit, nowadays.
“Say Bo” : William Faversham’s pique at
his .Australian season (B-. 27/8/’3O) was
partly due to the fact that here he began
digging his grave with his teeth, so to
speak. They fell out in full view of the
audience at Melbourne Comedy. He would
have had to be twice the actor he was to live
that down.
“Craiser”: Several repertory societies
have been after the Australian rights of “St.
Joan,” but Shaw says there is nothing doing.
He is holding back in case one of our great
legitimate firms invites Sybil Thorndike in.
Bernard is an optimist.
“Craiser” : A bright and good-looking new-
comer to the Melbourne boards is Zara
Gaden, who has a leading role in “Little
Accident.” In her Sydney childhood Zara
earned the soubriquet of “Wirth’s mascot.”
The old man noticed her as a frequent
patron of his show at the Haymarket, came
to be obsessed with the idea that his success
depended on her wide-eyed presence, and
year after year sent her a season ticket.
Later she joined the Firm and worked up
from the tail of the ballet into the head of
it, but Wirth never forgot to pay her a
visit wherever she was.
“Cine Ma” : The fact that there has been
a cessation in British talkies despite the
outstanding success of “Rookery Nook,”
“Splinters” and “Atlantic” suggests a
nigger in the woodpile somewhere. British
International has produced 20 vocal pic-
tures this year, many of which have earned
enthusiastic comments in London. One of
its most interesting forthcoming efforts will
be “Young Woodley.” What stops pictures
like these reaching Australia?
Candid, from an old hand: —
Broadcasting a play is as dead as Adam —no
footlights, no crowd, nothing but an orchestra stuck
in one corner of the studio with the cast lolling
around in front of the mike waiting to chip in
with their sayso or song. There’s no one to appreci-
ate acting, and though a man playing a stage part
can put his whole soul into it, it’s hard to keep up
enthusiasm and not dodge lots of lines while you’re
sprawled in a chair muffled up in an overcoat when by
rights you should be togged in ruffles and silks, finish-
ing the villain or suffering the heroine’s caresses. Cer-
tainly applause comes, exactly When it should, from
the rest of the cast, half of them glad of the oppor-
tunity of warming up their hands a bit.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Hilda Dorrington, who
was with Allan Wilkie for a long time and
went to India-in 1928, has settled down in
Singapore, where she is running scenes from
Shakspeare in the schools, doing Hamlet
and Henry V. herself, whilst her daughter,
Joan Watson, plays Ophelia and Katherine.
In the same centre, which seems to be the
most reliable Asiatic show town, Carl Law-
son is running a repertory show making a
good opening with “Lord Richard in the
Pantry.” In the same vicinity Cyril North-
cott’s company, which took away, amongst
others, the man who used to be the “Dismal
Desmond” of the wireless in Sydney, has
had a hard struggle; two other cos. have
gone broke. Desmond was leading comedian
with Sydney James’s Folly Players in the
good-times age.
“Cauboy”: After having been a complete
stranger for a long time, competition has
reappeared on Poverty Point. A theatrical
firm recently offered a popular musical
comedy tenor £35 to sing in a forthcoming
production. It was an offer he would have
leapt at a month or two ago, but this time
he heard that he might be persona grata to
another management. On the eve of the
first night the original firm was informed
that his price was double that figure, and
he got it. He happened to be a first-class
man, however. Actors still outnumber jobs,
and the rise of at least one new enterprise
has been due largely to the fact that the
promoter gives no contracts and pays his
stars half what they used to get and about
a tenth of what the public believes its
favorites obtain for their services. Profes-
sional musicians are appearing a great deal
at present in quasi-amateur performances
of opera, etc., and it is officially pretended
that they draw the award rates. They cer-
tainly get cheques for the right amount but
in most cases they return them. What they
then receive in actual cash is a dark secret
between them and their employers. There
is no money in amateur performances.
“M.Z.”: Actor Fred Appleton, inquired
after by “T.P.” (B. 13/8/’3O), toured Aus-
tralasia for a number of years and then
settled down as principal of Lougliton
College, Fitzroy, Melbourne. He died in
Melbourne a few years ago at 79. His
daughter Edith often acts in Melbourne
repertory performances. Adele Inman, who
occasionally warbles from 3LO Melbourne, is
a grand-daughter.
“Shaddershows”: The most promising cam-
paign on behalf of the Australian moving
picture to date has begun with the depar-
ture of Frank Thring for Hollywood to
inquire into the talkie industry. Thring
lately sold out of Hoyts to the Fox people,
and proposes to use the sinews of war thus
obtained from the enemy in promoting local
movies. He is an old hand at the game, hav-
ing started on the bottom rung as a lime-
light operator and ended with a fortune. He
is prepared to lose £20,000 a year of it for
three years in the endeavor. Most previous
entrepreneurs have started with a blank ignor-
ance of the business side and finished with
a comprehensive knowledge of its capacity
for losing money. He will have as offsider
Tom Holt, until lately director of J.O.,W.’s
subsidiary company in London. Holt knows
all about the theatrical game. With Alec
Isaacson, of the Tivoli, he managed the first
Melba grand opera season, in 1923, which
made almost as much profit as the Firm
made losses with its second season of 1928.
He also travelled the world with Ada Reeve,
making a fortune for that lady. Ada’s
season of 20 weeks at the Palace, Melbourne,
is still spoken of with bated breath about
theatrical box : offices. Thring has obtained
a lease of his Majesty’s from the Firm, and
with the exception of some technical advisers
from America will employ Australians in
the production of Australian stories. The
enterprise deserves every encouragement,
and the best encouragement it could have
would be a Federal quota system. The Vic-
torian guota is futile and has led to the
Australian picture being brought into dis-
repute, since nobody can afford to produce
good pictures for the State market alone.
“Cine Ma”: The first Australian talkie
promised by F. W. Thring, of Hoyts, under
the new Fox regime, will be about Adam
Lindsay Gordon. For once in a way there will
be quite a number of the original props
available. The cottage he lived in near
Mount Gambier is a national monument
preserved by the S.A. Government, his Bal-
larat residence still stands, and the home
from which he walked to self-destruction at
Brighton (Vic.) keeps out of the knacker’s
hands. Also the Blue Lake at Mount Gam-
bier is still as cerulean as ever even if
there is some doubt about the famous leap.
Indoor sets for the picture will be shot in
the burnt-out interior of His Majesty’s in
Melbourne.
“Cauboy” : Gregan McMahon made a con-
cession to the demand for realism with the
bundle of rags which represented the baby
in “The Plough and the Stars” at Melbourne
Bijou. In the middle of the second act the
infant is laid on the bar-room floor while its
mother settles an argument with another
lady. There was a cat inside the bundle, it
being hoped that its stirrings would give the
required air of verisimilitude. A more dis
tasteful device was employed by Bland Holt
in “Master and Man” years ago at the
Royal. At one point Arthur Styan had to
make a hasty exit pursued by a bulldog. The
beast was Holt’s own Beelzebub, and the fact
that it never failed to leap at Styan and
fasten on his coat-tails caused widespread
comment on dog sagacity. The key to the
mystery was that Holt had had a canvas
pocket sewed into Styan’s jacket, and a live
rat was nightly put inside it.
“Craiser” : It has become a settled habit of
departing actors to deliver weighty judg-
ments upon Australia, and. the latest fol-
lower of precedent is William Faversham.
“Australia is the bad boy of the British
Empire. Only a social revolution can save
her from ruin,” he is reported to have said
at Montreal. It is a curious commentary
on modern ideas of values that it should
have been thought worth while to cable the
opinion on such a subject of an elderly
public amuser whose stay with us was a
frantic but unsuccessful struggle to cater
for the tastes of the most infantile kind of
playgoer. The driest comment on Mr. Faver-
sham as a sociologist came from a Mrs.
A. H. Benjamin, who had just returned from
this country. It was, “Australia is turning
from the theatre to the movies because the
latter are so excellent!”
“C.R.”: “Journey’s End” is only just
beginning in Australia. The play, which has
already earned R. C. Sherriff a cool million m
royalties, is to be taken round the provinces
by a J.C.W. stock company.
The Palette
“F.S.”: If the Felton Bequest Committee
in Melbourne has any serious aims in art it
must have read with some misgivings the
artless prattle ascribed to just-returned
artist Norman MacGeorge on the subject
of its new European buyer, Randall Davies.
According to Mr. MacGeorge, as reported by
the “Herald,” Davies, “although not an
artist, knows quite a lot about art,” “has
a fine collection of pictures in his Chelsea
flat” and “a wife who makes up for Mr.
Davies’s practical knowledge [sic] of art —-
she paints quite well.” Imagine anybody
saying of Lawrence Ennis that, although not
an engineer, he knows quite a lot about
bridges, has a fine collection of nuts and
bolts in his North Shore flat and a wife
who makes up for his ignorance by amusing
herself with a Meccano set.
“Flinders” : Annually a board of independent
judges presents a medal for the best piece
of Melbourne architecture erected during the
past five years. It is the Institute of Archi-
tects’ best available substitute for the Minis-
try of Fine Arts, which every progressive
city should have. This year the gaud goes
to the Emily McPherson School of Domestic
Economy, in Russell-street. It is a simple,
restrained and beautiful pile in the classical
tradition and, despite the prevailing opinion
that no good can come out of a Government
department, it was designed and built by the
Public Works, and the architect was E. E.
Smith, now with the P.W.D. in N. S. Wales.
The Inky Way
“C.Q.” : The Bible continues to be the
world’s best-seller, and last year it touched
a new record with 12,000,000 copies. Alto-
gether, the story of Jonah and the whale
may now be read in 630 different languages
and dialects, 12 new ones having been added
lately. The Gospel of St. Mark has just been
made available to the pious of the Worrora
tribe, who inhabit the vicinity of Broome,
nor’-west Australia. Rev. J. R. B. Love is
responsible for the translation.
“M.F.”: Running a comic section is a
humbling experience; it makes a man realise
the world’s opinion of his brains. Contribu-
tions in the Yankee language, and coon
jokes, beginning “Brudder Ezra stalled the
Deacon” arrive in droves—the fact that the
same jokes arrive at the same time from
different parts of the Commonwealth suggest-
ing that they are lifted from the same
American source. A burlesque of the Lord’s
Prayer, which starts “Our Bridge which art
in Heaven,” is evidently popular in Sydney;
variants have been pouring in from different
suburbs for months. A lady recently tried
to collect payment on the story of Willie,
the insanitary -child whose irate mother
told the teacher to “learn him, not smell
him.” This one used to be sent to the Abo.
pave two or three times a week some 30
years ago.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ••
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji,’ Samoa-
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS &"£***
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ». .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
/vvri
THINK OF
f
SCHUTE,
BELL&C
Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
sď
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
* # * #
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
®he Brisbane (Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Eisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S.
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone E 3906.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRIDGING ALL SEAS
0.
e
sd
LINKING CONTINENTS
U.S.A., CANADA, EUROPE,
via the South Seas
Hawaii Fiji Tahiti—
Raratonga—New Zealand
Through Bookings with
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co. —Brisbane —Perth
s
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL LINES
m
a:
Sunny South Seas
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water—Sandy Beaches—T ropi c a 1
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands—Quaint
Native Villages and Customs —Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and
ADELAIDE.
“B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color.
Read
1/- Copy, All Newsagents,
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
ESTABLISHED 1817
WALES
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
£2
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
x £13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon TAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
Hon. J^g ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R- DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birehin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other paits or
the world.
Ml Classes ot General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted. #
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart ParkerLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steam sliiii?
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
śď
m
m
mm
OiU IMTASF4Q
%
%
f r We suggest that
y<
3
you ask your nearest
distributor to show you
the complete line of RAY-
O-VAC Electric Torches
k and RAY-O-VAC Bat- j
teries.There are no
V better made.
blac*^
Manufacturer's Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A. ~
The Secret of
SKIN and HAIR
Loveliness
va '
IN THE regular daily use of Cuticura
Soap, and the occasional use of Cuti-.
cura Ointment, women everywhere
have discovered the secret of natural
beauty. The Soap, fragrant and pure, to
cleanse; the Ointment, antiseptic and
healing to remove pimples
and irritations.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
XTbe Dominion.
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion” is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
AH Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.


yf-'r-K
SC
easa
SBP
£1
:
iilssNE
S#£
I®
Sai
»
3
S§3
««s
*■•' :
St
pees
*35
ft-'pm
m>,
m
m
r i,
aSsS
♦ ♦ ♦
Qreen Fodders
Early perhaps to talk of green fodders for summer
use, but not too early to remind farmers of the
great bulk of feed influenced by an application of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
Sulphate of Ammonia can be applied in combina-
tion with superphosphate in the proportions of
one of the former to two of the latter, or can be
used as a separate dressing at the rate of at least
1 cwt. per acre when the crop has made a little
headway. The result will mean more fodder and
a higher butter-fat yield per acre, particularly at
the present low price of Sulphate of Ammonia.
Literature and advice from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PTY. LTD.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
s
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
50
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too !
THE PATRIOT
K DIRECT MEDIUM Jg? WOMEN 1
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFJS,
2 HUNTER STREET.
If any Illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
AN ADJUSTABLE GUARD
FOR BLADE RAZORS
śď
The spring clip razor guard—fitted in no time and adjustable for fin, fin. or lin.
blades. PRICE 2/9 each.
PLUM RAZORS—Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each * ' •. J /e
Real Ivory Handle, each * 21/
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case—Black,’ 85/-'; ’ Xy'lo,’ 100/-’;' Ivory, 140/-
ticicli Razor ready set for use and kept in order for two years free.
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, pe? tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each ... 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 2/-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
TQ
9.0
.A pictorial
guide - to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. MlB,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
RUREAIJ
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SHADOW SHOWS.
. “ on e Romantic Night,” at Sydney Lyceum,
is a United Artists’ version of “The Swan.”
Much of Molnar’s witty dialogue is used, and
the photography is exquisite. The plight of
the shy young Ruritanian princess, who has
to choose between a wooer of her own rank
and her brothers’ tutor would be moving in
the right atmosphere. But the leading charac-
ters of this production are, with one excep-
tion, highly individualised Americans. Rod
•a Roque, as the prince, is just an exuberant
U.fe.A. wise-cracker in fancy dress. Conrad
Nagel plays the unsuccessful lover with the
voice and manner he has used many times
before, and Marie Dressler’s study of the head
of the Royal household is not materially dif-
ferent ? from her housekeeper in “Caught
Short.” Her comedy is admirable, but there
is nothing regal about it. Princess Lilian
Lish—delicately slim, wistfully virginal,
gentle, gracious, sweet-voiced—is the most
European of the lot. The domestic chap-
lain, Father Hildebrand (conventionally por-
frayed by O. P. Heggie), is the only member
of this Old World Court who hasn’t obvi-
ously been born and bred in the New World
and illusion suffers badly in consequence.
* * ¥
“The Message,” in the first part of the
Lyceum bill, is a much more realistic job. It
is a West End of London crook drama, and
beyond praise in its class. Natural dialogue
Easy yet tense acting by a small cast of
players who sink their identities in their
parts. Good photography and sound-record-
mg, and an exciting plot. And all of it as
authentically English as the “Times.”
¥ # *
Mamba” (State Theatre, Melbourne) is
a German East African talkie done in techni-
color. Life in Neu Posen was full of roman-
tic beauty before the war, but Mamba—
half-caste, scoundrel and local Vanderbilt
was excluded from its military society
Comes the war. The British invade Neu
I osen, the Germans rush to repel them and
Mamba is conscripted. He deserts and is
properly punished for his social ambitions by
being pulped by revolting natives, who then
besiege the capital. A German general
arrives just in time. He stands on
the verandah of the residency, Mamba’s
widow draped over one of his manly arms,
while with the other and a sword he keeps
the population at bay. A British cavalry
legiment gallops to the rescue, and the story
closes with the British leader nobly handing
the General back his sword and blessing
his union, while the Union Jack replaces the
German standard on the Neu Posen flagstaff.
It is in the nature of romance to be humor-
less, and this film is entirely humorless. The
color photography, however, is effective, and
the attack on the fortress makes Lady But-
ler s famous picture, “Rorke’s Drift,” a back
number.
* ¥ V
Clara Bow is the star of Paramount’s
Love Among the Millionaires,” seen for the
first time in Sydney at the Capitol. Her
roguish curls have been eliminated, and her
weight seems to have increased, but she
remains dynamically girlish. Anything like
continuity, or even commonsense, is made
impossible by the director’s embarrassing
wealth of performers who have to be given
prominence. “It” is, of course, expected of
Miss Bow in large quantities, so as Pepper
the waitress she has a series of emotional
passages with Jerry Hamilton, son of a mil-
lionaire railway owner. “Skeets” Gallagher
and a friend hold up the action by irrelevant
stunts with a ruined ottermobeel, and their
admirers like it. And then there is Mitzi
Greene, the most persistent limelight-pinclier
m Moviedom.
-Three samples of Miss Bow’s technique
are ottered. When first met she is just a gay,
heart-whole, jazz-singing, hip-waggling, semi-
nude working-girl. Jerry, seen in a toiler’s
overalls, _ acts on her as a kind of human
aphrodisiac. She registers passion with
negroid exuberance. Then come parental
objections, and a “David Garrick” scene in
which, with a breaking heart, she feigns
drunkenness in order to put Jerry off her,
and reconcile him to his father. Unfortu-
nately for the star, the Greene child is
always there or thereabouts to show up this
old and artificial stuff by contrast. Her songs
are delightfully spoken, and her acting is
superb in its jolly natural freshness.
* * *
“Say It with Songs” (Warner Bros.), the
latest vehicle for A 1 Jolson’s art, was
released to the Australian public at. Melb.
Majestic last week. A 1 appears as a radio
entertainer who kills a man for making an
improper proposal to his wife. He then does
a stretch, during which he sings his favorite
ditties to his fellow prisoners, which the
obliging gaolers broadcast to an eagerly lis-
tening world. When he comes out he goes
to see his child, and in following him along
the street the infant gets run over and loses
Ins powers of speech. Blaming himself for
this disaster, A 1 stands on a bridge and prays
to the Almighty to save his son. The Almighty
arranges that the child shall hear a gramo-
phone record of one of his father’s most
mawkish numbers, and this deep emotional
experience has the desired effect. A 1 adorns
this story with a number of songs about
sonny-boy, and accompanies his singing with
his usual jigging—the sort of restless move-
ment which makes teacher hastily tell
Johnnie he can leave the room. For the
rest, the secret of his art appears to' be an
ability to express, while sober, sentiments
so painfully maudlin that no decent Aus-
tralian would have the courage to utter them
unless tight.
* * *
“Big News,” at Melbourne Regent, is
another journalistic talkie. Robert Arm-
strong, reporter, has a weakness for speak-
easies, is sacked by his paper, and gets back
by obtaining one of those criminal “confes-
sions’’ . which are known as “front-page
stuff: in America. Incidentally, there is a
bootlegger who performs murders with com-
plete immunity as far as the police are con-
cerned but is never quite clever enough for
the_ vigilantes of the. newspapers. There is
a high degree of realism in this quick-moving
picture. The babel and confusion of events
are remarkably well manipulated so as to
give the light air of reality without swamp-
ing the central interest of the melodrama.


r
■KMUWW*£
l
I
m
eg
m
*
m
77
4
A
I
m
1
'
4
r>
/
77 777
,? ■ ■ • ; . • <. \ \ v7\v> 77
"\''\ \ v 77
In the heart of the busy city...
Injhe lonely outbgck_ town
&
M
i
m
yAe Worlds Purest
raii a
is
tbe
S««T"
. Coutt slg Uc inessag
of t^ oC
be* e
ovet
e\ect" c . ',fato» sk °
a
Sflod$ s
tfv° s VoTvuiest
'VoM
♦ citt eS
see i*» n T\xi tVve
fcj V>e7°“‘
tbe
v/\vete.
Ntf al
to off l tV lU «® cpl
•» re a^ eS * c VO^ 1 tbe i aS
■’':*£^« hta . IS
one-® 1 ®. .£<>»■ _ Vva ve
tio^s,
■>os*
the
of cW^ sa
«•> "S. K*?»‘r:« ~-
«*^Sr.•**:£*■ '* J "’ *
'* r °l nC to * evxi 7 ’ s favo
Ot
cYltoe-
It is
Vvuto'
,bVest
o b a^ et *£» tVIC tbe « o1?V '
»° « - ca \v 10 &. o
cociety* *’ ae
C a\ Btt ? U^
vjbisM aSS ed
a ivd V boe fta
iiveUo^^V
It ) c
aO«
Ittfusiqt
'Qhc Vorlcfc Purest
NATION'S FAVORITE


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Mollison arrived in Sydney looking as if
lie had done a fair amount of work, and came
strongly into the Epsom market after a
capital gallop at Victoria Park. Unfor-
tunately he was limping a bit after another
smart sprint on Thursday, and was scratched
for his engagements at Rosehill on Saturday
■—E. M. Pearce had left him in the Camellia
Stakes and the Hill Stakes. On veterinary
advice he is to be kept in the Epsom in the
hope that electric treatment may rid him of
the trouble, which is in a suspensory liga-
ment. Fit and well on the day he will have
an excellent chance with 9st. 71b., for he
lias run his best races at Randwick (witness
his two fine tussles with Phar Lap last
year), and it is anything but a strong field.
Hysterical booming of Holdfast, Tom
Pinch and High Disdain has put a lot of
money in the bookmakers’ pockets this
spring. The three started in the Camellia
Stakes at Rosehill, were solidly backed and
decisively beaten; Holdfast (favorite) and
Tom Pinch, who were in front at six fur-
longs, being cut down by old Fuji San
(5 to 1) and fading right out of it; the
ancient himself was passed in the last few
strides by the fast-finishing First Sight
(14 to 1), Gay Ballerina (8 to 1) being a
good third. Behind them were two horses
that have never won at a mile, Cimabue and
Credence; Mr. ,Whiz, Holdfast and Tom
Pinch followed. First Sight completed the
seven furlongs in lmin. 24fsec. He is now
one of the favorites for the Epsom, in which
he has lib. more than the Sst. 51b, he carried
on Saturday; but he begins too slowly to be
recommended for that race, although big
enough to hump any weight. Gay Ballerina
is and will be dangerous.
It was a pleasure to watch the tliree-year-
olds parading before the struggle for the
Rosehill Guineas. There were 17 of them,
and they were a remarkably good-looking
lot. No Phar Laps or Manfreds among them,
perhaps, but at least seven or eight should
raise the standard of handicap form, which
has been poor these last two or three years.
The ringmen asked 10 to 9 about Veilmond,
and the event proved that it was a false
price. Certainly Moss’s colt met with inter-
ference and McCarten lost an iron; but
others also suffered, for it was a rough race.
One of those that escaped trouble was the
late John Brown’s Balloon King (20 to 1),
now raced by the executors, of whom Adrian
Knox, sometime Chief Justice of the High
Court, is one. Always in front, or near it,
the son of Air Balloon—Princess Berry
shook off Chemosh at the entrance to the
straight, and entered upon the last furlong
with everything else apparently beaten.
Tregilla (8 to 1), however, came fast from
the bunch and got on terms, only to be
worried out of it by Balloon King by half
a head. Bartle, who rode Tregilla, claimed
that Munro’s mount had interfered with him,
but the protest was dismissed. Tregilla was
nevertheless, unlucky; disorderly at the
barrier again, he got away badly (though
not as badly as at Randwick) and had to
thread his way through a strung-out field.
He is a really good sort, but there may not
be much between him and Balloon King,
who in his last couple of races has finished
like a stayer. Eurythmic’s half-brother Sal-
vador was running on nicely in the
straight, but he failed to get a place, third
position going to Sunlover (33 to 1), whose
tote supporters received a juicy dividend—
flo 3s. for 10s. Mollison’s brother Calmond,
a big chestnut, came in last, but got the
worst of a mix-up. The time was lmin.
52fsec.
A sterling Metropolitan trial was witnessed
in the Rosehill Cup, the Victorian horse
Cragford being responsible for it. He was
curiously weak in the betting, drifting from
eights to twenties, though fourteens was the
general quotation at the close of betting;
no doubt the, fact that he had a stone more
than his Metrop. weight (7st. 51b.) had
a lot to do with it. The plain-looking three-
year-old Bayacre tried to win all the way,
but two furlongs from home Cragford and
Gay Crest (3 to 1) were running just behind
him, Cragford being on the outside and
anxious to go faster. Once Ashley Reed
gave him his head he bounded to the front,
and though Gay Crest got within a length
and a quarter of him at the finish it was
only on sufferance. In the Shade (6 to 1)
was a fair third; Waterline (8 to 1), who
made the turns clumsily, was next. Crag-
ford galloped the 11 furlongs in the course-
record time of 2min. 18isec. He is not
much to look at, but plainly he can go fast
and stay; and it is more than likely that
lie will follow in Polycletan’s footsteps—
that horse won the Rosehill Cup before his
Metrop. victory.
The bags were now bulging, and the
owners could afford to take a risk on the
Hill Stakes. They asked 7 to 2 Phar Lap,
and magnanimously accepted a few wagers
at the price, though more anxious to bet
1-2. Pike took Phar Lap to the front and
the chestnut stayed there, without ever being
at his top. Nightmarch, ridden more vigor-
ously than at Randwick (thanks to the
stewards’ admonition), was second, a length
and a half away; High Disdain, given an-
other run, was third, ahead of Don Moon
and Limerick, who once more galloped as if
due for the retirement which lie has richly
earned. The mile was traversed in lmin.
40sec.
Yet another outsider bobbed up in the
first division of the Highweight Handicap—
Cleave (10 to 1), who just beat King Crow
(same price). Next came Broken Doll (5
to 1), on w T hom Eric Connolly staked
heavily; the favorite, Greensea (2 to 1), was
fourth. It was reserved for one of the favor-
ites, Adrian’s March (6 to 1), to win the
second division, but Richfield (third) and
Roley figured at the same price, and at least
three other horses were well backed. Adrian’s
March came with a good finishing run to
cut Kelso’s Coolmint (20 to 1) out of it by
a neck. He looks fitter than he has ever
done before, and may prove the best of the
Sydney contingent in the Epsom.
The day was disastrous to punters, and
there were bitter complaints about the
barrier work, which was not up to the late
H. L. Mackellar’s standard —in the first ;
FOOTBALL NOTE.
In spite of adverse weather conditions, Spongking maintained his reputation.
division of the Highweight Handicap four
liorSes, including the well-backed Roseal,
were left at the post. Some unsuccessful
speculators, chiefly feminine, found solace in
looking at the noble show of prunus, Iceland
poppies, pansies and sweet-peas made by
the Rosehill gardener. The man is an artist.
* * * *
For Hawkesbury on Saturday:—
Rowley Mile : Mollison or Goshawk ; next,
Roley.
Flying Handicap : Mollison or Tom Pinch ;
next, Hard Words.
Three-year-old Handicap: Tom Pinch or
Cronulla; next, Income.
Spring Handicap: Exact; next, Hustler.
Highweight Handicap: Coolmint; next,
Poitiers.
* * * *
While Cragford was enhancing Metropoli-
tan prospects by his Rosehill Cup victory,
his owner, J. P. Arthur, looked on at the
relatively unimportant Mentone racing.
“J.P.” did not go across to Sydney because
there was doubt about Cragford starting at
Rosehill. Had rain fallen, the Eastern
Monarch gelding would have remained in
his stable. “S. A. Rawdon,” who owns
Waterline, was somewhat consoled for the
Rosehill failure of that horse by seeing
Neretti make a brilliant jumping debut,
landing the Trial Hurdle at Mentone. The
sporting doctor, who shares Melbourne “Age”
profits with other sons of the late David
Syme, bred Neretti. Odds of sto 1 could
be obtained about the Lanius gelding,
Canardly being a slightly better favorite
than Spinopus. Canardly, who is trained by
the former buckjump rider, Alan McPliee,
shaped very disappointingly, but Spinopus
mixed it with Neretti up to the last obstacle,
where he tired. . Neretti scored handsomely
from Owa, who finished well.
Owa races in the same interests as Gud-
roon, who always was a warm favorite for
the Brush Steeplechase. He deposed Dark
Boy at the completion of one circuit of the
course, and after that was untroubled, being
followed home by two outsiders, Luekrain
(half-brother to Wciranton) and Sir Gleam.
Hurdle and Steeple winners were both ridden
by T. Lynch, who “made” Neretti. He paid
three visits to the Rawdon Hill establish-
ment at Dandenong and schooled Adam
Skirving’s prad over the battens. Over 20
years ago Skirving captured the Australian
Steeplechase for his present patron with
Nigel. Of late the stable has not gone, in
much for jumpers.
Mentone sport did not throw much light
on Cup prospects, beyond that El Key
(favorite) was beaten out of a place in the
principal event. Holt entrusted the mount
to Winks, whom he taught to ride. Winks,
after completing his apprenticeship, went
to Adelaide, where he developed into a ver-
satile horseman. In the past few months
Winks has been very successful, both on
the flat and over obstacles, in Melbourne, but
he did not handle El Key happily; the
favorite was carried out wide at the home
turn, and narrowly missed a place. Victory
rested with the natty little stallion Aleman,
trained by D. J. Price for F. W. Kitchen, the
soap manufacturer. Aleman had to be des-
perately ridden by Neville Percival to win
by a head from Pinnacle, who used to be in
Harry McCalman’s stable but now is looked
after by O. R. Cox.
Salonia, a son of the 1923 Futurity
Stakes hero, Salatis, followed up his Moonee
Valley victory by taking the first division
of the Welter Handicap. Byron ended up
a red-hot favorite, with Nepean next in
demand. The last-named is partly owned by
P. T. Ileywood, who was associated with
the turf career of Salatis, and originally
trained Salonia. Getting away badly, Nepean
never was really in the hunt. Byron helped
to make the running, snuffing out when col-
lared below the distance by the pony Velo-
cette. Obtaining last run, Salonia van-
quished Velocette by the best part of a
length.
It was on a protest for interference that
Salonia was placed first at Moonee Valley.
Limber Up, disqualified on that occasion,
headed the betting quotations in the Men-
tone Plate. He was somewhat unlucky, and
had to be content with third after a thrilling
struggle with Clariits and Clarion Call. The
Purse winner, Gold Clare, belongs to H. J.
Morrison, who rode many famous prads in
years gone by for W. R. Wilson. His late
father, Joe Morrison, trained and rode for
C. B. Fisher in the palmy days of the
Maribyrnong stud. Punters went nap on
,Whitsome for the second division of the
Welter Handicap. She was relegated into
third place, Coromandel, who has done ser-
vice over hurdles, defeating Belawan by
means of a well-timed run.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Arundel Steeple: Brenda’s Son; next,
Romeo.
Quality Handicap: Amounis; next,
Simeon’s Fort.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
In a strenuous wrestling match at Sydney
Stadium, “Strangler” Lewis (17st. 61b.)
beat Joe Stecher (16st.) by two falls to
one. The usual comic stuff was conspicuously
absent, and despite their weight and girth
both men were amazingly fast. Stecher
scored first in the fifth round with a leg
scissors, Lewis equalling in the seventh with
a headlock. He repeated the operation in
the eighth while Stecher was arguing with
the referee. Strange how often this trick
has been worked on unsuspecting champions
since the wrestling invasion of Australia
began !
# * * *
Doctor Sarpolis (15st. 21b.) surprised the
handful of watchers at Melbourne Stadium
by securing a fall 19 seconds after hos-
tilities began. His co-worker, George Kot-
sonaros (13st. 121 b.), evened matters in the
fourth round, but the medico eventually
emerged victorious by two falls to one.
Footbrawl
As a disgusted Carlton barracker put
it at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on
Saturday: “Ten days ago Geelong hadn’t a
hope of being in the four; now they’re in
the final. And when Carlton went to Bris-
bane they were the only team in the com-
petition ; now they’re out altogether.” Up
to half-time Geelong were a third-rate team,
slow, fumbling and disjointed ; while Carlton
marked and passed superbly. But Carlton’s
kicking was vile, and at the interval the
side owned only 4 goals 14 behinds to Gee-
long’s 3 goals 5 behinds. While they were
resting someone put the hard word on Gee-
long, and when the game started again it
was a different story altogether. Marking
well, passing accurately and backing up
persistently they got Carlton rattled and
put on a 9-point lead by lemon-time, Carl-
ton’s inaccurate goal-shooting still persist-
ing. In the last term Geelong ran their
opponents off their legs, heartened by the
cheers of a 48,000 crowd, and finished up
with 13 goals 11 behinds to Carlton’s 8
goals 21 behinds, the latter’s disastrous
marksmanship losing the club the game,
even as it did the leadership of the first
round. For the winners Collins, Carney,
Todd and Rayson shone out; for the losers
Davey, Arthur and Allen. “Gate” was
£2314 125., £7OO less than at the correspond-
ing game last year.
* :’fi * jJ:
The results of the Rugby League semi-
finals in Sydney saw Western Suburbs and
St. George left to fight out the final for
the premiership. Neither club has taken
the title since its inception, though St.
George got as far as runner-up a couple of
seasons ago. South Sydney, premiers for
the last five years, made a valiant effort to
defeat Western Suburbs at Sydney Sports
Ground, but failed after losing one of their
best backs in J. Why, who was ordered
off. The scores were 9-5 in Western
Suburbs’ favor, the winners scoring a try
and 3 goals by Craig to a try and a goal.
At Earl Park, St. George scraped home
from Eastern Suburbs by 11-10, or a con-
verted try and three penalty goals to 2
converted tries. Hyland’s place-kicking- won
the game for the Saints.
* =:•- * *
“Shrewsbury”: There was something of a
sensation in Newcastle (N.S.W.) Soccer
football circles recently when a prominent
player fell under the spell of a local evange-
list, and announced that he had given up
football in order to become a Christian. He
explained that when another player kicked
him he was impelled to kick him back in a
spirit of ungodly retaliation, thereby imperil-
ling his immortal soul. The idea has its
points. There are a lot of people in other
football codes, not even excluding the lily-
white Rugby Union, who would be all the
better if they developed a similar tendency
to see the light.
(Continued on next page.)
“Inky”: If English press reports can be
believed, Don Bradman has added another
to his huge list of records and one which
every writer, as well as cricketer, will envy
him. According to the reports in question
Don is bringing back with him close on
£5OOO, most of which has come from the sale
of his book recounting the story of his early
life. This, probably written by a “ghost,”
was rushed through the presses about half-
way through the season, and has been, going
off like free whisky in Aberdeen. Probably
Don got a lump sum down, but anyway his
success is enough to make the professional
writer of fiction gnash his teeth in impotent
envy.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Though some of their per-
formances have been bettered by earlier
teams from Australia, Woodfull’s men have
been remarkable for their consistency. Six
of the side topped the 1000-run mark, and
apart from Bradman’s outstanding perform-
ances there was always someone to come
to the rescue with bat or ball when occa-
sion called for it. Much the same may be
said of the bowling. No one reaped the
harvest of wickets gathered by Turner or
Ferris, while only two of the trundlers
passed the 100, Grimmett with 144, and
Hornibrook with IC4. Nevertheless, five
other recognised bowlers took over 20
wickets each at averages of less than 30
apiece, Wall heading with 57 wickets, includ-
ing 13 in the Tests.
* * * H=
“Shabash Wallah” : To me the most inter-
esting aspect of the Australian tour of
Britain is the fact that the services of all
the Empire have been requistioned to tackle
them. Australians like Allen and Smith of
Essex have been called upon, as well as a
player from Ceylon’s isle. No less than three
people from India’s coral strand have also
been stacked up again'st our lads. Duleepsinhji
is, of course, known to all. Another Hindu
in the shape of the Nawab of Pataudi has
figured less conspicuously. The latest addi-
tion to the dusky reinforcement is Nazir Ali,
from his name a Moslem, who played for the
London Clubs against the visitors.
* # * *
A huge crowd watched the most important
aerial demonstration yet staged in N.S.W.
at Hargrave Park on Saturday. The Aus-
tralian Air Force and other branches of the
military forces co-operated with the Aero
Club of N.S.W. in a programme of racing
and special events which provided an eye-
opener for many of the spectators. The
principal race was the Aerial Derby over a
40-mile course, which was won by Flying-
Officer Sims, of the Air Force, flying a West-
land Wapiti ’plane. He covered the dis-
tance in 17min. 45sec. averaging 135 m.p.h.
A Derby handicap over the same course went
to J. Broadbent in an Avro-Avian, while
another attraction was “The Oaks” for
women fliers for the Amy Johnson trophy.
This was won by Mrs. Terry, who cut out
the 10 miles at the rate of 85.1 m.p.h.
* *
“Davis Park” : Victor Huxley, the Queens-
land dirt-track rider, has had a wonderful
run of successes since he went to England
a year or so ago. It has been no uncommon
thing for him to clean up every event in a
meeting for which he was eligible, and he has
now capped his fine performance by winning
the open championship of England. His
opponent.in the final was Jack Chapman, of
England, whom he had defeated twice pre-
viously, the Queenslander winning by 15
yards and averaging 45.92 m.p.h.
$ $ $ $
“Blue Chalk”: Sydney will be the venue
of the next Empire amateur billiard cham-
pionship, which will commence in the Bridge
City—“ Harbor” is out of date, now—on June
22, 1931. England, Ireland. Scotland, South
Africa and M.L. will send representatives,
though India, represented in South Africa
when Hayes won, has not yet entered. Hayes,
who was beaten in the last Australian cham-
pionship, will have to win the next if he is
to carry the Australian colors. If he goes
do-wn again, the winner of that tourney will
automatically select himself for the big event.
“OUT ON HIS OWN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“’E is out on ’is own!” said the battler
as the field cantered past one by one
(It was race day at Biligobunyip, with the
Flying about to be run).
“ ’ls breeding’s a myst’ry, they tell yer; but
yer can’t believe all that you ’ear!
That there nag oughter be in the city!
I shore with ’is owner last year,
An’ ’e told me, or kind o’ suggested (an’
there’s not many coves as ’e’d tell!),
That the blood in ’is veins come from Panic,
with a drop of old Carbine as well.
’Twas from ’ini that I got the straight
w’isper—’e’s after the boodle to-day.. ..
The rest of the field’s only scrubbers—they’ll
be out o’ > the running ’alf-way!
Yer can back ’im with confidence, matey,
fer as much as yer willing ter send ;
Fer The Dingo will be on ’is lonesome w’en
it comes ter the business end!”
Well, I ventured a quid on his fancy—it is
seldom I get such good “oil.”
And the battler hung close as a limpet to
gather his share of the spoil.
I shouted a drink ( his suggestion), and we
lingered the liquor to quaff,
Then away to the fence we went rushing
as we heard the familiar “They’re off!”
They were racing at top by the river, from
the fall of the flag they had flown!
There were six of the field in a cluster—
hut The Dingo was out on his own!
No mistake, but the pace was a scorcher—a
Newmarket rush, end to end !
With the crowd wildly swaying and yelling
to the cracking of whips at the bend
And I thought of the words of the battler
as the horses came thundering past;
For still out on his own was The Dingo
Right out on his lonesome— dead last!


Bert : *Oh, Im fed up with this qame'
GiEPT : Vou MUST HAVE BEEN
OVERDOING, it"
Bert \"\ wouldht mind if
Saw another &au_''
Get?t: vbo know, You didnt
• SEE W\MiV IN OUR U\ST SET '!
Footbrawl
“Hotharn”; When the Victorian Football
Association challenged its hated rival the
League to a trial of strength some time
ago and the League accepted, there was
eager anticipation among followers of the
national and stoushful game. The match was
to be played for unemployment relief between
the premier teams of the two bodies, half
the game under League Rules and half under
Association. They differ very little, but the
League has been evidencing decided signs of
squibbing, saying it must consult the Aus-
tralian League Football Council first, and ask
permission. The Association has countered
by offering to play the League under its
own dashed rules, and invites that body to
s Peak up or shut up. The response, if any,
has not been audible to date.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” ; Melbourne took a keen interest
in the British Rugby Union players, who
were the first of the species to be observed
in the vicinity since Mullineux’s team of
1899, though Springboks and All Blacks
have been sighted during migration in later
years. Melbourne “Age” makes the inter-
esting comment that the men, as a rule, are
much more heavily built about the shoulders
than the local Australian Rules players. The
journal takes them to task, too, for their
casual attire when received by the Lord
Mayor. Some were in plus-fours, others in
blazers, and some actually without waist-
coats !
* * * *
“Stand Off” ; Frank Eyre, winner of the
Australian professional golf championship,
was until recently a Rugby footballer of
note, playing regularly with the Manly first-
grade side, and he has been more than once on
the fringe of inter-State honors. Like his
father, an “intercolonial” of long ago, Eyre
was a big and fast player, well able to chuck
his weight about in the rucks and pace it
with the backs in the open.
v ❖ *2» *»»
“Gate” ; The N.S.W. Rugby Union, which
has been handling the Australian tour of
the British team, reports that the takings for
the three matches in Sydney were £3611.
Ground expenses, advertising, etc., ate up
£1123, leaving £2488, which has to be cut
fifty-fifty with the M.L. Union. As the
housing and travelling expenses of the
tourists will have to be paid by the Austra-
lian body, there promises to be very little
profit if the Maorilanders claim their full
cut. Nothing has been heard of the gates in
Brisbane and Melbourne, but in the former
city some 25,000 saw the two matches
played, and the Melbourne press gives the
attendance at the Yarraville game as 7000.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The N.S.W. Rugby League lias
resolved that this year’s farce of carrying
the grade competitions into the cricket season
must not be repeated. A definite date for
the end of the season is to be fixed for the
future, and supremacy will probably be
decided by a percentage system, as in Vic-
toria and South Australia.
The Ins and Outs
The coming cricket season took definite
shape with the meeting in Sydney of the
Board of Control last week, when many
important matters were settled. The chief
item of interest was the finalisation of the
West Indian tour. The Buccaneers sail from
Panama on October 23, and open in Sydney
against N.S.W. on November 21, probably
playing a game in M.L., where they will be
hung up for a few days. Arrangements were
also made for the visit of the South Africans
in 1931-32.
if # * it
“Tenth Slip” : The Board of Control has
decided to retain the charges for admission to
the Tests against the West Indians at the
old rate, 2s. to the ground and 3s. 6d. to
stands. This will now include amusement
tax, which has hitherto been supplementary.
Australian players in the Tests will pouch
£3O per match plus rail fares and sleepers,
while umpires get £lO a match and scorers
£1 per day. All games will be played out,
and the various States will appoint local
umpires in turn. Five Australian selectors
have been appointed, one from each of the
Sheffield Shield States. The quintette com-
prises Woodfull, who replaces Jack Ryder,
E. A. Dwyer (N.S.W.), C. E. Doll-
ing (S. Aus.), J. B. Hutcheon (Q.) and
C. J. Eady (Tas.). The innovation is of
doubtful value, but State prejudices have to
be considered, while a fifth man has been
added to prevent a deadlock. The extra
man will mean a considerable addition to the
costs, the average travelling bill for each
selector last year being about £l5O.
... ❖ 9
The Sheffield Shield season will begin at
Brisbane on October 31 with a match
between Queensland and South Australia.
Players will receive £1 a day for matches at
home, Sundays excepted, and for matches
away 255. per day, with £1 per tour or at
home for baggage transport. Country week
will be held in Sydney from January 11, a,
team of the countrymen to be subsequently
chosen to meet the West Indians—a most
praiseworthy departure from precedent.
“Mid Leg” : The Sheffield Shield conference
earned the heartfelt gratitude of the cricket
community by deciding last week to limit
the inter-State matches to four days, thus
cutting out the impracticable three and a
half hours on the fifth day if the issue was
undecided on the fourth. In future if a
match is not finished in the time allotted,
each side will take two points. Hours of
play will be from 11.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. with
the usual intervals. South Australia’s
endeavor to have the eight-ball over abolished
and the six-ball reverted to was defeated, but
it is probable that the larger stumps now
in use in England will be adopted.
❖ *
“ ’Badian” : The West Indians promise to
furnish Australian cricket followers with
something attractive in the way of all-round
play, the men from the land of guava and
turtle having built up a great reputation
as fast-scoring batsmen, while the. side also
includes a full issue of fast bowlers. Con-
stantine is the star all-rounder, a sterling
fast bowler, a hurricane Hitter and a fields-
man of quite exceptional capacity, while he
is. at the same time a public entertainer of
a type now almost vanished from big cricket.
A batsman from whom much is expected is
G. Headley, of Trinidad, who scored 703 in
four Tests in the West Indies last year
against a strong Marylebone side, the tally
including two centuries in the third Test
against the bowling of Stevens, Yoce, Wyatt,
Haig and Rhodes. The visitors play on turf
or turf covered with matting; so our fast
wickets should have few terrors for them.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Though he topped the 3000
runs total in all matches with 3170, the first
Australian to get as far, Don Bradman pro-
bably felt that all was vanity when in the
last match at Scarborough he went at 96,
but a few runs short of the coveted first-class
record. Four more runs would also have
enabled him to surpass Victor Trumper’s
record of 11 centuries, which he must now
be content to share until the next oppor-
tunity comes along. It is interesting to
note that though an Australian batsman in
England has only once amassed 3000 runs
in a season. 15 Englishmen had done so
prior to this year. Hayward, Hendren,
Ranji and Mead —of all people-—have done
the trick twice, while a couple of years ago
five professionals, Hendren, Woolley, Mead,
Tyldesley and Sutcliffe, were all successful.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Fitzcray”: Two more Australian golf
championships were decided at Oakleigh
(Vic.) last week, completing a series in
which some of the best golf ever played in
Australia was seen. The amateur title went
to the hard-hitting Harry Hattersley, of
N.S.W., who showed throughout the match,
in which he defeated Victorian Alex. Rus-
sell by 3 to 1, that he has at last mastered
the short game. As usual his length _ from
the tee was tremendous, and to this he
added some astonishingly accurate putting.
The professional championship ended in a
surprise win for Jock Robertson, who is
professional at Kingston Beach (Tas.). The
ex-Victorian downed the much-fancied South
Australian Rufus Stewart by 2 and 1. The
veteran—he is close on the half-century
mark—was consistency itself, and intro-
duced an unfamiliar note by using an old-
fashioned wooden putter.
“Sandringham” : Sloan Morpeth, secretary
of the Commonwealth Golf Club which has
its headquarters at Oakleigh, in Victoria, has
been appointed secretary of the Australian
Golf Union in succession to G. M. Anstey,
secretary of the Royal Adelaide. A Maori-
lander, Morpeth has won the M.L.
open and amateur championships and
last year took the Victorian amateur
title. This year he annexed the Australian
mixed foursomes with his compatriot, Olive
Kay.
“Miami” : The professional golf champion-
ship of the United States has this year been
won by Tommy Armour, one of the many
Scots who have earned fame and fortune
as “American” players. Thomas, though for
some years past in the forefront of American
professionals, scored his first win in this
event, beating Sarazen one up. Joe Kirkwood
was Sarazcn’s opponent in the semi-finals. He
went down 5 and 4, but this is his best per-
formance in American big golf to date.
Walter Hagen, who seems to be slipping, was
among the also-rans.
* if * *
“Carnoustie”: Sydney City Council is at
last awakening to the possibilities of revenue
from municipal golf links, though the fact
that the city’s solitary course at Moore Park
has been a handsome profit-maker for years
should have called attention to the fact
sooner. The success of privately-owned
miniature courses in Sydney of late lias
spurred the council to consider the laying-
out of similar attractions in the city parks.
It is an admirable notion. The council
could afford to charge smaller fees for a
round than the private concerns, and it is
beyond question that “miniatures” in such
places as Hyde Park would be rushed in
the luncheon hours, as is the case in I.on-
don to-day, where hundreds of these little
money-spinners are established in the city
and suburbs.
“The McH'aggis”: Australia is famous
throughout the golfing world by reason of
her ball-stealing crows. India has countered
with a tiger yarn, which has already been
chronicled in The Bulletin. East Africa
tells proudly of a lion which had to be
shot on Nairobi golf course because he
insisted on constituting himself a hazard.
Canada is the latest entrant for the Ananias
Stakes. A player having driven off, a bear
rushed from the adjoining woods, and, pick-
ing up the ball in its mouth, made for the
green. After 50 yards Bruin dropped the
pill and retired from the story. In the ensu-
ing argument, the club committee fell back on
section 1 of rule 17. This gives as a rub of
the green a ball stopped or deflected by “any
agency outside the match,” the ball to be
played from its last lie without penalty.
Personally I think section 2 of the rule
should apply. This lays down that when a
ball “lodges in anything moving” another
ball must be dropped, but also without
penalty. I dwell at length on the question,
since the point is sure to be referred to St.
Andrews.
* * * *
“Holy Willie”: Sunday golf has become
such a commonplace throughout the world
on private and public courses alike that it
comes as a shock to find organised resistance
to it. This cropped up in Queensland lately
at Ipswich. An application by the local
golf club for a lease of portion of one of
the public parks for the purpose of playing
on Sundays roused as much indignation
among the aldermen as a proposal to close
the mayor’s cupboard. Previously a majority
of the ungodly had passed a resolution in
favor of the lease, but the unco’ guid have
rallied strongly to the rescue, and a rescis-
sion motion is now on the agenda.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hamilton”; October 8 will mark the
beginning of the Queensland professional golf
championship at Yeerongpilly, which weirdly-
sounding locality is some half-dozen miles
from Brisbane, on the Brisbane-Kyogle rail-
way line. The qualifying rounds will be 36
holes stroke play, and the first 8 will then
proceed to 36 holes of match play. This is
always a good sporting event, and the
Queensland meeting is famous for its hos-
pitality and atmosphere of camaraderie.
Local players are hoping for another good
entry from southern professionals.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot” : The return of Crawford and
Moon from Europe throws little fresh light
on the Davis Cup team’s failure in Europe.
Moon never recovered from the leg injury
sustained in Paris, while Crawford appears
to have had a recurrence of those asthmatic
attacks which handicapped him so severely
on the previous tour. Barracking is blamed
for the collapse against Italy. As such accus-
tomed players as Tilden are frequently upset
for the same reason, one is forced to the con-
clusion that there is something in tennis
which endows its devotees with a supersen-
sitiveness foreign to performers in other
sports.
j|i ❖ ❖ ❖
“Let”: The American national tennis
championship went to J. H. Doeg, who won
to the final by beating Tilden in the previous
round. Shields gave the winner a hard
go. Shields has also a victory against
Tilden to his credit this season, having
defeated the great man after his return from
AVimbledon with the All England title, to
Big Bill’s unrestrained indignation and the
great joy of the barrackers.
* >!: * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Once more the U.S.
tennis authorities, after backing and filling,
have decided not to send a team to
Australia. The excuse given is the
usual one, that players would be unable
to leave their business or colleges for
the necessary time. What with the
preliminary trials, the teamwork together in
Florida, the matches in the American zone,
Wimbledon, the French championships, the
Davis Cup rounds and its own National
championships, the American Davis Cup team
was a good six months off the job. Apart
from that, no American prominent in athle-
tics has any need to worry about sticking
to his work if his absence helps to boost
America. If he doesn’t want to get away
himself, his employers see that he darned
well does.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: One of the big events of
the Australian motoring season is the annual
inter-State reliability trial and sealed bonnet
test from Sydney to Melbourne and back.
This year a start will be made, on October
3, the cars leaving in three divisions, light,
medium and heavy. The South Coast route
will bo taken on the way down to Melbourne,
tiie distance of 671 miles to be covered by
4.30 p.m. on October 4. The return journey
starts at 7.30 p.m. next day, the route beins-
through Albury, Gundagai, Goulburn, and
so home. Heavy cars mast check in by 3.47
p.m. on October 6, medium by 4.43 p.m., and
lights by 5.46 p.m. The Victorian end of
the show will be supervised by the Light
Car Club.
❖ * *
“Whizz”: What promises to be something
new in motor-cars has been designed by
Dennistoun Burney, who has hitherto won
what laurels are going in the game by design-
ing airships. The new idea is streamlined
on principles which the inventor has picked
up from liis airship experience, and is
expected to save 50 p.c. of present petrol
consumption. The straight eight engine is
placed at the back, and each wheel is inde-
pendently sprung. Also it is claimed that
at high'speeds the contraption barely touches
the ground, thus saving tyre wear, even
if it increases the amortisation of the pedes-
trian.
* * * *
“Methuselah” : One of the most successful
shows staged at Brooklands for a long time
was the inclusion in the programme of a
race for “old crocks,” some of the cars
entered dating back to 1896. Many had been
fowl-roosts for years, to judge by appear-
ances, while one, left in an orchard, had
a fruit tree growing through the chassis when
the owner came to resurrect it! The best-
time was done by a 1903 Dietrich, which
averaged 44 m.p.h. for the race, and kicked
out one lap at the rate of 58 m.p.h. Others
to do well were a 1904 Rolls-Royce, a 1903
Daimler and an 1896 Benz. One of the big
Australian clubs might do worse than stage
a show of the kind. There is a lot of old
junk still running about Australian roads
under its own power, to say nothing of a
lot more turned out to grass.
“0.H.V.”: Another meritorious motor-
cycle ride over the hilly and twisty Isle of
Man road-racing circuit was that of E. R.
Merrill, of Lancashire, who last week won
the 226-mile Manx Senior Grand Prix from
a field of 47 at an average speed of a frac-
tion under 70 m.p.h. Even then, he only
beat the second man home by 19 seconds.
“Kick Starter”: The Amy Johnsonian
spirit has been in evidence again in the
case of one Mavis Vonarx, of Victoria, who
recently left Melbourne on a motor-cycle
for Theodore (0.Q.), and back. As
the young woman has devoted three
months to the trip, she is not bother-
ing about records, though when she
landed in Brisbane the other day she
had covered 2400 miles. It says much for
the economy of modern motor-cycle trans-
port that her petrol bill for the B.S.A.
she was riding was only 19s. 2d on the run
between Sydney and Brisbane, and much for
the rider’s driving capacity too, since it was
only 10 weeks before starting that she had
ever looked a motor-cycle in the teeth.
Miscellaneous
The fifteenth race for the America’s Cup
resulted in the American yachtsmen retailing
the trophy won by them in 1851. The latest
challenger, Sir Thomas Lipton’s Shamrock
V., was beaten in four consecutive races, and
as victory was to go to the winner of four
out of seven spins, the American Enterprise
has no further work to do. The race began
when the Royal Yacht Squadron of Cowes
invited the New York Club to sail the
schooner America against a number of
British yachts in the Channel for a cup
donated by the English club. The cup.
won easily by the America, was handed over
to the N.Y.Y.C. on condition it should remain
a perpetual challenge trophy, to be raced for
in the water of the winners. Britain has
now made 13 unsuccessful attempts to regain
the pot, the other two having been made by
Canada, also unsuccessfully, in 1876 and
1881.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: The Enterprise, _ which
successfully defended the America’s Cup
against Shamrock Y., embodies many features
never seen before in a yacht of her kind.
The mast, which cost £BOOO, is made of
duralumin and, like Shamrock’s wooden
stick, which is a ton the heavier, is hollow.
Below* decks she is a curiosity, being filled
with all sorts of ingenious mechanical gadgets
for hoisting sails, etc.; the halliards and
lifts are all taken down to these. The
only machinery on Shamrock is a hand-
winch for hoisting the mainsail. Sail spread
of the two is almost the same —Enterprise
7540 sq. ft.; Shamrock 7524.
* * * *
“ITotliam”: The Ilenley-on-Tarra com-
mittee has been notified that Sydney Rowing
Club will again, be an entrant for the Grand
Challenge Cup in November. Last year
the club crew was just beaten by
Hawthorn in the final, and later was
only three feet aw*ay from Victoria when
the latter took the King’s Cup at Adelaide.
Six of last year’s crew are available and
M. G. McKenzie will continue as stroke.
On the. form to date Mac should this time
succeed in landing the coveted pot. Mosman
captured it twice and did not defend it the
third time.


More praise Mfevland Beaver
(m ion,.)
"Wonderful springing is a great help on tyre mileage"
sd
LEYLAND MOTORS, LIMITED,
Fairfield, N. 20
28/7/’3O
Dear Sirs,
It is just TWELVE MONTHS now since I took delivery
of my LEYLAND “Beaver,” and during the whole of that
time I have had NO TROUBLE WHATEVER.
The truck has now COVERED OVER 36,000 MILES, AND
ONLY LAST WEEK THE VALVES WERE DONE FOR
THE FIRST TIME, and DURING THAT PERIOD THE TAPPETS
WERE NEVER ADJUSTED. At one period the truck was AVERAG-
ING 208 MILES A DAY.
THE AVERAGE LOAD IS ABOUT 5£ TONS, and during the 12
months the truck has moved about 8000 tons.
The TYRE MILEAGE IS EXCEPTIONALLY GOOD, the TYRES
AVERAGE 12,000 ON THE REAR WHEELS AND FINISH THEIR
LIFE ON THE FRONT. ONE PARTICULAR TYRE DID 26,200
MILES, 12,000 OF WHICH WERE ON THE REAR. It has now
been retreaded and has done another 4000 miles.
I mention these figures to congratulate you on
the WONDERFUL SPRINGING which in
my opinion is a GREAT HELP ON TYRE
MILEAGE.
Judging by the appearance of the engine when
it was down for valve regrinding, I am expect-
ing another 12 months’ service without any
trouble.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) G. E. PORTER.
The long, flat-type springs of
the LEYLAND “Beaver” en-
sure easy riding, so that the
load is taken off the tyres.
Vastly increased mileage is the
result. Call or write and ask
for full details.
I
'
.
m
mSslm&;' >? Wsgm
i
•X • • ••:
WMmmm
sm&w
;xS«::«:::::«gSBftjga^ia^^^BBBi^SBBBßaSsK«Ssjjß^
-
£ : :£ : &B:&: : :sS^SMkSSS^MsSSSS&sk-^w
'
■
viilil
V
?^ ; <;
; I
i»
.
;:
"?/sZ- 'X 9ag
' tr, x '
■"•’ ": ;^S:
; S : g:®.ss^sj ; ;
x»,
i I
¥S»
m
■'•■wX'XvA'yv'
:X-X:
■: & .
\x ,
i:sl
K ; ;': . ' - . ;
g&S
4 ~~
:!x*x;x£
ssife
S 0 g
iiii
*i .■ ' x
Pg&
. ••
xxx\%
mm
&BS
>V
•:S*;
. ■ " •
m
x
XX;XjXj»X%*X;s£vX\jXvXv •’ .
* '■* 'v' b« " '* ■ '■■/. . :; ;:,: . 1.,,-
V& s * ' . - V s .
... ■ WM&
’mSSßmm wmmmi
i ' Sf
. .:
A-K >XX:aX: : v.^a.VSXxaX:
,' ~ -
x . ...*:v:*M*>«
Vs ' V J
■ •■: :':• • :■
:•••■. •
m
[evlandMoiors
Oj —-*^3
rtfd-
ENGLAND
Head Office for Aus-
tralia:
24 Grosvenor Street,
Sydney.
Melbourne Branch:
Corner Villiers and
Courtney Streets,
North Melbourne.
Brisbane Branch: Grey Street, South Brisbane.
West Australian Branch: Royal Street, East Perth,
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: Like all other followers of
athletics just now, N.S.W. rowing men are
feeling the pinch of the hard times, a lot
of them being workless. Their clubs are
declaring a moratorium in the matter of sub- '
scriptions. The association is asking all 1
interested in rowing who have jobs to bestow
Lo give oarsmen first calL
*—* * *
Step : There has been an argument
about the world's record for motor-boats
put up by the. late Sir Henry Segrave
just before his fatal accident, when
he attained 98.7 m.p.h. as the mean of two
runs in opposite directions. The Interna-
tional Motor Yachting Union submitted the
figures to affiliated bodies, and the Americans
contended that the mean of six runs should
have been taken. It having been pointed
out to them that the amended rules of the I
International body made the two-way run I
quite in order, the objectors climbed down. I
* ♦ ♦ *
“Splash”; The inevitable Channel-swim-!
ming female has made an early appearance
this year one Peggy Duncan, described as a
19-year-old South African, having crossed
from Gris Nez to Dover in lGlir. 17min., very
close to a record, which would have been
hoisted but for a tide shift near Dover. The
young person is the 17th to have made the
trip and the seventh female of the species.
Reports add'that several other young women
are waiting anxiously on the beach for a favor-
able opportunity to make the attempt, includ-
ing twin flappers from America. The most
exciting item of Peggy’s swim was that she
was stung by a jellyfish en route. Dwellers
m those parts are now praying for a whole-
sale invasion of Channel waters by jellyfish,
if sharks or killer-whales are not procurable.
♦ & l{t
“Spike”: If all goes well Australia should
see a strong team of American athletes
shortly. Negotiations by H. R. Weir, the
Victorian manager of the Empire Games team
in Canada, have resulted in the acceptance
of an invitation by George Simpson, Harry
Osborn and Ray Conger. Simpson is the
fastest sprinter in America, bar Tolan. Osborn
holds the world’s high-jump record with 6ft.
Siin., while Conger is a middle-distance runner
and a couple of years ago was an American
championship-holder for the mile and half-
mile. Osborn’s appearance should do a lot
of good, for the art of the high jump is
falling away in Australia nowadays.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The 1932 Olympiad at
Cos Angeles will open on July 30,
and continue to August 14. The 135 events
will include polo and hockey, two con-
tests in which Australia may be represen-
ted. Indeed it is almost certain that an
Australian hockey side will go over, and if
the clouds roll by there may be another inva-
sion of the States by Australian polo players.
It is expected that the Olympiad will be much
less costly to competitors than any of its
predecessors. This should be good news for
Australia, where lack of funds has always
handicapped the selection of a good all-round
team.
* * * *
“Parsley” : There is keen competition for
the honor of holding the Olympic Games of
1936. Already the Olympic Federation has
12 applications tabled, including one from
South Africa. Australia is not among the
applicants, and would have had no hope if it
had been. Every year competing coun-
tries are finding it harder to finance their
teams, and the cost of a journey to the
Southern Hemisphere and back would be
prohibitive. As it is, it is expected that the
question of expense will result in some
Central European locality being decided
on, with Berlin the best bet.
“Bias” : The writer has often pointed out
that the supposedly mild and harmless
bowler is really, a camouflaged Bolshevik, and
eager to defy authority for the sheer pleas-
ure of doing so. The contention has been
borne out once more by a minor insurrec-
tion in Manchester headed by a bowler. This
was one Haycock, Labor M.P. for a Man-
chester constituency. He has been endeavor-
ing to induce the local authorities to permit
games in the parks on Sundays, but with-
out success. He brought matters to a head
by going to Gorton Park on the Sabbath and
there playing a game of bowls with another
iconoclast before a vast and hilarious crowd.
Both were run in, of course, and the rights
of the matter will now be fought out in the
courts.
* * *
“Glenelg”: Rebellion still rankles in the
buzzums of many bowlers over the Australian
governing body’s decision that all practitioners
of the art must have their bowls examined
and stamped as correct. At the annual meet-
ing of one Adelaide bowling club there was
an outburst of indignation at the implied slur
upon the honor of bowlers. An official acidly
replied that there had been complaints of
crook woods being used by some players, and
that all bowlers would have to conform to
the standard.
“Backwoodsman”: For years and years
N.S.W. bowling authorities have been talking
about setting up an official association green.
The matter lias been revived again, and the
Ahabs of the association are casting covetous
eyes on the little Naboth’s vineyard of the
City Club, which is situated in the heart of
Sydney, opposite St. Mary’s Cathedral. The
City, however, has shown a strong disinclina-
tion to be swallowed.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland is sitting back in
the expectation of enjoying one of the best
cricket seasons of its existence. Including
the Sheffield Shield games, Brisbane will see
six big matches this year, one of them being
Hie third Test against the West Indians.
This last fixture is particularly gratifying
in view of the howls of protest which arose
in N.S.W. when that State was deprived of
one of the Chapman Tests in 1928. It was
then alleged by the Sydney press that the
Queensland grounds were wildernesses given
over to the broken bottle, the jam-tin and the
predatory goat, while anyone venturing out-
side the immediate environs of the city was
liable to be speared by wild blacks. All this
turned out to be incorrect, and Brisbane has
now been definitely put on the map of Test-
match centres.


Hie Unconscious
Gamblers
MANY a man who glides on
in a smooth-running car is
without knowing it*—gambling
against his own bank balance.
A
n
*
y///
1
m
%
He forgets that the ultimate
aim of lubrication is protection
against depreciation —religiously
drains his crankcase every five
hundred miles—hears nothing
suspicious under the bonnet or
the floorboards—gets apparently
good running— and then wonders
why his overhaul hill is heavy!
The evils against which Atlantic Motor Oil is a definite
and positive protection, work silently and secretly.
They are not obvious until after the ten thousand mile
mark. But they are expensively active. Atlantic, being
obviously an exceptional lubricant,* defeats them
utterly. Wherefore your purse rejoices.
HhriU"
■j kThe waxy impurities which cause deterioration in the majority of
lubricants have been whirled out of Atlantic Motor Oil by a special
and exclusive process, with the result that neither friction, heat nor
pressure can break its protective film. Add to this the fact that
Atlantic has a pure paraffin base, an amazing resistance to heat and
crankcase dilution, and absolute freedom from evaporation, and it is
obvious that the economy of Atlantic is exceeded only by its durability.
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE
MOTOR Oily
“THE RUNNING MATE OF UNION SUPER SPIRIT”


MARK YOUR
LINEN in the
MODERN WAY
“A Few Stitches
& They ’re On. ’
nAMEs
s
They safeguard all apparel and household
linen Neat Distinctive and Fadeless.
sds
Actual Size
Style No. 6
The Prices are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6; 6 doz. 5/-; 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
Jo. I rACU Australian
. CX J. LrtOn Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melb.
{<!
"r
Keitf. Tiumt Mark.
Food
“ I don’t like Milk.”
Many mothers have this
trouble with the very children
who need milk most.
In nursing homes, hospitals,
etc., they have a way of
making everybody like milk.
The doctors call it Bengerising
the milk—this is really making
fresh milk into delicious
Benger’s Food.
Write for booklet to:-~ BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Undei*
Royal
Warrant
ds
ToH.M.
Kind;
George V
' (
Vintage 1920. /
champagne (
mm
Australasian Agents
S wift & Company Li mi to J
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
am—c?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrer ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The vice-regal Games' first evening party
was noteworthy for its music, its decorations
and the presence of Earl Beauchamp—and
only marred by the sudden illness of Rose-
mary, the small daughter of the house. Three
baskets of fern hung from the gallery at
the top of the ballroom, the piano was
flanked with tall mauve Watsonias, and the
seats were arranged in groups of twos and
threes. Lady Game wore golden raiment,
an d had a scarf of golden tulle about her
shoulders. She and Sir Philip were friendly
and easy among their guests, who included
ail the Consuls and most of the Judges and
their wives. Alexander Gordon and his lady
were at the party, as were the Walter Swin-
sons, she attired in very beautiful black taf-
fetas, into which pink flower heads were
woven; slim Jean Cheriton was an expen-
sive-looking silhouette in black moire; Miss
Crowdy wore the grey of peace, and Rose-
mary, before she gave in to her ptomaine,
was fluffy in primrose chiffons. Fortunately
there were doctors among the guests, and
one was swiftly at the bedside of a very sidle
li e -F 1 w^lo had spent the earlier part of
the day watching the aeronautics. Lud
Mayoress Hilda Marks was one of the hun-
dred or so guests and sustained her office in
turquoise chiffons. Her brother and Town
Clerk Layton were also of the company.
H.M.A.S. Canberra last week started its
series of farewell performances before push-
ing off to join the Mediterranean Fleet,
hnday’s good-bye was what might be called
a private audition for the Army and Navy,
with some of the city’s best-looking lasses.
Captain Holbrook is a good host, and had
dressed up his quarter-deck with a diver at
the top of the companionway and a fountain
that jetted ruby and emerald waters through-
out the night. Mrs. Holbrook chose del-
!"' 1 nium-blue froeking, and pretty Mrs. John
McKelvey was in Granny Smith green moires
which were further adorned with a trail
of pink apple blossom. Morna MacCormick
flashed rose-red velvets, and Margaret Honey
1( ?°k«d the dewy fresh deb. she is in white
chiffons sprayed with diamente. The Cap-
tain J. B. S. Stevensons were there, she in
parchment moire traced with gold beads.
Ann Jamieson fluttered galah-like pink and
grey chiffons. Betty and Mary Armitage
came to the party, Peggy Wormald’s lilac
satins added joy to the night, and the Com-
mander Leighton couple were among the
ardent dancers.
Lud Mayor Marks may not look like the
village blacksmith, but when this Letter met
him round about midnight on Saturday at the
Mayfair Club he certainly was feeling that
something attempted, something done had
earned a night’s repose. He had attended
no fewer than six functions that blessed day,
and of these, the aerial pageant at Har-
grave Park still aroused his enthusiasm. He
told of the loops, side flying, and the rolls
flaunted against the horizon by pilots Molli-
son and Shortridge and Flight-Lieut. Charlie
Ulm, and of the breath-taking stunt when
Annabel’s and Shortridge’s ’planes, seemingly
head-on for collision, flirted a wing and crossed
one above the other, the pilots flying upside
down. . On Mrs. Terry’s handling of her
plane in the Club-trained Pilots’ Handicap
and m the Women Pilots’ Race, the Oaks, he
became a note of admiration.
Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre group
said farewell to dramatist Harry Tighe in
sausage-roll and story last week. The
sausage-roll and hot coffee were the back-
bone of the supper, and the stories were told
in one-minute machine-made sketches by the
clever members of the club. Erna Living
brought a Dickensian flavor into the night
by the immortal dialogue between Betsy
Png and Saircy Gamp, in which the very
being of Mrs. ’Arris is questioned. Harry
Tighe, a quiet man with gentle eyes, looked
on at the amateurs, whose feet he has set
on the right path by producing their two
first public ventures. Doris Fitton was an
effective hostess in pomegranate chiffons and
dangling earrings, and Althea Siddons was
charming in black tulle. A large portfolio
containing the photographs of the principals
in “Candle Light” and “The Marquise” was
presented to the guest with suitable eulogies
and thanks. Mr. Tighe goes back to Eng-
land to see about another play of his which
is about to be produced in London, but ho
says Sydney will know him again before long.
The new ballroom of the Mayfair Club was
the focus of Sydney’s dancers on Saturday
night. Over 700 claimed a foothold, and as
the floor was bounded on every side by the
tables of those who had booked earjy, there
was no chance to exercise strenuously. A
sliding shuffle was the best to be attained.
Every now and again, washed up, as it were,
on a sea of jazz, you saw a well-known
face. The aesthetic Radcliffe Brown danced
shoulder to shoulder with a prominent rac-
ing man, the Frank Chaffeys were there
with their deb. daughter, Karl Thomas had
Rmwf ,Wlt ? Dr. Williams, and Audrey Maple
tel s te k S'* rose above white
n ocking. Di. C. G. Berge and Mrs. Berge
S mrtfSn velvet, entertained an out-
size paity, winch w r as joined after the ftm-
ernment House musicale by Major Marks'
i l a } sis f er ar, d Mr. Layton. At tliis
doctors^ 6 T'k ery K* van *&** sa t, and many
colored" in wa s of tbe , ballr °°ni are
.0101 ed m gold and seemingly coruscated
with jeweis. The lights are modestly clothed
in two-tier parchment shades, and there are
band daiJ W^ d< T at tbe end opposite the
band dais. The lounge is two floors up and
has queer futuristic wall-trappings.
After being as moribund as the Dead Sea
social Sydney will be as exciting as Niagara
during Race Week. To add to the regular
attractions, a whole big cruiser and two
destroyers full of gallant Dutchmen will be
sampling the city s hospitality. The meu-o’-
wLo tn U ?> th eir moorings on Oct. 3, tile day
before the Randwick pageant. Official calls
m civic reception, and lunch at Parliament
'•n?n!v < r u re a - few of . tbe first day’s fixtures.
Ihen follow m a whirling succession a recep-
tion at Rose Bay Golf Club given by the
Consular Teppemas, lunch with the Gover-
nor at Randwick, a ball on the Nieuw Llol-
and, a Government House ball, an afternoon
reception on the flagship Java, and a ball on
the Australia. In all arrangements Consul-
Oeneral Teppema wall have the support of
the well-groomed Vice-i Consul Blaauw.
Still another dance in honor of the visit-
ing Dutch squadron. The United Service
Institute of N. S. Wales has earmarked Octo-
ber 8 for a cheerio in its clubrooms.
For 20 years ex-Chief Justice Cullen has
been the State’s Lieut.-Governor. Hast week
lie relinquished the office, so lie will liav
more leisure to spend in the gardens of
Ciimand, Ins Leura home. He was a member
of Parliament for 19 years, first in the
Assembly and then in the Council, before he
succeeded the late Frederick Darlev as C J
m 1910. Since 1914 he has been Chan-
cellor of the Uni. Ailsa Cullen often acted
as hostess for her father, and, like her
mother, was always very popular. Artistic
and philanthropic Sydney need no introduc-
tion to the new Lieut.-Governor, Chief Jus-
tice Philip Street, and his energetic little wife.
Rupert Markham, one of the most
widely-known young men in Sydney, died at
29 in Lewisham Hospital last week. Rupert
was an idealist who made philanthropy his
hobby; civil engineering was liis profession,
and hockey his recreation. He was
on the executive of the Hockey Association
and was manager of the team that visited
Perth last year. He served on numerous com-
mittees, putting so much enthusiasm into
his efforts that any ball or fete of which
he was organiser was sure to be a success.
. Sydney is the poorer for his loss.
White and coral and pomegranate-pink,
the azaleas bloom in the Botanic Gardens.
The branches are heavy with flower and in
one sunny corner there is a regular colony
of the beauties. This azalea walk is a place
for dreams and for young lovers. In the
opposite beds a white wistaria languishes
and ravishes the air with its perfume. The
greyish mauve scarves of sister trees flutter
gently up and down paths that lead to the
sundial, the Wishing Tree and the Plant
Museum. Inside this old brick building are
treasured dried bush and garden specimens,
and delicately sketched flower and tree; out
in the sunshine red roses break into laughter
and birds build their nests.
Here’s a nice girl who’s as good as she’s
pretty and as clever as she’s both. Anne
Gordon, daughter of ex-Justice Gordon and
his popular
wife, has
already achiev-
ed distinction
as an amateur
actress. As
Helen Petti-
grew in “Berk-
1e y Square”
she was an
outs tanding
success; and
now she is
preparing to
play lead in a
charity per-
formance for
the Blind In-
stitution in
William-street.
This is being
organised by
li e r mother,
and will open
at the Palace
Theatre in November; probably the play
will be “Mary Rose.” The institution has
only once before made an appeal for public
help. At the moment Anne, the subject of
this Alan Row picture, is busy at work on
the Boy Scouts’ Ball, which is dated for
October 7.
Just when the race rush is over Betty
Willsallen will cause a flutter by wedding
Bill Baillieu, of Melbourne. Both are of
well-known families, and as the affair is an
early-afternoon fixture St. Mark’s, at Darl-
ing Point, will be about mobbed on October
35 by the ardent romanticists who adore a
smart wedding and a pretty bride. Morna
MacCormiek, June Baillieu, Jean Anderson
and Audrey Hordern are to be the 'maids.
A. C. Rentoul, nephew of the late Pro-
fessor Larry Rentoul. who has recently been
appointed Resident Magistrate in Papua,
has seen more of that difficult territory than
most white men, having led police patrols
in every division. His wife, a daughter of
Blake Lark, erstwhile manager of Paterson,
Laing and Bruce, has accompanied him on
many a dangerous sea trip in the small
craft which ply in those waters.
Green curtains bordered with cherry-red
and looking as if they framed cottage win-
dows strike a cheery note in the white-
washed, stone-floored studio of the Old Eng-
lish Folk Dance Club. One climbs a steep
and dusty stairway, lightened by gay legends
on the wall calling you to hasten to the dance
above, and by a blaze of cottage flowers in
a dim corner, and at length the club is
reached. Here Ann Davies, the founder, pre-
sided the other night while Professor David’s
lady acted as hostess. Maidens in yellow
smocks and brown breeks (these were the
male partners for the dance), or in green
dimity frocks laced with cherry-red, did a
sort of sword dance called the “Slates.”
“Black Mag,” “Mary and Dorothy’” and
Peascods” were among other romps that
seemed to have many crossings, twirlings and
changes of partners. The whole show was
spirited, and the club members ranged from
flappers to their mothers.
Isabel Crowdy, 0.8. E., Lady Game’s very
efficient confidential secretary, is one of a
group of sisters noted for their public spirit
and organising, ability. Like the others,
Miss Crowdy did Y.A. work in France dur-
ing the war,
the detach-
ment of which
she was iu
charge supply-
in g oranges,
cigarettes and
the like to tem-
porary ambu-
lance trains,
running a rest-
home with a
dispensary at
Boulogne, and
attending to
the laundry
for the medi-
cal men and
nurses attach-
ed to ambu-
lance trains.
Two w a r
memories
stand out
vividly. One
is the house near Rouen, in its old-fashioned
French garden, which she and her helps
painted and papered with their own hands,
swept and garnished and turned into a rest-
home for the Vets, and Remounts. Another
is the never-to-be-forgotten sight of a little
W.A.A.C. driving a lorry through a raid that
was like Hell let loose. On the lorry was a
man wounded and shell-shocked who shrieked
because he hadn’t his tin hat. The girl
driver stopped, took off her own tin hat and
fastened it on the sick one’s head, then drove
on hatless. It was a long way from the wis-
taria-draped, cineraria-massed Government
House garden to that scene, yet as she spoke
that shell-shattered fragment of 191 G seemed
more real to Miss Crowdy than the gold and
blue morning shot through with the song of
birds and the murmur of bees. Of her three
sisters perhaps the best known is Dame Rachel
Crowdy, D.8.E., R.R.C., who was the first
woman to be appointed a chief of section
on the League of Nations secretariat; her
section is the social and humanitarian. Dame
Rachel was commandant-in-chief of V.A.D.’s
in France from 1914 until 1919, and was
mentioned in dispatches. During the war
Edith Crowdy, C.8.E., was deputy-director of
the Women’s Royal Naval Service; she is
secretary of the World Bureau of Girl
Guides. The third sister is joint secretary
of the Children’s Country Holidays Fund,
which sends no fewer than 30,000 kiddies a
year to the country or seaside. Picture from
the May Moore studio.
Another party of the week-end was the
show of Roland Wakelin’s pictures hung
about the rooms of Ball Green, the Turra-
murfa home of the Brigadier-General Ander-
son family. Mrs. Anderson had invited over
200 guests to view the artist’s pictures and
to drink tea, and the, lawns and rooms pre-
sented a very animated scene from early
afternoon. Sir Hugh Poyntcr made the
introductory remarks.
A special service was held last Sunday
at the Congregational Church at Vaucluse
to commemorate the laying of the foundation-
stone 90 years ago. The two first trustees
were John Fairfax and David Jones, both
founders of big Sydney firms ; services were
held in the long green-room of the light-
house for nine years before the church itself
was started, so the annals of the congrega-
tion go back just upon a century.
This Letter is about to lead a revolt
among presswomen against married Gover-
nors. The decision was reached after meet-
ing Lord Beauchamp, still handsome, upright
and an entertaining talker, though in the
autumnal fifties. Government House must
have been a thrill 30 years ago when, single
and debonair, he was first gentleman of the
State. Blue-eyed, fair-complexioned, and
with a splendid physique, Lord Beauchamp
might claim that time has brought to himself
improvements rather than changes, such
as he sees in Sydney. When in England one
of his homes is Walmer Castle, for among
his offices he is Lord Warden of the Cinque
Ports. Henry VIII. built the castle as a
block-house; nowadays it is filled with elec-
tric lifts and bathrooms, and is the family’s
favorite seaside home. The Lord Warden
has the appointing of the Captain of Deal
Castle, and in Earl Beauchamp’s time such
celebrities as French, Allenby and Read-
ing have been associated with the office.
The family, a great line of girls and
boys taken arm-in-arm, smiles out from
a postcard-size photograph the Earl carries
in a leather wallet in his inside pocket. They
are jolly and liealthy-looking—-among the
beauties of England, says a returned Aus-
tralian who saw them two years ago. Lady
Lettice Lygon, who was married just before
her father sailed for Australia, chose a hus-
band after her parents’ heart, so Lord Beau-
champ is that very rare person a completely
satisfied father-in-law. The eldest boy, Lord
Elmley, just 27, lias been already a year in
Parliament; like his father he is shoulder-
ing his responsibilities young. He repre-
sents East Norfolk. From the roof of the
Astor, where he is staying, the Earl looks
down on foreshores so built upon since his
term of office as to be almost unrecognisable.
Vaucluse, North Shore, the skyline of Dar-
linghurst, and, of course, the bridge excite
his continued admiration. He has eyes like
a hawk, and can pick out tiny objects away
beyond Kirribilli. The small village that
was Manly burst on his gaze, Corso, flats,
hotels and all, the other day when he went
down to be initiated into this surf bathing
which was hardly known in his vice-regal
days. For that joy missed, and old acquaint-
ance Henry Lawson gone, he had his only
sighs. He spoke of “Banjo” Paterson, Louise
Mack and Mrs. Aronson, and remembered the
name of Rod Quinn. Our former Governor
makes you realise with gratitude that there is
an England remote and aloof from the Eng-
land of the smart set of novelist and
dramatist.
When the Moderator reads the lesson in
the new Presbyterian Assembly Hall which
stands on the site of the picturesque Scots’
Kirk, Dill Macky perhaps nods across a
tartan cloud to Cardinal Moran, seated be-
hind an amethystine balustrade, as much as
to say: “Still about a dead heat, old man!”
For the joint pulpit and communion table
in the new hall is made from the old cedar of
Scots’, and its front panels are taken from
Dill Macky’s own pulpit. The Moderator’s
throne chair, its arms carved with lions’
heads, the two lesser chairs for ex-Modera-
tors and the elders’ chairs are also made
of the woodwork from the old church. Each
side of the platform is approached by the
steps that led to the original pulpit, and
the graceful curve of the lathe-fashioned
handrail is reproduced in the modern cedar
balustrade that leads to the gallery. In fact,
Ancient and Modern are not more neigh-
borly in Moody and Sankey than in this
building which harbors under one roof all
the offices of the church. The proscenium
of the hall is interwoven with the rose,
thistle and shamrock, and blazoned with the
burning bush. At intervals about the glass of
the roof are set gargoyles whose eyes and
mouths spit amber fire when the electrics are
ablaze. Shadowless lighting is a feature of
the hall, and when the full power is on the
ceiling glows like the light of the faith held
for so long by the descendants of the Scot-
tish Covenanters. Above the Moderators’
chairs is a stained-glass window on which
St. Andrew, John Ivnox, and one of the
patriarchs keep guard. The aisles are cov-
ered with a blue-grey carpet specially woven
in Glasgow, its design the burning bush.
In one entrance the beautiful stone tablets
commemorating John Dunmore Lang and
Mrs. Lang rest peacefully opposite each
other. (They used to be inset in Scots’.)
In the arched corridor running between the
hall and the vestry are tablets to the glory
of Dill Macky and George Lang, and the
honor rolls of the Boer War and the
Great War. At night this is bathed in
amber light from electrics behind the glass
roof. In the vestry, shared at present by
the Reverend Grassick and Dr. Boyd Scott
(the preacher for Scots’, newly-arrived from
Glasgow with his lady), the cabinets, the
desk and the writing-table are all fashioned
from the cedar of Scots’. On the wall above
the desk the fine face of Dunmore Lang,
visionary enough to be a poet’s, looks out
from an old gilt frame. In the building is
installed “pauic” lighting, which if the ordi-
nary electric power fails can supply light
for six hours. There are two passenger lifts
and a goods lift; there’s the tablet that used
to be above the door of old Scots’ Kirk, and
there’s a great well-worn Bible presented to
John Dunmore Lang by Mrs. Hunter Baillie
in 1863.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Frauds on Australia
Something will have to be done with
those big i*etail firms which refuse to handle
goods made in Australian factories if such
goods bear the name of the manufacturer.
The retailer insists upon having his own name
on the wares. “Manufactured expressly for
Jiggins and Co., Ltd.,” is the utmost con-
cession they will make; more often the
goods are branded simply “Jiggins and Co.,
Ltd.,” to suggest that they are Jiggins’s
own make. In either case Jiggins can claim
that the goods are Australian or British or
French manufacture according to whether
the customer discloses a preference for Aus-
tralian, British or French goods.
The trouble began originally with boots.
There are and for many years past have
been Australian boot-manufacturers as good
as any in the world. But so general was
the practice of stamping •goods with the
retailer’s name instead of the manufacturer’s
that no single manufacturer was well known
throughout Australia. Thus a vast number
of Australian boots and shoes made in
Melbourne and Sydney were sold as Ameri-
can, British or French, and higher prices
were charged for them on that account.
Worse still, in tens of thousands of cases
inferior articles of Australian manufacture
were produced to show the great difference
between the foreign and the Australian.
This not only reconciled the customer to
paying an excessive price for the goods
falsely represented as foreign, but sent the
buyer away with the idea more firmly fixed
than ever that the Australian boot-manufac-
turer was a clumsy fellow capable only of
turning out the lowest type of footwear.
What had happened with shoes to begin
with has since happened with almost every
other line of merchandise. A brand of
corsets made in Australia has won almost
world-wide approval; the goods, produced
under Australian supervision, are now sold
extensively in Regent-street, London. Yet
there are big Australian retail houses which
have never stocked these lines and have
always refused to do so because the manu-
facturers insisted upon having their own
name upon their own goods. More recently
an American firm sold certain rights to
make bathing costumes and use a well-
known American name. An Australian co.
was formed to do the job, and an Aus-
tralian factory, with an Australian board
and a good Australian chairman, was erected
to supply Australian needs. But because
the manufacturers insisted upon putting
their own name upon their own goods, and
not the name merely of the shopkeeper who
retailed them, some big houses in Australia
have refused to handle this article.
The Australian manufacturer will never
make much progress while things like this
are permitted; certainly no Australian
manufacturer will ever secure an Australian-
wide trading connection. Yet until he can
secure such a connection he cannot produce
the goods at the lowest possible price; and
that must affect the cost of living.
The difficulty can be got over quite easily.
In the first place the law must say that
every Australian-made factory product
nmst bear either the name of the maker or
his registered Federal trade-mark. And in
the second place it must be made an offence
for any retailer to put off as his own manu-
facture any goods made by an outside
factory, or to represent as a foreign manu-
facture any goods which in fact are of Aus-
tralian manufacture, or vice versa. Even
then a retailer might refuse to handle the
goods of an Australian manufacturer; but
at any rate the worst of the fraud to which
the present practice lends itself will be
scotched.
Banking in Maoriland.
The retort of the M.L. Associated Banks
fa group that includes all the six banks
doing business in the Dominion) to the
increase of the banknote tax from 3 per cent, to
\\ per cent, is to declare that they intend to
curtail the issue of 10s. notes. The cur-
tailment has commenced and the notes are
already noticeably scarce. The banks in
justification of their action claim that they
are more heavily taxed (in other directions
than on tlieir note issue) than any other
trading companies. They don’t pay income
tax on their profits, but are assessed instead
at 1| per cent, on their total of assets and
liabilities, computed on the averages of four
quarters, less income derived from tax-free
Government securities. This, so the banks
assert, means a much heavier impost than
the flat-rate tax on profits imposed on other
companies.
Not much sympathy is to be expected from
the Lib.-Lab. coalition that at present governs
M. The combination of the banks is looked
on sourly in that quarter, and there is also
a considerable section of the business com-
munity which would like to “break the ring,” as
it is put in such circles. So long as Massey,
and afterwards Coates, were in the saddle,
it was an open secret that no new bank
charters would be granted. Now the pen-
dulum has swung two new banks —the Lon-
don and N. Z. Bank and the Australian and
N. Z. Banking Corporation, the latter a
Sydney concern —are in the throes of flota-
tion. The L. and N.Z. got a charter
provisionally on obtaining a capital of
£1,000,000 by July 31 last. Evidently capital
is proving harder to get than was expected,
for a two years’ extension is being asked for.
The A. and N.Z. is selling its £1 shares on
the t.-p. plan—ss. on application and 2s. Gd.
each half-year, and its directors “confidently
anticipate” opening up shop this year.
A whisper has gone round in Parliament
that when the two newcomers do start busi-
ness they may not have to worry about note-
issues, since the Dominion by then may have
made arrangements similar to those of the
Commonwealth for a centralised issue.
Whether that means a renewal of an old
agitation to make the New Zealand wholly
instead of partly a State-owned bank is not
revealed; but this isn’t a time, when M.L.
can afford to buy banks. Possibly it arises
out of acting-Priminister Ransom’s remark
that the whole banking system of the
Dominion is overdue for revision and that
Sir Otto Niemeyer has been asked to advise.
Railway Mysteries.
“Kell”: There is more commotion in the
N.S.W. Railway Department about one
ticket sold and not subsequently collected
than there is about ninety and nine unsold
tickets. One uncollected ticket starts a
round of “Please explains” costing more than
the fare paid. Privately-owned, dividend-
paying railways give tickets a rougli-and-
ready check to see that collecting staffs are
reasonably efficient, but are not much wor-
ried about people who pay for tickets and
don’t use them or don’t give them up.
The railways’ wonderful ratebook is
another example of administration run wild.
Some firms save money by employing a rail-
freight expert. It pays to know that seed
oats are carried for about half the price
of feed oats ; that plants in pots with soil
cost twice as much as plants in pots without
soil; that wireless parts cost twice as much
as electrical parts. Thus the rail-wise firm
always consigns seed oats, never states there
is any soil clinging to the pot plants, and
sends only electrical parts.
Manufacture of Type-machines.
The Federal Government recently decided
that none but British typewriters should be
used in its departments. Hitherto the
Americans have ruled the roost, and, since
many thousands of machines are in use
throughout Australia, the decision is quite
important. The Imperial Typewriter Co.,
the first successful British tenderer, has
been given a two years’ contract with option
of renewal. It is expected that the firm will
be supplying some 200 machines per year,
and the quota will naturally increase as
foreign machines already in use go to the
scrapheap. The co. is already well estab-
lished with most of the State Governments,
and Maoriland lias also agreed to use its
product only. . .
Though nothing is said about it m the
contract, the natural corollary is that the
co. should set up a factory in Australia,
where the demand should by now justify
the step. Everything needed in the manu-
facture of typewriters from steel to ribbons
can be produced in this country—as far as
the ribbons go, one Australian firm has been
making a satisfactory article for years.
The Rubber Industry.
“Si Anu”: I suggested in The Bulletin
some years ago that the result of the Steven-
son Restriction laws, operating only in Cey-
lon and British Malaya, would be to make
a present of the rubber industry to the
natives of the Dutch East Indies. This un-
happily seems to be coming true. The other
day, after hovering round sixpence for some
months, the price dropped to a new low
record of 3fd., later recovering 146th or so.
It is generally reckoned that British com-
panies, with their heavy overhead, their high
salaries to white employees and the sanitary
provisions demanded by the Government for
their coolies, cannot produce profitably at
much under sevenpence—some say 7Jd. But
the native can produce for next to nothing.
When the restriction law came in, Sumatra
Malays, Javanese and brown Dutch subjects
everywhere started putting in seedlings in
their kampong gardens. They had no labor
costs to pay, no interest bill to meet, and
the rubber sap was merely a little extra
profit, like the fruit in any suburban back
With a population of over 50,000,000, this
cottage cultivation has reached such huge pro-
portions that when a fresh attempt to im-
pose restriction was mooted lately it was
turned down by both Dutch and F.M.S.
Governments, largely on the ground that it
would be impossible to police the law, and
that it would cause grave disaffection
amongst the natives.
The best that Mincing Lane can now make
out of the situation is that the present com-
plete blowout of the market may lead to
amalgamations and co-operative arrange-
ments amongst the white planters.
Trade in tbe U.S.A.
According to the tabulations made early
in August by the National .City Bank of
New York, 805 cos., wdiich had then issued
reports for the first half of the current year,
showed net profits of 653 million dollars as
against 870 millions in the first half of 1929.
The latter was, however, a period of extra-
ordinary prosperity; the profits of the same
cos. for the first half of 1928 were only 18
million dollars more than for the first half
of 1930.
The position got worse so rapidly towards
the end of 1929 and throughout the first
six months of the current year that, whereas
unemployment of union members was only
9 p.c. in July, 1929, in July, 1930, it was
21 p.c. These are the combined figures for
all trades: in the building trade alone the
figure reached 37 p.c. and in the metal trades
21 p.c.
The heaviest falls in profits in the U.S.A.
have occurred in the automobile trade, in
the iron and steel industry and in metal
(non-ferrous) mining. General Motors’
profits (six months) fell away from 151 to
98 million dollars. All others grouped to-
gether did worse; they showed a 70 p.c.
recession in profits against General Motors’
85 p.c. Coal-mining continues to be the
poor sister of the industries: it managed to
show 7 a shade over 1| p.c. p.a. on capital in
the early part of prosperous 1928-29, but is
back again to half of 1 p.c. The U.S. Steel
Corp.’s profits fell from 96 to 68 millions —
almost aBO p.c. fall. Non-ferrous mining’s
profit (copper, silver-lead and zinc) was only
2 p.c. on capital as against 8 p.c. in the
previous year.
As in Australia, the population is still
finding money for amusements. Chiefly to
finance new theatres, over 75 million dollars
has been put into this business in the last
12 months, and the profit was 9 p.c. as
against 9J p.c. on the smaller total a year
previously. Agencies supplying ordinary
domestic requirements were also maintaining
their figures. Restaurant chains, for example,
showed 54 p.c. as against a shade over 4
p.c. a year earlier.
The automobile-finance business has grown
enormously during the past few years. The
National City Bank, to which The Bulle-
tin is indebted for these figures, says that
“the manner in which instalment credit is
meeting the test of business depression" con-
stitutes “one of the favorable features of the
present situation.”
The Queensland cane crop is expected, to
go 3,500,000 tons this year, the yield
of raw sugar being estimated at 494,000
tons. Last year, with the cane tonnage
about the same, production of raw sugar
amounted to 518,000 tons, 197,000 tons
being exported. The greatest quantity ex-
ported in any one year was 211,000 tons in
1925.
* * * *
“Bildad”: The “Grow More Wheat”
appeal, which even erupted in the form of
a stamp dabbed on our letters, lias certainly
brought results, though the fall in price to
30s. per quarter in the British market (it
was 80s. a quarter in 1920) is unfortunate.
There is still scope for appeals such as
“Wear More Australian Clothes,” or “Get
Drunk on Australian Liquor if You Must
Make a Hog of Yourself,” or “Be Smashed
by an Australian Car and Refuse all Imita-
tions.” That would be an escape from the
rut.
Rapid freezing is cutting into the trade
of the retail butcher and his kind in the
U.S.A. There you can buy small cartons of
quick-frozen steak, chops, joints and saus-
ages, as well as fish, vegetables and fruit,
by the million. The food is first wrapped in
cellophane —the transparent wrapping used
for Gertie’s “chocs.” —and packed in a card-
board carton, which is waxed and covered
with a waxed wrapper. The filled cartons
are then subjected to the quick-freezing pro-
cess, which depends on immersion in cold
solutions in brine. A committee of the Coun-
cil for Scientific and Industrial Research
has been investigating the subject, and the
August “Journal” suggests, as a result of
its experiments, that “the solution of the
Australian beef export problem may lie in
the export of small portions of quick-frozen
beef.”
“Mere”: A Sydney furniture-manufactur-
ing co. recently imported beechwood colored a
bright blue and a deep rose-pink. Where
this lot came from I do not know, but
similar wood is being produced in Austrian
forests. The coloring is due to aniline dye
injected into the trunk at ground level every
year. Great care has to be exercised to use
exactly the same shade each year to avoid
streaky coloring. The dye. rises with the
sap in the spring, spreading throughout the
tree in the course of anything up to about
ten years. Colored furniture should soon be
on the market.
* * *
Sisal hemp at £57 a ton permits a ray of
light to pierce the gloom now hanging over
Port Moresby on account of the unpayable
price of rubber and copra. The dry belt
of the Central Division of Papua from Hula
to Yule Island is suitable for its cultivation;
and there is hope that, in the near future,
brown brother in search of a job will toil
at slicing the spiky leaves from the hemp
bushes. About 3500 acres have been planted
in the Territory, and the yield per acre is
from lOcwt. to 15cwt. of hemp. Its sudden
rise in price is due to the discovery of a
process by which it can be used in the manu-
facture of artificial silk.
* * * *
There is still a kick in the once-flourishing
Australian liorse-export industry. Within the
next few weeks 500 army remounts will
leave Queensland for India, while the well-
known N.S.W. polo expert Curtis Skene
will also depart for the coral strand with a
string of 50 ponies. Skene has for some
time engaged in the training of polo ponies
on a property in N.S.W. specially equipped
for the purpose, and last year was very suc-
cessful with a shipment to Honolulu and the
Western States of America. The Australian
pony is in great demand among polo players
in other countries, as the high prices, rang-
ing from £2OOO down, recently given m
America for the 25 jponies taken there by
the Ashton brothers, of Goulburn (N.S.W.),
go to show.
if * *
Landsdown station, Charleville way
(N.Q.), had its latest wool clip carted m to
the rail by horse and bullock teams instead
of motor-lorry—first time for years. The
populace came out to view the unusual sight,
and one old lady got worked up enough to
want to embrace one of the bulloclaes. Before
the motor-carrier came, Charleville was quite
a teamsters’ centre and their parked waggons
were one of the sights of the town.
* =s * *
“Nakhoda”: A form of rationing which
would hurt less than some of the methods
hitherto employed would be where married
women have jobs when their husbands are in
comfortable billets. The replacement of such
women bv single members of the unemployed
would help to solve more than one problem.
Married women in work often use the
creches to dispose of their family encum-
brances during business hours. It is a
common spectacle in Melbourne to see these
victims of sex competition being,led through
the streets to the nearest park for a breath
of air, each youngster holding on to a rope
so that the collective centipede can be navi-
gated across the intersections.
° * * * *
“Trotter” : “I’ve run out of tea,” said the
lady of the house at which I was week-end-
ing in the Darling Ranges (W.A.) . “Never
mind; I’ll make you a cup of bush tea.”
With that she took from a canister some
dried bits of a plant that looked rather
like rosemary, rolled them in the palms of
her hands, shot the mass into a teapot, and
brought me a steaming cup. It: tasted very
like the beverage which adds between
£3,000.000 and £4,000,000 p.a. to our exorbi-
tant imports, though a thought weak —but
that may have been due to the milk. Stif-
fened with brandy for a nightcap, it was
delicious. The lady is a member of an old
Westralian family; the uses of the plant,
she told me, were discovered long ago when
the Swan River Settlement ran out of tea.
Does anyone know its scientific name? I
gather that it is not plentiful, and is hard
to come at, growing in isolated patches; bul
it might conceivably be worth cultivating,
as the South Americans cultivate Yerba
mate. That strong-flavored tea is a natural
forest product, but it is also grown on such
a scale that exports from Paraguay alone
amount to GOOO tons a year.
“Tideover” : To carry on public services it
is essential to buy large quantities of manu-
factured goods. In the past a proportion of the
orders for such supplies has gone outside Aus-
tin] ia, though Australian manufacturers ten-
dered for contracts. A nation that is being
heavily taxed to provide sustenance for
workless people can’t afford to have any
work done outside its borders that can be
done at home. Furthermore, the heads of
the various State and Federal Departments
must have a. pretty fair idea of what their
requirements in the way of supplies will be
for the next 12 months or so. Why not let
contracts now for the lot? It will keep
factories and foundries working and ease
the strain on unemployment-relief funds.
Payments will follow delivery and the effect
on the year’s balance-sheet will be nil. It’s
better than paying doles to the idle, or stag-
ing imitations of work on such futile enter-
prises as the sand-shifting at Maroubra,
Sydney. ?
Dear Bulletin, —The working-man cor-
respondent who writes (B. 17/9/’3O) under
the heading “All the Cards Are on the Table’’
asks: “But if we produce more who is
going to consume our products?” I should
say, ourselves, and the man next door, and
the fellow in the next street. The room for
Australian products, such as clothing-
material, ironware and many other things, is
enormous, as the import. figures show, and
if we import less of them it doesn’t matter so
much whether we export more (in value)
of wheat or not. Twopence saved is better
than a penny gained, and we can save the
twopence, whereas we can’t make the penny
unless the buyer at the other end of the
transaction is willing to pay more tor the
goods; and he isn’t. —Yours, etc., Hook
Eyres. t # *
When C. E. Dane Poole, now Common-
wealth Inspector-General of Forests, was
Conservator in Westralia and trying to get
the State to develop what he called a
“forest conscience,” it was one of his griev-
ances that such a magnificent timber as
jarrah should be used almost solely tor
jetty-piles and the like. To stress its orna-
mental qualities he had most of his household
furniture made of jarrah, and very imposing
it was, the only drawback being the weight.
It was the persistent demand from British
possessions all over the world for jarrah for
comparatively base uses that caused the
south-western forests to be depleted more
rapidly than those in any part of the
Commonwealth. The re-afforestation system
that was adopted so late in the day was
due more to Dane Poole than to any other
man. *
“Strict Veg.”: The latest attack on the
Yic ’Bus Act began last week, when an organ-
isation calling itself the Victorian Taxi-
’Bus Service opened two stations m Mel-
bourne whence taxis running to schedule
picked up passengers for about 20 country
centres. The next move promised is the
addition of 40 suburban stations, the eventual
aim being a network of lines covering-
city and State. The management asserts
that by Christmas there will be 000 men
employed, and that fares will be low enough
to undercut the railways and even incom-
mode the tramways. Meantime, the. Govern-
ment is hastily amending legislation, and
declares that the enemy will be routed.
The promoters, on the other hand, profess
to believe that they are impregnable. They
are not plying for hire but engaging ina
contract with passengers on their own private
.property. Their drivers are pledged not to
pick up fares except inside the company s
garages, though they are at liberty to drop
them anywhere. One of the loudest protests
comes from the ’bus lines, licensed by the
Government, which are required to pay heavy
license fees, insure their passengers and
observe other onerous restrictions. JNatur-
allv these regard the newcomers as pirates.
«•; jJj $
Wool is used for more purposes than most
people realise. Ten million bales can be
taken as the world’s annual output, and Brot
Hunter, of Deeds Uni., estimates that at
least half is diverted to other uses than cloth-
ing and kindred textiles. A lot of it »otn
into floor coverings, and with camel- anq
goat-liair wool is employed as a substitute
for leather in driving belts tor machineiy,
and in the production of wood-pulp and
newsprint. Even cigarette papers have to
be subjected to a treatment in which wool
plays an important part, while it is boug
by the motor trade for upholstery and b.
the furnishing trades for curtain- and chair-
covering materials. Worsted yarns die
required for “packing” machinery and or
axle boxes; billiard cloth is made of supei-
fine merino wool. So the world will go
needing huge quantities of the stun,. even
if women retain their irrational prejudice
for substitutes.
❖
There are. still Australian woolgrowers
who are confident that South African com-
petition will not affect their industry, Inc
Afrikanders are of a different opinion. In
a report issued by their Department of Agn-
culture, the fact that Union exports have
increased in 15 years from half a million to a
million bales is complacently noted and it is
predicted that present output will doubled
in;five to ten yeats. The rider is added tha
Australia, Maoriland and Argentina are going
in more and more for production of meat,
“which will tend to the breeding of stronger
quality wools”; “South Africa is claimed
to be “the only country which, m the tutuii,
will be able to supply manufacturing conn-
tries with the indispensable fine wools. W ltn
out doubt Australian growers, with tew ex-
ceptions, are now going tor dual-purpose
sheep There is already a shortage of the
fine types, and in that the Afrikanders see
their opportunity.


Children’s Hospital No. 2 ART UNION
(ROYAL ALEXANDRA),
DRAWN ON DECEMBER 20, 1930.
Tickets I[2
POST FREE.
Books of 12
can be had on
application.
Send at once.
Buy NOW!
By permission of the Honorable the
Attorney-General.
Lighten the
dark times of
the little kiddies
who are in
hospital. They
depend on your
sympathy.
FIRST PRIZE: Wonderful Necklace of Diamonds valued at £5OO.
SECOND PRIZE: Morris Minor Saloon Motor Car (1930 model)
THIRD PRIZE: Beautiful Trousseau valued at £lOO.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES OVER £lOOO.
. Apply to Hon. Sec., Box 4200 XX, G.P.0.,
, £246 10s.
Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel's New Tariffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 157-
Single Room, Inclusive, from 20/-
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 3/-
&/>e WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
Melbourne
Chatter
On Friday the G.-G. and Lord Somers had
lunch at the Showground with the chairman
of the R.A.S., Colonel C. E. Merrett, and the
committee. After speechifying, which incor-
porated farewell words to the G.-G. and a
swan song from Lord Stonehaven there was
an adjournment to a canopied dais adjoining
the wine pavilion, where the G.-G. officially
launched the Show. Then he set to work to
clear away a barricade of silver urns, bowls,
cups and other trophies arrayed in front of
him, by handing them to owners of prize
stock and winners of arena events. On this
occasion the ring events were the main
attraction. There were spruikers everywhere,
even the refreshment booths employing elo-
quent gentlemen to expatiate on the excel-
lence of their viands. The Agricultural ITall,
with its exhibits classified by districts, pre-
sented a cheery sight. We can’t be down
and out while our country can boast such
magnificent farm produce.
The R.A.S. Show has helped to point the
moral that youth will be served. A demure
miss three months short of the three-year-old
mark, Beryl Jones, has been riding her pony
in the ring like a veteran. Another equestri-
enne, aetat five, looked positively passe
in comparison. In the dressmaking compe-
tition four or five of the dozen entrants
were in their teens, the youngest being 13
and the eldest 19. A very efficient young lady
was this eldest; she cut out, joined and
pressed, and stitched away on a sewing-
machine with experienced calm. Each
entrant had to sit down and make a frock,
in public, between nine in the morning and
six at night. The materials cost only a little
over ss. in each case; the R.A.S. supplied
figured, cotton fabric, and the competitors were
allowed to spend up to 2s. each on trimmings.
Most of the seamstresses scorned the use
of thimbles. A doyley-embroidering competi-
tion and a darning contest also brought
several young aspirants into the field.
Saturday found a constant stream of
people and lots of children everywhere on
the grounds; and the ringside was packed
deep with spectators of the parade of pedi-
greed livestock, which was followed by a
thrilling trotting handicap and a hurdle race
of whippets. The weather was beautiful,
and the grounds looked gay with their
garden-beds of pansies, marigolds, polyan-
thus and forget-me-nots and great trees of
pink and white fruit blossom. The dog
pavilion was full of collies, Alsatians, wolf-
hounds and other big canines, who cast a
scornful and patronising eye upon the toy
doggies. A new breed of terrier was shown,
in appearance like a grey-wool mat that
had been left in the dew all night.
In the fancy section an outstanding bit of
white-work, big enough to do duty as a bed-
spread or supper-cloth, is exhibited by Renee
Varigos, a Greek maiden who has lived in
Melbourne only a few years. Filet lace
insertion and medallions with Richelieu
embroidery, bordered with Cluny lace, adorn
the old bleached linen she has used. Her
imperfect knowledge of English probably
caused her to lose a prize for another exhibit,
an exquisitely embroidered muslin pillow-
sham, which was entered in a wrong sec-
tion. Especially attractive in these days
when colored silken lingerie has made us for-
get other modes- are the nighties of fine
white lawn, fascinatingly embroidered and
crotchet-edged, exhibited by Gladys Rohde.
Florence Frost wins a first prize with some
splendid stitchery upon an ivory de
Chine underskirt.
Among the prize-gleaners are several whose
needlework has adorned many such collec-
tions annually. Olive Garden, Roma Field
and Mrs. D. E. Thomas are among these.
Mrs. Thomas is represented by a crocheted
afternoon teacloth done in the finest cotton,
positively brilliant in design and execution.
A Russian lady who has been in this city
some time shows a beautiful example of
tapestry. Among the newer stitches fea-
tured are some colored designs in what is
known as Cineraria, a sort of close button-
holing in high relief, but there is very little
in the show that can be branded as original.
A cosy woollen rug in an unusual crochet
stitch done in variegated browns by Roma
Field is a bit out of the rut, and so is a
cushion with Mickey and Minnie Mouse
sporting hand in hand thereon.
Hand-made rugs make a good display,
those in wool being worthy of study. Strange
to say, this year there are but four com-
petitors in the “one woman’s work” of things
made and grown. Last show the judges had
a very difficult task in picking out the winner
from 10 such collections. In Elsie A.
Knight’s winning exhibit there are varied
efforts that run from dressmaking and
millinery to preserve-making—even to raisins
and dried fruits.
Associate members had an afternoon at
the Peninsula links, Frankston, on Friday,
and saw a little sunshine after a rainy
morning. Canadian foursomes .were the chief
feature of the programme, and the welcoming
hand was held out by Mrs. E. Cato, captain
of this bunch of feminine golfers. The hon.
sec., Mrs. Jack Lang, and a committee saw
that everything went smoothly and pleasantly.
Grace Evans, pictured here by Alice Mills,
is on the staff of the New Con. She
studied sing-
ing with the
late Madame
ll' e n d e r son,
Dame Melba,
and the lace
Benno Sche-
r e k. M i s s
Evans has
given con-
certs in aid of
the Children’s
Hospital and
the Women’s
Hospital and
has taken an
active part in
arranging pro-
grammes for
the Friendly
Union of Sol-
diers’ Wives
and Mothers’
League. She is
to give a re-
cital at the Assembly Hall shortly, when
her offering will include songs by Liszt,
Schubert, Franz, Stanford, Rubinstein, Rach-
maninoff, Borodine, Alex. Rowley and Mona
Mcßurney.
Just returned from a motor-tour that cov-
ered nearly 7000 miles and occupied three
months are Ada Beal, of Lome, and her
guests, Eileen Glenny, of Ballarat, and Lil
Wilmot, of. Melbourne. It was a case of
“up the middle and down again,” for the
route lay through' Adelaide to Port Augusta,
thence to Darwin and back through
Queensland, following, as far as roads per-
mitted, the air route to Brisbane. Thence
the adventurers fared to Sydney and so by
the Prince’s Highway home. When Miss
Beal told her friends of her ambition to
make the big loops entirely per petrol they
told her it couldn’t, shouldn’t or wouldn’t
be done —the “shouldn’t” was supplied by
stern patriots who reckoned that while the
railways were one step off the workhouse
threshold they ought to get any spare
pennies available. But she wasn’t to be
deterred. As the Scots say: “He who maun
to Coupar, maun to Coupar”—and Miss
Beal’s Coupar was Darwin. So on a win-
ter’s morning she set out from Lome in a
roomy six-cylinder Hudson, with the owner,
Mr. Herd, at the wheel.
Of course, a pilgrimage of that magnitude
necessitated a lot of preparation. Extra
tanks were installed on the car, holding 36
gallons of petrol, and there was also a liberal
allowance of tankage for water. The Shell
co. arranged for supplies of fuel en route.
Impedimenta included a gramophone, two
tents, cooking utensils and 50yds. of matting
(in case of bogging). It says much for
“Susannah,” as the ’bus was affectionately
christened, that throughout the long trek she
behaved like a perfect lady, the only mis-
haps being one puncture, an interlude when
sand got into the carburetter, and a flounder-
ing through loose sand when the matting
came in handy.
A detour of about 400 miles was made
from Kingoonya, beyond Port Augusta, to
have a peep at the opal-fields of Coober
Pedy. A barren, desolate spot this, so far
from everywhere that no inhabitant attempts
to build a home, since the cartage of material
would be prohibitive. So all the population
resides in dug-outs—no new experience to
some of them who saw service in France.
Even firewood has to be carted miles. There
are very few women. Once a week the
storekeeper visits the nearest settlement for
provisions. Hospitality is Coober Pedy’s
strong suit, and the comfortable underground
residence of an opal-buyer was placed at the
travellers’ disposal for the night or two
they stayed there. This boasted proper furni-
ture and a bread-oven. The dug-outs are
ventilated by air-shafts, but they are very
hot in summer. A resident, Miss Barrington,
estimated that in her quarters it goes up to
130 deg. when the sun is doing its darndest.
Opals are to be had almost for the picking
up, but business is dull. The visitors bought
some lovely bits.
A three days’ dust storm was struck on
following the railway line. again,' and right
through the plains no river "was seen until
the Adelaide was reached, a hundred miles
out of Darwin. At Oodnadatta the travellers
enjoyed their first hot bath —artesian-bore
water, at that. Not far from here the rail-
way terminates, and then the telegraph line
marks the route. From the various tele-
graph offices the progress of the explorers
w’as sent ahead, so there was always a wel-
coming hand awaiting them. Such was the
kindly interest the Centralians took in the
visitors that once, when they camped out
and were a day overdue at the next station,
a police officer came out from Alice Springs
to seek them.
At Alice Springs the party made the
acquaintance of the famous conical anthills,
which seemed as tall as telegraph-poles.
Material from these anthills makes an
excellent flooring that is used in many
homes in the North, and it is almost ideal
for tennis courts. Hard as bricks when
properly laid down, it will take a polishing-
cream as readily as wood or linoleum. Alice
Springs, like Coober Pedy, is a source of
gems. Amethysts and garnets, near relations
co rubies, are found there, and topaz—not so
much prized now as it seems to have been in
Biblical times. The stage from Newcastle
Waters to Darwin was the most wearying part
of the journey. Occasionally dead and dying
cattle would be seen by a dried-up well, and
here and there a tombstone punctuated vast
stretches of wilderness, marking where some
pioneer gave up the battle of life. But
it’s a great country in the sense that it pro-
duces great-hearted people. It is in the Never
Never that you find the Australian spirit of
mateship at its best. Everyone seems to
jump at a chance of being helpful. When-
ever the padre goes to the city he takes with
him a wad of shopping lists.
The travellers found Darwin, first Aus-
tralian port of call for record-breaking avia-
tors from Britain, quite a nice place. Among
its social amenities are a branch of the
Victoria League, plenty of dancing and bridge
and talkies. Pearl-shelling and peanut-growing
seem to be the principal industries; water-
lilies and white ants figure prominently
among the flora and fauna; and the beach
glistens white with crystal quartz. Prices
on the road from Adelaide to Darwin are
conditioned by freights. At Alice Springs
a 41b. loaf costs Bs. and a pound of flour
Bd. Petrol prices vary along the track
from 2s. 2d. a gallon to ss. Bd.
St. Andrew’s kirk, Hamilton, saw the mar-
riage of Mary Robertson, daughter of the
A. J. Simpsons, of Clifton, Hamilton, to
Harold Clapin, of Cranbrook (W.A.), only
son of Mr, and Mrs. F. L. Clapin, of Toorak.
The bride, who had a retinue of two ’maids
and a trainbearer in frocks of cowslip yellow,
wore white georgette with a silvery train that
glimmered through cascades of Limerick lace
veiling. There was a gathering of the squat-
tocracy at Clifton in celebration.
Esther Isabel, eldest daughter of the H. D.
Hays, of Langi-Oonah, Cobram, exchanged
vows in the C. of E. Grammar School chapel
with Graham, son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas Cotton, of Daylesford, clad in white
satin with garnishings of tulle and Honiton
lace. Her attendants, Margaret Sloane, of
Mulwala (N.S.W.), Margaret Clarke, niece
of the handled Frank Clarkes, and Betty
and Madeleine Hay furnished a background
of sweet-pea pink, their coiffures being simply
wreathed with blossoms of the same tint.
Congratulations ivere offered at No. 9, where
there was a great gathering of landowners.
Ex-students’ associations are providing all
the dances in these dull days. Old Trinity
Grammarians held their annual jazz at old
Admiralty House in Collins-place. Jack
Jones and Gavan Keane were stage-managers
of the jollo, at which headmaster Frank
Shann and the president of the association,
Carl Hornemann, and Mrs. Hornemann were
guests of honor.
The young miss pictured here by Jack Cato
is Noel, daugh-
ter of and
Mrs. Harold
Clapp. She
was in the
cast of “The
Love Step” at
the Comedy
Theatre o n
Thursday
night. Judg-
ing from the
very good
showing " she
made she is
following i n
the footsteps
of her mother,
who as Vivie
Noel was the
mainstay o f
many an -ama-
teur show in
Brisbane
before she
went on the stage professionally.
Youth was at the helm at a dance at the
Melbourne C. of E. Girls’ Grammar School
last week —a sort of end-of-vacation jollo
with the needs of the building fund as a
warrant. Marion Montgomery, robed in
black chiffon, stage-managed the hop, aided
by hon. sec. Meg Johnson in dipping-
draperies of pale green, and Sheila Wallace
Smith, whose flounced taffeta was deep
amber.
The Comedy Theatre has never in its
chequered history presented so smart an
appearance as it did on the opening night of
the entertainment organised by Mrs. Harold
Clapp in aid of a trio of charities—St.
Martin’s Boys’ H'ome, the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children and the
Children’s Hospital. The Governor-General.
Lord Somers and Lady Somers, the last-
named wearing almond-green beneath a gold
lame wrap, occupied the centre of the front
row; and aides with blue-faced coat-lapels
flanked them in impressive array. In the
v.-r. party were Mrs. J. O. Fairbairn, in
chiffon scattered with rose and pink daisies,
and Mrs. Ronald McDonald. The programme
included three one-act plays. “The Love
Step’’—libretto by Mrs. Clapp and music
by Alaric Howitt—filled in the larger part
of the evening. The curtain descended on
a happy ending in which there were white
tulle and orange blossoms and bridesmaids
galore.
Mr. Ilowitt’s lyrics are bright and catchy,
and two-piano arrangements figure largely in
the orchestration. The second act of the
musical comedy, which deals with the adven-
tures of stage people, is laid in a French
cafe. The gold tablecloths were garlanded
with greenery, and the scene lends itself to
smart dressing. A ballet of shapely young-
students of Jennie Brenan’s dancing school
represented the menu, capering round firstly
as lobsters and shrimps, then in fluffy white
tulle as souffle Angelique. Cafe au lait and
creme de menthe were also effectively inter-
preted. Among the patrons of the restaurant
were many of Melbourne’s smartest younger
set, the girls in gowns of right up to the last
second of fashion. Colored long kid gloves
were featured. Margot Rosenthal contrasted
brilliant green gloves and shoes with her
white chiffons, and another girl, in black,
sported hand coverings of rose-red. Half
a dozen society girls, among them Gwen and
Marie Tait, did some graceful stepping in
tulle frocks of rainbow-tints, sans stockings.
Nell Taylor as the street singer Nichette,
Joyce Turner as the excitable Zara Popoff,
Keith Johns as the actor hero, and Reg
Cattlin were some of the principals. The
authoress was cast as a landlady, and she
made a hit with her song “I’m so Romantic.”
In the first part of the bill Stanley Parker
burlesqued Gladys Moncrieff in a sequel to
“The Maid of the Mountains” dubbed “The
Matron of the Mountains.” Romola Smith
swept yards of black velvet over the stage
as Catherine Parr in a wordy discussion with
Henry VIII. (Frank Faulkner) regarding
the boiling of eggs and the color of Alexander
the Great’s horse. In “Calais to Dover” Noel
Clapp, blue-eyed and auburn-haired, gave a
good imitation of a sea-sick passenger. An
avalanche of flowers rewarded the performers
on the first night, and a piece of old silver
was handed to Mrs. Clapp by all the com-
pany as a souvenir of a very pleasant
association.
The auxiliaries of the Homcepatliic Hos-
pital, with Mrs. David Carnegie and Mrs.
11. S. K. Ward in the lead, staged a very
successful dance last week with an Ugly
Man competition, a lucky ticket prize of a
trip to Sydney by sea and a lucky balloon
prize of an air jaunt to a popular holiday
resort as extra attractions. A profit of
£4OO is expected.
Senator Lawson turned from politics to
art during the week, and launched an exhibi-
tion of work by the Twenty Melbourne
Painters. J. T. Tweddle, whose wife is one
of the artists whose efforts are hung on the
walls of the Athenaeum Gallery, introduced
the Senator.
The virtues of automatic sprinklers
in case of fire were brought home to the
Chatterer on Thursday, when the tenant in
the office next door to The Bulletin had
a blaze —or rather a smouldering. The room
being locked up no one noticed anything
unusual until the sprinklers got busy, and
the alarms brought the fire brigade out in
full strength. There was an interlude in
which everybody in the building choked over
the awful fumes of chemical extinguishers
and burning woollens, and walked delicately
over sloppy floors, but order was soon
restored. As the fireman said, it w r as “a
good save.”
Lance Hardy, who graduated as Mus.
Bac. at the Uni. last year and went to
London, has qualified as an Associate of the
Royal College of Organists, and has been
appointed director of music at Gray’s Church,
Essex. Mr. Hardy studied the organ under
A. E. Niekson, of this city.
Marie de Bavay, a decorative member of
the unattached set of this city who has been
on a health trip to Colombo following an
operation for appendicitis, is due back very
shortly. The Merson Coopers, connections
by marriage of the De Bavays, are expected
back from tlieir overseas jo-urneyings on
the 11th of next month.
The Eye and Ear Hospital funds benefited
through bridge played at George’s Cottage
tea-rooms, under the sponsorship of Mrs. 11.
P. Zwar.


CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney’s well-known Harbor Hotel
OH
808
□
UUJi
m,
ODD
DBL
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grou n d s and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4i Guineas.
LUNCHEONS. AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines)
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
LEFEVER NITBO SPECIAL
PRICE
£7/15/-
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price.
The lock was designed by the best gun makers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
say it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77,000
times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for CO years
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
“WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
Va
PTY. LTD.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis: In the coastal town of
Illawarra Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is hr ought up hy Mary West,
who leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, hut is too
poor to enable him to take advantage of
the free education offering, and Jimmy
begins shovelling at C. J. Grey and
Co.’s cokeworks. He attracts the
interest of Basil Wellington, an
Oxford man who is running the local
“ Guardian,” and toho coaches him for
night school, At work one day he
sees Alma Grey and idealises her as
the unattainable. He meets her some
time later, but the fact that he is
shovelling coke prevents her father
from encouraging him, Jimmy. who
has several of his verses published in
a city paper, the radical “Ishmaelite,”
subsequently meets May Harland, a
bright, energetic girl, who has con-
verted Mrs. Blessington’s shop in llla-
ivarra into a paying business, and
whom Mrs. West before her death,
had hoped he ivould marry. They
become intimate, but May declines to
marry him, telling him that she has
had other lovers and urging him to go
after his ideal girl. May goes to
Sydney, and has begun a stage career
when Jimmy next meets her. Helped
by Wellington, Jimmy has decided
upon journalism as his life work, and
the work he does on a local mining
disaster eventually wins him a posi-
tion on a city paper, the “Times.”
May wins recognition as a singer, and
goes abroad, and an American paper
announces her engagement to a Bal-
kan prince. On the “Times” Jimmy
is carried above the average reporter’s
level by his enthusiasms, which include
a campaign against sly-grog selling.
On top of this comes a news item from
Wellington to the “Times” — Mrs.
Blessington has been arrested as a sly-
grogselicr.
CHAPTER XXII.
JIMMY slept little that night, and early
. next morning he hastened to tell Stan.
“It isn’t a tragedy,” replied the artist.
“What’s it mean at the worst —a £5O fine?
If I know the Illawarra people at all, they’ll
make that up for Mrs. Blessington quick
and lively.”
“That’s not the point,” replied Jimmy.
“Think of the poor old girl’s feelings. I.
know her better than you. I lived in the
same house with her. She’s a sensitive old
soul and this’ll worry the heart out of her.
Sly~grogselling in the ordinary sense! The
idea’s unthinkable. I daresay what’s hap-
pened is that some customers wanted liquor
and she happened to supply them just at
the moment the police came in.”
The surmise was only partly correct. By
the next mail a letter came from Welling-
ton explaining the arrest. The sensational
prosperity of the little shop had not sur-
vived the departure of May. Still, it had
continued to return, a livelihood to the
proprietor until the slowness and nervous-
ness consequent upon advancing years had
caused her to drift gradually into debt.
Her debts were not large, but to a woman
of her temperament the very existence of
debt was a reason for panic. She had
endeavored to restore her crumbling for-
tunes by using all her ready money in back-
ing horses. She had had the misfortune to
win at first, and the upshot was that she
was left penniless, and, in desperation, had
resorted to the prospect of immediate profit
offered by listening to the importunities of
customers which she had resisted for so
many years.
The profits of illicit liquor-selling were
such as to enable her to relieve herself
from immediate menace of poverty. The
news soon travelled. It became common
property in Illawarra that beer and wine
could be obtained for the asking at Mrs.
Blessington’s. Sergt. Dunn knew all about
it; but he took no action. This decently-
conducted, strictly-respectable place (was
not the sort of sly-grogshop the Act was
framed to stamp out. Mirs. Blessington
went her quiet, lawless way without hind-
rance until the crusade started in Sydney,
and a gang of informers was sent out to
scour the country for lawbreakers. Two of
them came to Illawarra, visited Mrs. Bles-
sington and were themselves served with a
bottle of beer. Such was the whole story.
Jimmy felt much as he felt that morning
after he brought May home from the dance.
His virtue had found him out no less pain-
fully than his sin. It was his blind fanati-
cism, spurred by spectacles in Surry Hills,
which had led hirp to plunge with such vigor
into the campaign.
After all, he was a reporter, not a propa-
gandist, and he had exceeded his duty. Had
he been satisfied to take Francis’s state-
ment and write it up, there would probably
have been no trouble. Anyway, the police
would have rested satisfied to clean out
the undesirable places and let poor old
women like Mrs. Blessington alone. Francis
had come in the guise of a tempter and
tricked him into doing an injury to one for
whom he had a deep affection. What were
principles, anyhow? Principles be damned,
when it was a matter of hurting somebody
you cared for!
Jimmy sent a wire asking what had been
done towards seeing Mrs. Blessington
through and telling Wellington to rely on
himself and Stan for £lO each if necessary.
Then Jimmy got busy among his friends
the police force to ascertain whether the
prosecution could not be withdrawn.
“Too late, Jimmy,” said Sub-Inspector
Jeffries. “Of course, it isn’t that sort of
place we’re after. But she sold the liquor;
there isn’t a doubt of that, and the law’s in
motion. But she needn’t worry much if the
local police give her a good character.”
“Character!” cried Jimmy. “I used to
board with her. Dunn knows there isn’t a
decenter little woman on the South Coast.”
“Decent little women mustn’t sell liquor
without a license,” smiled the police officer.
“As it’s a first offence and with a good
character, she ought to get off with £2O or
three months.”
The three months had a nasty sound
about it in connection with Mrs. Blessing-
ton. He knew how the very mention of
the alternative would hurt her. But there
was nothing to be done but tell Wellington
to assure her that her friends would see her
through.
The sub-inspector was a good guesser. In
view of the offence being a first one and the
offender an exemplary character, according
to Sergt. Dunn, who went out of his way to
extol her virtues, Mrs. Blessington was fined
£2O, or, in default, three months’ imprison-
ment.
Before Wellington could come forward
with the money subscribed in anticipation
by Mrs. Blessington’s friends, a man stepped
up to the clerk of the court.
“I’ll pay that fine, if you’ll allow me,” he
remarked to the old woman who stood ner-
vously, her mouth twitching and the tears
welling in her eyes.
It w'as Horace Egan, licensee of the
Grand, whose kindness of heart and keen
eye to publicity led him to sit down there
and write out a cheque to pay the fine of
his trade rival.
Wellington now held an amount of over
£3O for which there was no destination. He
consulted the subscribers, suggesting that
the money be handed to Mrs. Blessington
to straighten out her finances and give
her a fresh start, on the distinct understand-
ing that she was to forswear lawbreaking
and horse-racing. No such stipulation was
needed. Mrs. Blessington had had sufficient
experience of both to satisfy her. The joy
at the display of public affection almost
compensated for the suffering engendered by
the prosecution.
But the sting stayed in Jimmy’s soul.
He felt disgusted with reform. It seemed
impossible to make an honest attempt to
improve things without involving some
innocent individual- in destruction. The
ghost of Old Joe seemed lurking about every
effort to make the world a happier place.
“I know how you feel,” said Francis when
he told him the result of his articles.
“That’s the most bitter part of the whole
system of evil. The thing’s so big and
so complicated that there’s nothing so foul
and cruel and beastly that it doesn’t serve
as the trap for the innocent. But if you
stay your hand you only aggravate the
trouble. The influence of the established
order comes into play; the innocent become
vicious because vice is the convention of
their surroundings. The soldier must have
no pity towards his enemies in the form
of drink and dirt and vice and oppression.^
“That sounds remarkably like Nietzsche,
observed Jimmy.
“Perhaps it is,” replied Francis. “And
Nietzscheism isn’t altogether a bad thing—
in the right place. Just, come around some
of the slums with me and see if you can’t
excuse a little Nietzscheism even on the
part of a parson.” •
Jimmy spent an off night with Francis
investigating the housing problem. Ihe
conditions in places disgusted him: some-
times thej'- appalled him.
“Here’s the irony of fate,” said Francis
as they entered one cottage crying the
destitution of its occupants to the world.
“You remember Tarver, the. inspector who
was gaoled for taking bribes from landlords
of places like these?”
“I was in court when he was sent up,’
replied Jimmy.
“Yes, and now that he’s in gaol and earn-
ing nothing, his unfortunate wife and kiddies
are left stranded, forced to live in one of
the very places that Tarver was paid to
stamp out.”
The interior of the house bore out all
that Francis had said. An effort had appa-
rently been made to keep the two rooms
clean, but cleanliness was not for a build-
ing in which the plaster was crumbling and
the floors perforated with ratholes. The
furniture was mostly constructed of packing-
cases and the bedding was partly old bags.
There were no ventilators in any of the
rooms; the place smelt with the accumu-
lated odors of a hundred years.
A little girl of eight was looking after
a younger brother of five and a toddling
baby.
“The woman goes out picking up odd
jobs,” whispered Francis, “and has to keep
this youngster home to look after the others.
I’m frightened the truant inspector’ll get on
to it some day.”
“What about the soldier and the pitiless-
ness towards evil ?-” chided Jimmy.
“I’m afraid you’ve got me there,” ad-
mitted the Rev. P. D. Francis.
“And I’m afraid you’ve got me,” said
Jimmy as they left the place. “This is
awful. It’ll make me miserable for a week.”
“Then I can look to you to see it through
for me,” said Francis hopefully.
“That’s not for me to say,” explained
Jimmy. “That’s the news-editor’s job. I
don’t pick my own work, though sometimes
I may put out a suggestion.”
Jimmy escaped the task of writing up the
slums, which was just as well for his peace
of mind. Francis came into the office next
day to ask that the “Times” devote the
space to the articles and allot Jimmy to the
task of writing them.
He Was just an hour late. At that
moment Jimmy was on his way to Bathurst,
twenty miles out of which town a headless
corpse had been found, promising the best
murder mystery of the decade.
The Rev. P. D. Francis found an efficient
substitute for Jimmy in Park, a brilliant
revolutionary youngster, who had recently
joined the staff and who was less reserved
in his writing than Jimmy.
He wrote the truth —the truth as seen by
the Rev. P. D. Francis, the truth as it
appeared to the revolutionary. The articles
were no less effective than those Jimmy had
written. Inspectors rushed around fren-
ziedly condemning the worst of the premises
and serving notices for repair and renova-
tion on the owners of others less dilapidated.
In one of the houses lived a widow and
her maiden sister—both women approach-
ing seventy years of age. The two remain-
ing houses of that terrace of three belonged
to”them. They had chosen to occupy No.
45 because it was that least likely to attract
a tenant, though it is difficult to believe
that the tenants who rented the No. 43
and No. 47 were attracted to them. They
took them because they had to; that was
obvious. . .
One afternoon a man m uniform went
through the houses, and later on returned
to tack to the door of each of the three
houses a blue paper intimating that the
council had decided that the premises were
no longer fit for human habitation.
That, evening the widow and her sister
plugged up the cracks round the door of
their room —there was no ventilator to
cover —kissed each other and turned on
the gas.
Their bodies were found some days later,
when the council employees came to carry
out the mandate of the city.
Jimmy found Francis looking very like
what he had looked when he heard of Mrs.
Blessington’s arrest.
“My God! What can you do?” cried
Francis helplessly.
CHAPTER - XXIII.
General work, to which Jimmy had been
promoted from the Central and Sussex-
street, was varied by the higher courts,
where there was an eternal round of dull
routine, calling for little more than extreme
care, with an occasional bright incident to
make a good paragraph. There were meet-
ings; usually tiresome, sometimes interest-
ing, on rare occasions joyous affairs which
terminated in riots. But, as a rule, meetings
did little to spur the imagination, save the
imagination which the reporter is called to
exercise in trying to obey the instruction
that he must not fake, at the same time
translating the ungrammatical speeches of
the leading citizen into good English, and
concealing from the reader what was appa-
rent to everybody present—the fact that
the leading citizen was a noisy and objec-
tionable inebriate.
Jimmy succeeded in skating on this thin
ice in presenting to the public as accurate a
picture of what, had happened as the law
of libel permits, and before he had three
years’ press experience he was promoted to
the Parliamentary gallery.
When he had got into his stride here he
occasionally relieved the man who regularly
“did” the Government departments. But
Jimmy did not aspire to securing the work
as a permanency if the same money could
be earned in other ways-.
The keenness with which he had followed
political matters in his youth made him
disgusted when he became acquainted with
that dull and unsavory game known as
practical politics. He no longer marvelled
at the agnosticism of his fellows. In re-
spect to the main principles of political life,
he was just as great an enthusiast as he had
ever been; but practical politics he found
to be filled with so much self-seeking, so
much dishonor, so much straight-out corrup-
tion that he often wondered whether Elijah
Moon had not been right when he main-
tained that the workers would gain nothing
from the Parliamentary machine. Neither,
as far as Jimmy could see, would the capital-
ists, except that they had the wherewithal
to pay for what they wanted —possibly the
first consideration in political reform.
Altogether it seemed to him that he had
left the rounds, where he had become
acquainted with an assortment of pictur-
esque ruffians, merely to throw a glamor
over the doings of a gang just as criminal
but infinitely less picturesque.
He was feeling pessimistic owing to an
unbroken spell of six weeks in the gallery
of the Assembly when he entered the news-
editor’s room to feel the thrill of the chase
once more.
“Here, Jimmy,” cried the news-editor,
“you’re the very man. There’s trouble ad
the Keira Main agaifi. You’ve to catch
the night train to Illawarra. There s a


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY— -price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Achievement!
DURING the 12 months ended June 30, 1930, the “Daily Mail” carried
725 columns more advertising space than for the year ended June 30,
1929. This is an unparalleled achievement for Queensland daily newspapers.
The other Brisbane morning daily showed a decrease of over 900 columns
during the same period. To show a substantial increase in advertising
columns, under the adverse conditions which prevailed throughout
Australia during that period, indicates that the confidence of Australian
advertisers in
The Daily Mail
Is based on the sound foundation of the result-bringing power of the
medium. During the same period the “Sunday Mail” carried 4270
columns of advertising space, apart altogether from the advertising
carried by the “Daily Mail.”
Rate Cards and Specimen Copies from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., 288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.SAV. Branch: 72 Pitt St., Sydney. London: R. B. Brett & Son, New Bridge St., E. 0.4.
chance that all the mines on the coast may
shut down to-morrow.”
Jimmy grabbed the wire Wellington had
sent. It ran: “Men refused take lamps
morning shift Keira Main owing Moon
accepting dirt money whole district likely
to be affected.”
Jimmy caught the next train to Illawarra,
arrived there by midday and lunched with
Wellington, who explained the trouble.
A week or two previously Elijah Moon
had put in a claim for dirt money—the
special allowance made for certain work
involved in cleaning up after the perform-
ance of the particular class of labor which
the operative follows. The company
allowed the claim, for Moon had done the
work. But the trade custom, hitherto con-
doned by the employers, was that, no matter
who did the work, the trimmer—which
Moon was not—was entitled to the money.
Payment to Moon involved a revolution in
the custom regarding dirt money. For ten
years Moon had schooled the men well
regarding their rights, and to-day his teach-
ings had come back and boomeranged him.
“How much does the dirt money amount
to?” asked Jimmy.
“Three and six,” smiled Wellington.
“Moon’s three and six will probably cost
the country fifty thousand pounds before
it’s done and put half the miners on the
coast on the edge of starvation.”
“Why don’t the company give the trimmer
his three and six, too, and be done with it?”
Wellington laughed. “It’s a matter of
principle. Jimmy, Jimmy, I’m afraid you’ve
gone over to the capitalist. Have you for-
gotten all the noble sentiments 'Jean
Jacques Junior’ wrote about principle—‘Let
justice be done though the heavens fall,’ and
all that sort of thing? It’s got beyond
three and six. There’s Moon on the one
hand. You know Moon; he says he’s in the
right; that his attitude is the only attitude
a genuine syndicalist could hold, and when
Moon thinks he’s in the right he’d sooner
wreck the solar system than concede one
ha’penny of that three and six. Then, on
the other side, the union scents conspiracy
in the whole thing; it’s a plot to smash
organised unionism. You’ve often heard
the phrase; every time a wheeler’s sacked
for giving lip to a. shift-boss it’s a plot to
smash organised unionism. Well, we’ve got
it here in the most virulent form. It’s
spread all along the coast already.”
“And the company?” asked Jimmy.
“I don’t think the company cares a damn
about the thing. It paid Moon because he
did the work—paid it possibly through care-
lessness—and now it’s got to stick to him.
There’s rather a change of feeling about
Moon since you were here. His gameness
in getting Dalgety out that time swung
people who hated the mention of his name
—swung them personally if not politically.
Of course, if they’d known what was going
to happen, they could have got out early
by paying both; but it’s too late now. They
can’t let Moon down.”
After lunch Jimmy looked up Dick
Dander, the secretary of the federation.
When he was alone with Jimmy, he showed
none of the enthusiasm of his followers.
“It’s all a damned silly thing from be-
ginning to end,” he said. “Tying up a whole
community for the sake of three and six-
pence worth of dirt money’s nothing but
sheer lunacy. I’ve tried to hold them back.
I’ve told them that when the attempt to
smash organised unionism comes it’ll be
based on something bigger and with a better
appeal to the public. But they’re not in a
mood to listen. What can you do? We’re
in it now and we’ve got to see it through.”
He sighed, pulled a chair up to the table
where Jimmy was already seated and started
out with his statement for publication.
“It is not a question of money,” lie dic-
tated. “The paltry amount involved is no
more important than the match which starts
the bush fire. It becomes important by its
action. The incident is trifling; the prin-
ciple involved is of supreme importance to
Labor throughout the Commonwealth. If
we submit this time, then good-bye to all
the rights which we have gained at such
bitter cost during thirty years of constant
fighting. It is plain to organised unionism
of this country that the employers have
long decided to test their strength against
us. For three or four years we have been
waiting for the signs to indicate when the
attack would be made. We have reason
to believe that the first shot was fired
when the Keira Main colliery decided to
flout all precedent, to break its word, to
violate its implied contract and to sacrifice
its sense of honor by paying Elijah Moon
the dirt money to which he was not
entitled and by robbing the man who was
entitled to the fruits of his work.”
“His work?” echoed Jimmy quietly with
a smile.
Dander, who had been speaking slowly
and thoughtfully, occasionally correcting
and revising, smiled, too “No, that won’t
do—'to what he was entitled by the custom
of the trade.’ ”
He went on in the same strain. Then
he came to Moon, who had been duped into
being made the catspaw of capitalism. “We
can’t say he’s been squared,” he commented.
“Illawarra knows him too well, although it
would go down all right in the rest of the
State.”
“But, I say, Dick,” protested Jimmy,
“this is a rotten statement—a dishonest
statement, according to what you admitted
yourself just now. Why don’t you go out
and tell the men what you honestly believe?”
“Hell!” laughed Dander. “I thought you
knew them. You’ve been too long away.
Haven’t I told the delegates and they won’t
listen! Anyhow,” he added, in a tone of
justification, “how often does the other side
fight us fair? It’s an all-in scrap, no Queens-
berry rules, and whoever can get the boot
in first wins generally.”
“You know that’s not true, Dick. The
public’s always with the clean fighter, and
it’s the public that decides in nine strikes
out of ten. Why don’t you come out and
say straight what a farce the whole trouble
is; then confer with Jackson about what’s
to be done in future?”
Dander turned fiercely. “It’s all damned
well for you to talk. You’re in a nice, clean,
well-paid job in a newspaper now. How
“A little girl of eight was looking after a younger brother of five and a toddling baby."
long do you think I’d be secretary of the
federation if I went out and told ’em the
truth? I’ve got a wife and kids to consider.”
Jimmy got the rest of the statement and
found old Jackson, chairman of directors of
Keira Main, at the Grand. Jackson
had little to say. He didn’t care who got
the three and six, he wanted his mine to
keep working; that was his only aim; but,
as Moon had done the work, it was natural
that the money should go to him, and the
union should be the first to say so. There
was no intention of violating trade custom,
and, as far as the future was concerned, he
was quite willing to meet the union and
come to some understanding on the ques-
tion. In the meantime he was certainly
not going to sack Moon to please the union.
“You know I’ve got quite an affection for
Moon now,” added Jackson to Jimmy. “Up
to the time he went in after Dalgety—a
damn plucky thing it was, too —I used to
look on him as a venomous brute who
simply hated everybody and everything be-
cause it was his nature. But I’ve got to
know him since and find he has a heap of
good points. He’s as honest as the day.
Moon may call you horrible names from
his soapbox, but if he gives you his word
he’ll keep it. He’s a dangerous man in
many ways, he’s so unstable for one thing.
But, all the same, we’ve got to be quite
pals, Elijah and I.
“Of course, he never lets me forget our
respective positions. There’s always a tinge
of patronage about him—the attitude of
the proud worker unbending to chat with a
mere employer. But he’s very nice about it.
He hasn’t hesitated to let me know that he
doesn’t regard me as a capitalist by malice
aforethought, but simply because I haven’t
got brains enough to i*ealise the enormity
of my act. I come under the legal defini-
tion of a criminal lunatic. ‘I don’t blame
yer fur bein’ a parasite an’ a hexploiter,’ he
said once. 'I know yer don’t intend ter be
one, yer don’t know yer one. Yer try ter
be decent an’ think yer are. It’s because
yer don’t know!”’
Old Jackson laughed aloud. “He’s a
scream, Moon; but a mighty dangerous
scream. You don’t know how much o+’ this
very trouble turning on him to-day is due
to his preaching in the past.”
Moon himself was Jimmy’s next inter-
view. The shack where he still lived had
the windows boarded. The ingrates of
democracy who had visited it a few nights
previously for the purpose of smashing the
windows found themselves circumvented
by Moon’s forethought. They were forced
to signify their disapproval of his conduct
by throwing rocks on the iron roof and
against wooden walls, bpth of which still
showed honorable scars.
Moon received Jimmy courteously. He
was among his books seeking precedents
for his action. He submitted to Jimmy a
number of persons in history whose cases,
he implied, were parallel to his own. The
majority had met death at the hands of
constituted authority. Jimmy did not re-
member an amount of three and six for
dirt money having been associated with any
of the names which Moon mentioned; but
their owners had been martyrs, a fact which
sufficed for the parallel.
On the matter of the dispute,, Moon at
first wanted to write out his views. Jimmy
knew that such a mighty work would never
be finished in time for next day’s paper.
Then Moon started to make a speech which
he expected Jimmy to take down verbatim.
They had a slight difference about the
method of reporting; but when Jimmy let
him know that he intended to do his work
in his own way or cut out his end of the
story altogether, Moon climbed down and
submitted to being questioned.
Jimmy put his story on the wire by night
and spent the evening with Wellington and
other friends including Mrs. Blessington, now
quite recovered from the shock of her pro-
secution. Next morning he returned to Syd-
ney. There was nothing more to require his
presence at Illawarra unless violence occurred.
The whole of the mines around Illawarra
had shut down and the tr&uble was spread-
ing. Alreadjr Wollongong and Bulli had
joined the men; Coledale and Scarborough
were expected to down tools during the day.
The Northern Federation in. Newcastle was
holding an aggregate meeting to decide on
a course of action, and the coalminers of
Victoria and Westralia had already wired
their offer to assist in fighting the battle of
Labor in any way required.
Never did the public exhibit a more pro-
nounced reversal of form than with regard
to Elijah Moon. To Labor he was out-
cast, an unclean thing. From a thousand
soapboxes a thousand miles apart Moon,
the superman of yesterday, was held up to
execration as the renegade who had deserted
his comrades in their hour of need. Out-
side the South Coast itself the leaders of
Labor did not hesitate to denounce him as
having been bribed by capitalistic gold. It
was asserted that the whole thing had been
put up by Jackson and Moon and the
Employers’ Federation; some of the more
imaginative orators implied that Moon had
been a spy of capitalism from the start, and
that his whole past had been a huge bluff
that he might better trick the workers out
of their rights in the interest of the class
which had bought him.
On the other hand, Moon found himself
possessed of virtues unguessed when he
studied the columns of what he was wont
to term the lying capitalistic press or the
speeches of those who, only a few week/'
(Continued on page Jo.)


UVENWARE
English Manufacture.
ill
/Vice of Oval Casserole,
Price of Pie Dish, 8/0
WHO WORRIES
IF THE
FOOD IS COLD?
X TO need to say just who—
no need for worrying!
With food prepared in
CARLTON OVENWARE,
served straight from the
oven to the table, everything
is piping hot-i—and stays thus
so much longer!
FREE Illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Smedley Service,
HAIR.
Cr
need
HERES
<&ky-
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPQjU&rCs (MEXICAN)
Vkdmjt Stouun,
THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
w
BINDER TWINE
“RENOWN” BRAND
Smooth, even twine, good yardage.
Will give every satisfaction in the
field.
MANUFACTURED AT MASCOT BY
J. SCOTT, LTD.,
Rope and Cordage Manufacturers,
Head Office Stores,
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 82861. Box 251 DD.
SAMPLES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
For Sale.
CUBDIVISIONAL LAND FOR SALE. Mixed farm-
° ins; dairying any part 3600 acres, four paddocks,
carrying sheep. Rainfall certain, main road, tele-
phone, school, 10/- to 15/- acre, small deposit, easy
E. THEYER, Cranbrook, W.A.
Amusements.
eYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FOLLOW THROUGH
CRITERION: BIRD IN HAND
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD..
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
KING’S THEATRE:
LET US BE GAY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LILAC TIME.
OICK. ARDS' TIVOLI
MELBOURNE.
THEATRE,
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE FOLLIES OF 1930,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
H
de luxe theatre,
MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
BUSTER KEATON in
FREE AND EASY
(Passed for General Exhibition).
ALSO
LAWRENCE GRAY ini
CHILDREN OF PLEASURE
(Passed for General Exhibition).
Public Notice.
The Community General Assurance
Company, Limited (in Liquidation)-
CANCELLATION OF WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
POLICIES.
MOTICE is hereby given that Eric Sydney Spooner
1 of Dalton House 115 Pitt Street Sydney Chartered
Accountant the Official Liquidator of the above Com-
pany intends to apply to the Workers’ Compensation
Commission of New South Wales on Monday the
twenty-ninth day of September instant at the horn
of ten o’clock in the forenoon for an order that the
said Company and the Official Liquidator thereof be
at liberty to cancel all subsisting policies of insur-
ance issued by the Company under the provisions of
the Workers’ Compensation Act 1926-1929. AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that all holders of such
policies who desire to be represented on the hearing
of such application may attend before the Com-
mission on the above date either personally or by
their Solicitors or Agents.
McLACHLAN WESTGARTH & CO.,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Solicitors for the Official Liquidator of the Community
General Assurance Company, Limited (m Liquida-
tion).
Legal Notices.
[N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
1 WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
No. 3650.
In Divorce.
To ARTHUR CHARLES MACKAY formerly ot
Christchurch Motor Engineer but now of parts
11 'tAKE ' NOTICE that your wife Catherine Margery
Vlackay of Dunedin has" filed in the Supreme Court
if New Zealand at Wellington a petition in divorce
igainst you claiming dissolution of her marriage
m the ground of adultery.
YOU ARE THEREFORE NOTIFIED that unless
you enter an appearance and file an answer in the
said Court at Wellington within 30 days from the
appearance of this advertisement the said petition
will be heard and determined in your absence.
Dated at Wellington this 12th day of September,
193 °’ [l.s.] C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly Re-
quested to forward-to him the foregoing advertise-
CHARLES ARCHIBALD LAWRANCE TREADWELL
is the Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address
for service is at the offices of Messieurs Treadwell
and Sons, Number 4 Panama Street, Wellington.
A PETITION has been presented to the Court of
Session in Scotland (Second Division; Lord
Murray Ordinary; Mr. Maclaren, Clerk) by James
Gilliland and others to fix the date of death of
Robert Allan Gilliland (son of the deceased James
Gilliland, “West erica,” Lenzie, Scotland)!, whose
address prior to the outbreak of war in 1914 was
Post Office, Kia Tia, Auckland, New Zealand, and
who in 1922 is believed to have resided at
Wangarei, New Zealand (North Island). Will any
person who knows the present whereabouts of the
said Robert Allan Gilliland please communicate with
the subscribers. _, .
SCOTT & GLOVER, W.S., 1 Hill Street, Edinburgh,
August, 1930. Agents for the Petitioners.
Patents.
iIPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO RADIATORS OR COOLERS.
"HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
■ No. 15,656/28. is prepared to negotiate
>r the sale of its rights in the above, or
ir the granting of a license to make, use
id vend the invention within the Common-
ealth of Australia on reasonable terms,
articulars obtainable from Griffith, Hasscl
nd Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
astlereagh Street, Sydney.
A Booming Christmas is coming at
Broken Hill. AH alterations of
wages are postponed. Traders are
getting ready for the rush of busi-
ness. Get your Christmas goods
into the Barrier Public’s eye through
“The Barrier Miner,” the people’s
daily newspaper for the past 42
years.
ds
śd
sd
ďs
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distiguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin attended
the first Baekhaus concert in the City Hall.
With their Exes, were Mrs. Campbell, Mrs.
P. A. Blundell and daughter Ann, and Miss
P. Bell. Chief Justice Blair and his lady,
ex-Justice and Mrs. Shand and the M. L.
Readings were among the audience.
Ruth Tregurtha, Max Aronsten and Jack
Ellis made an attractive trio at their recital
in the Albert Hall. Ruth, in a becoming
maize-colored gown, rendered poems by Wil-
liam Morris, Crosbie Garstin, Hilaire Belloc,
A. A. Milne, Frances Thompson and others.
Also she was Pierrette in Oliphant Down’s
“A Maker of Dreams,” with Max Aronsten
a Pierrot wdiose rich baritone was heard to
advantage. Jack Ellis was heard in Chopin,
York Bowen’s “Concert Study” and other
piano solos.
Llywelyn Lucas’s “Sungod’s Secret” was
staged for two nights at Cremorne under the
direction of Barbara Sisley. Pretty dances
and good musical numbers added to the
beauty of the young poetess’s fantasy.
Llywelyn is going in seriously for playwriting.
She has an intimate knowledge of Australian
plant and flower life to add to her natural
gifts of expression.
The combined Methodist choir gave a con-
cert in the City Hall, when the Governor
and Lady Goodwin were present. Her Ex.,
Mrs. A. E. Moore and the Mayoress were
handed bouquets of Toowoomba daffodils.
Norman Evans conducted Handel’s Hallelu-
jah and Amen choruses; Mrs. R. G. Allen
and Stanley Tamblyn were soloists; Ivy
Plane and Mrs. E. Y. Bradfield, the Roy
Daniells, Harry Evans and W. J. Down con-
tributed, while J. P. Wallis played the
piano. The proceeds go to the relief-work
funds of the Central Methodist Mission.
At St. Stephen’s Cathedral Cyril Leslie
Lamberth, of Manfred Downs, Cloncurry, took
to wife Kathleen Mary, daughter of the J.
Tracksons, of Newmarket. Renie Crowe was
at the organ and Viva Crowe sang the “Ave
Maria.” The bride, who was given away by
her father, was in duchesse satin and a
Brussels-net veil. Her bouquet was of white
roses and sweet-pea. Winifred Trackson
’maided in shrimp pink, with a forget-me-
not blue hat. Kevin Valleley was best man.
The reception was at the bride’s home, and
Coolangatta sees the ’moon.
Lady Goodwin went to the annual meet-
ing of the Lady Musgrave lodge, and was
received by Mrs. Henry Robertson. Her Ex.,
who was handed a bouquet of roses, was in
royal-blue cr§pe de Chine. Mayor Jolly
presided, and mentioned a comfortable credit
balance of over four hundred. _ Canon Walter
Thompson had some nice things to say of
the management and committee.
St. Thomas’s kirk, Toowong, was decked
in white flowers and pink sweet-pea for the
marriage of Robert E. Bostrom and Mary
Steuart. The bride was given away by her
father in an old-fashioned parchment satin
gown of picturesque style and a veil of old
French lace. She carried a sheaf of white
lilies, orchids and lily of the valley. Marjorie
Philpott ’maided in green floral taffetas, with
a green lace straw hat and posy of ranunculus
and pansies. Alan Steuart best-manned.
Rowes saw the feasting. The honeymoon
will be in Sydney and the Blue Mountains.
Dailey Scarlett addressed the Women’s
Club on the life and letters of Bach, in
connection with the Bach festival to be held
in October. There was a musical programme,
Mabel Zillman and Victoria Blakey acting
as accompanists.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Perth Club Ball, one of our brightest
annual fixtures, had the addition of some
30 naval Dutchmen to make it a particular
success. A marquee on the lawn sheltered
an extra dance floor and a decorative rock-
ery, where a fountain bubbled and the red
cone of a radiator glowed warmly. A jungle
of palms and cinerarias in pots decked the
verandah and sloping grassy banks. The
Lathlain knight, with his lady in heliotrope
and daughter in white chiffons, received the
guests. Mollie Learmonth wore georgettes
patterned with blues and greys; Mrs. Mor-
let’s duck-egg chiffons had lace inserted about
the hem and a diamente shoulder-strap;
handsome Elizabeth Edwards favored her
remarkable coiffure, long dangly earrings
and black-spotted net; Mrs. Tad Davy wore
strawberry and gold lame; Mrs. Kitching
topped her peach chiffons with a sequined
corsage; Margaret Paton wore white taffetas
printed with blue flowers; Mrs. Gilfoyle
chose black and Mrs. Sam Harcourt green and
pink shaded lace; Mrs. Tom Vincent wore
Nile-green moire and a shimmery gold hip
coat; Joy Mitchell was all in white; Mrs.
Bennett was in midnight blue; Betty Wood’s
beige lace had an aperture in the back of the
corsage; Mrs. Gam Milne chose jade moire;
Mrs. Evan Saw wore oyster satin and Mrs.
David Walsh chalk-white lace; Mrs. Joe
Charles was in black; Bay Bick was in
green net and Yvonne Nairn’s white satin
was backless. Gwenyth Ambrose and
Pauline Burgoyne held up their trailing
draperies as they danced.
Jean Beith Wilson became Mrs. Harry
Vincent in the Ross Memorial Church. The
bride’s dark brown eyes sparkled above
cream velvet cut with a square neck and long
sleeves. Velvet roses and silk thread ’broi-
deries were scattered upon the long georgette
train and a flutter of tulle veil caressed the
sheaf of all-white flowers. Tiny Barbara
Breidahl, in tulle to her toes, looked like one
of the primroses in her posy. Jean Win-
grove and the ’groom’s sister Marjorie wore
frocks of moire and silk net; crinoline hats
and slippers toned with their bouquets of
daffodils. Toasts and dancing were at
Temple Court, and the ’moon beams in
Ceylon.
Happy smiles are being worn by Marie
Quigley, of Perth, and Emmett Browne, of
Narrogin, who have announced their en-
gagement.
Mrs. Winterbottom turned her home in
King’s Park-road into a money-getter for the
Children’s Hospital. Twelve tables of bridge
in the afternoon and 20 on the same night
brought in a harvest.
Red coats and the gold braid of Holland
made a cheerful splash at the Hunt Club
Ball in G.-H. ballroom. The Dutchmen saw
a bit of Australian bush in the dressing-up
of the dais with banksia, blackboys and
gumtrees, with a stuffed brush here and there
peeping between the trunks. Lady Hore-
Ruthven wore orchid lace; Mrs. Morris
Edwards was in black; Jessie Meares wore
powder-blue taffetas, and the Wittenoom
lady’s blue georgettes were studded with
rhinestones; Elizabeth Edwards was regal
in ivory satin. Connie and Edna Smily,
Peggy Sundercombe, Mrs. Victor Harwood
and Nancy le Souef were in the throng.
The marriage knot between Eleanor Len-
egan and Gordon Page Smith was tied
amidst a splash of color in St. George’s
Cathedral. The wedding raiment, a long-
sleeved gown of orange velvet., was worn
with a white lace veil. The ’groom’s sister
Ena, Jean Lang and Alice Biggs attended.
Their respective hats were buttercup, lime-
green and orange to match their slippers and
bouquets, and their frocks were of autumn-
tinted georgettes. The feasting was at the
Savoy.
Teacher of pianoforte and elocution is
Miss Lily Kavanagh, pictured alongside by
Webb and
W ebb. Sh e
and her pupils
conduct a
weekly chil-
dr e n’s ses-
sion at 6ML.
Recently they
a r r anged a
radio theatre
night with a
play about a
prince, a beau-
tiful princess,
a robber and
a fairy, and
in the inter-
vals between
the acts cries
of “b utte r-
scotcli, chocs,
Peters,” and
little monolo-
gues about the
i mag in ary
audience. The youthful listeners made a
night of it by installing rows of chairs around
the radio, inviting their friends to the
“theatre” and getting Dad to bring home
sweets. Miss Kavanagh was a pupil of
Loretto Convent, Osborne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Adelaide University Sports Associa-
tion organised a bridge party among the
younger set to raise funds. . The president
(R. R. Barbour) brought along a little party
of married folk. An immense fire of yule logs
glowed in the large fireplace of the refectory.
The Cheer-up Hut burst into festivity with
a dance and bridge evening to swell the
funds for feeding ex-service single men.
The response was wonderful. Many of the
ex-service men have fallen back upon old
regimentals, and the kilt was well in evi-
dence.
The officers of the Dutch squadron started
their social activities with a luncheon at the
Queen Adelaide Club as the guests of JJouglas
Mawson’s lady, who was a Delprat. The
Mayor and Mayoress gave a reception for the
visitors later, at which Mrs. Bonython had
gathered many pretty girls.
The opening of the Darling laboratory at
Urrbrae was quite a big affair; there
were over 200 guests, including all the
notabilities. The Governor-General per-
formed the ceremony.. Morning tea was
served at tables exquisitely decorated with
white and red peach blossom. In the even-
ing Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson gave an
impromptu dance for about 60 young people.
The hostess wore the white and silver bro-
cade in which she was presented at Court.
On Ladies’ Day at the Show over 100 were
entertained at afternoon tea by R.A.H.S.
President Stirling and his wife. The beauti-
ful 'sweet-peas, carnations and violets had
been brought from the Stirling home at
Strathalbyn to decorate the tables. The host
and hostess received, the latter in a brown
coat trimmed with sable fur, and a hat in
a lighter tone. Her daughter, Mrs. Harry
Prockter, assisted in looking after the guests.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Speck has the oldest Royal Society
outside of the British Isles. It held a con-
versazione the other day, when Governor
O’Grady officially opened the new library
room, a, handsome addition to the Museum
buildings. A. N. Lewis gave a short lecture
on the history of the body, illustrated by
lantern slides; Clive Lord was pre-
sented with the Royal Society’s medal,
and Dr. Crowther made the O’Grady,
whose term of office is drawing to a close,
the subject of a valedictory. About 200
guests sat down to supper in the Art Gal-
lery, where the tables were a blushful mass
of pink stocks, columbines and flowering
peach. Margaret O’Grady wore a frock of
beige lace and georgette. Mrs. Sheppard’s
orchestra made music in the big museum-
room among the glass cases and the skeletons
of prehistoric monsters.
Lady Hamilton, wife of a former Gover-
nor, who has always kept in touch with
the island, has been entertaining, from a
distance, the Literary Society to which she
gave her name many years ago. She sent
a cheque for expenses, and Amy Chapman,
still the society’s secretary, rounded up the
remaining old members as well as the pre-
sent ones. Each was presented with a wee
gold pin and a spray of “rosemary for
remembrance,” and at teatime a vote of
thanks was passed to the absent hostess.
Mrs. Lloyd Oldmeadow is back in Hobart
and will make the Lyceum Club her head-
quarters for six months. Another one-time
Tasmanian here on a visit is Mrs. Francis
Knight. The members of the Lyceum Club
gave them the glad hand lately at a tea-and-
music gathering.
The fine carved screen which ornaments
the new library in the Royal Society’s room
was the gift of Mrs. Arndell Lewis. It is
the work of that ciever artist Mrs. C. i ayne.
whose designs ornament the. interiors ot
many of the Speck’s public buildings.
The Hobart Repertory Society played Noel
Coward’s comedy “The Young Idea ’ to full
houses for three nights. Tlie piece has an
exotic setting, but good acting and witty
dialogue made a success of it. Jean Swan
and Iv. W. Nicholson put in excellent work
as the irrepressible youngsters whose mis-
sion is to restore tlieir twice-married father
to his first wife’s arms. His Ex. and Mar-
garet O’Grady were among the audience.


% -**
*
l* '
-
i.M-
/ \%j*>
«./
*«i
1 i
v
r>ir
lakes of
(Mirrored Beauty
A PARADISE
Lake Taupo in the North—the heart of
the Thermal region—to the great Lakes District
of the South, New Zealand is scattered with lakes
of wonderful loveliness . . . and great fishing!
High mountain peaks, richly massed bush and ferns
of huge size reflect in still mirrors of water. Taupo
is recognised as one of the finest trout fishing
grounds in the world, and almost every lake and
river in New Zealand is well stocked. Trout season
begins in October; Salmon in February.
Come to
NIEW ZIE AIL A
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to — ; N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
P/ease send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand. .
Name
Address
fora DIFFERENT
Holiday
You can
be in
NEW
ZEALAND
dcujs
back, he had told his listeners, were the
fat beasts of gilded gluttony.
The papers referred to Mr. Moon’s vigor-
ous fights for Labor in the past as evidence
of his sane attitude in the present trouble.
One Fat Beast—a mild, elderly knight in
the Legislative Council—had grown quite
hysterical in his praises of this brave man
who was standing out from an innate sense
of justice and right against the mighty
forces of ingratitude. Moon’s portrait
adorned the pages of eight Sydney journals,
and there was not a capital city in which
it was not published.
Jimmy wrote a fine character sketch of
the man he had known from childhood, but
in the existing state of public opinion—that
is, the “Times’s” public opinion—it was
deemed inadvisable to print it. A much
modified version, treating Moon seriously
and sympathetically, appeared.
The story of Moon’s attempt to rescue
Dalgety was raked up; the monthly publica-
tion issued by the Liberals devoted a page
illustration to the incident, accompanying
a poem comparing Moon with David, Aris-
togeiton, William Tell and several other
schoolbook heroes.
Meanwhile the fight went on. Moon drew
his wages from Jackson every week and put
in his time reading. He was fortified in his
own mind by the belief that he was acting
rightly and in the best interests of the
worker. Of all he was the only sound man
in the unions. Instead of their expelling
him, he should have called a meeting and
expelled the rest.
There was not a shade of doubt in his
mind. His martyrdom was due to the cause
of all the trouble—ignorance—the thing
that had made old Jackson a capitalist,
that had made Jimmy object to his blowing
up the winding plant, that had made the
union object to his accepting that three
a ? d si *’ Ikw as all ignorance; some day,
l all , nmrtyrs, he would be canonised,
Meanwhile he must suffer from the scorn
o f those ‘° helping whom he devoted his
uf it was the usual fate f the reformel ,
„ , • a
aa . bls reflections failed to relieve
M° on s mind. The real trouble was that
“ s occupation was gone. His favorite soap-
XJX > we J, ] vom 1011 ,ie surface, kiyin the
corner of his shack mocking him like the
throne of a deposed monarch. He would
oever use it again. He had attempted to
tnke up his old position m the Illawarra
park > bllt the crowd had grown noisy and
substances were thrown, substances increas-
in £ m hardness each time. Eventually he
was escorted home by Sergt. Dunn and two
constables, the vanguard of a procession of
nve hundred strong which howled for the
blood of the traitor.
One night it came on him as a flash that
he was merely the pawn in the game that
capital was playing. Capital cared nothing
for the rights or wrongs of the matter,
nothing for the principle upon which he had
staked everything. All it wanted was to
down the workers, and it was using him for
the purpose. He was right in the attitude
he had taken; the unions were all wrong,
He was still convinced of that. But the
continued payment of his weekly wage for
nothing made him suspicious. The capital-
ist didn’t give money away; the payment
must be for the assistance Moon was giving
capital in its battle with the unions,
Next morning Elijah Moon nailed up a
large box of literature, packed a small bag
of clothing and visited the agent to whom
he paid three shillings weekly for the use
of the shack.
“All property is robbery,” he said as he
lay three shillings on the counter. “But
I ain’t got the same rapacity as th’ lan’-
lord class. ’Ere’s me rent ter th’ hend o’
th’ week.”
“Where are you off to, Elijah?” asked the
agent.
“Where them yer give yer life to won’t
turn an’ bite th’ ’and wot fed them,” he
retorted bitterly. “If there is sich a place
on earth.”
“You’re going a long journey, I fancy,
Elijah,” smiled the agent. “But I’m sorry
to lose you, honestly I am. You’ve called
me a lot of names in your time, but I’m
sorry.”
“Yer a representative o’ th’ lan’lot'd class,
an’ ”
“Yes, I know; and I’m a parasite and
an exploiter. I’ve heard it often; still I’m
sorry.”
“I’ve lef’ some pots an’ pans an’ a couple
o’ chairs an’ a table down there,” continued
Moon.
“I’ll sell them for you and send along the
money.”
“No,” replied Moon. “There’s them that
wants them more’n I want th’ money.
There’s a lot o’ poverty at strike-time.
Just let some o’ th’ women ’ave them. But
don’t say they’re from me or they wouldn’t
take ’em.”
“Shake hands, Moon; you’re a decent
bloke at heart,” said the agent.
When Moon disappeared from Illawarra
the strike had been in progress for seven
weeks. Despite the menace of a continental
dispute, it had so far been localised to the
South Coast. Then the leaders made the
tactical blunder of calling out- Newcastle
and Victoria and West Australia.
Within hours industry was held up all
over the continent; railways and shipping
were affected; factories began to shut down.
It was no longer an academic contest with
the public in the grandstand; the trouble
had trespassed out of the arena and the
innocent bystander was getting many of the
hard knocks.
The pressure of public opinion was too
much for the strikers. They were forced to
go to the Arbitration Court they had been
defying for months, to return to work pend-
ing its decision. The decision was a com-
promise, one in which neither side could
claim victory, and at the next coalminers
conference the old custom was modified so
that the man who did the work got the
money.
“I don’t want to lose all my ideals, to
believe in nothing,” said Jimmy to Stan
Carlisle. “But this sort of thing makes you
feel that way. All over three and six! And
the worst part of it was that Dick Dander
knew all along they were in the wrong and
hadn’t the pluck to tell them so.”
“He was only one,” protested Stan. , “He
couldn’t hold out against the crowd.”
“But he wasn’t the only one,” corrected
Jimmy. “I believe Dander to be straight
—straight as far as actual corruption goes.
But Jackson told me all that the union was
doing. He knew before the members. Do
you know, he admitted to me that there
isn’t a meeting of any delegate board so
insignificant that he isn’t wise the next
morning to what it did?”
(To be continued next week.)
Our Lady of Rain.
A pure, cold immortal, a virgin in white,
She walks in the morning, at noon or at
night, .
Through short hours of pleasure, through
long hours of pain—
A wonderful lady, our Lady of Ham.
Two greasy cave-children, ’twixt monkeys
and men,
Looked out in delight from the mouth oi
their den;
They watched her drift over the wind-shaken
'trees,
And slip in grey garments away to the seas.
A .soldier of Babylon, under his shield,
Beheld her come cleansing a red battlefield ;
A soldier of France in the hour of his pam
Turned wounds to be washed by our Lady
of Rain.
Our Lady of Rain!
Our Lady of Rain!
A husbandman who by the banks of the Nile
Had watched his fields languish, just
glimpsed with a smile
The rain goddess tripping in sandals ot
gj»@y
He built her an altar and thanked her alway.
A poor Irish peasant with children to feed
Was threatened with famine and drought;
in his need
He saw her, with pearls in her glorious hair.
Come over the hills between Galway and
Clare.
He saw her walk over the hills and he knew
There’s mercy in Heaven for me and for you ;
I know and I say it, again and again,
There’s mercy in Heaven while God sends
the rain.
Our Lady of Rain!
His Lady of Rain!
And when, in the night-time, my doubts for
reproof,
I hear the soft steps of her feet on the roof,
I think ’tis a mercy, a gift and a boon
We’re not like the people who live on the
moon !
A hairy cave-poet, 'twixt monkey and man,
He watched the storm breaking—and so it
be°’an!
But fresh" is the breath of the valley and
plain . .
Renewed by her philtres, the Spirit of Ram.
No spirit is kinder, no earth-spirit knows
Our needings like her who was born in the
snows;
Or born of the Morning or born of the
Night,
There’s no one so good and so gentle and
light
As our Lady of Rain!
Our Lady of Rain!
Tis I would be carving a statue so fine
Of a sky-dwelling angel, sweet and divine.
Who coines to the Russian, who comes to
the Celt,
With fruit on her forehead and grain in her
belt —
In short hours of Pleasure, in long hours of
Pain,
A beautiful virgin, our Lady of Rain.
And did ye not know her, Madonna of Years,
Who waters the world with her bountiful
tears ?
The Cloud Woman's daughter, a wife never
won,
Who hides in the rainbow, afraid of the sun.
The Sun who would make her his plentiful
bride
And coax her away from her fond mother s
The Cloud Woman’s daughter, the child of
the Sea,
Unravished, immortal and ever to be.
The Greek in his garden erected a shrine
In praise of a goddess, as I do in mine;
With wine and with roses, with clover and
corn, „ ,
He paid her his tribute before I was born.
But when, in my garden, a pagan I walk,
And see her bright tears on the leaf and
the stalk, • .
In thanks for her presence I worship again
That gracious grey goddess, the Spirit of
Rain.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


if
m
m
m
mm
■
B
$
r#«
Of course
All your driving isn’t
over roads like this-
but you need a battery
built to stand this kind
of service.
O HOCKS and jars ; jolts and vibra-
tion; bumping over the roughest
roads of the far “out back,” the truck
driver needs a battery built to withstand
extreme conditions of service.
Exide, the Longer Life Battery, has
reserve strength built into every detail;
from the sturdy ebonite container (the
most substantial of any standard battery
in Australia) to the specially processed,
machine pasted plates, it is built for
Enduring economy.
If you, too, look forward to care-free
service from your next battery, choose
Exide, the largest selling battery in the
world.
There is an Exide Battery to suit your
car or truck. There are Exide Service
Stations throughout Australia.
* Under the same con-
ditions of service, an
Exide will outlast any
other battery you could
buy .
State Distributors:
N.S.W. —Exide Battery and Delco-Remy Service.
(Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.) Hunt and Com-
monwealth Streets (off Wentworth Avenue),
Sydney, and 1 Alexander Street, Crow's
Nest, North Sydney.
VICTORIA —A. P. Sutherland, Queen's Bridge,
2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne.
id &
ie Longer M Battery
FOR CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
QUEENSLAND—Exide Battery Service (Q.)
Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane; Stanley
Street, South Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Unbehaun & john-
stone Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
a
m
□
"nii
'»i ini
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—M. J. Bateman
Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
TASMANlA—Medhurst & Sons, Collins Street,
Hobart.
fcXt'Oe THE LONGER LIFE BATTERY-IS MADE* IN AUSTRALIA


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted! week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Under false colors—a painted cheek.
;
. A market-gardener in an Australian coun-
try town has just won the first prize for
01 . aa^ s a: th® l° c *d horticultural show, and
)!! 1 Huit stolen from a neighbor s garden.
rhe “ an wh ° se orchar d had been robbed was
placed second.
'
Don Juan Anchorena, of Buenos Ayres
(South America), has joined the innumer-
able caravan and has left behind him a large
Pile of earthly dross. This, he directs, shall
be allowed to accumulate for 300 years—
when he reckons it will total up about
£l72,ooo,ooo—and at the end of that period
the pile is to be distributed among the
poor. The Government, however, estimate
that Don Juanl’s executors* if they are
allowed to go on in this way, will have the
whole country to divide, and it is -expected
the testament will be quashed. If it is not,
we would give something for the right to be
a poor man in Buenos Ayres in the year
2189. [l2/1/89.]
Dear Bulletin, —Knowing how gallant
you are I feel sure you will allow me
space to “ventilate”—l believe that is the
proper term—lhe following grievance rela-
tive to , the employment of women. Having
tried various “genteel” ways of earning au
honest living, from governessing in the Back-
blocks to canvassing for a bogus land sale
in Melbourne, I hailed with delight the
following advertisement which appeared in
the columns of the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
and to which I sent the subjoined reply:—
WANTED, a Superior Working Housekeeper, must
be industrious, educated, musical,* trustworthy, good
cook, good needlewoman, wages £4O. Address testi-
monials to “QUID PRO QUO,” G.P.O.
“Sir,—ln answer to the above I would like
to say that I possess some of the desired
qualifications. For instance, I am equally
at home in the kitchen and the drawing-
room, being able to do anything from split-
ting wood for the stove to painting water-
mi|s and dreams in blue and gold for the
parlor brackets. I am industrious, always lik-
j ng to work till eleven o’clock at night, and
& caring to rise later than five in the movn-
ing. j * m fairly educated, having entered
Melbourne University ‘with credit’ and come
out ‘with honors.’ I am musical; thus
after washing up the dinner plates and put-
ting a superfine polish on the saucepan lids
I could entertain you with the masterpieces
of Mendelssohn, Mozart, Beethoven, Bach
or Sarti, should you feel sad, the gay airs
of Verdi, or a delicious waltz by Strauss
might make you grateful that such men
lived. At other times Wagner might exas-
perate you, or Sullivan remind you that
‘to polish up the handle of the big front
door’ was one of my daily duties. If you
sing I could accompany; or if you would
be sung to I could—after having laid the
kitchen fire, and got your boots ready for
the morning—warble to you in French oi-
Italian. I am trustworthy; you could give
me untold gold, and find it quite correct when
y OU cam e to count it over. I can cook —
gover and Brillat-Savarin were mere culi-
naj quackg . besides, lam a philosopher,
and a man’s face is but as an open page in
a cookery-book. Like Shakspeare’s heroine, I
am ‘delicate with my needle’ and can sew
an ytbi n g, from carpets to fine lace. As it
j g not mentioned, I suppose the washing is
‘put out,’ which latter is a pity, as that
branch of domestic economy is my special
pride and joy. Wages no object; age, 24;
complexion neither fair nor dark; figure tall
and slender ; family good—blood of the
bluest blue, but ‘Necessitas non habet
legem.'' ”
Would you believe it, dear Bulletin- —out
of 40 applicants I was rejected, solely on the
ground that I knew too much. This set
me thinking, and the result was that I began
at; once to drop my h’s, and any other
educated nonsense that I had about me;
put two yards extra steel in my “improver,”
let down my back hair in a pigtail, donned
a poke hat, and marched forth, resolved to
conquer or to die. I enlisted as a “general” ;
the field of battle was a registry office; the
skirmish was short, sharp and decisive. In
half an hour I was dictating the terms of
peace—l 6 shillings a week, no washing,
every night out, and a holiday whenever I
liked. Verbnm say. P.S.- —At prisint Oi’m
doin’ a mash wid the mashter, wlioile missus
is toastin’ her face in the kitchen, cookin’ the
dinner. —Yours truly, Biddy-Wiiicii-is-Maud.
I 1888.1
The scene of this story lies in the sombre
wilds of Potts Point. It was the evening
of washing day, and
in the back yard
hung a long line of
white garments with
embroidery and other
fixings, round the
tail—the sort of
things that a man
couldn’t get into
without splitting
them all up. In the
front garden a man
was dancing with
rage under a tree
and shaking his fist
at a window. He
was engaged to a
dainty creature in-
side whose clothes
filled eight large
trunks, and he be-
lieved that she was
in the sitting-room
on the second floor
carrying on with
the other fellow, and
that her views to-
wards him didn’t
consist as they
should. Conse-
quently he was danc-
ing and gritting his
teeth in a plug hat
under a tree, and
planning how he
could bowl them out.
At last an idea
struck him. He
shinned up the tree
and got in range of
the * window. and
then from his scat
on a knobby branch,
with a caterpillar
crawling down liis
back, he ascertained
that his girl w r as
alone, after all, and,
with a sigh of thank-
fulness he slid down
again. At least ho
slid half-way down,
and then there came
a thoughtful “wild"
underneath and lie
ascertained that a
dog, bigger than any
three dogs had a.
right to bo, was pin-
ing for his legs. He hung on then,
and dug his feet into the bark, and
said plaintively, “Paw doggie! Paw beggah!”
The dog frothed at this, and he fled up the
tree again. This time he got as high as
the girl’s bedroom and he spent two weary
hours watching her shadow on the blind as
she went to bed, while the dog sat patiently
beneath. When he fancied that it had got
tired and gone away, he started to go down
again, but the canine tried to get up to meet
him, and he retired ; he tried again, and got
near enough to plant his foot in the animal’s
eye, but the results were so awful that he
tore up the branches like a seraph climbing
the golden stairs. ITe threw curses, carefully
culled from the great garden of profanity,
at the beast, and it only smiled back at him.
Then he fell asleep, with his tall hat squashed
against a branch, and dreamt that he was sit-
ting in evening-dress on the top of a bull-
dog ant. Morning found him still there, and
it was only when the sun had fairly risen
that he awoke to ascertain that his lady-love
was gazing at him from the window, and his
own dog lying placidly beneath. He smiled
a. wasted, frozen smile at the. girl, and she
smiled back with a supercilious air, then
he slowly and rheumatically crawled down.
She heard him devoting the dog, which was
as large as a horse, to all the infernal gods
below, and telling him to go and bark at the
lost souls, and then he got over the fence,
and his crushed hat vanished down the road.
He was never seen or heard of again.
An economic Tam worth firm rather over-
reached themselves recently. They had a big
supply of 18S5 calendars on hand, and re-
solved to play it low down on their confiding
customers by erasing the first and last
numerals and letting them stand as almanacs
for '.88; In this form they sent them round
with the usual Christmas bills, and the
scheme worked to a marvel, until one man
discovered that the first of January on the
almanac and the first of January according
to local superstition didn’t eventuate on the
same day! This shook public confidence
in itself, and for a week the township was
crowded with excited agriculturists, wildly
asking each other what day it was, and some
shut up shop and went to church, while
those who had not a calendar went nap that
it was Thursday or thereabouts and held a
race-meeting, and encouraged a dog-fight
opposite the sanctuary and started an auc-
tion at the back, and got drunk all over the
place. Things became so mixed at last that
the firm owned up to the economical decep-
tion, and the dazed citizens accepted the
explanation with tears of profound joy, and
w r ent home enlightened.
James W. Brown, of Detroit (U.S.),
married 33 women between the years 1883
and 1888, and 15 of them rolled up in one
infuriated batch to tell him what they
thought of him in court the other day. It
was a very lively time for Brown, but there
is something even worse ahead, for lie was
remanded till, the other IS wives could be
hunted up.
American ladies have somehow acquired a
toilet secret which many a British and Aus-
tralian dame would give her back hair to
possess. At the age of 45, or thereabouts,
the female of the human race genex-ally begins
to wrestle with the fluff upon her cranium,
and tries to persuade herself that it isn't
turning grey. But it is turning grey all the
same. There are silver threads among the
gold, and many an elderly lady whose power-
ful extremities and frame like that of a
canal-boat officer seem to suggest that she is
too muscular for the melting mood, weeps
bitter tears and prances round the room when
she gets out of bed on a cold morning and
finds that she is more grizzly than she was
the previous night. At this stage of her
existence she has two resources before her.
Either she must dye and become a purple-
black monstrosity, or she must struggle
through the dreadful intervening period
UNGUARDED CANDOR, OVERHEARD AT SYDNEY ZOO.
SHE (seeing the monkey “prospecting” his friend’s coat): "How
very human! Is it not, Charles?" [7/5/'87.]
between the dark hair of youth and the
beautiful silver-white of age as best she can,
and in the event of her choosing the latter
alternative, the chances are that she perishes
before the goal is reached —fades away of her
own back hair and its attendant misery. The
American lady, however, cuts the process
short. When she finds that the end of the
human frame which she eats with is begin-
ning to lose its color she retires for a week
or so, and then comes out again with a
wealth of beautiful white hair, which keeps
its color for ever afterwards and makes
the face of middle age look quite youthful
by comparison. Young men begin to worship
her again at this stage and send her bou-
quets, and she enjoys the pleasures of a dual
existence —her face is young enough to make
the male deceiver fall in love with her, and
her hair is old enough to protect her against
slander. She doesn’t flirt, but she can tem-
porarily adopt an orphan dude and make
him take her round, and when she is tired,
of his company she can hunt round for a
fresh orphan any day. But she keeps her
secret religiously, and her piebald foreign
rivals sigh enviously and wonder how she
does it. [7/l/’BB.]
Three years ago land was sold in Argent-
street, Broken Hill, for less than £1 per
foot. The same land was sold last week for
£75 per foot. Fortunes are' yet to be made.
[3l/3/’BB.]
It is reported that there are in the Hay-
market (Sydney) three ordinary-sized houses
in which 533 Chinese live, move and have
their being. There are 10 sleeping-rooms
with 50 Chows in each. [l9/l/’B9.]
Yet another yarn concerning “Old Jimmy”
Tyson, the Australian millionaire. James
says he built his plethoric fortune on one
shilling. When a little boy he was employed
by his brother, a butcher, to drive cattle
from a distance of 120 miles. He had to
cross the river Murray, and the fare across
in the punt for himself and his Pegasus was
one bob. Jimmy held it, and wanted to; he
therefore drove his steed into the water,
hung on to its tail, and so landed on the
other side, and saved the fare. ITe ascribes
his rise in life to the husbanding of that coin.
He cannot now fix within many thousands
the number of his sheep and cattle, but
he is happily cognisant of the fact that his
station-holdings include 14 of the largest in
Queensland. There’s no pride about Old
Jimmy. The smallest supe and rouseabout
on his station can refer to him as “Old
Jimmy Tyson,” and they won't get fired
out. It is only in large towns that he puts
up at hotels, otherwise he always travels
in a spring-cart with a black boy, who does
all the grooming and cooking.
It is said that Browning was once asked
the meaning of a certain passage in a poem
of his. “I cannot tell you for the life of
me,” he said; “you had better ask a member
of the Browning Society.”
THE SAUSAGE CANDIDATE.
A Tale of the Elections.
Our fathers brave men were and strong,
And whisky was their daily liquor;
They used to move the world along
111 better style than now—and quicker.
Elections then were sport, you bet!
A trifle rough, there’s no denying.
When two opposing factions met
The skin and hair were always flying.
When “cabbage-trees” could still be worn
Without the question “Who’s your hatter?”
There dawned a bright election morn
Upon the town of Parramatta.
A man called Jones was all the go—
The people’s friend, the poor’s protector;
A long, gaunt, six-foot slab of woe,
He sought to charm the green elector.
Now, Jones had one time been trustee
For his small niece, and he—the villain!—
Betrayed his trust most shamefully,
And robbed the child of every shillin’.
He used to keep accounts, they say,
To save himself in case of trouble ;
Whatever cash he paid away
He always charged the same up double.
He’d buy the child a cotton gown
Too coarse and rough to dress a cat in,
And then he’d go and put it down
And charge the price of silk or satin.
lie gave her once a little treat —
An outing down the harbor sunny—
And Lord! the bill for bread and meat
You’d think they all had eaten money!
But Jones exposed the course he .took
By carelessness—such men are ninnies.
He went and entered in his book
“Two pounds of sausages — two guineas .”
Now this leaked out, and folk got riled,
And said that Jones “he didn’t oughter.”
But what cared Jones? He only smiled —-
Abuse ran off his back like water.
™ ,1 „ * 4.
Ai d so lie faced the voild content;
Plis little niece he never paid her;
stood for Parliament
(O couise he was a rank Freetrader).
Hl « weal .f was .f. reat - su ccess appeared
To smile propitious on his banner.
A A 1 **' lc , e in [ l ' l t < ‘ l l ,
111 this most unexpected manner.
A person—call him Brown for short—
Who knew the story of this stealer,
Went calmly down the town and bought
Two pounds of sausage from a dealer;
And then h e got a long bamboo
And tied tli e sausage tightly to it;
Says he, “This is the thing to do,
And I am just the man to do it.
ALL THAT WAS LEFT.
“Waiter, bring me the menu.”
“Maynoo, maynoo! All off, sir. Roast beef, boiled mutton an’ carrots is all there is
left!”
“When Jones comes out to make his speech
I won’t a clapper be, nor hisser,
But with this long bamboo I’ll reach
And poke the sausage in his ‘kisser.’
I’ll bring - the wretch to scorn and shame,
Unless those darned police are nigh;
As sure as Brown’s my glorious name,
l’ll knock that candidate kite-high.”
,
The speech came on beneath the stand
ahe people push and surge and eddy;
Br°wn waits calmly close at hand
With nil Ins apparatus ready: _
speaker loudly cries,
Of ages all, this is the boss age.
Brown hits him square between the eyes,
Exclaiming, What s the price of sausage.
Ho aimed the victuals in his face,
As though he thought poor Jones a glutton,
And Jones was covered with disgrace—
Disgrace and shame, and beef and mutton,
His cause was lost—a hopeless wreck
He crept off from the hooting throng;
Protection proudly ruled the deck....
Here ends the sausage and the song.
10/2/89.1
THE BANJO.


NO INVESTOR IS SAFE WITHOUT IT
How many tens of thousands of people were ruined in the nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
We Me on the edge of a similar disaster. Already scores of companies have gone into liquidation. But no great amount of
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen? . , i
The files and other data at the command of the " 'Wild Cat' Monthly” are so complete that the companies themselves often
apply for permission to consult them. . c
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
No investor great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make sure it
not buy the “Monthly” without testing its value. Send for a sample copy, along with lid. stamp to cover postage, and
judge whether it is not worth 22/6 a year to you.
A MORAL THAT DIDN’T COME OFF.
ANXIOUS MAMMA (with a view to impressing her son with the dangers of harbor
bathing) : “See here, Tommy, I have just been reading an account of a big
shark caught yesterday, and on opening it they found a watch, a hat and a
pair of boots that had belonged to a man.”
TOMMY: “Well, Mamma, but how did the man escape?” [2/2/’88.]
HEADIN’ ’EM.
No backblock Australian who has ever
“melted” a cheque at a country pub is igno-
rant of the manner in which “headin’ ’em”
is performed. The game is very popular at
shearing-sheds after “knock-off” time or on
wet days, when work is temporarily inter-
rupted. The appliances required are so few
and the pastime itself is so delightfully
simple, and, at the same time, so full of
excitement, that its undying popularity is not
to be wondered at. The amusement can be
indulged in at all times and in all weathers.
As the cookery-books say, it is “seasonable
at any time.” The “heading school” may
meet in the open air, or its studies may be
pursued indoors. The game is equally elas-
tic as regards numbers; it may be, and ofteu
is, indulged in by two persons, while a
“school” of 30 or 40 is by no means un-
common. The person of limited means, while
they hold out, can pursue the fascinating
occupation on terms of social equality witli
the owner of the biggest cheque in the crowd.
With all these advantages to recommend it,
it is not remarkable that a heading school
may be seen at any bush pub where three
or four are gathered together. Generally
the school will congregate on a clear spot
of ground in the yard or on the road, and
there they remain until they are satiated, or
the appearance of a mounted constable or
“trap” causes a hurried grab for the stakes
and a precipitate retreat. In the latter case
the “trap’s” departure is hardly an accom-
plished fact before the sport is under weigh
again.
The game is remarkably easy. You throw
up two pennies in the air. If two heads
show uppermost when the pennies fall, you
win. If two tails, you lose. If one head
and one tail (“two ones”), neither party
wins. That is all —in theory. But in prac-
tice there is a lot more than appears on
the surface. In the first place, you all take
it in turn to throw up the pennies. They
are thrown from a flat piece of wood, or
bark, or leather which is called a “kip.”
It is considered a great advantage to “have
a kip”—that is, to be the thrower, and when
you throw two tails, and thus lose the privi-
lege, it is customary to swear fluently. But
to an outsider it is difficult to see in what
the advantage consists —that is, unless the
kip-holder uses “greys.” But perhaps you
don’t know what “greys” are. Well, then,
if you take two pennies, carefully cut them
through edgeways with a fine saw, and then
rivet the wrong halves together again, .you
will have a pair of “greys”—a “head grey”
and a “tail grey.” The former will have
her Majesty’s likeness on both sides, and
the reverse and obverse of the latter will both
represent Britannia.
“Greys” are sometimes useful in a school
of “mugs,” but the average “heading school”
is by no means so soft as to permit their
introduction. Therefore they are rarely used
in a mixed company. The punishment in-
flicted for using “greys” also acts as a deter-
rent. The would-be sharper is expelled with
ignominy from the school, his stakes are con-
fiscated/and, if there is a better man in the
crowd than he is, he gets a thrashing. This
is only justice, but sometimes one meets with
a hard case.
Such a case was related to me by one of
the chief participators in the tragedy. “I
was playin’ real square,” he told me, “and
had the kip for a deuce of a long time. I
headed ’em 18 times, and raked in every time.
Then I reckoned that my luck wasn’t going
to last much longer, so I just slipped in one
grey. Darned if oue of the fellows duln t
A HAPPY CHANCE FOR LARCENISTS
“The present Judges of the Supreme Court aver that some cases must stand over indefinitely unless
more Judges are appointed.” —Sydney “Globe.”
STREET ARAB No. 1 : “Go in, Bill, and nab some of them smokes. They can’t do nothin
to yer up at the courts till they gets more Judges.” [12/3/87.]
snap it up first throw. And then they reck-
onecl I’d been usin’ them all the time, and
they made me part up. And one big feller
and me had it out, and he gave me no end
of a hidin’.” This was sad, and illustrated
the fatal result of only one slip from the
path of virtue.
But, as the average “gaffer” is far too
sharp to allow of such risks, the advantage
of having the kip is difficult to discover.
Even skilful throwing, so as to secure a
certain fall, does not avail, for any mem-
ber of the school has the privilege of “bar-
ring” a throw which seems to him suspi-
cious. The gambler’s everlasting dream of
“luck” seems to be the foundation of the
superstition in favor of being the thrower,
And this is illustrated by the fact that many
gaffers are the proud possessors of “lucky
kips,” which, they firmly believe, bring them
success. Sometimes a kip-holder will “head
them”—that is, throw two heads—over 20
times before he “tails them.” In this case,
course he wins largely,
Tt-,- i, ji! • i i
Dished pennies, like greys can only be
used where the company is not very smart,
or is drunk. A dished com is one which has
been made slightly convex. By a natural
law such a com will fall most frequently
wffh the concave side uppermost, to the
manifest advantage of the thrower if that
side is ‘heads But, in general the throw-
ing is perfectly fair, and the advantage ot
having the kip purely imaginary.
It is, however, quite impossible to con-
vince the average gaffer of this. He will
listen to your exposition of the mathematical
certainties of the game and will perhaps
agree with you as to theory, but will always
firmly believe that he has a better chance
of winning when he throws than when that
function is performed by another.
m ~ . j u of
The throwing is done by each membe
the school m rotation When two tails arc
thrown, the next man to the th
ceeds to the kip and holds it u 1
unfortunate enough to lose it by the same
process. _ The other members of th . >
ranged m a circle, wager as i to the■ coming
t° ss - . A crown he heads e m.' Y ,
throwing his money on the ground, for no
triist is a lecognised a , hv several
His challenge is perhaps accepte y■ ' ; ’
thS The matter is soon
decided. although sometimes “two ones” will
appear with aggravating persistency. Every-
one is interested and money changes hands
with much rapidity. The winners pick up
their stakes from the dust, while the losers
plank down more for the next occasion.
It frequently happens that quite a num-
ber of coins are trodden into the ground
and thus escape the notice of the pjay e rs,
and for this reason the small hoy ot bush
experience gravitates to the deserted gafhng-
school with much certainty. I have known
over two pounds to be exhumed by a 10-year-
old from the site of a prolonged engagement,
Notwithstanding the seeming fairness of
the game and the equality of the chances,
large sums are sometimes won and lost,
The loss of £lO, £l5 or £2O in one morning
is not unusual, and very much larger amounts
are often “dropped.” I knew a man who
lost £l5 (all he possessed) and £o more
which he borrowed in two hours. But mark
what followed. He sold a horse he had tor
£5, and began to play that up. He went to
work very carefully, never wagering more
than half-a-crown, but his ill-luck stuck to
him. At length his last halt-crown was on
the ground, and he won. Then his luck
changed completely. He won_ as last as he
had previously lost. Bit by bit he recovered
his losses, and, fortune still sticking to him,
fic left off with all his original stock of cash
and £3B besides! On the other hand, a man
m sometimes b e £3O or £4O ahead at mid-
and t suudown have i ost all and his own
mo , iey besides. Such a case is a severe trial
to th * suffere r. One of my friends under-
went that ordeal and when h is last pound
was be picked , up the two coins he had
been tossing with' and pitched them over the
bouse They were half-crowns, too, such
having-been substituted for the customary
pennies in the interests of fair play. The
landlord’s boy recovered one of them fiom
mof, but the other was never lecovered.
Headin’ ’em is simply a local version of
the manly British gaine of pitch and toss,
an d much pleasure and profit may be derived
from it both by the participators and the
onlookers. It is therefore a matter of regret
that the authorities do not encourage the
pastime. Not only do they fail to encourage
. but they look so unfavorably on it that
a ’ general ’ belicf exists that they object to
j t- Thus it j s tbat w hen the trooper rides
t 0 the bush pub on Sunday morning ho
thg lod^M . seated in the verandah
smo ki n g the placid pipe of contentment and
reading s the newspapC rs. When he has
proceeded on his way he may have an idea
thg bare patcb of sand in front is no
longer unoccupied, or he may not. But if
be does be will have hugged the immortal
truth more closely than the average con-
stabi®.JJ®?®L/ ' * c
[2l/3/ 83 J
THE RESPECTABLE DAM.
“Not long ago it was comfortably proved that it
was not always wrong to use a big, big D. When
you say ‘Don’t care a c !’ you merely remark
that you don’t care a ‘dam,’ which is a sort of
Oriental brass farthing.’’— Australian daily news-
paper.
Dear friends, if perchance you should hear
me declaring
“I don’t care a dam” for that or for this,
You must never suppose for a moment I’m
swearing—•
The word need not frighten a boarding-
school miss;
On my soul that expression is somewhat
rekerlci/ —
A “dam” means the fourth of a penny in
Turkey.
So, having explained how in speech I’m a
model
For Methodist parsons, permit me to state
That I don’t care a dam for Imperial
twaddle,
To which we’ve been treated so freely
of late;
I don’t care a dam (now I know it’s not
cursin’)
For the loyalty cry of a vice-regal persin.
Sir Parkes will go over to talk Federation
With Gillies and others of lesser renown;
They’ll not try to start an Australian nation,
But merely to tighten those bonds for the
Crown ;
And, seeing their game just as plainly as
one can,
1 don’t care a dam for old Parkes or for
Duncan.
Parnell, so it seems, has been made co-re-
spondent,
The verdict against him might possibly go ;
Shure the friends of ould Erin must not be
despondent—
I don’t care a. dam if lie’s giddy or no;
The cause of Home Eulers, which can’t be
gainsaid, is
Not weakened by gents, making love to the
ladies.
The odors that hang around Melbourne are
frightful,
Yet fat City Fathers won’t notice the stink ;
They simply observe that the Queen is
delightful—
’Tis only her health they are careful to drink ;
They are not worth the paper I’m writing
this squib on
(I don’t care a dam for the Mayor or Fitz-
gibbon).
A Portuguese soldier named Pinto grew
skittish,
And fooled with a standard on African soil;
Now, if he should have a set-to with the
British.
And two robbers fight o’er division of spoil,
I don’t care a dam who may lose or may
win it —
The nigger they rob doesn’t seem to be in it.
We’ve pantomimes, running in Melbourne and
Sydney, .
So lavishly mounted, but, gracious, how slow !
These new-fashioned pants they are all of
a kidney,
Much fuller of lea (doyou see it?) than “go.”
Though forests of legs cost a rare lot of
money,
I don’t care a dam if the show isn’t funny.


Backach /
—that’s KIDNEY TROUBLE
SO IS YOUR
RHEUMATISM
WHY THIS REMEDY
MUST BENEFIT YOU
Rheumatism, and Backache are the most
serious of all health troubles. Starting with
twitching of the muscles, stiffness in the
joints, pains in the back, the trouble gradually
goes on until many are badly crippled and
cannot go about their daily work. Then,
too, the excess of poisonous acids in the
blood has a serious weakening effect on the
heart.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of
rheumatic pains, chronic pain at night-time
when trying to rest, pain when going about
your work or pleasure, if you find limbs and
joints swollen, if your blood is being poisoned
with excess of uric acid, here is a doctor-
recommended remedy that one-time sufferers
say is “wonderful” in the way it quickly
ends chronic pain. De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills are a sure, safe and certain
remedy for all rheumatic conditions or any
body or joint pains arising from Kidney
Trouble. A short course of “De Witt’s ”
will quickly rid you of your pain and bring
you back youthful vigour and vitality, and,
remember, you purchase your supply on
satisfaction or money-back conditions. Every
chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Blad-
der Pills at 3/6. Get your supply to-day.
It will be the best investment you will ever
make. The young and the oldest can take
De Witt’s Pills with confidence. No danger-
ous drugs, but a scientific preparation that
will do you good from the first dose. Get
De Witt’s ” and get health.
/
¥ I
J
OVER FORTY YEARS OF SUCCESSFUL RESULTS
For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have been on
sale all over the world. Everywhere the success of these wonderful
Pills is being consolidated daily. Thousands and thousands —a never-
ending stream —of letters testifying to the efficacy of De Witt’s Pills
are pouring in from one-time sufferers who have become convinced
that there is no finer remedy. That is why you, too, should give
“ De Witt’s ” a trial now.
OUR GUARANTEE.
Every box of De Witt’s Pills
sold bears this definite guar-
antee that twenty-four hours
after the first dose you will see
results. If this is not so, re-
turn to the proprietors the
partly-used bottle and your
money will be refunded in full.
De Witt’s Pills are invalu-
able in cases of :
RHEDMATASM, LUMBAGO
BACKACHE, SCIATICA
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of KIDNEY
and BLADDER TROUBLE
Mr. Clambafaer’s Cannibals.
ALYS BROWN
TELLS THE STORY OF A REMARKABLE DISCOVERY.
IRA Q. CLAMBAKER, hardware manu-
facturer and near-millionaire, leaned
dejectedly against the ornately-carved
corner pole of the ancient council platform
standing at the entrance to the village of
Hanuabada, and unpeeling a slab of gum
from its wrapper, thrust it between his gold-
trimmed teeth and champed savagely as he
gazed with dissatisfied eyes across the blue
water of Port Moresby Harbor to the luxury-
liner Bisonia, in which he and a crowd of
fellow tourists had crossed the Pacific to
gain “Culture by Travel.”
Now and again, from the platform above,
scraps of information wafted down to him,
the nasal tones penetrating the shrill clamor
from the mob of half-naked children who
milled around the outskirts of the party,
trying to draw attention from the lecturing-
courier tc their crudely carved curios.
“Gimme a bob, Mister”.... “The original
home of savage, head-hunting cannibals”
....“Only ten shillin’, 5ah,”.... “Stone-age
natives in their primitive surroundings.”
Mr. Clambaker spat disgustedly at an
empty baked-bean can lying near, and, draw-
ing a highly-colored booklet from a pocket of
his check plus-fours, opened it at a picture
of a painted and tattooed savage; then,
adjusting his shell-rimmed goggles, he
glared at the gorgeous paradise plume head-
dress jauntily set on the ebony friz, frowned
at the ivory-tusked nose and braceleted
arms, the stone club and the newly-severed
head dripping gore, which the warrior
triumphantly displayed.
Oblivious of the din around he began to
read: “Calling at Port Moresby, the capital
of Papua; interesting stone-age natives liv-
ing in picturesque villages surrounded by
primeval jungle where birds of paradise flit
to and fro among orchid-crowned trees, and
head-hunting cannibals roam in search of
prey.”
Mr. Clambaker looked up from the page
and in one contemptuous glance took in the
low treeless hills matted with sun-scorched
grass, the straggling grove of scabby cocoa-
nut palms, and the grass huts patched with
flattened kerosene-tins and rusty corrugated-
iron.
“Some picturesque village set in primeval
jungle!” lie grunted, scowling at a brown-
skinned youth in dirty shorts and a yeflow-
and-black football jersey, who was drawing
water into an enamelled slop-pail from a
hydrant at the foot of the electric-light
standard.
The lad returned his scowl and in pidgin
English, shouted pleasantries concerning
tourists to a pink-overalled woman treadling
a sewing-machine on a near-by verandah.
The woman laughed and shook out her sew-
ing—a white calico nightshirt.
“Stone-age natives! By scissors!” ex-
ploded Mr. Clambaker to the alarm of a
pot-bellied piccaninny offering a green cocoa-
nut for “One shillin’, Mister.” Parking his
gum under his left lapel he elbowed through
the crowd with a determined look on his
plump face.
The courier had ended his lecturette and
was preparing to bow at the coming
applause, when Mr Clambaker rasped out:
“Half a minute, folks, before you hand out
the testimonial.” Turning to the lecturer
he snapped: “Say, Buddy, you just spilled
a bibful, and if you’ve quite finished the
harrowing details, I’d like to speak my
piece. You’re some fluent little kidder, but
you’ve gotten an over-developed imagination,
like the guys of that Transport Corporation
in ’Frisco who wangled the iron men outa
our pockets with this” —and he shook the
booklet in the astonished courier’s face. Then
ho went on: “This may be a perfectly good
cannibal stronghold, but I’ve seen better in
a dime show, and if a movie director shot
a scenario like this for a cannibal village,
he’d be fired, pronto. Hearken to the war-
cry of the bloodthirsty savages,” he barked
derisively, as a gramophone near at hand
sobbed out, “Ain’t ya gonna be ma honey,
Baby?”
There was a flutter in the crowd and a
murmur of protest, but Ira Q., taking this
for approval, continued: “The resolution I
put to the meeting is this, that this show
ain’t up to the specifications set forth in
the prospectus.”
“Ditch that stuff, Clambaker. You’re
tieing up the traffic,” came a voice from
behind, and a man at his elbow asked
jocularly, “Gotta blister on your temper,
ole sport?” whilst his cabin-mate advised,
“You do a fade-out, Ira Q. You’re a chronic
crepehanger.”
“That’s so,” shrilled an elderly lady with
a wrinkled pippin face and a glittering dental
display, pointing accusingly at him with a
pocket-knife with which she had just hacked
off a piece of ceremonial carving from one
of the crab-claw posts. “He’s a regular
gloom-liound. He’s toted a grouch all the
voyage, I’ll tell the world. Folks, I guess
this is just the cutest place I ever saw and
I’m perfectly thrilled. Mr. Wintlirop, where
is that crockery-making display? I’m simply
crazy to see it. Do these poor heathens
give souvenirs away to visitors?”
She smiled toothily at the lecturer, who
had scrambled down and was scowling at
Mr. Clambaker, whereupon the scowl melted
to a honeyed smile.
“Native pottery? This way, ladies and
gents,” he announced briskly and with a
muttered aside of “Say, old man, if you
think you’re the master-mind in this little
sketch, you’ve got a bump coming,” led off
his chattering flock, cinematoscopes at the
ready, leaving the outcast gazing wrathfully
after them.
“ Reckon you're in minority, Boss,”
drawled a voice at his side, “but you’re
dead right. There ain’t a< cannibal nor a head-
hunter within a couple o’ hundred miles. But
if you want to see the real thing, Mister,
I’m the man that can show you. I got a
nice little cutter that’ll run you down the
coast in no time to where you’ll see the real
dinkum article, same as the pretty picture
you got there.”
Mr. Clambaker deliberately surveyed the
speaker, a weatherbeaten man with a two-
days' chin stubble; he took in the battered
sun-helmet, soiled khaki and worn-out sand-
shoes ; then he shook his head, saying shortly,
“No gold-bricks to-day, thanks.”
“That’s all right, mate. Keep your shirt
on. I thought I heard you putting out an
SOS for cannibals, so I answered. No
harm done. Good-day.”
He spat at the baked-bean can and
lounged off through the cocoanuts.
Mr. Clambaker stared after him, ruminat-
ing sourly: “Cannibals! Cannibals, I came
ta see, and cannibals I gotta see, else I’ll
be guyed to deatli by all the fresh ginks at
the club when I get ba-ck. Hi there!”
The waitress had placed a Vienna schnit-
zel on the table before him and Mr. Clam-
baker’s mouth watered; but though he made
herculean efforts to reach the savory platter,
some invisible power held him back —until,
with a snort he burst the fetters of sleep, the
delicious dream-food vanished, and he awoke
to the misery of a cramped and aching body,
sodden clothes and abysmal hunger.
Back rushed remembrance: alligators
a-sprawl on the sandspit, behind which the
cutter had anchored for shelter from a
threatened storm; his desire to stalk and
shoot one that he might, at least, have
its hide to show for this fool stunt; well
aware that he had been sold a gold-brick—
the cutter Tuia belonging to Tick Johnson’s
native brother-in-law, being bound for the
port of Daru and back with no other call,
least of all at any cannibal stronghold
mention of which brought grins to the faces
of the native crew and a protest from their
captain: “No more cannibal he stop. All
go finish long time.” Tick’s “Now, then,
Kopi. There’s sure to be plenty for him
to see in the gaol at Daru,” had not been
reassuring. Then the trip in the dinghy with
Tick and a rifle, and the sudden bursting of
the squall; the welter of lashing rain, bel-
lowing thunder and a terrific wind which
had blown theip, as Tick put it, “To hell
an’ gone.”
Mr. Clambaker sat up and looked around.
The dinghy was stranded among the skeleton
roots of a mangrove. All round was a tangle
of other sinister roots dripping clots of grey-
black mud into a sea of evil-looking filth on
which small red and purple crabs were
sidling, and repulsive fish-like creatures,
darting from nowhere, flopped with slushy
plonks and burrowed in with a rush of
bubbles. There was an all-pervading stench
of rottenness and decay, a steamy smell of
dead things. A clammy shroud of drab mist
shut them in, veiling all but the mud, the
dank green foliage of the mangroves above
and their gaunt, contorted roots below.
“Primeval!” groaned the shivering man.
“Prehistoric, that’s what it is. Looks almighty
like we were lost in the discards, and the
sooner we get a hustle on, back to that cock-
roach-coop cutter, the better. Hi, Tick '.
Wake up !”
His companion stirred, grunted, and went
to sleep again.
“Wake up!” he bawled. “I’m that lone-
some I could chat with a one-eyed mule and
enjoy it. This place gives me the gooeys.”
The combo sat up, stared blearily around
then swore blasphemously and at length,
“That’s right, son,” encouraged Mr. Clam-
baker; “but now you’ve gotten that six
peeler off your chest'it’s time we gotta move
G n. What about stepping on the juice a
bit?”
Tick looked sourly at him. “ ’Sail right
talking,” he objected, “but take a look at
that. You can step on it if you want to.”
The mist was lifting and the growing light
revealed a stretch of mud half a mile wide
between them and the sullen water of the
river up which the storm had blown them,
“Couldn’t we wade out?” asked Mr. Clam-
baker half-heartedly, the look of the porridgy
slime giving him a qualmy feeling,
“Wade, me foot! This mud ’ud swallow
you up before you’d gone a yard. We’ll have
to wait till the tide comes up an’ floats us
off. Strewth! Couldn’t I do with a drink !”
“ ’Tain’t liquid nourishment I’m needing
right now,” complained Mr. Clambaker. “A
hot-dog sandwich and a dill pickle would
about fit my complaint and bring peace to
my troubled soul. Anyway, we gotta do
something. Let’s tuck up our pants and get
busy and climb along these misbegotten
chunks o’ vegetation and go exploring for
dry land and something to exercise my
dentals on.”
Securing, the boat and taking the rifle,
they scrambled out and slithered and clawed
along the roots, slipping more than once into
the noisome mud or sinking thigh-deep
through the treacherous crust of some rotten
sago-palm.
At last, with clothes ripped by sharp
sago thorns, soaked with sweat, mired with
slime and almost eaten alive by myriads of
blood-sucking insects the sorry pair of
starving scarecrows staggered from the belt
0 f SW amp into sunlight and solid ground.
Mr. Clambaker gave a joyful croak. The
russet thatches of several huts were visible
a b o ve the scrub !
“Me f or the eats !” he cried, and, exhausted
though he was, would have started off at a
run had not Tick pulled him to a halt,
cautioning: “Half a ino. Better have a dekko
first. Dunno but what your fairy god-
mother ain’t going to grant that wish o’
yourg au > gj ve you a s i an t at a cannibal
or twQ „
Mr. Clambaker’s fat, muddy face broad-
ene(j j u to a knowing grin. “Cannibals ! I’ll
ten bucks for every cannibal we
f ,1 h
' However Tick’s look of anxietv and
hoarse a PP eal for silence made him follow
cautiously as the beachcomber advanced shel-
be^ lin
clearing in wh ch t e itt c „i oup of huts
wa f se “- , , e ,
e( /? e< t ll f t l . a , ca^P^ c °f long-
sn°uted, razor-backed pigs looting on a gar-
(Continued on next page.)


ASSURED
POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there js a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A CARNIVAL FOR ALL SYDNEY!
ROSE DAY
OCTOBER
3
at Martin Place, Customs House
Square and Macquarie Place.
You are asked to be generous on Octo-
ber 3! Collections will be made and
badges will be sold throughout the city
and in all suburban centres—chocolate-
wheel and novelty stores have more
magnificent gifts than ever—music will
be heard all day—for the 1930 ROSE
DAY MUST BE A RECORD!
YOUR support is requested—not neces-
sarily to GIVE, but to visit the Rose Day
centres for the amount of diversion
which is being planned for you.
Note the date, October 3, and make for
one of the three carnival centres to
do YOUR bit for the State’s charity
appeal-
N\ \
ih \
>
WATER
Wherever You Want It
ds
To have water delivered in great quantities wherever
you want it, and at low cost, “Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps
should be used.
Made in Single and Multi-Stage, in numerous sizes from
lin. upwards.
Prices from £4/12/6.
Full particulars and Pump Catalogue on request.
Large stocks of Pipes and Fittings and Pipe Tools alse
available.
rc ""tersonsi
ftoprictani limited
DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE I 860.”
582-592 COLLINS STREET ----- MELBOURNE
51-65 BATHURST STREET ; S™EY
116-130 WAYMOUTH STREET - - - - ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY STREET PERTH
bage heap bolted with loud squeals, but there
was no sign of life in the huts and a closer
view showed that all the doors were lashed
up.
“Nobody home,” announced Tick with
relief. “Away at the gardens most proberly.
Come on in an’ see if we can’t dig up a bit
o’ taro or some bananas for kai-kai.”
He stumped boldly towards the largest
hut and, climbing up the notched trunk,
unfastened the lashings of the mat across
the doorway, peered inside, then entered.
“Gosh ! What a pong! Worse than a
monkey house,” sniffed Mr. Clambaker. Tick
whose domestic life had hardened him to
such smells, immediately busied himself blow-
ing life into the feeble embers on the hearth,
carefully feeding the flame with sticks from
a near-by rack, and Mr. Clambaker after
a distasteful look around, set to work scrap-
ing the caked mud from his clothes.
Presently Tick called out: “Here’s a bit
o’ luck. Sugar-cane! Near as good as a
drink. Have a chunk till I get this taro
baked.”
He tumbled some roots from a string bag,
and, burying them beneath the now blazing
fire, squatted down contentedly with his
back against a post, chewing at a length
of cane while Mr. Clambaker prowled round.
“ ’Tain’t exactly the Bisonia,” he mumbled,
his mouth full of the juicy pith. “They
ain’t strong on furniture in this burg, and
I sure don’t admire their brand of parquet.”
Looking through the cracks of the rough,
sago-bark floor to the rubbish-littered ground
beneath, he mused, “Guess there’d be no
call for my Ukanusa combined mop and
. scrub-brush here, but they sure do need
introducing to my Bitsanbats sanitary gar-
bage-bin.” Then peering through the smoke
at the soot-grimed rack overhead, he an-
nounced : “I guess there’s cocoanuts on the
how-now. I’m getting some.”
“More like some real liot-dog,” growled
Tick. “That’s the larder where they smoke
all the left-overs from Sunday’s joint. I
prefer taro meself.”
Mr. Clambaker poked at the rack with
a piece of firewood. Something fell with
a thud at his feet., and he gingerly picked
it up, to drop it hastily.
“Holy scissors!” he yelled. “It’s a head !”
Tick jumped to his feet and turned over
the gruesome find with his toe; then, after
a look at the other “cocoanuts” on the
rack, Ife said shortly, “Too right they’re
heads. Might be the remains of their late-
lamenteds, an’ again might not. They do
pickle ’em that way as mementoes in these
parts, but five in a bunch is a bit too thick,
an’ they’re a sight too fresh for my fancy.
We’d best hop it out o’ here.”
While speaking he was hurriedly raking
the taro from the ashes. “A bit \inderdone,”
he grumbled, “but a dinner o’ herbs in the
swamp is better than being the fatted calf
at a man-eating corroboree. Come on.”
Followed by a sick and trembling Mr.
Clambaker, whose stomach was giving aud-
ible signs of revolt, he picked up the rifle
and stepped to the door, but darted quickly
back whispering: “Too dam’ late! The
blackbirds have come home to roost an’ they
look a bad crowd all right.”
Hastily they dragged the matting back
across the opening, and Tick valiantly took
up his post behind it, with the muzzle of
the rifle resting on the top edge, Mr. Clam-
baker peeping anxiously over his shoulder.
It was evident that keen eyes had already
detected their presence, for a little group
of natives stood at the edge of the scrub,
chattering and pointing to the hut.
In front were a dozen villainous-looking
men, brown almost to blackness, whose
shaven foreheads, streaked with red and
black paint, gave a look of brutal savagery
to their fierce faces that set Mr. Clambaker
a-sliudder. Some wore a corset-like belt of
fantastically-painted bark, from which hung
a tattered apron. Others covered their
nakedness with a single large shell strung
from the waist. All carried seven-foot bows
and sheaves of wickedly-barbed arrows.
From behind, a-tiptoe for flight, naked
women peered anxiously; old withered crones
with shaven crowns and wizened, crooked
bodies; younger women with grotesquely-
tufted topknots clutching babies to their
breasts ; older children huddling about them
wide-eyed with fright, whilst a few mangy
curs cringed around.
After some argument, one man; detaching
himself from the group, came strutting trucu-
lently towards the hut. His sturdy legs
were sheathed in brown leggings of plaited
cane outlined in cowrie shells, and a stiff
bow-gauntlet cased his left forearm. Though
by no means so colorful as the gaudily-
decorated warrior in “Culture by Travel,”
his look of latent ferocity sent sick thrills
along Mr. Clambaker’s jangled nerves.
“Some bad actor, I’ll tell the world,” he
quavered through chattering teeth; then
horror froze the rest of his comments on his
lips asGie caught sight of a hand lying on
the dirt-caked chest —a dried mummy of a
hand with glistening nails on its claw-like
fingers.
Mr. Clambaker’s trembling knees gave
way, and with a faint “Scissors!” he col-
lapsed, and bumping against Tick Johnson’s
arm the rifle went off with a bang that
seemed to shatter his eardrums.
When he came to himself again the sav-
ages had vanished, and Tick was whimper-
ing: “They’ll never let up on us now. O
my Gawd! Why ever did I come to dry-
nurse such a ruddy interfering blighter?
We’re as good as dead men now.”
During the miserable hours that dragged
along as they waited for the kindly dusk
to conceal an attempt at escape into the
swamp, Tick was not a reassuring com-
panion. Between reminders of the promise
of “ten bucks” for every cannibal, if they
did escape, they were put to a thousand
unspeakable tortures and eaten a hundred
times; so that both started up in a panic
when a loud, authoritative voice from the
front of the hut demanded, “Here, you fel-
lows ! What do you mean by this ?”
Tick looked over the edge of the mat and
spat an oath beneath his breath.
“It’s the R.M. and his John Hops!
Blowcd if I wouldn’t rather have the canni-
bals !”
But Mr. Clambaker, sobbing his relief,
pushed him aside, tearing frantically at the
loormat in an effort to get out. ,
In front of the hut they found a white
man and a squad of armed native police,
whilst in the background were the savages
of the morning.
“Holy scissors, but I’m tickled to death
to meetcha,” burbled Ira Q., holding out his
hand. “I ain’t acquainted with my deli-
verer’s name, but it will sure be printed
on the memory tablets of Ira Q. Clambaker,
of Topeka, Kansas, President of the Middle
West Hardware Corporation. Meet Mr.
Tick Johnson, of Port Moresby, who pro-
mised. me an eyeful of honest-to-God canni-
bals and sure fulfilled his contract.”
His outstretched hand was coldly ignored
as the magistrate fixed his companion with
a stern eye.
“Johnson, these natives complain that you
have broken into a hut and fired on them
when asked for possession.”
“I’m sorry, Mr. Barnet, sir. It was all
a mistake. We was blown ashore an’ near
drowned an’ went into the hut to get dry,
an’ when the niggers came the gent here
got cold feet an’ fired the rifle by mistake.
We only took a bit o’ taro an’ the gent’ll
pay the damage,” explained Tick nervously.
“I warned you before”
“Yes, your Worship,” stammered Tick
hastily. “But I ain’t after any paradise
feathers this time—only showing the gent
round a bit. Honest, Mr. Barnet, sir!
We was in Kopi’s cutter bound for Daru,
an’ dropped off to try for a croc., an’ a
guba caught us. Honest it did. Ask the
gent, sir.”
“Sure thing,” assented Mr. Clambaker.
“And then these cannibals”
“Don’t libel my Division like that,”
snapped the magistrate. “You come here
breaking into houses and shooting _at the
owners, and then add insult to injury by
libelling them.”
“Wall,” asserted Mr. Clambaker stub-
bornly, “when I see shells I sure guess clam
chowder, and those heads in that stinkhole
ain’t sheep’s heads, I’ll tell the world.”
At this Mr. Barnet volleyed sharp ques-
tions at Tick in some strange language,
to which the beachcomber answered in the
same barbarous tongue. Then, turning to
Mr. Clambaker the magistrate said more
mildly: “Very well. I accept your explana-
tion ; but, you know, all this about cannibals
is absurd. You tourists come here looking
for cannibals and imagine every native is a
headhunter on the warpath. I’m afraid you
would find heads or hands or human bones
in most of the huts in the district. It’s the
custom to keep such mementoes of the dead
here. A very unpleasant custom, very in-
sanitary, and we discourage it as much as
possible, but it is difficult to upset time-
honored institutions. Now I’m sure you’re
dying for a wash and a meal, so you’d better
get down to my launch. I’ll be along in a
few minutes and we’ll salvage your dinghy
and take you to the Tuia. She’s waiting
at the mouth of the river. Johnson, I’d like
a word with, you.”
After a low-toned colloquy, Tick returned
and led the way in silence down to the river
bank. The broad margin of mud had dis-
appeared, and they were taken aboard the
launch, where they had a wash and a hearty
meal of tinned meat, biscuits and tea.
Presently the magistrate returned with
two canoe-loads of police and natives. Mr.
Clambaker opened his eyes in astonishment
when he saw that their savage visitors were
now handcuffed and leg-ironed.
“Pinched!” explained Tick in answer to
his whispered question. “The Sarge says
they been harboring runaway workboys.”
“Shades of Abe Lincoln!” gasped Mr.
Clambaker. “I guess it’s time the League
of Nations gave this land o’ freedom the
once-over. Leg-irons and steel bracelets!
Wait till I set the press gang on to this
prune-faced string bean that gives me. the
frozen mitt. Thinks he’s a twenty-minute
egg, does this Simon Legree.”
“Aw, be reasonable,” argued Tick. “If
you could see yourself you’d know why he
didn’t fall on your neck. We neither of us
cut any great dash in this little act; so
don’t let your chin wag too much. Savvy?”
The launch took the adventurers down to
the river mouth where the Tuia was wait-
ing in company with a small _ ketch, whose
skipper, for a consideration, willingly agreed
to ca*rry them straight back to Port Moresby,
where, much to Mr. Clambaker’s joy, they
found the Bisonia, delayed by engine trouble,
still at her berth.
That evening after dinner, snugly en-
throned in a comfortable chair on the prom-
enade deck, Mr. Clambaker was in fine form.
He yarned to the party of the many hard-
ships he had endured; of alligator hunting
and tropical storms, of mud and mangroves,
of raging hunger and intense thirst. But
of cannibals —never a word.
“A gent to see you, Mr. Clambaker,” in-
terrupted Mr. Winthrop, ushering a spruce
and shaven Tick Johnson into the group.
“I heard the boat was sailing to-night,
Mr. Clambaker, so I come to say me billy-
doos an’ collect me little bill. Ten times
twelve is a hundred an’ twenty, an’ I’m told
a hundred an’ twenty dollars is twenty-four
quid. Say twenty-five quid the lot, as I’m
throwing in the women and kids for good
measure.”
Addressing the rest of the party with a
private wink at his erstwhile employer, he
explained: “Y’see, we couldn’t let on before,
Mr. Clambaker an’ me, seeing as how we’d
promised the R.M., who’s a personal friend
o’ mine, not to say nothing about our little
stunt till the Guvment issued their bulletin,
an’ here she is.”
He held out a copy of the local paper to
the astounded Mr. Clambaker; but Mr. Win-
throp, reaching over, took it and read aloud :
“Arrest of the perpetrators of the Boriligili
massacre. Mr. Barnet, R.M., reports the
capture of twelve natives responsible for the
murders committed during the head-hunting
raid at Boriligili. The bodies had been
oaten, but the heads of the five victims were
discovered in a hut by Mr. ‘Tick’ Johnson,
of Port Moresby, and Mr. Ira. Q. Clam-
baker, of Topeka, Kansas, whilst hunting
alligators. Their report, to the authorities
resulted in the arrest of the murderers and
the recovery of the heads.”
A storm of applause and cries of “Good
old Ira!” “Trust him to keep the stars
and stripes a-flying!” enveloped Mr. Clam-
baker, who took out his bill-fold and cheer-
fully handed over the notes to Tick, chort-
ling exultantly under his breath. “Scissors!
Cannibals, after all! I’ll tell the world!”
And he did.


ds
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES <& CHURCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Ro.nrke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE"
Established 185 J/.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk,
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in, all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% Increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
Agister
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up. by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUN WICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 193?.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A, J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The "Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE "MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Kepresentative, Lisgar House,
SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cite Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer,”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular Gt-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. 'Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking. >
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. f
214 George Street, Sydney.
Women keep theft
OCod footed
fyttikiiuj.
RaatkOffo
Wild
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
ś
ŝďs
ds
śd
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
June 11, 1929.
“Examiner” Office, Launceston.
Dear Sir, —It may interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
wood, Sulphur Creek, Moorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart, Winnaleah.
I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE YOU GIVE ME
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne ;
W. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 3 months from ,
for which I enclose £
NAME ...
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ďs
s e ’ fos
s e®
0°
,6>*
y\ t
#‘ S ’
.-•■ 4,<fo«s#


DOES ANY
OTHER CAR
AT THE PRICE
OFFER YOU
ALL THESE
FEATURES
Silent, adjustable timing*
chain cuts out the rattle
and grind of gear drive.
5*
m
&
Finger-tip control of
lights, horn and starter
gives added safety and
driving convenience.
EQUAL beauty, you may 5ay..... and
just as comfortable, perhaps,
and maybe you’re not keen on
the extra performance Whippet gives
you' (as proved by numerous public
tests) . . . But you can’t overlook these
additional expensive-car features which
mean so much to your pocket book
expensive engineering features mean
longer life, greater freedom from trouble
and repair bills, and an all-round
economy of operation.
Compare specifications before you decide
.does any other car at the price give
you (1) full forced feed lubrication, (2)
finger-tip control, (3) silent adjustable
timing chain, (4) invar-strut pistons, (5)
a high efficiency engine developing 2£
times its rated horse-power?
There is only one car at the price which
gives all you ask in comfort, appearance
and performance. . . and gives you this
additional value for your money. . .it’s
the 1930 Whippet Four. Get behind
the wheel of a Whippet, and test out
this low-priced car for yourself. It
involves you in no obligation. You
owe it to yourself to get the utmost
value for the money you propose to
spend.
Extra heavy crankshaft,
with full-force feed
lubrication, gives longer
engine life and vibra»
tionless running-
1930
WHIPPET
FOUR
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY.,
LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead,
Brisbane.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
