

[fHnr!
I::::::!:
RD
iWARDEI
lomedaS j
Perth
■liii
11-'i, - t li
1111:31!
■pill#
mmm
::::::::::::::
&
Pejrth
iniffsi
MMt “ •
H
wear
sssJ**'
IhpgrwlTns
& (e)c
rtIWII'B' 1 ™ >IS Must,
V—v
r NE
%
neur
w
. . :
«a
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
wSSiEHSia
ittPfißj^LlNsrntiTfi
& UcstGnD Clubs
JohuDewdraSonsW
Distillers PEftTHlScotlaridli LONDOH
PRODUCE or SCOTLAND
ntmrr.
WM
mfrrmt
vr.
aj
vi
fitmint
jpg
BHHuHIhS
initttninttt
iiiHBIUSHHi
§
; iiilliijiiiiH-isisifPiiPs
Ittnin Kit
ft: tt • it ■
•
aiiiiiHS
iHiiHtHHHHtgj
iiiHHHHtHHHT:
‘rtnrntnmtmi
iHiilßips
iiiiiifi
135HHHH5
SIS
tit[j ittttTtTT
IIfIIII.It
WONDERFUL WHISKY-
DEWAR’SI
STANDS SUPREME
:::::::::::::::::::::::::
I
m
: :::::
The Bulletin
t/ifr T/udfetsMtitfi Snalartul?' & $
Vol. 51.—N0. 2635.
Wednesday, August 13, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-THE
* Tin’
New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
, 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
True poetry is permed in perfect phrase,
Expressing genius in each cultured phase,
That those with souls shall understand and know
The satin smoothness of its rhythmic flow.
True poetry is at your service still,
To cheer your hearts thro’ winter’s icy chill—
For coughs and colds its inspired message sure
Endorses Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
[EARN THE SECRETS tf
ta Successful Farming
..a We can Teach/ou
_ by aact
/a
This uook r KfcJfc. on request.
Cut and mail this Advt. for FREE Prospectus
of AGRICULTURAL Courses.
Stott’s Correspondence College
100 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
My Name .
Address
S.B. 317 .. ...'.
JLYSAGHT7
o
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
4 A
to
THE DINNER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah I the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
v
% IU
3 a
y-i
. .V
S'*
-- •
Am
-4 ’HHfeM.i
7• . <
■ r .■
mi
■
m
iM
v ■
A * ,1
Sfei
ip
'
mm
I
}
:r
a;=\
i
50
.22 LONG RIFUCAIiyRI DGES
'• • •
i mm
mam
5C
MADE
IN O.SA.
RtDGI
75
WINCKCSTM HttfWlWi . NEW HAVEN.CONN U S A
h 10 0)1
I:
eo«>v,y
The King of
Target Rifles
TVfMCff£5T£R
TRADE MARK
MODEL 52
USED by champions, at championship
matches, this Winchester Model 52
has proved its title as the Icing of .22
caliber target rifles. A military style, bolt
action, .22 Long Rifle repeater, with
phenomenal accuracy and holding qual-
ities. Consistent, day after day, in assuring
you every point you earn on your target.
Winchester Precision Cartridges
are fitting companions for this great rifle.
They are specially made for the most accurate
target work. Shoot Precision 200 on the out-
door rifle ranges and Precision 75 on the
shorter indoor ranges.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
NEW HAVEN. CONN., U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
Winchester Arms—they are matie for each other
WMCfftsnk
TRADE MARK
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN*'
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Red Page
Wireless Thought
G. Lowe Dickinson, in his introduction
to Points oj View (Allen and Unwin), asserts
that there are countries “where broadcast-
ing is prostituted to advertisement.” I
wonder who that is getting at! Not us,
surely! Our trouble is of a slightly dif-
ferent kind. It is not an unnatural inflic-
tion; it is merely part of our habit of both
regarding and exposing ourselves as intel-
lectual paupers. The reason the stuff that
is broadcast at us is 90-odd per cent, tosh
is because, by our acceptance of such things
as our nitwit literary censorship, by our
imported literary food like the masterpieces
of Dorothy Dix, and by scores of other
signs, we make it clear that tosh is the
stuff we want. One of the most significant
of these signs as far as broadcasting is con-
cerned is that we can accept, as lately made
evident on the Red Page by “The Listen-
ing Insect,” the censoring from a broadcast
play of Shelley’s
War is the statesman’s game, the priest’s delight,
The lawyer’s jest, the hired assassin’s trade.
A country in which that sort of thing is
possible must surely deserve all the tosh
that is thrown at it. It is so indifferent
and has been so long so indifferent to inter-
ference with its social freedom that official-
dom has naturally, and apparently correctly,
come to assume that it will stand anything.
Anything, that is, that might be accepted
as innocuous in a kindergarten. The ten-
dency of the officialdom that has come to
believe with some warrant that the public
wants tosh is not only to give it tosh, but
to spare no pains to prevent it from getting
anything else. And that is why we in Aus-
tralia never get such wireless talks as those
by Sir Walford Davies, G. Lowes Dickinson,
J. B. S. Haldane, Dean Inge, Sir Oliver
Lodge and H. G. Wells, which, with intro-
ductory and summing up remarks, make this
book, Points oj View.
The talks were given through the 8.8. C.
late last year, on the principle that every
important point of view should have a
fair hearing; and that they must have
made easy hearing is suggested by this
fairly typical opening (it is Dean Inge
speaking):—
I have heard Mr. Lowes Dickinson’s lecture, and
I agree with parts of it. Not long ago he wrote,
if my memory serves me, “For myself, I am no demo-
crat.” Now he says he is one. It all depends on
what you mean by democracy. In America it
means anything you like, but when the word is
mentioned you are expected to -salute the star-
spangled banner. For instance, an American divine
exclaimed, “You cannot separate God and democracy.
For if we believe in God, we believe in God’s pur-
poses, God’s ideal, and that is believing in God.”
The logic seems to halt. Or I may cull this gem
from the “New York Medical Journal,” in an
article on gout: “Uric acid is tottering upon its
throne. Democracy is advancing in medical theory
as well as in political practice.”
Well, it is bad manners to smile at our friends
when they are at their devotions. But, as a matter
of fact, democracy is neither an attribute of the
Deity nor a method of therapeutics. It is the name
of an experiment in government. During the war
we said we were fighting to make the world safe
for democracy. That was a lump of sugar for the
American eagle, and, fortunately for us, he swal-
lowed it.
And if those remarks of Shelley had to come
out because, as I suppose, they were
thought likely to give offence to persons
of the professions mentioned, how the blue
pencil would slash through this sort of
statement by Wells:—
If I am opposed to nationalism and war, it is be-
cause these things do not merely represent an immense
waste of energy, but because they sustain a cant of
blind discipline and loyalty and a paraphernalia of
flags, uniforms- and parades that shelter, a host of
particularly mischievous unintelligent buLlies and
wasters, because they place our lives at the mercy
of trained blockheads.
Have we professors from whom we would be
likely to hear over the wireless, however
true they were, comments like these of
J. B. S. Haldane?
It is one of my principal functions to teach certain
scientific truths to students at Cambridge University.
Many of them are both able and eager to learn.
But others are neither able nor eager. Under our
present economic system they are enabled to come
to Cambridge because their parents are wealthy.
By so doing they keep out others who are better
qualified intellectually to learn, and more willing
to do so.
And, of course, a censorship such as ours
could not allow to get through under its
own eye such a criticism of itself as this
By the same speaker:—
There D a worse evil than intellectual starvation,
and that is the deliberate suppression of free thought
and free speech. I rejoice to live in a country
where this evil, though it exists, is less serious
than in most other countries. ; [Many books of a
radical political trend or .because they are regarded
by some upstart official as indecent arc banned in
Australia though they have free circulation in Eng-
land.] But I believe that even in England freedom
of publication is unduly restricted in the names of
decency, morality and so on. There is much more,
liberty in this respect across the Channel, and no
one who has worked beside the French in peace and
fought beside them in war • can accuse them of
degeneracy. So many new ideas are at first strange
and horrible though ultimately valuable that a
very heavy responsibility rests upon those who would
prevent their dissemination.
Indeed, every one of these speakers has
something to say of a kind that not only is
unknown in Australian broadcasting, but
quite inconceivable in it; for, of course, our
broadcasting has fallen in line with our
theatre, our literature, our climate—become
just an additional sedative. And we posi-
tively prefer it so.
Cecil Mann.
Kipling Reconsidered
The Kiplingite “dates” we are told. The
highbrow formula, “Jingo and Jingle,” is
accepted as a dismissal. There is Jingo-
ism in Kipling, as there is wordiness in
Wordsworth, but it is not the whole story.
Consult a syllabus in which English is in-
flicted as a Leaving or Honors subject. It
will be insisted that Gray, for example, is,
even apart from his “Elegy,” something more
than a poet’s bootlace. Admiring stress is
laid on his description of a cat drowned
when attempting to abstract a goldfish from
a bowl. “Appreciation” of this sorry piffle
is a passport to the examinee’s Elysium.
But Kipling, who wrote about something, is
denied the afflatus. Time was when Tenny-
son’s “moan of doves in immemorial elms”
was a sure mark-earning cliche. Good on-
omatopoeia. But “The Bong of the Banjo”
—dismissed as “jingle”—is a victorious
blend of onomatopoeia with imaginative
realism such as Tennyson never glimpsed, j
If the prosperity of poetry lies in its
appeal to the ear, Alexander Watson hasi
made out a good case for “The Bell Buoy,”!
“Boots” and—as even the highbrow will :
concede—that masterpiece of reminiscent
visualisation “Mandalay.” If we desiderate I
“word-magic,” the late Robertson Nicoll;
appraised the final stanza of “Job Jobson’s
Amen” as of the same vintage as Keats’s
casements opening on the foam of perilous
seas. The eerie description of the tropics
in “McAndrew’s Hymn” runs it> close.
Verisimilitude? Masefield’s “Saltwater
Ballads” have nothing, for example, on
“Danny Deever.” In his longer poems he
reaches' his zenith in his Chaucerian cameos
in “Reynard the Fox.” But this is descrip-
tion, and static. Creative dramatic charac-
terisation is not his. “The Everlasting
Mercy,” justly described as a glorious
evangelical tract, is a welter of emotional
excess, redeemed by passages of compelling
beauty from sheer extravaganza. “Dauber,”
on the other hand, is wooden misery. Con-
trast with either of these poems “The
Mary Gloster.” It is clear that Kipling’s
grasp of reality is as unfailing as Mase-
field’s is uncertain. His ability to get in-
side the skins of his characters puts him
in the succession of Browning, the idol—
vide “Stalky”—of his youth.
Kipling, when his antipathies are
tweaked, is shrill—few more so. But his
antipathies are rarely social. Masefield
limits his range when, in his “Consecra-*
tion,” he alliteratively gibes at princes and
prelates, and tells us that not, of such shall
be his song. Kipling includes in his range
the drunken sailors, of the “Bolivar,” and
he can write of the ’eads as well. But the
point is that he draws no class or color
line; and there is a consequent gain in
versatility. “Nihil humanum”—or, as he
phrases it himself,
It is enough that, through Thy Grace,
I saw nought common on Thy Earth,
Rhodomontade can claim no apologist.
But his Imperialism, for all that, is linked
with constructive ideals of sacrifice and ser-
vice—service demanded by sacrifice made.
His “Heritage” is sound doctrine for Little
Australians as well as Little Englanders.
His novice in “The New Knighthood” is
not the nigger-baiting type any more than
Strickland in his prose. His “Explorer,”
who did not name a river, claim an acre
or a nugget, because his price was paid him j
ten times over by his Maker, is an Empire-j
builder in grain, for the flag follows the I
pioneer. The theme is worked out more
consciously, also more rhetorically, in “The:
English Flag.” But it is not the theme |
that is on trial.
His message? Not the apotheosis of
Libido; not the discovery of literary values
in pornography. Thus far he has not
moved from the standpoint of “The Three
Decker”:—
We asked no social questions, we pumped no hidden
shame.
“My New-cut Ashlar” may be read side by
side with “The Happy Warrior” as a
manual of greatness. It is well to have
the poets on the side of the angels.
Sinclair Lewis, describing the spiritual
pilgrimage of a citizen of Zenith, observes
that he found in Kipling what he could
never find in Shelley. That is the head
and front of Kipling’s offending. Even Mr.
Babbit could admire “If.” A poet ’who
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING—
more than a slogan, a law at
Anthony Horderns'.
rri ?(•>'
You can ring us at any hour of
the day or night and leave your
order. ’Phone: M 2401.
Beautiful Hand-made Eastern Rugs
at Greatly Reduced Prices
Here is an opportunity for those who appreciate beauty in the home to purchase
one of these exquisite creations at a greatly reduced price. They are rare hand-
woven silk Eastern rugs—included are Turkish Prayer Rugs with all the traditional
symbols of a devout people—designs that call up visions of the Arabian Nights, while
others show beautifully-worked Persian hunting scenes on which are depicted foliage,
animals, trees and plants. These Rugs are closely woven by hand, actually averaging
from 300 to 400 knots to the square inch. Some aggregate as many as 4,000,000 knots.
The regular prices, truly moderate for such wonderful works of art, are now
drastically reduced—the reductions ranging from £7/10/- to £6O.
i
ss
45
0
B
<0
y
!»•
m
H
%7
$3?
i
!K
!»:
a
%
W\
m
:*f-
m
§m.
sm
e«
('Mr
;*4
ft
K
*
a
S
ii i&ram
«
«
«
te
V*. • ,
See What You Save on
Hand-made Wool Persian Rugs
Sizes. Prices. Sale.
Persian Mosul, 6ft. 9in. x 3ft. 6in.. £9 10 0 £6 15 0
Shirvan, 6ft. 7in. x 4ft. 3in £22 7 6 £1315 0
Bidjar, 7ft. 9in. x 4ft. 6in £25 10 0 £l6 10 0
Hamadan, 6ft. Bin. x sft. 2in. . . £26 10 0 £l7 5 0
Kerman, 7ft. x 3ft. 1 lin. . . . £27 0 0 £2l 0 0
(Department—Fourth Floor.)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P O.
Anthony Horderns
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED. SYDNEY.


- v. v .’X\v?v , .v
%
5&:
rs
imf.
FORD CARS
and TRUCKS
are BRITISH
EMPIRE
PRODUCTS
Hard work this!
Ford trucks excel at difficult haulage
CONVINCING proof of the marked superiority
of the Ford 30 cwt. Truck was given recently
on particularly difficult road-making operations
at Turton’s Track, Beech Forest (Vic.)
After severe competitive tests, Ford 30 cwt. Trucks
were selected by Contractor C. Snell for the work
of carrying quarried stone up a precipitous, rough
and winding track from a quir.y hundreds of
feet below the road.
So steep and rough was the zigzag track that,
instead of curves, dead ends were planned, the
trucks running forward to a corner, then revers-
ing ” to the next—a test of driving skill as well
as of security of brakes.
The Ford Trucks averaged 20 trips per day carry-
ing over 1| yards of stone per trip. The fact that
many thousands of miles were accomplished without
damage or strain proves positively the tremendous
reserves of strength and power possessed by the
new Ford Truck. Motors, chassis, gears,
brakes, and bodies all stood the test
magnificently.
‘For National Economy’
It is in work of this gruelling nature—in achieving
the apparently impossible—that the new Ford
Truck has built its splendid reputation through-
out Australia. And its proved economy is as
remarkable as its proved performance.
Ford 30 cwt. Standard Dropside Truck
What about your haulage work ? Have you visited your
nearest Ford Dealer and seen this remarkable Truck
demonstrated—have you driven it yourself—or had your
drivers handle it? It not, then do so now, for its unusual
power, sturdiness and adaptability demand first hand
knowledge in times when lower costs of haulage may mean
the difference between profit and loss in your business.
TTie 30cwt.
FORD TRUCK
tr Lowest cost Ton-mile Transportation
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
PTY.
FORD
LTD.
N.C.30/8


a
n
REOe
SHIRTS
PYJAMAS & SOFT COttARS
VERYTHING about “ LUVISCA ” Pyjamas is conducive to quiet
and unbroken repose. Soft, even texture, perfect shape, and colours
both smart and handsome. The range of “LUVISCA” Shirts and Soft
Collars to match are equally well-made and comfortable in wear.
SOLD BY LEADING STORES.
LOOK
FOR
THE
REGIS-
TERED
TAB.
•v'
taiIIDS
fntlß
Si ...
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write
TIIOROLD, HARPER & CO. PTY., LTD.
308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
can be understanded of Babbits.... is he a
poet? We think so. Perhaps we were
born too soon to know better. Perhaps we
have not studied with sufficient eagerness
the cult of the unintelligible. Be it as it
may, we remain Kiplingites in spite of all
that the professors have told us.
WAWHERES II
Book Importing versus Publishing
“I.L” claims (R.P. 30/7/’3O) that very few
copies of certain front-rank novels about
Australia were sold in Australia, and that
one Australian book which had 8000 sales
here “would almost certainly have sold less
well in Australia if it had not been pub-
lished in England.” 1 But I have never sug-
gested that our novelists shouldn’t publish
in London or New York or both before
publishing here, if they can. It is the
obvious thing to do, under present con-
ditions, and will be for many years after
we get our inevitable publishing industry.
That is why I doubted'his (or her) astonish-
ing statement that the authors of “A House
Is Built” tried to get their book published
here before going to London; (I might add
that to be doubted is often the fate of
those who make astonishing statements
over initials or pen-names.)
This matter, however, is, not primarily
the concern of writers, Australian or other-
wise ; it is, as I have written in The Bulle-
tin, and authorities like Will Dyson have
written in Melbourne papers, a business
proposition of national importance owing
to its potentialities as an employment-
giver. Novelists are amusement-caterers,
like the dramatists and stage-performers
through whom the J.C.W. and Rickards
firms made money in the past, and like
the Hollywood producers and stars who are
making money for our film-importers now.
Australian theatrical and movie entrepre-
neurs have always had an advantage over
those of London and elsewhere, inasmuch
as they have been able to invest their
money in shows which, having been suc-
cessful elsewhere, were likely to make
money here. Australian publishers of over-
seas best-sellers would be in an equally
favorable position.
The whole of the arguments against
legislating on behalf of a local publishing
industiy which were used recently before
the Tariff Board had as their basis the
assumption that help could only be given
by a tariff (“a tax on culture”), and “1.L.”
seems to make a similar assumption. The
absurdity of taxing overseas novels, much
less educational works, needs no stressing.
The Americans, who were great book-
importers half a century ago, laid the foun-
dations of their huge publishing industry by
forcing overseas publishers to print their
American editions in the U.S.A., and Aus-
tralia will have to follow that example—
at any rate as regards novels—if it is ever
to emulate America as a pi’oducer of books.
“Can we assure him [the publisher] of
sales?” asks “1.L.” Assuredly we can.
There are 6i million literates, or prospective
literates, in this countiy; and most of them
are novel-readers. But we can only do it
by keeping the popular imports out. My
anonymous critic complains that I am
“gibing” at our booksellers (people for
whom I have the utmost liking and respect)
when I say they are not publishers. It is
no gibe but a plain statement of fact
which is best proved by “LL.’s” own stories
of brilliant local writers who had to go to
London to find publishers. The two busi-
nesses are, of course, incompatible these
specialist days; they can no more be
blended to any big and lasting purpose than
wool-growing and cloth-manufacturing.
JOHN DALLEY
Lewd Music
Congratulations on the “Plain English”
, attack on nigger music (B. 23/7/’3O). De-
grading music is hurled at people whether
they want it or not. On the ferry, in the
restaurant, in the picture-show and some-
times in church the ordinary man is com-
pelled to listen to it. It is much more in
need of censoring than pornographic litera-
ture; no one is compelled to buy a book.
Because it is an insidious and scarcely
perceptible growth, no one realises the de-
finite corruption caused by lew’d music. If
you admit that good music is good for the
soul, you must admit that bad music is
bad. And if you admit that censorship of
lewd books is a mild national necessity,
you must admit that censorship of lewd
music is an emphatic one.
The Bulletin’s suggestion that 15 minutes’
good recorded music should be given in
the schools each day is an excellent one
so long as the music is well selected and
explained. I should like to see a set list
for each class in just the same way as
higher classes have a carefully prepared
li-t of English authors. The amount of
music taught officially in our Great Public
Schools for boys is nil, a sad commentary
on our shockingly out-of-date educational
system. Schools like Eton, Rugby and Har-
row are reputed to have musical societies
200 strong. Here we insist on a certain
number of hours per week for the study of
Latin, which is never heard after leaving
school, and ignore the claims of music,
which everyone has got to listen to for the
rest of his life. Latin possibly has a few
claims for importance in the curriculum,
but music has many more.
KEITH BARRY.
A Striking Novel
Dawn, by S. Fowler Wright (Harrap),
has a fascinating theme, magnificently
worked out. There is a cataclysm of nature,
and the sea pours over most of England:—
Not violently, as it bad poyred, one huge and
dreadful wave, into the sunken Mediterranean basin ;
a wave which millions must have seen—but who
that saw it could have lived to tell ? Gently, inex-
orably, as the dawn light pierced the heavy pall of
air, red as with volcanic dust, tainted with the
smoke of a thousand fires, the water rose. It spread
gently over the Essex marshes. It lapped against
the Thames Embankment with something more than
a tidal lifting. Lapped and spilled over.
The story concerns a little group of refu-
gees in the hills of Staffordshire. The
danger has hardly passed before they are
hard at work creating a world in miniature.
The ex-farmer Burman seizes all the boats
and becomes a sea-power. The ex-stock-
broker Butcher and his son, a medical
student, set out to monopolise wealth:—
From the first Butcher had set his mind to the
cornering of various articles, mostly of the less
bu'ky order, which he foresaw would be in demand
after their supplies became restricted. He claimed
that there was nothing which could not be obtained
from him if the price which he asked were paid.
Martin Webster, formerly a barrister,
becomes king, and goes to war with a rival
captain who has Butcher’s support. Partly
because of good luck, partly because he has
Burman’s sea-power behind him, his little
nation of a hundred or so wins, and the
reader leaves him facing the troubles that
beset all kings. The characters are vividly
drawn, and the social satire is pungent.
It is a brilliant book by a writer who
has the elements of greatness in him.
A Satchel of Books
Michael and, Mary, by A. A. Milne (Cliatto
and Windus). A charming tliroe-act play,
opening with the meeting of the utter-stranger
title-characters in the British Museum and
happening mostly in Chelsea. As reading,
it is one of those fine idealistic love stories
that Milne does so well, and it reads as if it
would act excellently.
The Painted Minx, by Robert W. Cham-
bers (Appleton), is a characteristic yarn
about America’s struggle for freedom with,
roughly, 1)0 per cent, of the war stuff devoted
to spying. The Minx is Marie Guest, an
actress who arnuses the royalists in New
York, but remains faithful to the rebel lover
who claims her on page 300 or thereabouts.
Plenty of incident, zestfully described ; but
it is not Mr. Chambers at his best.
A Hundred Years of Publishing, by Arthur
Waugh (Chapman and Hall), commemorates
the centenary year of the publishers and sug-
gests that the writer, the firm s managing
director for 28 years, could have told some
sprightly tales about great writers if he had
let himself go. As it is, Diekens, Thackeray,
Carlyle, Meredith and others walk about the
house with plenty of breath in them, and
there is, too, some account of the growth of
the circulating library and like bookish his-
tory which further widens the book’s appeal.
Adventures of a Man of Quality, Abbe
Prevost (Routledge: Dymocks). An extract
from the “Memoirs and Adventures” covering
the experiences of the fugitive abbe in Eng-
land, with the earlier part of the book con-
densed into a “prologue” and the concluding
chapters into an “epilogue.” The fact that the
original book marked "a turning-point in the
history of Franco-English relations” is now,
with most of that book, only of special
interest, but the part that is here preserved
is a measure of bright and diverting reading.
A Writer's Notes on His Trade, by C. E.
Montague (Chatto and Windus: Dymocks),
is a rare volume of indirect autobiography.
It reveals Montague as a lovable literary
craftsman, who has not allowed his apprecia-
tion of the necessity for a writer to be a
craftsman to deaden his humanness. Under
such explanatory titles as “Words, Words,
Words,” “Quotation,” “A Living-Language,”
“The Critic as Artist,” he notes results of
his experiences and observations, so crisply
and clearly that, in addition to offering sound
assistance to anyone who handles words, the
essays provide choice reading of the purely
entertaining kind.
The First Mrs. Fraser, by St. John Ervine
(Chatto and Windus), is a piquant comedy of
English domesticity and divorce, smart in
dialogue and convincing as to characters. In
it the man who in middle age cast off his
wife to marry a light-headed young lady
comes round to sending the first wife a
string of pearls. “He’s beginning to court
me all over again, and I rather like it,” is
the final curtain line. The playwright’s
descriptions of his characters brighten the
reading:—
lonian, despite his fine Scotch name, has a con-
ventional English public school accent; colorless,
unvaried, with flattened vowels and elided conso-
nants. He can scarcely roll an r. That’s what a
public school and Oxford have done for him.
The play rather suffers from a tendency to
let that sort of smartness break into the
dialogue to the extent of slowing down the
action. Still, it' always has a perky attrac-
tiveness.
What’s Wrong with Your Game? by H.
B. Martin (Bodley Head : Angus and Robert-
son), is intended primarily for the kind of
golfer who slices or pulls every drive that
he doesn’t miss. It explains, by means of
simple diagrams drawn by the author, some
of the things that the commencing addict
should not do with his iron, putter and so
forth, while drawings by another hand show
the way immortals such as Bobby Jones and
Hagen make their strokes. There is an
admirable chapter at the end on “Tempera-
ment,” which is every golfer’s bane.
Rumfy, by Vivian Gordon (Blackwood).
The hero, a butcher boy, sets out from Wool-
loomooloo for Thursday Island in search of
a fortune and has 2000 adventures instead.
He is something new in heroes, being a tee-
totaller. At the end of a very charming love
story lie marries a servant girl. It is an
exceptionally well-written yarn, full of a
dry humor and characters who are
treated as human beings with a right to
their individual existences, although some are
vicious and most are besotted with beer.
The picture of Thursday Island in the early
days is admirably done.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
ana address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
ana no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Normau W.: TV ell written, but not quite
enough strength to pull it over A.C.G.: And that
about sums up “Eyes,” too M.C.A.: We fell out
at the 17th page. You must pack your goods better;
this isn’t a bulk store W.1.K..; If anybody started
pioceedings in the matter an hour before your
article was published, you’d have to go to gaol
for contempt of court Gordonvale: Thanks; good
as a tonic S.C. (and others): Coleridge-Taylor
was mentioned because he was of negro extraction,
exploited the negro idiom in some of his pianoforte
compositions, and got the inspiration for his most
popular cantata from Longfellow’s poem “Hiawatha.”
.... W.H.: Thanks; but it’s a matter of space, and
we can’t spare more than we are giving to the
game... .8.C.: You’ll have to get over imagery like
shafts of dawn with their golden regalia enfrill.”
B.L.: Afraid your verse won’t solve the problem
for you R.H.: A line such as “The Mind is dead
that thought no loss if went” would upset the soul
of Sydney Harbor bridge D.J.C.: It’s been ex-
pressed before... .M.T.C.: You’re very young; try
it later 0n.... Sandpick: No recollection "of previous
effort. Present one could be better A.E.P.: Can’t
get excited over the item to Violet, and rather
downcast by the one to Spring A.H.N.: Suggests
you’re feeling the depression J.H.S.: “I’ll be a
’ero yet.” You’re one already Oria: Wide of
the target.. ..La Mothe: It shouts a bit J.D.T.:
Pretty, but it says nothing new A.M.K.: Utterly
dismayed to learn that
Cold the bivoucas twist and turn on the mother
earth.
Their aching vertebraes and limbs are not relieved
by pity.
Billcoin: Third to-day! Must be the open
season for parodying Omar R.A.R.: From “The
Dying Swagman”—
For memory carries a thousand thoughts
Locked in its little closet;
And conscience moves like a stricken thing,
Reviewing that dread deposit.
That ought to make our politicians shudder....
K.K.: You don’t make the abo. legend interesting
enough... .S.E.F-J.: Too near the guide-b00k....
P.J.8.: Fair—as uplift stuff goes M.D.A.: Sug-
gest you sack that fly and try a pen U.S.:
“Verse inspired by Distant Mountains.” Inspiration
lost in post... .F. 8.0.: Stopped when your hero
started to sob on the night air....5.N.: Religious
Editor reckons your “new slang’’ is so old that it
has become good English Bellerive: Continuing
the Zoological Inspiration serial: —
GRASS HOPPERS.
These merry active creatures
In summer can be seen
Frolicking and leaping
O’er the meadows green.
When the glinting sunlight
Sinketh in the west,
To the shelter of the grass blades
They retire to rest.
(Alas, the End!)
. ...J.H.L.: Interest limited... .M. 8.: Afraid the
Harbor ode might inspire a counterblast on the
Yarra... .R.R.: Nothing there 0.N.: Gave up
the oyster poem after breaking the fifth opener....
Don G.: It’s a wearisome metre you’ve got hold
of F.E.T.: Can’t believe there is a river like
that in this country... .Ruddy K.: If you’ve “bin.
rcadin’ The ‘Bully’ fer donkey’s years,” you ought
to know that answers to such questions are restricted
to this column. Your trouble is that you have not
written a verse, but merely written about writing a
verse... .M.McK.: Sorry; the only prophets employed
are the race tipsters. Even they shy off the two-
year-olds Dangerous Dan: The noises of Mt. Isa
sound rather flat in verse U.D.: If the people in
the next flat are such a nuisance, you’d be quite
justified in reading your compositions aloud Euro-
clydon: Got a bit tired of Skeet H.W.S.: Near;
might place it elsewhere H.L.S.: You lose. Minors
have sat “by connivance” in the House of Commons.
Charles James Fox was returned for Midhurst when
ho was IS# years four months old, and sat and spoke
before he was of age; and Lord John Bussell was
returned for Tavistock a month before he came of
age.... W.S.: The phrase about stealing another
person’s thunder is attributed to John Dennis, when
stage thunder, invented by him for his play
“Appius,” was used in “Macbeth” A.P.: S. S.
Hill’s “Travels in the Sandwich and Society Islands”
(1856) is worth 18s.; John Matthew’s “Eaglehawk
and Crow” (1899) is worth 145.; G. B. Barton’s
“Literature in N.S.W.” (1866) is catalogued at 55.,
but should fetch considerably more P.M.K.: Bong
Bong (“many watercourses”), Tocumwal (“deep
hole”), Kangaloola (“kangaroo hunting-ground”),
Goondigal (“ambush”), Girilambone (“place of many
stars”).... C.C.: (1) Yes, if the writer of the word's
will pay for the music. (2) About £35. Composer
bears the cost in most cases. (4) Composers are
paid on the basis of number of copies sold, when they
pay for the publishing. (5) Submit it to a music
publisher... .“202”: The Bulletin takes it as a
great compliment that- so many people want to
express in it their views about the economic situa-
tion ; but it is not possible just now to spread
into more pages F.T.M.: No high lights in your
study in c010r... .A.L.H.: Not badly written, but
indefinite C. 8.5.: Walked into the basket
J.G.: “His Luck” was out this time... .W.J.11.:
Nice little story for the parish magazine... .C.H.:
Mystery solved too soon E.A.C.: Inconsequential.
yarn E.G.: Brightly written commonplace
S. : Daren’t turn “Wild Dog” loose on the comps.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A. 8.11.: They have an out-back flavor but that’s
a 11... .F. 0.5.: It’s h merry-go-round h0r5e....D.8.:
No hope for y0u.... J.0.K.: You didn’t even breast
the tape... .E.K.: Prospects poor, unless you im-
prove a ton E.S.W.: Wasn’t worth the labor
J.Y.A.: Juvenile misdeeds. The perky urchin who
wanted to be Clara Bow’s masseur shot 0ut....
J.L.: A terrible pair... .A.D.8.: Returning S W.:
A long way off S.P.: Suspect it has an American
origin... .8.C.: Your barber might appreciate it—
we don’t G.M.: Lessons sorely needed... .C.F.L.:
They look as if they’d spent a night in a refrigerat-
ing chamber... .M.C.: Not buying your poultry....
F.X.8.: All black sheep...-J.H.: Someone else
might find accommodation for bishop and busker.
. ...E.N.: Closed down on that Bradman jest..,.
T. : You weren’t fishing for compliments when
you sent that.... W. 8.: Something wrong with your
airman—rickets, perhaps... .S.C.: Loathe under-
clothing jokes M.H.: Deadly M.T.: No, he
hasn’t the makings of an artist... .V. 8.: First
attempts seldom click.


FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
FAMOUS
PORTS
1
■
■MHni
mm
■ I
ill
*r£i
i
\
* «
■
■
M
■
1 :
if / pr ■”
i
■
a sa
i
1
i si
■MM
■
s«k #f ;
"I
■ 9 -. ■
■
■
V
m
%
....
K
I
II!
W
■
' i* 1
1
9
m
w
mm
mm
m
mm
■
mm
mu
;:i&


The Bulletin
Vol. 51. —No- 2635.
August 13, 1930.
OUR HOST.
FIRST GUEST: “Who’s the weird little bird behind us?”
SECOND DITTO: “Oh, that’s our host.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoiua: H),-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westkaua : 3S Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.t.
Temple Bar 57 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any a ddii ess in Austkai.asia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any addiiess Oversbas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
C months, 13s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand,
Papua and Fiji: 60z., Id. United Kingdom: hoz.,
Id.; All Sea Route: 60z., Id. U.S.A.: Jjoz. or part
thereof, Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PACE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 6
WIRELESS THOUGHT 2
KIPLING RECONSIDERED 2
LEWD MUSIC, by Dr. Keith Barry .. ..5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
TAXES NOBODY UNDERSTANDS .. ..8
WANTED: A NEW CLASS-CONSCIOUSNESS.. 8
WHAT’S THE MATTER WITH ENGLAND?—
By C. R. Bradish .. .. .. 8
WHY SIR OTTO IS HERE 8
CAN WE DO MORE WITH OUR GOLD? .. 9
POOLING WHEAT AND FOOLING FARMERS 9
DOCTORS AND THEIR PATIENTS—
By two of each .. .. .. .. 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 13
THE CENTRAL RESERVE BANK .. ..13
GROWTH OF AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES .. 13
PERSONAL 14
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
THE GR-E-A-T B-I-G BRIDGE, with drawings
by Frith 16
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 17, 18
SHOULD I SELL? 17
AUS. BANK OF COMMERCE 17
YELLOW CABS 17
AUSTRALIA HOTEL 17
G. J. COLES 17
JOHN HICKS & CO 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORTGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
BEATING -THE BLOWFLY, by D. S. Donkin . . 22
DIPPING PERFORMANCES 22
REARING THE PODDY 22
A MODEL PIGGERY 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . . . 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
V.A.T.C. (Australian Steeple) .. .. .. 35
CANTERBURY PARK 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
NEW SERIAL—
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover .. ..42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and' “Hop”) .. .. .. ..47
“FROM CHINA TO PERU” . . ... . . 48
A COMPLETE STORY—
“THE WHITE MAN’S WAY”—
By Osmar. E. White . . . . 49, 50
VERSE—By Kathleerj Dalziel, M. Forrest,
Ethel Davies .. .. .. .. 45, 50
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 13, 1930.
TAXES NOBODY UNDER-
STANDS.
Almost half the discontent with taxation in
Australia springs from the vexatious
methods of assessing and collecting it.
Although we have now a Vast mass of
decision and precedent to guide us, not
one citizen in a hundred, having sent in
his income-tax return, can tell what amount
he will have to pay, even allowing that not
a single figure of his will be challenged.
And from that proceeds the other fact that
when he gets his assessment not one in 50
will be able to check anything more than
the mere additions. Surely there is some-
thing very wrong with a system under
which such things are possible.
If there were any widespread trust in
the Taxation Department the position
might not be so bad. Nobody, of course,
doubts the personal integrity of the heads
and the multitude of officials under them;
but the public has an apparently well-
grounded belief that if it stumbles the
hand of the department will be held out
only in the event of the stumble threaten-
ing to cost the revenue something. This
principle might be perfectly sound—at any
rate, quite in accord with ordinary commer-
cial practice—if the two parties were on an
equality. But they are not. This is not
a case of voluntary trading. When the
bujmr comes into the market-place of his
own accord, he must watch his own interests.
Caveat emptor! Here the citizen is
dragged into a transaction which he pro-
bably does not understand, and which in
any case is riddled with pitfalls. He ought
then to be protected: indeed, there ought to
be an officer of the department specially
detailed to watch the taxpayer’s interest,
with the right to communicate with him in
the event of a suspicion that he is putting
himself in a position to have to pay more
than the law demands.
Even the ordinary instructions given to
the income-tax paj’er are not as ingen-
uous as they might be. There is a list,
of “General deductions allowed” and of
“Deductions not allowed.” There is not a
word in the “General deductions allowed”
to suggest that State income tax paid is an
allowed deduction for Federal purposes. On
the contrary, in the “Deductions not
allowed” there is the bold line “State in-
come tax,” even if it is followed in brackets
by the words: “The disallowance is for
State purposes only. The amounts actually
paid for the year are allowable for Federal
purposes.” The manner in which the essen-
tial fact is put may not be sharp practice
in a Government department. But such a
notice in a private business would invite
the utmost suspicion.
And now we have the Sales Tax. Intrin-
sically there is nothing wrong with the
Sales Tax. Indeed, The Bulletin has
many a time suggested it as an alternative
to some of the multitude of other taxes,
elaborate and expensive both to assess and
to collect, which have been imposed upon
us. But in the form in which it has arrived
it would be a comedy if it were not so
tragic. Nobody knows what it means; and
nobody ever will know. To ever say that
Parliament imposed it will be an absurdity,
because Parliament knows no more about
it than the shire council of Dandaloo. This
tax will be imposed not by the Parliament
but by a gentleman from Canada of whom
we never heard before, and probably two
or three officials of the Taxation Depart-
ment, who are trying to help him knock
the thing into shape. The sales-tax law does
not emerge ready made; it will consist for
the most part of a thousand decisions made
by nobody knows whom. And the tragedy
of it is that all this uncertainty and com-
plexity, all this opportunity for log-rolling
and ear-biting, is quite unnecessary. The
great virtue of a sales tax is that it can be
made to yield an instant revenue, can be
most inexpensively collected and entails no
extra book-keeping on the trader’s part. As
applied here it does not fulfil a single one
of these conditions. It might have been
made payable by a stamp attached to every
receipt; it might have been as easily and
inexpensively collected as the entertainment
tax. Instead, it has been made inconceiv-
ably complicated; its collection will entail—
has already entailed—the establishment of a
new heavily-staffed sub-department; and its
assessment has thrown heavy additional
labor upon private employers.
And all apparently because this Labor
Government wants to bluff the people into
believing that the wholesalers in particular
are paying the tax, and not the consumers!
Actually in scores of cases the public will be
made to pay twice the amount of the sales
tax; is indeed being made to pay it at
this moment. Such a thing as that would
have been impossible had the Government
done the right thing, made the tax payable
by stamp and not attempted any stupid
bluff.
All the unpleasant things herein men-
tioned might have happened had the seat of
Federal Government been in a large centre
of real, practical people; being in an isolated
camp of politicians and public servants they
could hardly be avoided. The whole ten-
dency of such an isolation must be bad:
the theoretical is exalted at the expense of
the practical; the importance of the public
servant is exalted over the convenience of
the public; and the politician is encouraged
to regard politics as of more importance
than life.
WANTED: A NEW CLASS-CONSCIOUS-
NESS.
If a man has to keep two other men. high
wages don’t do him much good. With two
men on his back he is no better off with £6
than he would be with £4 if he had only
one to carry. This, in the plainest terms,
is what is the matter with Australia. The
country is overrun with non-producers.
And the trouble is that we don’t generally
recognise them as non-producers. For this
the Labor leader of the ignorant Com-
munist type is largely to blame. With his
talk of class-consciousness he has given
the impression that everybody in moleskins
or dungarees is the friend of everybody
else in moleskins or dungarees. Nothing
could be more untrue. The heavy handi-
cap on the productive worker is the non-
productive worker whom he has to support,
whether that man wears moleskins or broad-
cloth. Thus—though it is not their fault,
of course—nine-tenths of the men who are
on unemployed relief jobs at present are
burdens upon the productive worker. The
mob of men who have been employed on
unprofitable railway jobs and on unneces-
sary and unproductive speedways are in
the same boat.
True, the world cannot do without middle-
men. Distribution is as necessary as pro-
duction. But the more that is -spent on
distribution, obviously the less the producer
can have for himself. It is sometimes said
that the buyer pays. But who is the buyer
and where does he get the money? If he
is not a producer, then he must get it
from a producer; in either case it is the
producer who must provide the means.
Prima facie, then, every non-producer ought
to be under suspicion of being a parasite;
and it should be for him to justify his
existence. Three out of seven of his tribe
might do it; it is exceedingly doubtful
whether the other four could put up any
sort of case at all.
These four run in all shapes and sizes.
They begin with Governors. Australia,
so hard up that it hasn’t paid even for its
clothes for seven years past, keeps seven
Governors—seven of them with staffs and
maintained establishments!
They include some thousands of super-
fluous public servants. The creation of the
jobs which many of these men fill has
in itself been a scandal of the first magni-
tude. Superfluous Ministers have been
driven to justify their existence, and have
established departments and boards and
secretariats for the purpose; and the more
parasites they have unloaded upon the pub-
lic the greater the glory they have achieved
for themselves.
They include also, outside the Public
Service, tens of thousands of superfluous
agents and shopkeepers: there are enough
superfluous fruit and vegetable shops in
Sydney alone to make a drain of at least a
pound a week upon eveiy full-time market
gardener in the County of Cumberland.
We shall have to come to earth. The
producer could stand it so long as (1) he
didn’t have to stand it all, and (2) his
foreign markets were in his favor. But,
loans having stopped, the producer now has
to carry all these non-producers, necessary
and unnecessary; and at the same time the
foreign markets have gone against him. At
the moment the outlook for the wheat-
farmer is causing the thoughtful the gravest
concern. The price will be extremely Tow:
the grower may not get more than 3s. a
bushel, in view of the world glut and the
high freights. On that he must come close
to starving unless he is relieved of some of
the burden of high prices at present imposed
on him; and those high prices are almost
wholly the result of the army of parasites
which productive industiy has to maintain—
or, at any rate, has been maintaining—in
Australia. The Australian, when not inter-
fered with by ignorant union bosses, is a
quick worker and extraordinarily adaptable,
so that, with our possibilities in the way of
very cheap food, our operating costs should
be low. But there is this pyramid of para-
sites upon productive industry, and none of
our costs can be low until we are rid of
them.
The Labor party has it in its power to
do most in this matter. But first it must
cut out its old cackle abojit class-con-
sciousness, and divide the world anew into
producers and parasites. When the man
engaged in productive industry realises that
he has to cariy the non-producer on his
back, no matter whether the non-producer
calls himself Labor or Capitalist, we shall
be a good deal nearer salvation.
WHAT’S THE MATTER WITH ENG-
LAND?
Mr. C. R. Bradish is a well-known
Melbourne journalist now making his
first stay in England.
I have been in four continents, have visited
many countries, and, believe me, England
is the saddest of my experiences.
Myself an offshoot of the old breed, living
in a remote part of the Empire where men
must be men or starve, I am startled and
pained by the aspect of my kinsmen in
England. Still polite and gracious to the
stranger, still clinging to his magnificent
sense of justice, still a victim of the delusion
of the supposed importance of being a
gentleman, the Englishman appears to me
a depressing tragi-comic figure who sees
nothing funny in cricketers being proclaimed
“giants” and “heroes,” and nothing self-
demeaning in the hysteria with which he
hails a feat of daring by a countrywoman
that frankly ought to have been performed
by himself.
Where are the old dour phlegm and enter-
prise that set my Bedfordshire grandfather
sailing 160 days in an emigrant ship to the
wildest hard hip and suffering 80 years ago?
Have that pioneering faith and courage all
been exported and left to burgeon in richer,
primitive lands? I doubt it—and yet I
doubt my doubt. I look around in this
great lovely London, I go into the provinces
and peer under the caps of workers drivel-
ling eternahy about dog-fights and Test
matches, and search for the eye that sug-
gests a Nelson, or for the perpendicular
backbone that announces a Drake. Instead
I find a race so abject in many of its sec-
tions that it feels nothing humiliating in
accepting tuppence for a service to a Sene-
gam bian stevedore.
Everywhere there is that peculiar air of
lassitude, of that terrible slackness which
goes with age. I shoot a passing glance
through the club windows of St. James
and Piccadilly, observing that waxen weari-
ness of posture that is the blessed inherit-
ance of so many well-born Englishmen. I
go occasionally into the House of Com-
mons, where all the patriots are supposed
to gather, and find a tomb for all the ter-
minological adiposities of the time.
Patently there are some fine men there
who are endeavoring to quicken the national
heart and provide a tonic for the national
kidney; but they are beset by opportunists
and actors—professors of chicane and
double-face.
To me the character of England is woe-
fully disappointing. It . is curiously un-
masculine in its philosophy, its attitude oi
mind. Does a group of Englishwomen beat
a group of American women at tennis,
the jubilation is almost Latin. Hats are
tossed in the air and the exuberance is
almost large enough to justify a call for
a day of national thanksgiving. Does an
obvious pretty-pretty boy, plainly more
addicted to exercising the lip-salve than the
dumb-bells, produce a volume in mauve
facings, or put his name to an article in
one of the great newspapers affirming that
only the beautiful is time when spoken in
Attic Hebrew by an aunt of Epstein, he is
immediately proclaimed as a Great Thinker.
I recall particularly one of these creatures
of antique genius and futuristic morals. In
certain circles which I have visited his fame
is almost fabulous.
The readiness to applaud the bizarre, the
exotic, the second-rate in the arts is one
of the developments which I. can only ex-
plain on the ground that there '» no longer
any first. I observe that when they speak
of their really eminent writers they are
alluding to George Bernard Shaw, H. G.
Wells, Arnold Bennett, John Galsworthy,
George Moore, G. K. Chesterton, gentlemen
of a passe generation. But who have they to
follow? Aldous Huxley! Osbert Sitwell!
They and several more have sweet and
pleading talents, intriguing styles and modes
of expression, but plainly haven’t the stamp
of greatness. In painting, sculpture, music
and drama there is nobody with a name
that will go ringing down the centuries.
In drama the one outstanding name is
G. B. Shaw, exercising all the precocity
of a third childhood, and trudging along so
far behind him that they are only dots on
the horizon are R. C. Sherriff, A. A. Milne
and Noel Coward!
The trouble with England is her determi-
nation to maintain all her traditional
venerations. She will support her hereditary
aristocracy, who consider her good enough
to hunt in and fine enough to provide the
fat rents which they spend at Biarritz, the
Lido and the Cote d’Azur. She will con-
tinue to exhibit her almost religious regard
for money, and worship all those who have
lots of it, even if they habitually put their
feet on the mantelpiece, or are obviously
of the sort that were born with golden
knives in their mouths. She will die sooner
than abandon one of her deplorable snob-
beries—her snobberies of caste, of clothes
and culture, and will allow thousands to go
hungry, but never let a pet animal go short,
all because such are the Things That Are
Not Done.
And the great mass of the people who
make this tragedy possible are the longest
and most remarkable sufferers on earth. I
refer to the working and middle classes,
schooled in a dreadful and heroic stoicism
as they watch the steady and subtle on-
slaughts on their incomes made necessary
by the demands of the day. These people
touch me with their humor, their kindliness
and their homeliness; above all, with their
endurance and their hope even when they
see other nations, less honest, less chivalrous
but more alive to the main chance, ruth-
lessly beating them in the markets of the
world. Much as one may regret their weari-
ness and laissez-faire, one must have a great
admiration for them. They have a patience
that is almost Roman. And such is the
thrall of England I have not the least
doubt that they will spring to their weapons
in their thousands when the bugles blow
again.
C. R. BRADISH.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Why Sir Otto Is Here.
Now and again somebody who thinks he
is an optimist but is really something else
arises to tell us that depression is world-
wide, and Australia is no worse off, and no
more blameworthy, than its neighbors. It
follows, therefore, that the taking of uncom-
mon measures to meet the case savors of
panic, for, according to the miscalled opti-
mist, the case is common enough, and other
nations are not taking such measures as are
embodied in the Scullidore tariff, for in-
stance.
All this may be described as a final effort
at self-deception. Depression is widespread,
but our kind of depression isn’t. It is prac-
tically confined to Australia, and in a minor
degree to Maoriland.
Two unpleasant incidents struck the Com-
monwealth almost at the same time. The
prices of the raw materials which it sold
abroad began to fall and have continued
doing so, and the amount of its borrow-
ings abroad was £52,000,000 less in 1928-29
than in the previous year. This was a drop
from the top of the steeple to the bottom
of the cellar, and should have been foreseen.
Canada, which is also white and practically
corresponds with Australia in size, was only
struck by one unpleasant incident. The
price of its exported products fell, but
nobody cut £52,000,000 off its allowance of
overseas loan money, because there was
no such habitual allowance to cut. The
fall in prices made a considerable
degree of poverty all round, but it didn’t
throw any extensive class on the unem-
ployed market all at once as did the stop-
page of a great and chronic source of
income. Dominions which had been rather
reducing than increasing their external debt
were specially well placed when the Anglo-
Yankee loan market began to feel poorly.
They didn’t care even if it became worse
and died in agony.
So Australian politicians, who are almost
reduced to taxing the domestic cockroach
in their sudden extremity, find themselves


A PAIR OF BIRDS.
THE BIRD-FANCIER: “These ’ere two, sir, are my prize birds.”
THE ENGLISH VISITOR: “Well, I don’t think very much of them. One seems pretty dopey, and all the other can squawk is ‘More Pay, Less Work!’”
in a different category from some of their
partners. That explains why Sir Otto Nie-
meyer, of the Bank of England, is here,
and not at Ottawa or Capetown, or even
Dublin, talking severely but privately to
our politicians, who listen with an eye to
the crumbs which may fall from the great
man s tables of addition, subtraction, multi-
plication and division,
4
Can We Do More with Our Gold?
A proposition which has distinct promise
is that the Federal Government should ship
Australia’s entire stock of gold coin to
England, and invest it in British Govern-
ment securities. If £20,000,000 could be thus
planted out, and the harvest was A per cent.,
there would be an income of £BOO,OOO where
now there is no income at all, and the wind-
fall would be an unmitigated blessing. An
adequate gold reserve is essential to main-
tain paper money at its face value (though
all manner of theorists are prepared to
demonstrate on paper that it shouldn’t be),
but a reserve invested in first-class outside
bonds (not Australia’s own bonds) should
do as well as one in metallic form. It would
be convertible if wanted, and meanwhile
it would be earning its board and lodging,
The Federal authority has confiscated the
gold resources of the joint-stock banks, and
it shows no intention of returning them this
century or next millennium, so it has a
free hand. A great many millions of sov-
ereigns,supposed to be held m reserve, have
been shipped away to pay for a ridiculous
superfluity of imports. If this process has
really left £20,000,000 available, there is
much to be said for putting the money in a
safer place and one where it will yield
a bit of profit.
But if £BOO,OOO per annum, or any other
decent and unexpected sum, should become
available, there will be a rush of State
politicians with plans for dividing the loot.
They will want the whole of it earmarked
for a gold bonus, and the rest of it ear-
marked several times over for other things,
more or less phantasmal. All these people
should have .t explained to them that, how-
ever desirable then- sAemes may be the
first problem is to find money with which to
meet the foreign interest bill—mostly a con-
glomeration of ' State bills for which the
Commonwealth assumed responsibility. The
Federal Treasurer paid last year £932.000
as interest and sinking fund on State debts,
so he has done his duty in advance.
But Australia isn’t exactly a free agent
in matters like this, it having invited a
Bank of England super-man to tell us how
the Commonwealth can be saved, or how
tLo British creditor can be saved from the
Commonwealth. And he is probably already
considering .the best use to which the gold
„ i . r m e,+r,r,vlTvr,;r.t of
reserve can be put fiorn the standpoint of
the Commonwealth and its eieditois.
„ , .y,
Poolmg Wheat and Fooling Farm s.
rr, j
There are still those who are deteimmed
to fasten, if they can, a compulsory pool
upon the wheatgrowers of two States at
least.
The mainspring of the whole business is
supplied by a few people who want (1)
limelight, (2) a job. These throw out
various sorts of bait to catch various sorts
Q f agricultural fish; but the one they rely
U p on c hi e fly is labelled “Orderly market-
■ „ It ig the game sort of ord erliness as
h trfed in tg of Russia after the
J , ~ . 1 f ~ , ,
Revolution. A census or the unattached
young women was taken, and a correspond-
ing census of the unattached young men;
and an allotment was made. No waste of
young men, no waste of young women—a
perfect arrangement! “Orderly marketing”
reduced to its simplest elements! It ought
make a tremendous appeal to the gentle-
mem who are proposing to commandeer the
farmer - s wheat and dea l with it according
, • , o °
1
The stoiy told, of course, is that without
a P°, bie f armei 1S open to be exploited
b y the cormorants who buy wheat for
export. Well, the farmers can always escape
that by joining in voluntary pools. But
such a myth is this story of the superior
advantages of pooling that, whereas 80 per
cent, of the Victorian harvest of 1921-22 was
voluntarily pooled, no more than 23 per
cent, was similarly dealt with after five
years’ practical experience of pooling. In
N. S. Wales the figures are still more strik-
jn g. Pooling attracted 70 per cent, of the
State ’ s crop'in 1921-22; thereafter year by
there was this movement: 65 per cent.,
45 cent 25 cent 2 , cent . In
, a : , 2 *
aa effort was made to put more
, e pool and the figure was got
back to 24 per cent. But it had so many
obvious disadvantages that in the next year
the pooled wheat fell to 4 per cent, of the
crop, and then the whole thing was aban-
doned.
The farmer knows by this time that you
can’t pick up a man on the street, throw
him on to a b i ock Q f j and with a f ew j m _
pi eme nts and expect him to get the best out
Q f 4 hat land. There is just as much to
j abm|t marketins wheat . What the
, advocates want f armers t 0 bclieve is
f. , ~ ~ , , , c
a^er t be y av f, led haid for a year,
( ,be product of all their labor ought to be
taken from them and handed over to be
disposed of by an organisation scraped
together in a hurry. To assume that the
farmer can’t do better than this is an
insult to his intelligence.
4
_ ,
DortOTS a " d Tlleil '
. , c c n . c i. j j
: Br l rbab h (R-
-doesn t seem to like doctoi’s, thougli li- 1 has
congulted about 40 . He evidently bo’ongs
a e w hich is the bane of our existence.
This class of patients—neurasthenic, hysteri-
efij 0r hypochrondr'acal, call them what you
will—has well-jerked characteristics. Th°y
gn jf pr> jj k e “U. 8..” from an “obscure com-
p]ajnt or several complaints,” but always
“obscure.” The obscurity is tlrur chief
delight. They are for ever “trying” different
doctors and various remedies, and arc satis-
tied with none. They discuss their symp-
toms with anyone who is foolish enough to
listen ; they learn to read, compare and criti-
cise their doctors’ prescriptions, and loudly
declare that doctors are “no damn good,”
yet continue to hover round a different red
lamp every week. We all have them and
dread them, knowing that, unlike the other
nine-tenths of our patients, they will black-
guard us after a week or two of effort to
induce them to think less of their insides and
“obscure complaints.” “U. 8.” complains
that the numerous specialists, he visited did
not pass on a sort of chain-letter to one an-
other. I am sure that when Doctor No. 25
sent him to Radiologist No. 10 a letter went
with him. Perhaps, however, it would have
been better if the 30 or 40 had met in con-
gress for a day or two to discuss his “obscure
complaint.” I prophesy that one of two
things is going to happen to our friend: he
will continue to rejoice in his “obscure
complaint,” <jr he will be miraculously
“cured” by a patent pill composed of soap
with a dash of ginger.
o /a
oa /i ™"1 \ Beibalik (l -
30/7/30) had given the matter a little mo o
consideration he would have realised that
his medical history, which is not exceptional,
Jf a convincing argument for, not against,
Claude Oesophagus s demand for what
amounts to the nationalisation of doct is.
It is poverty which drives the most elite -
prising of them to indulge in the sort of
legalised quackery described by Ulat Ber-
balik.” The specialist who refrains from
pushing the latest fad advocated for his
particular branch by somebody overseas will
find that his fellow-worker across the street
has taken it up, and that he is losing his
SWwScSS
compels the doctors to support every pro-
posal for compulsorily pumping anti-toxins
and vaccines into the bloodstream of the
community, regardless of efficacy or neces-
sity. If mathematicians had to make their
K S
be no nearer heins a science than is the
practice of medicine
“Six-and-Eighter”: I go to consult conn-
sel, lay the facts before him and ask for
the law and his opinion on the facts i< the
light of the law. He doesn’t write down
replies to a few (often irrelevant) questions
and at once proceed to his diagnosis. He
doesn’t mind consulting authorities in your
presence. His chambers are full of them,
strafght'away. fur SS
and study. Then he may charge anything
from two guineas to twenty. The doctor, if
he will permit me saying so, bluffs his way
through. Even though he is not a busy
man he tries to make you believe he is by
dismissing you in half an hour at most, and
charging von two or three guineas for his
adnee. Only the surgeon would dare to
submit such a bill as counsel habitually pre-
sents to his client. Yet in nine eases out
of ten don’t earn more than they
collect. They would earn far more if they
neJs—theh" hVbif of bluffing 0 through—that
mak-s a visit to a doctor such a gamble 1 ‘
(< c ' , c? ii „ „tti r. i „ .
“Samuel the SmalDr”: “Ulut B-rbahk” is
right. A. National Medical Service at pre-
s'mt would nrobnbly be choked with the pnv-
inefficient seeking to he made into
hundr d-psr-centers. Many suffer damaging
illnesses in infancy and early childhood from
which complete recovery never takes place.
The motor mechanic can advise that a
machine is no longer capable, or never was
suited, for the work in which it is employed,
and that a new chassis or lighter work is’the
remedy : the first solution is not feasible
yet with the human frame, and the second
is often unattainable. When the. nation is
organised to allow of edch citizen being
placed in an occupation and environment
suited to his physical and mental capacity,
then we may perhaps no longer have the pro-
cession of patients moving from self-chosen
specialist to specialist without permanent
benefit to themselves, and no doubt often no
benefit to the investigating specialist. Will
or can the patient take the only advice often
really sound: a complete rest for six months
away from his present environment, and
recognition of his limitations in the future?
The alternative is the patching-up process
complained of. Often in the end the patient
resorts to some charlatan and protects his
self-respect by railing at the whole medical
profession. Many a man who can receive
stoically the truth that some organ is irre-
parably damaged will resent being told that
he is not, never will be and never was, any-
thing but an imperfect specimen of homo
sapiens, however gently it may be broken, to
him, and will consider his adviser a fellow
ignorant of many things. A National Medi-
cal Service would mean an easier life, men-
tally, physically and financially, for the
majority of medical practitioners, but at the
loss of their last shreds of independence.
♦
Unemployment Relief per Cocky.
Tas. Parliament, which met on July 16,
had run itself to a standstill in less than a
fortnight, and perforce adjourned for four
or five weeks to recover its breath. During
the brief sprint a few inconsequential meas-
ures were splashed on to the statutes more
or less untidily, and six months’ Supply was
successfully manoeuvred through both
Houses. The only interesting item on the
programme was the launching of a scheme
whereby £20,000 at 2 k per cent, will be
offered to primary producers desirous of
making permanent improvements on their
holdings and willing to find work for men
who are at present unemployed.
The management of the experiment is
in the hands of the Agricultural Bank, and,
though nobody expects great results, it is
admittedly a welcome variant on sand-shift-
ing and the making of unnecessary roads.
The Labor Opposition protested that the
scheme was a greasing of the sow already
fatted with unearned increment; but as it
might find a few days’ work for toilers in
need, they decided to let it go at that.
o
A really healthy sign of the times is the
fact that a well-known “American Dry-
cleaning Co.” in Adelaide finds it wiser, for
business purposes, to change its name to
“Australian” ditto. It explains that it never
was anything but Australian in management,
though originally it explored U.S.A.
methods, then a novelty, found them the
best, and advertised accordingly. Will a
time ever come when our picture theatres
(for example) also find it a disadvantage
to insist on their American associations?
Let us hope for the best.


Thousands are
changing
—changing
to Chesterfield
because
SSI
■■■ll
m
&
a
mm
m
■
Si
a
IK
4
==#■> -.-l
Ches
SMi
put a\ring around
that word and /
don’t forget it •
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Labor used to rail at Bruce for
scamping his Parliamentary job towards the
end of a session. Its own leader has out-
Bruced Bruce. At the the beginning of last
week there were upwards of 30 bills on the
business paper. By dint of all-night sit-
tings most of these measures were shot
through both Houses with only a pretence
of debate, others being mangled or massacred
by the Senate; then, dazed with the whirl
and want of sleep, members grabbed their
bags and rushed off to the Sydney train. And
all to enable Scullin and Parker Moloney
to get away to England!
The familiar whine that “the load on the
motion-picture ‘industry’ has reached the
breaking point” was breathed into Minister
Fenton’s ear by a deputation, headed by a
knight, when he was last in Sydney. Since
then Union Theatres (Victoria) has declared
a net profit of £26,944, and the Carroll-Mus-
The Old Firm : “Spare a copper or two for
our suffering ‘industry.’”
grove show (Sydney) one of £19,096 —an
increase in the latter case of £3549 for the
year. In other words, people still refuse to
face the facts, and the blatant imported
picture show is crowded in spite of the slump.
Obviously the “industry” isn’t being taxed
nearly enough.
The Federal session finished without any
declaration of war against the Senate for
“mutilating” the Government’s measures, and
without the threatened double dissolution.
When Parliament assembles again in 1931
the inevitable finish in 1932 will have com-
menced to heave in sight, and a crisis will
be hardly worth while. In the end 26 of the
Senate’s amendments to the violent and
untidy Arbitration Bill were accepted in full
and a number more in part, so it was
evidently realised that “the bill, the whole
bill, and nothing but the bill” would have
been an unpromising yell with which to
rush the country.
Crop reports from the wheat-growing
States are very satisfactory, and prices have
taken a decided turn for the better. Actual
sales for a week show a rise of 4d. a
bushel (to 4s. 24d. in Sydney) and 2s. a
quarter (to 375. 9d.) in London, while
Chicago has raised its offers the equivalent
of 6d. a bushel. If the advance is main-
tained it may mean £4,000,000 or £5,000,000
to Australia. It would be appreciated all
the more if it didn’t happen to be a result
of dire calamities to farmers speaking our
own tongue—black rust in Canada and
drought over a great part of the U.S.A.
The Senate’s special committee has re-
ported, very sensibly, that the proposed
reserve bank had better be postponed. The
bank would cost a good deal in salaries.
There is no spare money to put in it. There
is no loan business for it to negotiate, and
especially none that the Commonwealth Bank
can’t manage. Reserve banks are common,
but not the sort which are controlled by
politicians, as this one is or was to be. The
rule is that politicians shall keep out of
such concerns. There is no need for more
Government banks at the moment, whether
Commonwealth, Commonwealth Reserve,
Federal Savings, State Savings, or Rural.
Commissioner Dethridge, reporting on the
allegations connected with the broadcasting
companies’ claim for compensation, finds
that “no bribe or other benefit was accepted
by, or offered or suggested to, any (Federal)
member.” Honor is now satisfied. Whether
the taxpayer will be satisfied when the claim
is finally dealt with is another matter.
There is a feeling north of our Tweed that
Queensland will be the first State to sur-
mount its troubles. Nature is smiling on
the magnificent country again; and Barnes,
the Treasurer, is reviving memories of George
Turner. He is reducing ex-
penditure wherever he can, Is
relying on tax-revenue for the
financing of relief works, and
is letting other States have
the use of Queensland loan
funds rather than play them
up himself. For all this, of
course, he is being fiercely
assailed. “What have you
done with McCormack’s sur-
plus?” he is acrimoniously
asked. McCormack left no
surplus, but was struck down
before he had exhausted his
borrowings. In the bright
lexicon of Queensland Labor,
unexpended loan money, raised
at crippling rates of interest,
is a “surplus.”
Richardson, M.L.C., is advo-
cating a reduction of members
of both Vie. Houses as an
economy plan. But it would
be two years at least before
anything could be saved that
way, and then money would
have to be spent on redistri-
bution of seats; whereas 10
p.c. could be lopped off the
£45.590 paid to Ministers,
members and elective officers
of the Houses this session.
And the 10 p.c. would yield
a sum equal to the salaries of
seven Assemblymen and four
Councillors.
Westralia had a good bal-
ance on overseas trade last
year, imports being valued at
£8,903,700 and exports at
£16,049,400. Exports were in-
creased by the special ship-
ments of gold to London, £3,100,000 worth
being sent in February, March and April;
the wool shipped weighed 5,446,6001 b. more
than the 1928-29 consignments, but was
worth £1*139,300 less. As regards inter-
state figures, imports were reckoned at
£9,830,200 and exports at £1,122,200. This
one-sided trade is a grievance, especially as
a lot of overseas stuff is still reconsigned
from Melbourne and Sydney, with importers’
profits, freight rates and handling charges
added.
The report of the Queensland Racing Com-
mission, though not entirely satisfactory to
the Government —Attorney-General McGro-
arty refuses to believe that the Wren interest
really sold Albion Park to the Brisbane
Amateur Turf Club for £450,000 —is to be
backed by drastic legislation. It is estimated
that £BO,OOO goes annually to Melbourne,
from seedy racecourses which serve no use-
ful purpose, and the Government makes no
bones of its determination to stop that drain.
If many more people are thrown on to
sand-shifting and similar almost useless
relief works, Sydney will be not so much a
city as a camouflaged soup kitchen.
Crouch, of Corangamite, in an impassioned
defence of the baby bonus:—
One of the things of which I am most proud is
that the wealthy wife of a Victorian Governor
accepted the allowance.
Evidently the good woman had a frugal
mind; or perhaps she was inspired by the
“And no questions asked.”
immortal outburst of that Westralian Labor
member —“the highest lady in the land can
go and get her five quid, and no questions
asked.”
From W. J. Denny, the S. Aus. Attorney-
General :
Bulletin (30/7/’3O) says Victoria did not admit
liability in respect to the Border Agreement. The
result of my visit to Melbourne was that Victoria
definitely admitted liability and undertook to pay
at an early date, and also agreed that the amount
ascertained to be due would be paid. I write this
to correct the suggestion that as between States
there should be any need for a course of litigation.
The reference to non-admission of liability
was based on an “Age” report of an an-
nouncement by Minister Cain. Frith’s sketch
of Mr. Denny distraining in person was not
meant to be taken seriously.
WRONG ADDRESS.
“At a meeting of the Loan Council, Sir Otto Niemeyer empha-
sised the necessity for the strictest possible economy”....
“Eighteen Sales Tnx and two Income Tax bills were rushed
through Parliament in the last days of the session, but no cut
was made in salaries.”
Minion: “Economy circular from Sir Ouo Niemeyer,
sir!”
Prime Minister: “It can’t be for us. Some silly
mistake. Put it in the basket!”
Australia is losing a lot of money by
letting the horse-breeding industry decline.
Nowadays buyers from Asia have difficulty
in finding even the second standard remounts
known as “bounders,” which are used to
horse the Indian native cavalry. Prime-
blooded “walers” are so scarce that the
Viceroy’s bodyguard, about the most superbly
mounted body in the world, is now being-
remounted from Ireland. Hitherto “walers”
have been used ever since there was a
Viceroy’s bodyguard.
One obstacle in the way of the amalgama-
tion of the Vic. Cocky and Rural Prog, groups
is that Dunstan would cease to be a kingpin
in the Assembly. The other night Argyle sug-
gested adjournment of the debate on the
Gas Regulation Bill for four weeks. Deputy-
Premier Tunnecliffe dismissed the proposal
as absurd, but when Dunstan took the floor
and said an interval for study and consul-
tation with districts was necessary, Tunney
hastily agreed with him. Dunstan sits in the
Ministerial corner. He and his Progs., added
to the Government’s 30, make 34 in a House
of 65.
The Loan Council talked for two days
behind closed doors and dispersed without
Sir Otto Niemeyer promising that the Bank
of England or anybody else will find the
money wanted for rescue purposes. Before
Scullin leaves for England there is to be
another meeting at which the oracle may
speak. The recognised public debt remains
at about £1,100,000.000, but the seven Gov-
ernments are indebted to large, medium
and small British financiers for other
odd bits of assistance. Provided the Scullins
hack down imports a bit further so that
exports will cover them and all other
liabilities for interest, etc., it is hoped that
a final British loan may be provided to
convert these petty overdrafts into a per-
manent debt which will lie quiet and behave
itself so long as interest is. paid. Local
troubles, which are quite a separate box
of tricks, have to be dealt with separately.
A deputation waited last week on Assist-
ant-Premier Buttenshaw, of N. S. Wales, fo
ask for a railway, and that flabby and penni-
less politician said he would “take steps to
have the necessary bill passed.” The route
is described as “from Ballingal towards
Matakana, a distance of about 50 miles.
Ballingal is hard to find, but the deputation
came from “the Murrumbidgee district,” and
that is an indication. Matakana is 413
miles from Sydney, and is the next station
to Roto, on the non-paying railway to
Broken Hill; also the starting-point of the
branch to Mount Hope, now closed. The
near vicinity is densely strewn with dead-
end lines, five of which have their termini
at Hay, Hillston, Lake Cargelligo, Narad-
han and Rankin’s Springs respectively. Four
of these pay neither working expenses nor
interest, and the fifth pays working expenses
but is shy on interest. The lot would be
promising enough if they had been built out
of revenue. It is the mortgage which works
the mischief, whether it is on a railway or
a motor-car or a mangle.
Says Arbitration Judge Dethridge: —
There are suggestions of enormous rake-offs made
by the employing class. Let the workers know the
facts, and then they may satisfy themselves that
these wondrous rake-offs are largely fantasies.
Still the profits often are revealed in bal-
ance-sheets, and the Red-flagger only tells
his followers that all such documents are lies,
and waves his banner something extra. There
is something to be said for making income-
tax returns available to the public while
the taxpayer is alive, just as his gross
estate is made known after his death. Then
there might be an overhaul of any particular
industry that was in dispute, and the appli-
cant with fantastic imaginings might be
invited to state that there was perjury
involved and take the risk, or else drop his
bundle. And his own income-tax paper
would be an object of interest like the rest.
It was suggested by fellow-members that
Forrest, M.L.A. for Caulfield, who was an
A.I.F. colonel, might be considered, for the
Chief Commissionership of Police till some-
one pointed out that the Constitution Act
Amendment Act stood in the way.
member of Vic. Parliament is eligible for
any State job but two till he- has been out
of the Legislature for six months. The two
exceptions are a Supreme Court Judgeship
and the Agency-General.
Fighting has broken out in a sporadic
fashion between Russian and Jap fishing
vessels in the region of Kamsehatka, and both
parties now go armed with shell-firing guns.
The farthest tip of Asia has always been
in a more or less lawless state. The sea
food in that vicinity is vital to Japan, and
only less so to Russia, and each accuses the
other of poaching on its preserves. Vladivo-
stock, where the poachers come from, is not
under very strong Soviet control. There was
an insurrection there lately, and as the
Chinaman refused permission for Moscow to
transport its troops across Manchuria the
punitive expedition had to go round, an
extra 1500 miles. If Japan wanted to get
nasty it could take Vladivostock again with-
out the Soviet being able to hit back very
hard; but Britain and Uncle Sam would
object.
Manufacturers in the West of England,
where they make nice cloth out of Australian
wool and want to sell more of it to Aus-
tralians, have cabled Sir Otto Niemeyer a
protest against our tariff. In July, 1929,
this Commonwealth was heading towards
bankruptcy at the rate of £100,000,000 p.a.,
because it bought with absurd lavishness
from the West of England and other places.
In June, 1930, under the improved tariff, it
was heading towards ruin at the rate of
only £6,000,000 a year, and it hopes, by
cutting another £6,000,000, and some more
for good measure, off its purchases from the
West of England and elsewhere, to get on
a solvent basis. In other words it hopes to
avoid failure to pay its British creditors,
an event which might lead the West of Eng-
land to make a worse fuss than it did when
Lord Chief Justice Jeffreys was drinking
in those parts.
A gang of Communists, largely of foreign
extraction, have taken to declaring ' relief
for hard-up Australians “black.” The Aus-
tralians, being too much addicted to submit-
RELIEF-WORK COLOR SCHEME.
Communist: “I’m red, you see, and the
job’s ‘black', and if you don’t strike
you’ll be yellow.”
Pick Artist: “And it’ll be a blue lookout
for the missus and kids if I do.”
ting to persons of this sort, obeyed to the
extent that sundry relief jobs were held up.
At Maroubra (N.S.W.j the storeroom
attached to the work was burgled, the tools
being either destroyed or carried away. This
suggests that something disastrous might
have happened to the Good Samaritan’s ass if
self-appointed local leaders had been dis-
satisfied with its and its master’s interfer-
ence, and had put their self-appointed oflicial
ban on the pair.


SOCIETU
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Celebs”: The fuss made in England over
the impending addition to the Duke of York’s
family-even the Labor Government has
solemnly dispatched a Minister of State to
be handy to the scene and give an official
importance to the interesting event —suggests
that the country has about given up expect-
ing that the Prince of Wales will ever enter
HIS DAY'S GOOD DEED.
“Billy, you know you shouldn’t be playing with your bricks to-day. It’s Sunday.”
“’Sail right, Mum. I’m building a church.”
the matrimonial state. It may suggest even
more than that, namely, that he would be
only too pleased, were he permitted, to stand
aside in favor of his younger brother when
the time comes for him to succeed to the
throne After all, a Court without a queen,
unless’the reigning sovereign were an old
man is a contingency that the nation would
find ’it difficult, if not impossible, to contem-
plate; Heaven knows how far back in history
it would be necessary to go for a precedent.
It is a curious situation ; Victoria, who in-
sisted on marrying off all her sons and daugh-
ters at the earliest possible moment, would
never have allowed it to occur in her time.
* * * *
“Eugene” : One of the most amazing points
of criminal psychology is the overmastering
urge of the murderer to confide in somebody;
but for this, some of the crimes most baffling
at first glance would
never be solved. Arthur
►Skerritt, a colored man,
accused of the murder of
an aged Fitzroy (Mel-
bourne) grocer, gave him-
self away at a mock trial
conducted by prisoners in
the yard during the lunch
hour in the Metropolitan
Gaol. The most sensa-
tional and mysterious-
looking murder case heard
in England of recent
years was the extraordi-
nar i 1 y well - executed
slaughter of a Southamp-
ton garage proprietor;
here, too, the suspect
made voluntary admis-
sions equivalent to evi-
dence of guilt which the
smartest detectives might
never have been able to
secure. And .Colin Ross,
the Gun Alley (Mel-
bourne) murderer of eight
years ago, might easily
have dodged the gallows
—he very nearly escaped,
as it was—if he could
only have kept his own
mouth shut about his
crime. One would have
thought that of all sub-
jects on which a man
would be inclined to reti-
enco a disclosure that
might send him to the gallows would come
first, but obviously it doesn’t.
* * *
“X.S.”: When Justice McArthur made an
order in the Practice Court in Melbourne
that Catherine- H'art, formerly of South
Yarra, might be presumed to be dead, the
grounds for his action seemed to be sufficient.
Affidavits showed that she was 70 years of
age when she disappeared in 1921. She had
been advertised for, and the rents of a house
belonging to her had been accumulating for
10 years. Nevertheless, the day after the
order was made Mrs. Hart, accompanied by
a nun, walked into the court. She had
withdrawn herself from life in a suburban
convent.
*** * .
“Morita”: We didn’t take much account
of alien surnames (B. 30/7/’3O) at the
actual front. I can recall half a dozen men
whose patronymics were on the Teutonic side,
but they were all good Diggers, and accepted
as such, whatever their remote ancestry may
have been. The one exception I recall
claimed to be a Dutchman till, in the excite-
ment of meeting a Fritz prisoner reared in
the same Saxon village, he gave the show
away. There’s little enough in a name, any-
how. I remember a German grave near
Pozieres whereon it was set forth that its
occupant, Michael Lang, had given his life
for the Faderland.
“C.M.” : Dr. J. S. Purdy, Sydney’s Health
Officer, has issued some figures that will sur-
prise many people concerning the annual
allowance of sunlight in our two biggest
cities. Contrary to popular belief Melbourne
HE WAS NO LOAFER.
LADY OF THE HOUSE : “Does that small heap of weeds represent your whole morning's
work?”
TEMPORARY GARDENER : “No, missus; I caught a snail in the canna bed.”
has far more summer sunlight than Sydney,
but is 96 hours behind over the whole year.
In December Melbourne gets 353 hours
against Sydney’s 219, and in January it
averages 264 hours against 231. But the
northern city scores in the winter months,
its July total, for example, being 190 hours
compared with Melbourne’s 107.
*'s 4 #
“N.D.L.”: An item of interest to shipping
folk is the cabled story of the recent presenta-
tion on board a German-American liner of
a 39-year-old passenger ticket. The indi-
vidual who turned it in to the purser ex-
plained that his dad had purchased it those
long years ago, but was unable to make the
trip to Europe. In due course the son came
across the document and decided to give it a
try. Whatever the company thought it said
nothing and honored the contract, and since
it had the use of the money for all that time,
it probably had the best of the bargain.
“Ootacarra”: A week or
two ago an English Labor
M.P., one Sandham, was
censured by the House and
admonished by the Speaker
“for having attempted to
degrade the honor of Parlia-
ment in the eyes of his
countrymen and the
world.” His offence was a
statement that some of his
colleagues had received
bribes and others had been
seen drunk in the House,
impeachments which he re-
fused to try to support speci-
fically before a select com-
mittee. The cables add that
there is no precedent in
modern times for such hap-
penings. Yet charges as bad,
if not worse, have been made
in at least one Australian
Parliament. In 1899 Richard
Robson, M.L.A. for Gerald-
ton (W.A.), remarked that
there were four or five Min-
isterialists in the Assembly
who, as far as he could see,
had no visible means of sup-
port, and went on to infer
that they were directly paid
by the Forrest Government
to keep it in office by their
votes. There was a great
outcry, both from the Gov-
ernment and the gentlemen
assailed, and a royal com-
mission was appointed to
give Robson a chance of
proving his words. Unlike
►Sandham, he stood up to his
charges; having failed to
substantiate them, he didn’t
wait to be censured or
admonished, but promptly
resigned his seat. Robson,
who was an Englishman, left
Australia shortly afterwards;
some people found a certain
significance in the fact that the persons he
had indicated all dropped out of Parliament
at the next general election.
“Oran”: What must be one of the longest
matrimonial separations on record was
ended the other day by the death of an octo-
genarian ex-bank manager. As a young man,
married to a wife aged 20, and with a six-
months-old son, he had a slight domestic
argument one morning, and returned at night
to find a note saying his wife had gone home
to mother, where she would stay until her
husband apologised for his ill behavior. The
apology didn’t come, but, instead, she received
a cheque wherewith to pay her board. This
went on for three months, when the man
sold his home and accepted a position in
another town, regularly sending his wife
ample funds to keep her going. As soon as
the boy, whom he never saw again, was of
school age he increased the weekly cheque
considerably and from time to time sent
generous additions to the wife’s money. When
he' died at 86, the breach had lasted for 59
years, and the wife, an old lady of 80, was
living with a grand-daughter, and advising all
her young descendants never on any account
to go home to mother when the fault was
mainly theirs, and expect an equally
aggrieved husband to eat humble pie.
❖ ijc Sfc *
“X.N.0.”: The Melbourne Chatterer (B.
30/7/’3O) talks of playing golf till 10.30
p.m. in Scotland and then having to give
up on account of failing light. I have often
played as late as that in the Orkneys, and
if one goes further north one can play all
day and all night, as far as light is con-
cerned, for six mouths in the year. But
to make up for it the sun sets at 2.50 in the
afternoon in midwinter in the Orkneys, and
at a quarter to four in the south of England.
* $ * *
“Ham”: A Sydney girl who was a volun-
tary aid at the Prince of Wales Hospital has
found a romance springing from the seed of
an old act of kindness. A Digger died in the
hospital whilst she was there; having heard
him speak of his old people in England, she
wrote to them, giving details of his last
days, and expressing sympathy. Afterwards
she looked after the Digger’s grave and
sent to the old people a photograph of it.
Recently she made a venture to England on
very limited resources, and found difficulties
which culminated in a street accident.
Whilst she was lying in hospital an elderly
couple descended upon her, claiming her as
a friend; and she found herself amazingly
transported into the surroundings of a rich
home where a nurse and medical attendance
were provided for her. She had taken it for
granted that the Digger’s parents were poor;
actually the Digger had been the prodigal
son of rich parents. And now she is to be
married to his brother.
* # *
“Philm”: Perth leads the way. Bradman-
street has just been gazetted.
❖ * * *
“Sea Nomad”: The lepers of the Dutch
East Indies live alternately on the heights
of hope and in the depths of despair, played
on by ever recurring rumors of new cures
for their dread disease. Many a cure has
been tried upon them, and for some psycholo-
gical reason they actually improve for a
time under the treatment, but after a while
relapse. A £5OOO X-ray plant has recently
been installed at Pelantoengan, the European
colony, but doesn’t seem to be doing much
good. There are four leper colonies in the
Dutch East, and the Salvation Army has
taken them all over.
“Ibn el Issar”: That yarn about the
Malayan griffin who asked for “sundals”
instead of “sambals” (B. G/8/’3O) recalls
the facer received by an Indian friend of
mine in the long ago when she was acting
as hostess to a rather frivolous female visitor
from England. The tourist had been much
intrigued during a trip through the bazaar
by the display of native foods. When her
hostess asked her on retiring what she would
like for chota hasri —the Indian equivalent
of morning tea—-she gushed “Oh, I should
adore one of those lovely looking chuprassies.”
It wasn’t until the staggered Memsahib had
thought the matter over that she realised
that her guest wanted chupatties, a sort of
Indian muffin made of flour and water. A
chuprassie is a uniformed native messenger
attached to Government offices and usually
selected for his good looks and impressive
bearing.
* T $
“Marko”: May I butt into the discussion
on hair turning white suddenly V There is
in Sydney an ex-army captain whom I
used to see very frequently. A few years
ago we did not meet for about a month, and
theft I couldn’t but notice that his previously
auburn hair bad a broad swathe of white on
one side. The rest had distinctly greyed,
though he was still a comparatively young
man. Rather diffidently I asked him the
reason, thinking he must have gone through
some tremendous strain, and learned that
he’d had mumps!
EXPLAINING THE ANZAC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Liam O’Flaherty, the novelist, writes that after
his experience of railway work in Canada he
understands why the Australians and Canadians made
such good soldiers. Their standard of life in the
trenches was much higher than at home. For fear
of losing their position and being sent back to the
wilderness they fought like wild cats.”
The truth is out. Was there a salient won,
A push repulsed, a strong-point grimly
raided ?
Deem not it was with thought of duty done.
’Twas but to titillate a palate jaded
By surfeit of good things. A respite brief
They sought, when so at times with death
they’d grapple,
From banquets bounteous of bully-beef
And orgiastic spreads of plum-and-apple.
Through all the murk of horror and despair,
The menace before which the spirit grovels,
Think not their native courage held them
there,
But sudden memories of sordid hovels
(Six-room or so), Melbourne and Sydney
dives,
Or farmsteads buried in a bush that
drenches
With stink of gums and wattle men’s drab
lives—
No wonder that they clung to cosy
trenches!
Was there a hint of daring in attack,
Or dogged clinging on of men like leeches?
Nay, it was simply dread of going back
To the soft hills, the long sun-haunted
beaches.
The smiling cities set by dazzling seas,
The wide, free leagues that lie between the
“stations,”
The generous, warm earth....for what are
these,
Compared with the delights of mud and
rations?
VICTORIA.
HASRN


“Jenny Lintott”: Many a talent goes.phutt
in Westralia’s immense nor’-west. On the
bar wall of the quaint old Jubilee Hotel at
Ilocbourne is a little fresco of paintings in
dingy oils that bear testimony to an artist
having passed by.* His name was Reginald
Malcolm, and a tradition lingers that he
Avas a noted English steeplechase rider before
he blew in and out of Roebourne with the
willy-willies. War pictures and bush scenes
they are, full of life and action. The Aus-
tralian Digger and his girl are portrayed
■with a careless rakishness akin to Lindsay’s
own, and the star of the lot is a north-west
interlude that draws disapproving glances
from travelling parsons. The artist, betAveen
Avhiles, ran an aerated-waters factory in
Roebourne. When it failed he vanished, and
took his brushes with him.
hs * h= *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide is getting very thought-
ful about its water supply. A pleasantly
wet July put a few weeks’ supply into Mill-
brook and Happy Valley lakes, but they still
look utterly unprepared for the demands of
summer. The Torrens, above and through
the city, and the bigger Onkaparinga. 20
miles south, are the only rivers. There is
an idea now of making another dam on each
of these higher up than the existing ones;
SHE WASN’T SO FUSSY.
“Men are so narrow and prejudiced. I shall never marry if I don’t find one with an
open mind.”
“Ah, well, please yourselft But find me one with an open hand and I’ll put up with
the rest.”
also the possibilities at Myponga, far away
south, are being considered. And, in case
of immediate trouble, many bores are being
cleaned out that were sunk in the Adelaide
plain during the drought of 1914,
“Old Warden”: The ingenious German is
to the fore with what is described as a
bloodless apparatus for dispersing street
rioters. It looks like an armored tank, but,
instead of a gun, it is equipped with a
nozzle projecting a stream of water under
high pressure up to 50 yards. Those who
have seen a high-pressure hose brought into
action will not doubt the efficacy of the new
weapon, but its “bloodlcssness” is open to
question. Writer once helped to pick up an
unfortunate who had got in the line of a
monitor sluicing hydrant carrying a big
head of water on an Island gold-mining
show. The victim was bleeding at mouth,
ears and nose when we got to him, his skull
was fractured, and so was almost every bone
in his body. Given a sufficient head, a jet of
water hits harder than a bullet.
* * ■» *
“Meridian” (Singapore) : The glamorous
Orient! Outside our office the municipal
authorities have tolerantly left a single tree.
Going to work early the other morning I
saw a Chinese coolie hanging untidily from
one of its branches. He was surrounded by
a crowd of his compatriots. They muttered
together, probably criticising his technique.
My companion was annoyed. “Just my luck,”
lie grumbled, “not to have my camera with
me!”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Conservative opinion in
Japan is seriously perturbed at the threat
offered by the American movie to the old-
estnblished institution of hara-kiri. Of the
15 000 suicides in Nippon last year only 250
followed tradition by thrusting a dagger
into the left side, drawdng it slowly
across to the right, then sharply up-
wards, finally bending forwards so
that the intestines fell out upon the
floor and the slave of honor slowly
died of loss of blood and exhaustion.
Of the remainder, 7000 hanged them-
selves, 2400 took poison, 1800 threw
themselves under locomotives, and
others jumped from buildings or threw
themselves over sea cliffs. It is con-
sidered with justification that many
of these methods have obviously been
copied from the movies, and there is
no doubt about the shinju, or double-
love suicides, when lovers bind themselves
together and precipitate themselves over a
scenic lookout in some famous tourist resort.
# * h= *
“V.A.G.”: The N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment has got to keep count of every shilling
nowadays, but it can strain a point in a
good cause. To convey a badly injured man
400 miles to Sydney the heads allowed the
guard’s van on the Temora mail to be fitted
up like a hospital ward. And all the way
down the line the patient lacked no atten-
tion that was obtainable. After he had been
safely lodged in a Sydney hospital one of
the first visitors was the Superintendent of
Traffic. The cost of it all? Second-class
fares for the patient and his brother who
attended him.
* * * *
“Naklioda”: I was on the island of
Labuan, Borneo, when a British coal com-
pany suddenly closed its mines and threw
1000 Chinese coolies out of work. No pro-
vision had been made for their repatriation,
and as the total population amounted to
only 4000 the authorities were confronted w th
a first-class economic depression. The eoo’ies
promptly seized all the shops and market
gardens at their end of the island, but the
supplies were soon finished, and things looked
ugly. Europeans went about armed, and
their womenfolk were confined to their bun-
galow's. Finally orders came from Singa-
pore to get the coolies back to China. A pro-
posal to round them up by force was vetoed
by the district officer, who volunteered to
bring them all in without any trouble. The
only communications with the disafLct'd
portion of the island were a light railway,
which had been torn up, and the tunnels
which the wild buffalo drive through the
impenetrable jungH It was along one of
these tunnels that the d.o. reached the camp
of the enemy. It was a sight not easily
forgotten to see him emerge five hours Inter
with the entire 1000 in single file following
aft n r. He went aimed to the teeth —with
a thermos full of gin and a tin of Capstans.
“D.”: The sinking of the “Titanic”
(recalled by the fine talkie “Atlantic”)
caused an acute scandal in the West End
of London IS years ago. Many well-known
male passengers died like men, as in the
picture, but others fought their way to
the boats, and, leaving hundreds of women
and children to drown, escaped with their
lives. One of them was a member of the
Ismay family (virtually owners of the White
Star line at the time), and it brought his
social career to an abrupt end. For several
months nothing was more fashionable in the
West End than to be seen cutting him dead.
A FAIR MATCH.
The Man : “Gee, that girl’s got a way with her.”
THE MAID: “Yes, and she'll get away with him, too.”
The noblesse oblige business never seems to
function to any extent at these disasters.
During the appalling Charity Bazaar fire
in Paris earlier in the century the first to
struggle out of the danger zone—pushing
aside their friends and relations for the
purpose—were some hefty male members of
the old nobility. When the China ran
ashore near Perim at about the same time
the most terrified man on board was a high
church dignitary, and one of the officers
is said to have got out a small boat he
owned and sailed ashore, observing that he
would lose, his job whatever happened, so
he might as well save his life.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The fact that a great con-
gress of Eastern women in the Holy City
resolved that the practices of wearing the
veil in public,, of not
allowing the bridegroom
to see the bride before
he marries her, and of
making divorce impos-
sible for women should
be abolished does not
mean that these customs
will forthwith go into
the discard. Their most
strenuous opponents will
be the mass of Asiatic
women. In China foot-
binding has been offi-
cially swept away ; yet,
except on the coast, the
conscientious mother
still applies ferocious
ligatures to. the extremi-
ties of her eldest daugh-
ter, though usually
exempting the others,
unless their protests are
too insistent. The rea-
son for this is that the
bound woman is still re-
garded as the more
eligible, because the
more beautiful, by the
go-betweens who arrange
the vast majority < f
Celestial weddings. All
the resolutions r of all
the congresses are not
doing as much to break
down these old conven-
tions as the spread of
the Occidental passion
for athletics. The
news that a Far East-
ern flapper had run
away with a hundred-
yards championship in
Sweden was recently
ma d e a front-page
feature of the vernacu-
lar press everywhere in
China and Nippon. As
I write I am smoking a
cigarette from a
of Canton weeds which
contained the damsel’s portrait.
* * * *
“Woodarra”: The mistaken idea many
people have of the Italian’s low standard of
living tB. 25/6/’3O) applies to the out-back
worker as well as his town cousin. Here on
the East Murchison (W.A.) I have employed
several fencing gangs—Australians and Brit-
ishers and Italians —and have noticed that
the last always have the best-fi’led tucker-box.
Half a dozen Italians will arrive on a job
well stocked with ham as wel 1 as bacon, egsrs,
butter, potatoes and onions. They don’t drink
tea but their coffee is good, and they will often
have an 18-gallon k-g of Austral-an wme,
which they break down with water and
drink even in the extreme beat of summer.
Their maesroni, olive oil and Dutch cheeses
are invariably imported goods, but the new
duties will presumably stop that. An Aus-
tralian of the third generation, I must admit
that the average bush Italian around here
lives a great deal better than the Australian
or Britisher seems inclined or able to do.
* * * *
“E.S.”: Misers I have known on the track
were always the dirtiest and raggedest of
the tramping legion. One of them, who did
odd jobs in shearing-sheds in north-western
N. S. Wales, was known as “Dirty Peter.”
He collected all the bits of soap he could
find about the huts and sheds, and yet he
was never known to wash either himself or
his clothes. It was surmised that he intended
to have a great wash some day. Many
people on many tracks knew Paddy Dinan.
who knocked about the country ragged and
ravenous-looking, until at last he was found
dead by the road near Dandenong. In a
filthy old swag were bank receipts and cash
to the value of £3OOO. Another of the
species was picked up on the road and carted
to Tibooburra (N.S.W.) Hospital. Though
ho was dying, only force prevented him
following his awful clothes out of the ward.
When told by Dr. Speeee that they were
to be burnt, he divulged that there were
valuables in them. There were —banknotes
sewn into every shred of lining to a total
value of £llOO.
“C.A.8.” : At Berrima (N.S.W.) the other
day, when an old building was being re-
paired, a jar was found in a stone slab con-
taining old coins and newspapers, also a
document setting forth that this was the
foundation-stone of a mill erected for J.
Dickson and H. Burrows, of Mudgee, and
that the stone itself had been laid by Miss
Fancy Campbell, of Bunglegumble. The
oldest date on the coins was 1817;
the signatories to the document included
a police magistrate, a J.P.; a police
inspector, a doctor and a lawyer of
the district and the period. One of _ the
newspapers was “The Western Grazier,”
printed at Orange but long since defunct.
The date was 1865, and one paragraph had
a ring of familiarity about it. It ran: “The
miners at Wollongong are on strike for
higher wages.”
“Sherlock” : Another ghost has been laid,
this time in Perth, where a deserted house
had become notorious for unearthly noises
and eerie rappings. At last a posse was
mustered, and the door was burst open one
night. The first sensation experienced was
an olfactory one, a most unghostly smell.
Then the unquiet spirit was revealed in a
gaunt and famished billygoat. William had
wandered into the house through an open
door which the wind had swung to behind
him, the spring lock making him a prisoner.
He had lived by eating the paper off the
walls, but he was almost at his last gasp
when his rescuers' arrived.
“Four Wheel”: That M.L. Judge’s pro-
posal that motorists should consider speed in
terms of feet per second instead of miles per
hour (B. 16/7/’3O) is capable of improve-
ment. Most people are far more familiar
with the yard as a unit of measurement, and
this distance is as easy to compute as the
other. Instead of adding 50 per cent, of the
miles per hour shown on the speedometer, as
suggested in the case of feet per second,
divide the speedometer mileage by 2, and the
result will give the number of yards per
second the car is travelling.
"Oura Oura”: There was £l6 showing in
our books against a woman for months. As
she seemed to have money for everything
else, and repeated efforts on our part failed
to bring any our way, the account was
given to a collector. His report, weeks
later, ran: “Called on Mrs. three times
and regret to say that all I managed to
collect was 3s. She promised to pay more
when she finished paying for her fur coat.”
So that’s that. And if we sue her we will be
abused for victimising a sufferer from the
present depression.
Hi * * *
“Old Q.” : Brisbane City Council builded
better than it knew when it recently decided
to have white lines painted down the middle
of the footpaths to direct pedestrian traffic.
Half a dozen of the boys were having a few
in a Brisbane pub, and the fifth round had
been absorbed. The next man on the roster
hesitated as his companions looked hopefully
towards him. “Half a sec,” lie said, and
rushed outside. While his mates .were dis-
cussing the matter he came back wearing a
relieved air. “Long way to go yet,” he said,
throwing down his money on the bar. “I
just thought I’d have a try out on that
chalk-line of the Council’s.”
ARTIFICIAL BARRIERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An English dean says that he has abandoned
the wearing of gaiters because he feels that they
separate him from his fellow men.”
An admirable notion,
A view I rise to share.
Your hand across the ocean,
My brother! Put it there !
We’re clearly one, as haters
Of all for swank that caters
(Although a dean’s black gaiters
Were never mine to wear).
Insignia corporeal,
Like you, I view askance.
In brave attire sartorial
Around I’d hate to prance,
Eyeing with sour disfa\ r or
All duds that have a flavor
Of haughtiness or savor
Of pomp and circumstance.
None ever saw me sporting
Elaborate cravats,
Or round the block cavorting
In Borsalino hats;
No snip has vest-slips made me,
Above the mob to grade me.
And nothing could persuade me
To drape my hoofs in spats.
I scorn insidious pressings
That oily barbers use
When they extol the blessings
Of ’lectrieal shampoos.
As firmly as the poorest
I shun the manicurist,
And only lap the purest
And least expensive booze.
In short, I’ve so controlled me,
As you may have inferred,
That none may think I hold me
Above the common herd.
These frills some flaunt about them, .
The Dean and I misdoubt them.
We’re happier Avithout them....
It’s' cheaper, too, my word !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
A Central Reserve Bank.
The feature of the Central Reserve Bank
Bill which damns it is being persistently
cloaked by Federal Ministers. There is no
great opposition to a central reserve bank.
Many sound bankers —apart from the few,
sound and unsound, who have hopes of
getting jobs—cordially approve of it, even
though, like The Bulletin, they may think
this about the worst possible time to change
our banking system. What no sound banker
could possibly endorse is the system of
control which the bill proposes.
A cumbersome board of nine is to be
created, representative of various interests,
excluding banking, but including labor, with
a governor and two deputy-governors, all
to be members of the board, along with a
Treasury official.. They are to be appointed,
of course, by the Government of the day,
and the entire mob of directors is to go
out and come in simultaneously. So, apart
from the fact that the control may be
wholly political, and is obviously designed
to be at least partly political, there will
be no continuity of banking policy.
If the bank was any other sort of bank
something might be said in favor of having
all sorts of interests represented on the
board. But this bank is expressly precluded
from doing ordinary developmental and
trading business. Its purpose is, not to
make money, but to see that the reserves
of the trading banks are invested, not
only safely, but where they will be almost
instantly available. Thei-efore the last in-
stitution which ought to be represented on
the board—certainly the last institution
which ought to be permitted to dominate
the board—is the Government, since in
Australia, at any rate, the chief thing
to be avoided is the grabbing of the reserves
by the Government, directly or indirectly.
To put on the board four Government ser-
vants—the governor, two deputy-governors,
and a Treasury official—and to throw into
the scale on behalf of a Labor Government
a trade-union official, is to encourage the
bank to do just about all it should not do
and be all it should not be.
If the Government wants the Central
Reserve Bank for legitimate purposes it
will adopt the system of control which
has proved itself elsewhere. If it insists
upon the system of control which it has in-
corporated in its bill, then it can only be
concluded that its demand for a reserve
bank is a mere subterfuge for getting hold
of a few millions of the trading banks’
deposit money.
The Sales Tax.
The Sales Tax was enormously complicated
by the desire of the Labor Government to
make it appear that the fat wholesaler was
standing the racket and not the public. As
a result the poor public is liable to be made
to pay twice. First the wholesaler charges
the retailer, the tax being added to the price
of the article; then, to make quite sure, the
retailer may pile on another 2$ p.c., or, since
2| p.c. can’t conveniently be added to small
purchases, the addition is often 20 p.c.
(Thus a penny added to the sixpenny article,
making it sevenpenee, is 16f p.c., and a penny
added to the shilling article, making it Is.
Id., is Si p.c.)
During the past week there was a good
deal of fidetion between manufacturers on
the one side and wholesalers and retailers
purchasing direct from the manufacturers on
the other. The manufacturer mostly wanted
to invoice his goods at the old price phis 2 i
p.c., the latter shown separately; the direct-
dealing retailer wanted the tax, if charged
at all, to be added to the invoice price and
not charged separately. The manufacturer,
who has to do the paying in such cases,
replied that if he increased the invoiced price
of his goods by 2J p.c. he would himself be
liable to pay 21 p.c. on the increased price.
In many—perhaps most—cases a compromise
was reached, the usual trade discount being
reduced by approximately the amount of the
tax.
State Abattoirs in Brisbane.
The Queensland Government has an-
nounced the purchase of the Swift Meat
Works, on the Brisbane River, for conver-
sion into abattoirs for the local, inter-State
and export trades.
The undertaking will be administered by
a board responsible to Parliament. Opera-
tions will come under five general headings
—saleyards ; domestic killing and chilling;
export killing, chilling and freezing; by-pro-
ducts ; service plant. The yards will be
available to all livestock breeders at a fixed
fee per head; for domestic requirements the
board will do the work for the butchers at
fixed rates, and for export similarly on
behalf of the exporting interests. The by-
product and service plants will be run by
the board for all operators. Each division
will carry its proportion of capital redemp-
tion and overhead, as well as operating and
maintenance costs.
The board will not trade in meat, alive or
dead, the buying of stock and the marketing
of carcases being left to the exporters and the
local butchers. In by-products, apart from
hides and skins, the board will take over
products on a manufactured-value basis, less
the cost of preparation, the basis to be
periodically adjusted as necessary. This
all follows pretty closely the Sydney practice.
Australian Wines.
“Inner Temple” : I have drunk port since X
was a boy. Shortly after the war a port-drink-
ing friend arrived from abroad and sampled
a glass of our growing. “A very nice wine,”
he said, “but the trouble is it’s not in the least
like port.” It wasn’t —in those days. Over-
seas port went steadily up in price till it got
beyond my means. Then for the first time
in 15 years I tried a glass of local port, and
found to my astonishment that it was in-
distinguishable from fine Portuguese port,
which costs 6s. to Bs. a bottle in London.
So I have become a port-drinker again—at
ss. 3d. a bottle —and will be so long as it
hovers round that figure.
All our wines are now better than over-
seas wines of a corresponding price. A
cable mentioned lately that “alarm was
being expressed in France at the decline
in wine drinking, the average consumption
in France having declined considerably since
1925.” I noticed the tendency in Paris in
1927-28, and every Frenchman I spoke to
on the subject gave the same explanation—
“ Poor wines and high prices.” A bottle of
rin ordinaire (a chemical mixture which was
practically undrinkable neat) cost the
equivalent of Is. Bd. in English money then.
I can buy sound Australian claret, hock or
chablis for 2s. 3d. a bottle in Sydney, or a
third of the price of inferior French and
Italian wines. So I am a teetotaller as
regards imported light wines, though I
drank nothing else before the war.
Our Overworked Taxation Experts.
Professional men who wrestled with their
income-tax returns during July, and business
men and farmers who are still trying to
worry out where they stand in relation to
the Taxation Commissioner, will get great
help from Baldwin and Gunn’s book on
taxation, a comprehensive work with the
ambitious object of covering the Federal and
N. S. Wales Acts in one volume. The
authors’ aim is to put in logical order (as
“logical” as the leg slation itself will allow)
the multifarious provisions of both Acts in
as concise a form as possible. A summing-
up of the N. S. Wales Prevention and Relief
of Unemployment Act (better known as the
3d.-in-the-£ wages tax) is now in print.
The sweeping amendments recently made to
the Federal Act by the Scullin Government
are at present being digested by the authors
and will be included in a separate booklet,
with cross-references to the main volume.
Price, with revisions to March, 18s.
N. B. Rydge, accountant, and J. B. Collier,
barrister-at-law, have collaborated in pro-
ducing, in separate volumes, works covering
every section of the Federal Income Tax
(Assessment) Act and the N. S. Wales Income
Tax (Management) Act, with notes, legal deci-
sions and explanations under each section.
The book on the N. S. Wales Tax also covers
the “3d.-in-the-£” Act. These works go
into great detail, and cover the finer points
of the law. They are published by the
Law Book Co- of Australia, Ltd.—the
Commonwealth Act at 425., the N. S. Wales
Act at 355.
The fact that these experts can afford to
spend so much time in explaining these Acts
for accountants and the public is no com-
pliment to our legal draftsmen or taxation
system. In operation, too, the Acts are in
many cases administered with great unfair-
ness to the taxpayer. Where a person is
entitled to a refund it usually takes an out-
side specialist to discover it for him. There
have been numerous instances of primary
producers not deducting depreciation on
improvements from their returns, and it has
been an outsider, not the Commissionex-, who
has pointed out the error. The Bulletin
believes that so many taxpayers are over-
charged that elsewhere in its leading columns
it to-day advocates the appointment in each
State of an officer whose special job it shall
be to watch the interests of the taxpayer.
The Hudson Bay Co., finding that the fur
trade is not all it used to be, has been
turning attention to the export of Labrador
salmon, and has evolved a new Chilling pro-
cess which promises to revolutionise cold-
storage methods the world over. The fish
is frozen in brine for 3£ hours and then
rapidly washed in water at a temperature
of 70 degrees to remove the brine. It is
then dipped in water at a temperature of 34
degrees, which produces a glazing of ice one-
sixteenth of an inch thick. It is Claimed
that the process does not affect the tissue
cells as other freezing and chilling methods
do, and that it is applicable to all sorts of
animal food, including eggs. If the new
process is all that is claimed for it, Aus-
tralian meat producers may look forward to
something more hopeful.
* * * *
The West Indies have their sugar troubles,
too, and are faced with the same old problem
of finding overseas markets at a profitable
price. Barbadoes lately approached the
Canadian Government with a request for
another Canada-West Indies conference to
consider the Tree entry of West Indian sugar
into the Dominion, the Indies in turn to
grant free entry on one or more items of
Canadian goods. Australia is interested in
this. Most of the sugar ,ttS2d in the
Dominions comes from American sources,
but of late years Australian product has been
finding its way thither, its value in 1927-2 S
being over £300,000.
H< * * *
North Queensland cattlemen have been
knocked back lately by the , decision of the
northern meatworks to reduce their prices
from 245. per 1001 b. to 20s. One breeder in
the Gulf district took his pluck in both
hands and drove and railed 251 head of
bullocks to Brisbane, where they averaged
£8 7s. per head. Total charges were £2 18s.,
so he cleared £5 9s. a head, leaving out
breeding and kindred costs. At the nearest
meatworks to his northern run he would
have netted £4 ss. a head, so the expei-iment
was worth while.
* * * *
Following on the inquiry by Dr. Darnell
Smith, the fruits of which have been re-
ported in the “Man on the Land” pages of
The Bulletin, Queensland, once a con-
siderable producer and . manufacturer of
tobacco, is to have another try at establish-
ing the industry. In the past most of the
leaf was produced in Southern Queensland,
though Bowen was once growing a promising
cigar leaf. The Moore .Goee r ,m-.rt L I ;TV
laying out 30 experimental tobacco farms
in the Mareeba district behind ('aims ami
farm having an area of GO acres. Tenders
are to be invited for these, which will be
ready to be handed over, prepared for culti-
vation, in December. The district is far
enough inland over the Dividing Rans-e to
escape the heavy tropical downpour of the
coast, although rainfall is i-egular and suffi-
cient for cultivation.
Australians pride themselves so much on
;heir wool-marketing methods that a circular
received by woolbuyers recently from the
Association of Wool Dealers in Leipsic com-
plaining about carelessness in classing comes
as something of a shock. Among the things
complained of are the including of inferior
fleeces in bales supposed to contain high-
quality wool, careless skirting, and general
lack of attention to small details. These
charges are unfortunately true in many
cases, and the trouble usually originates
at the sheds. A careless or incompetent
classer is not only not worth his pay, but
may cost the grower who employs him a
good deal of money, in addition to giving the
brand a bad name with consumers.
* * * *
The motor-lorry is being turned to new
uses every day. One of the strangest is the
recent utilisation by the Egyptian Govern-
ment of a fleet of six-wheeled trucks to
destroy locusts. Each truck is equipped
with four flame-throwers, and can cover
much greater distances in a given time than
pedestrian carriers. Recently 18 of these
trucks, operating in the heavy sand of the
Sinai Desert, were credited with wiping out
11 tons of locusts in a few hours, and it
is estimated that since the recent introduc-
tion of the new system over 300 tons of
the pest have been destroyed.
* Hs H: H=
The annual report of the Chief Inspector
of Factories and Workshops in Britain indi-
cates how the face of industrial England has
changed in the last generation. Not so long
ago nearly all national industrial under-
takings of importance were located north of
the Trent. To-day the flourishing condition
of numerous industries in the south of Eng-
land has gone far to restore the balanop of
employment. Car-building, electrical engi-
neering and artificial-silk manufacture head
a long list of prosperous industries, and in
some works it has been difficult to find
hands, while extension of buildings and plant
has been necessary in many cases.
* * * *
Apropos the proposal of a Broken Hill
zinc co. to pass on into the paper-making
business in Tasmania, now that the old Broken
Hill tailings dumps are finished, the great
Swedish Molnbacka-Trysil Co., which runs
about a dozen paper mills of various kinds,
used to be an iron-smelting co. The change
over was made 57 years ago. Incidentally,
the co. has steadily worked up a big busi-
ness in by-products, the most important being
turpentine, methyl alcohol and, liquid resin.
The possibilities of by-products from the in-
dustry in Tasmania have thus far been given
hardly a thought.
* H: * *
Dunlop-Perdriau people say they have
never heard of a set of motor-truck tyres
standing up to 80,000 miles (B. 30/7/’3O) :
when they do hear of a set doing it they
“know it will be Dunlop-Perdriau make —
and then Heaven help our dividends!”
He H« H« He
Thus far the foreign chamber of commerce
has been chiefly interested in putting the
goods of its own country into Australia.
Among a few others, the Swedish chamber
is showing that it can do something far
better for Australia than that. What Aus-
tralia must have is a larger cheque for
exports and a smaller bill for imports; and,
having a large financial interest in Aus-
tralia, members of this chamber have laid
themselves out to promote the export trade.
It publishes a monthly journal, which in-
cludes now a “Swedish buyers’ guide.” The
services of foreign chambers in this direction
ought to be well worth encouraging.
**# . . *
Fiji now boasts an air mail, the first bi-
plane of the service having been christened
with pomp and ceremony the other day by
the Wife of the Acting-Governor. The craft,
which was christened Adi Lagi (otherwise
the Princess of the Skies), and her sisters
will carry mails and passengers between the
different islands of the Fijian group. Captain
Fenton, who has initiated the service, has
undertaken to extend it if the period of his
contract is increased.
* Ht * 1 *
Queensland rail receipts continue their
downward slide, and this in the face of a
promised reduction of~ freights. Minister for
Railways Morgan has announced that there
are 2000 superfluous hands still on the pay-
sheets and that it may be necessary to get
rid of this surplus. Revenue this year is
expected to be £1,300,000 less than for the
previous period, and it is thought that some
700 men will shortly be retired on pension,
or otherwise dispensed with. One reason for
curtailment is the increasing popularity on
many lines of the motor-driven rail cars.
These are being put into service as fast as
possible, and can be handled by a greatly
reduced running and station staff. They are
much cheaper, also, than the usual type of
train, and promise to solve the problem
of more than one non-paying line.
* ■ * * *
That section of Sydney’s population which
buys its steak in outer suburbia has been
perturbed by the allegation of the Metropoli-
tan Meat Board that certain butchers within
its jurisdiction are in the habit of surrep-
titiously buying and slaughtering badly
diseased cattle in remote spots and then sell-
ing the meat to their customers. The farmers
owning the diseased cattle are alleged to be
in the vicious swindle, and the board pro-
poses to take action against both parties to
the crime. The iniquity is a commonplace
in far-out country centres. That it should
be possible in a great metropolitan area
where all meat sold is supposed to be
slaughtered in State abattoirs under strict
supervision argues considerable laxity some-
where.
* * * *
“Philm”: The Wesley Church Trust in
Perth, which owns a large city property, in-
cluding a leading picture theatre, has
announced a general reduction of rents of
3s. 4d. in the £. A remarkable feature is
that the tenants include a Jew, a foreign
herbalist and a Greek. The decrease may
not attract any more worshippers to Sunday
services, but it proves that the Church can
rise beyond the bounds of idealism into the
realms of economics.
*' H: Ht *
A three-storey building in Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne, has been let for £77 a week for
five years. A shop at the corner of Elizabeth-
street and Flinders-lane, alongside Craig
Williamson’s, has been leased for seven years
at £4OOO a year. Rents in Elizabeth and
Swanston streets, the two main approaches
to Flinders-street railway station, are, on
the average, now higher than tlie rents for
similar buildings in Bourke and Collins.
* * * *
Sydney may yet see aerial ferries land-
ing their passengers at Circular Quay or
Farm Cove. Such a service operating between
San Franciso and Oakland, a suburb across
the bay, carried 8330 passengers in the first
nineteen days. The combined boat and train
trip takes 40 minutes; the air-ferry takes
six. Charge, a dollar and a half, about six
shillings, with special rates for season
tickets. The service uses Keystone-Loening
amphibians, 525 h.p., which alight on the
water, then taxi up a slipway under their
own power.
* * *
“Drayman”: Faced with the problem of
housing our Elizabeth on an extremely limited
area of land, to which the only entrance
is a long lane too narrow to turn anything
bigger than a baby car, I asked contractors
to give me an estimate for garage and turn-
table. They measured the available level
area, and declared the job could not be done
without cutting at least 7ft. into a hillside
—a quarrying proposition which would bring
the cost up to (lowest tender) £S2 17s. Gd.
As the job had to be done for £4O or not at
all, the lowest or any tender was not accepted.l
decided to have a go at it myself, win or
burst. It proved dead easy. The bit of land
was shaped like a capital D, the straight
part of the letter standing for the boundary-
line of the lane, and the bent part for the
face of the cliff. The D measured 13ft. at
its thickest part, and 19ft. along the bound-
ary fence. Using four old 10ft. fence posts
as “sleepers,” I laid down a circular tram-
way—outer circle 9ft. Gin.; inner, 3ft. Gin.
On this I laid six pairs of flanged wheels,
with 3ft. axles, to which I bolted floor,
timbers supporting a platform 15ft. by
On this platform stands Elizabeth’s elegant
little revolving palace. A child can push
the whole concern round end for end. A full
width door at each end, and a couple of
portable ramps, 6in. high, enables Liz to
pop in and out at any convenient angle, and
buzz off about her business without obstruct-
ing the traffic or deafening the suburb by
backing and filling and reversing gears in
her attempts to get her nose in the
right direction. The total cost, including
all labor and materials, was £39 10s. N. 8.:
No architect’s fees are charged; I reckoned
the fun I got out of giving the kids of our
street free rides on the “merry-go-round”
during the progress of the undertaking more
than balanced the account. And passers-
by get a thrill occasionally when they see
the garage swinging out over the lane-way,
like a floating palace drifting majestically
to its moorings.
* * =N #
Sydney, which rejected an under-harbor
tunnel scheme in favor of a bridge, will
probably find the latter insufficient for re-
quirements in days to come, and may then
fall back on the cheaper and more easily
constructed tunnel —the quotation for that
proposed for Sydney was £700,000, though
the cost would be at least twice as much
now. Liverpool, which has had a rail
tunnel under the Mersey for 45 years, is
now burrowing a two-mile hole under the
big river for vehicular traffic, to carry four
lines abreast. The job will cost £5,000,000
and be completed some time next year.
# * * *
The inertness of the British War Office in
the matter of inventions is proverbial. The
latest instance is connected with the offer
by its inventor, C. A. Wragg, of Melbourne,
of an improvement in the design of aero-
plane wings. The W.O. has been brooding
on the matter for some time, and meantime
the Italians have jumped in with a liberal
offer for the rights. However, the inventor
prefers that the Empire should reap the
benefit, and intends to give Whitehall a
chance to awake from its slumbers.
He Ht * He
Crude oil is challenging bush timber as
fuel on W.A. goldfields. La«ke View and
Star Co. has installed a 400-h.p. Diesel com-
pressor engine. This is a pretty good start,
but the place where crude oil will soon be
consumed by the tanker load is Wiluna;
one tank, among others being erected there,
is 105 ft. in diameter by 35ft. high.
H« sfc He He
Even business depression has its little
jokes. Many shops in and around Adelaide
are unoccupied. At a seaside suburb, one
shop recently vacated has posted up the
following notice: “Closed for financial
repairs.”
H: He He ❖
Another knock to Australian butter-pro-
ducers threatens from South Africa, where
legislation dealing with dairy products has
just been enacted. This gives the respon-
sible authority power to prohibit the impor-
tation of butter from outside the Union.
The proposed airship passenger service
between Britain and Australia via Southern
Asia has gone phut. Experiments with the
latest type of balloons in Britain have not
been satisfactory • and although a German
Zeppelin has flown the Atlantic and cir-
cumnavigated the Northern Hemisphere, its
performances have been attended with
several “incidents.” Consequent doubts have
not been allayed by the latest experience of
this same gasbag at Hamburg. There in-
tense heat caused the craft to make an
ascent which its crew was unable to prevent.
If the contrivances are liable to get out of
hand through gas expansion due to the heat
of North Germany, it is not pleasant to
think of what might happen to one of them
attempting a journey across Mesopotamia
and India, to say nothing of out-back Aus-
tralia in summer.
H: * * *
“F.S.G.”: A Tasmanian policy-holder in
a life insurance office operating in both hemi-
spheres, about to visit England, has arranged
with the local office to have his policy trans-
ferred to the English register. On arrival in
London he will, so he plans, borrow against
the policy, and have, on his return to Tas-
mania, the policy transferred back to the
original office, where he will repay the loan
which he hopes to raise abroad. The plan
shows that there still are ways of financing
yourself on “the other side.” At least, this
good citizen hopes there are.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND,
TOWNSVILLE.
•No. 54 of 1930.
Mr. Justice Douglas.
BETWEEN CUMMINS & CAMPBELL, LIMITED,
Plaintiff
And ALFRED HENRY THEODORE THOM
Defendant.
To ALFRED HENRY THEODORE THOM.
TAKE NOTICE that Cummins & Campbell Limited
a company duly incorporated and carrying on business
at Townsville and elsewhere in the State of Queens-
land has commenced an action against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville by Writ
of that Court dated the tenth day of April 1930
claiming the sum of Six hundred and twenty-eight
pounds eight shillings and nine pence AND THAT
if you the said Alfred Henry Theodore Thom wish to
defend the said action you should cause an appear-
ance to be entered for you in the said Court at
Townsville within thirty days from the date of this
publication AND THAT in default of your so doing
the said Cummins & Campbell Limited may by
leave of the Court or a Judge proceed therein and
Judgment mav be given in your absence.
ROBERTS, LEU & NORTH, Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
Denham Street, Townsville.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin'
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
II
m
to
0
a
2-V.
s
NO BETTER VALUE
ANYWHERE
The famous super "Fx and
R” Gent.’s open-face Lever
Watch. 15 jewels, in
strong oxidised steel case.
66/-
Here is a watch with a reputation for hard
bush wear—one that has successfully
stood up to the hardest conditions with-
out deviating one iota from its famous
accuracy. We unhesitatingly recommend
it in the belief that there is not a stronger,
better or tnore durable watch made.
Orders by mail carejidly executed.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Missing Friends.
\Y/ILL MISS GRACE TAYLOR, last
W heard of in or about October, 1918, at
Golden Point, near Macrae’s Elat, Province
of Otago, in South Island, New Zealand, or
anyone knowing her whereabouts, please
communicate with the undersigned.
Miss Taylor was formerly a . resident ot
Percydale, near Avoca, in Victoria, and in
or about 1912 removed to New Zealand,
where at various times up till 1917 sne
resided at Hamilton, East Huntly, Paeroa
or Morrinsville, all in the Province ot Auck-
land, North Island, New Zealand. In or
about October, 1917, she removed to Golden
Point above mentioned, and remained there
till about October, 1918, since when nothing
has been heard of her.
DATED the 2nd day of August, 1980.
McDonough & macdonald,
Solicitors.
Maryborough, Victoria. Australia.
ROGER CROSBY HUNTER—Deceased.
TOHN CLARKE HUNTER, formerly of
J Bluff, New Zealand, or anyone knowing
his present whereabouts, is requested to
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Invercargill, New Zealand.
PERSONAL ITENS
Dr. Hamlyn Harris, whose determined dial
peers characteristiclly out of this picture,
is Brisbane’s O.C. Mosquito Extermination
Dept. An Englishman, he learned his busi-
ness at Tubingen in Germany, and his first
official job in Queensland was the director-
ship of the Queensland Museum, which he
took over in 1910. Prior to his advent, the
Museum had been the usual collection of
stuffed animals in advanced stages'of decay,
which serves to make so many folk indifferent
to the natural history of their own country.
Under the Harris regime the collection, which
DR. H. HAMLYN HARRIS.
included a fine assortment of Papuan and
New Guinea weapons and examples of pri-
mitive art and industry contributed by Sir
William Macgregor, took on a new aspect.
He early fell foul of the Puritans by exhi-
biting in all their primitive nakedness the
only two specimens of Torres Straits mumi-
fication (male and female) then known to
be in any public collection, but carried on
undauntedly. His published works, mostly
ethnological, are accepted as authoritative
the world over.
Andy Cunningham, the latest world-flier,
is about the most picturesque of the lot. His
father was a squatter near Canberra in pre-
Federation days and a mate of old Campbell,
of Duntroon ; and his mother was a Twynam,
of Goulburn. He enlisted in the 3rd L.H'.,
fought on Gallipoli, was wounded and col-
lected an M.C. and a commission. He can
ride any horse that was ever foaled, and has
never been known to get lost or lose his
nerve; he is a crack shot with a rifle or
shotgun, he doesn’t know what fatigue
means, and he has never been laid up except
by accidents or enemy action. Incidentally,
he doesn't want to make money out of
flying. The family is rolling in it.
Jno. W. Baker, who passed out in Sydney
lately, was one of Quakerdom s oldest and
strictest adherents. Born in Auckland nearly
80 years ago he came to Sydney and founded
the well-known cutlery business in H’unter-
street. A self-made man, his two hobbies were
home and garden. He was in harness until a
few months ago, and his familiar figure in
frock coat and patriarchal beard will be
missed in business circles.
During last week the lower part of the
last chords of the arch on which the Sydney
Harbor Bridge is to hang was put in place;
and then began the delicate job of releasing
the 12 dozen or
so cables by which
the two halves of
the arch are
tethered to earth.
There is a space
of about 3ft. 6in.
between the near-
est points of the
two sections, and
as the cables are
released the two
huge masses of
steel will slowly
fall and the ends
will come to-
gether ; and after
that, if there is
no buckling any-
where, the engi-
neers will have
fewer bad dreams.
As Cecil Mann
and Ftitli else-
where indicate
(“S u n d r y
Shows”), Ralph
Freeman and Dr.
Bradfield can’t
quite agree as to
which is the engi-
neer who really
designed the
bridge—F r eeman
who, as Dorman,
Long and Co.’s
bridge specialist,
drew the plans
RALPH FREEMAN.
on which his firm tendered; or Brad-
field, who checked the figures and recom-
mended the acceptance of the Dorman Long
design and tender. Freeman regards the
releasing of the cables as such a tremen-
dously important and ticklish part of the
whole job that he has come to Australia to
supervise it. All going well—as it has done
so far—the bridge _ itself, with the
approaches, will be finished about the end
of next year; maybe it will go a few weeks
into 1932.
Just celebrated her golden wedding, Mrs.
Hannah Owen, the grand-daughter of Manly’s
first white settler, George Pickering. Born
in 1850 in Sydney, she Was taken as an
infant in her grandfather’s cutter to Manly
and stayed there, a link with the days
■when bullock-drays wound along the Corso
and aborigines camped at Fairy Eower.
George Pickering was in Manly as early as
1814.
“General” Higgins, whose accession to the
Salv’army throne nearly caused a revolution
in Blood and Fire circles last year, w T ill
visit Australia next year. He will make a
grand tour of the eastern territories, finish-
ing up on May 7 in Melbourne, where an
all-Australian congress will be held. S. Aus.
and Westralia will see him later. Mrs.
General Higgins will accompany her lord.
S. Aus. has the unusual experience of
sending off two Rhodes Scholars to Oxford
this week, a former vacancy having been
used in presence of two strong candidates.
Wilclier is an honors B.A a fair all-round
athlete, and a master at St. Peter’s, Adel-
aide. Ben Hone has a similar degree, and is
teaching at Prince Alfred, his old school.
He is the youngest of the Hone tennis
family; and the S.A. cricket XI will miss
him badly.
Ray Parer goes back to New Guinea as
pilot for Guinea Airways. Ever since he
and Mclntosh flew from England in their
crazy machine he has been doing big things,
but quite out of the limelight. He reached
New Guinea three years ago with an old
D.H.4 that once belonged to De Garis, and
flew her on pioneering stages until the wind
blew her ribs away. Then he and Charlie
Pratt appeared in Port Moresby with a
D.H.9, an old Bristol fighter. Parer was
the first man to fly from the Port to the
Wau; and he has circled Mt. Yule with his
wingtips almost touching the cliffs.
Nina Murdoch, whose delightful book
“Seventh Heaven” has been published by
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., is the wife of
James Duncan Brown, a journalist on the
Melb “Herald.” She is the author of two
vols. of lyrics and was trained in journalism
in Sydney. Winning the Red Page competi-
tion for a sonnet on Canberra made the
lady first known to the public.
“lan C.”: Three Victorian lawyers have
sat in three different Houses of Parliament
though not, like the late Justice Ewing and
W. H. Carpenter (B. 30/7/’3O), in three
different legislatures. Agar Wynne was
first in Vic. Leg. Council, then in the Reps.,
and finally in Vic. Assembly. Arthur Robin-
son began in Vic. Assembly, went on to the
Reps., and wound up as leader of Vic.
Uppish House. Bob Best, after 17 years in
Vic. Assembly, had a term or two in' the
Senate and then sat in the Reps, until shifted
by Latham.
F. 11. Clark, who recently returned from
East Africa on a holiday, has spent 30
years of his life there, the last 10 as game
warden on the famous Kenya reserve. Before
that he was a trader in Kenya and Uganda,
and earlier still was one of the venturesome
ivory hunters who for some years invaded
the forbidden area of the Belgian Congo
north of the Kenya boundary in pursuit of
the great herds of elephants which roamed
there. Agreement between Belgium and the
British controllers of Kenya, which had long
been used as a base for the ivory-traders’
operations, brought that exciting and mostly
protnable game to a close.
Henry Gullett, deputy-leader of the
Opposition in the House of Reps., is a poli-
tician who has seen life in many climes
from many angles. Born 52 years ago at
H’arston (Vic.), where his father was a
selector, he began as a farmer but forsook the
land for a job on the “S. M. Herald” in his
early twenties —his uncle had long been
that paper’s principal leader-writer. A few
years later he was freelancing in Fleet-street
and acting as London correspondent for
Australian dailies. Then he turned to
immigration work, studying the methods
of the U.S. and Canada as well as those of
Europe. The war saw him Australia’s official
correspondent with the British and French
armies; later he enlisted in the Field Artil-
lery and gained a commission. His next
move w T as to Palestine, where he was official
historian to the A.1.F.; after the war he
became director of the Australian Immigra-
tion Bureau. Henty (Vic.) sent him to
Parliament five years ago.
The Rev. Hagenauer, of Cairns Memorial
Church, Melbourne, having noticed a lout
accosting and pawing young women, dragged
him from a tram-car in which he tried to
escape, and handed him over to an approach-
ing constable. The Bench took the oppor-
tunity of congratulating the athletic parson,
and added a wish that there were more like
him. He is a son of the late Pastor
Hagenauer, who devoted his life to the service
of the aborigines and was a leading authority
on native lore. With his two brothers, one
now a leading Gippsland surgeon, the other
an expert in X-rays, he played in the Uni.
football team in years gone by. The three
stalwarts piled up athletic records.
The great arch which will support the
Sydney Harbor Bridge lias been built simul-
taneously from tne north and south sides,
Engineer L. ENNIS.
and the two sections were close enough
together last; week for a plank to be thrown
across, and over this Dorman Long’s engineer
in charge of construction, L. Ennis, was the
first to pass. Later in the day the G.-G. and
his lady crossed over —and so did something
for Sydney to remember them by.
Justus Jorgensen,-the Melbourne painter,
tells a story of the late George Coates.
When Jorgensen was a shy young artist in
London, he called on the portrait painter,
then in his professional heyday, at 7.30 one
evening and found Coates entertaining dis-
tinguished guests at dinner. Jorgensen was
naturally a little embarrassed and anxious to
withdraw, but the elder artist would not hear
of it. Despite the young man’s protests, he
insisted on leaving the table, taking his
visitor into liis studio and showing him liis
pictures. Jorgensen couldn’t understand such
marked attentions until he discovered- that
Coates had mistaken him for a rich Nor-
wegian buyer. When the host learnt that
JAN KUBELIK .
Jorgensen was not only in no position to
buy pictures but was a fellow painter and
hailed from Coates’s own village of Mel-
bourne, their relations were put on a sounder
basis—albeit just as amiable.
Passed out recently at Mornington (Vic.),
Charles Bennett, artist, engraver and a
black-and-white man with few superiors in
his day. For years he engraved for David
Syrae’s “Illustrated Australian News,” long
since defunct. Some of his work may be
seen in the “Picturesque Atlas .of Aus-
tralasia,” a publication of the ’eighties, for
which the late William Macleod did a lot of
notable work.
Alfred Carson is Westralia’s oldest journal-
ist and there is none who was ever held in
higher or more deserved regard:—a small,
heavy-moustached man sometimes affec-
tionately referred to by his colleagues as
“The Gnome.” He began as a schoolmaster,
but he has been spilling ink for 45 years,
first at Geraldton and ever since at Perth,
wdiere he joined the staff of the “West Aus-
tralian” in 1895. He is a living encyclo-
paedia on the history of the State, natur-
ally enough, for his father was one of the
first white children born in the old Swan
River Settlement, and he has left it for
only two brief periods, once as a Government
special commissioner to report on the licens-
ing laws of the other Australian States and
Maoriland, and secondly as Westralia’s repre-
sentative on the Australian Press delegation
to the U.K. and the Western front in 1918.
Rather late in life he developed political
ambitions and contested the Perth Federal
seat unsuccessfully in 1922. A younger
brother served a term or two in the State
Parliament.
All over the world Australians may be
found in responsible jobs. Cecil A. Roberts,
who has just been revisiting his native land,
is general manager of the Buenos Ayres
Western Railway Co., with which he has
worked for 24 years. The annual revenue
of the concern is round about £10,000,000.
“Bloggs”: Jim Bancks, wdio is now doing a
vaudeville turn at London Palladium (I’ll
swear at a star’s figure), is an example of
what an artist can do when he has a busi-
ness man’s brain. Bancks would smile if
you accused him of being .a front-ranker in
black and white or anything like one. But
he got a record price from the hard-boiled
Campbell-Jones of the “Sun” for his Ginger
Meggs series. Then he made a lot of money
from a Meggs book. Then he took Meggs
to the U.S.A., syndicated him, and is now
drawing nearly as much from his New York
agent as he does from the “Sun.” Mailey
happens to be one of his friends. So he
arranged to visit England while the crick-
eters were putting Australia in the lime-
light, and if lie doesn’t place Meggs there at
a satisfactory figure I shall be surprised. He
is earning as much as any two State I re-
mi ers at present, and his income should be
better before it gets worse. He was a junior
clerk in a Sydney wool store when The
Bulletin discovered him and made it pos-
sible for him to take up art as a career.
PRECEPT, NOT EXAMPLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“While the Federal Treasurer obstinately refuses
to reduce Commonwealth expenditure, State Trea-
surers must go home and cut down theirs to the very
bone.” — “S. M. Herald.”
The time has come, you’re all aware,
For heavier work or lighter pay.
The cupboard’s singularly bare
From Exmouth Gulf to Moreton Bay.
From Moon-yoo-nooka to Mackay
Belts must be tightened, one perceives.
At Canberra as well, you say?
No, that’s another pair of sleeves.
State Treasurers must homeward fare,
Envisaging in dire dismay
The ledgers that they’ve got to square,
The thrift that they must needs display.
Twice must they look at ev’ry tray
Before their custody it leaves.
Scullin, you think, might show the way?
No, that’s another pair of sleeves.
In sacrifices all must share —
All sister States, that is to say;
It’s not the Commonwealth’s affair —
To dock the screw of M.L.A.
Or M.L.C. is quite O.K.
When strained finances it relieves,
But Senators and Reps.? Nay, nay.
That’s quite another pair of sleeves.
Economy’s our watchword. So
We preach it, whomso’er it grieves;
To practise what we’re preaching, though,
Would be another pair of sleeves.
N.S.W.
I FORD.


THE FLIGHT FROM CANBERRA.
“The Federal Parliament went into six months’ recess on Friday.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mr. Cinders”
Criterion “Little Accident”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The New Moon”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
-
When, the other day, an enterprising
gentleman suddenly discovered that Sydney
Harbor Bridge works were a dramatic spec-
tacle comparable with other great national
institutions like the State Theatre and Jim
Gerald’s trousers, the thing gripped the
popular imagination at once. Even the
“Sydney Morning Herald,” held by some to
be impregnably decorous, burst into a rorty
leader, which mentioned that Sir Hugh Allen,
of the Royal College of Music, had said
Finding their way to Sydney’s latest box-
office success, the Bridge Works.
that Bradman must now be reckoned among
the other great B’s. That, of course, as we
all knew, referred to the Bannermans, Black-
ham and Bonuor; but Sir Hugh must make a
joke of it by. saying he referred to Bach,
Beethoven and Brahms.
“If,” kittenishly continued the leader,
“playful suggestions .such as this are in
order, the list of B’s may well be enlarged
to admit the Bridge.” Well, why not? Any-
way, the public thought so. In thousands
it packed itself on to Milson’s Point ferry-
boats at the Quay, asked the deckhands if
this was the way to the Bridge, crossed the
harbor, asked the wharf-hands, read a tre-
mendous scarlet notice, “This Way In to the
Bridge,” asked a policeman, paid a shilling
and simply went to the workshops and
proceeded eagerly in large numbers to get
the bob’s w r orth.
There was great value for the money. It
i.s true that the works were not working, and
that disgruntled visitors could be heard refer-
ring to it all as a sell, and blasphemously
describing the entertainment as a couple of
big corrugated sheds full of stacks of old
iron, but they were the sort of people you meet
with every day, who simply don’t know how
to use _ their imagination and have to get
all their entertainment spoon-fed to them.
All experienced theatrical entrepreneurs are
familiar with this class. That is why you
never hear a producer say to a chap like
Gus Bluett, “Look, Gus, all I want you to
do is go on to the stage. That ought to
be a big enough joke to amuse anybody.”
What you hear him say is, “Walk on.
Brisker! Sit down there. Now count up
on both hands how long it takes to have a
baby.” Or else to Miss Taliaferro, “No,
I’m sorry, Miss Taliaferro, that won’t do
at all. People nowadays have got to be
amused, so it’s no use walking on like that
and looking sulky and walking off again.
You’ve got to do some real big acting. Now,
take off your dress, please.”
Of course, this Bridge show has proved
a stunning success, even with the audience
having to provide all its own entertainment,
but the producers might be wise to put a
bit more snap into it if they want to do
business after the first flush of novelty wears
off. With all due humility, this Showunan
would suggest the immediate borrowing,
regardless of cost, of at least three platoons
of Field-Marshal Stuart Doyle’s gallant and
decorative Dismounted Postilions. Another
idea, which might as well be acknowledged
Dr. Bradfield and Mr. Freeman singing their
touching duet, “I Did Not Design the
Bridge.”
at once to the same affluent source, would be
to find out definitely who did design the
Bridge, and immediately elevate him to equal
status with Valentino by hanging his milan-
ese drawers up inside one of the great pylons.
(If both Dr. Bradfield and Mr. Freeman
deny having designed the Bridge, the one
addicted to milane.se would naturally mer ; t
the suggested promotion.) Again, still fol-
lowing the same triumphant precedent, it
might be a great publicity scheme to hold
an art competition, in which, however, in-
stead of the prizes being awarded for the
largest paintings submitted, competition
would be restricted to artists who had painted
or drawn the Bridge in the course of con-
struction. These and their works having
been deservedly burnt by the common hang-
man, the prize money could be divided be-
tween the two artists who had refrained from
stealing the bread out of the mouths of
starving photomatous.
Then there is the programme. What on
earth is the use of hanging up a bit of card-
board lettered, “This- saw will cut through
8 x 10 x 9 in.”? Personality, not mechanical
jiggeries, is the money-spinner. Nobody
wants to know that this guillotine will cut
through cast-steel two feet thick, but there
is a universal appeal in such stuff as,
“LAWRENCE ENNIS is the Dink Hot
Baby, Oh, Boy, we tell the world, he's got
the tang to put her over.” Or, “Stupen-
dous ! Magnifiquo! Superb! Positively
Dazzling and Obstreperous ! Doc. Bradfield,
the bold, bad man of this great hangover, is
all that; and yet catch him at home, and
say, girls, he emotes with throbbing tender-
ness! See the Bashful Doc. in this mighty
spectacle, and turn the padlocks on your
little circulation distributors for ever !” And
what about the leading riveters or the
creeper-crane drivers? What do they eat for
breakfast? Do they consider a black eye
unlucky? How did they come to miss being
gored to death by a savage lion in the wilds
of Condobolin ? Which do they prefer—Freud
or two-up? Or, most important of all, what
do they fancy for next Saturday? And
what about the ballet of bolts; the chorus
of nuts; the orchestra of riveting machines?
Not one of these gets a word of mention, so
that the sort of people who refer to the show
as merely a collection of old iron go away
and confuse the bolts with food or boarding-
houses; the nuts with doughnuts, or cocoa-
nuts, or monkey-nuts, and the riveting
machines with school (“Now, boys, I want
you to rivet your attention on the b'ack-
board”), or love (“When he saw the lovely
Eleanora he stood riveted between the back
door and the woodheap”).
Rut, though all these things ought to be
rectified, the show is already splendid of its
kind. It all depends on how, or whether,
you like the kind. That is to say, if you
get wildly excited when you see big stacks
of iron, well go to it. You will have the
time of your life.
Of course, the foregoing has to do only
with the works and is not to be confused
with the bridge proper, which ie larger than
a wurlitzer and almost as profound. It is
not part of the bob's worth at all. It is
outside the sheds, arching over the Harbor,
so big that if Victoria happens to wallop
New South in the Great Civil War and
takes it to Melbourne as a souvenir, it will
have to be put, not across the Yarra. bm up
Gus Bluett, in the throes
of obstetric arithmetic.
and down. There
appears to be
some confusion
as to where the
design for it
came from. Dr.
Bradfield seems
to think Mr.
Freeman d e-
signed it, and
Mr. Freeman
seems to think
it was Dr. Brad-
fi e 1 d. The
Bulletin’s
office binghi,
however, blames
Bungeyeo, the
god of battle of
the Bunyip
tribe, who, he
asserts, has
presented Syd-
ney with this
big fellow bud-
ger e e boom-
erang in com-
memoration of
the greatest honor ever paid to the Aus-
tralian abo. —the time beer was declared
black.
-
Kubelik continues at Sydney Town Hall
to demonstrate the virtue of good advertis-
ing. He is enjoying the best' publicity any
virtuoso has had in years, and he is also
enjoying the largest audiences. The Town
Hall really was crowded for last week’s two
concerts, and it seems pretty well certain
it would be for several extra ones if J. and
N. Tait were not advertising, “Under no
circumstances can the season he further
. extended.” Yet there is nothing moving in
his fiddling. In his hands the fiddle be-
comes the chisel of musical instruments. The
chips that fall away ring out like marble,
but the finished work is a thing of ice. Ha
is a technician of extraordinary ability, but
as an entertainer he could ba taller. He
was seen at his very brightest on Saturday
night, when he fiddled most carefully and
precisely through the Saint-Saens Concerto
in B minor, the Wieniawski Concerto in D
minor, the Sarasate “Carmen” assembly, a
“Witches’ Dance” of Paginini and a few
other items.
The Town Hall not being available for a
matinee arranged for to-morrow afternoon,
it will be given at Her Majesty’s. Back to
Bleak House for the farewell on Saturday
night.
ft ft >t
Sydney’s new amateur theatre, the Inde-
pendent, was ushered in last week “By
Candle Light.” That was the name of the
play, but it rather describes the acting. The
players, called upon to represent a class
quite beyond their ken —European aristo-
cracy and its attendant flunkeys—succeeded
in speaking the parts with clearness and not
much hesitation. The performance wms, in
fact, a nice play-reading, wherein the readers
wore approximately appropriate clothes, and
the book was knit in the wings. Baron Clar-
ence Murphy Egon von Felseu spoke as if
he might be expected to leave at any moment
for his baronial halls in Pitt-street, and
“gal” was the general rendering of “girl.”
But these things, and even the fact that
scarcely anybody quite looked the part, did
not especially matter. What did was the
drag that got into the movement early and
was never shaken off. There was no attack.
Still, it made a light and bright entertain-
ment, ideally suited to those who would
rather sleep on steel spikes than do their
own reading. The players had polish as
opposed to the crudeness that usually brands
the amateur, and they gave the impression
“These and their works having been
deservedly burnt.”
that they may put up a diverting show when
they shake down to their job.
ft ft ft
“Handcuffs for One,” the Australian
comedy by Isabel Handley which had
bouquets thrown at it by the Sydney Show-
man when it was done by professional actors
of the Harbor City, was redone amateurly
but not amateurishly at the Kelvin Hall,
Melbourne, twice last week. The, Play-
writers’ is the. name of the brand-new organ-
isation of which Mrs. Elizabeth Apperly is
the most efficient member. She was the
mother accused wrongfully of stealing a
bracelet. The charwoman of Kathleen Salter
was another admirable characterisation,
much helped by the touches of clever realism
supplied by the author. Miss Handley has
a flair for writing plays that are practically
actor-proof. Present writer cannot remember
seeing one of her pieces that wasn’t worth
sitting through, however vilely misinter-
preted.
* ft *
One of the most interesting of Bernard
Heinze’s “celebrity” concerts at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall occurred on Saturday
and attracted a crowd of noble proportions.
Heinze seized the opportunity of the visit
of _ John Dunn, an English violinist of
eminence, to give the Tscliaikowsky Concerto
in D major for violin and orchestra a run for
its money. Those who were aware of the
complexity and length of the solo part of
the opus murmured, will he do it? Unike
the usual virtuosi of these days, who look-
less like artists than motor salesmen, Dunn
has a gentle and poetic appearance, and is
elderly enough to have been invented by
Dickens and to have gone on living and
growing older independently of his creator.
He staggered his audience by waltzing
through the concerto with the ease of a
young acrobat, and capped the achievement
with an encore which was even more gym-
nastic. Present writer would have liked
to hear him in something more terfler
than the Tscliaikowsky, which is a trifle un-
gainly, except for the second movement.
Nevertheless, it was a noteworthy perform-
ance.
In the “Carillon” of Elgar the orchestra
succeeded in drowning Frank Clewlow, whose
part was to recite Em'le Cammaerts’s “Song
to the Belgians,” an incitement to the nation
to be up and repel the German invader.
Clewlow’s fine voice had almost exactly the
same timbre as the orchestral accompani-
ment, and it was a case of one instrument
against 85. The lovely Cesar Franck Sym-
phony in D minor was the most musical
event of the evening, and a brilliant per-
formance stirred the house to something
approaching tumult.
ft- ft ft
The Vaudeville Renaissance continues in
full blast at Melbourne Tivoli. It will pro-
bably go down in local theatrical history as
second only in importance to the Italian
Renaissance. Hugh D. Macintosh is the
Medici of the movement. Incidentally, he
bears a strong resemblance to Lorenzo the
Magnificent, though Rourke-street does not
bear much resemblance to sixteenth century
Florence. The great artists whom Hugh D.
has dragged out of obscurity, if not desti-
tution, now include Hector St. Clair, Rene
Esler, Tui Black, Frith. Nell Fleming, Colin
Crane, Joe Lawman and Mo the Irrepres-
sible. It is the biggest bill of headliners
that has ever been presented at the Tivoli.
Ade Reeve was added last week. The public
is responding by packing the renovated
theatre at both sessions. It is in the non-
critical mood when it is prepared to be
amused at anything. Tiie Bulletin looked
in on Saturday just at the moment when
Mo was explaining that he was the possessor
of a canary, adding, in a rush of ornitholo-
gical exactitude, that it was a yellow one.
The resultant yell of laughter brought down
a large patch of ceiling.
ft- ft- *
Melbourne Jewry attended in force to hear
a programme of modern Hebraic music at
the Assembly Hall last week. A pervasive
melancholy was its keynote. It was not so
much modern as looking backwards. Irish
poetry and the negro spirituelle belong to
the same category. It was the music of
exile, of a people obstinately determined to
sit in sackcloth and ashes for at least one
day in the week, even if they are reluctantly
obliged to sit in limousines for the rest of
it. Whoever it was turned the Jews out
of their country has a lot to answer for.
Political injustices cast long shadows —even
unto an audience sitting in a hall in Collins-
street.
Artistically the performance was of a high
order. Julia Russell’s singing of “Dos naie
Lied” (in Yiddish) and of Weiner’s beauti-
ful “Lament” was deeply moving, and the
Sisserman quartette showed its usual admir-
able sense of unity. Linda Phillips played
the piano, and Reginald Bradley the violin
in a Rhapsody sonata of Miss Phillips's own
composition. It was a fine combination of
talents, though the sonata suffers from a
habit of repeating itself too often.
ft- ft- ft
The subscription venture which Gregan
McMahon and a number of professional
players erected on the ruins of the legitimate
theatre is contemplating a fresh outbreak
at Melbourne Bijou. “The Plough and the
Stars” of Sean O’Casey and “This Woman
Business,” by Bonn Levy, will be the new
items.
ft ft ¥
The W. E. A. Dramatic Society in Adelaide
is steadily working up, and its evening of
Australian one-acters was a distinct success
—though intervals were far 100 long. The
gloomy “Morning” of Betty Davies was the
main item, honors going to- Frank Part as
the desperate man and Cyril Stacey as the
bibulous carrier of gold. The other three
offerings were all by the prolific Isobel Hand-
ley ; “The Celebrity” stood out among them.
Mimi Mattin (who also produced) was de-
lightful as flic home-coming celebrity, care-
less and hurried, and Essie Hack, as the
loving and disappointed mother; while among
the neighbors' “character” studies Keith
Tydeman stood out. Altogether a praise-
worthy venture.
ft ft ft
London managers have a foolish way of
giving New York plays an English setting,
though ideas and dialogue continue to shriek
of their true origin. On the Australian stage
this foolishness loses all its object. That
is wlmt has happened to Leon Gordon’s ser-
mon, now at Adelaide Royal, against allur-
ing into marriage the Tiling called Love,
which makes otherwise contented partners
jealous and therefore quarrelsome. Gordon
himself, though probably quite unlike the
author’s idea of a rough diamond from Peru,
gives a sound performance with Mary Mac-
gregor. In the strong support Frank Brad-
ley stands out.
ft >t ft
“The Insect Play,” which Duncan Mac-
dougall is reviving at Sydney Playbox, is a
queer blending of satire and pantomime, the
joint work of Karel and Josef Capek.
Another amateur offering, John Hastings
The real designer of Sydney Harbor Bridge.
Turner’s modern comedy “The Lord of the
Manor,” which the Players’ Club is putting
on, has a topical interest. In it an irascible
squire is obliged under a Government Act to
provide food and shelter for a number of the
unemployed.
ft ft *
Shakspook and everything else is sus-
pended at the Opera House ( to permit the
Australian “Governor Bligh” to hold the
floor. It is gleefully advertised as “a sen-
sational success” and “the Australian play
which is making Australian theatrical his-
tory.” Excellently mounted and dressed, it
is, at any i*ate, an uncommonly good enter-
tainer. Wilkie has, rarely done better than
he is doing as Bligh.
ft * ft
Both the musicomedy “Mr. Cinders” at the
Majesty’s and “Little Accident” at the Cri.
“Field-Marshal Stuart Doyle’s gallant and
decorative Dismounted Postilions.”
will be no more on August 23, when their
respective places are to be taken by “Follow
Through” and “Coquette.” According to the
Firm’s publicity “Little Accident” comes off
only because “Mr. Cinders” has to move on,
and Gus Bluett, who is nursing the “Acci-
dent,” is the lead of “Follow Through.”


PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI "
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 ho Standard oi Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting their Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,120,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment bv which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £37,345,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
“Ought I to sell?” That is the com-
monest question put by client to broker in
these days; and it is asked again and again
every week of The Bulletin’s Service
Department. “Ought I to sell?” And no
worth-while answer can be given in most
cases unless one knows the circumstances
of the questioner.
The great trouble is that in general the
people who should take the smallest risks
accept the largest ones. They have got so
little that they want a big return for it.
Unfortunately big returns and small risks
go together only by a most unusual acci-
dent.
It is possible, however, that the risky
speculation which you should never have
touched has fallen so low in the market
that what you could get by selling is of
no consequence. • 111 that case, instead of
selling, it is better to put the scrip away and
forgot it. But first make quite sure that
there is no liability attached to the holding.
Every investor, great and small, should
examine his securities for shares that are
only part paid. They are terribly dangerous
things to live with in such days as these.
But don’t sell anything just because it has
fallen in the market. Values sailed up
because money was cheap. You had to pay
away a lot of it to buy C.S.R.’s or cabbages.
You can buy cabbages for much less now;
and you must expect stocks to shrink in pro-
portion to the general shrinkage.
So also there is not necessarily any occa-
sion for alarm even if the dividend is cut
a trifle. Statistics on this subject are rarely
satisfactory; but the “Wild Cat” has no
doubt whatever that £9 will to-day buy a
great deal more of most things—in Sydney,
at any rate —than £lO would a year ago. In
short, you are better off with a 9 p.c. div.
to-day than you were with 10 p.q. a year ago.
Out of this arises another important con-
sideration. Every co. which has contracted
to pay a fixed percentage on borrowed or
other capital is pritna facie a poorer invest-
ment for the ordinary shares than it was a
while ago ; and where there is a large deben-
ture or other outside debt the pref. shares
offer less security. On the other hand, the
pref. share gives a rather better real return
than it did, £6 to-day being worth more fhan
£6 was a year ago. As against that has to
be put the remote possibility of inflation:
if that happened, the person with a mort-
gage of any kind (including debentures and
pref. shares) would be badly hit, while the
person with the equity (including ordinary
shares) would score.
The Australian Bank of Commerce.
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserve?, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 80,255 4 p.c. = 47,947 32,308 149,067
1919.. 97,256 5 „ „ 59,934 37,322 186,389
1920.. 108,391 54., „ 65,967 42,424 228,813
1921.. 129,578 6}'•„ „ 78,000 51,578 280,391
1922.. 127,196 7 „ „ 84,000 43,196 323,587
1923.. 130,678 7 „ „ 84,000 46.678 370,265
1924.. 133,253 7 „ „ 84,000 49,253 419,518
Inscribed deposits of £958,307 exchanged
for fully-paid shares, of which £638,872
•were issued, the balance, £319,435,
being added to reserves .. .. 738,953
Premiums on new shares, £441 .. 739,394
1925.. 170,766 74p.c.= 115,600 55,166 794,560
1926.. 197.943 8 „ ~147,200 50,743 845,303
Premiums on new shares, £131,120.. 976,423
1927.. 208,067 8 p.c. = 157,827 50,240 1,026,663
Premiums on new shares, £6BBO .. 1,033,543
1928.. 216,742 8 p.c. = 176,640 40,102 1,073,645
1929.. 218,545 8 „ ~ 176,640 41,905 1,115,550
1930.. 180,693 7 „ ~ 154,560 26,133 1,141,683
Steady expansion of the business, enhance-
ment of the bank’s reputation by the
exchange of scrip for inscribed deposit stock
and a lift in the div. from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c.
sent the pound shares past 30s. in 1925.
After that, prospects of extra benefits from
new share issues, the hope of a further lift
in the div. and rumors of amalgamation, first
with a local institution and later with an
overseas bank, kept the price fluctuating
between 30s. and 395. until December last.
Then, suddenly, financial debility aggra-
vated our economic ills, resulting, amongst
other things, in ai wholesale revision of
values, causing financial and other institu-
tions to husband their strength. Partly
because of this the board wrote last year’s
net profit £37,852 short of the 1929 figure,
which meant 8.1 p.c. on average capital as
against 9.9, 9.8, 10.5, 10.7 and 11.8 p.c. ba k
to 1925; also, it reduced the div. to 7 p.c.
again. Hence bids lor the shares have fallen
to 225. in the market. The yield at that
price is 6.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and
the backing is 30s. 4d. in net tangibles.
There are £1,141.683 of visible reserves
supporting the £2.208,000 of paid capital,
so the two combined need to net only 4.6
p.c. to pay a 7 p.c. div., or 5 2 p.c. to pay
8 p.c. Provided the bad debts question does
not become more acute than the board anti-
cipates. there is nothing to suggest that the
7 p.c. is in danger; indeed, an extra one
per cent, is a reasonable expectation when
things become more settled. Meantime,
smaller earnings from exchange ate certain,
and outgoings will be difficult to restrain.
Last year’s smaller agricultural and other
incomes are reflected in a sharp contraction
of £1,360,85S in deposits, mainly current
accounts, and a shrinkage of £869,493 in
other liabilities: —
Liabilities.
Inscribed Other
Deposits. Deposits. Liabilities.
1910 .. £1,859.022 £1,716.477 £762,813
1915 .. 1,614.689 3,016.323 347,081
1920 .. 1,413,657 8,108,526 1,063,051
1924 .. 1,24.,116 10,342.440 1,250.661
1925 . . 244,079 11,294,435 1,149,263
1926'.. 200,963 12,463,529 1,366,196
1927 .. Nil 13,201,514 1,859.653
1928 .. Nil 14,018,935 1,234,553
1929 .. Nil 14,714,138 1,854,760
1930 . . Nil 13,353,280 985,267
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1910 .. £1,185.979 £3.754,889 £367,727
1915 .. 1.921,588 3.980.587 357,237
1920 .. 4,374,093 7,176.809 499,145
1925 .. 5,823,601 9,123,345 433,991
1926 .. 5,936,84 9 10,334.004 453,738
1927 .. 6,537,933 11,463.057 365.306
1928 .. 6,851,973 11,406,260 365,220
1929 .. 6,656,117 12,913,155 411,496
1930 . . 4,566,347 12,795,307 403,855
To meet these withdrawals liquids were
tapped for £2,089,770, reducing them to 6s.
4d. of every pound of cfutside liabil ties as
against Bs. at the close of accounts in 1929.
The reduction in advances was only £117,848;
nevertheless they were 95.8 p.c. of the de-
posits compared with 87.7 p.c. and 81.3 p.c.
in 1929 and 1928 respectively. If deposits
remained at their present figure advances
could be reduced by about £2,000.000 b fore
the two would stand in what is usually con-
sidered a normal relation to one another.
When the books were last ruled off the
bank was holding only £4 ss. 7d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its own
funds. That is a low proportion, and means
moderate earning power.
Yellow Cabs of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards De-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, fieit.
£ £ £ £
1925*. 17,742 10 p.c. = 11,775 5967 6,942
Loss on De Luxe Assets, £3537 .. 10,479
Goodwill, £5OOO .. .. 15,479
1926. • 74,235 174 p.c. 46,110 ( niq 14 860
Profits capitalised, £27,506 J *4,80u
Reserves.
General Reserves disclosed, £25,000.. 10,140
1927.. 44,111 10 p.c. = 35,792 8319 18,459
Loss on De Luxe assets, £1269 .. 17,190
1928.. 20,580 Nil 20,580 37,770
1929.. 14,173 5 p.c. = 20,061 31,882
Capital returned, £100,305.
Loss on sale of assets, £2600 .. 29,382
Loss.
1930.. 8,309 Nil 21,073
*8 months, 17 days.
As a previous venture of the sort had fore-
shadowed, it was a precarious investment
from the start. But there was a great flour-
ish of trumpets, circumstances were kind,
and early results sent the market rushing
for the scrip—625. 6d. was paid for the
pound shares. Presently the novelty wore
off, less money was thrown about in taxi
hire, competition sharpened, rates were cut,
and operating and other exes, were difficult
to get back. Thus the business has been
an ailing one for the last three years. Owing,
however, to the large amounts annually set
aside for depreciation, the board was able
to return ss. per share (£100,305) early in
the last terfti, reducing paid capital to
£300,914 in fully-paid 15s. shares.
But the co. had more cabs than it could
find profitable employment for. So in Syd-
ney, where the competition is particularly
severe, it leased as many as it could on a
percentage basis, and a subsidiary, Town
Taxis Pty„ Ltd., was formed to operate the
older units of the fleet on a similar basis.
Meanwhile circumstances made the public
more careful of the fewer pence in its pocket;
and after paying working and administrative
exes., the gross operating profit for the 12
months to June 30 was only a shade over
half the previous year’s:—
Gross No. of
Profits. Depreciation. Cabs.
1926 .. £134,128 £65,178 392
1927 .. 121,249 80,164 502
1928 .. 98,194 74,023 502
1929 . . 62,121 48,364 538
1930 . . 31,336 39,645 ?
Gross profit was not enough to cover the
usual charge for depreciation, which is based
on half the manufacturers’ estimate of the
mileage life of the cabs. Hence the result
of the year’s trading was a loss of £8309;
and there was a further loss of £2500 on
assets sold in connection with the return
of capital. Thus reserves were bitten into
for £10.809. reducing them to £21,073 in
excess of goodwill (£5000).
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:—
1925. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £196,896 £300,914 £300,914
Mortgage .. .. 10,000
Sundry creditors .. 7,249 104,444* 5,320
Freehold . . . . 102,211 140,594 129,616
Cabs, etc. ] f 145,358 110,143
Garage equipment 1 117,987 -j 7,830 3,346
Tyres, uniforms, etc. J ( 11,172 10,170
Stocks 4,126 20,312 15,644
Debtors . . . . .. 4,724 38,179 9,212
Cash, investments, etc. 18,648 93,976 49,177
*lncludes £100,305 capital returnable.
At June 30 surplus liquids, excluding stocks,
totalled £53,069* or £45.419 more than they
did a year earlier —-that is after allowing for
the return of capital and payment of the
5 p.c. div.
The position now is that the co. has a
large fleet, which, it is claimed, is in good
running order. But the chances of operating
it at a profit under existing conditions are
exceedingly slender, and there is no prospect
of early improvement in the outlook for the
taxi-cab business. The directors, therefore,
have decided to convert a number of the
smaller cabs into vans and utility trucks,
and offer them for sale at “attractive” prices.
What profit, if any, results from this will
largely depend upon many things, most of
them outside the co.’s control.
The market’s opinion is that the scrip
is worth 6s. or thereabouts. The share (now
15s. face value) is backed by net tangibles
with a book value of 21s. 5d., of which
freeholds represent Bs. 7d.; cabs, 7s. 4d.;
equipments, etc., 25.; surplus liquids, 3s. 6d.
Investors at the current price, therefore,
entirely disregard the book value of the fleet,
and discount the figure at which freeholds
appear by more than 60 p.c. In this con-
nection it is interesting to recall that the
Commonwealth’s first venture of this sort,
the Australian Motor Cab Co., though disas-
trous in operation, retrieved about half its
capital by the sale of its freehold.
The Australia Hotel (Sydney).
, Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
June, £ £ £ £
1919 . . 20,290 1980 10 p.c. = 15,000 45,242
1920 .. 35,014 1980 12J* „ „ 22,500 55,776
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 30,776
1921 . . 32,990 1980 10 p.c. = 25,000 36,786
1922 . . 28,954 1980 10 „ „ 25,173 38,587
1923 . . 36,825 1980 10 ~ „ 25.373 48,059
1924 . . 37,486 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 58,192
1925 43,678 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 74,517
Asset written up, £108,352 .. 182,869
Transferred to capital, £79,292 .. 103,577
1926 . . 54,253 1980 10 p.c. = 38,488 117,362
1927 .. 55,138 1980 10 „ ~38,917 131,603
1928 . . 51,660 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 142,366
inoq .. 59 312 1980 10 ~ „ 38,917 160,781
1930 .. 43,065 1980 9 „ „ 35,025 166,841
The board wrote the year’s net result at
£37,065, or £6466 less than the previous
year’s. The difference between that and
the profit shown in the table represents un-
explained additions to reserves. Including
these, but allowing for the pref. require-
ments, the disclosed result was 10.5 p.c.
on average ord. capital compared with 13.5,
12.7, 13.6 and 13.5 p.c. back to 1926. The
immediate outlook being unfavorable, the
final div. was reduced to 8 p.c. p.a., making
9 p.c. for the year.
The true profit very largely depends on
what has been spent out of earnings on re-
placements, additions, etc. The board says
the property has been well maintained, and
proper provision made to meet existing con-
ditions. It might be inferred from this that
every penny has not been put on the table.
The figures, however, do not reflect the full
effects of adverse conditions, which developed
as the year advanced, and which seem likely
to continue for a while. Whisky houses
report a drop of 33 p.c. in their turnover,
while the contraction in rural and other in-
comes means that many country visitors will
postpone their holiday to the city, and less
money will be spent. The co. has reduced
its tariff, overhead threatens to be stubborn
and the taxgatherer is calling for more. So,
until the position clears, nothing better than
8 p.c. need be looked for. The market, not
certain that that rate is secure, pays 19s. 6d.
for the pound ords. as against 345. 6d. a year
ago. Allowing for the final div., the return
at the lower figure is 8.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis.
The extension of the premises to Martin-
place has been postponed. To provide this
long-looked-for outlet and more accommoda-
tion the co. bought the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank’s old premises for £150.000
a year or so ago. The book value of the entire
freehold (£635,000) advanced by exactly the
amount of the purchase price, and it re-
mained unaltered last year. The board went
outside for the money, but whether it was
raised on mortgage or otherwise is not vis-
ible in the published accounts: —
1921. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Stock .. .. £23,544 £15,235 £15,766 £14,424
Book debts, etc. 5,358 35,206* 14,418 9,055
Cash, etc. .. 4,070 1,400 1,800 1,200
Liquid assets. . £32,972 £51,841 £31,984 £24,679
Liabilities . . 36,782 44,382 156,110 146,636
Excess liabilities £3,810 £7,459f £124,126 £121,957
Property and
equipment .. 287,904 552,524 702,524 702,524
investments. fLiquid surplus.
The year’s net improvement in the financial
position was £2169, leaving the debt, which
includes an unspecified amount for taxation,
£121,957 in excess of the more or less liquids.
The book value of equipment has been
unaltered at £67,524 for the last seven years.
The co. has been very prosperous in the
past. Since 1910, £364,109 has been added
to paid capital (now £422,169), and £229,292
of the increase represents gift distributions.
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
62 398
1928.-52,030 2,250 124 p.c. = 34,792 14,988 47,410
Net premiums on new shares. £27,426.. 19,984
Reserves.
1929.. 74,996 6,193 124 p.c. = 45,800 23,003 3,019
Premiums on new shares, etc., £23,024.. 26,043
1930. .78,057 12,000 124 p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
This co. runs a chain of .stores, in which the
top price is 2s. 6d. Quick turnover for cash
is the main pillar on which the business
rests. For most of its lines the co. is able
to pay the bill out. of takings and pocket
the profit well within the time allowed under
ordinary trade credit, thus removing much
of the difficulty usually involved in the
financing of stocks. Other features are low
capital investment per store, and low over-
head and selling exes. Well-managed chains,
working closely to these principles, seem
likely to come through the test of the next
few years without much damage.
Turnover in the Coles chain lias bounded
along in this way:—
Stores. Sales. Stores. Sales.
1924.. 3 £190,982 \ 1928.. 10 £1,052,882
1925.. 5 372,409 | 1929.. 14 1,592,890
1926.. 6 563,466 | 1930.. 17 1,838,414
1927.. 8 837,621 |
The new headquarters freehold premises in
Bourke-street, Melbourne, were opened in
March last, and over 100,000 customers were
served on the first day. Nevertheless, re-
stricted spending has slowed down the rate
of expansion; the spring in last year’s turn-
over was 15.4 p.c. as against 51 p.c. in the
previous term. Gross profits (£481,803)
were the same percentage of sales as in the
preceding 12 months (26.2 p.c.). But exes.
(£403,746, including £14,000 for taxation)
were proportionately heavier, so the final
figure was 4.2 p.c. of turnover as against
4.7 p.c. for the year before. After attending
to the pref. requirements, the balance of the
year’s net takings was 16.8 p.c. on average
ord. capital compared with 18.7 p.c. and 17. S
p.c. in 1929 and 1928 respectively, so the
6d. bonus was again sent out with the final,
making 12i p.c. for the year. It is a splen-
did result considering the general trend of
trade, and that a lot of money was repre-
sented by premises not bringing in any
return for most of the term.
To see the new Bourke-street store to com-
pletion, and finance additions to the ware-
house and stocks, £111,753 of fresh capital
was got in during the last term: —
1928 1929. 1930.
Ord. capital .. .. £288,165 £376,000£437,177
Pref. capital . . . . 75,000 99,424 150,000
Overdraft .. .. 11,679 20,426
Sundry creditors .. 30,613 25,319 30,649
Freeholds .. .. 86,300 136,465 321,085
Leaseholds .. . . 25,205 55,031 62,231
Fixtures and fittings 31,857 47,019 90,095
Stock 237,914 188,053 243,406
Debtors 1,356 1,530 1,349
Cash 1,773 110,138 2,986
At the close of accounts unpaid commitments
on the freehold amounted to £140,067, of
which £130,000 is due Dec. 6, 1937. There
is another £42,823 of capital at call; when
it is all in paid capital will be £630,000 in
150,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 480,000 ordfi.
The pref. requirements and 124 P-c. to the
ords. will then call for £6057 less than was
netted last year.
The programme of expansion is complete,
and the board intends to adopt a conserva-
tive policy for a while. So no sweets by
way of new share issues need be looked for
just yet. Doubtful whether the bonus will
be maintained, the market prices the ords.
at 275., the return at that figure being 7.8
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 9.8 p.c. if the
distribution remains at 124 P-c. The net
tangible backing is 21s. 9d., and for the
prefs. £4 9s. 9d. The prefs. at 21s. 6d. yield
7.5 p.c., and last year’s profit was over six
times their annual requirements.
(Continued on next page.)


Touched
Bottom ?
There’s money to be lost by
buying the wrong stock or
trusting the wrong people.
There’s money to be made by
picking the right stocks and
buying at the right time.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
doesn’t know everything; but
it has a wonderful accumulation
of data and unequalled sources
of information, and it places
these at your disposal.
AUGUST NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
It looks a good deal of money; but it
may save you losing all you’ve got.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffth, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * # iji
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide, — Advt.
* * # *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoi’ia
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
* * *
A pipe line of the greatest efficiency is provided
by Pioneer Wood Pipe. It is light, strong and
extremely durable and its flow never decreases, be-
cause it is absolutely non-corrosive. Initial cost of
this conduit is considerably less than metal pipe,
and this low first cost is perpetuated in freight, trans-
port handling and laying costs. Much valuable
information will be gladly forwarded on request,
to those interested. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd,, Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale. — Advt.
* * * #
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * #
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bulljvants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
is DEPRESSION
ALONE THE CAUSE?
Modern
At the present time every business man
throughout Australia is finding that the lack
of business is only partly due to the present
depression. Usually it is due to a lack of,
understanding of the finer points of the
“practice of business.”
To these men the Alexander Hamilton Insti-
tute offers its valuable service—Courses on
Business Principles, which will be invaluable
to every ambitious minded business executive 1
Waste no timet Write to-day for a copy of
“Forging Ahead in Business.” This 78-page
Booklet will show you how to travel on the
road that leads to greater profits and surer
advancement.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Division in Australia of
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank
Place, off 410-412 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street. PH
I*
0O ORD&S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company, Ltd., Australasian Agents. 26-30 Ciarenre St.. STtlneyi.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office* Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns,
v-iaim v 3 w Q BRQWN> Genera i Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
John Hicks & Co. (Brisbane).
Net , Dividends ,To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ords. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 6294 8 p.c. 8 p.e. = 4026 2268 5,404
Transferred to capital, £4718 .. 686
1921.. 852 i 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 4474 4047 4,733
1922.. 5571 8 „ 8 „ ~ 5558 13 4,746
1923.. 7094 8 „ 8 „ „ 5626 1468 6,214
1924.. 7314 8 „ 8 „ „ 5662 1652 7,866
1925.. 8536 8 „ 8 „ „ 6605 1931 9,797
1926.. 7478 8 „ 8 „ „ 6099 1379 11,176
1927.. 9552 S „ 8 „ „ 7921 1631 12,807
Loss.
1928.. 342 7 „ Nil 2100 10,365
Profit.
1929.. 437 7 „ Nil 2100 8,702
Loss.
1930.. 2490 3£„ ‘ Nil 1050 5,162
Despite general slackness in trade, this
little furnishing-drapery co. was able to
liven its turnover last year. But some of
the stock was out of date, and prices had to
be cut to get rid of it. There was, however,
an improvement of £1586 in gross profits
(£28,047). But since exes, made off with
another £4513, the result of the year’s
trading was a loss of £2490. To hand the
prefs. half their annual rations, the shallow
reserves were again dipped into, while the
ords. went hungry for the third year in suc-
cession.
A new branch was opened in Toowoomba,
which probably helps to explain the growth
in overhead. Stock is now claimed to be
thoroughly up to date, and new labor-sav-
ing machinery was installed in the factory
a year or two ago. But most pockets are
buttoned tighter, and competition is very
keen; hence margins threaten to remain
narrow and business difficult. Results will
largely depend upon the extent to which over-
head and costs can be got back.
To add £2346 to the book value of stocks,
carry an extra £3043 of book debts, snip
£1516 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors and pay half the year’s pref. div.
the board increased the debenture debt to
the bank by £11,417: —
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital., £93,749 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Debentures .. 22,021 20,974 29,723 41,140
Mortgage .. 13,000 11,000
Sundry creditors 3,602 3,928 4,146 2,630
Freehold & plant 60,484 59,824 60,027 59,947
Stocks .. 50,455 48,792 39,763 42,109
Book debts .. . 35,746 38,571 43,702 46,745
Cash, etc. .. 130 130 130 130
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£45,214, including stocks) was £4512 lighter
than at close of accounts in 1929. Book
debts, mostly hire-purchase agreements, are
claimed to be thoroughly sound, and a lot
depends upon that.
The prefs.—3o,ooo, with priority as to
capital—are entitled to a cumulative 7 p.c.,
and advance with the ords. beyond that
rate; they have not appeared on the market
for some months. The backing amounts to
£3 10s. Id. in net tangibles, of which 30s. Id.
is represented by surplus liquids, including
stock. For the ords., which are covered by
21s. 7d. in net tangibles, 7s. 6d. is asked.
At. that price a 3 p.c. div. would return the
investor 8 p.c.
There has been a marked revival of gold-
seeking in Queensland, but no outstanding
results have been obtained to date. The
latest little rush has been to the old Cler-
mont field, west of Rockhampton, where a
number of men, mostly ex-coalminers, have
pegged claims on a recently discovered allu-
vial run. The new field is a shaft proposi-
tion, the wash lying from 20ft. down, and
some encouraging recoveries have already
been made. Clermont, for many yeax's a
hatter’s hunting-ground, turned out a lot
of gold in its short-lived prime, in the ’sixties.
The notorious Griffin, who murdered his own
gold escort and was hanged at Rockhampton
for the crime, was Warden of the field in its
heyday.
* * * *
The Freney Co. (W.A.) has again struck
oil, this time below 3000 ft., in its explora-
tory bore at Poole Range. The board is
very elated about the strike, and reckons
that a payable pool is at hand. Certain
precautionary measures have to be taken
before boring can be resumed, so it will pro-
bably be some months before the extent of
the flow can be detei’mined.
* * * *
Lake View Investment Trust’s achieve-
ments were reviewed by chairman Sandford
Poole at a recent roll-up of shareholdei*s in
London. Net annual revenue rose from
£18,200 in the previous term, beyond £102,100
last year, and divs. increased from 5 p.c.
to 13 p.c. Meanwhile £300,000 of 5 p.c.
bonus preference stock was scattered.
Investments in Great Britain now amount
to 36 p.c. and in British Dominions 16 p.c.
of the balance-sheet total. The rest is spread
over Europe and America.
* * *
Last year New Golden Horseshoe, Ltd.,
kicked off with about £lOO,OOO in cash and
a mountainous heap of tailings, estimated
to contain nearly a million pounds’ worth of
gold. Since then it has spent much of the
cash on a plant which, for some months
past, has been ti-eating the tailings at a
profit of from Is. 6d. to 2s. a ton. Divs. are
certain, unless the board grabs the profits,
as some other Westralian guld-miuing cos.
have done, to try out a venture elsjwnere.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie mining cos. are arguing with
the labor unions over the holiday system. Iti
all other industries on that field holidays are
taken by employees in rotation, but on the
mines nearly all hands and the cook take
a fortnight off on full pay at Christmas.
Of course overhead charges go on during
their absence, and the idle mines have to
be kept unwatered. The mineowners want
the rotation system, and the Government is
sympathetic.
* * * *
Mulgabbie, near Kurnalpi (W.A.), is
attracting a little attention in Adelaide and
Perth. Some years ago this field yielded a
number or rich crushings, mostly from
shallow alluvial and specimen leaders. A
local co. has started boring to see what the
place is like at depth. Mulgabbie is the only
field in the West outside the Golden Mile
where dinkum telluride has been found.
* * * *
Early results from the flotation plant on
Lake View and Star (W.A.), both as regards
extraction and costs, have bucked the man-
agement. If these results continue for two
or three months the co. proposes to instal
a much bigger plant—-“provided the State
Government gives an assurance of help and
support.”
* * * *
Lake View and Stars (W.A.) have lately
been bought on American account. Official
reports are very cheerful, and one from Lon-
don hints that, now Chaffers and Horse-
shoe workings are connected at depth, mill
supplies will shortly be sweetened with
stuff from the former’s stopes. Manager
Thorn is said to be a great asset to the co.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (WA.) issued its annual
report to March last in London the other
day. Revenue totalled £190,623 as against
£191,911 for the previous year; profit was
£31,716 as against £31,766. The div. re-
mained at 25 p.c., leaving £2906 to carry
forward. There are still several years’ supply
of ore in sight, but there is nothing in the
bottom.
* * * *
Recent Westralian monthly gold returns
show an improvement, due to increased yields
from one or two of the principal producers,
helped by bullion from the retreated Golden
Horseshoe dump. Next year Wiluna should
raise the State’s output; under present work-
ing conditions the Kalgoorlie production can-
not be maintained much longer.
* . ■ ■ * * *
Takuapa Valley, Siam, was floated by
Malaya Tin as long ago as 1920. It has
two dredges at work on the original pro-
perty, and, is erecting another on a fresh
area known as Ban Pru. Operations for the
year to Dec. 31, 1929, show a net profit of
£43,270 as against £24,457 for the previous
year. With £85,321 brought forward there
was £128,591 in'hand, of which £37 500 went
in three Is. dividends, and £7500 in
underwriting commission on debentures,
leaving £83,591 to go forward.. Mine
revenue was. £119,857; exes.., including
depreciation, etc., made off with £69,967,
leaving a working profit of £49,890.
Costs for the two dredges were 3.6 d.
per yard for the year.. This is low
for a Siamese, show, and nearly a penny per
yard better than the cost for the previous
year. The drop in tin prices has, of course,
reduced recovery values; hence additional
jig equipment has been fitted to both dredges
to capture more of the fine ore. The value of
the dirt for the period was 7.96 d. per yard.
It is expected that the Ban .Pru dredge
will be digging early in 1931. It was to buy
and equip this property, bored to go 13
million cubic yards, averaging 13oz. t. 0.,
that 100,000 £1 12£ P-c. debentures were
issued and called to £75,000. Additional
ground has been added to the original holding,
making the co.’s total area yet to be dredged
40,000,000 c.y. Paid capital is £250.000 in £1
shares. Including debenture interest, there
was £9252 coming to sundry creditors at the
close of accounts, and liquids totalled £24,868.
* * * *
Ivatu and Renong, two of Burma Malay’s
pups, were bored to go .871 b. and .7251 b. per
yard respectively. Returns from each property
have been good from the beginning, but in both
cases water shortage and dredge troubles
hampered progress, so outside expert opinion
was called in. The report on each is favor-
able. The necessary adjustments to the
dredges will be made during the. two months
stoppage under the restriction scheme*
Original Renong values are likely to be
exceeded, and a new area of 27 acres, adjoin-
ing the old property, is to be bored. At Katu,
the staff will be employed in improving the
water supply and carrying out a slimes re-
tention scheme. Each co. has a
of £145 000, and each has raised £30.000 in
10 p.c. debentures, repayable in four annual
wads of £7500 each, commencing in October.
But the directors say there is no need for
anxiety regarding the financial position ot
either co.
Since the Ratrut co. set in at Siehon in
August, 1928, luck has been against it. For
the year to Dec. 31, 1929, a loss of £5232
was registered as against a loss of £10,422
for the previous year, making the accumu-
lated p. and 1. debit £18,605. The two
dredges treated 933,000 c.y. for 530 tons t. 0.,
averaging £127 per ton. Digging costs were
over lOd. a yard for both dredges, which
offsets the good yardage values obtained.
Lower costs are expected when No. 2 gets
into the easier ground ahead. For the seven
months to July 31 last No. 1 averaged 2.21 b.
per yard as against 1.581 b. for the preceding
12 months, and No. 2 lib. as against .831 b.
Like many other cos. committed to debenture
issues, Ratrut is unable to come into the
restriction scheme. Paid capital is £280,000
in £1 shares, for which 3s. 6d. is asked. There
is £70,000 of 20 p.c. debentures repayable by
instalments from October, 1931.
* * * *
After some deliberation Austral Malay
has fallen in with the proposal of the Tin
Producers’ Association to restrict ore pro-
duction. Alluvial Tin is already sealed to
the same course; thus the two largest com-
bines in Australian-Malayan tin production
are now arm in arm, with numerous indi-
vidual companies tagging at their heels.
This week three of the A.M. subsidiaries,
Ulu Yam, Thabawleik and Kampong
Kamunting, will stop their dredges for an
indefinite period, while Asam Kumbang will
hang up for August and September. Puchong
and Pungah, two shows which recently got
the wheels turning, will carry on producing.
* * * *
The American Smelting and Refining Co.,
which has thrown in its financial and tech-
nical lot with Mining Trust, Ltd., in the
development of Mt. Isa, is one of the largest
mining and metallurgical cos. in U.S.A. It
operates the Garfield Copper Smelter near
Salt Lake City, Utah, which has a capacity
of 240,000 short tons of copper per month,
or 12 p.c. of the world’s output, and the
Murray Lead Smelter, also in Utah. This
smelter handles 2400 tons of concentrates
per day from the co.’s mines in Utah, Cali-
fornia, Oregon, Washington and Nevada. It
owns other mines in Canada, Russia and
Mexico; during 1929 it paid 11,000,000 dol-
lars in dividends. Because options may be now
obtained on favorable terms, owing to the low
price of metals, the co. is actively engaged
in prospecting work.
* * * *
The Katkohe Development Co., Maoriland,
a subsidiary of Imperial Chemical Industries,
will soon be treating 400 tons ore daily.
The stone will be crushed and roasted, the
volatilised mercury being condensed in cham-
bers. Mercury ,is marketed in flasks of 761 b.
each; the price was recently £22 per flask.
The figure has been steadily rising since
1925, when the average was £l4 per flask.
Spain arid Italy are the two principal world
producers with 2000 and 1200 metric tons
par - annum . respectively, and the United
States comes next with about 1000 tons.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Amalgamated Forests predicts that 25
p.c. p.a. will accrue to bondhonders over the
next four or five years; is this likely? (2)
I was told each bond (£25) would return
about £3OO within seven years. Do you
think this likely? (&) Do you consider these
bonds a good investment? —77lo.
(1) and (2) Very few of the well-
established timber cos. throughout Aus-
tralia have been able to earn even
moderate profits of recent years. Others
considered they were over-capitalised under
existing conditions in the industry, and, see-
ing no prospect of early recovery, have
written down the capital accounts accord 1 -
ingly. Areas now being sold to bondholders
by Amalgamated Forests are in North
Queensland, and are covered with natural
forest. What the timber will fetch within
the next seven years, and what it will cost
to cut and market it, is impossible to say
definitely. Unless conditions in the industry
change vastly the co.’s estimates are not
likely to be realised; bondholders will be
fortunate if they get moderate returns from
the timber. There is, of course, the freehold,
but buyers will have to be found before it
can be turned into cash. (3) The bonds are
distinctly a speculative investment.
Two of us have got a river beach claim .
The average height of the bank is sft., and
the level of the river itself is that of the
beach or thereabouts. By ordinary cradling
we can make wages. Is there any method
whereby we can deal with more gravel?—we
are not overburdened vyith cash. There is
no water available above the claim. Bui
river water is within 40 feet. —7707.
Without seeing location, it is difficult to
advise. If water could be taken by a small
race from a point up the river, and there is
escape for tailings, a good plan would be to
construct such race, say to carry four or
five heads, and sluice gravel through an ordi-
nary box, forking out larger stones. Or it
might be possible to rig a California pump
on staging at river, with necessary fluming
to reach paddock, and raise by hand enough
water to enable larger amount of gravel to
be put through a sluice-box. Failing
adequate taling-room, or ability to pick up
water with race, an alternative would be to
place a small pump on river bank, sink a
well in beach, sluice gravel to it, and.take it
from there by means of a small elevator to
a raised sluice-box.
An estate valued at £7OOO brings in £320
p.a. How many years would it take to ex-
haust the estate if an annual £450 was
draiV7i ? — BO5O.
53.8 years. But a fixed income from a
reducing principal is very unusual.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.N.: Listing or non-listing wouldn’t
affect your liability. If it is a registered limited
eo. you must pay; if it is a no liability co. you'
needn’t... .D.M.8.: (1) Hard to sell if you needed
the money. (2) See “Business Robbery,” B. 6/8/’3O.
....Curious: All we can say is that the,market is
firm and buyers apparently eager.... 11.1..: If you
want a gamble, yes; if safety is important, no.. ..
G.J.W.: Likely to go lower. But they are both good
propositions.. . .J.T.P.: (1) You get no discount,
therefore gain nothing in that way by paying in
full. (2) The bonds are not listed on the Stock
Exchange. Get in touch with the secretary of the
co. if you want to sell.


io to | ih a CAPSTAN
■
M
99mA
!;/
■
Excitement is the spice of this young
lady’s life. To do the newest things
is her constant desire. To be
different, is her great ambition.
Yet you can safely bet, at 10 to 1
on, that the cigarette she has just
lit is a Capstan.
Modern as she is, she’ll tell you
that this thirty-year-old
favourite cigarette is by far
the most satisfying she has found.
In that, she is in complete agree-
ment with most smokers.
Ten people smoke Capstans to
every one who smokes another
brand. A remarkable preference,
the reason for which is clear if
you smoke them. If you don’t your
first packet (at 11 for 6d.,
mind you) will show you why.
Twenty-two for
one shilling, and in
tins of fifty.
11
; 6“
Oval heavy-weights
in tinsof twenty-five
and fifty.
CAPSTAN
Capstans are made by W D. & H. O. Wills
at the Garden Factory, Raleigh Park, N.S.W.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
y. 4
$9 *1 m
H»
tl it
m t*
* 1 ?;* «*■
3 !*'?I: 1 5
pio l
nil
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/ ■ 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
HE
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
LONS LIFE
y " V •<
%
IS
■ V
f Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
COPYING
THE POPULAR
PENCILS
. tc.
Also in 8 colours for checking,
From all Stationers, etc.
L. A C. HAEDTMTJTH, of •' KOH-I-NOOR" Pencil fame.
London Office—29. Kingsway, W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGALL, P.O. Box 165. SYDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Drift”: Bill Stockwhip, who owned a
cattle station in W. Q’land, got so fond of
booze that after a while he found himself
so hopelessly in debt that he had to sell out
and waltz Matilda. Before leaving the dis-
trict he went to town to square up, and paid
everyone but the pubkeeper. When he got to
him he said: “What do I owe you. Joe?” Joe
made out an account for £555. “Look here,”
said Bill, “I’ve spent a ton of money with you
these last few years. What about knocking
a bit off?” Joe considered a moment, then,
“Righto,” he said, “I’ll take the last £5 off.
“Good-oh,” said Bill cheerily. “I’ll be a
sport, too. I’ll take the first £5 off. Here’s
£5 and that squares us.”
* * * *
“Honi Pikau”: A mob having a drink in
the Digger’s Rest invited me to join in. A
Maori whose features seemed familiar was
one of the party, and his face beamed with
the light of recognition _ when one of the
crowd attempted to introduce us. “Py
lcorry,” he exclaimed joyously, “I know tat
ferrer a rong time pack, ehoa. I know him
away town te Piako Swamp, I know him on
Garripori, I know him in France, and,” he
concluded, triumphantly, to prove the
genuineness of his pleasure at again meet-
ing me, “I know him before he knew
me!”
:]t * * *
“Sf.G.S.”: “Sambal” (B. 23/7/’3O)
appears to regard the story of the man from
Malaya who employed monkeys to pick his
cocoanuts as a fairy tale. The leisurely
Malay often uses Macacus nemestrinus for
that purpose and for the reason stated,
because he picks the best nuts and rejects
the green ones. The Dutch call him klapper-
aap, or cocoanut ape, and the native calls
him Bru, and places a high value on him.
In Deli, Sumatra, there are said to be more
tame members of the tribe than wild ones.
Modern methods of industry, however, are
driving the monkey off the labor market.
He demands one out of every three nuts he
picks and goes on strike if he does not get
it. In more senses than one, this is excessive
overhead.
A PRACTICAL DEMONSTRATION.
Willie: “What’s the meaning of deduction, Dad?”
Dad: “The art of commonsense reasoning, my boy. For instance, the heap of ashes
in the garden is evidence that we have had a fire,"
Mum: “A.nd your father will take you out in a minute, Willie, and show you how to
sift the evidence.”
“Makatea”: The missionary whom “Car-
rick A. 8.” discovered adrift in mid-Pacilie
(B. 9/7/’3O) with his “cocoanut” sextant
deserved to be out of
his reckoning, since he
evidently did not
understand his instru-
ment. In old days
the gadget, made from
a sawn-off calabash,
with four holes bored
at equal intervals an
inch and a half below
the rim, w T as used by
the Hawaiians and
Tahitans in their cere-
monial visits across
the Line, and may have
been employed by Maui
when he made his
Maoriland landfall.
Hawaii is west and
north of Tahiti, and
visitors from the latter
set out in their sailing
canoes at the height of
the south-east trades,
steeling a northerly
course w'tli the sun
and wind abeam and a
fixed star, probably
Alpha Centauri, astern.
When the doldrums
told them they were
nearing the Line,
watch was kept for
the polar star at even-
ing. When it appeared,
the navigator filled the
calabash with water to
the level of the holes
to ensure it was level,
and took a squint at the
star nightly through
the peephole opposite
to it. When, one
night, he saw the star
sitting on top of the
calabash rim, he knew
he was in the latitude
of Hawaii. The course
was altered to due
west, and, helped this
time by the north-
west trade, the moun-
tain peaks of the
Hawaiian group were
duly raised. For the
return journey, the re-
verse procedure was
followed, the star ob-
served after crossing
the Line being pro-
bably their old friend
Alpha Centauri, and
the run down the lati-
tude—a bout 18deg
south —to Tahiti being this time easterly.
* * * *
“Cursem” : The gentleman who had been
in the bar all the morning, having exhausted
minor scandals, such as the crook running
of ponies and the iniquitous price of beer,
launched into a political monologue. “As fer
me,” he declared, pounding the counter with
ALWAYS A FLY IN IT.
Aussie: “Why so glum, Sandy? This rain’s darned good ."
Sandy: “Oh, aye; but Ah’ve had that windmill pumping water, and wearing itself
oot all the morn.”
a grimy fist, “I vote Labor! Every time!
If they put up a one-eyed Chinaman on the
Labor ticket, I’d vote for ’im. Bruce! Yer
talk ter me about Bruce! What’s e ever
done? ’Oo is ’e?” and he smote the bar a
smite that made the bottles jingle. This
woke up McSwizzle, president of the brick-
layers’ union, who weighs 15 stone and is
as amiable in his manner as a dyspeptic
hornet. He strode over to the monologue
artist and seized him by the collar. ‘Y’
dam little runt,” he bellowed, “a man oughter
smack yer wrist. If yer want ter know
what Bruce done I’ll tell yer. ’E made
Scotland famous by watching spiders, an
if yer don’t get out of ’ere quick, I’ll make
Australian famous by squashin’ one !” And
the dove of peace descended.
H: ❖ * *
“Polycarp”: I have yet to meet a bush-
man who doesn’t look upon the big black
snake as one of the most deadly in the bush.
The scientist has long been repeating the
oft-proven fact that the black snake is com-
paratively harmless, but a bad name sticks.
The late Dr. Frank Tidswell collected
evidence of 190 authentic snake-bite cases.
Of these 87 had been bitten by the black
snake, and the mortality was nil. He con-
sidered the death-adder the most deadly, then
the tiger, then (a long way behind) the
brown, and then (not in the same class as
the “deadly” snakes) the black.
* ❖ * *
“Bad Australian”: In the old squatting
days it was a common practice for a man s
wages to remain unpaid for a year or more,
and any employee who left without his
employer’s consent forfeited whatever mbney
was due to him. Jack Newman was a sober,
reliable man and as good a bullock-driver as
ever yoked a team, but when he told Donald
Angus McMonie that lie intended to quit
and start on the roads on his own account,
that canny Scot refused to accept his
resignation, and told him plainly that he
must stay or forfeit 15 months’ outstanding
wages. Jack let the matter go at that, but
he bided his time. A few days later - „u
and a crowd of city folk wno it , ® , “ ,
visit to the station were sitting on e
verandah of the homestead "when Jack hove
in' sight with a load of stores from town, and
as he drove past he communed with his
“bulls.” “Gee, Lep-pard| Gee, Dandy!
Come ’ee, Spot!” Then the whip came into
action and Jack’s voice increased to a roar,
“Git down ter it, Donald, ye’ lousy sneakin
Scotch cow! Dam’ yer lazy loafin’ ’ide,.
Angus, y’ wouldn’t pull a Chow orf a bag
o’ rice. Hey, there, McMonie, y’ misbegotten
son o’ a blanky Hieland robber!”— Here
Donald bounded off the verandah, took the
garden gate in his stride, and tore into Jack
like an infuriated bulldog. When the scan-
dalised visitors prised the combatants apart,
Angus shook his hairy fist at Jack and roared
—“Coom awa’ tae th’ hoose, an’ tak’ yer
chaique an be off o’ me rin, for Ah’m
sair temptit tae dae somethin’ wrang wi
ye.” As Jack pocketed his money he winked
slyly. “McMonie,” he said, “there’s, more
ways of curin’ a Scot than chokin’ him wi’
butter.”
4c * * *
“Bos”: There are two kinds of twins —
ordinary ones, which may be male and
female, two males or two females, and “iden-
tical” twins. The former show no more than
the common family resemblance and dissimi-
larities. Quite frequently, however, the
twins are of such extraordinary similarity
that even parents have difficulty in identify-
ing them. Here is the reason. The indi-
vidual commences his life from the moment
of fertilisation of the ovum from the female
ovary by the male cell. Frequently two ova
are given off, sometimes three, and when this
happens, twins or triplets result. But they
will show the common family differences,
though of the same age. Sometimes, how-
ever, a single fertilised ovum will divide into
two ’ separate cells-7-each with the same in-
heritance, and these two cells proceed to
develop into identical twins. They must be
ot the same sex, and because of an identical
inheritance have the same reactions and out-
look on life, and hence almost invariably
become devoted to one another.


Vrrwf**
I Send
s Your
Wool
to
Un-son
Growers!
Grasp
and
Gain
the advantages
i, arising from
1 that advice.
Wincncombe, Carson
1. 2 D,
enjoy outstanding popularity as selling brokers
because clients’ results show the benefit of the
firm’s capable work in selling the clip.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.,
and
Winchcombe House,
St., Sydney,
99-101 Eagle St
Brisbane.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. Janies Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Yacko”: Trucanini was not the last of
the Tasmanian aborigines, though it has fre-
quently been stated that she was. At the
time of Trucanini’s death, a trio of female
Tassy natives who had been abducted by
sealers were living at Kangaroo Island
(S.A.) and all outlived Trucanini by several
years. The last of them to die, Little Sal,
was buried near the old sealers’ camp on
the eastern shore of American River. Sal’s
descendants to the third and fourth genera-
tion are the sole survivors of the early Kan-
garoo Island settlers.
“Eureka”: The Moree squatter sent Jacky
to get a. turkey for a dinner that he was
giving to some of his friends that night. He
knew there were plenty of wild turkeys
about, but he was sick of them, and
gave Jacky money to go to town and buy a
tame turkey, warning him not to keep the
money and get a wild bird. Jacky returned
with the turkey and plucked and dressed it.
That night when the squatter Commenced to
carve the bird, the first cut disclosed .that
the bird was full of shot. He excused him-
self and went out to find .Tacky. “I thought
PUT RIGHT.
“Is that the second bell, Jackie?”
“No, Boss, only one bell. Missus she ring him two-three time.”
HELL IS SO HOT.
BROTHER BOUTHO: “You've seen molten copper runnin’ out of they furnaces, haven't
"ee? Well, I tell’ee, Hell is so hot they use stuff like that there for ice-cream.’'
I told you to get me a tame turkey, you
blighter!” he roared. “This bird is full of
shot.” “That’s a tame bird all right, boss,”
Jacky replied earnestly; “them shots was
meant for me.”
❖ >!< i’fi s|:
“Black Tracker”: A friend of mine two
years ago gave his little daughter as a birth-
day present a cocker spaniel puppy and a
kitten. They fed from the same saucer and
slept in the same little
bed. By the time they
reached maturity they
were inseparable com-
panions. They re-
mained so until quite
recently. During spring-
cleaning the furniture
of the dining-room was
moved to the veran-
dah. While Tabby was
parading about he
suddenly found him-
self face to face with
another cat. Had
nothing else happened
Tabby would soon
have recognised that
lie was looking at his
own reflection. But
just at this moment
Darky, who had got
the sniff of a rat’s
track, rushed around
behind the mirror
and in an instant
Tabby saw what he
imagined to bo. his
enemy and landed on
Darky’s back. A yelp
of pain followed as
Darky rushed off.
When they met Tabby
did his utmost in the
most pathetic and
apologetic way to ex-
plain that it was a com-
plete mistake. Darky,
however, merely licked
his wounds and moved
away. This attitude
went on for some time,
Tabby vainly attempt-
ing to convince Darky
that it was an unfor-
tunate accident. The
breach is still evident,
for while Darky tol-
erates the company of
Tabby, he refuses to
drink out of the same vessel or to sleep in
the same box.
•I* '!• sfc
“Wang”: Young Dave Sliprail’s habit of
eating his food with his knife was- the
despair of his mother. He would load his
knife to the hilt and shove the lot half-way
down his throat and continue the process
with startling rapidity till his plate was
empty. One day the parson called at the
farm and stayed for dinner. As soon as
grace was said Dave started his spectacular
operations. Mum blushed with embarrass-
ment. and Dad, catching the parson eyeing
Dave’s performance in wonderment, felt it
was up to hipi to produce some sort of an
apology for his offspring’s behavior. “It
ain’t Dave’s fault, Mister Saintly,” he said,
“his mother’s t’ blame.” The parson raised
his eyebrows and coughed politely. “Not
that she ain’t tried hard t’ stop him of th'
trick,” Dad continued, “but it’s one of them
things there don’t seem t’ be no cure fer.
It’s wot they call this ’ere pre-nashal in-
flooence. Yer see, a coupler months before
young Dave was born me an’ th’ missus went
to tli’ Boggy Creek Show. I wus lookin’ at
a pen of pigs, when I hears a shriek an’
rushes up t’ find me missus in hysterics in
front of a tent where there’s a bloke swal-
lerin’ swords.”
:$c Jjc *
“Zwig”: At this season of the year a
curious phenomenon is observed in the waters
about the Banda group, in the Dutch East
Indies. The surrounding sea becomes snow-
white. This the natives call ajer poetih—
the milk sea. It is due to the presence of
vast microscopic hair-like organisms. On
one occasion a similar visitation was wit-
nessed in Sydney Harbor, but in that instance
the water, instead of white, became blood-
red. It has been noticed that most edible
fish at such times are larger and more palat-
able than usual.
“E.S.S.” : Many inlanders of the Ma State
would be glad to see some of the nonpaying
railways scrapped. They were eager to get
them, but soon realised that the horse was
a bringer of business in parts of the back
country—along the Darling and Murray, for
instance. A big river trade was wiped out
and many erstwhile thriving towns went into
rapid decline when the railway reached out
to Bourke. Wentworth before that time
was an important shipping port, and so was
Echuca, which was also a ship-building
centre. Besides the constant activity on
the river, there were scores of teams pass-
ing in and out, 'and three punts were kept
going day and night conveying the traffic
to and fro. Echuca had 50 hotels and
dozens of dancing saloons. But not long
after the railway had passed on, pubs in
that locality were given away with a
pound of tea. Bourke was expected to boom
when it became the terminus, but it wilted
to a hamlet.
MOLESKIN’S AUTOMATIC MATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
H'e was “Moleskin the Inventor” to the
people ’way out back, .
Where they hailed him as a genius who was
wasted on the track;
For his hobby was invention, and the chil-
dren of his mind ,
In the station huts and homestead out near
Sunset you would find.
Dingo traps and Sunday bowyangs, safety
pipe lids, snares for crows,
Quandong buttons, sheep-sliank tiepins, and
some larger things than those. _ _
But a grander inspiration set his nimble
mind at work,
And he sought a sheltered smithy on a
station west o’ Bourke.
There it was that Moleskin fashioned, as
he labored long and late,
A mysterious contraption ; and he called the
thing “me mate.”
•Twas a box-like apparatus, with two jointed
legs below, .
Filled with wheels and cogs, for winding, and
some springs to make it go.
One fair morning at the homestead utter
stupefaction showed:
To the door the genius Moleskin with fiis
new invention strode.
It was loaded with a nosebag, swag and
billycan complete,
And, when Moleskin turned a button, walked
alone on spacious feet.
Horses shied and sheep-dogs bolted, and the
station-hands’ amaze
Found expression in such terms as “Hogan’s
({host!” and “Spare-me-days!”
“Gentlemen,” said Moleskin smiling, “’ere’s
me masterpiece ter date —
I am proud to interdooce yer to me Auto-
matic Mate!
“Many years I’ve humped me bluey on the
blazin’ roads out back—
Now this cove will bear me burden as we
mooch along the track.
I just need ter wind ’im daily, while I’m on
the search for toil,
An’ ter titivate his innards with a drop er
two of oil.”
The inventor’s fame expanded; for the whole
wide West was keen
To investigate his marvel, the pedestrian
machine.
Willingly they filled his nosebag, everywhere
did welcome wait
As he padded round the Backblocks with his
Automatic Mate.
“But if it Could work!” thought Moleskin,
pond’ring deeply at a pub,
“1 could make a tidy fortune on the stations
cuttin’ scrub.”
So a jointed arm was added to the wonder
he had planned,
And a tomahawk adjusted in the metal-
fingered hand.
Forth he led the great invention to a clump
of wilga trees.
“I will show yer,” said the genius, “’ow me
mate’ll settle these!”
Briskly then he wound and oiled it; turned
the button; and a cheer
Burst from the admiring bushmen gathered
there from far and near.
But, alas, the new addition with the innards
disagreed!
Round in wild, erratic circles the machine
began to speed,
And the congregation scattered, dashing here
and there like ants,
While the gleaming blade descending shaved
a patch from Moleskin’s pants!
“Whoa there! Stop ’im, mates!” he shouted,
sprinting madly in the rear;
But the tomahawk, still whirling, neatly
lifted off an ear!
Then while Moleskin roared and gurgled,
writhing on the ground in pain,
The “mate” chopped itself to pieces in a
gilgai on the plain !
• ••••#.
Down the far out Barcoo River there’s a
one-eared whaler tramps,
Humping bluey, soured and silent, to his
solitary camps.
All the other whalers shun him—knowing
liis ferocious state
If he overhears them mention Moleskin’s
Automatic Mate!
MAORIEAND.
C. H. WINTER.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. FARNHAM, Manager.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES—For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for Illustrated Folder
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CB PAK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
BEATING THE BLOWFLY.
D. S. Donkin: The letters of “W.D.Mc.”
and “Old Blue” (B. 30/7/30) prompt ine
m mention a method we have found that
solves the blowfly problem at Meteor Downs,
Springsure (Q.) : it is now widely used
throughout that State and N.S.W.
We use the large glass flytrap at each well
and camping ground. Since employing this
device we have found it unnecessary to yard
the sheep for fly trouble. In the case of
ewes lambing with nine months’ wool, and
not crutched, less than 1 p.c. were struck,
though the fly was rampant during the lamb-
ing period.
The great advantage of this trap is that
re-baiting is not necessary. The dead fly
becomes the bait. Thus the trap is work-
ing throughout the year, and keeping the
pest under control. The trap is rather hard
to describe in a short par. Anyone inter-
ested can have full particulars if he cares
to write to me.
[Mr. Donkin is a member of a widely-
known family of pastoralists. He writes
from Riversdale, Burradoo, N. S. Wales.]
“Jackpot”: When “Old Blue” had his
sheep on the salt and turps, did he ever kill
one and notice that the kidneys appeared to
be inflamed, or see any sheep in the mob
having trouble to pass water ? Part of the
turps, would be excreted by skin and kidneys,
and that voided in the urine would make the
crutch an unhealthy residence for maggots.
Turps, also changes the characteristic smell
of urine, so attractive to the fly. But in
medicine it is recognised as being’ irritant to
the kidneys and urinary passages; knowledge
of this stopped me trying the same idea last
fly season; hence the foregoing questions.
Anyhow, “Old Blue’s” success supports the
idea that the fly can be controlled by medi-
cated licks. Another man drew my attention
to the fact that he had never seen a pea-struck
sheep blown, and suggested that it might have
been some principle in the pea that kept
them away. The experts might make a lot
out of that. They can do the scientific part
if they get the practical suggestions.
A DIPPING PERFORMANCE.
“W.D.M.”: “Mepamga” (B. 23/7/’3O)
says he “put through” a thousand wethers,
with the assistance of two men and a boy, in
“less” than an hour. “Put through” may be
right; certainly he could not have dipped
them. A thousand per hour is 16| per
minute, and it is not possible for one man
to immerse 16 sheep twice in a minute, let
alone for the sheep to swim 40 or 50 feet
in that time. I suppose “M.” let his sheep
run straight out of the yards without drain-
ing ; otherwise he must have had a very
large pen. And what about replenishing the
bath ? A sheep shorn six weeks will take out
in its wool a gallon of dip; hence nearly
1000 gallons must have been taken out in
the hour. He must have been slick to keep
his bath filled up, so as to allow the last-
few hundred enough dip to swim in.
I ran a public dip for 20 years. The
fastest hour’s run I ever saw was 700 newly-
shorn weaners. It took two men going as
swift as possible to immerse them, with one
man adding fresh dip. A thousand per hour
—it can’t be done and done well.
MINERALISED LICKS AND RATIONS.
“Malvern”: A lick is a vastly different
proposition from a ration. Indiscriminate
use of one or the other causes needless ex-
pense to the owner and damage to stud or
dairy stock. A mineralised lick is entirely
for grazing stock in the open. It should
contain 60 to 80 per cent, of salt, with lime
carbonate, lime phosphate or powdered bone,
sulphur, potash, iron and magnesia, so pro-
portioned that when a sheep takes its daily
modicum of salt (160 grains or three-eighths of
an ounce) the other ingredients are balanced
to produce a healthy condition at the minimum
of cost. The animal will take only a definite
quantity of salt per day if left alone; it is
therefore unwise to add such condiments as
aniseed to entice it to eat more.
A mineralised ration should be given only
to stud stock, ewes (breeding stock), dairy
animals and pigs, in definite measured or
weighed quantities per head, in the hand
feed of concentrates. It should not contain
more than 25 per cent, of salt (15 per cent,
in the ease of pigs,), and the formula can
be so arranged that each ewe or growing
lamb should require of ration per day,
costing 2d. per month; the milking cow
loz. per day (4d. per month) and the pig
ioz. per day (2d. per month). In short: —
(1) Never use a mineralised ration for-
mula as a lick.
(2) Never use a mineralised lick as a
ration or as a lick for stud sheep, dairy cows
or pigs.
(3) Never buy or use a lick or ration
unless it contains a balance of iodide of
potash both for grazing stock and breeding
animals.
(4) Study your mineral licks and rations
with a view to resistance to disease together
with healthy conditions of growth and
healthy increase of progeny.
It can all be worked out on an economic
basis and show a generous profit, with very
little loss through sickness or disease.
REARING THE PODDY.
“F 34” : If you didn’t have much success
in rearing your poddy calves last year try
a change of methods. First, if you are on
phosphate-deficient country feed some bone-
meal to your cows. You may then get more
of those lively calves that are a joy to the
stockman’s heart, and fewer of the dull,
sicltly-looking ones.
When the cow calves, get her up 24 to 36
hours later and milk out any teats that the
calf neglects. He is almost sure to leave
any teat too large for his mouth, but once it
is milked out he can handle it. Leave the
calf with his mother for five or six days:
you can’t use her milk before that, and it
will make a great difference to the baby to
have his meals served at the right temperature
for a start. You needn’t worry rbout it being-
hard, later, to teach him to drink; the lively
ones will drink just as easily as if taken from
their mother early, and the dull mulish ones
will be just as hard to teach.
Don’t overfeed. Two goes of skim-milk, not
more than three quarts each time, are suffi-
cient. You can make it three feeds of two
quarts each, but that means more work.
Don’t guess the quantity; get a three-quart
billycan and measure off each calf’s feed into
separate buckets, or else weigh it; 741 b. to a
feed. No young calf can profitably use more
milk; better to pour any extra on the vege-
table garden if you have no pigs or fowls.
Feed calves separately. If you haven’t a
set of bails, tie them up along a fence where
they can’t suck one another’s ears, navels or
udders. Poddies will suck wind, but dis-
courage them as much as you can by keeping
them tied up for half an hour after feeding.
Sucking other calves’ udders is a habit very
hard to get rid of, so don’t let them start
it.
And don’t let the milk get cold before feed-
ing. The youngster can be put straight on
skim-milk after taking him from his mother,
but be sure to feed it warm. If you separate
cold milk you are only robbing yourself by
losing butterfat into the skim-miik. If you
can’t feed the baby straight away put the
milk on the stove.
If grass is scarce or the milk supply is
short, the best supplement is pollard—a
handful in each feed, about four ounces a
day. That and three quarts of milk divided
into two feeds will keep a calf growing.
There are more calves killed in this district
(Yeppoon, Q.) by overfeeding than by under-
feeding. Wash and scald the feed buckets as
scrupulously as you do your other dairy
utensils. Cleanliness never yet killed a calf.
If he starts to scour —cut his feed down
by half and return to the full amount gradu-
ally ; spread the increase over a week, A
tablespoon of limewater with each meal is
helpful.
Don’t lock the poddy up in a dirty damp
pen if you can avoid it. If you have to do
so paint his navel cord with tincture of
iodine; that is where the bacillus causing
infectious scours enters the system. Sunshine,
exercise, clean water and a bit of a salt-
lick are needed, so get him out of the pen and
into the paddock as soon as you can.
The chief point is small feeds with clean-
liness next. No bush cow gives more than a
gallon and a half of milk a day, but they
rear good calves on that much. If you try
all this and are still out of luck, use a
bull with a lot more constitution, as your
bull must be to blame.
HUMPED CATTLE FROM INDIA.
“Vctinindia”: “FY7’s” suggestion (B.
18/6/’3O) that humped cattle from India
should be used with Polled Angus in Aus-
tralian beef-growing is interesting; but the
rinderpest danger should not be forgotten.
An outbreak occurred at Antwerp nine or
ten years ago among a shipment consigned
to South America. After that exports of
humped cattle ceased, and the trade has only
just been resumed.
A shipment of 200 for Brazil, bought by a
South American millionaire and his partner,
has left Bombay, travelling by way of Italy.
There were about 50 bulls, mostly very big
and old, the rest young cows and two-year-
olds. They were all from Kathiawar and
Guzerat; the cost, I am told, was between
£24 and £3B for cows and between £5O and
£75 for old bulls. They are to be auctioned
in Rio de Janeiro, provided they land all
right. They were injected with anti-rinder-
pest serum prior to sailing.
There has been a lot of rinderpest in
Bombay this year, though very little foot-
and-mouth disease. The owners were unable
to insure the lot for Rio against losses by
disease. Another shipment is contemplated
in October. A long quarantine would be
essential in Australia to provide against the
risk of introducing the many cattle diseases
common in India.
GET A GOOD BULL.
“Tumbe Munda”: It pays even the
smallest farmer to buy a good bull occasion-
ally. When I made my start in South Aus.
I bought six cows, feeding them on chaff,
bran, pollard and linseed meal, besides grazing.
I tested and culled them down to two, pur-
chased a pedigree bull and secured two heifer
calves, the first mating. These Lifers came
to maturity and were tested, and 1 sold the
old cows. Mine is not a dairying proposi-
tion ; I just wanted two cows, but wanted
them good.
My feeding is now grazing, plus chaff,
bran and pollard, without linseed, and my
butterfat returns are equal to what I got
from the six original cows.
A MODEL VIC. PIGGERY.
In an irrigation-farm competition con-
ducted by the Rochester (Vic.) Agricultural
Society the prize for the best-kept piggery
was won by Mr. J. Reid, of„ the Nanneela
estate. Mr. Reid’s system, designed for
bringing pigs to the bacon stage, is highly
praised by officers of the Rivers and ,Water
Supply Commission and the Department of
Agriculture, and interesting particulars are
given in the departmental “Journal.” Inci-
dentally, this industry is capable of great
expansion ; Australia still imports large sup-
plies of bacon and ham, as well as other
products of the animal which is one of the
great sources of the U.S.A.’s wealth.
On Mr. Reid’s farm the sties are situated
on a-4 J-acre block of lucerne, subdivided into
four paddocks—two on each side of a cen-
tral lane. On one side of the lane are three
breeding pens and a “growing” pen; on
the other side are three topping-off pens and
a house for brood sows. All the pens face
the east. The breeding pens have a floor
space of 21ft. x Bft., and include a shed
Bft. x Bft., a feeding compartment of simi-
lar dimensions, and a compartment of Bft. x
sft. in which the young pigs are fed. The
floor is raised nine inches to a foot from the
ground. The “growing” pen is 24ft. x 12ft.,
comprised of sleeping compartment, gang-
way and feeding. This pen opens on to either
of two lucerne paddocks, which are irri-
gated alternately. The topping-off pens
are 17ft. x Bft., divided into the sleeping
part, Bft. x Bft., and the feeding part, 9ft. x
Sft.
Three brood sows farrow about the same
period. The young ones are kept in the
farrowing pens until weaned, at about two
months. Another three sows come in about
a month after the first lot are removed ; the
aim is for each sow to have two litters a
year. The young pigs remain in the grow-
ing pen for three months. They have access
to the two single-acre paddocks, which are
grazed alternately. They go into the topping-
off pens when five months old, eight in each
pen, sorted according to development; on
the average, a month is required for topping-
off.
The brood sows graze the lucerne, and
once a day Mr. Reid gives them ground
barley mixed with pollard. This mixture is
soaked in milk, if available, and the propor-
tion of pollard to barley is varied. An
occasional spraying keeps the pens, free from
vermin. By this system of housing and feed-
ing feed bills are brought down; the pigs are
healthy; there is no drainage worry; and
the straw litter need not be shifted more
than once a month.
FORWARD WHEAT CROPS.
“P. Snodgrass” : There is no occasion for
worry if your wheat crop appears to be too
far forward, particularly in the heavy land
of Riverina. A forward crop is the natural
sequence of a virile germination and an open
season.
A wheat plant has two sets of organs,
vegetative and reproductive. The function
of the vegetative organs is primarily to see
that the plant is well fed ; if it were depen-
dent solely on the soil for its food supply
there wouldn’t be any top growth for forward
crops. Half the food of a wheat plant comes
from the atmosphere. These organs are
divided into two component parts, the root
and the shoot. The root supplies water and
mineral material, which is largely inorganic;
the shoot, water and material which is
solely organic.
When you get a strong germination you
get rapid absorption of inorganic food, and
to keep pace the shoot must assimilate
sufficient organic matter for the plant’s
immediate requirements. Hence the forward
crops this season. Green crops assimilate
organic food by decomposing the carbon
dioxide of the air and liberating a
certain proportion of oxygen and absorb-
ing carbon monoxide. Before this process
can be effective both light and heat are
necessary. Hence when germination is
weak and the winter growing period is
dull and cold, it doesn't take place until
the spring, and there aren’t any forward
crops.
Really, you have nothing to reproach .your-
self with. You didn’t sow too early, neither
did you manure too heavily. It is all the
meteorologist’s fault, and had the winter been
• less mild it would never have happened, and
in -all probability you would have wished it
had.
WORKING LIGHT LAND.
“J.L.G.”: “Mug Cocky” (B. 23/7/’3O) is
not alone in his belief that light lands should
not be worked too frequently in Westralia;
his methods are in line with experiments
carried out at the Merredin and Wongan
Hills experimental farms. Mr. Frank
Walker, a successful farmer at Koorda,
believes in “pressure” cultivation, using a
heavy ridged (Cambridge type) roller fol-
lowed by light harrows both before and after
seeding. The compaction thus obtained has
given him very satisfactory yields.
Apropos, the sundercut will cut shoots
better and break fewer discs if the spring
pressure is taken off the discs. I have found
this on the west coast of South Aus. as well
as in Westralia.
“Wongi” : “Mug Cocky” does not mention
the class of scrub plain which his neighbor
worked so conscientiously as to harvest only
seven bushels of wheat per acre. I should
judge it was of a loose sandy nature, so it
would require consolidating more than aerat-
ing. It would probably have given as good
a return if lightly ploughed, preferably in
a wet state, after the burn, with plenty of
super, when drilling.
A better chance of a larger yield, seasons
being equal, would be to fallow wet and not
touch again until seeding. In the case of
ti-tree scrub —or boree, as it is sometimes
termed —a cultivation after the burn, fol-
lowed by drilling in April or early May,
should give nearer 14 bushels than 7 bushels.
This would apply to tamma scrub country
also.
AT THE HAWKESBURY CONFER-
ENCE.
For three days at the end of July Hawkes-
bury College accommodated about 200 men
and 60 women delegates to the annual con-
ference of the Agricultural Bureau. The
conference dealt mainly with agricultural
and pastoral economics, and there was no
loafing. The first day’s proceedings lasted
from 2 p.m. till 11 p.m., with a break of
an hour for tea; the second day’s from 8
a.m. till 10.30 p.m. with an hour and a quar-
ter for meals; the third day’s from 8.30 a.m.
till 10.15 p.m., also with an hour and a
quarter for feeding-time. About 50 addresses
were given by authoritative speakers, and
there were two inter-district debates. “Hand-
milking v. Machines” was decided in favor
of machine-milking; and. there was a
majority for the proposition “That the Aus-
tralian Tariff is in the best interests of the
farmer,” though it was small.
These are trying days for farmers, but the
delegates were not cast down. A brave
note was struck; proofs were given of a
strong resolve to grapple with the difficulties
caused by the fall in overseas prices by in-
creasing the quantity and quality of pro-
duction and reducing the cost. There was
far less call than in former years for Gov-
ernment assistance. Not in vain has the
Bureau urged the practice of self-help and
co-operative improvement.
TOO MANY VARIETIES?
“Disc Harrow”: A move is on foot to
reduce the many varieties of apples grown
in Australia, and not before it is time.
A handbook issued by the Vic. Department
of Agriculture lists over 200 varieties grown
in that State alone. The name as much as
anything else determines the price of an
apple, and as probably not more than two
dozen varieties are worth exporting, the
(Continued on page 25 )


Their repeated choice
of Buick is your measure
of Buick’s value
W HEN a friend buys the same make of car
more than once, you could ask for no
more convincing proof of his satisfaction.
Among your friends who drive Buicks, as
among Buick owners everywhere, you will find
that the majority have owned Buicks before.
They know from long experience the de-
pendability, riding comfort, lasting perform-
ance which account for Buick’s leadership.
For no other fine car is serving so many
owners so faithfully. Of 2,400,000 Buicks built
since 1904, registration figures show more than
half in active service to-day.
10 to 40 m.p.h. in 12 seconds, top gear
Now—longer, lower, Buick for 1930 offers
added beauty of slender lines, ampler reserves
of road-hugging speed.
Try Buick’s easy-flowing power —8% more
power than ever before—with performance and
roadability better than ever. Feel that smooth
“lift” from 10 to 40 miles an hour in just 12
seconds . . . gather speed on a 1 to 8 climb, 5
to 25 miles an hour in 500 yards ... all in top
gear. And handling is easier. With Buick’s
new Steering Road Shock Eliminator you can
laugh at rough roads or hours at the wheel.
Added comfort of double-acting shock absorb-
ers, and semi-elliptic springs; of adjustable
driving seat, and roomier interiors. Added
safety of non-glare windscreen on night roads,
and powerful four-wheel internal-expanding
brakes that cushion you swiftly down at
any speed.
Dependable service
All over Australia, 300 authorised Buick
Dealers offer you a high standard of service.
And Buick is warranted for one year. Con-
venient payments, on the G.M.A.C. Terms
Plan. Ask your local dealer for a demonstra-
tion. General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
“More Wealth for Australia —More Jobs for
Australians.”
Metropolitan Dealers:
Brisbane:
Metropolitan Motors Ltd.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Sydney :
Boyd Edkins Ltd.
109-119 Phillip St.
Sydney
Melbourne:
Preston Motors Pty. Ltd.
114 Franklin St., Mebourne
<iA del aide :
City Motors Ltd.
95 Waymouth St., Adelaide
Perth:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street - Perth
*
V
I
"Willi
0 *—
3
.
sa i
it
1
.
mi
IS
'1
V
<m
N
/
S*
//’i General
Motors car .
BUICK


r.
O
//, r- V
ra u
a.
<, -
\
y
TV
m*
X
Z
n
v
'j^
i>n i
r©
'.VSSffl!ll
V
y
vv
For over 80 years the same high
medical opinion of W olf e’s Schnapps
TOWARDS the middle of last Century, the Resident Physician
of the Sydney Hospital wrote of Wolfe’s Schnapps as
“ a most excellent stimulant and diuretic.” Fifty years
later the late Chief Government Analyst described. Wolfe s
Schnapps as “a diuretic or remedy favourable for stimulating
the action of the kidneys.”
And, to-day, 80 years after its introduction to Australia,
Wolfe’s Schnapps still holds a unique position in the Materia
Medica the one stimulant that medical men prescribe for the
• regulation of Kidneys and Bladder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is
obtainable everywhere
in full, half and quarter
size bottles. For your
health’s sake, keep
a bottle in the home.
wo it n
O/romjaJtk. Sdu&da/m.
scwN/im
“As good for women as for men”
A
m
i n
m
c/
4VVI
w
&


a
Lacing that never
strains the foot
The natural arching of the instep is
accurately followed in designing this
Abbey Boot. Its upper has an easy-
fitting curve adaptfed exactly to the
foot. So all tightness is eliminated
and complete freedom of movement
assured.
The sole is double thickness. . . .of
stout, hard-wearing leather. And the
cut of the ankle makes for close
fit. . . .there’s never any bulging-
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Sports catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphio Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 189.
WHIP THONGS
Made from Best Kangaroo Leather in
Chandler’s Own Factory.
STOCK THONGS.
6ft.
8-plait: 11/3
10-plait: 13/-
1 2-plait: 14/9
9ft.
8-plait: 16/3
10-plait: 18/-
12-plait: 20/3
BULLOCK
THONGS
(Green Hide).
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
4-plait: 9/- 10/- 11/3 12/3 ea.
SPECIAL STOCK WHIPS.
These Whips are specially constructed
of the very best materials, the bellies
being made of solid kangaroo leather,
and are plaited in the following fancy
colors Brown and White, Black and
White, Black and Tan, and Green
Kangaroo and Tan.
Whip Handles. —Malacca Cane, 3ft.,
2/6; steel-lined and ferruled,
2/6; 3ft., 3/- each, Leather Grip,
steel-lined, 15 ferrules, 3ft., 7/6.
Special English Whalebone, 2ft. 6in-,
6 ferrules, 11/6 each.
Prices F.O.R. Melbourne.
CHAIRS
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
iheir
happiness
ENSURE the future hap-
piness of your tittle ones
by investing your surplus
funds in P.P. Bank DEPOSIT
CERTIFICATES. This is
undoubtedly the finest form
of insurance.
P.P. Bank Deposit Certificates
are safe, convenient, never below
par, and are issued for any
amount.
m
Write us for full particulars or
consult our officers, free of
charge .
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London..
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON’S COWBOY SADDLERY
&
WRITE FOR NEW
CATALOGUE
Showing also New
and Low-priced' Aus.
STOCK & PARK
SADDLES
Lassos—braided cotton
with brass honda, 15/-
Braided linen, 40ft.,
with brass honda, 22/6
Cowboy Quirts —made of latigo leather, shot-loaded, 8/6
Fancy Breastplate— as illustrated 75/-
Fancy Bridle—to match breastplate, complete with gold-
color cowboy bit . . . 76/-
Cowboy Cartridge Belts—single row, 10/6; double, 20/-
Cowboy Chaps—of dark, flexible hide, with fringe . , 87/6
Cowboy Spurs gold color, with nickel horsehead, without
straps, 35/-. Straps, fancy, pair .... 7/6 and 8/6
Texas Ranger Cowboy Saddle—double-rigged, with cord
cinchas and wood stirrups £l3/18/6
Add postage to above —the saddle is freight, free.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
remaining SS per cent, should be dragged out
and replaced by something known to buyers.
Cool stores, of course, wrought a great
change in planting policy. Previously hard
and well-keeping sorts were in demand, .but
now, when Jonathans can be kept for eight
months, there’s no excuse for hanging on
to unprofitable lines.
GROWING MANGOLDS.
“Te Aroha”: To grow a good crop of
mangolds the ground should be worked to
a fine tilth and manured with Scwt. of super-
phosphate and 2cwt. of sulphate of am-
monia to the acre. The resultant crop will
amply repay for such a heavy dressing.
The plants should be placed not less than
9in. apart in the rows, which should be at
least 2ft. apart. Inter-cultivation should be
practised until the plants are advanced to
the stage when they are vigorous enough to
smother weed growth.
Unlike most root crops mangolds can be
grown on the same land for years.
SOURNESS, AND TPIE ANTIDOTE.
“R.X.8.”: Sour soils contribute to more
failures and partial failures of crops than
is realised, especially by Australian coastal
farmers. Sourness means an excess of acidity
and spells destruction to the soil bacteria.
Bad drainage, slovenly methods of cultiva-
tion and laok of lime are the usual causes
of sourness. Turning in a green crop in-
creases acidity, but provided the turned-in
stuff is given time to decompose before the
land is worked again and planted it is a
valuable practice.
Bad drainage must be remedied. Natural
slopes will always drain well. Flat land
can only drain without assistance if the sub-
soil formation will allow it, and impervious
subsoils are the rule on Australian coastal
areas. Excess of water forces the air out
of the soil, and an adequate supply of air
is as essential to the plant as it is to the
soil bacteria. Draining a flat paddock gave
me eight tons of potatoes to the acre instead
of two tons. It is safe to say that a "badly-
drained paddock is only a quarter the value
of a well-drained one. The most fallacious
argument against draining is that when
the summer comes you will want all the
moisture you can get. Good drainage re-
duces drought losses because a well-drained
soil encourages a deeper-rooting system to
develop.
Slovenly methods of cultivation always
tend to make an otherwise sweet soil sour.
The reason again is that the soil does not
become sufficiently aerated, and without air
the soil bacteria cannot live.
The old method of determining sourness
in a soil by the presence or absence of
sorrel is wrong. Sorrel will thrive in any
soil, though it certainly has a preference for
a sour one. Experienced men can judge sour-
ness by smelling a handful of soil when it is
wet; and there is the litmus test. Books of
litmus papers can be bought at any chemist’s
for 3d. each. Some soil should be moistened
and rolled into a pellet; this. should be split
open with a knife, and the litmus sheet
inserted before the pellet is pressed into
shape again. If the blue paper has turned
red after an hour or so, the soil is certainly
sour; though it should be said that a culti-
vated soil will always have a slightly acid
reaction.
If the land is well drained and honestly
cultivated and is still sour, the only
certain antidote is lime, freely used. In most
cases it is applied too sparingly to do much
good.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred -from Service Department.)
Best way to clean dead wool? Plenty of
water available. —7581.
If in quantity, sort according to length,
color and cleanliness, making two lines. The
lower and dirtier pieces, or those carry-
ing much foreign matter, can be much im-
proved by opening and working over the
ordinary wool-rolling or piece-sorting tables.
That portion where the pelt is adhering
could be kept separate and sold as “skin
pieces”; or, if thought more desirable, the
pieces of pelt could be separated by saturat-
ing the whole in cold water, placing in heaps
covered with some old bagging and so
sweated. In the course of a day or so the
wool can be readily pulled from the skin
pieces.
(1) What are prospects for cotton,
tobacco, broom millet and peanuts in the Mt.
Garnet district (W.Q.) ? (2) Gould two men
make a living on 105 acres? —7813.
(1) It is regarded as a suitable district
for the crops mentioned. (2) Amply big
enough.
(1) What are the . most suitable districts
in Tas. for hop growing? (2) Price of cleared
land per acre in such districts. (3) Average
hop yield per acre in Tas.? (4) Average
price per bushel? —8063.
(1) It is mostly cultivated in the Der-
went Valley districts. A limited quantity
is pi-oduced in the Huon and D’Entrecast-
eaux Channel. (2) From £5O to £3O per
acre. (3) 16001 b. of cured hops. (4) This
year’s price is Is. 6d. per lb. for cured hops.
What can be done with a. peach-tree that
was badly infested with curly-leaf last year?
—7926.
Spray with Bordeaux mixture at the rate
of 61b. bluestone, 41b. lime to 40 gallons of
water, or with lime-sulphur at a strength of
1 in 9. The spray should be applied just
as the buds begin to swell.
(1) Should oranges be left on the tree
till they sweeten or picked when they change
color? (2) Will picking the fruit early in-
duce earlier blossoming? (3) When should
orange-trees in Gunnedah ( N.S.W.) blos-
som? (4) The leaves have a black stain,
which also attacks the skin of the fruit. It
mbs off like a mould. Cause and cure? —
7445.
(1) Depends mainly ori personal prefer-
ence for acid or sweet fruit. For marketing,
oranges must be sweet enough to comply
with the citrus maturity test fixed by regu-
lation. (2) No. (3) In a normal season,
about the end of September. (4) The stain is
fumagine, a direct effect of scale pests.
Obtain N.S.W. Agriculture Dept.’s free leaf-
let on “Brown Scale.”
TTov, to kill red-spider that attacks vege-
tables? —7725.
Use a weak solution of lime sulphur as
a spray. If the foliage of the plants is of a
very delicate nature or where the spray is
otherwise objectionable, flowers of sulphur
may be dusted on the plants.
(1) Gan turkeys be reared sucoessfully at
French’s Forest (near Sydney)? (2) Where
can I obtain literature on turkey raising?
—7845.
(1) Generally speaking turkeys do better
in the inland drier districts, but can be
raised successfully on the coast. The main
essential is that the birds have ample range
to forage and to assure good development.
(2) N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, can supply
free leaflet.
Method of preventing fowls from eating
their eggs? —7977.
Ample nesting material should be pro-
vided for the layers in order to prevent
breakages as far as possible. All fowls will
eat eggs when broken. If the trouble con-
tinues, an egg should be placed in the middle
of the yard and watch should be made for
the hen which actually pierces the egg with
her beak. The culprit should be eliminated
from the flock.
How long does a poundkeeper in Q’land
have to keep stock before he can sell it? —
8029.
It may be sold on the sale day next after
the. tenth day after it was impounded, if
notice has been served upon the owner. In
every other case the sale must be on the
sale day next after the 24th day after notice
has. been sent to the owner through the post
or inserted ih a newspaper.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Deo Lear” : On handling sheep with six
or eight months’ wool farmers are sometimes
dismayed to find them infested with vermin.
There is a. simple remedy. Catch each sheep
and open its wool along the backbone, from
crown of head to tail; into this crack pour
enough dipping mixture to soak along the
flesh found both sides to the belly. The
animal will, face the shearer a few months
later as clean as the clean.
“Hayband”: Froggatt’s kero.-tiu blowfly
traps (B. 16/7/’3O) last much longer if
painted inside and out.
“Polstan”: A'common mistake in fencing
is to carry the end of the stay too near the
top of the straining post. If the post begins
to lift under the tension, the stay then, aided
by the pull of the bottom wires, helps to
develop the trouble by keeping the post ver-
tical, in which position it will draw out
more readily. If the top end of the stay is
housed not more than two-thirds up, the
pull of the upper wires tends to force the
heel of the post hard against the back wall
of the hole, thus giving it a grip that the
wires cannot overcome.
“Bagman”: A handy device for making
a gate self-closing. Shut the gate and nail
an.old motor-tube to the bottom rail outside,
nailing a board over it. Draw the thing
round the post and nail again with another
board over it. This will always pull the
gate to and will last a long time.
“Peg”: A friend was cursed with a run
of second-class cream. I advised him to use
water instead of separated milk to flush the
bowl out, so as to avoid fermentation when
cream was held for a couple of days before
transport. He took my advice and has had
only one second-class verdict in two years.
And in that case the cream was held for five
days on account of floods.
“Super.”: If your cream is being graded
second-class, test your separator-float for
a leak at the seam, by placing it under boil-
ing water. The heat will expand the air
inside the float, causing air bubbles to rise.
Before repairing the leak, bore two large
holes in the top of the float, thoroughly
cleanse the inside, and place in boiling Water
before drying off. These holes and the leak
may then be soldered up, and the float again
tested.
“Wrash”: To bind a split in the axe or
hoe handle with fine wire fasten an end to
a tree or post and roll on the binding by
turning the handle over and over from the
other end, keeping a steady strain on. When
half a dozen turns remain, place a short
strand of similar wire under the binding.
Pull out this strand and thread the binder
end through where it lay; pull tight and
file off neatly.
“Corncrake”: A wrinkle noted on a Ma
State maizegrower’s farm. All the seed maize
is shelled and laid out on the floor of his
barn, and he keeps a hen and a clutch of
small chicks in with it. The old lady eats
little seed and the chicks none, but they are
turning it over all day, drying it and keep-
ing down weevils, grubs and moths. A
cheap and effective safety-first method. The
farmer says odd mice spoil less when it’s
lying down than when left hanging in the
cob.
“Minthall”: Hop in wdth that order for
seed spuds now. Tip the bags out in some
dry shed, under the house or on the veran-
dah, and keep the tubers well turned over.
Let them get as green as possible prior to
sowing: this hardens the shoot and the eyes
are less likely to be damaged.
“Rotom”: For the potato crop select a
position on the western side of a hill or tali
forest. There the growing warmth of the
rising sun will have caused the frost to
melt away while the potato patch has still
lain in the shadows.
“Awani”: If you can’t afford a brooder,
try rearing day-old chicks. I got 50 up
from Sydney and put them in a flaniml-
lined box, setting it in the kitchen at night
for a couple of weeks. After that I shoved
them outside in a* kero.-box covered with a
bag, the bedding being clean straw. The
chicks are now eight weeks old, and I haven’t
lost one.
“Hatter” : Don’t hold your eggs long before
hatching. Eggs up to 10 days old will hatch
out 55 per cent, of chicks when eggs 11 to
20 days will in the same circumstances hatch
only 42 per cent.; and eggs 21 to 28 days
only IS per cent.
“Bufforp” : Give a liberal addition of bone
meal to the growing chicks and ducks, and
you’ll have quicker maturers.


Our ScrviceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover cf last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, wants typing at home. Used
to MSS. and specifications.—Bl43.
Governess, N.S.W., wants position in country.
Teach piano, needlework and usual syllabus subjects.
—BlO5.
Ex-Canadian soldier, Sydney, married, axeman,
milker and ploughman, wants job of any kind. —8110.
Jackeroo (20), N.5.W.,. ex-King’s School boy, can
milk, kill and shear, wants job.—Bl2o.
Partner with experience in rice-cultivation wanted.
—BlO4.
Gardener (50), exp. with flower and vegetables,
can milk, wants job anywhere. Refs.—BoB2.
Young man, Sydney, wants clerical position with
Island trader anywhere Pacific Islands. —8041.
Young Lady, Q’land, three years in Aust., will act
as nurse or companion on voyage to England for
part fare. —8050.
Gentlewoman (43), Sydney, seeks position in good
country home. Thoroughly domesticated.—Bo67.
Lady, Sydney, domesticated, business exp., wants
post as housekeeper in widower’s home, town or
country. Fond of children.- —8046.
Two Scots (22 and 25), abstainers, exp. in wheat-
growing, tractors, teams and station work, want
jobs anywhere, together or apart.—Bo47.
Young man (23), S.A. Ag. Coll, diploma, exp. on
sheep and cattle stations, and farms, wants respon-
sible position.—Bo33.
Station book-keeper, Q’land, wants job anywhere.
—BO3O.
Chemist (21), Sydney-trained, wants. position as
analyst to manufacturer, metal trade’s preferred.—
8023. 1 -
Healthy, capable young woman wants employment
out back, indoors or 0ut.—8147.
Lady chemist, unqualified, 22, experienced,- wants
position in New South Wales or Victoria. References.
—8166.
Toi buy “My Brilliant Career,” by Miles Franklin,
and “The Record of Nicholas Freydon.”—Bl3B.
To buy original drawings by Phil May. State
exact size and where and when published.—-8101.
To buy Gregory’s “Dead Heart of Australia”
(1906), Webster’s “Last Cruise of the Wanderer”
(1858), Favenc’s “Secret of the Australian Desert”
(1895) and “Marooned in Australia” (1896), and
Adams’s “The Melburnians” (1892). —8077.
To buy “The Secret Battle,” by A. P. Herbert.
—BO6O. '
To buy a few roots of giant bamboo, 4 to 6 inches
diameter. —8068.
To buy issues of “N.S.W. Freemason,” Jan., 1928,
and Feb., 1929.—8053.
To buy Vol. I “History of Australia in the War”;
(“Story of Anzac.”)—-8162.
To buy “The Golden Calf,” by Braddon.—Bo2s.
To exchange copies “Town and Country Journal,”
January 5, 12 and 19, 1901, also Federation souvenir
copies “Daily Telegraph,” for set of Bulletins
containing “Coonardoo.”—Blo9.
To exchange six modem novels for set of “Sydney
Morning Herald,” index nos. 1 to 12.—8073.
Whereabouts of George Dawson; was Orderly-room
Sergt. to Col. Smith, O.C. Anzac Transport, Palestine.
—BO2O.
Whereabouts of Mrs. John Matthews (formerly Alice
Grace), last heard of in Tasmania about 18 years
ago.—Blso.
Very deaf man (S.A.) wishes to correspond with
educated fellow-sufferer.—Bl6B.
Words of verse entitled “My Uncle,” which begins
“I had an uncle once.”—Bo9B.
Words of verse “National Park.”—BoB4.
Copy of “Argosy” magazine for May, 1928. —8037.
Information Sought.
I require data for an article on women
pioneers of Australia. Can you' suggest a
few names and tell me where I can' secure
references to them? —7942.
Mrs. Elizabeth Macarthur (wife of John
Macarthur), Mrs. Reibey (Mary ITaydock),
Mrs. Macquarie (wife of Gov. Macquarie),
Margaret Catclipole, Mrs. George Suttor,
Mrs. Elizabeth Hawkins, Caroline Chis-
holm, Mrs. Philip King and Mrs. Mauger
. might be considered as coming under that
heading. References to all can be found in
the Mitchell Library, Sydney. .
How is an auction bridge “drive” organ-
ised? What is the ‘'plus and minus” sys-
tem of scoring? —SOO9.
Best form of drive is the progressive tour-
nament. Partners are retained throughout.
Winners at No. 1 table stay there until
defeated. At each table four deals only are
played. There are no rubbers, but •winners
of a game in one band score 125 points.
Partial scores are not added to make game.
Tlie score of the losers is subtracted from
that of the winners, and the difference is
entered as a net plus score for the winners.
My boss owes me £5l 15s. for work done
prior to June 30 last. Must I pay N.S.W.
Employment Tax on this when I get it? —
7793. ; ” ' : ' .
Yes, if the rate of pay makes you liable
to the tax.
(1) Prospects of working passage to
Argentina? (2) From whom could I obtain
particulars as to sailings? (3) Would a
marine engineer proceeding there need to
know Spanish? (4) How do wages compare
with Australian rates? —Bo2l.
(1) Not much chance. See Dalgety and
Co., Sydney. (2) From Dalgety and Co.
(3) Desirable, but not absolutely necessary.
(4) Slightly lower, but the cost and standard
of living are lower also.
(1) How many days are allowed for Test
matches in Australia? (2) How much
longer do they play per day in England than
in Australia? (3) Intervals for lunch and
afternoon tea, and time at which the stumps
arc drawn? (4) In the event of England
winning one match. Australia winning one
and two matches being drawn, would the
winner of a fifth match win the “ashes"? —
8051.
(1) Played out. (2) An hour on the first
day and an hour and a half on the others. (3)
Luncheon interval in both countries from
1.30 to 2.15 p.m. Tea in Australia 4 to
4.15 p.m.; in England 4.30 to 4.45 p.m.
Stumps are drawn at 6 p.m. in Australia and
6.30 p.m. in England. (4) Yes.
(1) What experience would be necessary
to successfully found and edit a better-class
country newspaper? (2) What capital would
be required? —79l4.
(1) Some years of experience of both
journalism and business, though there are
cases where exceptional men without any
newspaper experience have succeeded. (2)
Depends on the size of town and whether
there is any direct competition; you couldn’t
do much on less than £2OOO.
Is a butcher’s apprentice in Bundaberg
( Q.) compelled to become a member of a
union? —7811.
No. There is a statutory provision against
compulsion in the ease of apprentices, pro-
bationers and minors.
(1) Is the climate of the New Hebrides
healthy? (2)' Are malaria and other tropi-
cal diseases prevalent? (3) Cost of living as
compared with Sydney? (4) Is there much
settlement, and is the group prosperous? —-
7891.
(1) Fairly healthy; a certain amount of
malaria. •’■ (2) Malaria is the only tropical
disease met with there. (3) Comparison is
impossible. (4) There are no towns. Resi-
dents live on plantations, generally far dis-
tant from one another.
(.1) How much does it cost to patent an
invention in Australia? (2) What would be
the best way to proceed f—7838.
(1) Depends on amount of work involved.
Probably from £22 to £25. (2) Put the mat-
ter in hands of a patent attorney, or write
to Patent Office, Melbourne, for instructions
and forms.
: (1) A man earns £2 10s. per week, and
draws his wages every six weeks? Does he
pay N.S.W. unemployment tax on £l5 or
on £l2? '(2) I make up employees’ wages at
the end of every month. Although the wages
may not be drawn then, can I enter up the
amount of tax due in the stamp book, and
slump same? —-7935.
(1-) On £35. (2) This procedure may be
adopted.
What chest measurement is necessary for
an applicant for admission to the N.S.W.
Police Force 6ft. 2in. in height and other
heights over oft.?~ - 7863.
An applicant 6ft. in height in bare feet is
required to have a chest measurement, ex-
panded, on the bare skin, of 40 inches.
There is no standard set down in regard to
the chest measurement of candidates over
6ft., but an increase is required in propor-
tion to height. A man 6ft. 2in. in height with
a chest measurement of 41in. would probably
pass the medical test, but the matter is
entirely one • for the Government Medical
Officer.
I have a steam pumping plant on the river
at Leeton . (N.S.W.) . (1) , Must I have the
boiler tested if I employ an enginedriver?
(2) May I drive it myself without it being
tested? (3) In the event of an accident to
an employee what is my position with re-
gard to workers’ compensation if the boiler
ivas not tested?- —7890.
(1) If the plant is; used for irrigation
purposes it is not legally necessary for the
boiler to be inspected, but in the interests
of safe working you should have’ it inspected.
(2> Yes. (3) Apply for information to the
Workers’ Compensation Commission, Bridge-
street, Sydney. ’
(1) Number of bales of wool exported
from Australia each year during last five
years? (2) Weight in-poynds each year? (8)
Average weight and value per bale in NIS. IF.
each year? "(4) Same particulars for Q’land?
(5) What becomes of packs in which wool
is sold? r (6) Where these packs arc made,
and material Used? Any made in Australia?
(7) Price of packs landed in Australia and
customs duties? (8) Number of bales pur-
chased by local users? Weight and value?
(9) Freight per ton per 200 to 250 miles
each State railway during five years? (10)
Does any State deduct weight of packs in
computing freight charges? (11) When were
wool sales first held in Australia? —6so7.
(1)1924. 1,708.938 bales ; 1925 1,695 361 •
1926, 2,666,473; 1927, 2,493.397 • 1928,
2.474.725. 1 (2) 1924, 531,322 6911 b.; 1925,
535.928,1591 b.; 1926. 825.1402981 b.; 1927,
770,086,9011 b.: 1928, 742,710 921-lb. (3)
Average weight last season 3021 b., value
£l3 11s. Bd. (4) Get in touch with Secretary,
Brisbane ■ Wool-selling Brokers, Brisbane.
(5) See answer to 7788, Service page (B.
6/8/’3O). (6) Packs are made in Calcutta
from jute. No suitable material for their
manufacture has yet been found in Australia.
(7) Price of packs at present 3s. Bd.. duty
under new tariff being 2k per cent. (8)
Approximately 190,000 bales yearly, worth
£l3 10s. per bale. (9) It will be necessary
to communicate with the various State Rail-
way departments. (10) is deducted.
(11) By T. S, Mort in Sydney, 1843.
(1) Would it be advisable to take up
mushroom culture as a sole occupation in
N.S.W.? (2) Can the produce be easily dis-
posed of and are condment-makers 'ready
buyers? (3) Return per pound to grower? —
7847.
(1) It has not yet been proved commer-
cially, hut this is probably due largely to.lack
of good material. (2) No trouble in .dispos-
ing of the product, and no need to .depend
on condiment-makers, as the fresh market
can absorb a large quantity. (3) About Is.
per lb.
List of principal long-distance flights made
by Sir Alan Cohham. and dates? —BoB3.
5000 miles round Europe (Aug., 1921) ;
8000 m. round Europe and N" Africa (1922) :
32,0<)0m. round Europe, N’Africa, Egypt and
Palestine (1923) ; London-Rangoon and back
, (Nov. 20, ’25-Jan. 3, ’2O) ; London-Cape
Town and back (1926) ; England-Australia
and back (June 30-Oct. 2. 1926) ; round
African continent (1927).
(1) Does the Government of W.A. pan
for destruction of verminf If so, how much
for wild dogs, foxes, emus and eaglchawks.
(2) Best method of catching wild dogs and
foes?-— 7782.
(1) A bonus of £2 is paid for wild dogs
and foxes and ss. for eaglchawks. No bonus
on emus. (2) Poisoning is most effective,
but for special animals it may also be neces-
sary to set traps.
What arc the characteristics of the mud
shipper or climbing fish ? —8173.
He is a small amphibious fish (Perioph-
thahninw), whose breast- and abdominal-
fins' form armlike limbs with which he clam-
bers over mudflats and climbs mangrove-
roots. His eyes, which he can elevate upon
short stalks, see as well out of as in water.
(1) K7(o teas Andrea Guarneri? (2)
Would a violin made by him be of any valuef
—BOl5.
(1) He was the first of a celebrated
family of violin-makers; born 1626, in Cre-
mona ; died there in 3698. He was a pupil
of Niccolo Arhati, and was at first a close
imitator of his master. Later he altered the
style of his work somewhat. (2) If genuine
and in good condition it would •be of con-
siderable value. There, are many thousands
of Copies in existence, some of them being of
great age. Submit the instrument to A. E.
Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney, for inspec-
tion.
(1) Who was the first Australian to win
the V.C. in the Great War, and how did he.
earn it? (2) Where can I find a full account
of his deed? —Bls2.
(1) Capt. Albert Jacka (then private).
On the night of May 19, 1915, 'at Court-
ney’s Post, Gallipoli, he and four other pri-
vates were holding portion of a trench and
were attacked. Jacka’s four comrades were
killed or wounded and single-handed he dis-
posed of seven Turks, shooting five and
bayoneting the others. (2) In “The Story of
Anzac” (Vol. 11, page 150).
Whlat should a bushel,of maize (a ) crushed,
(b) whole weigh? —79so.
Maize of any sort is sold by weight, the
standard adopted being 561 b. per bushel. A
bushel measure of crushed maize would con-
tain appreciably less than a similar measure
of whole grain.
What is the difference between the pro-
cesses of etching and dry-point engraving?
—B3OO.
In etching a metal plate (copper or zipc)
is coated with wax, and the design
scratched ! on to the wax. The plate is then
placed in a shallow dish of nitric or sul-
phuric acid, which bites away tlie metal where
the wax has been removed. In dry-pointing
the drawing is scratched on the bare metal
with a sharp tool. Both are printed in the
same way.
(I) What are the prospects of success for
paper mills hi a country centre, to manufac-
ture pulp from straw? (2) Approximate
cost of machinery? (3) Can suitable mach-
inery be obtained in Australia? —7972.
(1) Official inquiries recently made in
N.S.W. show that much would depend on the
locality. To get the best commercial results
the plant should be established close to the
sources of raw material, coal supply and
paper-making ingredients. A supply of good
water also enters into the question and the
factory should not be too far from a port.
Paper can be made satisfactorily from straw,
and a price of about £3 Bs. per ton on trucks
at country stations could be paid for baled
straw. (2) Approximate price, for the pur-
chase, freight and installation of plant for
a mill with a capacity of 4000 tons of paper
p.a. would be £134,400. (3) No.
(1) Has the president or chairman of a
public body the right to move motions? (2)
Should a paid secretary join in debate and
move and second motions? —Bls7.
. (1) He may move formal motions but
should not.propose contentious ones. (2) No.
Particulars regarding conveyance allow-
ances made by the Vic. Education Depart-
ment? —8172.
It is to pay for the conveyance of children
living at a distance from the nearest school.
Over 6 and under, 11, 21 to 3 miles from
school, the allowance is 3d. a day; over 6
and under 14, 4 miles or over, id. a day.
For the conveyance of secondary school
pupils the department in certain circum-
stances pays half-fare.
I have a Chrysler “66” 6 -cyl. car which
won’t idle. It runs■ well. Have put in new
plugs and had carburetter adjusted. What’s
the remedy ?— 8064.
Most likely cause of the trouble is air
leaks in the carburetter or induction mani-
fold. Have both tested. If a suction type
screen wiper is fitted there may he air leaks
in the suction pipe between the instrument
and the manifold. These leaks sometimes
occur, in the case of closed cars, inside the
front door pillar. A quick test of this, is to
disconnect the suction pipe from the mani-
fold and plug up the opening on the mani-
fold. The valves may he -riding on the
tappets .in the motor, or leaking on their
seats. Examine the two idling discharge
holes, in the carburetter (these are located
directly against the throttle butterfly), also
the idling jet, and ensure that they
are not stuffed up with dirt. Check over
the float mechanism in the carburetter, and
the float level. Possibly the level is too high,
which will lead to faulty idling in the
Stromberg carburetter.
Meaning of the musical terms (1) “rem-
plissago,” (2) “ sfogato”? —8153.
(1) Briefly, musical padding, introduced
into a composition without increasing its
interest. (2) A musical direction meaning
“To be played lightly and airily.” The
Italian word literally means “exhaled.”
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of abo. word “krawarree”? —
8003.
Brief Answers.
H.J.D.: Largest orange district in Vie.
is Mildura. Picking is-spread over several months
of the year, but there’s not much chance of a job
for outsiders W.J.: The cost of Parliamentary
institutions in Australia for 1927-28 (latest figures
available) was: Commonwealth, £473,288; N.S.W.,
£302;880; Vie., £128,507; Queensland, £115,118;
S.A., £89,160; W.A., £118,190; Tas., £49,206:
total, £1,276.415. These amounts include Governors’
salaries and allowances... .M.P.: No addition to
paint will protect timber against dry-rot... .T.H.:
(1 Winston Churchill was a prime mover. (2)
Gloaming £43,100 ; Amounis £40,693; Heroic
£.38,062 ; Limerick £37,971. (3) Geldings at time
of starting are allowed 31b. unless otherwise speci-
fied in conditions *of race. (4) Yes. Lee was
reprieved and his sentence was commuted to im-
prisonment for life. He was released some years
ago, after serving 20 years. .. .Puzzled: See the
C.P.S. of the local court. He may be able to
advise you of some means of suing the tenant so
that you can dispose of the goods... .D.D.: No, we
don’t recommend the firm. ... Y.McK.: Fumigation
certificate is not necessary, but : you must have an
export permit, obtainable from Commonwealth Meat
Export Officer, Desmond Chambers, Brisbane. Ship
in the ordinary way; minimum freight charge 10s.
. ...T.L.: 50a or 14p... .L.G.P.: You require legal
assistance. If you are unable to pay for it, apply
to the Legal Aid Department, Queen’s-square, Sydney.
.... D.P.: It is a job for an expert... .G.H.: “Steam
Road Vehicles,” by L. M. Meyrick .Jones, 2s. fid.,
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney. .A.E.W.: Write
Trade Marks Office, Customs Department, Brisbane.
. ...J.L.D. and M.C.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
.... W.C.B. : The skeleton fences must be erected
according to the specifications of Queensland Lands
Department, and to the satisfaction of the local
land commissioner. . . .C.H.: (1) For year ending
June, 1928, Australia exported £134,158,348 worth
of primary produce and £4,789;099 worth of manu-
factured goods. (2) The three' chief Aust. manu-
facturing groups are (a) food and drink; (b)
clothing and textile fabrics; and (c) books, paper,
printing and engraving... .W.A.8.: Write Canadian
Government Trade , Commissioner, 90 Queen-street,
Melbourne A.S.: Let us know the exact purpose
for which you require the tester... .C.0.R.H.: The
wood should be treated with a clear silex filler and
rubbed down with sandpaper... .E.A.P.: Subject to
neither Federal nor State taxation... .W.S.: Write
' American Consul, Brook House, 17 O’Connell-street,
Sydney. .. . W. 8.: The rough feed which the horse
was forced to eat was probably the cause. Such
feed often becomes moulded into hard balls and
causes partial and later complete obstruction of
the bowel, which causes death. A horse, in common
with all other domesticated animals, has no vermi-
form appendix... .H.L.D.: (1) Yes. (2) Yes. (3)
Only those used by the teachers. (4) No. (5) No.
. ...K.8.J.: (1) The case would be fully considered
on its merits. (2) Yes W.S.H.: Wash thoroughly
in weak soda solution and then in fresh water
A.V.: W. A. Airways, Ltd., 35 A.M.P. Chambers,
Perth, W.A 0.E.P.: Get in touch with Adelaide
Chemical and Fertiliser Co., Ltd., 38 Currie-street;
Wallaroo and Mt. -Lyell Fertilisers, Ltd., King
William-street —both of Adelaide,.. G.F.: No land on
the Inkerman Irrigation Area open for selection at
present.... W.T.: Preparation unknown to Brisbane
commercial houses, but fish-oil is quoted by Paul
and Gray, Ltd., Eagle-street, Brisbane, at ss. per
gallon in 4gal. tins,, and 4s. 9d. per gallon for 40gal.
lots. The distributors don’t vouch for this oil being
safe for internal use M.M.: Planting pineapples
in soil infested with nut-grass is not recommended.
They would be outgrown by the pest... .C.A.H.:
N.S.W. shareholders in Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co.
are not liable to Federal income tax at present, but
may be under the proposed amendment....
H.H.: For N.S.W. State purposes up to £5O may
be claimed in respect of educational expenses if the
child is under the age of 18 years and the tax-
payer’s taxable income does not exceed £800....
W.F.: As between neighbors notice might reasonably
be expected. If there _is reason to believe A is
deliberately appropriating B’s sheep the N.S.W.
Registration of Stock Brands Act gives authority to
any policeman to enter the premises of a • person
reasonably suspected and require him to furnish
information as to the ownership of any stock.....
A. : The taxpayer would be allowed as a deduction
the loss on the sale of the tractor, £2OO. There is
no fixed percentage for depreciation, the allowance
varying according to the class of machinery....
B. : Fencing disputes in Queensland may be
referred to the nearest Court of Petty Sessions.
Cost of a fence must not exceed “the fair and
usual price charged for the erection of a three-railed
fence”’in country and suburban lots. .. .M.S.: As a
general rule paspalum is favored more in the Q’land
coastal area, where a heavier rainfall is experienced
than in the inter-coastal and inland districts. In
the latter districts, particularly on hilly country,
Rhodes grass is much in favor... .E.S.D.: (1) 76,
£looo'p.a. (2)'36, £lOOO p.a. (3) 65, £5OO p.a.
(4) 34, ,£2OO p.a H.M.: A hundred miles from
Melbourne, 3LO: can be picked up clearly on a
crystal detector. Signals are weak, but reception
can-be improved by using a long aerial.... J.W.D.:
Can’t advise unless, you tell us what sort of fishing
you have in mind... .K.-M.1.: Very little opening in
N.S.W. for dental mechanics at present... .A.C.:
Secretary,/ N.S.W. Government- Railways, Bridge
street, Sydney.... R.H.8.: Send specimens to Gov-
ernment Biologist, Agriculture Department, Sydney.
D.G.: Send a complaint to the Accountant,
P.M.G.’s Department, Brisbane.... C.R.L.: It is
taught by all the leading physical culture experts.
Rates on application... ,M.G.: See article “Canberra”
in the “Australian Encyclopaedia”... .W.C.: Inter-
view the Council Clerk, who may be able, ‘ through
the Engineer or Inspector of Nuisances, to suggest
some remedy... .T.E.: “Artistic and Decorative
Stencilling,” by Audsley; “Stencils and Stencilling,”
by Duthie; “Practical Stencil Work,” by Mitchell.
....C.H.: O.A.C. 21 barley comes from Canada,
where it is very successfully grown. It is very
early, but stools sparsely. It has given very fair
yields here for silage. It is not quite so good as
Skinless, and for grain it is risky to grow, a« the
brittle stem causes a large percentage of ears to
break off when ripe.... R.G.: Blue Mountain cypress
is Callitris Muelleri. The Middle Harbor pine (C.
cupressiformis ) belongs to the same genus.. . .N. 8.:
Jacques in French means James, Jean is John,
Renaud is Reginald and Guillaume is William.... .F.R.:
Francis and Mills, Granville House, Arundel-street,
W.C.2; Ronald Massey, 106 Victoria-street, S.W.I;
Rogers and Co., 8 Bishop’s Court, W.C.2 —all
London.... W.T.J.: See R. M. Watson’s “History of
Samoa.” Also reports of M.L. Government on the
Mandated Territory, obtainable from Government
Printer, Wellington... .M.A.: It was written by Hugh
de Selincourt. .. .H.A.E.: It was estimated that
5,203,240 motor-cars were manufactured in 1928.
Of these 88.4 per cent, were made in U.S.A. and
.Canada W.C.S.: (1) and (3) Yes. (2)
Lands Titles Office, Queen’s-square, Sydney; by
(2) Lands Titles Office, Queen’s-square, Sydney; by
making a search. , (4) A solicitor is advisable on
the score of safety', not validity. Witnesses, yes...,
(Many others mailed.)


GOOD
*
$
' I
I
30S8D
Rain or shine All-
Weather Tread
Tyres provide
uncompromising
safety at all times.
GOODYEAR TYRES are
made in Australia and
they cost no more than
any other make .


FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
ANNOUNCING P.
AND SICKNESS
&C. ACCIDENT
ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the F. and 0. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal, , nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Suid for literature and full
particulars to
Cg PRODUCERS W CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OP AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and •_£
Agency Co., Ltd. cs===
CUFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney’s well-known Harbor Hotel
QQO
m
Tti
HOT
3QQ
m
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4i Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
SMOKE-OH
“As a result of drinking half a bottle of methylated
spirits accused then became quite demented.”
■— “News.”
There’s certainly metho. in this kind of
madness.
“Bradman, for the second time on the tour,
scored a century before lunch.” — Cable.
It disposes of the view that Bradman is
no good on an empty stomach.
’ * *
“Trimmings will be more popular in the new
season’s dresses.”
How women’s fashions change and chop
The coming season’s dresses show,
With here a little fur on top
And there a little furbelow.
COMPARISONS ARE PERILOUS.
“The baby is growing like a mushroom.” — “Sun.”
“These vegetable similes,” the editor
observed, “make me quite shaky at the knees.
A libel writ was served upon my paper once
because someone of British breed found we
had said her baby was growing j'ust like a
Swede.”
* *
THE DIARY OF A CHINESE HERB-
ALIST WHO TELLS.
{With acknowledgments to the “Sun.”)
Monday: Patient come alongee my slur-
gery. Say um “bellyache.” Me say: “All
li. Plenty dlied mice cure ’im. Tlee pound.”
Plitty soon he get worse. I say “Plenty
ADAM STARTED IT.
ADAM: “Eve, you’re the prettiest bride I ever saw.”
boiled goanna’s feet cure ’im. Fi’ pounds.’
Next day he die. Colloner say “Pendycitis.
Velly ni’ funeral. .
Thursday: Little boy patient velly sick.
Me thinkee measles. Nurse say (I call um
my wifie nurse), mother send im
back to school. Allee same other childrens
get measles then. Velly good for business.
So I say um mother, “Sendum little
Horace to school. Him all li’. Two pounds.
Plitty soon other mothers come with their
little boys—all velly sick. I say each mother:
“Nice big dose powdered dlagon s teeth
makum well. Fi’ pounds.” Velly good busi-
ness. Give nurse (I callum my w’ifie nurse)
nice opium pipe for plesent. She glate help
in my business.
Saturday: Patient come alongee slurgery
—velly big man. He say: “Wot’s wlong
with me?” H'im lookee velly well. I say:
“Thinkum cancer. Plenty dlied mice cure
’im. Fi” Patient hit me in jaw. Then
kick me in tlousers. He say: “You sayum
my little boy with measles all li. Takum
that.” Kick me in tlousers again. Hit me
in nose. Start wleck my slurgery. Nurse
(I callum my wifie nurse) done for police.
Clonstable Murphy come and say: “Slervum
right.” He kick me in tlousers, too.
Monday: Packed up. Starting plactice in
slubub to-mollow where no one knows me.
Tristram R.
* *
LOCH INVAR —1930 MODEL.
“He did not leave her there, either, but went
down the many floors to the ground, and, like
Lochinvar, saw her safely into her car.” — Sydney
“Sun.a
Oh, Old Lochinvar is gone down in the lift.
For saving strange females from going adrift
In the countless departments of Linnen and
Co.
There’s no one to touch him. His how is
so low,
His voice so refined, his appearance so smart
That all, who hnow aught of the floor-
walker’s art
4s they watch him exclaim: “He’s more
sheikish by far
Than the classiest youngster, is Old Loch-
invar!"
“Now who be she that wants her car?"
A waggish car-tout cried.
“No sauce from you!” hissed. Lochinvar,
“An’ drop your language snide.
Get moddom’s car this minnii, see!
The number’s 90!/03.”
Oh, Old Lochinvar is gone back to the store,
And the juniors are damning his eyes as
before —
But furtively. All his retainers conceal
The things that their stern-eyed old chief
make them feel.
They whisper their hatred behind his proud
back.
For no one is quicker at giving the sack,
And none is so ready to bluster and spar
As Linnen and Co.’s Mr. Alf Lochinvar.
Max F.
“A generation ago women were reconciled to the
idea that their careers were limited to bearing
children.”— “S. M. Herald.”
To-day many of them can’t even bear the
thought.
* *
THE MASTER ISSUE.
From a political correspondent, London :
At question time in the House of Commons yester-
day, Lieut.-Gen. Sir John Bonedome (Cons., Stoke
Pogis) asked the Prime Minister what the Gov-
ernment was doing, or proposed doing, in regard
to the Bradman menace. Were adequate measures
being taken to comb the country for a bowler capable
of getting Bradman out occasionally?
The Prime Minister, in reply, stressed the fact
that the Government was concentrating on this all-
important matter. The hon. member could rest
assured that it was receiving the closest attention.
He regretted that another hon. member had dis-
played a lamentable sense of proportion by asking—
during this time of acute national stress —questions,
which he was compelled to regard as frivolous, about
Egypt and Iraq. Such matters were relatively un-
NO CATCH.
“He’s simply throwing himself at her.”
“Yes, and he’s a frightfully had egg."
important at the moment, and would be suitably
dealt with when someone had been discovered who
could get the Australian out under a couple of
centuries now and then.
The Government did not wish to revive the
Defence of the Realm Act, hut if no suitable bowler
was forthcoming, and if unpatriotic citizens persisted
in turning their attention to trivial issues like
unemployment instead of to the one that should lie
closest to every true British heart, then the legis-
lative change would have to be made. Such people
were no better than defeatists (cheers), traitors
(cheers), and rank disloyalists (loud and prolonged
cheering). Meanwhile he urged the House to take
heart. Mr. Lyon, a professional prophet of Somer-
set, had wired saying Bradman was a dud whom
he' (Lyon) could bowl any day. If this proved
correct, Mr. Lyon would be rewarded with a Parlia-
mentary grant, a peerage and a permanent job on a
leading sporting paper. (Cheers.)
THE INFALLIBLE SYSTEM.
I have a racing-scheme that pays;
Its virtues would excuse a pome.
I study “form” on racing days,
And spend them digging spuds at home.
GLEANINGS FROM THE ARCHIVES,
OR THE INTELLECTUAL SIDE OF
THE GAME
{By the “Daily Numskull’s” Cricket
Specialist).
Bradman’s feat of following on a score of
334 with one of 14 has never before been
accomplished by a batsman who has just
received a gift of £lOOO.
Fairfax is the first Australian to. bowl a
maidens in 13 overs after an illness this year.
Wall, Hornibrook and McCabe are the
only cricketers on record who have taken
wickets in a fourth Test match after sell-
ing their autographs for £lOO apiece.
Ponsford’s score of 83 is the highest made
bv 'a Victorian newspaper employee m a
Test match in the last half of July on the
present tour,
McCabe is the youngest player to, take
4 wickets for 44 runs off 17 overs when the
English XI included two Yorkshiremen.
THE OBJECTION.
A surgeon’s job would not suit me,
For, though it's dignified,
They’re barred from bush, fresh air and sea
They work too much inside.
*s£
FIRST-HAND EVIDENCE.
“Liam O’Flaherty, the novelist, in his ‘Two Years
says that the Australians and Canadians made suet
srood soldiers because the standard of life m the
trenches was so much higher than they were used
to at home.” — Cable.
“Ain’t it bonze?” smiled. Snow, and sighed
luxuriously as he lifted his feet out of the
mud at the bottom of the" dug-out, and tucked
them on to the duckboard bunk.
“It’s a dinkum ’ome,” enthused Bluey,
arranging his hand over liis cigarette so that
the drippings from the roof did not dampen
it. “With the blanket down in front and the
Tommy-cooker going, I wouldn’t swap it
for ’Eaven. Talkin’ of ’Eaven, wheres my
bleedin’ gas-mask?” •
“And ter think,” said Snow, passing the
beautiful ornament to his companion, that
but fer this war a man might be in Sydney
suffering the ’orrors of the Marble Bar.
“Or in Melbun
with yer foot on tbe
rail at Young and
Jackson’s,” said
Bluey. He shud-
dered at tbe thought.
“With a clinah
b'ind th’ bar, inter-
ferin’ every now an’
then, worryin’ a
bloke as ter whether
’e wanted ’em filled
up again. ’Orrible
ter think of, isn’t
it ?”
“Too right!” re-
sponded his mate,
heartily.
They glanced at
each other thought-
fully as a 5.9 burst
. outside. “P re 11 y
sound they’ve got, to
be sure,” said Blue.
“Sorter soothing. An’
ter think we’ll ’ave
ter leave it all some
day and go and face
the dangers and dis-
. comforts in Orstralia
again.”
“Aw, shut up ! We
got lots of fun before
us yet. There’s
another raid on to-
morrer morning,
an’
Another 5.9 landed
—slightly nearer
than the previous
one. And Mr. O’Flah-
erty, who had been
outside collecting
first-hand informa-
tion of the outlook
of Dominions troops,
crept hurriedly away
to add another chapter to his war-book.
Exdig.
* *
THE BARGAIN.
To-day I sign the lease which puts me in
possession of the best house in Subbjjbsville.
I am getting it dirt cheap, and all the neigh-
bors are burning with envy. Who can blame
them? No other home for miles round can
compare with the one I have found for
design, convenience, beauty and location.
And .if you don’t believe me, go and ask
the agent.
* *
Shearers are incensed at the Arbitration
Court’s recent decision to reduce their wages,
whereas the idea was to get tbe sheep’s
wool off. *
There’s a good deal of. “whist!” about
Andy Cunningham’s solo flight.
EXCEEDING THE SPEED LIMIT.
Mummy’s Darling (feeling mummy’s pulse
as she has seen the doctor do): “It’s
just as I thought, Mummy. You are
quite ten minutes fast”
THOUGHTS WHILE SHAVING.
(Lines written after studying the collected works
of “Bellerive.”)
I’m a quiet sort o’ bloke,
Harmless to all my kind,
Never wishing anyone to choke,
And fairly contented as regards mind.
Yet every morning when I stand
In front of the glass with razor in hand
I somehow go and see red
And wish all my friends was dead.
Sy-ko anallisis. I’m told, is to blame.
P’r’aps so; but what a horrible name!
M. H.


V
ess
n
Q
a
a
m
i
R
\\V®«
-I
*r
St-
s'
L
We change our minds, change our habits,
but wise folk never change from
the perfect cigarette
in the scarlet and gold packet.
STflTt $P
10/9?
CICARE-TTE-S
mm


MADE AND GUARANTEED BY THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY
RAZOR CO., LTD., 197-207, CITY ROAD, LONDON, ENG.
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181, CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., LTD., AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON & CHRISTCHURCH.
Old-fashioned two-edged blades
vibrated and dragged because of
wafer thinness. New shaped
holes in Probak blades distribute
bending strain and make 17%
extra weight possible. Extra
weight reduces vibration to the
minimum. Made from continu-
ous ribbon of steel, so that every
blade must have the same perfect
edge. Probak blades fit all two-
edged safety razors. Sold every-
where at fixed prices, 1/8 the
small packet, 3/4 the large.
new shaped holes
make 1 7% extra
weight possible®
result no
vibration, no
dragaask for
PR#BAK
BLADES
RHEUMATISM
BACKACHE
Kidney Trouble
. 4-
Are you a victim of dangerous kidney trouble without
knowing it P Here are symptoms that should warn you
of your danger. Chronic backache, constant down -
dragging, worn-out feeling, bad tempered on the slightest
occasion, dizziness, pains all over the body, sallow com-
plexion, bad nights, bladder trouble —you cannot afford to
neglect these, Natures definite warnings.
«
If you start the day crippled with pain—
TAKE THIS ADVICE
r
J
OffjCt
/
ii l M
ANOTHER
DAY OF
AGONY
It is no use doping the system with heart-exciting drugs, pick-me-ups
or purgatives. The trouble lies in your blood. The kidneys are
allowing impurities and poisons to accumulate which, being carried to
every part of the body, cause you constant pain and suffering. Will
you believe the statements of thousands ‘yes, thousands of one-time
sufferers who tell you they have quickly ended chronic suffering,
sometimes lasting for years, simply by taking a course with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills ? For over 40 years this remedy has been
tried and trusted, and every day comes more amazing testimony to
this simple, inexpensive remedy. De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
cost but 3/6 and 6/6 per bottle. In 24 hours from the first dose you
can tell they are starting their health work. This is guaranteed. If
you will only take these pills regularly, you will be able to tell us of
dangerous kidney trouble ended and splendid health and strength
restored. Men and women who have suffered for years, the weakness
and pain caused by kidney trouble, have found in De Witt s Kidney
and Bladder Pills the means of regaining vigorous health.
Your chemist can tell you all about the prescription from which this
remedy is made. It is clearly printed on each box sold. He will tell
you also aljout our “ satisfaction or money-back ” guarantee that you
will see results in 24 hours. Why feel and look old when you can end
your suffering with —
DeWITPS PILLS


Gathering Cocoanuts.
NOUMEA
1
Excepti o n a l
opportunity for
a South Sea Holiday
is offered by the
popular twin - screw
steamer M o e r a k i,
bringing the Fiji
Islands and New
Caledonia within
easy reach and open-
ing up a glorious
scenic circuit. The
18-days’ tour em-
braces Suva, Levuka,
Lautoka and Nou-
mea at an inclusive
cost of £3l to £34.
THREE
WEEKS
SUNSHINE
TOUR
-TO
IMOERAKI
A-11-S-N- &> UNION LINES
SPECIAL SAILING: AUGUST 22.
Reservations may be made with Union S.S. Co., or A.U.S.N. Co., at
any Australian Port.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
fl
*3--
Lustre^^H
No. 403 —“ Lustos”
Brassiere features
backless effect with
uplift tendency. De-
signed in S.W., W.
& O .S. and sizes are
adjusted by means of
button holes along
ribbon. Price, 6/1 x
A Lustre exclusive regi tired design.
The
UPEIFT effect
of FASHION ...
with its ever so slight suggestion of natural
curves has been scientifically studied in de-
signing the Season’s Lustre Brassieres. The
new models feature the low back which is
essential in securing this effect and at the same
time emphasizes the slenderness which the
Princess Silhouette demands.
At all Smart Stores you’ll find the new Lustre
Brassieres —and while so lovely and dainty
they are quite inexpensive—but protect your-
self by insisting on Lustre and look for the label.
LUSTRE
RRASSIRRRS
Poverty
Point
• “Macann”: According to a press clipping
purporting to come from S’Africa, where
Frank Neil is, that great actor-manager’s-
“comedians provide a most pleasant and
palatable epitome of the conditions of Aus-
tralia.” That is to say, “Up in Mabel's
Room”!
“L.H.P.”: When Cagli and his Italian
Opera co. toured M.L. in the old days they
played one night in Nelson in a small wooden
hall. All Nelson that could get in turned up
to see and hear the show; those who were
turned away went home, brought chairs and
sofas and strewed themselves about the
vacant land that surrounded the building.
Owing to the thin walls they could hear
quite distinctly, and enjoyed themselves
immensely. It was when this open-air and
deadhead audience started to demand encores
that old Cagli broke a record that still stands
in Nelson.
“Cine Ma” : A freelance producer recently
blew into Hollywood and made a picture
called “Hell’s Angels,” and staggered even
the local millionaires by his lavishness. The
picture contains the old machinery of flying
thrills carried to a new extreme of realism,
and is claimed to have cost £BOO,OOO, which
beats even “Ben Hur” for insensate extrava-
gance. In addition, it is so saucy that it
will doubtless have to argue with the censors.
The owner-producer is a stranger, who made
his money in another line of business.
“C.R.”: E. ,T. Tait has returned from
his usual world-peregrination full of con-
fidence in the future of the legitimate
theatre. In New York he found talkie mag-
nates supporting and subsidising the institu-
tion as a laboratory for the movies. Last
season 28 shows ran for from 100 to 300
nights, with a stall seat quoted at 20 shil-
lings. “Sons of Guns,” the Firm’s next musi-
comedy, has been earning £lO,OOO a week for
six months. “Green Pastures,” the negro
fantasy of Heaven recently reviewed on the
Red Page, has been a great draw. There
are 110 Africans in it.
_ “Craiser” : The incalculability of the theat-
rical profession is proverbial, and the Tivoli
provides another example. The Tivoli Vaude-
ville Co., the J.C.W. subsidiary which filed
its schedule recently, is reputed to have lost
£143,000 in four years. Within a week of
its moving out of the Melbourne house and
the return of Hugh D. Mclntosh (himself, in
person) the crowds came back. The takings
of “Pot Luck” have been greater than any
since the days of Wee Georgie Woods, which
were the best the Tiv. ever revelled in. In
one week 15,000 have attended a show which
differs from dozens that have preceded it only
in the vigor and cheerful alacrity with which
all concerned, down to the callboy, pull on
the ropes. There is talk of Hugh D. estab-
lishing a fresh chain of theatres or opening
some of the old ones.
“T.P.”: Fred Appleton, a leading stock
actor of the ’eighties, in addition to mumming
nightly, sweated for an LL.P» degree at Mel-
bourne Uni. He played with Genevieve Ward,
and was Louise Pomeroy Camille’s tragic
lover. A professor predicted success for him
at the law. Losing sight of him through
the years I questioned old Thespians as to
how things shaped for the brilliant fellow,
but to no avail. What of him?
“Say Bo”: Touching the nautical absurdity
in “New Moon” at Melbourne Royal. There
is another one immediately opposite at the
Tivoli. In the ensemble before the interval
in “Pot Luck,” Frith and Co. appear lean-
ing over the rail of an ocean-liner en route
for London. There is only one thing wrong:
they are on the seaward side of it.
“Craiser”: With the assistance of Frith
as an insane flautist and with a couple of
cushions to make up for her physical deficien-
cies, Tui Black has been burlesquing
Florence Austral at Melbourne Tivoli. Any
fear that this might prove offensive to the
artist caricatured was dispelled when Austral
and Amadio turned up one evening and
laughed heartily. They afterwards went
behind and congratulated the lampoonists.
“C.M.”: I am sorry to disappoint “Say
Bo” (B. 30/7/’3O), but the registrar of
births refuses to confirm the story that Mary
Pickford was born in South Melbourne.
Search of the records failed to disclose any-
thing corresponding to the name she claimed
to be born under.
“C.Q.”: A. J. Villiers, a young Melbourne
journalist, has had his book, “By Way of
Cape Horn,” talkihd in London. The witty
A. P. Herbert, of London “Punch,” composed
the dialogue, and Laureate Masefield attended
a preliminary screening.
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : London critics
(and audiences) are convinced that canned
music in talkie houses is soon to be put back
into its 'tin for ever. There is a definite
move to reinstate real orchestras, and musi-
cians are jubilant. London never succumbed
to the talkies as Sydney did, and audiences
are plainly tired of the stereotyped American
talkie-musical-comedies and revues.
“C. 8.”: The Sisserman string quartet,
recently praised by the Melbourne Showman,
has been taken under the Tait management.
It is a tribute to persistence in the face of
every adverse circumstance on the part of
four talented Melburnians.
“W.G.A.”: “Hamfat” (B. 9/7/’3O) is
astray re Harry Robson Jewett, who was
born in Dunedin (M.L.), not Australia.
“Hamfat” says “he landed a stage job
immediately he reached San Francisco,” but
he really left Australia, as a report in a
Sydney paper stated, under engagement
“at a high salary as leading man at
Stockwell’s Magnificent Theatre in San Fran-
cisco, a house lately opened by Augustin
Daly’s company.” He was farewelled at the
Garrick Theatre, Sydney, on August 29,
1592. He did not make a hit in San Fran-
cisco, if any notice may be taken of the
following extract from the San Francisco
“Music and Drama”: “With the close of
the stock season at Stockwell’s we shall
probably see the last of Henry Jewett as a
leading man ; at least, it is to be hoped so.
That Mr. Jewett has been a grievous disap-
pointment to Mr. Stockwell, as well as to
the patrons of his handsome theatre, is
generally admitted.”
“Hamfat”: Gerald Kay Souper, one of the
two or three mummers the Firm has kept
about the premises to take up parts that
called for real acting, is going to America as
a direct result of the Faversham visit. Faver-
sham declared him to be one of the most
competent actors he had met, and is arrang-
ing the engagement. Faversham, by the way,
failed badly here, but lie was not guilty of
any outbursts against the country, such as
have made other theatricals who failed look
so ridiculous..
“D.” ; H. D. Mclntosh, commenting on the
success of “Pot Luck” in Melbourne, said
“the day was approaching when the talkie
would be relegated to the position in which
the motion picture found itself after the
first big boom had worn itself out.” When
did the boom wear itself out? I was in
London when the talkies arrived. At that
time all the critics were complaining of the
slump in the legitimate drama. Immense
queues were to be seen outside the Tivoli
(once a home of vaudeville) day and night
including Sundays. There were six big
cinemas in the Piccadilly Circus area, all
crowded at every session, and the Empire
was being turned into a film palace. And in
every suburb, north, south, east and west,
huge Rialtos, Plazas and Capitols were
drawing the multitude. It was the same in
Paris and Rome, and when I got back to
Australia in 1928 I found it was the same in
Sydney and Melbourne. The talkies arc
no more popular than the silents were, judg-
ing by the attendances, but any kind of
film seems to be more acceptable than (1)
the Wurlitzer or (2) the vaudeville turns
which many big Australian cinemas began
experimenting with early in the year. I
deduce this from the facts that the Wurlitzer
is now rarely heard (thank God!) at the
shows I go to, and that some of the most
popular talkie cathedrals are showing “fea-
ture” pictures before, as well as after the in-
terval. One of the London critics (I fancy it
was Hannen Swaffer) mentioned the other
day that 132 big talkie-theatres were operat-
ing successfully in London and suburbs, as
against 28 theatres, two-thirds of which were
losing money.
The Palette
The second annual show of the Photo-
graphic Society, which rivals the old Camera
Club in that art in Adelaide, has some new
features. Joyner, the president, has been
exploring the Flinders Range and brought
back some fine pictures. (Incidentally, he
was lucky enough to get Hans Heysen at
work there.) Steward, vice-president, puts
in views of Gibraltar, and a new exhibitor,
Joyce Waterhouse, whose work is not for
sale, shows the fruits of a long English
visit. The Art Gallei-y of Adelaide took
some of the work of each of these three for
its permanent collection.
Anyone optimistic enough to believe there is
no depression in Australia might shed his
marcelled smile after an inspection of the
Royal Art Society shown at Sydney Educa-
tion Gallery. If it is not a result of depres-
sion, such' things don’t have results, and the
critic must be ungentlemanly enough to
blame the artists’ inborn dulness. A Dattilo
Rubbo’s flabby studies in senile sentimen-
talism are perhaps the show’s extreme
example of commonplaceness of thought; but
most of his fellow old hands are pretty near
as guilty, and, what is rather worse, sundry
of the younger ones are likewise. A certain
poetic quality and a way of splashing color
about with reckless certainty make Syd
Long’s blends of tree and water welcome
oases, and James R. Jackson is more often
convincing than otherwise with his patches
of the Harbor. Ray Lindsay appears to be
quarrelling with his medium; Alessie G.
Kane’s still-life is brightly polished; there
are some large pictures that this observer
would not like to fall on him; and John
Richard Flanagan, that shining example of
what a place like America might do to a decent
Australian, has some nice, violet-scented, fatty
stuff at ambergris prices. Yet the show is not
without its promising trier; he is G. K.
Townshend, and he has been trying for some
time now without doing anything really
ambitious. His work, exquisite landscape,
is all in the form of notes, but they are
thoughtful notes, and they appear as if they
were done on the spot by one who had not
yet overcome the habit of looking.
“F.S.”: The monotonous regularity with
which young maidens win travelling art
scholarships in Australia and are never heard
of artistically afterwards calls for explanation.
My theory, founded on considerable obser-
vation, is that the girl student almost invari-
ably tends unconsciously to copy the man-
nerisms of her teacher, or, at least, to paint
in the way he would like her to paint. Such
subtle flattery is not wasted on the uncon-
scious mind of her director, who is usually
an elderly man, full of artistic prejudices,
mostly hopelessly outmoded; and the direc-
tors of art schools usually have a great say
in the allocations of art scholarships, if they
are not actually the sole judges. The result
is that year after year adolescent girls get
a free trip to Paris, spend three years there
trying to discard the mistakes of their early
training, give it up and get married—a sad
waste • of public money. It is also a well-
known fact that girls are more precocious
than young men, but have less staying power.
The result is that male students have to do
without the advantages of foreign study,
which are wasted on their fellow-students
of t'he feminine gender, for there is not a
solitary woman in the front rank of Aus-
tralian painters, past or present. The obvi-
ous remedy is to pass a regulation prohibit-
ing girls from competing for scholarships,
but no doubt I shall be torn to pieces for
suggesting it, especially since Amy John-
son has flown from England. Incidentally,
many of the girls who have won scholar-
ships recently belong to parents well able
to afford the expense of a sojourn in the
Quartier Latin, while many of our most
promising young male artists are so poor
that they have to paint houses to earn the
money to buy canvas. 1


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. ■ • • •
Preference Shaves . . . . ■ • ■'■’B7s,ooo
Lons; Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares . . . . • • 3>750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,»91
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
IECEIVES DEPOSITS {&?>£?illl
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Aiso 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
mHfts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
f
ARE YOU A
Mr. MICAWBER?
Waiting for Better Times
won’t make you prosperous.
Aou’ve got to “go after”
business if you want it..
START NOW!
ADVERTISE
YOUR GOODS
AND SERVICES
IN
(Ihe Brisbane (Courier
Queensland’s
Leading & Largest
Newspaper,
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane.
’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative :
Robert D. Fisher, 74 Pitt-street.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative :
L S. Marks, The Argus Bldg..
Elizabeth and Latrobe streets.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zdalander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
’ <-!> r-_i I
1 ! V'»
w.
»*mJ
lUSAV CANADA" lEIUIROIPIE
Travel round the Sunny South Seas and
enjoy, not some, but every possibility of your
overseas trip. U.S.A., Canada, or Europe
may be either reached, or happily rounded off,
by a tour through the South Sea Islands, and
splendid accommodation on Royal Mail Liners
obtained with the expert assistance of Union
Company Officials.
Offices: Sydney—Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL LINES
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Agents, Brisbane —Perth.
m
V.
i
ms
iinv
-
v.
Sunny South Seas
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water—Sandy Beaches—T ropica!
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands —Quaint
Native Villages and Customs Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and
ADEL.. IDE.
Read “B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color.
'"X 1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
bank of new south wales
ESTABLISHED 18 11
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
„ _ .. ,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability .. •• ••
fiS&A
MpSl)
£7,500,000
6.150,000
7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929 £9O 806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAMDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) ;
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
J MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other paits of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted. .
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart Parked^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
TQ
«* 4
«**
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
The OfFAMIC STEAMSWPCOi
MATSON LINE
Dept. Ml 6, 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed- —
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
.THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly,
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
tXbe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
THE PATRIOT
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.


Still cheaper Sulphate of Ammonia
A reduction of £1 ( 11|6 per ton in the price of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
The new price will be £l2/12/- per ton free
on rails, less 2£% for cash, and at this price
supplies of Sulphate of Ammonia can be obtained,
as usual, from all fertiliser manufacturers or their
agents, or direct from The Australian Gas Light
Company, Haymarket, Sydney; The Broken Hill
Proprietary Company, Newcastle, New South
Wales; The Metropolitan Gas Company, 196
Flinders Street, Melbourne; and The South
Australian Gas Company, Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Sulphate of Ammonia literature, and advice regarding the
use of fertilisers direct from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
360 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
the. central mission institution,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
AN INEXPENSIVE
BLADE RAZOR GUARD
Ks*?-a
With this simple, nickelled guard the Plum or any other blade razor is converted
into a safety razor of the most efficient type. No “dragging”.... all the velvet
keenness of the hollow-ground blade is preserved. Sent post free to any address.
Suitable for fin., fin. and |in. blades, 27-
PLUM RAZORS—Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each 15/6
Real Ivory Handle, each 21/-
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case—Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and kept in order for two years free.
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Strop Dressing, per tube 1/3 Cream, bottle 2/-
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/- Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Shaving Tablet, Round, each ... 6d. Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
RAVOVAC
7ke
Dependable
Electric
~Torch
...?*****
T Ces *ary ,' S
9e^t WnS -
w ' ,h °ut ' >er after ~
■■. Tk ' 9h >- dar k
k icTor^tt Y '°- B
beam , Y^r °Ws n l e c-
S, °ntly. ° f »*&• light"?*
*^-o.c c
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
~ CHICAGO U.S.A.
A A
"lIIIBIH
SHADOW SHOWS.
The film of “Journey’s End” is better cast
than the play was in Australia. Colin Clive
suggests the hard-living Stanhope far more
effectively than mild-visaged young Reginald
Tate did'. The “bloodys” have been yanked
out and replaced by rather futile “bloom-
ings,” but otherwise the film rings as true to
trench life as the play. The raid in which
Osborne gets killed is shown, and well shown.
Unlike “All Quiet,” and every other Ameri-
can-built war-film, “Journey’s End” is fault-
less in detail.
* * *
“Temple Towers” (Fox Movietone) is just
one idiocy after another. However, in melo-
drama you expect imperishable heroes, futile
villains, and houses that have been mechanised
for murder from roof to cellar. Its outstand-
ing flaw is that, while the action is supposed
to take place in England, the atmosphere is
all-American. Kenneth Mac Kenna (Bulldog
Drummond) uses a car with a left-hand drive,
wears a top-hat in the depths of the country,
tells the heroine he’ll be “right back,” and
in general talks pure Amurrcan. The idio-
syncrasy that puts the venue beyond doubt
is Drummond’s off-sider. Cyril Chadwick
makes Captain Darrell the British officer of
every Hollywood director’s dreams —a com-
bination of asininity and abject cowardice.
Evidently American audiences believe that
the Germans were chasing loonies like Darrell
about Europe between 1914 and the spring
of 1918 when the U.S.A. decided to do some
fighting, but Australians know better.
"Temple Towers” is a good enough job in
its line (though Mac Kenna, with his weak
face and gigoloish' manner, is nothing like
the square-jawed Drummond that McNeile
originated), but it should never have been
allowed to leave its country of origin.
# * *
“The Big House” (Eng., “Gaol”), pre-
shown by M.-G.-M. in Sydney last week, is a
propaganda film that may do' good in the
U.S.A. U.S.A. gaols are overcrowded (this
one was built for 1600 and contains 3000)
and armed revolts occur fairly often. But
the picture has no particular message for
Australia, barring the well-known one that
a prisoner’s lot is not a happy one.
It would be a great film if, like “Atlantic,”
it had no “stahry.” Hollywood’s craze for big-
ness and a sloppy love episode has done
much to spoil it. The early stages are tense
with drama. A young waster arrives to do
10 years for manslaughter; he has killed
someone while driving “under the influence.”
You watch his absorption into the life of
the place, and his swift corruption, with
painful interest. Then Joe Morgan, forger
and master-desperado—the natural boss of
the most murderous gang in the gaol—
escapes, meets the waster’s sister, and the
unities arc sacrificed to mush and megalo-
mania. Joe —an incorrigible recidivist, if
ever there was one —is reformed by love, and
when the convicts and warders engage in a
machine-gun battle which, for intensity, loses
anything of the sort that was staged in the
World War, he sides with the authorities.
The arrival of a covey of super-tanks ends
the battle and the film’s last claims to be
taken seriously.
The photography is beyond praise, and
the acting is done by an all-star cast of
males. Noah Beery, as the homicidal leader
of the revolutionaries, is about the best of a
first-class gallery of degenerates, but Chester
Morris (Joe Morgan) runs him close.
¥ # #
“This Thing Called Love,” at Melb. Regent,
introduces Constance Bennett and Edmund
Lowe in a play which Leon Gordon and
Miss MacGregor gave to Melbourne for the
first time a few weeks ago. The screen
adaptation comes off badly by comparison
with the stage performance. It is another
example of the folly of trying to make one
art medium copy another instead of letting
it develop its own conventions. Edmund
Lowe is Mr. Collins or Cahlins, the Peruvian
miner who has a home-cahmplex. In every
case where Gordon raised a good laugh from
his houses Lowe leaves them in frozen
silence. His loutish method of making love
compares unfavorably with the polished
satanism of Mr. Gordon; and Constance
Bennett is not a tenth part of the actress
Mary Macgregor is. The other parts ' are
in the same order of mediocrity. In the
stage show Dulcie Cherry’s ‘ portrayal of
the jealous Mrs. Bertrand, and Nancy
Gordon’s characterisation of the fatuous
Dolly Garrett, were four times more vital than
those of their screen substitutes, the names
of which nonentities present critic has for-
gotten. It all goes to show how very
slender is the talent of the average screen
performer, though his salary may be 40
times that of his legitimate brother; and it
also goes to show how dependent he is
on the art of the camera man and the intel-
ligence of the producer.
# *
“He Knew Women” (R.K.0.), which
began its Victorian career at Melb." Palace,
is one of the most finished talkie comedies
to come out of America. It follows classical
models in observing the unities of time and
place, except for a slight digression in the
final chapter, which doesn’t matter—in fact,
it is an advantage. The entire business is
enacted in the same room and the action
is confined to four persons, none of them
chosen for any irrelevant qualities of pic-
torial beauty, male or female. Lowell Sher-
man and Alice Joyce, the principals, might
easily be disqualified on physical grounds
for the roles of hero and heroine, but they
have the more effective virtue of both being
excellent actors, as are the other two. Lowell
Sherman, a fat-faced gentleman quite un-
like the conventional male vamp of the
cinema, gives complete conviction to the
part of a dilettante poet torn between a
desire 'to insure his personal comfort by
marrying a woman with money and to
follow the dictates of his heart in the oppo-
site direction. The intention of the talented
author of the scenario being entirely realis-
tic, he chooses the wealthy woman. The
dialogue is blandly cynical without being
unnecessarily brilliant. The liaison between
the camera man, the producer, the dialogist
and the rest of them is so excellent that for
once in a way the introductory string of
names looking like a page torn from the
Hollywood ’phone directory justifies its
existence.


~ n —CxW-
J<} //// (Lv
%\\ (
nS2
mm
m,
m
I
■
|| |
mg- M&g
§§§&•: W WmMsk
fv y " : 1|» '"XvXX:-
"$» tS? 3gjjH%
"
Mi
■i
■
1
~
V!
■
Uk
m -
: v]
H
m
m i
m
Hi
l >
ni |
: XX XXaXX Jj
■■■fi
ML.
;
xS
"::>:■ 'mm
Hr.dHr
z
4 'y
I
1
tHf
/; I’
: ;
i
CM?// kT
HH
l
- - BS
Mi
.a
wm
u
■ :
, JV kv
■
m i
Hi
X
hra ■-
1
/
:X : :•■:•:
m
• m :
; ■
■■
■
HP
BBRI • ' „ .
/«»>•* ttHITMOM-- .... .
MB
m
,0
4
x-W
17;.
’v
///fe/'. foo. //*/*•> comfort in
K’K
Memories of summer outings .. surf-
ing, touring, picnics out-o’-doors
will always recall that friendly
companion ofthe summer luncheon,
the ever-welcome bottle of Tooth’s
K.B. It was great —in those days.
And now, in winter, you’ll find just as much
enjoyment in this mellow lager. So rich it
is in proteins, the heat-giving elements that
the body needs, that there’s cosy comfort
in a glass or two of this delightfully nourish-
ing supper beverage. K.B. is a TRUE Lager.
TOOTH#
rLAGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & C 0... LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.


When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
Winchester Model 56
Magazine Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post free.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGHFDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
Write for Leaflet B.
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES (SL DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
A BRITISH PUMP
LEADS THE
The remarkable effic; en ( g^ adrup le
BRITISH “ R^; d on Us flaw- j
Hand Pump nd engineering j
less construction an £aSIES t of
excellence. * to to
all hand pump* to P whic h
a double-acting bot y h up ward and
draws m a*. , The inner high
*■ re
pressure y Manufacturers:
Pa i TmVuRNER & BR°- LTD.,
WILLIAM 7 UR cj: e ffield, England.
Eyre Works, who iesale Factor
Procurable from Lam^
■a* the average motor tyre iu
wm w i
/ THE
Irenrut;
QUADRUPLE /
Price, 55/-
{With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
>
If unable to obtain
write to our Factor}
Representative: wr.
.JOHN -ARNOLD,
iQ.p.O Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
\
/
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
On the eve of the Australian Steeplechase
Gus Powell decided not to risk starting
Mosstrooper with 13st. 51b. The Kenilworth
gelding was thus deprived of the opportunity
of excelling Redleap's 1892 achievement of
capturing the two Grand Nationals and the
Caulfield cross-country event in the same
year; but Powell showed a proper considera-
tion for liis horse, and treated the public
with absolute fairness. Early in the week
he issued a warning that Mosstrooper might
not run. Ante-post speculation was sus-
pended in consequence. Immediately it be-
came known that the topweight would be a
non-starter Kentle, the V.R.C. chairman’s
prad, rose to the position of favorite, but, as
in the Grand National, Namera was first
choice (at 7 to 2) when the barrier lifted,
Kentle drifting to fives. Four rivals were
preferred to Good Whisky (12 to 1), who
brought delight to the absent South Aus.
owners by registering a clear-cut victory.
It rained so persistently at Caulfield on
Saturday morning that fears of a postpone-
ment arose. Conditions improved before
noon, but on any other metropolitan track
racing would have been out of the question.
Caulfield sand absorbs moisture rapidly. It
came as an unpleasant surprise to punters
to see Namera laboring in the mud. The
familiar finishing effort was entirely absent.
Rang Bang made all the running, and, seven
furlongs from home, where Adit and Good
Whisky were his nearest attendants, it
looked as if the places would be filled by
South Aus. horses; however, Adit knocked
up. Orange Park, belonging to one of the
•‘Age” proprietors, cut Bang Bang out of
second money.
Good Whisky is trained by P. B. Quin-
lan for a pair of Adelaide builders. It is
singular that Quinlan should have been en-
trusted with the Victorian preparation of
the Sydney hurdler Rossgole and the Adel-
aide ’chaser Good Whisky, and that no one
associated with those noddies bothered to
visit Melbourne and see them perform in
big races. Quinlan was a professional ped.
in early manhood. Kentle injured his
shoulder and had to be pulled up. Glentronie
hit the second-last fence and catapulted Alick
t ullarton out of the saddle. (By the way,
this young man has been granted a permit
to train his own horses, and in future will
ride only over obstacles.) W. How-son, the
leading Vic. cross-country jockey, rode Good
Whisky.
Misfortune clings like a leech to Cecil
Godby. He saddled up Land of Nod (7 to
1) for the first three-year-old event of the
season at Caulfield, and was mortified to see
him beaten by a rank outsider. Sagacity
(33 to 1), who belongs to J. S. Brunton, of
Maltine fame. Brunton resides in Sydney,
biit Sagacity is in the Flemington stable of
Dick Bradfield. In the concluding event
C. B. Kellow, one of Godby’s patrons, went
for a plunge on Lady Seaborn (5 to 2).
The daughter of Leighton would have ended
up at prohibitive odds if S. W. Biggins had
not in on a Night Raid gelding, Silver
Billy (7 to 2). This unexpected opposition
was fatal to Lady Seaborn, who snuffed out
in trying to outpace the Biggins candidate.
Silver Billy, in turn, surrendered to The
Guide (6 to 1), who. like Myarin and other
members of P. Foster’s team, is" a mudlark.
That gay deceiver Finsbury (S to 1) made
a measure of atonement to J. E. Brewer by
dead-heating with Ocean Bound (3 to 1) in
the Balaclava Stakes. The Arkaringa
Hurdle went, to Tiki (6 to 1), while Humpty
Dumpty (6 to 1), from Tasmania, landed
the Knowsley Steeplechase. Tiki has done
little. service over the battens since being
hurt in the Grand National Hurdle of 1929,
for which he started favorite.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday:—
August Hurdle: Swahilli; next, Cock-
crow.
August Handicap: Claronga; next, Bes-
semer.
* * * *
Horses from Maoriland made their presence
felt at Canterbury Park on Saturday, win-
ning four of the six flat races. There is a
large contingent of them over this season,
and, generally speaking, they are a bit more
forward than the Sydney horses, so form
during the next few weeks may prove decep-
tive later. Moreoyer, there was a lot of
crowding and bumping in some of the races
on Saturday, and, although this Page is not
as a rule suspicious, there did seem to be an
unusual number of non-triers.
1 allar, one of the Maoriland four, is
trained at Canterbury Park, and there was
a local rush to back him when betting opened
on the Flying Welter, the price shortening
smartly from fives to 5 to 2. There were 15
starters, but Black Douglas was the only
other to be supported with any spirit. This
is a big clumsy fellow who has done much
better at a mile than six furlongs, so the
present stable policy seems unwise. Vallar
was always travelling like a winner, though
at the finish he had nothing much to spare
from two third-raters, Lady O’Clare and lvala
Moti. A rather nice stamp of a chestnut, he
comes down from Sst. 121 b. to 7st. Sib. in
the Epsom, for which he has been specked,
hut it is improbable that he is an Epsom
horse.
On his meritorious defeat of Spearshot
at Mooreneld and his creditable recent record
—two wins and a second in three starts—
Zeeland looked a fair thing for the Canter-
bury Handicap, especially as Bartle had
the mount. Yet he receded from threes to
sixes in a very ordinary field of eight. The
explanation apparently was that his stable-
companion Glasgow was preferred to him by
the powers—anyway that disappointing
animal went out at a point shorter. Glas-
gow was prominent early, but once more
failed to come on; not so Zeeland, who moved
to the front early in the straight and came
away again when tackled by Flinders (4 to
1), who made up his ground surprisingly in
a furlong or two after having been a long
last. It is rather a pity Zeeland is not in
the Metropolitan; he is a good bit of stuff.
Brazenface (2 to 1) showed the best form
among the threeryear-olds ; he is a very smart
brown gelding by Cistercian—Cool Lady, but
only a sprinter evidently. Ring Boy, another
LOST AND GIVEN OVER.
"And how did you find the golf balls I had the pleasure of selling you last week, sir?”
“That’s just what brings me here again—l didn’t."
Maorilander, but now trained and owned
by O’Rourke, carried off the Ashbury Han-
dicap easily _ after receding from fours to
eights. As in the Canterbury Handicap it
was peculiar betting.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Tippo; next,
King March.
Highweight Handicap: Beckwith; next,
Goldminer.
Rosehill Handicap: Yertoy; next, Lord
Kennaquhair.
Flying Mile: Paquito; next, Don Moon.
Maiden Handicap: Miss Vara; next,
Regie d’Or.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Middleweight champion Jack H'aines con-
tinues to topplo his opponents over. Frank
Van was his latest victim at Sydney Stadium,
being knocked out in the 12th round. The
bout, which did not involve the title, failed to
come up to expectations, Haines proving far
too speedy and clever. Punching venomously
with both hands, and moving quickly round
his man, he scored heavily in the first five
rounds, though Van nailed him with a hard
right to the jaw in the sixth. Thenceforward
Van took a terrific belting. Down for nine
seconds in the 11th, he should not have been
allowed to come out for the 12th, for he
could scarcely stand. He went down again
and the referee crowned Haines.
* * * *
On performances (not always an infallible
guide in wrestling) Charles Strack is the
weakest of the present crop of heavyweight
grapplers in this country, yet he was selected
to oppose “Strangler” Lewis when “Stran-
gler” made his bow at Melbourne. Though
the result was a foregone conclusion, quite
a few took pews for the massacre. Head-
locks were expected of “Strangler,” and
headlocks he gave. A succession of these
spectacular holds put Charles down in the
fifth round, and fie remained out. Lewis
weighed 17st. lO^lb.; Strack, 16st. 41b.
Footbrawl
The final of the inter-State Australian-
rules carnival at Adelaide was won by Vic-
toria. The Cabbage Gardeners downed
S. Australia on Saturday with unexpected
ease, the scores being 86 (12-14) to 47 (7-5).
Western Australia, in third place, easily
defeated Tasmania, which scored a solitary
victory over Queensland. That State carried
off the wooden spoon, N.S.W. filling fourth
place with wins over Queensland and Tassv.
* * * «;
Sydney Australian-rules followers were
given a treat when Carlton and Richmond
played an exhibition game at the Cricket
Ground. If the general play was not up to the
standard expected by the experts, it was
nevertheless fascinating and thrilling, especi-
ally in the closing quarters, and the crowd of
close on 17,000 people had no cause to com-
plain. Richmond gained a strong lead at the
end of the third quarter, when the side was
25 points up on the opposition. Carlton staged
a desperate finish, but the famous Tigers
were too solid, and eventually ran out win-
ners by 65 points (9-11) to 50 (6-14).
The high marking' was a most attractive
feature of the game, whilst the long drop-
kicking was an eye-opener to many of the
Rugby-follpwing spectators. OTlalloran was
especially fine for Richmond in the air,
though Sheehan did more effective all-
round work. Kelleher and Brew were very
conspicuous for the losers. Both sides were
unlucky to have lost leading players, injured
on the hard grounds in Brisbane.
• T } le Blacks beat Britain by 22 to S
in the fourth and last Rugby Test at Wel-
lington, taking the rubber by 3 matches to
. scored 6 tries, Strang converting
two, while the visitors crossed once, the try
bemg converted and a penalty goal added,
i-lie game was played at a great pace, the
forwards definitely asserting supremacy,
mu Sorter Playing the game of his
lire. 1 he British stand-off, Spong, w r as rated
the best back on the ground by the record
crowd of close on 50,000.
* * % *
“Stand Off”: When the British Rugby
Union team was invited to tour Maoriland
and Australia, the M.L. Union, which initi-
ated the tour, demanded 50 per cent, of the
net proceeds of all Australian matches. These
Shylockian terms were agreed to in view
of the fact that the gates in Sydney and
Brisbane under the original programme
would provide enough profit for all. When
the English manager cut the itinerary down
from eight matches to six, much of the gill
threatened to vanish from the Australian
gingerbread. M.L. was asked to cut its
pound of flesh to 30 per cent in consequence.
The reply was in the negative, as they say
m Parliament, though M.L. “may” recon-
sider the question after the tour is over.
* * * *
Saturday. saw another round of the
Rugby . Union club fixtures in Sydney.
Randwiek, the leaders, had a perilously
close shave against St. George at Coogee,
the Saints being beaten 17-13, or 5
tries, one converted, to 3 tries and 2 goals.
Crossman was in rare buckle for the win-
ners, crossing the line four times. The
St. George forwards undertook a desperate
spoiling campaign and were highly success-
ful, pinning the speedy opposition backs in
their own territory for most of the game.
West downed North at Pratten Park, win-
ning 2S-11 against a side which showed little
of the promise given earlier in the season.
Glebe-Balmain and University had a tough
tussle at Uni. Oval, the G.-B. side getting
home by 8-5. Manly always had the upper
hand of East, 29-17. In Newcastle, Queens-
land, on its way home, ran over a local team,
final scores being 44 to 14. McGhie, a
strong candidate for Australian honors,
scored heavily for Queensland on the wing.
* # * :j.
The N.S.W. .Rugby Lea gue team in Queens-
land, after going down to Ipswich in their
first match, had a narrow win in the inter-
state fixture in Brisbane, a last-minute trv
by Root giving them a 3-point lead with
scores 15-12 when the match looked a certain
draw. N.S.W. got 3 tries to 2, and each
side landed 3 goals.
* ••!■ * *
N.S.W. Rugby League carried on with the
Sydney competitions during the absence of
the inter-Statc team in Queensland. West-
ern Suburbs, leaders in the competition,
were hard pressed by Balmain at Sydney
Sports Ground, eventually winning 16-11.
All their scoring was done with tile wind
m the first half, but they had a stiff
.job keeping Balmain off in the second spell.
Craig being conspicuous in defence and
counter-attack. West’s tally was made up
of 4 tries and 2 goals to 3 tries and a goal.
Eastern Suburbs comfortably beat St. George
at Earl Park by 13 to 5, Hong playing a
good fullback game for the winners. At
North Sydney, South Sydney ran away from
the local men to win 27-17, and University
conquered Newtown at Marriekville by 11 to
8. In Newcastle, the Maoriland League side
won 25-22 from a home combination.
(Continued on next page.)
“Ibn el Issar”: Australian polo is now
climbing definitely on to the world’s map.
The other day the N.S.W. Polo Association
received an invitation to send a team to
India to play in the tournaments there dur-
ing the “cold weather” season from Decem-
ber to February. The invitation came from
Australia’s good friend “Birdie,” now C. in
C. of the Army in India. At the annual
meeting, of the Association opinion was very
strong in favor of accepting the invitation,
hard times or not. It is certainly up to us.
The visit of the Army team from India a
couple of seasons ago did a lot to improve
the general standard of Australian polo.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Of course it had to come.
Cabled that a North Country parson has
christened two infants Bradman, one Wood-
full, and one Fairfax. It recalls the days
of the Boer War, when a popular music-hall
song told how
The baby’s name was Kitchener, Carrington, Gat-
acre, Methuen, White, Bobs Bahadur, Butler, Pre-
toria, Lad3’smith, Bloemfontein, Mafeking Jones.
And much more to the same effect.
* * * *
. “Sandy Bar”: They still read Mark Twain
m Calaveras county: Angel’s Camp, Cala-
veras, holds an annual jumping-frog contest.
The latest championship has been taken by
The Pride of Joaquin, which is alleged to
have covered 12ft. lOfin. in one hop. The
show is run on strict lines, and there is little
chance of the favorite being filled with small
shot, as Smiley’s Dan’l was.


Bert: "Just feel. tha,t ; Gert; *
Dumb-e>ei_ls every morning,,
G|6RT '/'VMONOERPUU ! Voub MA,KE
<Cs SPLENDID ELECTRIC 1/V.N ?
Bert : "M-whact ! "
<SEf?T \ u You're /n_i_ livje >a)ires V
Footbrawl
“Torrens”: The inter-State Australian
Football conference in Adelaide saw Victoria
raise the old howl about over-representation
of the smaller States on the council con-
trolling the game. Its claim to supremacy
received a mixed reception, though Queens-
land and N.S.W. seemed amiably inclined
to the Victorian viewpoint. This did not
prevent the N.S.W. delegate making a vigor-
ous attack on the Cabbage Gardeners for
continuing in their policy of seducing prom-
ising players in the weaker States to Mel-
bourne. There was unanimous agreement
that in future clearances for such players
would be refused, whether Victoria likes it
or not.
H* Hj * Hs
“Stand Off”: The Rugby Union game
seems to be rising to greater strength than
ever after its falling off in Queensland and
N.S.W. as a consequence of war-time sus-
pension. N.S.W. and Queensland are prob-
ably now as strong as ever, while the code
seems to have found a permanent corner for
itself in Victoria, where half a dozen senior
teams are playing, one being located in Gee-
long. Westralia is also fielding six senior
teams. In N.S.W. several country clubs have
gone over in a body to the amateur codes,
especially in Inverell, where Delungra, the
leading League club, has taken its three
grades into the opposition fold.
< * * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: The Rugby Union game
in Sydney between Queensland and N.S.W.
recently was the 111th of a series which
began in Sydney in 1882. The Welshmen
have had much the better of the exchanges,
having won 77 as against 29 lost and 5
drawn, while they have scored 388 tries to
228, and kicked 233 goals of all sorts to
135.
* * * *
“P.M.”: The disastrous visit to N.S.W.
and Queensland of the M.L. Rugby League
side has made the individuals responsible
for the fiasco nervy. One official in Sydney,
the other day blamed the “lies” told in the
press for the flop. It might be justly said
that the inflated propaganda launched in the
League press as to the football capacity of the
tourists was the cause of most of the trouble.
The visitors were described as super-foot-
ballers, and even those who remembered the
form of some of their predecessors were
taken in and attended the opening match.
After that the slump was horrible and grew
more so every day. Even the League public
doesn’t like its leg pulled more than once.
* * * *
“Hambledon”: The football war on the
North Queensland front is developing (B.
30/7/’3O). The latest development was the
strike of the whole Cairns team which was
listed td appear in an inter-city Rugby
League match with Townsville. The trouble
rose over a hockey match played in the
morning in which some of the Cairns foot-
ballers took part, though ordered by the foot-
ball authorities to refrain. They were there-
fore dropped from the side, and their com-
rades promptly went out in sympathy, the
match being abandoned.
The Fifteen
The Australians cut things pretty fine
opposed to Glamorgan, which is the
baby of the county competition. Open-
ing against second-class bowling, Ponsford,
Bradman and McCabe all ran over the 50
mark, Jackson helping with 39. The wet and
easy pitch then began to dry under a hot
sun, and Ryan, a slow lefthander, routed the
remaining batsmen for some 30-odd runs,
the innings closing with 245 up. Though
Horhibrook was not playing, Grimmett,
a’Beckett and Wall got rid of the opposition
for 99. Victor Richardson declared when
Australia was 71 for Jackson’s wicket, giv-
ing Glamorgan 218 to win with 165 minutes
to go. The Welshmen went for the bowling
and time found them only 21 runs
behind with three wickets in hand.
Bates (73) and skipper Turnbull (52) each
played a sporting knock and gave the spec-
tators their money’s worth. Grimmett again
came to the rescue, taking 8 for 103 in the
match. Rain washed away the match against
Warwickshire, after the county had lost 3
for 102.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: One after another of
the 39 articles of that famous agreement
by which the Australian cricketers con-
tracted to abstain from everything from
wives to wine has gone to the wall.
The latest fracture is evidenced in the
announcement that Don Bradman has sold
the rights of the story of his life to an Eng-
lish newspaper. Anything of this sort was
verioten under the original consortium, and
the lords of Australian cricket are in a
proper quandary over the position. Their
trouble is that the Bowral lad has placed
himself above all law, like the sovereign. If
the board tries to put the acid on him he
can tell them to go and get work, with the
addendum that he will make a couple of
ducks in the final Test. If that course had
to be taken, the enraged population of Aus-
tralia would throw the Board of Control
into the Pacific, and well they know it.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The feature of the English
cricket season from the local point of view
is the race between Bradman and Duleep-
sinhji for the highest aggregate. Don at time
of writing had 2156 on the board against
the Indian’s 2124; he had got his runs in 25
innings, whereas his rival had 35 knocks.
Both are out ahead of all opposition. Unless
he loses form utterly, Bradman seems a
moral to upset Victor Trumper’s record for
an Australian of 2570 in an English season.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: Hobbs and Sutcliffe have
so long been the opening pair for England
in Test matches that it is a little surprising
to read that the Surrey veteran had quite
a number of other partners before the York-
shireman came along. That other Yorkey
Rhodes was the most frequent, in the years
just before and after the war. Before that
there were Fane and George Gunn in 1907-08,
McLaren, Hayward and Fry in 1909, and
later on Kinneir and Russell. Jardine, too,
was once opening batsman with Hobbs, but
that was only when Sutcliffe was standing
down. An ideal combination for the first
wicket would be a right-hander, and a left-
hander, but only one of all Hobbs’s partners
has been the latter. This was Kinneir, the
Warwickshire man, who died a year or two
ago.
Racquet and Brawl
“Top Spin”: The modern tennis player is
a supersensitive bird. The Australian
variety has been lashed to fury by
some candid criticisms of the Austra-
lian Davis Cup team by “American
Tennis.” One of the journal’s comments
was that the team was dubbed “the Aus-
tralian sloths” at the French championships.
Opinion in this country takes two sides.
One demands that the team on its return be
carpeted and duly dealt with. The other
desires the head of the editor of “American
Tennis” on a racquet. There seems no
reason why both suggestions should not be
carried out.
* * * *
“Let”: The Australian tennis authorities
are persevering in their attempt to get an
overseas side out next season. The pro-
posed Italian tour which promised so
well seems to have fallen through, and it is
now hoped to induce a young American
side to pay a visit. The Americans, eager
always to get Australian teams across as
an extra draw T in their big national tourney,
have unkindly let this country down after
coquetting with invitations. The associa-
tion’s latest instructions to Willard are to
try to induce a composite side* failing
better, to make the journey. De Morpurgo,
with a couple of the younger Americans, such
as Lott and Allison, has been suggested.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The American tennis
authorities, in a post-mortem on the Davis
Cup result, have come to the conclusion that
the conditions governing the tourney need
drastic alteration. Entries are so heavy
nowadays that the preliminary rounds take
months to complete, and successful teams
winning through to the semi-finals have pracr
tically to give up all other considerations
during that time to tennis. The chief sug-
gestion made is that the cup be played for
every two years instead of annually as at
present, and that some scheme be evolved
wnereby the earlier stages of the tourney be
shortened. As these are already conducted
on the brief knock-out system it is difficult
to see how this can be done save by a
drastic curtailment of entries, and that
would be a ticklish job.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: The professional golf
championship of Victoria, played off on the
Kingston Heath course, saw D. Thompson, of
Geelong, defeat A. le Fevre, of Royal Mel-
bourne, by 4 and 3. The match was over 36
holes, and Thompson, who had fought a great
battle in defeating the title-holder, R. Jupp,
in the semi-final, was steadiness itself, in
strong contrast to Le Fevre’s erratic game
through the green. This was the winner’s
first championship, while Le Fevre took the
title as long ago as 1923.
* * Hr *
“Divot Digger”: A golf club likely to
prove popular with the casual visitor is the
Queenscliffe at Manly (N.S.W.), which is
extending its miniature course to 18 holes.
The nineteenth is already laid out, the club
having possessed a comfortable pavilion for
some time. The 18 holes vary from 80 to
120 yards in length, and call only for an
iron club and a putter. Provision has been
made for an additional 50 members at £2 2s.
entrance, and the same amount for annual
subscription. These miniature courses are
very popular in Europe and America, and
provide excellent facilities for good golf. E.
Rowell is hon. sec.
He H« H«
“Hoylake”: They start their golfers young
in Britain. The other day in England a 16-
year-old lad named Austraing—which has a
Swedish twang—went round 18 holes on the.
Shortland course in 65, which was 7 under
bogey. He did one hole 2 under par, and 7
with one under, while in eight he beat
the bogey figures. The youngster is to com-
pete in the British boys’ championship.
When are Australian golfers going to make a
start in encouraging young players in this
fashion, as Britain and America do? We
shall never rise to their golfing standard until
this comes about.
* * * *
“Hay”: Few quarters of Australia have
been more effectively stung by the golf bug
than the Riverina, where almost every town-
ship boasts its course. Six years ago there
were 24 clubs in the area. Now there
are over 50 and all are affiliated
with the Riverina Association founded in
1924. Indeed affiliation has become unwieldy,
with the result that eight clubs have recently
withdrawn from the parent association and
founded one of their own with Binalong for
a centre.
* * * *
“Marino”: Rufus Stewart, winner of the
first Australian professional golf champion-
ship last year, put up a great perfoi-manee
in Adelaide to win the Kooyoonga Club’s
open championship with a card of 143, or 9
strokes better than his brother professional
Fergus MacMahon. There was some doubt
as to whether the champion would be able to
defend his title in Melbourne this season, but
he will definitely be seen in action in the
professional event and the open champion-
ship, which he won in 1927. Last year Ivo
Whitton proved too good for him in the
open, and as the pair are to meet in Mel-
bourne, golf addicts should see something
out of the ordinary.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Golf is making such rapid
strides in Queensland that professionals are
in increasing demand. Mackay, whence
comes the rum, has engaged H. Sloan for
the local club, the young man having for
some time been assistant to Mick Stafford
at Yeerongpilly. Sloan hails from Victoria,
where he served his apprenticeship with
Arthur le Fevre. He is a noted elubmaker
as well as a first-class player and instructor,
and should do a lot to raise the standard of
golf in the sugar city.
Car and Cycle
“0.H.V.”: The discovery made by cyclists
and motor-cyclists years ago that. free-wheel-
ing round corners cuts out the risk of skid-
ding has dawned upon racing car-drivers.
Peter de Paolo had a free-wheel device fitted
to the 8-cyl. Duesenberg which he drove
so dashingly in the recent Indianapolis 500,
and found it of great advantage. The
mechanism is very simple, consisting merely
of a band of spring steel placed within con-
centric sleeves that allow only one-thou-
sandth of an inch clearance. A slight move-
ment of the sleeves locks them against the
spring; an equally slight movement releases
contact and disconnects the wheels from the
motor.
* * * *
“Garry”: The application of the Diesel-
type motor to the aeroplane and the auto-
mobile, long the dream of engineers on
account of the markedly greater efficiency,
simplicity and fuel economy of the heavy-oil
motor, has been accomplished. The difficulties
have been weight—the cylinder pressure is
10 times as high as in a petrol motor—
and the comparative slowness of the Diesel
engine. Both these handicaps have been
overcome. The Packard aero-engine of 225-h.p.
weighs only 5101 b. and can work at 2000
r.p.m. The Cummins automobile motor (like
the Packard. American), of about 60-h.p., is
of practicable weight, works at up to 1200
r.p.m., and in a recent 1200-mile test fitted
to a Packard roadster chassis averaged 42
m.p.h., touched 80 m.p.li. at times, and aver-
aged 27 miles to the gallon of oil—the fuel
being a quarter the price of petrol. These
engines have no carburetters or sparking-
plugs. The Sunbeam works in England have
been experimenting with a similar motor, for
car use, with considerable success. The
prevalence of petrol taxes should encourage
this development.
* * * *
“Narque” : This Amy Johnson complex is
becoming monotonous. The latest exhibition
of feminine superiority must be debited - to
. Marjorie Cottle, a competitor in an inter-
national motor-cycle race across the Alps.
The lady gained the highest award, a
medal. Her victory is the more surprising,
since she was heavily handicapped. A colli-
sion smashed her headlight, and she had to
spin through one of the Alpine tunnels on
the route by the light of an electric torch
held in her teeth, which meant she was
unable to exercise the feminine privilege of
talking. Amy Johnson has told _us that
during her flight she found relief in pray-
ing. Poor Marjorie, apparently, couldn’t
even swear.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The list of French cyclists
now on their way to Australia to take part
in the big Sydney to Melbourne and other
races next season reads formidably. Nicholas
Frantz, who won the Tour de France race
in which Opperman and his mates took part
a couple of years ago, is probably the most
capable of the batch, But Joseph Mauclair
is a pedaller with an extraordinary record
of wins and placings of late. Another fine
rider is Bidot, who is timed to arrive later
than his compatriots. The Frenchmen all
consider Opperman’s Sydney to Melbourne
record ride recently as marvellous, even
though the N.S.W. cycling authorities refused
to accept it on a technicality, and prophesy
great things for the Australian when he
rides in France next year.
* * * *
“Juice”: With bowsers and service
stations like the sands of the sea for number
throughout Australia, it is interesting to
note that when Dunlops brought out two
De Dion motor tandems in 1899 they
had to fetch supplies of fuel for the
machines, there being none available in Aus-
tralia. The spirit cost 4s. 2d. a gallon
landed and was as volatile as ether. This
was necessary, since carburetters were not,
and the gas was drawn direct from the tank
to the engine by induction through a pipe,
the driver manipulating a lever controlling
an ajr vent on the tank to get the right
mixture !
Miscellaneous
“Amateur Pro” : The N.S.W. sporting com-
munity was in no way astonished at the
decision of the Great Public Schools Athletic
Association to declare this year’s G.P.S.
eight-oar race a wash-out. It is to be hoped
that further action will be taken in the
future to curtail the exaggerated importance
given to this fixture by the sensational press.
For a long time past it has been reported
that crews have been removed from work
and placed in quarters under the eye of
coaches. Feeling between schools has been
growing to fever heat, and oh this occasion
culminated in veiled charges of semi-profes-
sionalism. It is an unpleasant business, and
may be dismissed with the hope that similar
happenings will be made impossible in future.
* * H: *
“The Gaffer”: Two interesting athletic
events last week were the defeat of England
by France in a match at Stamford Bridge, and
the first gallop in public of the Australian
candidates for the Empire Games in Canada.
France took all the field events and the 100,
cut out by Auvergne in 9 4-ssec. Engelhart
won a great 220 for England in 21 4-ssec.,
while Burghley won the 120 hurdles in 14
4-ssec. At a club meeting at Hamilton
(Ont.), Hillhouse, the Victorian distance
runner, had a great tussle over three miles
with Maorilander Savidan, winning in 14min.
254 sec. This is a Canadian record and 32sec.
faster than the English best for the distance
in the match with France.
* ❖ H* He
“Transom” : The yacht race to Maoriland
mentioned in The Bulletin is no definite
arrangement, because the Board of Trade
may intervene. Ocean-going yachts fall
under the regulations when it comes to long
and dangerous voyages such as the one pro-
posed. Provisions for the safety of the
crew, such as few yachtsmen have ever con-
sidered or even heard of, may be obligatory,
and there are few pleasure craft in Australian
waters which would qualify.
Hj Hs H* H*
• “Blade”: Professional sculling is bright-
ening up in England. Bert Barry, who lost
his title recently to Ted Phelps, is out to
regain it before the summer ends, and has
been accommodated with a match by Phelps.
This precipitancy in risking a championship
almost as soon as it has been won would give
the average boxer heart failure, but conditions
are dissimilar. The champion pug can pick
up easy money in theatrical and other exhibi-
tions, and naturally likes to prolong, the
agony as far as possible.. The sculler is in
another case. The only alternative to rac-
ing for wagers is hard work, an ignominy to
which the mitt merchant disdains to con-
descend.
* * * *
“Bias”: This is the jubilee year of the
N.S.W. Bowling Association, which was
founded in 1880 by the four clubs existing
then, Parramatta, Annandale, Balmain and
Sydney. A lot of whisky has crossed the
bar since the first intercolonial match was
played against Victoria on the late John
Young’s private green at Annandale; yet
there is one survivor still on deck in the
person of J. W. E. Baillie, now a member
of Burwood Club. Apart from the association,
bowls was played at Parramatta as long
ago as 1826. and the first club was formed
there in 1868.


“Spalding
biggest golf ball seller”
report over 75% of «. Australia's leading Sport Stores
The Kro-Flite Mesh Multi-
Dot Golf Ball. Took first
and three next places in the
last Australian Open ! In
plain Mesh and Multi-Dot
Sj6 each .
< 'LJAD a great day. Did the twelfth—par
A A four—in three. Oh ! What a drive. Took
my No. 6 to the green and landed dead for a
three-foot putt. Just couldn’t go wrong.”
Keen to beat par, golfers demand the best
ball—and over 75% of Australia’s leading
sport stores report “Spalding golf balls the
biggest sellers.”
Spalding Kro-Flite- bullet speed —
leather toughness
Balata—the dried juice of a South American
tree —is combined with gutta percha in Kro-
Flite’s vulcanized cover. It will not cut or
crack—it is as tough as leather.
if
-
li
■
W
u
m
a
' ■
m
ma
9
mm
In exploding a ball from a sand bunker—the club head does not contact with the ball, but hits hard
into the sand behind. Above is seen Rufus Stewart — ex-open champion and present professional
champion of Australia—exploding a ball from a sand bunker at Kooyonga, S. A.
)/
KftOFUTE
Topped! Kro-Flite alone with-
stands the vicious,y topped shot of
the Spaiding ‘ ‘ Guillotine ’ — a
weighted knife which drops on a
ball and reproduces exactly a top-
ped iron shot. In thousands of
tests carried out it has stverely
gashed every other ball. It can
only slightly dent Kro-Flite. It
can't cut it. You can t cut it.
9
a
Kro-Flite is a ball of energy. 200 yards of
tightly wound rubber thread keeps its lively,
semi-liquid core truly centred, preserving its
perfect balance That’s why Kro-Flite putts
accurately—drives with bullet speed and
precision.
Multi-Dot markings magnify
Kro-Flite Mesh Multi-Dot looks larger than
the plain ball. It’s easier to hit—easier to
identity. In red, blue, green, and black mark-
ings which show clearly at ten yards distance.
Spalding “Par,” the phenomenal champion-
ship ball and the only ball made specially for
Australian conditions—Price 3/6.
The “Sunshine”— a ball with excellent
playing qualities—Price 2/6.
Spalding Golf Equipment—from all Pro-
fessionals and Sport Stores.
54 years of progress make Spalding the
largest actual Sporting Equipment Manufac-
turer in the world. A. G. Spalding & Bros.
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 352 Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
An unconditional
guarantee
We absolutely guarantee replace-
ment of any Kro-Flite ball (whether
plain or Multi-Dot) that is cut
through or becomes unplayable for
any cause whatsoever in 72 holes
of play.
Shafts of finest hickory—wood heads
of selected persimmon—irons of drop-
forged English mild steel. Evers
Kro-Flite Registered set is num-
bered. Quote the Registered number
.and add or replace clubs as you
wish. They snatch.
Kro Flite Clubs mean perfect timing
Perfect timing means better golf
Your car suffers if the timing is wrong
•—so does your golf.
In Kro-Flite Registered Clubs—
the relationship between head and
shaft in clubs between clubs in sets
—is perfect.
Each club is a balanced unit. Each
set is a balanced unit. Your timing is
the same for every club. Exact varia-
tion of the angle between head and
shaft automatically determines your
distance from the ball with each club.
Exact variation in blade pitch gives
every club a definite distance. Regis-
tered Kro Flites are checked and
graded throughout manufacture.
Every club in a set feels, balances
and swings the same. They match.
Spalding makes special clubs for
ladies correct in length balance
—weight.
Indexed Kro-Flite Irons are
matched in two groups of swinging
weights. Rust-proof heads. Set of
7> JB/15/-; set of 5, £6/si-; single
clubs, 25/- each.
The “Crescent,” a fine medium-
priced club, has many Kro-FJite
features. Woods, 25/- each; Irons,
Rust-proof, 17/6 each; or
for a set of five.
The “Thistle” is the finest low-
price club obtainable. Woods, 17/6
each;' Irons, 10/6 each. All quota-
tions are for hickory shafts.


Bring Your Bathroom
Up to Date
Bring it up to date with the latest plunge baths—heaters—
basins—accessories and tiling.
Do it now. “Summer is a-cumen in.” We have everything
you want at the right prices, too. Call and see
DANKS’ SANITARYWARE DISPLAY
and
EXAMPLES OF BATHROOM TILING
We lay and fix tiles in bathrooms or where wanted, and
invite inspection of our stocks. Call or write without obligation.
Send your address for a copy of our new Sanitary catalogue.
iimnmiimihii
I JOHN
siimtNiiiiiiiimii
r lX£,
pTy-
-1111110
&SONI
iiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiS
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl
fHERMOs
REC? TRADE MARK
ACOUli FLASK
1
m
m
MM
tn
« $ §
mum
m
Put your hot drink —or iced drink —
into your THERMOS Flask or jug.
Cork it down. Leave it. It will keep
its temperature and its freshness
for hours. The world has relied on
these British flasks for 22 years.
THERMOS and “vacuum flask” have
been used as synonymous terms.
But! Make no mistake! Your only
guarantee of getting the best flask
(with Stronglas lining) is the name
THERMOS. Look for it.
■HI
fitted with
QHQAS LINING
N ENGLAND
G[f)
T. 6
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE GOSSARD LINE of BEAUTY
■
liiiliill : HPll 11 illll
i
1 I 1.;:
mmim
■■ii
i
Wmim
.
m
-
ffMlsiliilll
KT* ■&
#lii®K
MB
'mm
Em
I 1
;s§
m s
11
i m'
■hh
■ : '
.
■
MH9
n
i
n
1 - 1 i I H
H
WKtmm
HW ■ 1
HMHMMjBMMII J 'l#
J
mm M mI S ■ 1 1
I' J ■ Wr Nag***
A lightly boned hook-around that gives adequate support,
shows the popular raised waistline. Made of brocade and
hand-loomed elastic, it is Model 1010.
As You Stand Before Your
Mirror Do You Know
What Figure-Questions
to Ask Yourself?
There are only three. They represent the supreme
test of a correctly fitting foundation —the test which
Gossard foundations unfailingly meet in all their
various designs.
Is your bustline supported to its natural contours,
so that you have the bouyant, well-curved look of
youth? Does your figure line curve in at the waist,
showing no ripple or bulge, and slope gently out to
meet the hipline? Through the back and front —over
the hips—is there a tracing of natural contours, re-
strained just enough to bring a firm line, and a com-
fortable feeling of support? These are the questions
which permit you to make a test of your figure and
your foundation as you stand before your own mirror.,
No matter what style of corset you prefer, remember there
is Gossard to perfectly answer this figure test for you.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W.
MADE
WITHIN
THE
empire
K-«UST 90


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
I a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M4l 3 1 for your reservation.
L
Food
Trade Mark.
When in pain.
Benger’s Food is soothing
and satisfying. It is most
easily absorbed and very
highly nutritious.
All who find milk heavy
or distasteful will find
Benger’s appetising and
acceptable.
Write for booklet to: —BENGER'S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Unde?
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
S win & Company Uinltad
SYDNEY.
ToH.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Q>arieslleidsie*>
Reims
—gy
PELLI3SO
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Claude Kingston is going about these days
with a beatific smile. For once he lias a
great artist who is easy to manage. Kubelik
makes beautiful music for hours every day,
and for the rest leaves everything _to his
personal attendant Dawson, and to his man-
ager. Paderewski, a lamb in all things else,
was a raging lion if he could not walk, on
to the concert platform at eight. “Mr. King-
ston, you understand, I, Paderewski, have
said my concert starts at eight, and I»
Paderewski, do not disappoint my audi-
ences.” Once when the Governor was to
be present at a concert, eight o’clock came,
but no Governor; ten minutes past and still
no Governor; twenty minutes past and no
more than a message to say his Ex. was
approaching. In the artist’s room a tempest
was raging. “Mr. Kingston, why should he
do this to me, Paderewski, and my audi-
ence !” “All, yes,” broke in Dawson —
“Paderewski, the Master! He does not
care for anyone. ' Once he play in the great
Palace of St. Petersburg, and the Czar com-
pliment him, saying, ‘lt gives me pleasure
that a Russian plays so well.’ ‘Sire,’ he say,
‘I am not Russian! I am a Pole!’ He
never,” added Dawson, “play in the Czar’s
palace again.”
Chaliapin, on the other hand, was always
late, and every night of his appearance had
to be literally coaxed on to the stage. He
would sit up all night and sleep all day.
Always at half-past seven, with his concert
timed for eight, he was in bed and sound
asleep. His manager would go in and wake
him, and he would emerge from slumber like
a grumpy bear. “Tell my audience to go
home. I will sing for them to-morrow!”
Then the argument would start, Claude King-
ston portraying the anguished disappoint-
ment of the waiting people, many of whom,
alas! could not come another night to hear
the great artist. “My throat is sore; I
cannot sing to-night!” But all the time he
would be fussing with his atomiser. When
lie was very obstinate Kingston would start
to play “Bohhme.” Chaliapin never could
resist that. In a second he would be in
the sitting-room bursting with song and good
humor. The rest was easy. For one
matinee, however, Claude literally dressed
him in the taxi coming from his home at
Darling Point.
John Mac Cormack now! John liked to
walk on to the stage as the clock struck
eight. Here, Mr. Dawson, the observer for
26 yenrs of artistic human nature, said : “Ah,
yes, John is a Master, and he is Irish. Your
Irishman he loves to walk on with his head
up and his eye laughing, saying, ‘Well, here
I am !’ But your Russian talk all night and
dream all day. He is like the' great rivers
of his own country— ‘no idea of time.”
Kubelik, advertised to play the Saint-
Saens Concerto in B minor and the Wieniaw-
ski in D minor, drew another crowded Town
Hall; and if this listener lives to rival Aga
Khan, the youth of 156 who is rioting around
Turkey, she will never forget the drawn-out
sweetness of the middle movement of the
Saint-Saens or th'e almost brutal sense of
life poured through the “Carmen” number.
You felt the burning sun pouring down on
the city square, and splashing the white walls
with waves of light and shade. You saw
Carmen, swaying at hip, a rose between
her savage white teeth, mocking the young
officer of the guard out of all reason, out of
all discipline. Exciting, this music, if not
of the grandest order. Mrs. E. J. Tait was
in the artist’s room, very tiny beside her big
husband. Her fur coat was a luxurious
affair with a collar that rose high at the
back and threatened to engulf the small,
dark, shingled head.
“The luckiest dresses,” says Jo O’Keeffe,
“are those designed in Paris and worn in
Budapest Nowhere in the world,” the
much-travelled dress-expert affirms, “are the
women so elegant as in Budapest. Beauty
in. every phase seems to be born in the
people of that old city.” There was some
sort of a gala while the Sydney woman was
there, and the whole hillside at the back of
the town was brilliantly illuminated, while
the lights along the river-front were subdued. ,
The roads here were closed to vehicles from
about eight and the ways turned into a
promenade, where apparently the whole
populace, laughing and chattering, walked
about till midnight to the sound of music.
Not so gay but just as impressive was
the procession at the Madeleine on the
Sunday set apart for the Parisians to return
thanks for the blessings received during the
year. Old and young, rich and poor join in.
Richly-clothed women walk beside the shabby
business girl, tiny boys from rich homes in
white kid gloves are in company with street
urchins who have not a boot to their foot.
In London Mrs. Cleaver, George Reid’s
daughter, was among Miss O’Keeffe’s host-
esses ; it was at a dinner arranged by her
that Jo met Sir Sefton Brancker, the
greatest of England’s air-marshals. Cobham
was there, too, with his lady; he says he is
determined to visit us again, and next time
the lady will come with him. Among women
edebrities she met Aurora Leigh, whose “From
’ took London by storm. She was
at the Cafe de Paris when Evelyn Laye,
just fresh from her American triumphs,
dropped in with her old singing teacher.
Ine actress, in her innocent-looking white
rrock and blue sash, received a wild ovation,
the orchestra struck into “Bitter Sweet ’’
and the two moved on to the floor and
danced the waltz number, while everybody
else stood around clapping and cheering. '
Dots on everything for the summer; and
tor next winter flecked materials. Fur-
trimmed sleeves on coats, bolero or eaped
eitects on bodices, and dead-white hats the
smartest wear of all. Ascot was the dowdiest
and Auteuil the smartest gathering the
clothes expert attended.
When she is not speaking from the pulpit
01 addressing crowded women’s meetings,
Linda Littlejohn is a simple, married woman
mother of a family, and wife of Albert Little-
john, solicitor, and just now remade presi-
dentot his trade union. The occasions on
which the lady is not urging her sex to
higher pay and nobler aims, and to a per-
sistent siege on the nicely cultivated pre-
serves the male of the species claims as his
right, are so few and far between that the
other part of her life is apt to be unrecog-
nised. . And now let us clap loudly her deter-
mination to snatch a bit of the wage tax for
the betterment of the conditions of the unem-
ployed woman. A fair percentage of the tax
comes from women workers, and it is only
fair that the Government should establish
some sort of relief work for liard-up sisters.
As soon as State Treasurer Stevens can
spare a moment, Mrs. Littlejohn, representing
Association, with representatives
of the Y.W.C.A. and the City Girls’ Associa-
tion, will leap upon him with a fusillade of
suggestions as to how he may expend part of
the unemployment tax in the interests of the
out-of-work female, Mrs. Kate Dwyer, an-
other unceasing worker for her sex, has been
systematically going over the ground and
finding out what factories might be taken
over for the making of clothing to be sup-
plied to Government institutions.
But the danger in all such schemes is that
somebody who really wants the money very
badly may be displaced. The ideal arrange-
ment would be the voluntary retirement of
young women who are not dependent on their
jobs and of married women whose husbands
are wage-earners. There are tens of thou-
sands of these two sheltered classes in full-
time and well-paid jobs, while other tens of
thousands less fortunate look around in vain
tor the means to buy to-morrow’s dinner.
The Incorporated Law Institute orna-
mented its. council with two well-known
Digger-solicitors last week. Both served in the
artillery. Ronnie Osborne, of Windeyer,
Faul and. Osborne, went away with the sth
* n w’on his majority and an
M.C. in the field, and took a staff job in
TB. Sep Rowe, D. 5.0., who is in business
on his own account, was kept in Australia
till T 6, but had a meteoric rise once he got
to France. He was one of General Gr'm-
wade’s star officers, and despite his youth
was given some enormously responsible work.
The Sydney Players’ Club is eight years
old, and lias Alice Gould, the girl in the
picture, to thank for much of its success.
Alice is the club’s secretary, and everybody
knows what a
kingpin in any
association the
secretary
should be.
Also she is a
strong mem-
ber of the
acting circle.
•As far back
as- her school-
days at Rind-
fild College
she adorned
herself with
an A.T.C.L. in
elocution and
dramatic art.
Since then she
has trained
the girls at
many a pri-
vate school,
including New
England Girls’
Grammar (Armidale). Her first stage part
was that of Betsy Trotwood in “David
Copperfield,” and since then she has fitted
into plays by Pirandello and Lennox Robin-
son and in “The Women Have Their Way."’
The Players’ Club in these days, when the
city’s dramatic entertainment has slipped
from the hands of the professional into those
of the amateur, is very well worth attention.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite calls him
Sir Otto Nearbeer. She says he has just
about ruined the hop business for the season.
Ivy Martin will be at home to Old Boots
(and Clo’es) in the crypt of St. James’s on
August 15, replacing that veteran collector
Miss. Boswell, who is laid by, temporarily.
Ivy js a sister of Padre Jimmy Martin, of
St. James’s, and is not long back from
Bourke, where the padre was a Bush Brother
tor five years. Bourke lives in her memory
as a place of magnificent sunsets and of
a religious toleration as wide-flung. When
any one of the churches was having its
annual dance, the committee ladies elected to
look after the catering went from firm to
firm, from door to door, for donations in
cash or kind. If it was an Anglican effort
the R.C.’s, the Wesleyans, the Scots made
a point of handing out ponnds of sugar and
butter or sirloins of beef and a few ebooks
to help the sit-down supper. When any of
the other churches had their turn-out —well,
the Anglicans gave with the best. Every
creed came to the party. And in Paris
models, in many cases; for your flapper of
Bourke is as stylish as her Sydney cousin.
If her father is well-to-do, her frocks are*
brought up from Sydney or Melbourne; if
he is not, then she cleverly copies with
needle and chiffon her neighbor’s raiment.
Golf and tennis and cricket are played in
Bourke; but there’s no elnot-win'-v >’..{■
vel-y many camels now either, since the motor-
lorry can carry 10 times more mu. s of
wool at a time than even the most stalwart
old ship of the desert.
Dorrit Black was one of the most pro-
foundly shocked young women in Sydney
when the cables told of the Italian earth-
quake ; for she was not long ago in Sicily
when M t.
Etna burst
into eruption.
Dorrit is one
o f Sydney’s
younger art-
ists, and is a
product of
the Sydney
Art School,
Julian Ash-
ton’s strong-
hold. ITer jour-
ney in search
of knowledge
took her to
Vienna, Paris
and the South
of France.
She studied
lino cuts with
Claude Flight,
and won a
special para-
graph for her
work wnen she subsequently exhibited at
the _ Lino Cuts Show in London. At the
■Cezik School in Vienna she saw the experi-
ment of training children, from little baby
things upwards, in art. Early in September
she will hold a one-girl show in the Mac-
quarie Galleries.
Jimmy Macarthur-Onslow’s wife, who
shared in his bankruptcy last week, is cer-
tainly as gallant a girl as ever entered the
big Camden family. The young couple’s
Coolac property never paid, and neighbors
soon began to tell them it never could pay.
Still she battled on, living in a state of
hardup-ness to which she had never been
accustomed in her well-salaried show-girl
days; and she would be battlin'- still if the
choice had lain with her. Now she is
keeping the family pot on the bon by giving
dancing lessons, and since last February,
when she began, there has been an ever-
growing tally of pupils.
The Wentworth Golf Club, where our
cricketers are to stay before the next Test,
is not the isolated spot that the cable repre-
sents. It is between Staines and Ascot, and
only about half an hour from London by
car. A number of Anglo-Australians belong
to it, notably the Claude and Colin Par-
burys. The club house is an enormous bunga-
low designed on American lines, and with
its fine ballroom and admirably-run dining-
room is the chief social centre of the neigh-
borhood. A few miles up the hill in the direc-
tion of Ascot is Sunningdale, where the
Prince plays. This is probably the best
inland course in England, though Wentworth
runs it close.
This Letter went to the Masonic Ball last
week specially to see Aubrey Halloran bloom
forth in all his regalia as Grand Master of
the United Grand Lodge of N.S.W. The
slim little lawyer carried himself with dignity
and. wore the blue and gold and massive gold
chain of office as nobly as did ever Solomon,
who. we are told, was the first Grand Master
of all. When he and the other chiefs of the
order swept in to the ballroom of David
Jones’s they were announced in clarion tones
by the Grand Director of Ceremonies. After
the great had trailed their clouds of glory
up the ballroom and the Vice-Res. had been
dispatched to the dais by a roll of drums, a
company of fleecy-white debs., 49 strong, was
produced under the directions of Mrs. P.
C. Marlow. Sir Philip and his lady stood up
to the onslaught, and gave each youngster an
individual smile and greeting to treasure.
Lady Game wore flowing parchment georg-
etttes embossed in pink chenille roses. The
nice and clever Miss Crowdy was in jade-
green chiffons, and near by sat Olive Kelso
King in sapphire chiffons/ The ball was a
great success financially, and this is to the
good of the Freemasons’ Benevolent Institu-
tion, which in its 50 years of life has dis-
tributed £148,496 in the relief of the Mason
in distress and the Mason’s widow and
orphan.
The town of Albury is going to have an
honor-roll worthy of its Digger sons. The
names, in exquisite lettering on sheepskin
pages, will be bound by Wal Taylor in
Madonna-blue morocco, crusted with jewels,
probably amethyst and sapphires. The front
page will be devoted to the Arms of Albury,
in which the part the paddle steamer played
V' 1 j, town’s progress is illustrated. Mrs.
1 • B. S. Falkiner, whose husband once repre-
sented Albury in the Federal Parliament, is
presenting this magnificent Book of Remem-
brance. It will be housed in glass in the
Town Hall.
Parchment ring-velvet cut on mediaeval
lines and flowing to the ground formed Bessie
Bardweli’s wedding frock. The bride, who
was formerly of Wagga, moored her tulle
veil by a tight little cap of rhinestones, and
drew a train of aged Brussels lace up the
aisle of hoary St. John’s in Darlinghurst
when she kept her appointment with Dr.
Vivian Voss, of Rockhampton (Q.).
Hyacinths and orchids trembled on her arm.
Sister Mabel, a symphony in gold and blue,
maided, and brother-in-law Docker was her
guardian. Rupert White best-manned.
Edith Ilarrhy (Mrs. Beckx Daly) gave a
recital of her own works in the King’s Hall
last week, and drew a fashionable house in
spite of the fact that some of the women’s
clubs had hung out the awning of festivity
on the same night. Edith is a composer of
songs, and has a greater number of ditties,
sea chanties and cantatas to her credit than
any other of our composers. Stralia, Walter
Kirby, Alfred O’Shea, Emily Marks and the
popular radio songbird Clem Williams are
some of the well-known who feature her
songs on their programmes. Mrs. Norman
Seeman, who was Rhys Kemmis till her
Qpict _ wedding the other week, was the
violinist of the party, Raymond Beatty the
basso and Clem Williams the baritone.
Brigadier Bertie Lloyd must have felt
happier about his £lO,OOO drive in aid of the
Langton Clinic when he saw the roll-up to
the theatrical cabaret at the Wentworth last
week. The tickets had been sent out in
the name of Mr. Cinders, but, in spite of
that and Sir Otto and the Sales Tax, no-
body seemed to believe that all was dust and
ashes. The dancers persisted in their gyra-
tions, and they who ran the guessing com-
petition were as hotly pursued by the eager
shilling as an electric hare by the hounds.
Sprightly Elsie Prince, the heroine of “Mr.
Cinders,” was the afternoon’s hostess, and
good workers in the cause of St. Margaret’s,
of which the Langton is an offshoot, were
numerous and energetic. A putting competi-
tion was another success of the afternoon.
One day last week at a North Sydney
court Muriel Francis Davies put in her
application for an auctioneer’s license and
got it after a magistrate had pondered upon
the question whether anyone only 19 years
of age could hold the document. The young
lady is associated with a business run by
her father and brother-in-law, and she wants
to hold full qualifications. Is there a younger
auctioneer in the Commonwealth?
This Letter liked Gus Bluett in “The
Little Accident.” Apart from his flam-
boyancies, he showed very cleverly the
birth and growth of the sense of fatherhood
from the time he sees his illegitimate first-
born in the model maternity hospital; and
his bronze hair seems positively to blaze
when his grey cells are sparking up over
the problem of feeding the infant. Edith
Taliaferro, the young mother who thought
she preferred a career to her baby, clothed
her two brief appearances attractively—the
second in a sleek red-currant outfit, the hem
of the coat embroidered in white flowers.
Bellevue Hill was thrilled last week to
learn that Harold Platt, the accountant, had
issued a writ claiming £'39,000 damages
against John Martin. The document did
not supply the reasons, if any, but it entitles
the recipient to claim a record as authen-
tic as any of Don Bradman’s. No Sydney
woolbuyer has ever before collected a writ
of such majestic proportions.
John is the elder son of Willie Martin, who
made a pile of money here in partnership
with Harry Austin, aiid then went to live in
Devonshire. John married Alexander Mac-
Cormick’s attractive elder girl, and lives at
Point Piper, surrounded by his “iu-laws”
and membex-s of the Jimmy Burns, Potter
and Neville Dangar families.
Society’s play-acting in “Bei-keley Square”
resulted in a cheque for £746. Lately this
was handed over at the Karitane Home dur-
ing the first visit of her State Ex. to that
institution of happy babies. The “Berkeley
Square’’ committee went out in force, and
the nurses report that various small baby-
girls have since shown distinct signs of
uppishness.


Engineering Books
Price. Postage.
Engineering Construction in Steel and Timber, by W. H.
Warren . 36/- 2/-
Practical Mechanics and Strength of Materials, by Leigh and
Mangold 6/6 1/-
Spur- and Bevel-gearing, by E. Oberg, editor Machinery’s Hand-
book ... 17/6 1/4
Thread-cutting Methods, by F. D. Jones, editor of “Machinery” 15/- 1/6
Modern Drilling Practice, by E. K. Hammond » 15/- 1/2
Spiral and Worm Gearing, by E. Oberg, editor Machinery’s
Handbook 15/- 1/3
Applied Mechanics for Engineers, by J. Duncan 16/- 1/6
Hoisting Machinery, by J. Horner 10/6 1/-
Punches, Dies and Tools for Manufacturing in Presses, by
Woodworth 22/6 1/2
Die and Press Tool Work, by Butler and Hall • 4/6 1/-
(Book of Practical Instruction.)
Highway Engineering, by J. H. Bateman—for Students of Civil
Engineering 25/- 1/6
Electrical Power Transmission. Principles of Design and Per-
formance, by E. A. Low 24/- 1/6
Electric Power Equipment, by J. G. Tarboux 30/- 1/8
Electrical Estimating, by Connan—for Industrial Lighting Instal-
lations 16/- 1/-
Practical Electricity, by Terrall Croft 18/- 1/5
Connecting Induction Motors, by A. M. Dudley 18/- 1/-
Small Electric Generating Sets, by W. Wilson, employing
Internal Combustion Engines 18/- lOd.
Modern Practical Masonry, by E. G. Warland 30/- 3/-
Plastering, Plain and Decorative. 380 Illustrations, by W. Millar 36/- 2/9
Concise Treatise on Reinforced Concrete, by C. F. Marsh . . 15/- 9d.
Practical Designing in Reinforced Concrete. M. T. Cantell .... 19/- 1/4
Concrete Building Construction. Crane and Nolan 36/- 1/9
Principles of Reinforced Concrete Construction, by Turneaure
and Murer >... 25/- 1A
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPARTMENT
Corner MARKET and CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
FINE QUALITY
w
n
C
II
B 577.
Sl4—£3o.
524-£5O.
No. 306—£25.
No. 308—£55.
No. 307 —£65.
S 23 —£75.
S 7 —Circle Rin&, set
with 24 Brilliant Cut
Diamonds, £lB.
Others from £l2/10/-
Sl3—£27/10/-
Drummond's Engagement Rings are _ un-
equalled for value. Customers are cordially
invited to inspect the stock without any
obligation whatever to make a purchase.
Special attention is called to the magnificent
selection of Rings, mounted with the latest
Baton- and Calibre-cut Diamonds, priced at
£37/10/-, £45 and £5O. Complete satisfac-
tion is assured or purchase money will be
refunded.
WM.DRUMMOND 6CO.
DIAHOriD-AND'PEARL-SPECIALISTS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
Forster’s Bedsteads Ltd.,
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO.
(’Phone: M 4247).
Forster’s Bedsteads Ltd .
manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in
Australia , and are still
manufacturing the finest
Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Common-
wealth .
TThis Mobile Bedstead is the hnest hospital bedstead made,
rhe mobile attachment at foot is simply manipulated without
citing the patient. The large ball-bearing rubber-tyred castors
insure smooth wheeling. Fitted with Hercules Diamond Wire.
HOSPITAL DRESSING TROLLEY.
Large, easy-running 4in. Castors, ball-
bearing, nickel rail round ends and back of
top. Size of top, 2 5 in. X 18in. Height from
floor, 38in.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Metallic Beds for the
Household, Hospitals, Ships, Institutions, or for any
special purpose.
Established 1859.
Still leaders of the trade with ranges of new designs.
THE LARGEST PLANT OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Manufacturers also of Wood Beds, Ice Chests. Mattresses, Chairs, also Steel Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.


The Spirit* for Mappij Motoring
c-
ra
'
m i.v
SHELL
s.ioa.6.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Clizahelhan
Tea Rooms
[?] Contral 800 for & [?]
Buckley crNnm Limited
[?]
Our drooping spirits were lifted a little
last week by a mannequin parade of spring
models at Foy and' Gibson’s. Usually im-
ported confections figure largely in such
advance displays, but on this occasion not
a single overseas sample was brought for-
ward, But feminine interest was as keen
as ever and there was a waiting queue lined
up for the second session. The sports, day
and evening gowns and wraps were “French
models” made by Australians. All were
designed and fashioned under the direction
of Madame Andree at the firm’s Carlton
factory. Madame was formerly attached to
one of the exclusive glad-rag houses of
London. She says Australian girls are
smart, clever workers, much quicker in grasp-
ing an idea than their sisters overseas.
Among the mannequins was Beth Darvall, a
Queenslander, who has been starred in some
locally-made movies. She is a lass of
generous curves—not at all the telegraph-
pole type—and she wears pretty things in
a way that makes every woman want to buy
them.
Curves, of course, are once more fashion-
able. All the new one-piece frocks are
modelled to the figure, and the straight lines
that endured so long are now taboo. The
long skirt is universal for afternoon and
evening wear, but in the case of sports
attire only a very few inches have been
added. The fair sex here should be grate-
ful for the coming of the cape, for there are
not many days even in summer when a
light wrap of some kind is not desirable,
and in the heavier materials especially the
detachable covering will be a boon. The
return of this shoulder addition has brought
with it the bolero and kindred short-coat
styles, which are well suited to our change-
able climate. A quaint conceit in evening
frippery is fussy trimming about the waist
at the back. A model of orange-colored
moire had a scattering of rhinestones about
the front and side, and there was a mass of
black velvet- flowers like a bustle bow at the
back. We are going back to quilted silk
for trimming. A bridge coat that was allied
to a figured chiffon frock in tones of green
was bordered all round with a stitched and
padded trimming of almond-green silk, which
also formed a medici collar.
“Mud and Rain” would have served as
the title of the Australian Steeplechase
meeting at The Heath on Saturday. Visi-
bility was low, as the soldiers say, and the
going was heavy. The chief feature of the
afternoon was a sort of slow movie in which
W. Howson and Good Whisky were co-stars.
After the patrons had negotiated the
stretches of lawn between betting-ring and
stand a few times, various sorts of heels had
mashed the soil into a bog. Only those who
came with goloshes could bet with any degree
of comfort. Mosstrooper’s absence from the
big event, coupled with the dreadful weather,
robbed the meeting of much interest. How-
ever, there was a big crowd of patrons,
headed by Lord Somers and the Premier.
Most women left their furs at home, and
cloth and gay leather coats, felt hats, heavy
foot-covering and umbrellas were to the
fore for feminine wear. Mr. and Mrs. A.
Currie, she all in brown, with fox furs; Mrs.
E. M. PeaTce, in sapphire blue; and Mrs.
A. V. Hiskens, with her daughter, Mrs. H.
Anderson, of Geelong, were there, other
devotees being Sandra Shackell, in black-
and-white suit and close-fitting hat; Mrs.
Leslie Stuart-* with her daughter Mrs. Gilder;
Mrs. Vincent, of Geelong; Mayor and Mrs-
Coleman, Dr. and Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie,
the Richard Lintons and Mrs. Lennox Spiers.
The bottom dropped out of the thermo-
meter for the Findon Harriers’ race meeting
at Moonee Valley last week, and the attend-
ance was rather smaller than usual. The
Master of the Findons, Herbert Miller, and
R. M. Cuthbertson, the hon. sec., were there,
and they had as company many followers of
the chase. Feminine dressing was concealed
under heavy coats and furs.
The elements entered into the spirit of the
Artists’ Society’s dance on Friday, for pat-
rons shook off raindrops as they stepped into
the comfortable quarters of Noah’s Ark,
which was moored within the V.A.S. galleries
for one night only. Noah, his family party
and his menagerie were depicted on the
walls, Mrs. Noah as a hard-working woman
with a patched apron, while her husband
was a giddy-looking seaman with “S.S. Ark”
on his cap-baml. The dove was perched at
the door with its olive branch. The com-
pany that passed up the gangway included
Pierrots and pirates, sheiks and toreadors,
ladies of the harem. Mickey and Minnie
Mouse, and two charming grey cats. Esther
Paterson (Mrs. ..George Giil) looked child-
like as a Lenci doll, and her husband wore
an early-Victorian rig-out. Betty Paterson
made a bewitching piratess. Mrs. Marshal
Wood- preened feathers and frills as a pea-
cock. Josh McClelland came in Totem
ballet costume, and Marie Talt was a dainty
Watteau shepherdess. Artist L. Fern, in
Charonesque garb, and Yvonne Mclntyre
were at the helm, the lady wearing a decora-
tive gown of black with picturesque flowered
millinery.
Students of Janet Clarke Hall, with the
principal, Enid Joske, arrayed in diap lanous
draperies of rose hue, as hostess, had an
enjoyable hop at St. Ivilda Plaza at the
week-end. Katherine Balmer, whose chiffon
gown wms of champagne tone, and B ryl
McCann, whose frock of shot gold and p'nk
taffeta had a termination of tulle, were hon.
secs. The colors of Trinity (the Hall was
formerly known as Trinity Hostel 1, fashioned
into wristlets, formed the committee b'dgos.
The Warden of Trinity and Mrs. Behan
were guests of honor.
An original veil arrangement was sported
by Marcelle Cockram when she exchanged
vows with Robert B. Moffat, of North
Brighton, on Thursday. Cascades of wh : te
tulle descended from a sort of Juliet cap or
snood of latticed diamente and orange-buds,
the bridal raiment being of white satin. The
attendant ’maid, who carried a posy of pink
blossoms against her frock of pale green
moire, had a wreath of pink roses about
her coiffure. Mrs. Cockram received the
guests at her home at Brighton.
Queen’s College Chapel of the Uni. hasn’t
seen many weddings, but it bad one last
week, when Dr. E. Sugden forged the links
between Fay Witliington and Alfred Weil.
White, satin that flared beneath clouds of
Limerick lace was worn by the bride, a
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Witlrnvton, of
ElsPrnwick. Her sPter Betty, the only
attendant ma ; d, furnished an effective con-
trast in a moire gown and felt hat of the
tints of the early shoots of ‘mring. There
were after-rejoicings at the Windsor.
When Thirza Sommerville Coles stood up
to the altar with Wilfred Williams at St.
John’s, Toerak. her matron of honor, Mrs.
Geoffrey Christian, and her bridesmaid,
Doreen Scott, wore frocks of blue chiffon
flowered in pink. Their tulle tooues were
of forget-me-not shade. The bride, who
was handed over by her stepfather, C. B.
Kellow, wore a flared gown of white satin,
set off with a veil Of lovely lace and a sheaf
of orchids. A dinner at Menzies’ celebrated
the occasion.
Brootborn made this picture of Cecil, only
daughter of H’enry Maudsley and his lady.
Miss Maudsley
is electro-car-
dicgiaplicr at
Melbourne
Hospital,
operating an
apparatus by
which the
workings of the
heart can be
followed and
recorded by
photography.
She took her
science degree
at the Uni.
Recently she
spent fourteen
months abroed.
part holiday,
part work and
a few months
o f enfoi-ced
rest through
injuring her
knee at winter sports in Switzerland She
spent seven months at Cambridge studying
under Dr. Drury, a leading authority on
the heart, and has returned to resume her
duties with much additional knowledge.
The last for this season of a series of
winter afternoon parties was put on’ last
week at the Victoria League rooms. Mrs.
Fred Bird, who had the support of a quar-
tette of hostesses, was the convener. There
was a pause in chatter and the rattling of
teacups while Biddy Allen at the p ano,
violinist Gertrude Healy and Helga Bren-
necke, with her ’cello, played some classical
music.
The vestibule of the Windsor was cluttered
up one afternoon last week wth a great
pile of parcels, gifts for the linen cupboards
of the Queen Victoria Hospital. At the invi-
tation of the president and the committee
about 250 guests assembled for tea and
music, the passport being a bath-towel, sheet,
pillow-case or other napery. Mrs. W. M.
Robins deputised for Mrs. Norman Brookes,
who was in Brisbane. Mrs. W. B. Carnegie
collaborated with Roy Ashton in roping in
singers and instrumentalists, and music was
made by Dawn Harding, Mrs. R. Ashton,
Phyllis Dickinson and others. The garden
of the Brookes residence at Frankston was
raided for flowers, chiefly violets, which were
sold, along with cakes and sweets, to help
the hospital.
On another afternoon the Windsor vesti-
bule was turned into a flower show, in which
Japanese blossoms, early daffodils, violets
and camellias made a gorgeous display. St.
Vincent’s Hospital was again the beneficiary’
the affair having been engineer, d by the
Toorak-Armadale Auxiliary. The ' sales
ladies included Mrs. McCallum Neil and
Mrs. J. Horan. The fiow'er-vending was a
side-line to a' card and cabaret gathering
which drew a good crowd. In leading roles
were Mrs. T. J. Ryan, smartly garbed in
black and white, who is acting-president of
the combined hospitals’ auxiliaries ; Mrs. V.
Dimelow, hon. see.: and Mrs. Len Buxton,
lmn. treas. of the Toorak-Armadale branch
Mrs. Arthur Joyce and Mrs. Newman were
ticket secs. Bridge was played in the Blue
and Oriental rooms of the hotel, and in the
big dining-room there was a concert arranged
by Walter Kirby, who w r as one of the per-
formers.
This is Mrs. Esmond Downey, one of the
chief workers in the lately concluded col-
lecting campaign on behalf of St. Anthony’s
Foundling Orphanage at Kew. Much of the
success of the campaign, which netted £BOOO,
was due to the lady’s husband, who gave a
grmt deal of assistance with the organising.
Mrs. Downey,
as president of
the entertain-
ments com-
mittee, has
attended to the
publicity, and
£1(100 w a s
netted from
this source. A
Prince - and-
Princess com-
petition was
run on unusual
lines, six of the
kiddies at the
home being
candidates for
the honor of
wearing a
crown. For
once the
sterner sex
won, and a
very proud
youngster known as Prince Resolute is
awaiting his coronation, which is to take
place at St. Anthony’s in the near future.
He gets, also, a prize of £2O, which is to
be banked for biin and reclaimed when he
is old enough to earn his own living. The
receipts from this venture totalled £2000:
Wearing black and white, with a dash of
red in her coat posy and jewellery, Mrs.
Sam Mackay put on a bridge party for her
friends one afternoon last week. The former
musical-comedy star, who is revisitin'g Mel-
bourne after some years of absence, enter-
tained her guests at the new society ren-
dezvous conducted by Mrs. Merton Stoddart
and Maud Gregory at Toorak. Mrs. George
Langridge and daughter Marie. Robert Best’s
lady, all in brown, Mrs. W. Rogers Thom-
son and Kathleen. Mrs. A. V. Kewney and
Mrs. Harry Emmorton were amongst those
who shuffled cards and sipped tea.
Bridge was played at the Wattle tea-rooms
recently und r the auspices of the auxiliaries
of the Austin hospital for chronic diseases,
with a view to coll >ct'ng funds for the main-
tenance of special beds. About 25 tables were
occupied. Mrs. A. E. Keating, president of
the organising committee, had the. aid of
Mrs. E. 0. Ryan, hon. sec., and Mrs. W. J.
W. Strong, hon. treas.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton, who was a delegate
from Australia to the Conference of the Insti-
tute of Pacific Relations at Kyoto some
months ago, entertained some friends at
Raveloe one evening last week. The object
of the gathering was to listen to speeches
on the problems of the Pacific by F. W.
Eggleston and Tristram Buesst. Walter
Kirby and Lena Worland sang.
After being in recess for some time, mem-
bers of the “Playwriter” band of mummers
got into harness again when Mrs. Apperly
returned from England, and produced under
her direction Isabel Handley’s comedy
“Handcuffs for One"’ for two nights. Mrs.
App rly had the assistance of the authoress
in the staging of the piece, and it was well
done. The second act permitted of a dis-
play of attractive winter sports wear. A
yellow-and-white suit worn by Marjorie Troy
was charming. Evening frocks, up to the
minute in length, cut and color, also graced
the show. There was an enthusiastic call for
the playwright at the final curtain.
A concert given by the Sisserman quart-
ette and others at the Assembly Hall last
week was made up entirely of modern Jewisa
compositions. Julia Russell, a soprano with
dramatic talent, sang in Hebrew and Yid-
dish as well as in English. Many flowers
rewarded the handsome young soloist, who
wore a simple gown of dahlia-tint. Off stage
she is Mrs. Russell Josephs. Linda Phillips
shared in the horticultural distribution.
A circle of verse-lovers who a few months
ago formed a little society for the reading
and studying of poems of all periods is
adding daily to its numbers. At the monthly
gathering last week lan Maxwell, well
known as a W.E.A. lecturer, spoke on the
subject of John Masefield’s work, giving illus-
trations from the Laureate’s verse and prose.
Mrs. Vance Palmer, the president, compli-
mented the speaker, and with others joined
in a discussion after the lecture.
A flute sonata composed by a Melbourne
girl, Esther Rofe, was performed by John
Amadio at Madame Austral’s farewell
matinee. The composer provided the piano-
forte accompaniment. Miss Rofe, who plays
a violin in our Symphony Orchestra, Las
written pieces for string, wind, piano and
full orchestra.
Chief Justice Irvine launched the show of
pictures by Gladys Owen at the Fine Arts
Society Galleries, and our very best people,
as the Americans would say, stood round
and heal'd him do it. The Sydney painter is
represented by water-colors, pen-and-color-
wash drawings and wood and copper engrav-
ings. Her subjects were found in Italy.
Spain and northern Africa, with a glimpse
or two of England and Scotland. Miss
Owen’s hat of reseda-green felt and necklace
of jade beads gave cheer to an ensemble suit
of black cloth with a fox fur collar. Among
the first viewers were the Miller and Stawell
ladies, Mrs. Bundock, Mrs. 11. Whiting and
John Longstaff.
On view at the Fine Art Society’s Gal-
leries at present are some pictures by a
Maoriland artist, Cranleigh Barton, who is
spending a few days here on his way to
England by way of the Orient. Mr. Barton,
whose medium is water-color, forsook Law
for Art and studied for some years in Lon-
don.
Australia's great oratorio soprano, Madame
Conly (Mrs. J. Jarrett), who passed over
last week, was for years one of the soloists
at the great English musical. festivals, and
sang at concerts in the Queen’s Hall, Albert
Hall and Crystal Palace in London. She was
a daughter of the late James Conly, head-
master of one of our State schools. Sydney
audiences knew her well. When Joseph
Bradley was conductor of the Phil, there,
she was regularly engaged for oratorio per-
formances, mostly in association with that,
superb singer the late Andrew Black. Of
late years she devoted herself to teaching.
A nearly full house at the Uni. Symphony
Orchestra’s concert at the Town Hall on
Saturday night was lulled to a silence that
could be felt by the pure tone and polished
fiddling of John Dunn, a visiting English
artist. His playing in the Tschaikowsky
Concerto evoked a storm of applause, and a
ribbon-decked laurel wreath was passed up
to him. Frank Clewlow, who pilots the
Repertory Society, was the other soloist of
the evening, coming forth to speak the lines
of the Belgian Ode “Carillon” to a back-
ground of music by Elgar. In the audience
were our former city organist, Dr. Price,
and his wife, the Maudsley and Mackey
ladies, Mrs. Gilrutli and the W. Mortills.
The Merson Coopers, after a tour of
Canada, intend leaving by the Aorangi next
month and should reach Melbourne in time to
see the running of the Caulfield Guineas.
Mrs. Cooper, who is an ardent worker for
St. Vincent’s Hospital and other charities,
has had rather an unlucky holiday so far.
Owing to an injury to her eye she was kept
in darkness in her cabin for some time on
the outward voyage, and arriving in England
the climatic Change brought on neuritis,
which made her unable to write to her co-
workers. The first communication from the
traveller came last week, and was hailed
with joy.
The gas bath-heater has scored another
victim in this city, Phyllis Adam, a seven-
teen-year-old student of Fintona Presby-
terian G.G.S. Her sudden death has greatly
shocked her schoolmates, among whom she
was a favorite. The girl’s father, a well-
known dentist, went off for a round of the
links on a Saturday afternoon, leaving his
daughter alone at his home in Camberwell
getting ready for an evening party. On
returning he found the house in darkness,
and had to force an entrance. Water was
streaming from the bathroom, which was
full of gas fumes, and his daughter had
been dead for some time. The blow was a
particularly tragic one, because about two
years ago Miss Adam’s mother w T as killed
in a motor-car smash.
Our former city organist, Dr. W. G. Price,
with Mrs. Price, returned during the week
after a six months’ sojourn in Maoriland,
where he was engaged for the period as
city organist of Dunedin. He was urged
to stay longer, but for private reasons
wished to come back to Melbourne. It is
probable that he will return to the Dominion
later, and he is considering a visit to South
Africa. It is most likely that he will take
up his work at the Uni. Con. again.


Clothes
jor Men
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
and their
Sons.
“BOLBEC”
Pipes and Tobacco
“Bolbec” English Pipes —all
shapes, unmounted; made from
dark wood, guaranteed.not
to burn or crack. Price,
3/6
“Bolbec” Plug-cut Tobacco
—-exclusive to Pike Brothers,
and preferred by thousands of
smokers. A fragrant English
tobacco, packed in flat
2oz. rubber-sealed tins.
29
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
Toowoomba. Longreach. Townsville.
5 MONTHS TO XMAS.
Not very long, but time enough to make provision for the extra expense
which is inevitable at that period. Christmas retains much of the old
spirit; it is a time of rejoicing, of hospitality and the giving of presents,
and because it is summer-time in Australia it is a holiday period.
All this means expense, and with most of us that means the provision
of the money in advance.
The Purpose Savings Account, and you, can do it.
Open one or more now, at any Branch of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank of Australia, use them sincerely, and Christmas will find you
prepared.
The Bank adds interest at 4 % per annum.
CbMonwealt!) Savinas lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner e
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff, £3/18/0
weekly. Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc.
Situated right opposite Spencer Street Station, no
taxi fares; railway porter carries baggage across if
necessary. Please write for defiled tariff card.
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis : In the coastal town of
Illawarra Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is brought up by Mary West,
a rosy-eheeked spinster so motherly
that she is generally knoivn as “Mrs
Early she leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, which
he does so effectually that he heads
the scholarship list in the local school’s
annual examination. His foster
mother, however, is too poor for him
to be able to take advantage of the
free education offering, and, though
his teacher described him to the in-
spector as one of the most promising
boys he had handled, Jimmy begins
shovelling at C. J. Grey and Co.’s
coke works, where he quickly wins
fame as a boxer. He also attracts the
interest of Basil Wellington, an
Oxford man who is running the local
“Guardian,” and who coaches him for
night school. While he is at work
one day a party which includes Grey
and two daughters and Major Dal-
gety, manager of the Keira Main Coal
Cos., comes on a tour of inspection.
Jimmy sees Alma Grey and at once
idealises her as the unattainable.
CHAPTER V— {Continued).
JIMMY had taken such advantage of his
chance that already he had a solid
grounding in geometry and mathe-
matics, a smattering of French and history
and science, a peep into the romance of
the classics and a sane understanding of
English. On the advice of Wellington,
which the schoolmaster welcomed, Latin
and Greek were cut out.
“An utter waste of time,” announced
Wellington, “when there’s so much more
important to learn. At Winchester they
filled us to the brim with this stuff, left
us ignorant of the working of an ordinary
steam-engine, and sent us out with a fraudu-
lent certificate of education. The classic
writers are full of fine stuff,” he explained
to Jimmy, “but you can always get a
translation by a man who’s devoted a life-
time to it. If you don’t devote your own
lifetime to it, reading in the original only
means that you’re getting an inferior trans-
lation instead of a good one. All the same,
don’t omit to read the translations when
you get a chance. They’re something you
can’t afford to miss.”
Jimmy approached the poets with some-
thing like contempt. He had always pic-
tured a poet as an effeminate person with
long hair—a Cissy writer. Shelley dispelled
the illusion. Jimmy turned over the leaves
of the volume. On advice, he read first
“The Skylark” and, second, “The Sensitive
Plant.” Neither made any great appeal to
him. Then, by accident, he happened to
strike “Queen Mab.” He had covered only
a few lines before he recognised that this
was not the dainty fairy story the title had
led him to believe. It was the fiery out-
pouring of a fearless soul battling almost
single-handed against a world of wrong and
tyranny. The fiery lust of Shelley’s hatred
of all privilege and oppression, the pitiless
manner in which he laid his blows about
him, made Jimmy think what a pug. the
poet would have made. In his mind’s eye
he saw Shelley stripped and in the ring,
fighting against mighty odds, but with no-
thing short of triumph by the k.o. route
to stay his righteous rage.
Jimmy memorised whole passages of
“Queen Mab” and used to repeat them
over to himself as he went up the mountain-
side to work. He took home the book to
Mum and together they spent a glorious
hour. Shelley’s notes with their bitter and
uncompromising atheism especially appealed
to Mum.
“If it wasn’t for the churches, Jimmy, the
world’d be all right.”
“Don’t you think; the churches make
people good, Mum?” asked Jimmy.
“I want people to be good because they
ought to be, not to be bribed into it by a
harp or scared into it by a pitchfork!
There’s not much credit if you do it for
what you get out of it.”
Jimmy’s study of Shelley snatched away
any lingering shreds of faith which had
attached themselves to his character by the
inferential teaching of school and literature
and picture show and association. Jimmy ,
became a militant. He even took off some
time to listen to Elijah Moon, who had been
swung to the theological side by reason of
the recent exposure of the figures paid to
two churches on the resumption of their
land for railway purposes.
“As for Comrade Christ, the carpenter,
I respect ’im,” declaimed Moon from his
soap-box at the corner of Kembla-street.
“I’d take ’im be the ’and as a feller-worker ■
but, as for Christ the Saviour, when I look
around th’ woiT I reckon ’e’s a, bad trades-
man.”
Moon’s attitude on the resumptions—or
rather his method of criticism—cut away
much of his support. Father Phelan had
been inclined to look with a tolerant eye
on Moon—for sooner or later Labor would
be in power—but now, he warned his flock
against his insidious and blasphemous utter-
ances. Moon heard of this.
“If ther wheels o’ justice wasn’t turned be
privilege an’ oppression,” he cried, “th’
man who obtained money be false pretences
would go ter gaol, whether he wears a
black coat or a tweed one.”
“It’s no good hurting people’s feelings
unless you have to,” said Mary West when
Jimmy told her, with chuckles, of the way
that Moon had dealt it out to the churches.
“What’s made you a good boxer, Jimmy?
Meeting boys nearly as good as you are. If
there wasn’t anybody to box with you, you’d
be no better than you were three years ago.
Opposition’s the thing to make you strong.
The churches wouldn’t have lasted as long
as they have if they hadn’t split up to
fight one another. It’s people like Moon
—and me—wlio’re their best friends. The
ones who don’t care tuppence either way
are the ones who’ll kill them. You’ll never
cut them down; but leave them alone and
they’ll wither.”
Shelley and Elijah Moon had combined
to tempt Jimmy to become a propagandist
of infidelity. Now he recognised that vio-
lent methods would only help the enemy.
He determined to win the greatest fight that
youth can face, the maintenance of modera-
tion.
Having broken the poetic ice and found
that his own old impression of the long-
haired effeminate was not typical of the
poets, he plunged into their works with the
fierce fanaticism with which he applied
himself to all things. Tennyson, Milton,
Wordsworth and Longfellow interested him
only slightly; but he revelled in the demo-
cracy of the aristocratic Byron, the word-
music of Swinburne and Adam Lindsay
Gordon, the fighting spirit of Kipling and
Henley.
When Wellington lent him Walt Whit-
man, he wondered at first whether a joke
was not being played on him. It wasn’t
poetry at all. It seemed to be the inco-
herent raving of a man partially under the
influence of liquor. Then a line or two
attracted him, then some more; then he
re-read and re-read and finally placed Whit-
man in his Valhalla of poetic gods and
among the greatest of them. The poets,
he was surprised to find, dealt little with
love. They had plenty to say about the
girls you kiss over gates, but nothing about
girls like Alma Grey.
Tennyson tried, but failed lamentably,
Jimmy decided. The passion he described
was one part love and ninety-nine parts
water; while as for Swinburne, it was one
part love and ninety-nine parts the emotion
excited by the vampire woman of the movie.
Why hadn’t any of them written something
which might apply to Alma as he had seen
her at the works, brown and rose on a field
of green?
“Brown and rose on a field of green!”
The sentence had a swing about it that re-
sembled certain lines of poetry he had read.
Jimmy thought of a continuing line, then
of a rhyming one, then of a completing one.
He wrote them down, felt a fierce joy in
the fact that the lines seemed to personify
Alma more perfectly than any prose descrip-
tion could. He wrote four more verses to
complete the set, rather trite and obvious
verses, with trite and obvious rhymes, he
thought, when he looked them over with
the critical eye of later years, but verses
radiating the sincerity and simplicity which
count for much in art.
It was Jimmy’s first attempt at verse
writing. He tried others, most of them bad
echoes of Swinburne and Kipling and Gor-
don, one even of Walt Whitman. Those
dealing with impersonal matters he showed
proudly to Mum and timidly to Wellington,
to secure the amazed admiration of the one
and the tolerance of the other.
To Mary West, that he could string to-
gether lines that rhymed and scanned
seemed nothing short of evidence of abso-
lute genius, though she knew his composition
of a verse resembled the working out of a
problem on the puzzle page of a weekly
paper. Wellington had no illusions of the
literary value of Jimmy’s verses. He knew
them to be crude, no better but certainly
no worse than are done by hundreds of
boys of his age. But they were not merely
pieces of rhymed prose. He was satisfied
regarding that. The lad might develop; if
he didn’t, the experience would have done
him good.
“There’s nothing that isn’t worth knowing
to a man who can think,” he said one day
to Jimmy. “A fellow who was at college
with me passed through the other day.
He didn’t know who Charlie Chaplin was.
And he called himself an educated man!
I once heard a Judge pretend he’d never
heard of the Melbourne Cup. In a pro-
perly cultured community he’d be displaced.
His comment was the outcome of his
noticing a copy of “The Black Disc Gang,”
number 214 of the Sleuthhound Sam series,
sticking out of Jimmy’s pocket. Jimmy
went through all the courses of the literary
menu —Shelley and Sleuthhound Sam and
Karl Marx. But he flushed that Wellington
should have discovered his taking pleasure
in the nuts and lollies. After all the trouble
that Wellington had taken with him, he
would feel his work had been in vain.
“Ah! Sleuthhound Sam!” said the editor.
“He’s anew one on me. When I was
your age it was Deadwood Dick. I read
every one of them and mighty good they
were, too. Don’t be ashamed of reading
them, Jimmy,” he added noting the boy’s
shamefaced look. “They all help.”
“Anything that spurs the imagination is
good,” he said later, in telling Dalgety—
“poetry and priestcraft and public-houses
and pugilism and prostitution. The trouble
with the world is lack of imagination. People
don’t see the consequences of their actions;
that’s w y hy they commit crimes. Your pride
is that you’re an English gentleman—a
member of the Samurai caste. First and
foremost, before comfort or religion or life
itself, you must play the game.
“You don’t like my telling you this be-
cause it’s bad form to admit sentiment,
but it’s true. You don’t mind a man bring-
ing misery into thousands of homes- by
direct open underpaying; but if he does it
by a trick, you ostracise him. You wouldn’t
think any worse of a man who seduced a
dozen women; but if he talked about it
you’d cut him in the street. It’s -a good
code as far as it goes. It’d be an ideal one
if it had any imagination behind it, if you
could see what it meant for those homes,
for those women.”
“For God’s sake, don’t preach so,” growled
Dalgety. “You’re getting infected by your
associations, I fancy, Wellington.”
“Perhaps I am,” mused the editor.
“You’ve been listening to Moon.”
“Sometimes I do that. Not that I look
to him for imagination. He’s the real
aristocratic type, Moon.”
“The what?” cried Dalgety.
“The aristocratic type. He’s as class-
conscious as you are. He regards the
working people as the only aristocracy—
you and I and the rest who don’t work
with our hands he places in the criminal
class. Want of imagination again. When
somebody starts a university with a chair
of imagination I’ll shout you and Elijah
Moon a course apiece.”
CHAPTER VI.
In the year following Jimmy saw Alma
three or fo.. times. In view of threatening
competition, C. J. Grey determined to spend
a greater part of his time at the works.
He put up at the Grand, and once a month
or so Mrs. Grey and the girls came down for
a week-end.
It was only during their visits that Grey
made any real use of his car. For the rest
of the time it was generally lying in the
garage, a source of unalloyed joy to Bert
Burnett, who was now working there, when-
ever he had seen the old man safely off to
Sydney for a day or two.
Bert kept the keys of the garage and
shared his stolen sweets with Stan Carlisle,
the Quirk boys, Ginger Collins and other
intimates, included in the definition being
several of the more vivacious and joyous
specimens of Illawarra’s girlhood. These
moonlight joy-rides reached dimensions
calculated to add materially to C. J. Grey’s
petrol account. At times they extended over
the Bulli Pass to Coledale or southward
through Wollongong to the Five Islands.
Jimmy had never partaken of the sur-
reptitious delights. He always made some
excuse when Bert extended his hospitality.
Even when the unofficial motorist, with a
new facial contortion, expressive of doggish-
ness, announced that he would bring along
a couple of boshter tarts, Jimmy declined.
He told nobody the reason of his punc-
tiliousness. It was not regard for Grey’s
petrol; it was not that he felt any qualms
regarding what the Bible calls spoiling the
Egyptians and wha.t Elijah Moon would
have termed the “hexpropriation o’ th’
non-prejuicer.” It was simply that he had
seen Alma Grey lolling back in the seat of
that same car, and he could not face the
thought of sitting in it with another and a
lighter love. To him the car became sancti-
fied, a shrine, a holy spot; could not
protest against Bert’s or Patsy’s or Des’s
or Stan’s going out with one girl one night
TREASURE.
And still you give. Oh, grow not tired
of giving
Out of your bounty; life has made a
store
For each, and you are rich arid I am
poor!
Oh, grow not tired of life with too much
living!
Give me your days and hours, and let
me keep
Your treasure’s key. 1 shall not fall
asleep,
But stand and watch and guard you
through the night.
LONDON.
Your bosom, is a fortress and a
tower ;
You have uncounted jewels in your
heart—
Go not to trade with them in the
world’s mart.
If sell you will, 1 offer you a flower- —
What more have 1? What would you
do with more?
Open your heart. Wear all your pearls
before
They tarnish with no-use, and lose their
light'.
D. P. MCGUIRE.


PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
\rc
x
% $
/J
;• v f « \
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour . . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
*rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from thei) streams ... in
cans that bear the label !
“St. George.”
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co. Ltd. Dunedin, N ew Zealand.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
and another girl another, but he could
refuse to give his own countenance to the
desecration; and he did.
Two or three times he had passed Alma
in the street. He had hoped that she would
show some sign of recognition, but she had
walked on laughing and chatting and shak-
ing her cascade of brown hair, utterly ignor-
ant that the lad was alive. Jimmy con-
tinued to see more visions, to work out
more romantic schemes whereby he would
force the Grey family to admit him to the
social equality which would allow of his
aspiring for the girl’s hand. He regretted
the civilisation of the day, longed for a
return of the glorious times when the love-
lorn by force and fist could tear his lady
love from those who would withhold her.
He began to wonder whether, after all,
the individualists were not right. Here
was he, a man who by prowess of his muscle
and his fist could sweep triumphant through'
any of those likely to stand in the path
of love; yet the measure of socialism which
the world had attained to manacled the
hands he could use to such purpose.
It was summer :now. Christmas was
due in a few weeks, and Jimmy’s heart
leapt when he heard the manager tell the
foreman one morning that they’d see a lot
of the old man now, as his wife and family
had taken a cottage for a couple of months.
The news was confirmed by Bert Burnett,
who profanely and disgustedly expressed his
opinions of all silvertails who dared to use
their own cars to the shattering of amatory
anticipations on the part of the deserving
poor.
The summer months bring a foreign popu-
lation to Illawarra. The centre of the
most beautiful district of the State, it offers,
within a mile of the town, mountains for
the tourist to climb, the best beach on the
South Coast where the tourist may surf,
and, within half an hour’s motoring, livers
and lakes for boating and fishing. It was
the tourist traffic which had enabled Horace
Egan to build a hotel with a nouveau art
drawing-room, electric lighting, a court-
yard of Kentia palms which he called the
Winter Garden, three billiard-tables and
a bar all plate-glass and mirrors.
Jimmy had been admitted, on reaching
the age of 16, as a fully-fledged member of
the Illawarra Life Savers’ Club, and, accord-
ing to its rules, had to take his turn for
two hours weekly guarding from danger
. the unsuspecting surfer, generally a. tourist
and more generally a woman tourist.
Snatching the doomed from a watery
grave was, in Illawarra, by no means the
heroic act it is regarded in latitudes where
surfing and the undertow are unknown.
There was not a member of the club but
had a couple of rescues to his credit; while
on a hot Sunday morning, with a strong
current running, the club would drag out
as many as a dozen pale and dishevelled
individuals. Life-saving had long passed
from the realm of the romantic to' the realm
of the commonplace. The newspapers had
ceased to record the names of the rescuers,
and even the rescues were lumped together
in a paragraph: “The members of the Illa-
warra Live-saving Club yesterday brought
in seven surfers who had been carried out
by the undertow.”
Every boy was eager for his first rescue,
because it meant a graduation. After half
a dozen he began to feeL annoyed at the
silly fool who, ignorant or contemptuous of
the danger flags, would stray into the danger
zone,, to interrupt his happy sun-baking,
possibly to interrupt his conversation with
a lady surfer by his side.
Jimmy had three years previously hauled
out by the scruff of the neck a non-
swimming youth of 20 who, when he was
resuscitated and put into clothes, felt very
insignificant indeed to meet the kid re-
sponsible for the possession of his life. Later
he had helped to bring in a youngster of
twelve, this time a better job, for he had
to dive for the victim and bring him ashore
without the aid of the life-line. Later
again, he had participated in the saving
of a couple of girls, visitors from Sydney,
one of whom lay unconscious for five hours
before she recovered. Jimmy had had a
share in other rescues, too. Had it not
been for his getting out the second life-
line, Patsy Quirk and the stranger he had
had to kick into insensibility before he
could support him, would both have been
drowned.
But these rescues were unofficial. The
Illawarra Surf Club had jealously to guard
its reputation for efficiency. Not a life
had been lost on the beach since the club’s
formation, five years previously, and to
relax the rule prohibiting membership under
sixteen years would have been to take a
chance.
Jimmy was a boy who matured early. He
was now five feet nine, as tall as he ever
grew, and he had had to diy out before
lie could come down to the lightweight
limit for the Boys’ Band competition the
previous year. His work and his athletic
devotion had developed his frame, and
when the captain of the club handed him
his badge he looked at him with pride.
Jimmy would be an acquisition to the club,
as a swimmer and lifesaver, for he had
secured the first-grade life-saving certificate,
and a decorative figure to help the club win
prizes in its demonstrations.
Jimmy surfed throughout the year, and
did not turn white in winter as polar bears
and casual surfers do. He was on the night-
the ovens, a job which brought him
in 355. weekly, and spent the hottest part
of the day—from one till three—on the
beach. He was the color of a Kanaka from
head to foot; for, like the true sun-baker,
he was not content with lying on the beach
in defiance of the law of the land and the
law of his own club. For half an hour daily
he would strip right off and bask in the
direct sunlight in the yard attached to the
club’s shed.
On Saturdays and Sundays he devoted
another half hour to coaching Patsy Quirk
in the science of boxing. Patsy was an
inch taller than Jimmy, but more lightly
made. He was slower in maturing. His
frame was that of an Antinous, as yet lack-
ing the power of Jimmy’s, but with a deli-
cacy of line that Jimmy’s did not possess.
Though he would have been described as
a fine cut of a young fellow, faults could
be found in Jimmy, and many. The only
fault about Patsy was that he needed a
deeper covering of muscle on his bones.
Patsy knew nothing of boxing when
Jimmy persuaded him to take it up. He
was a game and willing fighter in the dis-
putes of the football field and in the political
arguments which occasionally raged on
details of doctrine around Elija.fi Moon’s
soap-box. From his ancestors in Tipperary
he inherited a wild joy in fighting, and
would force the fight till the knock-out.
The knock-out came to Patsy one night
outside the Metropole.
The lads had been to a smoke night at
which Bert Burnett’s nose had proved the
star item of the evening, the city visitors
shrieking themselves hoarse over the weird
contortions of Bert’s face as he sang a
comic song.
• At the door were a. couple of commercial
travellers. They had had a few drinks and
were quarrelsome. Patsy happened to be
the nearest of the boys, and the travellers
demanded to know whether he was respon-
sible for that damned row which had been
annoying everybody all night. Patsy’s face
clouded, but he returned a civil answer.
The retort of the commercial traveller was
anything but civil. He threw doubt on
Patsy’s legitimacy. Then the speaker
staggered back to the door with a bleeding
nose.
They were out on the roadway, and under
the light of the street lamp they fought.
The commercial knew something about the
game. Even with the advantage of having
got in the first blow, Patsy had no chance.
In spite of the liquor he carried, the
traveller dodged his rushes, smothered and
stopped in the fighting and finally gave
Patsy a punch that dropped him as a
dummy man would drop.
Jimmy was fuming. He hoped that the
traveller would start to put in the boot
on Patsy’s fallen body that he might honor-
ably chip in and give the traveller what he
was looking for. But that traveller had
a sense of chivalry. He just glanced at
his fallen foe, turned to his friend and said
“Come on, Joe.”
Jimmy shook his head sadly when Patsy
was able to be led shakily home. “That
won’t do at all,” he said next day, when he
met Patsy, grinning through his bruises and
cuts as if it had been a great joke.
“‘Tiredhe?" he asked. She shook
her head. ‘No; but I’d just had
about enough. I suppose it was
the. fright I got.’"
‘‘Fell in, didn’t I?” he said. “That bloke
could sling ’em a bit.”
“Don’t kid yourself,” replied Jimmy
seriously. “He wasn’t exactly a bush fighter,
but that’s all. He was as open as the two
Cups if you’d only known what to do.
louve got to learn, Patsy. You 11 fall in
really one of these days if you dont. You re
hot-tempered, you know and a willing
bloke , but it s the willing bloke who stands
the biggest chance of ahell of a walloping
unless he knows how. lou ve got to know
... . , , .
Jimmy got the gloves out for Patsy
and Stan Carlisle and watched them closely.
He was surprised to find that he had been
mistaken over Patsy. The boy possessed
some remarkable pugilistic instincts. His
skill in avoidance was almost up to pro-
fessional standard and he knew how to hit;
but his judgment in timing—his undoing in
the bad light of the street lamp—was exe-
crable. He noted further that, although tall,
Patsy was still a boy in development. He
could not land the solid punch that his
weight should carry.
Still Jimmy was pleased with his showing.
He would make some sort of a fighter out
of Patsy yet. The boy’s courage alone
was half the battle.
CHAPTER VII.
It was Christmas week. Jimmy was lying
out in the glorious sunlight of the Illawarra
beach. There were few bathers in the
water, for it was mid-day; they were all
local people, brown as nuts and versed in
every channel and cranny of the beach.
The breakers, falling in a line that sti’etched
for half a mile each way, showed that there
was no suspicion of an undertow. The
work of guarding the beach that day he
knew to be only a matter of form. The
most ignorant could not be carried out if
he tried.
Three women came from the women’s
shed. Jimmy glanced at them lazily. They
were new to him. Then, as they approached,
he felt his heart rise and click in his
throat again. Alma!
Not Alma the little girl. Alma the
woman! Alma the dainty brown Venus de
Medici, with a full, compact figure swelling
the texture of her tight black Canadian
costume; Alma, with her flowing hair gath-
ered about her head in a scarlet handker-
chief.
The child had been left in the sheds with
her clothes; here she was a new and an
even more fascinating Alma,
every cubic inch of her little
figure seemingly potent with
vigor and health and energy. Her
arms and legs were brown—not
sunburn, but her natural color.
Muriel, on the other hand, re-
vealed the unhealthy pallor of the new
bather; but their mother, who, Jimmy was
surprised to find, looked fifteen years
younger, was almost as brown as Alma.
A man joined them. It was Dalgety.
Jimmy spent an hour of ecstasy watching
the girl he loved. She was no stranger to
the water. She scampered to the edge, run-
ning as a man runs, not like a woman,
jumped the first three waves and then
plunged iri to .emerge and swim seawards,
with long, strong trudgeon strokes, to
beyond the first line.
Jimmy felt a thrill of triumph. Here was
his chance. He knew the fascinations of
the surf. He knew that a girl who felt
such obvious joy in it would be a regular
bather. He knew that the day would come
(Continued on page


WHO HATES
THE JOB OF
DISHING UP?
need to say just who—
no need to do the job!
CARLTON OVENWARE
is fashioned for oven and
table use, and, quite different
to other ovenware, is guaran-
teed not to crack in oven use.
though a cold, wet cloth he used
in handling the heated dish!
<Oarllon
OVENWARE
English Manufacture.
§
. ■«
Price of Oval Casserole, 17
Price of Pie Dish, 8/6
FREE Illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Smedlev Service
FINGER & TOE
NAIL NIPPERS
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
N 25 —W. JNO. BAKER
NAIL NIPPERS,
highest quality. steel,
finely finished, nickel-
plated ; 4-Jin. .
11/6 each.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
N 50—STRONG NAIL
NIPPER, nickel-plated,
4iin. overall, German
make.
6/6 each.
Post Free for Cash with Order.
New Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
THE Magic Names of
“Broken Hill” and “THE
BARRIER MINER” newspaper
there arouse visions of great
wealth in every business man’s
office.
~ft' p oen/ne of Queen s/onc/s
d/s/'njsu/sfed Soc/o/ Ufa
Wotel
c =BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
:imes.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached Hot and co
running water and Electric Fans m
very bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
zuests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone. Central —6 Lines.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
Amusements.
C VDNE V’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. o. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M'g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTYS: MR. CINDERS.
CRITERION: LITTLE ACCIDENT.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD..
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE NEW MOON.
iJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
CHARLES KING and BESSIE LO\E m
CHASING THE RAINBOWS.
(Passed for General Exhibition.)
also
ROBERT ARMSTRONG as
THE RACKETEER.
(Children over 6 and under 16 not admitted.)
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
1 ROCKHAMPTON.
1930. No. 22.
Mr. Justice Brennan
(Before the Registrar)
In Chambers.
BETWEEN THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED Plaintiff
And BENJAMIN CULPAN Defendant.
To BENJAMIN CULPAN late of 68 Clarence
Street Sydnev in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the Commercial Bank ot
Australia Limited has commenced an action against
you Benjamin Culpan in His Majesty’s Supreme
Court of Queensland at Rockhampton by writ ot
that Court dated the tenth day of April 1930 which
writ is endorsed as follows: “The Plaintiff s claim
is for money due and payable by the Defendant to
the Plaintiff with interest under a certain guarantee
in writing dated the thirteenth day of November
1926 and executed at Rockhampton m the State
of Queensland lor advances made to the Barrier
Reef Trading Company Limited and the Plaintiff
claims £2197 125.” AND you are required within
thirty days after the publication of this notice, in-
clusive of the day of such publication, to defend the
said action by causing an appearance to be entered
for you in the said Court to the said action and in
default of your so doing the said The Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited by leave of the Court or
a Judge may proceed therein and judgment may be
given in your absence. You may appear to the said
writ by entering an appearance personally or by
your solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at Rock-
hampton. . , _ _ , ,„
Dated this eighteenth day of July 1930
[p.s.] (Sgd.) J. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
REES R & SYDNEY JONES, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff, 178 Quay Street, Rockhampton.
liniment
far
RHEUMATISM
Sciatica, Lumbago,
Neuritis, Neuralgia,
Synovitis & Sore Joints*
Rev Liniment gives
immediate relief
from Backaches,
Tortured Muscle
Fibres inflamed by
Rheumatism, Uric
Acid, Chills and
Sprains. For
Bronchial and Chest
Complaints it has
no rival. Sprains
and bruises are all
rubbed away with
Rev. Send for a
bottle novo.
R
i
RE
if*
A
Rev is backed by the Maker’s Guarantee to
return money iff after fair trial, you have
not obtained relief with Rev.
Post This
Leslie Bray, Ltd.,
Malcolm Lane,
SYDNEY.
To-day.
B. 13/8/’3O,
Please forward me a. large bottle of
REV, for which I enclose 4/-; 3/6 pins
postage 6d.
Name...
Address.......
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d ‘
Contains everything a woman needs to know
THE Little Sisters
Tennon's hotel
BRISNANE
The Centre of Queenstands
Distinguished SocialLife!
QUEENSLAND.
; Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin were at
the wedding of Alice Hawthorn to Donald
Hill in St. Andrew’s Church, and signed the
register. The bride was given away by her
father in magnolia-white satin with a veil ot
cut tulle, and carried a bouquet of white
camellias and maidenhair fern. Dorothy
Hawthorn and Nan North ’maided in powder-
blue with blue veils chapletted with gold
leaves. The reception was at Farnborough,
Mrs Hawthorn wearing rose-brocade with
gold and silver pattern. The breakfast was
in a marquee on the lawn. Lady Goodwin
was in beige silk lace.
Rudolph, second son of Dr. and Mrs. E.
Hirschfeld, Wickham-tcrrace, was married at
All Saints’, to Olive Mary, fourth daughter
of the C. Besleys, Annerley. The bride was
given away by her father, in rose-pink crepe
do Chine, and a brimless hat of mastic
straw, with touches of pink. Pink camellias,
roses and snowdrops made the bouquet. Mrs.
Roland, the bride’s sister, was matron ot
honor in colored floral crSpe de Chine on
a black ground; she carried red roses.
The committee of the Travellers’ Aid
Society secured the Orama for a benefit for
the funds. Orange poppies were in smoke
lounge and coffee lounge, and palms and
evergreens lined the stairways- In the music-
rooms there was a musical and elocutionary
programme. A garden lounge was arranged
with pine-trees and small shrubs on deck,
and here was dancing. Mrs. Cumbrae
Stewart, president of the Travellers’ Aid,
wore black reversible satin; Mrs. C. A. Mac-
farlane was in rose-beige.
Alexander Watson is giving a series of
recitals at the Albert HalL Amor; those
present on the opening night were the I re-
mier and Mrs. Moore, Dr. and Mrs. Donald
Cameron, Harry Borradale and Alan I hilp.
Archibald House, the old home of the
Archibald family at New Farm, which is to
be the Presbyterian-Methodist Hostel for
Girls, was opened by the Mayor. Mrs. Jolly
was with him in raisin-colored crepe with
a beige-toned hat and fitch furs. Mrs.
Henry Robertson received the guests.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
St. Mary’s, Coliu-street, saw the marriage
of Belle Cusack and William Ambrose. In
bridal raiment of ivory satin was made with
a flare in the front and a long-sleeved cor-
sage. The back of the skirt descended in a
train, and a sheaf of hyacinths and heather
nestled in a cascade ot tulle wedding 'ei •
Bettine Mclntyre, in poke bonnet and pmk
frills, scattered flower petals, and Margaret
Draper, Moosie Butcher and Gwenyth
Ambrose attended. Picture hats of tulle and
crinoline straw, georgette gowns falling into
short trains and sheafs of gladioli were in
their all-pink color scheme. Toasts and danc-
ing were at the Savoy.
The G.-G.’s lady found time for a cup ot
tea with members of the Ivarrakatta Club.
Blue sprigs of early leschenaultia, blown
donkey orchids and kangaroo paws made tne
dais like spring. Mrs. Mervyn Griffiths, with
a dash of sulphur to a black toilette and
cosy furs, spoke a word of welcome, and Lady
Stonehaven made a brief reply. Daisy Main
sang and Miss Carnm bracketed Schumann
with Beethoven for her piano ouerings. Mrs,
Pretty, Mrs. G. 11. Johnston Mena Fisher,
Mrs S. J. Anderson, Mrs. Klein, Mis. P.
Howard, the Nathan lady, Mrs. R. T. Robin-
son, Margaret Saunders and Mme. Antoine
shared in the tea and chatter.
Methodist Ladies’ College Old Girls made
a great success of their dance in the A-A.L.
Hall Miss Walton, headmistress, wore a
long-sleeved gown of peacock moire; blonde-
headed Margaret Giles, who secretaned the
frivol, was in gold taffetas; Hilda Bennett s
iade georgettes fell in flared panels; Lenore
Kerr contrasted her tangerine georgettes
with green slippers and jewellery; tall Mary
Camm wore sherry-red; embroidered circles
fluttered above the hemline of Mrs. Wifs-
morc’s apple greens, worn with a spray ot
red poppies; Mrs. Routley and Mrs. Day
were in white satin; rhinestone accessories
glittered above Alison McMeikans primrose
moire; Isabel James wore red Dorothy
Hope orange, and Mrs. Harold 1 arry
Madonna-blue taffetas; Lorna Booth s coral
chiffons swished above green slippers - Betty
Hope was in white and silver and Marjorie
Smily’s frock was mostly silver-lace frills.
Florence Besley earned heaps of praise for
her vigorous and sympathetic portrayal ot
the name part in the Repertory production
of Milne’s “Ariadne, or Business First.
She appeared in blue chiffons patterned with
bio- pink flowers and later in a moss-green
creation. Beatrice Hassen did well as Janet
Ingleby, and looked her best in a powder-
blue and white suit.
A farewell concert was tendered Gwen-
dolyn Bray, Avho sails shortly to seek the
degree of doctor of music in the Gold Land.
Doreen Bray, yvho has just letumed fiom
abroad, played with her sister in a mag-
nificent Liszt Rhapsody for two pianos. As
a solo Doreen played Dohnanyi s Rhapsody,
and Gwendolyn took part in a Bach Concerto
with violinists David Powell and Keith Cum-
mings. The Minnawarra Choir and the
Madrigal Singers contributed^
The supple fingers of Phyllis Blott have
been engaged to caress the keys of u'v t s
Bechstein and Lipp. The youthful maiden is
official accompanist, and now and again will
put solos on the air. A ’pupil of Miss Ida
Roberts. Miss Blott carried off the Uni.
Exhibition in 1926, which enabled her to
study at Melbourne Conservatonum.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
.; Adelaide.
Every July South Australia records a
drought, and every Adjust it is necessary to |
wear goloshes. Meanwhile social happen-
ings crowd upon us, many of them organised
for the benefit of charitable movc..ients. Ihe
Ad Club, ‘’The Optimists,” Myer s Emporium,
the Big Store and Toe H are all giving halls
or other entertainments w thin the next lt>
days. The Mayoress, an untiring worker on
behalf of the unemployed, has formed a com-
mittee of voung people for a novel dance
effort styled “The Bing Boys’ Bun Fight.
Incidentally, buns are to be teatured at
supper, to keep down expenses to bedrocK.
The manufacture of really cheap fancy cos-
tumes is part of the fun.
The English-Speaking Union had a social
evening at the Wentworth, where budge was
the main diversion. Mrs. Mill s Jsapier the
new president of the hospitality committee,
received the guests in a* frock of no
black lace. Iceland poppies, mimosa and
daffodils furnished the decorations.
There was a record attendance at the
Palais Royal when the South Australian
Football League entertained the van, mg
inter-State football teams. The dancers
numbered 1400; the League had issued invi-
tations to the many pretty girls in our
departmental stores to partner the visitors.
The Conscrvatorium Opera Class, under
the direction of H. .Winsloe Hall, presente
Purcell’s “Dido and .Eneas ’ and Mozart s
“The Marriage of Figaro” at the Norwood
Town Hall, the audience being an invited
one. The operas were produced by Haioid
D Tli°e n Arts and Crafts folk held high revel
at the Freemasons’ Hall on Thur-day ni?nt.
Striking and spectacular posters were
hung round the ballroom and some of tie
costumes were of the startlingly futmid
type for which a bal masque provides |uch
scope. The joint secretaries Dorothy Ken
and P Alicia Barrington as .Coquette and
Pirate, infused plenty of pep into the dance.
The staid International Accountants Cor-
poration and Book-keepers Institute of o. •
burst into festivity at the Piec-arliHy i'
same night, which also saw the Addaide
Orpheus Society holding their periodical con-
M D,i H* A.M"c O /. ! “on of the late Director
of Education, announces his engagement to
Moya McKenzie, of Neutral Bay, Sydney.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This picture shows M ; ss Mary Corvan,
A.R.C.M. Born in Adelaide, she gamed a
scholar ship
giving her four
years’ training
at the Royal
College of
Music, Ixm-
don. On her
return she set-
-11 e d in the
Speck: three
of her pupils
have won the,
h.ghest marks
in the State
for the L.A.B.
degree. Among
other troph'es
are five gojd
medals won in
R.A.M. exams.
Ten years ago
Miss Corvan
revisited
Europe, where
she took fur-
ther lessons, and played in London and the
provinces at concerts. Nowadays teaching
makes such strenuous demands upon her
that she appears only as accompanist.
The Newuhani Racing Club held its last
meeting of the season at Mowbray. His
Ex. attended and the iiewly-elected president
of the N.R.C., Mr. Lance Archer, did the
honors. In the throng were noticed Mrs
David Meredith, Mrs. Alex. Boyes, the Geoft
Martins, the H. P. Harnssms, Mrs k
Green, the T. G. Johnstone*i Dr. and Mrs.
L. O. Macnamara, Dr. and Mrs. Ihompson,
the George Browns, Mr. and L.
von Steiglitz, the E. Iv. Fields, the May
heads and the C. Martins
Clemes College annual dinner at the
Imperial, followed by dancing and bridg'
at the school, made a bright spot m a dull
week. About 100 old scholars—two or three
being remnants of the old guard, who were
the first schoolboys on the roll m 1900—fat
down to the dinner, and about 3€o rolled up
to the dance. The college memorial hall was
decorated in the school colors, brown, gold
a, Thf new Child Welfare Clinic’s premises,
built at the rear of the Town Hall, were
onened bv Mayor Souudy in the presence ot
Premier McPhee, the Nicholls lady (presi-
dent) and a crowd of supporters of the move-
ment The old premises were terriblj
cramped and inadequate; the new rooms are
convenient and spacious. _ ,
Gumtips and early spring bulbs made the
Lyceum Club rooms gay for the bridge pai tj
engineered by the Bush-nursing folk- to ia
the wind for the committee s stall on Appeal
Day in October. Ivind’y contr butors sent
nrizes of all sorts, useful and ornamental,
Lnd some who were unable to be present
sent cheques for their tables.
A team of 10 women golfers om th
Royal Hobart Club went up to Bothwell at
the invitation of the local club, and had a
verv jolly day, though they were beaten by
five matches to three. The Bothwell. players
lunched the visitors picnic fashion, the fine
day making the outdoor meal a pleasure.
The hostesses were Mesdames Webster. Hall,
Reid - Misses Reid, Hirst, Nettlefold,_ Agnew
Mace' and Poynter; and the guests included
Mesdames Lindon. Gurney Gatenby, Col
well, and Misses Moore, Oliver, Gray, Bar-
clay, Bohmann and Campbell.
Alan, son of the A. J. Millers, and Mali;'
daughter of artist G. Goodhart, Broken Hil .
signed a life partnership contract at St
George’s, Batting Point. Only a handful of
intimate relatives and one or two guests
witnessed the ceremony, among them Mar-
garet O'Grady. Betty Sale ’maided.
Young Dr. Jill Clemons, whose appoint-
ment to the Hobart General Hospital was
announced lately, has become engaged to
Dr. Jim Ainslie, Perth (W.A.).


ass
m
i
m
Jin
Tits*
1
aw
m
Full Banking
Facilities
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
provides full facilities for all banking
business, both in Australia and overseas.
To all its clients it extends the benefits which
attach to its Experience accumulated through
seventy years’ close contact with Australia’s
trade and development.
ESTABLISHMENT—JUj Offices, spread through the
capital cities and country districts of the
various States of the Commonwealth, two
Offices in London, and Agents in every
important city of the world.
RESOURCES—Paid-up Capital of £5,000,000.
Reserve Fund of £3,200,000 (used in the
business) and total Assets £45,600,000.
Additional facilities at the Head Office, Mel-
bourne, include the:—
PUBLIC SAFE DEPOSIT, with individual safes at from
£l/5/- rent per annum, and storage space for
bulky valuables at special rates.
OVERSEAS SERVICE DEPARTMENT provides informa-
tion to travellers about money matters, tours,
and other items.
WOMEN’S BANKING SECTION, quiet and comfortable,
provides the full range of banking facilities.
c Uhe
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: 271-9 Collins St., Melbourne.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MECHANICAL
STOKERS.
""THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 18961/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth' of Australia on .reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN FURNACES.
r T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 18962/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a licepse to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, 'Sydney.
AN IMPROVED SURFACE-TREATING
DEVICE.
HTHE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 12448/19 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AIR-SUCTION
APPARATUS.
"T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 9430/27 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale • of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A PAPER CUP.
'"THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 890S/22 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AN IMPROVED DEVICE FOR HAND-
LING MATERIAL SUCH AS SAND,
GRAVEL, CRUSHED STONE, OR THE
LIKE.
'T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 3771/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasnoahle terms
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A PAPER CUP.
T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 8874/22 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CLOSURE-APPLYING MACHINES.
■T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 8699/27 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN QUICK-RELEASE
VALVE.
'T’HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 15654/2S is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN ROLL-SCREEN
CONSTRUCTION.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 3302/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SOAP TABLETS AND PROCESS OF
MAKING THE SAME.
'T'HE Proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 24867/25 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN REFRIGERAT-
ING APPARATUS.
'T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
*■ No. 3703/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
when she would be unattended by Dalgety,
and here she was revealing herself as a
lawbreaker whom it was his duty, as a
duly-qualified lifesaver, to rebuke or even
cause to be summoned before the Court of
Petty Sessions.
By swimming past the first line of
breakers Alma had declared herself to be
that disquieting disturber of peace, a shark-
baiter. The sea is full of sharks at II la-
warra, as at all the beaches. As you bathe
you can often se.e their shadows when the
incoming wave rises towards the sun. But
it is rarely that they venture into the
blinding water behind the break. Wherefore
all sane bathers stay there. Those who are
not sane may be dealt with by the surf
club, which is empowered by law to main-
tain order and decency on the beach.
It is not nice to see a fellow human being
eaten by a shark before your eyes. One
such incident would seriously affect the
tourist traffic to Illawarra for several sea-
sons. So the club is empowered to order
the shark-baiter into safety and take his
name and address for purposes of prose-
cution if he persists in his contumacy.
Jimmy did not intend to threaten Alma
with the pains and penalties of the law.
But the badge on his costume gave him
the right to speak to her without the
formality of an introduction, gave him the
right to swim out to her side and tell her
of the dangers she was running, tell her
that she was violating the law and that
had it been anybody else he would certainly
supply the particulars to the police pro-
secutor. She might be doubly grateful, so
grateful that she would cling to him with
the love-light in her eyes and swear eternal
love, while C. J. Grey said "Bless you, my
children,” and appointed him manager of
the works.
This time Jimmy’s dream was illustrated
by colored, plates. He watched the scarlet
cap flitting about in the waves and saw it
overwhelmed a score of times. Not one
of the party could shoot a breaker, but
Alma persisted in trying. He was delighted
to see Dalgety dumped—thrown violently
on the sandy bottom instead of being shot
along on the rolling water —and for a
moment felt a hope that he might have
his shoulder dislocated, as frequently
happens, to keep him out of the water for
a month or so. Then they came out and
sat oh the beach a few yards from him, so
close that he could watch the movement of
Alma’s little brown toes as they scratched
at the sand.
Jimmy forwent his full sun-bath in the
yard that day. When his relief came he
dashed into the surf and contrived to pull
off some of the finest shoots he had ever
accomplished, one taking him right in until
his nose scraped in the sand and he could
hear the expressions of admiration from
the party on the sand.
That paid Jimmy for everything. He gave
the women time to disappear into their
shed, then went to dress, happier than he
had felt for many a day.
* * * *
When Jimmy’s chance came, it was a
better one than he had hoped in his wildest
dreams. Fortune was in a good humor
when he appealed to her, and, after the
manner of pagan goddesses who are pleased,
she cast glad eyes and cast them Illawarra-
wards, to lift the soul of Jimmy to ecstatic
heights.
Every day he was at his post on the tick
of time, and nearly every day the Greys
came along to bathe. Sometimes Dalgety
was with them; sometimes only. their
mother. Jimmy was tempted once or twice
to sjvim out to where the red cap lured;
but he felt that, sooner or later, the day
would come when neither Dalgety nor Mrs.
Grey was there. It came about the middle
of January.
Stretched out in the noonday sun and
watching the exit of the women’s sheds
from the corner of his eye, Jimmy saw
Alma and Muriel emerge. He waited. No
third figure appeared. He cast his eye
towards the men’s quarters, breathless with
eagerness. His heart fell; a man appeared.
Then it soared again; the man was not
Dalgety.
The girls dashed down the sand to the
water and Jimmy saw with delight that
they noticed him. Alma made some re-
mark to Muriel—possibly connected with
his prowess in breaker-shooting. Anyhow,
he was noticed; he was no longer just part
of the landscape, but a detached personality
—a human being.
Alma did not swim out to trespass on
the domain of sharkdom this day. She
kept with her sister vainly trying to get a
shoot and always failing. Then Jimmy
observed that the girls were edging uncon-
sciously towards a point where the line of
the breaking water was flattened—the sure
indication of a channel, the sign of the
undertow. Had he done his duty, Jimmy
would have shouted to them of their danger.
He might even have gone out to them and
warned them, without presuming on his
functions as a lifesaver. He did no such
thing. He sat still and prayed silently that
Alma might not drift behind her sister and
that she might be seized by the tow and
swept out to sea. She moved nearer the
menace with every wave she failed to take.
The current is an insidious thing, which
urges you to shift many yards along a
beach before you are aware of it.
Whish! Jimmy was on his feet. Muriel
was raising a cry like the wa.il of a lost
soul, and Alma was swimming harder than
she had ever swum before in her life, while
all the time slowly moving in the opposite
direction. The cry rose along the beach;
three other members of the club rushed
down to shift the reel to the nearest point,
while Jimmy, now swimming strongly, with
a smile on his face as he thought how easy
was this introduction, forged nearer and
nearer the drifting girl.
She saw him coming and sensibly ceased
swimming, turning on her back and floating
confidently. Her fears of death had gone.
She knew that now it was only a matter of
time before she was on the beach again,
restored to her friends and her relations.
“You’re right,” she heard a voice; and
glancing to the side saw the nice boy she
had spoken about to Muriel, the one who
could shoot breakers so beautifully.
“Thank you so much for coming out,”
she said.
“Tired?” he asked.
She shook her head. “No; but I’d just
had about enough. I suppose it was the
fright I got.”
Jimmy placed his hands under her arms.
“I think I’m all right by myself,” she
protested.
“No; you’ve had a bad time,” argued
Jimmy. “I’d better give you some help.”
She made no further protest, and for ten
whole seconds, during which time Stan
Carlisle was battling out through the surf
with a heavy lifebelt round his waist and
the weight of a long line to drag behind,
he held the girl he loved in his arms.
“Right?” inquired Stan.
“Right,” returned Jimmy.
Stan caught him by the armpits, raised
a hand as a signal to the men on the reel
to pull in and back they came. As soon as
they reached shallow water Alma stood up
and walked in with the rest. Muriel, her
hair escaped from its handkerchief, was
hysterical.
(To be continued next week.)
Shower of Rain.
Out came the sun,
And sullen morning melted
To sparkling laughter
And bright tears again,
As from the cloud
The shower backward pelted
A slanting handful
Of white splintered rain.
A flurry of jewels,
Star-gold scattered at noon,
In irised beads
And iridescent spears,
Till earth is a treasure trove
Thickly bestrewn
With sapphire sprays
And rounded turquoise tears.
Down the wet hillside
Comes the haunting scale
Of the cuckoo, lost
In the magpie’s liquid note.
Pouring soft warblings
Through the sun-warmed vale,
A pain of ecstasy
From his golden throat.
Ere the pearls have slipped
From the broad nasturtium leaf,
And the trees have ceased
To drip green diamonds,
Heaven and earth
Are reflected in the brief
Broken mirrors
Of little gathered ponds.
The winds have shaken
The pointed gumtips dry,
And the sun pours forth
His ardent gold again.
And back to her boundless
Coffers of blue the sky
Has gathered the ransomed
Treasury of the rain.
VICTOBIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
The Cricket.
Tlie peace of tranquil hills was hers at last,
Of gilded grain that slept within the ear,
And summer poppies drugged amid the
wheat,
And mosses pale with sun and purple haze
Of torpid valleys and the drowsy grass
On windblown slopes, where scarce a daisy
stirred
Since that last breeze was ambushed in the
fern.
Stretched on her bed of skins she lay alone.
But for the lifting of her amber breasts
One might have deemed her dead, as passion
dies.
She lived for sensuous sunlight and the blue
Of cloudless skies, for yellow grapes to
taste,
And red pomegranates, and to sip the wine
Of oozing vats with delicate delight;
With slaves to rnb her body in rare oils
And supple wrists to fan her into sleep.
And those half-waking dreams of swimming
seas
Round coral isles where palms croon all
day long.
So she. could lie alone upon her couch
Of marble, spread with tiger-skin and bear,
No lover did she ache for any more.
So still, so tender was the limpid air!
There was a droning rhythm from the
.scythes
Where brown men sweated, naked in the sun,
To fill her barns and pile her chests with
gold;
She thought that she could dream for ever
now,
Borne by a wash of light to shoreless seas.
There came a sudden fluting through the
grass,
An elfin love-note stabbing at the air,
So clear, so sharp, so small —a cricket sang.
Keen as a knife to wake her heart again,
So sweet. .. .it was more hard to bear than
pain!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Thousands of both men
and women have been
astonished with the unusual
success of this modern treat-
ment for such uric acid dis-
orders as backache and rheu-
matism. Men who were losing
their strength, activity and
power —who were being
termed “old-timers”—have
“come back” with such freshness and vigor as to
amaze their friends; women who were fast losing
their capability and charm have found a new way to
health! Hundreds of one-time sufferers have
voluntarily recorded their experiences of this
remedy, most of the letters stating that successful
results were promptly obtained where every other
form of treatment had failed.
FIND THE CAUSE!
How useless to soothe a symptom and leave the cause untouched!
Yet thousands are doing that—taking old-fashioned kidney pills
and salts—things which merely treat symptoms! But with the modern
remedy— Harrison’s Pills —all this is changed. Harrison’s Pills
have shown people they can easily get rid of uric acid aches and
pains, gaining such energy and freshness as they have not known
for years. By getting rid of the deadlv uric deposits—as well as
uric acid itself—Harrison’s Pills give HEALTH — real health —-
positively, safely, and without fail!
GET BACK YOUR YOUTH.
It is a demonstrated fact that of all the remedies offered for uric acid
and rheumatic disorders, not one equals Harrison’s Pills for giving
quick, safe, sure relief and a definite return to healthy activity. There
is nothing like this remedy for those who feel too old before their
time. . . . Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for bringing back the elastic
step of youth! Harrison’s Pills bear the signature of a London
Physician, and are sold under straightforward guarantee.
STOP
BACKACHE
and
RHEUMATISM
k This Easy Way
MADE ffj.fly
HIM A NEW MAN.
Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheu-
matism I was practically dead at 77. In spite
of the severity of my trouble, Harrison’s Pills
have made a new man of me, and I feel not a
day older than fifty. I have never known any
remedy act in so remarkably beneficial a
manner. ( Signed) B. Jacobson, Blackman’s
Point, N.S.W.
will be paid to anyone proving this is not a safe and
effective remedy bearing a genuine London doctor’s
signature.
YOU TAKE NO RISK WHATEVER WITH
HARRISON’S PILLS.
Either you throw off your ageing pains and weakness, gaining quick,
unmistakable benefit, or the trial costs you nothing! Simply get a
package of Harrison’s Pills from the nearest chemist or store.
Three sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. Take as directed, and if not
freed from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased with
the improvements in your health, strength and general bearing—
your money will be returned. This guarantee clearly protects you
in making a trial, but if preferred a Free Sample will be sent
on receipt of name and address with stamp for postage. Address:
Amalgamated Laboratories,
46-52 Carrington Street, Sydney.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
T A KIT
HARRISON’S
Backache & Bladder PILLS
For Backache, Rheumatism, Neuritis, Constipation, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiff, Swollen Joints, Urinary and Bladder Troubles.
FARM ACCOUNTS
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiffl
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.


ASSURED
POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the mt
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where thp snnnlv ,
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin. PP 7 18 not cqual
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.!
t. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading 1 Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi3
RanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
W&W26.
mm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
IA-Z
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY,
LTD.
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Five thousand Mount Morgan shares have
been sold in Melbourne at £6 15s. each. —
18. 6/8/’S7.]
Mr. William Dymock, bookseller, of Syd-
ney, has just purchased in England Gould’s
rare and valuable book—“ The Birds of Aus-
COMING OUT OF THE PUB.
Chorus of Cabmen (on the other side of the way ): “Cab,
gentlemen?”
Brown: “Now, do we look as bad as that?” [l4/7/’88.]
tralia”—for £250. He has also paid £5O
for “Gould’s Australian Mammals.” The
work first named is, perhaps, the most valu-
able book ever imported to Australia.—
[B. 17/12/’B7.]
The first warship ever acquired by an
Australian Government, the Victorian steam
sloop Victoria, was sold at Melbourne last
week for £275. The Victoria brought pro-
visions to the Gulf of Carpentaria in hopes
of meeting the ill-fated Burke and Wills
expedition, and carried the Victorian con-
tingent. of volunteers to the N.Z. war. It
was said that Joe Melvin, of the Melbourne
“D.T.,” was the first Victorian war corres-
pondent when he smuggled himself to the
Soudan. That was not so. Howard Wil-
loughby was correspondent of the Melbourne
“Argus” at the seat of war in N.Z. Wil-
loughby is still on the “Argus” staff, and
retains his perennial youth.— [B. 30/7/’B7.]
“Miss Smith looked nice, as usual.” This
brief statement of fact is culled from the
social column in 320 back numbers of the
Sydney “D.T.,” and is interesting owing to
its antiquity. There is nothing very startling
about it except the fact that Miss Smith
must be rather old by this time, and when
you are reading the newspaper to a sick
friend you may safely unchain this item and
let it loose on him without any fear of dan-
gerous results arising from shock to the
system. Miss Smith is a baker's daughter
just hovering on the verge of “gentility,” and
she and her young man have the entree to a
few balls, where she behaves very nicely in an
elephant’s-breath costume. The “young man,”
in point of social status, is about half-way
between a girl’s “chap” and an aide-de-camp;
in earlier days he inclined to the lower scale,
and when he proposed he said briefly, “Annie,
let’s get spliced” ; but Miss Smith has labored
hard to put a polish on him since then. He
doesn’t breathe so stertorously as he used to
do for one thing; his hands are not quite so
red, and when he dances his legs look less
like two left limbs and no right one. The
ladies whose business it is to write up reports
of “society” events, as a rule, take no notice
of Miss Smith, but when she does get access
to a ball and has the luck to secure a few
dances, the poor little mortal’s name is gener-
ally to be found somewhere on the dejected
tail-end of the report. We used to meet her
ourselves in our earlier days; and her methods
are very simple. We were poor then—
miserably poor. We sat on a gin-case in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and wrote our
eloquent tirades on an eleven-shilling deal
table in a little top-storey room, but even
there we would often
listen to the timid
patter of a pair of
lightly-shod feet on
the rickety stairs,
and then we would
stop writing to
speculate as to our
visitor. But we soon
got to know her.
The steps got worn
with the footprints
of the poor little
woman who would
toil up to our sanc-
tum, rather weary
and out of breath,
but with a fluttering
smile on her lips and
a wistful look of
hope in her eye, and
when she asked if
we were the editor,
and we said we were,
she would put into
our hands a little
pink envelope and
ask us appealingly
to “just give her a
m e n, t i o n.” W e
hardly needed to
open the letter then
—we knew its con-
tents so rVell. The
same little scrap of
gilt-edged paper
every time, and
across it would
appear the neatly-
written sentence,
“Miss Smith look' d
nice, as usual.” We
had not the heart to
.. „ refuse, and so the
tem would appear at the foot of a
long account of wealth and beautv and
the half-frightened little creature would go
away rejoicing. Poor Miss Smith was a
noun of multitude; there were hundreds of
her and her dainty little footsteps and her
elephant s-breath costume are still hovering
on the brink of ‘genteel” society, as of old.
She doesn t come to see us so often now as
sie did in earlier days—the gorgeous menial
downstairs is too much for her, but we have
still a regret in our heart as we think of our
bygone friend, and we remember her with
a sigh when we see in print the well-remem-
S.”™'*’ Miss Smith looked ntee“ e aB
~ Australian shearer has earned fm*
himself world-wide fame as a joker There
was a one-eyed new-chum cook engaged on
a station in the Western district (Vic )
last season, who had been too busy cleanin'?
boots at a London hotel most of his life
to spare time for the study of the natural
listory of this playful party, consequently
v not uu ng ° f lns eccentricities—how
could he. The most stupendous practical
Z eV l pl ? ye l u P° n that poor stolid
mudhead, but he didn’t seem to mind He
his n hLk ear « W S en v th6y Put Scotch-thistles in
, b “ an .d he never tore round and
wanted to wipe up the whole shed when
they relieved the dull monotony of his life
by dropping a dead snake into the folds of
the flour sack. To look at him you wouhl
not think lie cared an old hat; he did, how-
ever. It hurt liis feelings when lie found
jew-lizards in hi s boots,
because he had no natural
fondness for jew-lizards,
and he was cut to the
heart to discover all his
clothing missing of morn-
ings, because he hated to
follow his calling attired
in a blue blanket, like the
rude, untutored savage;
but he cloaked his feel-
ings and murmured not.
tie brooded day after day,
elaborating a scheme of
dire vengeance. He built
the boys up with a glow-
ing description of a Sun-
day dinner he intended to
give them—roast, meat,
spuds and duff—especi-
ally duff; duff was the
item he dwelt most upon.
I-Ie made them fairly drip
at the mouth the way he
cracked up his currant
duff, in furtherance of
las black plot he
procured a tin of
baking-powder around
which he carefully pasted
a Rough on Rats” label.
When Sunday came he
compiled his pudding,
and imparted a queer
flavor with a camomile-flower. The boys
ate like blacks who want to make one load
last a week, and not until they began to
slack off did they notice the tinge of bitter-
ness in the t boiled pastry; then they com-
mented on it in language peculiar to the
Parliament of N.S.W, The cook said he was
surprised at the flavor, he had not expected
it; he said it must be in the powder, and
he reached down the tin, and examined it
narrowly, carefully exposing the label.
Several hawk-like eyes spotted the dread
insignia at once, and there went out a fear-
some yell o’er hill and dale. “Holy wars!
Prison ! Did y’ put that stuff in the
autt i bangumary arsenic ! Gory Sheol!
Its poison! Can’t you read —you accursed
bunyip? Its rank, horrible, blank blank
poison. Then there was hurrying hither
and thither, and such a scrambling and
clamoring and cursing in that hut as you
never saw. The lads drank mustard and
vvater while the mustard-tin held out, and
then they fell back on the brine in the
pickle-barrel, and presently the sickest lot
of shearers ever beheld lay around that hut
in attitudes of hopeless abandon. A boun-
dary-rider, who had drunk about two buckets
of brine, was persistently standing on his
head m a corner, and the cook, who, after
pretending to take emetics, had gone to the
back of the hut, hung on to a sapling, and
was convulsed with merriment—he was
revenged!
The following is not meant to be a funny
item. It is solidly true and is built with a
view to pathos and subdued tears, and if it is
ever made into a song it should be set to the
tune the old cow died of. An old man residing
on a North Queensland goldfield had a very
young wife, whom he was accustomed to re-
prove with a strap at short intervals. He was
naturally cantankerous, and his temper had
been additionally soured by a healthy mort-
gage for £32 9s. 7d., which hung over his
property and .was about to be foreclosed.
Finally he decided to wipe off his difliculties
by disposing of the lady, and he made her
over by a fearfully and wonderfully-spelt
bill of sale to a young digger for about £33,
and then retired, leaving the latter to take
possession of the weeping and terror-stricken
property. From this point the story goes
wrong. The digger took the girl away—to
the house of a female friend, where he left
her until he could purchase an outfit of
clothing, and then he sent her down to his
parents, who, at his request, adopted her as
a daughter. Meanwhile the aged husband did
not die as he does in novels, and the hero
went away and married somebody else to
whom he had been engaged all along. There
was no particular poetry or romance in the
business, after all, and the story ends just
ere. It was only the act of an honest,
generous digger-man in a world where
generous men are woefully scarce.
“Oh, you good-for-nothing drunken wretdh
she exclaimed as she reached her hand out
from under the bedclothes to feel in the
cradle if the baby was covered. “Washer
masher. murmured her husband, rousing
irom a drunken doze. “Matter enough!”
she indignantly shrieked. “Wake up and go
down stairs and bring- baby up here this
mm ute. Did bring him up; lie’sh in ’er
cradle.” “You did no such thing, you
drunken brute. You wrapped the turkey I
dressed for Sunday’s dinner in baby’s blan-
A MODEST BUT AMPLE
REWARD.
Her Majesty: “Well, really,
you colonials are very
troublesome. I offer you a
K.C.M.G.-ship, and you
won’t take it. Come, now, I wish to
recognise, your services as a commis-
sioner. For goodness sake tell me what
you will take.”
Modest COLONIAL: “Well, Mum, since you
are so 'pressing, I’ll take a glass of
colonial beer it you ’ave it in the
’ousel” [23/4/’87.]
kets and rocked it in the cradle for an hour,
you wretch, while my poor dear baby is
freezing to death downstairs on the sofa.”
’Murkan joke. A San Francisco man
recently poisoned his neighbor’s dog which
howled all night, and the very next evening
he found a strychnined sandwich on the
piano where his daughter was accustomed to
practise “Only a Pansy Blossom” for three
hours daily.
A fashionably-rigged young lady got into
a suburban ’bus the other day, and seeing
it was pretty full looked around for some
perfect gentleman who would arise and give
up his seat to her. No one stirred until a
horrid man with a little boy sitting on his
knee put the child down and murmured. “Be
polite, my boy, and give your seat to the
lady.” Tableau.
The Broken Hill Silver Mining Company’s
mine (N. S. Wales) in four weeks of .Tune
and July yielded nearly seven tons of silver,
valued at over £50,000. If things go thus
much longer, the British half-crown will
have so depreciated that the Brassey gang
will have to raise the price of admission to
their “yot” by at least five shillings.—[B.
6/8/’B7.]
The “Times” advertisements are worth
£25 per column—-or about £2lOO daily.—
[B. 6/8/’B7.]
THE CLOCK IN THE MORGUE.
“The luxurious Melbourne Morgue has been further
furnished with a nice new clock.”
The clock goes on with a steady tick,
It marks each hour so swiftly fled;
Time is much to the anxious quick,
But little it troubles the man that’s
dead —
Tick, tick, tick, tick—
As calmly he lies on his cheerless bed.
Found in the meadow, the street, or stream,
What to him is the time o’ day?
’Tis only for them who toil and scheme—
He has finished his part in Nature’s play—•
Tick, tick, tick, tick—-
Ah ! many’s the minute he’ll dream away.
What has severed his thread of life—
“ Natural causes,” bullet or blow?
Was he drowned or did a suicide’s knife
Make that dark red blood to flow?
Tick, tick, tick, tick —
The clock don’t care and the clock don’t
know.
Enough that he’s dead, and cold as stone,
Let jurors discuss mishap or crime;
All hazard a guess, save the clock alone
Which never discourses on aught but
Time—
Tick, tick, tick, tick—
With its gentle, monotonous, even rhyme.
Wind that clock in the Morgue with care,
Keep it going from day to day;
It tells no tale to the corpses there,
But to bodies living it seems to say,
“Tick, tick, tick, tick,
Second by second ye wither away.”
EDMUND FISHER.
THE HAWTHORN.
By the road, near her father’s dwelling,
There growetli a hawthorn-tree;
Its blossoms are fair and fragrant
As the love that I cast from me.
It is all abloom this morning,
In the sunny silentness,
And glows by the roads'de, radiant
As a bride in her bridal dress.
But, ah me! at sight of its blossoms
No pleasant memories start;
I see but the thorns beneath them —
And the thorns they pierce my heart.
V. J. DALEY


From China to Peru.
“Gad”: Count (he is a Count of the Holy
Roman Empire) John Mac Cormack tops the
list of highly paid entertainers with a salary
of £lO,OOO per week as a talkie artist. On
the stage the honor goes to La Argentina
(a danseuse) with £7OO for each perform-
ance. Ivreisler gets £OOO. Ditto Chaliapin.
Rachmaninoff is runner-up to both.
“Red Hackle” : The fine old British sport
of “cocking” still flourishes, though banned
legally for nearly a hundred years. Its
latest emergence into the limelight took
place at Tamworth (N.S.W.) when an
unsporting police raided a series of mains
at the height of the excitement. Perhaps the
unhappiest part of the business was the
reference by a local newspaper to the birds
as “roosters.” This is enough to make all
the full-blooded cockers of the Regency days
turn in their graves.
“The Gaffer” : The Los Angeles Olympiad
in 1932 promises to be a record show. The
Yanks are making the most elaborate pre-
parations, and a new departure is the
organisation of a committee to see to the
transportation, accommodation and training
needs of all visiting teams. The Ameri-
cans can be trusted to make a thorough job of
it, and members of our last Olympic side who
may be included in the next one will heave a
sigh of relief at the assurance tha*t this
time the Australian authorities will have no
hand in seeing to their well-being on the
other side.
“Tock”: Director Rae, of Melbourne
Botanical Gardens, has received from the
Registrar of Winchester Cathredral a piece
of oak recovered from the foundations where
it served as a pile for 800 years. Rae is
now sending in return a sample of red-gum
from the site of the Spencer-street bridge,
where according to the geologists, it had
lain for 250,000 years, 80 feet below sea-
level. When this tree was a sapling there was
no Hobson’s Bay and Tasmania was part of
the mainland. The specimen showed no
signs of petrification. The color and grain
are reminiscent of fiddle-back blackwood.
“Dubug”: The enormous physical strength
of the Maori had an illustration recently.
H'enare was working on a tractor-driven
road-grader on the H'auraki Plains (M.L.),
and his mate, a pakeha, drove too near to
the edge of the road, so that the machine
slid sideways into the deep ditch. The
pakeha fell underneath. He was being slowly
crushed to death as the machine settled, when
Henare, realising the danger, seized a block
of wood, stiffened his mighty sinews, got his
back underneath the mass of machinery,
and chocked it up, thereby saving his mate’s
life.
“Swinton”: There has been a controversy
as to what is the oldest Rugby fixture in
Britain. A claim has been made that the
annual match between the Blackheath and
Richmond clubs which hwnu in 1863. fe.k a s
CAMELS AS AUSTRALIANS USE THEM.
the title, but the Scots have put in a solid
bid with the series between Edinburgh
Academy and Merchiston. This began m
1858, and since then 105 matches have
been played, two each year save when
weather conditions or sickness prevented a
meeting. Australia’s early Rugby records
are indefinite, but _ N.S.W. was playing
premiership competitions in Sydney in 1874,
when the Wara-tah club won.
“Bouragi”: The note on Papuan football
(B. 9/4/’3O) is a reminder that many of
the Papuan peoples, and especially the
youngsters, have well defined games of their
own. In the Gulf of Papua especially the
villagers used to play an indigenous varia-
tion of hockey with crooked sticks, and a
lump of native rubber for a ball. Girls and
boys mixed it with an amount of energy
apt to dispel the popular delusion as to the
inborn laziness of the native, and the rules
were decidedly Rafferty at times. Any
number could play on either side, falling-
out or coming in as the fancy took them.
“C. Coral”: The shortage of moisture
which hit the Mallee settlers so badly
during the last three years also seriously
affected the yield of the salt lakes of Yorke
Peninsula (S.A.). When scraping the lakes
a layer about an inch thick is always left,
upon which, when the rains come, further
deposits form to a depth of three or four
inches. But no ra*in means no salt. Now
some of the companies which have lakes
situated near the gulf are arranging to have
sea water pumped into the lagoons m the
hope that that may help the harvest. In the
early days before the system of scraping was
devised, the salt-saturated water was col-
lected in great flat pans and allowed to
evaporate.
Uncle Sam has had a negro problem on
his hands for generations, and now it looks
as if a Mexican one is to be added. The
quota law blocked immigration from out-
side America, but it placed no extra restric-
tions on tbe ingress of newcomers from
the neighboring republic on the south, which
has turned from a trickle to a tide. It is
estimated that at the beginning of the cen-
tury there were hardly 100,000 Mexicans m
the U.S.A., and they were practically con-
fined to the border Sfates; now there are
something like two millions, and they are
establishing quarters of their own in many
of the big cities. The great melting-pot
could assimilate the Pole and the Czech and
the low-standard European immigrant in a
generation or two, but it couldn’t assimilate
the nigger, and much the same applies to
the greaser.
“Cine M»”: After vehemently denying
that they ever would, Austrian and German
grand-opera houses have come to an agree-
ment with talkie interests to screen per-
formances of all the greater works. A start
is to be made with Straus j’s “Rosenkavalier,’
and some of Rossini and Mozart are to
follow. It will be interesting to see the
effect on movie audiences. Much allowance
has to be made even by the most serious-
minded music-lover for the appearance of
prima donnas of the tonnage of Hina Spam
in parts like little Butterfly, but the low-
brow audiences that throng the picture
theatres have a small appreciation of music
and a keen sense of the ridiculous. It would
bo impossible for the camera to make even
the mildest example of Italian tenor any-
thing but absurd.
“Cranoustie”: Golf has been responsible
for more than one tragical happening, but
a<n unusual one is reported from Scotland.
Playing in a foursome at Leuchar, one R-
Wannan drove his ball on to the adjacent
railway line and went after it. An engine
came out of a cutting as he was stooping for
the ball and decapitated him. The previous
record in that direction was the case of the
railway fettlcr in the early days of the
liquid-cored ball. He was doing some work on
a line with a brr.-z'er of red-hot coals, when
a golfer drove a ball into the fire. It exploded,
blinding the unlucky fellow, who subsequently
died.
“Dan Yaro”: Ever try to pass a donkey
in a motor-car? Motoring with my partner
in N. Nigeria along the only highway on
the plateau, we overtook a herd of donks
nosing in the dust, as is their habit —look-
ing for diamonds, presumably, as there was
plenty of good grass by the roadside. Fren-
zied blares got us about as much notice as
a prohibitionist at a wake, so we slowed
down to a mile a week and deliberately
bumped into the nearest. His troubles! He
flopped over, and the car climbed over his
recumbent carcase and came to a stop with
the burro, not at all perturbed, between the
front and rear wheels. We dragged him out
under the rumrng-board by his hind legs,
and he got up, whisked his tail and continued
his investigations while we nosed our way
delicately amongst the rest of them.
It was Thomas Elder, of S. Aus., who
h-H-p-ht eiio' "amel-from India for back-
country work in this
continent. As was
then thought abso-
lutely necessary, he
introduced Afghans
* o look after them,
and for years it
wasn’t thought pos-
sible to work them
without Asiatic
labor. Gradually,
however, the Aus-
tralian took the
stranger in hand,
and soon the offen-
sive beast was in
narness like any
other draught quad-
uped. In the north
■if Sou Hi Aus., and
'specially in western
N.S.W. and Queens-
und, he has been
iow almost run off
he tracks by the
motor-truck; but in
or’-west Westralia
he still has a use.
The accompanying
photo shows him do-
ing ordinary dray
work in connection
with the construction of the big plant for
the Wiluna Gold Mines.
“Two Guns’’: A few days ago I watched a
shipment of gold bullion being put on board
a P. and O. liner. There was a bank clerk
helping the purser and the first mate to
check off the boxes, but no outward sign
of any other safeguard. They order these
things differently in the country where he-
men abound. When a Chicago bank shifted
its ready cash across the street to a new
building there were present “one machine-
gun car, 80 guards, 80 foot and mounted
police, 80 bank watchmen and a detail of
special police sharpshooters.” We evidently
have no push.
“Garrick, A. 8.”: I once asked old
Embiricos, the Greek sh’powner, why he
preferred British for masters and mates
instead of- his own countrymen. His reply,
word for word, was: “If I employ da Greek
he get' rich —I don’t. But if I employ
da Britisher I get rich —he don’t.” Half-way
around the world I heard the same thing
put differently by another shipowner—
Large, of R’o de Janeiro. “Signor,” he sa’d,
“I put British officers into my ships because
I’d sooner trus 4- a Britisher drunk than a
Brazilian sober!”
Hats off to Igua Kevau, sooty Papuan
mariner, who was in command of the
launch which recently foundered in the Gulf
of Papua with all hands save himself, his
mate Gari-Dai, and Mrs. Berge, wife of a
Papuan official. The two natives placed Mrs.
Berge on a grating with one child, which
was subsequently washed away—her hus-
band and the other children had previously
perished—and for 13 hours battled with the
tremendous seas until they landed their,
stricken charge safely at Kerema. The
whites of Papua are taking up a collection
for the two nat’ves as some recognition of
their fine achievement, and it is richly
deserved.
The vast Arapuni dam recently developed
cracks, and it was found desirable to let the
water out. Laborite Bob Semple, the only
Maoriland politician who has any practical
knowledge of civil engineering, has been
flourishing samples from 20ft. bores made
under the foundations aud suggesting that
what the Public Works accepted as solid
rock is no more substantial than pumice.
And now Reform is being accused of spend-
ing £2,250,000 on a gaudy project, begun
without proper precautions, to get Auckland
votes. Against that view electrical engi-
neers maintain that the dam can be made
sound at a cost that will still leave the
undertaking on a good payable basis.
Just dead in London at 79, Mrs. Edward
Moorhouse, daughter of the fl'on. W. Bar-
nard Moorhouse, who hoisted the British
flag at Akaroa (M.L.) in 1840, thus fore-
stalling the French, who purposed taking
possession of the Middle Island and colonis-
ing it. Mrs. Moorhouse, who was born in
Maoriland, was mother of the late Lieut.
Rhodes-Moorliouse, first- airman to win the
V r .C. whose son (now 16) hopes to gain a
pilot’s certificate next year. The family has
an estate in Dorset.
“Blade Sight”: The Ivolapore Cup, the big
intcr-Dominion rifle event at Bisley, had no
Australian representation this year. Britain
won by 7 points from Canada, with Rhodesia,
India, Jersey and Guernsey following in that
order. The cup has been shot for 55 times,
Britain having won it on 35 occasions. Of all
Dominions, Canada is the only one to figure
in the event every year since its inception,
and can claim 13 wins. The junior Ivolapore
was won by a team from the remote I alk-
land Islands, the party travelling 8000 miles
to the firing mound.
“Melos”: Let me add a few to Leo
Lear’s” list of the bird midgets of Aus-
tralia. There are the Malice emu-wren—-a
very rare bird and as small as its relative,
the emu-wren; the tit-warblers —yellow-
tailed, chestnut-rumped and brown, all about
3£in. over all; the golden-rumped diamond
bird, which is about one-sixth of an inch
longer than the spotted species, and the
golden-licad: d fantail warbler. The last-
named, which is about 34in. in length, is
identical with the Indian tailor-bird, build-
ing its nest after the same fashion by sewing
leaves together and lining the interior with
bark and other soft material.
“Fernie”: Maoriiand football players who
migrated to England in search of fame and
fortune did not find the financial side of
the game as rosy as fancy painted it. Mason
early made a name for himself as the best
forward south of the Tweed, and commands
good contract prices; and Lou Brown, who
likes the climate, is fairly well satisfied and
playing well. Ben Davidson has returned.
He complains that the pay was only £3 a week
—he play, d for Wigan—with deductions for
lost time and training three days a week.
Only the topnotchers can command a signing-
on fee of £5OO or £6OO, and at less than
that a married man can’t make a living.
“Stand Off”: Though Antarctica has not
yet produc.d a Rugby Union side, there a*re
indications that this will be only a matter
of time. Recently the N.S.W. Rugby
Union was mildly staggered to receive a
defiance from Norfolk Is.and, and clubs are
to be circularis e! asking for names of those
willing to make the trip to that storied isle.
The football form of the descendants of the
Bounty mutineers is not well known on this
s dt? of the dividing water, but by all accounts
th y brew a most seductive dr'nk from
oranges when authority is not looking. It
should be worth trying once.
Court item from “Jeames” :
The eighth Duke of Richmond and Gordon, who,
according to a cable, has been reduced to selling
the historic beeches of Goodwood for £45,000,
exemplifies the fact that modern peerages cap only
be kept solvent by rich marriages. The Marlborough
and Roxburgh dukedoms got fresh leases of life
through the millions of U.S.A. heiresses; his Grace
of Manchester is only broke because his American
“in-laws” have proved penurious. The Richmond
and Gordon dukedom —the richestin the land
throughout the eighteenth century, and the most
important till the end of the nineteenth century—
is in a bad way financially now because the old
duke (who refused to receive some of Ed. Vll.’s
friends at Goodwood"), his successor and the latter’s
heir all married relatively poor women. (Lady Set-
trington, the future duchess, is an indigent parson s
daughter.) If it were not for the revenue from
Goodwood racecourse, this family, which was founded
by a well-dowered illegitimate son of Charles 11.,
would be virtually insolvent. Yet five of its femaie
members have married millionaires.
“Kesim T’bac”: Apart from the universal
cocoanut. the one product of New Guinea,
New Britain, New Ireland and the islands
round about which impresses most by the
way in which it turns up in every odd corner
is the native tobacco —“brus,” as they call it
on the S pik River. The leaf varies in tex-
ture, but when cured it seems invariably to
be on the coarse side, the usual case with
tobacco grown in the very wet tropics.
Whether it is really nativS nobody has set-
tled yet, but the nativ s have been smoking
it for many years. They infinitely prefer,
nevertheless, the vile trade twist at 3d. a
stick which is still currency in the islands. A
Sepik house-boy of mine protested emphati-
cally when I endeavored to substitute “brus”
for the weekly tobacco ration. He said it
made him sick, and I must admit my own
experience was much the same when I first
experimented with cigars I rolled from leaf
from Finseh Harbor (N.G.). However, I
soon acquir d the taste, and now New Guinea
tobacco will do me.
“Resartus”: A Mosman (N.S.W.) aider-
man having announced that he wouldn’t wear
dress clothes on a cold night even if he
had to meet the King, “S. M. Herald”
remarks that it would “pass the wit of man
to devise a more simple or expedient garb.”
I don’t know Svhat Granny means by
“expedient,” but surely no garment can be
called “simple” which carries an array of
buttons and button-holes that are not meant
to be used. And, whatever ae thetic advan-
tages may be clamed for the dress-coat, an
article of apparel that leaves chest and hips
unprotected is a mere concession to fashion
and tradition, and in no sense useful or
.. hygienic. Lnbouehero, who tilted at every-
thing ridiculous, advocated a loose blouse or
smock, something on the lines of that worn
by the French workman, as a garb for
evening wear, on which the tailors art could
much better be employed; but the dress
reformer has a harder row to hoe than any
other iconoclast I think that it is women
rather than men who would be loath to see
swallow-tails and the wide expanse of gleam-
ing shirt-front disappear.
In the early days of the war The Bulle-
tin printed a few remarkably clever carica-
tures modelled in clay by Kitty Boyes, the
younger sister of Mrs. Edward Dyson; and
then the lady married Captain Russell-
Jackson, of the mercantile marine, left Aus-
tralia and the modelling stopped. Since
then Mrs. Russell-Jackson has been wander-
ing over the earth; and not until a couple of
years ago did she decide to seriously resume
her play with clay, fashioning representative
men and women of all the peoples of the
earth in their national costumes. A year
ago, having gone some distance with her
task, she settled in New York, and lately
her studies and caricatures have been attract-
ing a great deal of attention ; and many lead-
ing Americans, including President Hoover,
have given her sittings. In India she met
and was given an opportunity of making a
GANDHl—modelled in clay by Kitty
Boyes.
study in clay of Gandhi, the nationalist
leader, and this she has now reproduced for
The Bulletin. The artist writes of Gandhi:
On the march from Ahmedabad to the sea coast,
weary and tired, Gandhi lingered to rest. 1 heard
he was to pass through a native village near Surat
that morning, so waited in readiness with my clay.
Scantily clad in his loincloth of native homespun,
he glanced at me and spoke: “So the artist from the
West wishes to place me in clay—for ridicule or
praise, which?” I protested warmly that it was
not for ridicule. Then he continued: “It is indeed
an inopportune moment to choose, just nearing the
end of the long trail, so worn and hot, to portray
me to friends and enemies alike—what think you?”
Here he stood up,- bowed most graciously, smiled
his mystic smile, and continued to stand while I
worked rapidly. One cannot fail to notice his strong
personality and marvel to hear from the tongue of
a Hindu, lowly born, such perfect English spoken
in a well-modulated voice. One must note also the
burning eyes and marvellous energy in the small
scrap of humanity known as Mahatma Gandhi. My
work hxu'riedly finished, they chanted a Hindu hymn
and continued the march to the sea coast.
“Firebar”: I met my old friend the presi-
dent of the Ancient Stokers' Guild the other
day, and remarked upon his air of gloom.
He told me about it while we were dispelling
the clouds in a near-by pub. “Y’ see,” he
said, “ole Deptford Bill up an’ died on us
lars’ week. ’3D sez in ’is will that we must
’ave ’im cremated, an’ after that ’is ashes
must be poured inter a 5.7 shell-case ’e ’ad
on ’is mantelpiece—’im ’avin served with the
Navy in the war—an’ the shell dropped over-
board outside Cape Moreton. ’E leaves
twenty quid for the fun’ral spree, an er
course the socierty gets to it. Goin’ down
the Brisbin’ River some coot gets messm
round with the shell, an’ drops it—an’ Bill—
overboard. We was for lettin’ it stop, but
the lawyer sez the conditions o’ the will must
be observed or ’e won’t pay up for the spree
the ’og! Well, we ’ad ter get a diver ter go
after Bill’s ashes ; and when ’e was squared
we might jist as well, ’ve paid for the beer
out uv our own kicks.”
“Popjoy”: In a recent book dealing with
bathos, and embellished with instances n’°PJ
major as well as minor bards, it IS . vf,
down that the introduction of any midale-
class surname tends to make serious verse
ludicrous. The inference that there are some
names which don’t detract from the dignity
of a poem is possibly due to the reflection
that Byron was able to do with Howard
what Wordsworth was quite unab e to do
with “Wilkinson”; nevertheless it is pretty
hard to say what is or isn’t a middle-cla.-
surname nowadays. Also, some surnames
that seem almost humorously homely to on.
generation are viewed differently by the next.
One of Charles'Kingsley’s books introduces a
poet called Briggs, who regards the name as
such a terrible handicap for a son of som,
that he recliristens himself Elsley A avasoui.
In an agony of shame Briggs, alias V avasour,
destroys himself when his real name leak,
out. Being a Briggs would be no bar to
lyrical distinction in these times, though
being a Bloggs might.


HAIR
NEED
0
HERES
•umu- •
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sigt
of age or worry, and in a woman, espei-
ally if she be in early years, amount* t
a tragedy. A woman should ne\er let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPCtfLvrCs (MEXICAN)
WcUtudSbuiv
♦removes the grey *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSHURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
// unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6) t 6d. being postage.
FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
T
m
Complete your toilet with
Cuticura Talcum
AFTER a bath with Cuticura Soap, there
is nothing more refreshing than Cutfi-
cura Talcum dusted over all the body.
Antiseptic and fragrant, it is an ideal
powder for every member of the family.
Talcum Is. 3d. Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
m
,X'
XW.V.
■
»>■
m
Guinness
looks good
-tastes
good
-.is
good
GUINNESS looks inviting—its
deep ruby glow and delicious creamy
‘head’ are a sign of the natural
goodness it contains.
GUINNESS tastes delicious —it has
the natural flavour of the Hops,
Malt and Barley which together
with Yeast and Water are its sole
constituents.
GUINNESS feels good—you feel
it putting strength into you —and its
tonic and invigorating effects are
lasting.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo-
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
»** * <
The White Marts Way.
OSMAR E,
WHITE’S STORY OF ALI THE YOUNGER AND THE TWO
HAD SAHIBS.
Mahomet ali hafiz ullah
KHAN the younger sat respectfully
silent while his father, having
eaten rice and a chicken stolen by night
from the Mane Waters homestead, held forth
on the madness of Englishmen.
“So, wife,” said the big camel-driver,
wiping his blue-black beard on a square of
cotton and squatting back contentedly while
she filled his pipe, “I go with this mad
Peterson Sahib and his company of fools.
The journey may be of six moons or more.
See that thou dost not chatter too much with
the woman of that Kashmiri dog Bghat—
whom were it not for the laws of this damned
country I would deal with as I would have
dealt with him in the old days.”
The fat Afghan woman nodded her head
obediently.
“And do you, my son,” said the man, turn-
ing to the boy who sat looking at him with
round, black eyes, “be dutiful and do as thy
mother bids thee; and hide thyself quickly
when the schoolmaster-sahib comes.”
“Why must you go?” asked the woman.
Mahomet Ali the elder shrugged his
shoulders contemptuously. “Because the pay
is good,” he replied, “and because with
another thousand rupees added to that'’ —he
motioned vaguely to a corner of the hut
where there was hidden a tea-canister almost
filled with greasy pound-notes—“you and I
will return to a place where a man may
breathe freely without offending the Law.
Fifteen years in this accursed land has been
enough. But the pay is good.” He nodded
his head contemplatively.
“And why must I run from the school-
master-sahib, O my father?” asked the boy
in a clear child's voice. “He is a pleasant
man. He spoke with me this day.”
Mahomet Ali’s brows lowered with anger.
“Lecause I bid you not, son,” he said
harshly. “Because I would not have you
stuffed with white man’s learning and
become a woman and a babu to make scratch-
ings with a pen on paper and smirk at your
master.”
Of all races on earth the Afghan retains
its individuality and its resistance to the
softenings of civilisation the most pugna-
ciously.
But Mahomet Ali Hafiz Ullah Khan the
younger had not shared his father’s political
misfortunes twenty years before, and, for all
the man’s contempt for the dominant race,
cherished a secret longing in his little heart
to be like the white children up at Mane
Waters homestead who played strange games
with a ball and rode ponies in the home
paddocks on Sundays. Deep down, perhaps,
the longing was bred of loneliness. Pie was
forbidden to play with the Bghat children,
for the Bghat was a travelling hawker and
low born.
The loneliness had its root in the time
when he had first longed to play with the
bright blue ball of the Mane Water’s children.
His heart was sore the first time they had
caught it up and scampered to the safety
of the verandah at his coming, calling mock-
ingly, “’Ghan! Yah! ’Ghan!”
Ali slipped quietly out into the sunlight
from the hut while his father was smoking,
and walked, trailing a long stick, to the crest
of a hillock which overlooked the camp site of
the Peterson Geological Expedition. He
looked down curiously on the motor-lorry
and the white canvas of the tents, the neat
horse-lines and the equipment, stacked in
orderly piles.
Truly his father was right. The ways of
the white man were very strange. All these
wonderful things had been brought because
Peterson Sahib and Brookes Sahib wished
to go out into the desert and collect stones!
Ali’s lips curled for a moment at the very
foolishness of it, but he looked down again
with quickened interest. Several men had
brought out a bat and ball and kerosene-tin
and were playing at anew game.
Ali liked games, so he walked quietly
down and hid himself behind a tent, watch-
ing. When the man with the bat struck
a ball Ali saw that one of the others ran
after it quickly and threw it back, so that
when a ball came Ali’s way at last he leapt
after it and returned it hard and fast.
The men, after a short glance at him,
took no notice, so that Ali was encouraged
to come from the shelter of the tent and run
many times after the ball when it came past
him. He grew further heartened at their
failure to notice him and ran about boldly
until Peterson Sahib, who happened to pass,
laid a hand on his shoulder and said, “Hello,
young fellow, what’s your name?”
“Mahomet Ali Hafiz Ullah Khan,” said
the boy shyly, wriggling- his toes in the dust.
Peterson’s lean, brown face crinkled into
a smile and then he burst out laughing. Ali
was hurt.
“Why do you laugh, Sahib?” he asked
evenly. “It is a good name.”
Peterson’s features became quizzically
grave. “Why, of course, younker,” he said;
“I was only thinking that it is a very good
name for so small a man. You are the camel-
driver’s son?” , . ,
Ali nodded and Peterson Sahib went back
to bowl to Brookes Sahib. When he grew
tired he tossed the ball to Ali laughingly
and called, “Want a bowl, young fellow?”
Now Ali had been watching the game
very carefully and had a certain contempt
for Petersoji Sahib’s efforts to hit Brookes
Sahib. He caught the leather deftly and
ran to the other end of the pitch. Then
with no warning whatsoever he hurled the
sphere like a shot from a gun straight for
Brookes’s body. Brookes, totally unpre-
pared for such a move, jumped too late and
caught it in the pit of the stomach. He
collapsed wordlessly, gasping.
Ali’s heart swelled with pride. They were
shouting. He glanced at the astonished
Peterson out of the corner of his eye expect-
ing applause, and was kicked heartily by a
passing fieldsman who was running up the
pitch to Brookes’s aid. Brookes clambered
shakily to his feet and, uttering a feeble
roar, dashed down on the bewildered boy.
Ali’s ears were tingling before Peterson
dragged the angry man away with “That’s
enough, Brookes; you should know better
than do that to a ’Ghan, man.”
Brookes scowled sullenly. “The damned
little nigger near outed me, Peterson,” he
gasped. “Id like to skin the young swine
alive!”
Peterson turned to the now furious boy.
“There, sonny,” he said kindly enough. “It
was my fault. You did not understand the
game, eh? Tell Brookes Sahib that you ar - e
sorry.”
Ali’s black eyes flashed fire. “I wish I
had killed him,” he muttered, and turned on
his heel.
Peterson overtook him halfway up the hil-
lock, for he had seen army service on the
Indian border and did not wish to have
trouble with his camel-driver.
“Mahomet Ali,” he said firmly, striding out
beside him, “you were wrong. You did not
understand the game.”
Ali halted. “Yes, Sahib,” he said, “I was
wrong. But Brookes Sahib called me a hub-
shi —a black man.”
“Brookes Sahib was very angry because he
was hurt and he did not mean it.”
“White men do not say things they do not
mean. Even my father says that, and he
does not like white men.”
Peterson, a man who always thought a
great deal —and his record in Government
service showed him to be a man who could
act, too—-was silent for a moment. Then,
“Mahomet Ali,” he said, “you do not under-
stand white men yet,” and walked back to
camp, where Brookes was nursing a bruised
stomach and a grievance.
For three days after Ali’s introduction to
the game of cricket Peterson sorted and
packed the last load of supplies, and the thick-
set stock-horses, auxiliary to the big tractor
lorry, rested and had the last bellyful of
couch-grass they were ever to eat. Mean-!
while Mahomet Ali the elder mended and I
oiled harness and beat his three full-fed!
camels into a state of placidity with a long
wand of wood, which stung their noses and
pendulous lips, but left no abrasion.
On the third day Mahomet Ali the elder,
going down to the bifiabong for a kerosene-
tin of water, put his foot into a deep hole
and fractured his ankle. He was carried to
his hut by two stockmen, where he cursed
his stupidity for ever doing woman’s work,
even if his wife were expecting a long-
delayed playmate for Ali the younger. And
he bewailed the loss of the rupees bitterly.!
Peterson Sahib came down and spoke to
the doctor-sahib to make sure that the ankle
really was broken and that Mahomet Ali
had not merely changed his mind. Peterson
realised that to jettison the half-ton of pro-
visions which he had proposed to transport
by camel would gravely jeopardise not only
the comfort but the safety of the expedition.
Talking the matter over, the two sahibs
strolled down to look over the tethered
animals. "Now, a ’Ghan-handled camel detests
the sight and the sound and; above all, the
smell of a white man; and Brookes, walking
too close to one of them, was bitten on the
shoulder. He was fortunate in escaping
with a graze from the brute’s blunt, dirty
teeth; but even then there was the danger
of a general stampede until Mahomet Ali
the younger pranced out naked from a shed
where he had been bathing, and beat Aga,
the offending she-camel, over the nose with a
jarrah stick until her savage eyes softened
and she veiled them with long silky lashes
and drooled great foolish tears.
Peterson bared Brookes’s shoulder and
saw that the red welts were not likely to be
serious. He looked at the prancing Ali bully-
ing the now-quiet animals with a shrill
stream of vituperation, and dabbed iodine on
his friend’s wounds. Then he walked up to
the camel-driver’s hut.
“Your son handles camels well, Mahomet
Ali,” he said thoughfully in Urdu.
Mahomet Ali brightened at hearing a native
dialect and at the praise. _
“True, Sahib,” he replied; “very true. I
have reared him well. One day he will be
a fine driver. Even now he is a driver.”
“Then, if need be, he could handle —say
two?” asked Peterson cautiously.
“Assuredly, Sahib.”
“How old is the boy?”
“Fourteen, Sahib.”
“Almost a man,” said Peterson subtly.
“Would you let me take him and two camels,
now that you cannot go? I give you my
word that he will return safe and sound.”
Mahomet Ali frowned and commenced to
shake his head, but Peterson, knowing of
old the Afghan avarice, went on:
“For ten pounds more than I would have
given to you originally. One hundred and
twenty rupees, Mahomet Ali. It is a great
deal; but I need the camels.”
Mahomet Ali smiled surlily and endeavored
to haggle. But Peterson was firm.
“Very good, Sahib. I can trust the boy,
even though he is small. The money now?”
“Surely, now,” said Peterson Sahib.
Which was how the youngest member of
the family of Ullah Khan came to join the
Peterson Geological Expedition as its four-
teen-year-old camel-driver, and sat, bursting
with pride, on Aga at the head of the ill-
assorted caravan as it set out in the grey
of dawn—out into the dark West where the
mulga and stunted saltbush held the purple
shadows of the desert.
Two hundred miles from Mane Waters the
character of the stony country changed and
Peterson made his first base camp, pottering
about for three or four days with drill and
pick and spending many hours poring over
a brightly colored map with strange designs
upon it. The water in a deep pool in the
creek-bed was good, though low, and Ali
found that time hung heavily on his hands,
so that he spent many hours sitting in the
shade of an applewood-tree trying to make
two frilled lizards fight, or chewing a sweet
(Continued on next page.)


'€very picture
Zells a Story'
F i,
/rwi
P-W
m
m
\ll
&
i
s
BP
3 ~~~TTIVMv«.
Him'
i -2,
M
//
That backache again!
Why not get at the cause?
MORE than likely your kidneys are to blame. Backache, head-
aches, dizziness, urinary disorders, sciatica, rheumatism,
lumbago, dropsical swellings, gravel and dropsey may all be caused
by harmful impurities which weak or sluggish kidneys have failed
to take out from the blood. Be quick to correct this! Don’t allow
the kidney weakness to go from bad to worse! You run too grave
a risk! Use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills without any further
deDy. They will not fail. Grateful people everywhere recommend
this special kidney medicine for relieving and preventing kidney
disorder and its many symptoms.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY
GIVEN HERE.
* Mr. A. B. Cowell, “Halcyon,” Park Road, Mascot, Sydney, says:
“Some months ago I was suddenly . seized with a , terrible pain _ across
my back, just above the kidneys. It did not go away, as 1 thought
at first it would, but, on the contrary, it got worse and I was soon so
bad that I was bent almost double. I was completely crippled and
even at night I got very” little‘rest from the constant pam. I could
not turn over without suffering acutely, in fact, no position was com-
fortable for long. The kidney secretions were affected, being thick and
cloudy with a red sediment. I tried different remedies but they
gave me nO relief whatever. One day a friend suggested I should
take Doan’s. Backache, Kidney Pills, and it proved to be good, advice
top, for three bottles cured me completely. I feel splendid now and
my recovery-is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Ten years later Mrs. Cowell says: "My son is still well, Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills having completely banished all signs of kidney
trouble.” ; ,
DON’T BE PUT OFF—
INSIST ON DOAN’S
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Foster McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
1
Backache Kidney* Pills.
PILES AND ECZEMA CURED
BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Eczema Cured.
Mrs. H. Gaskin, Church Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney,' says: “For a good
while one of my boys suffered from
dry eczema, but although I tried dif-
ferent remedies from time to time no-
thing seemed able to cure this irritat-
ing complaint. Reading an .advertise-
ment for Doan’s Ointment the thought
occurred to me to get‘a pbt and . give
it a trial. The soothing and healing
effects of this splendid preparation
were noticeable almost at once, and as
I continued with the treatment there
was a gradual improvement until
finally the eczema had completely dis-
appeared. The cure has proved per-
manent, no sign of the complnhit hav-
ing returned since Doan’s Ointment
was used. I am a great believer ,in
this remedy now, and always keep a
tin in the house, and find it invaluable
for cuts, sores and other skin
troubles.” „ ,
Two years later Mrs. Onskill says:
“I am pleased to tell you that my boy
has not suffered from eczema since
Doan’s Ointment cured him over two
years ago.”
Piles Cured.
Mrs. • M.; Brown, Toronto, Lyons
Road, . Five Dock,' Sydney, says:
“Three years ago I used Doan’s Oint-
ment for a bad attack of piles, and I
am pleased to tell you it completely
cured me. Previous to trying this
ointment ! used all kinds of remedies,
but they gave me little or no relief.
I was suffering terribly when I first
applied Doan’s Ointment, and had
little hope of it doing me any good,
but its soothing and healing effects
were noticeable almost at once, and
by the time I ,hael used one-pot I was
cured, the piles having completely dis-
appeared. I am a great believer in
Doan’s Ointment, and consider it the
best pile remedy known. It cured me
after other remedies had failed.”
Eight years later Mrs. Brown says:
“I have had no return of my old
complaint since Doan’s Ointment cured
me about' 11 years ago.”
At all Chemists and Stores.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
jrass-blade and singing monotonous songs
about nothing in particular.
Then Peterson decided that the survey map
was correct, after all, and moved on north
and west, although the guides shook their
heads doubtfully and said that the August
rains were late in coming.
It was very hot and the flies were trouble-
some. Brookes complained continually of
saddle sores, and the motor of the lorry broke
down once or twice. Then Brookes and
Peterson quarrelled. After that the next
waterhole was found to be dry, or so nearly
dry that there was scarcely enough of the
brown muddy liquid to supply the horses
and Aga and Mahma. Ali heard Peterson
Sahib growl at Brookes Sahib for throwing
out a billy of cold, bitter tea.
In the morning Peterson decided to leave
the lorry, a cache of petrol and the heavier
equipment, and Ali helped collect a few cans
of brackish water which had seeped through
in the night. Yet events were encouraging
during the next few days. The water at
Cavendish Springs turned out to. be. more
plentiful and better than expected, and nearly
every day they came across patches of herbage
where the animals could distend their lean
stomachs. And once Brookes shot two kan-
garoos, and everyone gorged on fresh meat
and soup for two days. Brookes, however,
was bitten by Aga again, and he cuffed Ali’s
ears when the boy laughed derisively at the
antics of the big man as he hurdled camp-
equipment with the angry but hobbled camel
lumbering after him.
Ali, who had been unused to such indig-
nities by reason of his loneliness, threw a
hatchet at Brookes’s retreating back. Then
Peterson Sahib took a hand and switched
Ali smartly with one of his own saddle-
straps. Ali bit on his lower lip until the
blood came, but uttered not one sound until
Peterson finished and strode angrily away.
Then the boy went to the water and sat down
to weep, for there is no shame in tears when
there is no one to see them.
Peterson Sahib did not speak a friendly
word to him for three days, and Ali was
more miserable than he had ever been before.
Somehow Peterson Sahib had come to be
numbered among his demi-gods—the only
white man whom he had ever really known
and certainly the only one who had ever
been kind to him; even more certainly the
only one who knew the difference between
the liubshi and the hill people to whom his
father was so proud to belong.
The fourth day was hard going, for a hot
wind blew out of the north-east, driving par-
ticles of sand which chafed Ali’s horn-hard
skin and lodged under the pads of the packs
until the camels’ hides were sore. Brookes
Sahib’s nose was very red and peeling and
his lips were swollen and cracked. Ali
laughed maliciously at his continual com-
plaints and thought him- more than ever a
woman.
That evening Peterson spoke kindly to his
■small camel-driver, and when Ali was' sulkily
reserved said, “It is no use being angry,
Mahomet Ali. You shou’d not have thrown
the hatchet at Brookes Sahib.” To which
Ali replied that he wished he had hit him.
He hated Brookes Sahib, who had called him
a hubshi and punished him unjustly.
“I wish I were a man!” Ali repeated.
“He is a white man, Mahomet Ali,” said
Peterson gravely. “And one of your masters.
True men do not throw hatchets at the
backs of their masters!”
“But I am very little, Sahib,” protested
Ali. “And I cannot fight him.” There was
a pause.
“Nor do men shelter behind their little-
ness,” said Peterson significantly, “It is
only hubshis who do that —and a hubshi you
are not."
Ali felt the blood tingle in his face.
“I wish I were a white boy,” he said
seriously. “I wish I were a white man like
you, Peterson Sahib.”
Peterson laughed carelessly.
“Queer little devil for a ’Ghan,” he thought.
Then aloud: “You should try to be like
white men, Ali, who do not throw hatchets
at Brookes Sahib because he was angry with
a very little boy.”
' Ali stood thoughtfully silent while Peter-
son walked over to help with the pitching
of his tent. He was very thoughtful that
night until the gurgles of his camels sent
him off into a deep, dreamless sleep.
The August rains did not come, nor did
those of early September. The patches of
coarse grass were dry and tindery brown,
and the sandy plain with its never-ending
panorama of red and yellow and blue shim-
mered in a haze of unseasonable heat. Peter-
son, unhurried, finished his work, chipping
fragments of rock under a sun which blistered
his back through a heavy drill shirt.
All day long the burning winds blew out
of the north-east and Brookes Sahib’s horse,
whom he had never treated too well, died
one night. After that there was always a
vulture showing, a black speck in a sky of
blazing blue.
Ali grew hard and thin and his black eyes
were a trifle brighter. Peterson glanced at
him anxiously more than once after they
bad turned back towards Newcastle Waters
—two hundred miles away—and said that he
was sorry he had been selfish enough to
bring the kid, though he could not have
foreseen the drought. He and Brookes, who
was complaining more bitterly, quarrelled
again. Then Brookes fell ill of slight sum
stroke and Peterson lost three days in the
race against summer, nursing him back to a
state where he could sit a saddle.
Mirages were frequent; sometimes a pool
just at one’s feet, when it seemed that the
next step would send spray flashing about
the animals’ hooves; sometimes green pad-
docks with willow-trees where fat cattle
grazed on the lush grass; once a full-rigged
ship, sailing upside down in the copper sky.
Ali. who knew much about mirages, was
excited with that one and halted Aga until
Peterson could draw alongside. Peterson
tried to explain, but Ali could never under-
stand how the vessel floated, because Peter-
son forgot to tell him that some freak of
refraction had turned it upside down.
Brandon’s waterhole was dried up and
Peterson’s saddle-horse died. The pack
animals followed it one by one. For three
nights they made dry camp after the tins
of water had run out; now even Aga and
Mahma were growing weak, and Ali was a
small, black bag of bones like a shrivelled
mummy, save for his ever-bright piercing
Cole’s waterhole was salty and undrink-
able for the men and boy, and Peterson 1
devised a distilling plant of , two petrol-cans
and a length of piping. It yielded a little
more than a quart of water after two hours’
sweltering over a brushwood fire.
Early that evening Peterson discovered
Brookes drinking from a hidden water-bottle
behind a pack. He took it from him silently
and poured out a fifth of the contents into
a little tin cup, which he gave to Ali. The.
boy drank, drop by drop,, rolling the stale
water over his tongue luxuriously.
The half-castes and Brookes cried out a
great deal in their sleep during the night
and Ali did not sleep at all. For the first
time he rode out without the morning song
on his lips.
It was thirty-five miles to the next hole,
which almost certainly would be dried up.
The morning was unnaturally hot and clear.
H’ummocks of . rock five miles away were mag-
nified until it seemed as though they were
less than half a mile distant. The hot wind
had ceased to blow and tlie sun showered
down a tangible weight of molten gold light.
As the day advanced the gold changed to
copper and the copper to fire-streaked lead.
Early in the afternoon they saw the pillars
of red sand bearing down on them from the
west. Peterson shouted and waved his hand
and Brookes ran up, sweat streaming from
his livid face, to grasp a dangling strap. Ali
dragged at Mahma’s lead-rein and switched
Aga into a lumbering trot. One exhausted
half-caste had clambered on to the pack of
the second camel and clung there like grim
death, as the first red particles eddied about
in swirls. Peterson sprinted up and pointed
mutely to a great mound of upthrust rock
to the right, half-hidden under the curling
blanket of sand. Ali raised a hand in
acquiescence and wheeled, then unwound his
dirty turban and bound it loosely about his
mouth. The gasping Brookes yelled some-
thing at him which was drowned in the roar
of the approaching wind and swung heavily
on the strap. Ali bent his head, but the
man’s face was blotted into a hazy blob. Aga
stumbled and Ali felt for his harness knife.
Peterson, his shirt bound about his face,
blundered upon the camels squatted in the
lee of the stone outcrop. They were already
half buried in fine drifting sand. Ali sat
upon his haunches, head bent low. Peterson
crept up to him and yelled in his ear:
“Brookes Sahib? Where is Brookes
Sahib?”
Ali shook his head mutely at first, then
called back: “The leather broke.... five
minutes back. I do not know.”
“Give me your turban,” called Peterson.
Ali unwound it and gasped as the stinging
sand choked him. Peterson threw him the
shirt and bound the greasy cloth about his
face, fumblingly, and commenced to rise.
Sudden comprehension came to Ali. “Peter-
son Sahib!” he screamed at the man, blurred
in the mist of eddying red—“ Peterson
Sahib, where are you going?”
Peterson half turned. “Brookes... .out
there” he roared back.
Ali grasped at his leg and clung there
desperately.
“Wait!” he called back, almost m a man’s
voice, huskily. “I go, Peterson Sahib. I cut
the strap and he fell!”
With all his strength he pulled at Aga s
lead reins and the beast kicked back at him.
A fury of beating fists and kicking feet,
Ali flung himself upon her and forced her
from knees to feet. With long neck swaying
eerily in the red, suffocating fog she moved
out into the full blast of the storm.
Ali’s thin, black body disappeared, tugging
furiously at the long straps.
Peterson crouched in the shelter of the
rock silently.
Three hours later, when the red sand had
given place to great, scattered drops of
muddy rain, they found Brookes and All
and Aga, a sandy heap a quarter-mile from
the sheltering rock. Brookes’s face was
thrust deep under the dismounted saddle,
though he was very nearly suffocated, and
Mahomet Ali Hafiz Ullah Khan the younger
was crouched over him, shelteringly.
When Peterson had worked on the boy
for half an hour his black eyes, dull now,
fluttered open. “Peterson Sahib ! ’ he said,
and smiled. , , ~ .....
Peterson dropped a hand on the little
black head and said, ‘‘There, Ali, feeling all
right now?”
Ali nodded. ....
“You were a white man that time All I
Bv God —you were white, d’you hear?’
Ali smiled. “When I have grown up, he
said, coughing a little, “I am going to learn
more of the white man’s way. And I will
fight Brookes Sahib!”
Peterson’s lips twitched.
Full Circle.
R osej with a dream of a vagabond-trysting
Under the moon with a lover forbidden,
Qoeth decorously now and unchidden,
Loving as wisely as all the world wishes,
Money and merit his suit are assisting,
yet she accounteth his love all her treasure,
All his delight is his lady’s good pleasure,
Alas for a vagabond-dream!
Rachel, who sits in the little house yonder,
Thinks upon Rose and the gold of her lover
(She hath a fancy she may not uncover —
Pearls at her neck and some opulent ear-
rings!).
Rachel has paused at her window to ponder
Why she was proud of the home that she
came to,
So tiny it is, and found none to give blame to,
But love. And alas—for a dream!
A dear cosy room with the brightest fire
burning
On the trim hearth, and some love for my
labor,
And bow should I look to the luck of my
. neighbor?
Alas for a dream, as I go to my trysting
Under the moon!
w.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


FDXGFHYFGJHGJGH
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. fAWCADb ii/CCT U t inure
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeatherston Street, Wellington. vvUtUKu ft to i 9 n. 5, WALfc-j
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established JBSJ/.
ADVERTISERS!
The Court instructs every Jury to keep an
open mind, and record a verdict according to
the evidence placed before them.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age.”
Audited net, Sales 122,501 daily
(60% Metropolitan—4o% Country).
Over 96% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is “Australia
First,” ' and its effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information and rules on application
to the principal ,Service Agents in all States,
v or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
IRegtsiet
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
;‘v , and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney;
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. j. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The "Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE "MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
1 asmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
st.
AVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cubic & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
C. W ilson, Representative,- Lisgar House,
SO Carrington Street, Wynvard Square,
BW 5179. '
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cl»e Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of «THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, -price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, iifegar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, BW70;38.
Representative in Victoria:
O. N. BEDNALL, . “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer,”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets.
Brisbane, Queensland!
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. 'Once vou
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
mmm keep theft
food £ookd
fyminf
r\/-N
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
*„<=. •“! -Q
'<g? vT)
<° n i c r. «• o
BV "’«towii
m
USSEifii
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
“Examiner” Office, Launceston. June 11, 1
Dear Sir, It inny interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
-7°, 0 r < 2v.£ ulp, I ur Creek, Mcorieah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart, Winnaleah.
I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE YOU GIVE ME
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Co P ies > Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
* SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne ;
IV. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COLTD
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas 12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
a
b
o p
/ 0°
ia°v'; s e V se
0
•
..••• #Vf @4*
• ••' AW’
••• «*£>s'
C*' 1 iiN'J


E KNIGHT ENGINE
r is .
C/upenor
THE patented Knight double sleeve-valve engine
has no complicated mechanism of tappets,
cams and springs to weaken or break; no
valve heads to collect carbon and thus fail to
seal compression. There are just two metal
sleeves working smoothly and silently up and
down, one within the other, in a protective film
of oil, and that is all.
■/■ ' V- .
Every action of the Knight engine is either a
gliding or a rotary one. The result is i emai kable
smoothness and quietness of operation. And the
longer the Knight engine runs the smoother
becomes its operation. Carbon, instead o! being
harmful, serves to seal compression even more
tightly.
In the new Willys Knight 708 is presented a car
of outstanding beauty, power and speed. Ihe low;,
graceful lines, the rich color harmonies and the
luxurious interior appointments show the work of
a master designer.
See this car at your nearest Whippet-Willys Knight
dealer.
25
nr
in
if
l
a.
■A
i
r
j
Q
v
cyiie mo
WILLYS* KNIGHT
70 B
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
State Distributors:
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
