

m
ar
XT*
&
S^ T|^s
$?•
m
as
\
%
:
B*s
15
m
is the right time for a nip of Johnnie
Walker... whenever you have the oppor-
tunity or the inclination to make it.
Any hour, any place, in any company
... this fine old Scotch whisky is
appropriate, enjoyable, and
beneficial.
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK
The Bulletin
14/AaXr i j! VOc J&O So <f.
Vol. 51.—N0. 2644.
Wednesday, October 15, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r r , HE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
* now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
dfgdsfg
This Book FREE to YOU!
' SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Xante
M" Address
5.8.310
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
L A
14 M
THE YACHTING
PARTY
Host Holbrook Says:
“Yo ho and a bottle
of sauce! Aye, the sea
air makes the appetite
keen and my Wor-
cestershire Sauce adds
a zest to the snack
partaken on board.
Always keep a bottle
in the locker.”
wLt
filsr)
r tv /Q»Plt.
lb - v 'if «^
[-■?>• rl* Hi
'tiflMA w < aV/ *v
'/////S////////////////S/////M/////////////SS'>Qs
li
■»&£&
A TALE THAT GRIPS.
“THE VANISHING HORSEMEN”
A Romance by Mr. A. E. Yarra.
“West Australian” says: “A gripping adventure
story.... Readers who enjoy bracing outdoor stories
will turn to this book and find in it something of
a counterpart of Zane Grey, Mulford, Seltzer and
others.”
6/- at all booksellers.
NOW READY, AT ALL BOOKSELLERS,
THE ABORIGINAL WORDBOOK,
By JUSTINE KENYON
(With a Foreword by A. S. Kenyon).
The most authentic collection of aboriginal words
and their meanings ever published. This compila-
tion has meant many years of research, and the
author is an authority on the subject. With thi;
book to guide them, no one need be afraid of adopt-
ing a ludicrous or even obscene name for the home.
Price, 2/-, Neatly Boxed. (Postage, 2d.)
All Australians should read and enjoy a laugh
with
THE MAGICIANS,
A Clever Political Satire by Henry Chisholm.
This brilliantly written and caustic criticism of
present-day political iniquities provides considerable
amusement.
Price, 2/-, Neatly Boxed, (Postage, 2d.)
The Lothian Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Only Safety Razor in the
world without a blade problem
The
ROLLS
RAZOR
Just figure the cost of all the wafer blades
you use every year, then change to a Rolls
and enjoy a lifetime of happy shaves.
IMPERIAL No. 1 .... 507-
IMPERIAL No. 2 .... 40/-
For Sale at all the better shops. Illustrated
Catalogue sent post free on application.
Wholesale Distributors:
Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
D. Reddan & Co., Melbourne, Victoria and
Tasmania.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
DINING CARS
ON EVERYTRAIN
-
r\\
VTy.
71 | A
I
me \
Canadian Pacific trains are
world famous for hospitality,
cuisine and service. All din-
ing cars ensure hotel com-
forts complete menu
tempting food creations, and
service by white waiters.
You’ll delight to linger over
meals as you speed through
the scenic wonderland of the
C.P.R. route. Illustrated liter-
ature and details on request.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street,
V\ . Sydney.
90 M ’ :
\' (IS. I
m
tels
• HO
rm
9 *
4A
*rv
SrcS#
fy&PVr** „ui
} M
ST?"
THE best way to counteract the
effects of kiddies* rough and
tumble sports is to give them
clothes that do not easily soil and
yet can be quickly washed out.
“80-PEEP” PRINT is specially
made for this purpose. Bright
and pretty designs, all color-fast.
Very durable and moderately
priced.
“80-PEEP” PRINT i* obtainable in a
large number of styles, designs
and colorings.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS & STORES
' '(]ZQ<peep<J>rmt
' u t^3t
for Childrens Wear.
Gt'toemcet
755&
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline” —the equal to silk.
If any difficulty in obtaining please write
MR. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney.
df
The Red Page
Varius
This was the last verse David McKee
Wright wrote. To-day, October 15, has
been set aside in most universities and
schools for special celebrations, as mark-
ing the 2000th anniversary of Virgil’s
birth. Varius was one of the poets who
revised the Mneid. Of the nine times
Horace mentions Virgil, six times
Virgil’s name is coupled with that of
Varius. We probably owe to Varius
the preservation of the JEneid, which
Virgil, on his death-bed, loished to be
destroyed.
The years have taken Varius. He is lost
In the grey dust of dreams that once was
Rome.
The legions with their last rod harvest home
Are all uphelmeted aud silent long,
Their wages paid; but who shall count the
cost
Of that great ghost that walks the Palatine
Defrauded of his sepulchre of song?
Each steel-bright Latin line
That was his own,
Chill as dark airs blown from the Apennine
Makes endless moan.
What soul has wept for Varius? Calm as
truth,
Great Virgil walks amid the thoughts of
men.
The touch of Horace still is on the pen
That moves in the pale lamplight, fretting
out
With lyric curves the fiery shapes of youth.
But Varius speaks not morn nor eventide.
His music is a shadow and a doubt,
A murmur of lost pride
And ancient fame,
Amid the magic voices deified
A soundless name.
Lift up, lift up the stones cast down on
Rome.
Take hence the wreckage of young Nero’s
mood,
The glittering Flavian splendor where it
stood
In ponderous weight upon an age’s breast.
Maecenas, rich of heart, invites us home
To feast with those who tread the high gods
dowm,
Each in his singing splendor amply drest,
Each with a fadeless crown
Of simple things
Plucked clean from life with such a manly
zest.
Bach leaf has wings.
We wait for Varius. Quiet Virgil there,
Warm with the favor of Augustus, lies
Scarce speaking, in his sea-grey brooding
eyas
Some vision of the green of fairer fields
Beyond the utmost paths that heroes dare.
Horace, his quick wit lighting with his
smile,
To every whim of passing fancy yields
And, having words to spare,
In happy style
Fills all the pauses of the jovial air
A pleasant while.
We wait for Varius. With a quiet tread
He enters as the master of all hearts.
Each has his place, but one plays all the
parts
In the full concert of clear Latin song.
Lyric and epic at his bidding wed
With tragedy and elegaic sighs,
His tender melting line is Roman strong
And more than Roman wise:
While, daring much,
All suppleness of charm the Greeks devise
Lives in his touch.
Horace, Maecenas, Virgil ache with pride
To be companions of a mind so fair.
His friendship is a crimson flower to wear
Over the heart, his praise a trumpet cry
That shrills along the quiet of some tide
Full flowing in at midnight from the deep
With scent of morning isle and orient air
Distilled from magic sleep.
O gracious feast!
Maecenas in such company may keep
Proudest and least.
What gods are these dethroned, whose envy
smites
A world to victimise a king of song?
Great is the dust and ignorance is strong
To mar all beauty. Oh a fair black flower
Of words between frail leaves the poet
writes!
The dull barbarian in the Roman heart,
The loud barbarian roaring into power,
Have played their heavy part.
Lost in an hour
Are all his words that fell in delicate art
A golden shower.
O Varius, weep with me, for I. can hear
The thunder of innumerable wheels.
The city of a thousand visions reels
Where Haste leads out his triumph over
Mind.
The rude barbarian feet through ruin sheer
Are trampling down the joy they never
knew
And the bleak winter gathers, cold and blind.
Those happy leaves that grew
On branches kind,
In the far summer when the skies are blue,
What hand shall find?
What shall survive of all we loved and made
In mornings when the world was very still
And some white light of beauty seemed to
spill
Into the cup of life, till lip and ear,
Steeped with delight, trembling yet unafraid,
Thrilled to the ecstasies of speech and dream?
Shall Alaric of the moving-pictures hear?
Or shall Alboin seem
Less Lombard dull
When toasting the best-seller of the year
From Milton’s skull?
Who knows what songs were made ere
Homer blew
The sparks of the hexameter to flame?
Orpheus, become a god, is but a name,
And Sappho but a dream of magic fire.
The piping shepherd ancient Judah knew
Is droned and chanted to a pious death,
Chill Fortune smiles upon a gracious few,
And Fame with ample breath
Blows loud and long
Her chosen names the broken ages through-
Names, but not song.
O Varius, Orpheus, Sappho, Edward Smith—
Or whosoe’er you were that sat at eve
On a Thames barge and made the white
swan grieve
For envy Of such spring-compelling strains—
W T hat worth to live so long in some grey
my tli ?
Names or no names! Yet what you wrought
was fair
As the wild sunlight through the autumn
rains,
Making a golden air. 5
Softly you weep.
The poorer dust of memory that remains
The dust may keep.
Yet, Varius, I, defiant of those Powers
Which idly laugh their scorn and break their
trust,
Would delve again deep in the Roman dust —
Yea, break the little places of new kings
To find one book with all its summer
showers
And lights of winter sun in word and phrase.
And you contented would lie down and sleep,
Heedless of all men’s praise,
Heedless of blame,
Leaving another foolish world to keep
Your new-found fame.
H'o, lift up Pharaoh! Let 'the Duchess see.
Bring his proud features to the light and
air.
The savant can his brown shin-bones repair
And put new varnish on his ancient throne.
But leave my Varius dust of dust and free.
I think I would not have that ancient song
Lest it should bp too sad a thing to own,
Not brave full verse and strong,
But weak and thin.
Sir, get you down ’neath your forgotten stone
Your luck is in.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
“Vae Victis!”
Vance Palmer’s “Out with the Theatre”
(R.P. 17/9/’3O) reminded me of the treat-
ment Tommy Burns got from a section of
the Sydney press when Jack Johnson licked
him 20-odd years ago. From being a public
idol, a white hope who was capable of
giving untutored Africa four stone and a
knock-out, he became an object of scorn.
According to his former admirers poor little
Tommy was a dud, who couldn’t fight his
way out of a paper bag. Similarly Mr.
Palmer can see no virtues in the defeated
London theatre:—
The theatre is a decadent institution at present,
and no one will do living drama any good by standing
up for it. Let it go, with its shabby, gold-orna-
mented mausoleums, its stupid managements, its
silly conventions, and its ideal of South Kensington
small-talk as racy dialogue.
The trouble with the theatre is the way it has
become dominated by the West End play, the
Broadway drama. It is a peculiarly artificial and
local thing, this West End play.
I don’t agree that the British theatre is
decadent (except in the purely relative
sense that Bums was decadent in 1907), and
as for the typical West End play, it is
infinitely less artificial and local than it
was in my youth. When I was a boy in
London William Terriss was starring in
such grotesque caricatures of life as “The
Silver King” and “Harbor Lights,” and
Irving was ranting in “The Bells.” Critics
like Clement Scott were taking them seri-
ously, and the theatre was in its financial
heyday.
When I was in London in 1928 Sybil
Thorndike was producing Shakspeare in-
comparably at the Old Vic., Playfair
was putting on Restoration comedies at his
Hammersmith theatre, Diaghileff and his
Russians (music by Stravinsky) were at
Covent Garden, Sacha Guitry and Yvonne
Printemps were playing “Mozart” at the
Gaiety; fine plays by Shaw, Galsworthy and
Somerset Maugham were being interpreted
by fine casts in. other parts of the West End
■—and Hannen Swaffer was writing in the
“Sunday Express”: “Eighty per cent, of the
London theatres are losing money, and 100
per cent, of the cinemas are making it.” It
was exactly the same in Paris, where I
found the cinemas full and the Atelier,
which was staging “Georges Dandin,” half
empty. At this time a stage version of
“The Madonna of the Sleeping-cars” was
playing to poor houses, while a film version
at a big cinema off the Place de l’Opera
was attracting crowds at every session.
Why not face the truth as Shaw did at
Elstree the other day? “The poor old
theatre is done for,” he said, according to
a cable. “It may survive as a place where
people are taught to act. Apart from that
there will be nothing but talkies soon. How
can travelling companies, with their heavy
daily expenses, possibly compete with films
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising”—When Anthony
Horderns’ say a thing you know it is true.
Horderns
(THE SENIOR STORE)
STOCK-
REDUCING
SALE
The restricted purse of the public to-day indicates the necessity of a correspondingly reduced cost of living.
That the cost of living will be reduced is unquestioned—just when, it is impossible to say.
We, as a large retail establishment, supplying the many needs of the people, realise that we can materially
assist in that direction by anticipating the future, and offering our stocks at reduced prices. This we are
prepared to do—our stocks are ample, and, being largely free from the recently imposed Sales Tax, we
shall be enabled to sustain a continued selling at GENUINE PRICE REDUCTIONS FROM GENUINE
REGULAR STOCKS. We feel that this policy of thus immediately meeting a public need will be recognised
as in keeping with the past traditions of this, the Senior Store, and believe, further, that it will be welcomed
by the tens of thousands of shoppers who are to-day looking for lower prices and greater values.
We are confident that a discerning Public will see in it an unparalleled opportunity for saving money. We give
our guarantee that every price reduction is a genuine reduction from genuine stocks already keenly priced.
Most Welcome Reductions on Manchester
l/» Glass Towels, 1 Old.
Linen Glass Towels, with Red typed
borders. In three useful sizes.
Inches 22 x 32 23 x3l 23 x 34
Prices, ea. 1/- 1/6 1/8
Sale, ea. 10£d. 1/1 1/3
1/- Turkish Towelling, 9£d.
This is white and of soft and absorbent
quality.
Inches 16 18 24 24 26
Price, yd. 1/- 1/1 1/3 1/5 1/6
Sale Prices 9i§d. 10£d< 1/- 1/2 1/3
1/9 Kitchen Towelling, 1/7
All pure Linen Kitchen Towelling, 35in.
wide. Price, yd. 1/9 2/- 2/6
Sale Prices, yd. 1/7 1/9 2/3
1/3 Turkish Towels, IOJd.
Soft Absorbent White Towels, in three
sizes.
Inches 18 x 38 24 x 48 26 x 52
Prices, ea. 1/3 2/6 2/11
Sale Prices, ea. l/11 2/6
4/3 Turkish Towels, 3/6
These are . heavyweight White Towels,
hemstitched. Size, 25in. x 48in. Price, 4/3
Sale Price, ea 3/6
1/9 Turkish Towels, 1/6 Each
These are reliable Colored Towels, of
British manufacture, in five sizes.
Ins. 20x 43 20x40 22x 44 26x50 27x50
Prices 1/9 2/3 2/9 3/11 4/11
Sale, 1/6 1/11 2/3 3/6 4/3
2/5 Finlays* Sheeting, 1/11
Finlays’ reliable plain White Sheeting.
Owing to slight weave blemishes, which do
not affect the wearing qualities, these are
"seconds.”
Inches 54 72 80 90
Prices, yd. 2/5 3/3 3/9 4/6
Sale Prices, yd. 1/11 2/8 2/11 3/6
1/8 Pillow Cotton, 1/5 Yard
Finlays’ Linen-finish Pillow Cottons, 40in
wide. Mill seconds. Prices .... 1/8 1/9
Sale prices, yd . .1 /S 1/7
2/1 Pillow Cases, 1/9 Each
Finlays’ Pillowcases, size 20in x 30in.
Mill seconds. Taped. Price, ea., 2/1.
Sale, 1/9. Housewife. Price, ea., 2/4.
Sale Price, ea 1/11
1/11 White Sheeting, 1/6
Twill White Sheeting, of good-wearing
quality. 54in. wide. Price, per yd., 1/11
Sale Price, yd 1/6
10/3 Hemmed Sheets, 7/11
White Twill Sheets, of really hard-wearing
quality. 54in. x 90in. Price, pr., 10/3
Sale Price, pr 7/11
9/9 Hemmed Sheets, 6/9
Good quality White Twill Sheets, at a
saving of 3/- pr. 54in. x 90in.
Price, pr 9/9
Sale Price, pr .. 6/9
1/6 Pyjama Suiting, 1/-
Cotton Pyjama Suiting, with blue fancy
block stripes on white ground. 30in. wide.
Price, per yd 1 /6
Sale Price, yd 1/-
Blankets at Big
Savings
Owing to slight mill faults these have been
classed as seconds, but the wearing
qualities are in no way impaired.
•25/- Grey Blankets, 16/11 Pair
These are pure-wool Grey Blankets of
a most satisfactory quality. In three sizes.
Inches 54 x7B 63x 81 72 x9O
Prices, pr. 25/- 31/- 38/11
Sale Prices 16/11 21/- 25/11
46/6 Double Bed, 31/6 Pair
Pure-wool White Blankets, in double-bed
sizes.
Inches 72 x 90 81 x 99
Prices, pr. 46/6 55/6
Sale Prices 31/6 37/6
32/6 White Blankets, 23/11
These are splendid quality pure-wool
White Blankets, in three useful sizes.
Inches 54 x7B 72 x9O 81x 99
Prices, pr. 32/6 49/6 60/-
Sale Prices 23/11 35/11 42/11
55/- Double Bed, 39/6 Pair
A cosy superior quality of pure white
wool, double bed.
Inches 72 x 90 81x 99
Prices, pr. 55/- 67/6
Sale Prices 39/6 47/6
(Manchester —First Floor. We Pay
Carriage.)
gd
’Phone: M2JOI
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Are They "All Out of Step
but our Johnnie”?
{ REPUDIATION g=*
STSQkVENcY)
tv
9
L/.
I
ft
X
mimmi
\h
ALL IN STEP
LABOR PRIME MINISTER SCULLIN (Officer Commanding the Honor Corps)
LABOR ACTING-PRIME MINISTER FENTON
LABOR TREASURER LYONS
LABOR PREMIER HOGAN (Victoria)
LABOR PREMIER HILL (S.A.)
NATIONALIST PREMIER MOORE (Queensland)
NATIONALIST PREMIER MITCHELL (W.A.)
NATIONALIST PREMIER McPHEE (Tasmania)
All March with
PREMIER BAVIN OF N. S. WALES.
Their Battle-cry is “THE PREMIERS’ AGREEMENT IS VITAL
TO AUSTRALIA’S SECURITY.”
ON HIS OWN
J. T. LANG, power-hungry and irresponsible,
sees in REPUDIATION a short cut to office.
He yields to the seductions of his friends.
The Premiers’ unanimous NON-PARTY AGREEMENT to balance their Budgets is our
NATIONAL MAGNA CHARTA,
Guaranteeing the financial freedom of our country.
“THIS TALK OF REPUDIATION,” says Scullin, “IS TREACHEROUS AND DISLOYAL NONSENSE.”
When the Prime Minister calls his State Labor Colleague a Traitor, dareyou entrust him with the destiny of your country in its hour of crisis?
“Only a Scrap of Paper,” sneered Imperial Kaiser Wilhelm, at the Treaty which guaranteed the
security of Belgium.
“Only a Scrap of Paper,” sneers Labor Kaiser John T. Lang, at the Premiers’ Agreement guaranteeing
the Security of Australia.
EACH OF THESE HISTORIC REPUDIATORS WOULD SACRIFICE HIS COUNTRY TO SATISFY
HIS LUST FOR POWER.
And the people must pay for the self-aggrandisement—they always do.
LANG’S LAST TERM OF OFFICE WAS THE MOST ANTI-COUNTRY REGIME IN N.S.W. HISTORY
What man on the land can ever forget his Rural Basic Wage, his Meat Board Scandal, his Main Roads Money Grab, his Compulsory Enactments
which very nearly closed every Country Industry?
STICK TO THOSE WHO STICK TO YOU, THE MEN OF
THE COUNTRY PARTY
They have been through the mill and they know and sympathise.
Give Your No. 1 VOTE
TO these: candidates
ARMIDALE:
DRUMMOND, D. H.
BARWON:
WADE, B. M.
CLARENCE:
POLLACK, A. J.
DUBBO:
THORBY, H. V. C.
LACHLAN:
BUTTENSHAW, E. A.
LISMORE:
MISSINGHAM, W. T.
LIVERPOOL PLAINS
CARTER, H. C.
MONARO:
HEDGES, W. W.
RALEIGH:
VINCENT, R. S.
TEMORA:
MAIN, H.
TENTERFIELD:
BRUXNER, M. F.
WAGGA:
KILPATRICK, M.
YOUNG:
REID, A. D.
COOTAMUNDRA:
ROSS, W.
MURRUMBIDGEE:
KELLY, J. H.
YASS:
COLLINS, T.
NAMOI:
WATERFORD, W. E.
MURRAY
LAWSON, J. 1
GRABAU, F. W. j
(In your own
order.)
CASTLEREAGH:
STANLEY, R.
MUDGEE:
WILKINS, GORDON.
CASINO:
BULMER, M. ]
REID, J. T. |
JONES, ELSMER \-
SWANSON, P. M. |
VINCENT. E. L. J
(In your own order.)
These stand for “Security for Yourself, Solvency for Australia and Success for us all.
Voting is compulsory, and you must number all the candidates (in your own order), or your ballot paper will be informal.
E. J. MUNRO, Country Party Headquarters, O’Connell Street, Sydney.


: .
ru
COURTAULDS
EabrlS
99
u
R£C2
'SHIRTS
FYIAMAS&SOFT COLLARS
THERE is an atmosphere of smartness and
distinction about the man who wears
“LUVISCA.” He knows his need for com-
fort and spruceness has been met. And the smooth-
ness of the fine, lasting material ensures his sou’nd
repose at night. At your stores you will find these
garments in all the most refined' popular colorings.
Take your choice now.
SOLD BY LEADING STORES
LOOK
FOR
THE
REGIS-
TERED
TAB.
V
ms
coUR
If any difficulty in obtaining, please
write:—•
THOROLD. HARPER & CO.
PTY., LTD.
308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
costing anything from £50,000 to produce?
All my plays will be made into talkie films
eventually.”
No suggestions here that the theatre is
decadent or artificial. No recriminations.
No sneers. Simply a commonsense accept-
ance of the fact that, like Tommy Burns, it
has met an outsize opponent. Here are
some of the handicaps that the theatre has
been struggling against for years in its fight
with the films:—
(1) The screen is as audible from the gallery as
it is from the stalls, and cinemas have no posts to
block the view. In some of the best London theatres
(notably the Criterion, the Garrick and the Strand)
half the audiences can neither see nor hear the shows
properly.
(2) All London cinemas are comfortable and well-
aired. I do not know one comfortable West End
theatre; they are all notoriously draughty and other-
wise insanitary, and several are underground.
(3) The cinema is cheap. The theatre never can
be unless it confines itself to cheap shows.
Until recently the theatre had one pull
over the cinema. Controlled financially, as
the film industry was, by more or less
illiterate Americans, hardly any considera-
tion was given to the dialogue of the aver-
age picture. That is changing, as anyone
will admit who saw, say, Journey’s End.”
According to London “Morning Post”:—
Sir James Barrie, A. A. Milne, Frederick Lonsdale,
P. G. Wodehouse-—all these either have talkies in
production or about to be produced.
It is on the cards that the theatre may do
more than “survive as a place where people
are taught to act.” Its very costliness may
cause it to be patronised by the ostenta-
tious rich—the kind of people who buy
ocean-going yachts and diamonds to prove
their wealth. But as an amusement for the
masses it is finished—finished by mechani-
sation—and the playwrights are no more to
blame than the coachmen of 30 years ago
were for the triumph of the motor-car.
JOHN DALLEY.
Dying Swan (In Season).
Being of an age when it is not altogether
displeasing to be called a gymnastic artist,
I make no protest on that score against
“M.G.S.” (B. 8/10/’3O). But having been
thus elevated, I feel that it is not only my
privilege but my duty to protest when a
fellow performer, after having been
signed on as an acrobat, suddenly turns him-
self into a toe-dancer and gives a public
performance qf the Dying Swan without
notifying the union secretary. Still, it is
spring.
Seasonal considerations, however, scarcely
excuse this performer for joining the illus-
trious and feathered dead on such creaky
boards. Moreover, his idea of introducing
patter into the turn is not in the best tradi-
tion, especially as that patter is apparently
intended to create the illusion that he is not
doing the Dying Swan act at all, but is sit-
ting behind a typewriter replying to certain
statements alleged to have been made by
myself. Another of his improvements upon
Pavlova which does not appeal to my
sense, of professional ethics is that of loudly
mentioning the word music in lieu of hav-
ing an orchestra—-possibly a result of the
talkies.
I shrink from suggesting that my fellow
performer has hitherto failed to hear me
owing to our relative positions in this
pleasing revival of the good old legit., but,
after all, it was he who put me up here
on this horizontal bar, and though I have
shouted at him he really gives no sign of
having heard me. The trend of my remarks
has been 'that literature is intrinsically as
national as the people who make it; that it
has to be national before it can be inter-
national; and that unless it is international
it is not literature. I ask “M.G.S.” to regard
the Names in international literature. Are
they not, all of them, clearly and recognis-
ably national? I do not mean, of course,
the conscious nationalism from which Aus-
tralia has suffered, and which, to give a
general example, killed the horse poets.
I mean simply the nationalism—natural
phenomenon, or whatever you like to call
it—that distinguishes a Frenchman from a
German, a.n Italian from an Englishman, an
Irishman from a Greek. If “M.G.S.” will
not recognise the existence of such pheno-
mena, the case is, of course, hopeless, if
he does, he surely must see that Shaks-
peare (the work) is as English as was
Shakspeare (the man). What (and who)
could be more French than Anatole France?
The trouble between“M.G.S.”and myself is
really a matter of the acceptance of a term.
His “national” and my “national” are only
cousins. “As art becomes 'national,’ ” he
says, “by so much it ceases to be artistic—
as does literature.” Well, I can understand
that; it is an acceptance of the physical
instead of the spirit: it is a variation of the
delusion that an Irishman is a stupid-looking
mass of brawn with a deep top lip and a
shillelagh; that a Frenchman is a dark, well-
dressed, goateed melodrama villain; so on,
and on. That literature can be national
without wearing brands of that sort seems
to be lost on “M.G.S.” He concludes:—
There was a Gentian once named Beethoven, who
wrote music. Nobody would care tuppence to-day
if he had been an Esquimau; but no doubt the
Manns of his day hailed him as the great “German”
composer.
I submit that whether anybody to-day,
cares tuppence or not does not at all affect
the fact that Beethoven was German and
that his work did spring from that
accident. Here, of course, we cannot stay
rigidly wfithin to-day’s boundaries of
Germany; we must take a wide sweep
across that part of Europe in which
German)' lies—roughly the middle north.
Ii om there came Beethoven’s music, and
it could have come from nowhere else. I
would ask “M.G.S.” to consider whether,
siiy, an Italian of that time could conceiv-
ably have composed it. If he thinks so, this
wifi be merely another of the common in-
stances in which great minds do not think
alike.
As to the question of literary reality, con-
cerning my idea of which “M.G.S.” still
has his doubts, I should like to suggest to
him (I am now back on the horizontal bar,
with fingers crossed) that he should read
at the earliest possible moment a book
entitled “The Meeting Pool,” by M. G.
Skipper, which is splendidly rich in that
quality.
CECIL MANN.
Cricketing Days
To a world which has long groaned under
the affliction of books about cricket by
experts who, if they could have not played
the game better than they wrote about it,
would never have been out of the vacant-
allotment class, My Cricketing Days, by
C. G. Macartney (Heinemann), comes, so
to speak, as a long beer at 6.15 p.m. No
doubt that self-confidence which has earned
for the author the sobriquet of the “Gov-
ernor-General” is responsible for the crisp
and decisive style in which this pleasant
volume of cricketiana is couched. Macartney
has given plenty of evidence in his journal-
istic work that he can clothe his experience
with lucid expression. His book, like all
autobiographical fugues, is naturally couched
insistently in the key of “I,” but it leans
to the reminiscent rather than to the sta-
tistical, and is ever so much the better for
that. There are many goo'd yarns. I like
best that of the small Canadian boy who
was dispatched on a bicycle to retrieve a
tremendous drive across the unfenced
prairie at Winnipeg during an Australian
tour of Canada. Boy, bicycle and ball were
never seen again.
J.B.H.
A Satchel of Books
11l Tell You Why,” by Clias. (Chic)
Sale (Specialist Publishing Co.). By the
author of that tour de force of humor “The
Specialist.” His only justification for writ-
ing. this sequel is that he sold a million
copies of the previous work. There are a few
flashes of unforced humor, but for the most
part the thing is artificial.
Of Heading Books, by John Livingston
Lowes (Constable). Four admirable essays,
after the Quiller-Couch manner, strong in
enthusiasm for good literature and going
under the surface into the depths of it. The '
writer has fresh things to say, but the
most important feature about his book is
that lie treats of literature as a living and
not a dead thing.
The Fellowship of the Horse, by Lieut.-
Col. S. G. Goldschmidt (Country Life). Yet
another book on horse care and mastery by
an expert who is also a lover. Most Aus-
tralians who would be interested should be
aware already of most of the information
given, but they might be better and more
human horse-masters for knowing not only
that they should do this or that but why
they should do it. The book’s strongest
appeal, however, is to the few who go in
for hunting here.
The Iron Man, by W. R. Burnett (Heine-
mann), is Coke Mason, middle-weight cham-
pion of America. Coke is what his friends
call dumb; he loves and trusts his faithless
wife Rose, and reveres his manager, Regan,
whom Rose hates. When Coke and Regan
quarrel, and Rose’s lover Lewis takes Regan’s
place, the Iron Man begins to go down
hill. How and why he does so is described
with the skill of a front-rank writer and
the inside knowledge of a pug. Nothing
better lias been done in the literature of
the ring than the last desperate battle in
which poor Coke loses his title to Regan’s
new find, O’Keefe. A great story that will
interest thousands who are not interested in
boxing by its humanity and sure character-
isation.
The Young and Secret, by Alice Grant
Rosman (Mills and Boon), is a love story
which begins in London with an unconven-
tional (but entirely innocent and respect-
able) meeting in Kensington Gardens, and
ends blissfully in the English country. Tony
Corcoran’s failure to buy a Medici ring in
Florence leads up to a series of mild mis-
understandings, and gives Miss Rosman an
opportunity to draw a gallery of thoroughly
nice young people who make whimsical little
jokes such as this:—
“The ghosts in a house are very important,” said
Tony. “Always make sure of them before you see
if the drains are all right, and the roof in" repair.
Didn’t you feel directly we came in that the ghosts
were pleased and were smiling at us on every side?”
A charming idyll, without a wicked or even
naughty character in it.
♦
“Chizzy”: The latest Maorilander to join
the ranks of the authors is A. R. Kings-
ford, of Nelson, whose “Night Raiders of the
Air” has been accepted by John Hamilton.
He was a pilot in the famous 100 squadron,
the night bombers who dropped their eggs
on Yon Richthofen’s aerodrome at Douai,
and was afterwards shot down behind the
German lines. These days he finds that
the camera can bring in quite a good living.
“Lao-dah”: All prognostications that
radio and the talkies would make home
reading obsolete have been falsified by the
last book season in London. Among best-
sellers has been J. B. Priestley’s charming
“The Good Companions,” which has netted
nearly £20,000 in royalties. It runs to over
600 pages, which ‘ suggests that humanity
has not altogether lost the power of con-
centration. “All Quiet” has now reached
the titanic total of 2,600,000 copies in vari-
ous languages, and is still selling.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Bonzo: Can’t remember the “40 or 5Q
pars.” you sent “some months ago” (we get about
a thousand pars, a week) ; but if they didn’t appear
they didn’t suit... .C.A.C.: Reads like the transcript
of a talkie written in the dark on a shirt-cuff....
L.W.T.: Taking your word for it that day follows
night, though there is a strong suspicion that it is
the other way about. .. .S.E.F.J.: Doesn’t rise above
a sing-song description... .H.S.C.: Must be heavy-
weight zephyrs over your way.... Prime Canterbury
(Canada) : Sorry; have had all there was room for
about him... .H.H.H.: Too much “Oh High,” too much
“Oh Love,” too much owe altogether... .R.11.C.:
Spring offering went closer than any other of the
season. .. .D.D.D.: Metre runs to stiffness in the
fetlocks. .. .J.A.T.: Thirty-two stanzas telling how
Poitrel won a race. No, sir H.S.: Only
successful part was the “effort to make it sound
like a tram”.... Richard R.: Looked thin, even
under microscope. .. .L.H.N.: So many old tags in
it.... Micah: Don’t care for the political prescription
.... Ming: That stringing together of questions
usually does make weak verse... .F.G.S.: Your muse
is running on a punctured tyre... .G.R.: If that’s
your strongest on finding two bob, you’d better keep
an eye out for a stray tenner... .J.K.E.: The visit
to Sheol is only interesting in places... .T.M.: Falls
away.... Cap: “I mighter been drunk when I wrote
it.” The Religious Editor merely said, “Impossible.
It’s not as good as all that”.... G.R.P.: Miles too
much of the happy land.... Lab: Failed to live up
to the admirable rhymes for 0tt0... .M.R.: Not in
opr line at a 11... . Bellerive: Bring in the willow
wavers:—•
GREAT CRICKETERS OF THE PAST.
Time and death travel
By night and day.
New realities transpire
As the old fade away.
Duff, Saunders and Jessop,
Trott, Trumper and Hill
Were masterful players
Of force and skill.
A fine leader was Darling.
And Maclaren was good.
Also was Noble and
Swift bowler Lockwood.
(Next week: “Dog Show at Wirths’ Olympia , 1928.”)
. ...J.S.: Come in and qualify for the presidency of
the Optimists’ League:—
There’s a path that leads us upwards,
No man knows to where,
But if we keep plodding onwards
We will sure get there.
What if in life’s darkest puzzle
We can’t reason why,
All those things that now amaze us
We’ll solve when we die.
. ...M.E.8.: One went very c105e.... W. A.C.: Some-
thing in the monologue, but it’s still in the ore
stage... .G.J.K.: Not the freshest race-track yarn
We’ve heard.... V.N.: Better try it on Don person-
ally. .. .H.F.M.: Read too much like verse exercises.
Most verse does.... Memnon: Now get to work. You
can clearly do better than that... .50,200: 7,8, 9,
etc J. 8.: The mug who goes out back and takes
everybody down must have whiskers down to his
ankles by n0w.... Paul C.: No; you’ve forced the
humor. . . .Baroda: Not quite the weight. .. .0.W.:
Pushed beyond The B.’s capacity 5.0.5.: No
wonder you got lost. You wander off on the smallest
provocation... .J.R.A.: Overcrowded with characters;
a short story shouldn’t resemble a page from an
electoral roll. —S.J.: Melodramatic... .R.W.: Got
away well, but broke down in the straight.... H.D.:
Seven hundred words to describe her features !....
S.F.N.: Stale... .M.A.: Left her “weeping bitterly
beside the old oak-tree”.... L.P.: Try a Melbourne
daily... .E.T.C.: Maybe the imaginative burglar had
merely mixed his drinks. .. .R.A.G.: Place a lamp
in the window. It’s on its way h0me....W.E.8.:
The end did not justify all that splurge of words.
M.M.D.: Dreadfully dull H.G.L.: Fair 10
middling—so it misses.... Mat.: Discharged the
drummer... .N.S.M.: Solidly built, but too conven-
tional... .A.R.J.: Not slipping a collar round that
dog’s neck... .M.A.S.: Honestly, was it worth the
effort?... .0.0.: Artificial dialogue and thin plot.
... .N.A.P.: A good idea spoilt... .L.S.: Without
form and void... .A.L.S.: Can’t swallow the story
of the dumb bagman who chalks his tale of woe on
a railway signboard... .G.H.V.: “Birds of Passage”
was an apt title... .1.C.: No plot, no characterisation,
no atmosphere—nothing but a waste of words....
J.H.: You can’t convert our short-story section into
a pulpit.... J.Z.: Your lift-driver tells a poor yarn....
J.0.P.: Forget that you ever wrote it... .R.U.8.:
Destroyed as requested... .V. 8.: Padded with irrele-
vant asides... .N.D.: You overdo the adjectives....
W.S.: Pickpocket bound over to keep the peace.
. ...F.A.G.: So she was smitten with the boarder?
We weren’t... .H.H. A.: The opening paragraph
exhausted you. .. .8.E.R.: You leave too much un-
explained... .K.S.J.: Traffic cops are not given a
free hand to solve murder cases. ...R.C.: Centralian
crows are being well catered for. Yours is the fourth
bushed prospector they’ve had this week... . J.T.:
An old Ted Dyson par. elaborated... .A.A.C.: You
never won a spelling bee. .. .B.B.: Fancy it would
be better under a different treatment.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.V.: The man with the divining-rod looks as if
he had been in a train smash... .H.8.J.: Bazaar
gossips muzzled... .D.R.: Are they surf-bathers or
caterpillars?. .. .S.R.: Disaster overtook you at the
first penstroke... .N.P.: All Were castaways... .
W.W.: Your friends are gross flatterers.... C.C.:
Spent a gloomy 30 seconds with it....8.A.: At
least, you’re frank. Many pinch; few pinch and
tell. .. .H.T.: He was an optimist, and so are you.
. ...L.C.K.: Your pursuit of art is a wild-goose
chase... .A.H.: What the blur in the top left-hand
corner said to its mate in the bottom right-hand
corner is dreary... .F.S.: Don’t draw them so big.
Have a bit of consideration for the basket... .P.T.R.:
Your lan Gall-llugh Maclean mixture is terrible....
S.J.: Wobbly linework and half-century-old jokes.
. ...H.H.M.: That fire brigade has been called out
before... .F.C.N.: Damsel in nightie has been cloaked
in a stout envelope for the return journey....
J.A.W.: Tired of the flapper who had to walk home
after the motor ride.... P.P.: Flimsy but promising.
. ...G.D.: You sent them on a fruitless errand....
W. 5.0.8.: They’re not humorous drawings... .N.G.K.:
You closed the door against yourself.


r
m
t*
■ i
.
llili
itllfililli
I
MMs
I
• i
V
i
• «
i
*
I:
%
:<f
* *s*-i
m
I Ni
■■
m
i
■
O


The Bulletin
Vol. 51. —No. 2644.
October 15, 1930.
BRAVE AS LIONS.
“Mr. Lang, Mr. Beasley and others continue their attacks on Sir Otto Niemeyer.”
“Ain’t they plucky dogs! Listen to how loud they yap at him!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE : 211, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Blace, Adelaide.
Wicstrai.la : 33 Barrack Street, Berth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Bosted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
C months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Bapua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
“WELL, WHAT IF WE DO GO
BROKE!”
The economic laws that govern the indi-
vidual govern also the State. Very few
people set out with deliberate intent to go
bankrupt. The vast majority who get into
that condition drift there. So with States.
Very few have meant to repudiate their
debts; most of those who have defaulted
have drifted into difficulties and been
pushed over the edge by circumstance.
Mr. Scullin has been telling London that
the number of repudiationists in Australia
is quite insignificant. This is quite true.
But unhappily you cannot judge from that
whether Australia is or is not liable to go
broke. The repudiationists don’t consti-
tute Australia’s great danger. The drifters
do. They are those who in private life
loudly assure you that of course they will
pay their debts—every farthing of them —
and then, on the way, turn into the pub or
the betting-shop.
So far, moreover, as the State is con-
cerned, many of them do not care two
straws whether its debts are paid or not.
They have been told that we shall be dis-
graced if we default. They may even some-
times have added their applause when the
crowd cheered that sentiment; but they
would give far more genuine cheers to the
orator who told them it is more important
to maintain their standard of living than
to pay the last farthing demanded by the
Shy locks of London. So we can be quite
sure about two things. First, if Australia
defaults, it will not be due to the active
and frank repudiationists. Second, one
large section of the people refuses to view
default with horror; at any rate, they
view what have been put to them as alterna-
tives with far greater horror.
The question is whether these people
know what default—going broke—really
means.
There are two ways in which it might
be brought about. We might fail to pay
our public debts abroad or we might be
unable to meet our obligations at home.
The oversea debts present much the greater
difficulties. They are payable in gold, which
constitutes the greatest difficulty of all, and
they are based on contracts. The total
amount now called for is about 30 millions
a year, in addition to payments to be made
for imports, some of which are still indis-
pensable; and, since we have not the gold,
we must export goods that will sell for
gold. For many years past we have paid
all our interest and a good deal besides
out of new loans; now that the market value
of our wool, wheat, metals and other staple
exports has fallen tremendously, we natu-
rally find very great difficulty in arranging
loans at the moment we are most badly in
need of them. Hence it may be.taken as
certain that, had we not been able to
arrange temporary accommodation during
the past 10 months, we should have been
unable to meet our bills. In cold fact,
what has happened is that the Common-
wealth Bank, in co-operation with two
London banks, saved us from going broke.
And what is equally certain is that, in view
of the weakness of all our markets, we
shall go broke during the next 12 months
unless we can get further temporary accom-
modation in London. It is further certain
that the resources of the Commonwealth
Bank have been strained to do what has
already been done; hence for the substantial
part of the assistance necessary during the
next 12 months we shall have to depend
upon London financiers. If we cannot
appeal to them with success, Australia will
simply have to tell its foreign creditors
that it cannot pay them.
The position with regard to home debts
and obligations is different. Here our own
paper is good tender. The obligations,
moreover, are principally not for fixed
amounts. They consist partly of interest
on internal loans but more largely of
salaries, wages and other charges in the
public services. Though so many of these
outgoings are reducible—many of them can,
in fact, be wiped out altogether—deficits
have become the common thing of late
years. They have come indeed to be re-
garded as quite ordinary and regular fea-
tures. “What is a deficit?” it has been
argued. “Merely a shortage. Well any
State can have a shortage.” Now this is
not true: any State can not have a short-
age. For a State to have a shortage or a
deficit implies that somebody has given
it credit: and the Australian States’ credit
at home now is very low indeed. Aus-
tralian banks have been making advances
so greatly in excess of deposits that they
have difficulty even in making further
advances to old customers for the pro-
tection of earlier advances. The story that
Australia is full of money, that its banks
are bulging, is, unfortunately, a grotesque
inaccuracy. So little capital is available
that what were the other day regarded
as gilt-edged securities are now tossed
about on the market, unable to find any
buying support at all; and Australian in-
ternal loans can be bought at a price which
shows a return of 8 p.c.
Yet if Australian States cannot borrow to
make good their deficiencies they simply
cannot have deficiencies. And we are
approaching that stage. We have already
seen one State borrowing three-quarters
of a million from another for a few weeks
in order to pay some urgent bills. Unless
large economies are made it is certain that
States will have to admit that they are
broke at home, too. They have merely
dodged that admission during the past three
months.
Obviously, since the domestic outgoings
are reducible, the effect of a stoppage of
payment by any Australian Government
within Australia would be taken in London
to mean that Australian Governments
w r ould rather go broke than economise.
And beyond all doubt whatever it would
mean that. There could be only one pos-
sible result: our hope of getting that tem-
porary accommodation without which we
cannot pull through during the next year
would fade right out. What banker in the
world would go to the rescue of a cus-
tomer already so heavily embarrassed that
he had not paid his way for many years,
who, for seven years, had paid every penny
of the interest on his external loans out
of new loans, whose products had just suf-
fered a terrible market slump, and who
nevertheless refused to economise and so
pay current outgoings out of current earn-
ings?
And if we don’t get this temporary
accommodation, what then? In the first
place, we shall default. But that does not
mean that we shall get rid of one penn’orth
of debt. It simply means that certain debt
will be deferred—will be piled up for future
payment. Meantime our credit will be
smirched. Instead of our stocks being a
first-class risk they will be put in the second
or third class. We owe roughly £500,000,000
abroad, and as these loans fall due we shall,
as the price of our default, have to pay more
for the renewals and are likely to have
difficulty in getting the money at all. If
we don’t get the money there will be an-
other default against us to make our future
still harder and more uncertain. As for
new loans —to carry on necessary public
works —we shall certainly find the charges
so high as to make the works unprofitable.
Default, then, is something that would
hurt more than our national pride. It is
something that would hurt our pockets.
The extent of that hurt it is impossible
to tell in advance; but even an extra
1 p.c. on a debt of £500,000,000 is £5,000,000
a year. The repudiationists may be rogues,
but they are at least logical. They would
get rid of our difficulties by getting rid
of our debts. The other section, which
declares against repudiation but resists
economies, would merely pile up our
difficulties, necessitating future economies
far greater than those which would serve
the purpose if practised to-day.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
VARIUS 2
“VAE VICTIS” 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. 3
THE FRONT PAGE, BY SCORFIELD . . . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
“WELL, WHAT IF WE DO GO BROKE’!” .. 8
LET’S FORGET NIEMEYER AWHILE . . 8
THE IMPUDENCE OF POLITICIANS .. . . 8
QUEENSLAND’S LOST PROVINCE .. ..8
THE RIGHTS OF JUDGES 9
AUSTRALIAN FILMS 9
A CARTOON BY LEASON 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
(With cartoonlets by Frith.)
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. . . 11, 12
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. . . 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“THIS THING CALLED LOVE”
(With some canoodling by Frith) .. .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
DUNLOP-PERDRIAU RUBBER .. . . 17
KANDOS CEMENT (N.S.W.) 17
ALLAN & STARK 17
AUSTRALIAN GYPSUM 17
A. G. HEALING, LTD 17
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . IS
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
THE SMALL MAN’S WOOL 22
“SAFETY FIRST” 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) 31
CHINA TO PERU 32
POVERTY POINT 33
THE PALETTE 33
THE INKY WAY .. 33
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC . . 35
NIEMEYER’S CRITICS 35
THE EBBING TIDE OF IMPORTS .. ..35
BROKEN HILL MINES 35
SHADOW SHOWS 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 40
A.J.C. MEETING CONCLUDES . . . . 39
FIRST DAY AT CAULFIELD 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 43
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 45
NEW SERIAL—
“THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER,”
By Montague Grover . . . . . . 46, 47, 49
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . . ; . . 48
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop.”) .. . . .. .. 51
A COMPLETE STORY—
“THE CATS OF BARRYOOLA”—
By William Hatfield . . .. 53, 54
VERSE —By “Gerardy” 54
NEXT WEEK.
“TO THE WORKERS OF N.S.W.”
WHAT CREDIT REALLY IS.
“THE MAN WHO REMEMBERED.” George Garner’s great story of a war skipper.
LET’S FORGET NIEMEYER AWHILE.
It would be a good thing if we could forget
Sir Otto Niemeyer now and then, and reflect
that, even had we not struck financial
trouble in London a year ago, we should
now be in very serious difficulties on account
of the shocking fall in the value of all our
staple commodities. There is not one of
them of any importance at all which has
not suffered very severely. Wool, wheat,
lead, copper, zinc, silver—all. have lost m
some cases more than half their value of
three years ago and in the other cases
almost half. No catastrophe of the same
dimensions had ever fallen upon us. Had we
paid our way comfortably before, we should
be in distress now.
In some circumstances a general fall in
values, though it produces grave disturb-
ances, need be only a temporary trouble,
because while we get less for what we sell
we also have to pay less for what we buy.
But there are other circumstances in which
the difficulty is not so easily righted. The
individual or nation in the worst position
is the heavy borrower; if there has been a
50 per cent, fall in values he must pay two
bushels of wheat or two bales of wool to
settle an interest bill which one bushel or
one bale previously discharged. And, unfor-
tunately, Australia for its population and
production has been a prodigious borrower.
The time may come when we shall be
able to reduce our burden; but of our total
debt of about £1,100,000,000 the only
amounts falling due within the next five
years are: —
Commonwealth. State.
1931 .. £29,347,050 £16,974,117
1932 . . — 31,923,510
1933 . . 45,774,950 33,246,195
1934 . . 3,899,693 32,244,897
1935 . . 5,470,770 f 42,247,581
Thus only 241 millions fall due before the
end of 1935, in addition to recent short-
term loans, and 859 millions lie beyond
that debt, the periods running to 1975.
So there is no early relief to be got that
way. It is quite possible that circumstances
may compel us later to ask for a variation
in the price we pay for some of the longer-
dated loans. But whether we save much by
that and on the conversion of shorter-
dated loans is uncertain; it depends chiefly
on how we stand up to the collar meantime.
What is clear is that this catastrophic
fall in the markets for our export
staples has added enormously to our
burden, and that if we are to carry
it we must use every possible means of
reducing our production costs. But in this
connection far too much prominence may
be given to wage- and salary-reduction.
One of our greatest leakages is in distribu-
tion; our waste here is atrocious. The
number of distributing agencies—middle-
men of all kinds—is out of all proportion
to our population, and, being worst of all
in N. S. Wales, is largely responsible for
the exceptionally high cost of living in
Sydne) r , where by reason of natural advan-
tages the cost should be exceptionally low.
In June of this year the cost of food and
groceries (46 commodities) bore these rela-
tions in the various cities, the average of the
six cities for 1923-27 being taken as a base-
-1000 . Increase on July,
June, 1930. 1914.
Sydney .. .. 1004 55.7 p.c.
Melbourne .. .. 932 50.6 „
Brisbane . . .. 853 44.3 ~
Adelaide .. .. 962 37.6 „
Perth .. . . 998 33.2 „
Hobart .. . . 974 43.7 „
A little of the general increase may have
been due to higher wages in the producing
industries; but the fact that in Perth there
has been an increase of only 33 per cent,
and in Adelaide of 37 per cent, as against
nearly 56 per cent, in Sydney, although the
increase in wages in the producing indus-
tries has been fairly uniform over the
Commonwealth, shows pretty conclusively
that distribution is very largely to blame in
the N. S. Wales capital. To what a vast
extent money has been wasted on distribu-
tion may be judged by the forest of petrol
pumps, costing approximately £2OO each,
which line tha approaches to every city''.
Two-thirds of them, with their attendants,
are superfluous and mere burdens upon
industry.
And then there is the immensely impor-
tant matter of improving our methods of
production. Very much has been done,
during the past 12 years especially; but,
there can be no standing still. The wheat-
farmer, faced with the prospect of getting
no better than about half a crown a bushel
at sidings for years to come, can find some
comfort in the fact that science has added at
least one-third to the crop of 30 years ago;
and the good work still goes on. In the
tremendously promising field of pasture im-
provement it has indeed scarcely begun.
Fortunately there is another field almost as
unexplored. In secondary industries we can
get comfort out of the fact that our neglect
in the past adds greatly to our chances in
the future. The extension of these indus
hies will to some extent simplify the urgent
problem of providing employment for the
middlemen, whose displacement our neces-
sities will compel, and are compelling.
The whole position is so complicated that
the politician ought to call in the services
of the economist and the financier. The
politician has no real training for this job;
the very qualities wihch make him a success
in an election campaign make it impossible
for him to give to this science that detached
and laborious study which it demands. Frank
Anstey, in many respects a splendid old
bundle of emotion, stands aghast at the
brutal coldness of the gentleman whom we
were (to start with) trying to forget awhile.
Of course he would. And the mere fact
shows Frank Anstey’s utter unfitness to
handle a job in which the cold, brutal logic
of the economist can alone save us from
disaster.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Amusing Impudence of Politicians
The impudence of these politicians is really
rather amusing. One would think, to hear
them talk, that, instead of having done
anything to be ashamed of, instead of being
in the bulk either rogues or fools who have
brought the country to the veiy edge of
disaster, they ■ are the wise men who can
wrest it from the imminent danger to
which someone or other—never men of
their own political color—have dragged it.
The plain fact about the whole business
is that, to serve his own ends, the politician
has run this country into almost insup-
portable debt; and the appalling part is
that the Labor politician has been most
active in putting Australia at the mercy of
the foreign moneylender. A thousand times
Labor, and every other political party, were
warned of the inevitable consequences.
Every economist who was not tied to the
tail of some political party’s cart told them
what was ahead. They were, however, so
busy outbidding one another for the public’s
favor that they refused to listen. For
their own personal and party gains they
blundered on; and now, when their folly,
their wickedness in many cases, has brought
this great distress upon us, they have the
colossal impudence to pose as men who
deserve well of the country.
Our misfortune is that public business is
in their hands, in spite of the mess they
have made of it in the past. Our course in
the circumstances seems clear; and we
might well lay down a couple of simple
rules for ourselves:—
(1) Never to take the politician at his own
valuation or to accept as gospel wliat he
says. Our failure to think for ourselves has
thrown hundreds of thousands of. people idle
and is costing others millions in taxation
which would otherwise be unnecessary.
(1) To turn now rather to the politician
who recognises that his tribe has made a
mess of things rather than to the fool whose
vanity won’t allow him to make a public
confession of colossal failure.
In the financial crash of the early ’nine-
ties the men who were responsible for the
disaster behaved, as a rule, a good deal
better. Many of them emerged broken and
ashamed men. On one of them blindness
gradually fell; yet he sat at his desk day
by day, week by week, grimly helping to
clean up the mess he had had a hand in
making. Only a very few, when the first
crashes were heard, got up on their house-
tops, and, shouting that all was well with
the world, invited the public to still trust,
them with loans, and made a pretence of
carrying on as usual. Later on these were
sent to gaol. Their friends called their
conduct optimism. Judges and juries called
it fraud.
«
Queensland’s Lost Province.
The linking of Sydney and Brisbane by a
direct and uniform rail gauge has not passed
without heartburnings. Queenslanders
acclaim the event as a stage in the restora-
tion of a lost province. Ma Staters gloomily
dwell on the probable diversion from
Sydney of the profitable Northern Rivers
trade, which is expected by both parties to
the argument to swing to Brisbane.
Queensland has some precedent to back
its claim. When separation was in the air
in 1847, Dr. Lang, the stoutest advocate of
the movement, held that the southern
boundary of Queensland should be the 30th
parallel, which, roughly, runs from Nym-
boida to the South Aus. border, passing just
north of Bourke. The Imperial Act of
1850 fixed the boundary as he suggested.
N. S. Wales exerted every effort to have
the boundary moved to its present position,
and moved it was in an amending Act. A
petition asking for a return to the Lang
boundary was signed by most of the people
of the Northern Rivers and presented to
Queen Victoria, but in vain.
The re-alignment was ascribed by the fiery
Lang to the influence of Sir William Deni-
son, Governor of N. S. Wales, whose
two brothers owned some quarter of a
million acres in the disputed area. The
question was referred to him by the Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies. So for 70
years Queensland has been deprived of the
Rivers, of which it now hopes to recapture
the trade.


The Rights of Judges.
In the N. S. Wales Probate Court the other
day Justice Davidson, one of the newer
men on the Bench, in the course of a judg-
ment referred to Dr. Chisholm Ross as “a
menace to the public and a disgrace to his
profession.” For 30 years this doctor has
been regarded as one of the front-rank men
in his branch of the profession not only in
Sydney but in Australia, and has been put
forward as an expert witness in scores of
cases where somebody’s mental condition
was in dispute! In his long and, so far as
the public knows, very honorable and useful
career many thousands of people must
have consulted him, and no doubt would in
ordinary circumstances continue to consult
him. Moreover, from the very nature of his
specialty it is necessary that his public
should have confidence in him; in the treat-
ment of mental and border-line cases much
depends upon the control or influence which
the practitioner has over the patient. To
undermine confidence in a practitioner of
this sort is therefore a matter of much
greater consequence than it would be in the
case of, say, a surgeon.
Yet it now seems that a Judge may do it,
even though a man may be ruined finan-
cially as well as professionally, and appa-
rently on nothing better than conclusions
arrived at in the course of a trial at which
the man is no more than a witness.
Hitherto The Bulletin’s complaint has
been that Judges suffered lawyers of a cer-
tain sort to so cross-examine that decent
people were inclined to shun the witness-
stand, submitting to grave injustice rather
than come to the courts for relief. If the
witness has also to fear that, without call-
ing upon him for explanation or defence,
the Judge may brand him as a menace to
the public and a disgrace to his calling, the
courts will fall into further disrepute.
Whether in this case Justice Davidson
was right or wrong The Bulletin does not
know. But the conduct of the doctor must
have been abominable if it warranted the
public in forgetting all his years of service,
all his previous good conduct (at any rate,
that conduct appears never to have been
attacked), and to remember him only as a
menace and a disgrace. And on the pub-
lished reports it is difficult to find evidence
of abominable conduct, or of anything
approaching it.
Plainly the matter cannot be allowed to
rest where it is. From the public point of
view it does not concern Dr. Chisholm Ross
nearly so much as it does Justice Davidson.
We are entitled to know what justification
he believes he had for this language about a
witness. Upon that we shall judge whether
the courts are to be dreaded more even in
the future than in the past, or whether
they are more than ever entitled to our con-
fidence because of their fearlessness' where
justice demands it.
* -
Australian Talkies.
A Melbourne “Herald” announcement that
“an influential syndicate will begin the pro-
duction of Australian films on March 1,”
and that it “hopes to produce 12 pictures
in 18 months,” is cheering. Not so the
further intimation that the head of the
company is leaving for the U.S.A. this
week, and that “an American film director
and sound engineer will return with him.”
Australia has wonderful onportunities in
the film business—a ready-made home
market, a climate equal to California’s, and
eveiy kind of scenery, from snow-clad
mountains to tropical jungles, within easy
reach. But they will all be brought to
naught unless the mistakes made by
British and Continental directors after the
war are avoided. If Australia’s pictures
bear the slightest resemblance to those of
America they will be doomed from birth.
That is not to disparage the films this
country has been importing from Holly-
wood for the past 10 years. They mirrored
a period and a culture (now ending, by the
way), just as the comedies of Aristophanes
mirrored the culture of his time, or as the
Restoration drama mirrored English life
in the seventeenth century.
Because the Americans got hold of half
the world’s gold their society pictures
showed the newly-enriched living in houses
like vulgarised cathedrals. Because on any
one day during the past five years 135,000
murderers were at large in the U.S.A., hun-
dreds of gangster pictures were made.
Hollywood war pictures reflected the belief
of stay-at-home Americans that the Dough-
boys won the war; Hollywood college pic-
tures the new interest taken by all classes
in university life. But none of these mani-
festations has anything to do with Australia.
Deadliest of all would be attempts to show
wealthy Australians living the bejewelled
hotel existence of American millionaires. It
was done in an Australian picture shown at
Sydney Royal some months ago, and the
effect was frightful.
Here are some facts from which the
makers of Australian pictures may learn
useful lessons. Every recent British talkie
with a gangster or back-stage motive has
been imitative, and consequently futile and
a failure. It was the same with the early
post-war French and German dramas and
comedies. Most of them were pathetic
imitations, and hence the almost total col-
lapse of the Continental film business in
the closing days of the silents. Russia was
the one Continental country which held its
end up, artistically and otherwise, under the
silent regime. The reason was that it alone
rejected American conventions, and turned
out pictures which, however crudely, ex-
pressed Russian life.
Latterly England has been making suc-
cessful talkies—so much so that several have
earned millions of dollars in the U.S.A.
Look for the factor which is common to
every one of them—society comedies like
“Disraeli,” tragedies like “Journey’s End,”
farces like “Splinters”—and you find it in
the authentic atmosphere. They derive from
nowhere but England. Ufa has risen from
the ashes of its silent past with talkies that
are as German as a beer-garden, no matter
what language the voice-doubles happen to
speak. And naturally the world has begun
to rush Ufa films.
Unless Australian directors can do •as
much—that is, produce pictures free from
the faintest flavor of Hollywoodism—they
will lose their money. Their products won’t
be welcomed even in Australia—the cold
reception given here to many expensive
Anglo-Hollywood productions of late
proves it—and they will arouse hoots of
derision overseas, as the British and Con-
tinental imitations did.
♦
Maoriland’s Railway Problems
Maoriland’s railways have been pondered
over by another Royal Commission. The
Commission evidently thinks that their worst
handicap is the Government stroke, for it
recommends that they should be handed over
to a board of directors placed beyond poli-
tical interference. Every branch line that
doesn’t pay working expenses should, it says,
be abandoned; the staff, which has increased
from 16,353 to 19,410 in five years, should
be reduced; main-line services should be
curtailed in some cases; collection and
delivery of goods by road should be under-
taken where it is necessary to compete with
motors; passenger and freight rates should
be slightly increased. But even if all these
recommendations are accepted by Parlia-
ment, which isn’t likely, there would, on the
1929-30 basis, still be a deficit of close on
£2,000,000 a year.
Three sets of experts—the Fay-Raven
Commission, the departmental committee
headed by the younger Fay, and the latest
Commission, consisting of local civil
engineers and business men—have over-
hauled the system in
the last seven years;
and there have been
frequent changes in
methods and manage-
ment and administra-
tion. But the march
of the deficit has been
pretty steady. In 1919-
20 it was £350,000; in
1925-26, £700,000; in
1929-30, £2,500,000.
The Main Highways
Board, which has spent
millions on roads that
enable the motor to
compete with the rail-
way, using taxes on
motorists for the pur-
pose, commenced its
operations in June,
1924. The effect upon
railway revenue has
been precisely the
same as in every other
country where road-
making and railway-
building have pro-
ceeded side by side.
«
The Truth About
N.S.W.’s Western
Lands.
The Western lands of
N. S. Wales have
always been a good
stick to beat your
political-enemy dog
with. To-day they
look a picture; a
month ago they were
a desert waste; a
month hence they
may be definitely on
the way to become a
parched wilderness.
The man who hops in,
uses them, and hops
out in time may make
a fortune: the man
who makes an error of
judgment is sure to be
lost. So you get
stories told for politi-
cal purposes that
these are among the
richest lands of the
State, locked up by
bowelless corporations
while land - hungry
farmers’ sons starve;
also you hear that
this is the “great
western desert,”
wholly unfit for any-
thing approaching
closer settlement.
Mr. Lang and a few
of his humble follow-
ers are making great
play with these lands
just now. The pre-
sent Government
passed a bill so in-
famous that Mr. Lang proposes to repeal
it at the first possible moment. He de-
scribes it as a measure for locking up
fertile lands against the people for any-
thing up to 70 years in the interests of
great f and largely absentee landholders.
These Far Western lands were more or
less settled 70 years ago; the naming of
some of the surveys shows the influence
of the Crimean period. For nearly 50 years
of that time it has been realised by those
who know the country that there must be
a compromise between the big holder and
the smaller one. To throw the whole
country open to the smaller man (a small
man out there must hold at least 10,240
acres) would mean the entire stoppage of
improvements on the larger holdings; be-
cause obviously no man would spend money
and labor on improvements which might
be taken from him next week and paid for
only on their value, however little it might
be, to the incoming tenant. Much of this
country is, moreover, quite unsuitable for
closer settlement, being capable of carrying
only one sheep to 20 acres in average
seasons and none at all in bad ones; yet if
it is not improved by fencing, dams, rabbit-
and vermin-destruction, etc., it is not only
not productive itself, but it makes the
neighboring small holdings untenable. A
small man cannot carry on successfully with
a breeding-ground for rabbits, wild dogs
or other vermin in his neighborhood.
So the giving of a tenure sufficient to
justify a man in improving a poor holding—
sufficient also to justify a bank making
an advance for the purpose—is a measure
absolutely in the interests of the small
settler. All that has to be seen to is that
in return for this concession of an extended
lease for part of his holding, the big holder
gives back portion of his holding at an
earlier date than he need do under the old
lease. There is no doubt at all that the
measure put through by Ball, Bavin’s
Minister for Lands, did this, and did it
fairly. In all about 2,250,000 acres, which
under the old law would have been locked
up till 1943, will become available within
eight years, 500,000 acres of it in the Wal-
gett district, and some of it within one
year. And the utmost the big holder gets
in return is that his lease of the balance is
extended to 25 years at the outside. If it
were extended to 99 years, on condition of
sufficient improvement, it would be the best
thing that could happen to much of this
country.
Shall We Give Up the Mandate?
One of the handicaps under which such
places as Papua and New Guinea stagger is
misinformation published in Australia by
city gentlemen who have flitted hastily
through Rabaul or Port Moresby.
A recent visitor to those parts was F. W.
Eggleston, who was Attorney-General in
the Allancock (Vic.) Ministry. Addressing
a Melbourne audience, Mr. Eggleston sug-
gested that Australia should abandon the
New Guinea mandate, but hang on to the
trade it has built up with the Territory,
which trade might be extended “by the
judicious immigration of Asiatics with a
higher standard of living.”
Putting aside the fact that the mandate
makes the well-being of the native the first
charge on the Administration, and that im-
portation of coolies would not help in that
direction, the question arises where Mr.
Eggleston would get his coolies. The
British and Netherlands East Indies are
closed to the labor agent as far as outside
countries are concerned. Chinese are a pos-
sibility, but that one in Mr. Eggleston’s
position should be ignorant of the re-
sults of Chinese immigration to South
Africa and British Malaya, or knowing of
them should still advocate introduction of
the coolie in bulk to the Western Pacific,
is cause for astonishment.
The former representative of St. Kilda
would put New Guinea under “an inter-
national mandate.” For more than 30 years
Australia has had before its eyes the spec-
tacle of international control in the New
Hebrides. The Condominium in that group
has been one of the outstanding failures of
Pacific administration. In addition to per-
mitting the native population to drift far
toward ruin, it has proved a continual
source of dissension between French and
British. To establish a similar system in
New Guinea would be utter folly.
Australia could not give up its mandate
over New Guinea without permission from
the League of Nations. This granted, the
immediate result would be the establish-
ment of an alien, and possibly hostile, power
on the Commonwealth’s most vulnerable
flank. Assuredly not a pleasant prospect
for a country whose Attorney-General has
just told the representatives of the nations
at Geneva (some of them overcrowded and
land-hungry nations with great navies,
armies and air forces) that ‘‘it rejects the
theory that preparedness for war is the best
guarantee of peace.”
THE TRIUMPH.
“Mr. Hogan’s proposed addition to the Unemployment Tax will be the seventh increase in income tax
or taxes of that nature within 12 months.”
HOGAN: “Hooray! I’ve got another stitch from him!”


NO INVESTOR IS SAFE WITHOUT IT
How many tens of thousands of people were ruined in the 'nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
and the bad? . . n . . e
We are on the edge of a similar disaster. Already scores of companies have gone into liquidation. But no great amount of
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen?
The files and other data at the command of the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” are so complete that the companies themselves often
apply for permission to consult them.
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ 'Wild Cat' Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
No investor, great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make sure It
is ssfc* J
You need not buy the “Monthly” without testing its value. Send for a sample copy, along with 1 2 d. stamp to cover postage, an
judge whether it is not worth 22/6 a year to you.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australian banks lately agreed to let Gov-
ernment interest and other charges in London
take first bite out of any funds they have
or can get there. But they lately found that
they were in danger of neither having any nor
being able to get any. Exporters were selling
their payments in Europe to the highest
bidder, and buyers—mostly importers—were
paying up to £9 10s. per cent. (That is,
£lO9 10s. of Australian money bought £lOO
worth of money in London.) To protect
themselves and the Governments, the banks
last week issued new exchange rates, and for
the future the man who takes £lO9 to
a bank in Australia can buy £lOO in Lon-
don —if the bank has the money to spare
there; and pretty often these days it hasn’t.
Sydney “Labor Daily” has discovered
that Lang and Woodfull have attained
success by exactly the same methods
(“hard work, attention to details, courage
and the determination to stick to a consid-
ered course of action”.), and closely resemble
“You call yourself a skipper! I’m going
to make millions of runs.’’
each other in character. Still there is no
recorded instance of the cricketer having
abused a rival captain, or announced before
he went in to bat on a sticky wicket that he
was going to get millions of runs.
The political cheap-jack Lang says N. S.
Wales can rely on his doing in 1930 what he
did in 1927. This in spite of the fact that
in London, where we .sell most of our export
products, wool and other textiles have fallen
43 p.c., wheat and meat 21.5 p.c. and min-
erals 21.5 p.c. since 1927. A consignment of
each of the three that in 1927 would have
brought us £3OO would now bring us £214.
Thus Mr. Lang says, in effect, that he can
pay as much wages with £214 as he did
with £300; and there are still people who
believe him.
Spurred by Argyle’s no-confidence motion,
Vic. Premier Hogan recast his Budget,
which now provides for reductions of from
5 per cent, to 20 per cent, in Parliamentary
and public-service pay. The proposals for
another ha’penny on cheques and increased
motor registration fees and the like have
been jettisoned, and those who are to have
their salaries cut are not to pay income
tax at property rates, as was intended; other-
wise the income-tax increases first outlined
are to stand. Allowing for annual incre-
ments, the salary bill from Oct. 1 to June
30 will be £115,600 less. But it’s not going
to be easy to pass the 10 or 11 bills required
to give effect to the Budget.
Hogan has lopped £279 (IS p.c.) off his own
salary of £1551, and the £1207 paid to each
of his seven salaried colleagues will be
pruned by 14£ p.c. The levy on the £5OO
drawn by each Assemblyman will be 71 p.c..
and the Leg. Councillor’s £2OO goes down o
p.c. The Hogans will survive the no-con-
fidence motion by a majority of at least four.
The Rural Progs, will vote with the 30
Laborites.
South Aus. smiled wistfully the other day
at The Bulletin’s list of a dozen represen-
tative cos., compiled in order to show cer-
tain Labor leaders that capital really is
being called on to make some sacrifices, too.
Then a list of the 23 public cos. which had
last published balance-sheets in Adelaide was
produced, showing that 19 had paid no ordi-
nary div. at all and the other four an aver-
age of 5 p.c.
According to one lot of Federal Ministers
the Budget-balancing agreement arrived at
with the State Premiers will be carried out,
and according to another lot it won’t. Min-
isterial estimates of Sir Otto Niemeyer are
just as divergent. When it is suggested to
some of those who openly
avow themselves out of step
with Fenton and Lyons that
their obvious course is to re-
sign, they reply that they
have no intention of doing
anything of the sort. In
this queer show there is no
such thing as collective respon-
sibility for a Cabinet, and no
headship worth speaking of
since Scullin went away.
On the average, Melbourne
wholesale prices were in June,
1930, only 7 p.c. lower than
they were in June, 1927.
whereas in Britain the fall
from the average of 1927 was
22 p.c. in June, and is now
26.8 p.c. Put another way, it
took 13s. lid. in June this
year to buy in Melbourne
what 15s. bought in 1927,
whereas in Britain .it costs
only 11s. to buy now what
cost 15s. in 1927. So the man
in England who has suffered
a wage reduction of 15 p.c.
since 1927 is actually about
8 p.c. better off than the Aus-
traiian, who has not suffered any reduction
at all. That’s the difference between cutting
down the cost of living and letting the thing
alone.
Arnold Wienholt, M.L.A. for Fassiferu,
tried to get the Abattoirs Bill amended in
the direction of vetoing the appointment of
a politician to the board which is to con-
trol the meat industry in Queensland. He
obviously had the Kay-Lang affair in mind.
But even the Moore Government can’t get
away from the tradition that the political
hack should have a lien on every soft job
that is going; and Wienholt’s amendment
was defeated.
Dropping secession for the moment —and,
it is to be hoped, for good—Lovekin, the
Westralian M.L.C.. has come out against the
swindle of issuing free passes for life on
the Government railways and tramways. His
proposal is that the passes be available to
politicians during their actual tenure of
office and no longer. Westralia issues—and
arranges with other States to issue—passes
more lavishly than any other State. In
railway privileges alone the Parliamentary
deadhead costs it £8177 p.a. (at least, that
is the Commonwealth Statistician’s esti-
mate), whereas South Australia’s outlay is
£1064 and Tasmania’s £1052.
Robert Gibson, chairman of the Common-
wealth Bank, is the latest to fall into the
disfavor of the wild men of the Labor party:
he is charged with “interference,” too.
Really Gibson’s chief offence, though, _is
that he is a resolute opponent of all furtive
and other attempts to inflate the note issue.
The printing of a few million pounds’ worth
of money is so easy; only, unfortunately,
it isn’t real money, and the more you print
“Saying, in effect, that the job was useless and
that he hated to he a burden on the: taxpayers,
Herbert Brookes is retiring as Australian Commis-
sioner in New York.”
AGENT-GENERAL: “All in favor of declaring
Brookes ‘black’ signify‘ by raising one
hand. Carried unanimously.”
of it the less it is worth. Proof that
there is already too much “money” in Aus-
tralia is furnished by the fact that it isn’t
worth face value any longer: it takes £lO9
of it to exchange for £lOO of English money.
It was suggested to Premier Hill that he
should tell Senator Daly that S. Aus.
objected to that gentleman standing behind
Lang on a State political platform, Lang’s
programme being the exact opposite of what
the S. Aus. Labor Government is seeking to
effect. Hill replied that it would be im-
pudence on his part to tell Daly what he
thought of Daly’s actions, Daly being a re-
sponsible member of another Government.
Lang, who is merely Opposition-leader in
N. S. Wales, obviously doesn’t regard liim-
PULL DEVIL, PULL BAKER.
self as impudent when he tells the Federal
Ministry, not only what lie thinks of its
actions, but what further actions he expects
it to take in his interest. And the Federal
Ministry obviously doesn’t regard this as
impudence on Lang’s part.
For some mysterious reason Bill Adams
Green, political head of the Defence-
less Department, has raised the band
allowance to units having musical out-
fits from £3O to £5O per annum. Also band-
master’s allowance may now be increased,
in the case of Light Horse Brigade bands,
from £25 p.a. to £35. On the other hand,
the amount set apart for the general upkeep
of Citizen Force units has been cut by thou-
sands. Bill’s slogan seems to be: “The
maximum for wind; the minimum for actual
military training.”
Cleary is almost too sad to smile these
days, with the N.S.W. railways losing
£lO,OOO every 24 hours, but he manages it
when'iie hears somebody shouting that such
a thing as repudiation is unthinkable. Cleary
knows of cases where a railway has been
begged for and figures have been produced
to show what traffic it would get and how
it would soon pay its way. And the line
has been built with borrowed money, and
as soon as it has put the growers thereabout
on their feet they have bought a motor-truck
apiece, and the railway hasn’t been used
any more except as an occasional conveni-
ence. Of course it wasn’t repudiation. But
it couldn’t have been more deadly if it had
been.
There is no likelihood of the Mungana case
being heard this year. The writ was issued
by the Queensland Government on October
3', and Theodore and his fellow-defendants
have until Nov. 2 to enter a reply. Then the
Crown has 14 days in which to compile a
statement of claim, and another 14 days
is allowed to the defence for an answer;
next 10 days’ notice of the date of trial
is necessary. The last civil sittings of the
year begin on November 10.
Melbourne Trades Hall, which is elo-
quently opposing wage reduction, may be
forced by weight of circumstances to begin
the hated operation on itself. To help it
out Duffy, now a Commonwealth Bank direc-
tor, has offered to continue his secretaryship
for a couple of pounds a week, and it is sig-
nificant that there have been no passionate
protests (there certainly would have been
in other days) that this amounts to a viola-
tion of “union principles.” H'ard-up organisa-
tions are demanding the return of money
advanced for the building of the new wing,
and typistes, who get £5 12s. 6d. a week on
the principle of equal pay for the sexes, are
trembling in their high-heeled shoes, know-
ing that some of the union secretaries
on the premises haven’t been paid for months.
Latrobe-street may yet call in Sir Otto Nie-
mcyer to advise it what to do.
Food and groceries (46 commodities) that
would have cost 20s. in Broken Hill in July,
1914 —the last settled month before the war
- cost 49.1 p.c. more in June this year; say,
295. 9d. Yet of the three things Broken
Hill produces, zinc is worth less than in
1914, lead only a few shillings more and
silver less than one-half as much. It is
quite obvious that the Broken Hill work-
men can’t afford to work at the same rates
as in 1913-14; yet it is equally obvious
that until the costs of production are brought
down all Broken Hill can do is to pick
the eyes out of the field, and not get fat
on them. Its one hope of anything
like prosperity is a general reduction
of the cost of such things as food ana
groceries: and that means hard economies in
the railways and elsewhere, and cutting out
about one-half of all present middlemen.
W. M. Hughes allows that “we have in-
dulged in an orgy of borrowing, especially
during the last seven years”—William went
out of office in 1923—but points out that
the security includes “26,000 miles of rail-
way.” So it does; but if it were possible
for" Australia’s creditors to seize the rail-
ways, Federal and State, and offer them for
sale, the price, if any, would be determined
by the fact that they have accumulated post-
war deficits of just on 50 millions, and that
the last yeaT was the worst. Britain s canal
system was a highly profitable enterprise
until the steam-engine arrived. And now.
Some scheme of unemployment insurance
will be recommended by the select committee
of both Yic. Houses which has been inquiring
into the matter. The non-Labor members
are likely to urge that establishment should
be deferred till the depression passes, so
that there may be time to build a fund
without any undue drain on it.
“Good enough for the cows! ’ somebody
replied when a N.S.W. election speaker re-
ferred to the losses made by employers as
proof that it wasn’t only the workers who
had to make sacrifices. Unfortunately the
cows who have made the big losses have been
mostly the cows who have been supplying
the worker and his family with milk. Lhe
man who hasn’t been hurt is the man who
put his money into Government stock, mort-
gages and fixed deposits, and didn t do a
thing to help the worker and mostly employed
nobody except a typist. The man who has
suffered tvorst is the one who put his money
into some labor-employing industry or other,
and has seen in many cases the whole lot.
disappear. Doubtless the worker who then
says “Good enough for the cow!” doesn t
know any better. But until he does know
better, ought he to have a vote?
One in every 12 of the population of S.
Australia is now receiving rations; and that
must be about a record for any country in
the world. It is S. Australia’s _ bad luck
that rations don’t fall from the skies; some
body has to be taxed to pay them, and the
heavier the tax grows the more people are
thrown out in order to pay it, and the more
people thrown out the bigger the demand
for rations and the fewer people left to
supply them; and nobody knows what is
going' to happen. But above it all rises the
cry “Hands off wages!” The hungry man
“The Queensland Government has raised the betting
tax to a shilling a ticket in the paddock.”
“Id’s almost enough ter make a man abbly
vor a bick-an’-shofel chob!”
who says “Turkey or nothing!” is a fool.
The man who isn’t hungry himself but
shouts the same advice in a hungry man’s
ear is worse than a fool.
Even stalwart Freetraders begin to
remark in Britain that Freetrade was doubt-
less a good thing under the circumstances
of the day, but only in the same sense as the
long-bow and the clothyard arrow combined
to make the greatest of all weapons under
the circumstances of the day. England was
practically invincible when the learning of
archery was compulsory, and the young
student frequently began his course at the
age of seven, when no adjacent nation took
the art seriously. In the same way the idea
of encouraging, by Freetrade, other nations
to grow raw materials for British factories
seemed to do well so long as other nations
didn’t take their own factories seriously.
When they got ideas about scientific Protec-
tion it had much the same effect as the
musket had on the long-bow.
Lang, anyhow, has courage, impudence,
hide—anything you like to call it. In the
midst of his bluff nothing seems to discon-
cert him. His opponents can bowl him out:
he merely looks round at the stumps,
straightens them, gives them a tap and
resumes batting. “You were out then,
somebody yells. “Out be damned! Lang
replies. “"Why, I knocked him for six.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
• “Nakhoda”: Australians talking to the
Dutch naval visitors have been puzzled by
their frequent references to “India.” .But
it is quite a mistake to think that British
India is, meant; “India” to every patriotic
Netherlander means the Dutch East Indies,
and has done so for 300 years. Of late
the poetic word “Insulinde” has been intro-
duced, but it has failed to catch on. The
native seamen speak of the Dutchmen as
“orang Blanda,” the second word being a
corruption of “Hollander.” It is somewhat
unflattering to our national pride to learn
that they speak of the Australian as
“Blanda Ingglis,” or English Dutchman. To
the home-staying Javanese all Europeans
were Dutchmen of one kind or another, and
they are only just beginning to distinguish
between the different breeds.
IN THE BREACH OR THE OBSERVANCE.
DAD: “I’ve watched him, and I’d say he was a young man of promise.”
BETTY ( eligible ): “Well, that gives a girl a chance either way, doesn’t it?"
“Piecrust”: Test-match details, as cabled
round the waiting world, are evidently
closely studied by the rising generation. The
other evening the youngster next door
arrived home in company with a battered
dustbin lid. His mother scolded him
sharply, evidently suspecting petty larceny,
but he reassured her, a trifle condescendingly.
“Ginger Dick broke a record to-day,” he
explained. “He hit one clean into the
brickfields. And when anybody does things
like that in cricket, you have to pinch a bit
of the wicket for a sowveneer.”
# * * *
“Jarge”: We were waiting for a Sydney
Zoo tram at Spit Junction, when my young-
ster, who has just learned to read words of
one syllable, managed to decipher the notice:
“Wait here for tram to Spit.” After that
even the monkeys took second place in his
interest.
:!: * *
“Oakagee”: Most towns within a reason-
able distance of civilisation make some pro-
gress in a century, but there are exceptions.
One of them is Kingston, Rottnest Island,
which was actually gazetted as long ago as
3831, being among the first half-dozen
places in Westralia to attain that dis-
tinction. But somehow it never got beyond
being a town site on paper. Rottnest hasn’t
a town of its own yet, although it has owned
a prison and a seaside. Government House
in the past, and possesses a Government
pub in the present.
* * * *
“Six and Eight”: Unless the Victorian
criminal law differs from the Ma State
variety, those Melbourne Show officials took
a chance if they really announced that if a
stolen model were returned no questions
would be asked (B. l/10/’3O). Some years
ago the manager-CMM-editor (he was also most
of the staff) of a N.S.W. provincial news-
paper published an advertisement regarding
a stolen article which led to his being sum-
moned for a breach of a section of the
Crimes Act. That section provides that
“Whosoever advertises a reward for the re-
turn of any property stolen, and uses words
purporting that no questions will be asked,
shall be liable to a fine, of £50.” His quite
unwitting offence cost him £2, the alternative
being 14 days.
* * * *
“Mungo”: There is another way of pro-
nouncing “Premier” which doesn’t figure in
the comprehensive collection culled by “Bill
O’C.” (B. S/10/’3O). This is “Pre-meer.”
Webster gives it as a legitimate variant from
the more common usages, adding that it was
formerly heard often and is still used by
some, the second syllable having the same
sound as in the Turkish “Vizier.”
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: There is a boarder
in a house at Darlinghurst (Sydney) who
lias barnacled in the same back room for
48 years, during which time 19 different
landladies have fried his morning steak,
lie first arrived as a boarder as a youth
of 17, and all efforts to shift him have failed.
The landlady with w r hom he had longest
acquaintance presided over the establishment
for 11 years. Another lasted seven years,
and, having sold out advantageously, wanted
to take the long-distance tenant with her, a
life-lodger being a possession much trea-
sured by a hash-tower proprietress; but he
firmly refused to budge. Last year, when
the, place changed hands three times, his
grip remained unshaken. The latest buyer
has remodelled the establishment purely as
a residential, but, by special arrangement,
this champion boarder still has his meals
supplied. The fellow-boarder with whom he
is most friendly is the cat, a remote descend-
ant of the cat that was there 48 years ago.
* * * *
“P.X.” : AVhen he came back from chasing
two men who he rather thought didn’t own
the motor-car they were riding in, Duncan,
mounted constable of Tarrawingee, which is
out in the far nor’-west of N. S. Wales, had
had an adventure that he might challenge
any brother-cop to match. From the usual
information received, Duncan first made for
Quinyambi, which is a mere 105 miles from
Tarrawingee. At Quinyambi he was told
that the birds had flown over the border
into S. Australia : and when his own police
car jibbed in the desert, he borrowed a buck-
board from an out-station and continued the
pursuit. The birds were found —they were
camped, having run out of petrol somewhere
about 320 miles from the nearest bowser;
but when Duncan invited them back they
told him he was only a private citizen m
S. Aus. unless he had a warrant. In the
end, however, they agreed to go with him
if he would give them a lift. But as the
man with the buckboard had gone off with
a message to the nearest station and 'hadn’t
turned up again, Duncan was in new diffi-
culties. However, he had a brain-wave.
Making for the vermin-proof fence which
runs down for 150 miles from the point
where Queensland, S.A. and N. S. Wales
meet, he found one of the fence-riders and
borrowed a couple of camels. Harnessing
the camels to the broken-down and suppos-
edly stolen car, Duncan sat on the bonnet
and guided the beasts with a piece of rope
and a length of old hose; and thus, with
the two birds seated in the car, he drove
triumphantly into N. S. Wales and so to
Quinyambi station.
“X.S.”: The Victorian police never be-
lieved that the recently-captured Richard
Buckley had left the State, despite persis-
tent statements to that effect in certain
sensation-mongering newspapers. Three
years ago a plainclothes policeman was con-
fident that he had seen Buckley in Bourke-
street. A young detective named Lacey was
assigned the job of running down the fugi-
tive, and devoted himself to it exclusively.
Dressed as a woman, he haunted all sorts of
SPEAKING TERMS.
“Do you know my old lady?”
“Only to talk about.”
dubious places and familiarised himself with
the routine of men suspected of being m
touch with Buckley. Watching one suspect
or another by day and night, he eventually
traced his man to the innocent-looking subur-
ban cottage in Moonee Ponds. For nine
months Buckley had lived the life of a
recluse there, tended by a girl said to be
liis grand-daugliter. He was never seen
abroad by day, and a grey beard and mous-
tache effectually transformed him. A strik-
ing feature of the case was the complete
loyalty to the wanted man of all who
had dealings with him. Right up to the
last rush Lacey was working on supposition
and his own unaided instinct.
* * * *
“Aram”: The question has been raised in
Melbourne whether anyone has a legal
claim to the £SOO
reward offered in 1923
for the capture of
Richard Buckley, and
the opinion of official-
dom (which may or
may not be good law)
is that its collection
is barred, like that of
any other debt, by the
Statute of Limita-
tions. For murder
itself, and indeed
crime generally, there
is of course no S. of
1.. And yet there, is
one curious time
restriction when it
comes to defining a
murder. The victim
must die, it is laid
down by English law,
within a year and a
day of the actual date
of attack to permit of
his assailant being
convicted of the worst
crime in the calendar.
How long ago the
period was fixed, and
why the extra day
was thrown in, and
whether the question
has ever arisen in
comparatively modern
times, are matters on
which present writer
has no knowledge.
“Kerys”: The office was pursuing its
usual peaceful routine when the door swung
open to admit an indignant-looking dame
clutching a serviceable umbrella. She made
straight for the office sheik, who immediately
became engrossed in a column of figures.
“You needn’t pretend you don’t see me,
said the lady, bringing her weapon down
on the youth’s back. “You know well enough
why I’ve come. Carting another girl to the
pictures a week after you got engaged to
rny Thelma ! Take that!” He took it, but
the row brought the chief from his office
to investigate. “My good woman, he said,
sizing up the situation promptly, you. can t
make this commotion here.” . * Oh, can t 1 r
cut in the intruder. “Don’t you talk. I
know you. And if your wife had the spirit
of a mouse she’d give you a bit of her um-
brella, too.” Here followed a circumstan-
tial recital of some of the chief’s recent delin-
quencies,. to which the office listened with
keen interest, while the original object of
the lady’s attention contrived to slip away.
He told u.s later that he had terminated his
engagement with Thelma, who had n ?t
waited to hear his story of a country cousin
who had come to town unexpectedly., /here
is an impression that it was the chief who
convinced him that a woman with the assertive-
ness, vocabulary and grasp of detail exhi-
bited by Thelma’s parent was not a sate
mother-in-law for any man.
“Spadassin” : N.S.W. law lays down penal-
ties for the carrying of a concealed arm with
a barrel, exclusive of other parts, not over
nine inches long. One result is that the
shops are full of automatic pistols of a
German make which have barrels half an
inch over the prescribed length and are in-
genuously sold as “saloon pistols.” In half
a dozen shooting cases in Sydney during
the last 12 months a pistol of this kind has
been used. It can be carried with impunity,
whereas possession of a shorter and probably
far less deadly weapon entails heavy fine
and imprisonment.
“MacFlecknoe”: There is a picturesque
old hermit miner at the foot of Dangar Falls
(N.S.W.). He came from the Palmer (Q.)
diggings to New England some 30 years ago
to look for the lost reef of the Melrose mine,
and the quest still occupies him. Once a
week the old man walks 12 miles to the
mailman, who carries him into Uralla tor
provisions; in the afternoon he returns on
foot. He is on excellent terms with the
local fauna, especially the .sugar-squirrels,
which feed from his hands, and his favorite
reading is Euclid and French plays.
* * * *
“Farleigh” : Ox-tails and kangaroo-tails are
gelatinous if appetising things, as most
people are aware, but' there is a certain
gruesomeness in the item cabled from Glas-
gow, on the authority of a veterinary inspec-
tor, that a consignment of this sort of raw
material intercepted on its way to a local
manufacturer was furnished by animals not
usually regarded as being in the culinary
class, such as cats, rats and monkeys The
product, it seems, is “used for stiffening
jujubes and Turkish delight.” This last
delicacy, of which I believe the native name
is “rahat lakhoum,” used to be entirely a pro-
duct of Constantinople, at a period when
that city also maintained vast hordes ot
pariah dogs as street scavengers. The Glas-
gow disclosure raises a horrid doubt it
there was not a direct connection between
the two items.
* * * *
“Lex”: The papers are always reporting
judicial outbursts like this:
The deliberate, direct and atrocious perjury that
has been committed in these cases must have shocked
the moral sense of the community. It is appalling.
The magistrate who was responsible for the
above helped to explain why perjury is pre-
valent by his subsequent action. Instead ot
committing the defendants as perjurers, he
fined them as gamblers. -Uncertainty as
regards punishment is the mother of all
crime. In Australia criminals know what
to expect if found out —always provided the
crime isn’t perjury. Some forms of perjury
are literally encouraged—as in divorce;
others are regarded with tolerance as
when an accused perjures himself in his own
defence. It is different when a friend sup-
ports the accused’s lies. I defended a sheep-
stealer once, and a misguided neighbor in-
sisted on entering the box to buttress the
alibi. He left the court some hours later
to begin a sentence of five years for per-
jury. The indictment was drawn up, and
he was put in the dock, tried, convicted and
sentenced literally before the jury had re-
turned with a verdict against my client. He
had had the misfortune to strike a Judge
with an impartial dislike of perjury m all
its variegated manifestations.
LEAVE IT TO LANG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Leave it to Lang,’ shouted a voice -when Premier
Bavin was pointing out that it was utterly impossible
•for the State to borrow money at present.”
Would you witness a miracle by a magician?
Leave it to Lang!
A sorcerer he, not a mere politician,
All clatter and clang.
The methods he uses, the spells he composes,
Are wholly his own, but the powers he
discloses
Are those of Aladdin or Merlin —or Moses.
Leave it to Lang!
Would you see us once more blithely borrow-
ing millions?
Leave it to Lang.
And joy-bells shall peal, and exultant
carillons;
And croakers go hang.
Here’s a lad with a lamp (and a genie to
tend it)
Who’ll find where there’s money and make
people lend it,
Who’ll rake in the rhino by handfuls—and
spend it.
Leave it to Lang.
The price for our wheat and our wool shall
be doubled.
Leave it to Lang.
He faces the future serene and untroubled,
Sans tremor or pang.
With him the good times will return, ho
engages,
For these are the things that his programme
presages:
Not a minute more work, not a penny less
wages!
Leave it to Lang.
Must Budgets be balanced and ledgers
adjusted ?
Leave it to Lang.
The fainthearts who tell you our credit is
busted
He’ll batter and bang.
He’ll show such a notion is utter flapdoodle,
That Niemeyer’s a schemer and Scullin’s a
noodle.
One wave of his wand will bring lashings of
boodle.
Leave it to Lang!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mulford”: The Adelaide manager of
a big land and estate agency was
busily engaged with his Melbourne office
auditor when one of the staff dashed
in with, “Mr. , have you heard
that Cragford won the Metropolitan?” The
boss nodded, and as the officer withdrew the
auditor casually remarked: “Wonderful,
isn’t it, the interest Australians take in
football?” The manager, who was once
secretary to the local Tattersall’s Club,
gravely acquiesced, and work on the audit
was resumed.
*s' H* iji
“Captain Reece” : The visit of the Nether-
lands squadron to Australia has resulted in
some criticism of the number of colored
ratings carried on the ships. In this
regard the Hollanders differ in no way
from other nations with subject races;
the Indian marine includes color in
its personnel, even the commissioned ranks
having been opened to Indian natives since
the war. The R.N. itself employs colored
ratings on such stations as the West African,
where Kroo boatmen have been carried on
H.M. ships for many a long day. The
Geranium, the Australian naval survey ship,
has had abo. hands during her work in
Northern Australian waters, and there are
colored folk in Uncle Sam’s navy, as the
Yankee naval visit to these onrts in 1925
demonstrated.
* * * x
“Elderly Infant”: Not since the days when
a conviction of sin was first brought to my
budding mind have I had such an edifying
moral lesson as when I strode into Sydney
G.P.O. to buy three tuppenny stamps. My
errors of omission and commission in relation
to the Post Office confronted me in the
form of a collection of envelopes arranged
in a large frame. There was the one
I wrote in such pale ink that the sorter
couldn’t read it. There was the cover of
the epistle I addressed to a chap in Dowling-
street whose number I couldn’t remember.
The Post Office couldn’t remember it either,
and some serf of mine (I’m a taxpayer)
inscribed beneath this exhibit a remark to
the effect that Dowling-strcet is a mile and
a half long and that numbers ought to be
included in addresses. Then there was the
shell or cuticle of the two ouid I posted to
Jim Bones. Postie seems to have found
the address all right, but Jim had moved
out the day before, so that the envelope went
FASHION NOTES—AND FOLLOWS.
“The new frocks cling tightly to a girl’s figure.”
“Yes. I’ve been told they’re much more masculine than last season’s.”
to the Dead Letter Office and the two quid
went west. A footnote to this exhibit sug-
gests that I should have inscribed on the
envelope, “If undelivered within seven days
please return to E. Infant, No. 15 Barley-
corn Flats, Pinky-lane, off Blotto-street,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia, British Empire, The World,
Again, there was the missive I addressed
to Miss Dolly Dimples, who stood so high
in my estimation that I wrote her moniker
and abode right at the top of the envelope,
abreast of the stamp, and the cancellation
mark produced an ensemble resembling a
barbed-wire entanglement. The legend to
this one says, “The automatic canceller has
the last word.” To complete my abasement,
in the centre of the symposium there are
three typed envelopes so lavishly and
circumstantially addressed and so beautifully
embellished with last wills and testaments
concerning their return that I wonder the
Post Office had the heart to keep them. These
are described as “the sort of letters the Post
Office likes to handle.” Needless to say I was
not the author of those works of art, but
the rest of my life is going to be devoted to
emulation of them.
* * X
‘‘Six and Eight”: So church people in Vic-
toria had to pay a fancy price for an
allotment on which they had in pure error
erected a building costing over £5OOO (B.
24/9/’3O) ! That sort of thing couldn’t happen
in the Ma State. An Act passed in 1922
provides that in cases where an encroach-
ment was not intentional and did not arise
from negligence the land encroached on may
be acquired at the unimproved capital value,
and in all other cases at three times that
value.
«j* H* »5»
“Montgolfier”: Whatever other lessons
may emerge from the disaster that destroyed
RlOl, it is made clearer
than ever before that there
is practically no hope of
escape from a hydrogen-
filled dirigible if anything
goes wrong. The Americans,
who have a monopoly of the
supply of the non-inflam-
mable gas helium, obviate
that risk by using helium in
all their airships. To make
RlOl as safe as possible
heavy-oi] Diesel engines were
used, but as these had to be
started by petrol motors the
element of safety was not
greatly increased. What
exactly took place after
RlOl struck the ground can
only be guessed, but it seems
clear from the accounts of
both onlookers and survivors
that the whole of the gas-
bags exploded a second or
two after the crash.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sixenate” : A Sydney magistrate hav-
ing handed out three months, the aggrieved
recipient, a female, came back with
an unprintable oath, adding “I hope
you die in your sleep!” Whereupon
the Bench remarked crisply: “Six months;
and if there is any more impudence
from you it will be more.” Follow-
ing a similar incident years ago, Paddy
Bourke, one of the best-known Costs char-
acters of his day, pushed through a success-
ful appeal. His argument was that sen-
tence had been passed, and could not be
varied without reopening the case; if the
extra term was for contempt of court that
fact should have been expressly stated and
entered in the records.
X *:* * X
“Lao-dah”: The allotments at the town
of Stuart, Central Australia, wffiich re-
cently passed out of the possession of the
Stradbrokes and explorer Stefannson “for
non-payment of rent” were taken up more
or less as a joke, and probably the
parties concerned had forgotten all about
them long ago. Still, it sometimes pays to
hold on even to such casual acquisitions.
Some 30 years ago a whole district in North
Borneo was graciously presented to a British
cable company by the Chartered Co. which
administered the country. About the size of
Tasmania it was covered with dense jungle,
contained several large rivers, was popu-
lated by warlike tribes of headhunters and
had never been explored. In the first flush
of possessive pride, one director sug-
gested turning it into a closer-settlement area
for pensioned cable officers. Interest in it
gradually lapsed, and the rent of one cocoa-
nut a year having fallen into arrears and
no developmental work having been under-
taken, it reverted to the Government. Pre-
sently the rubber boom commenced, and its
potential value became almost incalculable.
❖ ❖ * ❖
“Go Ahead” : It will be a hundred years
next May since the first steam-driven ship
THE FAILURE.
FIRST LIGHT: “I believe your husband thought your new dress looked rather decent.”
SECOND LIGHT: “Yes; I was afraid it would.”
entered Port Jackson. This was the Sophia
Jane, with Lieut. Biddulph, part-owner, in
command, 150 days out from London. A
paddle-wheel vessel of 256 tons, she used to
make a consistent eight knots on the run
between Sydney and Newcastle, into which
trade she was put soon after her arrival. A
month or two later a locally-built steamer,
the Surprise, began running to Parramatta
at a speed of 4J knots. The pioneer of Aus-
tralian coasting steamers was the William
the Fourth, which was launched at Clarence
Town, on the Williams River, on October
22.1831, and tow 7 ed to Sydney to receive her
engine. The Puffing Billy, as she was
popularly known, traded to the Hunter and
on the coast of N.S.W. for many years.
* * * *
“Jobber” : A recent mention of the Sultan
of Johore takes me back to the days when I
was in charge of the “II to I” ledger in the
bank where his nibs, trading as. Ibrahim
and Co., transacted financial business. I
shall never forget his mouth or rather his
teeth. On ordinary days they were nothing
out of the w 7 ay, but there were times when
he dazzled the eye with a special set, having
a diamond in each alternate tooth of the top
row. I always suspected that he reserved
those for the days when he did the Block.
x x x *
“D.”: What were “the law’s delays” in
Shakspeare’s time compared with ours?
The Tahiti-Greycliffe case has cost £25,000
so far, and nothing material has been settled.
The Massy will case lasted 43 days. The
address of one counsel alone took: 42 hours.
Costs totalled £lO,OOO, and when the loser
has paid she will be penniless. Uneconomic
law benefits prominent “silks” and solicitors
just as an uneconomic wage benefits certain
sheltered workers, and it is ruinous for the
smaller legal fry for the same reason that
sky-high wages mean unemployment for the
rank and file of the proletariat. The effect
of a 43-day suit is to put all but the very
rich in terror of litigation. Unfortunately,
nothing can be done about it. The. Bar
Council and Law Institute have no discip-
linary powers in respect of barristers and
attorneys to whom time is no object. And if
they had, to expect them to come between a
lawyer • and his ptey would be rather like
expecting Jock Garden to chide a miner for
asking the full basic wage for a 30-liour week.
:!: X X X
“Uramao”: When the whaler N. T. Nilsen
Alonso, drawing 32ft. Bin. forward and 34ft.
Sin. aft, berthed at Queen’s Wharf, Hobart,
in 1897, a Bulletin par. claimed that there
were only two other wharves in Australasia
that could accommodate her. those being in
Sydney Harbor. Windy Wellington (M.L.)
stood up to dispute this, mentioning that
Pipitea Wharf has a depth of 46ft. at the
outer end and 36ft. at the inner. The other
day the whaler Kosmos, the largest mercan-
tile vessel to thrash Maoriland waters, drew
into Pipitea Wharf drawing a record draught
of 35ft. llin. aft. ; her forward draught being
28ft. The leviathan is carrying 18,000 tons
of fuel oil for her own and her nine chasers’
requirements between here and Panama.
* * ❖
“P. Ink”: As remarked recently by the
Melbourne Showman, the “Red Flag” dirge
isn’t very suggestive of revolt. Jim Connell's
words are vigorous enough, but the tune is
indescribably doleful—it is “Maryland, my
Maryland,” once beloved of slaveowners.
There must be something the matter with a
movement, professedly idealistic, that is so
poverty-stricken in songs. “The Interna-
tionale” is the only other Labor chantj 7 1
have heard sung, outis'ide some I.W.W.
blasphemies, and it plunges into bathos in
its refrain: “ ’Tis the final conflict, Let each
stand in his place; The International
SoviET Shall be the human race.” There
must he a dozen composers and fifty versi-
' fiers in Sydney alone who could provide
better words and music than the Comrades
at present have to put up with. I suggest
that the A.L.P. or the A.C.T.TJ. should
put up a prize and hold a competition.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Melbourne crowd’s antipathy to
the police even extends to the lady officer
of the law. In Carlton recently one of the
feminine cops accosted a
girl wanted on a charge
of vagrancy. The girl’s
male escort threw the in-
truder to the ground and
in the approved manner
kicked her in the stom-
ach. Approximately 250
people looked on at the
outrage. Yet, judging by
the success of Al Jolson’s
latest, at least 200 of them have a prefer-
ence for pictures dealing with mother-love. ■
-!- *l* -i- *•*
“P. Penitent” : The Coleman report having
been handed to Scullin and Moloney, there is
said to be an apprehensive feeling in Aus-
tralia House. Some funny things certainly go
on there. The Intelligence Section (christened
doubtless by some forgotten humorist) was
run in my time (three years ago) by a Scot
who had never seen Australia. The then
High Commissioner used to sign his name
on staff notices just “Cook,” as is the prero-
gative of peers of the realm. In those days
the place had quite a military atmosphere.
The accountant was Colonel Whosis, the
Il.C.’s private secretary Major Whosat, and
so on. One official who was only a lieu-
tenant grew tired of being addressed as mere
Mister—which is all the title the rank car-
ries—-so he promoted himself by adding a
pip and became Captain Soandso.
•;! v H*
“Fernie”: M'aoriland, like Australia, is
learning to distrust the wisdom of submitting
cases arising out of motor accidents to juries.
Myers, C..L, sitting in the Appeal Court
recently, had before him for review a motor
collision case, a claim for damages in which
the defendant was a Chinese market gar-
dener. Against the evidence and against the
Judge’s summing up the jury found for the
plaintiff. The G.J. remarked that everybody
knew that the real defendant in such cases
was an insurance co. (insurance by motorists
against accident risks has been compulsory
in M.L. since 1928), and there was every
inducement for juries to gratify their com-
passion for a plaintiff at the expense of the
real defendant, regardless of the facts. But
where a jury’s finding was clearly against
the weight of evidence it was the duty of
the Appeal Court to see that justice was
done. The Appeal Court in this case had
been asked to grant a new trial or to give
judgment for the defendant, and it unani-
mously chose the latter alternative.
*** * •
' “Pipards": At a gathering of ornitholo-
gists in Brisbane it was complained that the
Italians had brought to Australia some of
their bad habits of killing birds wholesale
and eating them. Small birds, presumably,
are meant, such as, even if they were not
protected or there were no reason for pro-
tecting them, the average Australian or
Briton would disdain to try to make a
meal on. It is a matter in which the frugal
Latin races have always differed essentially
from the Saxon ones. In France, particu-
larly, various of the feathered tribes nobody
would dream of shooting in England—unless
it were a boy with a catapult—provide
material for sport of a sort, and, of course,
for food, too. Within bounds it may not
altogether be a bad habit.
x * *
“Lao-dah”: The case of a murderer being
married at Fremantle Gaol and hanged next
day was outdone in grisliness recently in
a Chinese prison. A murderer was hanged,
then buried, and then married. This was
done at the request of the girl’s parents, and
was in accordance with “oid custom,” which
provides that couples affianced in babyhood
may be subsequently united even if one of
the parties has become a corpse, the object
being to secure the marriage settlement.
From the female’s point of view the cere-
mony is a sentence of imprisonment. . She
is at once wife and widow, and for a widow 7
to remarry means social ostracism.
TO ROSE OF THE TALKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One supposes, ’mid the roses,
Every rose
That uncloses, dreams or dozes,
Buds or blows,
Could its muted petals murmur,
To the brown bees droning low
Like as not would coyly whisper
“Spare me days, you sheiks are slow!”
One supposes, one supposes,
One supposes so!
One supposes you, ’mid roses,
Pictured Rose!
(Holy Moses! How she proses
Through her nose !)
Ah, those lips, so like rose-petals,
Do they always murmur low
Gems of Hollywooden wisdom,
“Lay ahf, big boy! Okay, bo”?
One supposes, one supposes,
One supposes so!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


AS IN THE DAYS OF OLD.
COMRADE GEORGE: “Jack Lang means to have the skins of our enemies.”
THE ORATOR: “I thank you, good people. All shall eat and drink on my score; and I will apparel them all in one livery, that they may agree like brothers, and
worship me their lord. — “Second. Part of King Henry the Sixth.” Act IV, Scene 2.


g
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid
by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER T.IFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity. „
1 ‘ GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Prime Minister’s medical adviser in
London is Dr. Isaac Jones, a graduate of
Melbourne University. After serving in the
war he settled in Bullopolis and soon built
up a thriving practice. He started as a
schoolteacher at Eaglchawk.
T. R. Bavin, the N.S.W. Premier, who is
standing by the agreement made with the
other Australian Governments, while J. T.
Lang, the Opposition leader, is for repudiat-
ing it, had as good a political training as
any man could desire. The son of one of
the eloquent heads of the Methodist Church,
Tom Bavin won first-classes and honors at
Sydney Uni., chiefly through his vast indus-
try. Like late Chief Justice Cullen he at
one time had ideas of becoming a Law Pro-
N.S.W. Premier BAVIN.
fessor; but he caught Edmund Barton’s eye,
and that first Prime Minister of Australia
made him his secretary instead. It was a
job he revelled in; the machinery of the
Commonwealth was just being started, and
Bavin gave his chief great help in the arduous
work. Thus he early established-a reputation
as a sound Constitutional lawyer ; and The
Bulletin remembers that when it had need
to consult counsel on an abstruse Constitu-
tional matter in 1904, it was to the then
little known T. R. Bavin it turned, after
considering the qualifications of many. Par-
liament did not see him till 1917. He is 56,
as tremendously in earnest as ever he was,
and he has never got over the habit of let-
ting his opponents annoy him. Frith has
captured him in this mood.
An unusual combination of sailor, parson
and poet was the Rev. Sydney Glanville
Fielding, who died in Sydney last week. His
father was the first traffic manager of N.S.W.
railways. Fielding ran away to sea as a boy
of 12,’ and collected his mate’s certificate
before he changed over to sky-piloting. He
was a writer of sea-verses, and published a
book or two.
The death of W. A. Halse Rogers, Senior
Crown Prosecutor of N. S. Wales, was a
blow to the State. He was a brother of
the Supreme Court Judge, and would have
made a first-class Judge himself. N.S.W.
has had no prosecutor since C. G. Wade who
combined such ability with a judicial mind.
He began his career as a country solicitor,
and only joined the Common Law side of
the Justice Department eight years ago.
W. R. Thomas, one of the men who
worked with U.S.A. President Hoover in
Australia —he was always “Hail Columbia”
Hoover here —now runs a little farm at
Mundubbera, in the Maryborough district of
Queensland. In those days he was Bewick.
Moreing’s chief mining surveyor, with head-
quarters on the Murchison (W.A.). Thomas
remembers Hoover as a genial youngster
with a tigerish capacity for work and also
a tigerish enjoyment of a frolic afterwards.
Thomas himself went to Cue from Broken
Hill, where he had been the first mining sur-
veyor of the Broken Hill Prop.
Josiah Symon, now 84, has taken off his
coat to the Westralian secessionists, and has
had his most sprightly correspondence for
years. He is the only man left who was
in the front rank of the framers of the Con-
stitution. The drafting committee consisted
of Barton, John Downer and R. E. O’Connor,
all long dead; Deakin was Barton’s lieu-
tenant in debate; Kingston was the president
and R. C. Baker chairman of committees.
Symon was chairman of the very important
judiciary committee, and might have been
part of the first High Court had he wished.
He had been Attorney-General of S. Aus.
as far back as 1881.
John Gilchrist, who died last week, aged
83, was the third son of that John Gilchrist
who founded the Sydney shipping firm of
Gilchrist and Alexander a century ago. He
was born at the family place in Macleay-
street —long since covered with blocks of
flats—and went to Harrow when he was 12.
On his return to Sydney he entered the
family business, left it to become an indentor
on his own account, and finished his career
as a stockbroker. He was one of the first
numbers of the Union Club, a founder of
the Sydney Yacht Squadron, and the first
owner of Meteor. Society and the clubs
had seen nothing of him since the death
of his wife, who was a Chisholm, of Wollo-
gorang, 20 years ago.
John Crisp, the author of “Break o’ Day,”
The Bulletin’s next serial, is a lawyer who
finds it hard to settle down to his law.
Born in Dunedin (M.L.) 53 years ago, he
wars educated at Lawrence, the mining town
in Central Otago which sprang up during
the great, gold rush to famous Gabriel’s
Gully. He graduated at Otago Uni., served
in France with the Ist Wellington Batt.,
and after the Armistice was sent on to the
Railway Division. When the Belgian rail-
ways went back to the civilians, Crisp
decided to see a bit of London, and started
freelance press work. The “Daily Mail”
welcomed him, and he was busy till the
South called again. He tried then to break
from the pen, but it held him ; and readers
of his “Break o’ Day” will be very glad
it did. For there are a couple of as fine
characters in this yarn as in any Australian
novel thus far written.
Thomas Thompson, who died at Summer
Hill last week, was probably the oldest
native-born Sydneyite in the world when he
passed out. He first saw the light in the
neighborhood of the Rocks in 1838, a year
before young Henry Parkes arrived and
described N. S. Wales as “far more wicked”
than he had “considered it possible for any
place to be.” Young Thompson was appren-
ticed to a coachbuilder shortly after the gold
rushes started, built Sydney’s first hansom
cab, made a small fortune, put it into the
liquor business, and became Pitt-street’s
leading wine-ancV-spirit merchant. Harry
Moses, the old-time cricketer, went into
partnership with him.
N. S. Wales ex-Governor Lord Beauchamp
has been thoroughly enjoying his stay, in
Sydney: he has mixed the social functions
he couldn’t avoid and the few he didn’t want
to avoid with the surfing and the other out-
door delights which have made him almost a
youngster again. Frith found him halfway
between one of his social functions and his
Lord BEAUCHAMP caught between duty
and pleasure.
Bondi costume. Incidentally, the clothes
on his upper half are understood to have
some reference to the fact that the Earl is,
among other things, Lord Warden of the
Cinque Torts.
Archbishop Kelly, back from the Eucharis-
tic Congress, took over his parish in Sydney
last week; and, to the disappointment of
his flock, there still was no Cardinal’s hat
on his head. Dr. Kelly, who reached 80 last
February, went on from Italy to his native
Wexford, and declares that the good is left
Archbishop KELLY comes home.
in Ireland and most of the bad lias gone.
In Italy (where he spent most of his work-
ing life" before he came on to Australia) he
found that Mussolini has almost abolished
unemployment; but, he _ added, you must
remember that the Italian can live very
frugally. Which suggests that if Luigi howled
for “Turkey or nothing!” it would in many
cases be nothing, Mussolini or no Mussolini.
T. J. (“Ted”) O’Shea, who died suddenly
in Brisbane last week at 70. was for many
years head of one of Queensland’s foremost
legal firms, founded by himself and his
brother, P. J. O’Shea. Apart from the law-
lie had many commercial interests, and
sat in the Leg. Council for the last
seven year’s of its existence. Like most
Irishmen he was keenly interested in
horses and cattle. At one time he owned
a few racehorses, but he never showed the
interest in the Queensland turf which has
always marked his brother and partner. The
latter was in Sydney at the spring meeting
when the nows arrived, and at once took
aeroplane to Brisbane, in addition to scratch-
ing his horses entered for the current Q.T.C.
meeting. “Ted” was a noted cross-examiner
in police-court practice, but never made any
enemies because of that.
Fred H. Stewart, the much-paragraphed
Sydney motor-omnibus proprietor, is the
most notable of the new men carrying, the
Nationalist banner in the N.S.W. elections.
Stewart’s strong suits are Commerce,
church, charity and cold tea. The last
three were already in evidence when he
entered the Government railways as a
cleaner 30 years ago. His practice then
was to put every spare sixpence in a box;
as they accumulated they were given to
charity. The coins he retained have spun
well for him. lie is only 45.
Anthony Cumming, for 22 years Queens-
land’s Government Printer, is shortly to
retire at 70. Born in Scotland, he learned
the printing trade before lie came to Sydney
to inculcate his characteristic methods in the
Government Printing Office. In 190 S he
took over the Queensland P.O. and reformed
it out of all recognition. He earned some
criticism by running the office as a business
concern in competition with private firms,
bnt went on his way unheeding to make his
department one of the most efficient and
financially successful in Australia.
Dr. Harriet Clisby, who has been keeping
her 100th birthday at Geneva, is a far-away
link with the beginnings of S. Aus. She
arrived at Adelaide with her parents in
1837, the year after the province was pro-
claimed, and lived in a mud hut for the first
few months. The girl grew up bent on be-
coming a doctor, and got some elemen-
tary instruction in medicine in Adelaide, but
she" had to return to England, and to quit
England for America, before her ambition
was gratified, mid-Victorian Britain being
hostile to the idea of the lady-medico. Dr.
Clisby practised for 30 years in Boston
before returning to Europe.
C. B. H'igginson, news of whose death has
been received from Papua, was a notable
figure in the local civil service until his
retirement on pension some years ago; he
served as Gold Warden and R.M. in several
districts. Born on the Barcoo River, and
educated at Brisbane Grammar School, he
went to the Boer War with the 6th Queens-
land Imperial Bushmen. A splendid horseman,
he gathered a small party of Queenslanders
after the war, and, adding some Ganchos
who had come from the Argentine with
mules, toured South Africa with a “Wild
West” show. Iligginson joined the Papuan
service in 1904. After leaving it he held
appointments with Laloki Copper Mines and
the Commonwealth Oil Co. in Papua, and
was in charge of the C.O. base at I’opo
at the time of his death. Mrs. Iligginson
and three young children survive him.
In the days of the original John, who
first hung out his shingle in King-street in
1866, John Williamson and Sons was Syd-
ney’s leading firm of court practitioners.
John, junior, who was 61 when he died the
other day, built up a business more on the
estate and company law side, and was him-
self legal adviser to and director of a multi-
tude of concerns. A man with a big heart,
he gave his law services free to a score of
charities. In his youth Williamson was a.
fine all-round athlete; in his later days he
took to golf and yachting, but there was
scarcely a form of sport which did not
interest him.
Dead in Adelaide, at close on 70, A. C.
Catt, formerly head of the land department
of Bagot, Shakes and Lewis (now merged
with the Goldsbrough Mort Co.V. and lat-
terly head of a big land-agency business of
his own. He was a lifelong enthusiast in
citizen soldiering, working up to the rank
of colonel, and at the end of last century was
one of the finest rifleshots in the State. '
When Col. Tom White, of Melbourne, was
in a prison hospital in Constantinople with
a sham ailment, which was part of his long
and successful plan of escape, his next-door
neighbor was a ghastly object that had once
been a British flying officer. His face was
drawn and sunken, his hair and beard fell
below his shoulders, his eyes never closed
day or night and his jaw hung perpetually
open. He was engaged in alternately sob-
bing over a Bible and leaping wildly out of
bed and going through the motions of a good
Mohammedan at his devotions. Turkish
orderlies and his fellow-prisoners were
equally convinced that he was in an advanced
stage of religious dementia, but when night
came White would lean over and speak to
him, and receive a perfectly sane answer
The supposed madman had been engaged in
the deception for months, had lost five stone
in the process, and was in imminent danger
EDWARD J. KIMPTON, whose scenic
work for the Melb. Repertory Society
is always lauded by the critics, has been
exhibiting his more serious work at the
Little Art Gallery, Melbourne.
of actually dropping into the crazed con-
dition he was simulating, White assisted
him to get the exchange he wanted by pro-
testing vehemently against the presence in
the ward of a dangerous lunatic who dis-
turbed his slumbers. White’s fellow-conspira-
tor was Flight- I jieut. C. W. Hill, now on his
way to Australia in a light aeroplane. He
helped to write that vivid story of incredible
experiences in captivity “The Road to Endor.”


Prizes
£165
*
M
i
n.
s
>
i
w
Ml!
-7
m
m
f
:fl
fc-N,
H
ii
/
n
A
*
lea j»tcla>*W
Prizes
£165
I
Drmk to me only with thine eyes.
And I will pledge with mine.
Or leave a kiss but in the cup
And I’ll not look for wine
Ben Jonson.
Schweppes’ Passion Fruit Cordial Competition
Schweppes’ Lemon Juice Cordial Competition
dfgfdg
TOTAL PRIZES £165
Schweppes Limited have, at the request of their Agents throughout Australia, decided to place
on the market a Passion-fruit Cordial, and are now inviting suggestions by way of competition for
selecting a suitable trade-name for such Passion-fruit Cordial.
The conditions are as follows:
1— The name must be short, euphonius, and applicable to the goods in question.
Each applicant requires to obtain a “Palarino” Cordial label (Schweppes Orange Squash).
This label will assist Competitors as to the class of name required, and the standard which
Schweppes require to maintain in placing such Passion-fruit Cordial on the market.
2 The name must not be descriptive of the goods; otherwise the trade-mark, even if
registered, will be liable to be expunged from the Register.
3 Competitors must observe the following:—
(a) The name selected and any observations or suggestions as to label must be enclosed in a
sealed envelope “AA,” marked “Schweppes Passion-fruit Competition,” coupled with the
address and name of the Competitor.
(b) The envelope “AA” must be enclosed in another envelope addressed to Schweppes Ltd.,
67 Foveaux Street, Sydney, accompanied by the “Palarino” Cordial label, above referred to.
(c) Schweppes Ltd. will post an acknowledgment to each Competitor, and without the produc-
tion of this acknowledgment no Competitor can claim the winning or other prize. The
competition will close at Noon on the 1 sth November, 1930. The result will be announced
in the leading daily papers, and also posted to each Competitor on or before November 30.
Prizes, as follows:
First Prize £5O
Second Prize £l5
Third' Prize £lO
Five solatium prizes of £3 each to Competitors who come in the first selection of
eight names . . £l5
Total . .... . . £9O
The decision of Schweppes Limited will be final and binding. In the event of two or more Com-
petitors choosing the same name and that name being the one selected, the first and second prizes
will be added together, and divided equally amongst such Competitors.
Schweppes Limited are also proposing to trade-name their “Lemon Fruit Juice Cordial.” The
Pure Food Regulations provide that the word “Squash” cannot be used unless the article contains
Lemon Juice and sugar only. Schweppes Limited are quite in accord with the Regulations, but
owing to the “Lemon Juice Cordial” of other Manufacturers being trade-named, they have been
unable to sell their “Lemon Squash Pure” (lemon juice and sugar only) at a competitive price.
Prizes for the “Lemon Juice Cordial” competition are as follows (this competition is distinct
from the “Passion-fruit Cordial” competition) :
First Prize £4O
Second Prize . . £2O
Five solatium Prizes of £3 each £l5
Total .. .. £75
NOTE SPECIALLY. — If Schweppes Limited do not consider any name submitted suitable for “Lemon Juice
Cordial,” then the the first and second prizes in this section will not be awarded. The five solatium prizes
will be awarded in any case.
The conditions of this competition are the same as the “Passion-fruit Cordial” competition.
For any further information, apply to Schweppes Limited, 67 Foveaux Street, Sydney.
P.S.—A “Palarino” label must be enclosed with each answer. “Palarino” Cordial can be obtained at all
leading Storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth of Australia.
Please quote newspaper jrom which particulars of competition Jiave been taken, or if from circular state from
whom circular was received.
Yf
Wm
W V
£ 1
PALATO
ALWAYS
ORDER
PALATO
The Drink that Pleases the Palate
Made from fresh oranges. Obtainable all leading Hotels and Grocers throughout the Commonwealth.
Palato is obtainable at all Railway Refreshment Rooms in New South Wales—in Railway Refreshment Rooms other States only if specially ordered.
Manufactured and Bottled by SCHWEPPES LIMITED .


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion “This Thing Called Love”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMTNG WEEK.
Royal “Mr. Cinders”
King’s “Let Us Be Gay”
Tivoli The Follies of 1930
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
«
“Now take this show you were good enough
to ask me to this afternoon,” said Snodge.
“What d’they call it? ‘This Thing Called
Love.’ Of course, you ought to know more
about these things than I do, seeing you go
two or three times a Aveek; and as you say
it’s a good show, well, I suppose it is. But
if you were to say to me, ‘Now, Snodge.
what’s your candid opinion about this show
at Sydney Criterion?’ I’d say it was cronk.
A bsolutely.
“Take the play to begin with. I’ll admit
it made me laugh. Can’t help that. Weak
in the old diaphragm. Also, I thought it
moved along pretty briskly, didn’t you? And
that idea of having a couple married wlio’re
not married in the true sense, so to speak,
and them not being jealous of each other
and then getting jealous; starting off laugh-
ing at their married friends for calling each
other liars and idiots and finishing up in the
same boat themselves—l admit there’s some-
thing in that. Ever been married? Well,
you know. I mean to say, it’s true of more
married parties than it isn’t. And as far as
I can see • that’s art. Strike an average
every time —you swallow the idea? Deal in
probabilities, and all that. No good, sticking
on a blissfully married couple and asking
the public to believe it’s true; at least, not
these days. Have ’em walking about clench-
ing their fists and holding their heads in
their hands whistling ‘Home, Sweet Home’ —
that’s the idea. Let ’em knock over one or
two chairs and look up at the ceiling and
run their fingers through their hair and
send the butler johnny for a cocktail. And
if they’re doing it Avith the man in only
half his dress clothes and the woman with
nice expensive lace-edged—Avell, all the better.
Natural.
“Take this play. Now here’s a couple been
having a .wrangle in their bedroom while
they’re getting dressed for the dinner they’re
giving that night for the benefit of the
bloke’s business affairs. Well, she doesn't
want that other woman to come to it.
Reckons she’ll slap her face as soon as she
This thing called love.
comes in. Jealous as billy-o. No reason.
No earthly reason whatever. But take any-
body’s wufe. Well, you know what I mean.
And then the bloke trying to explain that it's
part of a business deal, and also that he
has to impress the millionaire codger who’s
coming along that theirs is a lovedovy home
sort of. True enough, too. I remember
once the boss asked me up to a flat in Darl-
inghurst. Me like an angora tried to explain
it to the wife. What’d she do? Reckoned
I was a cuckoo. Cuckoo? Cuckoo be
hanged. Flamin’ jackass, that’s what I was.
But to get back to the play. What do they
do? Go into dinner. Perfectly natural.
And the wife does slap the other person
in the face, and the cat’s out of the bag
about the happy home business well and
truly.
“Well, how does your millionaire codger
react? Gets in tow with the slappy wfife’s
sister, and they agree to get married with-
out being married, if that’s the right way
to express it. Sort of try-out affair, to see
liow it’ll work without love in it, the girl
having the idea that it’s love that knocks
marriage bandy. So they do, too, and he
pays her a salary, and she sleeps at home.
Well, that’s fair enough. I mean to say, if
all wives’d do the same. Well, you know
what I mean. Anyhow, it’s a good arrange-
ment. But will it work? Will it? Will
anything in the married line work? I tell
you, it’s like playing with TNT. By heavens,
those were my wife’s initials! But I’m pre-
pared to let bygones be bygones. All the
same, it’s no good anybody trying to tell
me you can monkey about with the marriage
business and come out a winner. Take a
perfectly simple arrangement, like the one
this playwright chap has schemed out.
Here’s a couple who can each toddle round
Avith whoever they fancy. She has her boy
friend, and she knows, because one sticky
and another tell her, that he’s taking a
tart dancing and so on.
“Well, you can see it working on her like
yeast, and then suddenly he comes out of
the bathroom with a dressing-gown on and
surprises her in the arms of the boy friend.
What does he do? Well, what’d you do?
Get shirty ! Only natural. Here’s the woman
you’re paying a decent salary to kid she’s
your Avife letting herself be canoodled in
your best room by a wart like that. Of
course, the millionaire codger tells her she
belongs to him. ‘Oh, no, I don’t,’ she snaps.
‘Ave’re only .licensed to do business.’ Well,
doesn’t that” apply to marriage? Anyhow, it
loads up to a dingdong go-in. She calls him
an idiot and then gets the old rag out be-
cause he implies that she’s a liar. Like a
woman. Then she blubbers. I tel] you, it’s
life. They all do it. Then they make up,
and so on.
“Hope I’m not boring you in any way,
but I said this was a cronk play, and I
want to thrash it out. Of course, the play
is true to life, and the dialogue’s smart as
mustard. There’s a darned good plot, too,
ana a real dinkum thrill in the climax Avhen
the boy-friend comes in squiffy and tries to
shoot the millionaire. Jolly Avell done, too,
“Whistling ‘Home, Sweet Home.’”
by everyone. But what about the people
playing the piece? Look at that fellow
Bradley, the butler. Must have been a
butler all his life. D’you mean to tell me
he could do it like that if he hadn’t been a
butler in civvies, so to speak? I tell you.
he’s perfect. Look at that lame leg. Must
have had a motor accident or something.
He didn’t have a lame leg last time I saw
him. And what about the way he always
rode the fence between the missus and the
boss? You call it tact. Great stuff, tact.
I remember once at the club I’d had a few
rosners too many the night before, and I
went in in the morning for a mouthful of
hair off the old hound, and says to Jim —
the steward, y’ know —I says, ‘Was I very
drunk last. night, old man?’ He says, ‘Sir,
I’ve been in this club for four years, and
I've never seen a member drunk yet.’ Well,
anyhow, as I was saying about these actor
people. Take Mary MacGregor—isn’t she
a little beaut? I tell you, she can act. So
can that fellow’ Campbell Copelin. Best
juvenile lead in Sydney, I reckon. Sound
as a bell, both of them. And what about
Harvey Adams? No flies on Harvey. And
that cove Roger Barry? I reckon the way
he rubbed his hands together once was the
most expressive thing I’d seen for years.
And then, of course, there’s the rest of
them. All pretty good in their way.
“But, as I was saying, the show’s up to'
putty. Of course, I’m a bit like everybody
else. I can go to a movie in the frame of
mind to enjoy whatever good there might
happen to.be in it. But you don’t do that
sort of thing with the legit. There you go
along and try to see lioav many holes you
can pick in it. Only natural. Take me,
for instance. Look at the holes I’ve picked
in this show- for you ! Well, so long, old
man. And don’t forget—give it to the
blighters hot and strong.”
# ¥ *
It appears that once upon a time A. A.
Milne became tired of the grim struggle with
reality and decided to return to the nursery.
While there he Avrote “Success,” a play in
three acts, which the Melbourne Repertorians
put on at the Playhouse on Saturday.
The. piece has all the charm of a romantic
child’s ideas about growm-ups, plus the
sophisticated art of a clever writer for the
theatre. It is also a very good evening’s
entertainment. The only thing the matter
w’ith it is that it is all wrong fundamentally.
It concerns a Cabinet Minister who, by un-
scrupulous strategy and sternly realistic
methods and w’ith the assistance of a wife
with social ambitions, finds himself in the
running for Chancellor of the Exchequer.
When on the eve of realising this ambition
he mets his boyhood’s love, now married for
20 years to a gross and unsatisfactory
member of the Beerage. He has a dream
which takes him back to the friends and
incidents of his childhood. He aw’akes con-
vinced that romance is the only permanent
reality, and that he has only to run away with
thq lady and they will be able to spend the
rest of their lives sitting happily amidst the
buttercups. He sends in his resignation, but
withdraws it when a reply comes appointing
him to the Woolsack, the frightened Prime
Minister having interpreted his action as an
“She knows, because one 'sticky ’ and
another tell her.”
attempt to wreck the Government with the
object of obtaining further political advance-
ment.
Milne ignores the biological circumstance
that a woman can make a career of a man
but that a man can’t make a career of a
woman, lie is obviously of the opinion that
his hero should have chosen the buttercups.
Accepting Milne’s adolescent viewpoint,
however, the piece is first-rate entertain-
ment. The dream scene is delightfully
humorous, in the best manner of the “Pooh”
books. It served to introduce three new
members of the Rep. Society, Russell Hooper,
Harrie Scott Simmons and Elaine Kiel, the
three best child actors present critic ha?
seen on any stage. Frank Louie was uncon-
vincingly young and innocent as the Cabinet
Minister. Robert Guthrie was the Prime
Minister’s private secretary and a rich piece
of character comedy. Producer Clewlow was
effective as the genial exponent of a senti-
mental philosophy. None of the women was
of first importance, except the wee Elaine
Kiel.
* * *
The apparently immortal “Sentimental
Bloke” was revived at Melbourne Bijou on
Saturday, and the best house of the season
attended the operation. The Australian
Comedy Co. no longer desires to know what
The Bulletin thinks of its efforts, but this
paper harbors no ill-will towards a band of
hardworking actors on that account. It
managed to find its way into the building
without the customary invitation. The
A.C.C. has inaugurated one reform for which
it earns the public’s gratitude. Its pro-
gramme has shrunk to one small sheet
which is minus the puffs for which
other managements have the nerve to
charge. With the A.C.C. the play’s
the thing. In the. latest exhibit Fred
Macdonald again gives verisimilitude to
the Bloke, and Elma Gibbs supplies a
new Doreen, though without arousing any
more sympathy for that somewhat priggish
little person than previous exponents have
evoked. As Ginger Mick, Tom Sutterby
once more sells rabbits as if he had done
it all his life, Ida Gresham provides a some-
what labored Ma, and D’Arcy Kelway is a
crisply amusing Artie. A noteworthy feature
is the ease with which most of the cast fall
into the ways of these familiar types, and
how ready an audience can be to take them
to its bosom! “The Sport of Kings” will be
available on Saturday.
Melbourne Town Hall was reasonably
well populated for Backhaus’s return with
the Uni. Orchestra in Beethoven’s G
Major Concerto. The. visitor was bril-
liant in a piece which is a mixture of ex-
quisite melody, dreamy imaginings at the
pianoforte, stout marching rhythms and
straightout virtuosity. The orchestrions were
“Send the butler johnny
for a cocktail.”
hard put to it
to fill the gap
between their
amat e u r
a c c o mplish-
ments and his
prof essional
comp etence,
but they suc-
ceeded well
cno u g h t o
make the per-
formance one
to be grate-
fully remem-
bered. Haydn’s
Clock S y in-
phony, with
its cleverly
inter woven
motive of a
timepiece tick-
ing, was ex-
tremely well
done. Tli e
good solo
work of Con-
stance Ziebell,
leader of the
first violins, was noticeable in the Symphonic
suite of Rimsky-Korsakov.
* * *
“Mr. Cinders,” at Melbourne Royal, is a
proof of the theory of relativity. As far
as can be gathered by a person who cannot
make a gas bill come to the same amount
when added from top to bottom as when
added from bottom to top, relativity means
that an event which happened to-day is also
happening yesterday, has always happened
and will go on happening for ever and ever,
world without end, parallel lines do meet,
nothing is new under the spotlight, Queen
Anne died last Monday, is dying to-day, fell
sick to-morrow and never really existed
much at any time except as an abstraction
of the intellect. That, at any rate, is the
sort of impression which smote the present
writer when he dropped in at the Royal on
Saturday and found Hindle Edgar, the new
comedian from London, sliding about on
skates, and the Fallow Twins playing catch
as catch can with each other’s beautiful
bodies in toreadors’ plus-fours, and the Wil-
liamson girls lifting their shapely limbs in
the sprightly dance mechanical, and Josie
Melville (lier first appearance at this
theatre) demonstrating that she can act
more fetchingly than ever but that she can’t
sing for nuts,’ though neither can anybody
else; and all the other familiar features of
London’s Latest Musical-Comedy Success.
And to confirm old Einstein right up to the
hilt, here they are pushing producer High-
land on to the stage, tottering with exhaus-
tion after this supreme act of creation, but
just able to gasp that never, never, never
has he had to handle such a willing, willing-
team or seen such a fine, fine, fine, appre-
ciative house.
* * *
Amy Castles, off to Hollywood to have her
voice graven in imperishable celluloid, gave
a farewell concert to a somewhat sparse
audience at the Town Hall, Melbourne. Amy
sang" “One Fine' Hay” from “Butterfly” so
extremely well that her long retirement from
the concert stage becomes a greater puzzle
than ever. Eileen, of the same talented
family, assisted with the aria “Bel Raggio”
(Rossini) and a voice of slighter quality
which flowed out with ease if little ampli-
tude. The announcement that the prologue
from “Pagliacci” would be sung plunged pre-
sent writer into profound gloom which A. 0.
Bartleman did nothing to lift by singing if.
Down the street at the Assembly Hall
on the same evening Grace Evans, soprano,
made an appearance. She stropped her voice
on some pleasant things of Schubert and
on some very attractive little pieces by the
local composer, Mona Mcßurney. Miss
Evans enunciates her words so well that
sometimes the meaning becomes more im-
portant than the melody. There was more
intelligence than emotion in a voice to which
Melba gave a certificate of merit some years
ago.
“Surprises her in the arms of the boy
friend.”
To the accompaniment of a drumming
downpour that made the hearts of the lis-
teners leap, Alfred Hill conducted the Vic.
Prof. Orchestra through a programme mostly
consisting of his own works at the Plaza, St.
Kilda, “Waiata Poi,” “Waiata Maori” and
the “Maori Rhapsody” had been heard by
most of the big audience many times before,
but this was the first time many had lis-
tened to the distinguished composer drawing
out their full allurement himself. Nothing
more suggestive of primitive love and lan-
guishment beneath the palms has been writ-
ten than “Waiata Aroha,” sung with sym-
pathy by Maisie Ramsay. The Sisserman
Quartet rendered English airs and the even-
ing closed with a rowdy orchestral render-
ing of Sibelius’s “Finlandia,” while approxi-
mately 1000 tons of moisture fell on the roof.
¥ * *
The pluckiest enterprise in Australian
theatrical history came to a close when the
curtain descended on Allan Wilkie, his co.
and “The Merchant of Venice” at the Prin-
cess, Melbourne, on Saturday night.
H- *
The most Australian show of the week in
Melbourne was the display of wildflowers
by the Field Naturalists at the Town Hall,
St. Ivilda. The cast came from all parts
of the continent, some of the most distin-
guished actors having been carefully packed
in ice by the Shell Oil Co. and sent by rail,
road and Qantas airplane from the Atherton
Tableland. The feathery foliage and dainti-
ness of the Victorian flora were contrasted
with the almost brutal luxuriance of the
tropical examples. Conspicuous amongst the
first-named was Ricinocarpus pinifolius,
which some people prefer to call by its
botanical name of “bright eyes.” One diffi-
culty is that so many people with names
like' Jones, Smith and Mulligan were
the first to discover new varieties. The
result is that a plant which has done no-
thing to deserve it may have to go through
life under the name of Euphrasia Brownii.
Yet the popular names are not always any
more successful. A poet might do something
with the giant spear lily, and if Pultenwa
paleacea (Leguminosm) would not go into an
Alexandrine hexameter he could use the alter-
native title of chaffy bushpea. But some
of the loveliest blossoms haven’t even that
luck. Writer, feeling a strong desire to
rhyme over a shy little yellow flower peep-
ing out from queer stiff foliage, inquired the
name from an attendant. “They call it ham-
’n’-eggs where I come from,” replied the
bush expert. Only a poet laureate could
work that into a couplet.
* * #
Adelaide’s new shows are of the outdoor
type to which the theatre seems to be giving
place. The old Pavilion itself is refitted as
a “miget” golf course. At the Exhibition,
in the garden terrace that, for many summers
has housed Pierrots or the like, are two
more miniature links. And Glenelg is
crowded for the moment by patrons of the
new Luna Park attractions from Coney
Island.
SNODGE: “Was I very drunk last night?”
STEWARD: “Sir, I’ve been in this club for
four years and I’ve never seen a
member drunk yet.”
Nellie Bramley has caught the vaudeville
revival craze in Brisbane. It’s a generous
bill—33 items with some encores. The Bram-
ley is sticking to the weekly change of pro-
gramme.
His Majesty’s has “The New Moon,” with
Romola Hansen, Sidney Burchall, Herbert
Browne and Jim Gerald in the leading parts.
Gerald’s comedy is first-rate stuff.
* * #
An interesting titbit announced by
Gregan McMahon for next month at the
Bijou will be Chesterton’s fantasy, “Magic. ’
As far as present writer knows, this is the
first of the rotund poet’s works to be pro-
duced in Melbourne. Shaw’s “Pygmalion”
will also be given an airing.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities'of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagb
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
ABBOT FILTERS
PRESSURE AND DRIP.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
inti
Cylinder
fd
FI
Obtainable at All Stores.
NFILTERED WATER
contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity, see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
Manufactured only by
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
CLOTHES FOR
MEN
gfd
AND
THEfR SONS.
The “ PAR ” Golf Shoe
HEAVY Tan Calf Golf Shoe, rubber
sole and heel, new continuous
lacc. PRJCE, per pair 37/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
in Queen-street, Brisbane .
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net r~ Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
41,388
1929.. 549.931 10 p.c. 10 p.c.= 443,322*106,609 147,997
Share premiums, £376 . . . . . . 148,373
1930.. 320.700 10 p.c. 6 p.c.= 318,939 1,761 150,134
includes £138,301 paid on old Perdriau co.’s
shares.
This is the big rubber-manufacturing con-
cern into which the progressive Dunlop and
Perdriau businesses were merged a couple
of years ago, and which bought all but a
handful of the 550,000 £1 ords in the Barnet
Glass Go., and therefore control also,
for 325. each. The big English Dunlop
Co. also has a. substantial interest in the
undertaking. The new co. kicked off with
reserves £41,388 in excess of the. £354,377
at which the goodwill of the combined busi-
nesses figure in the sheet, the assets of the
two old cos. having been revalued for the
purposes of the merger. A complete over-
haul of the organisation followed the fusion,
and savings were made in the buying, manu-
facturing and marketing sections of the busi-
ness. After satisfying the pref. require-
ments, enough was netted in the first year to
show 12.1 p.c. on the big wad of ord. capital,
and a 10 p.c. div. was paid.
Since then financial debility and other
economic ills have affected the motor and
allied trades. Imports of chassis and parts for
the 12 months to June 30 (£6,097,290) were
over £3,100,000 less than the previous year’s;
the total for the June quarter was only
£831,447, and the drift continues. 111 these
circumstances the co.’s stocks of tyres, etc.,
began to accumulate, and prices had to be
cut in order to clear the shelves, also the
output was reduced, the staff was shortened
and other adjustments were made. The
price of raw rubber fell from lid. to 6.1 d.
over the 12 months to June 30 —it lias
dropped to 4.8 d. since—and heavy forward
buying is inevitable in big concerns of this
kind. Further, the Barnet Glass Co. re-
duced its ord. div. from 10 p.c. to 6 p.c.
The surprising feature is, therefore, that
the board was able to write the year’s gross
profit only £86,752 short of the 1929 figure
at £1,066,987. But exes. (£746,287, includ-
ing an unspecified allowance for deprecia-
tion, etc.) were £142,479 heavier-, so the slip
in the net result was £229.231. After
the prefs had been attended to, the ords.
wore handed 6 p.c., which took all but £1761
of the visible net earnings; it suggests that
every penny may not have been put on the
table.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
show
1928.
Capital- Combined Figures. 1929. 1930.
Ord.’ .. .. £3,006,498 £3,764,151 £3,765,655
Pref 670,000* 930,000 f 930,000
Liabilities .. 649,133 504,612 287,795
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,119,393 1,138,687 1,117,922
Plant, etc. . . 1,097,897 1,147,026 1,181,039
Stocks .. .. 1,692,232 1,433,639 1,424,636
Debtors .. .. 555,347 515,384 472,439
Cash, etc. . . 50,895 154,201 1,229
Investments . . 288,9011 29,163 26,847
Shares other cos.. . 156,600 1,046,052 1,068,940
Goodwill .. 180,000 354,377 354,377
*£50,000 of 7 p.c., £lOO,OOO of 8 p.c., and
£520,000 of 10 p.c. fAll 10 p.c. Jlncludes
£138,029 of assets in course of realisation.
Finances are comfortable enough. Last
year £216,817 was wiped off the debt;
liquids, mainly cash, were drawn upon for
£207,236 net. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£1,637,356, including stocks) was
£9581 stronger than at the previous balance.
Stocks are the item which catch the eye,
and with the trend of prices still downward
much will depend upon whether the allow-
ance for contingencies proves to be adequate.
Shares in other cos. include all the scrip in
the Dunlop-North British Shoe Co. Pty., but
what amount, if any, this subsidiary contri-
butes to the pool is not mentioned.
Prospects depend largely upon the extent
to which the plant can be kept employed;
and, in this connection, the co. is reported to
be branching out from its main business of
tyre manufacture with a measure of success.
Still, the market has its doubts about the
6 p.c. div. There has been a lot of specu-
lative activity in the scrip. The ords., which
fetched 295; in Sept., 1929, had dropped to
par in February, and can now be had around
10s. 9d.. the market foreseeing a steep de-
cline in turnover. The return at the lower
mice is 11.2 p.c. on a 6 p.e. div. basis, or
7.4 p.c. if the rate of distribution recedes
t 0,4 p.c. Subject to intangibles in the
subsidiaries, the backing is 20s. Bd. in net
tangibles. At 225. the prefs. yield
9.1 p.c.; they carry a fixed cumulative 10
p.c., and have priority as to capital. Last
year s net earnings were nearly 3£ times their
annual requirements, and the book value of
the cover is £5 4s. 2d. in net tangibles.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.).
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 65,332 10 p.e. = 63,363 1,957 64,883
1924.. 109,905 10 „ „ 81,845 28,420 93,302
1925.. 127,829 10 „ ~ 84,232 43,592 136,894
1926.. 133,246 10 „ ~ 84,232 49,014 185,908
Written off shares in other cos. £25,380.. 160,528
1927.. 138,204 10 p.c. = 84,232 53,972 214,500
Written off shares in other cos. £35,000.. 179,500
1928.. 174,645 10 p.c. = 84,232 90,413 269,913
1929.. 137,898 10 „ ~ 84,232 53,666 323,578
1930.. 118,349 10 „ „ 84,232 34,117 357,696
For many years Kandos and the Common-
wealth Co. divided the lion’s share of the
cement business in N. S. Wales; also Kandos
became the next largest supplier to Aus-
tralian Cement, Ltd., in the Victorian
market, though its trade there was not
very, profitable. To minimise overpro-
duction dangers, the Australian co. and
Kandos amalgamated. Working assets,
including freeholds, of both concerns
were sold to a new operating co., Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty., Ltd., for
scrip (and some cash to Australian Cement,
Ltd.) as from Dec. 1 last. The exact terms
of the merger were not disclosed, but the
vendor cos. each hold 1,000,000 fully-paid £1
shares in the new operating co.; also they
have become joint managing agents for the
Pty.’s produce in their respective States.
Stocks were taken over separately for cash ;
but the two old cos. retained their own book
debts. In order to obtain its 50 p.c. holding
in the working co.. Kandos had to take up
an unspecified number of shares for cash.
What happened, so far as balanee-sheec
figures reflect it, is seen in the next com-
parison :
1923. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £756,045 £842,328 £842,328 £842,328
Liabilities . . 130,362 99,596 83,628 39,214
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . 612,015 732,632 716,665
Shares other cos. 266,573 267,200 232,240 1,031,247
Stocks . . 59,293 77,231 45,901
Book debts . . 66,836 121,438 91,634 98,247
Cash . . 205,211 151,860
Last year the amount coming to sundry ,
creditors, including provision for taxation,
was reduced by £44,414. Taking stocks into
the reckoning, liquids (£250,107) were
£92,039 lighter at June 30 last than they
were a year earlier; the contraction in the
liquid surplus (£210,893) was £48,225. The
net addition to the book value of shares
in other cos. was only £799,007. Assuming
that the million pound shares in the operat-
ing co. have been taken in at par, other
holdings, which consisted largely of scrip
in Kandos Collieries, Ltd., were apparently
reduced by £200,993. Whatever profit, if
any, may have resulted from the various
transactions has been whisked away to inner
reserves.
The new operating co. closed its accounts
on May 31, after six months’ trading, but
no hint is given as to what div. it paid.
For that period business is reported well
maintained in Victoria, but to have fallen
off considerably in N. S. Wales. The £118,349
of profit claimed by Kandos covers only 11
months’ actual trading; it is, however, a
comfortable 14.5 p.c. on paid capital, so
the usual 10 p.c. div. remained an easy
matter. But the outlook in the indus-
try has changed completely. The success of
the older cos. brought a crop of new pro-
ducers into the field, and the annual plant
capacity for the whole of Australia (about
1,350,000 tons of cement) is nearly double
the present rate of consumption. Taking the
capital cost of plant at, say, £5 per ton of
capacity, it means that about £3,000,000 of
the money invested in the industry is not
earning anything. Also, there is the danger
that increased competition may develop into
a price war. The capacity of this Pty. co.’s
two plants combined is over 400,000 tons
p.a.; the Kandos works ceased producing
early in August, because the storage bins
would not hold any more.
Hence the Kandos co.’s pound shares,
which are covered by 28s. Od. in net tan-
gibles, fetch only 14s. 6d. in the market,
past performances and a sound financial
position notwithstanding. At the current
price the return would be 8.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis.
Allan and Stark, Ltd.
r Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 22,349 2262 8 p.c. = 18,418 1669 22,148
1926.. 23,202 3100 8 „ „ 18,557 1545 23,694
1927.. 24,510 3496 8 „ ~ 20,684 329 24,024
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 „ „ 18,929 20.588
1929.. 25,931 3499 7 „ „ 19,010 3422 24,010
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 „ „ 13,580 20,985
Not only was the public’s purse lighter
during the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, but there was a steady fall in
the value of softgoods merchandise, ranging
from 15 p.c. in some lines to over 30 p.c.
in others, and the trend is still downwards.
A quick clearance of stocks therefore be-
came essential, and cuts had to be made
in most lines, thus narrowing the margin of
profit; costs remained stubborn. Capricious
fashion added to the difficulties, and stocks
on hand at balancing date had to be got
back to new price levels.
Thus the board figured that the net profit
was £11,877 lighter than the previous year’s;
and no provision was made to meet the
next bill for taxation when it arrives. After
the prefs. were handed their £3499, there
remained but 4.3 on the ordinary capital
compared with 8.2, 5.7, 8.6, 8.6 and
8.7 p.c. back to 1925; nevertheless only
a couple of points were knocked off the div.,
reducing it to 5 p.c., so £3025 had to be
nipped from the already slender prop for
capital. Obviously the board has more con-
fidence in the future than is to be gathered
from the figures. In some respects Queens-
land is in a better position than most of
the other States, but the acute situation in
the exchange market, the new primage duty,
tariff increases and sales tax have strewn
fresh difficulties in the path of traders.
Satisfactory earnings will depend largely
upon shrewd buying, clean stocks and a tight
hold upon outgoings.
Of recent years the co. has been busy
expanding. Since 1926 ,it has bought the
businesses of the .Civil Service Stores and
Margaret Halstein, including a freehold;
absorbed Chapmans, Ltd., a neighbor; built
a subway connecting the Adelaide and
Queen streets premises, and made extensions
and improvements to old buildings. To do
all this £52,413 of fresh capital was gath-
ered, and the board went outside for an
extra £43,567; nevertheless there is no-
thing uneasy about the finances, as this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows: —
iQor: IQ9Q IQQO
Capital £269,200 £321,597 £321,615
Mortgages, etc. . . 50,613 82,925 82,925
Other liabilities . . 41,212 56,899 52,467
Premises and plant .. 156,513 231,554 231,972
Stock 153,960 154,517 162,977
Shares in other cos. . . 20,984 21,296 21,296
Investments . . .. 10,550 1,050 550
Debtors 59,981 04,270 62,063
Cash, etc. . . .. 484 20,770 4;042
To snip £4432 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors and add £8460 to the book
value of stocks, the board drew upon cash,
'etc., for £16,728 last year. Stocks are
reported clean, the increase in the figures
being due to special purchases made shortly
before the close of accounts. The more or
less liquids, including stocks, exceeded out-
side liabilities by £94,240 at June 30, and
that was £6543 less than the surplus a year
earlier. Stuparts, Ltd., Maryborough, in
which this co. holds 26,915 £1 ords., paid 8
p.c. last year, the same as for the previous
term.
Over the last 12 months the market has
shortened its bid for the pound shares from
17s, to 12s. 6d. At the lower figure the
return is 8 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis ; the
backing is 21s. 3d. in net tangibles.
The Australian Gypsum, Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
1920.. 2,388 8 p.c. = 2,232 156 156
1921.. 5,188 10 „ „ 4,938 250 406
1922.. 8,160 124 „ „ 8,089 71 477
1923.. 15,451 124 „ „ 10,812 4,639 5,116
Co. reconstructed; assets written
up, and 24 ords. issued for
June every one previously held.
1925*. 17,932 5-6thp.c. = 2,445 15,487 15,487
1926.. 1,510 Nil - 1,510 16,997
1927.. 13,210 Nil 13,210 30,207
1928.. 15,517 Nil 15,517 45,724
Written off, £5162. 40,562
1929.. 4,475 Nil 4,475 45,037
Tax Reserve, £lOOO .. 46,037
Loss.
1930.. 5,732 Nil 40,305
*l3 months’ operations.
It has been an interesting development; rich
returns were won during the war years, and a
reconstruction in 1919 made the 8 p.c. div.
in the following year worth more than 15
p.c. to old holders. Four year later pros-
pects looked so encouraging that it was
decided to again reconstruct. The idea was
the old delusion of “making paid capital
represent the real value of the assets.” So
the assets were written up and handed over
to a subsidiary, Waratali Gypsum Pty., Ltd.,
and five new ords. in the parent were given
out for every two previously held. That
added £150,324 to paid • capital, making it
£300,540. Then, to meet the outlay on new
plant at Cape Thevenard (S.A.) and provide
for general expansion of the business, 40,01 S
new £1 ords. were issued at par. At this
time the capacity of the works was reported
to exceed the whole requirements of the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland combined. Since
then the parent has been mainly a holding co.
The valuations were based on anticipated
earnings from increased production, which
meant a continuance of demand and high
prices if reasonable divs. were to be paid.
Very soon, tyowevor, severe competition ami
price cutting narrowed profit margins in the
over-capitalised industry, and the co.’s cash
resources were drained by capital expendi-
ture ; hence shareholders have gone hungry
for the last five years. There was a sharp
decline in turnover during the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, due mainly
to the dulness in the building trade; so, after
putting aside something to cover bad debts, a
loss of £5732 showed up. That was pre-
ceded by profits of 1.3, 3.8, 0.4 and a shade
over 5 p.c. on capital back to 1925.
Recently the five principal producers in
the industry decided to bury the hatchet and
merge their interests in one big operating
concern, Australian Gypsum Products Pty.,
Ltd., which lias been registered with a
nominal capital of £750,000 in £1 shares. Of
these 200,000 have been allotted to Austra-
lian Gypsum, Ltd., as from July 1 in pay-
ment for its own and its subsidiary’s fixed
assets and stocks, the combined book value of
which was £200,330 at June 30. At that
date other tangible assets, including those
of the subsidiary, were shares in other cos.,
£7500; advances, £5762; sundry debtors,
£12,657; cash, £34; total, £25,953. The
amount coming to sundry creditors, including
the bank, was £33,538. Thus shareholders
in Australian Gypsum could see net tangible
assets with a book value of £192,745 (11s.
Id. per share) to support £348,458 of paid
capital.
Though worth-while cuts in overhead should
follow the concentration of production in
fewer factories, and savings in administrative
and selling charges can be expected, plant
capacity is still well in excess of trade
requirements; also economic changes have
altered the outlook so far as sales are con-
cerned, and an increase in the price is out
of the question at present. Hence only
moderate returns need be looked for from
the new operating co.; the board counts on
no more than 5 p.c. or 6 p.c. under normal
conditions. It is plain therefore that a sub-
stantial cut will have to be made in Aus-
tralian Gypsum’s, capital before shareholders
can hope to get into the picture again.
On the market the pound shares are fetch-
ing Is. 6d. as against 7s. a year ago.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
The deficit to begin with in this case was
the capital of the new co. issued for good-
will of the old A. G. Healing and Co. Pty.,
Ltd.
, Dividends ■,
Pref. Toward
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
43,545
1927.. 28,592 1462 7* p.c. = 15,228 11,902 31,643
Preliminary exes., etc., £2991 . . 34,634
1928.. 24,927 5068 8 p.c. = 16,911 2,948 31,686
Removal exes., £2438 .. .. 34,124
1929.. 22,895 5984 6 p.c. = 12,728 4,183 29,941
Removal exes., £36 .. .. 29,977
1930.. 20,426 5984 3f p.c.= 7,955 6,487 23,490
Very soon after A. G. Healing set up in the
bicycle trade in Melbourne 34 years ago he
developed a large wholesale business in
motor accessories also, and more recently in
wireless goods as well. Meanwhile, opera-
tions spread to Sydney and Adelaide, and a
few years ago the business outgrew the
premises that housed it, so a seven-
storeyed building was put up on a freehold
which had been bought in Franklin-street,
Melbourne, thus enabling the two factories
and warehouse there to be brought under one
roof. Also a three-storeyed warehouse was
erected on a 284-years’ building lease in
Adelaide.
It was to help finance the construction
programme that the public put up £50,000
of 8 p.c. pref. money three years ago. The
other £24,800 of pref. and £212,140 of ord.
capital is held mostly by the proprietors of
the old business and their friends. The
inevitable disturbance caused by building
operations, and the amount of interest-
bearing money represented by premises that
were not bringing in any return, were
largely responsible for the shrinkage in the
1928 and 1929 profit figures.
The co., which has always turned out
much of its requirements from its own fac-
tories, used to handle Attwater-Ivent radio
goods. When these were recently placed on
the prohibited list of imports, radio equip-
ment was added to the list of the co.’s manu-
factures, and thus far results appear to have
been very encouraging. Last year the board
was able to write net profit only £2469 short
of the 1929 figure, despite the dulness in the
motor trade. The Sydney warehouse was
removed to a less congested area in Goul-
burn-street, whence much of the trade has
migrated. After handing the prefs. their
£5884, enough was left to show 6.8 p.c.
on the ord! capital as against 7.9, 9.4 and
13.3 p.c. back to 1927. But the outlook is
obscure, so the div. was cut back to 3| p.c.
Thus the deficit at June 30 was reduced to
£23,490; goodwill (£43,550 —probably worth
more) and removal exes. (£2347) are not
treated as assets herein.
To complete the new buildings and carry
heavier stocks the co. had to go a bit into
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step /
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
OCTOBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * 1 * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ .practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Experienced engineers throughout Australia pay
tribute to the outstanding efficiency and definite
economy of Pioneer Wood Pipe. The durability of
this excellent conduit ensures long years of service
it s strength and non-corrosive qualities ensure
trouble-free operation, whilst its low cost, ease of
handling, simplicity of laying and absence of upkeep
costs ensures the greatest economy. Full particulars
free on request to The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Koad (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
’ jJ: * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particular’s of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All. appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS ■ AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 42 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £I,OOO,UUU
as security for the protection of clients interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH THE
mi
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
agents wanted where not represented.
debt., but there is nothing uncomfortable
about the finances :
1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. . . £229,470 £286,940 £286,940
Overdraft . . . . 16,891 34,230 28,109
Mortgages and loans .. 15,563 90,957 96,133
Sundry creditors .. 71,013 68,850 49,154
Freeholds, etc. . . 29,179 122,380 124,695
Plant, etc 12,520 23,964 23,440
Stocks 161,272 204,308 197,211
Book debts, cash, etc. 124,548 123,206 108,308
Last year the more or less liquids were
drawn upon for £21,995, and £20,650 was
lopped off the outside debt; thus the slip
in more or less liquid surplus (£182,132,
including stocks) was £1345. Stocks are
reported to have been “liberally depreciated,”
and much depends upon that and the sound-
ness of debtors’ balances.
Only the prefs. are listed. They carry
a fixed cumulative 8 p.c., and have priority
as to capital. On the market they fetch
17s. 6d., at which figure the return is 9.1
p.c. The backing amounts to £3 10s. sd.
in net tangibles, and last year’s profit was
over three times their annual requirements.
The Metal Markets.
The further slump in metal prices fur-
nishes an illustration of how vicious poli-
tical influence has become in the industries
of this troubled world. Those interested in
the trade who interviewed Frank Hambridge,
Australia’s foremost metal-market authority,
on his return from Europe last week wanted
to know if rock-bottom had been reached.
Mr. Hambridge said that when he left
Europe lead was around £lB per ton, copper
(electrolytic) £5O per ton and tin £135.
Those best qualified to judge in America,
England and the European Continent said
there was a reasonable hope that those
prices could be maintained. This hope had
not been realised. Mr. Hambridge consid-
ered that the unsatisfactory result of the
elections in Germany, which took place after
he left Berlin, was largely responsible for
the further serious decline.
The important part which Germany plays
in the metal markets of the world is not
generally recognised in Australia, and until
the political situation is stabilised in Berlin,
one cannot look, Mr. Hambridge thinks, for
much improvement in prices. The United
States can usually be relied upon to emerge
from any financial or industrial trouble, as
it is not handicapped by an excess of indus-
trial legislation. Europe’s post-war pro-
lems are, however, still very much in evi-
dence. The present depression can be
traced right back to the unlimited credit
w'hich was released for war purposes. The
profit on that credit (against which no gold
was produced) has been used to mechanise
the world for a production far ahead of pre-
sent requirements. The important feature
is that it applies to practically every com-
modity. Only time and commonsense will
correct the position.
The Tin Position.
A correspondent, who is an authority on
the metal markets, analyses the tin position :
The present price of tin is something that the
American user is not quite contented about. There
are high “visible supplies,” and in the face of this
enemy of good prices, few care to make a definite
statement that the present price of tin cannot remain
so low much longer.
In 1900 the consumption of tin was 81,000 tons.
In 1928 it was 177,000 tons, the increase being
96,000 tons in 29 years. Thus the cumulative annual
consumption was 3300 tons. On this basis the
consumption for 1929 ought to have been 180,300
tons; and for 1930, 183,600 tons. Actually con-
sumption was 166,000 tons in 1929, and the 1930
figure is estimated at 160,000 tons. In other words,
there is no over-production, but there is decided
under-consumption. The price of tin in 1900 was
£l3B. Up to 1928, the average annual increase
in price was about £3 per ton. This was due to
(1) increasing demand, and (2) the rising cost
of production. To meet the demand, lower and
still lower grade ores were mined, the only limitation
being the price of tin for the time being. If gold
were as plentiful as tin, it is obvious it would not
sell for £4 ss. an ounce.
Tin is one of the substances for which no satis-
factory substitute has been found. When the con-
sumer stops buying he ultimately causes a tin
famine, and sooner or later has to pay whatever
price a deficient market demands. The high-price
years of 1906-07 induced the consumer to reduce
buying, and in 1908-09 the price fell to £133- £134.
But demand forced tin in the next four years to
£209, or £34 above the natural price, which may
be taken as the 1900 figure of £134, plus the
average annual increase in the cost of production, etc.,
namely, £3 per ton. On that basis the consumer short-
paid the producer £27 per ton on 113,300 tons in
1908, £29 per tdn on 115,000 tons in 1909, and
£ll per ton on 115,700 tons in 1910; a total of
£7,636,000. But the tables turned in 1911, 1912
and 1913, when the consumer had to pay £23, £27
and £26 respectively, or a total of £9,733,000,
above the natural price. So the producer got back
all he was short-paid in 1908-09, with £2,000,000
added for interest. Something similar to this also
occurred after the slump in tin prices in 1914-16,
1919 and 1921, and it seems inevitable that it will
occur again when the present slump has run its course.
B. O. Watt, raining engineer, writes: The
N. S. Wales Government is offering pros-
pectors a pound a week for four weeks,
but is not supplying them with railway
passes, tools, tents or other requisites. That
four pounds is no good to a penniless man
if it takes six pounds for him to get to a
mining field and back again; and a man
would need amazing luck to locate and open
up a payable mine in four weeks. Some
of the best prospectors in Australia are at
present stranded in Sydney, and it would be
possible to pick hard workers who under-
stand loaming. These men should be sent
out with reasonable backing, the Mines De-
partment retaining, say, a 50 per cent,
interest, realisable by public auction at
any time the Minister may determine.
Flooding the auriferous and other fields
with inexperienced men will only shake
public confidence in the mineral prospects
of the State. The officials of the Mines
Department are more competent than the
average, and should be empowered to select
only the best men available.
$ $ $ $
The liquidators of the old Mount Morgan
G. M. Co. in their third report show receipts
for the year to August 15 at £10,235, which,
with the balance brought forward, totalled
£198,525. Exes, took £5441, and 3s. per-
share (£150,000) was paid in January, mak-
ing a total of 235. distributed to the holders
of the £1 shares. A balance of £43,054 is
now available for distribution, subject to
taxation, etc. All the remaining assets are
in liquid form. A final distribution was
hung up pending a clearance from the
Queensland Taxation Department. This was
recently obtained on payment of 6d. in the
pound on distributions to shareholders run-
ning over 20s. in the pound. In addition,
the liquidators are liable to the Federal,
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments in re-
spect of interest earned during the liquida-
tion. After providing for all these taxes
and the final winding up, it is estimated
that per share will be available on
December 15.
* * * *
The Palmer River Co. has hauled over 300
tons of dredging plant from Leura to the
field at Stratlileven (N.Q.), a distance of
over 80 miles, by motor-lorry. The job
proved more troublesome than was expected,
but all heavy plant, including the boiler, is
now in position, and the dredge is expected
to set in early next month. The water in the
dredge paddock, however, is low, and unless
the usual October rains remedy this a start
may have to be delayed. In the first paddock,
bored to go Is. Id. per cubic yard, there is
seven years work ahead; costs are estimated
at 6d. per yard. The co. owns in all 1350
acres, of which GOO are claimed to be suit-
able for dredging and the balance for sluicing.
* * * *
The chairman of Golden Butterfly (W.A.)
says that the reef was found by blind-stab-
bing at about 170 ft. depth, where the first
level was driven for nearly 1000 ft. on small
width and sometimes no ore at all.
Five winzes, spaced 100 ft. apart, have
been sunk, two of which showed only
a streak of ore in the drive, but all steadily
increased in size below the level. Ore from
this drive and from the winzes, crushed at
the Government battery, Norseman, yielded
from 19dwt. llgr. up to 24dwt. sgr. per
short ton. The same main body at No.
2 level (270 ft.) has been crosscut into and
driven on for 30ft. Geologist Gibson says
there is every evidence of continuity at depth.
There is no indication whatever of “kidney”
veins. The board has ordered a cut to be put
through the dump, and 100 tons of the stone
is to be crushed at. the Government battery.
A considerable quantity of the present dump
of some 700 tons was won from driving on
the narrow reef cap at No. 1 level, and also
from the hanging wall vein No. 2 level, not
the main reef. The ore, therefore, is
unavoidablv watered in value by smalls from
mullock broken with the stone. The same
remarks apply also to ore from the shaft,
which is down 352 ft„ and has 18ft. to go to
No. 3 level. A 455. to 50s. crushing is
expected from the dump.
* * * *
South Aus., which had a big share in
the prospecting and financing of Broken Hill
and Ivalgoorlie, just now has at least two
well-equipped parties out after minerals m
Centralia. Michael Terry, who adds a
modern motor-truck to the old-time camel
outfit, is there already. The old explorer
I, A. Wells is just starting out (at 70),
with James O’Neill and an Adelaide-financed
party, to work out s.-w. of Alice Springs, in
the Mann and Tomkinson ranges, and gener-
ally prospect about the Westralian border.
* * * *
Westralian asbestos producers _ have re-
ceived a jolt owing to the discontinuance of
Government advances on oversea shipments
and the dumping of South African products
in the Commonwealth. This is due to the
depressed London market for asbestos, lliere
is no tariff on raw asbestos fibre coming into
Australia, and in the last 12 months 2000
tons of low-grade material were shipped to
Sydney from South Africa.
At a London meeting of Gt. Boulder share-
holders chairman Newton Moore said that
750,000 of the co.’s shares (nearly one-halt
of the total issue) wei’e held in Adelaide, and
that it was therefore to the advantage of
the co. to have an office there. Bast years
figures, however, show that while Adelaide
office expenses totalled nearly £1000; fees
on transfers amounted to only £223. This
work could just as well be done at the Kal-
gocrlie mine office. Indeed, the co. would
only be following the example of other
London-controlled Kalgoorlie-Boulder mining
cos. by doing so.
% jj- He ❖
Tributers gave Boulder Perseverance a
new lease of life, and have since revived the
Great Boulder. In 1926, before any tributes
were let, the Boulder Co. showed a loss of
£11,019. During the three following years
profits have totalled £61,395, a big slice of
which represents royalties from tributers.
Last year tributers won £178,742 worth ot
bullion, and paid £33,015 in royalty to the
co.
* * * *
The roving Adelaide-controlled Mutooroo
Co. is again looking for a mine. It has
sampled and worked many in S. Aus. and
Westralia during the past 10 years, but
none proved profitable. Recently a tantalite
show in the Northern Territory was taken
up, but was almost immediately discarded.
* * * *
Prospectors Hansen and Stevenson treated
447 tons from their show at Hampton Plains
(W.A.) for lOdwt. 14gr. a ton. During the
boom at Hampton in 1917 speculators were
encouraged to expect that this. would be a
moderate yield from the tailings of the
majority of shows. In mining, promises
generally differ widely from performances.
* * * *
Hampton Consols and Edna May Group
cos. (Westonia) continue to report such
good ore exposures that it is surprising the
cos. do not crush some ore parcels at the
two mills close handy.
* it * *
Though the American Copper Trust has
had a bad knock, it still maintains a grip
on the European and especially the English
market. London, however, is now talking
about the formation of a big co. with . a
capacity of 200,000 tons p.a. of electrolytic.
This co. is to treat blister from Rhodesia and
other Dominions at present sending their
output to America for refining. Those in
charge of the new co. will have to keep an
eye on the policy recently adopted by Ameri-
can interests of buying surreptitiously into
British concerns until contral has been
acquired. This manoeuvre has been practised
in connection with certain Malayan tin shows,
and has given rise to a good deal of anxiety.
The new smelters may improve the prospects
of Australian copper-mining, but Rhodesia
will benefit most. Production from its huge
and rich deposits by cheap Kaffir labor has
been increasing of late by leaps and bounds.
*.* * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Are wheat-merchants entitled to the
benefit of the exchange? (2) Can the mer-
chants be made to include the exchange in
the Melbourne price? (3) Is the exchange
already included in, the quoted price? (4)
If so, how much? (5) Why are the Aus-
tralian rates of exchange not published like
the foreign exchanges? —936l.
(1) The wheatgrowers are entitled to the
exchange/ (2) and (3) It is included in the
buying price; competition sees to that. (4)
We are informed that additions of from
5 p.c. to 8 p.c. have been made to the price
which merchants would (otherwise quote.
(5) They are: you’ll find them in Monday’s
papers, as a rule.
How are notes made available? Do the
trading banks pay for their note supplies,
and if so, how and when are such payments
made? —9358.
In Australia the Note Issue Department
of the Commonwealth Bank is the sole note-
issuing authority. The notes are issued in
exchange for gold. The profit on the issue
is made by the Commonwealth Bank, which
invests rather more than one-half of the
amount received for notes and holds in gold
rather less than one-half. Of the bank’s
profits, one-lialf go to its own reserve fund,
the other half to National Debt Sinking
Fund.
(1) What is the significance of “bank
rate ” — i.e., its effect on commercial trans-
actions? (2) Are Australian bank rates
controlled or influenced by Bank of Eng-
land quotations? —93s4.
(1) The “bank rate” in England is the
rate charged for first-class advances (of
the sort made by the Bank of England), and
it goes up or down according to the abund-
ance of money in the country. If money is
flowing out too freely a high rate checks
the movement, just also as it could check
any frenzy of speculation. (2) Not directly.
What special claims, if any, has the Bank
of England to be regarded as an authority
'on national debts? —9374.
It has been at the business since 1694,
and has managed the public debt of Great
Britain for most of that time. As tlio bank
for bankers, keeping their reserves, it knows
the position of every bank in the country,
and what lines it is working upon.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.S.: (1) Outlook too uncertain to advise.
(2) Partly because of heavy outside debts carrying a
fixed rate of interest; partly because there is no
buying support in the market. (3) Tooths. .. .
5.8.: Shares are not quoted that way. What is
meant is that the last div. shows 14 p.c. on present
market price. But because the last div. was at the
rate of 10 p.c. it does not follow that the next will
be T.McB.: (1) Just what do you mean by
“financiers”? (2) Afraid there are very few such
publications,'if any. . . .A.J.8.: Don’t know. Presume
it means value to the community 0.F.F.: Don’t
know any better rule at the present time, if you
invest at all, than to beware of the concern with
a heavy outside debt... .8.0. L.: No reason to doubt
that the co.’s time-payment purchasers will be fully
protected.... J.E.N.: Through any Stock Exchange
broker. But by no means certain that bottom has
been reached Percy D’E.: Gloomy. But be
thankful if there is no liability attached H.I.S.
(5.8.) : Surrender is the worst use you can put it to.
.. . .R.0.R.: (1) Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos
House, Sydney, might be interested. (2) Apply r.o
same firm. .. . Inquisito: Searched back 10 years, and
no trace of any one of them.. . .W.R.G.: Yes, quite
sound so far as figures show... .E.J.8.: One of the
best of the younger offices. But, though policy-
holders are sufficiently protected, bonus prospects
are still poor (See “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly for Feb.).
. . W.0’8.: “Short selling” —of wheat or anything
else —i s selling something you haven’t got in the
hope that the market will fall before you have to
deliver. Sometimes the operator helps it to fall by
circulating false stories, estimates, etc.. ... 8.C.: May
be two years. But don’t worry about market price;
that doesn’t matter so long as the dividend return
is all right. .. .A.A.E.S.: (1) Yes. (2) Better to
have all in one strong basket than half in each of
two weak ones. (3) Not impossible, but not at all
likely (4) E., S. and A. reserves, £3,427,741 ;
ditto National, £3,362,907... .A.J.G.: (1) To a
great extent, yes. (2) Yes. (3) Difficulty would
be in transfer. Exchange would now cost you 9 p.c.
at least, and you would be lucky to find a bank
willing to put the transaction through on any terms.
(4) No.


m "" % %
'6Z'KCQ‘ a
ii&
aw
11l
„„
; I]
m wm
$m
! !!
ill ii
'
ssisSSrii
••••ill* l
gSgSSSWSN® Hi ?
jjpr
■
. ■ ::: S ■■
m jggj
.
k"v.
nr!
L «
i’MiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiH
.
«i iiJ!
Vi
—J!
sssssSSSSataJ ■
■
■■■'lllOp
-
HH!!«SSHnas
' 1
V
m
m
m
ft
w
mm
It
.>
m
m
lH
t
m
m
m
m
mz.
\
k.
1
Ft
iur "3
r^i


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122*132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
1
■ «
f in
t f U*< ul It 1? II
!»i|«
Kii!,i
lignum
IP
At
8 1
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
INVESTIGATE-INVEST.
There may be a few who get rich quickly and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do not “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest, to do the investing
for him. j
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town.
Ccmmonwcaltl) Savings Sank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
a
Serid
Yhur
Wmi
ro
Urson
Growers!
Grasp
and
Gain
the advantages
(. arising from
that advice.
Winchcombe, Carson
LTD.
enjoy outstanding popularity as selling brokers
because clients’ results show the benefit of the
Ann’s capable work in selling the clip.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.,
Winchcombe House, and 99-101 Eagle St.,
B'idge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Pale Ale”: The members of the Dingo
Mill Ag. Soc. were arguing whether it
was correct to say if a hen was “sitting” or
“setting.” When old Butforp was asked his
opinion, he replied: “I don’t know that it
interest me much, blokes. What I want ter
know when I hear a hen cackle is whether
she’s laying or lying.”
AMEN!
PARSON ( reprovingly ): “William Henry, your wife comes to church much oftener than
you do.”
W.H.: “Yes, Passo n— her’d go ’most any place where her’d get in the last word.”
“0.W.W.”: Henare was describing a row
he had with Isaac Conkovitcli, the pawn-
broker. “I hit him, too,” he declared. “I
punch him five times on te nose —in a
afferent peace every time.”
“Hamer” : The most surprised cat I ever
saw was one I introduced to an old mansion
at Glebe Point, Sydney, which once was my
habitation ; there were rats everywhere, but
in the old, disused stable at the back were
some, as big as fox-
terriers. The cat
sniffed the atmosphere
of the back yard and
decided that it had
been admitted into
Paradise, and the
smaller rats, which in
the adventurous spirit
of youth invaded the
house, were slaught-
ered with joyous aban-
don. Tabby’s first
realisation that her
Eden was not a place
of unmixed blessed-
ness came on a day
when, having just
missed her pounce, she
chased a smallish rat
right into the stables.
The next minute there
was a noise inside as
if the building were
being pulled down, the
most pronounced sound
being Tabby’s voice,
raised in the most
dreadful language I
ever heard a cat use.
Then she dashed out
of the stable, fur on
end, splitting and
spluttering, pursued
by two rats as big as
herself. Although the
pursuers gave up the
chase, Tabby dashed
through the house,
went bang through
the pane of a French
window, and was last
seen taking the front
fence, 100 feet away,
in her stride. Three
days later Tabby,
looking nervously
from side to side,
returned; and even after she had settled
down to giving the house rats a bad time,
she declared the back yard a No Cats’ Land.
* * ' * *
“The Wog”: lie came into the bar and
drank a pint with the flies. Having finished
his pot he started telling me—l stand on
the sober side of the counter —what a lot
of blanks all publicans and barmen are.
“How many cockies have gone broke round
here through this pub?” he asked. “Dozens
of ’em,” I said, having no taste for argu-
ment. “Yairs, an’ yer laugh at the silly
cows, don’tcher?” continued the solo pintolo-
gist. “Yairs, youse chaps would take a man’s
last penny for a pint and then laugh at ’im,
SHE WOULDN’T SEE HIM STUCK.
LUBRA: “Boss, you bin goin ’ town. You gibbit me some money, me kiss you like
missus.”
BOSS: “I’ve got no money for that, Jinny.”
JINNY: “Neber mind, Boss. I shout!”
now wouldn’t yer?” “I suppose we would.”
says I pacifically. “ ’Orrible!” says the
bloke; and then very sadly lie drew a soli-
tary copper from his pocket. “That’s me last
penny,” he said. “Where’s me pint?” I
reckoned he deserved it.
* * * *
“Done-Piner”: Dry Dan, employed by the
blacksmith, dashed into the pub and drank
four pots with the flies in four < minutes.
Noticing our resentment, he explained. “I
got a bit boozed last night, and on starting
work this morning I wanted a pot bad.
But the boss is a strict teetotaller, and he
wouldn’t give me any time off. The torture
had near driven me dippy when the slushy
from the pub arrived with Pat’s hack to
be shod. The boss gave me the job, and I
saw a chance of getting that booze. When
his back was turned I slapped the horse
on the rump, and sent it running home. Then
I chased it, shouting ‘Whoa!’ for all I was
worth to attract the boss’s attention. The
horse, with me close (but not too close) be-
hind, was just about to turn into this street
when a blooming nipper rushes out and
grabs the halter and hands it to me. I felt
like killing him when he said he was a
Boy Scout doing his daily good deed. I’d
have done it too, only the boss was at the
smithy door watching. So I had to take
the horse back, cursing Baden-Powell under
me breath.”
* * %■ *
“Frigid”: Ever heard of birch wine? I
struck it in Cheshire, in war-time; a very
ancient villager pressed me to sample it.
He said that birch-trees are tapped for then-
sap in March. When fresh, the sap forms
an agreeable beverage, and when fermented
a sparkling wine that looks like champagne
and has something of the same flavor. The
Scientific Research Council ought to make
experiments with our native trees.
* * * *
“Sappho Suds” : Narbo, my house-boy, had
earache and sat in the laundry moaning. I
sent for him, but he remembered seeing me use
a “gun belong water” (syringe) on another
youth’s ear once before. Puppai, the laundry
boy, was a “one talk” (same district), and
his fathers had been great medicine-men, so
to Puppai the treatment was entrusted. The
moans of distress ceased in the laundry, and
I strolled down to watch affairs. Narbo
lay stretched out in the warm sand on his
left side. Puppai sat astride across his
patient’s shoulders, and seemed to be slowly-
stroking the invalid’s inflamed eai\ A small
caterpillar had been inserted into the ear,
a small leaf covered the orifice to keep the
grub prisoner, and the patient continued to
lie in the sun all day, as still quiet as
a corpse. At sundown the caterpillar was
removed with a bamboo splinter, and the
boy seemed cured. The ebony surgeon
explained that the grub ate the hard wax
that had formed in the ear. I prefer the
ear-syringe myself, but my staff continue
to patronise Puppai and the wog.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Probably for the first time in
the world’s history a good word is being put
in for the fox, hitherto regarded as a mem-
ber of the animal criminal classes. There are
farmers in N.S.W. who declare that they will
murder anyone caught killing a fox on their
property. Their reason is that, ’possum
killing being illegal, the little beasts, which
do an immense amount of damage in corn
crops and orchards, are multiplying at a
great rate. Master Reynard has no respect
for the law, and does the work for the
farmer which the farmer is not allowed to
do for himself. A juicy ’possum suits the
fox’s appetite better than a nice plump duck,
and nowadays the animal is not causing
much trouble in the poultry yard.
* * * *
“Polycarp” : North Q’land lias a mystery
animal, the striped tiger cat or marsupial
tiger. The scientists have accepted its
existence, but are not sure that the creature
is a marsupial. No museum as yet possesses
a skin or skeleton, but the big cat with tiger-
like stripes instead of spots is well known.
Wilkins kept an eye out for a specimen dur-
ing his trip around the little-known
Peninsula, but failed. The blacks and many
old-timers know the animal well. The late
Bill -McCard brought the first one under
public notice at Scrubby Creek, near Iler-
berton, but in those days no one thought of
preserving the remains. The big cat can kill
a full-sized kangaroo, and has been known to
pull down calves.
:|t * *
“Pick”: The tiny sugar squirrel has
ability that no other furry denizen of gum-
tree land possesses. Under the toes of each
foot it wears concave pads, and these enable
it to pass around under a thick bough or to
spring from a branch to the underneath side
of one above. Chestnut on the back and
silvery white underneath, it wears a feather-
like fringe down each side of its long tail
and a loose-skin flange along each side. These
enable it to volplane from a tall treetop to
the trunk of another tree some distance
away. The bushman who named the little
creature had an idea of its diet. It loves
manna, the nectar of wild flowers, sweet
wild fruits. When these are off the menu
mosquitoes, moths and beetles are acceptable.
This squirrel constructs a nest of shredded
bark in a hollow gum knot, and makes up
for active nights by sleeping all day.
IT’S ALL THE SAME TO ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You’d wander ’arf the world around from
China to Brazil
Before another could be found to match my
old mate Bill.
No matter wot you ’ave to say, ’is answer’s
sure to be
“Orl right, ole man, jist fire away—it’s all
the .same to me!”
I know ’e ’ates the taste o’ wine, an’ yet
to please a chap
’Oo likes it ’e’ll say, “Same for mine,” though
better drink’s on tap.
With orl a feller wants to do ’e darned
well must agree:
“Or] right, ole man, I’ll ’elp yer through—
it’s orl the same to me.”
Jist wot’ll ’appen w’en ’e goes beyond is
’ard to tell.
W’en they consider, I suppose, if ’e’s for
’Eaven or ’Ell
They’ll turn to ’im an’ they will say “Now
wot's it gointer be?”
An’ ’e’ll reply: “Aw, fire away—it’s orl the
same to me !”
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


o Proper Feeding Is Essential
Feed a dog too often and he’s slug-
gish. Under-feed him and he’s weak.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme—
is full of vitamins.lt is put up in tins, consisting
of red meat, fresh vegetables, cereals, ground
bone and cod liver oil Dogs seldom tire
of it Try a tin today.... All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JKK
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
g
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney’s well-known Harbor Hotel
; V
m !
QQQ
LiliJilLiill
HQ
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4J Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines)
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5/ including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
“Bad Australian”; When the first post-
and-wire fences superseded the old-time
chock-and-log, brush, dog-leg and post-and-
rail, it was. a common sight to see dead kan-
garoos and emus tangled in the new fences,
and horses and cattle were often killed or
maimed through running into them at night,
or when suddenly stampeded. The kan-
garoos and emus soon got wise to the altered
WHAT A MAN MAY FALL TO.
FIRST ONLOOKER: “I guess a man has to go easy on those
buildings.”
SECOND DITTO: “Too right! One false step and you’re a paragraph
in th’ morning paper.”
conditions, and whenever they saw a line of
posts they jumped high; even where the
wire had not been run through the newly-
erected posts they took no chances. Nor
were wild animals or stock the only casual-
ties. One clear, moonless night a crowd
of us were returning from a race meeting
along a bush track. Approaching a point
where it was necessary to make a short
detour, Billy Williams, something more
than half “shot,” was well in the lead
when somebody yelled, “Look out for Hal-
ligan’s fence!” “To Hell with Halligan an’
his fence!” came the answering yell, fol-
lowed almost immediately by the twang of
wire and a horrible thud. The horse had
its back broken, and the flesh of its neck
stripped from jaws to brisket, and died
almost without a kick. Billy spent three
months in hospital nursing a broken leg and
thumb and a badly-dislocated wrist.
¥ * ¥ *
“Matloe”: “Trent Bridge” (B. 17/9/’3O)
mentions the report (since denied) that Duleep-
sinhji is to visit Australia to learn sheep-
farming, and wonders what he will do with
his knowledge when (or if) he gets it. There
will be a use for it in India, as his uncle has
been trying to introduce the merino to his
domain, and has a stud farm there now.
Three .months ago Ranji was casting about
for a manager with Australian merino ex-
perience—salary £4OO, plus first-class return
ticket, plus house flunkeys and tucker for a
three-year contract. I should have liked to
give it a trial myself, but boundary
riding on elephants is a little beyond even
my undoubted talents. When I last heard
about it, Harry Laing, of Mount Hesse sta-
tion, Vic., appeared well in the running for
the job. He should suit, too. He started off
at sea in sail, R.N.V.R., and since then
has learned woollies properly. He knows
his knives and forks and is a good sort.
“R.V.”: The first crocodile reported to
have been found in the Speck now reposes
at the Queen Victoria Museum, Launceston.
It belongs to the species Porosus, whose
normal habitat is India, China and North-
ern Australia. It is the only seagoing
member of the family, which possibly
accounts for it being found on the banks
of the North Esk.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Swot”: William Funnell, mate to Dam-
pier, tells how in 1704, ten leagues off the
coast of Peru, he and his fellow buccaneers
in the ship St. George saw a phenomenon
similar to that
noted by “Zwig”
(B. 13/8/’3O). He
records that “....
we were suddenly
surprised with the
change of the Color
of the Water,
which looked as red
as Blood to as
great a distance as
we could see, which
might be seven or
eight Leagues. At
first we were
mightily surprized ;
bu t, recollecting
ourselves, we
sounded, but had
no Ground at one
hundred and
seventy Fathom.
We then drew
some Water up in
buckets, and
poured some into a
Glass. It still con-
tinued very red,
till about a quarter
of an hour after it
had been in the
Glass; when all
the red Substance
floated at the top
and the Water
underneath was as
clear as usual. The
red which floated
at the top was of
a slimy substance,
with little knobs,
and we all con-
eluded that it
could be nothing
but the Spawn of
Fish.”
¥ $
“Jascop”: Next
to Bluey at the
football match was
a stocky, red-faced
gentleman who
took frequent pulls
at a large flask of
whisky and boast-
ed of his prowess
at the game. An
icy wind blew in
gusts all the after-
noon, but the flask
was not proffered,
although its owner
never ceased to
brag to Bluey of football. Even when the
game was over his monologue continued, and
lie told how he used to be goalkeeper for thq
Mordialloc Murderers. “I don’t know what
you were like as a goalkeeper,” muttered
Bluey; “but I’ll bet me life you were no
good at passing.”
¥ * ¥ ¥
“Avon” : I wonder how many Maorilanders
cherish affectionate memories of “Jimmy the
Dentist,” otherwise Jim Denniston, an old
pug who in my day and generation was the
only instructor in boxing to be had for love
or money in the ultra-law-abiding city of
Christchurch? Jimmy rented a sort of
atelier from the Y.M.C.A.—a basement that
NO SENSE OF THE FITNESS OF THINGS.
“Fancy ’em -putting a silly lighthouse on a bonser possy like this!”
he shared with a miniature-rifle club —and
the smack of glove on skin was punctuated
by the popping of what Jimmy called “those
blasted sli'ootists.’.’ It was Jimmy’s custom
every now and then to shed his sweater and
don his professional trunks, whereby we, his
pupils, knew that we were in for the father
and the mother of a hiding. I was held in
but poor esteem by James, being long and
skinny and nervous, and apt in my perturba-
tion to forget my defence. But there was one
great and glorious night when I turned the
tables. Jimmy had cuffed me and banged me
till I was one big ache from the waist up,
when into my mind slid a recollection of a
most circumstantial account of Bob Fitz-
simmons’s foot-shift. Just at that moment
came a concerted volley from the target boys,
and Jimmy, as he always did on such occa-
sions, turned aside to flourish a fist at them
and curse them. I essayed the Fitzsimmons
dance-step, and landed Jimmy a wallop on
the side of his jaw that he was looking away
from. It bowled him over. He was up
like a cat, and I was resigning myself to
sudden death, when his eye twinkled and his
hands went down. “Let that be a lesson to
you, me lad!” he roared. “Keep your eye on
your man. and don’t go gawping around like
a tom-fool.” And so quickly had the incident
happened that the 20 other lads who were
sparring round on the tan thought that
Jimmy had caught me napping and was
driving home the moral at my expense.
$.. $ ❖ *
“Brolga Bill” : “Yes,” bragged Zebra ; “I’m
mentions the report (since denied) that Duleep-
bandee. Hell for leather tli’ mob stampeded
through tli’ mulga snappin’ th’ trees like
twigs. Me horse was down, trampled to
death, an’ left me clingin’ to th’ leader’s
horns like a flea to a dingo pup. Around
me was th’ wildest mob in th’ Durambandee
ranges, all headed for ruin an’ destruction.
"We thundered down Breakneck Gully an’ up
Mighty Mountain, then swerved past Devil’s
Knoh, out on to th’ Tableland, an’ straight
for Hell’s Canyon. Then I knew we was
doomed ! Nothin’ could stop that mad stam-
pede, all worked up with their bellowin’s
an’ pantin’s an’ clasliin’ o’ horns. Th’ can-
yon looms up, a black hole, an’ th’ mob
gathers speed for th’ plunge. On th’ bank
stood a solitary pine-tree with a leanin’
limb like a gallows. I kicks me steer’s left
eye, an’ he veers towards th’ tree, an’ as
over he went I leaps an’ grabs th’ branch
while th’ mob avalanches down an’ under.
They was so close streamin’ over that their
horns ripped me strides to ribbons —an’ that’s
why th’ boys call me ‘Zebra.’ ”
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Alias” : Along the Bight there is no gidya.
The blacks pound moist mallee root to
pulp and add fine ash to develop kneadable
dough, and the resultant damper is so like
what mother used to make that the Eyre’s
Patch humorist whom I had come by the
quarterly schooner to relieve easily induced
me to eat some. It was very nice, too, but
for days after my predecessors departure 1
was distressingly, painfully ill, the symptoms
suggesting indulgence in a diet of petrified
spinifex. The lineman’s timely appearance
and explanation of the joke diverted my
thoughts from suicide, but the question put
by every brother postmaster as the schooner
passed from Israelite Bay to Albany, “How’s
nigger bread, Jim?” set me contemplating
murder.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
“Tat”: Underground noises are common in
Tuscany, Burma and other places where
cavernous limestone exists. At Winter’s Knob,
THE LITTLE PATRIOT.
“Your teacher tells me that you have done
so badly with your lessons that you
must stay in the same class another
term.”
“Yes, Dad.. I’m doing my bit to help you
through the depression. You won’t
have to buy any new books.”
between Takaka and Totaranui, Blind Bay
(M.L.), I have often heard them. The sound
is like distant gunfire. Here, immense
caverns, mostly unexplored, exist in the
miocene limestone.
DISQUALIFIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘I might ha’ married once,” said Joe, and
knit reflectively his brows,
‘All that was really wrong with Flo was
that she didn’t care for cows.
Her lips, I tell you, tasted good as on the
fence o’ nights we sat;
['m pretty certain that I would have made
her mine, except for that.
“She’d quite a lot of sex appeal and taking
ways and dainty charm;
I always thought she liked to feel about her
waist my manly arm.
But when it came to marriage vows, well,
how could I have gone her halves,
A maid who owned she b ated cows and
utterly detested calves?
“A bit of luck for me I found it out in
time,” continued Joe;
“It’s love that makes the world go round,
some people say, but I dunno.
A pretty face is good, no doubt, and so’s a
bust in clinging silk;
But what’s a cocky’s wife without the coax-
ing hand that draws the milk.
“Her smile,” said Joe, “was dazzling bright,
• her figure elegant and trim.
She wed a city chap—too right! I guess
she’s just the sort for him.
Time was I thought I loved her true, and
still the memory faintly cuts;
But you can see it wouldn’t do—a girl who
couldn’t milk for nuts!”
N.s.w.
IFORD.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire «
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
fdg
LORRIES . . . FEED CUTTERS . . . PETROL ENGINES
RUN BETTER and LAST LONGER WHEN LUBRICATED u’lth
ALEM I T E
THE HIGH PRESSURE SYSTEM OF LUBRICATION
ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
In the Centre of things!
fdg
Located on Adelaide’s
finest boulevard, the
Grosvenor is handy
to theatres, shopping
centres, and public
buildings. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all
rooms. Yale locks on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
CIIOSVENOR
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE SMALL MAN’S WOOL.
“Orel” : As a rule, the man with a small
merino flock can’t afford to employ a wool-
classer, but if he uses a little care in the
preparation of his wool he should not give
any warrant for complaints such as have
been coming from some overseas buyers.
First give the shed a thorough clean out.
Remove all the sundries that have been stored
in the shed; they are in the road and wool
only gets behind them. Pay special attention
to the floor ; buyers don’t like chaff, straw
or string in the wo«l, and it looks bad. Wash
the shearing board. Using a disinfectant
reduces the possibility of finding odd dead
sheep in the paddock after shearing. In
handling the fleeces don’t imitate the sort of ‘
contractor whose one idea is to get through
the job quickly.
Skirt as lightly as possible with a small
clip, but get all the sweat locks and big
trimmings off. Look out for the sweat locks
that are gathered off the board when picking
up. It is quite easy to roll them up inside
the fleece.
If the clip passes the 20-bale mark it is
possible to make two lots of pieces and skirt
a bit heavier by removing extra-strong
breeches, necks and topknots containing
foreign matter. Roll the fleeces to bring the
shoulder wool outside. The buyer will find
the shorter wool on the back if he wants to.
While rolling consider the quality of the
fleece and test it for soundness. Tender wool
should be' kept out even if it onlv fills a
chaff bag. Make the top line about the
general average or a little better. It should
contain sound wool of good length and color
and be as even as possible. A slight varia-
tion in length is a lesser evil than a varia-
tion in spinning quality. Keep out strong
wools, also straight-fibred, harsh, heavy-con-
ditioned and short wools.
The second line could contain the strong but
otherwise good fleeces if there is sufficient
to make a decent line. In that case the
short, heavy and straight wools can be put
in a third line.
Put each fleece in the press separately
without breaking it up. If you are goirfg
to pitch the wool in any way why go to the
trouble of rolling it first? A bale of carefully
pressed fleeces opens up showing the flesh
side of the fleece, and looks more attractive
than the broken-up fleeces that exhibit as
much tip of the staple as anything else.
HAND-FEEDING.
“Bar K.” : Hand-feeding of sheep has been
tested interestingly at the Nyngan (N.S.W.)
experimental farm. Four pens of six sheep
each were selected and weighed, weights
being checked at intervals for nearly 12
months. Group A w T as fed on a ration of
lib. of baled wheaten hay per day; group B
was given 21b. of hay; group C received
of hay and of pit wheaten silage;
group D was put on natural pastures as a
“control” group. The average loss in weight
was 33.581 b. in A, 26.831 b. in B, 25.041 b. in
G and 10.51 b. in D.
The sheep were shorn during the test.
There was a marked difference in the weight
of fleeces from the pastured sheep, which
averaged 9.681 b. as against 5.541 b. from C,
5.831 b. from B and 4.871 b. from A. At
the end the sheep were valued at the follow-
ing averages: A, 10s. 6d. per head; B,
14s. 9d.; C, 14s. 7d. ; D, 17s. Od.
The penned sheep, as would be expected,
lost weight in the early stages, but those in
groups B and C soon settled down, and
showed excellent health throughout. Lambing
in all the groups was satisfactory, although
the loss of weight at lambing was consider-
able in the pens. At the conclusion of the
test all the sheep were in good nick.
The outstanding feature was the condition
throughout of group A, with their ration of
only lib. of hay per day for such a long
period. The feeding of sheep on ensilage
only for an extended period had previously
proved unsuccessful.
TOP-DRESSING A NECESSITY.
“Cogas” : It is undeniably true that “pas-
ture improvement is the most practical way
of combating droughts” (B. l/10/’3O). By
the greater use of seeded pastures and top-
dressing with phosphates and nitrogenous
fertilisers, together with the storing of the
excess growth of one period to tide them over
a leaner time, the pastoralists of older coun-
tries have set an example that Australia
might well follow.
We have only 1 per cent, of our continent
under cultivation, either with crops or sown
grasses, so that we have to depend very largely
on the natural pastures. After many years of
use these have been depleted of the nutritive
matter in the soil. That the reconditioning of
the soil is a necessity is indicated by the
diseases of malnutrition to which stock are
subject.
The practice of top-dressing is particularly
effective in those districts having a medium
or low rainfall. In the southern areas
the value of artificial fertilisers is more fully
realised than in any other section, and it is to
be hoped that the lead of the South will be
ouickly followed in the other parts of Aus-
tralia.
ROTATIONAL TOPdDRESSING.
“Honi P.”: A lot is written about the
benefits of rotational grazing and rota-
tional cropping, but I have not read in
any farming journal anything pertaining
to rotational top-dressing. The majority of
farmers do not get the maximum results
from their outlay on fertilisers because
they top-dress all their paddocks at prac-
tically the same time. To my way of
thinking it would be much better to top-
dress a third of the farm in August, a third
in November and a third in February.
It seems to be recognised by agricul-
turists that short young pasture is the
most nutritious and palatable, and that rank
old pasture is neither palatable nor nutri-
tious. I am convinced, from practical experi-
ence, that if the grass is not kept short in
the late spring and early summer a very
perceptible decrease in the milk flow is
inevitable.
A large percentage of Maoriland farmers
do practically all their top-dressing in
August. By the end of October (unless con-
siderable overtime is put in with the mower)
most of the pastures are rank and going to
seed. A rotational system of top-dressing
would undoubtedly obviate such an undesir-
able state of affairs.
TOO MUCH SALT.
“Alf Alpha”: A friend of mine, a pig-
farmer, bought a property on the uplands
close to Melbourne, and removed his entire
stock to their new abode. The result was
not at all satisfactory. The pigs showed loss
of condition, listlessness and general un-
happiness. Their drinking water was sus-
pected ; it came from a shallow well. Analysis
disclosed that it contained 189 grains of
common salt per gallon.
Roughly 10001 b. of pig will eat 401 b. of
food per day. This requires 25 gallons of
water for its assimilation. The amount of
salt which can be safely fed to a pig varies
between an eighth to a quarter of an ounce
per day according to the size of the pig;
about an ounce (450 grains) per 10001 b. live
weight. Pigs drinking a normal quantity
of the water in that shallow well (and the
more salt taken the more water drunk)
would be getting 472 grains of salt. The
excess plus that contained in the food and
lick was proved to be the direct cause of
their ill-health.
The drinking water given to pigs should be
almost as carefully chosen as that for con-
sumption by human beings. And because of
their very thin covering of hair, it is advis-
able to warm the water slightly (say to
50-60 deg. F.) during the winter.
DAIRY-FARMING ESSENTIALS.
“R.X.8.” : The dairy-farmer’s ideal should
be the attainment of a maximum production
from each cow in the herd, and the elimina-
tion and replacement of any beast whose pro-
duction, after a fair trial t is so much
below that of the best producer that the two
are not entitled to the same amount of work
and feed.
That is a matter of herd-testing, the value
of which is still unfortunately debated by
too many dairymen. Certainly the present
method of herd-testing leaves some logs on
the road that the farmer is left to get over
by himself. The nastiest of these relates to
the disposal in his own district of a low-
test cow and its replacement by a better
beast. Too much cash is likely to slip out
of the pocket getting over that log.
In very many cases physical imperfec-
tions in cows are due to digestive faults. It
is therefore essential to keep _ the digestive
system in good order. My realisation of this
led me to adopt three essentials, as a result
of which I have not had a sick cow in my
herd (24) for three years, the milk flow
has improved in quantity and quality, and
cows have been lifted out of the category of
poor producers.
The first essential is a pure water supply.
A running river is the ideal, and you may be
lucky enough to have one. But is it always
available to the cows whatever paddock they
are in? Next in value is the controlled
supply in troughing. That may not be the
difficult and expensive item you think it is.
The worst form of supply is the most usual —
the dam that can too easily become low,
muddy, slimy and fouled by urine, and is
unshaded in summer months.
Salt is the second essential. It is best pro-
vided in prepared licks rather than in the
form of rock salt, as the former contain a
variety of salts all of which are necessary to
repair waste in the system. The usual prac-
tice of supplying salt with hand feeds is bad,
firstly because hand feeds are usually only
given for a part of the year, and secondly
because each cow’s requirements are not
catered for. Salt should be avail-
able all the year. I find the'best way to
supply it is to spread the powdered stuff
on the grass when the cows are turned out
of the milking yard. Don’t be mean with it.
The third essential is oil cake. It is bought
in large cakes like bath mats, and should not
be given in the solid or crushed state at all.
Break the cake into small lumps and scald
with boiling water, adding all the water
necessary to make a firm mush. It will keep
a long time. A double handful is a fair
daily ration, but poorer beasts should be
given all they will take. It is best supplied
in a box in the bail from which the cow can
eat while being milked. Some cows won't
touch it at first and may have to be coaxed
by adding some lucerne chaff, a little salt,
or some molasses.
If these essentials are provided, an im-
provement in the general health and pro-
duction of the herd is certain.
“SAFETY FIRST” ON WHEAT FARMS.
“Malites” • With abundant yields pretty
certain in all the wheat-growing States,
one’s thoughts turn to the risks involved
before the crop is harvested. Damage by
storm cannot be prevented, but risk of fire
can be greatly minimised by care and
thoughtfulness.
To smoke in the paddocks is to look for
trouble. Bottles in which oil has been car-
ried should not be left lying about. Even
a hot bearing on your harvester is a threat
to that six-bag crop. A good idea is to cut
tracks around your paddocks in October,
making ensilage of the green stuff, and to
plough firebreaks along the tracks. Cows
like the ensilage, and the proceeding will
save you much worry.
When thinking of insurance against
storms, consider your policy well before
taking it out. As a rule, a hailstorm policy
covers only actual damage done by hail,
and is no protection against the destruction
wrought by the accompanying wind and rain.
Fire insurance is a safe investment; it costs
little and is necessary. But don’t forget that
the greatest insurance is in Safety First.
BURNING TREES DOWN.
“Scot” : I have no time for the man who
stacks all his spare wood against the wind-
ward side of a tree and then waits for a
windy day before lighting it. He might singe
the dry sap off one side of the tree if he got
the wind blowing in one direction for a
week, but he would be more likely to tak»
the count from exhaustion trying to keep
the wood up to the fire.
Let me describe the scientific way. Draw
up three hefty logs—the heftier the better.
Throw small sticks, twigs, leaves or any-
thing that will burn against the tree, and
place the three logs around its base in the
form of a triangle, as close to the tree as
possible. Get the small stuff alight, then
back up the logs with dirt to keep the
air out and the fire from burning back under
them. In a few minutes the tree will be
the centre of a raging inferno. The fire
makes its own wind and fierce flames play
on the tree all round. As the fire burns
into the tree throw in some more fuel and
work the three logs in closer, keeping them
backed up with the dirt.
When the tree falls keep the fire going on
the stump, and when it has burnt down
level with the surface of the _ ground stoke
up until you have a good glowing fire on it;
then cover the lot with ashes and dirt and
stove out the remainder of the stump. Throw
a shovelful of dirt on the heap wherever
smoke is coming through. In a day or two
the stump will be burnt out to its nether
roots.
TRACTOR TIPS.
“Goomarin”: If wheel-spokes break, find
out if those extension rims are really neces-
sary. Very often they are not and the
added strain snaps spokes or rivets. By
the same token large spade grips are trouble-
bringers, especially in harder soils.
At harvest time change the sump oil
oftener. Air cleaners are not perfect and
dust knocks at the door of even the crank-
case breather.
It might not be according to theory, but
in some tractors it is easier to put in the
gears if the throttle is opened a little.
It’s cheaper to buy case petrol than drums
for starting. The evaporation from the best
drum is surprising. A couple of two-gallon
tins will hold the petrol from the open tin.
A padded seat sounds a luxury, but you'll
come home good-tempered, and that’s some-
thing. Only—keep it dry.
An extra length of chain in the toolbox for
pothole country will save many a bog.
Kerosene and water tanks split and leak,
especially when the packing strip is hard
and packed with dust. A length of inner
tube under the tank will remedy this.
When reassembling the gear-box and dif-
ferential casing flash a light right down to
the bottom. If you don’t and are lucky (as
we were) the knife or spanner that’s left
behind will do no harm. If your luck’s out
—well, a Westralian neighbor’s bill for
new gears, etc., was £75. The bolt that did
the damage was usable, but that didn’t help
much.
Grease is really a better seal than shellac
in the head gasket, and the gasket won’t
be ruined when the head comes off next time.
ORANGE MATURITY STANDARDS.
“Shadlow”: The enforcement of a matu-
rity standard for oranges in Victoria has
not been a simple matter. The need for
such a test was questioned on behalf _of
growers supplying the early market, it being
contended that a section of the public pre-
ferred its oranges on the tart side, and that
babies, for whose use oranges are largely
purchased at the beginning of the season,
did not know the difference between a tart
orange and a sweet one. The free market-
ing of sour oranges was, however, admitted
to set back consumption at a time when it
was essential that the maturer crop should
be moving, and it was thought that test for
acidity would provide a satisfactory method
of determining the maturity of an orange.
The acidity test had the advantage of
being easily applied, but it was soon real-
ised that it gave only a negative, and, at
the best, an approximate indication. Un-
palatable oranges of low acid but low sugar
content passed the test, whereas some whose
high acid content was offset by a high sugar
content failed. Soon after the test wass
introduced in 1929 it was suspended, except
for obviously sour and unpalatable oranges.
This season conditions were not favorable for
the application of the acid standard, as the
oranges were from three to five weeks later
in maturing. Check palate tests showed that
the 23-25 c.c. soda test excluded too many
comparatively sweet oranges, and a tolerance
of 7 c.c. was allowed, sour oranges testing
at more than 30 c.c. not being permitted to
come on the market.
The solids-acid ratio of 8 to 1 for deter-
mining maturity, as enforced in California,
is applied there to oranges that are at least
25 per cent, and not less than 70 per cent,
colored, or to oranges that have been sub-
jected to gas treatment for accelerating com-
plete coloring. The literal adoption of the
Californian standard would not regulate the
position in Australia, as it provides that
oranges which are 70 per cent, colored at the
time of picking are to be deemed mature
irrespective of the analysis of the juice. In
other U.S.A. States provision is made for the
inspection of all oranges offered for sale in
a specified period, corresponding roughly to
March I—May1—May 31 in Australia, and the fruit
must conform to the 8 to 1 solids-acid ratio.
Had the 23 c.c. acid test been enforced in
Melbourne this season less than half of the
oranges on the market at the end of June
could have been sold, although not more than
one-third would have been classed as un-
palatable. An 8 to 1 solids-acid ratio, cor-
responding to an 18 to 20 c.c. soda test, would
have barred 95 per cent, of the oranges offer-
ing at that time.
TOMATOES UNDER GLASS.
“Virus”: The high prices obtained for
early tomatoes have in recent years tempted
many growers about Sydney to experiment
with glass houses; but it is a rather risky
business, and expensive. For a start it is
necessary to have suitable land near the
coast; this may run a man into £250 per
acre. The houses are usually about 100 ft.
by 15ft., and cost £l5O per house or more—
generally more.
From the time the seed is sown till the
crop is harvested the grower must be pre-
pared to spend a great deal of his time under
glass. Insect pests must be controlled by
constant sprayings of Bordeaux or sulphur.
Early blight, bronze or spotted wilt and
Fusarium wilt may be encountered, and
affected plants must be taken out and burnt.
Then the houses should be moved on to new-
ground every few years. In the control of
disease, some success has attended sterilisa-
tion of the ground with formalin. This
method is more expensive than steaming
the ground, which is the most effective
method of checking Fusarium. _
This year a few growers—all diligent well-
informed men who have done their job
(Continued on page 25.)


I
m
m
vs
, ■
.'Jm •• 8
tr-' > '-,.1- . i
i&jW >.. ; ’ ;
m
m
M.
wmm
m
m
m
r i’M i
m
w
Vi f ♦
111111 l
•. : '
■■
■m a
Hundreds of feet deep and colored like the rainbow, the walls of Yellow-
stone Canyon make a frame for the tumultuous beauty of Yellowstone Falls.
You can choose from many
different railway routes across
the continent of America from
San Francisco.
Splashed with glowing colours
and studded with waterfalls
. Yellowstone’s lovely canyon,
easily reached as you go to ENGIAICTI
m
* f'"
XXXi.
% ,
>4
> *&L
NW&
The interesting prehistoric ruins of the cliff
divellers tell of a civilization that existed
long before the white man reached America.
WRITERS have likened it to a
painter’s palette and to a casket
of jewels—but words never yet did justice
to the vivid beauty of the Yellowstone
River Canyon in Wyoming.
Your fastest, shortest route to England is
across the United States! Your very next
trip “hack home” can include such
famous places as Yellowstone, Holly-
wood, Chicago, New York, Yosemite,
Zion National Park, the Grand Canyon
of Arizona.
On this interesting route to England, you
have a moderate climate all the way.
Every detail is arranged before you leave
Australia. And the cost is much less than
you think.
We’d like to tell you more. Of interesting
stops at Fiji, Samoa, and Hawaii, en route
from Sydney to San Francisco. Of mov-
ing pictures, orchestra, deck sports, and
swimming pool on your fast Matson ship.
Of America’s palatial railway trains with
all the comforts of good hotels.
Our new free illustrated literature, “To
England Across America,” is free to those
planning trips.
Write to Dept. -Udo,
AMERICAN
RAILWAYS TRAVEL „„a
INFORMATION RIJREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Chasm Lake and Long’s Peak are beauty
spots of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
America offers you many other interesting
scenic wonders as you cross the continent.
St
’ M 9
:
<« >i<
m* :
It *»> :
;*»*« >
s«£*£
' »<:• sii
SBS®^& >< >
w «««« h* *aii s «
lllie.W *mi *
The new City Hall is typical of Los Angeles’
fine buildings. You’ll see the newest types
of structural architecture in the cities of
America through which you pass.


W'X l
&
- • '»
|W*%. ¥ ••:
IN
■m*.
w.
* . m wmmmm '■■■
838$g&$g&
|.v: : :v: : S:;:;::$; :
wSsSSf
m
mm
m
KG
: :■
JR
FORD CARS
TRUCKS AND
TRACTORS ARE
BRITISH EMPIRE
PRODUCTS
The New Ford Sports Coup
A sign of the times
economy as the order of the day —in business as in private life —
the trend towards the New Ford is significant, proving public appreci-
ation of Value far above the Price—high quality at low cost, unusual
performance at low running expense. » » * Your nearest Fold
Dealer is glad to show you what this really fine car can do » » »
Ford Motor Company of Australia Proprietary Limited,
Geelong, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
&&rd'
a'ss'o'ii


For supple ease
Elastic sides yielding with every move-
ment. . .pliant calf upper fitting snug
to the foot. . .a supple sole of the
best-wearing leather... all such fea-
tures combine to make the Abbey
Riding Boot most comfortable of its
kind. It’s lined throughout with soft
leather. . .without one raised seam
inside. And the specially arched
upper accommodates the curve of
the instep in a way that eliminates
tightness and strain.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF .. 42/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 37/6
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,’’ Sydney.
.FPL 198.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
"II
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu..
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office;: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Without a Peer in
Price or Quality!
Model 29
The New Savage Repeating
Hammerless .22 Rifle
Model 23
Note the octagon bar-
rel, Lyman Gold-bead
sight, full pistol grip
stock—test the ease
of sighting; smooth-
ness of action. And
the price of this amaz-
ing slide fore-arm
rifle is exceptionally
moderate. Stock of
selected Walnut.
Hard rubber butt
plate.
Model 19, N. R. A.
Lines of this repeating
bolt-action twenty-
two are military. Ad-
justable rear sight and
military front sight
give you utmost
aid in aiming.
Pistol grip. One
piece Walnut
stock. Detach-
able box maga-
zine.
Write for full details on
complete Savage line
Exclusive Representative for Australia
and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD.
P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W«
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street
New York, U. S. A.
SAVAGE
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director : A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R, V.
BOOTH
I
H
ft
il
CHANDLER RINGLOCK FENCING
Manufactured by
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD., Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
thoroughly—are making very good money;
but there have been many failures. One hears
a lot about average prices of £1 and 255. per
box for the whole crop. The truth is that
a small number will average above 15s. per
box, the majority realising 12s. Still, even
this price will pay handsomely if the crop
is up to standard.
Anyone who considers putting money into
glass houses should first get information as
to what their outlay will be and what will
be required of them, and they should not
attempt or expect too much for the first year.
TWEED WONDER BEANS,
“Go Do” : A step in the right direction is
the introduction of the Tweed Wonder bean
to the early districts of N. S. Wales. It is
a selection made from Canadian Wonder,
with outstanding features. It produces an
earlier and heavier crop of pods and is
of robust constitution, having pronounced
disease-resistant qualities.
At present the only seed of Tweed Wonder
available in Australia is being grown in
N. S. Wales. Imports of bean seed are on a
large scale, and have been associated with
the introduction of troublesome diseases.
PROTECTING TANKS.
“Curly”: One trouble with receiving
tanks at dams and wells is that the bottom
rots out of them. To preserve the life of
the tank it is necessary to protect the stand
on which it rests.
Most tanks are built on an earthen stand
a couple of feet greater in diameter than
the tank, the earth being kept in place
by a ring of lialf-slieeted iron. Very often
the stand never gets a real chance to dry.
The damp rots through tarred felting and
attacks the iron bottom of the tank.
Some people solder an umbrella arrange-
ment all round the bottom sheet of the
tank. This throws off the water and keeps
the stand dry; but it is unwieldy and expen-
sive. Others try other expedients which are
effective up to a point. Really the best
device is to build the tank an inch to an
inch and a half greater, in diameter than
the stand, allowing an overlap of about half
an inch all round. This costs nothing extra
--less, if anything—and the strength of the
job is not impaired, while perfect protection
is assured.
TABLE POULTRY.
“Jack Point”: The ideal table bird is the
Indian Game; but the hens are poor layers,
The course generally pursued, therefore,
by the producer of first-class table poultry
is to mate an Indian Game ,cock with a pen
of hens of one of the recognised heavy breeds
which are good layers. Buff Orpingtons,
Light Sussex, Dorkings, Plymouth Rocks or
Rhode Island Reds mature early and fetch
top prices if judiciously marketed. A first
cross of two pure breeds will always give
chicks of greater vigor than either parent,
and, naturally, this is a great asset with
table poultry. Some favor white-skinned
and others yellow-skinned birds. The white-
skinned bird produces flesh somewhat finer,
but it never takes the eye like the yellow.
The writer plumps for the Indian Game-
Rhode Island Red cross for table birds, and
as the Rhode Island is a very good layer
a great number of chicks can be reared. As
many chicks as possible should be hatched
in February and March, as these will be
ready for market when prices are at their
best.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Where was the Clydesdale horse
evolved? (2) By who?n, and when? —92so.
(1) On the uplands of Lowland Scotland,
at the head of the Clyde River. (2) By
local farmers, who are known to have estab-
lished the breed some hundreds of years
ago.
Is a dog tick the same as a cattle tick,
and if not will it attack cattle? Will cattle
ticks attack mules or goats? —9o66.
The dog tick is quite different from the
cattle tick. The dog tick produces tick
paralysis in dogs; the cattle tick, tick fever
and redwater in cattle. The dog tick may
produce symptoms of paralysis and tick
toxaemia in young calves. Cattle ticks may
be found on mules and goats, but they merely
cause irritation; there are no symptoms of
tick fever.
My cattle-dog, aged three years, suffers
severely from cattle ticks. Can anything be
done for him? —9057.
Try spraying with a eucalyptus, kerosene
and soap emulsion.
How to destroy bandicoots which are dam-
aging my garden? —-9015.
Bandicoots will generally only live in
gardens where there is a lot of undergrowth.
It may therefore be necessary to clean up
the garden. A trap on a similar pattern to
a wire rat-trap and baited with a piece of
bread and butter has proved effective.
(1) Any district in Australia where dates
can be grown on a commercial scale? (2)
Cost of establishing a grove? (3) Time
taken to come into bearing? (4) Cost and
profits? —9lo7.
(1) Dates are not grown commercially to
any extent in Australia. Small areas have
been grown in the far west of N.S.W. at
some of the bores, also in the extreme north
of S.A. At Charleville in Q’land there is
a record of date palms bearing good crops.
In North Westralia date palms are cultivated
on mission stations, and the dried dates are
reported to be of good quality. (2) and (4)
No local figures are available. (3) Depends
on the method of propagation. If the planta-
tion is established by means of offsets the
first fruit can be expected in about four or
five years. If raised from seed a much longer
period must elapse before the palms come
into bearing.
ITliree of my hens have within a week
developed prolapsed oviducts. The trouble
started with bloodstained, eggs, followed in
a day or two by a protruding of the vent
and loss of blood. Best metliod of treat-
ment and prevention ? —9044.
This trouble is sometimes brought about
by the feeding of too much forcing feed, but
is often the result of constitutional weak-
ness. The birds actually break down under
the strain of high egg-production. Preven-
tion : Breed only from strong, vigorous stock.
Hear young stock on free range. Feed only
plain wholesome food with not more than
about 10 per cent, of animal food in the
mash. It is very seldom profitable to attempt
to treat affected birds, as a permanent cure
can only be effected when production is
stopped.
(1) Most profitable branch of poultry-
farming in Vic.? (2) Best breeds for the
purpose? (3) Are ducks a good side-line?
(4) Would breeding for table purposes be
payable near Linton (Fic.)f (5) Suitable
green feed for poultry? —9l92.
(1) Egg production. (2) White Leghorns
and Australorps. (2) Good strains of egg-
producing ducks, such as Khaki Campbells,
are a profitable side-line on some farms, but,
generally speaking, hens are more profitable.
(4) Not likely to be profitable so,far from
Melbourne. If you could sell direct to hotels,
etc., in your own district you might develop
a profitable business. (5) Silver beet is
good, but it is advisable to grow others as
well, such as chow mollier, green oats, green
barley, any of the clovers and rye grass.
(1) Where can I get information about
caponising fowls?. (2) Name of a good Aus-
tralian textbook oh poultry? —9llB.
(1) Communicate with the Director of
the Agriculture Department, Perth, who will
supply information and probably a leaf-
let on this subject. A book dealing with
is obtainable from Anthony Hor-
derns’, Sydney. (2) Hadlington’s “Poultry
Farming in N.5.W.,” from Government
Printer, Sydney; 4s. 4d., post free.
I have a section of land (160 acres c.p.
and 480 acres c. 1.) in N.S.W. under 28-year
tenure. (1) When c.p. becomes freehold
under what conditions and cost can the c.l.
be converted to c>p.? (2) If c.l. is brought
under the 40-year tenure when c.p. becomes
freehold, what are the conditions and cost
of converting it to c.p. at the end of the
40 -year tenure? (3) If at the end of the
40-year tenure c.l. is not converted to c.p.,
does the holder lose it? —9143.
(1 and 2) The holder of a conditional
lease may convert it into an additional con-,
ditional purchase at any time during its
currency. A deposit of 5 per cent, of the
capital value, or Is. per acre, and stamp
duty at the rate of 15s. per £lOO must be
lodged with the application to convert. (3)
The term of a conditional lease applied for
before January 1, 1904, may be extended
to 40 years, and during the last five years
of that term it may be extended for a further
20 years, making 60 years in all. At the
end of this term, unless an application to
convert has been lodged, or at the end of
the 28- and 40-year terms, unless applications
for the extension of the term are made, the
land reverts to the Crown.
(1) What is the proper treatment for,
dahlia bulbs? When should they be planted?,
Should they be watered before coming up?
(2) Method of destroying borers in fruit
trees ? —9058. #
(1) After lifting the tubers place in dry
sand before storing, to prevent shrinkage.
Store in open, under trees or hedges, shel-
tered from the sun. They must not become
damp or be kept in the dark. If storing a
few only, place on a shelf in a shed. Plant
during Oct., Nov. or Dec. at first signs of
growth. Water sparingly until they com-
mence to grow. (2) Write Agriculture Dept,
for leaflet on subject.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Scot”: For a flying start in the morning,
keep handy to the kitchen stove a jamtin
with a little kerosene and a few lumps of
charcoal soaking in it; also a piece of lioop-
iron bent over to pick the charcoal out. A
soaked piece of charcoal placed among the
chips and set alight gives the fire a good
kick off and is economical kindling.
“Brady's Lookout”: To keep sheep-skins
from rats, which cut them to pieces in a
shed, I stretch a No. 8 wire about 7ft. from
the ground and place skin lengthwise on
it —wool next to the wire. After about three
days, when odd bits of fat have been picked
off" by magpies and butcher-birds a.nd the
skin dried by the sun, I cover the skin with
two old bags; in that way it keeps a good
color without warping or wrinkling, and
does not lose weight. It takes two bags to
each skin; but there are plenty of old super,
bags on most farms.
“Poker” : Always keep rams’ wool separate.
It has a sticky yoke which is hard to scour
out, and there is often a strong odor present.
“Honi P.”: Open drains are a menace to
stock, and should be filled in. Tea-tree
fascines are as good as tiles, and much
cheaper. If you can’t fill in all the drains,
fill at intervals to act as crossovers; it may
avert the. loss of your best cow.
“Wrasli” : Only a nicely-prepared fox-skin
will bring top market prices. Peg on a flat
wall, using thin nails, and let the skin
dry in the shade. Just below the forelegs
of the pelt there should be two peaks of
skin from the brisket opening. Peg these
first in a horizontal line without stretching;
then alternately from side to side, with the
nails about an inch and a half apart, stretch
the sides to make a perfect oblong. The
hind legs will come in slack, but keep them
perpendicular; they will pull tight when
the bottom is squared. Similarly square off
forelegs and shoulders, and finish by making
of the head and neck a smaller complete
oblong above.
“Norcross”: When planting seed beds of
vegetables, mark them so that you will know
precisely what is sown. Write the date of
planting- on the packet, roll it up and slip
it through the neck of a small flat whisky
flask, straightening out the packet inside the
bottle with a thin, stick or lead-pencil. The
bottle is then corked with its glass stopper
and sunk in the earth alongside the seed bed,
with the printed side of the label visible.
“Poker”: A good method of curing
chickens of gape worms is to mix one part
of pulverised alum with two parts of sul-
phur and blow it down the throat. Repeat
as many times as is necessary.
“Jack Point”: Pullets and cockerels should
be separated as soon as the sex of the latter
can be distinguished. Give the pullets the
best you can and keep them moving along;
the shorter the period of non-production the
sooner they will start to return you some-
thing. Don’t send cockerels to market by
the first train and chance it. See if you
can’t interest a city hotel or restaurant.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
„„ be r i gbb of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to SeU”' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Vt anted good cattle stockman, used to handling
cattle and droving; about 35 to 40 years and a
bachelor. Wages £l2O a year and found. Refs.
J. P. Bayly and Co., Nawai Station, via Lautoka,
Fiji.
Returned soldier, Sydney, married, wants job any-
where. Exp. as saddler, book-keeper, storekeeper
and gardener. Refs.—92l7.
Ex-soldier, Sydney, married, exp. saddler, store
book-keeper, gardener, wants work anywhere. Refs.
—9362.
Ex-soldier (Imperial and A.1.F.) who has travelled
the world wants position as personal servant to
gentleman travelling, or any position of trust.—923l.
Returned soldier, electrical and mechanical
engineer, N.S.W., with knowledge of metallurgy and
assaying, wants job, any capacity. Refs. —9320.
Young man, Q’land, wants position on cattle or
sheep station anywhere. Can ride, milk, plough,
drive car, and do motor repairs.—9384.
Young man (20), Melbourne, farming exp., able
to ride and drive, wants job anywhere.—934l.
Scotch housekeeper, Q’land, wants position in full
charge on farm or station.—9376.
Young man, Sydney, well educated, wants job in
N.T. or Islands. Can shoot and ride, keep books
and has had farming exp.—937B.
To hear from manufacturers requiring a represen-
tative in Tasmania.—9369.
Young married couple, N.S.W., no children, want
positions on station. Both capable. Refs. —9285.
Youth, Q’land (20), Hawkesbury diploma, with
some exp., wants job with chance of advancement.
Mechanical knowledge.—93os.
Scot (25), Sydney, shipping clerk, wants job in
Islands or passage to England in return for services.
—9329.
Young woman (22), Queensland, bright disposition,
wants position as lady’s companion on station. —9215.
English girl, domesticated, adaptable, exp. with
children, wants position Cowra or Woodstock district
N.S.W. Refs. —9220.
Governess (27), domesticated, wants position any-
where in N.S.W. or Queensland. Nursing exp. and
can drive car. All school subjects and music. Refs.
—9225.
Youth (Melb.), 16-J, wants employment as sales-
man or in office. Refs, and bond. —9260.
Youth (Melb.) wants job as jackeroo on cotton
plantation or cattle station in Queensland. —9280.
Draughtsman, young, six years’ commercial exp.,
wants job, any capacity.—9249.
Cabinetmaker (26) wants job of any sort, any-
where.—924l.
Scot, 46, overseer on Q. sheep station, life exp. in
farming and managing men and stock, wants position
as manager.—93oo.
Elderly Scottish gentleman, Sydney, graduate in
medicine,-, wants position as tutor or companion. Has
travelled extensively.—92BB.
f To buy Mudie’s “Felonry of N.S.W.” and “Picture
of Australia” (1829), “Notes on. Mudie’s ‘Felonry’”
(Tyrrell) and Price Warung’s “Tales of ' Convict
System.”—9264.
To buy “Grove’s Musical Dictionary.” State date
of edition and price.—9236.
Bushwoman (N.S.W.) will exchange weekly or
daily papers with Maorilanders. —9218.
To buy “American Mercury” from January, 1928,
to date, also first number.—92o4.
To buy “The World’s Best Fighters.”—9339.
To buy Roy Campbell’s “Flaming Terrapin,”
book containing Chesterton’s essay “The Fear of
Little Girls,” and novels having as their theme the
love story of a b0y.—9266. ■
To buy pictures of clipper ship Alyss that used
to trade between Sydney and London. —9316. ■
Words of poem by R. W. Service beginning “You
who have lived on the land.” Also to buy Service’s
“Ballads of a Bohemian.” —9380.
Information Supplied.
(1) When were births, deaths and mar-
riages first registered by the Registrar-
General of N.S.W.? (2) How were the
records "kept previous to that date, and how
are they available for reference? (3) What
was the leading newspaper in Sydney in
1550?—9206.
(1) Since March 1, 1856. (2) Church
registers of baptisms, burials and marriages
were the only records available prior
to that date. Many of these records have
been copied by the Registrar-General, and
arte available for search in the manner and
upon payment of the fees applicable to the
records kept since 1856. (3) The “Sydney
Morning Herald.”
Names of reliable textbooks on political
economy, political science, sociology and
logic. —9l7B.
H. Clay’s “Economics for the General
Reader,” Cannan’s “Wealth,” Leacock’s “Ele-
ments of Political Science,” Blackmar and
Gillen’s “Outline of Sociology” and Welton’s
“Groundwork of Logic.”
What are the causes of stuttering or
stammering, and what is the curef —9366.
Briefly, it is a nervous affliction, due to a
variety of causes operating in infancy, and
at its root is generally a symptom of what
the psycho-analysts call an “inferiority com-
plex.” A way of overcoming the trouble
in the case of a child is for an elder to tell a
story, leaving it to the youngster to fill in cer-
tain words. Whatever the child says must be
accepted, and the story moulded accordingly.
This gives confidence. In the case of adults
a course of training under an intelligent and
sympathetic teacher of diction is recom-
mended.
Gan you tell me anything about fish called
eagle-rays? —93B2.
Eagle-rays are classified under Mylioba-
tidee, and derive their name from their
bird-like heads and angular wing expansions
oT their bodies. Their tails have barbed
spines, that of one tropical variety being
four times as long as its dark, white-spotted
6ft.-wide body. They feed on shellfish, which
they crush with remarkable tessellated teeth.
I live in a boarding-house and have taken
with me some furniture, a wireless set, and
a gramophone. The boarding-house furni-
ture is under a bill of sale. Should a sale
occur under the bill of sale or the owner of
the property distrain for rent, is my property
safe? —9228.
Your property could not be taken under
the bill of sale, which covers only the
articles enumerated therein. As to distraint,
the N.S.W. Landlord and Tenant Act pro-
vides : “No distress shall be made on the
goods of any casual visitor in any house nor
on the goods (other than furniture) of any
lodger.” A piano has been held to be furni-
ture. Know of no case relating to a wireless
set or gramophone.
What food and what quantity is needed
for about a dozen carp which average three
inches in length? —923o.
Prepared fish biscuits (obtainable from
aquarium dealers) and chopped-up worms are
satisfactory food for carp. The quantity
must be found by experiment; it should be
so regulated that little or no food' is left
uneaten.
Origin of the word “teetotal”? —9372.
It is attributed to Richard Turner, of
Preston, England, who was a leader of the
“temperance” movement in his district. He is
reported to have ‘ declared at a meeting in
1833 that “nothing but tee-tee-total absti-
nence would do.”
What is “chiropractic”? —937l.
The name given to a method of healing
originated in the U.S.A., based on the theory
that disease is the result of displacement of
the vertebrae of the spinal column, the
constricted nerves being thereby prevented
from transmitting to the organs they serve
the mental impulse necessary for proper
functioning. In several U.S.A. States
chiropractors are debarred.
There are two mortgages on my house in
a Sydney suburb, which has so depreciated
in value that my equity is wiped out. I am
in arrears with interest. (1) What could
the mortgagee do if I vacated the house
and forfeited any right to it? (2) Gould he
charge me with any loss inourred by him on
the transaction? —9294.
(1) The mortgagee could either exercise
his power to sell the property or enter into
possession of it, put tenants in and collect
the rents. If unable to sell he could fore-
close and take the property in satisfaction of
the debt. (2) Yes, except in the case of
foreclosure.
(1) Is it wise to go to New Guinea on
the off-chance of obtaining employment? (2)
Fare from Brisbane to New Guinea? (3)
Is a passport required? —9lBo.
(1) Certainly not, unless you have capi-
tal. A minimum of £5OO is required, and
you would have to obtain a permit and pass
a medical examination. (2) Total payment,
including deposit for return to Australia if
necessary, about £7O. Write Burns, Philp,
Brisbane. (3) See answer to (1).
Anything known about a painter named
Franz Krause? I have a picture by him.
Any value? —9oo7.
Four well-known artists bore that name.
Franz Krause the elder, who died in 1803,
was one of the best German painters of his-
torical subjects of the eighteenth century,
but that was, artistically, a poor period, and
a picture by him is not likely to be of much
value. Krause the younger, pupil of his
uncle, the elder, born in 1773, was a histori-
cal and portrait painter of some note. There
was also a landscape painter of that name
(1823-78). The fourth of the Franz Krauses
did landscapes and marine pieces and exhi-
bited in Berlin in 1870.
What qualifications are necessary to obtain
a widow’s pension in N.5.W.? —9040.
She must be domiciled in N.S.W. at the
date of the death of her husband; must have
been residing in N.S.W. at the date of her
application, and have been continuously so
residing for three years. Must have a child
under the age of 14 years dependent upon
her for support. She is also eligible if on
the death of her husband she is left unpro-
vided for. if she is not less than 50 years
of age and in destitute circumstances.
I propose to build a light aeroplane and
fit it with a 7-9 h.p. motor-cycle engine. (1)
Cost of ’plane without motor? (2) Where
can I obtain printed instructions as to build-
ing a ’plane? (3) Cost of building a light
’plane fitted with a A-cyl. Chevrolet motor,
without cost of motor? —B74B.
(1) Approximately £3OO. (2) From the
Controller of Civil Aviation, Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne. (3) Can’t say without
knowing type and design of aircraft you pro-
pose to build.
(1) Number of pupils attending high
schools in N.S.W. at latest enrolment? (2)
Cost per high-school pupil for salaries and
maintenance of schools? —B9so.
(1) Secondary enrolments for the quarter
ended June last were: high schools, 15,310;
intermediate high, 12,098; district schools,
963; total, 28,371. (2) For the year 1928,
salaries, £l6 Is. Bd.; other expenses,
£5 11s. 6d.
(1) 7 live at Potts Point, Sydney. Includ-
ing public clubs such as Moore Park, what
golf clubs within easy distance of my
home have the cheapest membership arid
entrance fees? (2) What other expenses
would playing members incur? (3) Are intra-
club and inter-club competitions carried on
during the summer? (4) How can I get
in touch with the secretaries of these clubs?
—9265.
(1) No clubs likely to meet your require-
ments. Fees are high and the waiting lists
of members congested. The Lakes Club
maintains a public course at Mascot in addi-
- tion to its own private links. This is avail-
able to the public at Is. 6d. per round. Your
best hope is Ryde, a sporting nine-hole course
with a moderate membership fee and no
entrance fee. It is accessible by train and
’bus from the city. (2) Nearly all clubs
charge green fees —usually a shilling a round
—to members and visitors alike. (3) Yes.
(4) Write to them.
(1) In a four-ball best-ball golf match
what is the penalty (if any) for a player’s
ball on the putting' green striking (a) his
partner’s ball and (b) an opponent’s ball? (2)
Same in a four-ball best-ball match against
bogey? (3) In a Canadian foursome, a
player drilling from the tee struck his own
caddy (not fore-caddy), who had gone ahead.
In an ordinary foursome the hole would go
to the opponents, but in a Canadian foursome
can they carry on with the partner’s drive? —
9263.
(1) (a) The player responsible is disquali-
fied for the hole. (b) The opposing side
loses the hole. (2) The player of the ball
which moves the other loses a stroke and
the moved ball is replaced. (3) Yes, only
the player responsible is disqualified for that
hole.
(1) Cost of living on Norfolk Island com-
pared with Vic.? (2) House rents? (3)
Climate? (4) Any malaria? (5) Amy recrea-
tions, such as golf, fishing, etc.? (6)
'Would it be a suitable place for an annui-
tant. to spend the last years of his life? —
9342.
(1) No definite data, but can be taken as
much' cheaper. (2) A matter of arrange-
ment. There are guest-houses available at
about 30s. per week; land and building are
not expensive. (3) Equable and very
healthy. (4) No. • (5) Yes, fishing first-
class. (6) A matter of taste. It would suit
people who like a quiet life.
Cause of wobble in the front ivheels of a
motor-car, and method of correcting it? —
9151.
Wobble may be due •to worn or loose hub
bearings, worn steering-knuckle pins or
bushings, loose steering-knuckle pin nut or
loose steering-gear connections; or it may
be that the wheels are out of alignment or
out of balance, or that there are spokes loose
at the hub or felloe. Also, the tyre rim may
be out of line on the wheel, the wheel may
have been sprung in a skid, the steering
knuckle may be bent, or the front springs
out of line. Once the cause is discovered
the remedy is obvious.
I have heard it stated that there are fish
so speedy that they could swim rings round
the fastest warship in the world. Is this
correct, and what are the maooimum speeds
recorded by fish and warships? —934B.
The greatest speed among fish is credited
to the swordfish, which, so observers say,
can attain at a spurt a speed of 75 knots
an hour. The greatest speed made by a
warship, so far as records go, is 40.8 knots
an hour, attained a few weeks ago by an
Italian cruiser on her trials. But most
foreign ships do their speed trials before
their guns are in place and with empty maga-
gines. British naval craft are tested with
full wartime equipment. Under those con-
ditions the destroyer Turquoise did exactly
40 knots an hour. No swordfish could swim
rings round her.
(1) What, briefly, is the history of the
America Cup yacht race? (2) Why is it so
frequently alleged that the conditions make
it impossible for Britain to recapture the
trophy ? —9350.
(1) In the middle of last century the
Royal Yacht Squadron of England held a
race, open to all comers, for a trophy called
the Queen’s Cup. It was won by the U.S.A.
schooner America, and the trophy was
deeded to the New York Yacht Club, which
rechristened it the America Cup and chal-
lenged the Britons to cross over and win
it back. Britain sent the Cambria in 1870
and the Livonia in 1871, and both were
defeated. Canadian yachts were beaten
in 1875 and 1881, and British challengers
in 1885, 1887, 1893 and 1895. Sir T. Lip-
ton came on the scene with Shamrock I. in
1889, following up the attack with a series
of Shamrocks in 1899, 1901, 1903, 1920 and
1930. (2) It is a condition of the race
that the challenger must be sailed across
the Atlantic, and, as long experience has
proved, the strain of the voyage and the
fact that British challengers have to be built
to stand it put them to great disadvantage.
(1) How much gold is held by the banks
of the world? (2) How much in U.S.A.?
(3 ) In the British Empire? (4) In France?
(5) In Germany? (6) Are any nations
hoarding more gold than they need for a
currency basis and thereby reducing world-
prices of commodities? (7) How much gold
is being produced each year in recent times?
(8) How much in the British Empire? —
9349.
(1) According to the report of Samuel
Montagu and Co. for 1929 the bank gold
reserves of the leading countries totalled
£2,051.293,000. From the same authority:
(2) £830,872,000. (3) £240,425,000. (4)
£335,460,000. (5) £111,753,000. In recent
months the gold holdings of the U.S.A.,
France and Germany are reported to have
been substantially increased —the latest
figure for France is £350,000,000. (6) A
very difficult and debatable question, but all
economic and financial authorities are united
in tracing a definite connection between
prices and the gold supply. (7) According
to Montagu and Co., £82,500,000 in 1927;
£83,500,000 in ,1928; and £83.500,000 in
If 129. (8) For the same years, £58,600,000,
£59,400,000, £59,600,000.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Victorian abo. tvord “Wychi-
tella”?—9o92.
Information Supplied.
9048. —The only effective and convenient
way of dealing with a horse that has thor-
oughly formed the habit of pulling back is
to carry a good strong hemp halter and tie
him to a stout post or sapling, to hang back
or stand up to it as he feels inclined. A
young horse may be taught to stand without
being tied by putting him in a small yard
for an hour or two every day with the reins
trailing on the ground. After a few spells
of this he will learn to stand where he is
•left in order to avoid the sharp jerk caused
by stepping on the reins.—“ Bad Australian.”
Brief Answers.
G.F.8.: District mentioned should be
suitable. Write Queensland Agriculture Department
for literature on subject... .E.F.A.: Eureka means
“I have found it”... . A.E.M.: The bowler is entitled
to deliver the ball with both feet behind the bowling
crease—any length behind... .T.J.D.: (1) Write Sec.
Air Board Defence Dept., Melb. (2) Write Sec. N.S.W.
Aero Club, 16 Barrack-street, Sydney. .. .P.J.Q.:
Write Moreland Metal Co., 3 Market-street, Sydney.
....A.A.: We know of no one who practises hyp-
notism in connection with dentistry... .G.T. A.: Try
Union Theatres, Ltd., 251 a Pitt-street, Sydney....
J.M.D.: Care Hearst’s International, 119 West
40th-street, New York. .. .H.F.: (1) German factories
turn out tens of thousands of cheap fiddles with
an imitation of the Strad. label every year. Submit
yours to a violin-dealer for an opinion. (2) Can’t
tell the age without seeing it. (3) Don’t know of
any likely buyers in S.A., but if it’s a real Strad.
you won’t have much trouble in selling it....L.H.:
See “Whitaker’s Almanac” for 1894... .Beverage:
Tea imported into Australia during 1929-30 was
valued at £3,298,994 ; weight figures not yet avail-
able .... Struth: Questions of the kind are outside
our ambit. Their religion is their own affair.
. ...M.M.: It means “To be sung with great
sincerity”.... H.P.: The trustees who are members
of the committee had a right as members to attend
and take part in the proceedings. The other trustee
had no standing. .. .C.J.: A person under 21 cannot
be sued for debts contracted during his minority
unless on becoming of age he ratifies them.. . .C.A.S.:
The Callide Valley lands (Q.) are cut up into
areas for dairying and mixed farming, for which
the country is suitable. Get in touch with the
Lands Department, Brisbane... .E.D.8.: .Write
Brandts, Ltd., 135 Sussex-street, Sydney... .A.J.C.W.:
Inlet opens 10 to 15 deg. before top dead centre
and doses 45 to 50 deg. after bottom dead centre.
Exhaust opens 45 to 50 deg. before bottom dead
centre, closes 20 to 25 deg. after top dead centre.
.... Canoblas: The Federal tax on lotteries was dis-
continued in December, 1923. .. .W.C,: (1) Yes. Use
correct bias with audio stages. (2) and (4) No.
The glass container, zinc and positive element can
be purchased from Siemens (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 257
Olarence-street, Sydney, the total cost of 90-volt
battery being £4 10s. (3) Sixty cells... .A.E.W.:
In Victoria, if the marriage is to be before the
Government Statist or a registrar of marriages, three
days’ written notice is required; in the case of
ministers of religion duly registered, this notice may
be dispensed with in cases of emergency by previous
permission of any justice of the peace. .. .W.M.;
Arsenic pentoxide is stocked by Elliott Bros.,
Q’Connell-street, Sydney, 565. per cwt., and Is. per
lb. for small 10t5... .E.F.A.: Get in touch with a
licensed trainer in Sydney J.11.T.: (1) The
machine is not known to us. (2) and (3) Hardly
worth while to take any action, as the patent will
expire in June, 1932.... J.K.: You are entitled to
a copy of the lease and should demand it. The
lessor may sue for the overdue rent and the lease
probably gives him power to re-enter and take pos-
session of the land.... J.W.8.: It is for the mother,
not the alleged father, to decide. If she consents to
the child remaining with the grandparents, you need
pay no attention to her husband. There is no means
by which you could legitimise the child... .A.G.S.:
The Waratah (9000 tons) was last spoken on July
27, 1909. She probably capsized next day in a
heavy gale off the S’African coast. Including 92
passengers, 211 lives were lost. . . .W-T.T.: Waters:
Yass, yarras; deep water: binda, woywoy, yarra-
mundi; big water: cowan, wallangra; sheet of deep
water: murrawolga; sea: caragarang ; land between
waters: eurobodalla.. . .M.G.: Write Burns, Philp
and Co., Bridge-street, Sydney... .Extra: Superfluous
hair can be permanently removed only by electro-
lysis. Bleaching with hydrogen peroxide would
make it less obvious. . . .H.1.M.: Upper Golo (N.S.W.)
is in Richmond subdivision, Hawkesbury State elec-
torate, and Macquarie Federal electorate; Putty is
in Broke subdivision, Upper Hunter State elector-
ate, Robertson Federal electorate; Mt. Werong is in
Little River subdivision, Bathurst State electorate,
Werriwa Federal electorate. The subdivision rolls
cost 6d. each, plus postage, and are'obtainable at
the Government Printing Office, Sydney. District
maps cost Is. each, plus postage, and are obtainable
from Lands Department, Sydney... .J.N.: (1) The
Public Curator acts in such matters. Write to the
Under Secretary of Justice, Brisbane. (2) and (6)
It is improbable’that a deed of adoption was executed
or an order made. Apparently your wife delegated
her custodianship .to your mother. Make inquiry
through the Department of Justice. (3) and (4) You
must prove' intentional delay, and material damage.
You cannot obtain damages for injury to your feel-
ings. (5) N 0... .A.W.S.: Up to eight hens could
be mated to a game rooster and 12 to a leghorn
rooster. Infertility is probably due to the birds being
either too old or in a poor state of health, or they
may be lice-infested. .. .A.W.S.: N.S.W. Unemploy-
ment relief tax should be collected as and when
payments are made or credited to the employee. If
payment is made monthly, tax should be collected on
the total payment made... .E.F.: (1) Can’t recom-
mend them. (2) Such method of burial occurs
amongst the Mara, Anuta, Binbinga and other tribes
on the western side of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Queensland abos. mostly practised mummification, the
dried body being attached to a kind of small
scaffold. .. .H.C.P.: (1) Both offer excellent pros-
pects ; the second is the less expensive to learn.
(2) and (3) Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Departments, Melbourne, and Amalgamated Wireless
(A’asia), 47 York-street, Sydney N.G.: (1)
Edward Bulwer Lytton Dickens, son of Charles
Dickens, represented Wilcannia in the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Assembly from Feb., 1899, to June, 1894. Can’t
say when he made use of the words mentioned.
(2) 1901. Yes H.G.: See “Aus. and N.Z. Writers’
and Artists’ Year Book,” 2s. 6d W.M.C.: Write
Blaiklock and Co., C.E.Y. Buildings, Albert-street,
Brisbane J.M.A.: Try Holbrook’s (A’asia), Ltd.,
Danks-street, Waterloo; Laakersteen and Co., 2
George-street, Camperdown; H. Jones and Co., 23
Golden Grove-street, Darlington; and Pick-me-up
Condiment Co., 60 Alice-street, Newtown —all Sydney.
....G.G.: Write H. G. Andrew and Co., Ltd., 106
George-street West, Sydney.... J.W.: If you have no
other income or property and all other qualifications
are established, you are entitled to a full pension of
£52 p.a F.H.W.: Wills’s “Geographical Diction-
ary of Australia” (1847) is worth 155.; “The Pastoral
Possessions of N.S.W.” (1889) and “The Industrial
Progress” (1870) are each worth 6s H.J.T.: See
Hyman’s “Coins, Coinages and Currency of Aus-
tralasia,” Andrews’s “Australasian Tokens and Coi.is,”
and Chalmers’s “History of Currency in the British
Colonies”... .A.L.: Canada sent, 411,834 troops
overseas; casualties, 51 per cent. Australia
sent 330,000; casualties, 68J percent T.D.:
Up to December 19 last, all wages, salaries,,
etc., paid were liable to contribution for the
purposes of the N.S.W. Family Endowment Act.
After that date the only wages subject to contribu-
tion were those paid to employees under State
awards. If you have paid tax in error, communicate
with the Family Endowment Department, Sydney.
.... (Many others mailed).


M
km
A Chevrolet ticking off the miles on the way from Perth,
West Australia, to Bunbury, via Mandurah. A glance at
the famous Chevrolet Value Chart proves Chevrolet’s greater
value among low-priced cars.
;***'>,
\
l'€ i
P&trt
2$
m. «
A
tTSSi
K
B
At Toowoomba, Queensland, as in cities and country districts
in all six States, the brilliant new Oakland V-8 is winning keen
approval from veteran motorists for its stamina, speed, flexibility,
and ease of handling. It’s a new car with long, low sweeping
lines and a flair of style.
Long-lived Pontiac brings big-car luxurious motoring at low
first cost to thousands of Australian owners. Scene at Silver
Lake, in the Mt. Lofty Ranges, near Adelaide, South Australia.
Owners say Pontiac gives them all they ask of a fine car.
3
m
Now an
Australian wide
Spring Showing
of General Motors cars
.. offers you unusual
motor car satisfaction
NOW, all over Australia, the men in every town who are
leaders in motor car progress offer you an unusual
opportunity to see the latest in motor engineering.
Beginning October 17th, General Motors’ 688 Australian
dealers present an Australian-wide Spring Showing of all
General Motors cars. This display meets to-day’s demand
for before-purchase proof of motor car value. It makes
your choice of a car easy. It gives you complete informa-
tion, and a definite pledge of satisfaction in the General
Motors car you buy.
You are cordially invited to visit these displays. See the
complete range of cars. Check their design, appearance,
and proved performance figures. Take a free demon-
stration drive —without obligation. Learn about the
confidential G.M.A.C. Deferred Payment Plan by which
you can pay for the car or truck of your choice as you
use it.
In this complete range of famous cars and trucks, pictured
overleaf, you’ll find the model you want. Like 100,000
other Australian motor users, you will discover in General
Motors products a surprising measure of value, possible
only through the size and resources of Australia’s leading
motor industry.
(Beginning 1/- October
Something different in radio
broadcasting!
TUNE IN
to the Commonwealth-wide General
Motors Spring Showing Radio Hour
17th October, 8-9 p.m.
from 4 BC Brisbane, 2 UW Sydney, 3 DB
Melbourne, 5 AD Adelaide (7.30-8.30 p.m.),
and from 6 ML Perth (6-7 p.m.).
■
On Alexandra Drive, Melbourne, Vic-
toria, as on every famous avenue all
over Australia, you will find Buicks—
chosen for their dependability, riding
comfort, and symmetry of line.
gfd
gfd
g
One of the world’s most beautiful
harbours —and most beautiful cars. A
La Salle Sports Roadster on Balmoral
Heights, Sydney, overlooking Sydney
Heads. Wherever smart people go, you
wi 11 see La Salle an d Cadillac.
CHEVROLET PONTIAC OLDSMOBILE OAKLAND
MARQUETTE BUICK LA SALLE CADILLAC
VAUXHALL CHEVROLET TRUCKS
GENERAL MOTORS TRUCKS


5 $ &
■** mm?
£ p
"" X
100,000 Australi
General Motors product?
fdg
fd
®UICK. Corinthian Sedan, Series 60, 132" wheelbase. The majority of present
Buick owners have owned Buicks before. They know from years of experience the
dependability, riding comfort, and exceptional performance of this great car. Leaders
in business and the professions choose Buick unhesitatingly. 13 models. Series 40,
from £485; Series 50, from £695; Series 60, from £695.
OLDSMOBILE. Tourer, 113” wheelbase. The all-round car for year in, year
out service. Strong, sturdy, low in upkeep cost, brilliant in action. Four beautiful
models, each as striking in line and color as in performance: Tourer, Sedan, Sports
Roadster de luxe, Majestic Sedan. Wire wheels optional. From £343.
m
&
M
m
V
m
Q
ft
VAUXHALL. Kingston Sportsman’s Coupe, 123” wheelbase. An all-British car
of exceptional craftsmanship in engine, chassis, and coachwork. Famous for high
average speed—and for power and stamina that make it peculiarly fitted to Australian
road conditions. Four standard models, plus custom-built bodies to individual
purchasers’ requirements. From £7OB.
a
OAKLAND V-8. Tourer, 117" wheelbase. First in "pound
power” —ratio of power to weight—among cars of its size.
Smart women value its speed, style, and ease of handling;
motor-wise men admire its smooth, flexible 8-cylinder per-
formance. Distinctive prow-pointed radiator and long, low,
sweeping lines. Tourer, Sports Roadster, Sedan, with artil-
lery wheels; wire wheels optional, extra cost. From £445.
gfd
g
4
-
li#
1
V £
■
y®.,
1:4
LASALLE. Tourer, 134%
car to Cadillac is high in favou;
anything but the best. La Sall(
ness, and the mechanical perfei
90°, eight-cylinder engine. M
from £995.
CADILLAC. Sedan, 140 w wli
of'fine car performance by leac
motor critics. Product of 16
8-cyiinder design, Cadillac possessi
in keeping with its regal dignit
complete assortment, from £119'
>,
w
Prices, specifications,
colours and equipment ,
subject to change with-
out notice.
GENERAL MOTORS TRUCKS. Model T-42 C, 164"
wheelbase. A wheelbase, capacity, and body style available
for every kind of work. For greater profits, choose the
General Motors Truck exactly suited to your job. 3 2 chassis
styles. From £3 01 (chassis only).
CHEVROLET TRLCi-
every transport problem ''
of low first cost and lo' f r
amazing record of contin lll,,
business. Express Deliverf’
Trucks, 9 standard mod^ 1 ’
General Motors (Australia
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADl L
"More wealth for A ustralia .... MofL


tan motor users prefer
S. for value, for economyi for service
V’heelbase. This dashing companion
'Uf with people who are impatient of
He offers correctness of style, smart-
tection of Cadillac’s famous V-type
Models for all uses and occasions,
wheelbase. Accepted as the standard
:aders in world affairs and seasoned
6 years’ research and experience in
:sses a sureness of mechanical response
lity of line and colour. Models in
95.
-
rifS- Model 423, 131 ” wheelbase. For
quiring a fast, rugged, dependable truck
running cost. Chevrolet has piled up an
pus trouble-free service in every trade and
], 4 standard models, from £235; 30-cwt.
I>> from £270.
b) Pty. LTD.
"AIDE PERTH
jobs for Australians ”
ft* "
v>
itto
1 *"Z?V
*T I HINK what this means : more than
100,000 General Motors Australian
cars and trucks have entered into service
in the Commonwealth since November,
1926.
It means Commonwealth-wide approval of
General Motors products, for every purpose
for which a car or truck can be used.
It means that every fifth car you meet on
Australian roads is a General Motors car.
It means—coming closely home to your
interests as a motor user—proof positive
that General Motors cars are good cars.
CHOOSE FOR GREATEST VALUE
Think of the total mileage covered to date
by these 100,000 cars and trucks. Figured
conservatively, it comes to well over a
thousand million !
1,000,000,000 miles, on Australian roads !
Each mile adding its quota of evi-
dence. To prove beyond question
the generous measure of value, the
economy, and the capacity for hard, con-
tinuous service that is built into every
General Motors car.
NOW THIS COMPLETE RANGE TO
CHOOSE FROM
Here is a complete time-tested range of
motor cars and trucks, the entire line
sponsored by General Motors Australia.
For your exact requirements in personal
or business transport there is an exactly
suitable model. It will serve you well,
year after year.
You, as owner, will have a comfortable
feeling of security, knowing yours is a
General Motors car. Knowing it is backed
by Australia’s leading motor industry—
with unequalled resources in research,
design, engineering, and manufacture, to
put added value into the car of your choice.
IMPROVED CHEVROLET SIX. club
Sedan, 107" wheelbase. Greatest value,
finest range of beautiful body styles, in the
low-price field. Amazing petrol mileage.
Club Series includes models with 6 wire
wheels. Disc wheels are standard on Sub-
urban Series. From £23 5.
p--
©
©
MARQUETTE. Roadster, 114" wheel-
base. Spirited in performance, and a reve-
lation in travel comfort. Drive it at 60
or more all day long, if you like. Backed
by a world-famous name—Buick. 5 models,
wire wheels optional, extra cost. From £365.
o
mm*
Sedan, 110 wheelbase. Long life—and with
it beauty. Pontiac s engine saves wear, by shorter piston
travel, fewer revolutions, Famous for speed, power, and
pick-up. Tourer, Sedan, Sports Roadster, Coupe. 6 wire
wheels optional, extra cost. From £316.
'■■■


fdg
Increasingly
Australian Built
. . . . and serviced by
your authorised
General Motors dealer
for lasting performance
m H
>
' 2
m
& A 1
M
~y!
n
aps
-
Finished cars leaving the Assembly Line under their own power at the
Melbourne Plant. Inspection and assembly go hand in hand. From bumper
to tail light, every part is checked and rechecked by experts.
8 \
,«*♦**'
Building Australian
batteries, of which
General Motors Aus-
tralia are largest pur-
chasers among mak-
ers of motor cars.
For peak performance
you need good service.
Dependable, courteous
service at 688 dealers
all over Australia.
-
From native Australian
timber to finished Aus-
tralian built body - a long
process, giving employ-
ment to many thousands
of Australians.
f 4
r
Australian-produced Duco adds the
gleaming, colorful finishes demanded by
to-day’s styles.
EVERY General Motors Australian
product is sponsored by an
organization which brings employ-
ment, directly or indirectly, to more
Australian workers, requires more
Australian-produced material, and
contributes more to efficient motor
transport in Australia than any other
maker of motor cars.
From timber camp and sawmill and body-building plant,
from mine and factory, from workshop and laboratory,
a constantly increasing proportion of Australian-pro-
duced material flows into the five great assembly plants
of General Motors Australia.
General Motors’ contribution of more than £13,000,000 to
Australia’s prosperity through its total expenditure in the
Commonwealth since 1926 would never have been poss-
ible were its products anything less than the finest that
engineering skill can produce. The final O.K. on a
General Motors car is your guaranty of a precision pro-
duct, tested and approved by experts.
And General Motors’ responsibility to you, the
owner, does not stop with purchase.
To the 688 Authorized Dealers all over Australia,
your purchase is the beginning of a lasting obli-
gation. To assure you maximum transport
efficiency, through expert counsel on proper
handling and care. Through prompt, courteous
service. Through genuine spare parts, always
available.
The value built into General Motors cars is a
measure of the men who sell and service them
in your town. These men are leaders in motor
transport progress. You will find them well
equipped to serve you.
General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE
“More wealth for Australia , . More jobs for Australians^
PERTH
Building petrol tanks in the
Sydney plant of General Motors
Australia.
LOOK AT THIS
COMPLETE
RANGE
£235 to £360
CHEVROLET Suburban
Tourer, £235; Suburban
Roadster, £235 ; Club Tourer
(5 Wire Wheels), £255 ; Club
Roadster (5 Wire Wheels),
£265 ; Club Tourer (6 Wire
Wheels). £270; Club Road-
ster (6 Wire Wheels), £2BO.
PONTIAC Tourer, Roadster,
£316. CHEVROLET Sub-
urban Sedan (Broadcloth),
£335 I (Leather), £340 ; Club
Coupe, £345. OLDSMOBILE
Phaeton, £345. CHEV-
ROLET Club Sedan (Broad-
cloth) (5 Wire Wheels). £355 ;
(Leather) (5 Wire Wheels).
£360: Club Coupe (6 Wire
Wheels), £360.
£365 to £495
MARQUETTE Tourer, £365.
CHEVROLET Club Sedan
(Broadcloth) (6 Wire Wheels),
£370; (Leather) (6 Wire
Wheels), £375. PONTIAC
Sedan (Broadcloth), £398 ;
(Leather), £403; Coupe (6
Wire Wheels and Fender
Wells). £4lB. OLDSMOBILE
4-door Sedan, £425. MAR-
QUETTE Sports Roadster,
£430 : Sedan, £440. OLDS-
MOBILE Sport Roadster-de-
luxe, £440. OAKLAND
Phaeton, £443 ; Sports Road-
ster, £445. MARQUETTE
Touring Sedan, £455 ; Coupe,
£465. BUICK Phaeton (45),
fd
Rivetting chassis frames,
Sydney plant. Australian
workmen speed production
with modern equipment.
if
If:
r
w
«
» '** m
m?
<
All tyres for General Motors
Australian products are Aus-
tralian-built.
£485. MARQUETTE Majestic
Sedan, £490. OLDSMOBILE
4-door Sedan, £490. OAK-
LAND Sports Roadster, £495.
£535 to £845
BUICK Sports Roadster (44),
£535. OAKLAND Sedan
(Broadcloth), £.545; (Leather),
£352/10/-. BUICK Sedan
(47), £585 ! Coupe (46),
£585: Managing Director
Sedan (47), £595 I Touring
Sedan (47), £600; Sedan
(57), £695 : Phaeton (69),
£695. VAUXHALL Richmond
Saloon, £7OB. BUICK Coupe
(64). £745- Sedan(6i) £790 I
(60), £845-
£B7O to £1650
VAUXHALL Hurlingham
Roadster (Sport), £870;
Kingston Sportsman’s Coupe,
£B9O. BUICK Limousine
Sedan (60 L), £B9O. LA
SALLE 2-passenger Con-
vertible Coupe, £995 ; Road
ster, £lOl5 ; 4-passenger
Phaeton, £lOl5 ; 2-passenger
Coupe, £1045 ; 5-passenger
Sedan, £1075 ; Coupe, £lOB5 ;
Town Sedan, £lOB5 ; 7
passenger Sedan, £1150;
Imperial Sedan, £llB5.
CADILLAC 2-passenger
Roadster, £1195 i Convertible
Coupe, £1235 ; Coupe, £1285 ;
5-passenger Town Sedan.
£i335 ; Sedan, £1385 ; 7.
passenger Sedan, £1425 1
Imperial Sedan, £i475 1
Fleetwood Sedan, £1600;
Fleetwood Imperial, £1650.
TRUCKS
£235 to £1985
CHEVROLET EXPRESS
DELIVERY, 4 standard
models, from £235. CHEV-
ROLET 30-CWT. TRUCKS,
q standard models, from
£270. GENERAL MOTORS
TRUCKS, 32 chassis styles,
complete range of body
styles, from £3Ol. (chassis
only).
Send this column coupon to
yout local dealer, or to the
nearest General Motors Branch
(Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, or Perth) for free
illustrated booklets and com-
plete information on the cars
you have checked above.
Name
Address


7hP cen/ne of Queens/onc/s
C-/ cf/sfo'ngmsteof Socio/ Life.
mM
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s t Brisbarut.
Telefkane, Central 83Z11—6 Lines.
g
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £498,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office ...... KemlAa Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- -weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Oarlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
SMOKE-OH!
CREDITORS’ CHANSON.
We used to go gathering notes in May!
Notes in May! Notes in May!
In fact we gathered them ev’ry day
Of ev’ry month while the sun shone gay.
Blit now that we’ve dam’ well got to pay
It’s a cold and frosty morning.
X X
The day before the N.S.W. State elections
will be October the plenty-froth.
X X
The general impression of the party sys-
tem is that it has reached a dud end.
X X
SERMON IN STONE.
Hearthstone. (For crawling purposes in
infancy.)
Kerbstone. (For lounging against in boy-
hood. >
Stone. (Presented, with ring attached, to
girl.)
Grindstone. (For keeping nose to as mar-
ried man.)
Stone broke.
Face of stone. (Description of Insolvency
Judge’s countenance on learning condition
of estate.)
Tombstone.
W. P. T.
X X
THE OPTIMIST.
My tailor leaves the trade aghast
With wonder at his raime'nt;
He guarantees his suits will last
Until my final payment!
2f 2f
“Amongst the interested visitors to the Dutch
ships was a well-known Sydney pawnbroker born in
Amsterdam.”
He was able to talk to the visitors like
a Dutch uncle, of course.
X X
“Australia is being schoolmastered by circum-
stances.’ ’ — “Sun.”
A polite way of saying it is in Squeers’-
street,
X X
“Birds in their little nests agree!”
Sneered Willie. “Yes. No doiiht;
They must, as anyone can sec,
Or else they’d all fall out.”
X X
AMONGST THE STARS, AND BARS.
“Drugs would seem to be giving Mary Nolan some
more trouble. This morning she was vindicated
by a Federal narcotic investigator. Two nurses pre-
ferred the charges, which carried the lurid phrase
‘Her arms are punctured from hypodermic needles.’ ”
— “Sun’s” Hollywood correspondent.
Gloria spent Saturday to Monday with
Solly Appflebaum, the new dialos--writer on
the A-P-F lot, companionate marriage being
NEGOTIATIONS.
HER (making it up): “There! I’m sorry,
dear. Only let us have peace at any
price.”
HIM: “But you don’t want it at any price
—you want it at pre-depression rates.”
all the go here since Dean Inge okayed it
last month. On did that Clara hopes for
a companionate week-end with the. Dean
when she next hits London. But keep it from
Harry.
Doug shot Mary’s colored cook to-day.
Mary seemed sore when I told her. “Why
couldn’t the big stiff have done in someone
else?” she asked peevishly when I inter-
viewed her for the “Sun.” “A coupla
garsip-writers, f’rinstance.”
Norma’s heroin party, which had so much
advance publicity from the Society press,
certainly was the goods. The new Boy
Friend didn’t recover consciousness till the
dicks had him in the Big House. They let
him out Monday, and he and Theda are
sharing Jack’s place till after the owner’s
divorce, or till they get fed up with
BY THE WAY.
“How’s your wife getting on with her driving?”
“Well, she took a turn for the worse last week, and was quite upset over it.”
each other. After the divorce Jack proposes
to take up residence with Gloria or
Clara or Norma, or all three, provided the
stars are of the same mind, and haven’t been
shot up or gaoled in the interval._
N.B.—More exclusive and elevating items
next week.
* *
“Defendant, who was drunk, jabbed at witness but
missed and collapsed.”— Police-court report.
Fell down on his jab, .so to speak.
2ft !ft
“Mr. Lang’s promises are mere idle boasts; there
is no substance in them.”— Mr. Bavin.
Or, as Fred Bluett would have sung:
“There he goes with no body in his brag.”
* *
“ ‘The use of the strap might have cured him,’
said the S.M.”
Evidently a boy who is growing ill for
leather.
X X
COMBATING THE DEPRESSION.
“An Anti-Depression League has been formed in
Sydney.”
At the first meeting of the League, the
president was congratulated upon his forth-
coming holiday. In response he said
that his employers, ever generous, were
giving him a good long rest. He had no
money, but he understood that the fare pro-
vided’ at the soup kitchens was of the best.
Summer had arrived, and the nights were
ideal for sleeping in the Domain. A pas-
sionate lover of literature, he hoped to spend
many happy hours in the Public Library
now that he was a member of the leisured
classes. (Cheers.)
Reference was made to the many benefits
accruing to the community from the whole-
sale disconnecting of telephones. Vast quan-
tities of time and patience previously
exhausted in getting wrong telephone num-
bers were being saved.
A vote of thanks to the associated banks
for their public-spirited action in closing
down on overdrafts was carried by acclama-
tion. The mover pointed out that thousands
who had been worried to death by terse mes-
sages about their overdrafts were now free
of"all troubles of the kind. It seemed likely
that few of them would ever be pestered by
an overdraft again. (Loud and sustained
applause.)
At the close of the meeting a collect! m
was attempted to buy drinks. It was found,
however, that those present had no money.
A prominent anti-depressionist was m the
act of pointing out the moral and physical
benefits of teetotalism when a. thirsty neigh-
bor pushed him through the window into tne
street below. “Ah, well,” smiled deceasedls
widow, “it will be one mouth the less to
feed ” H.M.
2f» 2ft
“Pinero scored a great success with ‘Lady Winder-
mere’s Fan.’ ” — “Sun.”
This is the kind of mis-statement that
used to make Oscar Wilde.
2f 2f
“The A B C of economics tells us that insisting on
Australian products creates a demand.” Melbourne
“Herald.”
Our politicians, however, are less con-
cerned with the A B C of economics than
with the D E F of deficits.
“World’s Dirt Championship.”— “Evening News.”
The result is problematical as yet, but
Jack Lang is certain to be in the final.
2ft 2ft
THE DEEPRESHUN UNMARSKED.
Or the Misdedes of Sir Murgatroyd.
“StewdinW of Polliticklo Ikonomee no
that a Deepresshun is on us. Millyuns are
Out of Wurk. For this Sad State of Alfa res
the Vishus Suckle is Ressponsabel.”
As he Red this Tippikle Leeding Articklc.
Sir Murgatroyd laffed sardonickally.
“Ha, ha!” lie Grinned. “They Blaim t!i
Vishus Suckle ! Littel do they No !”
Still Laffing, he Seesed his pen. “Bang! '
spoak Our Hero’s Revolver. The Villin’s
Laff changed to a Kerse as the Pen, shot
by the Best Marksman in Darlinglicarsed,
flew into the Klutcliing Hanned that Appered
that Momment in the Doreway!
Sloly Sir Murgatroyd recovered his Pre-
sents of Mind. As he did so the Hanned
that had Oort the Pen Enterd the Room.
Reveeling the Stern Figger of the Judge
With him was a Hansom Youth.
“The Gaim is Up, Sir Murgatroyd!” qoth.
Our Hero, who, disguised as a shandyleer
had fired the Shot from the Seeling of Sir
M.’s Libery.
“Kerses!” cried the Dismaied Scowndi-el.
“But I am Innercent!”
“Not soe!” reterned Our Hero. “In His
Hanned the Judge Holds the Pen with wicli
you Rote the Forged Checks, by Menes of
Wick you Withdrew Munney from Sirklc-
lashun an’ so Kawsed the Deepresshun.”
“Yore Porpoise,” Hissed the Judge, “was
to Bring Rooin to the Country Soe that,
Drivven to Dispare, my Dorter wud marry
Yew! It was knot the Vishus Suckle or
Sir Otter but You who was the Deepres-
shun ! However, thanks to this Brave .Boy
(and he inderkated Our Hero), you arc
foyled! Knot only will the Peeple again
be' abel to Enjoy High Wadges and Short
Ours, but they Will now get Twice the
Wadges and Knot have to work at all. For
know, Sir M., that your (Checks will be
Repewderated.”
With a Yell of Disspare, Sir Murgatroyd
Vannished Into Smoak. (See Noat.)
Hamer Junior.
[Noat. —Increddible As it Mai Seme,
Kriminals in Ostralyar have the Powwer
to Vannish Into Smoak. See the Sensa-
shunal Paipers. But it Never Does them
Mutch Good, except that the Paipers give
them Rite-ups about it.]
“Bradman assured the interviewer that he had
not left a sweetheart in England.” ‘‘Argus.
Certainly no one associated his name with
maidens during the tour.
¥ x
A faraway expression
1 noted in her tone;
It did not worry me at all —
That kind of thing is natur-al
On the long-distance ’phone.
X X
PRE-ELECTION PRAYER.
Give us each day, O Lord, a new and
reasonably plausible tarradiddle wherewith
to bemuse the elector. Preferably one about
borrowing £200,000,000 to shove wages up
and hours down. Grant that we may not
be nettled by intelligent inter and
cast a blight on the mentality of the bilent
Voter so that he may take us seriously.
Call down Thy wrath upon all who remember
in spite what we said before the last election.
Above all, O Lord, give us humility be-
fore Thy people—but only till October 20,
because after that it won’t be needed.
Amen.
x x
“With rationed work and longer hours
the old joke about civil servants who loaf
is losing its point.” It is. They re getting
along with half, a loaf these days.
' x X
“By Jove, you’re a wit all right!”
enthused young George as Pottinger un-
leashed the latest one about Sir Otto.
“Oh, not exactly a wit,” countered I ot-
tinger modestly. .
“Well, you’re a half-wit, anyway,’ in-
sisted George.
2ft
“Well, I see Mrs. Mangle has at last
entered the domain of true wifehood.”
“What is it —a boy or a girl?”
“A black eye.”
2ft 2ft
“On view at the Melbourne Show is a giant Bft.
9jin tall.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
We’ve seen this pest often: he used to
stand in front of us at football matches.
X X
OUR HENRY.
By Dulcie Doubleday. Aged 12.
I well remember when H’enry first came
to us. It was a winter’s night and we were
sitting round the glowing fire listening to
the howling of the wind. My little sister
Mary had just said: “How lucky we are
to have a nice warm house! How I pity
all the poor animals out in the bitter snow,
when we heard a faint scratching at the
door. Mary ran and opened it, and poor
little Henry hopped in, all blue with cold
and shivering, which was why we called him
Henry.
He immediately became great friends with
our dog Horace. In fact they were almost
inseparable.
Sometimes, though, he would show a lik-
ing for Mary or me or father, or some other
member of the family, and for awhile noth-
ing could induce him to go with anyone else.
But he always went back to Horace in the
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
“Do you think she’s been on the stage as
long as they say?”
“Well, I should think so. I know she’s
got quite a coat of tan from the spot-
lights.”
end. He was wonderful —never happy un-
less he was close to one of us.
This went on for a long time. Then Henry
died. A visitor deliberately killed him. We
buried him in the back garden, and my
sister Mary made a little tombstone for
him, on which she wrote: “Here lies Henry,
a flea whose heart was pure gold.”


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
m- A m,l t i A s lericall S „ tates a , re , f ? eling the P in ch
, I L a i lffleS ’/? d i°°king around for
v.’WL S La 1C L S of . taxatl °n- The Sales Tax,
l Penn m force in Canada for years,
*° n mai ? y U,P s^ tur , e ; s acroas the
ecial , ly 3; n t^ie .Southern States,
„ , iave already carried it into effect,
of considering it. The plan
stmnn leta^ Cl ' to see that a. duty
one P ir. S ° article sold, is the
hitelv use ‘. Carolina
sets ;Y the J? X f Ql r wireless receiving
a vear GfhmiTn™ IS’ld.tolOs. sd.
a yeai. Others are accepting tins lead.
lhe longest-travelled exhibit at the Mel-
bourne Show was five Hereford steers owned
by Douglas King, a former Canadian. They
‘ n ”; ' om run 400 miles north
ot Broken Hill, took seven weeks to get to
iead ’ jj rave ll e d by sea from Brisbane
Sydney and from there used the railway,
“Cutler”: “Spadassin,” in the course of
a little treatise on steel, ancient and modern,
with especial reference to swords and razor
blades (B. 24/9/’3O), suggests that the
latter were first made in Cincinnati or Pitts-
burg. They weren’t. They were made, where
nine out of ten safety-razor blades continue
to be made, even though they be sold in
American packages, in Sheffield. Inci-
dentally, the cutting edges on the wood-
working tools of the most famous American
makers arc made of steel produced in Shef-
field.
“Leclanche”’: There doesn’t seem to be
much connection between Einstein’s theories
and billiards, but there is a link, and it is
provided by the only partially understood
phenomenon known to radio experts as the
Heavyside layer. There’s nothing heavy
about the layer, which takes its name from
the mathematician who deduced it. It is a
sort of invisible shell or roof that encloses the
globe, and it contracts and expands as
fancy takes it within limits approximately
60 and 70 miles above sea level. At night
this layer is electrically conductive, so that
when a radio wave hits it it is reflected back,
just as a billiard ball rebounds from the
cushion. Afte ; r the first cannon, as it were,
the repercussions get closer together, and
the shorter the wave-length the better the
reflection. On 20 metres signals can be sent
round the world on ridiculously small power.
But a 20-metre wave seems to hit the Heavy-
fide layer at a very acute angle, and it skips
“DROUGHT.”
This is a picture by J. C. Goodhart, oƒ Broken Hill, oƒ some of the country dealt with
by the Western Lands Bill, which Mr. Lang promises to repeal so that sons of
farmers may be put upon it. The picture was made during a recent five years’
drought. On an adjoining holding not a hoof of stock had been carried for
three years.
a radius of 400 or 500 miles on the first
stage of its journey. Why the radio wave
prefers refraction on an intangible conductive
layer of ether, & la Einstein’s light-waves, to
plugging through that fine old reliable con-
ductor Mother Earth is one of many things
that no fellow 7 can be expected to understand.
“Exile”: About 20 years ago I travelled ..
from Buenos Ayres to Europe with the new
President of the Argentine, General Uriburu,
who was on his way to France and Germany
for military study. He was a tall, muscular
and affable young man, who made no bones
about telling us that his father had made a
lot of money by buying wheat lands within
50 miles of Buenos Ayres at three dollars a
league and selling the same at up to £2O.
A relative of mine, who was manager of the
London and River Plate Bank, afterwards
told me that many other Argentine poli-
ticians of the period had engaged in the same
remunerative speculation. General Uriburu
is well educated, but not particularly pro-
English in his sympathies.
”, e . ~ „, TT . ~
. uur cr l fr T 0t ?- g ° Umversity
by its babbling brook in Dunedin Maoriland,
to Kong Chuen, near Canton, yet the attrac-
U v< g. a alert-looking Dr. Kathleen Pih, who
studied medicine in the cold South, is taking
the knowledge she gained to benefit her own
people in China. The doctor, who has been
since babyhood in Maoriland, arrived last
week by the Maunganui, and is sailing by
the Changte to become a medical missionary
in the East. Dr. North, former medical
superintendent of the Kong Chuen Mission
Hospital, and Mrs. North have been in
Sydney for some iittle time on their way
back to Maoriland. The climate of Kong
Chuen had begun to affect Mrs. North’s
bonltb
t "; «
Albany Pass : No need to go as far
afield as China (B. ~4/9/ 30) to learn how
to catch turtles with live fish. Australia’s
own Binghi, or at least that section of him
to be found on the north-east coast of
Queensland, has been using the remora for
the purpose for ages, and employs almost
the same methods as the Chinaman. The
only difference is that he usually keeps the
sucker-crowned remora in the salt water at
the bottom of his canoes, and drops it over
on a -line when a breathing turtle is sighted,
jf the fish tries to fasten on to the canoe,
} ie j s p o ked off with a stick after the fashion
0 f his Chinese cousin, until he gives the
attempt up in disgust and fastens .to the
turtle. Binghi, however, does not haul his
quarry in by the line, experience having
shown that this entails much wear and tear
0 f the remora’s tail end, to which the cord
i s fastened. The turtle is held while a
couple of the fisherman’s mates swim over
a nd secure the chelonian by grasping the two
kind flippers and turning him on his back,
after which the beast is hoisted into the
canoe. Very often the turtle is captured by
this means alone, a method also employed in
Papua, where I have never seen the remora
utilised.
“Woorak”: The destruction of native
birds of all kinds in Yic. by Southern Euro-
peans, mostly Italians, has been going on
for some time now. There is no objection
to their shooting eagles, hawks and crows,
which, according to Toni’s taste, are edible,
but there is cause for concern regarding
their fondness for protected birds, including
kookaburras and magpies. About the only
denizen of the Australian bush not listed on
Toni’s bill of fare is the snake. He can
stomach fox, .a menu item that would be
rejected by a starving dog. Even ’possum,
which takes on a most disagreeable odor
when the skin is removed, finds its way to
the tables of the Italian bush camps,
“Dr. Kwong Su”: Weeks of music have
been observed in Australian cities. That is
good. The great Confucius composed songs
and sang them, accompanying his voice on a
sweet-toned instrument. He declared that
music is the “key to good government,” and
how much you Australians need good govern-
ment, I need not tell you. You think we
Chinese are a barbarous people, but we
worked out the theory of music at a time
when the Angles and the Saxons were
using stone-choppers. The honorable Ignaz
Paderewski, w T ho visited our country, says
we are the most musical nation on earth. In
the long ago we had a series of 12 bamboo
pitch-pipes called “Lu,” which gave 12 semi-
tones making up an octave —not tempered
and. debased like yours, but absolutely true.
So in our music we cannot modulate into
various keys but must remain in one—the
equivalent of what you call the scale of C.
Our folk-songs are made with the same
materials as the Nordic melodies known to
you in the transcriptions of Grieg and Palm-
gren, and such songs of the Scottish High-
lands as “Ye Banks and Braes” and “Auld
Lang Syne.” We have “wind, string and
percussion” instruments the same as you,
but much of our musical lore was lost when
the heaven-born She Hwang-Ti, who was
Emperor 2130 years ago, destroyed all books
that did not deal with medicine, agriculture
and divination. Of all Occidental composers
Mozart comes nearest our idea of dignified
eloquence. The syncopations essential to
your jazz we invented many thousands of
years ago, and the sing-song girls in our
wineshops well know the uses of such music.
Some of our priests are taught from infancy
so that they may sing a bass an octave below
Chaliapin’s deepest note. Their chanting is
impressive. Our noblest instrument is the
Tsi Hsien Chin, a seven-stringed harp, whose
strings can be stopped. For the vulgar there
is the flute.
Dr. Pirow, S. African Government mining
engineer, has given an estimate of the life
of the Rand goldfield. Its output last year
reached the record figure of £42,395,000, or
about one-lmlf of the aggregate world pro-
duction. For the current year he reckons
the yield will be worth £43,500,000. In the
next five years he budgets for relatively minor
fluctuations, with a gradual fall to a little
more than £39.000.000 in 1935. A sharp
drop to some £27,000,000 per annum is pre-
dicted around 1939. By 1947 Dr. Pirrow
fears that, assuming no marked change in
operating or other conditions occurs, the
Rand will be contributing only £10,000.060
a year.
How many archbishops, Governors-General
and Prime Ministers of the future will hail
from the Cooper and the Finke ? The Future
will tell that, but the Present knows that
the chance of being born there is to some
extent due to the Australian Inland Mis-
sion and its Aerial. Medical Service. Quite a
factor in the aerial patrol, which means
prompt medical attention for the woman
out back, is the special radio in this pic-
ture. This sends as well as receives mes-
sages. The power is generated by a pedal
attachment, and—dot, dash ! —the house-
THE BUSHS NEW WAY OF CALLING THE DOCTOR.
hold, from the child upwards, can tap out
an urgent call for assistance. Morse is
being learned now out back along with the
ABC. Scattered about the big open spaces
of the continent the A.I.M. has 12 mission
stations; and now, with home telegraphy
added, the wilderness is losing some more of
its terrors. Of course there have been huge
pioneering difficulties to overcome; but the
Presbyterian General Assembly of Aus-
tralia, which is at the back of the movement,
lately resolved to “congratulate the flying
doctors, wireless officers and all others con-
cerned in the Aerial Medical Service;
to authorise the continuance of the work, with
such modifications as may be necessary to
meet changing circumstances ; and to endeavor
to co-ordinate both medical and wireless
work with kindred activities within the
area.” At present the A.M.S. people are
working overtime, conferring with medical
friends and others as to the best lines of
work. John Flynn—the Rev. John in the
city, plain Flynn in the bush —has just
flown from Brisbane to Cloncurry, and hopes
to visit every centre within the Gulf area,
discussing with all outpost hospital com-
mittees the possibility of co-ordinated effort
in caring for sufferers in the most isolated
parts.
“Thormanby” : There has been some argu-
ment on the other side of the world as to
the champion stake-winning racehorse to
date. The Americans have been claiming the
honor with Gallant Fox, which has completed
the season with a total of £67,068. France
has put forward Ksar, which has won
£67,069. Zev, conqueror of the English Derby
winner, Papyrus, is credited with £62,727'.
Isinglass, of England, is fourth with £57,455,
while the only Antipodean mentioned is
Gloaming with a swag of £43,100. Given a
good spin this season, Amounis should dis-
place the Maorilander, since he is now only
a few hundreds behind the retired champion.
“Diba Tau”: Circles of stones exist in
Papua. On each of the summits of two
hills which face one another across Lake
Raboa, Fergusson Island, can be found a
circle of flat stones surrounding a roughly-
constructed stone seat. Tribes on each side
of the lake used to wage perpetual war, and
the stones were intended for the victims of
tribal, raids. The prisoner was bound to
the stone seat, given a little betel-nut to
chew and told to have a last look at his
village across the lake. His enemies danced
around the stone circle with ribald jests and
mock expressions of sorrow for his sad fate.
When this amusement began to pall the
prisoner was killed, and the stones func-
tioned as the slabs of a butcher’s shop with
joints laid out for distribution. A curious
aftermath was the dispatch by the captors
of a present of dogs’ teeth or armshells
to the deceased’s relatives, sometimes accom-
panied by liis head.
“L.Y.F.” : Westralians are right when they
blame S’Africa for the “double-gee” pest, but
wrong about its name, which is debbelje,
meaning “young devil.” The j is pronounced
like the English y, but the slack attention
to sounds allowed by the Afrikander Taal
has altered its pronunciation to dibbelkee.
Ostriches greedily devour the plants, and
results prove that they, are good and sus-
taining tucker —for ostriches.
“Whitehall”: Rev. H'. C. Foreman, of Syd-
ney Central Methodist Mission, dealt pro-
hibition a damaging jolt in a recent “S. M.
Herald” interview: —
During my stay in London I met with less
drunkenness between the hours of 6 p.m. and 11 p.m.,
in the poorer quarters of London, than I would have
encountered in similar districts in Sydney, although
in Sydney the hotels were closed earlier. Hotel
hours make very little difference to drunkenness.
England is the most sober country in the
world, just now —it is more sober than even
France —chiefly because it has practically
no prohibition party, and an enormous num-
ber of temperance agencies, official and other-
wise. They have turned the oncc-beloved
drunk into* a social outcast. The only
drunks I struck in West End restaurants
during a longish sojourn in London a while
back were Americans and Australians.
Heavy drinking has gone out of fashion in
clubs and military messes, and there is little
of it in its former stronghold, the universi-
ties Young men of the middle classes are
notably sober (due I was told to the biting
scorn of their womenfolk for boozers), and
the British worker always has been a
moderate drinker outside the slum areas,
which are now fast disappearing. Here is a
significant phenomenon. At least half the
present day U.S.A. films show drinking orgies
in which men and women participate. About
the same number of British films show fairly
persistent spotting amongst the men, little
or none amongst their womenfolk, and no
drunkenness. It is a measure of the differ-
ence between the two countries, aleokolically
speaking. In unshackled England it is no
longer permissible even to get drunk “like a
gentleman”; in prohibitionist America to be
able to afford oceans of liquor is a proof of
social, or anyhow financial, standing.
“Bridoon” : The latest book of war revela-
tions is by an English brigadier-general,
one Spears, who spent the days of
the retreat from Mons as a liaison officer
with Lanzerac’s Fifth French Army on the
British right* One of his stories is difficult
to believe. He asserts that when French
came to remonstrate with Lanzerac for
“refusing” his left flank, neither general
could understand the other, with the result
that the meeting was a wash-out. French
spent many months in northern France at
different periods of his career, making a care-
ful study of the ground over which lie and
other eminent British soldiers were confident
the Germans would one day invade the
country. He could hardly have done this
without acquiring a knowledge of colloquial
French. In any case, Spears, as a liaison
officer, must have been a fair French linguist
and could have translated.
“Blurp” : One of the oldest London week-
lies, “Reynolds’s,” has given a lead which
some of our Australian journals are pretty
sure to follow —a special feature entitled
“Great Murder Stories of the Bible.” The
one before me deals with the sjtory of David
and Bathsheba, and is entitled “The Messen-
ger Who Died Singing.” The subject is,
of course, Uriah the Hittite, who was Bath.’s
husband. , But what he sang when placed
in the forefront of the battle is not stated
in the article, Holy Writ being obscure on
the subject.
Alice Grant Rosman is now easily the
best-seller among all Australian writers at
home or living abroad. She left Adelaide
some years ago for London, and after doing,
newspaper work for a time decided to give
herself up wholly to novel-writing—she had
had a couple of successes already. Bren-
tano’s, greatest of American booksellers, who
select the six best-sellers of the week for a
group of newspapers, lately put “The Young
and Secret,” her latest novel, at the head of
their list. Like all her novels nowadays
“The Young and Secret” was published by
Minton. Balch and Co.: she speaks in high
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN.
terms of praise of the treatment of authors
by these American publishers. Incidentally,
Miss Rosman lately met in London Miss
Yelia Ercole, of Grenfell (N.S.W.), and
together they celebrated the news, which
Miss Ercole had just received, that her novel,
“No Escape,” had been accepted for serial
publication in The Bulletin. Miss Ros-
man told the younger writer: “You could
not possibly have a better introduction to
the publishers of London and New York
than The Bulletin’s approval.” “No
Escape,” in its way quite as fine a thing as
“A House Is Built,” will be among next
year’s Bulletin serials.
“Finn”: “M'alachi” (B. 10/9/’3O) asks
whether MSS. for the Tailteann awards (Ire-
land) should be written in “Erse or Sas-
senach.” No language under either name
exists. Ireland speaks Gaelic and English,
in the native tongue called Gaedhilg and
Bearla. The former has undergone a not-
able revival of recent years. The census of
1925 showed 30,000 speakers of the native
tongue in the south and west of the coun-
try ; hosts have been taught in Gaelic League
classes in the cities, and children since 1922
have been compelled to use Gaelic at school.


THE GOSSARB LINE of BEAUTY
HP*'- sg ngi
Hi
:
m
i
SSft-J
* :i
.. V
mm
■
: :
Ml
i !
m
■■
I
A Solitaire by Gossard, made; of brocade and elastic.
The top is of pliable satin tricot Model 8023.
Your
Natural Figure Beauty
Is Emphasized by New
Gossard Foundations
Many are the designs in the new Gossard Line
of Beauty, all displaying consummate creative
ability and workmanship. ..... New materials
are fashioned to give you the utmost grace of
figure line, utmost comfort in bodily movement.
Combinations, Solitaires, girdles, brassieres,
step-ins and front lacing corsets meet the
needs of each figure type —answer the natural
feminine desire for variety in under-fashions.
THE CANADIAN
H* W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRE
-—: ___ K-AU9T.ID
Poverty
Point
“.C.8.” : Dame Nellie is returning on the
Cathay, which arrives in Melbourne on Nov.
10. The date of her first final farewell con-
cert has not been announced.
“Craiser”: It is still easy to shock Mel-
bourne. The Firm has received many letters
anxiously inquiring whether it is a genuine
cigar that Ethel Morrison toys with
in “Let Us Be Gay,” and whether she really
smokes it. Not long since Frank Clewlow
broadcast a famous English poem in which
Australia’s most popular adjective occurred.
Next day 3LO was buried to the depth of
60 feet in epistles protesting against the
outrage, and 17 clerks were engaged for three
weeks in explaining that the word was used
iii its dictionary sense of “covered or stained
with blood; sanguinary; bloodthirsty.”
“Vandi” : The Showman (B. 10/9/’3O)
apropos of Mayne Lynton’s retort to an
over-loud prompter reminds me of one of the
Firm’s Gilbert and Sullivan nights in New-
castle last season. After the first verse of
“Is There Not a Maiden Here?” tenor James
Hay stopped dead. The chorus prompted
him to a maid. Hay swung round, and his
“One at a time, please!” brought down the
house.
“Camera”: Norman Dawn, of Australian
Talkies, Ltd. (Sydney), will soon release
“Talkie Mad,” the first full-length talking-
dancing-singing picture to be produced in
Australia. It is an outdoor revue, with
Blue Mountains scenes and a cast of Aus-
tralian players ; there is also an Australian
ballet. A £150,000 syndicate is behind Dawn.
He is the American director who produced
for Australasian Films “The Term” and
“The Adorable. Outcast.”
“D.”: I was with an unemployed actor
yesterday when an unemployed musician
rattled his box at us. The mummer rebuffed
him with contumely, and then gave what he
said was the average pro.’s view of the posi-
tion. “Who,” he inquired, “were the
first To send up costs in the profession? The
musicians. Who were always the readiest to
strike, or back up the strikes of others,
however damfoolish? The musicians. And
who held up show after show till the public
got as fed up with our rows as they were
with the prices we had to charge? The
musicians. They have done more than any-
one to ruin the legitimate stage, and now
they have the hide to ask us for money on the
ground that it has ruined them!”
“Cine Ma” : Irene Vanbrugh is one of the
first actresses to submit to be televisioned.
While actually in the Baird studios outside
the city she was thrown on to a screen five
feet by two in the Coliseum, London, and
thrilled the audience to bits by speaking to
it. Televised items are now a regular feature
of the programmes.
“Cauboy”; Legit, is looking up in Mel-
bourne. In a recent week there were six
shows going—“The Love Step” at the
Comedy, “Lilac Time” at the Koyal, “Let
Us Be Gay” at the King’s, Allan Wilkspeare
at the Princess, the Australian Comedy Co.
at the Bijou, and “The 1930 Follies” at the
Tivoli. And “Sindbad,” a panto., was shar-
ing the Begent with the fillums.
“J.D.”: Thousands harp wearisomely on
the damage done to young Australia by
TT.S.A. talkies —stressing their slang, accent,
eroticism, etc. Why not give them credit
for the good they do? A 15-year-old Austra-
lian of to-day has more real culture in many
respects—that is to say, he has a more
balanced view of the world; a truer know-
ledge of how foreigners live, behave and
think —than most middle-aged people had
before the war. The talkies are responsible.
The splendid Fox and Paramount news-
reels show nationals of almost every coun-
try on earth in their habits as they live;
and they are of inestimable value education-
ally. If their critics would only drop the
prohibitionist attitude, and agitate for more
and more news-reels (some London and
Paris cinemas are already showing all-
gazette programmes), they would do some-
thing for the cause they claim to have at
heart. Most Australian audiences would
welcome three times the number of news-
reels that are commonly shown.
“Uncle Syd”: I once heard Maggie Moore
say that no matter how much work she
had done in preparing for a new produc-
tion she could open the first night success-
fully on half an hour’s sleep in the after-
noon. She proved it when we opened on
the first night of “Little Jack Sheppard” at
Sydney Royal. After rehearsing the whole
day, with a lialf-hour for lunch and the
same time for dinner, we had a full-dress
rehearsal that night. After rehearsal Maggie
Moore went straight into the wardrobe room
and helped sew all night till nearly nine
o’clock the next morning; then home to her
hotel for breakfast and bath, back for
another short rehearsal, and into the
wardrobe again. She did not leave the
theatre until four o’clock that afternoon;
then home for half an hour’s sleep and a
plate of jelly. She opened that night as
Jack Sheppard with tremendous success.
I’d like to see our present-day leading ladies
try it.
“10-2-4”: Recent Hollywood products sug-
gest something of the extent to which
modern America is dominated by alcohol and
feminism. Of the last 12 talkies that I have
attended eight have featured cocktail parties,
and six have reproduced the melancholy spec-
tacle of one or more of the characters get-
ting slowly sozzled. You rarely see a drunk
in a modern English show, though they were
common enough till the beginning of the cen-
tury, when drunkenness started definitely to
become unfashionable in the U.K. In' the
palmy days of the English legitimate the
stars were nearly all men. One thought of
Irving, Beerbohm Tree, Wyndham, Alexander,
Toole and the Grossmiths first, and of their
leading ladies afterwards, if at all. Film
patrons think first of Norma Shearer, Greta
Garbo, Claudette Coibert, Ruth Chatterton
and so on, and often find it hard to remember
the names of the stars’ leading men. Or,
anyhow I do. The talkies present modern
America to me as a proud, not to say inso-
lent. female, rather inebriated, rather over-
dressed, and the possessor of a pliant hus-
band and a too-glittering car ; and I fancy
there is some truth' in the picture.
“Cine Ma”: Jack Oakie is the first
comedian I have seen who waits for his
laughs in a talkie. The effect is excellent
when the house is crowded, but it’s horrific
when the audience is three women and a
baby.
“Craiser”: Stephanie Deste, the half-
Indian dancer whose reptilian motions were
the chief sensation of “Rose Marie” when
it was inti’oduced * to Australia, has gone in
for production. She has bought up the props
of “Chu Chin Chow,” which saw service in
2238 consecutive performances in London,
and taken them to Brussels. The Belgians
are reported to like it.
The Palette
Yic. Arts and Crafts display at the Town
Hall this year rejoices in an interesting
display of lino and woodcuts. Frederick
Ward’s drawings of Pavlova’s mimes have
much vigor. Westralian A. B. Webb sends
some sensitive views of the Swan River
with a touch of Jap delicacy and breadth
of feeling. The best of Dorrit Black’s work
is “Veere Harbor”; in the other she
appears to be deliberately infantile. Eric
Thake has “Across the Paddocks,” a color
cut of mushrooms that look as solid as tree
stumps.
“F.S.”: The first Lady Minto is possibly
astray in Australia, and anybody finding and
restoring her to her guardians, or providing
information that will lead to her discovery
undamaged, will be entitled to a reward of
£2000. She measures 30Jin. x and
was last seen in a private house in Mayfair,
ixmdon. She was painted by Sir Joshua
Reynolds, and there is a strong suspicion
that her kidnappers have brought her to this
country.
“Lao-dah”: A just-returned Melbourne
artist has the latest story concerning the
modern art movement in Paris. A painter
of Spanish extraction enjoyed great favor
for a while, earning encomiums from the
critics and numerous cheques from patrons.
He was in the full tide of his glory when
somebody revealed the method he adopted
for recording his inspirations. He put a
canvas in position, prepared paint and
brushes and then put out the light. The
artist promptly skidded into obscurity, while
the silence of the critics could have been
cut with a knife.
Vida Lahey, a Brisbane artist showing at
the Fine Arts, Melbourne, is an exponent
of the poster school of landscape painting.
She has a great flair for catching the
sun when it is striking an attitude and
saying “Ha!” so to speak, round the corner
of a building. Her pictures carry a strong
suggestion of having been worked up from
photographs. Even the perspective is
cameraic. “The Deserted Mill, Ireland,” is
the best, if not the most sensational, of the
collection.
The Women Painters’ show at Melbourne
Athenteum is, on the whole, better than last
year’s. D. G. Moore is a newcomer. She has
two studies of Kalorama with so much
strength in them that it is a surprise to find
that they are done in pastel, a medium given
to sentimentalising. There is quality in Rose
A. Walker’s “An Olinda Scene,” and Norah
Gurdon nearly brings off “The Singing
Lesson,” four figures whose chief fault is
that they look as if they had been painted
independently of each other. The dogged
persistence of Mrs. Bale receives its reward
in “By the Loddon Strangways,” a sensitive
piece of observation ; and Aileen Dent shows
marked advance in “Winter Evening, Prince’s
Bridge,” the signpost pointing to Nature in
her case being evidently Clarice Beckett. E.
Lakeland has served up a lady scrambled in
No. 90 and made a sad mess of it, and
there is every known fault in Stephanie Tay-
lor’s still-life, No 94, as well as a few un-
classified. P. Hurry is not up to her usual
standard. “Madame Ewart” seems to have been
chopped out with an axe. Eileen B. Piercey’s
“Egyptian Ballet” is evidently inspired by
Pavlova, but she shows more courage in the
matter of undressing than the Firm did. Most
of the others probably cook better than they
paint.
The Inky Way
“Avon” : After three and a half years’ exist,
ence the Auckland (M.L.) “Sun,” offshoot
of the Christchurch “Sun,” has given up the
battle against its rival, the “Auckland Star,”
and the combine that owns the latter has
bought its buildings, plant, copyright and
goodwill. Short-story writers and other
freelances will be sorry about the demise, for
the paper, like its southern parent, spent
money freely on literary features. The
depression, which has hit Maoriland traders
very hard, meant a big drop in advertising
revenue to the “Sun,” and N.Z. Newspapers,
Ltd., which owns the “Auckland Star,” the
“Christchurch Times” and the, Christchurch
“Star,” made what the “Sun,” in an editorial,
describes as an offer that was “an equitable
adjustment of the position as it stands to-
day.”
“Rolling Stone”: Auckland (M.L.) “Ob-
server” has celebrated its jubilee with a special
number; the first appeared on September 18,
1880. The Bulletin was only in its swad-
dling clothes at that date, but there is little
doubt that A. S. Ratlibone had it in mind
when he modelled the “Observer,” which
soon became known for its trenchant personal
pars, cartoons and fearless 'criticism of
everything and everybody. It began with a
circulation of 5000, wonderful for Auckland
in those days. Changes of owners, editors
and premises have been numerous, but the
little paper has survived them all. It was
the first in Maoriland, and one of the first
in Australasia, to introduce process work for
the reproduction of line and photographs.


Ttnaucial
-
m
:7*
MW\\
m
mwk
m
'1
s»w-
-„„„ at this Conference dedarfc^
~, t b e several Governments \ K W ■ Budgets for the financial year
U) to bal.n« .he-«|Pem * in Thftßudsn
31 and to maintain a «*ft sich , basis „is consistent «'*'%«
existing internal debt maturing in
any further s'teps'wilTbe taken during‘the
overseas until after existing
the Loan Council raise n I been comp l et ely dealt with. This deci-
rJvpTseas short-term public authorrties. in controlling
„ act in agreement
j(\ | with on the as regards such public works
a will not be given to the un Treasury concerned within a
» *■ »"■“ ° f ,he debt (,ntmst
i!
(4)
(5)
model to be agreed upon. -
#1
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA
l/ V/ -r . ij
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WEST (^STRAu/a
TASMANIA
#€
T
It
QUEENSLAND
£ . loo^f
Lang alone says this Agreement
is Just another Scrap of Paper
REALISING that Australia is facing a
crisis such as she has never experienced
before, that we are facing challenging
issues, the Prime Minister and all the State
Premiers have pledged the seven Govern-
ments and the people of Australia to
discontinue over-sea borrowing and to
balance their budgets to meet the
country’s financial obligations, to the last
shilling.
Prime Minister Scullin, Premiers Bavin,
Hogan, Moore, Hill, Mitchell and McPhee
have put their signatures AND
YOURS to the only agreement that
will rehabilitate Australian finance the
only agreement that can restore prosperity
with honor.
Mr. Lang, being no wiser to-day than
he was yesterday, urges a new orgy of
reckless borrowing, and threatens, if
returned to power, to treat the Premiers
agreement as just another SCRAP OF
PAPER.
If that agreement is torn up or repudiated
by the people of New South Wales the
inevitable consequences will be new and
staggering burdens on industry, prolonged
distress, further unemployment and financial
disorder.
We believe the people will confirm and
honor the pledges contained in the financial
agreement not merely because honesty
says we should, but because the first
instinct of citizenship says we must, and,
further, because intelligent thinking con-
vinces us that it is the speediest and safest
path back to prosperity.
In the choice between balanced budgets
and bankruptcy the electors will find it
easy to make their choice.
We are in mid-stream, fighting desperately
but with determination against the tides
of adversity. It is no time to swap
horses when we are crossing such a stream.
II NATIONAL
■U Issue
alanced Budgets
instead of
Borrowing and Bankruptcy
Voting' is Compulsory
You must place a figure in every square


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Niemeyer’s Critics.
Sir Otto Niemeyer is no more exempt
from criticism than anybody else; but most
of what is offered as criticism of his mission
and his conduct of it is the brave yapping
of the small dogs that know the big dog
will take no notice of them.
His offences boil down to two: (1) he
came to Australia as the emissary of the
Bank of England, but, instead of reporting
to that institution, he communicated his
conclusions to the Commonwealth Bank,
the Commonwealth Government and the
Premiers’ Conference; and (2) he interfered
in the domestic affairs of the Common-
wealth.
As to the first offence, the Bank of Eng-
land was invited to send an officer to Aus-
tralia to confer with the people entrusted
with the finances of this country. Though
it was not a creditor, the Bank of England
is so much a national institution that at
its own expense it put at the disposal of
Australia one of its directors and two others
eminent in their own spheres. Thereby it
surely earned the thanks of Australia. And
if, instead of merely reporting their conclu-
sions to the Bank of England, the experts
were willing to tender their advice, for
whatever it was worth, to the Common-
wealth and State Governments, they were
surely entitled to our further thanks. ' What-
ever they did they were invited to do; and
there was no obligation on anyone’s part
to accept their advice. At the same time,
since our greatest difficulties are in London,
and since they must know the mind of the
London money market much better than
anyone outside it can hope to do, it would
have been madness not to very seriously
consider their advice. That it was not
agreeable to all of us is our misfortune and
not their fault. If they believed what they
told us—and nobody goes so far as to sug-
gest that they don’t—then they showed
their friendship in putting matters plainly
to us. To abuse them is a wretched return
to offer them for doing a disagreeable thing
straightforwardly, instead of “squibbing it”
and letting us stew in our own juice.
As to the charge that they interfered in
our domestic affairs, what they did was to
tell us what they believed the London
money market would require before it gave
us further assistance. That this involves
some very drastic changes in our way of
living and conducting our affairs is quite
true. But again we are under no obligation
to accept their conclusions. Jf, however,
we want further assistance—and there is no
question about that—then the sooner we
know the terms on which we can get it the
better. In spite of all their advantages,
they may be wrong; Mr. Beasley, for ex-
ample, may know the London market far
better than any director of the Bank of
England. But to charge them with inter-
fering in the domestic affairs of the Com-
monwealth because they told us how, in
their opinion, we can get the further help
from London that we so badly need is
worse than ingratitude—it is offensive clap-
trap. 7
The Ebbing Tide of Imports.
For the first two months of the current
financial year imports to the Commonwealth
were valued at £11,286,564 less than for the
corresponding period of last year. Exports
also declined, but only about 10 p.c., where-
as imports have receded 44 p.c. The great-
est decreases were in tobacco (80 p.c.) and
alcoholic drinks (78 p.c.). Other important
divisions affected are metals and metal manu-
factures, rubber and rubber manufactures,
apparel and attire, all down over 60 p.c.; and
textiles, down close on 50 p.c. Even petrol
is coming in in smaller quantities, a decline
of 34 p.c. in value being recorded.
Some part of these reductions, of course,
is due to a lower general price-level than
ruled last year, and some to a disinclina-
tion on the part of importers to buy on a
market that is unstable where it is not
actually still falling. But the biggest fac-
tors in the change are the sparsity of credits
abroad and the operation of the Scullin
tariff.
Imported supplies each day are dwindling,
and each day offers Australian manufac-
turers greater opportunities for consolidat-
ing their position. Those who are alive
to the situation are advertising briskly.
Others are expecting to sell goods to people
who don’t know they have goods to sell.
Possibly these manufacturers, like other sorts
of business people, would be preparing more
actively for the future if they knew what
that future held in the way of taxation.
Three months and a fortnight of the finan-
cial year have gone, and there is not a man
in Australia with income tax to pay who
knows how much will be demanded from
him before June 30.
The Broken Hill Mines.
The position at Broken Hill is becoming
more difficult, and the outlook is so uncer-
tain that, rather than make any new con-
tract with the local unions, the handful of
mines that are still working preferred to
carry on under existing conditions until the
end of the year. Lead was worth in London
only £l6 ss. last week, which is the lowest
since the slump of 1921, and is within a few
shillings of the pre-war price; the lowest in
1913 was £l5 7s. 6d. Zinc has behaved even
worse; it has reached £l4 13s. 6d., and that
is lower than at any previous time since
1885. Silver at a shade under Is. 4id. has
left all previous low records so far behind
that they are out of sight. As late even as
1929 the average prices were: Lead, £23
4s. lid.; zinc, £24 17s. Bd.; silver, 2s. 2Jd.
The statistical position of lead is thoroughly
bad —production appears to have largely ex-
ceeded consumption for many years—but
there is nothing in the zinc figures to account
for present prices. Statistics of reputed
consumption of this metal have never, how-
ever, been trustworthy. For silver there
seems to be no hope. The principal causes
of the smash there are (1) the change in
the Indian currency, due to the report of
the Commission of 1926; and (2) the chaos
in China, the one remaining great user of
the metal in currency. The price has steadily
languished since 1925, when it averaged
2s. 10id.
It was something of a tragedy when the
other day the Broken Hill Prop, came into
the local Warden’s Court and asked for sus-
pension of labor conditions on its leases —an
application which the Warden decided to
recommend. The place of the Big Mine on
the field has been taken by the Big Three —
B. 11. North, B. H. South and Zinc Corpora-
tion—which are the holders of the shares in
the co. formed, with a capital of three-
quarters of a million, to provide and operate
a central power plant: North takes 9-25ths
and the others each 8-25ths. Construction
work is making good progress: recent inter-
esting items in connection with it were the
testing of one of the big oil tanks, to hold
1,500,000 gallons, and the laying of pipes for
compressed air, which will also be laid on
from this central station.
Profits and Misrepresentations.
Accountants and others whose job it is to
put cos.’ affairs before the public are a
good deal responsible for the ridiculous mis-
takes which outsiders make about those cos.
Lately, for example, we have been told from
a hundred platforms and soap-boxes—especi-
ally in N. S. Wales—about colossal profits.
In a few cases figures have been quoted,
and generally it has been clear that what
many of these critics thought were profits
were, in fact, what some accountants and
others foolishly call “gross profits”—that is,
revenue before deducting working expenses.
It is a silly and misleading thing to call
what would be profit only if it didn’t cost
anything to earn it.
Accountants must realise that balance-
sheets, especially of public cos., are read
nowadays not only by people financially inter-
ested, but also by people, often very ill-
informed, who search with the object of
finding something out of which political
capital can be made. The documents should
therefore be drawn up in such a way as to
give the ill-informed the smallest possible
chance of misreading them and subsequently
misrepresenting the results.
Tables showing profits over a number of
years are frequently misleading, though here
the fault is not generally the accountant’s.
Obviously profit must always be considered
in relation to capital employed in producing
it. Therefore the statement of a growing
profit without reference to the growing
capital required to produce it gives a very
misleading suggestion of the facts; and in
some recent political discussions entirely
wrong conclusions have been based on the
misleading suggestion.
Australian Goods in Asia.
“Another Australian” (Singanore).: I
tried to buy a tin of biscuits and a tin of
fruit, asking for brands which are well
known in Australia. There are miles of shops
in Singapore, and more than half of them
sell all classes of provisions. I spent two
hours, and could not find what I wanted.
The experience set me studying the Straits
Settlement statistics relative to imports of
articles which I know are produced in Aus-
tralia. I have selected 1928, as being an
average year.
Imports for 1928 through the Singapore Customs.
Total Australia’s
Imports. Share.
Household soap, cwt. . . . . 150,000 27,000
Toilet soap, lb. . . . . . . 666,000 3,600
Essential oils, gals.* . . . . 7,600 990
Disinfectant, gals. .. . . 131,000 900
Biscuits, Cwt. . . . . . . 19,200 1,200
Confectionery, lb. ~ . . 1,490,000 58,000
Jams and jellies, cwt. .. .. 4,400 760
Canned fruit, cwt. .. .. 7,580 140
Canned meat, cwt. . . . . 8,120 880
Beef extracts, cwt. .. . . 3,200 Nil
Ale and beer, gals. . . . . 857,000 450
Wines, gals.' 101,000 176
Brandy, gals. .. . . .. 358,000 Nil
The same proportions prevail more or less
throughout “the East.” I know of cases
where cheaper Australian goods are beaten
by dearer imports (generally from the U.S.A.)
with publicity behind them. Australia’s
competitors do not wait for their Govern-
ments to do something for them. They do
things for themselves.
I lately read that a Minister proposes to
give Government officials, selected in some
manner not disclosed, “three months’ in-
tensive training in the export trade”
and then ship them to Asia as com-
mercial agents. The pay suggested is
£5OO p.a. That salary would just
about keep a good senior clerk. This
notion of strewing Australian civil servants
about Asia is preposterous. But if 10 or
12 Australian exporters each put up £5OO
and opened up a campaign here —sharing the
expense of keeping their goods before the
public and having a sales organisation to
secure orders—they would get their money
back tenfold.
France and the Wool Trade.
Although France has paid top prices for
some lots at the current wool sales, there
has been a slackening in its buyers’ energies,
and. generally they seem to take a less cheer-
ful view of their country’s purchasing capa-
city than, fortunately for us, they have had
of recent years. France has been the one
great European country without an unem-
ployment problem; but recent visitors have
found the substantial beginnings of one. For
this chiefly the great shrinkage in the tourist
traffic is held responsible. In particular
the Americans have ceased to flock to Paris
in tens of thousands; they are more inter-
ested now in Germany, and Berlin has be-
come their favorite Continental city.
Russian Wool.
Wool is reported to bulk large in the Red
Republic’s five years’ programme of intensive
development, but it is unlikely that .the
Soviet will have the success with wool dump-
ing which has attended its initial efforts
with wheat. Russia was a wheat-producer
on the grand scale long before the war.
Though it has vast flocks of sheep, so-called,
these have played no part at all in the
markets of the world, save where rubbish
is required for such materials as coarse
feltings. For superior qualities Russia has
always had to go elsewhere.
The Communist Government has acquired
a few thousand Australian sheep of the
merino type in the last few years, but this
market has now been barred to it. That it
should imagine that within five years it will
have flocks to compare in quality with those
of Australia and South Africa is fantastic.
South Africa, with climatic conditions
resembling those of Australia, has been 50
years building up its flocks to the present
standard, and has been helped to that by
the pick of Australian stud flocks and by
the advice of Australian experts. Not only
are Russian climatic conditions against
the development of the type of wool the
Soviet desires to establish, but the material
on which to build up is not available.
Is the Capitalist a Curse?
“Whitehall”: Australia is enjoying—or
otherwise —the best opportunity it has had
since the bank smashes of the ’nineties to
test the value of the Marxian theory that
“Capitalism is the enemy.” I suggest that
the trouble with the world at present is
that it is short of capitalists.
The slump is being felt in most other
countries, and particularly in Britain.
Until the eighteen-eighties Britain was
a great place for people of all classes.
It was teeming with capitalists, and there
were few unemployed. British prestige was
high; the Englishman walked the earth a
king among men—chiefly because he was
rich. Then Protection began to create capi-
talists in other countries. Britain’s markets
for cottons, woollens, machinery, etc., started
to go. After the war they went at an appall-
ing rate, with the appearance of India,
China and Japan, as well as the U.S.A. and
many Continental countries, as competitors.
The production of cotton goods—once a
British monopoly—has since 1914 doubled
in India, trebled in China and quadrupled
in Japan.
Australia would still be prosperous, in
spite of its eleven hundred millions of debt,
if there were the same number of capitalists
as before in overseas countries to spend
money on its products. Because there are
not, wool averaged a trifle over Bd. a pound
in Sydney recently, as against lOd. in low-
wage 1914, and the one-time wool, wheat and
other kings have no money to spare for the
luxuries which provide such a large pro-
portion of employment, one way and another.
A country which is short of capitalists is -
hit hard from every angle. Since Australia
became leds capitalistic it has attracted
fewer and fewer immigrants (48,934 in ’27,
26,234 in ’2B, 17,499 in ’29), until this
year, when there is already a heavy excess of
departures over arrivals. Nations without
capitalists also export their best workers.
Ireland did it for centuries, and Britain is
now following suit. The U.S.A. Federal
authorities decided recently to raise the
quota for selected British workers from less
than 35,000 to more than 65,000. The reason
was that the American iron, steel, textile
and ship-building industries were in need of
highly skilled men. The effect was soon
felt in the U.K. In the words of the “Daily
Mail” (London) :
In many shops and yards it has been found that
only a portion of the required skilled labor is avail-
able because American agents in quest of skilled
British labor have secured the best workers at
attractive wages, leaving only the least efficient types.
The idea that the capitalist is a curse is
based on the theory that a wealthy man sel-
fishly spends all, or most of, his money on
himself. H'e couldn’t if he tried, having only
one body to clothe and one stomach to fill.
And the man who hoards money loses the
use of it.
How British railways are suffering from
tourist-car competition can be pretty well
judged from the report of a just-returned
Australian who says that he “did” Britain
from Land’s End to London, and from
London to Inverness, and never once got in
a train. Luxurious coaches run from Lon-
don to Liverpool in a day.
“Te Anau”: European agents who plan
to establish eau-de-Cologne and other scent
factories here should be told of the aromatic
oils that flourish within coo-ee of all our
capitals. N. S. Wales alone has 600 sorts
of scented tea-trees, and dozens of eucalypts
capable of producing delicate perfumes. Aus-
tralia could easily become a self-scented
nation.
* * *
The co. which distils industrial alcohol
from sugar by-products at Sarina, near
Mackay, and in other Queensland sugar
townships reports increasing sales for its
product blended with petrol. The Queens-
land Government, now running many motor-
rail services, has decided to use the accepted
50-50 mixture, while Victoria and N.S.W.
are considering following suit for their
motor-trains. Both in America and Queens-
land it has been found that the mixture,
while giving equal results, shows less car-
bonisation of cylinders than petrol straight.
* *
“0.0. K.” : “ABC” (B. 17/9/’3O) is wrong
in saying our woods are not suitable for
joinery. North Coast (N.S.W.) softwoods
are being used extensively for mouldings and
joinery; imported softwoods stand a big
chance of being run off the market by sassa-
fras, Richmond River pine and silky-oak.
Sassafras has very little shrinkage and is ex-
cellent for bench work; it is also a quick
drier. Silky-oak can be had for about the
same price as oregon, and for interior work I
know no imported wood its equal.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Federal action is threatened
against traders who increase the price of
an article inordinately and blame it on the
sales tax. The average buyer has neither
time nor inclination to work out the correct
percentage of the tax, and is being impu-
dently fleeced. Take my own experience. I
have been buying toothpaste and shaving
soap at the same shop for many months. The
toothpaste cost Is. before the sales tax came
in and the soap Is. 6d.; now the respective
prices are Is. 3d. and Is. 9d.
* * * *
Reviewing the wool situation in its annual
report, the Queensland Land Administra-
tion Board estimates the present cost of
production in the State at from 9d. to Is.
per pound, exclusive of interest and taxation.
Queensland growers are carrying overdrafts
contracted during the drought; in fact,
heavy costs, low prices and bank advances
are all coming home to roost together. The
cost of running an average C.Q. grazing pro-
perty has doubled in 15 years, and the
average mortgage amounts to 30s. per sheep.
The only way out, in the board’s opinion,
is an all-round reduction of costs. For one
thing, there will have to be a review of
sheep-holding rents.
* * * *
“Jack Point”: “Macflecknoe’s” ideas (B.
l/10/’3O) about distributing cos. and “legis-
lative control” (by which I suppose he
means boards composed of friends of poli-
ticians) leave me cold. Within the
next few months thousands of cases of
peaches will be sold in Brisbane and Sydney
at little or no profit for the grower. Yet
there are thousands of people out back who
would willingly pay a decent price for that
fruit. Railway freight rates are low, and
fresh fruit gets quick dispatch. If an
orchardist at, say, Stanthorpe offered
peaches to those western people at a reason-
able price, he would find any number pre-
pared to take two or more cases for
cash with order, and repeat the performance
any time he had something decent to offer.
There would be extra work involved
in consigning a number of little lots instead
of one big lot; but isn’t it worth a trial?
As to the way of getting in touch with con-
sumers—advertise.
* * * *
“F. Book” : Touching that table of costs
showing what interests participate in the
£37 6s. Bd. a ton paid wholesale for Aus-
tralian sugar (B. 3/9/’3O). The item
“refining and marketing costs, £lO, 10s. Sd., - ’
includes an adjustment for the rebates made
to jam and other manufacturers in respect
of fruit processed for home consumption and
the sugar content of goods exported. Manu-
facturers for the home market get a special
discount of £6 ss. Id. a ton; where the pro-
duct is exported the rebate is increased to
£26 a ton of the sugar content, thus bringing
the price down to world’s parity. The fee
paid by the Queensland Government under
its refining contract with C.S.R. is £1 13s.
7d. a ton. Few cos. in the world do it for
less.
s;s * * *
“Si Anu”: Numerous inquiries in The
Bulletin’s Service Department about the
chances of employment in Malaya prompt
me to give a picture of the present position.
The slump in rubber has thrown hundreds
of planters out of work. Companies have
been severely criticised for giving their ex-
employees money in lieu of passages to their
home country, usually England or Australia.
It is pointed out that, though those coun-
tries have unemployed problems of their
own, a white man may find work there with-
out loss of dignity, whereas in Malaya he
must either live according to conventional
standards or sink into the gutter, since there
is no form of manual labor open to him
where he would not be in competition with
coolies. The minimum on which a white
bachelor can live on the European level is
£7 a week. There are a few ex-planters
working in Singapore as overseers of Tamil
labor, but their lot is not to be envied. The
pay is seven shillings a day.
$
The Australian is credited with being the
greatest tea-drinker in the world; and over-
seas crooks are trying to take advantage of
his weakness fhr the beverage. A ,shipment
labelled, appropriately enough, “Lie” tea
was grabbed by the Health Department in
Brisbane. Analysis showed that the stuff
was made by rolling magnetic iron oxide—
otherwise “black sand”—with tea-dust swept
from the packing floors. To get the “leaf”
form, a dose of starch was added.
$ t? t- *
In spite of the hard times —or, perhaps,
because of them —there is a brisk turnover in
Queensland pastoral properties. Last month
saw half a dozen big; holdings change hands,
and at very fair prices, too. There was a
time when the ownership of Queensland
sheep stations lay largely in the hands of
families like the Fairbairns, Wienholts,
Murphys and Govetts, to name only a few.
Then came the era of the banks and the
pastoral cos. Now the private owner seems
to be coming into his own again, though
mostly he tacks a “co.” on to his name or
that of the missus.
:!= $ * *
Queensland’s Prickly-pear Commission is
so satisfied with the work done by cacto-
blastus that it has stopped all poisoning of
pear with arsenical and similar prepara-
tions in areas where the all-devouring grub
is on the job. The caterpillar is showing
itself as capable of coping with thickly-
massed and hardened pear as with young
shoots. The focal centres of pear develop-
ment are the large areas of thick scrub,
which are quite inaccessible to mechanical
means of destruction; from these the open
areas are constantly being re-infected. The
cutter and poisoner can deal more or less
adequately with the curse in the open. In
the scrubs they are helpless, and that is
whei’e the special merit of cactoblastus comes
in.
* * * *
In the matter of glandular therapy Aus-
tralia is well to the fore. A co. with head-
quarters at 65 Macquarie-street, Sydney, is
specialising in the making of medicinal pre-
parations from animal glands—liver, stom-
achic tissue, thyroid, ovary, pituitary and
suprarenal. The glands are from cattle,
sheep and hogs, certified healthy by Govern-
ment inspectors at Australian abattoirs and
freezing works, and are treated by processes
which have been developed by the co.’s staff
chemists, in collaboration with pathological
and Bio-chemical advisers. The co. proposes
to carry its marketing into foreign countries
as well as Australia, especially as its new
processes admit of prices being reduced.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock ?oZ-’nnn
Preference Shares Hit’ll
Long Term Mortgage Shares ..
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,5J1
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS *SS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances 1
Marine Risks :
(effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anil Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
fdg
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
***■#•
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
(The Brisbane Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 8299.1.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S'.
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europ<
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian am’
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London.
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney ;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HAWAI
TIHIIIS
SIUNNIEIR
Hawaii. .Waikiki Beach, .picturesque
people .. festivals .. sunshine and palms
. . .Queen Island of the South Seas,
Hawaii draws visitors from every land.
non cq|\
r
Z
®vS£l3
If
r^W.
rr,
NIAGARA
AORANGI
m
m
if
r
Canadian Australasian
excursions
Hawaii, Via *44ut Zealand and Suva.
Book with Union Steam Ship Company,
Sydney—Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Sailing Nov. 13, Dec. 11, Jan. 8, Feb. 5.
%
i^ss
BURNS PHILP TOURS
¥1
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.Y. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
% £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and. Booksellers.
BURNS, PHILP &»C?.L T . D
7 BRIDGE: ST, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
fdgfd
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St,, Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
©
ap
ail
MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS!
QUEENSLAND
IS CALLING
■"THE great northern State beckons to your product these
difficult times, tor Queensland is the bright spot in the
Commonwealth just now. If you would exploit the splendid
market offered by the Brisbane metropolitan area you must
advertise in
THE SUNDAY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT WEEKLY.
This - journal of character and distinction goes into the homes
of the people at a time when they have leisure to read, and
circulates mainly in the metropolitan area. It is read by a
majority of the readers of the several dailies published during
the week in Brisbane, and is companion journal to
THE DAILY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST NEWSPAPER.
Rate cards and particulars from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane; and
NS W. BRANCH: 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
f Ceramic . . 18,500 tons, Oct. 18
*Ascanius . . 11,000 ~ Nov. 25
sThemistocles 11,500 ~ Dec. 3
*Ulysses . . 15,000 „ Jan. 19, ’3l
*First class only.
fCabin class. tFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH AND LONDON,
VIA SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parkei LiE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Ooillns Street. Melbourne: Briua'e Street, Sydney.
Use Cuticura Ointment
for all skin troubles
Red, rough skin, sore, itching, burning
feet, chafings, chappings, rashes, irrita-
tions, cuts or burns are quickly relieved
and healed by applications of Cuticura
Ointment. No household should be
without it.
Ointment Is. and 2s. Soap Is. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
gPjT* Ctiticnra Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
gdfg
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
ON sale AT “The Australasian”
ALL
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians appreci-
EACH WEEK, ate, and their friends overseas, too!


dfgfdg
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Speeial” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
Now for a
day of
uninterrupted
leasurc
WM-
P
X
X
;\
W
OL
W/
a*
s
m
to
m
THIS happy family enjoys
motoring holidays. They
will enjoy this one because,
amongst other things, they,
have taken the easy pre-
caution to see that their
tyres are properly inflated.
Take a minute or two be-
. fore a holiday outing or
business trip by motor, and
regularly at least once a
week, to see that your tyres
are properly inflated.
Use a Schrader Tyre Gauge
to test the pressure in your
tyres. It is rugged, inex-
pensive, easy to use.
Your tyre supplier will tell
you the correct pressure for
your tyres, and will furnish
you with aGenuineSchrader
Tyre Gauge.
Be sure it’s a SCHRADER
Look for the Name
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges 2
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFJB,
2 HUNTER STREET.
RURAL
fdgdfgfdg
BANK
(Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.)
Head Office, 48-50 Martin Place, Sydney.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
opened for Individuals, Firms, Companies and Institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS
accepted at the following rates: —
£5l per cent, per annum for 24 months
yy
yy
yy
No limit to amount. Interest commences from date of deposit.
192 BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE STATE.
n
2**
«
1
*
1
S 3
ptr.
H
n
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30/-
Ladies’ Pen
Lavender
22/6
Black and
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30 /•
There s a
‘Fyne'Poynt ’
Pencil to
match any
‘Swan Pen ’
FOR
‘Swan*
pens
& ALL
PENS
<***%&»
THERE IS A ‘SWAN’
WHICH WILL MEET
THE MOST EXACTING
TASTE WHETHER IT
BE FOR DELICATE
TINTS OR GLOWING
COLOURS.
COLOURED “ SWANS ” FROM 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS ’ FROM 17/6
Black or Motlled).
’ . AN
r f
PEN
'‘Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/•
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot;
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
colourful that charm the eye
SHADOW SHOWS.
Manslaughter,” the new Paramount
thriller at Sydney State Theatre, features
a number of types that have appeared in
previous American society talkies. The poor
little rich girl, Lydia Thorne, for example,
whose life is such a riot of profusion that
she is distracted by the problem of which
car to use and is harassed by boredom. New
gi Gund is broken in one direction, however;
the spoiled maiden goes to gaol. While road-
hoggmg at 60 m.p.h. she collides with a
traffic cop (the accident is a miracle oi
realism) and gets 10 years for manslaughter.
Lhe gaol scenes are done with harrowing
attention to detail. Yon see her arriving at
the prison with a, warder, and being handed
over to the wardresses on the female side-
. She sheds her beautiful clothes, is numbered
disinfected, prison-garbed, and herded wit!
criminals, black and white, loony and other-
wise. _ Scrubbing floors is her job, and she
does it with her former maid, Evans. Poor
Evans is doing 15 years for helping her
lover to pinch her casual mistress’s jewels
Influence gets Lydia out after a few years,
and her triumphal home-coming casts an
interesting side-light on America’s attitude
towards crime. The hall is a mass of flower;
sent by her friends, and the District Attor-
ney proposes to her.
Claudette Colbert studiously underplay;
the part of Lydia; but then, beyond portray
ing a thoroughly poisonous young woman al
first, and an amorous one afterwards, there
is little for her to do. The photographer, b.
showing every detail of her trial and prison
life, reveals what she is feeling more poign
antly than any actress could. She has onlj
to remain stony-faced, as nearly all criminals
do in their darkest hours.
* * ¥
“Let’s Go Native” (Paramount), at Syd
ney Prince Edward, is an extravaganz;
vvith a little poor music and a lot of riel
farce. The farce is of the catastrophic kim
that always earns guffaws, and it has ;
topical flavor, being mostly about the cm
barrassments of indigence. Eugene Palletti
presents a conscientious bailiff who smashe;
most of the valuables in the flat he is dis
training on. Jack Oakie is an amiable taxi
driver with a moneyless fare —amusing]'
played by William Austin, the English
specialist in dude parts. The taxi is eventu
ally wrecked against the door of a police
station while fleeing from the police. Mosl
of the principals go to sea to avoid theii
creditors. Oakie and Austin become stewards. !
and, as such, exchange plenty of new laughs j
for old acts. The venerable one in which
the passengers throw one another’s hat;
overboard produced yells of delight on the
night this critic saw the show. After ai
hour or so of innocent fun on these lines z
millionaire turns up in a yacht, rescues thf
comedians from the tropical island on wind
they have been cast away, and makes every
body happy.
Jeannette MacDonald, the statuesqm
romantic of “The Vagabond King,” is f
soubrette on this occasion, and so is tin
naughtily beautiful Kay Francis. Skeet;
Gallagher and James Hall (who was one
Clara Bow’s leading man) also appear, tin
director’s idea having apparently been t(
exploit as many well-known names as pos
sible. The photography begins brilliantly
and ends feebly.
* * #
Such plot as Fox Movietone’s “Follies oi
1030” possesses is founded on a tiff between
Conrad (William Collier, jun.) and Marj
(Miriam Seegar). In order to placate her lu
engages .the company of which she is tin
star to give a performance at his uncle’;
preposterous country residence. Display is
the keynote—the vulgarly opulent display
of a film-maker with money to burn. Tin
dresses of the ballet girls (there are said t(
be 350 of them, and few appear in the same
expensive wisps of clothing twice) must liavi
cost a fortune by themselves. Some of tin
turns are worth going a long way to see
and particularly one by El Brendel ant
Marjorie White. The heroine is attractive
and Yola d’Avril gives a finished presentation
of the conventional French female paranoiac
who yields to frenzy on the least provocation
Altogether, a great entertainment for thost
who like film vaudeville, which the writei
doesn’t. It began its Sydney career at the
Regent.
* * *
“The White Hell of Pitz Palu,” at Mel-
bourne Capitol, is a German retort to tin
American talkie, sponsored by Universal
The White Hell is a gigantic crevasse in
a snow-covered mountain down which Dr.
Ivrafft lias lost his bride during a honey-
moon trip. Crazed, he haunts the mountain,
determined to drag its victim from it.
He is joined by another honeymoon couple
and the husband, becoming jealous, dares him
to scale the peak. Eventually all three set
off in face of an adverse weather report
The snow begins to thaw, the trio ar
trapped on a ledge on the precipice, a party
of students going to their rescue are swept
away with staggering realism, and night
descends in company with a blizzard. Even
tually two of the three are rescued by a
villageful of searchers armed with torches,
assisted by a famous flying ace who doe
amazing feats of derring-do amidst the ice
clad canyons. The survivors turn out t
be the husband and his wife, the demented
doctor having deliberately evaded rescue.
The plot is of tinsel all compact, but. it
is handled with such extraordinary restraint
and power that its basic commonplaceness
is forgotten. Although a silent film, it has.
a synchronised musical accompaniment
which gives it an air of being complete in
all essentials. One of the chief motives is
the drip-drip of a stalactite carrying a hor
rible suggestion to the mind of the doctor,
and this is woven into the score with won-
derful effectiveness. Even an halloo foi
help is rendered by an instrument, and in
stead of being funny it seems thoroughly
appropriate. The mountain, clad in coiri-
pleat ice and armed cap-a-pie with aval-
anches, is given the significance of a malig
mint deity, and the search by torchlight i;
a marvel of filmcraft. If the producers had
got hold of a theme commensurate with their
grasp of the essentials of screen drama they
would have turned out a classic.


1 00,
000
v -At Forty
the ftsht
// is hardest
90,000
So,ooo
7 0,000
The mm
for mm life
is partly won
10
6 0,000
./>. . v h
50,000
iIIIHIIII
40,000
/SSS
'Bte'op#r f f
and Steeper
slants the Line
30,000
4k*
is
20,000
10,000
TS 90 95 /00 105
25
70
10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
QYears 5
Tfxe average Life
ends at
fifty- five
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point” or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 5 0 or even later.
The life-line, too, may be ex-
tended; 5, 10— or more —-years
of life being gained by timely
attention to the symptoms of
disorder.
Start at 20 to guard against these insidious “ After-40 Aliments
that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women..
ACCORDING to averages, you and I will
die at fifty-five—or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, yre
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Average. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prpb-
ably be seventy—maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age —that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder —prostate trouble —begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 1 00— though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in too-
concentrated a form. The delicate, over-
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
HARRISONS
K:D..cV 4 BLACDEB
o PILLS
t-:H AftTHS ON'S
KIDNEY AND BL.-.uDtflL
PILLS
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly* Backache begins; pains down the groins, ,
swollen joints, ,limbs and feet; dizziness; pos-
sibly severe inflammation of the bladder and
urinary tract; rheumatism, which, in turn, may
. seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
“After-40 Disorders.”
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. ' For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for. overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your -Life! and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at aboyt 55,
there is no good reajson why you should— if
you take special precautions. * ’ '
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful ! poisonous wastes as they
are formed —by taking Harrisons Pills. It
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become : a good ten years younger as
Harrisons Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
. sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful healthy
activity, five, ten —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all High-
class prescription chemists in bottles of IS
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-, and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist,, post your order to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. ! Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISON'S PI LLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing Ache* s. Pams fc
Make You OUICKIY Young & Well Again !


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
; Phar Lap added to his reputation by his
deeds at the A.J.G. spring meeting, and
swelled H. It. Telford’s winnings by £4747 —
of course Telford, being merely the lessee,
has to share with the owner, Davies. In
the Craven Plate the great chestnut lowered
the Australian record for a mile and a
quarter to 2min. 3sec., and incidentally con-
vinced the Nightmarch party that it was
ho use keeping their horse in Australia with
Phar Lap about; Nightmarch was therefore
scratched for all Commonwealth engagements
sjind sent back to Maoriland. He had paced
it with Phar Lap for a mile, trying to break
him up, and was left standing when Pike
moved on the champion. In the Randwick
Plate the son of Night Raid —Entreaty had
only Donald and Concentrate to beat and
did it with consummate ease, Donald defeat-
ing the<.Maorilander.
Tregilla did not appear again after his
Derby win (which placed C. 0. Battye at the
head of the list of successful owners at the
meeting, his cheque amounting to £6893).
and neither did Veilmond. It is doubtful
if either is faster than Brazenface at a mile.
That Cistercian—Cool Lady gelding, going-
out at 4 to 1, won the Clibborn Stakes bril-
liantly on Saturday, beating Sargon at a
difference of 31b. and Rosendo at level
weights; Rosendo had taken the Grantham
Stakes, nine furlongs, on the Monday and
Sargon the Members’ Handicap, 10 furlongs,
on Wednesday. Reserved for the Grantham
Stakes, in which he would have met Rosendo
on the same terms, Brazenface would have
been a good thing, and nn penalised, as
Rosendo was, would have landed the Clibborn
Stakes, too; it was very bad “placing” on
the stable’s part to tackle all ages in the
Trial Stakes instead. A mile and a quarter
is a bit too far for him; anyhow he met
John Buchan at the top of the English
horse’s form, and though John failed in the
Metrop., and again in the Waverley Handi-
cap, he was a good horse at 10 furlongs on
Saturday week.
Cathmar showed that his Epsom success
was no fluke by running second to Waugoola
(10 to 1) in the Suburban Handicap and to
Hunting Cry (3 to 1) in the Final Handicap,
with 9st. 71b. in the one case and a pound
more in the other. He is no champion but
has a great heart. Waugoola seemed a few
weeks ago to have trained off; he looked
comparatively robust on Wednesday and is
useful. Hunting Cry has an excellent Maori-
land record, and it was a treat to see the way
Pike handled liim, though one of the papers
discovered a few weeks ago that Pike was
“slipping.” Rain fell most of Saturday and
made the track sodden, which was to Hunt-
ing- Cry’s liking and also to mat of Gay
Crest (10 to 1). who beat Paquito home in
the Waverley Handicap after an interesting
tussle, - to which tensity was added by an
unsuccessful protest. Gay Crest had run
well, but unluckily, in Sydney, so his triumph
was deserved.
Panola won a couple of races, at six and.
seven furlongs, for J. E. Brien. She has fur-
nished into a nice mare and is good in the
wet. The two-year-olds were an attractive
looking lot. Bassanton (St. Anton —La
Bassee), winner of the Gimcrack Stakes, is
decidedly smart, though greater interest will
be taken in the turf career of Gloriole, the
filly she beat into second place—Gloriole is
by Heroic—Gloaming’s Sister. John Brown’s
executors have a youngster of possibilities in
Lightning March (March Along—Princess
Electra), whose victorious run in the
Canonbury Stakes was impressive.
Unless times improve it is doubtful
whether the A.J.C. will be able to continue
giving £BOOO for the Derby, £6OOO for the
Metrop., £3OOO for the Epsom, and subsi-
dising the two-year-old and weight-for-age
races on so generous a scale. The committee
will probably have to consider reducing
charges of admission —to the paddock, at any
rate. Compared with the last spring round
totalisator takings fell from £276,760 to
£159,154. One way of arresting that decline
would be for the club to use the unoccupied
part of the tote buildings for straightout
and doubles totes ; until the experiment justi-
fied itself rubber-stamped tickets and black-
boards could be employed, as at Moorefield.
The racing public would appreciate these
alternatives to wagering with odds-crampers,
many of whom employ “runners” and punt
in impudent defiance' of tins committee.
* * * *
For the City Tatt’s meeting at Randwick:
Flying Handicap: Gay Ballerina; next,
Porneit.
Novice Handicap: Plakata; next, Star-
like.
City Tatt.’s Handicap : Spearman or John
Buchan; next, Gesto.
Club Welter: Spearman or Kilumirri;
next, Goshawk.
* * * *
In Melbourne, as in Sydney, punters have
had a very bad time these last few weeks,
and the opening day of the Caulfield Cup
meeting led to a further depletion of their
bank balances. There was a great reception
tor Duncan when he came out to ride
Gordon’s Leap in the Debutant Stakes a-fter
his long retirement, the result of an acci-
from which he w r as lucky to escape with
Ins life. Duncan has always been a favorite
with the Melbourne crowd, and Sydney people
who saw his bold and vigorous riding at
Randwick a year ago agreed that there was
not a better rider of lii.s weight in Australia.
J.he big Caulfield crowd made his mount
lavonte, and Gordon’s Leap was fourth into
tbe straight, but from that point C. B.
Ivellow s Heroic gelding lost ground instead
finishing sixth. Victory rested
with Starstone (Great Star—*-L)iamond
( lasp), who had an advantage of three
parts of a length over the well-backed
Middle Watch, a winner at Flemington,
La T etite being a close third.
Ihe bagmen rejoiced when Starstone’s
number went up, for lie was the rankest
outsider in the field of 20; his nominal
quotation was 33 to 1. He is owned by
L. M. I earce, and was ridden by Daniels,
lime was when no horse with Daniels in
the saddle would have been allowed to go out
at o 3 to 1 in a classic.
Amounis had six opponents in the Caulfield
.Stakes, and McShortodds expressed his
opinion of them by shouting “I’ll take five
to two.” The few admirers of Carradale
got 7to 1. Harbinger (100 to 1) was
allowed to make most of the running. He
hung on unexpectedly well when tackled
by Amounis, but with a furlong to go the
Sydney horse was out in front. Then
Jones began to drive Carradale along, and he
put in so fine a run that Bracken had to ride
Amounis hard. In the end the old horse
prevailed by half a length, with Harbinger
another three-quarters of a length away. The
race engendered doubts whether Amounis is
quite as good as he was, but Carradale is
going to be a terribly hard horse to beat in
the Melbourne Cup with Bst. 91b. That fine
mare Lineage was a close fourth; Glare and
Black Duchess did not impress.
It used to be expected of the Maribyrnong
Plate winner to capture the Caulfield
Guineas, but for some reason or other the
custom fell, into disuse. Now Green Wave
has rivalled the achievement of Heroic, Man-
acre and Rampion in consecutive years. By
Greenstead —Adjie, the little brown is no
stayer, and the stable—lie is trained by
Murrell, the former steeplechase jockey, for
C. W. Wheeler —confessed as much by leav-
ing him out of the Cups, but he proved him-
self a brilliant miler. Rigadoon was favo-
rite at 11 to 8, but fifth at the finish was
the closest he got. He should not be dis-
DISCOUNTED.
I KE: 'Guess vot I von on der last race."
ABE: “Half!”
IKE: “Half —vot you mean half?”
ABE: “Half of vot you’re going to say.”
missed from calculations for one failure, but
his showing was anything but satisfactory.
Green Wave and The Doctor’s Orders were
the leaders into the straight, and, nicely
handled by Ashley Reed, Green Wave came
away from Agar Wynne’s horse, whom he
heat by a length ; Axinus, with whom travel-
ling seems to agree, was a close third, and
Scintillation a good fourth; the time was
lmin. 41Isec. Green Wave was solid at
fours; The Doctor’s Orders was at sixes
and Axinus at sixteens.
The Toorak Handicap was rather like
the Epsom over again as far as Mollison was
concerned. He went out favorite (at 6to 4),
a smart four-year-old (Parkwood. this time)
took a lot of the go out of him by racing
alongside him in front, and then a light-
weight came along, and beat the pair. The
lightweight was The Gay Mutineer (12 to 1),
who races in J. Edmond’s colors, is trained
by D. J. Price and was ridden by Neville
Percival. A five-year-old gelding by Lucknow
—Stage Girl, he is engaged in the Caulfield
Cup with 7st. 91b. and in the Melbourne
Cup with 7st. 71b., but has never shown
much liking for a distance. Parkwood hung
on well, and must now be accounted a
miler; Mollison was two lengths away third.
They made the pace so willing that the mile
was run in lmin. 39 3-ssec.
There was no betting on the Caulfield Cup
so long as Phar Lap remained in. Telford
took him out on Monday, and that should
mean that Amounis (9st. 81b.) will start
favorite unless the going is bad. He is won-
derfully well treated compared with Second
Wind (9st. 41b.) and Soulton (Sst. 81b.),
but racegoers have learned by experience
that he'requires a firm track. On the other
hand, Cragford (Sst. 41b.) doesn’t mind
wliat the going is like. He is a weight-for-
age horse if ever there was one, and on Rose-
hill Cup and Metrop. running should win
unless the racing he has had —and of course
he has had a good deal —has knocked him
out. Lineage (Bst. 51b.), El Roy (7st. 131 b.),
The Gay Mutineer (7st. 01b.) and Quick-
firer (7st. 21b.) are possibilities; Quickfirer
won the Sydney Handicap nicely, and Purser
did that before his Caulfield Cup. To sum
up, this Page likes Cragford, Amounis and
Quickfirer in that order, or Cragford, Quick-
firer and Lineage if the going is heavy.
❖ $ sfc
“Breckfuss Crick”: The new Queensland
Racing Bill provides for the wiping out of
proprietary and unregistered meetings by the
end of 1931, while the number of horses per-
mitted to start in a race is to be limited
in accordance with the length and nature
of the course. Seven stone is to be the
minimum weight for jockeys, the idea being
to prevent undue wasting with consequent
iujury to health. Bookmakers are to be
permitted to sue, and they may be sued, but
only in respect of racecourse debts. More-
over, there is to be “an annual Government
audit of the bo'oks and accounts of all racing
clubs, and on the winding up of any non-
proprietary club surplus assets are to be
distributed amongst other racing or sporting
bodies, charitable or other public purposes,
as determined by a general meeting of mem-
bers.” The operation of the measure is
restricted to Brisbane and Ipswich.
“Eagle Farm”: Very questionable is the
clause providing that registered book-
makers making bets on racecourses shall be
capable of suing or being sued in respect of
debts contracted in such transactions. This
strikes at the very foundations of British
law on the subject, and is certain to be
strongly opposed. It certainly would go far
to abolish the curse of credit betting, but
such an enactment seems likely to lend
itself to numerous abuses, however carefully
framed and safeguarded against chicanery.
* * * «
“Fitzcray”: The bill to extend the borrow-
ing powers of the V.R.C. from £15,000 to
£lOO,OOO passed both Victorian Houses.
The money is needed for the installation of
the totalisators at Flemington, and the
enactment authorises the club to borrow
£50,000 of the sum required from the Bene-
volent Fund for Jockeys and the Accident
Insurance Fund, the club undertaking to
guarantee these against any possible loss on
the deal. The balance will be obtained from
the public.
* * *
“Dundalk”: Australian supporters of an
“open betting go,” with licensed s.-p. shops
and other trimmings, may take warning from
the Irish Free State’s experience in that
direction. Four years ago the licensing
of betting shops was sanctioned, with
the result that about the only places
in Ireland which do not run a book
are the churches. Grocers, butchers and all
manner of domestic tradesmen have added
the art of layin’ ’em to their ordinary activi-
ties, and there is hardly a housewife or
infant out of arms in the country who has
not something going for her or it “in the
next.” What the pubs, porterhouses and
shebeens are doing to paterfamilias and his
cobbers is a pity. All the Government gets
out of it is £22,000 a year, and reforms are
projected.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
Melbourne Stadium, having scrapped the
professional leg-pullers, staged the first fight
held there for months. Billy Thomas,
10.13|, was announced as welter champion
of Wales, and Jack Carroll, 10.10, as Aus-
tralian welter champion. Billy insisted on
being outed in the fourth round, being
slogged to the floor on four occasions. Much
better matching than this will be required to
rehabilitate the glove game in Melbourne.
* *•- * *
In the last wrestling match but one of the
N. season, Ivotsonaros and Coleman
went eight rounds for a draw, each man get-
ting a fall. The attendance was poor; even
Sydney Stadium habitues are full to the neck
of the alleged sport.
Footbrawl
Saturday saw the finish of the Vic. football
season, Geelong sending up its best team and
four train-loads of enthusiasts to wrest the
honors from Collingwood. The weather was
more suited to surf-bathing than ’ball, but
some 44,000 spectators cheered as the players
got to it. Play was vigorous and very fast,
with Geelong marking better and pass-
ing accurately. At the long interval they
held 46 points to Collingwood’s 25 and felt
good about it. But, on resuming, Colling-
wood staged an exact replica of their game
against Richmond, playing the ball solely,
with good marking, clean handling and swift,
straight passing. The famous machine func-
tioned perfectly, and when the quarter ended
54 points had been added to one by Geelong,
and the game was over. The seasiders fought
it out but made no headway; no team could
have overcome the Collingwood brilliance
of that third quarter. The victors took
their fourth successive premiership by 14
goals 16 behinds to Geelong’s 9 goals 16
behinds. Collins, Todd, Llewellyn and
Coglilan stood out for the losers, ana 'the
Coventrys, Beveridge, Libbis and Edmunds
for the winners, but the man most responsible
for Collingwood’s high position was laid
up with ’flu and couldn’t see his boys win.
That man is Jock McHale, who has coached
the Magpies for the last dozen seasons.
* :|s *
“Fitzcray”: The only lively aspect of the
so-called final between Collingwood and Gee-
long was the attempt of the Collingwood bar-
rackers to introduce organised “rooting” on
American lines. Collingwood attempted to
pack the new concrete stand, but Geelong,
getting in early, furnished a good contingent.
When the teams came on the field a section
of the Collingwood crowd rose to its feet
in obedience to a command from a fat
gentleman with a megaphone. Each held up
a placard bearing a letter until the name
of Collingwood was spelt out. The Geelong
section replied with an opening barrage of
orange-peel, which shook the demonstrators.
When a more intensiye fire of Clapp’s
railway sandwiches, which the Geelongites
had been unable to eat on their journey from
the Pivot, came down, reinforced by empty
bottled, the Collingwood attack withered
away.
# * * *
“Hotham”: One of the stalwarts of the
Victorian Football Association in the person
of Alfred Woodliam heard the final whistle
in Melbourne recently. Once a leading player
for North Melbourne, and later secretary
and delegate of the club for years, he was
elected a vice-president of the association on
26 consecutive occasions, preferring to remain
so when North Melbourne went over to the
Victorian League in 1925 and offered him the
position of delegate to the rival organisation.
The old association diehard was one of the
leading football legislators in Victoria, and
did not leave an enemy behind him in
either section of the national code.
* * * *
“Northcote” : After much barging and spar-
ring, the heads of the Victorian Football
Association and the junior but more popular
League have abandoned the proposed match
for charity between the premier teams of the
respective organisations. Lateness of the
season is given as an excuse, but the game
could have been played weeks back, and, to
do the association justice, it was asking for
it then.
The Ins and Outs
“Lancaster Park”: The West Indians
have signified by cable their willingness to
play a two-days’ match against a Maoriland
side at Wellington, where they break their
journey to Australia. The match should
have its uses as an indication of the visi-
tors’ form, for the Maorilanders are well up
to English county standard. One thing may
puzzle the visiting team, largely composed of
colored men, and that is that the opposition
will be entirely drawn from Europeans. It
is curious that the Maori, so supreme in
Rugby football and many other sports, has
always remained profoundly indifferent to
the summer game.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Cricket critics have long
memories on occasion. Farewelling the Aus-
tralians with honeyed words one of them
found an opening to slip some powder in
the jam, while commenting on the cap-
taincy of the side. “Woodfull will rank with
Noble and other great Australians who were
utterly incapable of Armstrong’s contemp-
tuous treatment of his opponents at the Oval
Test in 1921.” On that occasion, Warwick,
finding that he had no hope of getting Eng-
land out for an innings victory on the last
day, took off his regular bowlers and was
content to play out the rest of the tim i
any old how. His action was bitterly
resented, and the memory of it has evidently
been rankling for close on a decade.
(Continued on next page.)
This year’s N.S.W. chess championship was
a war of attrition. At the end of the general
tournament when M. E. Goldstein and G.
Koshnitsky had tied they played six games
to decide the best man. All were draws, and
the fed-up chess authorities bracketed them
equal. Koshnitsky was Queensland champion
before coming to Sydney.
* * * *
In spite of drizzling rain and sodden grass
tracks, the annual meeting of the G.P.S.
Athletic Association at Sydney Cricket
Ground was a pronounced success, though
new records were out of the question under
the conditions. Sydney High School was the
winner on points at the end of the day, this
being the school’s first victory since the
sports were inaugurated in 1895. High
School scored 85 points, King’s being
second with 70 and Scots’ a close third with
69. C. of E. Grammar topped the junior list
with 103 points. Outstanding features of
High’s win were the two sprints of R. E/
Ashbarry, who won the 100 in lOJsec. and
the 220 in 22 2-ssec.; the retention of last
year’s titles by J. Metcalfe and T. Pauling
in the high jump and shot putt respectively,
and the mile win by J. Mewton. A. J.
Murray, of Scots’, also recorded a good
double: in the quarter- and half-mile events.


Gert;.‘Vou look tired?
BERTHES., lve JUST FINISHED
An eigiHteen course?
GtERT jVou,. HTTL& G,UUTTONj.”
E>&RT •/'a G,OUF COURSEj not A
Dinner siu_y l n
The Ins and Outs
“Swan”: Though the Australian Eleven
has been scheduled to do the limerick act
in the Jack Ryder testimonial match at Mel-
bourne next month, it is probable that it
will be given an exercise gallop at Perth on
October 28. The team will have a full day
there, and the Board of Control has con-
sented to a one-day game provided manager
Kelly is willing. The Westralian Associa-
tion is taking a chance and making all pre-
parations, but one never knows with Kelly,
!K * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Frequenters of Sydney
Cricket Ground this season will find things
changed for the better. The new subway
from the Paddington end to the shilling
stand and the adjacent section of the ground
will be an immense convenience to the
public, w r hile the stands have been painted
and increased seating accommodation pro-
vided.
* * * #
“Glenelg”: A. J. Richardson, the South
Australian all-rounder, who went to England
to play League cricket for Bacup, in Lan-
cashire, a couple of seasons ago after a spell
as cricket coach in Westralia, is due in
Adelaide at the end of this month. As he
is understood to have signed up with Bacup
for another year, he will probably stay
for the Australian season only, playing with
one of the Adelaide clubs. He followed this
practice previously, playing in England dur-
tlie season there and returning to his coach-
ing job in Westralia for our summer.
* * * *
“Canny Lad” : There is quite a flavor of
old time melodrama and the recovery of the
missing will in a pleasant experience of
Archie Jackson’s when visiting his native
town of Rutherglen in Scotland. After he
had left as a child for Australia with his
people his grandfather died, bequeathing
£2OOO to the cricketer’s mother. The trustees
failed to locate the family in Australia, and
the money lias been on the ice for years.
The cricketer’s visit set inquiries in train,
and the lost heir was triumphantly located.
“Curtain and band,” with everyone happy
ever after.
H*
“Gabba”: Ron Oxenham, whose omission
from the Australian XI was deplored by
many good judges, including Jack Hobbs,
who expressed himself as flabbergasted at
the decision of the selectors, has been show-
ing deadly form with the ball in the Bris-
bane club matches. He capped other good
performances a few days ago by taking 6
for 11 for Toombul against Valley. It is
a question, however, whether he or that
sterling batsman and ’keeper Leo .O’Connor
will be seen in Sheffield cricket this season.
Both were at daggers drawn with the
Queensland Association last year, and no-
thing has been done by the latter, which was
entirely to blame, to heal the breach.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“S.T.S.”: I protest, against the bitter out-
burst of “Amateur Pro” (B. l/10/’3O) that
“Cricket followers in Australia are sick of
the labored convention that these highly-
paid and subsidised gladiators must be re-
garded as amateurs.” Our men, accepting such
profit as their skill brings them, return to
regular business life between times. The
English pro. has to be at everyone’s call,
and is usually glad of the tip which an
Australian would consider a joke or an insult.
Even England finds a way, in cricket as in
no other sport, to subsidise the indispensable
“amateur.” Notably Maclaren and Woods,
for whom managerial and secretarial jobs
were arranged by their respective counties.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: N.S.W. hard-court players
revenged the defeat of their grass-fed con-
freres in Brisbane by beating the Queens-
land mudlarks in Sydney by 31 rubbers to
2. The visitors took only one rubber in
each division, Foreman and Thomas scoring
for the men and Mrs. Dowling and Miss
Dunn for the women. L. Hancock, an 18-
year-old from Brisbane, showed promise.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : An unusual item in Jim Wil-
lard’s report on the Davis Cup tour refers
to an unexpected expense arising from the
continued wet weather. The continuous damp
made it necessary to have the racquets con-
tinually restrung, with the result that
players had exceeded their allowance by £2O
on this account. The Tennis Council has
nobly decided to part up itself, but the
matter should not be taken as a precedent.
Expenses of this kind could easily be avoided
by supplying the players with wooden rac-
quets. Ping-pong and vigoro players make
excellent play with these, and I have no
doubt Crawford and co. could do even better.
* $ * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Though it has
proved absolutely impossible for the Ameri-
can tennis authorities, after many requests
extended over some years, to send a team to
Australia, there seems to be no difficulty in
shipping one to India —for the Yank just as
long a journey. Tilden, Lott and a couple of
others are to visit the Coral Strand this
season, where they have not only been invited
to play tennis, but to shoot tigers as the
guests of one of Hind’s innumerable native
potentates. It would appear that Australia
lias not used the right bait. Certainly we
have no tigers, but writer can name several
politicians—not to be invidious —whom it is
unsafe to approach save on an elephant and
armed with a double-barrelled express.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: A departure in inter-
national tennis is the proposed visit of a
British team to India in November to play
in the All India championships at Calcutta,
after which half a dozen of the principal
Indian centres will be visited. The team is
to be managed by Wallis Myers, and will con-
sist of H. W. Austin, E. D. Andrews, J. S.
Oliff and M. D. Horn. Andrews lias repre-
sented Maoriland in the Davis Cup. In Aus-
tralia in 1926 lie reached the final of the
N.S.W. championships to be beaten by Fred
Ivalnis, but won the junior event, beating
Jack Crawford and Harry Ilopman in the
semi-final and final. Going up to Cambridge
later, lie dropped out of Australasian tennis.
The Nineteenth Hole
The N.S.W. country golf championships
held at Rose Bay saw the singles won
by John Allerton, of Wentworth Falls. He
had a hard battle with Dr. Brown, of New-
castle, who had earlier beaten the titleholder,
C. B. Smith, of Canberra. The pair tied at
the end of the 36 holes of stroke play with
cards of 158 each. They went out again for
another 9 holes, Allerton recording 36 to
his opponent’s 40. The winner, who had- a
brother well up in the competition with a
total of 160, also returned the best round,
77, and as Bogey for the Rose Bay
course is 78, and standard scratch 76, his
performance was full of merit.
* * * *
“Barwon Heads” : The Victorian Women’s
Golf Union championships ended last week,
the singles title going to Miss E. Watson,
of Warrnambool, who beat Miss B. Harper,
of Woodend, 5 and 3. Yarra Yarra course
w T as dry and fiery, and on this account the
golf shown was of high quality, though control
was helped by the thick growth on the fair-
ways. Both players have good performances
to their credit. The winner has been runner-
up for the title on three previous occasions,
while the runner-up on this occasion has
won the Victorian girls championship this
year and last.
* * *
The Golf Council has decided to hold the
Australian open, amateur and professional
championships for 1931 in Sydney on a date
to be determined. The course will be Ken-
sington. The limit handicap for amateurs in
the open is to be one, or as may be decided
by the Royal Australian, which will look
after the local rules. Professional entries
must be approved by the Professionals’ Asso-
ciation. There is a touch of unconscious
humor in the statement that, whereas in the
amateur and professional championships the
names will be drawn from the one hat prior
to each contest, the draw for the open will
be made from two cadies, one for the lily-
whites and the other for the takers of hire.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The amateur-status
question has given as much trouble to golfers
as to followers of other sports. The Tin
Gods of Australian golf have lately decided
that there is nothing to prevent a profes-
sional turning amateur from becoming a
club member and competing in club events,
but that he cannot compete in championship
and open events as an amateur until he
lias purged himself by three years’ absten-
tion from professional practices. This fol-
lows the St. Andrews ruling, but that hoary
body goes further. St. A. extends mercy
to the sinner only once. If he backslides
to the paid game again the gates are closed
for ever and a day. Furthermore, if he lias
been a pro. for five years before applying
for the whitewash brush he may juist as
weel save his breath to cool his ain parritch.
:!: * * *
“Divot Digger”: The last traces of the
N.S.W. golf war between the two big metro-
politan clubs and those embodied in the
Country and Suburban Association vanished
last week when a general meeting of the
latter ratified the new constitution founding a
State Golf Council. It now remains to
he seen whether the new scheme will operate
as smoothly as supposed by its supporters.
Though C. and S. have representation on the
council the big clubs still hold the stronger
voting power.
“Oakleigh”: The Australian golf authori-
ties are much perturbed by. a serpent which
is making its appearance in the local golf
Eden, the same being the contraption known
as the cushion-necked, steel-shafted club.
Some time ago, when St. Andrews wrote
announcing that it had at last decided to
recognise steel-shafted clubs, it enclosed a
list of the clubs .approved of. It has just
been discovered by the local rulers that the
cushion-necked variety is not on the list, and
fear of what the High Gods in Scotland
may say when they hear of the Australian
laxity is profound. However, St. Andrews
lias been written to for a ruling on the im-
portant question; but wliat is to be (lone
in the meantime by owners of the dubious
implements has not been made the subject
of a pronunciamento.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: One of those unpleasant
accidents which occasionally crop up in
golf was heard of in a Chicago course the
other day, when one Marie Finn sued a Mrs.
Barber for smacking her in the face with a
brassie. Mrs. B. explained that she had
no idea the smitten one was near her, for
she was playing a shot through the green and,
obedient to the golden rule, of golf, was
keeping her head well down to the end of the
swing. The Judge, who was probably a
golfer himself, found that the matron was
in no way to blame, the other party having
contributed to her own injury by occupying
a position in which no true golfer should be.
* * *
“Baffy” : That flourishing N.S.W. organi-
sation the Professional Golfers’ Association
is strongly impregnated with Clarks. After
Carnegie Clark, one of the founders, we have
W. J. Clark and Hastings Clark, the latter
a son of Carnegie. The latest to go on
the strength is another of the family, Keith
Clark, who, only 17 years of age,
gives every promise of being a gowfer of
note, like his daddy before him. The youth
will probably be blooded in big golf in the
coming State championships at Bose Bay.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: Australia’s old acquaint-
ance Captain Waite, who won the first
Australian Grand Prix road race two years
ago on Phillip Island (Vic.), has since cut
a dash in Europe as a driver of the little
Austins he particularly affects. At Brook-
lands ho won a 12-mile annual known as
“Round the Mountain,” the run being over
sections of the track, and the grounds as well,
and including a stiff climb. Waite’s best feat
to date is knocking 84 miles in the hour
out of an ordinary touring Austin Seven.
* * * *
“Formula” : N. S. Wales has seen little of
motor-car track racing since the Maroubra
speedway was closed down some years ago,
so an all-car meeting on the Penrith track
drew a good attendance. The big event was
a three-mile championship spin for cars
under ISOOc.c. There were six starters, and
East won well in his 1496c.c. Grand Prix
Bugatti. After a preliminary elimination
test over a mile, the half-dozen left In were
sent off with a flying start. East won by
100 yards in 2min. 33sec., an average of
70.58 m.p.li. An extra thrill was afforded
by a complete capsize of the 748c.c. Brook-
lands Austin, driven by Lord. There
was some discussion over the minor placings,
the N.S.W. Light Car Club finally placing
Lord second and Aggitt, driving a 1496c.c.
Bugatti, third.
* =!s * *
“Methuselah”: The English press has been
raking up some 30-year-old forecasts of the
future of the motor. One journal of that
day warned its public, after stating that
it would not be surprised in years to come
to find motors used almost as much as
horses, to beware of the dangers of a
machine “which is not to be handled on
casual acquaintance.” The streets are full.of
motorists who entertain just the opposite
impression. Perhaps the gem is the account
of the fining of Lord Carnarvon —later of
Tutankhamen fame —for dangerous speeding.
The police gave evidence that clouds of dust
arose as his car “whizzed by,” while care-
ful measurements showed that his Ludship
was travelling at the horrific rate of 24
m.p.h.! No wonder the peer got it in the
neck when the time came for the fining.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The 22nd Warrnambool-Mel-
bourne road race drew a record entry, 214
facing the starter. The winner turned up
in the Victorian professional P. Egan,' who
started off the 52-minute mark. Egan
finished a length and a half in front of South
Australian A. S. Bailey (34min.), and took
9hr. 3min. for the journey. The professional
championship of Australasia was also in-
cluded in the race, the title going to the
man establishing fastest time off scratch.
R. W. Lamb, making his first appear-
ance in the classic, won with Bhr. 20min.
Isec., beating his fellow-Victorian Hubert
Opperman, holder of the title, by a length
over the gruelling run of 165 miles. The
race was under the wing of Dunlop-Perdriau,
and the first three to finish used Dunlop
tyres. The amateur event, held conjointly
from Warrnambool to Colac, over 100 miles,
went to A. D. Hood, of Richmond, who won
off the 6min. mark in 4hr. 55min. 51sec.
Here again the first three to finish used
Dunlop tyres, Hood also taking the cham-
pionship title for fastest time.
* * * *
“Wheel”: The road race to Melbourne
over a course of 700 miles is to start from
Sydney on October 20. Like the Dunlop
Grand Prix of ’2B, the first of the kind to be
held in Australia, the big race will be run
under the scratch system. Prizes are liberal
and numerous, and will include the Dunlop
Gup, which will go with the Grand Prix to
the outright winner.
Miscellaneous
“The Mat” : The Australian bowling team
which has been touring Britain and Canada
cast up again in Sydney last week without
having lost any members through casualties
of any kind. The side had a much better
spin than was hoped for, winning 44
games out of 59, though it flopped in _ the
British tests. Socially all had a royal time,
being invited to all sorts of functions, includ-
ing “GO civic receptions.” That certainly
has the true ring of hospitality about it.
Shixty shiv-hic reshepshuns! No wonder
the only complaint is that the programme
was “rather too strenuous.”
v ** * *
“Mainsheet” : The declaration of 80-years-
old Thomas Lipton that he will have one
more shy at regaining the America’s Cup is
a fine refusal to admit defeat. It hardly
seems worth while, however, for a challenger
which is built to stand the stress of the
Atlantic crossing will never have much hope
against the stay-at-home racing machines. The
effect of the trans-Atlantic journey is \vell
illustrated in the experience of the Vigilant,
winner of the cup in 1898. She crossed to
England the following year and could only
win three times out of 15 starts. Many
other American yachts have had the same
experience in European waters, so there
does not seem much in the theory that
American designers are in a class by them-
selves.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : The recent decision of the
Victorian Athletic Association to decline a
visit from a South African side was a serious
error of judgment. The Afrikanders have a
world-wide reputation on the tracks, and have
always been prominent in Britain 'and at
the Olympiads. What a draw they would
have been is evidenced by the comments of
some of the members of the Australian team
recently in Canada. They outsliadowed all
the other Dominion teams at the Empiad in
public interest, and their ranks included
several performers in the first flight, especi-
ally in the sprinting and hurdling events, in
which they have excelled for years.
* * * *
“Baccalareus” : There can be no doubt that
the latter-day efflorescence of feminism
in all walks of life can be very disturbing
to those, like myself, of cloistered mind.
I noted with dismay in the cables the other
morning that three young females in Eng-
land had established new world’s running
records. One had fled—if that is the cor-
rect word —over 220 yards in 25 l-ssec.,
another had run 880 yards in 2min. 18
l-ssec., while yet a third had walked a mile
in Bmin. 14 2-ssee., their names being Hal-
stead, Lunn and Mason respectively. The
point I want to make is this: What earthly
chance has a confirmed bachelor like myself
if young Atlantas of this type set out in
pursuit of a husband?
* * * *
“Ride Off” : The Ashton brothers returned
to N. S. Wales full of memories of a unique
tour. The main object of the trip was to
compare Australian polo with that overseas,
and the results were very satisfactory. In
England the side won 15 out of 21
matches and in America 3 out of .5,
a record to be proud of. Costs of
the tour were more than borne by the
sale of the Ashton ponies in America, where
they were snapped up at auction in a few
minutes, the 25 realising £16,000. The
brethren were enthusiastic, as well they
might be, over the American demand for the
Australian pony, which is regarded as the
equal, at least, of the best bred elsewhere.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Like a lot of others the
N.S.W. swimming authorities find them-
selves forced to balance the budget. Things
might be worse, for, though £lO5 was lost
on the season, a credit of £335 remained, the
heaviest debit being the £ll4 spent on the
State representatives at Australian champion-
ship meetings in other States. The feud
with the women swimmers seems to have been
patched up, for though the State association
will remain in full control generally, domes-
tic management is to remain in the hands
of the gentler sex, which last year showed
a marked tendency to start a hullabaloo
when the misguided association attempted
to dictate to it.
$ ❖ $ ❖
“Blade”; The N.S.W, rowing season
opens officially in Sydney on Saturday,
though there has been a great deal of winter
rowing which has helped to keep the crews
fit. The famous Mosman crew, State and
Australian champions and winners of many
other great rowing events in N.S.W. and
Victoria, has ceased to exist, its members
having given up the game. However, the
club is boating a new eight which it hopes
will revive the glories of its predecessor.
With no King’s Cup race next year chief
interest outside the various State champion-
ships will centre in the Grand Challenge
Cup at Henley-on-Yarra, in which crews
from most of the States will be seen if all
goes well.


'
■
ran
Sh 3
.
: :
■
■
u
■lll
a
■
wm
ms
mmms Mf
mil
wM IllH
wsmmm.§
m
11
HH
:,1
m
H
H
1
m
;
11
m
v:
u
■1
■
v.
M
u
thy
WHAT THE LABOR
GOVERNMENT DID
Legislation:
Widows 5 Pensions.
Family Endowment.
Workers’ Compensation.
44-hour Week.
Established the Farmers’ Conference,
known as the Bathurst Conference.
The Marketing Act.
Wrote down the Indebtedness of
Crown Land and Soldier Settlers.
UNEMPLOYMENT:
Reduced Unemployment to the record
minimum of 5000 Unemployed.
BALANCED BUDGETS:
Despite a drop of lOd. per lb. in the
price of wool, Labor balanced the
Budget and had a surplus of
£ 1,300,000. The greatest surplus
since Federation.
What Bavin Govt. Did
Legislation:
Repealed 44-hour Week.
Reduced Widows’ Pensions.
Reduced Family Endowment.
Reduced Wages by Act of Parliament.
Amended the Marketing Act to make
it unworkable.
Reduced Taxation on Companies and
Wealthy Taxpayers and increased
the burden on the Lower Incomes.
Gave Absentee Companies an exten-
sion of their leases for a further
40 years at peppercorn rentals.
UNEMPLOYMENT:
Increased the number of Unemployed
to the record figure of 100,000.
Unbalanced Budgets:
Had deficits in each of its three years,
the last one amounting to
£4,500,000. The biggest in the
history of New South Wales.
THE LABOR
GOVERNMENT WILL
Find Employment for the Workless.
Find the money to complete Public
Works in which millions are lying
idle.
Construct economic developmental
highways in place of extravagant
speedways.
Divide up the big estates in safe dis-
tricts around landlocked towns.
Guarantee to wheat-farmers a stabil-
ised market over a period of years.
Restore the Arbitration Court to enable
it to deal with wage questions.
Give sympathetic assistance to Re-
turned Soldier Settlers.
Legislate in the interests of Dairy-
farmers.
Secure the genuine Home purchaser
against foreclosure.
The Result of Bavin Government Legislation
The result of three years of Nation-
alist-Country party government is a
record crop of bankruptcies and
business failures. There are more
empty shops and offices in Sydney
and more untenanted houses in the
suburbs than were ever known be-
fore. Bank deposits have decreased.
Real estate values have depreciated.
The investing public has lost con-
fidence in securities. Interest rates
have risen. Construction work is
dead. Business is stagnant. Many
public companies have reduced their
dividends. Many others have crashed.
Stock and share prices have col-
lapsed on ’Change. More men are
carrying their swags through the
country. More men and women are
destitute in our cities than ever before.
THE RESULT OF LABOR LEGISLATION
The Official Year Book of New
South Wales (1928-29) says that,
during the regime of Labor the
factory returns showed appreciable
expansion. . . . Constructional work
in the building trade increased. . . .
Deposits in savings banks showed
large increases.... Unemployment
diminished. .. . Industrial disputes
were of small extent. .. . Interest
rates fell. . . . There were continued
increases in the profits of 'public
companies. .. . Stocks and Shares
rose in price. . . . Bank deposits in-
creased .... Confidence was main-
tained on the part of the investing
public. There was a large supply
of money for investment at reduced
rates.
Authorised by JAS. J. GRAVES, Campaign Director N .S.WA.L.P., Trades Hall, Sydney.


.V #!.
/ -.'V
8 llliii
t.'JUj m txßrrST. mm* i 1
mm I I
mm '
! ;
\A * .
U
!
mm
MB
i -rt..s
II
*1
■
/.
"Wil*
: :
HKj
mm
m
m
■
■
■;
9
m
s>a
Tl.
1
■
■ " 1
i
Hi
■
EH
a
&
; • ■ .’•:
■
■
■
K
■
mm
11
r
:; :
M
mm
HH
Hi
m
-
■p*
Hm
■
:
II
'
I
'
ms
n
m
u
m
■
■
■
■
iH
:, '/i
A day of summer sun to steep your senses in
a warm oblivion.
A fathom of clear green water to soothe your
skin back to its normal temperature.
A glass of Tooth’s K.B. to dispel your drowsy
languor with a flood of fresh invigoration.
Repeat as often as desired.
TOOTH S
LAGER


BRITISH WASH RIBBONS MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
The world-famed Washing Ribbons
made by Cash’s, of Coventry, England,
are exactly the same as produced by
Cash’s _in Australia. For all kinds of
Lingerie and Shoulder Straps, in many
dainty shades, guaranteed fadeless. Ask
your Draper.
TO MARKAULLINEN /
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.”
I (0. & ;
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
'Write for Name Sryle Circular to
J& J. CASH Australian
» WEAVING CO PTY. LTD \
85 CIIBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB.
7/6
6d
3/
3<ioz_
3/6
fdgfdfgd
LEIPZIG SPRING
TRADE FAIR, 1931
(GERMANY).
fdgdfg
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig.
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer.
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
Authorised Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, C. N. KEPPEL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
(’Phones: 84006 and MW2201)
tinder'
Royal
Warrant
fdgfdg
ToH.M.
Kin 6
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agfanta
Swift & Company LunltaJ
SYDNEY.
Champagne
OiarlesHcidsicv^
Reims
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD,
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
The RlOl calamity was responsible for the
Vice-regals absenting themselves from Rand-
wick for one day. but they were there on
the other three. Their lunch party on the
Wednesday looked more like a conference
than a party. The Somers and Game Vice-
reines were very summery in shady hats and
chiffon frocks, and Miss Crowdy too sported
a beflowered garment. The Macarthur
Onslows, the Adrian Knoxes, Osbonjes and
Sheldons rubbed shoulders in the group.
Audrey Hordern, wearing a white hat above
a green suit, and Betty Willsallen (to-day
being turned into a Melbourne Baillieu),
also green-clad, were two of the bright-winged
youngsters that depression has no meaning
for. June Baillieu. with her sister-in-law-
to-be, wore rose-pink swatliings. Black and
white chiffons flowed about Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar’s ankles, and her hat was of
creamy baku, black flowers appliqued thereon.
Nor must mention be forgotten of Earl
Beauchamp, whose color scheme might almost
be called polychromatic. This Letter had
a great moment when it stood beside a fair
unknown, who calmly announced after the
race: “Well, that’s good-oh. The old man’s
won his thousand.”
In spite of the fashion writers’ reports
this scribe still shudders at some things which
took the air at Randwick during the spring
meeting. Even the space of a week has not
reconciled her to the lady who had a large
fig-leaf blazoned on the hip ,of her pink under-
slip, which same was' coyly veiled in sheer
white organdie. Neither did the back on which
an enormous black sunflower or poppy had
bloomed, covering same from the neck to the
waist thereof, make an appeal, nor the
shoulder-high directoire cane in the hands of
still another. A white coat, its borders heavy
with jet, and a black coat done likewise in
crystal were not commendable. In short,
as so often happens, the word “feminine”
applied to dress materialised into frippery
and shoddy. Of course there were beautiful
clothes on many women, but there is no doubt
that, the billowing Dorothy Draggletail
fashions of the times have been tried and
found wanting as far as the great out-of-
doors is concerned.
The ball on the Australia was the last
big flutter of Race Week. Here, 'flu having
laid her hero low, the Admiral’s lady proved
a host in herself. She was aided and abetted
in the good work by Captain and Mrs. Chal-
mers, and she wore pale gold and periwinkle-
blue georgettes. Lord and Lady Somers and
their State Exes, were among the guests,
as was the Hordern lady, impressive in laces
as blue and soft as the Pacific. The Consul-
General for the Netherlands came with his
lady, and the military were represented by
the Heritage couple. ’Flu snatched the
dance from under the feet of some of the
intending guests as well as from their host.
It claimed the: Reg. Staffords from
Cassilis. lan McMaster, from the same
district, who would normally have been
on. deck, was in St. Luke’s with a smashed
wrist, sustained in the simple act of cranking
a car.
The terrible RlOl disaster cast its
shadow on the party aboard the Nieuw Hol-
land. The Royal Packet Navigation Com-
pany had arranged the dance in honor of
tne Dutch squadron, but notable absentees
were Rear-Admiral Ivayser, Rear-Admiral
Evans and Mrs. Evans, and Netherlands
Consul Teppema and his lady. The night
was flooded with moonlight, and as the
decks were not awninged the water could be
seen over the deck rail, rippling and flash-
ing like some immense satin gown sown
with blue sequins. The boat was brilliant
with electrics and garlanded with red arid
orange flowers, and she preened herself
alongside the Quay, taking the dash com-
pletely out of the hard-working little
ferries.
Captain and Mrs. Bauer and Mr. Bakker,
Australian gen. manager for the R.P.N.
received in the music-room, and here fasci-
nating panels of fish and wheat and rams’
heads met the gaze, while on the columns
in the dining-room were carved elephants
and other “Just So” creatures of Mr. Kip-
ling’s acquaintance. Mrs. Bauer smiled
charmingly above black georgettes swathed
and draped. The Consuls for France,
U.S.A., Germany, Italy and Czeclio-Slo-
vakia were present with their wives. A
tall Miss Andriesse was outstanding in
parchment moire. Navy men were scattered
lavishly about. Mrs. A. J. Pronk’s roseate
taffetas were full and swaying, the attractive
Cynthia Ilawkes flashed by in jade chiffons,
and Nancy Bavin was recklessly Jock Gar-
denish as to the color of her shoes and frock.
The Harbor Bridge Ennis couple were
among the dancers, as were, the Town
Clerk Laytons. Dame Mary Hughes aired
her D.8.E., and Monty Grover, whose serial
is just ending in The Bulletin, squired
Mrs. Grover.
The vestibule to the United Service Club
ballroom has the look of a cosy little snug-
gery. There is a long counter with this,
and you could imagine a voice hoarse with
discretion querying across the surface,
“And what’s for you, lady?” However,
when the club staged a homely dance
for the entertainment of officers of the Dutch
souadron, neither cherry brandy nor amber
beer was there. Only a few attractive girls,
cooling off, were perched upon it. There
was much flaggery adorning the lift and
the club walls, while a life-size Digger in
a gas-mask and a jolly sailor stood just
within the doorway. The Navy, the world
over, turns out more good dancers than any
other service, and the men from the Nether-
lands Fleet were no exception. Red coats
may shuffle a bit, and Air Force blue look
occasionally as if it has got into a tail spin,
but the Navy swoops as gracefully as a sea-
hawk. Rear-Admiral Ivayser being in Can-
berra, the lions of the evening were Com-
mander Eiterweer, Lieutenant Sir J. F. H.
de Jong Van Beck en Donk (fortunately he
has inches to balance the length of the
name). Sub-Lieutenant C. W. F. Baron Van
Boetselaer, and numerous others. Colonel
and Mrs. Spain, she in graceful black lace,
were the evening’s host and hostess. The
shiningly-groomed Vice-Consul Blaauw repre-
sented the Netherlands. Honor Keating, who
came wdth her colonel dad, was one of the
prettiest creatures in an evening of pretty
women. The Tresco Stevensoiis were as
popular as ever. Royal Packet Navigation
heads, Mrs. Pronk (wife of a previous chief-
tain! and Mrs. Lammefs were among the
dancers.
The well-established Girls’ Secondary
Schools Club has a dramatic circle which
is very much alive, and which on occasion
presents plays
very close to
prof essional
stand ards.
Yera Chowm,
the dark-eyed
girl in this
picture, is re-
sponsible for
a great deal
of the Circle’s
success, not
only as its
very hard-
working secre-
tary, but as
one of its
cleverest act-
ing members.
Sh e will
appear in
“Mary, Mary,
Quite Con-
trary,” a four-
a c t comedy
by St. John Ervine. to be staged at the
King’s Hall on October 17 and 18. Box-
office takings go to help the Rachel Forster
Hospital arid Tresillian Homes. Swiss
Studios made the picture.
Sumptuous is the only word to describe
the party given by their State Exes, in honor
of Rear-Admiral Ivayser and the companv
of his three brownish-grey war boats. Per-
haps having such guests as Earl Beauchamp
and Lord and Lady Somers had something
to do with the thick layer of gilt on last
week’s gaiety. Anyway there were roses,
flowering peach, stocks and other garden
beauties massed in the hallway, where every
nook held its beflowered vase. Programmes
were handed out by blue-lapelled aides, arid
there were flood-lights on the roof which
threw the garden into a fantastic pattern
of leaf and bough sprayed with jets of rose
crystal and liquid jade. Finally there was
quite a chance to step out in the dance, as
the two drawing-rooms had been cleared for
action.
Lady Game’s frock was of water-green
satin, fitting her slimness like a glove. She
carried a sheaf of pink roses and carnations,
and stood with Sir Philip at the end of the
drawing-room to receive the guests. Flight-
Lieutenant Denny, Captain Royce Shannon
and Commander Gifford were the night’s
aides' and Miss Crowdy acted as a hospit-
able sort of urger to the dance, seeing that
detached damsels and males were attached
without loss of time. There were tables
stocked with cigarettes on the carpeted ter-
race, and there were bowls of pink carnations
on the supper tables. Lady Somers danced
a good deal with her husband. They are
both dancers of the easy school, and this gave
her gold and green chiffons a chance to dis-
play themselves. Tall Joan Marks in white
chiffon and lace was among the looked-at,
as was Admiral Evans’s lady in peachy-pink
jetted with diamentes. Jessie Tait was
strikingly patterned in black and white. The
Consular Teppemas, she in black and gold,
were important people of the night. Mar-
garet Fairfax, Joyce Beasley and Ann
Gordon were attractions, as were Elizabeth
Knox in peacock-greens and Sadie Budge in
palest gold. There were two debs., Pauline
Watson and Margaret Rankin; there were
Philip and David Game, lots of dashjng
young sailors and last, but not least, the
Admiral of the visiting squadron. He, by
the way, Sir Philip Game confided to this
Letter, is considered the best tennis player
therein.
The only one not crowded or jostled at
the party on the Java was Queen Wilhelmina.
She hung in royal and gracious aloofness
above the central stairway, and seemed
pleased that her sailors had proved as popu-
lar as the crowded quarter-deck attested.
This was the squadron’s good-bye to Sydney.
The Admiral and the Consular Teppemas re-
ceived the hundreds of guests, after which
there were dancing for youth and conversa-
tion for the elders, and jam for all. Finan-
cier Otto Niemeyer, buttressed by Bertie
Kelly and Syd Ure Smith, looked on with
a carefree smile. He had put up shutters
for the. day, and wasn’t thinking in £ s. d.
Nearly as liappy-looking was poetess Ruth
Bedford, who, if there had been a competi-
tion for the prettiest hands aboard, would
probably have been an easy winner. The
Ramsay girls were cool and spring-like in
their green and primrose frocking. The
afternoon’s three most attractive studies in
brown were the long Dutch cheroots circu-
lated among the guests, Mrs. E. 11. G. R.
Evans and Mrs. C. L. Jones, the last brown
from hat to shoe. The hat calls for an
N.B. Its brim was finished off by an edg-
ing of spotted tulle which every now and
again in the sunlight cast a shadow on chin
or cheek exactly like an old-world patch.
Society rushed the Golden Fleece Ball last
week. It was a C.W.A. fixture, and had a
send-off blessing from the Sheepbreeders’
Association; therefore women who have
steaks or stakes (or both) in the country
turned up in raiment that was a complete
knockout to the poor old lily of the field.
Two brace of Vice-regals had been bagged.
Lord and Lady Somers and Sir Philip and
Lady Game hobnobbed in the friendliest way
and turned smiles like a sunburst on Beryl
Ross, the one little deb. who sought the
accolade. Watermelpn-pink chiffons blew
about Lady Somers as she traversed the
length of David Jones’s ballroom. Her State
Ex. expressed herself in murky chiffons lit
with diamente. Mayoress Hilda Marks and
Admiral Evans’s lady were among the wearers
of black, and Mrs. Fanning was an impres-
sive president of the ball in white sequinned
tulle. Palest pink chiffon and tulle flowed
about Mrs. Malcolm Maekellar. Mrs. Oliver
Osborne was with a flock of young things,
among them amateur actresses Anne Gordon
and Margaret Honey. Josephine Marks
arranged tableaux and a minuet. Secretary
Lynette Cloflan had a sheep of gold mari-
golds and poppies grazing on her table.
Janet Mitchell symbolised her treasurer’s
job by a frock of red-gold lame; and Mrs.
C. L. Jones, Mrs. Wilfrid Fairfax and Mrs,
Oliver Osborne were notable in the night's
decorative scheme. Profits go to Padre
Drummond’s Far West Crippled Children’s
Health scheme.
This Letter saw a man sign a cheque for
£2500 the other day. In itself that was
a shock in these lean times, but when the
man handed the cheque over and got noth-
ing but thanks in return, and when it trans-
pired that the £2500 wms an addition to a
former gift of
£5OOO, then the
shock called
for ice-bags on
the brain. He
was Sydney's
’bus king, F.
H. Stewart,
whose vehicles,
orange and
green and red,
two storeys as
well as one,
are vivid cara-
vans along
every suburban
road. M r.
Stewart as a
p h ilanthropist
can spend as
joyously as a
taxi-meter can
add up. lie
had a look of
II u g h D.
'Mclntosh as he stood in the hot sfm-
shine' above Curl Curl beach . and handed
over the money that makes possible. Dr.
Arthur’s Preventorium. His wife, the lady
in this picture, and as incurable a good
deeder as her husband, sat with Mrs. Arthur
on the wide sleeping porch' that looks down
on a swimming-pool, cool and smooth as
jade. The house lias two of these porches—
one for the boys and one for the girls—at
either side of the dining and living rooms.
The guests will be ailing or ill-nourished
school kiddies, and their stay in the holiday
home is to build them up. The Schools’
Hospital Society will foot the bills of the
establishment once it is a going concern.
There’s at least one man in Sydney who
regards banker Otto Niemeyer with the eye
of affection untihged by awe. He’s Sir
Hugh Poynter; the two were schoolmates
together at St. Paul’s, London, and they
have kept as much in touch with each other
ever since as their different professions per-
mitted.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers has
claimed a new friend. He is Lud Mayor
Marks, who will call a public meeting
at an early date to discuss arrangements for
the Arthur Bayldon benefit. Steele Rudd
has given one of his most successful com-
edies to be acted, and the F.A.W. has already
secured the services of John Gould as pro-
ducer.
Sympathy is streaming in from every
direction to Mrs. Ken Prior, wife of Tins
Bulletin’s manager, over the death of her
mother. The deceased lady, Mrs. Mary
Lawler, is sorrowed for by a large family,
all of them fine singers. But this is not to
be wondered at. They come of the clan
that produced Marie Narelle.
Brides of the week included Betty Armi-
tage, of Mosman, who is now the wife of
Lieutenant Lancaster of 11.A.M.5. Aus-
tralia ; Joan Ludowici, daughter of the well-
known Darling Point medical man, now
Mrs. 11. J. Fraser; and Pauline Copland, of
Bellevue Hill, who became Mrs. Tim Boden,
of Derbyshirst, England, in St. Mark’s at
Darling Point. The last ceremony came off
according to schedule, although the intend-
ing best man had been knocked out of action
by a motor smash, and a bridesmaid wms
absent owing to an urgent SOS from an
appendix.
Concert-manager and good friend George
Portus went suddenly west last week, aiid
probably two of liis last acts on this earth
were writing a letter of condolence to the
O’Sheas in Brisbane on the death of the head
of that legal firm, and another to lawyer Dick
Singer in Auckland, whose wife had died
during the week. George was known and
loved from here to London. He had a fine
head covered with a mass of white hair,
and he carried himself with the erectness of
a young guardsman. He was a noted wit,
and a mimic of extraordinary powers. In
show circles his letter about Harry Lauder,
when that Scotsman developed a boil on a
New Year’s Day in Dunedin (M.L.), is still
quoted. “Harry,” he wrote, “has developed
a boil, which threatens to be the largest
Highland gathering on record.”
Mrs. Foa, who was better known to Aus-
tralia as journalist Isabel Ramsay, came
home last week to rest with her own people.
The urn that contains her ashes was placed
in her mother’s grave in Waverley cemetery.
Isabel had lived in Paris and London for
years; she was in the grip of her fatal
sickness when she decided to return
to Australia, bringing her little daughter
with her. However, the end came at Colom-
bo, and the child returned to her father in
Paris. Mrs. Foa’s father was the late John
Ramsay, of “Hansard” staff.
One hundred kiddies can be housed in the
extended and practically refurnished Dal-
wood Homes above Middle Harbor. This
was the home of Professor Guerney
when that part of the world was the
bush, and when a horse and trap was the
only means of transport to and from the
civilisation of shops and other dwellings.
Now it is an auxiliary to St. Margaret’s
and the N.S.W. Hospital for Women and
Children. St. Margaret’s, as you know,
is a Maternity Hospital, and the Dal-
wood Home enables about-to-be-mothers
from the Outback to bring the other
kiddies to town with them, and leave them
here till the new brother or sister arrives.
Then all the family can stay for two or
three weeks in this beautifully equipped
house, with its far-flung glimpse of the
Heads and the thundering ocean beyond, and
the lotus blue of Middle Harbor on its
doorstep. The rooms for the kiddies are
furnished with snow-white cots and tiny
white painted chairs. The wmlls are
painted in pinks, greens and blues topped
by a frieze of nursery-rhyme folk in action.
There’s a fairy story in every shade, and
this Letter particularly liked the little girl
who is using a mushroom for an umbrella on
the shade above the baby-bear chairs and
tables in the dining-room. A cupboard with
a hundred mugs, each populated with bunchy
little girls and boys on scooters, skipping
and busy among flowers, was a sight that
completely ousted such utilities as washing-
up machines, refrigerators and so on. Health
Minister Dr. Arthur will officiate next Satur-
day when the Myerson wing and the Cross-
well Howie hospital unit will be declared
open.
On a night last week when the moon had
raised her lamp above and the harbor waters
were*a polished glass the bridge came into
its own. By day it is an arch for a perspec-
tive of sky and crouching foreshores, but
that magic night it was no longer a thing
of steel girders with a utilitarian objective.
It was an affair of lacy filigree. It laughed
a mysterious curve from north to south. It
was a bridge of faery, across which a man
might carry nothing, more substantial than
a dream, nothing more material than the
shoe of Cinderella.


CSIO2
66'
7cf
;-i.
// //
77
378
A bird rises against the wind.
Turns on its side. And, wings
glancing in the sun, drops like a
star down the skies.
A Chrysler turns the crest of the
hill. Swings round the bend.
And, with a flash of its gleaming
coachwork, slips on its headlong
way, down, down into the valley.
Man—primitive, savage, unlearned
envied the bird its speed and
freedom and sureness. Man —calm,
aatient, experienced, intelligent—
~ias built at last the Chrysler.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lanes Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Mlotors, Ltd., Brisoane
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
West Australia William Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania Distributors Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rahaul
CHRY
SLE
CHRYSLER MOTORS
R
PRODUCT


Tried S’Proved
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair.
In bottles, of
C h e m i sts,
Stores and
Hair dressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
anil’s
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.67.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION:
THIS THING CALLED LOVE
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MR. CINDERS.
KING’S THEATRE:
LET US BE GAY.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D, Melptosh presents
THE FOLLIES OF 1930,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
Amusements,
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
1 * MELBOURNE.
VICTOR McLAGLEN, EL BRENDEL and
FIFI DORSAY in
HOT FOR PARIS.
(Children between 6 and 16 not admitted.)
ALSO
JOHN WRAY and BETTY COMPSON in
CZAR OF BROADWAY.
(Children between 6 and 16 not admitted.)
(Both Pictures Passed for General Exhibition.)
Notice.
/JO EVELYN JUNITA MAY COVILL,
at one time of Rockhampton, Queens-
land.
TAKE NOTICE that if I do not hear
from you within one month from the date
of appearance hereof it is by intention to
remarry.
ALAN FREDERICK COVILL.
HOBLER & POWELL,
Solicitors,
Rockhampton, Q.
Missing Friends.
—lf Maurice W. L. Zillman,
formerly of Brisbane, but now of Adel-
aide, will communicate with E. B. FOX,
Solicitor, Nambour, Queensland, he will
learn of something to his advantage.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free' for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Saturday dawned hazily, with a threat of
imminent rain, so that the fair punters who
attired themselves for Caulfield decided
almost to a woman against the wearing of
diaphanous raiment. The temperature was
none too high, either, so the heavier weights
of new materials —principally wool georg-
ette —figured most numerously in the dress
parade. Black-and-white rig-outs wore not
quite so popular as they were at the last meet-
ing, navy and white and other forms of
blue having a good deal of support. The
smartest variation of the magpie blend was
featured in a suit of rather open check with
a tuck-in white silk blouse and a largish
black straw hat. In many cases a coat
posy of lilies of the valley sufficed to cheer
an _ all-black costume. These fairy bells,
which seem to bloom for Guineas Day.
have come forth in the greatest profusion,
and they adorned almost every coat lapel.
The lawns had donned their springtime
green, though there was quite a number of
leafless trees. Along the fence by the straight
the roses -were beginning to make a showing,
and within shelter of the stands were some
splendid masses of pink rhododendron.
Mayoress Luxton, who received many con-
gratulations on her husband’s re-election for
a third term of civic chieftaincy, relieved a
black ensemble with a vest of coffee-colored
lace. Mrs. E. M. Pearce, similarly apparelled,
was rejoicing in the success of her hus-
band’s gee-gee Starstone, which won the
“babies’ ” race at a very long price. Mrs.
Ben Chaffey, wife of the Y.A.T.C.’s new
president, had some ermine relieving a black
gown the outstanding feature of which was
a line of buttons down the centre of the
back. Mrs. G. A. Fairbairn was one of
those who chose Lido blue. Mrs. Richard
Turnbull’s ensemble of the same shade had
an immense collar of smoked-fox fur. Other
of the lawn were Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Knox, Dr. and Mrs. Paul Dane,
Mrs. Clive Leonard and Mrs. John Winter
Irving and her two married daughters.
There must have been some indignation
meetings in the homes of members of the
V. on Saturday night. Feelings had
been ruffled by an unprecedentedly severe
inspection of ladies’ tickets. Not only were
they examined before and after entrance to
the stand, but twice an official passed along
the lines of the fair sex demanding to see
the cardboards again. The formula used by
the inspector was “Have you got your
ticket?” “Of course I have,” tartly rejoined
one lady; “you surely didn’t think I climbed
over the barrier?”
About 400 people boarded the liner Largs
Bay one evening last week and disturbed the
beauty sleep of passengers by dancing in
the interests of the Lud Mayor’s fund. The
Aberdeen and Commonwealth line, besides
lending the ship, handed out from larder
and galley a jolly fine supper. The hon.
organisers, Mrs. J. B. Bellair (who trailed
garnet-red lace draperies), 11. J. Brady, G.
W. Waight and M. V. Reilly, had the aid
of 3DB, and made all arrangements and sold
all tickets well within a week. F. Har-
mon was hon. sec. of the hop, which had as
side-lines bridge and some classic dancing
by Esme Eshelby, Judy Avery, Ayah Bott
and Barbara Were, pupils of Eunice Wes-
ton. They sported white satin and tulle,
and were joined later by their teacher in
some modern dance steps. Guests footed it
beneath festoons of colored fairy lights amid
palms and the spicy perfume of incense,
huge idols helping to create an Oriental
atmosphere. The little fat goldfish Gregory,
known to listeners-in, had a night out, and
two small Chinese girls, Lily and Violet
Kong, who once owned the finny creature,
did a trade in charms for the cause.
Mayor and Mayoress Luxton were wel-
comed by Ernest Eva, managing director in
Australia of the A. and C. line, and 11. J.
Brady, the Melbourne manager. Mrs. Lux-
ton wore holly-red chiffon, her choice of hue
being shared by Mrs. J. T. Brennan and
Mrs. E. J. Mulvaney, whose gowns were of
lace and chiffon. Mrs. U. J. Nicholas
and Mrs. H. J. Brady chose beige lace. Dr.
and Mrs. C. N. Finn were there, she in
black lace beneath a pink velvet coat. Accom-
panying her was her sister, Amy Castles, with
a sparkle of crystal on a faint pink chiffon
dress. Mr. and Mrs. G. Gill, with Mrs.
Gill’s sister, Betty Paterson, and the H. J.
Robertsons and J. C. Westhovens were
among the dancers. Molly Tonkin flitted
round in leaf-green lace,' Peggy Hiskens
gleamed in gold tissue and net, and Betty
Bellair sported flowered-pink chiffon.
The mode of matching shoes and hat was
featured by the two bridesmaids at the recent
knot-tying of Vera Barbara Eastman, of
East Malvern, and Albert Victor Jones, of
C4len Iris. The attendants wore green foot-
wear and millinery, with roseate flowered
frocks, making a charming background to
the ivory satin and Honiton lace of the
bride.
A wedding of last week was that of Dr.
Leslie H. Albiston, a son of Prof, and Mrs.
Albiston, of this city, and Enid, only child
of the G. C. Tighes, of Canterbury. Two
’maids, in amber-tinted moire, carrying pale-
green tulle muffs decorated with orchids,
attended the bride, whose ivory satin and
lace gown shimmered beneath white and
faint pink tulle that floated from a coronet
of pearls and orange buds.
A symphony in what the poet calls the
“roseate hues of early morn” was the wed-
ding of Eileen, youngest daughter of the W.
J. Pi'octors, of St. Ivilda, and Geoffrey, son
of Alderman G. Crespin and Mrs. Crespin,
of Camberwell. Three ’maids in georgette of
oleander hue and felt hats to match stood by
the bride, whose faint pink tulle was softened
with a top-dressing of ivory Brussels lace.
The decorations in the church and at No.
9 followed the same color scheme.
Olinda, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Gordon-Glassford, dropped her hyphen din-
ing the week and became Mrs. Murray
Howard, the happy man being the elder son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. P. Howard, of
Castlemaine. The maid and trainbearcr
provided a primrose-tinted background, in
georgette and tulle, for the bride’s gown of
creamy moire and veil of white tulle and
antique Honiton lace. Afterwards there
was a dinner at No. 9, followed by a dance.
The Arthur Moules, of Toorak, have scat-
tered invitations for the knot-tying of their
daughter Valerie and John Fitz Gerald Fair-
fax, of Sydney, at the fashionable St. John’s
Church, Toorak, towards the end of the
month. The ’maids will be Joan Downing,
Margaret Fairfax and Anne Gordon. A
quartette of children will also join in the
bridal procession.
There was chatter and bridge at the
Lyceum Club one afternoon last week, when
Mary Emmerton gave a party to welcome
home Prof. T. H. Laby’s wife after a
journey overseas. The hostess received her
guests in crepe de Chine of hunting-green
topped by a black hat trimmed with flowers
that matched her beige collar. A tweed
suit of bracken-brown with straw millinery
was worn by Mrs. Laby. Among the guests
was Vera de Bavay, to whom was likewise
extended a welcome after a trip to India.
Powder-blue and pale lemon were mingled
in her ensemble.
The Victoria League had its final tea-party
of the year the other afternoon. The
Allen lady, senior vice-president, made
a little speech in which she thanked
those who had engineered these social
gatherings. The league has decided not
to hold a ball this season. Instead,
members have been asked to give what finan-
cial help they can, and over £125 has been
received to date. Richard Stawell’s lady
headed the six hostesses of the afternoon and
Frank Clewlow, director of the Repertory
Society, gave a dissertation on “The Theatre
and its Future,” supplemented by pianoforte
solos by John Simons.
The Country Women’s Association of this
State is only three* years old, but it has done
so much use-
ful work in
that time that
it can’t be re-
garded as a
fledgeling. La
Fayette pic-
tures here its
president, Mrs.
J. S. Fraser,
who is off
with the orga-
nising secre-
tary, Mrs.
Murray Wal-
ler, for a tour
of the Mallee.
a district in
which M r s.
Fraser’s pre-
de c e ssor in
office, the Mit
cliell lady,
took a great
interest. The
association has done its best to help the
women and kiddies of the Mallee, and in-
tends to do still more in the future. The
extent to which it has made itself popular was
proved by the shoal of entries for its recent
show of women’s handicrafts and by the
attendance at the ball in aid of funds. In
addition to her work for the C.W.A., Mrs.
Fraser is an active member of the Victoria
League.
Cards were shuffled, at Mrs. C. Thomson's
home, Barbizon, Orrong-road, one afternoon
last week to aid the comforts fund for the
shell-shocked and war-strained soldiers at the
iied Cross homes of Bundoora and Macleod.
Mrs. Leif Due, Mrs. L. G. Driffield and Miss
Woodward organised the function, which pro-
duced a good monetary return.
On the same afternoon, at-the Ambassa-
dors, Mrs. Peter Lucini and Mrs. A. Degen-
hardt rounded up a bunch of feminine players
for a game that benefited the Fitzroy cr&che.
Mrs. Fred McMillan. Mrs. B. Clemens, Mrs.
W. M. Baker and others gave assistance.
Gladys Moncrieff, wearing an ensemble suit
of black with white pin spots and a smart ;
toque, handed the prize to the top scorer
and helped with sales. Music and verse-
speakfng figured in a programme presented
by Mrs. Wade, Audrey Anderson, Mona
Nugent, Estelle Sheehan, Tinka and Rosa
Lucini and Edgar Yeitch.
This is Ruth Evans, inspector of
Domestic Arts Schools, and judge of food ex-
hibits at the recent R.A.S. Show\ Miss Evans
was one of the
earliest pupils
of M a b el
Sand s, the
first principal
of the Domes-
tic Economy
College, which
has now taken
the name of
its most gen-
erous benefac-
tor, Emily
M c P herson.
On conclusion
of her course
of study Miss
Evans joined
the teaching
staff of the
college. Then
she took
charge of the
technical
school at Box
Hill, where budding cooks run a cafeteria.
Her job now is to keep a supervising eye on
all schools in the State where girls' are
taught to sew, cook and launder. Dickinson-
Monteath made the picture.
. Little square, green-topped tables were
invoked last week as allies of the Adult
Deaf and Dumb Society, whose funds need
replenishing. The social hall of the society
at Jolimont was thronged with feminine
players. Mrs. Edward Shackell and Aimee,
Mrs. Turner Shaw and Mrs. C. Faulkner
were the instigators of the party.
The Lud Mayor is having a mighty
struggle to fill the coffers of his charity fund
this year. He is asking for £lOO,OOO, but
so far the response suggests that the odds are
against his getting even a tenth of that
amount. Numerous schemes for getting
money are on the slipways and some of
these, when launched, may improve the out-
look, though the concert at which Amy and
Eileen Castles made a farewell appearance
before leaving for the U.S.A., and which
was for the benefit of the Mayor’s Fund, was
very poorly attended. After the show there
was an adjournment to the Mayor’s room,
where the civic chief wished the Castles girls
the best of good luck, a sentiment echoed by
Fritz Hart. Amy Castles, who has slimmed
exceedingly, was in sparkling pale pink, with
blue and pink tulle floating from the left
side to the floor. Her sister radiated in
white georgette, glistening with rhinestones,
h'lowers and silk stockings figured in the
collection of parting gifts passed up to the
two songbirds. Mayoress Luxton, wearing
black and green figured chiffon, accompanied
the Mayor, with them being a large party,
At Mrs. R. W. Plaisted’s residence in
Toorak-road the other day there was a
bridge afternoon and evening engineered by
Mrs. Plaisted and Mrs. Barry Thomson,
with Mrs. G. H. M. Ratcliff as ticket sec.,
the profits of which benefited the William
Forsters “Try” Boys’ Society. The society is
a very old organisation which assists poor
boys to learn a trade or craft.
A day on the links with side-line attrac-
tions of bridge, tennis and miscellaneous
sales was chosen by the Lady Forster Free
Kindergarten as a means of strengthening
its finances. About 300 women divided into
foursomes over the picturesque seaside estate
of the Peninsula Golf Club at Frankston on
Thursday. The weather was perfect, and
many patrons made a picnic of the outing,
bringing hampers with them. Mrs. Frank
Derham and Mrs. James Hogan were the
hon. secs, of the outing, Mrs. Arthur Rich-
ards being in charge of the sports pro-
gramme. Mrs. G. Russell deputised for Mrs.
Sam McKay, president of the committee,
who is convalescing after an operation.
Mayor Luxton, by his re-election for the
third year .in succession, is heading for a
knighthood, as a matter of well-established
precedent. He has the distinction of being
the youngest of all Melbourne’s Mayors and
the first Digger to wear the fur robe and gold
chain. H'is war service was with the Air
Force, and he saw quite a lot of fighting.
Mr. Luxton and his wife are exceedingly
popular, and deservedly so.
H. J. Manson, who lately resigned his
post as Maoriland Trade Commissioner in
Melbourne, was, with Mrs. Manson, bidden to
partake of a farewell brew of tea by the
Council of the E.S.U'. at headquarters in
Collins-street. Farewell wishes were voiced
by legal knight Arthur liobinson. The
Mansons return to their homeland this week,
there, to breed sheep and grow things. •
In A. A. Milne’s “Success,” which began
! a five-nights’ season at the Playhouse ou
Saturday, Frank Clewlow, director of the
Repertorians, has provided very effective
lighting and some charming settings, and the
ladies of the cast wear some very pretty
clothes. Winifred Hall, as the wife of a
Cabinet Minister, combines in her first gown
black tulle flounces, lace and crystal jewel-
lery, pale-green chiffon flowered in pink
being her later choice. A newcomer to the
society’s ranks, Betty Mac Kay, who plays
the daughter, sports a smart frock of pale-
green lace, changing to a phlox-pink jumper
suit in the last act. A small pig-tailed girl
in pink appears as the beauteous damsel
of the dream, Winifred Collins stepping into
the picture as the dream-maiden grows up.
She wears, first, white organdie sprinkled
with colored blossoms, and towards the end
a deep green satin which stands out against
a yellowish stone seat and wall, with a
vista of trees and lawn.
“The Love Step” (music by Alaric Howitt,
libretto by Mrs. Harold Clapp) was staged
again last week at the Comedy Theatre to
increase the Lud Mayor’s Fund and help
theatrical philanthropic causes. The piece
went better than ever, the members of the
co. having become quite hardened to the foot-
lights. in the first half of the programme
George Faulkner and Roma Smith pre-
sented a sketch, “The Drawback,” in which
Miss Smith donned white chiffon sprayed
with a large design in ruby tints, a fussy
parasol and a white crinoline hat being
accessories.
For “Mr. Cinders,” the Firm’s latest essay
in jazz-comedy, which opened at the Royal
on Saturday night, the stage was dressed
with a new inner black curtain embellished
with sparkles and a gorgeous coat of arms.
In the opening scene of the play pin k-frocked
lassies with tennis racquets outnumber their
cobalt-blue coated male partners two to one.
Jose Melville was given a tumultuous wel-
come after her absence abroad, and horti-
culture was piled around her at the final
curtain. She looks fascinating in white-
satin crinoline sprinkled with silver butter-
flies, topped with a white wig. Both she
and Maidie Hope make entrance in frocks
embroidered with red cherries, allied to red
hats. Miss Hope’s attire has a toga effect
in back drapery. In the ball scene she
wears a gold tissue crinoline gown, and the
frocks of the chorus are of petunia tints,
mauve and pink, with a hydrangea shade of
blue, while the court costumes of the men
are in green and yellow tones.
The tennis tournament at Trinity College,
one of the Uni.’s annual social fixtures, hap-
pened along last week, when Dr. Behan, the
Warden, and his wife did the entertaining.
Guests who were not playing in the tour-
nament wandered about the Warden’s gar-
den and amused themselves with clock golf
and deck tennis. Tea was poured in the
college hall, the hostess wearing black ninon
scattered with red tracery and a shady black
hat.
Mrs. Hume Turnbull, in beige lace with a
gloral design, topped by a Pandan straw
hat, welcomed many ex-army nurses at her
Toorak home the other day. Mrs. Turnbull
was one of the band of nurses who went
to the Great War in the first hospital ship
that left Australia. The reunion was on
garden-party lines, friendly and informal.
The Merson Coopers returned from their
trip abroad on Saturday. She was wel-
comed at the railway station by members of
the East Melbourne Auxiliary of St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital, and Mrs. T. J. Ryan, who
acted as president of the Central Auxili-
ary during Mrs. Cooper’s absence, supple-
mented a verbal greeting with a spray of
orchids. Mr. Cooper, who is treasurer of
the V.A.T.C., hurried off to Caulfield, leav-
ing his wife at Menzies’, where they intend
to stay for the time being.
One of many Melbourne women whose
activity in old age puts some of the young-
sters to shame is Mrs. A. Sutcliffe, who
finds her SO years no bar to a round of
the links a couple of times a week. She is
a member of the Royal Park Club and took
up the game 30 years ago. Her garden and
work for the Child Welfare Department also
claim a good deal of her attention.
Members of the Country Women's Asso-
ciation visiting the city will find a com-
fortable; rest-room established for them at
Aberdeen House, 528-30 Collins-street, the
new headquarters of the association.


THINK o/Sfie LAKES
NOW . . . .
Think of the boating, the fishing, the surfing
of the mirrored reflections in the placid blue waters of
the lakes of the golden sunshine and the fragrance of
the green bush of the tinkling music of the bellbirds
of the muffled roar of the Southern Ocean along the
white curving sweep of the Ninety-mile Beach.
Think...,and then ACT. Plan your next holiday
at the GIPPSLAND LAKES, the most picturesque
chain of lakes in Australia.
A fast and comfortable train service from Melbourne connects at
Sale or Bairnsdale with steamer or car services to the Lakes.
And the accommodation is excellent.
Booking and all information at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY; OR QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
dfgfdgd
fdgdfg
Food
llefd. TBJ.DK MARK.
The
happy task
of motherhood is lightened
by Benger’s Food.
Nursing and expectant
mothers will find a mine of
valuable information in the
new booklet, a medically
approved work, sent post
free.
Try Benger’s Food for deli-
cate infants, and at weaning
time.
Write for booklet to:— BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Thirty Pieces of Silver
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis : In the coastal town of
Illaioarra Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is "brought up by Mary West,
and begins work shovelling at G. J.
Grey and Co.’s cokeworks. At work one
day he sees Alma Grey and idealises her
as the unattainable. Subsequently, he
meets May Harland, a bright, ener-
getic girl, who has converted Mrs.
Blessington’s shop in Illawarra into
a paying business, and whom Mrs.
West, before her death, had hoped he
would marry. They become intimate,
but May declines to marry him, tell-
ing him that she has had other lovers
and urging him to go after his ideal
girl. Helped by Basil Wellington, who
runs the local “Guardian,” Jimmy has
decided upon journalism as his life
work, and secures a position on a city
paper, the “Times.” May wins recogni-
tion as a singer, and goes abroad. When
she returns Jimmy again presses her
to marry him, but once more she
declines, and he, for his part, declines
her offer to take him round the world
as her publicity agent. Jimmy realises
that, though he is very fond of her,
she really does not stir his feelings
as Alma Grey had done. Meanwhile,
Grey has been bankrupted, and Jimmy
has lost trace of the family. He gets
in touch again when one day he meets
Alma, who is serving in a tearoom, in
which she has shares. At the time he
is trying to get his boyhood acquaint-
ance, Des Quirk, released from gaol.
CHAPTER XXIX.
ABOUT this time a letter came from
Patsy Quirk dated from Cincinnati.
Patsy still held the championship;
and, as there was no lack of aspirants eager
to push him from his pedestal, he was
amassing one of the fortunes which await
those with an impregnable smother and a
quick punch.
He had acquired certain business instincts,
too, had Patsy. Now that he had reached
the top of the tree, he was no longer One-
punch Patsy, though the name still clung
to him. Confident in his ability, he in-
variably allowed his fights to go close to
the limit. In the first place, he explained
in his letter, it gives the public something
for their money, and a pug. has to enter-
tain as well as win; and, in the second,
it does not scare away the easy marks
like a swift, sudden knock-out.
But all this was by way of introduction.
The real burden of Patsy’s letter was the
sentence which Des was serving out for his
attack on Wally Jackson. It was over four
years since Des Quirk was convicted, and,
with all possible concessions for good con-
duct, the sentence of ten years’ imprison-
ment could not. terminate in the ordinary
course of events for another four years.
Patsy asked Jimmy if he could ascertain
whether it was possible to secure a pardon
for Des. Thanks to his own success, his
father and mother were now comfortably
situated, but they felt deeply the absence
of both their sons. Patsy had wanted them
to join him in America; but they had re-
fused to leave Des in prison in Australia.
Patsy concluded by stating that Jimmy
might spend anything up to £5OO on secur-
ing Des’s release.
Jimmy felt sincerely sorry both for the
Quirk family and for Des. He knew him
well to be a kindly, impulsive lad who had
seen red at a critical moment. Several
times he had seen him on visiting days,
and once, when at the gaol on duty, the
governor had waived the regulations suffi-
ciently for him to have a long yarn with
his old schoolfellow.
Des worried a good deal over his mother
and father, but felt a keen joy in Patsy’s
success. Gaol life had not spoiled him, but
it had made him very serious. He had
found consolation in religion, and the priest
who looked after the Roman Catholic sec-
tion told Jimmy that he was, in effect, a
second chaplain, doing an enormous amount
of good work, not only among his own fold,
but with all his erring comrades.
Wellington was in Sydney a few days
later and Jimmy showed him the letter.
“It shouldn’t be too difficult,” commented
Wellington. “You’ll have all the Labor
crowd with you; there’s the personal popu-
larity of the Quirk family in Illawarra, and
there’s the influence of the Catholic Church
—that’s a big thing in itself. Against you
are the employers—old Jackson’ll move
heaven and earth to keep the sentence
standing. But it might be possible, if it’s
delicately handled.”
Jimmy set about by seeing the lawyer
who had defended Des. He was distinctly
encouraging. Then Jimmy put it up to
one or two members of Parliament, being
careful to choose men opposed to Labor.
They seemed inclined to mercy. Next he
tackled Tennyson, who put him through a
searching cross-examination, to finish up
by promising to think the matter out, free
from any feeling regarding the origin of the
trouble. Jimmy knew he would keep his
word. Tennyson was a man for whom he
had grown to have an overwhelming respect.
When he decided that the foundations
had been laid, he approached the Attorney-
General of the Liberal Administration then
in power. Jimmy knew him fairly well
from association in Parliament, and told
him the story from beginning to end, with-
out. color or plea, save that he quoted the
opinions expressed regarding the contrite
attitude of Des by the governor of the gaol
and the priest.
“It’s all very well,” said the Minister.
“But you don’t expect me to jeopardise my
own position and the position of the Gov-
ernment by releasing this man on my own
responsibility—even assuming all you say
about him’s correct?”
“Of course not,” said Jimmy. “I only
want you to look into the matter; find out
how things stand for yourself and we’ll
get up a petition.”
“But even then I’m not going to fly in
the face of a majority of Parliament.”
“I wouldn’t ask you to,” assured Jimmy.
“The Labor men’ll support the petition.
I’ll guarantee that, and I’ve got promises
from several of your side already.”
“Urn! But what of the rest?” demanded
the Minister.
“I’ll see them too before the petition
goes in.”
The Attorney-General looked puzzled.
“Seeing some of them’s not much good
unless there’s more hanging to it.”
It was Jimmy’s turn to look puzzled.
“What?” he began.
“Look here, Jimmy,” said the politician.
“A wink’s as good as a nod to a blind
horse. You take my advice and talk this
matter over with Joe Prince.”
“Joe Prince!” cried Jimmy. “You don t
mean to say”-
“I don’t mean to say anything. But that s
my advice, and to my mind it’s the only
possible way.”
Jimmy left him supremely disappointed.
See Joe Prince he would not. He knew
what that meant; it meant that he would
have to hand over Patsy’s £5OO or a big
proportion of it to Prince to be distri-
buted among those members who might be
likely to make trouble. He would not do
it. He would go straight and refuse to be
mixed up in any dirty business. Des ought
to be released, if there was any value in
repentance and atonement, and he would
see the affair through as he had intended.
“The trouble would be to keep the thing
dark, too,” said Stan when Jimmy told him
of the suggestion. “Unless Prince worked
very quietly, the ones who’d promised you
would get a whisper and turn sour at be-
ing left out. It’s a nice little sum—it would
mop up all the profits of Patsy’s next five
fights.” .
Jimmy put in all his spare time on the
petition. He got the Labor men solid, the
unions all along the Coast g*rv® a helping
hand and he contrived to rope in altogether
half the Liberal members.
But the Attorney-General knew nmre
about practical politics than Jimmy did;
and when the petition was presented and
he promised consideration, ,a noise was
raised so loud that he let the whole thing
drop. Jimmy, seated in the gallery, almost
imagined he could hear him say “What
about my wife and kids?”
It was a sad business writing to Patsy
that he had failed. He did not mention
the reason, but when Patsy found that none
of his money had been drawn on, he re-
gretted not having entrusted the task to
somebody more capable in such affairs.
CHAPTER XXX.
Alma led Jimmy into a phase of life
which he had not known since his earlier
boyish friendship with May, the friend-
ship which had existed between them
before the night her kiss led them
into a new life. He was revelling in the
keen joy of companionship with a woman —
companionship which was free from any
suspicion of love, a condition which seldom
endures, which sooner or later develops into
indifference on the one hand or romance
on the other, but which is very, very sweet
while it lasts.
He saw her frequently now. Every day
he lunched at the Lalla Rookh. Every
Sunday morning they went for a swim to
Manly or Bondi,- where, he found Alma just
as attractive a little figure at twenty-three
as she had been at fourteen, and just as
ready to swim out and defy the monsters
of the deep. On Sunday afternoons they
would picnic at Como or Narrabeen or up
the Lane Cove River. On such nights as
he was free or was “doing a show,” she
would accompany him to the theatre.
They grew to be firm friends. They
learned to talk freely and without reserve-
save only that Alma made little reference
to her father and none to Muriel. She
was intensely interested in Jimmy’s rise.
She made the supreme appeal to his vanity
by demanding to read his verses, and when
she returned him the book in which he
had pasted the cuttings she waxed so en-
thusiastic over them and—what was better
still—showed such a remarkable understand-
ing of his intentions that his admiration of
her increased tenfold.
Emily Marlton accompanied them on
some of their excursions. Emily was a
placid, capable, fine-looking business woman
of about twenty-five. In many respects
she reminded Jimmy of Olga of the Show
Rooms, who had filled a place in his heart
for six or eight months. Nothing ever
ruffled Emily. Her conduct of the Lalla
Rookh was superb. She reigned with the
dignity of a Theodora. When she occupied
it the cash-box at the Lalla Rookh became
a throne. When she emerged from the
dressing-sheds at Bondi she might have
been Cleopatra strutting in majestic inso-
lence along the beach. The other women
instinctively made way for her; the men
looked at her admiringly, but not the most
temerarious dared to try to catch her eye.
At the outset she had regarded the atten-
tions of Jimmy to Alma not suspiciously,
but critically. Emily Marlton would have
applied the same judicial attitude towards
the world-famed actor, the Archbishop of
Sydney or the Prime Minister. She was
one of nature’s aristocrats, regal by in-
stinct ; all humanity constituted her subjects.
After a month she decided that Jimmy
was fit to be admitted into the circle of
her acquaintances. Her manner changed;
she had a smile for Jimmy; she unbent com-
pletely and he found her most cheerful and
companionable. She became another
woman-friend; not so important as Alma,
but one whose company he liked and sought.
One Sunday—Alma’s day on duty—he
asked Emily to make a day of it with him
at Deewhy. Emily gave him a question-
ing glance, satisfied herself that this was
not a prelude to projected love-making, and
laughed.
“Aren’t you afraid of making Alma
jealous?” she asked.
The question hit Jimmy. He had thought
that Emily understood. If that was the
interpretation which she, above all, placed
upon his friendship for Alma, the world
must be thinking the same. Another wave
of apprehension swept over him. Perhaps
Alma, too, was thinking the same.
It is difficult to believe in Platonism, bo
frequently is it revealed to be merely the
veil of deferred love or passion that it is
unfair to blame humanity for its scepticism.
It was probable that Alma herself thought
him in love with her and was wondering
over the tardiness of his declaration. A
thousand incidents occurred to support the
theory. He felt more ashamed than he had
felt since that night when May had thrown
temptation in his way and he had fallem
He had been grossly unfair to Alma. He
must have led her to believe that he loved
her The more he scrutinised his actions
of the past few months, the more he found
them capable of no other construction. I hat
he had spoken no word of love, that he
had given her no direct evidence of it was
immaterial. By his constant seeking of her
company, by his obvious neglect of all other
women, by his confidence of his innermost
ambitions and hopes—excepting only m re-
gard to May—he felt that the girl must
have regarded him as an aspiring lover,
for some unknown reason delaying the
revelation of his passion. Others possib y
had placed a worse construction on their
intimacy. „
He felt greatly to blame for unwittingly
having misled the girl. He had made her
the victim of his own selfishness. Enjoy-
ing her company, he had caused her to
think that he was a suitor, and caused the
world, perhaps, to regard their relations as
guilty. He was particularly angered with
himself for not having spoken of May.
May was the one he loved.
One thing was certain; he must no longer
permit the continuance of this misappre-
hension. Alma must be allowed to under-
stand that he regarded her simply as a
friend, and, further, that there was a pos-
sibility of another woman becoming his
wife within six months. .
He found to his surprise, m thinking
out the matter, that he had entirely for-
gotten his intention of visiting Europe,
entered into with such enthusiasm when
May left. It was close upon the date he
had fixed for his departure. It was too
late now. He would have to see out the
year, awaiting May’s decision, which he
felt sure would be in his favor.
It was strange, he thought, that Alma had
never referred to May. It was quite pos-
sible that the Greys had not come into con-
tact with her when they were at Illawarra;
still, May was an Illawarra girl, and since
she had become Madame Illara her name
was on everybody’s tongue, and the facts
of her earlier life—not all of them, Jimmy
was pleased to recall —had been printed far
and wide. It was certainly strange that
Alma had not once mentioned her, despite
the fact that old days at Illawarra had
filled a large part of their conversation.
There was Patsy Quirk, for instance. Alma
cared nothing about pugilism, yet she had
manifested genuine interest in the rise of
Jimmy’s schoolmate, from his early boj -
hood until he worked his way to the title
of One-punch Patsy, and eventually to the
proud position of middleweight champion of
the world.
Alma had always held the idea that a
prizefighter was necessarily a blackguardly
person, something superhuman in strength
and sub-human in sentiment and feeling.
She was astounded to learn that Jimmy held
Patsy in regard, almost reverence, as one of
the straightest, whitest, most kindly fellows
it had ever been his privilege to know, and
surprised, too, that Patsy had prevailed
over Jimmy’s superior strength, as an
amateur, solely by reason of an instinct for
anticipation and a nerve system so pecu-
liarly constituted that it could translate
thought into action as quickly as electricity.
Alma had met Stan Carlisle, had visited
his studio with Jimmy with a feeling that
she was entering into somewhat of an


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable t hr e e-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
jtffe 1
k \!
New “ Room
Only ” Rates
The
alia
/rusti
c
Hotel
SYDNEY
Reduced Tariff
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room . . . . . . from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet . . . • • • from 2I /- per day
Double Room with Private Bath and
Toilet . . . . • • from 30/- per day
Breakfast,
2/- and 3/6; and a la carte.
Luncheon a.nd Dinner,
a la carte in Grill Room, minimum 4/-;
d la carte in Dining Hall, minimum 5/-.
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney
adventure. She ' was genuinely interested
in art, as far as she could understand it, but
had regarded an artist as a sort of strange
being who lived in an atmosphere of his
own, Avore long hair, never paid his bills
and Avas subject to none of the sentiments
and emotions Avhicli animated the rest of
the world.
In view of all these facts, it seemed
especially strange that she should have made
no mention of the girl Avho had put Illa-
Avarra on the map.
Jimmy reasoned that she must have heard
his name coupled Avith that of May. There
had been no scandal, of that he was sure.
A few busybodies may have talked about
them in the old days at Illawarra; that is
the custom Avith a section in every country
town. But any such talk must have been
long forgotten. Nobody knew of his holi-
day at Mornington—not even Stan Car-
lisle, who imagined that Jimmy had spent
the Avhole time around Melbourne. The
only rumors, if there were any, must have
arisen from their frequent but unsatisfac-
tory interviews during May’s season in
Sydney. They were not very important
items on which to base a romance; still, it
Avas possible that he had been pointed out
as the love-lorn suitor of the famous singer;
that fact alone would account for many
people knowing of his existence. Some such
story might have reached Alma.
Jimmy trusted that it had; matters,
would be simplified. Did she knoAV that he
Avas enamored of the prima donna, she
could not have misinterpreted his motives
in seeking her company. Jimmy determined
to find out.
CHAPTER XXXI.
One night Jimmy finished up his work
about nine and strolled into one of the
Araudeville houses. Hanging over the rail
at the back of the circle, lie saw part of
the last turn of the first half. Then the
lights went up, and, as the men melted
away for their drinks, the women com-
menced to glance about the house looking
for friends and prospective friends.
Two seats in front of Jimmy were a
couple of women unescorted. They were
turning their heads one way and the other,
seeking a familiar face. Then the younger
turned toAvards Jimmy, caught his eye and
smiled.
Jimmy recognised her at once, bowed
and stepped down the aisle to the vacant
seat at her side.
Suddenly he realised that she had not
recognised him; that she had smiled at him
simply as a matter of designed coquetry
to make his acquaintance; that, in short,
she was “picking him up.” As she took
his hand, she gazed meaningly at him. “This
is Mr. Gascoigne,” she said, introducing her
companion—“Miss Sinclair.”
Miss Sinclair looked Jimmy over and was
obviously annoyed that she had not seen
him first. But she soon decided that Jimmy
was not equal to appearances. He Avas a
dull companion. His conversation with the
first girl Avas in monosyllables. Of Miss
Sinclair he took practically no notice, which
Avas something that Miss Sinclair did not
like. /
Jimmy was preoccupied and thoughtful.
The girl whom he had recognised looked
and acted as the same refined girl she had
been when he first met her, but the other
was a blatant vulgarian who advertised in
futurist posters the fact that she followed,
if not precisely practised, the oldest pro-
fession in the world. Jimmy was pre-
occupied and thoughtful because the girl
he had spoken to was Muriel Grey.
Laura Sinclair soon dropped out of the
conversation altogether. She was flushing
Avith indignation under her rouge. This Avas
not the first time a casual acquaintance
had shown a preference for the company of
the other girl—some, in fact, had committed
the supreme offence of transferring their
affections. She let her eyes rove and con-
trived to fasten them on those of a stout,
prosperous, elderly exquisite a few seats
back, and, as Muriel prattled inconsequen-
tialities to Jimmy, lured him to her side.
He, too, Avas introduced under a nom
d’amour, and before the conclusion of the
performance Jimmy Avas pleased to hear
Laura announce that she was off to supper
Avith him as she bade them good-bye.
Once or twice Jimmy caught Muriel look-
ing at him as if trying to recollect his
face, but she said nothing, and he remained
“Mr. Gascoigne” to her.
Muriel had gained in personality what
she had lost in morals. In the Illawarra
days she had been pretty, conventional,
colorless, trite—a pretty society girl in the
worst sense of the word. To-day there was
life and spirit in her prettiness. Her con-
versation was smart. She revealed a know-
ledge of cities and men, both of which she
had had ample opportunities of study. She
knew the world about her. And yet
Jimmy was very unhappy at his discovery,
and it was a task to conceal his unhappiness.
“I’ve got a chap with me here,” she
confided, as they left the theatre to go to
supper. “Keep your eye out for him.
He’s as jealous as Hell. I only got over
from the West on Saturday. I left him in
Melbourne, but he might turn up at any
moment.” „
“Why didn’t you stay in Melbourne with
him?”
“Not much!” replied Muriel. “My people
are in Melbourne. I don’t want to see any
of them. You understand.”
Jimmy understood more than she
imagined. So she did not know that Alma
was in Sydney. That was what he wanted
to ascertain.
In her appearance Muriel gave no indi-
cation of the life she Avas following. That
was partly the reason she had made it a
success—as such successes are. She dressed
with taste; her speech had not become
vulgarised—at any rate, no more vulgarised
than that of many girls still of the over-
world. Neither rouge nor peroxide had
been pressed into the service of decoration.
“I’ve got a flat with Laura in Oxford
Gardens. No. 225. Ask for Miss Wilder.”
Jimmy decided that the time had come
for action.
“If you don’t mind,” he said, “I’ll go
home with you to-night. No,” he added
hastily—“no love-making. Only a little
talk I want to have.”
“You’re a funny fellow,” she laughed.
“All right.”
They took a taxi out to the flat. Jimmy
waited until she had taken off her hat and
got into a kimono and then sat facing her.
“You don’t know, I suppose, that Alma
is in Sydney?”
Lines showed in her face.
“Alma! My God!” she cried. “Then
you knew me all the time. Who are you?
Used I to know you when we lived in
Darling Point?”
Jimmy shook his head. “I was only a
humble firer in your father’s ovens then.
My name is Jimmy Packington.”
Muriel gave him a searching look, satis-
fied herself and threw her head forward,
sobbing in her hands.
Jimmy sat silent until she had recovered.
“How do you know Alma’s here?” she
asked at last.
“I saw her yesterday.”
“She mustn’t see me,” said the girl after
a pause. “You won’t tell her you saw me.
Will you?”
“Of course not; that’s what I came home
with you for.”
“It. would have been better to have
stayed on in Melbourne. Dad isn’t often
in town. I left for fear I’d run across
Alma.”
“How long is it since you saw them?”
he asked.
“Why, don’t you know anything about
it?” she replied. “It was three years ago
I left for the West.”
Then she told her story. When the
smash came she left for Melbourne with
her father. It was imperative that the
girls should work to keep their home going.
She and Alma had started in the same tea-
room.
“But I wasn’t like Alma,” she confessed.
“Although she was only a kid to me she
always knew how to take care of herself.
I was a fool.”
While she was employed at the tea-room,
Jimmy concluded, one or two romances
had come into Muriel’s life. She also had
been one of the class “in between.” But
as yet there was no open rupture of the
conventions. That resulted only after a
year of drudgery and hopelessness and
poverty had strained endurance to the
breaking-point—‘drudgery and hopelessness
and poverty which made the square jaw of
Alma set only the harder.
Gyp Gurner, the Leviathan bookmaker of
Perth, came over for the Cup and was
waited on one day by the pretty and lady-
like waitress—so pretty and ladylike that
he frequently sought the same table. They
began to meet outside and Gyp Gurner
fell very much in love, so much that he
“On entering Muriel’s room Jimmy was greatly annoyed
to find Joe Prince there.’’
offered the pretty and
ladylike waitress a
share of his fortunes,
at that time rather
considerable.
Muriel was fond of
the bookmaker. His
illimitable good nature
and his frank wor-
ship appealed to her. He offered the way
out and she took it. She'left Melbourne
with Gurner and posted a letter for her
father and Alma—a letter which made
the old man break down and which made
Alma for a time hate her sister with cruel
bitterness.
Gurner was a wealthy, free-handed man.
He had done his best to help old Grey
and Alma financially. They had replied to
Muriel’s letters expressing forgiveness for
her act, but steadfastly refusing to resume
friendly relations and strongly resenting
Gurner’s offer.
Muriel had been very happy with Gurner.
Then he died bequeathing to her about
£lO,OOO. But Gyp Gurner was a follower
of racing, not of politics. He knew the
form of every horse in the Commonwealth;
but he quite overlooked the fact that six
months before his death the legislature had
passed an Act invalidating all wills which
failed to make provision for widows and
children. Muriel’s legacy was worthless.
Gurner’s wife, a woman from whom he
had parted ten years previously, since when
she had been living with various men,
came over from Sydney and claimed the
property. Muriel was cast upon her own
resources, those resources being a pretty
face and figure, a nice taste in dress, a
pleasant manner and an utter helplessness
in providing for her maintenance.
She was badly in debt when a good angel
in the person of an acquaintance of her
late protector got her out of her difficulties.
In gratitude, she accompanied the good
angel on a trip to England. Business kept
him there, so he paid Muriel’s passage back
to Adelaide with £lOO to start her. When
that £lOO was gone, another philanthropist
was found....and so on.
Now Muriel had reached the stage when
the man in the case was primarily some-
body who would sign the cheques. Whether
he appealed to her was immaterial. She
could find men who appealed to her out-
side, and unfortunately they generally
happened to be men who were unable to
sign one cheque for the amount Muriel
would spend in a week.
It was a relief to tell her story to some-
body who was as sympathetic as Jimmy.
As she concluded, her thoughts went back
to Alma and her proximity.
Jimmy told her where Alma worked, her
hours, the places where she was most likely
to be found.
“She never goes to races or to the Baby-
lon?”
“No.”
“Nor to the theatres?”
“Not unless I’m with her. I’ll give you
a ring when we’re going. But we’re often
in the surf. We’ll stick to Bondi in future.
You keep to Manly and Coogee and you’ll
be all right. Sometimes we have picnics at
outside places on Sundays. But I’ll let
you know.”
(Continued on page 49.)


HAIR
e y
tr
NEED
N°
HERES
tfk -
m
Grey Hair' ia always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
Mediums CMEXICANJ
tikUtud Stain
♦removes the grey”*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6), 6d. being postage.
fdgdg
©!
®v
Murdoch's Introduce
50j£
SELF GRIPPIN6
SPORTS TROUSERS
TTASE! Freedom! Away with cumbersome braces and
continually slipping belts. In Murdoch’s exclusive
“Knicbelt” Trousers is concealed an elastic belt-
efficient, reliable, and, above all, comfortable.
Murdoch’s new “Knicbelt”
Cream Gabardine Sports
Trousers
rz'6
The new “Knicbelt” Grey
Flannel Sports Trousers.
Latest cut
22'6
Sports Coats
Here’s a bargain—the new-
est Tweed Sports Coats for
men. Pleasing pat- -| O/A
terns. Well made
POST FREE
Mail to Desk “R.
'■
m
m
ill
\ . CEQRGESL. SYDNEY
AIDS FOR FARMERS
The Easy Way
■-
r \
T
w»f-|
81
@1
Less time is needed
for sinking postholes
when you use a “Sey-
mour” Earth Auger.
With this tool you can
save hours in a day—
and it’s easier work,
too!
Made in several sizes:
3 to 6 in., 11/3 each.
7in., 12/-; Bin., 12/6 ;
9in., 13/6; 10in„ 14/3
“MACSON”
EARTH
SCOOPS
Will make your work
easier and speed up
the construction of
drains, dams, roads,
etc.
They are stronger than
they need be, yet are
quite light.
3 cub. feet ... 59/-
5 cub. feet ... 64/3
7 cub. feet ... 70/-
10 cub. feet ... 112/6
Sickle Grinder.
The Bevel Sickle Grinder
shown above clamps to your
implement and sharpens two
sections at once.
Grinds at the correct angle,
and runs at an exceedingly
high speed.
The cone grinding wheel is
3 Jin. x 3 Jin., and an ordinary
stone 4 Jin. x Ijin. is also
supplied for ordinary tool-
grinding.
50/- each.
We Stock All Types of Pumps
CATALOG FREE ON REQUEST.
Proprietary limited
Established, JStiO.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distiguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
In aid of the Lord Mayor’s unemploy-
ment fund the old-world pageant organised
by Mrs. W. E. Bush was repeated in the
City Hall, with a few additions to the pro-
gramme. Philip O’Bryen Hoare gave a
descriptive interlude, and there were several
new-old costumes, notably a black velvet
cloak said to have been worn by Charles
1., and found in a Royalist mansion in
Somerset where the king once _ lay hid.
Lionel Christensen wore it this time. Mrs.
G. E. Rowe was in a Court gown worn at
Edward Vll.’s coronation. A costume which
appeared at a reception to the Duchess of
Connaught in Ottawa 35 years ago was an-
other interesting moving picture.
Eight hundred arid thirty-seven kiddies
from the Kyogle district came over at the
Railway Commissioners’ invitation to make
acquaintance with Brisbane. They were
lunched in the Botanic Gardens, and when
parading to the City Hall held up the traffic
in Adelaide-street —a sturdy, liealthy-looking
lot, full of high spirits and buns and lemon-
ade. Eight special trams took them about
the city; many had never been on a tram
or a train before.
The latest batch of Justices of the Peace
includes four women: Freda Bage, Mrs.
Graham Mylne, Mrs. J. G. Watson (who has
so much to do with the Catholic Daughters
of Australia movement) and Miss M. A. Ogg.
Vernon Wingate Fysh, of Tummaville,
Pittswortb, and Hazel Hamilton, daughter
of the G. H. Grahams, Etswold Esk, were
married in the Anglican Church at Jondar-
yan, built 60 years ago by the bride’s grand-
father. The bride- was given away by her
father in hand-broidered ivory chiffon voile
over shell-pink. She wore a pink Bangkok
hat and carried heather and pink roses.
Gwenda Graham ’maided in maize crepe de
Chine and Bangkok hat. The William Kents
lent Jondaryan homestead for the feasting.
WESTRALIA.
Perth
There is no actual free ward at St. John
of God’s Hospital, but the equivalent number
of a ward full of deserving cases are dis-
tributed throughout the hospital and tended
free of charge. Towards their maintenance
the St. John’s Free Ward Ball is an annual
effort. The Y.A.L. housed the 1930 dance
this week. Mrs. Wilford Mitchell was pre-
sident and wore black velvet and a red rose
on the corsage; her daughter Maud had a
butterfly-bow on the back of her delphinium
georgettes, and Gertrude’s blue taffetas were
patterned with flowers; Mrs. Roy Mitchell
chose blue moire; Clare Noonan’s lemon
frock was fashioned of taffetas and silk
net; Patsy Regan wore shell-pink; Mrs.
Leo Gibbons was all white georgettes and
lace; Mrs. John Walsh was a souffle of pale
pink chiffons; Mrs. Dave Walsh was attrac-
tive in cream chenille velvet; Elsie Paxton
danced in ivory ninon; Eileen Foley, of the
Karoola, wore green; Jo Davies wps in red
and her sister Becca in pink moire velvet.
Poppy Salom wore fuschia touched with
silver.
To obtain gifts for the fete in November
the Children’s Hospital Auxiliary had a tea
and music afternoon in the Piccadilly ball-
room. Each visitor had to bring an article
suitable for sale on a bazaar stall. The room
overflowed by three o’clock, but extra chairs
were forthcoming, and clothes-baskets of
brown paper parcels were satisfactorily full.
Mrs. Shortland-Jones, who steered the effort,
looked nice in black, and Mrs. Derry wore
mulberry and dangly earrings. David Lyle,
Nell Shortland-Jones and Thelma Neil were
among the artists.
Temple Court’s seductive music and smooth
floor draw lovers of dancing to the bi-weekly
cabarets. A poster behind the dais and a big
ad. for Show Week were the only decorations
on Friday night. Mrs. Allan Wilson’s pinky
taffetas sported a tiered skirt and a little
yoke of tulle; Mrs. Grieve wore black lace
and a red rose; Marjorie Walsh was in ivory
tulle and taffetas ; Flora Shaw’s cream frock
terminated in lace flared about the hem;
tangee chiffons clad Mrs. Fairweather:
Norma Rolland’s gown had a strawberry
background; Gretchen Hardie was striking
in apple-green satin with a sparkly rhine-
stone yoke; the skirt of Mrs. Hugh Banger’s
pink ninon was fanciful with zigzag ribbons ;
mushroom chenille velvet was Marjorie Ban-
nan’s choice.
The engagement is announced of Chrissie
Dodds, of Swanbourne, and Reg Marfleet, of
Peppermint Grove.
One cannot but admire the industry of
Mr. 11. E. M. Flinn in writing a three-act
play and his courage in presenting it to the
public in these dark days for the legit. The
plot of “Travail” made the audience shudder
at the horrors practised in sixteenth-century
Holland under the yoke of the Spanish In-
quisition. Bessie Durlacher (Mrs. Keith
Farrington), whose period gowns suited her
perfectly, did very well as the beautiful
Estella. John Brooks’s enunciation was a
pleasing feature, and A. J. Bishop was con-
vincing. The play was produced by John
Brooks.
Mrs. H. F. Gray rind her two small
daughters left by the Mongolia on their way
to Auckland. Helena Ackroyd-Stuart catches
the Naldera at the end of the month for
London.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The last two S.A.J.C. meetings at Mor-
phettville drew only a fair attendance. Mrs.
S. J. Jacobs was acting hostess for Mr.
Whitmore Carr (chairman) on the first day,
and Mrs. R. M. Cudmore on the second.
Lady Hore-Ruthven made a brief appearance
in a black satin coat with a mole fur collar
and a black close-fitting hat. The warm
Wednesday brought out quite a crop of
chiffons and shady straw hats.
Miss Hope Pritchard returned to England
by the Baradine, after being the guest for
some months of Lady Hore-Ruthven at Gov-
ernment House. Lady Hore-Ruthven will
depart for England in December to spend
the Christmas vacation with her son Peter.
His Ex. will leave later on six months’ leave
of absence.. Chief Justice George Murray
will take his place. Sir Archibald and Lady
Weigall are to spend a month in Adelaide
early in the New Year. They were our
vice-regal couple from 1920 to 1922 and made
a host of friends here.
Civic heads must be all things to all people.
One day last week the Mayor and Mayoress
gave a morning reception for the delegates
of the Australian Band of Hope and Young-
People’s Temperance Union, and in the after-
noon entertained the winegrowers. The
flowers at the reception were lovely—purple
and mauve flag-lilies mixed with prunus,
and an abundance of roses. Mrs. Bonython
wore a smart frock of black crSpe de Chine
patterned in beige, and her close-fitting black
hat was of cire straw.
A golf gymkhana at Kooyonga proved a
great success, over 200 players assembling
from various clubs. All sorts of freak golf
were indulged in upon the spacious lawn
in front of the golf house, each club being-
responsible for an item. Lady Hore-Ruthven
took part. The effort was on behalf of the
Country Women’s Association. The jumpers,
cardigans and berets worn supplied a riot
of color, some being very jazzy.
The Mawson lady gave a farewell party
at her residence at Brighton, prior to her
husband’s departure again in the Discovery.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven were
among the guests.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This cheery countenance belongs to Jean
Swan, who
crowned her-
self with suc-
cess 'at the
II epertory
Society’s per-
formance o f
“The Young
Idea.” She is
a girl of many
activities be-
sides social
ones, but one
of her chief
hobbies is the
amateur stage.
As Gerda, the
irresistible and
i r r e p ressible
who with her
brother’s help
rescues her
father from
an unhappy
second mar-
riage and leads him back to his first wife,
she gave us some notable work.
His Ex. included the Philharmonic
Society’s concert in his weekly job: George
Jackson flourished his baton through an
excellent programme, the chief item being
Mozart’s Concerto in D minor, with Claude
Mitchell as soloist. Warblers included
Doreen Bidencope, Freda Elliott, Lila Har-
vey, Frank Purchas, Allen Limb and A.
Paton.
The chocolate suburb of Claremont had
a smart little dance at the village hall. A
committee of country folk, calling them-
selves the Hayseeds, dressed the building
with stooks of wheat and barnyard acces-
sories. The women wore haymakers’ hats—■
not the real article, but the picturesque
variety—and the men had red cotton hand-
kerchiefs tied round their necks when they
lined up to receive the guests.
Kathleen, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J. M.
Pardey, of Lapoinya, Launceston, and Walter
Menzies, son of the late W. Menzies, of Mel-
bourne, entered into a life partnership with-
out much frill or fuss, the Rev. Ross
Ilewton tying the knot at St. John’s. The
bride’s - dress of pale beige lace had triple
flounces falling to the angle and a graceful
little shoulder cape; it was worn with a
hat of brown baku and felt. A few inti-
mates gathered at Lapoinya afterwards to
farewell the newly-weds. The going-away
turnout was an ensemble of brown and
beige silk.
Launceston has a new golf club, .more
accessible and less cramped than King’s
Meadows. The links lie between the Show-
grounds and the railway at Newstead, and
on the opening day a big throng responded
to the members’ invitation to sample them,
Tea was set in the Association Tennis Club’s
tealiouse near by. ,E. 11. Ritchie, patron of
the club, declared it officially open, the first
ball being driven by the president, O. G.
Douglas, The foursomes competition was
won by Jane Douglas and G. W. Water-
house. It was beautiful spring weather, and
the country was looking its best.
Bruce Watchorn, M.C., son of Col. and
Mrs. E. T. Watchorn and lieutenant m
the Australian Staff Corps, writes home to
announce his engagement to Mary, only
daughter of the Samuel Fareys, of Rose-
hill (N.S.W.).
Dorothy, elder daughter of. the Ernest
Sorells, Thorneycroft, Macquarie-street, and
John Russell, son of the Rev. and Mrs.
Hutchinson, Logan, Bothwell, are another
recently betrothed pair.


A LITTLE SAVING
in your Youth
Will Save a Lot of Slaving
in your Old Age.
Provide for YOUR FUTURE by effecting a Life policy with the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS, £78,500,000
The whole of which belongs to the members.
All Classes of Life assurance business transacted, including Group
and Probate policies.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney. F. T. BRIDGES, General Manager.
Assurance with A.M.P. makes assurance DOUBLY SURE.
If any illustration in
“The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write to the Manager, who
will quote you price for the original.
It was nearing 2 a.m. when Jimmy left.
Muriel kissed him at the door from force
of habit. It was a kiss of sadness; there
was nothing of passion on the part of
either.
CHAPTER XXXII.
A week later Muriel’s cheque-provider
was still in Melbourne, and until he arrived
Jimmy saw no way of getting Muriel out
of Sydney. Fortunately in that city it is
possible for two people to live for years
without meeting.
Jimmy carefully kept Muriel posted as to
Alma’s movements and the sisters ran little
risk of an encounter.
Eight days after their first meeting Jimmy
received a ’phone message from Muriel to
come out to Oxford Gardens. As it hap-
pened, he was able to do so, and on enter-
ing Muriel’s room was greatly annoyed to
find Joe Prince there.
Long had he avoided Joe Prince. He
had no desire to acquaintance with the
arch-corrupter—the man whom he hoped
some day to put behind the prison bars
that so long had yawned for him in vain.
“Glad to meet you. I’ve known you for
a long time by sight,” said Prince breezily
as he took Jimmy’s hand.
“Now I’ll leave you two together to talk
business,” said Muriel and retired to her
bedroom.
Jimmy was mystified. What business had
Joe Prince to talk with him? A dozen
suspicions crossed his mind—that Joe Prince
was the Melbourne lover; that he had be-
come a lover here and, finding that she
knew Jimmy, was seeking his assistance in
some nefarious scheme; that Prince was
about to make some offer regarding Des
Quirk’s release.
“Well, Mr. Packington,” began Prince,
“I believe you know all that poor little
girl’s story. It’s a rotten shame, the luck
she’s had. Gyp Gurner was an old friend
of mine, and I know he worshipped the
ground she trod on, and here she is now—
well, you can see for yourself. It’s rotten,
rotten.... I thought she was well provided
for, and I knew nothing till I met her the
other day, like yourself.
“But I fancy there’s a way out. Gurner’s
wife’s here in Sydney now; she comes from
this side. I’ve known her for twenty years,
and she’s about the biggest rotter that ever
wore petticoats. Gyp would have divorced
her years ago, but, like a fool, he took
pity on her when he found her out, and, by
the time he realised the full strength of
her he’d put himself out of court. That’s
the beautiful divorce law we’ve got.
“But I know a few things about Flo
Gurner that he didn’t know. Between our-
selves, I know enough to put her where the
ten thousand she’s handling—the ten thou-
sand that rightly belongs to that poor little
devil in there—won’t do her any good for
many years. And I tell you what I’m
going to do. I’m going to give her a
chance to cut it up fifty-fifty with this
girl, or up she goes.”
He drew a deep breath.
“Now I want your assistance. There’s
a fellow named Herbert Evan Royal—Spike
Royal; get that?—ydio can prove every-
thing. Never mind what it is at present.
I don’t know where he is now and it’d
take me time to find out. You can work
it quickly through your correspondents all
over Australia—they’ll do it for you. Royal
follows racing as a general thing, but he’s
like the rest of us—he follows anything
there’s money in. The police probably
have an eye on him wherever he is. If
you write to each of your correspondents
in the capitals and Auckland and Welling-
ton and Dunedin, they’ll probably place
Spike. Then let me know at once. That’s
all I want you to do.”
Jimmy was suspicious of Prince. “And
if she does come it,” he inquired, “how
much is Muriel going to get out of it?”
Prince thought a moment. “It all depends.
We may have to bring Spike to Sydney and
pay his expenses, but I don’t fancy it’ll
go as far as that. It shouldn’t cost more
than thirty quid altogether.”
“And what about yourself?” asked Jimmy.
Prince turned fiercely. “Do you think
I’d take a penny from Gyp Gurner’s girl?
What do you take me for? Why, I knew
that girl’s father, too, old C. J. Grey. Damn
it all, there’s some things that are over the
odds. I’m helping that poor little devil in
that room. This isn’t business.”
He was plainly in earnest. Jimmy walked
over to him and shook his hand. “Mr.
Prince,” he said, “I’ve been mistaken in
you. I’m glad to know you.”
Joe smiled. “You needn’t have been so
damned virtuous yourself,” he retorted.
“You’ve done your little bit towards cor-
rupting the fount of pure justice. What
about trying to square the prosecution at
Illawarra for sly-grogselling? What about
backing out of your inquiries of the Ball-
Weston land business when you found
Roger Charles was mixed up in it? What
about trying to secure the release of a
criminal who had just served half his sen-
tence? You’ve kept your amateur status;
that’s about the only difference between
us.”
“And now you ask me to be your accom-
plice in a case of straight-out blackmail?”
said Jimmy.
“Yes,” muttered Prince. “I suppose you
can put it that way.”
“And I’m so lost to all moral sense that
Im going to do it.”
Jimmy left full of astonishment at the
attitude of Joe Prince. He had never
credited the man with anything but a
shrewdness in making money in devious
ways. That he should go to trouble and
take a certain risk out of sheer kindness of
heart seemed something approaching a
miracle. Why had a man of such feeling
and sentiment adopted that mode of live-
lihood? Jimmy gave it up.
Meantime he got busy. He sent about
a dozen urgent wires to the capitals and to
some of the larger cities where racing men
foregather. Two days later a wire came
from Broken Hill:
Spike Royal working Plummer tobacco-
nist bookmaker Argent-street.
The wire was sent to Joe Prince and
another couple of days passed.
Then Prince ’phoned one evening and
Jimmy took him round to Stan’s studio
where they were alone.
“Come off?” inquired Jimmy.
“Of course,” replied Prince. “I held all
the cards. She put up a bluff for about
five minutes, went so far as to ring up and
get put on to the C.I. branch, but I just
sat there quietly and let her go her way.
She dropped the receiver and her bundle,
too. It’s all over bar shouting. She’s got
to go to the lawyer’s to-morrow morning
and fix it all up. I had a bit of trouble
with the bloke she’s got, though. , He
wanted to butt in. But when she saw what
was coming she shooed him off, and it’s
hard work for little Willy in future. It’s
terrible hard to be robbed of your bread-
winner.”
“And what about Muriel now?”
“To start with,” said Prince, “she’d better
shake that chap in Melbourne. She doesn’t
give a damn for him, and from what I can
gather he isn’t much class. He’ll be tired
of her in a few weeks, then it’ll be some-
body else. She’s too decent a girl for that.
One thing, we’ll have to get her away before
her sister knows. You never know when
they’ll bump. Melbourne’s cut out, too,
because of the old man.
“She’d better get back West again. She
was never on the loose over there. Every-
body knows her as the widow of Gyp
Gurner, or, at any rate, what’s the same
thing. Only a couple know she didn’t go
to England alone, and they’re not the talk-
ing sort. It’ll be a bit hard for her to
settle down to live on about £3OO a year,
because we’ve got to see that money’s tied
up in safe investments that she can’t get
at. But I fancy she’s got sense enough
now to see reason.
“Of course she won’t cut men right out.
If she would she’d stand a good chance of
getting married, but it’s veiy hard for girls
when they’ve once started. All the same,
I think she’ll be a bit careful in future.
You have a go at her; talk to her like a
Dutch uncle and hold up her sister—she
thinks an awful lot of her—as an example.
If you’re any good at the sob stuff, pile it
on thick. It’s in a good cause.”
Jimmy talked to Muriel as much like a
Dutch uncle as he was able. He secured
her dying promise to renounce extravagance
and exercise scrutiny over the men who
attracted her attention. She vowed by all
that was holy not to give glad eyes to
strangers in theatres any more, and Jimmy
forced her to break straight away with
Laura Sinclair and all her kind—an incident
which Muriel felt was base ingratitude, a
view also taken by Laura, when she de-
scribed the incident later to acquaintances,
with much embellishment both of fact and
language. Had Laura known the result of
Joe Prince’s unlawful act her annoyance
would have been far more serious; but
both Prince and Jimmy forced Muriel to
keep the story from her—the part which
Muriel had been told. All that Laura
knew was that Muriel was breaking with
her.
“Going off with that puffed-up mutt Gas-
coigne,” she told her next best friend.
“Lot o’ good she’ll do with him. Hasn’t
got a word to say for himself, and as far
as I can see he hasn’t a bean to rap on
a tombstone. And he’s as mean as gutter
water. And to think I took that girl in
when she hadn’t a rag to her back!”
Prince and Jimmy fixed up Muriel’s
affairs for her, put her on a boat bound for
Fremantle and breathed freely once more
as they bade her good-bye, Jimmy advising
her to write to her father and to Alma
telling them of her return from England
and of her comfortable financial position.
“For it is comfortable,” persisted Jimmy.
“And do try to forget the habit of spend-
ing all the money you wanted to.”
“You needn’t be afraid of that,” assured
Muriel, as Jimmy left to walk down the
gang-plank. “I’ve had enough experience.
I don’t want any more.”
“I wonder whether she’ll keep to that
resolve,” said Jimmy to Prince as they left
the Quay. “She’s sincere enough now, but
she’s a weak type and I feel afraid of the
future.”
“They’re the problem, the weak ones,”
agreed Prince. “If it wasn’t for them, the
bad ones like me’d never get a look in.”
(To be continued next week.)


CHRISTMAS GIFTS
;
mm
htiiiiiHiiii mil jjji ,
g§ti«l»ii«fai
mm
K
liHili
4j ‘-'^!iu t iniu.; l u l .i lt i ll[ ;t„,|., l ,„^i t f;
919 —BASKET SEWING CASE, 9fin. long:, con-
taining finest quality fittings, 45/- each.
m
LADY’S COMPANION, the “COMPLETE OUT-
FIT.’’ Size when closed, about Bxs inches.
Covered with Best Roan Leather and Fine Leather
Lined; containing Best Steel 2-blade Knife, 3
pairs Best Quality Nickel-plated Scissors, Button
Hook, Needles and other fittings, 68/6 per case,
complete. Morocco Case, 79/6 complete.
No. 14—LADY’S FOLDING MANICURE SET,
•with Xylonite fittings, 27/6, complete.
f -1
022 —POCKET FOLDING SHAVING OUTFIT.
Size when folded, 7\ x 3i x li inches. Case
made of Fine Grained Leather, with Leather
Lining—made to last—containing W. Jno. Baker
Razor Downy Tan Strop, Shaving Brush, Shaving-
Soap, and Comb. Price, with W. Jno. Baker
Hollow Ground Black Handle Razor, 35/-. With
Xylonite Handle Razor, 37/6 each.
812 —COUNTRY GENTLEMAN’S POCKET KNIFE,
4 Special Blades, 3*in. Stas Haft, 12/6; Ivory, 12/6;
Pearl, 16/f> each.
LADY’S SCISSORS CASE. Made of Fine Roan
Leather, Lined with Velvet. ■ Size when folded about
8 x 3J inches.
No. G 6—4 pair, contains: 1 pair 7in. Cutting-out.
Scissors, 1 pair Embroidery, 1 pair Nail and 1 pair
sin. Lady’s Scissors ; all nickel-plated, 30/- per case,
complete.
03 —TWO RAZORS IN FLAT CASE, both being- V.
Jno. Baker best quality, Hollow Ground, with Xylo-
nite Handles, in Roan Leather Case, Silk and Velvet
Lined, 27/6.
C4 —Black Handles, 22/6.
05 —Xylonite Handles, in Oak Case, 35/-
ANY OF ABOVE POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Made in Sheffield.
Flower Scissors, cuts
and holds the flower;
7in. nickel-plated, 8/6
each.
Nso—Strong Nail Nip-
per, Nickel-plated, 4J
inches overall. In
Fancy Leather Case,
8/6 complete.
Reduced Prices
for
SHIRLEYS and SULPHIDE
Superphosphate (22%)
and other fertilizers
Australian Fertilizers, Ltd., announce a
considerable reduction in the prices or
Shirleys and Sulphide Fertilizers.
Deliveries at these reduced prices will
still be made free on rail at works Port
Kembla or Cockle Creek.
Reduced Prices:
if ordered direct from
3L *I A vJ/vr Company with cash before
PER TON
£4jls/0
PER TON
delivery.
if ordered direct or
through agents—(less 2/6
per ton for cash in 30
days).
Prices for other fertilizers also reduced.
Write to the distributors for the New
Price List.
Australian Fertilizers Ltd.
5 Macquarie Place,
Sydney - - N.S.W.
For Primary Producers
ONLY
A Special Share Issue
An opportunity for Primary Pro-
ducers to participate in the profits
made by the Company from which
they purchase their supplies of
fertilizers —a sound co-operative
scheme, with one of the most
progressive fertilizer companies in
Australia.
V-
A Sound Investment
for the man on the land.
With regard to dividend,
the Primary Producers’
Shares will rank equally
with existing shares, and
after payment of dividend
of 8 % a special dividend
or rebate to Primary Pro-
ducer Shareholders, based
upon the amount of their
purchases of Fertilizers, is
to form a first charge on
Early
Application
Essential to
Local Agent or
Australian Fertilizers, Ltd.,
5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
THE WAY HE LAUGHED.
POLICEMAN (to street Arab) : “Fwhat the divil are yez cryin’ fur?”
STREET ARAB: “I ain’t cryin’, sir.”
POLICEMAN (in astonishment): “Not cryin’?”
STREET ARAB: “No, sir, that’s the way I laugh.” [6/4/’89.]
It was on a crowded skating-rink that
this catastrophe took place, and the victim
ot the disaster will never, never smile any
more Ihere was a glare of gas and a noise
of pleasant melody, and amid the giddy
throng one girl was prominent as the bright-
est and giddiest of them all. Her dense
masses of ebon hair fell in profusion over
her shoulders ; her eyes were large and dark;
her complexion was of that undefinable
shade which is summer sunset faintly shaded
with the tint of the uncooked meat that the
cat hauls across the carpet before anyone
can get at her and stamp on her tail. Her
dainty ears were smaller than a barracouta’s
head, and'.she danced around on her skates
like a dream of fairy bliss. Then she fell
ai) fl l a .y spread out on the floor with her
streaming locks all loose, and the man behind
aer R°t his skates tangled in her curls and
couldn’t stop himself—in fact, he went aw'ay
W] !h the .curls bodily. She rose in hysterics
and fled wildly across the floor without a
single hair on her cranium, and sobbing
fearfully she disappeared through the door-
way the darkness. She never came
back. When she got home that night she
whopped her young sister with a cotton
umbrella until she was covered with bruises,
aU£ i aimed one of her boots at her mother
and the other at the gas-jet. Then the liarm-
less, necessary cat came into the room, and
she seized it by the tail until it was dragged
out to a length of three feet, after which
she played the piano with her feet, and
dashed the contents of the coalscuttle at the
kitchen crockery. Next morning she was
calmer and more reticent, but when she put
her bald head out of her bedroom door and
called loudly for her boots there was a look
°f stony resolution in her left eye which
forbade the family to ask questions. The
cat has now recovered something of the shape
it wore before that unnatural elongation,
but its owner has never gone a-rinking any
more.
*
In the city of Melbourne land was last
Weck sold at £l9o ° per foot - tWBB.]
Germany has a surplus of 1,000,000
women. Now we know why she can’t keep
quiet. Ll4/6/’BB.]
The other day a well-known lover of pic-
tures stepped into a crockery-ware shop in
Parramatta-street, Sydney, and while there
heard a tremendous crash at the other end
of the room. A picture was lying face down-
wards on the floor. The shopkeeper picked
it up and anathematised it. It was old, dirty,
grimed, cobwebbed, awkward and a nuis-
ance. It was, moreover, he said, always
tumbling down and breaking something just
as valuable as itself. Certain of its dim out-
lines and mystic chiaroscuros appealed to
the artistic sympathies of the customer.
“What do you want for it?” said he. “You
can bave it for 65., and glad to get rid of
” He bore it home and cleaned it a little.
Next day a friend offered him £5 for it, and,
being refused, came the next day and offered
£l5. A new arrival dropped in and pounced
upon the picture. He was prepared to give
£2OO. In a vague flutter of pleasurable
excitement the owner took his treasure to a
Sydney connoisseur, who studied it for three
days, and then oracularly said: “You have
in your possession a rare piece of Biblical
art by one of the Oldest Masters. Its value
is probably a couple of thousand pounds ”
[l6/6/’SB.] ,
The late Sultan of Zanzibar leaves 27
widows and 232 children. His full name was
Barghash Bin Saed. Enough has Bin Saed
[23/7/’BB]
Lord Reidhaven, of Oamaru (N.Z.), who
has just succeeded, on the death of his
father, to the earldom and estates of Sea-
field, with a rent-roll of £BO,OOO a year and
a seat in the House of Lords, is a living
and notable example of the ups and downs
of colonial life. Some 12 or 15 years ago,
when plain Mr. Grant, he was a well-to-do
farmer in Otago, and, as a boss cockie, those
who worked for him testify that he was a
good and liberal master. Reverses came to
him, as to many other N.Z. agriculturists,
and Mr. Grant was, in a short time, reduced
from comparative affluence to great poverty.
He was so poor at one time that he was
compelled to earn a living for himself and
family by hawking fish in the streets of
Oamaru, but even then he “kept up his
pecker” and his
native dignity so
well that he was
always known among
his fellow-townsmen
as “Gentleman
Grant.” He, no
doubt, sacrificed his
dignity and reputa-
ti o n subsequently
when he accepted the
office of bum-bailiff
of the local R.M.
court, but even in
that capacity he
gained the respect
and goodwill of the
victims of the law
by the merciful if
somewhat irregular
way in which he dis-
charged the duties
of his office. It is
told of him that on
many occasions,
when lie had to take
possession of some
poor family’s house-
hold effects, he used
to send out for
liquid refreshments,
and after making
merry with the !
household inform
them that, like Ham-
let’s father, it was
his usual custom to
go to sleep of an
afternoon, and to
sleep he accordingly
went. The benevo-
lent hint was usu-
ally taken and the
premises cleared of
their contents be-
fore he awoke, and
if some grasping
local Shylock didn’t
get his pound of
flesh in the shape of
the children’s beds
and bedding and the
little all of household goods, nobody but the
typical usurer himself was particularly sorry.
On becoming Lord Reidhaven with a mod-
erate but sufficient income, he resigned his
position as bailiff and aspired to a scat in
the N.Z. Legislature. The Oamaruffians,
however, did not take kindly in a political
sense to an ex-bailiff, even if he was a lord,
and he was twice rejected at the poll by
large majorities. It is said that the new
ear] intends to continue to reside in Oamaru,
where he has been known as a farmer, fish-
hawker, bailiff and My Lord, and if so it
may be a good thing for that beautiful but
poverty-stricken white stone city. It re-
mains to be seen whether he will invest some
of his great wealth in the land where he
knew and experienced the very dregs of great
poverty, and whether he will again aspire
to a seat in the colonial Parliament. It
forcibly strikes us that it would be a good
thing for that ancient and decrepit branch
of the Home Legislature, of which he is now
a member, if a few of the hereditary peers
had experienced some of the educational
advantages wdiich have fallen to the lot of
the new Earl of Seafield. [7/7/’BB.]
There is, or used to be, in Brisbane an
ancient mariner who loved to look upon the
rum when it was red. He had a flagstaff
in his garden, and sometimes he w T ould hoist
to the uttermost top thereof a bottle: that
meant that he was drunk and consequently
at home to no one, not even to himself.
By-and-bye the bottle would be lowered and
a brown teapot hoisted in its place. That
indicated that he was once more partially
sober.
Eminent botanists and others who have
considered the Chinaman how he grows,
have often been struck with the marked
resemblance wdiich exists between Ah Kum
and Ah Lum, and have noted a considerable
difficulty in sorting out these twin heathens.
Not long ago a gentleman named Wallace,
residing at Nymagee (N.S.W.), employed Ah
Lum —as he imagined—to do some clearing,
but when it came to paying the bill Ah
Lum and Chang See rolled up together, and
each declared that he was the Chow who
had done the work, and each demanded the
money. Wallace couldn’t distinguish them,
and Ah Lum sued him and Chang See
did the same. The defendant produced the
amount, and told the Court that if it would
point out his Celestial he would pay up,
but the Court couldn’t. Then a firm named
Burton attached the debt on the ground that
Chang See owed them some money, but
Chang See, finding things getting sultry,
declared himself to be Ah Lum, and his
creditor couldn’t say positively that he
wasn’t, though he was half-inclined to be-
lieve that both men were Chang See, and
that there never was any Ah Lum at all.
Each of the Ah Lums wanted to know why,
in the event of his winning the case, his
money should be annexed to pay the debt
of Chang See, and the Court really didn’t
know. It asked the defendant if he hadn’t
put a mark on the Chinaman whom he em-
ployed, and he explained that he only knew
him by the amount of soil and grit attached
to him. Both Chinamen being equally loaded
with earth, the Court came to another dead-
lock. Then a deep thinker pointed out that
one of the men must be Chang See, he hav-
ing admitted the fact himself and then
changed his identity in court when his cre-
ditor rolled up, and he suggested that if this
shameless heathen could he scruffed out
things might become a good deal plainer to
the naked eye. It was found, however, that
the men were so mixed up that even this
couldn’t be done, and an attempt to kick
Chang See would as likely as not leave
a bootmark on Ah Lum. Wallace ultimately
suggested that he should leave the coin with
the Court, and that both the Chinamen
should go and sue the firm which claimed
Chang See’s money, and that the firm should
sue both of them in return, and he con-
sidered that by this means, with an inter-
pleader thrown in. and a habeas corpus if
they could find one, they might ultimately
obtain a rule nisi, or something else which
might do as wellat all events he wanted
to go back to his cows, and he would leave
them to skirmish among themselves. Then
the Court grasped the one and only solid
fact which could be found amid that wilder-
POLITICS AND PRAYER.
LITTLE FREDDIE: “ Father, aren’t you a Freetrader?”
BIG FREDDIE: “Yes, certainly."
LITTLE F REDDIE: “Then, why did you pray just now for ‘protec-
tion this night’?” [5/3/’87.]
ness of theory, and a unanimous verdict was
returned that the defendant should keep cool
and lie low, and the Bench would think over
it. An order was also made that the parties
to the suit should look in some other day
when they happened tp he passing, and see
how the Bench was getting on.
She was deaf and in love. He wasn’t,
but he had a difficulty in making her com-
prehend the fact, for when he hollered a
commonplace observation as loud as an 81-
ton gun in her ear she would blush and smile
and look unfathomable things, and he began
to feel uncomfortable over it. But still they
continued to meet, and one night her heart
broke into a flutter, for he bent down and
said something into her ear which sounded
like “Hi hem ho re ra rot!” “I beg your
pardon,” she said sweetly; “I did not quite
catch your observation.” “Hi hem yah bo
ke huff!” he hollered wildly—at least that
was how it sounded to her straining ears.
Then she fell upon his neck and wept. “Yes,
my own,” she sobbed; “I will be yours, for
you won my heart long ago.” “Hi!—here!
I say! doncherknow!—really!” he yelped at
the very summit of his voice, and this time
she managed to understand him. “I was
only asking if you knew what time it was,
Miss Smith.” They have never met since.
A well-known clergyman was calling on
a “relic,” and the widow was telling
him about her husband’s happy death.
“And in the evening,” she said, softly,
“he put his hands together, closed his
eyes, and murmured, ‘And so He giveth
His beloved sleep.’ ” “How beautiful,”
said the clergyman; “falling asleep, indeed !
And those were his last words?” “Not
exactly,” said the widow slowly; “he woke
up in the morning, asked for breakfast,
and choked over a hone in the fish-balls.”
Louise Fuchs, a little girl of Metz, 14
years old, has just been condemned to eight
days’ imprisonment for having insulted the
late Emperor of Germany. The insult con-
sisted in writing a private letter to one of
her little friends, in which there was some-
thing disrespectful to Pious William. Such
sentences are quite common in Alsace-
Lorraine. [l4/4/’BB.]
. A really pathetic thing in mourning-rings
is coming into vogue in some parts of the
world. The new inspiration consists of a
plain gold ring adorned with a miniature
glass coffin, inside which a microscopic
skeleton basks its bones in the sun, with a
vacant smile gleaming on a face about
as large as the summit of a pin. It is
worn chiefly by people who are much given to
tears and snuffles and long black funerals,
when they have no funerals of their own to
go to —people who are addicted to ghosts and
amputated legs and executions, and who seek
the society of men who have been bitten in
two by crocodiles; and as this crepe-fed sec-
tion of the human race musters pretty
strongly there is a good demand for the
latest style in golden ghastliness. Of course,
there is no reason why the weeping howlers
of humanity should not enjoy their woe in
any way that suits them best. [2B/6/’BB. |
The mantelpieces for Sir W. J. Clarke’s
new and ugly mansion at Jolimont (Vic.)
have cost £BOO each. It is said that the
place itself, without furniture, will cost over
£lOO,OOO. [23/6/ ! 88.]
LET’S BE FOOLS TO-NIGIIT: OR THE
THREE PARTNERS.
We, three men of commerce,
Striving wealth to raise,
See but little promise
In the coming days;
1 hough our hearts are brittle,
Hardened near to stone,
We can think a little
Of the seasons flown.
Lily days and rose days,
Youthful days so bright;
We were fools in those days.
Let’s be fools to-night
We, three men of commerce,
Men of business we,
Gave but little promise
Of what we would be
When we wandered urchins—
i Foes of law and rule—
Fearing only birchings
And the village school.
Lily days and rose days,
Boyhood’s days so bright;
We were fools in those days.
Let’s be fools to-night.
Me, three men of commerce,
( Men of business we,
Gave but little promise
Of ability
When we lived in riot,
Never drew the line,
Hating peace and quiet,
Loving maids and wine.
Days when money goes—days
When men’s hearts are right;
We were fools in those days,
Let’s be fools to-night.
We must wear to-morrow
( All our worldly marks,
Calm looks for our sorrow,
Stern looks for our clerks,
Who, from trouble shrinking,
Tasting earthly joys,
Hate us, little thinking,
Ever we were boys.
Days when kindness flows —days
When men’s hearts are white;
We’ve been wise since those days,
Let’s be fools to-night.
[June, 1888.]
HENRY LAWSON.


THE TARN OF MUTE DESPAIR.
At the foot of an iron-bound mountain,
where the dingo: has his lair,
Dies a darkling taru and bitter in a region
; of despair,
And in its brackish waters, as in a magician’s
glass,
The mystic shapes of wrath and gloom in
eerie cortege pass.
There through the awesome midnight is heard
the bittern’s boom,
And the eldritch cry of the curlew, like the
voice of a coming- doom,
And the shrieks of the unknown monsters
that brood o’er the lonesome waste
Startle the ears belated of a traveller in his
haste.
O’er all the land accursed lies the hale of a
witch’s rune,
And the stunted box-trees shiver ’neath the
beams of a spectral moon,
And an imprecation blisters o’er the bleak-
lands sere and dun
In the brazen rays of the noonday and the
hot breath of the sun.
All nature pants and withers, and the heart
of hope is still,
And the song of a bird is never heard, nor
the rhyme of a babbling rill,
And the mountain grim and greenless frowns
in the smiting glare
O’er the brackish darkling waters of the
Tarn of Mute Despair.
[l/11AS9.]
FRED J. BROOMFIELD.
MORGAN’S LEG.
His name was Matthias Morgan on Sun-
days ; on week-days he was content with
plain Mat or Matty. He was a small, florid
individual with brickdust-liued liair and a
pinched face always puckered into a look
of superhuman cuteness; he had abundant
eyebrows all brushed up against the grain
and growing round corners, a cocked-up
nose, and an upper-lip that defied description
and competition, for it occupied two-thirds
of his face to the loss and discomfiture of
the other features, and resembled an inverted
Dutch-oven or an arched verandah. Matty
was a spry, lively little man with a thick
influensated brogue that he brought out from
the old country with him, and which climatic
influences could never impair. He also came
fitted with a series of orthodox religious con-
victions, against which advanced thought and
latter-day scepticism hurled their shafts
and marshalled their arguments in vain. lie
possessed besides some peculiar theological
notions belonging to no particular creed nor
sect, the effects of an ardent imagination and
sadly neglected intellect. Mr. Matthias
Morgan was a platman at the old Austral-
[?] After
CHRISTMAS
WAIL
is the voice of the
[?]adder,
I hear him comlain
"you have roasted my mate,
I must marry again.!"
[5/1/1889.]
asian Mine, Creswick (Vic.), and, though
small and seemingly fragile,'he could dance
round a truck of dirt with the strongest
man that ever pulled a knocker: but one
night, when coming up from afternoon shift,
something was let go, and the cage in which
Matty and three facemen were riding went
to the bottom again with a suddenness that
permitted of neither prayer nor preparation,
Mr. Morgan was subsequently withdrawn
from amongst the wreckage, and forwarded
to the hospital in a very damaged condition;
a few of his ribs were twisted out of gear,
his left leg was fractured, and he was other-
wise impaired.
After giving the crushed leg time to mani-
fest tendencies one way or the other, the
doctors went into committee, and solemnly
agreed that, as there were indications of
something virulent setting in, it would be
advisable to sever Matty’s connection with
that limb, and the painful truth was broken
to the'sufferer as gently as possible. Matty
was a very fluent swearer. He swore vividly
on all occasions that seemed to call for
some show of feeling on his part. He was
weakened by pain and loss of blood when the
impression that lie must be separated from
a leg -with which he had all liis life been
on terms of the closest intimacy dawned
upon him, but he struggled manfully to do
justice to the occasion, and relapsed into
profanity. His voice was feeble and his
energies crippled, but he ranged over a great
variety of heterodox phrases, and seemed to
find relief; and then he beckoned to the
medicoes and whispered in a still, small voice:
“Och, Moses ! Oi’ll doi widout it, but, if ye
can’t cure me wid it, yez can saw it off, an’
tli’ blessed saints have mercy on it. Amen!”
With the assistance of anaesthetics the
wrecked member w r as removed from high up,
and Mat returned to consciousness feeling
considerably unhinged and off his balance.
There was a dim, hazy, unsatisfactory ghost
of a leg on the site of the substantial limb
from which he was now parted for the first
time. Mat was naturally a soft-hearted man,
and the sense of desolation that came over
him caused him again to open out into plain
and fancy swearing, which occupied his
thoughts till the arrival of the doctor.
“Whist, sor!” whispered Matty as the
artist of the saw and scalpel bent over his
bed, “will ye be afther attendin’ the wake
th’ noight, sor?”
“Wake! Which wake?” queried the sur-
geon.
“Whoi, th’ wake av me leg t’ be sure.”
“Hang it all, man ! you surely don’t expect
your friends to honor a leg with a wake?”
Matty was astounded at the terribly low
tone of morality and lack of Christian feel-
ing displayed in this remark, and when
he got his second wind he gasped:
“Och! Docthor, ye wouldn’t be afther
buryin’ a dacent, good Catholic leg loike a
hathen widout a shmall bit av a ruction,
wild ye, now?”
The doctor grinned, but having no argu-
ments to advance, and being himself some-
what doubtful as to the seat of the soul, he
did not attempt to controvert his patient’s
peculiar notions, but continued his business
in silence. Mat, however, entertained strong
opinions regarding the eternal well-being of
that severed limb, and the more he thought
about it the more preposterous and heretical
seemed the idea of burying it “loike a
Choinee” without the customary forms and
formalities attendant on the obsequies of
an able-bodied man from the Ould Sod. He
swore a great deal as he pondered on the
impiety of the thing, and pleaded his case
so urgently with the resident surgeon at
every opportunity, that, for the sake of the
patient’s physical status, he at length con-
sented to hand the leg over to Mr. Morgan’s
hut-mate, Bat Crowley, to be duly “waked”
strictly stipulating that the limb be returned
to the hospital intact in the morning,
So Mat’s leg was well and truly “waked”
that night in the hut of Morgan and Crow-
ley, and Mat lay away in the hospital bed,
blandly peaceful in the consciousness that
the “blioys” were having a high old time over
his inanimate remains, and laying the whisky
waste in approved style, and, perchance,
taking it out of each other according to
custom and precedent. It was just as
pleasant and affable a wake, Terry Clark
remarked, “as if Mat hisself was kilt in-
toirly, instid av bein’ just half dead!” The
leg was well and truly laid out, and the com-
pany bid for the liquors with great spirit;
and, when things grew hot and involved,
and party politics were introduced, and
Rafferty hit Bat on the jaw with a knuckle
of ham. and Clark engaged in a lively and
congenial mill on the floor with Steve Finny,
and Andy Martin danced round and
whooped, and hit every head that showed up
through the general melee, there are reasons
for believing the deceased limb was utilised
as a club to quell the disturbance and unship
Bat Crowley’s left shoulder-blade. Anyhow,
the leg was brought to the hospital next
morning by a policeman, who explained to
Mat that most of the party had been locked
qp for rioting and insulting behavior, which
satisfied the patient that his friends had
really done everything in their power to
give his poor leg an honorable send-off, and,
in gratitude, he made a mental resolve to
get locked up for such of them as should
be “waked” within his reach, and moreover
to cripple the arresting constable and tear
his uniform.
“Doctlior,” said Mr. Morgan, when the
policeman had gone, “Oi’m feelin’ shplendid
well th’ day. Shure, will Oi be fit t’ tend
th’ funeral?”
“Funeral! The devil! You’ll never attend
another funeral'but your own, if you don’t
keep just as still
and cool as an ice-
pack. Who’s dead?”
“Och, yer talk-
in’ ! Me leg’s dead,
av coorce—cut off
in its proime, loike
—an Oi’d be afther
havin’ a dacenc
buryin’ wid Father
Hennessey up in
front, an’ th Hoi-
bernian Society all
follyin’ behind.”
“Nonsense! Non-
sense, my good sir.
That’s all con-
trary to regula-
tions ; this institu-
tion is not pre-
pared to go to
expense over the
obsequies of a limb
that is' absolutely
of no consequence
and has no pros-
pects of an after-
life. W e’U just
plant it down in
the garden some-
where, and save
time and money.”
“Fwhat d’ ye say?” Matty had drawn hito- <
self up almost to a sitting position and his
eyes stuck out like excrescences on a melon. <
“Fwhat’s that? Trow me leg away loike a :
hambone ! Arrah ! Bad cess t’ ye!” ■ And
Matthias tailed off into a long string of
inarticulate profanity, and siibsided into a
pitiable state of mental confusion and settled
melancholy.
So the authorities were not permitted to
dispose of that leg according to the dictates
of their own blunted consciences and irre-
ligious susceptibilities,- without violent oppo-
sition and energetic protests from the original <
owner. Matty forgot all about his wounds
and weakness, and after measuring the situa-
tion, sat up in a whirl of righteous indigna-
tion and advanced objection to everybody
concerned who came within hearing. lie
said he wasn’t going to have a limb of his
abandoned like a native bear and earthed up
without a prayer, or anything religious, to
guarantee a speedy resurrection. If that leg
was not buried in consecrated grounds, with
all formal rites, it would be damned irre-
trievably, and then nice he’d look, hopping
round Paradise on one leg while his other
leg was roasting in Sheol.
The doctor was not much affected by this
view of the case, but Mr. Morgan s
mental agitation gave him a good deal ot
concern, and he understood it would be neces-
sary to humor the patient or prepare for
fatal consequences; so he promised Matty
that his leg should be buried with all the
pomp and circumstance of woe, and receive
the comforts of religion and last solemn
orthodox ordinances. A man had died in
the hospital the day before, and Matthias
was told that his limb would be packed
in with deceased, and the parson would
be engaged to preside over the consignment
as a job lot. . ,
“An’ ye’ll git his nv rence t’ make special
mention av me leg, will ye?” queried Matty,
much mollified.
The medico promised anything that would
tend to his patient’s peace and comfort, and
Mat subsided into a state of lethargy, and
remained quiescent for many days.
When he was discharged from the hospi-
tal and able to frolic round on a piece of
timber, Matty used to put in a good deal
of time at the local cemetery, and took a
lot of pains to keep the grave of Ins leg-
green and in creditable order. Ihe Aus-
tralasian Co. had installed him as searcher,
so that he was free the greater part of the
day, and he liked to sit by the grave and
ponder over psychologic problems about
which he had the crudest ideas, while he
nightly tried to induce Father Hennessey
to pray for the repose of his leg.
At length, however, dark suspicions began
to distress the mind of Mr. Morgan; doubts
as to the integrity of the man with whom
liis limb was interred took possession of
him, and made him restless and uneasy. He
would stand for hours over the mound sadly
speculating on the probabilities of Ins leg
having got into dishonest hands, and the
necessity of securing the salvation of the
other occupant of the grave became appa-
rent to him. Mat began prosecuting in-
quiries, and one night the hospital committee
when sitting in meeting had its deliberations
interrupted by a violent little one-legged
man who broke down all barriers and tought
his way through every resistance, and rushed
furiously into the room brandishing a crutch.
By-aiid-bye two or three committeemen
came out from under the table where they
had retired in order to be able to view the
fray in a calm, unbiased frame of mind,
and took the intruder from behind and laid
him low, and the fattest gentlemen present
were induced to sit upon him and restrain
and soothe him with philosophical observa-
tions and the softest words that turn away
wrath, while the rest went for a policeman.
“Bad luck t’ ye all!” yelled Matty, when
a corpulent publican *got off his chest and
gave him vent to liis feelings. A plague
on ye! Whoi did ye' do it? Ye dirty,
crawlin’ bla’kg’rds, ye ! When did ye do it ?”
“Do what, my good man?” murmured the
chairman in a conciliatory tone. Who hit
you?”
“Ye know, ye tliafe! Yez buried me lea
wid a Protestant! Dave me up till I bate
yell! Lave me up.”
They held him down more energetically
than ever, and advanced pretty arguments
about the immateriality of mundane legs
in the life to come, and told him how much
more necessary was a gentle and. forgiving
spirit than mere legs to the attainment of
full and complete salvation; but Matty
refused to be comforted, and broke out with
renewed violence and wrath, and fought the
committee all over the floor; he prodded a
hole in the Mayor of the town with his
timber limb, shifted a prominent resident s
ear, and covered all present with confusion,
dust and bruises. A policeman was an-
nounced at last, and with the assistance of
the committee, two carters and a dray suc-
ceeded in conveying Mr. Morgan to the lock-
up. ,
Matty was called upon to pay damages
and find sureties that he would keep the
peace for two years, so that whenever lie
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
TENOR: “I have a song to sing, oh!”
SOPRANO: “Sing me your song, oh!”
ALL TOGETHER: “Y ow-ow-ow wahoo maiow ssss-th! wow!
met the hospital doctor or a committeeman
on the street he had to go and hang on
to a fence or put his head in a horse-trough
or do something else to repress his emotions
and cool his choler. His good leg- the leg
he esteemed so highly—-was buried with a
hopeless Protestant, and he telt lie would
never see that limb again. They had been
brought up together, he and that leg, and
had trodden the same path of rectitude and
peace—had been reared in the same faith,
and now the beloved member w-as buried
according to the rites of a false creed and
held in trust by a heretic whose previous
character pointed to the conclusion that he
would not hesitate to appropriate it to his
own use in the event of a resurrection. Mat-
thias was in a bad state of mind melan-
choly had marked him for her own, and he
constantly pegged about the cemetery under
a continuous mental strain. He appealed to
Father Hennessey to use his sacerdotal influ-
ence to convert the. late lamented Protestant
to the only true faith, but that gentleman
declined the contract at the price mentioned,
and Mat was bordering on distraction when
one afternoon as he was brooding gloomily
over the grave, the hospital doctor came
strolling down a path and accosted him.
“Well, Morgan,” cried the doctor, swear-
ing a prayer or two for the speedy resurrec-
tion of that deceased leg, eh?”
Matty remembered his bonds and relieved
himself’ by probing a tombstone with its
oaken substitute. ,
“If you are,” continued the doctor, you re
a fool for your pains.”
“A fool is it Oi am? Bad cess to yer
ugly face!” gasped Matty. “It’s a foiue
angel ye’d have me, flyin’ round glory there
wid only wan leg!”
“Well, the fact is, you’re praying over a
man who does not deserve and w 7 ould not
appreciate your attentions, that's all. Your
leg is up in my study.” . , .
“Fwhat?” whispered Morgan, sinking
down on a neighboring grave and staring
blankly at the medico. “D’ye mane t’ say
me leg ain’t wid Stevens down there t
“I do.”
“An’ ye have it?”
“I have. I was experimenting with a
new process of embalming, and used your
leg, seeing that it was of no further service
to you and that its eternal welfare would
not be affected by the chemicals. It is beau-
tifully pickled, and you are welcome to it.
If you like to call up this afternoon you
can take it away.
Matty called that afternoon and secured
his loiig-lost limb. It was smoked and
twisted beyond recognition, but Matthias
didn’t mind that much. He determined not.
to bury it at all, but to keep it by him
ag’in the time when they might go down to
the grave together. He bought a glass-case
in which he kept the “preserved” limb, and
when a few years later he married widow
Ryan that embalmed leg, in its natty case,
was one of their most interesting parlor
ornaments and an article of bric-a-brac that
excited the admiration of all their friends
and acquaintances.
EDWARD DYSON.
[B/3/’9o.]
Sydney Town Hall, when completed (which
may be this year), will seat some 6000 or
7000 persons. It will contain an organ that
will be the second largest in the world, built
bv Hill and Son at a cost of £13,000; and
will be fitted with a zinc ceiling of specially
fine acoustic properties. [28/4/’88.]
When the last muster of the Shoalhaven
(N.S.W.) blacks was called for the usual
Queen’s birthday blanket distribution, the
floury-headed old chief in command pomp-
ously marshalled his subjects in line, and
proudly refused to accept anything until all
his people were served. Much to his disgust
it was found that there were not enough
blankets to go half-way round, and on this
fact being communicated to him he gravely
called out: “All you blackpfeller what got im
blanket gib dree cheers fo’ Kaween. All you
uder pfeller better yan alonga bush an’ look
fo’ ’possum.” And one of the first to “yan
was the disgusted potentate himself.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed bp the importing
bookseller.
Sidelights on Queen Victoria
By the Rt. Hon. Sir Frederick
Ponsonby, G.C.8., G.C.V.O.
With illustrations. 21 s. net.
RUDYARD KIPLING
Thy Servant a Dog
By Rudyard Kipling. With illus-
trations by G. L. Stampa. About
7s. 6d. net.
The Story of Fergie Bey
The Life of Vere Fergusson
(Awaraquay). Told by Himself
and some of His Friends. Illus-
trated. About 18s. net.
This is the remarkable story of the life of
Captain V. H. Fergusson, who was murdered
by tribesmen in 1927, at the early age of 3C,
while acting as Political Officer in the Province
of Bahr-eL-Shazel in the Southern Sudan.
The Hamwood Papers of the
Ladies of Llangollen and
Caroline Hamilton
Edited by Mrs. G. H. Bell (John
Travers). With portraits. 21s.
net.
The Portrait of a Dog
By Mazo de la Roche, author of
“Jalna,” “Whiteoaks,” etc. With
illustrations by Morgan Dennis.
About Bs. 6d. net.
Here Be Dragons: A Book of
Children’s Verse
By F. Gwynne Evans, author of
"Puffing, Puma & Co.” With
illustrations by George Morrow.
About 7s. 6d. net.
Diary of a Provincial Lady and
other Sketches
By E. M. Delafield, author of
“What Is Love?” “Turn Back
the Leaves,” etc.
[Empire Library
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
<M
/
Sov*
Buy a PLUM RAZOR —it will save
you money—no fresh blades to buy,
the first expense is the last—given
fair usage the PLUM will give you
5,000 satisfying shaves!!
With the addition of a PLUM guard
it can be converted into a superior
class safety razor, giving the "correct
diagonal shaving .stroke.
Guaranteed and kept in order FREE
OF CHARGE for two years.
THE PLUM RAZOR.
Sizes fin. or fin. Is set ready for
use. In strong grained leather hinged
case. POST FREE, 12/6.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD.
Fits §, | and sin. razors. POST
FREE. 2/9.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
A Booming Christmas is coming at
Broken Hill. All alterations of
wages are postponed. Traders are
getting ready for the rush of busi-
ness. Get your Christmas goods
into the Barrier Public’s eye through
“The Barrier Miner,” the people’s
daily newspaper for the past 42
years.
Missing Friends.
JOHN HENRY WILSON.
TF JOHN HENRY WILSON, last heard of
* in the Saw Mills, Worsley, Western
Australia, in June, 1910, a son of John
Peter Wilson, late of 28 Acland Street, St.
Kilda, but formerly of Buninyong, Vic-
toria, gentleman, deceased, communicates
with the undermentioned company within
three years from the First of August, 1930.
he will hear something to his advantage.
THE BALLARAT TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY,
LIMITED,
101 Lydiard Street North,
Ballarat, Victoria.
John Glasson, Manager.
DAGENITE BATTERIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 15 6
6 VOLT 15 PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Fit a “Dagenite”—Save Sales Tax.
$
Type 3GHXI3.
The Battery which knows its job—and does it.
GENEROUS AND CONTINUOUS POWER.
National
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
London and Sydney.
Amalgamating Peto & Radford and Hart Accumulator Co., Ltd.
Representative - - - JOHN ARNOLD
386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl.
The Cats of Barryoola.
WILLIAM HATFIELD’S
OLD TOM gained the crest of the low
sandhill and came in sight of the
station buildings, dropped his swag
and sat down. Not that he couldn’t have
managed the last half-mile without a rest,
hut it was a habit of his to sit and take a
spell a little way out of sight before
approaching a station. Get his wind, cool
oft', smoke a pipe, have a last drink from
the waterbag—wash his face if there was
enough water left. Thus he helped to pre-
serve the reputation he held the whole
length of the Cooper as a marvellous old
walker. “Great traveller, Old Tom,” they
said of him, wherever men sat and talked
of distances in a land of little else. “Always
turns up at a place as if he was doing his
first mile instead of his twentieth for the
day. Clean, fresh, cool looking, and as fit
to bite into another twenty as into a feed
if there’s one going.”
Technique, you see, even in carrying your
swag.
He sat with his back to a frail white-
wood, though he got no shade there, the
sun being low enough to shine straight under-
neath the mean foliage., Smoked medita-
tively while he took in Barryoola. Many
years since he was down this far, but it
hadn’t altered. No new buildings or yards.
Just the three low slab huts with their tin
roofs in a neat row—men’s hut, store and
boss s place—with the kitchen and smitlir
shop on another line a little way over. And
you had to look twice to see them at all
through the scattered timber thinning away
out from the heavy wall of river gums
behind. A stranger would most likely
breast the next low rise before he noticed
the place.
He swung to the door of the kitchen at
a good four-mile-an-hour bat, flung down his
swag as though it weighed only a pound and
let out a lusty “Goodaay!”
No answer. H'e looked inside. Still as
the grave. Not an ember in the big open
fireplace. He went in and looked about in
the cool shadow. Pushed up one of the
shutters that served for windows, and took
note of the dust on tables and forms and on
the rows of pans. A thin cat shot out past
him and disappeared into the lignum not
twenty yards away.
“Hm !” he said, and went outside. Not a
track but his own anywhere in the smooth-
blown sand. The men's hut was as deadly
silent as the kitchen. When he opened the
door two cats went bush. He took off the
open padlock hanging in the staple of the
store door and looked in there. Shelves
well filled—three months’ rations for a fair-
sized camp of men, his cook’s eye told him
at a glance. He went behind the counter,
and a ball of fur whizzed spitting through
his legs. A hen sitting in a corner regarded
him with one suspicious eye. Over at the
boss’s hut it was the same—except for the
number of cats that flew through openings.
Three of them, all moving too fast to see
what color they were.
“Hm!” he said again. There didn’t seem
much else to say. In that dead silence,
backed by the subdued screeching of homing
galahs through the timber down at the hole,
the human voice would have sounded as
something profane. He had arrived bursting
with cheery talk of the road, eager to hear
his voice mingling with other men’s, with
wood-smoke, clatter of tin pannikin and
smell of cooking—you know how sounds and
scents blend, fuse and form the atmosphere
of companionship.
Instead, this baleful quietude. No fragrance
on the air. Only the weedy tang of the
swamp reaching round the back of the
buildings, its edge marked by the green
lignum. Not even a faint reek of cows, or
of liorsedung, to give the place some trace
of life. Tom found himself stepping lightly,
as though fearful of waking something.
He unrolled his swag and took out the
halves of a small rifle. It would have to be
game again, and he had so longed to feel his
teeth in a bit of steak or a good piece of
corned beef. He looked towards the timber,
meditating on the chance of a duck down on
the hole; shook his head at the thought of
a long swim, already tired, and decided on
a rabbit. Plenty back in the sandhills.
Quiet, too; you could knock them over with
the butt, nearly. But —rabbit again !
The smoothness of everything about the
rifle told of long wear; but its bore was a
picture to delight a hunter —clean, shining
the rifling perfect. Yet Tom took out the
tiny bolt, squinted through at the sky, then
ran a pull-through down it. He screwed
it together and selected a “short” from his
little bag of cartridges. There were some
extra-longs in the bag, for a shot at a
turkey on the down or a duck along a big
waterhole. Only the one cartridge he took.
He liked someone to be about when he did
this. Liked them to remark on it. Then
he could say quietly, in a voice carrying
faint surprise, “But I only want one rabbit!”
He went slowly up the hard-packed sand-
hill, through the little clumps of mimosa
and dead-finish now casting mile-long
shadow's, till he saw, fifty yards away, a
rabbit in plump condition squatting at the
mouth of its burrow, watching him, ready
to dive. The little rifle came up, there
was a spit of flame, red in the failing light,
a crack like someone stepping on a dry
stick, and the rabbit stayed where it was.
While the fire got going in the big open
fireplace, filling the dark corners with leap-
ing shadows, Tom fossicked among the tins
on the shelf and found compressed vegetables
and dried herbs, and, in a corner, some
onions with venerable beards; so a savory
odor soon filled the old kitchen to the
rafters. The smoke drove out a few of the
mosquitoes that made the building a perma-
nent day camp and appeared to welcome
Tom as a Heaven-sent break to their long
fast. He sat close in to the fire, though it
was hot—a month off Christmastide —smok-
ing and wondering what blight had settled
on the place. Cutting through the ceaseless
grind of cicadas and tree-crickets, the croak-
ing of frogs in the edge of the swamp and
the gentle rustle of leaves in the night breeze,
VIVID STORY OF A DESERTED CAMP.
(Continued on next page.)
came the meow of a cat in the open doorway,
sounding like the call of a lost soul.
A pair of growing eyes shone in the
oblong of velvet night.
. “Puss, puss, pussy puss-puss!” called Tom
in the ridiculous falsetto universally deemed
necessary when addressing a cat. Another
“meow” sounded from the opposite door-
way, and, turning his head, Tom looked
into another pair of fixed luminous orbs.
There was a light scratching scuffle at the
window, and a third pair fixed him from the
square of starlight there. “Oh, bring your
friends!” said Tom.
The first pair of eyes advanced into the
room, and behind them materialised an
enormous striped cat, as big nearly as a fox-
terrier. Tom’s scalp tingled a bit as the big
cat came over and wove figure eights round
and through his legs. Faint scratch of claw-
on wood, soft thud of light bodies, and a
ring of cats sat on the edges of the fire-
light, the reflection of the flames leaping
back from their score of eyes with weird
effect. Tom reached down a hand, but it
never touched fur. Something hit the back
of his knuckles with a smack that could
be heard across the room. There was a
flurry of fanned tails and bristling hackles,
a “Pffsst!”—and not a cat in sight.
. Tom got up and rubbed his head, lifted the
lid and looked into the simmering pot. “I
seen them cats,” he said, “and I’m cold
sober!”
Then, as he sat down again, there came
from outside, from the direction of the spot
where lie had gutted the rabbit, the sounds
of spitting and snarling, the “swearing” of
cats at a feed. “They’re dinkum, then,” he
said, as though he needed to convince him-
self. “Dingbats don’t git hungry and fight
over real meat. It’s three months since
I smelt a cork, and I’d hate to think”
They came in again when he sat at his
supper. Cats and cats and more cats. He
flung scraps and watched them slide in—
vague shadows attached to glowing eyes.
Tried to fix the point in time when they
reached the bit of food and turned to fly
out again, all claws and tail, growling defi-
antly. After the first mad pounce, the big
fellow, whom he straightway christened Tige,
came and sat on the end of the slab seat.
He actually took a piece from Tom’s out-
stretched hand, but took it with a smack
that left five bloodspots on the knotted
old fist and whisked away to a spot near
the fire to eat, daring any other with blood-
curdling snarls to come near him. One did,
but went away again quickly. Tom grinned.
“That’s a dirty left you got, Tige, old man!”
he said encouragingly.
He ate sparingly, so there was plenty left
over with which to amuse himself after
supper tossing bits to Tige and watching
him defend them against all-comers. When
the last bit was gone Tige let him scratch
his ears, curled into a ball between his feet
and went to sleep before the dying fire.
Tom sat on and smoked for an hour or more,
wondering what had become of everyone
about the station, giving it up eventually
and spreading his nap on the sand out in
the open. Away from the smoke the mos-
quitoes were sudden, and he was glad he
made a point of carrying a net.
Standing beside his dishevelled nap,
stretching and yawning as the east turned !
grey next morning, he said ruefully, in the
comic moan that goes with attempts at
speech through a yawn: “Oh, well, I’d
hoped there might be a job goin’ here, but
I suppose it’s the cripple’s blessjn’ for me
again !”
After cleaning the rifle he picked an extra-
long, and went down towards the waterhole.
A good duck would be a change, and a swim
just the thing on a morning like this. Very
quietly he went down the narrow track
through the tangle of lignum and willow
between the big white-trunked gums. The
track was level almost, for the flood came
nearly to the door of the kitchen in good j
seasons, and was quiet and deserted looking
as a pad made by creatures of the wild in
primeval jungle. Tom moved as noiselessly
as any beast stalking its prey; but when he
came to where he could get a view up and
down the hole, there was no sign of duck.
The swift sunrise painted the mile-long sweep
of water red-gold and vermilion where gaps
in the timber admitted the level rays, and
in the shade the cool depths mirrored the tall
white gums clear and sharp in every detail,
every knot, every frond of hanging bark,
every leaf. Old, calm, quiet, peaceful. Tom
sighed. What a place to pull into and dump
the old swag for the last time !
Here the call of the open road faded to
a whisper of the past. Long years he had
started each day’s work with a knot in his
swag, ready to draw his cheque and hit the
track at a moment’s notice on the prompt-
ing of the slightest whim. Long years had
passed since that had been an enforced
necessity—when a stranger’s arrival, a hard
look of recognition and a low colloquy had
brought his cheque. But the habit had
stuck. Better get in first if there was any
doubt. Perhaps people couldn’t be blamed
for not wanting an ex-convict about the
place. Details didn’t count. The bald fact
had been enough. He had done time—killed
a man. They didn’t wait to hear how it
happened.
People who knew were dropping out now,
of course, and the thing had worn down with
the years, but jobs were getting far apart.
Nothing he could do now but cook. Too
stiff for long days in the saddle, and getting
past a heavy day with the axe. And cooks
seemed to dig in. Ah! wouldn’t he just dig
in if he landed a place like this! But where
were they all? Years ago thoughts of a
savage uprising would have flashed to his
mind, but there was no such question now.
Still, whatever the reason, there was nobody
here, so he would have to push on.
These thoughts were with him,' coming
and going slowly each one, as they do with
the old, while he sat motionless in the
undergrowth, waiting for a chance flight of j
duqks to alight. Then suddenly, as some |


rfS- . . •
'iss
hr* f
SS
fc-
wee
r /'
sugjS
lev
iN/Lf
CIS
Subtle attraction
smoothness, quiet
strength you will find in every
piece of Shelley ware, fashioned
from -English Bone China by
craftsmen who have spent their
lives creating beautiful things,
as their fathers before them.
' Shelley China retains its freshness
through the years with a subtle
attraction for both young and
old the attraction of Beauty
that charms by its very reticence.
TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
by Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IN CASE
BRITISH MAJ>B
OP ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WRITE TO
T*W. HEATH t CO. LTD. SMtDHY'i
asa.cLAREHCE st. , '
fdgfdg
If you drive an American car fit
LODGE
PLUGS
as recommended below.
Auburn CT
Chevrolet (Four) . SB
Chevrolet (Six) TS3 or Co
De Soto TS3 or C 3
Dodge .SB
Essex TS3 or C 3
Ford (T) AF
Ford (A) SB
Graham Paige (835) TS3 or 03
Graham Paige (except 835) SB
Hudson (from 1921) TS3 or C 3
•Jewett ; CT
Nash (Light Six) CP
Oakland SB
Oldsmobile CT
Plymouth . CT
Pontiac SB
Reo (1928) ~. TS3 or C 3
Rugby SB
Studebaker (Dictator) C ~
Studebaker fCc>mmander) SP
Whippet (Four) CT
Whippet (Six) SB
Willys Knight CT
All priced at 6/- each
In sealed metal boxes
me
o
V
m
i
Stocked by
all garages
throughout the
Commonwealth.
LODGE PLUGS LIMITED,
Rugby, England.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
It leaps to life
at a touch!
Sea-Horses for all
Sea-Horse Models range
from 27 lb. “Single” to
4-cylinder “32.” Above
—Sea-Horse “16.” Power
your boat to-day.
Australian
Distributors:
QUEENSLAND:
Marine Engines (Q.) Ltd.,
43 Creek St., Brisbane.
N.S.W.:
O’Donoghue Bros.,
6 School St., Balmain,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Acme Cycle & Motor Co.
Pty. Ltd.,
355 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
TASMANIA:
Roberts & Co. Ltd.
Murray St., Hobart.
S. AUSTRALIA:
Motors Limited,
26 Flinders St., Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA:
Flower, Davies & Johnson
413 Murray St., Perth
SEA-HORSE leaps to life at a touch.
No matter how cold the motor, Johnson
Release Charger makes starting easy and
sure. A Sea-Horse gives you quiet,
surging power—thanks to its under water
exhaust. You can turn at a touch on
full power, or go astern without stopping
the motor —with Johnson Full-Pivot steer-
ing. It makes manoeuvring easy.
Only Sea-Horses give you this speed,
power, and dependability. Clamp one to
your boat in two minutes, and learn the
thrill of swift motion on blue water.
It fixes without tools. Send coupon—
to-day—for free Sea-Horse folder.
rf
Johnson Sea-Horses
OUTBOARD
MOTORS
Send for free folder
Fill in this coupon. Post
it—now—to your nearest
Sea-Horse Distributor. .
Send me, without cost or obligation, a
copy of the new illustrated Sea-Morse
folder.
Name
Address
N 27.1.
new smashing hypothesis that might upset
a. whole cosmogony, came the idea to stay,
whatever else befall. He stood up. Why
not? Store full of rations, remains of a
garden there at the end of the water-pad,
a roof —what more? He looked along the
placid mirror of the waterliole with eyes
still good enough to tell him nothing moved
on its serene length, eyes that held a new
sparkle. Here was his‘ goa-l. To this lie
had trod the many thousand miles of dusty
track. The big silent gums told him so.
Through seons this waterliole had been here,
sometimes nearly silted uj>, sometimes nearly
dry, but always there. Animals long ex-
tinct had watered there. Races of men had
made it their home through the ages. It
was home.
He couldn’t sit still enough now for
patient hunting, so he peeled off and plunged
into the cool depths, a boyish agility in the
movements of his scrawny limbs. He trod
water and let his mouth fill below the level,
dived, came up blowing a stream, playing
porpoise. Ten years had fallen off him as
he strode back past the house on the look-
out for a rabbit up the sandhill. Not too
excited to bag one with Ids solitary shot,
though. Back near the kitchen, where he
had gutted last night’s kill, old Tige sat
waiting for him—clawed his pants while lie
drew the offal. “What about me stayin’
on, Tige?” lie grinned. “Prowk!” said Tige,
between his purring.
Tige’s mates came out from hollow trees,
from the woodheap and from holes and cor-
ners everywhere. “Good God!” Tom laughed.
“Here, take the lot, there’s more back in
the sandhill. But don’t get the idea I find
them cartridges!”
He rummaged in his swag and took out
a whole half-dozen shorts. It seemed those
cats were on a feed. And they were. He
cut up the five rabbits he didn’t want, and
laughed at the bulges in furry bellies as the
cats sprawled contented in the early morn-
ing sun. Tige followed him a little way
when he set out with the rifle that evening.
Next morning he went all the way with him,
to where he made his first kill. In a week
the whole tribe was following him. Grey
cats, fawn cats, black cats and ginger cats,
piebalds, tabbies and tortoiseshells. “Got
the bloke in the fairy-tale beat a mile!” said
Tom, looking back at them frisking along
with tails upcurving and waving in delight
over their backs. Of course it cost cart-
ridges to feed that pack, but he had seen a
dozen packets on a shelf in the store; and,
anyway, they were the station cats.
He resuscitated the dying garden, went out
into the horse paddock and ran up the work-
ing horses on foot, habit taking them into
the yard once they were started, so that lie
had only to put up the rails. Harnessed up
an old collar-marked mare and got in wood.
Carted the big square tank from the, kitchen
door down to the waterliole and filled it.
Rigged a little covered yard of netting for
the hens that hatched out broods of fluffy,
yellow chickens. Found the milkers hidden
in the maze of channels at the back of the
paddock one day when out after the horses,
got them in and, milking again, put the
place on its feet, shipshape, as though it
were his own. And what more could title-
deeds confer on him? Only the right to sell
it—part with it!
A shadow hovered, though. He would
wake up from this delightful dream ; or some-
one would ride up and turn him out. This
kind of thing that he was experiencing was
bunkum—it didn’t happen.
The place was going like a top inside a
month. Vegetables ready to eat down there
.in the shaded garden, hens laying, cows
milking, a good stand of yeast in hand—
everything you could think of to put on the
fillin’est Christmas dinner a crowd of men
ever sat down to. All barring the roast beef,
and there would soon be beef to roast if
there were any stockmen to eat it. He began
to feel he might be slipping a. bit —rat in
the rafters, or something. He made elaborate
tests. Worked out sums he remembered
from the dim past when he was a kid. Wrote
lists of words that were hard to spell, wrote
down the names of places where he had been,
the dates, the names of managers—all kinds
of things. But it was hard to constitute
yourself the judge of your own sanity. If
this was simply the result of a wish, a delu-
sion, if he was actually living in a grand
hallucination —couldn’t all the answers to
his queries be right simply because he
wished them to be? He gave it up. The
work he put in made him genuinely tired,
and the good things he cooked smelt and
tasted well, and dreams don’t usually remain
accurate in such details. Anyhow, if his
brain had snapped, if he was insane in his
old age, it was a pleasant insanity. As good
as anything he had known in times of
normality.
He was glad when he heard the jingle of
hobble-chains and clonk of tied-up bell that
heralded the approach of packhorses. Con-
tact with another human being now would
restore his confidence. That doubt, turning
over and over with no answer, would turn
to certainty sooner or later. A man alone
doubting his sanity is on the surest road to-
lose it. Lusty yells and the crack of a
whip were the sweetest sounds he had heard
for days, and when the stock-camp burst
from cover of the lignums he gave them a
loud holler.
They blocked the packhorses near the
store, the back of which was the saddle-
room, and, with the celerity of men unsaddl-
ing for a well-earned spell, all hands flung
off gear and stacked it away. In . a minute
or two the last horse was rolling gleefully
in the sand, and the first was well on Id's
way back into the channels to feed.
Tom faced his life’s ordeal as the men
strode oyer to the kitchen. They hadn’t
noticed him particularly when they answered
his salute. Just an old stiff standing there
in the kitchen door. All station cooks were
pictures of himself if you didn’t look too
close, go there wfis a cook,- eh? They’d
quite expected to see him there. What liad
become of him? What if there had been foul
play? How explain his spiriting away?—
especially when his past was raked up! O
God!
They came across that bit of sun-splashed
sand as if they had all eternity on their
hands. Would they never get near enough
to, Speak.... perhaps not. Perhaps they were
part of it all, like the cats. Perhaps he was
mad. He might stand there for the rest of
time just watching that half-dozen travel-
stained men sauntering towards him, never
speaking, never getting any nearer. He might
be already dead. This was perhaps what
it was like. You could look on at life and
marvel at its weary drag on leaden feet. Life,
that had sped so swift, the years, when
you glanced back at them, gone in a fleeting-
instant.
“Hullo! Where’s the cook?”
A full, carrying voice, long trained in the
hurling of invective at stupid, refractory
animals. Harsh, if anything, but sweetest
music tQ Old Tom’s ears.
“Dunno,” he replied. “Musta left; got
sick or something, p’raps. I come along
lookin’ for a job. an’ found the place in
charge of a mob of starvin’ cats, so I took
over.”
The head-stockman, so it appeared he was,
looked Tom over and said: “So young Clem
Stopes was right then. He did see old Jack
on the spree in Innamincka when he came
through. .. I told him he was dreamin’—
we’d left -Jack' here sure enough when we;
started out for.the muster over the far side!
of the channels.”
Tom had been so long schooled in keeping
his thoughts to himself that none of them;
guessed the agony they had witnessed. He;
looked them over now in turn. They were
fellow-humans, and he was sane, and there
was no terrible business of explaining a
man’s disappearance.
One of the men who had lagged behind at
the store came up and said: “There’s a note
here for you, Bill. In the mailbox, it was,”;
The head-stockman read it and burst out
laughing. “Ain’t that just like old Jack?”
he said. “Here, read it —what’s your name?
—the' job’s yours now —if you can stand the
cats.”
“Tom’s my name, Tom Martin”—taking
the note, but not looking at it. “But about
this job—listen ! The place does me —down
to the ground. I’ve been here a month. Got
everything goin’—-garden, milk, eggs, every-
thing—an’ I could dig in here for life. I’m
not goin’ to stay another minute, though, if
I think there’s any chance a’ bein’ hunted
out soon’s I’m settled in. I want to know
right off.”
“Want to know what? Nobody’s goin’ to
hunt you. I haven’t to look far to see
you’ve kept the. place like you know your
job. That’s all I want.”
“Would you stand for a man about the
place that’s done time for killin’ a man?”
The deadly earnestness was in the tense
set of features under the clipped grey beard
rather than in the tones of the old fellow’s
voice, in the glint of his eyes resting quickly
on each man in turn.
“Killed a man! flow’d you come to kill
him? Shoot him in the back? Or stab him
in his sleep? It seems to worry you.”
“No,” said Tom quietly. “I floored him
with a good square punch, and he busted his
fool head on the kerb. But there was bad
blood between us, and they held it against
me. I done five years.”
“Martin —Martin?” Bill repeated, as
though groping in his memory. “I seem to
remember it. Remember the dad talkin’
about it when I was a kid. Was it a police-
man—and a woman in it —Longreach way?”
“That’s it,” said Old Tom. And he looked
old just then. Lines that left his face when
in repose cut clefts in the weathered skin.
“Put it here, then!” said Bill Walder.
“I heard it was a square go. Anybody that
don’t want to work with you can get his
cheque? Here, lads, line up and shake with
a fist that put a man out! —and don’t talk
about your kitten-tappin’ as fights.”
They shook and lined up at the table
for some of Tom’s tea and brownie. Tom
sat down at length, and spread out the note
ho had held crumpled in his hand.
Dear Bill,- —I’m goin’ on into the head station
to get my time. This joint gets on my nerves, on
my pat. Bad enough what with dingoes howlin’
all night in the ..sandhills and curlews in the swamp
right up to the back door, but them cats is the
limit. I got no gun or I’d of shot them. One
breathed on me last night. Hoping it finds you the
same. —Jack.
Tom burst into a roar of laughter, and
Walder read the note aloud for the rest.
They all laughed.
“Difference in fellers,” said Tom. “Why,
it was them cats made me stay. I put it
to old Tige—come ’ere, Tige ! Puss-puss!
Fst-pst! Didn’t I arst you, Tige, old man?”
“Prowk!” said Tige.
Our Parents.
Our fathers drained hardship’s full-measure,
our mothers were trustful and brave,
Each steadfast, and graced with the treasure
of parentage unto the grave.
They labored remote from the passions, the
triumphs and joys and careers,
The markets and bargains and fashions,
sustained by the plainest of rations,
To win us a place with the nations, strong
armed through intractable years.
Their hearthstones are laid in the mosses,
their couches are rugged in the sands ;
The gales have remitted their losses and
levelled the work of their hands.
The blaze-bitten gum-boles that guided them
far through the timbered unknown,
Where leafage and blossom confided, have
crumbled in flames which derided
Tne ranks of clean branches divided, and
limbs by the axe overthrown.
To win some expanse for the clover that
swells, and the billows of grain,
Far-flung, where the squadrons of plover
make flight through the silvery rain,
Down slopes, where a rainbow is meeting
the peaks of twin hills in the east,
They toiled to their haven, aye cheating
gaunt famine’s disconsolate greeting,
The walls of dark forests retreating till pas-
tures grew lavish with feast.
Though lush spreads the feed in the valley,
and proud reigns the home on the hill;
Though flocks show increase at the tally,
and ample the grist for the mill
From bountiful tracts, which beset them
far back in the noon of their strife,
Where doubt and despair came to fret them,
where ultimate happiness met them,
Their children snail never forget them' Avho
served the full purpose of life.
N.S.W.
GERAKDY.


V,:;
;.c
m
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Uueensiami Agejiis,—w. uilliKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—‘‘Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185.).
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss cue of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Safes on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months*
THE NET SALES OF
%
fdgfdg
fdgfdg
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNYVICK, .
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for- 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
Ann ainF.
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Delorairie (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, pi-ice 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Business Sagging?
ADVERTISE
IN
The telegraph”
BRISBANE
OR IF YOU ALREADY DO SO
Increase
Your
Space
PUBLICITY IS
THE LIFE-BLOOD OF TRADE
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
m
mm
den °feves«i
nswett as *. J* t$ and s them|
the UI-heahh YeUoW-1
snowy; sttt5 ttt *1
dnU constM?^ 1
tinge *s“ftastes P syst?“i
shows havoc **th|
r^
\ and r- cn t. «■.
fdfdg
Worth a Guinea a Box
“WEEKLY COURIER'*
CHRISTMAS ANNUAL
Published Launceston, Tasmania, November 5, 1930.
This popular illustrated Tasmanian Christmas Annual is again full of
interesting and beautiful reproductions in three and two colors and double
tones, giving delightful gravure effects.
The cover is a striking example of Tasmanian beauty printed in four colors.
Orders should be given immediately to Gordon & Gotch (A/sia), Ltd., all
s,al “- PRICE 1/6
Published by W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD.,
71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s?J%uUetCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME •
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
qr„
*
Vf
cy
Or
h
T>
0°
* .
#•’
e
••' ' ,)o^>
stss&
*-•’ vr**


WARATAH
FENCE
The “Hinged Joint”
and the “Tension
Curve” are two special
features of the
Waratah Fence.
In the event of ']
the wires be-
ing: distorted i
by - a beast'
or other
cause, immedi-
ately the strain
is removed the
“Hinged Joint” allows
the fence to revert to its
original position. The
Waratah “Tension Curve”
gives the fence greater
resilience, and preyents
the possibility of the
line wires fracturing
during frost.
dfg
TENSION
CURVE
VV
9
0
f
/
W
X
V'
X
X
w
s'
9
9
r
\
0
r
s'
v*
/•
sS
\V
'v
\ v
N*
s>
V'
1%
Sr
N
ss
s>
THE
WARATAH
FENCE COSTS
LESS TO BUY AND
LESS TO ERECT THAN
SINGLE WIRES 8 DROPPERS
CAN YOU AFFORD TO IGNORE
THIS SAVING?
Many farmers have the idea that it costs more to erect
an all-metal fence than an ordinary wire-and-dropper
fence. This is not the case. It is definitely cheaper to erect
a Waratah Fence, “Hinged Joint.' 7
In addition to the saving in first cost, the Waratah Fence,
“Hinged Joint,” offers you these other advantages:—
1— It is fireproof
2 It is stockproof
3 It is weatherproof
4 It will last a lifetime
3 —The improved appearance will add to the
value of your property and will more than compensate for the first cost. It immedi-
ately suggests efficiency, safety and progress.
THE “WARATAH” FENCE, with the “Hinged Joint,” is made in three types: Special Heavy
Fence Tyeasy High Tensile Fence —Standard Fence.
Waratah 5-line Sheep Fence, “Hinged Joint”; 5 lines —26in. high—pickets 12in. apart —Line wire spacings, 8,7, 6, 5 inches.
Three types. Packed in 5-chain rolls.
Waratah 6-line Sheep Fence, “Hinged Joint”; 6 lines—36in. high—pickets 12in. apart—Line wire spacings, 9, 8, 7,6,
6 inches. Three-types. Packed in 5-chain rolls.
Prices on application. *
Special Fences are also available for Cattle, Lambs and Pigs. All are fully described and illustrated
in the Waratah Fence Booklet. Write in for your copy.
Stocked by Leading Merchants and Distributors throughout Australia.
Made in Australia from B.H.P. Newcastle Steel.
MANUFACTURED by
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD.
/ WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Makers also of the following fencing materials: “Waratah” Wire Netting, “Waratah” Barbed Wire, and the famous
“Waratah” B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
The QwIiTHINGED UOlNTFcncc Made in Australia
