

mmmm
.
mamm
m
1
m, '
'
*"V :
c
—a summers run
*
now/
Here f $ a fleeting glimpse of friendship, of childhood, of
happiness or beauty. . . .quick, with your new Pocket
Kodak, and a wonderful snap will be yours—yours
for ever*
Snapshots preserve the fun of a lifetime —it’s good to
have plenty of them.
The new Pocket Kodaks are splendid examples of the Modern Kodak, which means
modernised photography—picture-making made easier, pleasanter than ever before. The
key to this new-day camera is in the lens. Kodak makes its own lenses—and as
scientific engineering brings costs down, prices fall accordingly. The result is that even
such modestly priced cameras as the Pocket Kodaks may be obtained with Kodak
Anastigmat lens f/6.3, which enables you to make pictures in the rain, in dull light
and bright, daylight and dusk.
Illustrated Booklet on request—write
or call jor your copy.
Of all Kodak dealers
KODAK
and
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
East Street, Rockhampton.
Flinders Street, Townsville.
662 Hay Street,
162 Queen Street, Auckland.
40 Princess Street, Dunedin.
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
681 Colombo Street, Christchurch,
m
The Bulletin
r Jtviy fydltuiAAtfjO o\KBs ~fz> vlciML = (Pouit 8.
Vol. 51.—N0. 2643.
Wednesday, October 8, 1930.
Price 6d.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'T'HB New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free on
application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Mew Free
10pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 314
lUYSAGHT
3
R
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt!
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world’s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
fc?""**
a
£8
l
=«
- .
Si*-'
THE SUPPER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ Good evening
merrie gentlemen!
Your supper awaits
you.
With the lobster,
salad and cheese I have
served my Worcester-
shire Sauce. Ah! it is
indeed a delicious
relish.”
“A GOOD EXCITING YARN.”
“THE VANISHING HORSEMEN”
An Australian romance by A. E. Yarra.
Melbourne “Herald” says: “Full of incident from
first to last... .quite the equal of any cowboy doings
in the wild and woolly west of American fame.”
At all booksellers, 67-
NOW READY, AT ALL BOOKSELLERS,
THE ABORIGINAL WORDBOOK,
By JUSTINE KENYON
(With a Foreword by A. S. Kenyon).
The most authentic collection of aboriginal words
and their meanings ever published. This compila-
tion has meant many years of research, and the
author is an authority on the subject. With this
book to guide them, no one need be afraid of adopt-
ing a ludicrous or even obscene name for the home.
Price, fid. (Postage, Id.)
All Australians should read and enjoy a laugh
with
THE MAGICIANS,
A Clever Political Satire by Henry Chisholm.
This brilliantly written and caustic criticism of
present-day political iniquities provides considerable
amusement.
Price, 6d. (Postage, Id.)
The Lothian Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Unbreakable in
Oven use. Taste-
fully decorated.
Clean, white body.
Replacement
guarantee
> •
«r~:
-
I Made to be used on the table.
Does not break when placed
on the cold slab from a hot
oven. Replacement guarantee
against breakage in oven use.
Price of
medium size
Casserole
G VEN WARE
English Manufacture.
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces), from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 FUNDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Smedley Service. — F.
- • • /n o// ov *
dan 9er i COUnf fies u u
d **«Ne' s T s
? ce «4 I s ° h ‘°iu, t
sf °ble s *' ,r > go-d n
»an tly . ° f *hh. ,js*»
fi> on AY fi
* *»*. , ft * Sfc
/?4 v „ mbe^.
Th
Do
nd
ble
’CO
Gt
ectnc
Torch
turer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821. G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
... CHICAGO U.S.A.
' K 3
A A
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
price .. rr .. .. sd.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
THE PATRIOT
gsd
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HIN CHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
gd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Red PagE
Another Exaggerated Death
The other night I lay asleeping and heard
a sound as of a mighty avalanche. This I
knew to be the committal to the deep
of two billion jazz gramophone records.
And I heard a multitudinous conking as
of wooden gourds, and knew it to be all
the broadcasting directors in the world put-
ting their heads together and deciding to
declare jazz black. And I heard a great
thudding, and crunching as all the instru-
ments of all the jazz bands were broken
with heavy hammers. Then I woke up, to
read on this page that my dream had come
true in every particular. “Jazz as jazz”—
which suggests the riddle “When is a jazz
not a jazz?”—“is as good as dead,” said D.
Cameron (R.P. 24/9/’3O).
There followed a sort of apologia for jazz
on the score that it is a product of its time,
like “Drink to Me Only” and “The Lily
of Laguna”; an assertion that “the people”
debase music, not the composers; a
cheery Assurance that the musical revues
are getting better, as instanced by the “deli-
cacies” of “The Vagabond King”; a some-
what irrelevant remark to the effect that
jazz shouldn’t be mixed in the “stately
phrasing” of Schumann and Verdi (neither
of whom, of course, ever wrote a presto
movement); a plea that there should be
a “reception and recognition” of the “New
Jazz ’ (whatever that is), and a recapitula-
tion of the opening themq in the form of
a statement that in attacking jazz our Percy
Graingers and Arundel Orchards are kick-
ing the dead. Incidentally, the only refer-
ence to jazz I have seen credited to Grain-
ger, who is a naturalised American, was
to the effect that he rather liked it. Dr.
Orchard probably hates jazz like the very
Devil, but he doesn’t waste much time
attacking it.
I take issue with D. Cameron. Jazz is
not dead or even as good as dead.
In the course of a lunch-hour stroll
up Sydney’s George-street from Circu-
lar Quay, thence along King-street to
Castlereagh-street, the day after D. Cam-
eron had given jazz an obituary notice and
paradoxically invited us to receive and
recognise it in some new form, I was not
for more than five seconds at any part of
my journey out of earshot of a gramophone
or loud-speaker churning out the latest
products of the American syncopation-fac-
tories. The music-shops displayed the usual
crop of nigger-melody songs. I dropped
into a talkie inferno and found A 1 Jolson,
with a six-foot face, beefing out cater-
waulings of Ethiopian flavor about his
“sonny boy.” Passing cabarets and dance-
halls at eventide I heard the saxophones,
banjos and snare-drums developing hys-
teria over the same old foxtrots, blue and
otherwise. No, jazz isn’t dead. When Paul
Whiteman retires to a poultry ranch and
Irvmg Berlin, Incorp., goes into liquidation;
when the t.-p. piano-player ceases jazzing
and the ukulele is at rest within our borders
and those of other nations, then will I
believe the good news, but not before. As
to this “New Jazz,” one might as well speak
of new Gregorian chants—both styles of
music are equally old. I refuse to believe
that “the people” of Australia, for example,
have had any part in debasing music, out-
side the importers of jazz, sheet and canned,
who have deluged us with the muck to such
an extent that the greater part of the com-
munity is hardly aware that there is any
other sort of melody or rhythm, and I
refuse to believe that jazz is any more a
nroduct of the times than influenza is. The
Sydney Music Week undoubtedly did
something towards dispelling the influence
of the jazz germ, and the fight should be
continued, undeterred by cries of “King
Jazz is dead, long live the new King Jazz”!
Arthur D. Wylie.
Having been mentioned once or twice
as the founder of the N.S.W. Music Week
(it extended far beyond Sydney), might I
say a word or two in reply to D. Cameron’s
views of “Converting the Dead”?
Although Mr. Cameron is to be con-
gratulated on discovering that jazz is dead
(I said the same thing in an article here
two years ago), he is quite wrong in think-
ing that the purpose of Music Week was
the converting of non-existent jazz-lovers.
The main thought behind Music Week was
the attempt to give music an extra amount
of publicity. And music in Sydney (and
* enerall y) badly needs advancing.
Music Week gave music more publicity in a
few days than it had ever had before in a
year. Here are some examples of it: (1)
Thousands of ministers spoke to tens of
thousands of church people concerning the
need for good music in their homes; (2)
the press gave many-columns and editorials
on the same subject: (3) the Minister for
Education gave the Week his official bless-
ing, and issued an edict that children should
be spoken to about the claims of good
music; (4) many professional musicians
with concert parties visited the schools and
interested the scholars.
In regard to the school business, many
prominent musicians told me that they were
amazed at the musical receptivity of the
children. Not only were the music-givers
applauded with cordiality, but they were,
in many cases, besieged for encores. And
not a few young Australians called for
their favorite classic. The blot on the
educational system of ISF.S.W. is the pre-
historic attitude of the G.P.S. and Uni-
versity towards music as a desirable sub-
ject in the curriculum. Whilst University
professors will arise instantly to the bait
and urge that Latin makes good mothers
and Greek is a sacred essential, I have not
heard any of them show the same haste to
proclaim that a love and knowledge of
music i s an essential of culture and an im-
portant factor in the home life of the com-
munity. By the end of a few more Music
Weeks we hope to change that attitude. No
one is such a fool as to expect to convert
a city by a week’s propaganda.
The Music Week committee is, we hope,
to be a thing of permanency, devoting itself
not only to the organisation of the Week
itself, but to anything appertaining to the
advancement of music. The United States
has shown us what can be done in this
regard. At present, despite all sneers and
gibes to the contrary, it leads the world,
man for man, in support, if not apprecia-
tion, of good music.
KEITH BARRY.
Last of the He-Men
He came up the stairs, old, lean, clean-
shaved, at least six-feet-two; and he pre-
sented his book —The True ' History of the
Australian Bushrangers, by Jack Bradshaw.
On the flyleaf he wrote in green ink, in
a firm flowing hand:—
Respectfully yours,
Jack Bradshaw,
The last of the Australian Bushrangers,
84 years of age.
Born 9th May, 1846.
Served 20 years in prisons of New South
Wales for Highway Robbery Under Arms.
Then he went down the stairs again, slightly
bent forward, but carrying his years
with incredible bravery. The swing-doors
clanked behind him; the last of the He-
men had been and gone. Even Jim, who
sees writers of all sorts and in all condi-
tions, bouncing or doddering or staggering
to the top of the stairs, was impressed.
“Been a great old boy, that,” was how he
struck Jim.
True enough, too, no doubt; but could
he be the same man in his book? Well,
to begin with, the illustrations look pro-
mising enough. “Johnny Dunn lying in
the Gravel Pits, Dubbo, who was given
away by Smith the ‘Coot.’” “Frank Gar-
diner, Leader of all fine young Australian
Lads. Escaped the Gallows and sentenced
to 32 years.” “Fred Ward, alias Thunder-
bolt, brutally butchered.” Again, the pre-
face is not without its promise:—
After reading my true account of the Australian
Bushrangers, you cannot learn more facts about them
by other writers hurtful in the extreme to the dead
outlaws’ still living relatives. The truth and no-
thing but the truth every time, showing my readers
the oppressed and the oppressors. I am certain my
account will be read with interest and delight. I
am also quite certain that I will have nothing for
which to answer to my God for writing up truthful
facts on the belied and persecuted.
And so to the book, to discover before
the first page is turned that Jack Brad-
shaw is not only one of the last of the
He-men of life ; he is one of the few of the
He-men of literature. He is, perhaps,
strongest in his contempt, which is vigor-
ous and expansive. But his sympathy and
admiration for good citizenship is also of
a big kind. There is Ben Hall’s father of
the second paragraph, whose “property at
Murrurundi being too small with a large
family, he removed to the Hunter, where,
by hard toil and exemplary conduct, he
increased his wealth, and gained for him-
self the respect of all his neighbors by whom
he was surrounded.” Indeed
Old Mr. Hall was a very loving father, and the
trial, of which I have already mentioned, combining
with a fresh trouble of which he was told about
his darling boy young Ben, caused the old chap’s
health to give way. He became very emaciated, and
one morning woke up and found he was smitted
with a paralytic stroke.
Or you may take Ben Hall’s brother Bill,
who “is a good, religious, sober, God-loving
believer in Christ.”
But it is, after all. in the luxuriance of
his contempt that the authentic He-man
comes into literature. Take his summing
up of one of the lady figures of the story
who turned out to be “a disgrace to her-
self and family, not worthy of the
name of woman.” Her conduct to “a
good loving lad darkened her character
for life, and gives us ample scope to class
her even worse than Messalina, the most
horrible creature of whom we have read
in the history of the world.” Or how is
this for a monologue by a police sergeant
when the coach he was escorting was held
up? “ ‘Do the best you can. my men,’ said
the sergeant. ‘l’m off. Don’t follow me.
Stripes and all, here goes’”; and so into
the scrub, “scooting like a runaway crock
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Tree” Brand, 18jll
Remarkable value is offered
on these smart wide shape
shoes. Stitched and corded
caps, genuine welted soles.
In Tan Calf, Box Calf and
Patent Leather. All sizes.
Price, pair ...... 18/11
“Tree” Brand, 22/6
Oxford Shoes in Box Calf,
Glace Kid, Tan 'Calf or
Nigger Calf, with genuine
welted soles. Full and half
sizes stocked. Price, pair,
22/6
Box Derby, 18/11
Men’s Lace Boots with
stout sewn soles. No toe-
caps. All sizes, 5 to 10.
Price, pair 18/11
With welted soles, 25/-,
26/6
m
“Tree” Brand, 22/6
Box Calf Lace Boots, with
genuine welted soles.
Leather lined. Full and
half sizes. Price, pair, 22/6
Also in Tan Calf, price,
pair 25/-
Golf Shoes, 30/-
Two-tone Tan Golf Shoes,
with studded rubber soles
that will not slip. Hard-
wearing Shoe, ideal for
the golfer. Full and half
sizes. Price 30/-
In Tan Calf with crepe
rubber soles and heels,
22/6 and 27/6
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—a law throughout the Store at Anthony Horderns’.
Anthony
Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Made-to-measure Suit for
m
Surely a
Famous Low Price
Here is an offer that reminds
you of pre-war days. A made-
to-measure suit from good-
quality materials for 84/-.
These include fine Botany Serges
or Herringbones, A 11-W oo 1
Worsteds in fancy weaves and
shades or in plain Greys, and
Thornproof Tweeds in the very
latest patterns.
Call in and inspect the quality
of the materials yourself, for
it is only then that the full
force of the offer is brought
home to you, or, if inconvenient
to call, you can send for selec-
tion of patterns with self-
measurement form and tape
measure.
We guarantee satisfaction com-
plete and absolute.
All our Men's Wear Departments are conveniently
situated on the Ground Floor, George Street, so that
the busy business man and the country visitor on a
flying trip can do their personal shopping quickly
and satisfactorily .
We Pay Carriage on all Men's Wear.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P-O
$
II
s.


Hnniiniin
Hi::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Perth
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
ARDiSi iiH
::::::
P
Perth
n
:::::::::::
'rrtxa*** ™JK*AjtsTr r*
THE FINEST ‘
MMYWi
d&
3P
r
sgppuEP
fnPGRWLMSI
£z&afffisBBBs§§S
Si ?
»
THE FINEST
near
0^
- •
EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
::::::::::::::::::
I::::!::::::::::::
:: : :i
-
& wgstGni) Clubs
John'DewarsSonsli
Distillers PERTHj(ScoHand)& LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
UNDER THE SUPERVISION OP THE COMMONWfAtTH tUSTO»*
•ii:
Hi::::::::::::::::::::::
ijjijjjljjpjj!;
I::::::::::::::::::::::::
•Hi H :
:::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::
:::::
:::::::::::::
::::::::::::
:::::::::
WONDERFUL WHISKY
Dewar’s


BTF
r
:
r»i
England, Scotland, Ireland,
Wales, or fourteen European
countries from your own home
or office,
VIA
Til i iiim
k w j
c ljelegraph
England, Scotland, Ireland,
Wales, North America, and
all European countries,
Vi/ 1
I
n’iky 1 "
Cheap, Fast, and Accurate.
c Telegraph
To Your Friends at Sea,
V/A
ĝd
ĝ
ğ
ġds
For full information regarding
these services, telephone
A.W.A. Offices, 8W2211, and
ask for "Traffic,” or apply at
any Post Office, or at
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’ASIA), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney
mwmmimmmMim
with a can fastened to his tail.” How dif-
leient that from the manly language of,
say, Johnny Dunn to Smith the “Coot,”
who found the unfortunate man lying help •
less, and brought the police to capture him.
lfius Johnny: “'You informing dog, may
you die unattended and confused in your
last moments. May you be shunned and
detested even by your own relations all
through life. You poison-fanged black-
adder! That’s something like English!
Morgan could use it with fair effect, too:
I never could forgive the cowardly dog,’
said Morgan, ‘but for your sake I will not
shoot him. Arise, you hound, and clear
out of my sight. You have received my
plunder on several occasions, and now, you
viper, for the sake of the reward, you lie
like a tiger and try to shoot me.’ ”
Perhaps the full magnificence of contempt
at its He-manliest is met with in Jack Brad-
shaw’s own, and frequent, commentaries
upon other historians of the bushrangers—
“pusillanimous disturbers of the defence-
less dead,” he calls them. Any such writer
seems to him “to be the same, baked, dried,
fried or hashed, a guilty being who takes
pleasure in going in for harmful malignity
against dead bushrangers.” And such lies
may have the effect of disturbing “the peace
of a still happy home,” as, for example,
some “false statements” made in the
Bathurst “Times” about Dan Kelly, which
caused Dan’s brother Jim “so much grief
that he jumped from off his seat as if mad,
and went into Benalla at once and wrote
a letter in the Benalla ‘Ensign’ contradict-
ing the false and treacherous thing.” As
for the work of art entitled “Three Years
with Thunderbolt,” well, “Ye Gods, Mars
of Battle, what a book to put before the
public!”' He proceeds then to introduce
the Wild Cat into literary criticism, with
this gentle comment upon Pratt and
Monckton:—
Chapter I says: “My name is William Monckton.
I was born at Mr. Dangar’s station, Gostwiek, in
the year 1853.” Here they are both bowled out at
once. Take 1853 from 1866, the year he joined
Thunderbolt, and we find Dribbling Bill 13 years
of age, kittened in a cowshed at Gostwiek station.
He was tried in 1869. Three years before this
would be 1866, and we find Bill Monckton, the
dribbling bushwhacker, then only 13 years old, who
came crying and whining to Thunderbolt ior a feed.
Poor Fred Ward had to find a baby’s feeding-bottle
for his Gostwiek barefooted ground-parrot, and bent
a lolly stick into the shape of a pistol for his baby
outlaw.
In fact, there can be only one finding upon
the book as far as Jack Bradshaw is con-
cerned—“ Bill Monckton and Pratt must
have been suffering from stomach on the
chest” when writing it.
And so, after wild excitements, after much
philosophy such as “Death is slight and any-
one can sustain it,” after many such “glorious
deeds” as bank robberies, hold-ups and
escapes, after “bloodthirsty butchers” and
“cowardly slaughterers” (of poor bush-
rangers), after warnings against such befogs
as this shooter of a bushranger, “Watch him,
keep from him, for his murderous breath
would pollute you, his sinful conduct would
contaminate you, and his demon-like coun-
tenance frighten you to death,” we come
in time to the conclusion of the book, and
“I feel quite certain that there is nothing
written up in it for which I will have to
atone or yet displease my merciful God.”
And there is nothing that can be added,
except, perhaps, “Hear, hear!”
Cecil Mann.
A New Gymnastic Artist
Cecil Mann (B. 24/9/’3O) accuses me of
acrobatics in interpreting his attitude to-
wards Australian literature, but his reply
is not without a suspicion of gymnastics,
or, let us say, graceful eurhythmies. After
surveying his turn, I remain firm in my
conviction that a Peruvian might conceiv-
ably write authentic, not to say great,
literature wholly about Australia. The
“wholly” in that sentence doesn’t matter;
the “about” does.
It would be advisable to keep to the illus-
tration of Shakspeare and leave Dante in
Hades. Consider the case of a hypotheti-
cal Shakspeare who never wrote a line on
England. That would leave him with
“Antony and Cleopatra,” “Romeo and
Juliet,” “Troilus and Cressida,” “Julius
Caesar,” “Pericles,” “The Tempest,”
“Twelfth Night,” “Hamlet” (with a few lines
excised), to mention only a few of them. I
ask Mr. Mann to show wherein Shakspeare’s
achievement would thus have been lessened.
Certainly -as a race or nation we are grate-
ful because he wrote some plays on a mis-
reading of English history and selected
the English countryside as a setting for
some comedies; but if he had selected the
French countryside or the history of Italy
his achievement would haye been the same
artistically.
Mr. Mann does not improve his act by
introducing the analogy with painting. A
painter “trying to capture the atmosphere
of a gum-tree by looking at only some
paintings of English oaks” would not be
an artist—he would be a charlatan or a
donkey. The “reality” of the painter is
the reality of visual appearance. If he
goes outside that he is engaged in a soft
of pictorial literature. So he is tied down
to his immediate environment. But an
Englishman painting English oaks and an
Australian painting gum-trees are not en-
gaged in producing a “national” art. They
are both painting Nature. If Mr. Mann
considers their activities “national” how
would he describe a just-arrived English-
man painting gum-trees? As art becomes
“national” by. so much it ceases to be artis-
tic—as does literature.
There was a German once named Beet-
hoven who wrote music. Nobody would
care tuppence to-day if he had been an
Esquimau; but no doubt the Manns of
his day hailed him as the great “German”
composer.
M.G.S.
Seventh Heaven
Nina Murdoch’s travelogue, Seventh
Heaven (Angus and Robertson), is the
latest Australian best-Seller.
When I am old, and life has lost its savor, I
shall be able still to shudder with delight, remember-
ing that golden summer Sunday when for the first
time I stepped into the heart of Venice, and stood
trembling and abashed before the miracle of beauty
that is St. Mark’s.
That is the opening gun, and the offensive
is kept up pretty well with the same inten-
sity all through. Enthusiasm is the key-
note, and enthusiasm is catching. Not that
Miss Murdoch is without discrimination.
She is frequently very shrewd in her judg-
ments, but the burden of her song is, at
root, that Europe, or any other country, is
an agreeable place when you have money
to spend.
Every traveller has discovered what a
pleasant pattern life assumes in an alien
country for the visitor with a sovereign or
two in his letter of credit. But the waiter
who served Miss Murdoch so passionately
with soup was doubtless engaged 13 years
previously in serving a big gun. One com-
mon effect of foreign travel is to make the
tourist discontented with his or her own
country, and Miss Murdoch is no excep-
tion. She. finds her fellow-Australians sadly
deficient in elegance and other old-world
virtues, presumably because they haven’t
travelled. Some 350,000 of her fellow-
countrymen did do the European tour not
so many years ago, so we are a pretty hope-
less lot apparently. Still, the ability to
serve soup passionately may come with the
years.
When Miss Murdoch refrains from gen-
eralising she provides amusing reading. She
has observation and intense vivacity. She
certainly got her money’s worth out of poor
old anguished Europe.
A Satchel of Books
Two-bobs’ worth that the Australian small
boy- will whoop over is No. 3of The Fatty
Finn Booh, wherein is continued the history
—authenticated by a life-portrait of the
artist, Syd Nicholls—of the bright lad who
used to make Sydney “Sunday News” a
shade more cheerful and nowadays performs
the same office for the “Sunday Guardian.”
The printing, by Waite and Bull, is first-rate,
and the production altogether is great value
for the money.
While the Patient Slept, by M. G. Eber-
hart (Heinemann), won the Scotland Yard
prize for 1930, and no doubt deserved it.
If the province of a murder novel is to
mystify, to rivet the suspicions of the bull-
dozed reader on one innocent character after
another, and in the end reveal the assassin
as the gentlest-looking being in the book,
then this work certainly delivers the goods.
Some of the thrills are theatrical, as in the
chapter “Footsteps at Night,” and some of
the characters, such as the weird butler
Grondal, obviously derive from crook talkies,
but it is all very exciting and the murders
are remarkably ingenious. The story is
told by a middle-aged nurse whose uncon-
scious patient’s money is the cause of all the
trouble.
Vernon Thomas, author of The Metercn
Road (Ward, Lock and Co.), evidently saw
service in the A.I.F. His back-area warrior
Colonel Sneddon (“Old Bill”), who was
originally a British ranker, blasphemes
freely, smokes on parade, hates parsons
and despises the Australian army, will
be recognised by most gunners who
endured the rigors of the Lark Hill front.
The story is concerned mainly with the adven-
tures of the Australian-born Von Splitzen
as a British Secret-Service officer in Ger-
many. He disguises himself as a cousin in
the "German Guards, gets wounded, and is
taken for his cousin by the latter’s fiancee,
father and mother. Once the inherent impro-
babilities are swallowed the yarn becomes
highly exciting, and it has none of the crudely
realistic passages of the conventional war
book.
Mother Goose Rhymes, published for the
Non-. Censors by Alfred A. Knopf, London,
is not* only wildly amusing—it is a profound
satire on the present-day effort to throttle
all free artistic expression. It has the
same illuminating quality as Swift’s famous
pamphlet wherein he suggested that the best
way to solve the Irish problem was for the
English Army of Occupation to start eating
the inhabitants, and went on to provide a
number of selected recipes for making Irish
babies into dishes that would be nutritious,
palatable and easily digested. The writers
of Mother Goose Rhymes have taken ail
the most familiar nursery rhymes and printed
them with an odd word here and there blacked
out. The effect is devastating, and, for the
reader, probably permanent. Nobody, after
reading the book, could hear the simple
rhymes again without remembering the “cen-
sored” version. As the authors say, it is
a “clear demonstration of the effect of the
censorship on everything it touches.”
The Keeper of Red Horse Pass (W.
Collins) is by W. C. Tuttle, who has turned
out many a healthy “Western” as they call
them in the U.S.A. The hero is Blaze Nolan,
whose debonair ways may be judged from his
terse methods with the butler at “the huge
pile of steel and masonry which constituted
the home of Kendall H. Marsh, capitalist” :
Nolan came up the broad steps and rang the bell,
which was answered by a dignified butler, who flooded
the porch with light before opening the door.
“I’m here to see Marsh,” said Nolan shortly.
His brusque way with the members of the
the Marsh household is all the more impres-
sive in view of the fact that he has just
come out of gaol. Shortly after this visit,
Marsh, a thorough undesirable, is shot, and
Blaze passes through many tribulations
before his innocence is established. An old
model but a good one.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
T.R.S.: No, that’s not quite right. Gold
used as a backing for a note issue will easily do
three times more work than gold sent out into
circulation.. . .8.M.M.: The B. has already put
it that the moneylender, represented by Sir Otto,
is not wholly blameless. It has suggested to him.
that it is a very mean shanty-keeper who doesn’t
put a bottle in his late customer’s hands before
he sends him off on to the dry track... .K.M.: That
chap sitting in the office envying the fellows out
sleeping under gum-trees is as constant a visitor as
he is unconvincing... .G.L.M.: Why not send it to
Billy Hughes ? He probably collects things like that.
. ...K.P.: Nothing new in the Cenotaph memories.
....Forty-five: “P.S.—Do your worst, dash you!”
No, it doesn’t quite call for that.., .H.C.8.: Doesn’t
suit, but more sincere than most of its numerous
family. .. .M.L.C.: No room for any more shots at
that target... .T.L.E.C.: Fails to give any satis-
factory answer to the opening question... .T.M.:
Can’t find room for it... .P.W.8.: Met the enemy,
Space, and wilted. .. .J. 11.: Reply already printed
must suffice... .Ollarinna: But obviously the writer
in saying “nothing has been written” meant “nothing
has been printed” 8.C.: Had enough of friend
Fudge a while back. .. .T.N.U.: Basketed, with the
usual ceremony... .C.H.: Yours of the 22nd to hand,
and blast you, t 00!.... Regess: Need to get a lot
more into a sonnet than that. .. .Isabel: No contri-
bution for that hospital. .. .E.R.M.: He might be a
fine old Bob iri life, but he’s a traybit in verse....
L. : Two lines, then: —-
The cobbler leapt up with a frenzied yell.
“Cripes!” he said, “it’s hotter than the Hobbs of
Hell.”
And now we suppose we’re in for a cricket libel!... .
A.C.0.: “Song of Sorrow” cheerfully declined....
Diogenes (India) : Afraid Australia would not be
greatly interested either... .P.J.1.: You’ll have to
rise above that level, and you’ve been on .it a long
time.... 0.E.: Have at it:—
You’re always causing trouble and strife.
Make a good man hammer his wife.
Fiend of the vices, passion and spite;
The cause of true friends’ quarrel and fight.
Most vile things you make men do.
Temper. Temper. How I hate you.
. ...C.G.P.: Don’t see what that has to do with it.
... .J.D.: “Mailtime at the Shed” has happened too
often.. . .RiT.K.: No stomach for watching the lady
doctor doing an operation, in verse.... Docky: No-
thing in it... .G.N.A.: Slight as a sparrow’s wish-
bone... .J.F.F.: As you say, it might have been
better.... F.W.D.: Afraid back is its direction....
A.G.J.: Would you mind reading it again?....
E.H.: Sincerely regret to learn that the cooing of
the doves your “nerves unhinge, discouraging the
mildest binge” J. 1.: Better, but still short....
R.C.J.: Not as dramatic as it would need to be to
make that picture acceptable... .A.M.N.: Not up.
....A.A.: “Why not go to some more cheerful place
for your inspiration? Even the morgue might d 0... .
M. : Neither quite makes the weight.... Olo:
“The Unforgivable.” That’s it... .Wyadra: Not a
very bright harvest from a busy, street corner....
E.MeA.: No kick in “The Sportsmen”.... Rhoeta:
Flops at the end Bellerive: Yet another instal-
ment packed with thrills:—
FEATS ON A TRAPEZE.
Suspended on bars from
The roof of a hall,
At the tragic risk
Of a fatal fall.
High o’er the heads of
The spectators below
A daring performer
Sings to and fro.
Of thrilling feats which
Attract and please,
Is a clever gymnastic .
Upon a trapeze.
(Next week: “Great Cricketers of the Past.”)
. ...H.R.8.: That parody has been helping to
fill w.p.b.’s for over six months... .E.F.H.: Fact
that you were one hour early for an appointment
of no public interest... .Yorkrakine: Way out?
Tighten our belts, live within our income, pull
together and buy Our own goods... .Regent P.:
Lang was Treasurer from April 13, 1920, to April
13, 1922, and .Premier-Treasurer from June 17, 1925,
to Oct. 18, 1927. From July 1, 1920, to June 30,
1922, the gross N.S.W. public debt increased from
£159,649,000 to £190,857,000; from July 1, 1925,
to June 30, 1927, the increase was from
£215,331,000 to £240,725,000. So you might call
him a fourteen-million-a-year man. ... J. 8.: Address
your claim to the accountant. All pars, used are
paid for... . A.E.J.: Might find a place elsewhere....
K.R.: More atmosphere than material.... E.C.: With-
out knowledge of grammar and composition you
waste your time in writing... .N.M.: Falls flat... .
H.J.A.C.: Too much to swallow... .H.L.T. Good
, matter in both, but constructively defective....
D.S.McC.: No lure in the violet butterflies... .Z.V.W.:
Style pleasing but material a bit worn... .A.W.8.:
Can’t place.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.Me (something) : Sorry to hear you have never
seen “an artist in action’’; sorrier that you have
apparently never seen anything else in ' action,
either G. J.R.: The joke isn’t the funniest part
of it. .. .W.P.G.L.: Rather a weary cartoon idea.
. ...1.X.L.: On those samples you don’t.... F.C.:
Another ancient wheeze... .F.K.: Thought the draw-
ings pretty bad, but then read the jokes.... C.C.:
Slapdash P.T.M.: You might get it hung some-
where else, or hanged. .. .F.S. : The gentleman spoils
it.... J.R.: On the wooden side... .S.P.C.: Sounds
like an old vaudeville acquaintance. ... J.W.: Nothing
in that batch E.G.8.: Judged by the figures, you’ve
been working with an axe, t 00... . A.J.C.: Two birds,
and a gag that earns another. .. .N.S.: You’ll have
to change your joke store ... .E.G.P.: Still misses,
but not by so much as some.... S.W.: Can’t recall
your last work offhand, but congratulate you on
noticing an improvement.


FAMOUS
WINES
I
m
■ ■
rz
A
P ■
Itll
.&■
I
I
m
|M
' - .
•••
■
Iff.,
%
m
■
*
-
• ‘J
r
w
fV.d
,
K
r -f; ■
MMI
•^;^;
r
«k
Willi
I
Ml
: :
SIPPELTS
H
I
Sf.
*
iiKifcxH. 1
•' ■ ■
: >: :s.
ota *aw*
para
ly< > *twt* *«• tt** 1 ""
fe*.. *«U> <_.«> *«*»*'
i
■
/i ai e Ji^ve^y
*#


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2643.
October 8, 193(X
“TAXI, SIR? SCRUMPTIOUS TAXI, SIR!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521B11; •Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James l’lace, Adelaide.
Westuai.ia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
WHY POLITICS ARE IN THE
GUTTER.
As late as the early ’eighties children of 10
were working at the mines of Britain and
half-naked women sweated at the forges on
Cradley Heath; in 1889 John Burns led the
strike of the London dockers for a wage
of a penny an hour. In Australia, though
things were never as bad as that, the hours
of almost all shop-assistants and of many
clerks and factory-workers were cruelly
long; and the accommodation provided for
domestic servants and all classes of labor
“living in” was scandalous. The standard
of living of unskilled labor was so low as
to be almost bestial.
The later ’eighties and earliest ’nineties
were a period of great intellectual activity.
I rade conditions had been gradually im-
proving, and concessions are always more
easily gained at such times. The Fabians
poured out their brilliant tracts, and pre-
sently Robert Blatchford appealed to mil-
lions. The dockers’ case was the deciding
factor so far as millions of people were
concerned. The world was due for a great
change; and it was more easily made in these
new lands than in the old. Payment of
members was provided (£2OO a year in most
cases) so that the working man’s own voice
might be heard in Parliament. One man one
vote was made law so that the new force in
politics might not be overwhelmed.
The new era brought with it a wave of
Labor members, in N. S. Wales, Queensland
and S. Australia especially, which could
never have been surpassed for earnestness
and sincerity. The results of their work
in the next six years were not spectacular,
but were very real; in particular, industrial
conciliation and arbitration were estab-
lished, and public ownership was extended.
But gradually a change occurred in the
quality of the members—and not of the
Labor party only—and therefore also in
the work of Parliament. Payment, begun
on a scale just sufficient to enable the work-
ing-man representative to attend at Parlia-
ment, but gradually pushed up, produced a
body of professional politicians dependent
on membership for a far easier and better
paid living than they ever had or could
hope to get elsewhere. These men were
not slow to see how they could use their
Parliamentary privileges to consolidate
their position. “State ownership and con-
trol” was seized upon to justify almost any
extension of Government activity, almost
any addition to the public service. So Gov-
ernment departments have been multiplied;
and almost every servant added to the
public pay-roll during the past 20 years has
been also added to the political bodyguard
of some member or some party.
That, however, would not have been pos-
sible had not something else been dis-
covered. In the early days of the Labor
party there was to be no borrowing, except
for public works which would pay interest
and a sinking fund. Those early members
of the Labor party realised that the public
did not own what it borrowed to pay for.
But when professional politicians got into
the party the safeguarding proviso was
abandoned, and money was borrowed even
where there was no chance in the wide world
of working expenses being earned, let alone
interest and sinking fund. No other party
was one whit better in this respect than
Labor. But there was this difference:
whereas other parties made no great pro-
fession of borrowing only for works of this
reproductive character, the Labor party did,
and it not only approved of the treachery
of members to its principles but rewarded
them, as it still does, in proportion to then-
borrowings.
But this sinful business went further. It
was not only exploited by politicians to buy
their own way into Parliament and their
party’s way into power; it was used to
cloak extravagance and waste in the ordi-
nary public services. Before the days of
borrowing, except for definite undertakings
of a national and permanent character, it
was obviously necessary for Governments
to balance their budgets. When borrowing
became a. commonplace, and all manner of
things were charged to loans, it no longer
was necessary for a Government to pay its
way. Thus the door was opened to a more
shameful misuse of the public services, sup-
port being bought with salary and other
concessions, even though there was no
revenue to meet them. We hav» seen what
happened when loans recently stopped and
there was a call upon Governments to
balance their budgets. What should have
been regarded as the only natural and
proper thing to do was, in fact, viewed in
some quarters as not only impossible but
quite unnecessary and unreasonable. In
these matters there is scarcely one particle
of difference between Labor and National-'
ists. They have been professionalised and
corrupted to an almost precisely equal
extent.
In one other important matter the non-
Labor parties, whatever called, have been
more blameworthy than their Labor oppo-
nents. Encouraged by the success they had
got in buying support with public jobs,
Labor members proceeded to buy support
on a vastly larger scale. Industrial conci-
liation and arbitration gave them their
chance. They could not offer every working
man a job at the public expense, but they
could offer every man more pay and fewer
working hours at his private employer’s
expense. Little by little this scheme has
been accomplished, until to-day there is
hardly an election which does not turn
on this question of workmen’s pay and
hours. The underlying princiole of arbitra-
tion on which the Labor party was built has
been entirely overturned. Instead of there
being long conflicts in which might ruled,
arbitration was to determine the wages that
an industry could afford to pay. To-day
the basic wage, on which the whole fabric
is built, is governed, not by what an indus-
try can afford, but by. what are supposed
to be the needs of a man with a vote and
an often mythical family.
On the Labor side every important prin-
ciple embodied in the original platform has
been thus undermined. And on the other
side there has been constant failure to
resist known evils. Instead of denouncing
the utterly uneconomic basic wage, for
example, the Nationalists have maintained
and endorsed it. Politicians of all sections
have been hucksters competing for the
votes of men with labor to sell and pre-
pared to cast those votes for the politicians
who would compel the employer to give the
best terms, without the smallest regard to
the economics of the industry.
The usual reply is that the people get the
Parliament they deserve. That is the ex-
cuse of dishonesty. Politicians have no
right to bribe people even if they are will-
ing to be bribed. They have still less right
to camouflage the corruption and persuade
the people that they are doing no wrong.
We shall have to retrace our steps. The
crisis at which we have arrived is merely
the fruiting of our misdeeds, and there will
be another harvest if we persist in them.
For a time we shall have to view the whole
tribe of politicians with suspicion. They
have landed our country in an aomlling
mess, and they have done it for their own
personal benefit and gain or for the benefit
and gain of their party. And they have
done it chiefly by prostituting those very
principles which they are supposed to
cherish and which they declare they do
cherish.
Those who show any contrition ought to
be encouraged to take the road of honesty.
For those who -have done wrong and who
shamelessly declare that they propose to
go on doing wrong, there should be no
mercy.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANOTHER EXAGGERATED DEATH .. ..2
LAST OF THE HE-MEN 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
WHY POLITICS ARE IN THE GUTTER . . 8
ARE ALL THE CARDS ON THE TABLE? .. 8
RED CHINA 8
THE FAMILY CONFERENCE 9
MR. LANG AND PUBLIC CONFIDENCE . . 9
S. AUSTRALIA’S MESSAGE TO N. S. WALES 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . .. .. 11, 12
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 13
CARGO RATES COME DOWN .. . . 13
OUR DWINDLING TRADE WITH M.L. . . 13
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with four caricatures) .. . . 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. . . 16
ON THE RANDWICK FLAT (Frith punting) 10
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
ASSOCIATED DOMINIONS ASSURANCE .. 17
LINCOLN MILLS (AUS.) 17
CASTLEMAINE PERKINS 17
TRUFOOD OF AUSTRALIA .. .. ..17
SOUTHERN UNION GENERAL INSURANCE 17
CIVIL SERVICE STORES 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 2 5
SURPLUS WHEAT FOR PIGS 22
WHY NOT ASPARAGUS? 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. .. 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
A.J.C. EPSOM AND DERBY 3.5
RACING AT FLEMINGTON 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
NEW SERIAL—
“THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER,”
By Montague Grover .. .. ..42, 43, 45
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop”) .. .. .. .. 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“HUMAN GOLD,” by N. E. Gledhill .. 49, 50
VERSE —By M. Forrest, Kathleen Dalziel,
C. H. Souter, Roderic Quinn .. .. 45, 50
NEXT WEEK.
“WELL, WHAT IF WE DO GO BROKE?” A careless question answered.
“THE GATS OF BARRYOOLA,” William Hatfield’s vivid story of a deserted camp.
ARE ALL THE CARDS ON THE
TABLE?
A hopeful feature of this economic crisis
is that almost every article on the subject
printed in this paper produces a crop of
queries or comments. Plainly there is a
widespread earnest desire to get at the
truth; and that is the most important thing
in the world. One recent article, “All the
Cards Are on the Table,” produced a speci-
ally large crop; and they call for attention.
The working-man correspondent who
introduced the original discussion writes:—
I recognise that our debts must be paid.
The question is, which is the best way to
pay them? Newspapers urge that wages
must first come down, in order that pro-
duction may go up. A nation’s financ ; al
affairs have been likened to those of a family.
Very well. If a family finds it has been
living beyond its means, would it start
retrenchment on its weakest members?
Would the baby’s milk be reduced first? The
wage-earner is the weakest financial member
of the* national family. The average worker
is on, or very near, the bread-line. How is
lie going to live if his wages come down
first ?
But is there the smallest ground for the
suggestion that only the wage-earner is
asked to make sacrifices? In this matter
we shall get nowhere if we are not honest;
above all things we must beware the cant
phrases of those professional politicians who
are mere word-spinners out to catch votes.
So far from being the only ones who are
being asked to make sacrifices, the wage-
earners are the only ones whose alleged
representatives refuse to make sacrifices.
What misleads many into believing that
only wages are attacked is the fact that
every other payment, unless the subject of
a contract, can be reduced without appeal
to any public authority whatever. So far
as the wages of capital are concerned, The
Bulletin has already shown that they have
been reduced on the average 40 p.c., and a
greater reduction still is ahead.
If it were possible to meet the situation
without any cut in wages, business people at
any rate would gladly approve of doing it.
A cut in the worker’s wages is a cut in the
business man’s profits. But wages are approx-
imately 86 p.c. of the outgoings of industry,
and it is impossible for the other 14 p.c. to
cany the whole burden.
If it is true that “the average worker is
on or very near the bread-line,” then he
is no better off for the more than doubling
of his wages, whereas the country is
obviously much worse off, since it is far less
capable of selling its products in foreign
markets at competitive prices. In that case
nothing is to be gained by maintaining
wages at their present high levels, while
much is to be lost. But the average worker
is not on the bread-line if he can be kept
at work. It is the broken time, due mainly
to attempts to maintain an economically im-
possible standard, which brings him far too
frequently to the bread-line and often,
unhappily, below it.
❖ * ❖ *
“Lance-Corporal’s” reflections: —
The money hasn’t evaporated and the
banks and other finance companies seem to bo
st 11 doing a good business, so why can’t
they help us? We don’t mind tightening our
belts if it’s going to do us any good in the
future, but the picture shows still carry on,
and the Prime Minister and his party can
take a trip ,to England; so there must be
some money about.
As a matter of fact the banks have very
little money. The case of the great N.S.W.
Government Savings Bank was quoted the
other day. On a recent date it had
£73,960,679 of deposits; and reserves, etc.,
bi ought the. total to £76.631,925. Yet the
money on hand, at bankers’ and in transit,
including deposits at call with the Treasury,
was only £4,299,887; the other 72 millions
has been lent to the Government and is in
railways and other public works, or has
been lent to the public and is in homes, etc.,
or to municipalities for road-making; a little
of it is on fixed deposit. There is no need
to worry about Australian banks not lend-
ing enough. If they have made a mistake
it is through lending too much.
* * =!= *
J. L. Webster’s plain question:—
Even in those countries where produc-
tive costs are much lower than in Australia,
there also extensive unemployment prevails
and surplus commodities exist which cannot
be sold. Does The Bulletin suggest that
Australian productive costs (mainly wages)
should be reduced below those of such coun-
tries ?
If Mr. Webster knows any other way of
paying our debts, he should tell us; The
Bulletin doesn’t. It does not, however,
admit that any Australian staple is unsale-
able at any price. If we cannot sell our
products at any price, then, of course, we
have no alternative; we must throw in our
hand, and be posted as a defaulter. But
while there is a market for our goods, the
only way by which we can pay our debts
is by underselling our competitors, no
matter how low-wage they may be. (Inci-
dentally, let The Bulletin say that it did
not sell Australia into this slavery. For
over 20 years it has seen what inevitably
must happen, and has never ceased to warn
Australia about what the loan-policy must
lead to. It is the Labor party more than
any other which has put this halter round
the country’s neck. It is the N.S.W. Labor
leader who now alone among all the Par-
liamentary party leaders of Australia pro-
poses to continue the borrowing policy.)
* * * *
J. Cooper’s contribution: —
You talk airily of cutting down costs of pro-
duction so that we may compete with other
countries in the world’s markets, but you
ignore the fact that many of these costs arc
quite beyond our control. Speaking for
myself, like many thousands of dairymen,
I find that the heaviest items in the costs
of production are interest on mortgage,
Crown land rent and local rates. The first
two are fixed over a term of years, and the
last-mentioned appears incapable of moving
except upward. You may be sure that
expenses have been cut right down to bed-
rock in other directions, otherwise very few
dairymen could have carried on during the
last six months.
This is a good example of the farmer who
doesn’t see how deeply interested he is in
the basic wage and other awards for the
city. The farmer’s troubles are that every-
thing he has to buy is sa dear that, econo-
mise as he will, very little is left for him-
self. Moreover, a loan orgy pushed up the
market value of land, as it always does; so
the average farmer is paying probably twice
too much interest, because the capital value
of the farm has been fixed twice too high.
So far as the dairy-farmer is concerned, he
can do more to reduce costs of production
by improving his methods than in any other
way. And that is true of a good many
others besides dairy-farmers.
* * * *
And, finally, “A.J.F. ” asks:—
Frankly, does The Bulletin believe
that the wages of the Australian Working
man are too high?
As to that these three observations are
made: (1) Why lump the Australian work-
ing man in that fashion? He is a man, not
part of a machine. Tens of thousands of
Australian workers get less than they earn
because, for one thing, thousands get more
than they earn; they are on the basic wage
whether they earn it or not, and are not
encouraged to earn more. (2) The nominal
value of wages is of little consequence; it
is the purchasing value that matters. The
purchasing value would rise with a reduc-
tion in the cost of production. (3) It would
be a calamity if low wages were alone
depended upon to bring about this reduc-
tion. Improved methods and the elimina-
tion of waste in production and distribu-
tion and in the cost of government and
other overhead expenses are more important.
A concurrent reduction of wages as thesp
things are attended to leaves labor no
worse - off than it was before. Hence the
importance of a reduction in the cost of
government, among other things. High
taxes and high wages can’t run in double
harness.
RED CHINA.
The possibility of China being the next
portion of the earth’s surface to go Bol-
shevik is looming larger. All the materials
are available.
In 1919, when the Nationalist movement
began to spread out after incubating in
Canton for a decade, droves of students
were sent to Moscow and Irkutsk to be
instructed in the technique of revolution.
Later Borodin came from Russia to con-
duct post-graduate courses in the Flowery
Kingdom. The Nationalist leader, Sun, a
nlan of attractive personality but weak
intellect, found Borodin’s teaching to his
liking and allowed the Armenian to place
Russian nominees in all the key positions
in the Kuomintang party. Federations of
farmers, workers, soldiers and students,
Youth movements and Leagues for Further-
ing the Revolution in other parts of the
world, including Australia, sprang up all
over the country. With their assistance the
Nationalists marched with astonishing ease
from Canton to Nanking and later to the
northern capital.
Chiang Kai-shek, a Cantonese who had
been trained to military arts in Japan, was
now becoming prominent. Although osten-
sibly a Communist he had no illusions
about the results of Borodin’s doctrine.
When zealous followers began committing
outrages on Europeans—one of the most
striking achievements of the Communists
was the first case of attempted rape of a
white woman in the history of China —he
averted a war with Britain by sending Boro-
din packing. It was then hoped that China
would settle (town to constitutional methods.
But Chiang found himself in precisely the
same position as the Roman emperors who
invited barbarian mercenaries in to assist
in the defence of the empire. Communism,
like small-pox, is a disease that, once it has
been introduced, propagates itself without
further assistance.
It is estimated that there are Red armies
in Central China numbering 60,000,
equipped with field guns, wireless and aero-
planes. One was sufficiently strong the
other day to capture the large city of
Changsha from the Republican forces,
where it followed the usual Communist
technique, destroying Government build-
ings, police stations, large business houses
and foreign property. Land-title records
were also removed and a few representative
landlords butchered to discourage the others.


ALL OUT OF STEP BUT JACK.
THE DRILL SERGEANT: “Private Lang, you’re out of step!”
PRIVATE LANG: “No, I’m not. It’s all those other damn fools that are out.”
A redistribution of land followed. The
Northern warlords, although supposed to be
servants of the Republic, were not above
accepting help from Russia. Marching on
Peking, they re-established that city as
capital of half the country.
The position now is that one-fifth of the
population of the earth is relapsing into
chaos. The only places where trade and
life are reasonably secure are certain spots
on the seaboard and others on rivers navi-
gable by foreign gunboats. The Peking
Government calls itself anti-Communist, as
does the Nanking crowd, but it is still
strongly suspected of getting supplies
from Russia; and Russia doesn’t give away
rifles for nothing. The nation being leader-
less and a great part of it hungry, Commu-
nism promises a way out, with incidental
hopes of loot and excitement; and former
coolies calling themselves generals easily
find a following. There is even a Com-
munist boy-scout movement.
None of the foreign nations seems to be
taking the situation seriously. The Wash-
ington Government still hangs on to the
notion that Ah Sin is engaged in working
out his own salvation, and Britain found
the last attempt to hold the front for the
whites so costly that it is unlikely to
attempt the job again without assistance. The
Powers are no nearer agreeing to united
action than they were four years ago, when
the great foreign city of Shanghai was
only saved from falling into the hands of
the Communists by British soldiers and
sailors. The League of Nations apparently
regards a Russian occupation of China as
coming under the domestic category.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Family Conference.
The Imperial Conference has no consti-
tutional status and its decisions are not
binding on anyone. Nevertheless it can
serve a useful purpose in the discussion of
problems, and it can serve effectively as a
clearing house for grievances and suspicions.
There is no longer any suggestion of Im-
perial chains. Not only is the right of full
self-government admitted to all the mem-
bers of this Commonwealth of British
nations; the right of withdrawal is con-
ceded too. Australia, being by birth more
British than Britain, has not the shadowiest
wish to exercise that right; S. Africa,
being largely Dutch, views the matter dif-
ferently. Australia can understand its half-
sister’s aspirations without sharing them; at
the same time, though it realises that the
position of the two Dominions is widely
different, it may be permitted to express the
hope that the S. African Union will be
able to settle down to comfortable member-
ship.
Allowance must always be made for the
fact that Australia was largely peopled by
men who rebelled against British conditions
and transferred themselves to a newer,
freer land. So we have had tales handed
down from parent to child and grandchild
of black misery and oppression; occasion-
ally, among the old ones, there is even per-
sonal recollection of the horrors of poverty
in early childhood—along, of course, with
the inevitable belief that somebody or other
was responsible for it all. So among thou-
sands of good Australians there is always
a certain sub-conscious suspicion of British
motives. Thus we have the story told by
one section of the Federal Cabinet, and
seized upon eagerly by Mr. Lang’s sup-
porters in N. S. Wales, that this man Nie-
meyer is merely a wicked emissary whose
mission is to wreck Australian secondary
industries in order that Australians may be
driven to become producers of cheap raw
materials for British factories.
The real attitude of Britain towards Aus-
tralian trade is best revealed in the reports
of R. W. Dalton, the British Trade Com-
missioner in Australia. Than these reports on
Australian economic and trade conditions
nothing fairer or more comprehensive is
published abroad. Of course, Mr. Dalton
wants to secure more trade for British manu-
facturers in Australia: there is not the
smallest attempt to disguise that. But
always the aim of the British Trade Com-
missioner in Australia is to secure for Britain
orders which have hitherto gone to foreign
counti'ies. For this purpose Australia’s
import trade is divided into two classes—
the competitive and the non-competitive. In
1927-28 (the Commissioner’s latest figures)
Britain had 98.9 per cent, of the total trade
in the non-competitive classes; in the far
too numerous competitive classes it had only
57.5 per cent. In the “severely competitive”
classes Britain has less than 25 per cent, of
our import trade—in foodstuffs of animal
origin; in tobacco and preparations thereof;
in optical, surgical and scientific instru-
ments and in the vast pile called miscella-
neous. It has had only 26 per cent, of
our import trade in apparel, 31 per cent,
in textiles, 25 per cent in metals and metal
manufactures other than machinery. Of
imported rubber and rubber manufactures
we have taken only 30 per cent, from
Britain; of machinery only 36 per cent.
If we are not making these goods our-
selves, then our own kinsmen in the United
Kingdom should be employed upon them.
Mr. Scullin rightly interprets Australian
opinion when he assures the Imperial Con-
ference that that is Australia’s wish. This
country’s sincere regret is that it cannot see
its way clear at the moment to go much
further and welcome large numbers of
British people, putting them on the land to
dig out a living for themselves. There is
abundant land in Australia for the purpose;
but the maintenance of such a population
during their early years in this country is a
problem too great for us to tackle just now.
The most practical scheme might be for
Britain to set up an entirely new colony—
two if not three States have suitable areas
—maintaining it out of the money which
now goes in doles until it could maintain
itself.
*
Mr. Lang and Public Confidence.
Acting Prime Minister Fenton says that
Australia has touched rock bottom and
from now on conditions will improve. The
optimist has his uses and Mr. Fenton has
his; but unfortunately it is not the confi-
dence of the politician that we need now—
it is the confidence of the men with money
to risk. And we shall not get that until
we show that we are making a determined
and sincere effort to pay our bills.
So long as we could borrow, deficits did
not matter. We .got rid of them by the
simple plan of floating a loan, temporary
or otherwise. A country is in exactly the
same position as a private firm in this
matter. While its bankers stand behind it,
it can go on trading whether it is paying
its way or not. The moment its bankers
cannot or will not pay its bills for it, it
must pay them itself, which means that
it must either increase its earnings or reduce
its outgoings. We have got into the silly
habit of thinking that there is some inex-
haustible bag into which we can dip when
our national budgets do not balance; we
must wake up to the hard fact that there is
no such thing. Already S. Australia has had
to get a loan of a million from the Com-
monwealth in order to pay its wages and
salaries; and the point is rapidly being-
reached when the railways of more than
one State will have to do something
desperate. The position so far as they are
concerned is not getting better; it is get-
ting worse.
The men with money to risk may be
divided into two classes. There are the
bankers and others overseas who must be
looked to to tide us over our immediate
difficulties. Already we owe 36 millions
advanced in London for this purpose. Lang,
of N. S. Wales, tells us that we need not
worry about this—that there has been a
floating debt for many years past, and that
it has always been turned into a fixed debt
in due course. This is quite true, and the
bankers have got tired of it. Any banker
would. Mr. Lang asks the public of N. S.
Wales to believe that we can borrow to-day
because we borrowed yesterday and the
day before and every other day for a month
and did not repay a farthing. If Mr. Lang
has had a “friend” who has come at him on
the same terms, Mr. Lang is one in a mil-
lion if he has not lost patience at last and
barked an emphatic denial.
The London moneylender is, then, one
of those whose confidence we must restore;
and whatever else Sir Otto Niemeyer’s
opinions may be worth, it will have to be
admitted that he ought to know what the
London moneylender wants. Yet Mr.
Lang proposes that N. S. Wales shall dis-
regard the conditions Sir Otto lays down.
The other person with money whose con-
fidence it is necessary to gain is the Aus-
tralian citizen. At present he can see
nothing much ahead of him but endless
taxation, wherefore he is not risking a
penny more than he can help; he does not
know what is going to happen—and can-
not know until the London moneylender
shows some confidence in us—and he is
hanging on to every penny he can, which
is why business is almost at a standstill and
factories working less than half-time. So the
restoration of London confidence is of para-
mount importance; and it is idle to look
for that until N. S. Wales has given the
right answer to Mr. Lang.
♦ —
S. Australia’s Message to N. S. Wales.
Six months ago Mr. Hill, the leader of the
Labor Opposition in South Aus., told his
State what Mr. Lang, leader of the Labor
Opposition in N. S. Wales, is telling his
State now. The story did not seem so
ridiculous then, and Mr. Hill was given a
mandate to save the State. On September
25 he came into the Assembly with his
Budget, backed by a report of his six
months’ experiences. He told how, in spite
of all his efforts, his expenditure bad been
greatly in excess of his revenue, and how,
long-term loans being out of the question,
he had been driven to raise short loans
where and how he could in order to pay
wages and salaries and other charges to
keep the State services running; he had
even gone to Queensland and borrowed
three-quarters of a million from the
Treasury there for a few weeks. His Gov-
ernment had thrashed out the position at
the Premiers’ Conference in Melbourne,
and had agreed to the resolutions unani-
mously adopted—those resolutions which in
N. S. Wales Mr. Lang proposes to repu-
diate, so that he may do those things which
Mr. Hill thought six months ago might be
done, but which he has since found are
utterly impossible.
One of the undertakings of the Premiers’
Conference was to balance their budgets:
in other words, to make their outgoings and
their revenue agree. The South Australian
Labor Premier’s proposals to that end have
been locally described as heroic; and if
heroism consists in doing the unavoidable,
however unpleasant, it may be what it is
said to be. With a revenue last year of
10i millions and a deficiency of over H
million, something heroic was certainly
called for. But, as usual, political con-
siderations intruded, and the Government’s
heroism wore thin in places. That vast
army of public servants which we have
created has become our masters, and the
hand that is laid upon them must touch
them gently, no matter how ruthlessly it
may have to despoil the less well-organised
taxpayer. Nevertheless this can be said for
the S. Australian Labor Government: it
has reduced the exemption for income-tax
purposes to £lOO, has imposed an additional
flat-rate tax of 50s. on every person with a
taxable income, and, in addition to the
ordinary tax and the surcharged 505., every
unmarried taxable person will pay £1 for
every £lOO of income in excess of £lOO. The
rates on income from personal exertion run
up to 4s. 7d. in the £; from property to
ss. 2d.
The Premiers’ Conference laid down no
rules for the balancing of budgets. It is
open to every Government, Federal , and
State, to work out its own salvation in its
own way, the one stipulation being that
the thing must be done somehow. The job
is so unpleasant that every avenue was ex-
plored for an alternative; and the South
Australian had to confess, like every other
Premier and Treasurer, Federal and State,
Labor and Nationalist alike, that there is
none. Had his State realised this six
months ago, it would at least have been re-
lieved of some of the tremendous load that
has now been put upon it. Mr. Hill admits
that, much as he regrets it, his budget must
add to the State’s unemployment. Had
the facts been realised earlier, some of that
unemployment would also have been
avoided. The lesson is for N. S. Wales to
learn. It may give Mr. Lang a chance to
do what Mr. Hill promised to do but finds
that he cannot even begin to do; but in the
end its people will have to pay the price of
delay that S. Australia is now called upon
to sweat under. >


Thousands are
changing
—changing
to Chesterfield
because
Wow
some
my way
/
\?v^ S >- V
''’^^‘•■WnMnniiiinnr-^^'
that word and
don’t forget it
POLITICAL
POINTS
hortified by the presence in Canberra of
Robert Gibson, of the Commonwealth Bank,
and by the voice of the Prime Minister,
which was heard over the wireless ’phone,
Federal Ministers have struggled out of
their pitiable indecision sufficiently to
announce that they have agreed that “expen-
diture must be reduced at the rate of approxi-
mately £4,000,000 a year.” That means cuts
in Parliamentary and public-service salaries,
unless the majority is overborne; and though
“some increase in taxation on income from
property may be. necessary,” Mr. Fenton gives
the country his personal assurance that
"‘there will be no proposal for a special tax
on interest as such.”
It is not yet certain that the Fenton sec-
tion of the Cabinet will prevail over the
Ministers and members who are working for
Lang and the repudiation of the Loan Coun-
cil and the Melbourne agreement. The wild
men are strong in numbers and they will
renew the struggle when Caucus meets —and
it is not to meet till two days after the
N. S. Wales elections. However, the tem-
porary ascendancy of the moderates has led
to a bit of a recovery in share prices, which
had fallen alarmingly.
Emboldened by the result of the Hawthorn
by-election, Vic. Nationalist-leader Argyle
challenged the H’ogan Government on the
score of its Budget. After some queer nego-
tiations with the bosses of the public-service
organisations, Hogan announced that the
extra income tax he had proposed would be
halved, Parliamentary and public service pay
being reduced instead. The additional half-
penny on cheques is also likely to go. Not-
withstanding a move to consolidate all the
non-Labor sections (an aggregate of 34,
excluding _ Speacock) it looks as if the
Hogans . will just about pull through. If
an elective Ministry is out of the question
it would be very bad tactics to put them out.
Lang says he isn’t a repudiationist; and
a man would be a fool to call himself one
when making a general canvass for votes.
But what’s the moral difference between
repudiating a debt and giving your money
away so that you won’t be able to pay it?
While State railway losses have been piling
up at the rate of ten millions a year, four
railway unions have had claims for higher
pay before the Federal Arbitration Court;
and confusion has been made worse con-
founded by the interposition of Federal con-
ciliation committees. After knocking off to
let the conciliation committees wrestle with
“Labor speakers are saying, evidently by instruc-
tion, that Lang will get his millions in England.
At the same time he is bitterly attacking the repre-
sentative of the Bank of England.”
BIG BOY: “Yah, that’s what I think of you!
And I’d rock it into your old man only
I wanter touch him for a coupla hun-
dred million.”
the disputes, the Court has come to the
sensible, if unexpected, decision to suspend all
railway awards as regards N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria, South Aus. and Tasmania, without
interfering with standard hours or the basic
wage. This means that the railways in the
four States will be managed, for a time at
least, by the men appointed for the purpose,
and not by Federal lawyers and union
secretaries. The decision was followed by a
characteristic attack on the Court by the
Red blatherskite Beasley; but it is a com-
pliment to be blackguarded by Beasley.
W. M. Hughes says democracy is on its
trial. Heaven only knows how long this
trial is going to last; no man is so old
that, he can remember when it started. But
it is all a bluff. Democracy failed long ago,
and is failing harder as time goes on, because
those who ought to be most interested in
making it a success are most interested in
making it a failure. Who wants' the people
to rule? Lang? Not a bit of it! He wants
the party to rule. The party machine has
crushed democracy to death.
One of the complaints of Cheap-jack Lang
is that the Bavinshaws didn’t do a thing
until the eleventh hour to preserve the State’s
passenger- and freight-carrying monopoly.
Well, Lang was Premier for years, and he
never did anything at all at the eleventh
or any other hour to preserve the State’s
monopoly. In fact, it was during his reign
“The strain of watching the deficit grow and contending with the
wild men of the party has told on Mr. Fenton, who treated the
reporters with a curtness never exhibited by Mr. Brace or Mr.
Scullin Cabinet’s decision was preceded by a conversation be-
tween Mr. Fenton and his leader, 12,000 miles away.”
Boss: “Can I do anything for you, Jim?”
DEPUTY: “Yes, Jimmy—for God’s sake come home!”
tha-t the opposition became so entrenched
that to root it out now is a matter of tre-
mendous difficulty.
Theodore is the only N.S.W. Federal
Labor member who hasn’t been seen on the
hustings whooping for Lang. And the only
speakers who quote him are Nationalists, who
remind electors inclined to take Lang's
promises at their face value of Theo’s
undertaking that a Federal Labor Govern-
ment would have the coalmines re-opened in
a fortnight.
The Queensland Government has issued, a
writ joining Theodore and McCormack with
Reid and Goddard as defendants in a civil
action relating to the Mungana transactions.
The writ claims damages for fraud against
the Crown, and as an alternative an account
of all profits made by Theodore and Mac Co-
rmack in connection with the purchase of
the mines as agents for the Crown. Theo-
dore seized the occasion of the issue of the
writ to address a public meeting in Bris-
bane on the subject of the “persecution” to
which he has been subjected. It was a
Labor meeting, so no one ventured to remark
that the Labor Government had been asked
many times for a royal commission and
refused it, and that Theodore had had an
opportunity of appearing before Justice
Campbell and did not take it.
Vic. Uppish House, having insisted upon
retaining the Closer Settlement Board, in
stead of abolishing it, as the Hogans pro-
posed, Lands Minister Bailey cut the pay
of Moore and Malcolm, the second and third
members, before reappointing them for 12
months—their term had expired. Instead of
the £lO5O they had been drawing they were
allotted £637 each —the maximum for offi-
cers in charge of occupation branches.
Mclver, who is Director of Settlement and
See. for Lands, will continue to draw £1750
p.a as chairman of the board. The Uppish
House is annoyed, but can do nothing.
So-called Labor in N. S. Wales ought to
agree on its lie. Half its time it is saying
that there isn’t any depression, and that
profits, etc., are as big as ever they were,
and that the railways are really undermanned,
and that all we want is a bold Government
which will spend money freely; and the
other half it. talks about economising by
cutting out the Leg. Council and things
like that. Any bait to catch a fish with!
Lang has suddenly discovered that Bavin
has allowed big estates to choke country
towns, and that “oppressive” taxation must
be imposed to break up the large holdings.
N. S. Wales has had more Labor rule by far
than any other State in the past 20 years:
McGowen, H'olman, Dooley, Storey and Lang
himself have all had a shot at running the
State on Labor lines, with the country
towns getting more breathless all the while.
And they will go on that way as long as
railway fares and freights are pushed up
(a matter chiefly of Labor legislation) and
borrowing piles up debts for the primary
producer to carry. (And only the Labor
party in N. S. Wales hangs on to that
busted policy.)
Some Federal Ministers are not at all
comfortable. They see that they are being
jockeyed into a conspiracy to delude the
public of N. S. Wales into believing that
what Lang promises them is possible. They
believe it is entirely impossible, and that
their own plans will probably be wrecked
in the process; yet they are being adjured
in the name of party loyalty to say nothing.
If an explosion doesn’t happen before Oct.
25 it will be a miracle.
Scullin, in London, says the repudiation-
ists in Australia are so insignificant that it
is ridiculous to take any notice of them.
Perhaps that is true. But if wages have to
be reduced in order to pay interest, will
Scullin say how many of his own Ministers
would vote for a reduction of
wages and how many would
prefer default? Lang, having-
got four Federal Ministers on
his platform at Queanbeyan
the other night, said that this
“indicated that at last Labor
had a united body.” On the
contrary, there never was such
a clear cleavage. One lot
says “We’ve got to be
honest” ; the other says “We’ve
yot be honest if it doesn’t cost
us anything.” The rank and
file of course don’t know this.
And they must be kept from
knowing for a few weeks. That
is why such strenuous efforts
have been made to keep the
Federal Parliament closed till
after the election.
The South Aus. Labor Gov-
ernment will be the next to
proposed the abolition of the
Leg. Council. One State
House ought to be enough,
and would be if politicians
were all reasonably honest.
But they simply are not; so
the public has to have some
protection against them, and
the most practicable protection
is a second chamber. The refer-
endum and recall might answer the purpose;
but that, plan is too cumbersome, and would
cost more than a small second chamber.
When a State has neither recall nor second
chamber, Queensland knows what is liable
to happen. An honest Government- -and
Hill’s looks like an honest Government —will
be very reluctant to sack its second chamber.
It looks too much like a board of directors
getting rid of the auditors.
The beginning of the month saw a batch
of Queensland railwaymen, who were due
to retire on pensions to which they have
themselves contributed, pushed gently through
the window. This will help to relieve the
strain on the finances, but unless there is a
philosophic acceptance of the inevitable —
wage and salary reductions, coupled, pro-
bably with rationing—many more of the
bloated staff will have to go, and not on
pensions, either. Of course, the Reds are
preaching resistance, and another general
strike is threatened. It would be utter mad-
ness, but rogues will argue that no loaf is
better than a rationed issue, and fools will
listen to them.
J. T. Lang rushed into Canberra the
other day to beg'’ Federal Ministers not to
chip a bit off wages or salaries until after
election day in N. S. Wales. Many a bride-
“But wait till after the wedding on the
twenty-fifth.”
groom has found himself in much the same
difficulties, and has had to chase round to
moneylenders and beg them to lie low until
he had married the girl and got hold of
her money.
Bavin declares that he is not a wage-
reductionist : he and his party are wage-
productionists. Bavin and his party, being
politicians, may have to talk that way: all
the same, no matter who is in power, wages
will have to be reduced or this country will
go broke. What ought to be made clear,
though, is that a man may be far better
off at 15s. a day than at 20s. —all depends
on the cost of living. Which is why a man
may be starved off a new goldfield in New
Guinea if he washes less than an ounce a day,
though he could live well on a quarter of
an ounce on a N.S.W. field.
Things don’t seem to be coming our way
very fast. An agitation is being pushed
now in London to greatly increase the num-
ber of stocks and shares that may be bought
for investment by trustees. This if adopted
will mean that Australian Government
stocks will find competition for trust money
vastly increased, with the sure result of
pushing up rates both for new loans and
conversions.
Jones, the Vic. Minister of Works, was
asked by the Scullins to find a tenant for
Federal Government House, Melbourne; but
citizens able to spend £BOOO p.a. on the
upkeep of a suburban dwelling are scarce.
If Australia had one Governor instead of
seven the cost of the huge pile, with its
So 1 acres of lawn and garden, might not look
so excessive.
There are still some people who don’t
seem able to see that paper money is no
good outside the country that issues it,
wherefore unless we sell goods abroad for
whatever they will bring we can’t pay our
creditors abroad —and we owe them about
40 millions a year for interest alone. Paper
money is simply a local convenience, just
like a railway ticket. If J. T. Lang, being
a politician, did such a monstrous and un-
heard-of thing as to buy an all-lines railway
tickets for N. S. Wales, and if he then went
“The ‘Labor Daily’ implores punters to return
Lang, saying that he will restore the 44-hour week
and that they will thus be sure of getting out for
the first race.”
After “the Last”—a 44-hour week idyll.
to France or even Britain and presented his
document, he would find that it wouldn’t
carry him one yard. A pound note issued in
Australia would buy just as much in France.
And a note issued in Brazil wouldn’t carry
a man two blocks on any Australian tram-
way.
Priminister Scullin was surprised to note
how the French were fortifying their Medi-
terranean coast, from Toulon to the Italian
border. Nevertheless, he came out with the
expected platitudes, remarking that “an
advance in civilised thought had followed
the establishment of the League of Nations,”
and that “the glory of peace” had replaced
talk of “the glory of war.” It is queer
logic that makes gigantic fortifications a
demonstration of the glory of peace.
Newcastle is short of a bishop, and it.
requires a two-thirds majority of the autho-
rised electors to choose one. No Australian
candidate secured the necessary support, and
no one offered to withdraw, and no one pro-
posed tossing up. The electors adopted a
compromise, naming an overseas cleric who
wasn’t even a candidate, and has a bishopric
already. Pretoria, where he hangs out his
gaiters, is. the capital of the Union, and a
picturesque little city with a great history
for its age. One would hardly exchange it
for a provincial coal-mining town unless he
had a thirst for new experiences. The gentle-
man politely refused the gift, so the electors
may have to fall back on a mere Australian.
Tasmanian Parliament was the first of
Australia’s talk-shops to pass retrenchment
and taxation measures designed to square
the ledger. It took a solid fortnight of
wordy warfare and numerous divisions to
settle the argument. The Labor Opposition
held that McPhee’s attempt to pull up a
shortage of £250,000 by reduction of salaries
and increased taxation during the remaining
nine months of the financial year would just
about paralyse Tasmania. McPhee retorted
that if his remedies were not applied the
State would be paralysed and dishonored.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Stonehouse”: Do we advance much with
the rolling years? Sometimes I doubt it.
When I was a very small boy my father,
a Gloucestershire squire, pulled up his trap
to give me a glimpse of the Tewkesbury
cat. She struck me as a very ordinary
TOO THIN.
Woman: “How much for the boy? Half-fare?”
Conductor: “Looks as if he’s bin on half-fare long enough. Better give him the full
issue.”
animal, until her history was told—then I
realised that she was a quite unwitting part
of the English Constitution. In the street
where she lived and caught mice, or
mice escaped her, candidates would pull
up at election-time and ask her price.
A bewildered-looking voter might say she
wasn’t for sale, or didn’t belong to him, but
a crisp fiver pressed into his hand generally
made him think better of it, and the cat
would progress, purring at the buyer’s knee,
up the street. My old man—a Whig, by the
way, not a Tory—mentioned that the
Tewkesbury cat had twice helped to dis-
franchise the borough for corruption. But he
said it without animus, and regarded puss,
it seemed to me, with a certain affection.
After all, in those days candidates paid for
votes w r ith their own money. They don’t
now.
* # $ Hs
“Lyn”: The Chinaman does everything in
such a topsy-turvy way, by Caucasian stan-
dards, that Cairns has become quite used
to the local Mongolians holding high revelry
at the mouth of the Barron River to mourn
the loss of 30 of their compatriots drowned
there in a storm over 40 years ago. In those
days the Barron Valley was full of Chinese;
they owned all the banana and pineapple
plantations, and would ship the fruit down
the Barron and round the coast to Cairns
in sampans. One of the N.Q. blows
accounted for a whole fleet, and when-
ever the spring comes round the commemora-
tion festival is held. It is the Chinese
way of mourning, but the Cairns white popu-
lation regards it as a holiday, and goes to
it with enthusiasm. There are. a din of
crackers, and a smoke' screen of incense, and
a generous feed provided by the Chinese
National Club. To the whites bonfires sug-
gest national rejoicing over plots frustrated
and princesses born, but to the China-
man they evidently suggest funerals; so the
happy day ended this year with a huge fire
lighting up the tropic night on Barron Point.
Two piquant touches were added by the fact
that the president of the Chinese National
Club calls himself Mr. C. F. Jones, and that
a visiting troupe of Samoans provided the
music.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The late General McCay and a
game of “two-up” were together responsible
for a curious and beneficial wartime fund. The
G.O.C. A.I.F. Depots was making an unex-
pected tour of the camps when he came
upon a “school” in full blast. In the scatter
the bets were left on the ground, and McCay
ordered the money to be collected. A pay
had just been made, and there were many
players, so the sum was a large one; McCay
made it the nucleus of a fund for relieving
cases of distress among girls who had
been too trusting with Digger lovers. It
was augmented by the work of concert
parties, and provided a form of assistance
that could not be extended by the A.I.F.
authorities in the ordinary course of events.
* * * *
“C. Cafeteria”: Some small boys at
Eltham (Vic.), which is Reason’s town,
stumbled across a skull on the banks of
the Yarra. Marks on it suggested foul play,
and the local police started dragging the
river and digging up the landscape. They
had been thus engaged for a couple of days
when Mrs. Kent-Hughes, wife of the doctor,
identified the relic as having once belonged
to her husband. Some time ago, getting
tired of seeing it about the house, she
ordered the gardener to bury it at the bottom
of the garden. The joke might have remained
the private possession of Eltham, but in the
meantime portion of the skull had been sent
to Dr. Mollison, the Government Analyst,
who reported that it had evidently been used
for surgical purposes by a very incompetent
and ignorant person. As a matter of fact,
the anatomical relic had been used by Kent-
Hughes in his student days for experiment,
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: In manning their East Indian
navy the Hollanders carefully observe the
ancient imperial principle, divide and rule,
About 20 per cent, of the complement is
native, and of these half are Mohammedans
and half are Christians. The Moslems come
for the most part from Java, the Christians
from the lovely island of Amboina or
the huge, spidery collection of penin-
sulas known as Celebes. The Chris-
tianising of these gentle people forms one
of the finest of missionary romances. Their
fathers were headhunters, and before that
they were the prey of the piratical empires
which were created when the Dutch, to estab-
lish a monopoly of spices* deliberately
destroyed the plantations of the spice islands,
appointing agents extirpateurs to see that
no fresh planting was engaged in and enforc-
ing the death penalty on those who broke
the regulation. Forty years ago headhunting
was suppressed, and the interior is now
covered with villages so neat and prosperous-
looking that they come under the category of
garden suburbs. The last of the piratical
empires was that of the Rajah of Boni. He
DEEDS BEFORE WORDS.
He: “Do you believe in love in a cottage?”
She: “Yes, if it’s in my name.”
was a corsair after the grand manner. When
his empire was finally broken up in 1908, at
a cost of 20,000 lives, 50,000 slaves were
found in his kingdom. I was in Macassar
when the potentate suffered his crowning
indignity—his palace had been transported
bodily from Boni to Macassar and was offi-
cially opened as a musium. He died in exile
in Java.
* * * *
“C.A.8.”: The borough council meeting
in a Maoriland provincial town was recently
interrupted by an earthquake. The tremor
was a pretty stiff one, and the councillors
left without any formality. The Town
Clerk, essence of decorum, racked, his brains
for a graceful way to enter the incident in
the minutes. At last his eye brightened, and
he wrote: “On the motion of the Town Hall
the Council then adjourned.”
* * * *
“Chelsea Arts” : The “Saturday Review”-er
who inspired a Saturday leader in the “S.
M. Herald” recently got it all wrong when
he said that Dominions artists have to go to
London to score successes. Black-and-white
is the only department in which more money
is to be made in England than
in Australia, and every prac-
titioner in that line who has
succeeded in the Cold Land was
a success in Australia before-
hand,, From Phil May to Low
they have all exchanged big
Bulletin jobs for bigger Lon-
don ones. Low makes more
than any Australian —or, for
that matter, any American —
paper could afford to pay him;
but then he came on the market
when Beaverbrook’s “Stand-
ard” set out to down Rother-
mere’s “News,” and, being a
first-class business man, he
made the “Standard” pay
through the nose for his ser-
vices. Portrait-painting has
been more or less dead in Eng-
land for years, which was why
Lambert and Longstaff returned
to Australia, where, till the
present slump became acute, it
was very much alive. Even
with the slump on, over £5OOO
has just been paid by the Aus-
tralian public for some of Lam-
bert’s pictures as the outcome
of a campaign organised by a
few of his friends —an unthink-
able phenomenon in Chelsea.
The only big money that the
average competent London
painter is earning nowadays
comes from the U.S.A. A
friend of mine who is an in-
different painter but can get a
likeness arranged three years
ago with a New York tourist
of wealth to visit America, and
paint six of the tourist’s friends
at 200 guineas a portrait. The
six passed him on to others, and
he returned to London this year with £3OOO.
A fortune in Chelsea, but a bagatelle to
artists like Norman Lindsay who live almost
entirely on their Australian earnings.
* * * *
“T.P.”: Years ago I had a pupil, a scholar-
ship-winner and a promising lad, whose
ambition was to be a doctor. His father
was negotiating for his entry into Scotch
College when the Big War flamed up ; and,
being a patriot, he switched over to'
Duntroon. I urged vainly that there might
be no future for the lad in the permanent
forces, and suggested his later enlistment,
age permitting, from college or university,
and the subsequent resumption of his career.
But Duntroon won. The student neared
the top of the Commonwealth competitive
exam, list, and looked like a tip-top soldier in
the making. During the war years he begged to
be allowed to join the A.1.F., but the
departmental brass-hats wouldn’t have it.
After the war, he was one of the first to
be dispensed with. In the meantime his
father had died; he bad no influence ana
no profession or trade. Last week 1 me
him again, the sole employee m a stru»„ i »
butcher’s shop, carving chops. *
* * ~ ,
“Karalee” : So bitter a feud, accoraing v
a Maoriland telegram, is raging somew i
near Auckland over the locality ot a project
town hall that the partisans ot one sia
(or site) deliberately burned down a briag
to prevent the ratepayers of anotfier
trict, evidently antis, attending to
their votes at a public meeting. I aave ,
a town-hall fight or two in my time, and cai
certify that no election issue can be countea
on to lash people to such fury and divide
them into such savagely hostile camps. Even
the route of a projected railway, which has
broken up many friendships, is no more acri-
moniously contested. _ Over 20 years ago Kal-
goorlie decided to build a town hall in keep-
ing with its importance, and, when the sites
were at last narrowed down to two, rival
sets of property-owners and storekeepers,
each of which reckoned its own takings and
pockets would be affected by the ratepayers'
decision, fought with as much desperate ill-
will, employing tongues and pens instead of
rapiers, as the Guelfs and Ghibellines in
ancient Florence. The same cantankerous-
ness has kept Perth from having a new
town hall, in place of the present shabby,
convict-built structure, for at least 30 years.
Everyone is agreed on the necessity, but
whenever the claims of a suitable site are
urged the protesting yells of those who don’t
want to see trade and traffic pulled in any
direction but their own split the welkin, and
suggestion after suggestion is abandoned.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. is still a difficult State
for anyone anxious to get away unobserved.
Two visitors to the recent Show were
arrested on a small charge, and allowed bail.
Next morning one, of them failed to appear
at the police court. “He left by motor-car,
in the direction of Melbourne,” said the
police confidently; and a warrant for his
arrest was executed within an hour at
Mount Gambier, 300 miles along the Mel-
bourne track.
* * * *
“Delicious Trimmings”: I had a nip of
whisky in a Melbourne pub the other day
which took me back to my schooldays and
the description in one of the works we were
expected to study—l think a play of Aris-
tophanes—of the methods of adulterating
the wine which was the only tipple of those
classic times. The story ends with the fate
which befell the adulterator. He was con-
demned by the local beaks to drink six quarts
of his own stuff, and nobody was much sur-
prised or particularly sorry when it killed
him. When I get into 'Parliament —and I
feel I’m getting a bit too old for honest
work now 7 —and the annual amendment of
the Licensing Acts comes along, I intend to
move along the lines indicated.
* * * *
“Turl” : Birkenhead’s death is a reminder
that some of the least-regarded colleges at
Oxford send out the men who become most
distinguished. Birkenhead was at Wadham
—a college whose unpleasant rhyming alias,
noted in “Verdant Green,” lias clung to it
from time immemorial. Yet in Birkenhead
and Simon it helped to equip the two
lawyer-Parliamentarians who were perhaps
the most brilliant of their generation. C. B.
Fry, a record-winner of blues, who also took
high honors in the schools, must have been
contemporary with them at Wadham; the
three were born within 12 months of one
another.
* if if *
“Mudurup”: It is interesting to read of
some of the incentives to gold discovery that
were held out in Westralia 60 or 70 years
ago, and to reflect how fruitless they proved.
In 1862 the Government of the period,
anxious for a share in the prosperity that
the diggings had brought to the eastern
colonies, offered a reward of £5OOO to the
discoverer of a payable goldfield within 150
miles of Perth, one condition being that 5000
ounces should be secured within the next 18
months. Nobody found that goldfield within
the specified time; in fact, it hasn’t been
found yet. But news of the offer fil-
tered over to the east, and in the same year
we find no less an authority than E. H. Har-
graves offering his services as a prospector
to the Westralian Government on certain
terms. He was engaged for six months, at
the close of which period he reported un-
favorably, adding his opinion that gold in
any quantity would never be found in the
colony. It is doubtful if any record exists
of where he looked for it.
A RHYME OF LITTERED BEACHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s blossom on the tea-tree bough, and
perfume on the breeze
(From the wildflowers on the cliff top)
underneath the drowsing trees ;
But, where yesterday the week-enders were
sprawled upon the sand,
There’s little now but rubbish up and down
the golden strand.
So let us lie here, and give thanks, and
contemplate the mess
The merry-hearted masses made, and also let
ns bless
Our lucky stars for solitude and sunshine,
and the sea
That waits in limpid friendliness to welcome
you and me.
Let’s bask among the bottles that were
emptied overnight
By a bunch of lazy loafers in the beauti-
fying light
Of a moon that sparkled silverly on piles
of broken glass,
Old boots, and crumpled boxes blown among
the marram-grass.
All Saturday and Sunday brought, each
moment of the day,
New litter to the sparkling scene, where
hundreds threw away
Banana-skin or orange-peel from morning
until eve,
And scattered apple-cores around until they
had to leave.
There’s blossom on the tea-tree and there’s
garbage on the beach,
And swathes of trash salute the gaze as far
as eye can reach.
In fact, there’s hardly room among it all
to stretch a limb
Towards the sunshine.... Darling, let’s get
out o’ this, and swim!
VICTORIA.
ALGERNON PINH


“Hamblin” : The arrest of Richard Buckley,
wanted and sought for by the police ever since
the murder of a bank manager in October,
1923, furnishes another proof that a man
hiding from the law is nowhere safer than in
a big city. Buckley said he had never been
out of Melbourne or its suburbs for seven
years. It is pointed out, possibly to account
for the failure of the detectives to lay
hands on their quarry, that he had grown a
beard which made him completely unrecog-
nisable by those who had only photographs
to identity him by. It used "to be a moot
point at Scotland Yard whether a bearded
man who clean-shaved himself or a smooth-
faced person who grew hirsute adornments
disguised himself more effectively. But one
doubts if a beard is the protection it was 50
years ago for those who want to sink their
past. Its very rarity ensures attention for
its owner, particularly if he moves in the
circles that the daily press calls “the under-
world ”
SIMPLE ADDITION.
“How old would you say I am?”
“Eighteen summers.”
“Don’t be ridiculous!”
“Well, you can always add eighteen winters
if anyone argues the point.”
“Lao-dah”; Because a literary society
refused to cancel lectures on James Joyce,
Aldous Huxley and D. H. Lawrence, Prof.
Morison,. of Durham (Enig.) University,
resigned, remarking that “it is the beginning
of the fight for decency and purity.” The
incident recalls Whistler’s retort to Horsley,
a Royal Academician now completely for-
gotten, but. in Whistler’s day regarded as a
great artist. Horsley had stated that no
decent artist would paint from the nude,
because a woman who stripped for a man to
look at her could never be the same after-
wards. Whistler’s reply was to catalogue a
nude in his next exhibition under the title,
“H’orsley soit qui mal y pense!”
* - * * a;
“Spare Otto”; Changing a fiver in a pub
the other day, I found myself landed
with a five-dollar bill. This presently
started a discussion as to how the Yanks
took on the dollar unit of currency, and
where the name originated. My financial
adviser —unlike Sir Otto Niemeyer in that
he borrowed Is. (id. from me before leaving
—explained it. Long ago a big silver-mine
at .Toachimsthal, in Bohemia, supplied most
of the silver for the Imperial mint. The coins
were called “thalers,” an abbreviation of
the name of the place. The Spaniards
adopted the thaler currency which, as “pieces
eight,” is familiar to everv reader nf
Stevenson, and took it with them to
Si"'’;?', Followtag
™ ed Jo this day, of having everything as
TMm r n^BMl P th Si v e Y 1 ? ame and from
, iny Bull, the Yanks borrowed the Spanish
denommat loll , which drifted over J Aus-
ualia as long ago as Macquarie’s time
t( * * * *
m unusual motor-car numbers
. K) ° ' ■ J- know a private-hire man
in Melbourne who determined to have 4190
and paid a good figure for it. Now he cir-
cularises his clients on stationery bearing
t n S r ’ followed by the slogan, “I always
IrYa P f °i' ° ne 1 know - ” It has proved a
good investment.
* * * *
“Mells”: Religious mania is as likely to
end in tragedy as any other sort; it probably
f , or . J ames McMinn, a North Coast
(N.S.W.) dairy-farmer, shooting his brother,
Andrew, apparently with the latter’s entire
acquiescence, and then slaying himself with
the same weapon. The deliberateness of the
act was emphasised by the pair having left
a joint will, signed but not witnessed. The
Coroner had sufficient material to enable him
to glimpse the. death pact and almost recon-
struct the closing scene. It was no business
ot ins to find the motive, but it was clearly
no ordinary one. The pair were bachelors,
fast friends, quite well off and with no
discernible skeleton in the cupboard. But
they lived alone, their main topic of con-
versation appears to have been the next
world, and eight Bibles were found in the
house.
* * * *
E. J.D.”: It wasn’t a load of wool that
the river steamer Rodney’s barge was carry-
ing when she was the object of hostilities at
Moorara in the shearers’ strike of the early
’nineties (B. 10/9/’3O) ; it was a cargo of
Victorian shearers, bound for Poly station,
where the shed was on strike. The strikers
made an organised attack at midnight, fired
the steamer, and, cutting the barge loose,
allowed it to float downstream. There was
one conviction, though it was several years
later. In a bar a man boasted of his part
in the raid. His boast earned him two years’
imprisonment, although in court he pleaded
“not guilty.” And old identities, who appa-
rently knew more than they should, always
maintained that he wasn’t!'
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; Protests have been raised
against the methods of preparing animals
for the Melbourne Show. One prize-
winning bull was observed with his lack of
a proper caudal appendage compen-
sated for by a switch of false hair.
A cow which also won a prize had
a spare horn attached to her fore-
head by means of adhesive tape. In
point of fact, the business of pre-
paring exhibits is largely artificial.
The glossy coats of horses which
are so much admired
in the grand parade
are brought to their
transcendent state by
unnatural means. One
entrant kept steeds
sweltering in six rugs.
Another sweated the
unfortunate beasts by
central-heating their
stalls. Then there are
the folk who employ
all sorts of cosmetics
and beauty - parlor
treatment to give a
meretricious glamor to
hide and hoof. The resultant products are
as much like the natural animal as a Holly-
wooden star is like Mrs. Eve.
* * * #
“J.H.M.A.”; The abolition of pack-drill
in the British Army (B. l/10/’3O) recalls
many sad hours I spent thereat in expiat-
ing schoolboy sinfulness. The military side
of The King’s School, Parramatta, was
always very pronounced, and 40 or 50 years
ago quite minor offences would earn sen-
tences of one, two or three hours of humping
arms and equipment in spells of sentry-go
during playing hours on “the parapet” m
front of the main building of the school.
The penalty for swimming across to the
wooded island in the river (washed away in
the big flood of ’B9) was a whole week’s
pack drill. Last year, at the Flinders (Vic.)
Naval Depot, my soul went out in sympathy
to sundry delinquent bluejackets whom I
observed playing the old and wearisome game
in front of the drill hall. It lias long been
abolished at The King’s School.
* * * *
“Verey Light”: In the last year of the
war there was a frantic search through the
camps and hospitals for more men for
France. In the “try-anything-once” spirit
even suggestive treatment got a go, and
special instructors were provided. At Col-
chester hospital a very junior medical officer
was explaining the business to a squad of
these instructors, and stressing that men
on crutches frequently became so used to
their aid as to imagine that they could not
do without them, when his remarks were
interrupted by a sound of distant hilarity
and a series of staccato bumps. Then two
blue-clad figures wearing Digger hats and
propelled each by a crutch and a leg raced
along the corridor and pulled up panting at
the ward door. One swung a swathed foot
where his boot should have been, but the
other’s legs were intact. The m.o. turned
to the latter. “My man,” he said, “put down
that crutch and walk over to me.” The
Digger did so. “Now walk back again.”
Again the Digger obeyed. With a “There-
you-are!” look at the class the m.o. drew
himself up to his full five-foot-six. “Never
let me see you with a crutch again,” he
commanded. “You can walk quite well with-
out, it; now, can’t you?” For a moment
the Digger looked bewildered. Then he burst
forth: “ ’Oo said I couldn’t? That ain’t
my crutch —it’s Snow’s. I was racin’ ’im
one-legged for a packet o’ fags.”
“Lao-dah”: The 300 Australians who have
offered to fight for the Republic of China
are hereby advised to withdraw their candi-
dature. The game is not what it was in
the days of Gordon and Burgoyne, or even
in those of the recent one-armed General
Sutton. Thousands of Red and White Rus-
sians have taken sides in the revolution.
PANGS OF REMEMBRANCE.
“Cheer up, old man, you’ll soon forget her.”
“No, I won’t. Not till December, anyhow.
I won’t finish paying for the bracelet
I bought her till then.”
Unlcss they have the highest credentials they
share the hard knocks, the bad food and
the absence of pay of the coolie-soldier, and
they are always liable to be shot when cap-
tured. Three years ago Europeans at
Shanghai had front-stall seats in the
ghastly last act of one detachment of
foreign legionaries. They were a White
Itussian armored-train detachment, and when
the Bolshevik-assisted Nationalist armies
began to advance down the Nanking-Shang-
liai railway they retreated fighting along
the line until they came to the railhead,
which is less than 100 yards outside the
foreign settlement. As it would have' been
a breach of neutrality for them to enter the
settlement they were obliged to stand, and
they were systematically bombed and
machine-gunned into silence while their com-
patriots came down each day to the borders
of the neutral territory and watched the
tragedy.
* * * *
“Mako” ; It isn’t only sailors who believe
that the clergy are bringers of ill-luck. There
is a prisoner in a N.S.W. countrv gaol who
blames a bishop for his misfortunes. One
morning he called at a country parsonage,
and the lady of the house gave him the job
of clearing out an old shed, which he did
indifferently, departing plus certain trifles
which were not missed for some time.
Then the police, scouring the district for
the perpetrator of a series of local thefts,
chanced upon his humpy in the scrub, of
which the sole interior decoration was the
framed photograph of a bishop. Despite
the assurances of the occupant that the
divine was a dear friend of his, the suspicious
constables examined it and found an inscrip-
LOOKING AHEAD.
“And so she has decided not to divorce Jim!”
“A reconciliation?”
“No. When the depression lifts she will get more alimony.”
tion on the back giving the address of the
clergyman from whom it had been lifted,
Asked in 'court why he had retained the pic-
ture of his Ludship the prisoner could only
say that he “thought the old bloke looked a
decent sort of cove.”
* * * *
“Strict Yeg.” : When I compared the top-
knot of the T and G. building in Melbourne
to a Hindu fane I was not thinking of “Ibn
el Issar’s” modern structures (B. 24/9/’3O)
but of the 1400-year-old Hindu architecture
of Java Those ancient builders had not
stumbled on the solution of the keystone for
the arch and their roofs were constructed
out of re-entering rows of bricks. The
wedding-cake decoration on the Melbourne
building rather suggests them. r lhe amazing
thing is that this apparently frail method
of construction sustained earthquake shocks,
volcanic eruptions and the steady deposit
of leaf mould for 14 centuries. When Eng-
lish' engineers during Raflies’s government of
Java discovered the ruins, the ceilings were
intact in many cases.
“Oneralii”: A divorce suit
was before the Hamilton (M.L.)
Supreme Court one day last
month, and counsel for the peti-
tioning husband was opening
his case when the lunch-hour
struck. The husband thereupon
strolled over to his wife, whom
he had not seen for five years,
and after a friendly greet-
ing offered' to take her to
lunch. She went, and when the
Court resumed it was announced
that the parties had become
reconciled and wanted to with-
draw the action. The Judge
beamed at the reunited pair and
consented.
•‘Hamer”: Sydney’s first tram, horse-
drawn, ran along Pitt-street to the railway,
and was opened at the end of 1861. The
rolling-stock consisted of two cars, each
capable of holding 60 people ; the fare was
3d After the material had arrived it was
found that the flanges of the car wheels
did not fit those of the lines; to get over
the difficulty the rails were laid upside down,
sticking up an inch out of the road.
This made matters awkward for ordi-
nary traffic; and after five years of protest
from shopkeepers and others the tramway
was scrapped. It was responsible for the
loss of at least one life ; Isaac Nathan, who
set Byron’s “Hebrew Melodies” to music,
was the victim. The accident occurred oppo-
site where Her Majesty’s Theatre now
stands.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: I am not surprised that
“Mells” (B. 24/9/’3O) is fogged over the
pronunciation of “Premier,” seeing what an
absurd welter the lexicographers make of
it. Of course, it is a pure French word,
borrowed to avoid the larger monthful of
“Prime Minister.” (Incidentally, the aboli-
tion of the Gallicism in favor of “Prime
Minister” was proposed in the South Aus.
Assembly in pre-Federation days by the last
man who would have been suspected of pre-
tentiousness, bluff, ponderous, honest Tom
Playford.) Being French, the pure-bred
rendering should be “praym-yay,” but we fell
back on “preem-yer” ; and here is where the
dictionaries try to be helpful. The Im-
perial and Annandale say “preem-yer” for
both noun and adjective. Webster gives
“preemyer” for the adjective and “preem”
(or “prem”) for the noun. The prag-
matic Fowler (following the 0.E.D.) says
“prem” (or “preem”) ; and the Encyclo-
paedic reverses it again. The Standard
(Funk and Wagnalls) plumps for “praym-
yer,” which sounds neither French nor Eng-
lish, but an affectation. Some authorities
flirted awhile with “prim-yer” as a third
alternative. An old-time country M.P. of
S. Aus. used to refer to the head of the
Government as the “Prime-ear,” and seeing
how that Minister had to submit to the
organ being bitten the coinage had its merits.
❖ ❖ $
“Huffin-Guffin”: Isn’t it about time that
writers gave street orators something more
substantial than soap-boxes to stand upon?
I doubt if the modern soap-box could sup-
port half the strain. It is a very flimsy
affair and the mob orator is usually a hefty
fellow. It was different when Billy Hughes
and “Chummy” Fleming were amongst the
loading lights at Domain and Yarra Bank
meetings. I would suggest that petrol-drum
be substituted for soap-box.
* ❖ * ❖
“Bumpk ; Fact imitated fiction when the
captain and crow of the Greek steamer Theo-
doros Bulgaria arrived at Gibraltar in a
British steamer after having abandoned their
ship, only to learn that the supposedly sink-
ing vessel had been towed by a German
skipper into Brest. Joseph Conrad’s “Lord
Jim” recounts how a pilgrim ship from
Jeddah has its for’ard bulkhead stove in,
and, the pilgrims still being blissfully asleep,
the captain and white officers make off in
the only seaworthy boat. Putting into an
Indian port with a carefully concocted tale
of how they were the sole survivors after
the ship took her final plunge, they were con-
fronted with newspapers containing an
account of the amazing discovery by an
Italian warship of a steamer without officers
or engineers and packed with jabbering
Mohammedans utterly unable to account for
their situation. Conrad’s story was also
founded partly on fact.
THE MENIN ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night I saw the Menin Road again.
I saw it at the dawn of a dull day,
Slimy beneath the tread of marching men,
Who vanished swiftly in the chilling grey.
Above them shrapnel burst; on either side
The wreck of war in rotting heaps was
piled.
Haggard and wan, they trod with deathless
pride
This grim road running through a world
defiled.
And as they went they sang a soldiers’ song
The words of which, it seemed, bore little
sense.
Somehow, I knew they felt, though all was
wrong,
The journey’s end would give them recom-
pense.
Alike and yet unlike the track I knew
Was this grim way my old companions
went.
I gazed until they vanished from my view,
Then woke to envy them their good con-
tent.
Last night I saw them trudging ’neath their
loads,
And envied them whose lives are now
complete;
They never knew that, like all other roads,
The Menin Road led only to defeat.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTEBS.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE.
THE AUSTRALIAN: “All right, Dad; a junior partnership will do me. But, mind you, everybody’s got to do his fair share of the wood-and-water joeying.”
Cargo Rates Come Down.
The plucky little Patrick line, which was
the means of reducing the Meibourne-Sydney
freight rate to 17s. a ton, is at it _ again.
At the beginning of last week Captain Jim
Patrick announced that his company was
extending its weekly cargo service, now
embracing Melbourne, Sydney and New-
castle, to Brisbane, using four steamers in-
stead of three, and that the Patrick tariff
would be: Sydney-Brisbane and Newcastle-
Brisbane, 17s. a ton; Melbourne-Brisbane,
255. 6d. a ton. Associated rates were 225.
and 335. respectively.
The Associated lines immediately hit back.
Sydney-Brisbane and Newcastle-Brisbane
rates went down to 165., Melbourne-Brisbane
to 255., and Newcastle-Melbourne to 17s. 6d.
Patrick says that there won’t be any more
cuts as far as he is concerned, and that he
will carry on with the support of shippers,
as he has done for the last six years.
The history of these coastal freight rates
is edifying. Prom 1920 to 1924, when the
Patrick and Associated lines were both
in service, the rate between Sydney and
Melbourne was 18s. a ton. In 1924 the
Patrick line temporarily went off the map.
Within a week the Associated rate was up
to 205.; in a month it was up to 225. Late
in the same year Patrick came back and im-
mediately the charge all round fell to 18s.
In 1927, just before a new steamer was
added to the Patrick fleet, the Associated cos.
dropped the rate to 175., at which it remained
till the Patrick concern decided to take in
the Brisbane trade, and reprisals were again
in order.
It is an interesting little war, and there
is no arguing against Patrick’s contention
that “in view of our economic conditions
cheaper transport is vital.” But the people of
South Aus. and Westralia are entitled to ask
the Associated cos. where they come in. One
of the best-founded grievances of Westralia
is that general cargo rates from Sydney_to
Fremantle are 435. a ton, and from Mel-
bourne to Fremantle 38s. a ton, whereas
wheat was shipped last year from Austra-
lian to British and European ports at 225.
6d. a ton and flour at 255. a ton.
The Chain and “Cent” Store
A remarkable feature of recent business in
the U.S.A., which compiles the best trade
statistics in the world, is that, while there
lias been a stunning fall in production and
export, the big department and chain stores,
and especially the 5 and 10 cent and dollar
stores, rarely show any decrease in money
turnover; and in view of the fall in prices
this means in most cases an actual increase
in volume turnover. U.S.A. production has
fallen anything to 70 per cent. ; but for the
first five months of the year only one of the
12 big “cent”-store chains showed a falling
away compared with Jan.-May, 3929. The
one was Woolworth’s, with, certainly, the big-
gest turnover of them all —almost as much
as all the others put together. Yet in its
case the slip was under 1$ per cent.
The fact seems to be that not only are
people going after cheap lines, but they
are patronising shops which they regard as
most likely to be throwing out bargains in
order to get in money. Most times in trad-
ing circles a reputation for solidity brings
business ; lately business seems to have flowed
in unusual volume to those house? which
have been suspected of being weak enough
to take almost any offer of ready money.
Our Dwindling Trade with Maoriland
Once upon a time, as was natural and
proper; the best outside market for Austra-
lian manufactured goods was to be found in
Maoriland. Now the islanders find that they
can fill their requirements more economically
in countries where there is less inflation.
Whereas in 1920 the Dominion bought 81.75
per cent of its imported footwear in Aus-
tralia, the proportion last year had fallen to
0.19 per cent. In 1920 the Commonwealth sup-
plied more than one-third of the bar, bolt
and rod iron and steel imported by M.L.;
in 1929 one-three-hundredth.
Ten years ago 28.41 per cent, of leather
and leather goods other than footwear
imported by M.L. came from Australia.
Last year only 6.09 per cent, crossed
the Tasman from these shores. Other reduc-
tions in the same period are glassware, 14.2
to 5.23 per cent.; tyres, 18.61 to 0.18 per
cent.; paint and varnish, 32.82 to 10 per
cent.; and millinery, 12.49 to 4.45 per cent.
These reductions amount in some instances
to very substantial sums, and they are symp-
tomatic of a generally increasing tendency
on the part of Maorilanders to trade less and
less with Australia. Here are a few figures
dealing with M.L. imports of various com-
modities from this country in 1925 and
1929, showing a tapering in the demand for
primary as well as secondary products: —
1925. 1929.
Coal .. .. £679,681 £275,028
Timber .. 744,943 338,962
Sugar .. .. 133,335 10,883
Footwear .. 19,680 7,256
Hosiery . . 7,266 177
Rubber Goods.. 44,994 22,021
Glassware .. 37,108 18,726
Manures . . 22,294 3,956
Copper wire . . 51,447 4,003
Tools .. . . 31j724 12,685
Brushes . . 11,108 3,556
Confectionery .. 128,919 53,818
Biscuits .. 10,777 989
In all these cases it is not a matter so
much of Australia competing with the
natural products or manufactures of M.L.,
as of competing with countries very much
more distant from the Dominion, which has a
bigger per capita expenditure on imports
than any other country in the world. If
Australia cannot hold its nearest export
market it cannot hope to win markets further
afield. The only way to win back the M.L.
market is to reduce production costs. And
that means thorough deflation.
Motor taxation in Vic. has reached the
point where the law of diminishing returns
begins to operate. With the imposts added
by Hogan the poor man’s car becomes a
plutocratic luxury. Registration gets away
with £7 9s. 6d.; the petrol charge on the
basis of 10,000 miles per year is increased
by a tenner or more; oil, depreciation and
normal repairs amount to £1 a week; and if
the vehicle is used for running about town
the City Council mulcts the user in parking
fees another £l2 a year. The growing
emptiness of the streets shows which way
the wind is beginning to blow.
* * * *
One of the biggest sheep transfers of
recent years has been accomplished by W.
A. Russell, M.L.A. for Dalby (Q.). Having
bought Beemery, a big run in the Bourke
counti'y (N.S.W.), he picked up 50,000 sheep
in the Maranoa and had them mustered at
Charleville. It took 25 trains to cart the
jumbucks to Cunnamulla, which is the jump-
off, as far as the rail is concei-ned, for those
wishing to enter N.S.W. from that side. From
Cunnamulla the sheep are being taken by
drovers to Beemery, where the plucky owner
is putting in an extensive irrigation system.
* * * *
Output of motor-cars in the U.S.A. and
Canada for the first six months of the year
was 2,330,200, as against 3,412.800 in the
same half of 1929. Smallest reduction was
reported by Fords (8 p.c.) ; General Motors,
Chrysler and Hup. fell off 34 p.c.; Hudson
59 p.c.; Willys-Overland 71 p.c. The figures
are subject to reported later revision.
* * * *
During the Antarctic whaling season, just
ended, production exceeded 2| million barrels,
a return greater by 55 per cent, than the
greatest previously recorded. The Noi-wegians
had 28 floating factories at work, compared
with nine from other nations, and their
profit for the year is estimated at seven
millions. At this rate the whale population
of the Antarctic will be extinct in a few
years. The League of Nations recently
formulated a series of rules intended to con-
trol the taking of whales in Antarctica and
elsewhere. Drawing up a code is one thing;
enforcing it is another.
* * * *
Westralian Airways and Qantas are very
successful enterprises. Qantas reports a
year’s profit (allowing for liberal deduc-
tions) at £5770. from which 7 p.c. was paid
in dividends, the balance going to l’eserves.
The aeroplane is a fragile asset, and this
explains the heavy sum of £10.586 set aside
for depreciation. In addition to its mail and
passenger services, Qantas, like the West-
ralian concern, has done fine work in the
matter of transporting accident and sickness
cases. One pilot handled three casualties at
the same time, all at Anthony’s Lagoon
(N.T.). A snakebite case was dropped at
Camooweal, the first hospital town on the
flight, and two fracture cases were taken to
Cloncurry, after the pilot had rendered first
aid.
* * * *
After two of their drivers had been fined,
the new Vic. Taxi-’bus Services announced
that their vehicles were to be operated as pri-
vate hire-cars. One passenger would hire the
car, the others “making their own arrange-
ments with him.” According to the manager,
the new form of enterprise cannot be stopped
without the Legislature ruling out the whole
of the private hire-cars in Victoria. The
number of passengers conveyed between Mel-
bourne and Geelong has increased sevenfold
in a week, and the fare from Warrnambool
to the city is nine shillings cheaper than
second-class on the railways, while the jour-
ney is 34 hours quicker. No wonder Clapp is
doing more headscratching.
* * * *
Travel amenities in North Westralia have
been added to by a track from the Adelaide-
Darwin road to Wyndham, just completed
by Shell Oil. The new route starts at New-
castle Waters, and runs westward through
Wave Hill Downs to the sea. It has been
blazed by the fire plough, and the surface is
good going for the heaviest cars. Nor have
creek or river crossings been neglected; cor-
duroy and even cementing have been resorted
to in some instances to make the going
better. One natural result is a great in-
crease in motor-car and -lorry transport,
which is wiping out camel and donkey teams.
* * * #
“638”: Can’t someone think out a plan
for getting our engaged girls to insist on
opals instead of diamonds when they whisper
“yes”? The men are buying Australian-
made, but the women are lagging behind.
For beauty, Australian black opals are in a
class of their own. And if Bella will insist
that opals are unlucky there are magnificent
Australian sapphires and pearls.
* $ * #
“Avon”: Maoriland is beginning to dis-
cover that there are drawbacks as well as
advantages about hydro-electric power
sources. The pioneer installation in Canter-
bury, which depends on the mountain-
rimmed Lake Coleridge, has failed badly this
year, and Christchurch, which prides itself
on being the best-lighted city in Australasia,
has been put on rations of current so cur-
tailed that on the late shopping night candles
and kerosene lamps have been used in places
that had not retained a gas-lighting equip-
ment. Auckland has been in trouble, too,
consequent on the development of cracks in
the great Arapuni dam, and the Waipori
station in Otago has been suffering from a
water-shortage. The only big installation
not yet affected is the Mangahao plant that
supplies Wellington province. The amount
of capital sunk to date in the plants that
have proved untrustworthy is close on
£20,000,000.


JWWmm
' ; .• v i ■, ; W&m
■
r,s-
Supreme in Power Boats
GRAND PRIX de I’EUROPE
At the Belgium International Motor-boat Meeting held at Brussels
recently* the Grand Prix de PEurope for unlimited runabouts
was-won by Mr. Arthur Bray piloting his Cris-Craft, fuelled by
Shell and lubricated with Golden Shell Oil
The Choice of Experts Everywhere
SHELL OIL & SPIRIT
5.1077.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Lord Thomson, of Cardington, who lost
his life with 45 others when the airship RlOl
crashed and exploded in France, incurred un-
popularity amongst his Tory friends in the
United Service Club when he threw in liis lot
with Britain’s first Labor Government. How-
ever, like Lords Haldane and Parmoor, he
lived long enough to see his motives appre-
ciated. Thomson had a dazzling reputation as
a staff officer when the World War began,
but he left G.11.Q. in France after French’s
fall, and was not employed there again. He
is said to have first realised the enormous
potentialities of flying in Palestine, where
he arrived from Roumania in 1917. He was
a prolific writer in English and American
papers on military and civil aviation (the
London “Observer” and the Chicago “Daily
News” published many articles by him), and
he it was who said: “The future is with the
airfaring nations, as the past has been with
the seafaring nations.”
One of the candidates nominated by Can-
terbury College (M.L.) for a Rhodes
scholarship is Richard John Seddon Bean.
He is a son of Canon Bean, of Christchurch,
who married R. J. Seddon’s eldest daughter.
“Whitehall”; I last saw the late Lord
Birkenhead at an Australia House luncheon
zestfully swallowing Australian sherry, hock
and brandy, and chaffing his antithesis, the
stocky, ill-dressed, Cockney-voiced J. H.
Thomas. He was then 56, but with his
black hair, unlined face, young eyes and
slim figure, he looked 40, or less. As A. G.
Gardiner once pointed out, he belonged
spiritually to the eighteenth century. He
did everything supremely well, but at the
top of his voice, in odd contrast to the
reticent, overbred people with whom he
mostly associated. It w T as characteristic that
during his first speech' in the House of Lords
he should have rested his foot on the Wool-
sack. Before the war he had taken a lead-
ing part in the Gurragh mutiny, yet it
seemed quite natural to him, a few years
later, to help in the foundation of the Irish
Free State. He was essentially an adven-
turer—tremendously efficient, full of fire and
daring, and without the handicap of fixed
principles. Birkenhead achieved one of his
ambitions —the Lord Chancellorship—and it
was only when he realised that he could
never achieve the other —the Prime Minister-
ship—that he went into the City. His
directorships must have brought him in a
large fortune, and the earldom certainly
needed it. Consistently with his flamboyant
nature he had lived in extravagant splendor
all his life.
There is a brother of Birkenhead in Aus-
tralia—Eric Saiglit Smith, who was secre-
tary to the first N.S.W. Repatriation Board.
Pie is now on the staff of a Brisbane paper.
D. M. ANDERSON, N.S.W. Nationalist
M.L.A. since 1920—first for Ryde and
then for Eastwood. He is expected to
become the member for Ryde again;
Eastwood has been wiped out.
Sir Sefton Brancker, one of the eminent
victims of the RlOl, was a small
dapper, monocled, ex-gunner officer (R.H.A.
type) who much resembled Lord Stonehaven
in appearance. He was one of the first
soldiers in England to fly—he took to the
air as an army observer over 20 years ago
—and he had been working for aviation, civil
and military, and risking his life in all kinds
of ’planes and airships ever since. He was
head of Britain’s air force, such as it was,
when the World War began, and finished his
career as an air vice-marshal. Brancker
visited Bendigo with a brother on a mining
venture over 30 years ago; they both left
for S. Africa when the Boer War began.
D. H. Souter: My thanks to “White-
hall” (B. 24/10/’3O) for the buggy ride.
I don’t edit “the best countryman’s weekly
in the Commonwealth,” though I had a good
deal to do with briuging it into being and
may still be said to do a bit of its literary
work. I deny the statement that lam bald.
Thin on the top, maybe, but not bald —not
yet. If my first effort at a full-length novel
lias many appreciators like “Whitehall” I’m
set.
“Aldgate”: W. Pett Ridge, the novelist,
who died in his beloved London last week,
was a mild, self-
effacing little
man who,
though born in
Kent, had a
Cockney accent.
In his own way
he was one of
the most effec-
tive after-din-
ner speakers in
England, his
method being to
deliver his wit-
ticisms in the
deprecatory
manner of one
who is un-
worthy of atten-
tion. He was
usually to be
heard at the
Omar Khayyam
Club, where
such brilliant
humorists as
Philip Guedalla,
J. C. Squire
and John Drink-
water hold
forth periodi-
cally. Pett
Rid g e knew
middle - class
London as it
was in the early
years of the
century better
than any writer
of his day, but
he never assimi-
TED ANT HONEY, one
of the Libs, in S. Aus.
Assembly. He is a son-
in-law of Jimmy Ashton,
the veteran artist.
lated the post-
war outlook. No one has excelled him in
the portrayal of those servant girls who
have virtually vanished off the face of
London since the war. He was a contem-
porary and friend of Anstey, Jerome and
Barrie—all small, retiring men like himself.
Ambrose Freeman did not get back from
the_ Malay tinfields to read the send-offs
which the papers gave his old partner Tom
Horton; he died of heart-failure on the voy-
age from Penang. The pair had first come
together on the Westralian goldfields, where
they owned and worked the Lancefield.
Later, after some ventures in their home
State, . they separated and Freeman gave his
attention to tin, becoming managing director
of the Austral Malay, a prospecting and
development company. He and his lawyer-
brother Addison, who had been closely associ-
ated in business with him for over 20 years,
were the sons of William Freeman, a former
chairman of Land Boards, whose conduct of
the Mercadool cases is famous in the records
of the N.S.W. Lands Department. Frofn him
Ambrose inherited an almost austere upright-
ness, and his reputation as a mining engineer
stood very high. He was only 56.
Chisholm Ross, the Sydney nerve and
brain specialist who was mercilessly slated
by Justice Davidson in his judgment in a
will suit last week, has been handling men-
tal cases for well over 40 years. In his early
days he served under the late Dr. Manning,
the man who moulded the Lunacy Department
of N. S. Wales, and Ross helped him to estab-
lish the reception house at Darlinghurst—
said to be the firsts in the world; no wadays
most countries have them. Nobody who
knows Dr. Ross will believe that money
could corrupt or social position influence him.
A story is told of another old Macquarie-
street man who passed through Ross’s wait-
ing-rooms, crowded as usual. “Well, Ross,”
he said, “we’ll have lunch together to-day,
and you can pay—there’s about £4O out-
side.” “Forty pounds !” said Ross —“forty
shillings ! They’re L.O.G.’s J” After which
Chisholm Ross had to explain that L.O.G.’s
were “Love o’ God’s.” The yarn is pro-
bably true —Macquarie-street doesn’t own a
man with more active sympathies.
“2nd Divvy’s” summing-up :—■
Major-General MeCay, who died last week aged
66, was a born soldier and a brave man—qualities
which are by no means inseparable. Nevertheless,
he became about the most detested officer in the
A.I.F. at an early stage of the World War, and
remained so to the end. It worried him, and his
friends have tried to show he was maligned, their
defence being that in ordering such insanities as
the foredoomed Fromelles slaughter he was only
obeying orders. The answer of his critics is that
he should have refused to sacrifice lives to no ade-
quate purpose, as has been done hundreds of times
in every great army, not only by officers of field
rank but by n.c.o.’s, although those who have taken
that kind of responsibility have usually suffered for
it. A son of the manse, McCay had a fine brain of
the academic type, and shaved the family talent for
writing two of his brothers have been editors. He
was Minister of Defence 25 years ago, and in latter
.years was deputy-chairman of Victoria’s Savings
Bank.
Only two members of the present Vic.
Assembly (Speacock and Toutcher) were
in the House when J. W. McCay was there
between 1897 and 1599. McCay was one of the
two members for Castlemaine, and became
Minister for Education and Customs. But
he lost his seat when he went before his
constituents, being beaten by Harry Lawson,
afterwards Premier thrice and now a Vic.
Senator. That was the last the Assembly
saw of McCay, but he sat in the same
Chamber (when it was lent to the Common-
wealth) as a member of the Reps.
Mary Gaunt, one. of the best and most
prolific of Australian story-writer.s living
abroad, has been to Jamaica to get the color
for her next novel, which will be mostly
pitched there. She still hopes to write the
Australian story that she “will be remem-
bered by,” but regrets that it will have to
be “about either convicts or explorers” to
win immediate attention abroad. Miss Gaunt
is the daughter of a former Vic. Judge and
sister of two admirals. She has long lived
in Italy.
For the first time Vic. Assembly has two
Grays on its benches. One is Bernard, the
Independent Liberal who has represented
St. Kilda for 3J years, and the other John,
the Nationalist who has just won the Haw-
thorn seat from his Laborite opponent by
more than 5000 votes. Grays have not
figured conspicuously in Vic.’s Lower House.
There was Wilson Gray from 1N59 to 1864.
Then came F. C. Gray, Praliran’s choice for
six years before Federation. Next was John
Gray, from Swan Hill, an honorary Minister
under Watt and Peacock. Both the present
Grays are Diggers.
Albert Henry Fullwood, who died in Syd-
ney last week, had divided his lifetime pretty
equally between Australia and England, and
was well known in the art circles of both.
He was born at Birmingham 67 years ago,
and came to Sydney in 1881. He was one
of those engaged to illustrate the “Pictur-
esque Atlas of Australasia”; William Mac-
leod, so long associated with The Bulletin,
was another. Specimens of Fullwood’s work
will be found in almost every Australian
art gallery and several European ones; he
was a gifted and careful craftsman with a
wide range. In 1899 he returned to Eng-
land and stayed there for 20 years; he
served with the Artists’ Corps in the war.
Ten years ago he made Sydney his home
again. It was a talented family; a cousin,
John Fullwood, has also made a name in
England for his landscapes and etchings.
T.M. BURKE.
T. M. Burke
has been promi-
ne n t in the
campaign for
improving our
condition
by buying Aus-
tralian goods.
He is best
known for his
subdi visions,
which are reck-
oned to be suffi-
cient to accom-
modate an extra
million citizens
when they
arrive; but in
early manhood
he was one of
the rising bones
of the Vic.
A.N.A., which
sent him on an
oratorical mis-
sion to West-
ralia. The year
after the pre-
sent Priminister
was defeated
for Coranga-
mite Burke had a go at Scullin’s conqueror,
the late J. C. Manifold, and pulled down the
Manifold majority. Public life has had no
attraction for him since.
N.S.W. Crown Prosecutor T. S. Craw-
ford is the one-time parson-politician who
won Marrickville for Labor in the 1910
election. He was one of three shepherds
who carried the Labor standard in that
election, the others being Jock Garden and
F. B. Cowling. All three- lost their ecclesias-
tical jobs. Crawford left the Labor party
over the conscription question. During his
term in Parliament, however, he had quali-
fied for the Bar, where he has risen rapidly.
Tom Laurie, dead at TO, was the last of
four brothers, all well-known prospectors and
fine bushmen —Bill. George and Jack were
the other three. For years they searched
the Northern Territory for minerals, with
varying success. Time and again they were
given up for lost, but they always turned up
to report a find in some far-off part. Tanami
was the best known of their many discoveries,
and up to within a few years of the end
Tom Laurie attended to his interests on that
remote field.
Ivor Champion is
never likely to
be mentioned as
a living proof of
the theory that
the white races run
to seed in the
tropics. With C.
11. Karius, he
crossed New Guinea
from shore to shore,
discovering in the
process the long-
sought sources of
the Flv and Sepik
rivers—one of the
most difficult and
perilous journeys
in the history of
exploration. The
feat was accom-
plished with a tiny
retinue at trifling
cost and without
loss of life, though
fierce tribes who
had never seen a
European before
were encountered.
Champion was born
at Port Moresby,
Papua, 26 years
ago. Il'e is a Gov-
ernment officer, like
his father, who is
Col. Sec.
IVOR CHAMPION.
May Holman, wlio has been telling the
League of Nations that it doesn’t take strong
enough steps to wipe out commercialised vice
and white slavery, is one of Australia’s two
feminine members of Parliament. She was
born at Broken Hill, and a few years later her
father took her to Cue (W.A.), where, after
doing a bit of mining, he opened a barber’s
shop, with trades unionism for a side-line.
Holman pere won a Parliamentary seat in
1901, and represented the North Murchison
for years, although in the end it went back
on him in a Labor selection ballot. Then
he found a safe haven in Forrest, a timber
electorate in the South-West, and on his
death five years ago the seat passed to his
daughter. Jack Holman was a highly-suc-
cessful organiser but not much of a politi-
cian ; he had only one brief taste of office, in
the State’s first Labor Ministry of 1904-05.
Katharine Prichard, the authoress, is Mrs.
Hugo Throssell in real life; her husband,
th.en a lieutenant in the 10th Light
Horse, won the V.C. on Gallipoli. Hugo’s
father was Westralia’s second Premier;
John Forrest, after holding the job for 10
years, handed it over to his senior colleague
on entering Federal politics in 1901. But
the elder Throssell held it for only a few
months; he was a kindly soul, whose inter-
ests were almost entirely agricultural, and
even if he had been a fighter there weren’t
enough of the old Forrest party left to keep
him in office. Some people called him “The
Lion of Northam,” but old George never
roared very loudly.
William Leichhardt Grenier, who crossed
the range in Brisbane the other day, was
one of a family whose name is mixed up with
the beginnings of Queensland. His parents
came to Sydney in 1839 and went on to
Maoriland, where Iloni Heke sacked and
burnt their farm in 1841. Starting again in
Queensland, they settled at Oxley, up the
Brisbane River, and grew cotton with profit
during the American Civil War. The late
pioneer was born in 1854 and took his
second name from Ludwig Leichhardt, who
stayed at the family hotel in South Brisbane
prior to setting out on his last expedition.
Dick Graham, who died in Queensland
the other day, was one of the oldest identi-
ties of the railway service. Il'is proud
boasts were that in all his 54 years on the
engines he’d never had a derailment, and
that he drove the present King and Queen
when they were here in 1901. The veteran
retired from the position of senior locomo-
tive inspector last year, and was just 70
when the whistle blew.
Thomas W. Haynes vacates his position
as general manager of Commonwealth Fer-
tilisers and Chemicals at the end of the
year, but will continue to act in a consult-
ing capacity. Haynes entered the service
of Broken Hill Prop, in 1892 and of Mount
Lyell four years later, and went over
to Commonwealth Fertilisers with the amal-
gamation of fertiliser cos. He was a member
of the Vic. State War Council and vice-chair-
man of the State Repatriation Board.


WHEN YOU PAY!ON
OVER HAU
you're settling
your oil MU
m
9/
A
/ /
7,
- rwjyi /’v
f - wifry^jX
TSO\X\IS 'iSWSraS 7 ’? 'IOXISXO
TCSTOmVO
*The waxy impurities which
cause deterioration in the
majority of lubricants have
been whirled out of Atlantic
Motor Oil by a special and
exclusive process, with the
result that neither friction,
heat nor pressure can break its
protective film. Add to this
the fact that Atlantic has a
pure paraffin base, an amazing
resistance to heat and crankcase
dilution, and absolute freedom
from evaporation, and it is
obvious that the economy of
Atlantic is exceeded only by its
durability.
2/- does NOT pay for a quart of oil.
Price-per-quart is only a deposit-on-
account.
'You can’t tell how much your oil has
cost you until you have paid your bill
for overhaul.
If you take the short-sighted view—if you de-
cide that a particular oil is "good enough”
because your car behaves well on it you are
spending more money on your car than you
need.
For certain easily understood reasons 11 Atlantic
Motor Oil gives greater protection than any
other lubricant known —it is a positive insurance
against undue depreciation —a definite safe-
guard against heavy overhaul costs.
If you regard your car as an asset, you’ll use
Atlantic.
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE
MOTOR OIT,
"THE RUNNING MATE OF UNION SUPER SPIRIT”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “This Thing Called Love”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Mr. Cinders”
King’s “Let Us Be Gay”
Tivoli The Follies of 1930
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
*
On Saturday this Showman took Frith out
and introduced him to Australia’s record-run
show-—in other words, the races; to be more
explicit, Epsom Day at Randwick; to be
quite unashamed about it, out on the Flat.
A glorious show—with differences. Con-
sider your old friends the Dismounted Pos-
tilions. You thought they were magnificent
enough, in their sky-blue with plum-colored
trouser-stripes. Take them away; put them
with the mopokes and the crows, and the
other dun-colored denizens of the Zoo. Mag-
nificent? Dull as dishwater!
Look at the ones we have here. Dis-
mounted Postilions with horses to ride on.
Dark blue and white; milky ropes round
their horses’ necks; white facings round
their saddles; white helmets. Or take this
other fellow with his red coat on. What has
the Attaboy profession to compare with him ?
Or what about the performers themselves?
Even golfers look mundane and commonplace
beside them. Their jackets and caps would
do honor to the dressing-room of the Kit Kat
girls at the St. James. What do you kuow
about girls’ dressing-rooms? Nothing. But
you have an imagination, haven’t you?
The “unashamed” of the opening sentence
of this tribute to a jolly good show was
really herd snobbery. That’s the way every-
body regards the Flat. The reason is unknown
to present writer, but after this visit he’ll
remain firm in his conviction that jealousy
i 3 at the-bottom of it —either that, or ignor-
ance. They look over here from their monkey
cages over there, and they’re either jealous
of all this freedom or else they don’t know
anything about it. They just sniff their
noses, and think we’re no class. Yet, who
is this strolling on our lawn, between the
whatdoyoucallit and the beer booth? He’s a
king! Have they got a king over there? A
hatful of pony and grocery and underwear
knights—that’s the height of their aristo-
“Bookmakers’ Chorus.”
cracy! Certainly, our king has abdicated
his royal gunyah and thrown away his spear
and boomerang and the other insignia of
office. Admittedly, he has lost his country
seat, and also the seat of his regal trousers.
And he hasn’t a collar on —nor a shirt, for
that matter; but you’ve only to look at the
way he wears a singlet to know he’s a king.
And over there—surely it’s Lady Godiva,
with her clothes on again ! Only a woman
with that sort of face could have done it.
Who else have we? Mrs. De Bunk, and
party. Miss Sruirlcy, who is spending the week-
end with her friends in Abercrombie-street.
Mrs. Gappo, who is down from Long Bay.
Perhaps one of the finest examples on view
of what may be expected in the coming sly-
grog season was the roomy hangdown—
fully eight-bottle size—in extremely old rose,
with canary hat, red shoes and black-and-
white handbag, worn, for the first time this
year, by Mrs. Ragitsk. Quite the most
favored fashion noted was that of letting the
stockings hang in folds over the ankles. The
fashion of not wearing anything in the way
of socks at all appeared to be restricted to
the other sex, who have also mostly dispensed
with collars and the ridiculous slavery of
the morning shave.
That’s us; and you can take us or leave
us, and be hanged to you ! And you!
But the contempt of those over there for
the Flat is not restricted to society con-
siderations. They believe, over there, that
over here is over-run with urgers and touts,
the sort of person who is supposed to want
to give you a winner for the next. Well, one
can only speak from experience, which was
that nobody wanted to give a winner for
the next or any other race, not even the
tote In fact, the tote apparently didn’t
want to give even a second or a third. The
girls in there said “Thank you” significantly
as they raked in the joint five shillings, but
there was no other conversation, no other
conversation whatever. Frith might have
said after a race, “So that’s the Derby, is
it? Our horse doesn’t appear to have won
again,” and you might have said, “What’ll
we go for on the next?” and he might have
answered, “Better go for a drink”; but abso-
lutely nobody attempted to butt-in or urge
or tout or do any of the other shady things
you’re supposed to expect on the Flat. In-
deed, instead of any of that sort of approach-
ing. there seemed a tendency to shy away
from Frith, but he had no intention of giving
any of them a winner; all he wanted was
a winner for himself. The policeman who
followed him round for a while ought to
be told once and for all that there should
be no need to persecute an innocent man
just because he happens to have a face like
that. The policeman, however, might not be
altogether blamable. A man who does a
hula-hula dance in front of the tote just
because he mistakes a 5 for a 15 is looking
for suspicion. Over there, in the vaunted
Paddock, they’d have slung him into the
bat-house.
But put aside the matter of finding win-
ners, _ which is every bit as easy here as
over in your almighty Paddock (all you have
to do is to buy a paper on the way.home),
and what have you, caged up over there,
to compare with our cross-country walks?
There is room here, acres of it, for stretch-
“Our king has abdicated his royal gunyah.”
ing your legs. Here you don’t have great big
brutal women jerking their elbows into your
ribs, or tearing off yoi*r corns with their peg-
heels, or poking their parasols in your back,
or otherwise making chivalry a mockery and
a byword. A kick from a grasshopper, per-
haps, or a slight knock from a sparrow or
a starling, but otherwise the world is yours
to do what you like in.
Away over here, too, the bookmakers’
chorus, which at close hand is so bad that
it’s a wonder it isn’t confined to
grand opera, is but a faint and not
unpleasant murmur in the distance.
The Paddock, on the right, and the Leger,
on the left, are like the little mudheaps
that do duty for hills with our leading land-
scape painters. And here at hand the horse
—no, the Horse; the high-stepping, lovely
thing that he is—is almost on speaking
terms with you. Stroll over here, you
poor, sweating, writhing, panting, palpitat-
ing oafs, and have an eyeful of him. Look
at that miracle of grace, his head. Look at
his neck, wet now, as if he’d just taken the
sort of shower Leason’s little gentleman
would take on a winter’s morning. Look
at the shoulders on him; those slender poems,
his legs; those fetlocks that would make a
Wainwright poison Venus. Listen to him
whinny in a silver tenor; hear him give his
imitation of a lamb bleating that makes Mo’s
bird imitations sound hopelessly unaccom-
plished. What do they know about him
over there in the Paddock, where he had
yawned as he paraded, half-asleep? Only
that he comes up their paltry bit of straight,
like the champion he is, eighth, and now
completely asleep.
And what about what they call a jockey
over there? Here you don’t hear them say-
ing, “I wonder what Pike’s doing to-day?”
grudgingly and suspiciously. They sing
straight out, “Are you on a soda, Jimmy?”
And Jimmy himself —not any mere J. Pike,
or the great rider, or the veteran horseman,
or the prince of pilots—but Jimmy himself,
just smiles back and says, “He’s all right,”
and pats him on the wither. Then Tom and
Jack and Fred and Billy—this is the place
where you call the gods by their Christian
names—walk their horses round behind the
barrier and begin to line up. “After a brief
delay, the field got away to a good start,”
is how the sporting scribes over there in the
Paddock will be putting it. A brief delay!
Heavens, there is more in that “brief
delay” from over here than in a whole day’s
racing from over there! What do they know,
over there, of this living, rippling, moving,
massing of dolor? Of the silk going shivery
in the wind? Of the “Wait! Wait!” of
jockey to starter; of the “Hold on! Not yet,
for Gawd’s sake!”; the “Oh, get hold of the
damn thing, can’t you!”; the “Keep offuv
me, blank and blank you!”; the “What
d’you think you’re doin’, yer silly cow!”
What do they know, either, of the start
itself —clack of the barrier, sudden thunder
of thudding hoofs right there within yards
of you; eager faces of the horses; grim faces
of the jockeys; the wavering in the line of
color crashing past, momentarily abreast?
“Keep out, keep out!” “Stiffen the crows!”
“Spare me days!” And they’ve swept past
you—harmony of movement, at any rate.
“Golfers look mundane and commonplace
beside them.”
And in due time, Mrs. Caphoops, over
there in the Paddock, adorns the winner in
the approved fashion. And you, over here
on the Flat, lying any old how on the ground,
with the sunshine warming you up and the
dust getting over you, are one race nearer
to a hot bath. They say you can’t get such
good odds over here, but what do odds matter
when your horse runs fifth?
A packed house surveyed the efforts to
amuse of a new producer, Robert Roberts,
at Melbourne Tivoli on Saturday. The
Bulletin was accompanied by a man from
Maoriland who had been so long away from
civilisation that he expected everything to
be strange and new, especially in that for-
ward-looking institution the theatre. He
felt timorous about it, out of date. H’e feared
that perhaps Time had passed him by, that
he had. become an old fogey, that he would
see things he did not understand, things
that would, perhaps, offend him; remarks,
no doubt, that would shock him, crusted old
Tory as he felt himself. He was, he feared,
too old to change now, much as he would
like to. He tried to be tolerant, he said.
He knew that youth must be served, that
a. new generation was growing up around
him, with new ideals, new aims, new vision.
Still, he would do his best to be open-minded.
The curtain having gone up, Charles
Holt, the World-famous Female Imper-
sonator, introduced his £3OOO wardrobe
of Fascinating Parisian Models, the Der-
nier Cri, All Melbourne is Talking About
Him, with Ivor Weir in an Act that was
Positively the Rage of America. Nick
Morgan, New English Laughmaker, followed,
and then in ripped Betty Lambert, the Per-
sonality Soubrette, and the Tivoli’s Exquisite
Eight came out and danced on a bridge of
glass projecting over the orchestra, and
then out rushed Len Rich, the Lad from
Lancashire, and did a clog dance, and tore
off again and came sweeping back clad in a
light suit and a straw hat and sang about
the sad sea waves down at Narragansett, and
the Exquisite Eight in bathing suits shot
out again and swung into line behind him,
and then Jane Douglas and James Foran
sang “The Keys of Heaven,” and then Vera
Spaull and Edna Ralston got into Hugh
Steyne’s bed, and Hugh’s wife, Miss Douglas,
came home unexpectedly and accused him of
infidelity, but when she turned back the
sheets there was only Syd Beck the low-
comedian under them; and then the curtain
went down again and soared up for the
Grand Finale in which the Entire Company
came out and danced a Ballet of the Nations.
The house was cheering while the Man
from Maoriland groped under his seat with
suspicious deliberation. “Thank God, thank
God!” he was murmuring brokenly and his
eyes were full of tears. But they were tears
of happiness.
‘A roomy hangdown—
fully eight-bottle
size.”
“Sons o’ Guns,”
at Sydney Majes-
ty’s, is a surprise
packet. With the
slightest of altera-
tions it could have
been used a dozen
years ago as a
r e c ru i t - c atcher.
After much stage
anti-war pro-
paganda that has
set pacifists writ-
ing reams of praise,
we are suddenly
back to the war as
the stage accepted
it in 1915-16 and
thereabout. There
is a slacker who is
eventually influ-
enced into going to
the war by his ser-
van t s enlisting,
who slopes arms
the wrong way and
uses a puttee for
a' muffler, wins
the affection of
the dear little estaminet girl, releases some
pigeons from a box out of sheer soft-hearted-
ness, is arrested as a spy., gets out of the
clink, goes up the line, brings in three pri-
soners, wins the girl. There are batteries
of daintily-laundered maids hanging round
parades and round the necks of the troops
after dismissal. The German Army is ridi-
culous ; the Allies altogether admirable. In
fact, this Showman is game to back the five-
pence he didn’t lose on Mollison that the
piece was written during the war, and has
been taken from a top drawer and refur-
bished. If it is a success, it will be either
because it is so well done by the J.C.W.
people, or because peace worship is hollow
or not so widespread as it sounds; or suc-
cess might indicate reaction against exces-
sive preaching in temples where people usu-
ally don’t like their preaching raw.
Bluett excels himself in it as, of all things,
a dancer. Partnered by Ivellaway, in an-
other of Cecil’s good bits of characterisation,
he also manages to infuse plenty of fun into
the proceedings. Leo Franklyn is better than
this Showman had previously seen him, and
Elsie Prince is sound enough in a part that
gives her no opportunity. The show’s suc-
cess is Bertha Riccardo. Like Kellaway,
she proves what good acting can mean, even
in musicomedy. Hers is an uncommonly
polished effort. Production first-rate.
¥ * *
A fresh wreck is reported by the theatri-
cal Lloyds in Melbourne, the good ship Allan
Wilkie having come to grief on the partially
submerged and isolated reef known as the
Princess. This menace to shipping has
brought so many bright argosies to grief that
if beacons were erected on it to every such
enterprise they would almost obscure the
building. Wilkie started badly with “Gov-
ernor Bligh,” and then reverted to the
eighteenth-century comedies which had proved
such money-spinners at the King’s previ-
ously. The response was poor and an
attempt to claw off the reef again was made
by restoring “Bligh,” but the only result was
to make the sound of the breakers more
audible in the box-office. It being no longer
possible to stave off the inevitable, according
to Captain Wilkie, there will be a rush of
Shakspearean revivals until Saturday, when
the crew will take to the boats and be left
to their own devices. On the principle that
the master should be the last to leave, Wilkie
and Miss Watts will proceed on a tour of
country districts, giving scenes from Sliaks-
peare.
# * *
After trying melodrama, one-act plays and
comedy, the Lynton-Stewarts, at Sydney
Opera House, found the goods to carry them
over more than a week’s run in the farcical
“Why Smith Left Home.” It is put on
quite well enough to warrant the co. calling
itself a depression-chaser. On present
arrangements, there will be more of the kind
to follow, though a week or so ago the
theatre was advertising for variety artists of
all descriptions.
That was no doubt a result of the success
of “Pot Luck” at the St. James, where Mo,
Frith, St. Clair, Ada Reeve, Bryl Walkley,
“Making chivalry a mockery and a byword.”
.Colin Crane and the rest of a bright party
have been drawing houses that make the
movie people froth when they hear of them.
Still, “Pot Luck” went off on Saturday,
though mostly in name only. It was re-
placed by “Happy Days,” the same kind
of vaudeville-revue, with new numbers and
a few new people, including the first-rate
team which calls itself Jay, June and Col-
lette. Other newcomers are Bobhy Help-
man, burlesque dancer, and Bateman, violin-
ist. With the others who made “Pot Luck”
so cheery still in and the rattling good little
Kit Kat ballet as graceful as ever, the new
show has no trouble in living up to its
title.
Another party that has been getting some
of its dues is that headed by Frank Bradley
in “Bird in Hand,” at the Criterion. The
piece finishes this week, so those with a
taste for really worth-while acting have still
a couple of days to see some of it. The next
offering to be put on by the same co. will
be “This Thing Called Love” on Saturday.
# # ¥
The centenary of Alexander Pushkin,
novelist and poet, was the cause of an out-
break of Russian art and music at the Odd-
fellows’ Hall, Melbourne. Yassili Ilister,
Madame Mina Heseleva and Francois Stemp-
kinski provided the musical items, which had
the characteristics previously noted on this
page with regard to a concert of Jewish
music. They all had a sob in them, but
there was another note as well —one of
revolt and anger. A revolutionary poem by
a modern writer, Bloch, was recited, almost
savagely, to music by Mr. Stempkinski. It
was not in the least like “The Red Flag,”
whose lugubrious cadences are as suggestive
of revolt as the sizzling of a snail when salt
has been put on its tail. Bloch’s poem
brightened the eyes of the best-dressed and
handsomest lot of concert-goers present Show-
man has seen gathered together for a long
time. Having fittingly honored their national
bard, the congregation then danced the night
away to the somewhat incongruous cacophony
of a jazz orchestra.
* * *
Beresford Fowler spread Schnitzler’s “The
Affairs of Anatol” on the banqueting board
at the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, last week.
The repast proved to be seven courses of
light refreshment, consisting entirely of
devilled almonds, theatrically speaking, with-
out a suspicion of meat.
The seven episodes are really separate
sketches, the thread of connection being that
the philandering Anatol appears in each and
is confronted by one or other of his numerous
loves. Sundry pupils of Mr. Fowler’s, school
of dramatic art essayed the roles of Viennese
mistresses, with more or less success.. Linda
Newcombe brought considerable vivacity and
sincerity to her part, and George Lomas sup-
plied sufficient warrant for the seven ladies
The artists’ selection for this race is
obscured on the rails—half a furlong
further back.
falling in love with Anatol. Beresford
Fowler, as Anatol’s offsider, spent the even-
ing pleasantly behind a false moustache,
¥ ¥ #
“The Love Step,” Mrs. Harold Clapp’s
revue staged for charity at the Comedy, Mel-
bourne, was such a thundering success that
the company has been invited by a profes-
sional entrepreneur to present it in Sydney.
H- *
At Brisbane Koyal this week the Nell
Bramley co. has “Love Runs Hot,” a humor-
ous tale set in a military billet in France.
Next week Nellie will try vaudeville.
At His Majesty’s on October 8 “The New
Moon” will shine, with “Belle of New York
to follow.


mil
■‘HI I..MJ I
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillll!
Him !H
MS
sz
Pi
o
tn
>
z
7j
* s
rf
pi 2
3 2 S
E B
pi w
o
SB P
M?
Hill II"
Ml'
"» In,,
iiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Ml||
If"'
1
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
IWonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting their Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,120,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment by which the ComDany was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £39,023,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Wild [?] AT
COLUMN
Associated Dominions Assurance.
The Associated Dominions Assurance
Society, Ltd., a Sydney concern, which
also has offices in Melbourne and Newcastle,
entered the race in an overcrowded field on
July 1, 1928, having registered a few months
earlier with a nominal capital of £250,000.
The promoter was W. T. Page; he is also
the managing director, and the co.’s articles
provide that he shall not be liable to be
removed from that office so long as he holds
2000 shares. As consideration for his having
arranged reinsurances with two other con-
cerns, the society agreed to pay him £20,000
in fully paids—£62oo in 1928 and the balance
in three annual instalments of £4600 each.
At June 30 last the society’s paid capi-
tal was £14,142 in £1 shares —10,807 fully
paids and 26,680 paid to 2s. 6d. The cash
paid capital was thus £3335. Of the con-
tribs., Mr. Page held 20,250 a year ago.
During the 12 months to June 30, 1929,
the Associated Deposits Assurance Society,
Ltd., reinsured with the Dominions 1056
Ordinary policies assuring £223,797, yielding
an annual income of £7679; also 16,127
Industrial policies assuring £55)0,016, with an
annual income of £51,862, as well as a block
of other business on which a premium of
£16,614 was paid. The Deposits Society was
registered in Sydney and limited by guarantee
in 1926. It was the upshot of the trouble
into which the A. N. A., Ltd., got itself when
it extended to Victoria. So the business, or
a substantial part of it, gathered at con-
siderable cost by what are virtually mutual
concerns, has been transferred to an ordinary
joint-stock limited-liability co., not by direc-
tion of the policy-holders, but by reinsurance.
Thus, instead of the whole of whatever profits
may be earned on the policies in question
belonging to the policy-holders, part of them
will become available for distribution
amongst shareholders in the Dominions Cos.
The Dominions gathers other business as
well. For the 12 months to June 30 last
its net premium income from all sources was
£72,401 as against £82,702 for the year
before. In the Ordinary branch exes. (£5931)
made off with 53.2 p.c. of the net premiums
(£11,142) ; claims amounted to £1233, leav-
ing a surplus of £3976. In the Industrial
department premiums totalled £61,261, includ-
ing £307 of accident business, and £3158
was received in interest. Here exes.
(£39,127) got away with 63.8 p.c. of the
year’s premiums, and claims took £2179;
allowing for a loss of £243 on investments,
the surplus was £22,870. Thus the aggregate
surplus in both departments was £26,846,
of which £16,779 was added to the insurance
funds, raising the total to £49,825, and
£10,067 to the reserve fund, making it
£43,828. The purpose of this reserve fund is
not clear from the accounts; it was mainly
represented by intangibles when the books
closed.
A bonus of £2 per cent, on whole of life
and £1 per cent, on endowment assurances
is recommended; it is apparently a contin-
gent, not a reversionary, bonus. The actuary
is busy measuring up the liability under
policies, and until the work is complete it is
not possible to say exactly how policy-holders
stand.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:—
1929. 1930.
Government securities .. .. £28,350 £49,770
Cash .. .. .. .. 547 965
Mortgages . . .. .. . . 2,613 3,206
Book debts, etc. .. .. .; 4,280 14,060
Equipment .. .. .. .. 3,051 3,999
■ Total £38,841 £72,000
Sundry creditors .. .. • • 3,303 7,560
Net tangibles .. .. £35,535 £64,440
Most of last year’s surplus funds were
invested in public securities. Including
£1585 premiums in suspense, etc., net tan-
gibles were £14,615 in excess of the life
funds at June 30. But that does not mean
much unless you know how these funds
stand in relation to the liabilities under
policies. To represent the paid capital and
most of the reserve fund there was an estab-
lishment account of £45,117, to which £4600
(share consideration to the promoter) was
added during the year.
Since the close of accounts the Dominions
bought the life business of the Farmers’ and
General Assurance Corporation for £4000.
Incidentally the F. and G. some months pre-
viously bought the Industrial business of the
Federal Building Assurance Co. (in liquida-
tion) for approximately £5000. The
Dominions’ purchase involves annual pre-
miums aggregating about £29,000, and liabili-
ties under policies amounting to £33,407. But
tangible assets to cover this liability are not
being transferred; indeed, the F. and G.
could show only £8885 of net tangibles at
Dec. 31 last. Assuming that the Dominions’
life fund covered its liability under policies at
June 30, which is doubtful, it is obvious that,
apart from uncalled capital, the net tangible
cover for policy-holders is now insufficient
to cover liabilities under policies.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
r —Dividends —,
Pref. Towards
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
11,341
1922.. 16,284* 7,571 — 8713 2,628
Loss.
1923.. 1.380 — —- — 4.008
1924.. 1,169 — —- — 5.177
1925.. 934 — — — . 6,111
Capital written off, £322,104.
To Re-
Profit. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 19,308f 18,000 — 1308 1,308
1927.. 36,041 36,000 — 41 1,349
Loss. Defic t.
1928.. 1,611 — — — 262
Profit. Reserves.
1929.. 53,184 52,000 — 1184 922
1930.. 39,943 40,000 — — 865
♦Three months. tSix months.
It has been a disappointing venture from
the start. The co. exchanged £402,631 of
its own paper for scrip in Lincoln Spinning
Mills and Lincoln Knitting Mills eight years
ago. To lighten the operating co.’s debt to
outsiders the public put up ±400,000 in 9
p.c. cum. prefs. on the strength o"f a pros-
pectus which reckoned profits at £98,857
p.a. In 1925 a fire made reconstruction
inevitable.. During the tidying up £80,000 of
goodwill and £27,241 of accumulated losses
were rubbed out, and plant was written down
to what the board considered it was worth.
The books were, squared by striking 16s. per
share (£322.104) off the ord. capital, reduc-
ing it to £80,527 in 4s. shares. The prefs.
suffered no capital loss, but agreed to forego
accumulated divs. In return they got a
10 years’ right to an extra 3 p.c. in any year
after the ords. had collected 10 p.c.
But even with the deadwood cut out profits
have hung back. Here is a comparison of
the trading figures of the two operating cos.
since the reconstruction :—
Two Operating Mills’ Results.
1926.* 1928. 1929. 1930.
Gross profit .. £52,693 £116,398 £135,341 £131,037
Exes. .. 26,729 79,498 79,216 84,497
Net profit ..£25,964 £36,900 £56,125 £46,540
Divs. paid . . 22,000 — 55,000 40,500
*Six months.
After paying a handful of its own exes.
(£557) the holding eo. handed all it
received in divs. last year to the prefs., re-
ducing their arrears to 4 p.c. at June 30.
So by next balancing date there will be
±52,000 coming to the prefs.
There is still a wad of outside debt call-
ing for reduction in the subsidiaries, whose
combined figures compare as follows:—
Operating Cos.’ Combined Balance-sheet.
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £469,122 £469,122 £469,122 £469,122
Advances .. 32,284 12,309 45,509 33,448
Trade creditors 147,533 278,929 195,206 196,026
Freeholds .. 98,348 99,463 94,575 93,269
Plant .. 225,267 235,098 218,263 205,724
Stocks .. 208,186 318,026 268,813 310,171
Book debts, etc. 121,103 149,997 171,537 138,822
The dulness in the trade is reflected by a
growth of £41,358 in the book value of
stocks, and a shrinkage of £32,715 in debtors’
balances. Including stocks, the more or less
liquid surplus (£219,519) was £19,884
stronger than at the previous balance.
The emergency tariff and import prohibi-
tions were expected to give an impetus to
the turnover of local textile concerns, but
other factors have brought about under-con-
sumption, retailers are buying from hand to
mouth, and these and other mills are now
producing at much below capacity. Also
competition has shaved a bit more off profit
margins, and the trend of prices is down-
ward. Stocks, however, are said to have
been substantially reduced sinee the close of
accounts, and to have been conservatively
valued; much obviously depends upon that.
Though money remains tight, the decision of
the Federal Cabinet to straighten out
the public accounts by a cut in expenditure
should help to give traders more confidence
in the future-sunless it is overruled by
Caucus. As conditions become more
settled prospects for local manufacturers
should brighten; meanwhile they have a
splendid opportunity to prepare a market.
The prefs. are priced at 9s. as against
20s. a year ago. The backing amounts to
27s. 7d. in net tangibles, of which 10s. 3d.
is represented by plant, worth what it can
be made to earn.
Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane).
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
36,076
1926.. 31,251 8 p.c. = 21,810 9,441 45,517
1927.. 42,678 8 „ „ 29,212 13,466 58,983
1928. . 48,741 10 „ 37,396 \ lO 345 69,328
Provident fund, £IOOO )
Perkins’s business absorbed; added
reserves, £20,000. . . . . . 89,328
1929.. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59,934 ( lg 859 10 5,187
Provident fund, £ISOO )
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,341 ( 6 g 93 114 180
Provident fund, £ISOO j ’
This is the energetic Brisbane concern which
bought Perkins’s Toowoomba brewery, part
of its Brisbane plant, and the trade of some
70 hotels for £IOO,OOO in scrip a couple of
years ago. At the same time the old and
clumsy title of Castlemaine Brewery and
Quinlan, Gray and Cos. was changed for the
present one. This scrip (12s. 6d. face
value) was issued at a premium of 2s. 6d.:
the surplus of £20,000 that thus resulted was
added to reserves. Later some of the hotel
freeholds were bought for £90,000 (cash),
and shareholders welcomed the opportunity
to put up the money—l4o,ooo new 12s. 6d.
shares were quickly snapped at par. All this
added £250.000 to the co.’s share register,
raising the total to £623,993 at the close of
last accounts.
Nevertheless, the management was able to
make the large volume of new assets imme-
diately earn their keep, and a bit more.
Net profits for the 12 months, June 30,
1929, reached 13.4 p.c. on average capital
compared with Castlemaine-Quinlan’s 10,
11.6 and 11.4 p.c. back to 1926, when the
average capital at work was only £272,625.
The sharp drop of £10,459 in last year’s net
result, which fell back to 11.1 ~p- c - ° n capi-
tal, was due to a heavier charge for taxation
—£32.000 as against £20,000 the year before.
Though the sale of spirits was lighter, the
co.’s beer turnover was the best yet, despite
generally unfavorable conditions; so the 2
p.c. bonus which went out with the 8 p.c.
div. in each of the two preceding years was
repeated with an assurance of “satisfactory
returns” in the future, though on that sub-
ject nobody can speak with much authority.
Conditions in Queensland, where Castle-
maine Perkins and the Queensland co. share
about four-fifths of the trade, are better
than in most of the other States; but further
increases in excise and income tax are threat-
ened, and property values continue to shrink,
thus making a more careful scrutiny of asset
figures necessary. Then anew competi-
tor, the Moreton Bay (N.S.) Brewery, is in
the field, and nobody can be certain exactly
what that might mean.
However, the co. is well equipped for a
struggle, and is digging in, as this next com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows: —
1919. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £78,669 £372,694 £622,425 £623,993
Liabilities .. 68,853 69,361 116,386 119,186
Brewery Build-
ings, plant,
etc... .. 89,912* 159,029 310,370 308,406
Warehouse . . 22,950 23,580 32,188 32,248
Hotels . . 27,962 151,095 268,474 311,087
Stock . . 27,231 66,516 108,257 102,310
Debtors . . 52,975 107,269 148,903 129,105
Cash, etc. . . 13,949 8,429 11,363 6,889
*lncludes unspecified amount of goodwill, since
written off.
At June 30 the more or less liquid surplus
(£119,118, including stocks) was £33,019
lighter than at the previous balance; but
that was due to the addition of £42,613 to
the book value of hotel properties, which is
the way breweries have of anchoring future
income. These properties are claimed to. be
worth more than their book value, notwith-
standing the slump in prices. Although sub-
stantial improvements were made to the
equipment of the co.’s two breweries during
the year, the book value of the plant is
£1964 lighter than at the previous balance.
Except for additions to the cooling system, it
is not expected that any further outlay on
plant will be necessary for some time.
'Uncertain of the future, the market prices
the scrip at par or thereabouts as against
225. 9d. a year ago. The backing amounts
to 14s. 9d. per share in net tangibles.
Trufood of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards
June Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
’ £ if. £
1924* 42,142 26J p.c. = 32,812 9330 23,261
1925 ' 17 948 12* „ „ 15,738 2210 21,051
me!: 7 818 5 „ „ 7,500 318 20.733
1927.. 18,014 10 ~ „ 15,000 3014 17,719
1928:.' 26,791 121 ~ „ 18,750 8041 9,678
1999 20 635 10 „ ~ 15,000 5635 4,043
1930.. 16,850 8J „ „ 13,125 3725 318
*lO months.
This Vic. co. has been manufacturing
powdered milk for the last 20 years. When
fiesh milk is cheap and plentiful the co. is
able to manufacture on a favorable basis
of costs, but the demand for its product
diminishes, whereas dry conditions favor
brisk sales. Last year plenty of fresh milk
was available. This, the general reduction
in spending, growth in competition and slack-
ness in the co.’s export markets affected
turnover, while costs were kept up by the
trouble on the northern N. S. Wales coal-
field.
So gross profits (£30,822) were £5834
lighter than the previous year’s; r the slip
in the net result was £3785. Nevertheless
the final figure was a satisfactory 11.2 p.c.
on capital as against 13.7, 17.8, 12 and 5.2
p.c. back to 1926, when the figures were
affected by the failure of a subsidiary, which
had been formed to manufacture milk jelly.
The distribution to shareholders dropped
back to 8f p.c., making the average over
the last seven years 12.1 p.c. And that is
worth a lot more to old holders, paid capital
having stepped up from £30,000 to £120,000
by bonus issues in the reconstructions of
1922 and 1923. . ,
Though there was £3lB of capital not.
visibly represented by tangible assets at
June 30 (goodwill figures at £35,000), the
finances are comfortable enough, as this next
comparison shows: —
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £144,762 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 15,747 9,028 11,340 12,072
Freehold . . 19,926 21,725 22,918 21,529
Plant, etc. . . 48,013 42,387 41,488 43,445
Shares in other
cos 850 100
Stocks .. 77,179 29,874 39,640 31,906
Book debts . . 1,395 18,651 23,653 15,947
Cash, etc. .. 1,457 42,491 38,973 56,427
The year’s spare cash was put out at call
or invested in Government securities; £17,454
was added to these items, and together
they more than four times covered the outside
debt. But the more or less liquid surplus
(£92,208, including stocks) was only £1282
stronger than at the close of accounts in
1929. Part of the plant has been converted
to electric power, and other improvements
have been made, all of which are expected to
benefit costs.
Asa result of recent experiments, malted
milk and other new lines are presently to
be added to the list of the co.’s manufac-
tures, but no large capital outlay will be
involved. The co.’s wide trade connections
and its strong cash position should help
greatly in developing markets for the new
products.
The scrip, which used to have a steady
market around 275. 6d., is now priced at
par or thereabouts.
Southern Union General Insurance Cos.
To Reduce
June, Surplus. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£ £ £
102,210
1922*-.. 3,724 Nil 3,724 98,486
Additional flotation exes. £86.. 98,572
1923 . . 8,454 Nil 8,454 90,118
1924 . . 16,244 Nil 16,244 73,874
1925 .. 2,234 Nil 2,234 71,640
Loss.
1926 . . 10,724 Nil 82,364
Surplus.,
1927 .. 26,513 Nil 26,513 55,851
Assets written up, £44,448 .. 11,403
N.Z. business sold; added re-
serves, £6552 . . .. .. 4,851
1928 .. 4,158 Nil 4,158 693
Loss.
1929 .. 75,855 Nil 76,548
Reserves.
Is. 9d. per share written off,
£165,625 .. .. .. 89,077
Surplus.
1930 . . 7,719 2J p.c. = 5324 2,395 91,472
*lB months.
When the first balance was struck (June 80.
1922) as many as 1,796,805 £1 shares had
been sold; these were called to 4s. and
£853,885 of the money had come in. Share-
selling, etc., had run off with no less than
£102,210. Actually the position was
worse, because many of the shares had been
sold at premiums of from 2s. 6d. to 45., and
that money was gobbled up too. Thus ham-
strung the co. limped along developing a wide
but very unprofitable underwriting connec-
tion ; when the books closed in 1929 the
p. and 1. balance was £80,625 on the wrong
side of the account. It was then decided to
clean the slate without interfering with
existing reserves, so Is. 9d. per share
(£165,625) was struck off capital, reducing
it to £212,947 in 18s. 3d. shares paid to
2s. 3d. Thus the co. got a flying start for
the last term. For the 12 months to June 30
investments turned in £16,217, or 7.6 p.c. on
paid capital at that date. But the underwrit-
ing loss reduced the net figure to £7719, so
shareholders, who got into the picture for the
first time, had to be content _ with 2-| p.c.
Dividend prospects depend mainly upon the
development of satisfactory underwriting
results
Here are underwriting performances from
the start: —
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1922. . £55,971 £18,753 £46,242 33.5 p.c. 82.6 p.c.
1923.. 85,209 46,532 46,356 54.6 „ 54.4 „
1924.. 122,228 71,056 51,904 58.1 „ 42.4 „
1925.. 142,360 99,114 57,828 69.6 „ 40.6 „
1926.. 150,012 116,069 62,160 77.3 „ 41.4 „
1927.. 197,390 124,870 62,620 63.2 „ 31.7 „
1928.. 187,918 138,862 58,694 73.9 „ 31.2 „
1929.. 164,867 200,812 56,408 121.8 „ 34.2 „
1930.. 155,190 120,343 43,345 77.5 „ 27.9 „
Thus, only once in the last 9£ years has
the balance been on the right side of the
accounts; that was in 1927, when the
(“Wild Cat ” continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step I
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. The
‘Wild Cat' Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
OCTOBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ;
PER ANNUM, 22/0.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. ' Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. —Advt.
* *
*
*
Each year sees a growing number of important
contracts that specify Pioneer Wood Pipe for water
supply. There are many good reasons for this.
Pioneer Wood Pipe is strong, durable and the most
inexpensive type of all conduit. It is easily and
inexpensively laid and is capable of giving excep-
tionally long trouble-free service. It is absolutely
non-corrosive and is unaffected by frost, heat or
electrolysis. Full details on request to The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foots-
eray, Victoria. — Advt.
jJ: si! 4s 4 s
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Built for Super Service in Every Power Transmission Field:
HANGROVITE WATERPROOF LEATHER
or RAWHIDE BELTING.
ms
The quality of “Mangrovite” Belting is such that it renders
super service under all conditions. Carefully selected Aus-
tralian Ox Hides are treated by an exclu-
sive process of tanning, and the belt is
cemented throughout with waterproof
cement. This factor increases efficiency
by imparting smoother running, greater
grip and lasting durability. "Mangrovite”
is the least expensive and most highly
efficient power-belting in existence.
Send for samples, free to any address.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMII tu.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Claims rrompr y 4 * W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
surplus was £9900. Over the whole period the
net underwriting loss was £159,823. The
expense rate is very moderate, but it might
have been greater had the risks been better.
Two of the chief sources of drain have
been the London market and motor-car in-
surance. Competition in connection with
the latter has led to elaborate extensions
of third-party risks, while the premiums
received have been barely sufficient to cover
the main featui*es of the hazard—damage to
the car and property and injury to the
person. The co.’s London office is to be
closed; some highly successful Australian
underwriters have recently quitted that field.
At June 30 policy-holders could see net
tangibles with a book value equal to 196
p.c. of the year’s net premiums, and that
is 46 p.c. more than is usually considered
adequate. If more is wanted shareholders
can he called upon to dredge up another
£1,514,291 should needs be. Here is the
position as balance-sheet figures show it: —
1924. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £378,573 £378,573 £378,573 £212,947
Liabilities .. 102,535 162,957 157,383 152,317
Freeholds, etc. 112,982 160,094 204,832 204,832
Equipment . . 7,029 6,224 3,823 3,249
Debtors . . 54,863 97,748 52,889 67,189
Mortgages . . 34,319 26,712 29,576 35,231
In v e stments,
cash, etc... 198,040 194,902 168,287 151,560
Inabilities include a mortgage of £60,650
and overdraft of £18,791, the balance being
mainly in respect of reinsurances and out-
standing claims. The co.’s heavy losses are
reflected in the steady decline in invest-
ments, chiefly Government securities. The
Sydney premises, in Martin-place, were writ-
ten up £44,448 after independent revalua-
tion, in 1928, and reserves benefited by all
but £IO,OOO of the increase. The decline in
real estate and other values can be expected
to affect rentals and premium income.
Civil Service Stores (Sydney).
Dividend (8 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (10p.c.). serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Jan., 1926 .. 19,682 18,039 1643 78,778
Julv, 1926 . . 16,494 16,055 439 79,217
Jam, 1927.. 23,508 21,623 1885 81,102
Preliminary exes., £4354 .. .. 76,748
July, 1927 .. 25,093 23,378 1715 78,463
Written off, £15,566 .. .. 62,897
Added prelim, exes., £19,809 .. 43,088
Jan., 1928 . . 22,769 23,734 42,123
Unexplained reduction in prelim.
exes., £11,037 53,160
Loss.
July, 1928 . . 3,718 Nil 49,442
Added prelim, exes., £192.. .. 49,250
Jam, 1929 .. 18,773 Nil 30,477
Forfeited shares, £319 .. .. 30,796
July, 1929 .. 20,008 Nil 10,788
Added reserves, £225 .. .. 11,013
Jan., 1930 .. 1,812 Nil 9,201
Deficit.
July, 1930 .. 11,001 Nil l,BOO
The last half-year’s trading, which in-
cluded the dull winter months, again showed
a loss —£10,001, as against £lßl2 in the
previous half. This wiped out what remained
of the slender reserves, and left the accounts
with a balance of £IBOO net on the wrong
side. That is assuming that assets are worth
their book value; they could not at present
be realised except at a heavy loss. No
depreciation was allowed on fixtures and
plant.
The co. served 33,762 more customers dur-
ing the term, but gross profit (£45,313) was
£17,155 lower. Exes., including an adjust-
ment for unoccupied space, were £7966
lighter at £56,314. The position _ thus
worsened by £9IS9, though it was still not
so bad as the corresponding half of the pre-
vious year. It is certainly a difficult time
for a retailer as badly positioned as this one
is to pull round.
These figures tell the story of the co.’s
big mistake: —
Jan., July, Jan., July,
i Q9u IQ9Q IQQO IQ2O
Paid capital. . £28,000 £292,389 £292,389 £292,389
Mortgages . . 147,400 182,400* 268,243
Sundry creditors 30,174 87,889 103,243 31,256
Leasehold
premises .. 4,346
Freehold <
premises .. 373,945 408,995* 408,995*
Furniture and
fittings . . 26,148 82,862 83,659 83,886
Stocks .. 70,754 58,332 64,734 73,381
Debtors . . 17,065 20,475 28,642 24,065
Cash, invest-
ments, etc 29,769 1,851 2,704 1,233
*lncludes £35,000 contingent liability and asset.
The unwarranted plunge into lavish building
and other expenditure ran the co. heavily
into debt; the mortgage overshadows the
whole position. In order to relieve the strain
an effort has been made to raise £30,000
on deposit from shareholders. Up to Sep-
tember 29, £5609 had been thus subscribed,
and it did not seem likely, the chairman
said, that the £30,000-mark would be
reached; if not, subscribers have the
right to ask for their money back. Stocks
(£73,351) are up £8647. These, an auditor
says, appear to be in good condition and
worth their book value. A great deal depends
on that. The excess of liabilities over more
or less liquids has increased 111,189 during
the last 12 months.
Since the close of accounts economies at
the rate of £16,000 a year are claimed to
have been made. More savings are aimed at.
The co.’s position calls for drastic measures.
On September 26 the Newcastle works of
John Lysaght (Aus.), engaged chiefly in
making galvanised iron from 8.11. P. steel,
were shut down owing to accumulation of
stocks and excess of imports. A staff of
900 men was affected. The management sug-
gested that importation of galvanised iron
should be prohibited, the bounty of £3 3s.
a ton (it works out at £200,000 p.a.) to be
waived. The Government agreed, and the
works re-opened on Monday. No increase
in price is to be made without the Govern-
ment’s consent.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan, Ltd., the Sydney co. formed
to take over the once-famous goldmine and
work it as a copper proposition, has issued
its first report. The co. aimed at producing
copper by “leaching” over the existing ore
body. This entails no mining of the ore,
but the recovery by powerful pumps
of the water which has become impregnated
with copper in solution. The water is
run through precipitation boxes full of
scrap-iron on which the copper is deposited;
that done, it is returned to the copper-
bearing formations to again percolate them
and dissolve more copper. During the year
under review close on 97 million gallons
of water containing 4.521 b. of copper per
1000 gallons were pumped. Production was
158.44 tons of copper. The original estimate
of 14 tons is likely to be exceeded, for
apart from the fact that the treatment has
yet to be considerably extended, the
copper-bearing solution at the end of July
had increased from 4.521 b. per 1000 gallons
to 8.561 b. The fall in the price of copper
has affected operations, and a small loss of
£221 was shown for the year. The co. started
with no working capital, having spent all
that raised in paying for the mine—£70,000
cash and £25,000 in shares. Directors, how-
ever, are foregoing their fees and costs are
being cut to bedrock. Steps are to be taken
to deal with the large body of accessible ore,
rated at 664,000 tons. The American Cyana-
mid Cos. of New York has agreed to test the
ore and to advise, free of cost, the best
method of treatment, a large parcel of the
ore having been forwarded to America for
testing. As the chief value of this stone lies
in its gold content, it is suggested that a
gold bonus by the Federal Government would
enhance prospects considerably.
Paid capital at June 30 was £95,000 in
£1 shares. In addition, the co. owed out-
siders £10,674. The mine figured at £51,160,
and plant, etc., at £22.272. Machinery and
stores of the old co., which are being offered
for sale, appeared at £17,481. Precipitates
in transit, stores and debtors together
amounted to £8438. Preliminary exes.
(£6102) and debit p. and 1. balance (£221)
made up the assets total of £105,674.
* * * *
“Camp”: Another old Tasmanian indus-
try went west the other day, when they
auctioned the plant and equipment of the
Mount Bischoff smelters, established 55 years
ago by the famous Mount Bischoff Tin Min-
ing Cos., just after it commenced dipping
into its mountain of ore. All the tin from the
mine, and, subsequently, from the Briseis
and other East Coast shows, was treated
at these smelters, which gave work to about
40 men. With the smashing of the Briseis
in last year’s big flood, and the general
falling off of supplies, the Bischoff Cos.
decided to close its smelting works. In
future all tin from hereabouts goes to the
mainland for treatment.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: Someone has confused
Central New Guinea Exploration, Ltd. (B.
24/9/’3O) with a Sydney co. of the same
name floated a year or more ago. The
latest concern was registered in Brisbane
last March, with a capital of £BOOO in £1
shares. The discoverer of the country taken
up by the co. is E. J. Übank, and the direc-
torate is divided between Sydney and Bris-
bane, with the secretary in the Bananaland
capital. The exact location of the find has
not been made known to the public, but
there is good reason for thinking that it is
somewhere on the Ramu and Simisi rivers,
which lie n.-w. from the Edie field, but are
on a different watershed.
# ❖ He *
Great Boulder Prop, has been in numer-
ous ventures in and out of Australia, with
little or no profit. Latest idea is to take a
working option over the Golden Butterfly
at Norseman, which has a big length
of medium-grade ore at shallow levels.
Extensions at length and depth give
promise. The co. has wisely decided
to treat 100 tons of ore from the
dump; shareholders have waited long for
this. The results should be enlighten-
ing. Great Boulder’s recent monthly re-
turns have not been startling, averaging
about 9000 tons for bullion value £25,000.
This showed a mine profit of £522, a sum no
doubt absorbed by charges outside the mine.
As cash reserves are light, Boulder Prop, can
do with' a stimulant; whether the Butterfly
will provide this is by no means certain.
* * * *
Numberless gold-treatment plants dot
W.A. goldfields, and the Princess Royal Cos.,
Westonia, intends adding another to the long
list. Although the mine has recently shown
improvement at the bottom level, why incur
the risk of making the old mistake of pre-
mature plant erection? The 1600 tons of
ore stacked at surface is only a two or three
months’ run for a five-head mill, and could
be treated at near-by plants. Such a quan-
tity tested in this way might tell share-
holders more of what they want to know
than can be gathered from official announce-
ments.
* * * *
W.A. mining is being hard hit; first by in-
creased taxation, notably the primage duties,
and next by the State withdrawing payment
of insurance premiums under the Work-
ers’ Compensation Act, and rebates on
water supplied to mines. Additional plant
installation at the Lake View and Star mine
has caused that co. to spend so much money
that it is now running short of cash. In
order that it may weather the storm
W.A. Government will probably come to
the rescue with a loan.
* * * *
Perth holders in Freney Oil Cos. are on
tiptoe; those interested in Adelaide are not
so excited. The much-discussed process of
“cementing-off” the heavy water in the bore
has been completed, and shareholders have
been officially advised to expect an important
development within a fortnight. Later
reports by telegram are not glowing.
*** . *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I have discovered blacklead, apparently
valuable, on two private properties in S.
Australia some distance apart, with private
property between them. (1) If a payable
market can be found, what should I do to
exploit the find? (2) If I purchase one of
the properties, can I secure a mineral lease
of the surface ground between the two, and
if so, under what conditions? (3) At what
depth would excavations be considered safe
in the interests of surface property? (4)
What would be.the dimensions of such lease,
should same be granted, and what period,
would it cover? —9130.
(1) The quality of the material should be
tested before any step at all is taken. Samples
should be submitted to the Department of
Mines, in Adelaide. The continuity of the
deposit between the two exposures cannot be
assumed on the data mentioned. There are
many occurrences of graphitic slate in South
Australia which appear to carry much
graphite, but which prove on assay to con-
tain only a very small percentage of that
mineral. The locality being stated as within
a township, it is probable that the mineral
rights have been alienated from the Crown.
If so the right to work them vests in the
owners of the freehold. (2) No mineral
lease would be required if the minerals are
alienated from the Crown and are purchased
by the person who proceeds to work them.
If the minerals vest in the Crown, the exist-
ence of a well or house at the site of the
discovery exempts the area from the opera-
tion of the Mining Act. The exemption can
be removed only by purchase of the property.
In such a case the purchaser should acquire
a title under the Mining Act through the
Department of Mines. (3) It is not possible
to state the depth at which mining would be
safe. Every case must be dealt with accord-
ing to the features presented by the occur-
rence. (4) Ordinary mineral leases under
the Mining Act are for 21 years, and the
maximum area of a single lease is 40 acres.
(1) What is the present market value of
kaolin? (2) Is it used in any quantity in
Australia? (3) What Q’land firms to write
t0?— 9029.
(1) No fixed value; depends on contracts
between parties. (2) Used in quantities for
pottery, etc, (3) Ceramic Potteries, Ltd.,
Enoggera, Brisbane; Campbell and Sons,
Brisbane; Dinmore Pottery, Ltd., Adelaide-
street, Brisbane. Better get in touch with
Q’land Mines Department also.
What dividends have been paid by the
Australian rubber-goods manufacturing cos.
during the last three years? —9327. _
Dividend rates on ordinary capital have
been: —
1928. 1929. 1930.
sun]°P5 un ]°P •• •• l lOp.c. 6 p.c.
Perdriau .. .. 12J p.e. j
Barnet Glass . . 10 „ 10 „ 6 „
Rapson .. .. Nil Nil Nil
The Goodyear Cos. has paid no div. on its
ordinary shares, though last term it netted
45 p.c. on ord. capital. Dunlop and Per-
driau merged in 1929.
(1) At what sea beaches in N.B.W. are
gold deposits found? (2) Have they ever
been profitably worked? (3) Does the win-
ning of gold from these sands involve the
use of expensive plant? (4) To whom would
I apply for full particulars? —9lls.
(1) ' Beaches between Byron Bay and
Clarence Heads, and in less quantity between
Port Macquarie and Cape Ilawke near Seal
Rocks, and at Shellharbor and Termed.
Yes, in the past concentrates were produced
and shipped away, but the gold content
were very small. (3) No. Inclined tabß
covered with strips of carpet or cocoanut
matting over which the sand is passed in
a state of suspension in water. (4) depart-
ment of Mines, Sydney— preferably by per-
sonal application.
A bank holds some of my scrip for safe
custody. If this lank failed, ffouhl I have
any trouble about my scrip? —932o.
None whatever, unless the officials were
very impudent rogues and scoundrels.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.A.P.: (1) Yes. (2) Not so far as we are
aware Loans: (1) It could no doubt restrict
withdrawals. (2) Depends on what arrangements
it could make; it hasn’t the funds itself. (3) No.
(4) Depends largely on how Governments behave
during the next few months W.Y.A.: Deposits are
as safe as anything. .. .Fechter: That’s merely poli-
ticians’ talk. We never had a similar crisis....
C.R.M. : Probate is payable on market value at time
of death, not on face value. .. .Hokum: Has been
handicapped greatly by lack of funds. Prospects very
poor J.M. : The note issue is in charge of a special
department of the Commonwealth Bank, whose direc-
tors declare that no “expansion” is contemplated. You
may take it for granted that the present board would
have to be removed —apparently legislation would be
required to do it—before any inflation could be
accomplished. .. .J.R.R.: If, you allege, the con-
dition or reservation was made part of the applica-
tion, you can withdraw. But to sign it was courting
trouble.


Challeng
er Month
is Here—
§'
cs
~*S
ilfc> W
<*K
-■
Ride—RlDE
SOME
HUDSON-ESSEX
VICTORIES THIS
YEAR.
First and Second Place, 5000-
Mile Tour de France.
Ansaldo Trophy.
Spido Cup.
Dunlop Cup.
City of Warsaw Trophy.
Royal Automobile Club of
Australia Award.
Automobile Club of Poland
Cup.
Vacuum Oil Company Cup.
And various gold and bronze
medals.
for Speed, Economy,
Hill Climbing, Power,
and Faster Getaway!
The new Essex challenges the per-
formance, the style, the luxurious
comfort of any car on the outright
basis that no other gives you back so
much for every pound you put in.
We invite you to prove this to your
own satisfaction.
The new Super-Six engine is smoother
more powerful. Essex requires
little gear shifting. Essex brakes
answer to a touch. Its beauty will
charm you, not merely in general de-
sign, but the finish in every detail,
fitting and appointment.
Essex challenges the attention of all
as a brilliantly different car. It chal-
lenges the smoothness and comfort
of any car. The price is well within
your means. Accept this challenge—
prove it for yourself that no lesser car
can satisfy make the test to-day.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
■ .■ - f DISTRIBUTORS:
New South
Victoria . .
Wales DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
136 Phillip Street, Sydney
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Queensland WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD**
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
Tasmania
DRIVE
HL


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
H i RtTjj
{*»«*{»»{ !*»»*!»* i
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
M
STERLING SILVER HOOK TAIL
COCKTAIL
PICKS
Serve cocktails this new and attrac-
tive way, by using sterling silver
picks for the Olive or Cherry. The
picks illustrated arc mounted with
birds enamelled in natural colors,
and have a hook tail which enables
the pick to be hung on the rim of
the glass when finished with.
Six solid silver Cocktail
Picks with hook tails.
Birds enamelled in natural
colors. Complete in
Dainty Shagreen
colored Case.
Price
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney/
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers* Compensation,
ABORIGINALITIES
“Elanelle”: Old Woolbales hated to see
any of his sheep butchered, so when Mac
the ringer chanced to take off a fair slice
of stud ewe with the fleece, he glanced round
to see if the coast was clear, and hurriedly
set to work to doctor the wound. As he
finished he heard a snort, and looking up saw
Woolbales glaring at the job. “Ah, Mac-
donald,” the wool king rasped, “I see.
Operation successful; patient damn near
dead !”
* * *
“Piecrust” : The old man in the barber’s
chair brightened up when the tonsorial
artist remarked on the stiffness of his beard.
“Wait till yer. start on me ’air, son!” he
boasted. “It ain’t as strong as it useter be.
though,” he went on. “Why, once a bloke
broke two pair o’ scissors when he tried to
give me a haircut. But that was 30 years
NO EXERCISE NEEDED.
WAITER: “Steak as usual, sir?”
DNER: "No, I’ve had a tiring day—bring me some stew.”
ago, just after I got in from a buffalo-shootin’
trip up in the Territory.” “It’s the sleeping-
out of doors,” said the barber professionally,
“that makes the hair wiry.” “Not it!”
snorted the veteran. “I’ll tell yer what hap-
pened. Me and my mate got held up by a
party of blacks—hundreds of ’em, and every
man with his spear. We found a little
pocket in the rocks where they couldn’t
get at us, but only chuck the spears. Fer
three days we camped there in those rocks,
while, the blacks threw the spears over from
one side then went round the other side and
chucked them back again. I reckon over
three thousand went over us, and every time
one went by me ’air stood to attention and
laid down again. ’Course, with all that exer-
cise, by the time we got away it ’ad developed
muscles and biceps. They ’ad to use tin-
snips to give me a crop for years after that.”
* * * *
“Pale Ale”: Dave returned from the
township disconsolate. On being asked
what was wrong he said: “I ’ad a go in
with Murphy in the store, and he called me
a liar.” The family tried to console him,
and Dad pointed out that many a man had
been called a liar and had been none the
worse for it. “That’s all right,” replied
Dave sombrely; “but the blasted cow proved
it!”
* * * *
“Dr. Mivart”: The extent to which the
lower orders of creation understand us
humans is, I think, in some sort of ratio
to the degree in which we try to understand
them. My father was a carrier by trade,
and it was part of my boyhood duties to
minister to the eight or ten horses that he
stabled. I was a skinny, nervous little chap
and horribly afraid of the great big brutes
that I had to feed and currycomb, but I
learned, because I had to, the tricks of the
ostler’s trade, and in time I found out the
best avenue of approach to all save one of
my charges. Some liked baby-talk; others
relished my singing; others, fellows of
a baser sort, looked on me kindly if I
offered an extra carrot or an apple or a
sugar-lump. The exception was Dai-kie, a
tall, vicious-eyed, raw-boned beast who bit
and kicked all who came near him. Though
jeered at and derided by my father and elder
brother's I never dared venture into his stall.
Then there came a night when, going to the
stable after school, I found the kerosene lamp
was empty. Dad and the other boys were away,
and there seemed to be only one horse in the
stable. “That,” said I to myself, “will be
old Bibsey. She'd like an apple and a bit of
petting.” So, being too lazy to fill the lamp,
I measured out the rations of chaff, oats
and carrots in the dark, put them in every
stall and paused beside Bibsey to offer the
apple. It was accepted gratefully and I
went through my whole repertoire of kind-
ness. I patted Bibsey, I sang to her, I
crooned, I stroked her nose. Then dad came in
with the two-horse lorry and sent me flying
to the house for the kerosene. When the
light w’ent up I saw to my horror that it
wasn’t old Bibsey, but Darkie that I had
been petting. There’s a sequel. Two
or three days later my brothers pounced
upon me and despite my shrieks laid me in
Darkie’s stall under the gaunt horse’s great
hoofs. I was paralysed with fear. I looked
up at Darkie and Darkie looked at me. And,
NOTHIN’ ELSE MATTERED.
Husband (who has been left at home to look after the dinner, to churchwarden): "Do
’ee mind askin’ my missus if it’s time for me to put vasty in t’ oven?”
as I live, that iniquitous horse winked at me.
My brother George was hopping about out-
side the stall jeering at me. Darkie suddenly
backed, carefully avoiding my prostrate little
body. -His off hind leg lashed out terrifically
and George, caught with his back turned
in the middle of a pirouette, described a
parabolic curve through the door across the
stable yard and landed in a clump of goose-
berry bushes. He wasn’t seriously injured,
but he sat down with groans for a week
afterwards. Finding that Darkie was stand-
ing as steady as a rock after his. one ebulli-
tion of rage, I edged myself out of his stall.
After that I had no fear of him, and he
became my best equine friend.
* * * *
“Squint-fish” : Some years ago I belonged
to that band of piscatorial blokes who leave
Sydney at midnight on Saturday and fish
off Barrenjoey, or thereabouts till Sunday
aft ernoon. Amongst
the catch there were
invariably several fish
something like a small
bream. I never caught
one anywhere but in
the eye. Old hands
said this fish always
put its eye on the bait
before sampling the
temptation, and the
slightest pull resulted
in the hook securing
him in the eye. It
was telling this story
that got me my name
of “Squint-fish.” Will
some expert please
vindicate my veracity
and give the reason
for the fish putting its eye on the bait?
-it * * *
“Cooramin” : Talk of lean times brings to
my mind the self-preserving ways of “Cocka-
too” Flynn. There was nothing Flynn liked
more than doing things for himself. Though
he never had a bumper harvest to sell from
his cultivation, he took care that it fed him
well. There was very little that went on
his table that he didn’t grow or manufac-
ture or get from the bush. He made all his
own arrowroot, grinding the bulbs in a home-
made machine. It was a long narrow box,
with punched tin tacked on a slanting surface
inside, and a wooden roller covered with
punched tin. The punching was done with a
two-inch nail, to make a cutting, rasp-like
surface. To turn the roller he borrowed the
handle from the grindstone. From a patch
of ground a few yards square he got
about 1001 b. of arrowroot. He also made liis
maizena, jam and butter, kept bees, poultry
and pigs and had vegetables and milk in abund-
ance, so the cost of living didn’t trouble
him. Besides other activities he experimented
with wheat, which he threshed with flails,
and when he put the grain through a corn-
cracker and a fine sieve he got flour.
$
“Gumblegubbin” : “The bloke who rings the
board ain’t always the fastest shearer in
the shed,” said Brummy. “I’ll tell you a
trick —an’ it’s pretty common, too. Snip
Sinker ’ad the name of bein’ a fast shearer,
when he liked to extend himself, but he was
mostly 'too lazy or ’ad a cronk wrist or a
kink in his back when there were big guns
on the board. H'e’d put up some big tallies
here an’ there, but only his mate knew how.
I was his mate when he made his record.
‘l’m after it to-day, Brummy,’ he says in
the mornin, ‘an’ you’ve got to help me.’
Well, he’d helped me to surprise the mob
at another shed, so I cuts in as if I’m racin’
him. He was'a, fair,-to-middlin’ shearer, but
no scorcher. Every now an’ then I slips a
sheep down his shoot, which made him faster
than ordinary. I shore 160 that day, an’
Snip got through 170. But only 110 was
counted out o’ my pen, an’ 220 out o’
Sinker’s. It surprised the mob, I can tell
yer. When I see a bloke cuttin’ for the shed
record,” Brummy concluded, “I keep an eye
on his mate.”
sjc * :Jc
“N. J.G.”: I have seen the mysterious
“green flash at sunset” mentioned by
“R.J.C.” (B. 25/6/’3O). We were engaged
laying moorings in 200 fathoms of water at
Nauru. The weather had been con-
trary and we had been drifting round on the
bosom of the Pacific for four weeks waiting
for the weather to come, as it should at this
time of the year. Whilst keeping watch I
observed Venus setting. Just at the moment
of setting the planet was replaced by a very
bright green flash. This wasn’t the result of
looking down the neck of a bottle either, as
our ship is dry.
sis :i: * *
“Joe Cose”: Grandma reckons she owns
the most intelligent cat in the country. Some
months ago Trigger began to make a prac-
tice of taking a snooze on the old lady’s bed.
Gran, told him to cut it out, and it seemed
for a while that he did. However, she soon
discovered that Trigger had resorted to the
trick of jumping from the bed and making
himself scarce whenever he heard steps
approaching. Gran, caught him in the room,
and upon feeling the bed discovered a warm
spot, which established his guilt. Trigger,
who had been looking on, was severely repri-
manded. The other day Gran, sneaked into
her room and found him, with his forepaws
on the bed, blowing for all he was worth on
the spot where he had been lying. He was
trying to cool it.
the bridle path.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three of us mounted at break of day
Back in the long ago ;
Three of us mounted and rode away
When the song in our hearts was a chanson
gay,
And the Bushland seemed aglow.
The dewdrops clinging like fairy chains
Clustered on pommel and bridle reins.
Stirrups a-jingle, knee to knee,
Many a vow we made;
Never a parting between us three,
Mates together for life were we,
Never would friendship fade.
And the morning chorus the magpie sings
Blended with music of bridle rings.
But mateship weakens and friendship dies :
Where are my comrades now?
One of them over in Flanders lies.
The other? Severed long since our ties,
Ask me not why or how.
For death, or love and a girl’s white hand,
Loosens saddle and bridle band.
Three of us cantered o’er valley and hill —
Quickly the years have flown.
Eager our. place in the world to fill
Three of us rode, and I’m riding still,
But, alas ! I ride alone,
Where the waning sun with a brilliance pale
Lights bridle and saddle and martingale.
victoria.
ELLENVALE.


a
% t
fii
for the
Sale of Skins
is the work of strong, reliable salesmen in market-
ing them. Consign Rabbit, Fox and Other Skins,
W inchcombe. Carson
LTD.
Selling Agents, SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s determined, capable efforts never
fail to produce highest possible prices.
Auctions every week Prompt returns
The
Hand
in
Need
a
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors,)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street •••••' .. A ,f elaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street ............ Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
. “Ellenvale” : I took my six-year-old nephew
from the city out rabbiting, and apparently
he. didn’t miss much. The next day I was
shifting some piles of bags in the barn when
a rat jumped out, and Spot the terrier
killed it expertly and threw it aside. Six-
yearmld examined it, then cast it away in
disgust. “No good, Uncle,” he said; “it’s a
milky doe.”
* * * *
“Cetacea”: A gloom was cast over Two-
fold Bay (N.S.W.), when Tom the Killer was
found on the beach, where, lifeless but
beautiful, he lay. A few days before
he had been seen in the best of
health and spirits, having just had a gram-
pus for breakfast. He was quite the oldest
inhabitant, having been middle-aged when
HIS ONLY REGRETS.
Angry Parson: “And I suppose you’ll go home and tell your poor wife that you’ve
been holding a sick friend’s hand all night.”
Sobering Parishioner: “I wish I had! 1 wish I had! He held a fistful every deal.”
the whalers first came to the bay over a
century ago, and his friendly interest in and
practical assistance of the whaling industry
made him a large circle of friends. Of a
retiring disposition, he devoted himself to
industry, and took but little part in public
affairs. His business was to intercept pass-
ing whales, conduct them into his home bay,
and, after making a selection for his own
needs, to signal to the whalers that there
was work for the harpoon toward. The fine
old fellow, like his mates, was under abo.
as well as white protection, Black Brother,
believing that all members of Tom’s tribe
are reincarnated darkies, a beautifully poetic
notion that should teach us to be kind to all
dumb animals. 1 nearly forgot to remark
that Tom was a killer-whale. A movement
is afoot to erect a suitable memorial —Tom’s
own skeleton, nicely scraped and polished.
* * * *
“Arg”: A travelling snake-charmer fouled
the traffic regulations at Water-rat Hill and
came up for hearing next morning. Asked
his occupation, he loftily described himself
as “a pachydermatist and a naturalist.”
Then O’Rourke, J.P., jerked him back to
earth. “There’s nobody askin’ ye about
yer rellijin or yer politics, me mahn,” he
barked ; “and ye’ll do no good here bringin’
up thim matters. Ye’ll answer the plain
queschin, what’s the means of yer occupa-
tion ; and let me tell ye this, me bhoy, ye
might eharrum snakes, but ye don’t charrum
me wid yer high-falutin language.”
* * *
“MacFlecknoe”: The Sydney office of an
insurance co. recently received a claim from
a North Coast (N.S.W,) cocky for a stud
cow, which had died. The form not being
correctly filled in the co. telegraphed “What
was the disposition of the carcase?” Back
came the sorrowful answer, “Kind and
gentle.”
* * * *
“Waranbini” : While playing at Kempsey
(N.S.W.), a batsman was struck on the
groin by a fast ball, and the next moment he
was enveloped in a cloud of blue smoke.
Puzzled onlookers stood and stared until the
smoking player began to dance and yell that
he was on fire. Then the bowler and
umpires rushed to his assistance, and they
took from his pocket an exploded box of
wax matches and two charred pound-notes.
“How’s that?” asked the bowler when the
blaze had been doused. “Out,” said the
umpires in chorus.
* * * *
“Avon” : One of the Maoris who attended
the Maui Pomare tangi was stout, fierce-
looking old Hopeta Tamati, a living reminder
of the fact that less than 50 years have
elapsed since the tribes finally buckled down
to pakeha domination. Tamati, then a young
warrior, stood by his lord, Manuhiri Mahuki,
chief of the Te Kumi, on a day in 1882 when
four white surveyors invaded the King
Country. The chief gloomily watched their
operations with theodolite and chain, and
at last barked out: “If one of these pakehas
gets through it will be like the wedge in the
log and all our land will be gone. Let us
stop those men.” So the inhabitants of the
Te Ivumi pa buzzed out, men, women and
children. They surrounded the surveying
party, headed by the genial but quick-tem-
peered Hursthouse, bound their hands with
muka, and imprisoned them in the pa.
QUICK WORK.
Accountant (the day after the funeral): “We’ll miss Jones; he was a great salesman.
Manager: “I should say he was. I bet he hadn’t been half an hour in Heaven before
he’d got ’em to instal our card ledgers in place of the old system.”
Whether murder was intended it is hard to
say. Te Whiti, the passive-resisting Gandhi
of his nation, had been thrown into prison by
the white men a few months before, and
Mahuki may have had some idea of securing
hostages. But powerful Maori tribes to the
south, convinced of the futility of resisting
the pakeh'a, intervened. Two hundred war-
riors under the chief Kahu came next day,
swept aside the guards outside the whare
where the captives lay, smashed the door
with an axe,_ and released them. Mahuki
and his men were advised to give themselves
up for judgment. They did so, and Mahuki
went to gaol for a year and other warriors
for shorter terms. No, said Tamati, tell-
mg the tale to friends at the tangi.
titn t ko. I stayed mte pa. He went on
to say that m after years he used to caU
on Hursthouse whenever he was in New
Plymouth, and was cordially reeved. Hurst-
house wasn t the sort to cherish spite.
, ,
“Mullarula”: The water in tanks and
dams out back varies greatly m color, some
being crystal clear, some brown and some
milky. The clear water is never as plea-
sant to the taste as that with a hit ot color,
and the reason is simple enough, lhe clear-
ness is due to some form of salts, generally
gypsum, which precipitates the mud but
gives its own taste to the water. The brown
water tastes best, for the white is due to
pipeclay, which when thick enough to be
seen is also thick enough to be tasted.
* * * *
“Wang” : There were sounds of angry
voices aSd scuffling inside the bar-room, and
IL, n o-rnbbv-lookine- individual
caLe staggerfng through
the verandah and fell in an untidy
heap propelled I by ‘ the toe of Ryan’s
o ’ <?Get to th’ Devil outer this,” roared
A, iLo rinnrwiv • “ver n nice sorter
about me beerA
The ejected one raised himself from the dust.
“I said me pot had a spider in it, an’ so it
had,” he protested; “I don’t pay me money
fer spiders in me beer.” “Well, whatcher
encourage ’em for?” retorted Ryan. “Yer
barmy,” replied the other; “watcher mean
be encouragin’?” Shouted Ryan: “Ev’ry
time y’ come in here yer drink with th’ flies,
an’ th’ spiders had got ter know it!”
* * * *
“M.L.C.” : Does any abo. know at what age
the baby porcupine opens its eyes? On dig-
sing out a burrow recently we found mother
and baby curled up side by side; the latter a
ouaint iittle soft grey dumpling about the
size of an orange and without a suspicion
of auills. With its grey wrinkly skin, short
fat legs and long nose it resembled a toy
elephant more than anything else. The little
protest it gave under examination was some-
thing between a grunt and a purr. When
placed on loose earth it at once attempted
to burrow, but was not quite up to the job.
Its eyes were still covered with a trans-
parent skin. The porcupine, about July or
August, lays one egg, which it picks up in its
mouth and deposits in a temporary pouch,
where it remains until hatched. The egg is
only about a half-inch in diameter, so the
youngster cannot be very large when it
emerges, and it might reasonably be expected
to take three weeks or so. to attain the size
of an orange. The covering of its eyes up
to that age is possibly as a protection from
its prickly parent,
* * * *
“Hayeworray”: Tim Phinnerty was doing
j dg fortnightly shopping in the store. Being
illiterate he j iad to trust to memory for the
j. gt o£ hig wants . After chanting off a dozen
ite he i ia i te d in an endeavor to think
Qf a cortain oil he wan ted. The
storekeeper rattled off the likely commo-
dities. « Ca , gtor oil> salad oil> o live o il, mop
a machino oil linseed oil nea tsfoot oil,
dli oil sepa rator oil, sardines-in-oil.
h gter oil ker<)Se ne.” The old chap
ghook Wg hea(J< wandered off t 0 the opposi-
tion store, and had the same list repeated to
him He ro t Urned to his starting-point
more puzzled than ever. On seeing an assist-
an£ mo ppj n g U p some grease that had been
i]t on the shop fl oor> and washing it over
phenyl, he suddenly beamed and
] dur t ed ou t• “The shmell reminds me av
<-g n > o il, I’m afther!”
# * * *
“Aragun” : All sftrts of queer names are
given to drinks in our locality, and there s
a bit of humor about some of them. A
“mother-in-law” is stout-and-bitter, and a
“straight lubra” is a nip of square-face gin.
There’s a historical touch m connection
with beer-and-stout, called by the Irish of
?ur village a “murderer,” which means that
lt: 1S black and tan - Bun S was discoursing
about these oddities the other afternoon
when someone asked him: D jer ever pul
a ‘tomcat’s serenade ? No, said Bung ,
itr And be proved himself a sport
w T hen the answer came, On the house.
*
“Dimon” : “Tomahawking” got a rougn
jolt the other day when a shearer in the
Moree (N.S.W.) district was prosecuted for
roughing, fines and incidentals costing him
nearly £3O, on top of forfeiture of pay for
a thousand sheep. The jumbuck these days
has to be “pinked” without being butchered,
but not so long ago tomahawking was
common among both good and bad shearers
the former when racing for a big
tally. Some could not shear a sheep without
nipping a bit of skin off here and there,
the poor animal being turned out with tar
spots all over it, Others shore unevenly
leaving as much as half an inch of wool
on in places, or got chipped by the °Yer-
seer for second cuts. But the worst that
could happen m those days was the sack.
OUR CAROLINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Vhen Caroline comes home on holiday
How dainty are her things, how white
and fine! f
The drought is hard on clothes around our
way;
Those snowy frocks of hers take all the
shine
From our best things. Beside her lingerie,
How dismally we flutter on the line!
How drab our garments are, how dingy grey,
When Caroline comes home on holiday!
Water is scarce: it hasn’t rained for weeks.
For her our washing days are filled with
shocks.
Near where her silken stockings hang there
shrieks
A pair of Jimmy’s oldest, oddest socks.
And here her pretties neighbor other freaks ;
Dad’s shabby overalls their freshness
mocks,
Mum’s ageing aprons, Bobby’s earth-stained
breeks.
Water is scarce: it hasn’t rained for weeks.
How can we grieve when back to town she
goes,
Our Caroline, the changed, the worldly
wise ?
F'or there is neither comfort nor repose
Within the light of her accusing eyes.
On washing day. Ah me! how careless
grows
A family there’s none to criticise.
And Caroline looks down her scornful nose —
How can we grieve when back to town she
goes?
VICTORIA.
CHRISTINE BONWICK.


gd
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILE
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to: —
PRODUCERS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
gd
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SURPLUS WHEAT FOR PIGS.
wtio^ni” : 11 P° rtion of last year’s
wneat still unsold, and every prospect of a
bumper harvest, and a saddening price slump,
tne need arises for some means of turning
surplus wheat to profitable use. It can be
profitably fed to pigs if the grain ration is
supplemented with green feed and foods rich
in protein such as skim-milk, meat meal
and linseed meal. But if we are to seize the
opportunity of fostering our much-neglected
pig industry, we must tackle the job on prac-
tical and economical lines. We must breed
only the right type of pig, and treat him
properly.
Wheat can be stored for some time, and
this gives the wheat-farmer a better chance
to procure the right class of pig. It will
pay best to build up a herd of good Berk.-
J.am. sows and breed from these, instead of
depending on picking up store pigs from an
outside source. Expensive sties are not
necessary. Shade trees, or shelter-sheds
made from old tanks cut in half, or old
slabs with a straw-thatched roof, will be
sufficient protection from wind and weather.
A plentiful supply of water is essential • so
are good fences and plenty of space for'the
pigs to roam round and fossick for them-
selves.
Wheat should be crushed, or a lot of it will
pass through undigested. It is best fed
ary through an automatic feeder. If fed wet
add not more than one gallon of water to
three or four pounds of grain. In most
wheat districts skim-milk will not be avail-
able, and as a pig requires the addition of
protein to the wheat ration, meat meal and
linseed meal should be given in the ratio of
101 b. meat meal, 81b. linseed meal, 1001 b.
crushed wheat for young pigs. Reduce the
proportions of meat meal and linseed meal
as the pigs get older. At 16 weeks the
ration may remain unchanged. Let the pigs
graze in the pastures all the time.
Lucerne and natural pastures are invalu-
able additions to the other foods, but it is
advisable when possible to sow rape before
the end of February on some of the stubble
land. The stubble can be disced with a
one-way disc and brought to a fine tilth, and
the rape sown through the grass-seed attach-
ment to the drill, or sown through the
manure box by mixing 41b. of rape with 091 b.
of super.
Grain can be profitably fed to pigs in a
balanced ration as described provided the
cost does not exceed a penny a pound.
On this ration the right type of pigs
should reach the 1201 b. mark in less than
six months. Pigs fed on a balanced ration
will produce far better pork or bacon, and
will be ready for the factory two or three
months sooner than pigs fed on grain alone.
The local demand for bacon and pork can
be greatly stimulated by offering the public
what they desire, and there is a vast field
for baconers to be exported in the frozen
state and cured overseas.
If the right methods of selecting and feed-
ing are adopted, pigs will always find a
place in the wheat districts, and will prove
specially valuable in turning into profit
pinched or damaged crofps.
RUNNING FARM ENGINES.
“Kripple”: Farm or station engines, especi-
ally of the portable oil type, are often to be
seen doing a form of jazz dance while at work.
This is bad for them and the owners. Under
such conditions there is a continual slack-
ening and tightening of the driving belt. At
slack periods slip occurs ; and slip accounts
for much wasted power and fuel.
Without interfering with portability the
engine can be set solidly at its principal
points of work by putting down a concrete
foundation. This should be two or three
inches higher than the lower side of the
under-carriage; width, slightly less than
the inner space between the wheels; length,
according to engine. Across the surface leave
channels into which the axles fit; also one
to clear the kingpin if necessary.
Wheel the engine over by placing planks
to run on. Ease the weight from the wheels
with a lever or jack. Withdraw the planks
and lower to the foundation. Secure with
clamp bolts which have been set at suitable
points.
If the job is properly done a few minutes
will suffice to set or remove the engine, and
the time previously occupied in levelling and
lining at each shift will be saved.
An alternative to concrete is a strong
timber frame on well-set stumps.
CARRYING CAPACITY OF GRASS
LAND.
“Booraby”: This depends, not on the
quantity of the grass, but on its quality.
Of the hundreds of native grasses about two-
thirds are fair to excellent, the latter hav-
ing quick-fattening qualities; the rest are
poor to worthless.
Many a time when travelling with horses
and cattle we have turned them on
to beautiful-looking patches to graze, and they
have left them for pastures that looked com-
paratively lean. In some instances the
horses were repeatedly put back on the
abundant feed, but they wouldn’t stop there.
All travellers have known the long morning
walk after horses at some of their camps,
whilst at others the animals stopped close
about all night. Those who studied the
mokes’ likes and dislikes seldom had any
trouble. Again, in most b ; g paddocks there
are places.where the grass is cropped to the
ground, and others where it is left to grow
thick and high.
An experienced grazier looks at the dif-
ferent kinds of grass and herbage, notices
which is the most abundant and the most
resistant to dry conditions, and assesses the
carrying capacity of the land by their food
value and lasting qualities. Some grasses
are very good and relished by cattle when
young, but afterwards are only eaten as a
last resort; others are good and fattening
in all stages of growth, even when grey and
dry. Where these lasting grasses grow
widely, with intervals of succulent herbage, is
rich grazing country.
A good knowledge of the various grasses
is essential to everybody who takes up small
lots of grazing land, or is in quest of such.
With judicious selection, according to the
feed value of the prevailing fodder, a small
block will carry a man a long way in bad
times when others on larger areas are experi-
encing trouble and loss.
THE BRIDLE-BREAKER.
“Bad Australian”: According to my ex-
perience, once a horse has acquired the habit
of bridle-breaking no subsequent treatment
will make him dependable. The habit is
mainly due to the breaker neglecting to put
the young ’un through the various stages of
his training in their proper sequence.
The very first thing a colt should be
taught is to lead. If that is properly done
he will give no trouble through pulling back,
whether led or tied up—a length of bagging-
twine will hold him. I hate the method of
roping a colt and immediately hitching him
to a post with a halter, or with a rope tied
around his neck, and “shoo-ing” him with
a soogee bag and profane language, until
he knocks half the skin off his head and
knees before he “comes up it,” or dislocates
his neck if he doesn’t. It is plain barbarity,
and after such treatment he not infrequently
develops the bridle-breaking habit. Moreover,
the practice of tying a horse in any position
where he can get his forelegs over the rope
or bridle is dangerous, as many a thought-
less horseman has learned to his cost.
The safest way to tie a horse is with the
rope on a level with his withers, allowing
him just sufficient slack for comfort. If it
is desired that the colt should stand when
the reins are thrown on the ground, let him
stand in a small yard for an hour or two,
with the reins trailing, on each day of his
first week’s training.
After a course of this treatment he will
do anything to avoid the sharp jag caused
by stepping on the loose ends, and will
rarely move from the spot where he is left.
LATE FROSTS.
“Deejay”: The County of Cumberland
(N.S.W.) has been visited by late frosts.
Certain local vignerons and market-gardeners
of my acquaintance were prepared for them
and benefited accordingly. Their methods
are worth describing for the information of
other districts subject to these crop-ruining
visitations.
The rank weed growth of autumn is cut
and placed in small stacks round the vine-
yard or garden. Every available inch of spare
ground is sown with oats, rye and barley, the
hay being kept for fires for frosty mornings.
When the frost danger is over grass and
rubbish are burnt or used as a mulch, if not
required for the original purpose. At inter-
vals of 20 feet, fires are laid with plenty of
dry brush and covered with' bags. When the
glass falls low enough to warrant lighting,
there is no waste of time.
On one particular farm there are four men.
One goes round lighting the heaps; the
others feed the fires from the grass stacks, or
from the hay if needed. To induce greater
smoke green brush from an adjoining paddock
is used. If the danger is severe, a line is
run down the centre of the plantation—about
25 acres. A few tins of crude kerosene oil
are kept handy, and quick smoke fires can be
made at any point that the barrage is not
covering. The farm is in a corner of two
lines of hills to the south-east; this allows
the maximum time before tlie sun gets over
the ridges.
For two hours the other morning the
whole family worked at the double and
had a smoke screen that looked like a
scene in Flanders. From a quarter of a
mile away you could not distinguish anything ;
but their measures saved a bumper crop of
grapes as well as early beans, tomatoes and
melons—a year’s work, in short. For six
years they had made all preparations, but had
never before been forced to use them. Near-
by farmers lost heavily.
WHY NOT ASPARAGUS?
“Bar K.”: The duty on imported tinned
asparagus should stimulate the planting of
further areas of this increasingly popular
vegetable. Although it takes three or
four years to get a crop, a bed of asparagus
may outlive the farmer who plants it. One
bed in the Goulburn district which has not
had continuous treatment is over 50 years
old. Two important points may be empha-
sised. One is the necessity for heavy mulch-
ing and manuring, except in the richest
soils, such as alluvial flats. The other is
that the grower must not keep cutting the
shoots too long in the cutting season, which
in the case of an established bed will be
about 10 weeks.
Asparagus can be grown on almost any
loamy soil of moderate depth—stiff clay and
stony ground are unsuitable. If the soil is
not fairly loose and friable it should be sub-
soiled to a depth of 18 inches. For field crops
it will be best to grow on the flat instead
of in raised beds, so that horse machinery,
may be employed in cultivation. Seed is
sown in prepared beds in the spring, in drills
two feet apart, and tlie plants are thinned
out to one every two or three inches.
It is advisable to soak the seed in warm
water before planting, and cover with soil
to a depth of one inch. The seedlings should
be kept clean and well worked, and planted
out in the following spring, only tall, strong,
succulent plants being used. The best method
of planting out in the field is to run out
drills four feet apart both ways, and plant
at the intersection of the drills, keeping the
crowns up and spreading the roots out natur-
ally ; cover the crown of the plants with
three inches of soil. The young plants
must be kept clean and well worked right
through the summer till the tops die down ;
then they should be cut off and burnt.
If farmyard manure is available, it should
be heavily applied in the winter. Failing
this, spent tanbark will make an excellent
mulch. Artificial manures can be applied in
the spring. The plants should not be allowed
to seed. Seedlings are one of the greatest
troubles in the bed. The seed heads should
be cut off in the autumn and burnt before
the seed ripens. Growth must be forced to
obtain succulent quick-growing shoots; farm-
yard manure will greatly assist in this.
Cutting for market should not commence
until the fourth spring. Throughout the
cutting season the small as well as the mar-
ketable shoots should be removed. Cutting
should be carried out daily so that the leaf
buds will not have a chance to open; the
method of cutting varies according to what
class of asparagus is required. If blanched
asparagus, the shoots are cut at a depth of
eight or nine inches below the surface of
the ground as soon as the tips appear; if
green asparagus, the shoots are allowed to
run up six or seven inches above ground, and
are then cut two or three inches below the
surface. Another method is to cut the shoots
four inches below ground, when four inches
high.
Bunches must be graded, and be eight or
nine inches in length, and weigh about two
pounds. After cutting, they should be rinsed
clean, and if kept over night should be stood
end up on some wet clean straw or bags.
There is no fortune in the business, but a
bed of any size up to an acre, properly
handled, will return good profits for years.
INCREASING THE POTATO YIELD.
“Go Do”: During his travels abroad “S.
Quire” (B. 10/9/’3O) picked up a lot of
points about potato-growing, but some of
them are totally unsuited to Australian
conditions. Undoubtedly many of our growers
could' improve on their present methods,
particularly as regards cultivation and rota-
tion. Long winter fallows would sweeten
the soil, and, if correctly cultivated, conserve
the winter rains besides reducing weed
growth. But the use of the hand hoe as prac-
tised abroad would be too costly an opera-
tion in Australia. With careful fallowing
and cultivation it is unnecessary.
The fertiliser mixture applied by the Scot-
tish farmer mentioned would cost about
£9 18s. an acre in N. S. Wales. This, with
working expenses and so forth, would do
away with profit in nine years out of ten.
My experience is that, on well prepared land,
2krwt. of super, per acre will give the most
profitable results. The effect of potash on
the germ of the seed or nitrogen on the
general growth is of no importance if yield
or profit is not increased.
While agreeing that as many varieties as
possible should be tested under field condi-
tions, I contend that farmers should be con-
tent with one or two. As with all crops, the
growing of many varieties results in mixing
and general depreciation of types. I plump
for an early and a late or main-season
variety. Carmen has been out of cultivation
in the main potato districts of N. S. Wales
and been replaced by Factor. This variety,
given correct methods of selection and im-
provement, should suffice for a long time.
“Sports” should be carefully examined and
tested for any improvement on the original
variety.
FOR MALLEE FARMERS.
“Notwen” : French beans are scarce in the
Mai lee and are a profitable crop. They are
regarded as difficult to grow, but you can
make a success of them by following the
methods to be described.
Dig the ground and dress with lime. Make
a trench about six inches deep. At next
irrigation or after a shower of rain plant
seeds which have been soaked in water for
about half an hour. Follow the usual Mallee
method and cover with a sack to conserve
moisture till the seeds are up. As they
grow, fill in the trench.
The trench method prevents wind, the
greatest enemy of beans, from uprooting them,
and also catches all available moisture.
Don’t plant in soil that is too rich; it
makes them run to leaf. Waste water from
the house will keep the plants going fairly
well during a dry spell. A hole should be
made about two feet from the plants, and
water poured in; then fill in the hole. The
climbing varieties are easier to grow, but
mature later.
CONFLUENT PIT.
“Firestick”: A nightmare of the apple-
grower in New England (N.S.W.) is con-
fluent pit. The. disease shows itself in various
ways by a discoloration about the core, by
a brown flecking of the flesh, and Sometimes
by a crinkling of the skin. The market
quality of the fruit is lowered if not
destroyed. A peculiarity of pit is that you
never find it in neglected orchards. Up to
the present it has defied all attempts at con-
trol.
It is held by some that the thing is due to
the use of poison sprays; by others (and
these are in the majority) that it is due to
disturbance of the sap flow when the young
tree is grafted. The most desirable types of
apples, such as Granny Smith, are most
severely affected, and these are difficult to
propagate without grafting.
Pit is apparently most prevalent upon the
lighter and less-fertile soils. It does not
appear on the rich red or chocolate basalts.
So Northern Tableland growers would be
well advised to confine commercial plantings
to potato soils.
GEESE ARE PROFITABLE.
“Jack Point”: The decline in popularity
of geese is traceable mainly to the improve-
ment in, and the increasing appreciation of,
the muscovy duck; nevertheless there is a lot
to be said in favor of the goose.
Any decent-sized farm will support a flock
of geese, the cost of feeding and care being
trifling. Given a good range, they will take
care of themselves. Adult geese are un-
affected by extremes of weather. Goslings,
however, need close attention for the first
couple of weeks. After that time they
require the same feed and care as chickens
until they are about 10 weeks old; they are
then fully feathered and can fend for them-
selves. The eggs should be hatched either by
hens or in incubators, Mother Goose not
being recommended for this job.
In other countries geese are regularly
“picked”—that is, partially plucked. Except
in winter a goose will yield a good picking
of feathers every six weeks, and there is a
good market for feathers. No cruelty is
involved —the feathers come out very easily
and grow again, quickly. If you don’t “pick”
them they will fall out anyway and go to
waste.
By topping-off, geese can easily be brought
to over 201 b. weight, but this practice is
not recommended except for special market
requirements. Under present Australian
marketing conditions, choice topped-off table
poultry are liable to be sold in huddled-up
crates alongside of emaciated culls. The man
who can deliver a high-quality article should
have no difficulty in obtaining encouraging
prices from hotels and restaurants, and
extra-good cheques at Christmas and Easter.
(Continued on page 25.)


WHY IMPORT?
1
gHH
sill* M
Finish is Olive Green, and where office
furnishings are to be matched, true grain
Maple, Oak and the other wood finishes
can be supplied.
“OLYMPIC”
STEEL VERTICAL FILING CABINETS
Write us about your requirements; there is no
obligation.
FORSTER’S BEDSTEADS, LTD.,
Mary Ann Street, Ultimo, Sydney. ’Phone: M 4247.
Here is an All-Australian
Steel Filing Cabinet
—equal in quality to any imported
Cabinet and only half the cost.
ou need not look further than the
Australian-made “Olympic” when
you require a steel filihg cabinet. In this
handsome unit of the “Olympic” line you
will find every quality to meet your require-
ments—permanent rigidity and great
strength in all parts—beauty of finish and—
In addition to these essential features,
“Olympic” vertical cabinets can be fitted
with a patent automatic locking device and
steel filing rods—they can be made to
any specification and in letter or foolscap
size drawers as desired. A fireproof com-
partment in lieu of a top drawer can also
be installed.
We are specialists in steel furniture and
can quote you for work to any specifi-
cation. We will show you how to save
money with steel furniture, from desks to
card cabinets.
1— Fire resistance through closely fitting
parts and welded joints.
2 Compartments which glide smoothly
and silently on ball-bearing extensions.
The greater the load the better they run.
3 Handles are of attractive cast brass,
and Index Card Frames are large
enough for all needs.
V
IjSKff;
■
’ ♦ • Sp
■
Manufacturers of all kinds of wood and metal
furniture since 1859 —the largest plant of its
kind in the Southern Hemisphere.
FARM
WIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM
*
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
ACCOUNTS
PRICE SIXPENCE.


i
%
</
//
i
h
i
v
0/
\\
M
mm
n
i
■
s
N
\'
3*ffi
1
A
v
m
m
■
I
HIP
1
II
Ever new
in the pleasure they impart-
the old favourite
in the scarlet and gold packet
SWE (XPRESS
TO/" 9-
CIGARETTES
20^16


mi
fgtSjll
v 7/ 7
Twofold service
Longer wear is guaranteed by the
double thickness of the sole in this
Abbey Boot. The strongest obtain-
able leather is used. And, the upper
is arched on a special Abbey last so
that it fits the natural curve of the
instep. There’s no tightness. . . .the
boot laces closely without straining
the foot.
Abbey Boots are noted for their close,
easy fit at ankle. As will be seen, the
upper slopes a little to the back—
guaranteeing comfort and neatness.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 197
CHANDLER
RINGLOCK FENCING
D- & W. Chandler, Ltd., pioneered the
manufacture of Ringlock Fencing in
Australia, and their CHANDLER
RINGLOCK FENCING is now recog-
nised as the strongest on the market.
All the wire used in CHANDLER RINGLOCK
FENCING has been specially selected for
quality, strength and heayy galvanising, thus
providing material for extraordinary resistance
to weather, stock, etc.
The whole . fence —5, 6 or 8 lines —can be
erected at once. Think what a saving this is
in labor, time and money.
CHANDLER RINGLOCK FENCING is made in
two weights. In Regular Fencing the top and
bottom wires are 10-gauge and the other
laterals, droppers and ringlock knots are of
12-gauge galvanised wire. Special Heavy
CHANDLER FENCING is made from 10-gauge
galvanised wire throughout.
STYLE RLS is an ideal sheep or farm fence.
The droppers are 12in. apart. Five lines spaced
from the bottom, 5,6, 7 and 8 inches to a
height of 26in.
PRICES:
Regular Fencing, 6/- per chain for
5-chain roll, or £2O/17/6 per mile.
Special Heavy Fencing, 6/9 per chain
for 5-chain rolls, or £23/5/- per mile.
(Prices quoted are for cash with order.)
For particulars of the five other styles of
fencing, send for free ilhistrated catalogue.
Manufactured at their Fence and Gate
Factory, Greeves Street, Fitzroy, by
234-238 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
~wa
L\a
,«c e
M° uV GROW/
You owe it to yourself to collect the
interest that is your due.
Form that most profitable of all habits—
the bank habit —by making regular deposits
in the Primary Producers Bank, where
interest is paid on all monies .
Have a Bank Account —Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD,
Heed Office: 12 Martin Place, Svdney.
Branches througnout the
Commonwealth and at London.
MARCH
FEBRUAffV
JANUARY
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
The Boys’ Model Shop,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
KEYSTONE
HOME MOVIES
Using standard size film as used in
Picture Shows. They will project
good pictures from 4ft. wide in the
average size room.
No. 154—T0 plug into electric-light
socket, with feeding and take-up
sprockets. Spools to take about
300 ft. film £7/10/6
No. 147—Slightly smaller, £5/19/6
No. 691 A low-priced but satisfac-
tory model 55/-
No. 5 77—‘-A Country Model, for
homes where no electricity is avail-
able. Using dry cells or car bat-
tery 39/6
No. 1 96 —Another dry-cell model—
-69/6
We can supply cheap used Film.
THE RADIOPTICAN
Picture Projecting Lantern for elec-
tric light. Projects snapshots, draw-
ings, cuttings of jokes from illustrated
papers, postcards, etc. Very suit-
able for lectures. No slides needed.
Write for full particulars.
87/6 and 50/-
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Wliat is the best part of N. S. Wales
for crossbred lamb-raising, taking into con-
sideration the fattening qualities of the coun-
try and vicinity to rails and township? (2)
Capital required to start in a small way ? —
8756.
(1) A large area of the Western Slopes
is very suitable for fat-lamb raising, par-
ticularly Cowra, Canowindra, Gootamundra,
Wagga, Gundagai and Parkes districts.- (2)
Prices of land run from £8 to £l2 per acre.
It would not be advisable to undertake fat-
lamb raising only, but to combine it with
mixed farming, especially wheat-growing. A
fairly large area is required to ensure a good
return; from 600 to 800 acres would be
needed. Apart from the money invested in
the land, it would be necessary to have about
£lOOO for machinery, horses, etc., and
£5OO to £6OO for breeding ewes. Living ex-
penses would also have to be provided for to
cover the first year. Usually it is possible
to arrange for the purchase of land on terms,
but probably a deposit of about £lOOO would
be required.
Four young fellows have been working on
their father's cane-farm and he is about to
sell out. (1) Can they claim wages for the
whole period? (2) Otherwise, can they
claim contract rates, as they felled scrub,
burnt off, logged up, planted cane, cleared
tveeds, and grubbed land ready for the
plough ? —8545.
(1) If they are all over the age of 21 they
could claim under the Queensland Wages
Act. They are not subject to the Arbitra-
tion Act, as sons working for a parent are
not employees within the meaning of that
Act. (2) They cannot claim contract rates
unless a specific contract was entered into
prior to the work being performed.
I am rearing 60 dairy poddies, four to
seven months, on a small lucerne farm
fronting a river (N.S.W.). This year there is
an enormous growth of grass — prairie, barley
and Wimmera rye. The calves are doing well
but are not putting on condition. (1) What
supplementary ration could be given to fatten
them for market? (2) Any books on the
subject? —9l7o.
(1) Try equal quantities of corn and
crushed oats, giving l|lb. to 21b. per day
per calf. Lucerne hay should also be fed
to assist in counteracting the laxative action
of the young grass. (2) “Feeds and Feed-
ing,” by Henry and Morrison, from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney, 19s.
I propose going to the Northern Territory
within two or three hundred miles of Wynd-
ham, to take up cattle country, if any is to
be had. (1) What is the best means of get-
ting there? (2) Could the journey be made
in a Ford truck? (3) Docs the Government
assist settlers? (4) Is any assistance given
to prospecters for g01d? —9169.
(1) You can go by steamer from Sydney
to Darwin, rail from Darwin to Katherine
and thence overland. The mailman from
Katherine to the Victoria River district
may be able to arrange transport. (2) The
district can be reached by motor through
Camooweal (Q.), across the Barltiy Table-
land. The track across the table-
land is suitable for motoring, but the Vic-
toria River district is rough. (3) No. (4)
Assistance may be granted to approved pros-
pecting parties. Application should be made
to the Dept, of H’ome Affairs, Canberra.
(1) Where and what is the Barlcly Table-
land? (2) Does it include the Barcoo coun-
try or watershed? —9133.
(1) Begins west of Cloncurry in n.-w.
Queensland, and runs far into the Northern
Territory. It is an extensive plateau some
2000 ft. above sea-level, and is regarded as
excellent pastoral country; sub-artesian
water. (2) No; the Barcoo country is far
to the s.-e.
(1) What is the name of the pumpkin
grown in Q’land that is so much superior
to others? (2) Where are seeds procurable
and price? (3) When to plant? —B93s.
(1) Beaudesert. (2) T. 11. Wood, George-
street, Brisbane; Bs. per lb. (3) Under
Q’land conditions the seed may be planted
at any time during the spring or early sum-
mer months, according to weather conditions.
(1) Most suitable land for citrus culture?
(2) Most suitable lemon variety for quality
and cropping? (3) Time taken by trees, from
planting, to reach full bearing? (4) Books
on subject? —B6l6.
(1) A deep rich loam on a porous sub-
soil. It must also be thoroughly well shel-
tered and free from late spring frosts. (2)
Eureka and Lisbon for both purposes. (3)
Cropping commences when the trees are
quite young and increases for eight to ten
years. (4) “Citrus Fruits and Their Cul-
ture,” and “Citrus .Fruits.”
(1) Climate and' soil necessary to grow
liquorice root? (2) Could, a profitable crop
be grown in Q’land? (3) Where could I
obtain roots? (4) Amount imported at
present ? —-9012.
. (D A very temperate climate and a deep
rich sandy loam, thoroughly drained. (2)
No; a colder climate is required. (3) No com-
mercial sources of supply Possibly the
Botanic Gardens at Sydney or Melbourne
could supply some. (4) Liquorice imports
for 1928-29: root, 16,3391 b. (valued at
£634) ; crude, paste, block juice, 614,7241 b.
(£24,838) ; other liquorice, 66,3161 b. (£3923).
(1) Where can I buy a few guinea-fowls?
(2) How many hens to each male bird?
(3) Price?— B996.
(1) Bonaventure Poultry Farm, Mt.
Druitt (N.S.W.), may be able to supply.
(2) Two. (3) 7s. 6d. to £1 each for mated
birds.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Orel”: Fumigating gets young rabbits
in the burrows, but in partly-improved coun-
try traps, properly used, have their advant-
ages over the fumigator. Set as many as
you can manage at the burrows, working
in a face across the paddock, and leave traps
at the same place for a week. The last two
or three days you may only get a rabbit to
20 traps, but those are the ones you want.
Move traps on to a fresh line and get to
work on the burrows with a pick. Give the
opened-up burrows another go in a few
months. You will have to starve the second,
lot out.
“Goomarin”: If a fan belt breaks, why
pay 30s. for a new one? Take an old piece
of canvas from a harvester elevator, double
it over and join with ordinary rivets. The
secret of a good job is to have the piece
twice as long as the ordinary belt length,
there being thus a double circle of material
to rivet. If there is not sufficient clearance
to let the four layers of belting pass, it is
an easy matter to cut off one layer or to
arrange the ends so that they come flush
with each other.
“Burracoppin”: The buckets from old
harvester conveyers make capital containers
for nails, screws and small bolts. They ran
be screwed to the sides of the boxes you use
for tools.
“Veracity”: Hitching to the ordinary
draught-bar supplied admits of the furrow
wheel of the sundercut burying itself just
when the opposite effect is desired. To
obviate this, get two iron bars 3ft. long by
2in. by fin. (Sunshine harvester draught-
bars are excellent), drill holes correspond-
ing along the length of them and bolt bars
together, with a piece of 4in. bv 2in. hard-
wood between them. Attach one end of this
to the present steering connection, and from
the other end run a chain back to the rear
hitch of the existing draw-bar. The tractor
can now be hitched on the extension at any
position, and the'sundercut will be controlled
equally well.
“Ooorparoo”: To brighten up a bush
house, take six quarts of thick lime white-
wash made of the best lime slacked in hot
water, and add a half-pint each of turpen-
tine and linseed oil, stirring it into the mix-
ture while it is hot. Stir slowly until it is
thick enough to put on with a wide brush.
For blue, a small quantity of Prussian blue
should be added to the mixture; for brown,
use burnt umber; for lavender, make a light
blue and tint slightly with vermilion.
“Pick”: When it is intended to shingle
the barn or cowshed, first cut a row of
shingles in halves. One lot will form the
underlap of the first tier at the guttering;
the other halves will come in for the over-
lap tier at the ridge-pole. All the tiers
will be an under- and overlap of half-shingles.
“Eureka” : “If there’s anything more use-
ful than a forked stick on a farm,” as Dad
said, “it’s two forked sticks.” A forked stick
with a few saplings nailed across it makes a
good slide for drawing wattle-bark or wood.
With a cask and wife you can use it for cart-
ing water from the dam. A lighter one
tied round a calf’s neck will stop it from
getting through wire fences. Forked sticks
prop up fences, leaning barns and clothes-
lines.
“Bung”: To banish aphis from potatoes
or cabbages, mix half a gallon of petrol with
four gallons of water, and finely spray the
vegetables after sundown. Next morning the
insects will have disappeared. But don’t
light a match or come near the beds with a
lamp in the meantime.
“Bullswool” : Always allow a setting duck
free access to water in which to have a dip
if she feels inclined. This is her way of
keeping clean, and also nature’s way of
supplying the moisture to the eggs. Duck
eggs-—having a much thicker shell and inner
Skin —-need much more moisture than hen
eggs.
“Bufforp”: When removing chicks or the
old birds to a new house, do the job when
dusk falls, and close them in that night.
They’ll go to roost without any trouble from
then on. Do the job in daylight and you’ll
spend half the night chasing thein to bed.
“Oyster”: If you want to catch a rooster
for Sunday’s dinner, get an old broom-handle
and five feet of fencing wire; fasten one
end of wire to end of stick and bend a
shepherd’s crook on other end of wire, small
enough to prevent the bird’s head slipping
through. A handful of wheat, and the rest
is easy.
“Stewart W.” : How about sweet-peas for
bringing in a bit of bunco? A farmer in our
Queensland district grew fine specimens for
the love of it. till an offer from a florist to
buy all the blooms and seed he could supply
turned the hobby into a profitable side-line.
His blooms fetch 6d. a dozen, and last season
his returns from a quarter-acre were £36
from blooms, £4O from seed and £5 in show-
prize money. Nothing wonderful, but decid-
edly useful.
“Bar K.”: The value of wind-breaks for
orchards and gardens is recognised; but what
about our pasture lands? Hot winds in
summer and bleak westerlies in winter do
nearly as much damage as droughts to
exposed grass lands and the stock thereon.
Dual-purpose hedges of saltbush of kurra-
jong will give protection. In many cases
it pays when clearing to leave belts of timber
along the hilltops.
“Homby”: The best wedges for axes or
other tools are old iron washers. When the
tools are placed in water to tighten the
handles the wood swells through the hole in
the centre of the washer and the handle
will never again become loose.
“Te Aroha”: If you want top prices for
your tomatoes, give a top-dressing of nitrate
of soda just before the fruit changes color.
It can be’applied in liquid form, a teaspoonful
to a gallon of water, or sprinkled round
the roots ; the liquid is preferable. This stimu-
lant increases the size of the fruit and
enhances the flavor.
“Bendee” : Mould on farm-cured bacon does
not injure the bacon or affect its palatability,
but it is apt to annoy the farmer’s wife. It.
can be rubbed off and the bacon thoroughly
dried, after which it may be rubbed over with
a cloth soaked in olive oil. This will keep
it clean for some time. The process, carried
out after smoking, will also help to prevent
the appearance of mould.
“E.H.M.”: N.S.W. farmers who intend to
shut up paspalum paddocks for seed should
remember that seed harvested in December is
inferior in quality to that harvested a month
later. To obtain an even crop of seed, cattle
should be kept on the paddocks to eat all grass
close to the ground by the middle of December;
they should then be shut out. With an
occasional thunderstorm, the seed paddocks
should be ready to harvest six weeks later.


Our Service Depatment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell’” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
By married couple, Q’land; man carpenter and
handyman, wife cook; job on station anywhere,
together.—9l76.
Well-educated, domesticated Scottish lady (Sydney),
wants position as companion help or governess. Refs
—9159.
Clerk (24), wants job anywhere; timber or produce
trade preferred. Refs. —9157.
Third-year art student (N.S.W.) wants position as
part-time teacher. Previous exp.-—9156.
To buy early Aus. books, literary mags, (before
1855) and early newspaper miniature editions,—
9137.
To buy or exchange books on early N. S. Wales
or old Sydney.—9l6s.
To buy Roth’s “Ethnological Studies,” and
Spencer and Gillen’s “Native Tribes of Central
Australia.”—9l66.
To buy Parts I and II “Science of Life,” by H.
G. Wells and Julian Huxley.—9l3B.
Whereabouts of James Langton, last heard of in
leoval and Obley district N. S. Wales ten years ago.
Replies to Miss M. Langton, 10 Riviera-street, Men-
tone (Vic.).
Exp. commercial traveller, building supplies, visit-
ing M.L. shortly, is willing to represent Australian
manufacturers.—9o l 9.
Information Sought.
_A lady in receipt of an invalid pension of
17s. 2d. per week is shortly to receive a, legacy
of £5OO. Will this mean the loss of her pen-
sion? She tcould rather retain the. pension
than take the legacy. Is any compromise
possible? —B737.
The pensions authorities state that accept-
ance. of the legacy will involve loss of the
pension, the legacy being in excess of £4OO.
Refusal of the legacy wouldn’t help, as the
refusal would disqualify the pensioner from
further assistance.
(1) At what did the N.S.W. Government
fix the price of wheat in 1920 for home con-
sumption, and achat did it rise to? f'2) What
was the top price of flour in 1920 f (3)
Did the Government fix the price of bread
that year? l —B7B2. •> , ' .
(1) Nine shillings per bushel, which was
the highest price realised that year. (2)
£l9 2s. 6d. per ton (in 1501 b. sacks) for
deliveries by millers. For sales by persons
other than millers 255. per ton should be
added. (3) Yes. On Jan. 5 at 5d., Feb. 2
at s|d., Feb. 9 at 6id., and in December at
6|d. per 21b. loaf, less Jd. per loaf for cash
over counter.
Where can I get a machine to crush and
separate the pulp from the skin and seed of
tomatoes, and is such a machine power- or
hand-driven? —8807.
A factory type of machine would probably
cost about £B5. Buzacott and Co. could
probably supply one. For small quantities,
sieves are used, whilst for larger quantities
a raisin-stemming machine has been used
with satisfactory results.
What is chamber music? —9o9S.
Concerted music suitable for performance
in an ordinary dwelling-room as opposed to
full orchestral, operatic or band composi-
tions. Especially applicable to concerted
pieces for not more than four stringed instru-
ments and a piano, and applied also to part
songs for a small number of voices.
(1) Where can I obtain chloride of mag-
nesia suitable for manufacture of flooring,
and what is the price for ton lots? (2)
Name of firm that tcould undertake to lay a
magnesia floor? —9152.
(1) Minerals, Ltd., 264 Botany-road,
Alexandria, Sydney, supply it at £l2 per
ton. (2) Same firm can put you in touch
with contractors.
(1) What arc the prospects of a young
man with several hundred pounds of making
good in either Netc Guinea or Fiji? (2)
Without mining experience what are the
prospects of gold-mining in New Guinea?
(3) Any other industry worth the candle in
New Guinea? (4) If I could get in touch
with an experienced New Guinea miner
would you advise going? (5) Is pineapple-
growing in Fiji profitable? (6) Any especi-
ally profitable industry you can recommend
in Pacific or New Guinea? —9185.
(1) In New Guinea very little at present;
Fiji promises better. Write Morris Hed-
strom, Ltd., 115 Pitt-street, Sydney. (2)
Small. With an experienced partner there
would be fair prospects there and in Papua.
(3) Not at present. (4) See answer to (2).
(5) Y T es. (6) None at present.
Our earth tennis court is inclined to have
a powdery surface. Best method of treat-
ment? Would tar or oil help ?■ —8969.
Constant watering and rolling will give
best results. To tar or oil the surface would
not prevent crumbling from immediately
underneath and would make it difficult to
water the court thoroughly. When watering,
soak the court and roll as soon as possible.
Top-dress with a more binding material than
is at present used.
(1) On the Ericcsson telephone there are
two terminals marked EB EB. What are
they for? (2) If for an extension electric
bell what type of bell is used? —5909.
(1) For connection to extension bell. (2)
Use a magneto-’phone bell having a resist-
ance of 1000 ohms.
(.1) Cost of 8-volt dynamo and small petrol
or steam-power unit required to charge 6-
volt wireless battery? (2) Would it be
practicable to use a small wind motor for
power purposes? —B9l6.
(1) Cost of dynamo £10; motor-cycle
engine £8: coupling £6; total about £25.
(2) Would be difficult in view of varying
force of wind. Suggest you purchase Siemens’s
LT salammoniac cells, which can be re-
charged at home with refills at very low c05t.1928-29 were valued at £124,685 and the
Obtainable from Siemens, Ltd., 257 Clarence-
street, Sydney.
(1) Who won the Commonwealth Govern-
ment scenario competition this near? (2)
If not yet announced, when will it he? (3)
Do all scenarios remain the property of the
Commonwealth Government? —8980.
(1) and (2) The Appeal Board expects
to make a recommendation in a few weeks.
(3) All will be returned to competitors.
How did the name “Bacchus Marsh” origi-
nate?—9oso.
Early in 1838 W. H. Bacchus, who had
been a captain in the British Army and
was a descendant of an old English family
dating back to 1322, accompanied by his
son, brought sheep from Tasmania and
settled on the creek there. He died there
in 1849, aged 67, and was buried in the
graveyard of Holy Trinity Church.
(1) During 1914 or 1915 did the Com-
mons relegate its war functions to a War
Ministry or something of the kind? (2)
What is the pronunciation of “Jemadar
sais” (groom)? —9oB4.
(1) At no time did the Commons relin-
quish its control of the nation. (2) Jem-a-
dar sice —the latter word being often spelt
“syce.” The meaning is head groom, not
groom only.
Are V.C. holders entitled to a pension?
If so, how much? —9074.
If not of commissioned rank, yes; £4O p.a.
(1) Any cattle stations in Pacific Islands?
(2) Whom to apply to for a job as stock-
man ? —9073.
(1) Many of the large plantations run
considerable numbers of cattle, and occa-
sionally advertise in Australia for stock-
men. (2) Write Burns, Philp and Co., and
Lever Bros., both Sydney.
Length of courses at Sydney Uni. in law,
agriculture and economics respectively? (2)
Approx, cost of each? —9085.
(1) Four years in each case. (2) Law
and economics, each £120; agriculture, £l4O.
I am the inventor of a betting system and
propose publishing it in a book. (1) Any
legal impediment? (2) Can I use an adopted
name? (3) Would such a name have to be
registered? (4) How can I copyright the
system? —9o33.
(1) No.. (2) Yes. (3) No. (4) Con-
sult the Yic. Registrar of Copyrights.
I am buying a house on terms. Since
making the agreement the vendor has died.
(1) Will I need to have a new agreement
with the executors of his estate? (2) If
the vendor has left no will, what procedure
will I have to take to safeguard my interest?
—9llO.
(1) No. The executors take the place of
the deceased. (2) You need take no action.
An administrator of the estate will be
appointed.
Chances and nature of employment by one
who has passed examination for Operator’s
Proficiency Certificate under the provisions
of the Radiotelegraph Convention of Wash-
ington?—B7l3.
Prospects of employment are not particu-
larly bright, especially on board ship and at
land stations. In both of these spheres appli-
cants are not in a favorable position unless
they have had considerable Australasian
experience and possess good references from
previous employers. On broadcasting stations
there is more opportunity at the moment.
Applicants for such positions should have
had experience.
(1) Where is Brunette Downs cattle
station? (2) What is the area in square
miles? (3) Approximate number of cattle
run each year? (4) Distance from nearest
market? (5) Best market? (6) Distance
from nearest shipping or trucking place? (7)
Would a fair horseman and bushman have
any chance of employment there? —B7o2.
(1) In North Australia on the Barkly
Tableland, about 160 miles from Camooweal
(Q.). (2) 4760 square miles. (3) About
40,000. (4) Nearest market is Townsville
meatworks, about 880 miles, but this is not
the best. (5) Brunette bullocks sometimes
are sold in Brisbane or Adelaide and make
better comparative prices than if sold at
Townsville. (6) Nearest trucking place,
Dajarra, about 400 miles. (7) As much
as anywhere else. The station belongs to
Gulf Cattle Co., Muswellbrook, N.S.W.
(1) Is a passport necessary for an Eng-
lish-born person to revisit England? (2) If
so, why? (3) On what grounds could a pass-
port be refused? (4) How does one apply
for a passport? (5) Could I hold a pass-
port for several months before I made appli-
cation for a ticket? —8673.
(1) Yes. (2) For one thing it makes it
difficult for people to get out of Australia if
they haven’t paid their taxes. (3) On any
grounds that the Minister issuing passports
may care to define. (4) Write to the Col-
lector of Customs, Sydney, and obtain a
form of application, which should be filled in
and returned. When applying for a form
state whether you are married or single and,
if married, whether your wife will accom-
pany you abroad. (5) The Regulations pro-
vide that a person must take personal deliv-
ery of his passport within 14 days prior
to the sailing of the vessel mentioned in his
application and, if required, must produce
his boat ticket for inspection.
(1) Could Quercus Suber, the bark of
which is used for making cork, be profitably
cultivated in Australia? (2) How much
cork do wc import annually and from where?
—8658.
(1) It grows well in the central districts
of N. S. Wales. It is largely cultivated in
Spain, Portugal, Southern France, Italy and
Algeria and is regarded as a remunerative
enterprise. (2) Cork imports for the year
principal countries of origin were Spain-
and Portugal.
(1) What is the white population of Suva
and Lautoka? (2) Are there any towns in
Fiji? (3) What are the fares to each port?
(4) Where can I procure book or leaflet
with photographs of towns? — : 8736.
(1) Not available. The white population
of the whole of Fiji is 3878. (2) Yes. Suva,
Levuka and Lautoka, and numerous small
villages. (3) Sydney to Lautoka, Ist class
£l7 10s.; Sydney to Suva, Ist class £l7 10s.,
2nd £l3, 3rd £lO. (4) Dalgety and Co.,
agents for the Fiji Government Tourist
Bureau in Sydney, may be able to oblige.
(1) Best material for speculum reflector
for 18 in, reflecting telescope? (2) What is
used for silvering the reflecting surface . of
the glass speculum? (3) Compositions, thick-
ness and price of glass? . (4) Could a double
convex object glass, Bin. diameter, be ground
byian amateur? -- (5) Diameter of eyepieces
and where can they be purchased? (6) Can
either or both of these objects be purchased
in Australia finished or in the rough? —8818.
(1) Glass. (2) A chemical deposit of
silver applied by the Brashear process. (3)
The glass discs can be of thick plate glass,
the thickness being about 1-6 to J the
diameter. Sydney scientific instrument
dealers have in stock a few specially cast
discs Sin. and 10in. diameter. (4) Only
after considerable experience of glass grind-
ing. A knowledge of theoretical optics as
well as a good deal of mathematics would
be required. Special Crown and flint glass
discs would have to be imported, costing
from £lO to £l2. (5) Eyepieces are standard
sizes and can be purchased at instrument
makers and some large optical firms from
255. to £2. Lenses only can be supplied for
making up, also casting and tubes. (6)
Not made here, but imported article readily
available.
(1) Would silver foxes live and breed
in New England (N.S.W.)? Is the summer
too hot? (2) Can live silver foxes be brought
into N.S.W.? (3) What price would a pair
of breeders cost in Canada, and expenses to
land them in N.S.W.? —8742.
(1) Yes, but the skin would be indifferent.
Almost certainly the summer would be too
hot. (2) It is unlikely that you would be
granted a permit to import any kind of fox.
(3) Anything up to £250, according to
species required.
(1) Why has Constantine never been con-
sidered as a Test player for England? If
he is not eligible, what is the difference be-
tween his status and Du-leepsinhji’s? (2)
What sized boots does 'Tate wear? —8874.
(1) Constantine had not qualified by two
years’ continuous residence. As a profes-
sional with the Nelson League Club he was
only in England during the summer, return-
ing to the West Indies with the English
winter. Duleepsinhji has resided regularly
in England, playing for Cambridge Uni. and
Sussex for some years, and is qualified under
the rules. (2) Elevens.
Seeing that the onset of symptoms of
cholera is about seven days and smallpox
18 days after infection, what precautions are
taken under our quarantine laws to super-
vise arrivals by aeroplane who may have con-
tracted either or other disease abroad? —
8576.
The present procedure, "which would be
revised in the event of regular commercial
cargo and passenger flights being organised,
is to enforce close inspection of all persons
on arrival, with inquiry into past health and
condition of ports of call during the voyage.
Should inspection and inquiry indicate that
no marked risk is attached to the procedure
they are then granted full pratique with the
proviso that any sickness arising within the
period of 18 days from the date of leaving
the last oversea, port or place must be
ported immediately to the nearest quarantine
officer. The Quarantine Act of the Common-
wealth was the first in the world to include
provisions controlling the quarantine super-
vision of traffic by air.
How to apply tar emulsion to an earth
floor?— 8741.
A simple method is to spread ashes (pre-
ferably clinker) to a depth of about 2£in.,
which should then be wetted and rolled (or
tamped) whilst damp. After the water has
partially dried out, and while the ashes
remain damp, the tar emulsion is poured into
the surface at the rate of about fgal. per
sq. yd. Then cover with fine gravel or
coarse sand. If necessary, a second appli-
cation may be applied about two weeks after
the first application at the rate of about
l-sth gal. per sq. yd. and the usual cover of
gravel or sand.
(1) What means are used to prepare lime-
stone for use as a fertiliser and in the build-
ing trade? (2) Can powdered limestone be
used instead of burnt limestone as a fer-
tiliser? (3) Conditions of industry and pros-
pects of small investor starting a lime
quarry? —BBo6.
(1) Lime carbonate is finely crushed for
application to land as agricultural lime, and
is burnt into quicklime for building trade.
(2) Limestone, either crushed or burnt, is
not a fertiliser; it is chiefly used to remedy
acid soils and improve texture of clayey
soils. (3) The industry is a struggling
one, and there is little hope for expansion.
If players in a football match in B.A.
come to blows, can a policeman intervene
and make arrests?— 9o79.
The S.A. Football League states that the
playing area during a game is not a place
to which the public has access, so that it is
not a public place within the meaning of
the S.A. Police Act, 1916. Therefore the
police have no power to apprehend persons
fighting on it.
A man who has resided in N. S. Wales
continuously for 30 years wishes to marry
his brother’s widow, who has resided in Vic-
toria, but is at present abroad, If the mar-
riage were performed in N. 8. Wales and
the parties decided to reside in Vic., would
the marriage be ■valid in Vic.? —9038.
No. The following enunciates the principle :
“Marriages entirely prohibited by English
law owing to their being within the pro-
hibited degrees will not be held valid because
the parties married in a country where such
marriages are permitted, for they arc con-
trary to our fundamental doctrines of
policy.”
(1) A car is owned by a married woman
in Vic. Her husband uses it in his
business and agrees to keep it in good
repair, as payment for .using. Is the wife
responsible or the' car claimable for a debt
for repairs authorised by the husband? (2)
Can household furniture in the wife’s name
be claimed on? (3) Can the husband’s weekly
wage, £3, be claimed on? (4) How would,
a creditor be best advised to proceed in the
circumstances? (5) What is the sequence
of court proceedings or summonses in such
a case? —-9088.
(1) The wife is not responsible unless she
constituted the husband her agent in the
matter, but the tradesman or mechanic has
a lien on the car, and can retain it unless
his account is paid. (2) Not if she is not
responsible for the debt. (3) If the hus-
band had an order made against him his
wages could be garnisheed, up to £2 p.w.
being exempt. (4 and 5) Under the Small
Debts, Act, if the order is not complied with
goods may be taken in execution.
(1) What is the scientific name of the
porcupine? (2) How is the young porcupine
brought into existence? —9o96.
(1) The echidna or native porcupine is
classified Tachyglossus aculeatus. (2) Dur-
ing winter or early spring the female pro-
duces, usually, one egg. This she carries in
a pouch in the lower part of her body until
the foetus hatches by thrusting its snout
through the soft eggshell.
(1) Under the Murray Waters Agreement
did Vic. obtain control of its side of the
Murray frontages? (2) Is a garden license
or other form of tenure obtainable, enabling
a person to reside temporarily thereon? —
SS3O.
(1) The frontages of the Murray River in
Vie. are controlled by the State Lands Dept.
(2) A permanent reserve for public pur-
poses along the left bank throughout was
gazetted in 1881; this prevents the granting
of garden or residence licenses. The only form
of tenure is for some purpose connected with
the river, such as a wharf, boathouse or
bathing-shed.
Information Supplied.
8468. —The saying “It is women like you
who make men like me like women like you,”
occurs in the last act of “Tangerine,” an
American comedy which was played in Syd-
ney in 1923. —“Tiny.”
Brief Answers.
E.G.P.: See “Aero News and Mechanics”
June-July. ' N.S.W. - Gliding Club will answer ques-
tions. ... J.T.F.: “Cape Argus,” “Cape Times” and
“East London Dispatch” (all 2d.), and Johannesburg
“Star,” 3d H.V.A.: Melb. agents are International
Harvester Co., 545 Bourke-street... .R.L.O’L.: If no
time , was stipulated for repayment . it is payable on
demand, unless there is • some custom of the trade
to the contrary.-.. .J.A.W.: You must change your
occupation immediately. There is no other way of
dealing with lead poisoning, and, the results of con-
tinuing may be disastrous.. . .Mrs. L.: Pyorrhea can
only ,be • checked by • proper dental treatment....
W!S.: From Council . for' . Scientific and Industrial
Research, Melbourne. .. .M.C.: They have gone into
liquidation... .D.M.A.: Neon Signs, Ltd., Ivembla
Buildings, Sydney... .D.S.C.: “Landscape Archi-
tecture” (quarterly, one dollar), Brookline, Mass.,
U. C.M.M.: The legacy is not subject to
income tax and should not be included in the
return. . . .S.C.R.: Write secretary, Institute of Land
Valuers, 11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .P.Q.R.:
James’s “Wireless Valve Transmitters” (125.) and
Ballantine’s “Radio Telephony for Amateurs” (11s.
6d.) ..A.C.T.: The return furnished should show
two sets of figures—the total income and deductions
applicable to N.S.W. and the Federal Capital Terri-
tory in the Federal column, and the actual income
and deductions applicable to N.S.W. only in the State
column... .A. 8.: It will be necessary to furnish'a
return showing total gross income on Page 1, and
all claimable deductions on Page 2. Interest on
borrowed money used in the business may be
claimed under Item 34....F.E.: Write Salvation
Army, ,140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .H.E.M.Ii, :
Try Mauri Bros, and Thomson, 61 York-street ; S.
G. Hopwood, 479 Elizabeth-street; and W. J. Hinds,
Willoughby-road, Willoughby—all Sydney... .R.S.C.:
Apply to the Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court,
Sydney. Inspection fee, 25.; cost of copy, depends
on length.... V.F.: A doctor may sue for fees under
the N.S.W. Small Debts Recovery Act N.S.: (1)
In proportion to the population, yes. (2) About
the same chance as in Sydney or perhaps less. (3)
The Hobart “Mercury,” obtainable through Gordon
and Goteh, Sydney. . . .W.C.S.: Nothing but suitable
glasses will correct your, short sight. See an
eye-specialist. . , .M.H.: Cause is unknown. No
scientific evidence of what is called “pre-natal influ-
ence”. .. .R.H.: (1) Wyalong or Barellan. (2) Gam
main or Coolamon. (3), Prospects are for an excellent
harvest.... T.W.: The employer’s action was correct,
.. . . M.R.8.: Paling and Co., 338 George-street,
Sydney.. . .W.M.: Not uncommon for a Jersey to yield
i 6 quarts of milk‘ per day, but it is considered a
very good yield.. . .P.P. : From Registrar-General’s
Department, Queen’s-square, Sydney, 2s. 6d. ....C.D.:
For a single-handed tennis court, 78ft. by 27ft.;
four-handed, 78ft. by 36ft. A further space of 12ft.
at each end and 6ft. at each side is desirable. ..-.
V. : The only way to grow thin is by diet
and exercise. Drugs are not recommended. Cut
out alcohol for a start... .T.T.: B’s proposed action
appears to be very arbitrary, but if he has that power
under the contract A has no remedy.... T. A.G.: The
“Aus. and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book"
contains a full list of papers accepting original
humorous drawings... .J.P.: Osman’s “Pigeon-keep-
ing for Amateurs” and “Pigeons for Pleasure and
Profit,” 2s. 6d. Rice and Cox’s “Squabs for Profit,”
Bs., from Dymocks... . W.C.M.: Jim McGarrigal won
the Botany Handicap on December 15, 1888. ... J.F.C.:
Andree Hayward did not write any such book. ...
G.L’E.: Gardner’s “Plumbing, Soldering and Braz-
ing,” Is. 6d.; “Tinplate Work,” 2s. 3d. ; Jones’s
“Soldering, Brazing and Welding," 2s. 3d., from
Dymocks J. J.F.: If you were employed by the
solicitor directly, and not informed by him that he
was acting as the agent of the co. and that you
must look to it for payment, sue him; otherwise
make a claim upon the co C.A.8.: Try Mori son
and Bearby, Carrington, Newcastle. Soluble salts of
copper in the ore water are injurious. .. .H.8.C.:
Building trade in M.L. is slack; the falling off in
the number of dwellings erected in the first seven
months of this year was 26 per cent, compared
with 1929... .C.C.: Sales tax is not payable on the
sale value of goods sold under a contract definitely
entered into prior to July 10, 1930, at definite
prices specified in the contract. The fact that the
goods were not delivered until a date subse-
quent to August 1 would not render them liable to
tax. .. .F.8.K.; (1) On a basis of 400 gal. milk
at Is., , a gross return of £2O per cow p.a. (2)
Fifteen or sixteen. (3)' Three acres per cow, with
handfeeding to supplement pastures... .W.P.: Quite
lawful... . (Many others mailed.)


I
amm
§1 >
#. Hi
SSlfi
lyr.:!'. i&m*****
mmm
m
n
l ■
l
\
■: <*•■■">
ma**
jy
«» *
m
582 feet long, with a beam of 83 feet
and displacement of 22,750 tons, the
“Malolo” —in speed, appointments and
service—ranks with any vessel on the
Seven Seas.
Now the MALOLO
99
ost luxurious of Pacific ships
offers you the trip you’ve often dreamed 0f...
A wide choice of rooms, either
single or en suite, with private or
connecting baths.
Sails from Sydney November 25th—your chance to
travel in unusual luxury to New Zealand, Suva, Pago
Pago, Honolulu — or to ENGLAND via AMERICA.
The “Malolo,” an ideal cruising ship, offers you a trip that is the
perfect combination of luxury, comfort and amusement.
Luxurious state-rooms; large, roomy decks and restful smoking room
mean solid comfort. In the spacious dining room you will enjoy the
finest cuisine—a varied menu to please everyone, tastefully prepared
—courteously served.
All deck sports, including clay pigeon shooting—a real swimming
pool—motion pictures (with the latest talking picture equipment)
a lively dance orchestra—gymnasium.
The “Malolo” carries complete hairdressing establishment—valet and
laundry service.
For further information and for rates enquire at or write to Dept. M 32,
MATSON TINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
’Phones: B 7981-3
The “Malolo’s ” dining room has
tables for two or three , or for a
congenial crowd.
m
D
6#
VF
Batteries of
Higher Principles
RADIO
BATTERIES
“Diamonds” are
Batteries with a
conscience—t hey
are not content to
give “just ordinary
service” 1 hey
have a high repu-
tation to maintain
—THEY MUST GIVE MORE! Every owner experiences
this extra service with Diamond Batteries.
The “Diamond” faultless construction makes possible and
provides this “EXTRA”—and how much it is—in POWER,
PURITY OF RECEPTION and LONG LIFE.
DIAMOND HEAVY DUTY “B” BATTERIES
lO- 45 Volt .. 20/- 60 Volt . 25/-
22£ Volt
There are Diamond Batteries for All Purposes
FRFF TO YOI I Specially illustrated Catalogue of Diamond Batteries and
Dry Cells, including Light Duty, Heavy Duty and Triple
Capacity “B” Batteries, “A” Dry Cells; Torch Units; “C” Batteries, Starter 6-volt
Batteries for Motor-boats, Tractors, Cars, etc.
ALWAYS ASK YOUR DEALER
FOR “DIAMONDS.'
Direct Factory Distributors: THE HENDON EdLGTRICAL- COMPANY
Ground Floor, “Whitehall,” Bank Place, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: F 4952.
N.S.W. Representatives:
REG. ROSE & COMPANY,
Kembla Building, Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Representatives:
J. B. CHANDLER & CO.,
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
W.A. Representatives:
CARLYLE & COMPANY,
Hay Street, PERTH.
W-McF.


CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney’s well-known Harbor Hotel
•. yv
•, . '-ii.
i
-s
]BQ rnjiiHßiriTßTn 000
m
m
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4b Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
sa*»
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. Geo
Irvine S’Stevenson’s St. George Co. Ltd. Dunedin, Nw Zealand.
n
n^r
rge
I*l
SMOKE-OH!
Australia’s difficulties have set politicians gener-
ally striving to find a way out.”
Except in N. S. Wales, where several
hundred are seeking a way in.
ft ft
“The whole Booth family have been strong sup-
porters of teetotalism.” —“War Cry.”
Not a drinking Booth amongst them !
ft ft
“Overdrafts are now almost unobtainable at the
banks.”
In fact, the man who tries to raise a
loan merely raises a laugh.
ft
“In Victorian days when a host asked you to
smoke he always gave you an old coat for the
purpose.”— “Argus.”
Many modern hosts adhere to the custom,
with the difference that they now have the
coat material rolled to look like cigars.
ft ft
“When searched, a screwdriver was found in his
pocket. Accused, who said he was unemployed,
reserved his defence.”
Accused’s defence is very plain.
Nothing could be more fair and square.
He’d tried to earn a screw in vain,
And hoped to find a loose screw there.
GREAT INSPIRATIONS.
Sir Isaac Newton’s discovery of the
principle of gravitation on seeing an apple
fall from a tree was parelleled almost simul-
taneously by»the epoch-making brain wave of
Sir Hector Inane. Sir Hector was the inter-
ested spectator of a row between two of his
neighbors. They were the joint owners of a
building which was on fire, and each wanted
to get into the office and secure the contents.
The discussion was at its height when their
property collapsed in ruins. That night Sir
SHE COULD BE SOMETHING IN THE SAME LINE.
HUBBY: “You can put on all the frills, you like, but they won’t make me forget that
I’m a self-made man!”
WIFTE: “Look, Johnny ; if you don’t hop it out of here I’ll be a self-made widow in a
minute.”
Hector gave the world his immortal essay
on “The Principles and Practices of Party
Government.”
ft ft
The mind of a maid, in discussion displayed,
Is as modern as next year’s Ford bonnet.
The reason is this, that the mind of a miss
Hardly ever has anything on it.
SPRING FASHIONS.
(By our Campaign Director.)
The forthcoming elections in N.S.W. will
be fought largely on the question of economy,
and it behoves every candidate to give his
toilette careful consideration.
Avoid any appearance of prosperity.
The ostentatious display of a new pair
of braces may cost you £SSO a year. DON’T
WEAR SUSPENDERS. It was the wide-
spread use of these devices that convinced
Sir Otto Niemeyer of our reckless extra-
vagance.
Working-class constituencies are best
approached in an old cap of the cloche type
and bust boots (N.B. —The car must be
left around the corner), -while bowyangs give
a chic touch. An odd coat and vest, sur-
mounted by an unwashed collar, provide an
effective finish to this ensemble, and help
to emphasise such quotations as “A man’s
a man for a’ that,” “There’s many a true
heart,” etc.
In country districts no more effective mode
can be chosen than dungarees, open blue
shirt and battered felt hat artlessly deco-
rated with a few grains of chaff.
The candidate who woos a civil service
constituency may safely don the kind of
clothes he wears to the pony races. If you
can produce an effect of emaciation by Turk-
ish baths, keeping off the drink for a week
or so, etc., etc., so much the better. BUT
DO NOT WEAR SPATS. They are abso-
lutely demode, and only serve to awaken
painful political memories.
In general let intellect be your guide.
Carry spare outfits and change between
meetings if your electorate is a mixed one.
Red ties and socks may be called for here;
rolled-gold alberts and 3d. cigars there.
In conclusion, make your wife wear her
oldest clothes —that is, if you are acknow-
ledging her existence in any way during
the election. It will be as well, perhaps, to
put her fur coat and pearls in the Mont de
Piete (Fr. for “up the spout”) until after
October 25. The money will be useful for
buying beer for honest working men.
Angus O’Cohen.
ft ft
FORECAST.
There is going to be trouble
When that North Shore Bridge is built.
The men ichose lives are double
Will be bowled out in their guilt.
Instead of welcome kisses
There will be a scornful grunt
When hubby tells his missus
He was “held up by the punt”l
“CAPABLE OF ANYTHING.”
“Laundry.—Man, 10 years’ experience, capable of
anything connected with laundry.”— “Herald.”
Being capable of anything connected with
a laundry is a highiy-skilled occupation, in-
volving as it dors the art which conceals art.
Its exponents, who only acquire proficiency
after years of training, fray so cleverly that
it seems the fault of the shirts and collars,
and they obliterate patterns in such a way
that if the garment’s owner is incensed he
can be informed that excessive perspiration on
his part was responsible. They run no risk
no matter how great a fuss is made, for the
management always assures the customer
that the damage was done by some mythical
unskilled employee who has been sacked. In
course of time they become so capable of any-
thing connected with a laundry that they
can name their own salaries, and always be
sure of a handsome Christmas present as well
from theirs gratefully the shirt and collar
manufacturers.
ft ft
“Joseph Nicholls was fined £1 and costs for
painting a goat.”— “News.”
Joseph naturally wanted a goat of many
colors.
ft ft
“ ‘lndiarubber-man’ is Proud Father.” — “Guardian.”
This would be the one with the bouncing
boy.
CRUELTY TO CARS.
Important Point Settled.
“At the Capertee Court of Petty Sessions, a man
who pleaded guilty to having set fire to and
destroyed a motor-car was fined £5 or 14 days’ im-
prisonment. Evidence was given that accused, having
trouble with the engine, disgustedly threw a lighted
match into the petrol tank.” — “S. M. Herald.”
.In the Court of Appeal before Justices
Wool (C.J.), Glumme and Poodlefluff.
Mr. Crooke, K.C., for the appellant, quoted
the case of Rabbit v. Blanketty-Blank Golf
Club, in which plaintiff, who had been ex-
AFTER THE CAPTURE.
MISS WADSER-KASSH: “Yes, but men are
different, and I shan’t always be as you
see me now. Old age will come
and”
THE VILLAIN: “Tut, tut, baby! Don’t be
foolish!”
polled for smashing his clubs after doing a
round of 187, was awarded damages against
the committee. On that occasion the Court
said: “Let us not go out of our way to
make new crimes, and so give learned coun-
sel an opportunity to say we are in our
dotage—or, as Judge Curlewis would put it,
dotty.” ( Sycophantic laughter, which was
immediately suppressed.)
The Secretary of the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Motor-cars in
the course of an impassioned address said
Mr. Crooke’s client had a bad record. The
neighbors had often heard his gears scream-
ing in agony. There had been complaints to
the police on the subject. He had left his
car without oil for long periods, and had
unmercifully starved it of grease. On one
occasion he had hit a post with it, which,
the speaker submitted, was morally equiva-
lent to hitting it with a post. As a result of
his treatment the car has become a wreck,
and only fit to be offered as one of the out-
standing bargains of the Used-car Market.
The Chief Justice said: “It is in the
public interest that as many motor-cars
as possible should be destroyed. One nearly
ran over me this morning. All this Court
has against the appellant—whose honest
hand I would like to wring in congratulation
for past services—is that he doesn’t seem
to have burned any motor-bikes, lorries or
’buses. But that may come later. If he
ever wants the loan of a match, well, he
knows where to come. The appeal is upheld
enthusiastically, with costs against the
R.S.P.C.M.”
10-2-4.
ft ft
“A fireproof match is the latest scientific inno-
vation. ’’—“Argus.”
Some mistake here. Japan has for years
been making matches that won’t light.
ft ft
“Blown to Pieces in Explosion.”
Hence the inscription on his tombstone:
“A Man of Many Parts.”
ft ft
FOR CASH AND CULTURE.
The present practice of taxing imported
films at so much per foot can be improved on.
My idea is to rate them on a graduated
scale :
Is. for each use of word “Yeah.”
ss. for “Okay, Baby.”
10s. for screen songs to Wurlitzer accom-
paniment.
£1 for Mother songs.
£5O for back-stage talkies.
£lOO for college talkies.
£2OO whenever heroine’s presence causes
hero to win football match.
Complete prohibition of A 1 Jolson.
Ric.
ft ft
“Mr. Crook said the board guaranteed the freshness
of each of the 3,600,000 eggs handled by it each
week.” — “Neivs.”
One of those rare cases in which Crook
eggs are genuine.
DOG-HATER’S PROBLEM.
Dear B., —Four years ago a dog invaded
my home and refused to be hunted away.
Next day a policeman came, asked if it be-
longed to me, and, upon being told it didn’t,
left, to return a few days later with a sum-
mons. I was fined 10s. and ss. costs for
having an unregistered dog on my premises.
The following year another dog made his
appearance. All else failing, I tin-kettled
him, and shortly afterwards got a summons
from the S.P.C.A. Fined £2 and costs.
Two years-ago another dog offered himself.
Profiting by my previous experiences, I
decided to register him. Hardly had I done
so than the owner turned up and charged
me with dog-stealing. With the aid of a
costly lawyer, I was discharged, being given
the benefit of the doubt by an obviously
suspicious Bench. Total cost, £22 4s. 6d.
Last year another dog transpired, so I
poisoned him. As I was disposing of the
‘remains ?he owner arrived and claimed
damages. It appeared that my victim was
a thoroughbred Sydney Silky Bull-Found-
land Pom., and virtually priceless. I squared
it for £5O.
I am worrying over what I had
better do about this year’s dog. Any
advice that you or your readers may tender
would be gratefully received. —Yours, etc.
Anti-dog.
* *
STUNG.
“Alas, alas!” he moaned. “Ah me
His suffering was sad to see.
“Alas, alas!” in grief he cried.
To comfort him I vainly tried.
“What brought you to this sorry pass?”
I asked. Said he, “A lass, a lass!”
ft- ft
Say what you like about pony-meetings,
most of the mugs who attend them are in
search of “morals.”
ft ft
THE PRO.
The young man who had just entered the
smoking-room of the club was in the morning
of life. A typical athlete, he radiated health
and good spirits; you would not have said
he had a care in the world. In a distant
corner a group of elderly men sat round a
table and watched him. One was Carp, the
Judge. “I know his family,” said Carp
reminiscently, “have known them all my
life.” A pause, and then : “He has lost his
amateur status.” There was a smile —was it
a sneer?—on the speaker’s grim face. His
companions riveted their eyes on the lad
who was now, with evident indifference to
what the world was saying about him, ring-
ing for a drink waiter. “Yes.” repeated
THE HIGH COST OF BEAUTY.
Fifi: “Well, I prefer riches to love. A kiss
may be sweet, but it isn’t worth any-
thing.”
PAUL: “My dear, it’s always worth its face
value.”
Carp, “ho has lost his amateur status. H'e
was called to the Bar in my court this
morning.”
* ft
NURSERY FINANCE.
Jack and Jill
Ran up a bill
In times of boom and borrow;
Now Jill and Jack
Have got the sack.
They'll get their bill to-morrow.


IO lo | ih a CAPSTAN
*****
m
*2%
m
r.
ssmss
*■ ;
M
m
S \ VV >S
\ S!v\
i\^»
s'SS'SJ
••• -^
V»x\\v
V\>>"
When the major fights a cigar-
ette, you can bet that 10 to 1 it’s
a Capstan. Most soldiers of all
ranks smoke Capstans, just as
most people of all classes smoke
this thirty-year-old favorite.
The unusual value of eleven
really satisfying cigarettes for
sixpence appeals to everybody.
That’s why ten people smoke
Capstans to every one person
who smokes some other kind
and there’s the reason why the
well known bet, "10 to 1 it’s
a Capstan,” is so safe.
Twenty-two for
one shilling, and ia
tins of fifty.
11
6
Oval heavy-weights
in tinsoftwenty-five
and fiftv*
CAPSTAN
Capstans are made by W D. & H. O. WIII9
at the Garden Factory, Raleigh Park, N.S.W#


The Pumps and
The Power
BILLABONG
Centrifugal Pump
A very powerful Pump constructed to lift
large quantities of Water for Irrigation
and other purposes.
Large Waterways are provided, and the
casing can be turned and the.suction and
discharge adjusted to any angle.
See our General Pump Catalogue for all
kinds of Pumps, Pumping Machinery and
Pump Accessories.
WALLABY
Petrol Engine
In Stationary and' Portable Types
A most reliable Power for Farm, Fac-
tory and Workshop. Simple in design
and easy to operate. Fuel consump-
tion half- to threequarter-pint per b.h.p.
per hour- Made in Australia in sizes
from Two to Ten Horsepower, and
guaranteed for one year. Full particu-
lars Post Free on Request.
BILLABONG
Piston Pump
The Billabong Double-acting
Piston Pump meets the de-
mand for a medium-priced
Power Pump. It combines
ample power and large capa-
city in most compact form.
There is perfect alignment of
bearing, and it is a very reli-
able pump for elevations up
to 175 feet
flnnntiiiiiit (Q,
I JOHN
ftlllllllHlllllllllll'
mniimmiiiiQ
&SONI
nminmiiimi!;
L.ro
p-r -
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
32 4-3 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
‘WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
GUNS AND AMMUNITION
Safe —Sure —Accurate
THE BOY who does his first shooting with a
Winchester .22 caliber rifle, will shoot a
Winchester ail his life. And he will always shootj
Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Guns.
Winchester Staynless Rim Fire Cartridges are
ideal ammunition for a small-bore rifle. They
will not rust or pit the bore. This saves you
the bother of constantly cleaning the barrel and
protects the shooting qualities of your gun.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
-v 2’f Always use Winchester Ammunition with
“*»??^|_ c hes£e r Arms they are made for each other. Jr v *
i
A
'Ar **••*/%**-* *y. a
.it l
"ti
- vCV
p '//
* AW
-£222^
w
yhBS
ss
s TA
; ■
g
That's kidney
trouble
f
■
>•
Invaluable in all cases of
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA
BACKACHE, LUMBAGO
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of Kidney
and Bladder Trouble
_ Start taking
De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills NOW.
Your day’s work will
be a pleasure and your
spare time pleasures
will be doubled. No
more sallow, spotted
complexions, no more
sleepless nights, no more
chronic pains in the
joints and muscles, no
more agonising stabs
in the back. Try just
one bottle of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder
Pills and prove this in
your own case. You
will never regret it.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of dreadful rheumatic pains,
chronic pain at night-time when trying to rest, if you find limbs and joints
swollen, knuckles becoming perhaps too hard to move —that is, if your blood
is being poisoned with excess of uric acid, this doctor-recommended remedy
will end your pain and suffering and bring back youthful vigour and vitality.
For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have proved infallible
in the relief of rheumatic conditions. They give instant relief, and theii
effect can be seen in 24 hours. This we guarantee.
RHEUMATISM
with its terribly agonising day and night pain will be a thing of the past.
Backache, sciatica, and all the sure signs of kidney trouble will be quickly
banished, never to return, if you will give this remedy a trial. A short
course with De Witt’s Pills, thousands of one-time sufferers will tell you.
will quickly rid your system of pain-giving poisons and make you splendidly
fit and well.
Remember, you purchase your supply of De Witt’s Pills on satisfaction
or money-back conditions. Every chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills at 3/6. Take two of the pills when you go to bed—in the
morning you will see and feel their wonderful effect. Persevere, and you
will end crippling pains for good. Do not let rheumatism make your life a
misery, get your supply of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills now. There
is no need to waste money on unknown preparations, dangerous and heart-
exciting drugs. Gro to your chemist and ask his personal opinion of DeWitt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills —the remedy with the prescription printed on the
box. He knows all the ingredients and can tell you they have been combined
specially for the purpose of driving from the body pain-giving poisons, and
to build up vigour, health and vitality.
A \\\i lilli/
u . . - _


a
I'.'*
&
raw
&
'W
*o*
Set out from Australia
early!
• • •
WIDER RANGE of European
attractions is available to the
traveller who leaves Australia in
November, December or January.
He is able then to see Ceylon and
Egypt under the best conditions; to
be present at the famous Swiss
Winter Sports and to visit the
French Riviera at the peak of the
season. Afterwards he can arrive
in time to enjoy the incomparable
beauties of the English Spring.
To know the full meaning of a
delightful voyage, travel by one
of the 20,000 - ton Orient Royal
Mail Liners! Great decks, well"
ventilated cabins, excellent cuisine,
prompt, efficient service combine to
make the experience an outstanding
memory.
Travel to Europe by
ORIENT LINE
Poverty
Point
“O. I J . Queue”: I doubt the educational
value of films, even in story form. Recently
a Sydney schoolmaster was flabbergasted to
read that Gladstone became Prime Minister
of England after George Arliss, and “The
Taming of the Shrew” was described by a
fifth-former as a “not very successful comedy
by Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks.”
“C. Ma”: Picture addicts who rolled up
to Melbourne Auditorium on a recent Satur-
day to survey the advertised attractions
were told that there was nothing doing, the
owners of the film having at the last moment
refused to issue the necessary celluloid.
Reason given was that the talkie apparatus,
which is Australian-made, had not been long
enough installed to warrant the firm sub-
mitting .its masterpieces for reproduction,
since nothing but the greatest degree of
technical perfection would do them justice.
No such solicitude for patrons was shown
when American machines were being un-
loaded from every steamer and set up a year
or so ago.
“Sceneshifter”: George Huntley, while
making up in a dressing-room at the Oxford
Theatre, heard a conceited member of the
troupe remark, as a curious thing, that
although it was nearly 20 years since he had
been at Oxford he had never lost its charac-,
teristic accent. Huntley at once" replied:
“Well, that certainly is damned curious, for
this is only a three-night stand.”
“Ilamfat” : Adam Lindsay Gordon, who is
to be the central figure of the first talkie
made in Australia by the Fox people, figured
in a previous home-made picture. Hugh
McCrae was the Gordon of that production,
and looked the part, too, except when he
mounted a horse.
“Prog”: The Columbia gramophone,people
have added Constant Lambert’s “The Rio
Grande,” a composition for chorus, orchestra
and piano, to their list. The piece, which
takes two two-part records to hold it, was
performed in London early this year, and
is credited with having created the musical
sensation of the season. Constant, son of
George, was born in London, and is still
under 26. He had a ballet produced when
he was 20 and another the following year.
The latest piece is played for the records
by the Halle orchestra, with Sir Hamilton
Harty in the piano-solo part and the com-
poser conducting the St. Michael’s Singers.
“Cine Ma”: The picture theatre has
appeared in a new role—as a promoter of
scientific research. “Southward Ho with
Mawson” has been such a success that on
its Australian run alone it is expected to
pay all the cost of the next voyage of the
Discovery, except that guaranteed by choco-
late-king Macßobertson.
“Cauboy”: Premier Hogan has promised
to lift some of the amusement tax off the
legitimate theatre while clapping a bit
extra on the movies; and the Firm is
publicly rejoicing. As one spokesman for
legit, pointed out, the flesh-’n’-blood stage
is a local industry, and as such is entitled
to protection like any other.. This rather
conflicts with the usual assertion that act-
ing is an art, but it has the merit of being
good propaganda.
“Cine Ma” : The talkies still have a pull.
On Show Day, which is a general holiday in
Vic., there was not much of a crowd at
Flemington, and the traffic to the beaches and
the hills was the same as on any working
day, though Clapp had put on special
trains. But there were queues at all the
picture theatres in town.
“Opus” : Fifty years ago last Sunday, Oct.
5, died Jacques Offenbach, grandmaster of the
French opera iouffe. He wasn’t a French-
man ; he was a German Jew, born in
Cologne, and, like the “Jazz Singer” of A 1
Jolson’s most awful talkie, the son of a
Cantor. The world of to-day knows him
only as the composer of the Barcarolle in
“Tales of Hoffmann,” but lie poured out a
stream of sprightly, lilting melodies. In
the ’seventies, when all the world was
sitting snugly in the rays of domestic virtue
that beamed from the Court of good Queen
Vic., it was considered quite devil-may-
careish to go to an Offenbach opera, but
Europe had then revelled in those slightly
naughty productions for 20 years. Offen
bach was not an inspired orchestrator. He
had a few simple recipes, and they served
his needs. It was the sparkle of his melo-
dies that made Rossini dub him “the Mozart
of the Champs Ely see” and moved Nietzsche
to say that “the Jews Heine and Offenbach
applied genius to the sphere of art.” Zola
was enchanted with the burlesque of Heaven
presented in “Orphee aux Enfers,” and Bis-
marck, the ex-Ivaiser and Czar Alexander
11. laughed uproariously over “La Grand
Duchesse,” which they saw in Paris in 1867.
It is a caricature of life in a little German
court. In the last period of his life Offen-
bach toured the U.S.A. with an orchestra,
and in that orchestra John Philip Sousa
played a violin. Sousa says that Jacques
was “exceedingly polite and good-natured,
and a great favorite with all of us.” He
adds, “I don’t think he would have approved
of the Eighteenth Amendment.”
“Cauboy”: Sundry Showman (B.
17/9/’3O) states that Sydney “has added
to its record the proud distinction of being
one of the few cities in the world in which
Beethoven’s ‘Hammerklavier’ sonata, op. 106,
has been performed in public.” Please
include Melbourne amongst the few. Besides
Backhaus, the local Edward Goll has played
it on several Occasions.
“Lord Luvus”: The threatened return in
1931 of the Gonsalez Grand Opera Co. re-
calls the circumstances in which that veteran
organisation came to Australia in 1928. The
Taits had no sooner announced that date
for the Melba season than one of the Fullers
was off on the wings of the mailboat
to Italy, where outfits like Gonsalez’s
can be picked up almost as easily as a pound
of spaghetti. The two cos. clashed in all
the principal cities, but the Fuller enter-
prise did no particular harm to the Firm’s
cashbox. The Gonsalez men were the last word
in conventional Italian operators, while the
choruses made up with unconscious humor
what they lacked in numbers. A star item
was the Hielan’ chorus in “Lucia,” appa-
rently garbed in Malay sarongs. Various
measures were taken to attract audiences,
including a special night in Melbourne for
Freemasons to witness “Norma,” the man-
agement having some dim notion that
Masonry is connected with the ancient
Druids. Nevertheless, the co. had two
ladies who would have shone even amongst
Nevin Tait’s collection of prima donnas.
One was the fair-haired, golden-voiced
Margherite Flor, of Denmark; the other
was the tall, stern brunette, Rosita Sylves-
ter. All the principals in the coming visita-
tion will be new.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: George Willoughby,
with the Lynton-Stewarts at Sydney Opera
House, was a partner with Edwin Geach in
a comedy co. that was an institution for
years. Geach took his money out to go into
pictures, which have made his fortune con-
siderable ; Willoughby kept to legit., and
still earns his crust on the boards in paunchy
paternal parts.
“Aix-Les-Coogee”: Jack Dunne, popped
into Cecil Kellaway’s part in “Follow
Through” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, at a
moment’s notice t’other night, has had
this sort of thing happen to him often.
Once he was suddenly called on to take the
villain’s place in a melodrama. The indis-
posed actor’s clothes fitted him all right, and
so did his silk hat, but when it came to the
moustache it was more than Dunne could
bear. He decided to go on without it. In
the wings he met a horrified stage manager.
“Mv God,” cried the latter, “No moustache!
Don’t you know you’re a ruddy bigamist ?”
The Palette
E. Kimpton, whose exhibitions used to be
as inspiring as so many five-finger exercises,
in his latest show at the Little Gallery, Mel-
bourne, has taken some more extended excur-
sions up and down the keyboard. H'is light
runs in the treble have an unusual delicacy,
his sombre bush scenes strike substantial
chords in the bass, and there is a real har-
mony about all his work.
S.A. Society of Arts’ show is one of the
best for years. It is dominated by four
Lamberts, including the big audacious self-
portrait (lent by Barr Smith) and the one
of his son (lent by Hans Heysen). Mel-
bourne has sent a small but good selection,
and Marjory Withers’s modelling girl took
the fancy of Adelaide Art Gallery. So did
a solid view of one of the city’s few romantic
ruins—this by James Ferries, a versatile and
steadily improving painter. Waden, Rowell
and Gwen Barringer have good landscapes,
and Jessamine Buxton impresses with a
vertebrae study that has, however, too much
Cumbrae Stewart about it. Portraits are
everywhere, in pursuit of the annual Mel-
rose award.
Ivor Plele, though still little more than a
youth, is back from a European visit, and
has his first one-man show at the Argonaut
Gallery in Adelaide. Power is the dominant
note. He revels in composition of figures,
nudity, Scriptural illustration and all the
things that the average young painter shies
away from. liele has thrown off the Norman
Lindsay influence that gripped him as a boy ;
now it is more like Brangwyn run wild. A
Japanese touch, too; but in the main an
overpowering originality. A self-portrait and
a powerful group of archers are perhaps the
pick of the show, but the best thing about
it is a sure promise of work to come that
will leave all this early stuff in the back-
ground.
“O. McKay M.”: Colin Colahan’s antique
caravan is trying to take the owner and
Percy Leason to Adelaide. The picture
market is bad in Melbourne, and Colalian
means to exhibit to the cultured over the
border. Leason goes along to gather evidence
in support of his theory about rock drawings.
He accounts for the stiff-legged, spread-
eagled look of the primitive animal-painters'
work by the thesis that they drew dead ani-
mals. He says the cave artist was a sort
of prehistoric Meldrumite —he drew what he
saw. When he saw a dead dinosaur from
his hole in the cliff, looking down, he would
get the full effect of the posture which rigor
mortis induces. Leason thinks his explana-
tion more likely than the symbolic one, and
Prof. Wood-Jones is much' interested. The
vulgar, of course, think rock drawings look
like that because the troglodytes couldn’t
draw.
The Inky Way
“Chizzy”: The M.L. Journalists’ Associa-
tion’s prize for the best-written story of
the year has been awarded to E. K. Green,
of the Christchurch “Star,” with E. C.
Powell, of the Dunedin “Star,” runner-up,
and E. G. Marris, of the Christchurch
“Times,” third. Last year’s winner was
Tahu Hole, now on a Melbourne daily.
“Hamer”: A recent cable mentioned that
Henry Lawson’s poems had been translated
into Norse, adding- that Norwegians felt a
cex-tain proprietary interest in Henry on
account of his descent. Lawson was certainly
half-Norwegian—his father was a sailor named
Larsen who went to the gold diggings ; but his
literary ability came from his mother, Loiiisa
Lawson, who was mainly Irish in extrac-
tion. Still, the “underlying note of Scandi-
navian melancholy” may have been inherited
from i is father.
“M.F.”: British newspaper owners lodged
a protest the other day against a habit per-
sisted in by certain Australian dailies of
reprinting slabs from their (the British
papers’) columns —sometimes with the phrase
“says the ‘Times,’ ” or what not, slipped fur-
tively in amongst the reading matter, but
oftener with no acknowledgment whatever.
As a result the offenders have taken to lift-
ing their fill-ups from American sources. I
counted six columns of American news-items
in a Sydney daily recently, and practically all
of them boosted American world-prestige,
valor and manufacturing supremacy as the
talkies do. The British can hardly expect
our papers to pinch nothing from America
but derogatory matter (very little of which
is published in the land of the Screaming
Eagle), so the disconcerting effect of
Britain’s insistence on her press rights is
to add to the ever-increasing Americanisa-
tion of Australia.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji,’ Samoa-
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all oCher usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ďgsgd
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
* * * * *
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
othc (Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S.
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906.
Address enquiries for Aerial Taxis and
Seats on all Queensland Services
SKY TRAVEL (AUST.) LTD.
Connections Arranged Anywhere.
Send for Descriptive Literature.
’Phone 81448. G.P.O. BOX 738.
WIRES: “NEVERSLEEP,” BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne. _
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
H/VWAI I
irihiiis
SIUNNIEIR
QEQ cn|\
NIAGARA
AORANGI
Hawaii. .Waikiki Beach, .picturesque
people. . festivals. . sunshine and palms
. . .Queen Island of the South Seas,
Hawaii draws visitors from every land.
Canadian Australasian
EXCURSIONS
Han>aii f Via siiuf Zealand and Suva.
Book with Union Steam Ship Company,
Sydney—Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane and Perth.
Sdilttig Nov. 13, Dec. 11, Jan. 8, Feb. 5.
1
re
I#
Sunny South Seas
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water —Sandy Beaches—T ropica!
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands—Quaint
Native Villages and Customs—Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE.
Read
“B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color.
1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
and
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
gd
00O‘O0.S‘£ ;f
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances'made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.LC.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: <7. R. DRYHZJRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other paits ot
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted. .
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart ParkerLyH'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Hollins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
CANADAS famous
MOUNTAIN RESORT
TN the heart of Canada’s
Rockies, midst mile - high
peaks, jade forests and singing
waterfalls, is famous Banff
buoyant air—every outdoor plea-
sure golf warm swimming
pool—riding—lovely roads—pal-
atial C.P.R. Hotel—smart people,
many social affairs. You’ll gain
new life at Banff. Stay at this
glorious alpine resort on your
gd
ďg
way to Europe.
Write for illustrated
booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street,
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Jfic Worlds Greatest travel System
The perfumed touch that
makes your toilet complete
Cnticura
TALCUM POWDER
THE finishing touch to the daintiest
toilet . . . Cooling, refreshing, and de-
lightfully perfumed and medicated, it
imparts to the person a delicate and dis-
tinctive fragrance and leaves the skin
sweet and wholesome.
Talcum ls.3d. Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Zbe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.


wMsiiss&m
pll
■ !
fife
Mi>?
I
Iftsstf
Iptfl
’^s-iiiSisitiS
a§
Si? ’ i V?»
s -4iMu«xWM
itiStisi
m
m
m
'BssS?*#
$ ' 7
ifiw
SSffi
jssi
L«s i
♦ ♦ ❖
Qreen Fodders
Early perhaps to talk of green fodders for summer
use, but not too early to remind farmers of the
great bulk of feed influenced by an application of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
Sulphate of Ammonia can be applied in combina-
tion with superphosphate in the proportions of
one of the former to two of the latter, or can be
used as a separate dressing at the rate of at least
1 cwt, per acre when the crop has made a little
headway. The result will mean more fodder and
a higher butter-fat yield per acre, particularly at
the present low price of Sulphate of Ammonia*
Literature and advice from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PTY. LTD.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
m
lo
Ue.
ito,
m
*r
O
s&c
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON N ECK OF EVERY BOTTIt
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vn
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
BOTTLED fcCUARANTEID
PURE BY THE FRENCH
COVERNM ENT
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen-
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CCLESTINS is the
NAME or THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
following statement defies contradiction {
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get {whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable co prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints/
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the vorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Gxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iV.S.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND 1 :
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Wanted.
WANTED TO BUY.
PNCYCLOPEDIA BBITANNICA. Late
edition. Reply P.O. Box 199, Bendigo.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
i
w
SCHUTE,
SELL& Clw.
if you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
U 1
QiAr
?
A Barber uses a blade razor for
shaving because it is the most
efficient for the work; why not fol-
low the example of one who knows?
THE PLUM RAZOR is the best value
ever offered ; it will shave you better,
quicker and cheaper than any safety
razor. If you must have a safety we
can supply a safety guard to fit the
PLUM for 2/9 which converts it to
a superior class safety, permitting
the correct diagonal shaving stroke,
no fresh blades to buy
THE PLUM RAZOR, sizes fin.-fin.,
in satin lined hinged case. Posted
12/6.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD fits
any blade razor sizes fin. to fin.
Posted 2/9.
Each razor set ready for use and
guaranteed and kept in order for
two years free of charge.
CRAK* AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
SHADOW SHOWS.
Ufa’s “The Lost Company-,” which was
pre-sliown in Sydney the other night, fore-
shadows the competition that British and
American talkies may soon have to expect
from Germany. The story is an episode of
the Franco-Prussian War. The captain and
13 survivors of a Prussian company which
has just come out of action are required to
hold a strong point—a mill surrounded by
marshes —while their division retreats. The
miller and his wife are sent to a place of
safety, but their daughter, who has fallen
in love with the captain, comes back and
dies with the others. Realism is the key-
note. The director divests war of the comic-
opera atmosphere which Hollywood and, to
a less extent, Elstree have given it, and
shows filthy apd unshaven soldiers and pea-
sant women in old slippers and shapeless
dresses. Another unusual feature of the
film is its perfectly-articulated English. The
voices are doubled, but it is only possible
to tell it by the light of reason. An advant-
age of the process is that a great actor, such
as Conrad Veidt, who plays the captain, may
be given a much better voice than he pos-
sesses. The climaxes are led up to with
Teuton deliberation, and the whole tempo is
slow, as in life. The photography is not
better than Hollywood’s best, but it i s as
good. The atmosphere is authentically Euro-
pean. This critic has never before seen a
Continental picture in which the interiors
and scenery didn’t suggest a British or
American origin.
* * *
In “Common Clay” (Fox), at Sydney
Plaza, the audience is asked to believe that
in the U.S.A. a girl can leave a lock-up, where
she has just been finger-printed as a dis-
orderly character, for a job as a millionaire’s
parlormaid. But once it is accepted that
servants’ references are not taken up by i
wealthy Americans, and that no previous
experience is required in the parlormaiding
profession, all the rest follows naturally, up
to a point.
■ When Constance Bennett appears at the
palatial home of Lewis Ayres’s father all
the Lotharios present try to make love to
her. And very good psychology, too. As
a frequenter of speakeasies it was her busi-
ness to arouse the baser passions of the
men she met, and that habit is only effaced
by the disfiguring hand of time. The drama
begins when the son of the house seduces
her and the baby arrives. A strong appeal
is made at first to the sex prejudice of the
females who predominate at pictures of this
description. The males are shown up as
selfish rakes, and the indictment is completed
by the disclosure that the lawyer opposed to
the ill-used mother is her father, and that
he once treated her mother as his client’s
son is treating her. In a passage which
boils with scorn of men she explains that
she would pollute her baby by accepting
favors from any of them. She has no wish
to marry her despicable betrayer. She hates
him, and his father, and her father. She
will prove herself worthy of her mother by
living her own life. Unfortunately the play
doesn’t finish there. In the interests of
a. happy ending the director makes her stul-
tify herself by consenting to marry the futile
young cad who has shown no real affection
for her at any stage of the proceedings.
Miss Bennett gives a brilliant study, all
insight and observation, of one of those
neurotics who are foredoomed to compli-
cate their lives by sex experiments. The "
other outstanding piece of acting is pro-
vided by the shady lawyer who appears for
her, but as there are no programmes at the
Plaza it is impossible to name him.
# * *
Union Theatres, Sydney, after a week of
popular talkie revivals—“ Paramount on
Parade” at the Haymarket, and “Splinters”
and “Atlantic” at the Lyceum—are now
experimenting with a silent. All the per-
formers in Paramount’s “The Silent
Enemy” at the Lyceum are Indians,
and they act like it. But displays
of emotion are not called for in this
film, which is primarily a nature study.
A series of interesting, and often beau-
tiful, pictures show the tribesmen catch-
ing fish and spearing bears and caribou
(note for animal-lovers: the victims are
dummies) while they plod through the snow’
in search of fresh hunting-grounds. Inside
10 years school children will probably be
learning all their geography from films like
this.
# # *
“Rough Romance” (Fox), which spent a
recent week at Sydney Regent, is a con-
ventional bellowdrama set in North-west
Canada. Antonio Moreno plays the black-
hearted scoundrel who murders a trapper and
blames the virtuous lumberjack, George
O’Brien. The equivalent of the elaborate
nineteenth-century catastrophe is a river
scene, done with far more realism, of course,
than any stage producer ever imagined.
Helen Chandler, in attempting to escape from
the vile attentions of Moreno, falls into a
log-strewn torrent. Then the villain falls
in, and is obliterated by a wall of timber,
while Mr. O’Brien rescues the lady and is
hailed as a maligned innocent by the sheriff.
Tlie acrobatics are wonderful, and the act-
ing is good in its unpretentious way. The
photography, as in most out-of-doors Fox
films, is superb.
# * *
“Tiger Rose,” which had a brief season
at Sydney State, is another talkie of North-
west Canada with a violent death, a pursuit
and some gorgeous scenic effects. Grant
Withers is the suspected murderer, and
sinuously alluring Lupe Velez loves him, and !
works with Rin-Tin-Tin (a descendant, pre-
sumably, of the hero of so many silents) to
save him. The chase, which’ is led by Monte
Blue, sergeant of police, is a varied affair
which features hidings in caves, giant trees
and a grandfather’s clock, and makes effee- :
five use of trap-doors and a tempest. The
culminating thrill is the escape of Withers
and Tiger Rose down roaring rapids with
the sergeant concealed in their canoe. Why
Withers bolted is not apparent. He was
responsible for the death of the loony local
doctor in the early part of the picture, but
then the medico had first tried to shoot him.
The acting is excellent throughout, particu-
larly H. B. Warner’s homicidal doctor who I
exhibits test-tubes and talks bacteria when
he learns that Withers is about to deface
his earthly paradise with a railway line.


NOW
FOR FIYE
A
1
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
CO., LTD., 197-207, CITY ROAD,
LONDON. ENG.
Ground, honed and finished in one com-
tinuous operation. Human error elimin-
ated by wonderful new machines. For
the first time! New shaped holes allow
17% extra weight—give “hollow-ground”
rigidity. Probak blades fit two-edged safety
razors. Sold everywhere at fixed prices
—l/9 per packet of 5, 3/6 per packet of 10.
• old-fashioned “wafer” blades
- •> .1 ; - ;
varied because made separately
variation impossible in
Probak blades*made from
continuous steel ribbon
PROBAK
BLADES
MANAGING AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA :
PHIPSON & CO., LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
#/#/
9/9/9**/9
«/e
//•9/&y 9/9/9/t/ts
79/9/9/9/9/9/9/*
\*9/9/9/9/9.*9/9/
'.*/e/*/9/9/9 / 9/9
Z9/9
9/a
9/9/9/e
9/9/
A*
/9Z959/9
9Z9/959/9/9/9
9/9/9
9At
9/9V9/9/9
595.9*9Z9/9/9'/9595959?1)
tt9/9/9/9/9/9/9 / 9/* /■%
€/
9/9
9/9/9/*
y/9/m/959/9
9/9*9
9/9
£9
~-<s
¥
\
The
original
cellular
underwear
THERE is a style made to suit YOU in the wide range of Aertex
garments. Whatever your personal preferences and whatever
size you take, Aertex will meet your need. Clad in the healthi-
est underwear in the world, recommended by doctors everywhere,
you are insulated from all extremes of temperature, and kept fit
and fresh throughout the year.
Aertex is made in Australia by Australians, and is stocked by leading
drapers throughout the Commonwealth. Look for the Aertex
trade-mark.
There is also a complete range of AERTEX for Women and Children.
CLOT h
*2*
iS
AERTEX
$«•
conoo*s
:«
Thij Label on all Garmcnf:
mmemm
Obtainable from all Mercei>, Drapers and Outfitters.
In case of difficulty apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO., LTD.,
Wenley House, 313-315 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, C.l
(Wholesale only).
Telegraphic Address: “Cellular, Melbourne.”
Painted with light!
In your next holiday , see
America’s unique buildings
The new Shell Building in
San Francisco, nearly 400 ft.
high, seen by flood light.
T2EAUTIFUL’ by day,
America’s sky-
scrapers are even more
beautiful when flood
lights silhouette them
against the night. Often
these lights are colored
and the buildings be-
come magic towers of
ruby and emerald and
amethyst.
In your next holiday, see
America! Your trip on
a fast Matson Liner
from Sydney to San
Francisco includes day-
light stops at Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii. Railway
travel in America is de-
lightful and moderate in
cost.
The Matson Line’s
new American Railways
Travel and Information
Bureau will plan you,
without charge, an
itinerary showing how
you can visit America’s
great cities and scenic
National Parks in your
holiday.
Write to Dept. M 22,
AMERICAN
RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION
RIJREAIJ
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.


Amusements,
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
** J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION:
THIS THING CALLED LOVE
(Commencing' Saturday).
T C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MR. CINDERS.
KING’S THEATRE:
LET US BE GAY.
OICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE FOLLIES OF 1930,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
W&W26.
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
TA-Z.
\s-^J
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association^:
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
BASIL RATHBONE and KAY JOHNSON in
THIS MAD WORLD.
ALSO
SUE CAROL and EL. BRENDEL in
THE GOLDEN CALF.
(Both Pictures Passed for General Exhibition.)
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
n
.
mm
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day ; double from 8/6.
All "meals optional.' Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing’bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Randwick racecourse has never looked
more beautiful than it did on Saturday, but
it has held many larger crowds. The fall
in tote receipts from £96,642 10s. on the first
day of the 1929 spring meeting to £61,040
ss. tells its own tale. But the racing was
high-class, and though few profited finan-
cially, except the bookmakers, those who
went for the fun of the thing enjoyed it
immensely. A greatly-improved feature, com-
pared with recent efforts, was the starting;
the credit is due to Mr. Gaxieu, from New-
castle, whose family has a long and honor-
able association with the N.S.W. turf.
The backing of the three-year-old Brazen-
face enabled admirers of John Buchan to
get 6 to 4 against Pat Osborne’s English-
bred horse for the Trial Stakes —a price they
hardly anticipated. Brazenface, who is
decidedly smart, was soon in front, and set
a scorching pace. He was several lengths
ahead at the entrance to the straight, but
John Buchan, who had been running second,
made up his ground quickly once they turned
for home and won, easing up, by a length
and a quarter from Brazenface, who beat the
third horse, Quick,firer, by four lengths.
John Buchan cut out the 10 furlongs in
2m in. 4sec. —a capital Metrop. trial.
Rosehill Guineas form, the subject of
much scornful writing, was borne out pretty
well in the Derby, except that Tregilla and
Balloon King, and Veilmond and Sunlover
changed places. Veilmond was favorite at
5 to 2, Balloon King, Sargon and The
Doctor’s Orders being at sevens. Bayacre
and Delwood were the pacemakers, and when
the field of 14 had traversed half the journey
there didn’t seem much chance for Veilmond
or Tregilla, so far back were they—Tregilla
had only a couple of horses behind him. But
he moved forward rapidly from the five-
furlongs post and was in front with two
furlongs to go. McCarten had meanwhile
brought Veilmond along, and the brown was
fighting it out with the chestnut, both well
clear of the bunch, a furlong from home.
Tregilla responded gamely when Bartle called
on him for another effort, and, finishing a
shade the better, won a very fine race by a
head in the good time of 2min. 33isec. Bal-
loon King, who was prominent all the way
but could not come on, was third, four
lengths away, just in front of Axinus, Sun-
lover, Salvador (who moved away slowly)
and Delwood. The Doctor’s Orders, who
failed to stay, and Mollison’s brother Cal-
mond were last.
The usual excuses were made for Veil-
mond. Moss, the owner, has an uncommonly
good press; in fact, the booming of this
gentleman and his horses has become ridi-
culous. Limond’s son certainly got into
difficulties once or twice, but Tregilla had
a rougher passage, and is clearly the superior
colt. He is so hardy and game and so obvi-
ously a stayer that he must be given a
Melbourne Cup chance. Bred in Queens-
land, as so many good horses are nowadays,
he is by imported Treclare out of Malt-
gilla—an excellent mare in her day—aud
was bought as a yearling for 175 guineas
by Tindall, now under suspension, who
passed the colt on to C. O. Battye. He Is
trained by Battye at Warwick Farm. Tens
could be obtained without difficulty; this
Page got 12 to 1 for its pound as they were
going to the post.
A run on Mollison was the feature of the
Epsom betting. Fourteen to one ten days
before, and tens during the week, the big
Seremond—Molly’s Robe bay was backed so
determinedly that he ousted Pentlious from
favoritism, going out at 7 to 2. Pentlious
was .at fives, Adrian’s March at eights and
Killarney at tens; there was little money
for anything else in the field of 22. Moli-
son jumped out well, and was leading when
they had gone a furlong. Holdfast then
rushed to the front with Mollison trailing
him, but they were on terms at the half-
mile post, three lengths ahead of Cleave,
who was followed by Ruffler, Credence and
Cathmar; the others were strung out. Hold-
fast was slightly in front as they sailed into
the straight. Mollison moved up alongside
him, and for the moment looked as if he
were coming away; but the effort was too
much for a horse not quite wound up, and
Holdfast shook him off. The Wedge gelding
was in turn tackled by Cathmar and Kil-
larney, and passed by Cathmar, though he
stoutly contested every inch. Cathmar won
by a neck, Killarney being half a length
behind Holdfast, with Waugoola, Cleave,
Mollison, Adrian’s March and Ruffler next.
The time was lmin. 37£sec.
Cathmar’s victory was extremely welcome
to the bagmen. His price was returned at
25 to 1, but his tote backers got £ll 17s. 6d.
for 10s. (22f to 1) in the paddock and
£8 18s. for ss. (just on 35 to 1) in the
leger reserve, though they divided only 60
per cent, of a pool from which 12£ per cent,
and fractions of sixpences are deducted as
commission. So 25 to 1 was a false price;
and it is a great pity the A.J.C. doesn’t use
its unoccupied building space for a straight-
out tote. Cathmar is owned by Hunter
White, the A.J.C. committeeman, but is
held on lease by Jack King, who trains him
at Rand wick; he was ridden with skill and
judgment by Ashley Reed, who got the mounl
owing to the scratching of Dominant. Cath-
mar is a mettlesome four-year-old bay stallion
by Tippler—Clair Obscure, built on sturdy
lines. The chances are that either Holdfast
or Mollison would have won with the other
away; but running races over again on
paper is an idle pastime.
Phar Lap proved in the Spring Stakes,
if proof were needed, that he is Nightmarch’s
master at any distance. He led the other son
of Night Raid every yard of 12 furlongs, run
in 2min. 33Jsec. and had an advantage of
half his own length at the finish, with Pike
sitting easily in the saddle, while Roy Reed
was hard at ivork on the luckiest Melbourne
Cup winner in history. Concentrate was an
unimpressive third and Dalston next. There
was practically no straightout betting, the
ring demanding 10 to 1; and tote punting
was mostly confined to ladies anxious for
the thrill of having a wager on Phar Lap.
The result was that each fair creature lost
6d. of every 10s. staked, the div. being 9s. 6d.
The first division of the Kensington Handi-
cap went to Citamon (7 to 1), from the
Northern Rivers; the second division to
King’s Arms (10 to 1), a Newcastle neddy
who has improved in appearance and
stamina. Second to King’s Arms was old
First Acre, who had defeated Cathmar at
Menangle, giving him 81b. This grandson of
Linacre has done a power of racing during
his long turf career —he is in his ninth
THE WHITE MAN’S BURDEN.
“What’s your handicap now?”
“Three kids and a time-payment car.”
year—but thrives on it and is better than
ever he was. He finished at a great bat
behind King’s Arms.
Eighteen faced the tapes for the Metrop.
The race was run at a fast bat, the time,
2min. 43sec., being half a second better than
Sir Andrew’s figures, which have stood since
1923. Cragford, well in evidence all through,
took command coming into the straight, and,
settling In the Shade and Jeypore with ease,
won like the racehorse he proved himself in
the Rosehill Cup. Alleged to have been
lame in the morning, he wasn’t lame m
the market or the race; he firmed from sixes
to fours and threes. Cragford was The
Bulletin’s first choice, while Jeypore was
selected as the most dangerous outsider. In
the Shade was quoted at 8 to 1 and Jeypore
at 25 to I—so1 —50 to 1 was laid on Saturday.
Cragford is owned in Victoria by J. P.
Arthur, and is trained by P. B. Quinlan; he
was ridden by Breasley. John Buchan was
a strong racecourse tip, but faded in the
straight after having been prominent before-
hand.
If Mollison starts in the --Craven Plate
he is likely to give Phar Lap a good race,
his Epsom failure notwithstanding. Or he
will take no end of beating for the Toorak
Handicap if reserved for Caulfield. Cathmar
is so well that he may win another race at
the meeting; and it may be the Suburban
Handicap. Fancies: —
Craven Plate; Phar Lap.
Suburban Handicap: Cathmar; next,
Adrian’s March or Spearman.
Members’ Handicap: Balloon King; next,
Sunlover.
Sydney Handicap: Jeypore; next, John
Buchan.
Chester Handicap: Greensea.
Clibborn Stakes: Brazenface.
* * * *
Ken Bracken succeeded in winning the
V.R.C. October Stakes on Amounis, and the
Magpie gelding thus atoned for failures in
the Memsie Stakes at Caulfield and the
Quality Handicap at Moonee Valley. Those
two races were captured by Wise Force,
and the Flemington contest was regarded
as a match between him and the Sydney
hero. Slight odds had to be laid by sup-
porters of Amounis; Wise Force figured at
5 to 2. Spectators were staggered when Wise
Force beat only one horse home. Amounis
never was far back, and held charge at the
distance; but Bracken had to draw the whip
to shake off opposition from Rigadoon, whom
the old ’un vanquished nicely by a length.
Rigadoon is trained by Dave Price for E.
Manifold, a V.R.C. committeeman. Com-
pactly built, this Silverado colt promises to
play an important part in events at the Vic-
torian spring meetings.
Wise Force was “toey” before the race,
and behaved in alarming fashion on his way
to and at the post. Frank Dempsey had
trouble in keeping him on the course when
the barrier lifted, and the horse returned
to scale with bloodshot eyes, the pupils of
which were terribly distended. Jim Accola,
the trainer, sent for a veterinary surgeon,
who unhesitatingly pronounced the stallion
to be suffering from some alkaloid
poisoning. Several months ago Kambull was
doped at Moonee Valley, and just after-
wards an attempt was made to get at the
Grand National candidate Iventle. _ It .is
painfully clear that doping is rife in \ic-
toria; the difficulty is to suppress it..
Heroic 'gives every indication of proving
a success at the stud. The first of his
progeny are racing this season, and three
of them—St. Valour, Gordon’s Leap and
Gallantic —finished second in their respective
divisions of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes
at Flemington. St. Valour had a tight
tussle with Middle Watch (by The Night
Patrol), an undersized but neatly-built black
colt. Jack Holt regarded Gordon’s Leap as
being much farther advanced in condition
than his stable companion, Highbrae; but the
latter kept a straighter course and gained
the judge’s verdict by a length. Highbrae
belongs to Mrs. L. R. Buxton, who won the
Caulfield Cup.with High Syce; he resembles
that celebrity in color and shape, and, like
High Syce, is by Highland from a Syce mare.
The fillies’ section was run in one heat. Gal-
lantic (Heroic —Esther) lost to Cecil
Godby’s Legionnaire filly Sea Mistress by a
short head. Both Gordon’s Leap and Gal-
lantic belong to C. B. Kellow, who leased
Heroic to Herbert Thompson tor stud pur-
poses. Middle Watch, who made such a
brilliant debut, belongs to J. S. Feehan.
Another V.R.C. committeeman, J. A.
MacLeod, has a half-interest in the October
Stakes winner, Sandhurst, and L. K. S.
Mackinnon, the club chairman, gained third
honors in the October Stakes with Carradale,
who has done well in his Melbourne Cup
preparation and is expected to be a dangerous
antagonist of Phar Lap on the first Tuesday
in November. Thoroughly satisfied that
Phar Lap would have no difficulty in
accounting for his A.J.C. Spring Stakes
rivals, H. R. Telford paid a flying visit to
Melboui'ne to see some of his numerous
juveniles in action, but none distinguished
themselves.
Sent out at 5 to 2 for the V.R.C. Stand
Handicap, Glare gave a very disappointing
display. Judged on this form, he can have
very little chance at the approaching cam-
paign. It did not concern his backers much
that Glare began slowly, but the Maoriland-
bred gelding made up very little leeway and
was tenth only in a field of 19. Soulton
(second favorite) looked dangerous at the
straight entrance, but died on his run. The
places were filled by outsiders, Liquid Cry
(20 to 1), Sartaress (33 to 11 and Kenney
(12 to 1). Results in general were highly
satisfactory to McShortodds. •
* * * #
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Caulfield Stakes: Amounis: next, Black
Duchess.
Guineas: Rigadoon; next, The Doctor’s
Orders.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
In one of the most thrilling scraps seen
for a long time at Sydney Stadium, Aus-
tralian middleweight champion Jack Haines
was licked at last, the young Victorian
boxer Ambrose Palmer getting a decision
over him at the end of 15 rounds. Palmer’s
win was as convincing as it was unexpected ;
Haines was outfought and outboxed. He
inflicted a lot of punishment, but the young-
ster endured it without flinching. Clever in
defence, and with a splendid left hand, he
frequently nailed Haines in the early rounds,
taking many of the champion’s well-meant
punches cleverly on his gloves. The Ma
Stater went desperately for a k.o. in the
closing rounds, but to no purpose, Palmer
gaining an uncontested verdict. Each weighed
list. 611 b.
* * * *
Abe Coleman, who met Pat McGill at
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday, has one
idea of wrestling—that is, to butt the oppo-
sition anywhere between the ears and ankles.
Pat soon wearied of these tactics, and closed
the bullring with two straight falls, in the
third and fifth rounds respectively. Pat
was 15st. 61b., Abe 14st. 51b.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Vic. League final between Gee-
long and Collingwood attracted 42,495 spec-
tators and £1984 3s. 6d. Before the first
quarter was over it was apparent that the
’Woodmen were tired, while Geelong, marking
accurately and handling and passing cleverly,
shewed their best form. Only in goal-shoot-
ing were they faulty; but at half-time they
had 60 points to 23. Collingwood, stung by
the jeers of the fickle crowd, swung into their
stride, whipped on 3 goals and sundries, and
got within 18 points of the opposition. Then
they faded out, and Geelong went on stodgily
and laboriously, to win by 25 points—l 2
goals 18 behinds to Collingwood’s 9 goals
11 behinds. Few regretted the finish; it
was an uninspiring show without sparkle or
individual brilliance. The teams meet again
in the “grand final.” During this match
Gordon Coventry kicked his 709th goal in
League games, thus beating Dicky Lee’s
record of 708. Lee took 16 seasons to collect
his tally ; Coventry has been playing for nine.
k * * *
The football season in Adelaide lasted on
into warm weather, and had an interesting
finish. North, minor premiers, were badly
beaten by Sturt in a semi-final. Port just
got home from Norwood, and then won the
alleged final easily from Sturt. North,
after a fortnight’s rest, came back with
their right of challenge, and beat Port by
67 (9-13) to 63 (9-9).
* * * *
Western Suburbs won the belated final
of the N.S.W. Rugby League at Sydney
Sports Ground on Saturday, beating their
conquerors of the week before, St. George,
by 27 (7 tries and 3 goals) to 2 (a penalty
goal). The winners, who were much the
better side and played excellent football in
spite of the go-for-the-man _ tactics of their
opponents, have scored their first premier-
ship in the 23 years of their existence. Much
of their success is due to the work of their
coach and captain, the ex-international J.
Craig.
(Continued on next page.)


Gert:“Hadnt we better move
from here ?»
oert:"Ves *th\s side's been
COLLECTING DUCKS"
dg
- H -
&EI2T : w >Ne.u_ listen to the Foul.
LANGiUA>C,E -they're USING, ”
The Ins and Outs
“Aigburth”: One result of the Australian
Eleven’s tour of England may be the cut-
ting out of the Leeds ground at Headingley
as a Test-match arena. The area is small
compared with other leading grounds in
Yorkshire, such as Bramall Lane, and is
none the better for being used for football
in the winter. Wickets there have always
been troublesome after the first day. It
is worth while considering whether the
North Country grounds should not be cut
out altogether. Old Trafford is one of the
best in England, but the notorious Lanca-
shire weather has rendered many Tests
attempted there farcical. Certainly, a
ground in a big city is all-important from
a gate-money point of view, but there are
some, such as Edgbaston at Birmingham,
which can more than meet requirements. Joe
Darling’s side of 1902 played a match there,
as did M. A. Noble’s seven years later, but
after that Brummagem seems to have faded
out of the picture.
* * * *
“’Badian”: If we except Jack Marsh, of
N.S.W., and the one-time Queensland repre-
sentative Alec Henry, Australia of late
years has seen little of colored cricketers.
The West Indians will show us something
different, since, in the words of one of their
own journals, the side consists of players
varying in tint and running through the
gamut of “white, brown, copper and black.”
It is claimed to be first-class in all depart-
ments save slow bowling; W.I. cricket does
not seem to have produced the googly type
of bowler with which the rest of the cricket
world has been obsessed for years past. On
the other hand, the Buccaneers liave fast
bowlers of good quality to burn, and that
at a time when England and Australia alike
are short of that kind of material. The
side is fairly young, averaging 26 years.
The skipper, Grant, though untried, is a
member of an old Trinidad family and knows
his people well. That has not been the case
with one or two of the W.I. skippers of the
past, who have showed a tendency to differen-
tiate between the “Buccra Massa” and de
eullud gemmen.
* * * *
“C. 8.”; Passed over at 84 in Melbourne,
Thomas Testro, a famous under-arm
bowler of half a century ago. With the
assistance of another bowler he dismissed
Carlton for seven runs on one occasion, and
for 14 years headed the Sandridge bowling
averages. He had a trick of making the
ball slioot so low that for some time a con-
troversy raged around him, some darkly sug-
gesting that he used sandpaper for the pur-
pose of getting a better grip. Modern spin-
bowlers disdain such a subterfuge; they keep
powdered resin in their right- or left-hand
trouser pockets, as the case may be.
* % * * •
“Hotham”: Poor old John Ryder seems
to be iix the black books of the Board of
Cricket Control. He was nominated as one
of the five Australian selectors, but only the
Vic. delegates backed his ticket. He has
started the Victoria cricket season with a
characteristically spanking innings of 116 n.o.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The testimonial match to Jack
Ryder, which commences at Melbourne
Cricket Ground on November 14, should
draw a whacking gate if weather conditions
are kind. The game will give the public its
first chance of seeing the returned Australian
Eleven players in action, and this appeal will
be augmented by the personal popularity of
the King of Collingwood in Yarraville. This
was expressed keenly enough when Ryder
was dropped from the touring team, and the
feeling in his favor has increased since his
omission from the list of the Australian
selectors who will have the job of picking
the sides to meet the West Indians.
* $ $ $
“Spin”: That unpolished cricket diamond
Arthur Allsopp, who burst so splendiferously
on the Australian ci’icket world in his first
metropolitan season in Sydney last year that
he was sex-iously considered as an Australian
Eleven possibility, is already among the runs.
He lives in the MuiTumbidgee irrigation area,
and to time of writing this season had made
143 n.o. against Leeton, 213 against Narran-
dera and 75 against Griffith. The young man
needs a lot of polish yet, but there is no
doubt about his will to make runs against
the best of bowling. Like his fellow country-
man Bradman, he has supreme confidence in
himself, and will probably go far.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: England is taking the
loss of the cricket Tests very seriously.
“Plum” Warner, with his proverbial eye to
the main chance, has already rushed a book
through the press explaining the national
catastrophe. The tenor of his thesis seems
to be that some of those selected for Eng-
land were too old, while others were too
young—the fact that the opposition might
have been the stronger combination is
ignored. All the same, he has a good word
for some of the less advertised Australians,
McCabe’s batting and a’Beckett’s fielding
coming in for special commendation. Warner
has made a departure from precedent by
selecting an England Eleven, which is to be
coached for the next series. ’His pick is
Duleepsinhji, Hammond, Sutcliffe, Wyatt,
Leyland, Ames, Allom, Peebles, Robins, Allen
and Crawley, the last presumably the
Harrow, Cambridge and Worcestershire
amateur.
Racquet and Bawl
“Let”: The Australian tennis heads have
dropped £7OO over the disappointing tour of
the Davis Cup team. General expenses came
to £2667, and only £1956 or thereabouts was
taken in the plate. Jim Willard’s report as
manager, while communicating the above
melancholy information, adds that the South
Africans—four men and two women —who
are to tour M.L. this coming season
will figure in the Australian championships
in March on their way home. The report
notes that of the first 30 days the team spent
in Europe 28 were wet, Wimbledon and
Genoa being the only two tourneys blessed
with di-y weather. James is emphatic in his
opinion that the inclusion of a fourth man
on this occasion was a success, since it
enabled the side to make up a team and to
get full practice in doubles among them-
selves. Indeed, when Moon went out to it
after his accident at Paris, the extra man, to
whose inclusion so many wiseacres objected,
saved the situation.
* * * *
“Top Spin” : The move in favor of hold-
ing the Davis Cup touniey every two years
instead of annually is gaining supportei's.
Britain, America and South Africa are in
favor, and the same may be said of this
country. France, the cup-holder, may object,
since her expenses are small, and ti’emen-
dous gates have filled the local coffers since
the cup left America, while many other Euro-
pean competitors within easy distance of
the convincing ground may also protest, for
they get a lot of cheap excitement and
advertisement out of the preliminary ties.
It is another story for overseas players. For
them the contest means the best part of
six months devoted to tennis with the result-
ing absence fi’om business, in addition to
the heavy cost of the long journey and
i-eturn. Australians and South Africans are
particularly hard hit in this regard, since
both must go abroad for even the earlier
rounds.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: America takes more interest
in professional tennis than any other country,
and the annual championship meeting has
developed into a first-class function, drawing
big gates. This year’s meeting was held at
Forest Hills, and resulted in Vincent
Richards regaining the singles title from his
old rival, the Czecho-Slav Ivozeluh, who won
in 1928. Richards got home by 3 sets to 1,
volleying in telling fashion. Partnered with
Kinsey, Richards also took the doubles, the
pair beating Kozeluh and Najucli, a Ger-
man.
$ $ $ $
“Top Spin”: Wallis Myer’s annual rank-
ing list of the world’s best 10 playei'S
runs: Cochet, Tilden, Borotra, Doeg, Shields.
Allison, Lott, De Morpurgo, Boussus and
Austin. He says of Crawford and Ilopman
that they have “enviable stroke equipment
and ought to go much further,” which is
non-committal at least. The list will be taken
seriously by no one, the inclusion of a pro-
nounced second-rater like Boussus reducing
it to a farce. Morpurgo’s claims are also
very doubtful.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Fluffer”: Bobby Jones put the lid on
his golfing career when he lifted the Ameri-
can amateur championship the other day.
Not only has he achieved immortality by
being the first man to collect the four leading
golf championships of the world in one sea-
son, but he has outdistanced Hagen. Robert
is not yet 29, yet he has won 13 U.S. titles,
three British opens and one amateur, this
last this year. He has announced his retire-
ment from the strenuous game, intending to
seek relaxation earning a living at the law.
Writer suggests that if he can compile a
commentary on the rules of golf which will
enable anyone to understand them he is a
shot-bird for a millionaire in a few years.
* * * *
“Divot Diggei 1 ”: Not only did Bobby Jones
win renown unparalleled by capturing the
American amateur golf championship, but
his backers raked in 25,000 beautiful British
quids. A syndicate of admirers in his home
city of Atlanta asked Lloyd’s what it would
lay against Robert’s chance of winning the
four big golf titles in the one season. Lloyd’s
replied that the odds wei’e 50 to 1. Five
hundred was booked at this price, and since
the great London institution isn’t likely to
welsh, there should shortly be a lot of hila-
l-ious citizens marching through Georgia.
* sfc * *
“Derwent”: Not satisfied with taking the
State open from Jock Robertson, who had
just won the Australian open, Len Nettlefold
went on to collect the amateur label of the
Apple Isle from R. T. Brown, the former
title-holder. On his day and in the mood,
the young Tasmanian is one of the finest left-
handers playing, and one who has made a
creditable showing in his appearances at the
British and Continental championships.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian A.I.F.
Cup tourney drew golfers from all over the
State to Melbourne the other day, and for
those who didn’t come to golf there were
other attractions provided, not forgetting
a crown-and-anchor board. The Victorian
contest is, very properly, open to amateur or
professional, whereas in N.S.W. the persons
who openly earn a living by golf are de-
barred. The Victorians also admit all and
sundry who at one time or another
have “taken the shilling” in the Great War.
The victor turned up in H. Binder, who was
on the 18-llandicap line. His net score was
69 at the end of the first day’s play, and he
was tied by G. Trapp, who had a 20-stroke
start. In the play-off next day Binder won
by a stroke from Trapp, net scores reading
88-89. A. le Fevre, the Melbourne Club
professional, had the best card off scratch
with 77.
# $ * *
“Carnoustie”: I have been reading with
some interest the account of how the Duke
of York came out of the historic ceremony
of “playing himself in” as the newly-elected
captain of St. Andrews. The cable says
that H.R.11. did a beautiful shot of 200
yards; and I am wondering how he managed
it. The Prince of Wales got about 20 inches
in his attempt at St. Andra’s some years ago,
and, by all accounts, he is the better gowfer
of the two. The only game I know where a
potentate can make sure of a successful
debut is rifle-shooting. When the first shot
is fired the marker registers a bull’s eye, and
the recording angel wipes the lie off the
ledger without even wiping away a tear.
* * * *
“Hoylake” : Frank Eyre’s win in the Aus-
tralian open golf championship has been
made the occasion of several sermons by
press experts on the text that no man who
plays Rugby football can ever hope to excel
at the Royal and Antient game, Frank hav-
ing been in peril of playing for N.S.W. in
the amateur code. That is absurd, as our old
friend Euclid has said. As a matter of
fact, the list of first-rank golfers who have
been prominent in Rugby football is as long
as that of first-class cricketers who have
also taken to the tee. That none have got
into the ranks of the super-golfers may be
explained by the fact that most of these last
are professionals, who, naturally enough, do
not let any other game engage their atten-
tion.
❖ * % *
“A. and S.”: A fruitful source of romance
is the long drive in golf. Writer knows a dozen
men who claim to top 300 yards frequently
—when no one else is looking. That may
happen under exceptional circumstances now
and then, but, as a matter of fact, the man
who can get more than 200 yards off the tee
may fairly consider himself well up in tho
smiting class. Some years ago at Troon the
question was fairly tested, eleven of the lead-
ing amateurs and professionals competing
over a level fairway. An unheard-of profes-
sional in Curtis, of Bournemouth, won
with 278 yards 2ft. 6in. Amateur R. H.
Wethered, of St. Andrews, was second with
276 yards Bin. Yankee Walter Hagen’s best
was 270 yards Ift. Sin.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Another long-distance motor
record comes from the Montlhery speedway,
near Paris, where a Voisin car was driven
night and day for 416 hours, or nearly 18
days, covering 312,250 miles and averaging
75 m.p.h. Four drivers, headed by Marchand,
took turns at the wheel. Marchand was also
in charge of the team which put up the
world’s record for 24 hours on the same track
in 1927, likewise in a Voisin. The average
speed on that occasion was 113 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Bismallah”: In these days when people
change their cars as often as their shirts it
is interesting to hear of one motorist who
has remained faithful to his original love
for 30 years. This is Dr. Chorlian, a Gyppo
physician, of Alexandria, who bought a one-
cylinder number-one model Oldsmobile in
1900. On week days the car carried the
doctor to his patients, and on the Sabbath
gave the family an airing in the country.
Quite recently the medico concluded it time
the faithful contraption was turned out to
grass, and has replaced it with the latest six-
cylinder model of the same make. Not many
drivers can boast a similar experience.
* * * *
“Roller”: The Americans claim a world’s
record for a 24-hour motor-cycle spin,
two riders, taking turn about, covering 1301
miles on a dry lake bed in California
on a 750-c.c. machine; the figures for 32
hours are given as 675 miles. For years the
record has stood at 33141 miles, done by the
Victorian rider Harold Parsons as long ago
1920, his figures for the 12 hours being
579 miles. The ride was on a public road
and still stands as the world’s best in that
category for 24 hours. Alex. Finlay, also a
Victorian, rode 583 miles in 12 hours at
Phillip Island last season, that also stand-
ing as a record for the time on a road.
* * * *
“Sprocket” The Australian athlete bobs
up in all sorts of places. Two well-
known Australian dirt-track riders just
returned to Australia, the brothers, Sticpe-
wich, have been doing some riding in Spain,
where dirt-track motor-cycling is threatening
even the bull ring in popularity. Good
prizes are given by the promoters, and the
local talent is developing fast, helped by the
example of many Australian and English
speedsters. The pair also rode in England
with success, and prophesy some great exhi-
bitions when the British team visits Aus-
tralia this season.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: A fresh N.S.W. speed
record for a motor-cycle has just been put
up by the Sydney rider D. Bain on a
498-c.c. A.J.S. The attempt was made on a
Sydney road; the run was over a measured
quarter-mile with a flying start, the mean of
two runs, one in each direction, being taken.
The average worked out at 98.576 m.p.h.,
though this would have probably been
improved upon save for gusty winds. As it
was, the time in one direction was 108.171
m.p.h.
* * * *
“Crank” : Followers of cycling are watch-
ing the progress of the American professional
championships with interest, since several
Australians are well up on the points list
which decides the allotment of the titles.
Harris Horder, the only rider from this side
to have taken the American blue ribbon, the
sprint championship, is two points behind
the leader, an Italian named Martinetti. A
point ahead of him in second place is an-
other Australian, Cecil Walker, who has
several times been on the verge of winning
the title. Well down on the list is George
Dempsey, of N.S.W.
=i: * * *
“Kaikoura”: The Timaru-Christchurch
road-race, Maoriland’s cycling classic, is to
be extended this year by 30 miles, which will
bring the distance up to 142 miles. The
start will now be made from Waimate instead
of Timaru, but the old name is to be retained.
The addition is not likely to increase the
terrors of the stiff run, for the extra dis-
tance will be run over an excellently-paved
motor road. The change will set up new
records, that for the old distance being shr.
14min. 58sec. by P. O’Shea.
Miscellaneous
“C. Bumpkin”: The new year will see
the eyes of yachtsmen turning to Hobart.
With the exception of the Sayonara Cup, all
the big sailing fixtures will be held on Der-
went Water between Jan. 3 and Feb. 14.
There will be the Forster and Albert
Cup tussles for the 21ft. restricted
class, and a special local race for
16ft. skiffs will be revived. Every
State will be represented and good sport is
assured, for Hobart rivals Perth in the
quality of its sailing weather. Every after-
noon in summer a full mainsail breeze sets
in from the sea, and there is no finer sail-
ing ground than the Derwent.
# * ♦
“The Gaffer” : A fast run by a schoolboy is
reported from Perth, where Ray Simpson, of
the local High School, has been credited with
cutting out the 100 in 10 seconds dead. If
the track was on the level and there was
no helping wind, the sprint was a wonderful
one, for it is doubtful if there are three
runners in Australia who can record evens
under non-favoring circumstances.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Fred Lindrum had little
trouble in defeating the ex-South African
player Falkiner in his first match of the
season in London. The game is one of a
championship series promoted by W. A.
Camkin, and all the leading players are tak-
ing part save Willie Smith, who still main-
tains his policy of splendid isolation. One
of the conditions of the championship tourney
is that Fred gives all his opponents 7000
start. Even with this Falkiner could not
muster more than 19,523 in all when Lin-
drum had played out time with 28,799.
* * * *
“Third Base” : Australia will not see the
professional American baseballers this season,
the plans for a tour of Australia by the
New York Giants and the Chicago White
Socks having been cancelled. The excuse is
that matters were left too late to complete
arrangements, which sounds a bit thin, since
the idea was mooted over a year ago. How-
ever, Uncle Sam has announced that the visit
will be paid next year without doubt. Gate-
money considerations may. have had some-
thing to do with the decision to cry off. for
Uncle probably knows as much about the hard
times prevailing as we do on this side. Another
ticklish matter is the amateur status. Aus-
tralian baseballers will undoubtedly forfeit
this if they play matches against the visitors,
while a series of exhibition games between
the two sides gives no more promise of
profit than the same teams realised in their
1914 tour of the world, which took in two
or thi-ee Australian centres.


T 0...
LOS ANGELES
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
...over the delightful southern
route direct from ...
HONOLULU
ĝd
ALL the attrac-
tions that make
Southern California
one of the world’s
favorite playgrounds
spread themselves
immediately before
you when you enter
through the port of
Los Angeles!
Regular through pas-
sage fares can be ar-
ranged to Honolulu via
Canadian - Australasian
R. M. Line or Oceanic,
[Matson] Line, with a
stop-over of any length
you desire for a visit in
Hawaii...and then in a
LASSCO liner direct
from Honolulu to Los
Angeles over the de-
lightful southern route.
For full particulars ap-
ply at any steamship
ticket office or travel
agency, 0r...
7A-9
LASSCO
LOS ANGELES STEAMSHIP CO
HAROLD C. SLEIGH, Agent
55 Pitt Street . Sydney
A Booming Christmas is coming at
Broken Hill. All alterations of
wages are postponed. Traders are
getting ready for the rush of busi-
ness. Get your Christmas goods
into the Barrier Public’s eye through
“The Barrier Miner,” the people’s
daily newspaper for the past 42
years.
Miscellaneous
“Spinnaker”: The Sydney yacht clubs —
not to be confounded for a moment with the
much less swanky sailing clubs —open their
season on October 11 with the usual gas
and glitter, and finish in the last week in
March. The most interesting event on the
programme is the inter-State challenge race
for the Sayonara Cup, held at present by
N.S.W. The five races or less necessary to
decide this event will be sailed from January
20 to 29. Nothing is known as yet of the
Victorian challenger, which will have to
come to Sydney under her own canvas, but
thei-e are rumors of a new boat building to
take the place of the veterans which have
of late years been doing duty for Victoria.
* * * Sic
“Lift”: Preparations for the yacht race
from Melbourne to Maoriland are going for-
ward in Melbourne, where the challenger,
Oimara, is being prepared for the start on
Boxing Day. The Oimara has been fitted
with a Diesel engine in case of accident, but
otherwise the trip is to be done under sail.
Captain Symmonds, of Melbourne, who
bi-ought out the 45ft. yacht Seaweed from
England some years ago, has been chosen
as navigating officer, and a wireless operator
will also make the trip. So far only the
M.L. craft has accepted the challenge, though
Sydney is supposed to be considering an
entry. The list closes on October 31.
* * * *
. “Bias”: The Australian Bowling Council
is laying down a definite line to be fol-
lowed in regard to determining the standard
bowl. All bowls measuring within one thirty-
second of an inch of four inches and seven-
eighths may be passed as correct, pro-
vided they comply with the law in other
respects. At the same time it is recommended
that bowls be made slightly over the mini-
mum size to allow a margin in case of “sub-
sequent alterations.” There is much wisdom
m that last provision. A minimum bowl that
has been pared down by the official bowl-
tester to standard requirements and has
latei’ been “restored” by the owner to suit
his ideas, is likely to finish up the size—
and shape—of a mandarin orange.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: The everlasting ques-
tion of illegal bowls cropped up in Sydney
the other day, when an infuriated player
demanded the impounding of his opponent’s
woods. The protester had previously warned
the protestee that he would raise objections
if bowls alleged to be insufficiently stamped
were used. The other carried on, and was
carpeted accordingly. Throughout the game,
says a report on the subject,. "bad feeling
was manifested by members of the Blank
team,’ and these are alleged to have fre-
quently examined the bowls of the opposition,
a proceeding described as “most disconcert-
ing.” Writer has some experience of that
disconcerting curiosity in the A.I.F. on
occasions when the opposition in a game
of two-up insisted on examining his pennies
to see if they sported any “tails.”
* * * s|:
“Shell”: Australia’s unbeaten sculling
champion, Bill Beach, celebrated his 80th
birthday recently, and looks fit for another
80. In all, the ancient won seven matches
for the world’s title, beginning with his
sensational defeat of Canadian Eddie Hanlan
in 1884 on the Parramatta. Bill met Han-
lan. three times and won on each occasion,
besides taking on Jake Gaudaur and other
challengers at home and abroad. The world
outside Australia, including Hanlan himself,
refused to believe that the form in the first
match was true, but ended up in the sure
and certain conviction that it was.
❖ * * *
“Hotham”: South Australian crews do not
often figure at Henley-on-Yarra, but this
year E. Thomas, for long one of the famous
Murray Bridge crew, is bringing over a four
from Renmark for the Stewards’ Challenge
Cup. The quartette has been doing big
things in its own part of the world and won
the senior fours at the Mildura regatta of
two years ago.
* * * *
“Splash” : A noteworthy swim w r as put up
at Malta recently by one Arthur Rizzo, -who
kept going in the open sea for 68 hours 12
minutes. The previous best was an hour less
by a Bengali with the appropriate title of
Gosh, Swims of the kind are especially
favored by women, quite half a dozen, mostly
Americans, having topped the 50-hour mark.
Ability to keep afloat in this way is a far
better test of swimming capacity than the
short sprints and dashes which make up most
of the programmes staged for gate money.
* * * *
“Cut Out”: A feature of Queensland coun-
try life which has been increasing in popular
favor is the camp-draft “carnival,” a
counterpart of the rodeo with which
the flicks have made young Australia
of the cities familiar. This year’s cham-
pionship of the State was held at Esk,
the winner of the. title and the Lord
Memorial Cup being A. R. Atthow. Though
he had not competed for some years Atthow
lias seven successive wins to his credit. He
is one of a family of noted horsemen, and
one of his brothers tied with two others for
second place on this occasion.
* * * *
“Chicane”: The first international match
at contract bridge ended in an Ameri-
can four beating one from England
by 4845 points in 200 hands. Each four
played in separate rooms, the Americans
receiving the hands dealt to the British
players and vice versa, Both teams bid on
a system developed before the match, wffiile
bidding was standardised. The victory of the
Yankees is ascribed to their more informative
and exact bidding. Now a start has been
made on these lines, the principle may be
extended. The day may come when Charley
the Rook from Randwick Flat may achieve
a reputation in the Pick-tlie-Little-Lady
Tests which w r ill make that of Don Brad-
man seem but as a fading ember.
* * * *
“Joystick”: An aeroplane that sells at
£2OO has been evolved by an American firm.
It has a wingspread of 34ft. 4in., and a
fusilage length of 21ft. 6in. The weight is
5501 b., and a two-cylinder engine weighing
461 b. gives a speed of 60 m.p.li. With a
3-cyl. engine the ’plane will carry two persons.
It is called the American Eaglet, and is
made in Kansas. The factory has more
orders than it can fill in a year.
* * * *
“Batten”: A notable performance over
the hurdles was put up in Sweden when the
American Steve Anderson got over 120 metres
in 14 2-ssec. This equals Swedish Wenn-
strom’s world record established last year,
and also is equivalent to Canadian Eddie
Thomson’s figures for the 120 yards hurdles,
which have stood for 10 years. The best
British performance for the metre event over
3ft. 6in. sticks is 14 2-ssec. by Weightman
Smith, of South Africa, at the 1928 Amster-
dam Olympiad.
❖ * * *
_ “Nerang”: A possible Australian Olym-
pian is -R. Yates, a 17-year-old pupil at
Southport, one of the Queensland G.P.S.
institutions. At a recent meeting of
the Metropolitan Secondary Schools’ Asso-
ciation, Yates won the 100, 220 and 440
championships in 10 3-10 sec., 22sec. and
52 4-ssec. respectively. He has captured the
senior athletic cup of the school three
years in succession, rowed No. 2 in the boat
that was Head of the River in Brisbane
this year, and plays in the First XI and
First XV.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : Whether the proposed visit
of the American athletes to Australia will
eventuate (B. 24/9/’3O) depends upon
whether the American authorities will con-
sent to waive the fool-law of the Inter-
national Amateur Athletic Federation that
teams of touring amateur athletes must not
be absent from their homeland for more than
21 days at a stretch. The U.S.A. has made
one or two exceptions of late, as in the case
of Leo Lermond, but is showing increasing
disinclination to encourage such tours. Con-
sidering the struggle the Yankees are having
to fight thinly-veiled professionalism, they
are hardly to be blamed for their unwilling-
ness.
$ $ $ *
“Spike”: The Americans are wasting no
time in getting Los Angeles ready for the
next Olympiad. In addition to perfect
appointments in the way of stadia, swim-
ming pools, etc., for the games themselves,
a most elaborate scheme for housing all the
competitors in one village community is being
set in hand. Accommodation houses for each
team will have a separate kitchen and chef
to supply the tucker to which the competi-
tors are used —an important item, as our
own men found in Holland last time. The
idea is a big advance on the old notion of
letting every visiting side pig in anywhere
as it best could, and may make for an
increase in intei’national amity, which
has hitherto been conspicuous by its absence
from these meetings. On the other hand it
may breed an atmosphere of free-fight, on
the principle that familiarity breeds con-
tempt.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Susie Swattit”: The Australian women’s
hockey team left South Africa at the con-
clusion of the Empire Tournament, after
making a very good showing in the long list
of matches, though they had little luck in
the internationals* The side opens in Eng-
land at Winchester on October S against
the team which came to Australia
three years ago. The tour ends with a Test
against England in London at the end of
November, and in between the girls will
waddy their way through Scotland, Wales
and Ireland, with a flying tour of France,
Germany, Holland and Belgium added.
❖ ❖ J}«
“Ride Off”: An interesting criticism of
polo in England this season by Frank
Downer, a well-known South Australian polo
enthusiast, lias been published. Writing to
a friend he considers polo in England has
improved immensely since his last visit five
years ago, the goal-hitting being particu-
larly fine and generally superior to that of
the Ashtons. Those who recall the prowess
of the Goulburn brethren in this respect in
the Dudley Cup and other big tourneys will
realise that the Britons must be hot stuff
with the stick.
#
“Howss Dot?”: The British occupation of
the Rhine resulted, among other things, in
the Germans taking enthusiastically to
cricket after watching matches between the
troops. As many as ISO teams, army and
civilian, entered for the “Cologne Post” Cup,
played for shortly before the evacuation of
the British forces, and it is believed that the
game is planted for good in Deutschland.
Curiously enough, a team representing Ger-
many once played France. This was at
Hamburg in 1865, France winning by 6
wickets. The match was part of a grand
ci’icket week in •which an English team met
and defeated 17 of Europe. An endeavor was
made to get an Australian team to tour Ger-
many on one occasion—and that was in
1913!
* ❖ * *
“Kaikoura”: Roger Gould, who died
recently at Rotheram, in the North Canter-
bury district of M.L., was a notable per-
former in two very wfidely separated forms of
sport. At Cambridge he got a place as a fresh-
man in the Jesus College eight, one of the
most notable at the Light Blue university,
then and since, the crew finishing head of
the river in that year and the three years
following. In addition he won the Lowe
double sculls twice and became captain of
the Jesus R. C. Back in M.L., he was con-
verted to polo, and for a long time was one
of the leading players in the South Island.
* « * *
“Ampere” : A lot of interest has been taken
in the Nudl ignition system for internal com-
bustion engines, described by The Bulletin
a couple of months ago when recording a
trip by a pai’ty of motor-ear tourists headed
by the inventor. This substitutes an incandes-
cent ray for the ordinary ignition spark, and
the party’s journey from Darwin to Adelaide
and thence to Melbourne was intended as a
test of the innovation—a small device
which changes the characteristics of the
electric current, being interposed between
the ordinary distributor and the spark-plugs.
The wires to the spark-plugs carry a high
amplification of the high-frequency ray which
is claimed to function with all grades of
oil and fuel, gives completer consumption of
fuel, and at the same time ensures greater
power and economy of fuel consumption.
Briefly a ray in electricity is a beam of
blended colors carrying a current through its
centre to the point desired. Whether its
application to motor ignition will be a com-
mercial success remains to be proved. Cer-
tainly the severe test applied by its inventor
in the long transcontinental journey is a
strong argument in its favor.
* * * *
“Pipards”: “It upsets cricketers,” writes
Warner, “to find that if they miss a catch
or make a duck they are treated as though
they had lost the British Empire.” It is
certainly regrettable that there should be so
many people with so small a sense of pro-
portion, but Warner himself is more respon-
sible for this curious attitude of mind than
anybody I can think of. He has certainly
done more than any other living man, or
perhaps any man who ever lived, to show
that playing cricket and writing about
cricket can make a full life’s work. And
when he returned home in 1904 with an
English team that had walloped Australia,
after England had been out of luck for
several years, he made so much of his
achievement that “Review of Reviews”
Stead, a matter-of-fact person who doubt-
fully knew a googlie from a yorker, drily com-
mented that “Wellington could hardly have
felt or expressed more exultation after
Waterloo !”
* * * *
“Gringo”: A quaint variation of tennis
was staged in America after the conclusion
of the Davis Cup match between America
and Mexico. Johnny Van Ryn, the Yankee
Davis Cup rep., played Gilbert Hall, another
American youngster of class. Van Ryn
wielded the usual racquet, but Hall, who
is a fine baseball player, used nothing but his
hands, catching the ball and throwing it back.
It was a ding-dong go, the baseballer coming
out on top by 6 games to 4.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
(Continued from page 35.)
Desmond McMinn, or Jeans, who has
abandoned the stage in England to become a
pug and knocked out a French heavyweight in
a round or two, played opposite Muriel Starr
in one of her later ill-fated seasons. As a
stage lover he looked more athletic than
amoi-ous, and on one occasion, unaw r are of
the gentleman’s pugilistic history, The Bul-
letin remarked on his habit of approaching
his lady love as if he were about to stoush
her. He did a bit of boxing as an amateur in
Australia.
* * * *
“Double Cross”: Though it was recently
announced that the big Italian lump of meat
Primo Camera had been given notice to quit
the United States on the ground that he was
merely exploiting the public in fake matches
with unknowns, the ukase has evidently been
rescinded, since the giant is still smashing
his Triton’s way through the minnows of
the mitt. Brady, the manager, deprecates
the outcry against the Italian, pointing out
that every leading American boxer from John
Sullivan to Gene Tunney made thousands
from tours of the kind after championship
status had been achieved. Brady adds that
he will back Camera to out any of the
claimants to the world’s title, Dempsey
included.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: Though it is only of late
years the Frenchman has taken to le boxe
ho has picked up all the fine points
of the game. In a Marseilles court Kid
Francis and his manager were sued by the
px’oprietor of a boxing stadium for damages
to the seats and building by a deceived audi-
ence. The fight was billed as between the
Frenchman and an English “champion” called
George Mack. In spite of determined sprint-
ing, Mack failed to last the opening round,
and then the fun began. It was discovered
later that “Mack” was an English dock-
laborer, who was given a fiver and his ex-
penses to pose as a worthy representative of
perfide Albion, and thus ensure a good house
at high prices.
❖ ❖ *
“Light Horse”: The story of a quaint
pugilistic happening comes from M.L. An
A.I.F. entrepreneur staged a boxing contest
in Cairo, and one of the entrants was the
then well-known M.L. boxer Alf Gault. The
latter was to box 10 rounds with an Austra-
lian, prize money being 305., winner take
the lot. When the men went into the ring,
the promoter noticed that the M.L. represen-
tative was not Gault, but as the latter was
standing by without comment it was con-
cluded that he had passed on the chance of
wealth to someone else. The Australian
fighter was easily outed, and when the winner
came to collect it was ascertained he was
one Galt of the Otago Mounted Rifles.
Inquiry showed that the stranger had coolly
taken advantage of the similarity in names
and got in fii’St. Seeing him in the corner,
the i*eal Simon Pure concluded that the
original arrangement had been cancelled and
let it go at that.
Footbrawl
(Continued from page 35.)
“Henpecked”: Victorian footballers are
pretty well used to rough stuff from the
barraekers, but a match between Melbourne
Seconds 'and Frankston Park recently pro-
vided a new note. A number of youngsters
were watching the game from a big tree
alongside the ground when a lady magpie,
which had built a nest in the vegetable, w T ent
for them, all out. The yelping crowd of kids
having been routed, Mrs. Maggie tui’ned her
attention to the game. Flying over the
ground, she went for the ball whenever it
rose into the air, with the result that more
than one high-marker trying to pull the
leather down got it well and truly in the
knuckles from her hard-driven beak.
H* H» H*
“Fitzcray”: “Bumpkin” broke his bob-
stay when he said (B. l/10/’3O) that the
Brownlow medal for the best and fairest
player in the Victorian Football League
would not be awarded this year because
several contestants had tied for the distinc-
tion. The “dangle”—so called because it is
worn on the recipient’s watch-chain—goes
to Judkins, of Richmond. To do “B.” jus-
tice, there was a fierce wrangle over the
award; but, unlike the chicken which
cheeped as the nigger Was swallowing the
egg, “B.” spoke too soon.”
“Pivot”: Melbourne’s Rugby Union is,
like Touchstone’s sweetheart, “a small
thing,” but very dear to the enthusiasts who
have attempted to keep it alive in the Mecca
of the Australian code. This year’s competi-
tion among six senior clubs has resulted in
the largely M.L.-recruited Kiwis taking the
head of the list. The official summing-up of
the season is that it is the most successful
on record, and certainly the very fine show-
ing of the State side against the British
team is eloquent of the improved form of
the Cabbage Gardeners in what is, to them,
practically an alien game. It is to be hoped
that the Union code can be kept alive in
Melbourne. There is no earthly reason
why players in such teams as University
should not practise Rugby as well as the
national code. The writer has known half
a dozen front-rank Rugby players who
learned their football under Aussie rules.
An Australian-Rules player going as a
Rhodes scholar, for instance, to Britain,
finds himself isolated in a sporting sense. He
must either begin at Soccer or Rugby all
over again, or take to tennis or snakes and
ladders.
$ Hi ❖ *
“Everton”: The high cost of professional
Soccer in Britain is instanced in the
announcement that Andy Wilson, the famous
Scottish centre-forward, who was bought by
Chelsea a couple of years ago for £5OOO, will
not go to Fulham, which has been negotiat-
ing for his purchase. The price wanted by
his owners for the Scottish gladiator has not
been mentioned, but evidently Fulham found
it too much in these depressed days. In
any case Andy cannot be transferred until
next May, and by that time the Fulham
funds may be in a healthier state 'or Chel-
sea’s terms more elastic.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Some recent remarks by
a Bulletin correspondent as to the charges
made in Maoriland to watch’ the Tests against
the British football team invite a comparison
with those set up in England for the cricket
Tests, cricket being as much a religion
in England as Rugby is in the Shivery Isles.
For 80 minutes’ worship, the Pig Islander
charged from £1 down to 2s. For 6£ hours
per day, the English collections ran from
7s. 6d. to 2s. 6d. There can be no doubt
which is the more ax-dent worshipper at his
own particular shrine, especially taking into
account the fact that the Maorilander is like
John Gilpin in respect to frugal-mindedness.


YOUR LINENS ARE ALWAYS SO
BRIGHT AND NEW-LOOKING,
MRS. BORDEN.
THAT’S BECAUSE I USE
A SOAP THAT WASHES
CLOTHES WHITER.
WITHOUT SCRUBBING.
ONE WEEK LATER
I'M SO GLAD YOU GOT ME TO TRY RINSO.
JUST LOOK AT THESE WHITE CLOTHES!
YOU’LL FIND THEY
LAST LONGER. TOO .
FOR THEY AREN’T
SCRUBBED
THREADBARE.
ill
* A - - I _ a a « jk lot Mb ao
4.39.11
in tub or washer
J MUST TRY RINSO . . .
I'VE HEARD SO MUCH
ABOUT IT.
IT’S A VERY ECONOMICAL
SOAP AND ABSOLUTELY
SAFE.
m
I
■
m
<<
>9
(Thousands write us letters like this)
Its a w °nder-worker'
says Mrs. C. Simmonds
of CoOgQQ
Worker gkd 1 discovered
woricer Rinso ls Wh what a wonder-
•»’ S"i'a
1 ,ke 11 for general cleaning, too.'" d ' vmdows shine*
MR S C. SIMMONS
Makers of 36 washers c °° s “-
Rinso washes Say > “Rinso”!
° f And e - d > ing washi ”g machSes C re WA ' W ’ the matere
And it’s so economical r rec ?®“end it.
one cupful gives more s uds r U,a ' ed ’ a^ct~
ordinary washing soaps ™ than two cupfuls of
eta Packet of Rinso now I
IEVER brothers
LIMITED
for safety
for whiter clothes
19
Another proof that
Holland can beat baldness
Baldness for a woman is a greater misfortune than for a man;
hence the delight of this Launceston lady, Mrs. P. F., who not
only successfully arrested advancing baldness, but started her
hair growing strongly and vigorously again. After just a year’s
treatment she wrote us on September 9th as follows:
“I have been using your treatment for over 12 months. The result is
I have a NICE CROP OF NEW HAIR three or four inches long, although
I am on the elderly side.” Simple and straightforward words! Vet how much
joy and satisfaction are behind them! She, like thousands more of our clients,
has found in new, strong, natural hair an abundant reward for the small
expense and trouble entailed by Edwin Holland treatment. Post the coupon
below and let us start arresting your baldness and giving your hair new life
and growth. Edwin Holland treatment costs only about 12/- the first month
and about 5/- a month afterwards.
NOTE.—The original of Mrs. P. F.’s testimonial can be inspected at our office.
EDWIN HOLLAND
Over 30>J/& nr
success against oaldness
“A nice cro|
gd
Write your name and address in the margin, and post to EDWIN
HOLLAND, 350 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. Please send me
without cost or obligation, full particulars of your methods.
X'»in 8-10.
Bank Deposit Receipts
These Receipts are issued for money lodged
with the Bank to earn interest for a fixed period.
They provide a useful form of investment for the
general public. The esteem in which they are
held is shown by the fact that over £22,000,000 is
invested in the National Bank’s Fixed Deposit
Receipts at the present time.
Any person may become a depositor. Receipts
are issued for amounts of £5 and upward.
Interest commences from the day the money is
lodged.
Rates of Interest on Deposits
3 months - 4 \°Jo per annum
6 months -41 °Jo „
1 year * 5 °!o „
2 years - 5 \ c fo „
THE
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
FIVE HUNDRED OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
Assets exceed 1^45.000.000


7hp cen/re of Queens /cnc/s
'cf/s/'ngu/s/>&a/ Soc/cr/ t-if.
WoM
Go RDTCP
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 83211—6 Lines.
sgd
INVESTIGATE-INVEST.
There may be a few who get rich quickly and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do not “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest, to do the investing
for him.
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town.
fainonwealtb Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
Under 5
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920. (
CHAMPAGNE <
CMslleiiedi
SUMBM'
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limits i
SYDNEY.
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
CHAMPACh't
'-barlesllcidsiecv
Reims
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrants—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
This Letter thought that 50 per cent, of
the clothes at Randwick last Saturday were
truly terrible. Most of the frocks were
graceful studio pieces, but were not suit-
able for free light and fresh air; a predic-
tion is here ventured that., the woman who
will be looked at a second and a third time
this season is that wise she who goes forth
clipper-built and smartly two-pieced. These
frocks with flowing lines need the experi-
enced hand behind the scissors, otherwise
their wearers (even the slimmest) are apt
to look like overflowing bowls. The dots that
we heard so much about as first favorites
were outnumbered by flowered chiffons, in
many cases such monstrous fatty degenerate
flowers that the fabric looked as though in-
tended for a bedspread. This Letter saw
one feminine punter in a pale green lake of
chiffon spattered with plump cream water-
lilies. An undieted rose bobbed on the brim
of a white hat which was pushed off a fore-
head as criss-crossed as a road map. And
there were at least* two girls whose lace and
cliiffony frocks trailed amid the clutter of
dead tickets and cigarette butts at the back
of the stands. Then came a girl in a pink
frock with a V split in its bodice at the
back. And there was another in yellow
with streaming tufts of same at irregular
intervals about her skirt.
Lady Game wore a leaf-brown ensemble;
Lady Somers’s raiment was in China blue
and white crepe de Chine, and her hat in
lacquer red. Admiral Evans was there in
a tall hat, and other high-liatters were Lord
Somers, Sir Philip Game and Earl Beau-
champ. The Dutch Admiral and his merry
men walked the lawns. Premier Bavin and
his lady were with the vice-regals.
The black or black-and-white creations
scored. Surgeon MacCormick’s lady in black
georgette and a black hat patterned in gold
was impressive, and the blonde Mrs. Reg
Stafford from Cassilis, in black satin
swathed to the hips and thence flaring, was
an effective decoration to the official stand.
This frock had a flat collar and deep Cava-
lier cuffs of pale beige lace. Singing-girl
Eileen Shettle was swathed becomingly in
this color edict of Paris. A short black satin
coat, its dolman sleeves befurred in stone-
niarten, was the right top-dressing for tall
Jo O’Keeffe’s black and white chiffons. A
hat with a swathed black velvet crown and
a white baku brim that dipped to the right
shoulder rounded off the outfit. M'rs. Ellis
Feilding Jones, another blonde, was com-
mendable in black and white, while navy and
white surrounded Mrs. Allen Potter’s fair-
ness. Morna MacCormick did much to popu-
larise the wearing of dark brown among the
young. Philippa Stephen, in flowered
powder-blue chiffons, and sister Helen,, in
dark-blue marocain, were nice young things
who fluttered in the warm sunshine, and no-
body looked prettier than Joy Morton among
the maids, and Dr. Weston Maher’s lady
among the matrons. Mrs. Harold Vale must
be honorably mentioned for a Pekin glass-
blue coat worn over a white marocain frock.
Doreen and Joan Higgins sported the popu-
lar little suit in floral crepe de Chine,. and
Mrs. John McKelvey walked radiant in a
sky-after-rain-blue suit.
This Letter was poised in Macquarie-
street for the passing of the Governor-
General. At five minutes to four the rever-
berating roll of cannon rose above the roar
of lorries and cars. More dominant still, the
drone of aeroplanes came from the. ether, and
swift from behind the high buildings swept
a school of five flashing flying-fish. These
flew, or so it seemed, with upright bodies,
as though some invisible angler had them
on a celestial line. Presently up clattered
a company of Light Horse, lances shining,
pennants brave in the wind. After an inter-
val came another cantering group. The
policeman on point duty held the traffic, and
up sped an open car with two outriders.
Herein sat the G.-G. The policeman on
point duty saluted, one of the loiterers waved
a handkerchief, a nurse or two looked down
from the balconies, up galloped another six
or eight Light Horsemen. The policeman
released the traffic, and lorry, shabby car and
ambling cab tailed on, robbing the last
batch of riders of their glory. But where
was the waving, applauding populace that
should have sped the parting Viceroy? Well,
if truth must be told, it seemed to be charg-
ing into the cash-and-carries, the miniature
golf courses, the picture shows and the em-
ployment bureaux —in short, the city went
about its ways, for what is a Governor-
General more or less when the dinner’s to
be cooked, the hair to be water-waved, or a
job to be hunted?
There’s no plebeian stepping up the gang-
way of a steamer for a departing Governor-
General. After inspecting the Army and
Navy veterans and the Naval Reserve,
smartly. drawn up at Man-o’-War Steps,
and saying good-bye to Sir Philip Game and
a group which included Lady Game, Earl
Beauchamp, the Chief Justice Street couple,
naval and military bigwig's and Town Clerk
Layton, his Ex. stepped into the naval barge,
passed through the ships of the H.M.A.
Squadron and so aboard the Maunganui
waiting below Garden Island. Nor will lady
travellers find him lacking in the latest dance
steps, for he polished up on the very newest
in Government House ballroom before his
departure.
The party staged in honor of the Dutch
Squadron by Consul-General Teppema and
his lady was the swagger event of the week-
end. The Rose Bay Golf Club flung its
doors wide for the occasion and Who’s Who
in the Army, the Navy, the Church, the Con-
sular service, Commerce and the Professions
paid their respects to Admiral Kayser, Com-
mander de Graafe, Commander Van Leeuwen
and other officers.
Mrs. Teppema clothed her reception act
in black and gold lame of great allure. The
rooms of the club were brilliant with great
bowls of flowers and every here and there
on tabourets glimmered clusters of primroses,
primulas and pansies. There was music, and
newly-engaged Roy xignew and Kathleen
O’Connor played and sang in a programme
that included Clifford Lathlean, ’cellist Van
der Klei and Miss E. Conley. Vivid Molly
David in hydrangea-blue and white chiffons,
Morna MacCormick in long blue moire and
Sophie Segaert in turquoise chiffons were
three who held the gaze. Mrs. Sep Levy,
her white gloved arms tranquil against the
powder-blue of her frock, sat in a remote
corner. Dr. Dan Kelly and Mrs. Kelly,
Admiral Evans (with so many decorations
that they had to be carried from the credit to
the debit side of his coat), Mrs. Evans spark-
ling in black chiffons charged with diamentes,
handsome Barbara Knox, Mayoress Hilda
Marks in mulberry laces, Mrs. Layton in soft
black laces, Japan’s Consul Inoue and his
little lady, the Bavins, the medical Delprat
couple (he’s a brother of Mrs. Teppema, and,
incidentally, that lady is a sister-in-law of
Antarctic explorer Mawson), the Den
Ilertogs and Mr. and Mrs. J. Pronlt were a
few of the hundred present.
Nor must mention be forgotten of the
supper, a sumptuous affair in these nights of
lean catering, rich with savories of every
description, sparkling wines and cream-filled
sweet stuffs.
Acting G.-G. Lord Somers and his lady
and our State Exes, went to the ball at the
Wentworth in aid of the Diggers’ children
on Saturday night. Lady Somers wore
parchment chiffons patterned in black, and
Lady Game wore her favorite black chiffons
splashed with gold flowers. But Lord Beau-
champ was the beau of the ball. Very hand-
some the blue ribbon.of the Garter makes
its wearer, and the Earl, with more dignity
in the flesh than in the press prints, was a
school for charm in himself. He renewed
still more old friendships, and had quite a
talk with Mrs Maclurcan, the Wentworth’s
cliieftainess. Ernest Watt ran him a close
second. Ernest has as nice a manner as
any man in Sydney; and on Satur-
day night his personality was working at
100 per cent, pressure. Mrs. Watt wore
attractive swathings of black lace, and Mrs.
Norman Lowe (just recovered from a long
illness) turned up in silver lame. Florence
Aikman, who entertained a large party, was
another exponent of black lace.
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, of Gunnedah,
brought with her to town last week, not only
race frocks and hats, but a collection of
Barbolo work
worth £lOO.
Idea, design
And craftsman
ship are all
the work of
the gifted
lady, who has
labored daily
for three
months at a
task which is
to benefit the
out-back set-
tlers’ wives
and kiddies.
The exhibition
is being staged
in A. A. Mac-
kins’s show-
room, close to
the Australia,
and even as
the pieces
were being un-
packed Mrs. Mackellar could have sold out
to her friends and to friends of the Country
Women’s Association. Plowever, it had
been announced that the one-woman show
would open on Tuesday and Mrs. Mackellar
refused to have a single piece reserved.
The work is the most delicate of its kind
this writer has seen. The modelling of
flower and leaf is excellent; ranunculus, lily,
daffodil and camellia might just have been
plucked from the garden. One set of book
ends has a pot of tulips and a flowering bush
at each extremity; an oblong black box has
an arum-lily on a green leaf laid upon its
cover. One oval mirror is framed in fruit
and flower, and cunningly perched therein
is a white cockatoo; another mirror has
rose-red camellias against the glossy green
of their own leaves. A round one looks young
and unsophisticated, garlanded with daffodils
and lobelias. The most ambitious design was
a sunken garden, in a flat bowl. From orna-
mental gateway and yew trees to water
lilies and the tiny mirror lake, the idea is
faithful to detail.
Mrs. George Merivale, who died at Annery,
Darling Point, last week, was the eldest
daughter of W. G. Laidley, the wealthy col-
liery-owner who built Hillside in the Edge-
cliff-road nearly a century ago; and, as
such, she was related to most of the people
who mattered in Edwardian and late Vic-
torian Sydney. Her closing years were full
of sorrows: she lost her elder son on Gal-
lipoli and a favorite nephew in France, and
Dr. Cyril Shepherd, a naval doctor, who
married her daughter Angel before the war,
died the other day. During most of her long-
life (she was 74 when the end came) Mrs.
Merivale had been a devoted charity-worker,
and she was greatly loved at the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital, where she mostly
worked. Her husband, who survives her, is
the well-known shipping man and Union Club
member.
The lady in this Falk picture is the wife
of knight Fred-
erick W aley,
well known
for her good
looks and
good works.
For over 20
years she has
been an en-
thusiastic
worker for the
Women’s Hos-
pital in Crown-
street, and at
the moment is
deep in plans
for the fete
at Elwatau,
Castle Hill.
This is a late
N o vember
fixture in aid
of the big
maternity in-
stitution.
Libby Hordern’s handsome widow, who
married Senor de Romero, of the Spanish
Embassy, Paris, last week, is one of Aus-
tralia’s wealthiest expatriates. She has
£2OOO a year from the Monie estate in addi-
tion to her £lO,OOO a year as a millionaire’s
relict. Her son, who was at England’s most
expensive preparatory school with the off-
spring of the Ranee of Pudakota (it has the
distinction of being in a fashionable London
street instead of in the country), has
developed a passion for the army, and talks
of going into a Guards regiment when he is
old enough.
A spring day, balmy with promise, greeted
the 64 graduates of Sydney Uni. last week
as they stepped across the quadrangle and
into the Great Ilall to be awarded their
degrees. No thought of almost empty wait-
ing-rooms in Macquarie-street struck the 51
graduates in medicine as they stepped on
to the dais, bowed to the Dean, shook hands
with Chancellor William Cullen, and stepped
down duly licensed writers of prescriptions.
Law claimed 11 disciples and Science 2.
The ,bonny hoods of the professors flashed
gold and purple, red, green and blue, as their
owners moved through the warm sunlight or
stirred under the electrics that shattered
the sombre shades of the Great Hall. It
was as though a company of bookworms had
been magicked into butterflies. His Stat
Ex., Sir Philip Game, was the official visi-
tor of the day, and saw Earl Beauchamp,
Governor over 30 years ago, receive liis hon-
orary doctorate of laws of Sydney Uni. He
is already a doctor of laws of the London
Uni., of which he is the Chancellor. He
looked very brave in a crimson robe, but
for the sake of his fair complexion this
Letter would have preferred it blue. Lord
Beauchamp, who is strong for the higher
education, made a spirited appeal to every-
body to learn to think more of bookshops
than of dance clubs. And in Race Week
there are few Australians who won’t take
his advice.
Among the girl doctors were two Mac-
Mahons. One is Nell, the other Dora, and
they .aren’t related. Dr. Dora is a sister
to Dr. Lucy MacMalion, who was for some
time attached to the Radium Clinic at Prince
Alfred’s and is now the only resident med.
at the Canterbury District Memorial Hospi-
tal. Since yesterday Dr. Dora is at Prince
Alfred’s, where brother Dr. John MacMahon
is superintendent. Still another brother. Dr.
Eddie, is in London working for his F.R.C.S.
Law has claimed only one of the clan-—bar-
rister Tom MacMahon.
Complaints of the slovenly cigarette-
smoker are loud in the land. Twice last
week this Letter met hostesses who hissed
their hatred of the tribe, one of whom was
.suspected of burning holes in the artistic
covers of an expensive car, and . another ot
doing the same for a new 100-guinea carpet.
In both cases the damage was discovered
after a female jollo, and in each the hostess
remarked bitterly that it wasn’t absence
of ashtrays but absence of manners that had
caused the damage.
The Albany in Macquarie-street, the
address of many a gay dinner party when
the Lachlan Beatons occupied its top floor,
is the home of the new Macquarie Book
Club. This is a chintz-liung, soft-rugged,
flower-decked eyrie on the third floor.
Through its windows Parliament House, the
Harbor and Burdekin House nod in neigh-
borly fashion. Its walls are lined with
books, with here and there sunfleckcd land-
scapes and clear-cut etchings to add variety
to the scenery. Here the woman in a hurry
can have a quick lunch and change her books
in one sleight of hand, so to speak. In con-
junction with the library is a Women’s Medi-
cal Service Club; for a modest subscrip-
tion its members are entitled to medical
attention at small fees from the two women
doctors who have their rooms on the same
floor. Again the business woman is con-
sidered, inasmuch as the doctors w’ill be m
attendance between twelve o’clock and twc
and five o’clock and seven.
Women are doing a larger proportion of
election canvassing than usual this year, the
reason being that their employment keeps
down candidates’ expenses. And some of
them are having experiences. One who
knocked at a door, to be confronted by an
aggressively red-haired woman, was sur-
prised to have it slammed in her face after
she had asked wliat seemed an entirely in-
offensive question. A moment later the door
opened again. “Clear out!” said the tenant
fiercely. “You come asking me ’usband’s
Christian name, and ’im a Chinaman!” The
same woman struck a snag at another house.
“No Nationalist’ll get a vote ’ere,” said the
householder. “This is a reg’lar ’op-bed of
Labor.”
Mrs. Wright, who will be remembered as
artist Hilda Rix Nicholas, drops a line to
the pffect that she hath a fair son. He
arrived last Thursday at the Wright station,
Knockalong, near Delegate. Hilda was the
widow of Major Nicholas for 10 years. As
you know, she is a noted “strong” painter.
When John Fairfax, weds his Melbourne
girl Valerie Moule there will be three brides-
maids from this State in the procession. They
are John’s sister Margaret, Anne Gordon
and Joan Willoughby Dowling.
The diamond harvest of Hatton Gardens
is finding a pretty quick Sydney market.
Bonnie Cramsie, daughter of J. B. Cramsie,
of Elizabeth Bay, is wearing a ring pre-
sented by Norman Beading, son of the Claud
Readings, of Woollahra. John Stewart
Manchee, heir of the Lionel Manchees,- of
Moree, and Doris Cameron, of Rose Bay and
Woodlands, Queensland, have plighted their
troth. Judith Osborne, of the well-known
clan, is another ring-gatherer. Her young
man is Tom Raine, of Sydney.
Sydney girls have been fascinated this
past week by cables that told of the triumph
of Desmond Jeans at the Albert Hall in a
bout with Frenchman Josef Thomas. As
Desmond McMinn, he first made an appeal
to Sydney flappers as a teacher of dancing,
just after he had come third in a world’s
dancing championship held in London. He
was remarkable for the speed and rhythm of
his steps, notable in one of his great size.
Later on, he was for a time a member of
Dion Boucicault’s company.
Because she is a pianist of distinction
herself, the Queen Victoria Club made Isabel
Crowdy, 0.8. E., its guest of honor last week.
The party was housed in the Arts Club, and
president Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, a Dorset
woman like Lady Game, did the honors and
rranged the programme.
Mrs. Walter Swinson is proving a friend
i need. As urgently as may be she is in-
si lling the gospel of the musical party with
p id artists into the minds of her friends,
f .e herself has already given two such after-
i :>on parties, which have proved so. popular
that possibly women who didn’t mind pay-
ing 20 or ,30 guineas for a frock, but who
never bought music other than jazz for a
party, may begin to serve ’cello, piano and
violin solos for the entertainment of their
gueSts. Lady Game and Miss Crowdy are
both accomplished pianists, and music pro-
mises to take quite a high place in Govern-
ment House flutters.
For nearly 40 years the Fresh Air League,
which started as the Ministering Children’s
League, with Lady Darley as its organising
secretary, has quietly gone about its job of
sending tired-out women and men and city
kiddies for holidays in the bush or by the
sea. Last year 70 men and women and 51
youngsters were given vacations of a month;
over 9000 have benefited altogether. Mrs.
It. B. Trindall, who has been secretary for
10 years, has once more undertaken the
labor of love. Every Friday morning from
April to November the committee meets in
the vestibule of the Town Hall.


TECHNICAL BOOKS FOR
TRADESMEN
Price, Postage.
Commonsense Stair Building and Handrailing. Hodgson .... 8/6 -/8
Projects in Furniture Making. Fred Adams 8/6 -/9
Modern Carpentry and Joinery. A Practical Manual. 2 vols.
Practical Lessons in Carpentry and Joinery. For use of appren-
tices. Geo. Ellis 14/- -/10
Canoeing, Sailing and Motor-boating. Practical boat building
and handling. Lieut. Warren Miller 14/- 1/-
The Art of Lettering. Carl Lars Svensen 22/6 1/6
The Magneto Manual. Practical and general reference work for
automobile engineers. H. R. Langman 10/- -/8
Manufacture and Uses of Concrete Products and Cast Stone.
H. L. Childe 7/- 11-
Manual of House Painting, Graining, Marbling and Sign-writing.
Ellis A. Davidson 10/- -/10
Model Yachts and Boats. Their designing, making and sailing.
Edward Hobbs 7/- -/7
The Art of Soap-making. A practical handbook. Alan Watt. . 12/6 -/9
Sketching in Lead Pencil. For architects and others. J. Salwey 10/- -/10
Sketching from Nature. A practical treatise. F. Glass 14/- 1/-
Design and Construction of Oil Engines. A. H. Goldingham. . 13/6 1/3
Gas Engine Troubles and Installation. With Trouble Charts.
John B. Rathbun 11/- -/8
Fuel and Lubricating Oils for Diesel Engines. W. Schenker .. 13/6 -/9
Diesel and Oil Engineering Handbook. Julius Rosbloom 27/6 1/-
Electric Wiring. A primer for the use of wiremen and students.
Clinton-Freeman 6/6 -/8
The Book of Electrical Wonders. Ellison Hanks 10/- 1/3
Recipes for the Color, Paint, Varnish, Oil, Soap and Drysaltery
Trades. Analytical Chemist 13/6 1/2
Gramophones and Electrical Reproducers. Wilson and
Webb 11/6 1/-
Elementary Craftwork in Metal. Alfred Shirley 10/- -/10
Sawmill Work and Practice. A book for owners, overseers and
operators of wood-working machinery. W. J. Blackmir.. 7/- -/6
Stairbuilding and the Steel Square. A manual of practical instruc-
tion. Hodgson and Williams 5/6 -/6
Stair Builders’ Guide. Morris Williams 16/6 -/10
Practical Building Construction. Handbook for students.
John P. Allen 10/- 2/-
The ABC of Plastering. A. H. Selling 11/6 -/9
Brickwork and Its Construction. A textbook for all workers
in brick. Walter Jaggard 24/6 1/-
Aviation from the Ground Up. A practical instruction and refer-
ence work on aviation. Lieut. Manly . 27/6 1/6
The Aircraft Handbook. Henry F. Colvin 26/- 1/-
Airplane Engine Encyclopedia. Glenn Angle 39/- 2/3
Practical Boat Building for Amateurs. Full instructions for
designing and building punts, skiffs, canoes, etc. F. Cowper 4/6 -/6
The Concrete Year Book for 1929. Faber and Childe . . 6/6 to 2/6 1/4
Practical Color Photography. E. J. Wall 19/- -/10
An Outline of Advertising. E. Hughes 10/- -/io
Elementary Studies in House Painting, Decorating and Paper-
hanging 14/- 1/2
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPARTMENT,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STRFipt<; « vrivrv
Exclusive Diamond Jewellery
at Drummonds
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
step shoulders,
£3O
Lady’s 18-carat White Gold Wristlet Watch,
set with 90 fine quality diamonds. The
lever movement is fully jewelled and com-
pensated. Exceptional timekeeper, £6O.
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
shoulders,
£25
Solitaire Dia-
mond Ring with
Diamond-studded
Coronet.
0
VI
it Ml
'miiM&M
ms
m
Magnificent Diamond
and Sapphire Brooch,
set in platinum, £175
Solitaire Diamond
Ring. Latest
design.
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond shoulders,
£6O
Lady's Wristlet Watch, set with 30 fine
quality brilliant-cut white diamonds; 18-
carat white gold case fitted with 15-jewel
Swiss lever movement; adjustable band with
patent gold snap, £26/5/-
Circle Ring set
with 25 brilliant
cut Diamonds.
Rest value in Aus-
tralasia, £lB/18/-
Others from
£l2/10/-
FVRUMMONDS are continually adding to their large selections of
exquisite Diamond and Gem Rings and Jewellery designs both dis-
tinctive and of unsurpassable quality and workmanship. The illustrations
represent, in exactly the size of the actual rings offered, some favored
designs with settings of Pure Hard Platinum. The firm’s Watches are
of the finest quality and the newest designs that it is possible to obtain.
Complete satisfaction is assured or money will be refunded.
Wm. DRUMMOND & CO.,
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
sgd
gd
The Australian Provincial Assurance
Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1 ) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by the Association and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals, varying
in amount according to the sum assured and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forth-
with and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES
SPECIALISED.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES INVITED FROM MEN OF INTEGRITY.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.


Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW ZEALAND
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(In Divorce) No. 3680.
TO ROBERT SUTHERLAND TAYLOR formerly
of the City of Wellington New Zealand but now of
address unknown.
TAKE NOITCE that a citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Well-
ington citing you to appear and answer the petition
of KATHLEEN TAYLOR of Wellington where™
she prays for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the ground of desertion and such citation
intimates that in default of your so doing the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition and to pro-
nounce sentence herein notwithstanding your absence
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within thirty-five days
after the date of this publication to attend in per-
-o l\ b W U I Solici .t ol ; u at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington and there to enter an. appear-
ance and file an answer without which you will not
be allowed to address this Court at any stage of
the proceedings. s
A COPY of the said, citation and petition will
be supplied to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court Office at Wellington
1930 ATED Wellington this 20th ,la -v of September,
[L.s.] C. MASON,
Friends of the respondent are particularly 6 'requested
p„Jv V w l( \ii t 0 hl r m , the fore £° in & advertisement.
Percy Wyndham Jackson is the Solicitor for the
petitioner whose address for service is at the
office of Messieurs Levi, Jackson & Yaldwvn Soli-
citors, 15 Stout Street, Wellington.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND"
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(In Divorce) No. 3683.
TO MICHAEL JOSEPH RODDEN formerly of
the City of Wellington New Zealand but now of
address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Well-
ington citing you to appear and answer the petition
of ETHEL ELIZABETH RODDEN of Opotiki wherein
she prays for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the ground of desertion and such citation
intimates that in default of your so doing the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition and
to pronounce sentence herein notwithstanding your
absence. NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty-five
days after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington and there to enter an appear-
ance and file an answer without which you will not
be allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings.
A COPY of the said citation and petition will
be supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
at Wellington this 20th day of September,
[l.s.] C. MASON,
, , Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly requested
to f Ol ward to him the foregoing advertisement.
Percy Wyndham Jackson is the Solicitor for t» e
petitioner whose address for service is at the
office of Messieurs Levi, Jackson & Yaldwvn Soli-
citors, 15 Stout Street, Wellington.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1230 of 1930.
BETWEEN ISABEL VICTORIA ROBERTSON
(falsely called Isabel Victoria Hibbs) Petitioner
AND HAROLD LESLIE CHARLES HIBBS
Respondent.
To HAROLD LESLIE CHARLES HIBBS late of
No. 10 Milburn Grove East St. Hilda Melbourne
Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Isabel Victoria
Robertson (falsely called Isabel Victoria Hibbs) has
commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a Decree of Nullity of
Marriage on the ground of your bigamy and take
notice that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Thirtieth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and thirty and in the
event of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined vour absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
Dated the first day of October, 1930.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce
SAMUELSON AND COWIE, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
ALFRED JOSEPH COLGAN, for-
merly of Bendigo, Victoria, last heard of
from Coogee, New South Wales, in Decem-
ber, 1908, is asked to communicate with
MESSRS. KEENE AND I’RENDERGAST,
Solicitors, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Charing Cross, Bendigo.
NOTICE.
WILLIAM BRODIE, last heard of at
™ Georgetown and Fossilbrook, Queens-
land. and ANDREW BRODIE, last heard of
at Lismore, N. S. Wales, sons of "the late
WILLIAM BRODIE, of Geelong, are re-
quested to communicate at once with their
brother, JOHN J. BRODIE, at 33 Goe
Street, Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne, Victoria.
JLJYMAN. —If Harry Hyman, son of Alfred
1 1 Henry Hyman, deceased, will communi-
cate with the Union Trustee Company of
Australia, Limited, 333 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, he will hear of something to his
advantage.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
Though the early arrivals at Flemington
on Saturday were not as numerous as usual,
by the second race the empty spaces about
the hill and grandstands began to fill up.
The meeting suited the punters, Amounis
filling his supporters with renewed hopes of
future gains by winning the October Stakes.
Though the weather was hot the dressing was
disappointing, being a symposium of modes
of all seasons. Chiffons brushed shoulders
with fur-collared topcoats. Most attractive
were the summery frocks. Black-and-white
confections were innumerable, and in most
cases looked very smart. There was a sprink-
ling of cool-looking gowns of green in satin
and diaphanous materials, lone girl who
adopted this shade combining with it a
handkerchief scarf of white, and a white
straw hat trimmed with green leaves. Navy
blue ran the magpie blend close in popu-
larity. Flowered gowns of filmy nature, with
short coats, were not so prominent as at
earlier meetings. Mayoress Luxton was one
of those who favored this mode, her nutmeg
brown and bracken figured ninon being
topped with a matching hat of straw. Mrs.
Clive Leopard sported one of the new linen
suits, which have hats of the same fabric.
They pome from Paris, and are the last
word in fashion. Mrs. Leonard’s was of
a very soft pink tint. Spongecloth of flecked
patterning was worn by some, including
Doris Moffatt, whose tailored suit in mole
and white had a sage-green waistcoat, and
was topped by a green hat.
Mrs. Neunlioffer’s black chiffon, the hand-
kerchief draperies of which just swept her
shoes, was shaded by a wide-brimmed straw
hat. Her daughter, Mrs. Len Buxton, who
chose china-blue foulard, spotted in white,
was rejoicing over the win of her two-year-
old, High Brae, at his first start. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, in begonia-red jumper suit and felt
hat, was receiving congratulations on her
husband’s election as chairman of the
V.A.T.C. Another patron who favored a
ruddy tint of covering was Lavender Stuart,
who looked, very striking. Kathleen Rogers
Thomson’s ethereal floral frock was traced
in blossoms of roseate hue. Mrs. Gerald
Crosbie was in fawn georgette and lace, with
a shady hat. Gwen Johnston, Mrs. Richard
Linton and Mrs. J. S. Feehan were other
attractively dressed patrons.
Light Horse pennants got an airing in the
city on. Friday when Lord Somers was
escorted in an open carriage with postillions
to the Commonwealth Buildings to take over
the duties pro tem. of the Governor-General.
Passepsby paused to gaze on the grandeur
of Windsor uniform and plumed hat, guard
of honor and escort of mounted police. A
crowd collected about the gardens and
around the Commonwealth offices, while
within his Ex. took the oath from knight
Isaac Isaacs. Lady Somers accompanied the
Acting-G.-G., and exchanged smiles with the
world and his wife on the return journey to
Stonnington. After a rather rushed couple
°f hours, during which his Ex. received
calls from naval and military and Air Board
representatives and attended a Council meet-
ing, the v.-r. couple departed for Sydney.
The country golf championships, contested
at the Yarra Yarra links during the greater
part of last week, were played in a decided
rise of temperature, very pleasant for the
onlookers, but a bit trying for participants.
Ihe winner of the women’s championship
was Elsie Watson, of Warrnambool, which
district now holds both country titles. Lady
Somers, who took part in some of the
matches, handed out the prizes, and as a
mark of appreciation of her Ex.’s interest in
the game there was a presentation to her
of some teaspoons. Mrs. Gatehouse was
rewarded too for her efforts in assuring the
smooth running of the various tournaments.
The Society of Women Painters had an
at-home at the Athenaeum Gallery on Satur-
day evening, in conjunction ‘with their
twenty-first annual show. The gathering was
09 per cent, feminine. The president, Mrs.
f ullwood Watson, moved among the guests
in dove-grey georgette splashed with silver
and featuring angel-sleeves. Louie Harvie,
lion, sec., chose black lace. Entertaining
was in the hands of a male quintet of in-
strumentalists, pianist John Simons and
baritone H. W. Traynor contributing solo
offerings. Among- the listeners were the
Harrison Moore iady, who drew over a
black gown an Oriental wrap which com-
panioned unique earrings; Ruth Hollick,
picturesque in peach-pink satin and gold
net; Prof, and Mrs. Gibson; Charles Nut-
tall, Sybil Hull, Maude Harvie and Thomas
Brentnall.
For the P.L.C. Old Collegians’ dinner at
the Wattle tearooms last week about 140 ex-
students assembled. The colors of the college,
blue and gold, were represented in the
decorations by lupins, daffodils and yellowy
tablecloths, and by lalique-shaded lights on
the official table. Mrs. W. Gray, wife of the
principal, was a guest of honor. An innovation
was the broadcasting of the president’s speech
—the president of the O.C.A. —Mrs. Colin
Macdonald. The hon. sec. of the Old Colle-
gians’ Club. Anne Fortune, was in charge.
The P.L.C.’s ex-students now number 950,
and they include Dame Melba and Dr.
Marion Phillips, who is a member of the
House of Commons. At the dinner there
were three women doctors—Alva Boyd, Bar-
bara Wood and Bessie Denny. Amongst
those who sat round the principal table were
Miss .T. A. Laing, president of the 0.C.C.,
Mrs. J. H. Mirams, Bertha Brathwaite and
Mrs. A. S. Abbott.
The girls of the Y.W.C.A. gymnasium
demonstrated their prowess at Wirths’
Olympia last week, when Lady Somers was
a spectator. There was nothing to suggest
the “lass with the delicate air” about these
maidens in brown tunics and bloomers, who
flew the horse, turned Catherine wheels and
demonstrated jiu-jitsu holds with all the
aplomb of the circus acrobats who periodi-
cally disport themselves in the building. The
association’s health and recreation depart-
ment has now been in existence for three
years. It is under the direction of Norah
Jervis, a graduate of the Osterberg Physical
Training School in Kent. Features of
the show were an inter-house team games
competition, dancing of various sorts, and a
clever demonstration of Dalcroze eurhyth-
mies by pupils of Miss St. John George.
Honiton lace mellowed with age cascaded
from a wreath of orange buds over the gown
of deep ivory satin worn by Una Marion,
daughter of the J. B. Hunts, of East Mal-
vern, when she was linked to Alexander,
elder son of the William Burrells, of Haw-
thorn, at All Saints’ Church last week. Three
’maids in Paton pink satin trained gowns
and straw hats of the same shade attended
the bride. There was a reception at No. 9
after the ceremony.
Mr. and Mrs. T. Gartlan, of Jerilderie
(N.S.W.), came to Melbourne to hand their
daughter Catherine into the keeping of
Stanislaus, second son of the J. A. Parers,
of Malvern, at St. Patrick’s Cathedral.
The bride was in white satin and lace, and
her sisters Maimie and Eileen attended her
in water-lily green chiffon and felt hats.
Four hundred dancers, in costumes ranging
from the pretty to the grotesque, took the
floor of St. Kilda Town Hall when the art
students had
their revel.
The decora-
tions, a mighty
feature of the
jollo, were con-
tributions from
no fewer than
80 of the dis-
ciples of brush,
palette, pen
an d pencil.
The proceeds
are to be de-
voted to the
founding of an
art library and
the subsidising
of 1e c turers.
Fran c i e
Young’s studio
produced this
picture of Miss
E. A. Jen-
, „ , , nings - Smith,
hon sec. of the hop. She sculps and potters,
studying the making of shards at the Bruns-
wick Pechnical College and modelling under
J. M. Davie. In the Arts and Crafts
Society’s exhibition at the Town Hall she is
represented by a statuette and some bowls
and jars.
St. Andrew’s kirk, Brighton, was all lit
up on the last evening of September, when
Kate, only daughter of the Horace Stimsons,
of Elsternwick, “stood up,” as the Scots sav,
with William, son of the Forrester Alex-
anders, of Caulfield. The bride was in ivory
satin, her Limerick lace veil being anchored
by clusters of orange buds. Janet Alex-
ander and the Roland Clarks’ daughter Mar-
garet were her attendants, in pale-green
tulle with wreaths and posies of primroses.
A dinner at Menzics followed the ceremony.
At Melbourne Grammar School Chapel last
week Marjory, only child of the late H. E.
Broad and of Mrs. A. J. ITunt, of Ivanhoe,
exchanged vows with Orwell, only son of
the H. W. Gepps, of Strathalan, Macleod.
YY hite satin, orange buds and a posy of pink
tulips graced the bride. The bridegroom’s
sister Kathleen and Valmai Stokes ’maided
in cream chiffon scattered with pink and
blue flowers, with wee frills about the hip
line and tourmaline-pink straw hats. There
urns a dinner at the Windsor afterwards.
Good-byes were said by Rear-Admiral
Ivayser and his officers aboard the Dutch
cruiser Java, where there was tea-drinking
on the eve of the squadron’s departure for
Sydney. The Governor and Lady Somers
had luncheon with the Admiral, and departed
before the first lot of guests mounted the
gangway for the afternoon, which was spent
in chat and dancing. The dance music was
supplied by a girls’ jazz band of local origin,
and the ship’s own band gave on deck a pro-
gramme of unsyncopated music. The guests
were received by Admiral Kayser, Captain
Graaf, Col. Wright, the Dutch Consul, and
Mrs. Wright, the last-named in fur-trimmed
nutmeg-brown tweed and felt hat. There
were bouquets for the Consul’s wife, and also
for Mrs. Delprat, mother of Douglas
Mawson’s lady, and for Mrs. Scarfe, wife
of the Dutch Consul in Adelaide. These
posies dangled the national colors —red, white
and blue.
Madame Joy McArden, on the eve of her
return to Europe, launched the 21st annual
show of the Society of Women Painters.
Mrs. F u 11-
wood Watson,
the president,
introduced the
singer, hand-
ing her a posy
of pansies and
boronia. In
addition to the
pictures the
show includes
charming
specimens of
hand - painted
china, some
pottery and a
piece of sculp-
ture by the
late Margaret
Bask erville.
One of the
painters repre-
sented is Mrs.
J. T. Tweddle,
pictured here.
She was a student at the National Gallery
under Bernard Hall and the late Fred
MoCubbin, and has exhibited in London. In
this city two years ago a display of her
canvases at the Arlington Gallery attracted
a good deal of attention. She has a ver-
satile grasp of subjects and means of expres-
sion, leaning strongly to the French impres-
sionist school. Mrs. Tweddle and her daugh-
ter Betty are at present visiting Sydney,
where the painter means to do some sketch-
ing. Both Mrs. Tweddle’s girls are musi-
cians, and Shirley recently won a scholar-
ship at the Uni. Con.
The usual combination of bridge party and
bazaar was the means of strengthening the
funds of the Convalescent Home for Women
at Clayton, which has not gone a-begging
for years and years. The A.W.N.L. club-
rooms were lent for the occasion, and some
magnificent flowers from the gardens of Mrs.
Arthur Bloomfield, Gisborne, and Mrs. lan
Currie, Seven Creeks, figured on the flow Ter-
stall. Chief engineers were Mrs. W. G.
Sharp, president; Mrs. J. W. Springthorpe,
organiser; Mrs. David Blair, secretary; and
Mrs. H. Colman, treasurer.
Bridge with the usual charity trimmings
of sales of sweets, cakes and flowers added
£lOO to the funds of the Children’s Aid
Society last week. Mrs. Alex. Stewart’s
home at Malvern was the scene of the party.
The Arts and Crafts Society’s show is
rich in examples of the nearly-lost art of
tapestry. Mrs. Charles Courtney’s contri-
bution is a narrow panel depicting a land-
scape, woven on an upright loom, in the
mediaeval manner. Gladys Owen, of Sydney,
shows a cushion-cover in petit point. There
are also embroidered pictures in silk, a
charming specimen having as its motif a
crusader on a white charger. Raffia has
been woven into pictorial patterns by the
clever fingers of E. A. Austin. Miss E. H.
Butchart has woven by hand a cocoa-colored
brocaded linen with which she has uphol-
stered an easy-chair. The hand-painted
china is chiefly by pupils of Miss Tompkins.
Some of the pieces show a leaning towards
Chinese and Japanese methods of ornament.
The Arts and Crafts Society of N.S.W.
has contributed a collection of china, leather
and other articles. This year the exhibits
are arranged on tables instead of in glass-
cases, an improvement from everybody’s
point of view.
The H. T. Higsons’ garden at Brighton
was the setting for a fete organised by the
local auxiliary of the R.V.1.8. last week.
The weather was perfect and the fair was
prettily staged. The Institute’s orchestra
made music, and there was folk-dancing by
the boys and girls of the Institute’s school.
To shore up the finances of the Tweddle
Baby Hospital and Home of Mothercraft
the Old Lauristonian’s am. dram. soc. per-
formed C. K. Munro’s comedy “At Mrs.
Beam’s” at the Playhouse recentlly. Alice
Smith was the producer, and leading roles
were played by Arthur Davies, Kathleen
Fethers, Leila Pape and Frank Nelson. Mrs.
J. W. Springthorpe headed the sellers of
lollipops, programmes and flowers. Margaret
Fox was ticket sec., and the “Ryth' Imps”
filled in intervals with jazz.
With Lady Somers in the chair, the
auxiliaries of St. Vincent’s Hospital had an
annual tallying last week. It was reported
that the score or so of working bands had
raked in £7107, which was £3OOO above the
previous year’s total. The ladies who serve
in the Little Green Shop attached to the
institution made profits that enabled them
to endow a bed at a cost of £5OO, and another
benefaction of the same sort is well on the
way to realisation.
The Gentlewomen’s Aid Society held a
fair at Malvern Town Hall last week, when
knitted garments, samples of fine stitchery,
fancy articles, jams, preserves, cakes and
sweets were offered for sale. Lady Somers
started the sale and commended the work
of the society, which now helps 125 ladies
to make a living. Mrs. Tremearne is the
president, and Olive Davies the secretary.
The last two sales netted £7OO. To encour-
age the attainment of a high standard in
needlecraft prizes are offered.
One of the halves of the Housewives’
Association put on a course of lectures on
thrift during the week, and there were
crowded audiences of women, who got sage
advice on how to cut down domestic expen-
diture while continuing to feed the brute.
Mrs. Norman Barrett boiled the kettle at
Salerno, Toorak, and invited many friends
to drink tea as a welcome home to her
mother, Mrs. W. a’Beckett, just returned
from an overseas sojourn of 18 months with
her husband and the younger members of
the family. The hostess wore a sapphire-
blue coat over a frock of figured chiffon
topped by blending straw millinery.
After several years’ illness the wife of
Dr. Bob Strong passed away at their home
at Belgrave, among Melbourne’s hills, last
week. She was a daughter of the late Dr.
Hugh Boyd, of Bendigo, and' was a member
of the nursing staff at Melbourne Hospital
before her marriage. Her death will be
deplored by a large circle of friends, for she
was as likeable as she was pretty.
There was a bridge party and a sale of
work at Lovell House the other day to help
the establishment, which provides residence
for governesses and the like seeking employ-
ment at the lowest possible cost.
Walter Kirby, the tenor, who is going to
England to have gramophone records made
of his voice, was guest of honor at a party
at Mrs. W. J. Wearne’s home at Irving-road,
Toorak, the other afternoon. Mr. Kirby,
Mona Nugent and Mrs. C. B. Moore sang,
and Mrs. James Alston presented the tenor
with a cheque as a farewell gift from many
friends.
Norman Bennett, a tenor who has sung
on the concert platform and in oratorio in
this city, and who for the last 18 months
has been studying in the U.S.A., has won
a four-years’ scholarship at the Eastman
School of Music, Rochester, New York.
Mrs. Edith Smart, who is in charge of
the Women Painters’ Society’s show
at the Athenseum Gallery, lately re-
turned from a trip to Thursday Island.
She had access. to a private museum
in which are a quantity of native
weapons, dresses and so forth, and was
introduced to the boat-building yard where
the little brown men of Nippon make their
luggers. Of course she visited the Quetta
Cathedral, which contains relics of the liner
that was wrecked on an uncharted rock in
the vicinity long ago. Here are preserved the
ship’s flag, the copper compass-box (which
was for a time used as a font) and other
mementoes.
Squadron-leader Palstra, M. 0., one of the
victims of the RlOl tragedy, was a South
African by birth, and the son of a Salva-
tion Army officer. He established a fine
record in the A.F.C. in France, and an
equally good one for character, industry and
ability at our Uni., where he graduated after
the war. He was one of the star men of
the R.A.A.F., and was on board the airship
as representative of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment.
The R. D. Bakcwells, of S.A., were enter-
tained by Mrs. Hylton Dale, mother of Mrs.
Bakewell, at afternoon tea at the Quamby
Club last w 7 eek.


PLAIN AS A
PIKESTAFF
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a‘Mephisto’
Copying Pencil.
It lasts much longer
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
/I
THE POPULAR
~ COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc,
L. & C. HARDTMUTH. of "KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame,
London Office —2‘J. Klngswoy. W.C.2
Austra ian Representative -
JOHN MACDOUGALL. P.O. Box 166. SYDNEY,
THINK o/Sfie LAKES
NOW . . . .
Think of the boating, the fishing, the surfing
of the mirrored reflections in the placid blue waters of
the lakes of the golden sunshine and the fragrance of
the green bush of the tinkling music of the bellbirds
of the muffled roar of the Southern Ocean along the
white curving sweep of the Ninety-mile Beach.
Think,.,.and then ACT. Plan your next holiday
at the GIPPSLAND LAKES, the most picturesque
chain of lakes in Australia.
A fast and comfortable train service from Melbourne connects at
Sale or Bairnsdale with steamer or car services to the Lakes.
And the accommodation is excellent.
Booking and all information at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY; OR QUEEN'S WALK, MELBOURNE.
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5/ including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday .. 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLU S T RATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis : In the coastal town of
Ulawarra, Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is brought up by Mary West,
and begins work shovelling at C. J.
Grey and Co.’s cokeworks. At work one
day he sees Alma Grey and idealises her
as the unattainable. Subsequently, he
meets May Harland, a bright, ener-
getic _ girl, who has converted Mrs.
Blessington’s shop in Ulawarra into
a paying business, and whom Mrs.
West, before her death, had hoped he
would marry. ,They become intimate,
but May declines to marry him, tell-
ing him that she has had other lovers
and urging him to go after his ideal
girl. Helped by Basil Wellington, who
runs the local “Guardian,” Jimmy has
decided upon journalism as his life
work, and secures a position on a city
paper, the “Times.” May wins recogni-
tion as a singer, and goes abroad. When
she returns Jimmy again presses her
to marry him, but once more she
declines, and he, for his part, declines
her offer to take him round the world
as her publicity agent. Jimmy realises
that, though he is very fond of her,
she really does not stir his feelings
as Alma Grey had done. Meanwhile,
Grey has been bankrupted, and Jimmy
has lost trace of the family.
CHAPTER XXVl— {Continued).
THE hour for parting came all too soon.
May was due in London in a few
months; she wished for another week
of clear rest and intended spending a full
month with her mother and brothers in
Bendigo. She was due for final concerts
at Adelaide and Perth on her way to Eng-
land. After dinner on the final day they
went to the verandah. She lay in the ham-
mock and Jimmy sat by her side swinging
her.
“I won’t see you off, Jimmy,” she said;
“I won’t even go as far as Mornington
station. We’ll just part at the gate here
like we used to. I suppose it’ll be a long
time before I see you again, and then,
probably, you’ll have met th’e real girl and
you’ll be a respectable married man.”
Humor broke in upon the pathetic. “With
side whiskers,” she added with a gurgle,
“and a frock coat, buying cabbages in the
market on Friday nights. Look here,
Jimmy,” she broke in seriously. “I Want
you to remember that you’re free, free as
air. If you meet a girl you love, marry
her without a thought of me except what
pals we’ve been and what splendid times
we’ve had together. I won’t consider my-
self bound to you in the littlest, teeniest
way. I just want one more chance. But
it’ll be the last. If I don’t meet anybody
who can be everything to me inside a
year, it’s Jimmy for me.”
He jumped up. “You promise,” he asked
eagerly.
She gave him dimples in profusion as the
compact of a bargain, and he lifted her out
of her hammock and, holding her in his
arms, kissed her over and over again.
“Confetti for two in twelve months,”
announced Jimmy.
“Perhaps,” mused May. She pulled down
his ear. “Perhaps I won’t be so sorry,
either. Sometimes, you know, Jimmy, I
feel that I expect too much of love.”
Jimmy recalled Mary West’s words. He
told May. “She wanted us to marry, and
when I told her your attitude, she said ‘lf
all women loved their husbands as much
as she loves you, there’d be less unhappi-
ness in the world.’ ”
“She was right there,” agreed May. “I
couldn’t think more of a man than I do
of you—and yet I don’t feel what I should.
Perhaps no man can make me feel what
I want. What an awful tragedy it would be
if that is so! Fancy going through life
praying and hoping for something that
doesn’t exist. But I do want love. I’ve
been very happy with you, but it isn’t love.
Some day I want to be the wife of some-
body I love and have my kiddies and get
right out of the bright lights. But here I
am just picking up the crumbs of love that
fall from the rich girl’s table.”
She sat herself on Jimmy’s knee. “I’m
an ungrateful pig, Jimmy,” she cried in a
burst of penitence. “You’ve been such a
dear to me. and here I am whining because
I want something else.”
At midnight they wont out to the road.
He had bidden good-bye to Odette inside.
May took his face in her two hands as she
had that night on the South Coast road,
and kissed him. He gave her a hug, swung
himself on his machine and pedalled off
into the darkness.
CHAPTER XXVII.
For the few weeks following May’s
departure, Jimmy felt that somebody had
smote him a solar-plexus punch that left
effects which would not wear off. He did
not go off his food; but he took no pleasure
in it.
Stan Carlisle, whose fiat-studio he now
shared, guessed the reason of Jimmy’s
despondency, though he did not know the
position of affairs between them. His idea
was that Jimmy was in love with May and
that May had kept him at arm’s length.
He did his best to interest Jimmy and turn
his thoughts, but Jimmy refused to be
comforted. When Stan held his usual Sun-
day-night symposium, where men in long
ties—sometimes a few ugly respectable
women and a few pretty disreputable ones
—met to decide the future of art, literature
and humanity, Jimmy had been an inter-
ested participant. Now they bored him.
On the third Sunday he disappeared after
tea.
“Where’s Jimmy to-night?” asked the
visitors.
“Ought to be back by now,” explained
Stan. “He went out to get some cigars.
Looks as if he’d picked up some tart. I
hope she’ll make him feel a bit better.
Poor old Jimmy’s been worrying awfully
lately.”
“What’s wrong?” somebody inquired.
“Money matters,” said Stan shortly. He
knew that would stop further curiosity.
But Jimmy had not embarked upon any
adventure. He had even failed to notice
the glad eyes with which the Sunday-night
streets are illuminated. He walked com-
pletely round a block; then jumped on a
tram. He smiled grimly when he noticed
that he had taken a car to the spot where
so many had thrown themselves from the
heights to the rocks 200 feet below—“ The
Suicides’ Express.”
Jimmy did not feel suicidal, but he felt
deeply angered with himself for haying
permitted May to leave. The further the
incidents of life at Mornington receded into
perspective, the more glaring appeared the
opportunities he had missed. He had been
too slack in his lovemaking; instead of
arguing with her, he should have swept
her off her feet by sheer force of insistent
passion. He had given her time to think
at a time when she was wavering. He
should never have allowed her to part
from him; he should have taken that press-
agent’s job; what did it matter what the
world might think so long as he could
win her? She had given him an opening to
build upon the foundation he had laid so
surely during the holiday. Another couple
of months’ constant companionship, and she
would have found him a necessity to. her
peace of mind. He was a half-hearted
lover; an arrant incompetent. He did not
deserve her.
Jimmy spent a miserable week of self-
recrimination and it was not until May
was half-way to Colombo that he began to
recover his spirits. He remembered Wel-
lington’s advice; once more he took to work
instead of' to drink.
Outside the regular round of daily
journalism, Jimmy still kept up his associ-
ation with “The Ishmaelite” and one or
two other weeklies. He continued to w r rite
verse and occasionally short stories. He
did not need the money now. His earnings
sufficed for his wants and more, without
trying, he had saved three hundred pounds
—enough, the thought suddenly struck him,
to take him through America to Europe
and back, with May’s personally conducted
tour through unknown Paris. The more he
thought of it the more desirable the scheme
appeared. In six months or so he would
go. The “Times” would give him leave of
absence—he was sure of that—and by the
end of the half-year he would have saved
something for emergencies. Meanwhile,
work.
He turned to “Sunlight Sam,” a series
he had been doing for “The Ishmaelite.”
Already he had written half a dozen verses
of the “Sunlight,” songs of the sun on the
beaches, on the mountains, on the plains
out back, on the rivers in their glory of a
good season, of the rivers in their days of
tribulation when drought was on the land.
The central idea of the sunlight was pre-
served, but it was merely an atmosphere.
Through all ran a set of characters, quaint
and humorous and typically Australian, and,
standing out above all, a man and a girl
who loved.
“You can go on giving us as many ‘Sun-
light Sams’ as you like if they’re up to the
level of the others,” said the editor of “The
Ishmaelite.”
He had written nothing during May’s
visit. Now he recalled the order and
plunged fanatically into the task of con-
tinuing the series. It was just the old, old
story of a man and a maid, but it was told
in a way so original and at once so pathetic
and so humorous that it reached the public
more surely than many of his better verses
had done.
Usually Jimmy had his meals with Stan
at the Procope, an unassuming restaurant
in a back street which was deemed
Bohemian because there were dominoes on
the tables and spaghetti on the menu. The
art students swore by it as the only place
in Sydney that could turn out a decent
meal; likewise it was cheap: you could get
three courses and a cup of tea for one
and three.
One evening when May had been gone
about four months, Jimmy was doing the
annual Wheatgrowers’ Conference. It was
the last day, and the members, being nearly
all from the country, had no homes to go
to. So, instead of adjourning at five, after
the manner of city men in conclave, they
decided to continue their business and did
not. break up until seven.
Jimmy was too late to join the crowd at
the Procope. He was hungry and walked
into the nearest tearoom, a place he had
never visited previously. He took a seat
at a vacant table, picked up the menu and
was . still scanning it when he felt that a
waitress was standing by his side. He
looked up to give his order. The girl was
Alma Grey.
She wore her hair up now, of course.
Her dress was the lavender uniform favored
by the establishment. Her figure was more
womanly. But ten years had altered her
little. As Jimmy recognised her, the ten
years seemed to have been swept away
completely. There was the same skin and
the same hair—one a light and the other
dark of the same brown; there was the
same flush of the dusk rose in her cheeks;
there were the same dark ruby lips; there
were the same bright eyes and there was the
same firm square jaw.
Jimmy was really delighted to meet her.
He was not thrilled. No thought of a
restoration of the old-time romance crossed
his brain. He merely rejoiced in his heart
that he was meeting a girl whom he held in
high regard, a friend of his boyhood and
one who had eluded his quest for so long.
“Why,” she looked hard at him and then
gave him a smile of welcome, “it’s Mr.
Packington!”
“Good evening, Miss Grey. I’d been
wondering what had become of you all
these years.”
“I’ve been living in Melbourne until last
month,” she replied, looking a trifle serious.
He did not pursue the subject. Her pre-
sent occupation indicated that “old C.J.”
had not been able to “come back”; that his
bankruptcy had left him in a position from
which he had not been able to recover. The
battle had been to the strong, and, as
Jimmy himself had been the champion until
Patsy came along with his punch, so had
C. J. Grey suffered the knock-out from
the Three C’s.
But he and Alma were equals now. The
barrier between them had been demolished.
That dress of lavender made her an eligible,
free to give him her hand in friendship.
Jimmy wanted no more. By reason of her
calling she was nearer to him now than
she had ever been. He wished her to be
nearer; one to whom he could meet on the
equal ground of mutually recognised intelli-
gence and mutually recognised regard. But
there was not the slightest element of
love in the desire he felt for closer acquaint-
ance. Had he learned that she was about
to become the wife of some fellow whom he
knew to be decent, say Stan Carlisle, he
would have felt really glad.
He could not make an appointment with
her; to suggest it on a chance meeting like
this would savor of gallantry. Besides,
there was probably some man in the back-
ground in Melbourne, if not here; a girl
as attractive as Alma could not fail to
have a score of admirers, one favored above
the rest. He spoke to her as long as her
duties would permit. Then he left.
“I hope I’ll see you again, Mr. Packing-
ton,” she said. “I can’t forget that you
saved my life.”
Jimmy had not thought of the incident
on the Illawarra beach. He laughed.
“Some day perhaps I’ll tell you the
secret of that rescue.”
“What secret?” she asked, her brows
knitting with perplexity.
“Never mind; I have a confession. Some
day I’ll make it fully and without reserve
and throw myself on the mercy of the
court.”
She smiled and Jimmy noted that her
smile was a friendly one. “Well, I’ll be
ready to sit in judgment; but, really, I
don’t know what on earth you’re talking
about.”
She gave him his ticket. “Good-bye,”
she said, holding out a plump little brown
hand.
Jimmy went to the Lalla Rookh tea-
rooms several times for his meals during
the following months. He was always
annoyed when he found Alma’s table filled.
He found that she was not merely a wait-
ress, but had an interest in the concern.
She and the proprietress had worked side
by side in a Melbourne tearoom, had be-
come friends and grown to recognise each
other’s ability in management. So it was
that when a stroke of luck enabled Emily
Marlton to open the Lalla Rookh in Pitt-
street, she considered Alma as a possible
assistant. So much had the business
developed in six months that she wrote
over to Melbourne and offered Alma a
quarter share to join her.
Jimmy learned this and other facts from
Alma. He learned that there was no
romance current in Alma’s life; further,
that she was very lonely in Sydney. Her
old girl friends, such as she wished to meet,
had all married and been scattered to
various parts of Australia. Only one or
two remained available, and, as they each
possessed a number of more or less snobbish
acquaintances, Alma had not the freedom
with them that she would have wished. He
learned further that old G‘,J:. w*as still
living; he had a small estate-agent’s shop
in one of the Melbourne suburbs. From
what he could gather from Alma, Jimmy
understood that his old employer just about
contrived to make ends meet.
“And your sister?”
“She’s in the West,” replied Alma, and
turned the subject.
Jimmy knew that the Lalla Rookh closed
at eight. He determined to see Alma away
from business hours. Conversation was
necessarily scrappy when, at any moment,
she might have to leave to attend another
customer.
One Sunday evening he waited far down
the street on the other side, so that. he
might see her come out. When she did, he
walked rapidly towards her that he might


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
mt
ap
a
w
MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS!
QUEENSLAND
IS CALLING
’"THE great northern State beckons to your product these
* difficult times, for Queensland is the bright spot in the
Commonwealth just now. If you would exploit the splendid
market offered by the Brisbane metropolitan area you must
advertise in
THE SUNDAY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT WEEKLY.
This journal of character and distinction goes into the homes
of the people at a time when they have leisure to read, and
circulates mainly in the metropolitan area. It is read by a
majority of the readers of the several dailies published during
the week in Brisbane, and is companion journal to
THE DAILY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST NEWSPAPER.
Rate cards and particulars from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., Queen Street. Brisbane; and
N.S.W. BRANCH: 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
pretend to meet her accidentally. He was
half-way across the street before she saw
him.
“Good evening, Mr. Packington. I’m just
off. Isn’t it a shame anybody should have
to work on such a glorious day?”
The same thought had often struck
Jimmy when he was firing her father’s coke-
ovens. The same thought had often struck
the wheelers at Keira Main, and, according
to report, they had a habit of finding an
excuse for a one-day strike in particularly
tempting weather.
“Why didn’t you take a day off?” he
asked. “You’re one of the bosses.”
“That’s all the more reason why I don’t ”
she replied. “We can’t afford to take
chances. We did a big turnover this after-
noon-drinks and sundaes and ice-creams.
ou can’t make a do of a business if you
neglect it. Sunday’s the only day there’s
ever an opportunity of a holiday—Miss
Marlton and I take turns, and I had the
luck to have last Sunday; it rained all day.
And now it’s home and start work in earnest
to-morrow morning.”
“Is home so fascinating that you scamper
right off there in such a hurry?” He was
careful that there was no note of tenderness
m his voice, no suggestion of anticipatory
intimacy.
I can t say that it is. Do you know the
suburban boarding-house?” Her pent-up
anguish got the better of her pride. “The
fifteen-shilling-a-week bed-and-breakfast one
—Surry Hills, but we call it Moore Park
it sounds nicer. It isn’t a very alluring
place to a woman after a day’s work. But
when it’s the best you can afford, I sup-
pose you oughtn’t to be too critical.”
He tried to say something which would
be sympathetic without hurting her.
“Later on, I expect to get something
better. The business is going pretty well,”
she went on. “But just now I’m taking care
not to spend a penny more than I can help.
When you’ve had some experience in being
hard up it makes you careful—even mean.”
Ive had some of the experience you
mention,” he said quietly.
“Oh, I beg your pardon,” she interposed
quickly. I didn’t mean to say anything
that would hurt you.”
He laughed. “That’s all right,” he
replied. “I come from a class of people to
whom poverty’s no disgrace, though it’s
frightfully inconvenient. I never suffered
like a lot of the youngsters around me
but that was solely because of Mum—
Mrs. West. I was nothing to her, just the
son of a friend, yet she toiled and slaved
to look after me and bring me up.”
. Alma looked at him with some admira-
tion. She knew his position to-day. She
had had opportunities of late of studying
his bearing and his mental equipment at
short range. Since she had herself entered
industrial life she had had many surprises
Jhefree sacrifice of Mrs. West was another!
She must have been a very noble
woman,” Alma remarked.
She was that,” he said with decision.
iou don t know how she suffered trying
to enable me to take up the State school
scholarship I won. It was hopeless from
the outset, but she spent nights endeavoring
to scheme some way out.”
“And you never went on?” said Alma
pathetically.
“No; that was before I had the honor
of taking you out of the surf. I had to
earn a living.”
“But couldn’t you find anything better
than working at the coke?”
‘What is there better for a youngster as
far as wages go? I might have found some-
thing genteel, like an office boy. Then I’d
have been a clerk when I was twenty, earn-
ing twenty-five shillings a week. At the
works I got two pounds five, before that.”
“It seems dreadful,” said Alma.
“Not half so dreadful as a lot of other
things that take place every day, things
that are so familiar that people don’t notice
them. In the Middle Ages nobody evex
questioned the justice of the rack and the
torture-chamber. We’ve outgrown that,
but we still countenance the mental tor-
ture-chamber and nobody notices.”
“But how did you manage to get to
your present position?” she asked.
“Thanks to Mum and Wellington, the
editor of the ‘lllawarra Guardian.’ ”
“I met him years ago,” she pondered.
“He was a friend of Major Dalgety.”
_ They had reached Elizabeth-street. She
intended to take the car, instead of walking
as she usually did. She had confessed her
poverty by word of mouth, but to flaunt
it by walking was another matter.
He had it on the tip of his tongue to
ask her to go for a trip to Manly. It was
a fine warm night with just the cool breeze
that comes in Sydney with the sunset. But
he feared that she might misinterpret his
motives, and, now that he was satisfied that
there was no other man in the case, he
determined to be more circumspect than
ever. He saw her to the tram and walked
back to Stan’s.
The influence of Nietzche was the sub-
ject of a warm debate.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
When Jimmy had been about six months
in Sydney he found that it is necessary for
a stranger who would maintain his peace
of mind to recast all his ideas of rigid
and wrong. It was with reluctance that he
was forced to realise that he was living in
the most dishonest city in the British
Empire, possibly in the world. It was not
the wholesale corruption in political and
municipal and departmental life which made
him most indignant; it was the fact that
the public seemed quite content to permit
the continuance of the system and to con-
done the crime of the individual—even at
times to endorse it by sending him back to
some exalted public office after he had been
exposed. This easy-going toleration—an
obvious inheritance of the convict system—
it seemed impossible to reform.
“They said I’d got a hundred quid over
putting that contract through,” indignantly
remarked Joe Prince to a crowd of
a dozen in an ornate city bar one
night. “A hundred quid!” he re-
peated contemptuously. “They
seem to think I’m to be got
for the price of a member
of Parliament!”
“‘Why; she looked hard at him and then gave him a
smile oj welcome, ‘it’s Mr. Packington!’”
Joe regarded him-
self as belonging to a
caste higher than that
of the member of
Parliament. He was
the Great Intermedi-
ary, the man who stood between little
pawns in the game like legislators and
aldermen and those who aimed to secure an
advantage. If you wished to obtain a con-
tract for supplying the Government or a
municipality you would not approach a
member or an alderman. The doctrine of
direct action was not adhered to among
those who knew how such things were
accomplished. You looked up Joe Prince,
who would consult his price-book of various
public men and tell you what the job would
cost.
But Joe had a jealous regard for the dig-
nity of his position. Never in his career
had he deigned to accept as his commission
an amount so low as would satisfy a mere
member of Parliament. Such an action he
would regard as a sincere Labor leader
would regard blacklegging; as Rodin or
Leighton might have regarded turning out
a masterpiece to advertise soap.
The press had many times endeavored to
sheet home some of these multitudinous
rumors of corruption. It succeeded in doing
no more than defend suits for libel. Each
of these it won, but only on the ground of
fair comment. The evidence elicited noth-
ing new to prove the cases against the
guilty. And in each instance the costs
amounted to some hundreds of pounds.
To throw away large sums of money on
indecisive actions was of little value. The
press was chaiy of touching corruption
charges unless there was available proof up
to the hilt.
The Government had just granted a long
lease of certain land on terms which had
excited bitter and hostile comment from a
minority of the House—the minority which,
the public said, had not participated in the
distribution of largesse arranged by Joe
Prince. This was a bigger scandal than
usual; it appeared to be more soluble than
usual—so many were obviously concerned.
Jimmy, who had now been on political
work for several months, persuaded the
news-editor to give him a chance to investi-
gate. Jimmy sought the assistance and
advice of Mick Milahan, one of the ablest
detectives in the force and a man to whom
Jimmy had become greatly attached.
“For God’s sake, don’t ask me to help
you, Jimmy,” said Mick. “It’s as much
as my job’s worth if it got out. How long
do you think they’d stand me if it became
known that I was up against that push? I
don’t mind giving you a tip now and then
confidentially, but I’m out of it, see? I’ve
got a wife and kids to consider.”
All the same, Mick Milahan gave Jimmy
the name of a dealer in Newtown; and,that
he might be fortified, showed him the man’s
record in the rogues’ gallery, and gave
him a few more details regarding his past
which had not been expiated. Jimmy inter-
viewed the dealer and got nothing out of
him beyond the name of another man.
Jimmy made inquiries regarding the move-
ments of that man and picked up two or
three other things. After four days’ solid
work of investigation he made a big dis-
covery.
The name of Roger Charles cropped up.
Jimmy had known Roger Charles at Illa-
warra. He had been the secretary of the
Trimmers’ Union. He was a strong Labor-
ite, a determined man, ready at all times
to fight for the rights of the men, ready
at all times to listen to reason from the
other side. Roger Charles represented to
Jimmy the best side of Labor in industrial
and political life. Against his honesty there
was no breath of suspicion. He was one
of the few who had the confidence of all
classes. Four or five years ago he had
come to the city, where he held a billet as
an official of the party, with the certainty
of nomination for the first safe vacancy.
Jimmy made his way to Charles’s house in
Paddington.
Roger was expected home every minute,
and Jimmy had half an hour’s talk to Meta
Charles. When they were at school to-
gether she was a tiny toddler whom he had
sometimes carried in his arms. She had
grown into a charming and attractive girl
of eighteen, good looking rather than
pretty, and apparently possessed of intelli-
gence and education above the average.
“Well, Jimmy,” cried Charles as he
entered, “why didn’t you look us up before?
Always glad to see anybody from Illawarra.”
Jimmy murmured some commonplaces
until Meta left the room.
“Roger,” he said, “I’ve come to you for
the strength of that Ball and Weston
grant. I know you know something about
it. I’ve pretty well cornered them with
what I have already, but you can put me
wise to one or two things that still beat
me.”
(Continued on page 45.)


>
H
§
O
C«>H
>Hffi
Hroff
sw
§ H
On time
“ CYMA ” watches can be
relied upon to fcet you there
on time. No fear of bein& a
minute fast or a minute slow.
They are ON TIME ALL
THE TIME and, unlike many
other watches, are absolutely
interchangeable, so that in case
of accident, any spare part is
available to your watchmaker,
allowing him. to &ive you
prompt service at a minimum
cost.
For style and appearance
'‘CYMA” watches have no
equal, as each of the equisite
models is designed to meet the
demand of the most fastidious.
'The World’s Wonder Watch ’
SOLD BY ALL
JEWELLERS
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Tennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenstands
Distinguished Sociat Lifel
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin and her Ex. were at
Esk for the cattle-drafting carnival. They
went up by motor, and were followed by a
long string of private cars, for the weather
was fine and the roads good. Mr. and Mrs.
A. L. Lord and Mr. E. L. Brimstone did the
welcoming. Lady Goodwin was in brown
and biscuit crepe de Chine with a brown hat
trimmed in fawn. Mrs. Lord was in necked
lapis-lazuli blue with a black hat. Mrs.
N. A. H. Campbell wore navy with a French-
grey cloche, Beryl Collins (Nindooimbah)
was in navy, Miss Healy (Sydney) chose
cherry linen and Ann Blundell was in amber
with a cream hat.
This is Miss
Ann Blundell,
dau g h ter of
Mr. and Mrs.
P. A. Blundell,
who wore a 20-
year-old even-
ing gown of
deep cream,
scarlet and
silver bro-
cade, belong-
ing to Mrs.
McDowall, at
the recent
pageant for
the Women’s
War Memorial
at Brisbane.
Over two
thousand kid-
dies were
taken to Sand-
gate by the
Royal Auto-
mobile Club for the annual outing of children
from hospitals, charitable institutions and
creches. Clowns and billygoat carts and re-
freshments amused the youngsters, and aero-
planes circled overhead. Bags of sweets
comforted the return journey to town.
The Repertory people must be congratu-
lated on their choice of a play in
“Rutherford and Son,” which ran for
two nights in Cremorne Theatre. E. J.
Brown, as John Rutherford, senior, gave
an admirable performance, and Babette
Fergusson, as Janet, was next in order
of merit. Gita Sowerby’s play has a
small cast, and the scene is the same all
through, the frocking being of the plainest,
such as would be seen in an old-time Scot-
tish home. Rhoda Felgate produced. In
the audience were Professor and Mrs. Cum-
brae Stewart, Colonel and Mrs. Annand,
Captain and Mrs. E. R. B. Pike, Mrs. Von
Ploennies, Mrs. Eric Waraker, Mrs. Towns-
end, Mrs Viv McCulloch, Mrs. Firmin
McKinnon and Miss Grayson.
The Queensland Press Institute gathered
in the gold-room at the Carlton to welocme
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Edwards and Mr. and
Mrs. ,C. H. Briggs back from Europe. Mr.
A. E. Joseph, the new president, and Mrs.
Joseph, in pastel-pink, received. Mrs.
Edwards was in navy blue, and Mrs. Briggs
in mastic with a fitch fur. Messrs. Edwards
and Briggs gave an account of their travels.
The Stradbroke, lent by G. W. Whatmore,
was the official boat for the opening of the
sailing season under a blue sky. The bright-
hued blazers of the crews and the gay para-
sols of the women aboard the different plea-
sure boats added to the color scheme. Col.
and Mrs. Annand had a party on the Helene;
Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Gibson one on the Nula.
On the Commodore’s yacht Mrs. T. L. Jones
entertained a number of friends, and the
Victor Campbells had 20 guests on the Scotia.
There were also parties on the Jessie and
Taabinga, while the Byrne Harts enter-
tained on the Kareelah.
Robert Connolly, son of the late Mr. H.
Connolly and of Mrs. F. P. Durie, of Bris-
bane, married Gertrude, daughter of the H.
W. Bartons, of Roma, in St. Duke’s Church,
Toowoomba. Sidney Barton, of Buudaberg,
gave his sister away, in royal blue with a
rose-beige hat. The Western Hotel saw the
feasting, and northern N.S.W. sees the
honeymoon.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Hunt Club races at Morphettville saw
a return of wintry weather and a scarcity of
thin frocks. Chairman E. A. Brooks and his
charming wife entertained several hundred
at afternoon tea. Mrs. Brooks wore a fawn
silk jumper suit, and a wide-brimmed brown
straw hat. Lady ll'ore-Ruthven chose a pale
grey frisca ensemble with a toque of the
same. Miss Hope Pritchard, who accom-
panied her, was in a marmot fur coat and
a navy felt hat. The Mayoress wore her
favorite black, a cloth coat trimmed with
astrachan and a close hat of cire straw.
Mrs. W. P. A. Lapthorne was in a pin-spot
black and white georgette, a wide-brimmed
black hat and a tulle scarf.
A visitor from Sydney is Keith Smith’s
lady, who is on a visit to her parents, Mr
and Mrs. D. 11. Smith, of Beulah-road, Nor-
wood. The Mayoress gave a luncheon for her
at the Queen Adelaide Club, and in the
evening entertained a number of friends at
an impromptu dance at her residence, St.
Corantyn, East-terrace.
The Adelaide University has some generous
patrons. Within the past few years Langdon
Bonython, Josiah Symon and his lady, and
T E. Barr-Smith have all given substantial
sums for the erection of new buildings. The
foundation-stone of the Barr-Smith Library
was laid by Mrs. Barr-Smith last week. It
was an impressive ceremony, the professors
all turning out in their academicals,
gathering being a riot of brilliant color. Syd-
ney’s Edgeworth David was in Adelaide for
the event. His Ex. and Lady llore-Ruthven
were present, and all the social lights. After
the stone-laying the Barr-Smiths entertained
at afternoon tea in the Refectory. The
hostess and daughter Ursula both wore the
popular black and white pin-spot georgette.
The engagement is announced of Barbara,
elder daughter of the E. A. Brooks, of
Buckland Park, who is on a visit to Eng-
land, to Robert, only son of Agent-General
Harwell.
St. John’s Church, Halifax-street, was a
blaze of wistaria and peach blossom on
Thursday when Justice Parsons’s son Phillip
and Elsie Barlow were married. Among well-
known figures present were Chief Justice
Murray and Langdon Bonython. The grand-
children of the latter keep him busy attend-
ing weddings; Phillip makes the * fourth in
four months.
There was quite a society gathering at the
Palais Royal in aid of the Girl Guides’
Association. His Ex. and Lady H'ore-
Ruthven came along (the latter is Chief
Commissioner) attended by Captaih William-
son, Lieut Robertson-Aikman and Tommy
Barr-Smith, who has just been made assist-
ant secretary to his Ex. The Mayor and
Mayoress brought a party, and so did the
Barr-Smiths.
The Harry Brays have returned after a
seven months’ trip abroad.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
When the Governor was declaring the Wild
Flower Show open the Town Hall was so
crowded that it was hard to see exhibits
between the spectators’ shoulders. The scar-
let glow of a basket of verticordia attracted
the eye, and a queer hakea rearing its sturdy
spiked leaves was noticeable. Among the
hundreds of specimens were sprays of mauve
firebrush, swamp daisies of pure white beauty,
amber-tinted hibbertia and a quaint laehnos-
tachy looking like a cactus made of flannel.
Yellow and black ’roo-paws waved their
fingers at their more common red and green
brethren, and blue leschenaultia put the
other members of its family in the shade.
On view also were sketches and tinted
photos, pressed flowers and polished wood
ornaments. In the craft section Joan Heath’s
baskets, woven from our pestilential Guild-
ford grass, were things of beauty and utility.
Among travellers to return home this week
were Mrs. Hayes, with daughters Eileen and
Sheila, and the Leo O’Connor couple, who
were married in London a few months ago.
Mrs. O’Connor, nee Daphne Byron, is a niece
of Lady Campion.
Sweet-peas and stocks were gay and frag-
rant in the Repertory .Club’s rooms for the
monthly musical afternoon. Ethel Treadgold,
in a brown turnout, lifted her soprano in
several numbers; Maud Stubbs, in citron-
shaded coat and hat, sang sweetly; George
Haywood’s expressive baritone was heard to
advantage in “The Lute Player,” “Didn’t It
Rain?” and other numbers ; and Horace Deans
fiddled beautifully to Mrs. Henry Greig’s
accompaniment. Mrs. Meares arranged 'the
programme and did the other accompanying.
Mrs. Hugh Plaistowe, Mrs. S. J. Anderson,
Dorothy Bird, Joan Cariss, Mrs. Kenny,
Edna Russell and Mrs. Goyne Miller were
among the listeners.
Mrs. F. E. Gibson, Mayoress of Fremantle,
broke a bottle of champagne over the pro-
peller boss of puss moth Fleetwing, the
latest addition to the Wings, Ltd., family.
Numbers of cars journeyed out to Maylands
to watch the skyriding, and a batch of guests
were given tea at the ’drome.
Phyllis May Turvey, daughter of P. J.
Turvey, of the Technical School, who bagged
an honors degree in Arts at our Uni. in
1925 plus a travelling scholarship, is the
only Australian candidate to win a Teacher’s
Diploma for Internal Students at the London
Uni. for this year. There were 450 in the
list.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This portrait shows Clive Errol Lord,
director of the Speck’s Museum, sec. to the
trustees of the
Botanical Gar-
den s, chair-
man of the
Field Natural-
ists’ Club, Fel-
low of the
Linnsean So-
ciety of Lon-
don and of
the Tas. Insti-
tute of Archi-
tec t s, and
holder of the
Tas. Royal
Society’s
medal for ser-
vices in the
a d vancement
of science. Mr.
Lord is a Tas-
manian of the
fourth genera-
tion.
His Ex., attended by private-sec. N. E.
Somers and Captain and Mrs. Stoyles,
crossed the water to be present at the
Clarence municipal ball at the Bellerive
Town Hall. Warden Chapman and J. Mur-
doch, M.L.C., received the v.-r. party. About
250 guests mustered in the hall. Decorations
and supper were the work of a ladies’ com-
mittee. and the Ritz band made the music.
The O’Grady has thrown himself heart
and soul into tiis duties since he came to the
Speck, and he is working double tides during
his last weeks of office. Two dog-and-poultry
shows are among the numerous things that
have demanded his attention. One gathers
that his Ex. thinks we ought to improve our
standard of dog-breeding.
j. Glanville Bishop waved his conductor’s
baton with a just pride at the Orchestral
Society’s concert—he presented two works
by the native-born Alfred Bowden. 3. he
composer came down from the North to_be
there, and the audience asked for more after
the “Festive Prelude” and the V alse
Bohemiennc” had been given. The programme
also included works by Percy Grainger and
Mona Mcßuruey. His Ex. and party
were among the listeners, and the committee
and some of the performers gave a supper to
the Bowdens at the Grotto by way of a finish
to the evening’s entertainment.
The Motliercraft Home at Newtown had
a birthday party at which gifts in pound
form, either money or goods, were gratefully
received. Mrs. H. S- Baker, wife of the
Attorney-General, opened proceedings, after
which visitors inspected the premises and the
healthy-looking infants. The tea-table sported
a fine birthday-cake. All the arrangements
make for hygiene and homeliness.
Jack Broadbent, the cheerful and hard-
working chief announcer at Hobart’s broad-
casting station, 7ZL, attended a theatre-
party during the interval at the Prince
the other night, and was handed a
dilly-bag containing between £2O and £3O,
“as a slight acknowledgment of the splen-
did job you made of putting over the cricket
Tests.” Charlie Eady, M.L.C., spoke the
remarks and delivered the goods. “Uncle
David” said his thanks neatly, and promptly
handed the wallet to the sec. of the C.E.M.S.
Unemployment Relief Committee “to help
find a job for some chap in need.”


ROTO HU A
where mineral
Waters give health
and happy Maori
people laugh and
Live
s
is
OME for health .... or just for pleasure to the
extraordinary thermal marvels of Nature. Rotorua is
richly endowed with the waters of health. Well-equipped,
modern bath-houses, beautiful gardens and parks, electrical
and massage departments, a highly qualified Government
Balneologist ... all combine to give that greatest gift of
all, HEALTH!
In the words of a visiting Doctor, “ There is probably no
spa in the world as rich in hot mineral waters covering so
wide a range of therapeutic possibilities.”
Come to
NEW ZIEAILANIQ
for a DIFFERENT
Ftoliday
3A
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to —N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand.
Name
Address
SB3A
0
Charles set his teeth. Not a muscle of
his face moved, but Jimmy noted that this
was due to effort.
“What do you know?” asked Charles a
trifle huskily.
Jimmy told him of his discoveries.
Charles rose and closed the door.
“Jimmy, you don’t intend to publish this?”
“Every word of it—and more if I get
what I expect from you.”
Charles did some rapid thinking.
“Jimmy, you’re working for a living.
You’re not a rich man. I suppose you’re
like the rest, only next week’s screw ahead.
Would it be worth fifty quid to forget all
you’ve found out?”
Jimmy felt as he had that night when
Patsy Quirk landed his knock-out blow in
the Illawarra tournament. Roger Charles,
for whose rigid incorruptibility he would
have answered with his life! And here
he was at the confessional, admitting him-
self one of the forces of corruption himself 1
“My God, Roger; you don’t mean to say
you’re in it!”
Jimmy had gone to the man anticipating
that he would gladly assist in cleaning up
the scandal the moment he learned that
he could be of assistance.
Charles hung his head. In a few minutes
he had become haggard and worn. His
lower lip had dropped and he was dribbling
like a baby.
“Roger, I never thought you’d do that!”
said Jimmy. “I’m sorry, very sorry. If
there was any man I’d have sworn to, it
was you.”
Charles sat silent for some minutes. Then
he recovered his self-possession. “It’s all
damned fine to talk about honesty and
square dealing. I used to be honest, I used
to deal square, and what did I get? Two
pounds five a week coal-cutting, when there
was a place. I was bom in the game. The
first thing I can remember I was living in
a hessian humpy. That’s where my mother
kept house and brought up five of us.
“I got out of hessian; but you know how
we lived at Illawarra, when Meta went to
school with you. I tried to be honest; I
worked all I knew to better conditions in a
straight way. What did it lead to? Strikes
and the cutting off of the little wages I got
when I was working. There seemed to be
no end to it. I was offered more than I
could make in six months if I stayed
straight. I took it.
“I didn’t want to go crook, but I’m
damned if I’m going to make my wife go
through what my mother did for the sake
of an abstraction. The public’s done a hell
of a lot for me; why should I bother about
the public? Do you know, Jimmy, when
I was a kiddie I never actually starved,
but it wasn’t often I knew what it was to
feel I’d had enough. Was I going to run
the same risk for my kiddies? No; I
wouldn’t then and I won’t now.
“The money hasn’t gone on drink or
racing or women or anything for me. It’s
gone to make a decent home for my wife,
to bring up my kids as they ought to be
brought up. Jack passed his final examina-
tion last year. He’s a doctor; has a prac-
tice at Glebe. Meta’s a teacher at the
Training College. When I think of him
wheeling in the Keira Main and her slav-
ing for some dairy-farmer and ask myself
if I’m sorry I didn’t go straight, I say ‘No.’ ”
His fury had run itself out. The color
left his face again. “But I suppose it’s all
over now. You’ll blow the whole game in
the ‘Times’ and Jack and Meta and Fanny’ll
know me for what I am. That’s the part
that’ll hurt worst of all.”
“Are you telling me all this for publica-
tion, Roger, or is it confidential?”
Roger’s face lit up. He understood. “It’s
confidential, Jimmy,” he said, rising and
taking Jimmy’s hand.
“But. you oughtn’t to have offered me
that fifty pounds,” added Jimmy.
“I’m sorry. You’re a straighter man than
I am, Jimmy Still, you’ve got no wife
and kids.”
The wife and kids! That was the third
time Jimmy had heard the phrase put for-
ward as the excuse for dishonesty. When
he had chided Dander for permitting the
coalminers to go out over Elijah Moon’s
ridiculous three and six, the secretary had
pleaded his wife and kids a sufficient reason
for silence. Milahan had refused to come
out in the open because of his wife and
kids. Now Charles had quoted them. Was
it only because he was alone in the world,
free from the responsibilities that make for
temptation, that he himself had contrived
to retain his self-respect?
Jimmy wondered. Certainly if he had
married, say, May, and had seen her and
their children wanting, the argument in
favor of going crooked would have seemed
irrefutable. Or if Mum were still alive and
in the same position, would he hesitate
about stepping aside to comfort her? Still,
was it not Mum who had said that to be
a game man was to be a good one? Had
not all these men taken the line of least
resistance, instead of fighting vigorously
but squarely?
Jimmy found no solution to the ques-
tion. The wife and kids remained as the
reasons why three men he knew to be
instinctively honest had crossed the line.
Milahan was afraid. Roger Charles was a
self-confessed boodler. Dander was not
precisely that, but he was just as great a
menace to society when he was willing to
condone a strike costing tens of thousands
of pounds, and involving illimitable misery,
solely because he lacked the courage to tell
the truth.
Jimmy was hurt because Charles had
offered him that fifty pounds; but was he
any the less guilty 1 He himself had thrown
down his job through a bribe of sentiment
which, when all was said and done, was
only one degree less blameworthy than a
bribe of actual cash. He tried to satisfy
hia conscience by telling himself that
Charles’s admissions carried the evidence
in the affair no further, that he was not in
a position to corroborate them, that the
missing links were as far away as ever;
further, in fact, for, if he continued his
investigations, Charles would now warn
everybody involved and all possible sources
of information would dry up.
The enthusiasm which Jimmy had felt
with his craft when he was a mere recorder
of events, a ferreter-out of simple problems,
had sustained a series of shocks now that
he was finding that his written word was
often an arrow shot in the sky to fall where
he knew not. For the first time he felt
it might be more comfortable in one of the
avenues where you stood less chance of
running down more or less innocent pedes-
trian friends with the huge high-powered
car known as the press.
(To be continued next weeh.)
Fire.
There should have been some better suited way
Of ending her —dissolved in golden mist, or cast
On some warm streak of sunset. For she loved
All color so. Have I not seen her stand
Turning an apple in appraising palms,
Exclaiming on its yellows and its red,
As though it were a priceless gem of Ind;
And known her pause, exultant, by a wall
Where bougainvillaea hung a crimson cloak !
Flowers that glowed and jewels steeped in
light
Pleased her much more than any word of
praise.
Her soul fed on all colors, humble, rare;
Crude red geraniums or daffodils,
Pale primrose lamps that lit the halls of
spring.
A soul like hers could not outlast the grey
Of earth, and burial chests and crumbling
stone!
They should have sent her to the burning
ghats --
The moment life went out, that she might rise
In yellow fire- —the close she would have willed
To all her quivering, radiant, wind-blown days,
Floating away in sparks and scented ash,
The only way such spirits can survive!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Dunkeld.
Did I dream while the flames leaped up and
the cinders fell,
And a frozen wind fingered the window
pane?
Did the silence flee at the sound of a distant
bell?
Was there no wind under the eaves, no
wandering rain—
Only the hazy hush of a long summer’s day
Simmered in gold, and the wattle honey-
smelled,
And I heard a bullock-bell in the ranges say,
“Dun-keld ! Dun-keld ! Dun-keld !”
Peak beyond peak the Grampians marched
away
To the world’s end, it seemed, and the
river sang.
Mile beyond mile the fernclad uplands lay
Warm to the noon, and the noonday
music rang
Hesitating and high in the hills again,
In a rhymeless monotone, for the morning
held
No sound so insistent as the slow refrain
Of the bullock-bells in the distance at
Dunkeld.
I saw the cloud and the eagle’s circling flight,
And the blue deeps back of the rocky,
wandering stair,
Where the heat waves shimmer to silver out
of sight.
And the red-gums’ banners droop in the
drowsy air.
Was it fairy land or only a day in spring,
With the bees abroad and the late heath
crimson-belled,
And the river in flood, and my heart remem-
bering,
And the white dust thick by the roadway
at Dunkeld ?
The blue smoke curled from a far-away
camp fire,
The unforgettable incense .of grass-tree
burning;
The dews that threaded their beads on the
fencing wire
Winked in the sun and were gone till the
dew’s returning.
The old glory is over the morning still,
And the old magic, potent as that which
held
Enchantment ever by valley and ridge and
hill
When it’s spring again in the ranges at
Dunkeld.
The blossoming tea-tree sprinkled its fairy
frost
Over the mosses under the mantled trees;
The lizards basked on the reef, and a waver-
ing, lost
Call of a cuckoo floated along the breeze.
All was as ever it was, and a carillon
Of magpies shattered the silence, silver-
belled,
Letting their warbling strains drift one by
one
Till the silvery echoes grew silent at
Dunkeld.
There is wind at the door and sleet on the
window pane;
Low burns the flame—have I been dream-
ing at whiles?
I thought that spring shook down its blos-
somy rain,
And minty warm was the wind down the
long bush miles.
I dreamed —did I dream? It was surely
a summer’s day
When the heavy censers of blossom sway,
honey-smelled.
And all the bullock-bells in the ranges say
“Dun-keld ! Dun-keld ! Dun-keld !’’
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


mm;.:
m
m
mum;-.
m-
mmm
m
m
m
m
'••.■.ywjMMWS;
■mmmv
mm
m
Wmtm
i wm
ms**
wmm*
The Tide Rises while Australia Sleep:
The color menace is a very real danger to Australia.
Asia, our nearest continental neighbor, has a dense and rapidly increasing population.
In Australia, we have slightly over two persons to the square mile. In Asia, they have, in parts, over 300 persons to the square mile.
All history shows that Asia must, from time to time, seek an outlet for its surplus population.
In the past, the Asiatic invasion has been to the west. From time to time, Europe has been overrun by Asiatic hordes, and in this
way the pressure on Asiatic living space has been relieved. \
* * * * * * *
To-day, the position is different.
The European nations are ready and prepared to resist any invasion from the East.
Where, then, is Asia to turn? To the south she sees millions of square miles of unoccupied land, some of it within a few days’ sail.
Is it not inevitable that, when the pressure on Asia reaches breaking point, the overflow must be in our direction?
Read these population figures, and try to realise how almost impossible it would be for us to resist a concerted Asiatic invasion:—
Country.
Population.
Persons per Square Mile.
China
Indo-China
Japan and Dependencies
Asiatic Russia
India
Siam
East Indies
Philippines
457,787,000
12,000,000
83,458,000
39,800,000
247,000,000
1 1,000,000
51,881,000
11,744,000
914,670,000
Average 184.22
2.15
Australia 6,438,000
In view of the above contrasting figures, a demand might be made at any moment—possibly supported by the League of Nations
—that some portion of our vast half-empty continent should be yielded up for settlement by Asia s surplus hordes.
Effective occupation is the only valid title hy which any nation can hope to keep its territories intact.
AT PRESENT OUR ONLY BULWARK IS PROVIDED BY THE STALWART SUGAR WORKERS OF QUEENSLAND.
If this bulwark were to be demolished—as would inevitably happen should any retrograde movement on our part defeat Queensland s developmental progress —•
would overcrowded Asia miss such an opportunity to denounce our White Australia policy and assert a claim to occupy a field by us abandoned?
TtTTNK THF MATTER OUTI
Authorised by the Queensland Sugar Industry Defence Committee, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.


AS WE SAID BEFORE-
Tins Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
In two months Croydo* (N.Q.) field has
yielded 15,0000 z. gold. [l9/5/’BB.]
A Baltimore woman has just died who
could counterpoise half a ton of coal, or
what we pay for as half a ton. She weighed
8501 b. [26/l/’B9.]
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
BROWN (of the Lands, meeting his tailor ): “I was indeed surprised to hear of your
failure. Why, I thought you had secured nearly the whole patronage of the
Civil Service.”
BANKRUPT TAILOH (loq.) : “That’s it! It was the patronage of the Civil Service.”
[5/1/’89.]
During 1887, 52 mining companies with a
total nominal capital of £7,508,000 w r ere
floated in Great Britain to work Australian
mines. The largest established mine of the
year was the Broken Hill Proprietary, with
a capital of £1,200,000. This money is
largely the cause of the silver boom, most
of it having been, in mining parlance,
“banged in again.” [3/3/’BB.]
IN A DRY SEASON.
Draw a wire fence and a few ragged gums
and add some scattered sheep running away
from the train. Then you’ll have the bush
all along the N.S.W. Western line from
Bathurst on.
The railway town mainly consists of a
public-house and a general store, with a
square tank and a schoolhouse on piles in
the nearer distance. The tank stands at
the end of the school and is not many times
smaller than the building itself. It is safe
to call the pub the Railway Hotel, and
stores the Railway Stores, with an
s. A couple of patient, ungroomed hacks
are probably standing outside the shanty
while their masters are inside having a
drink—several drinks. Also it’s safe to draw
a sundowner sitting listlessly on a bench
on the verandah reading The Bulletin.
. The Railway Stores seem to exist only
m the shadow of the pub, and it is impos-
sible to conceive either as being independent
°f the other. There is sometimes a small,
oblong weatherboard building, which, from
its half-obliterated sign, seems to have started
as a rival to the Railway Stores; but the
shutters are up and the place empty.
The only town I saw that differed much
from the above consisted of a log bark
humpy with a clay chimney and a woman
standing at the door throwing out the wash-
up water.
By way of variety the artist might make
a water-color sketch of a fettler’s tent on
the line, with a billy hanging over the fire in
front, and three fettlers standing round fill-
ing their pipes.
Slop sac suits, red faces and old-fashioned
flat-brimmed hats with wire round the brims
begin to drop into the train oil the other
side of Bathurst; and here and there a hat
with three inches of crape round the crown,
which perhaps signifies a death in the family,
and perhaps it doesn’t. Sometimes, I believe,
it only means grease under the band. I
notice that when a bushman puts crape
round liis hat he generally leaves it there till
the hat wears out or another friend dies.
In the latter case lie buys a new piece of
crape. This outward sign of bereavement
usually has a jolly red face beneath it. Death
is about the only cheerful thing in the bush.
We crossed the Macquarie-~-a narrow,
muddy gutter with a dog swimming across
and three goats interested.
A little further on we saw the first sun-
downer. He carried a “royal Alfred,” and
had a billy in one hand and a stick in the
other. He was dressed in a tailcoat turned
yellow, a print shirt and a pair of moleskin
trousers with big square calico patches on
the knees; and his old straw hat was covered
with calico. Suddenly he slipped his swag,
dropped his billy and ran forward, boldly
flourishing the stick. I thought that he was
mad, and was going to attack the train, but
he wasn’t: he was only killing a snake.
Somebody told me that the country was
very dry on the other side of Nevertire. It
is. I wouldn’t like to sit down on it any-
where. The least horrible spot in the bush in
a dry seasoi; is where the green crop is
trying to grow. They talk of settling people
on the land ! Better settle in it. I’d rather
settle on the water; at least, until some
gigantic system of irrigation is perfected in
the West.
Along about Byrock we saw the first shear-
ers. They dress like the unemployed, but
differ from that body in their looks of inde-
pendence. They sat on trucks and wool-
bales and the fence, watching the train, and
hailed Bill and Jim and Tom, and asked
how those individuals were getting on. Here
we came across soft felt hats with straps
round the crowns and full-bearded faces
under them. Also, a splendid-looking black-
tracker in a masher uniform and a pair of
Wellington boots.
One or two square-cuts and stand-up
collars struggle dismally through to the
bitter end. Often a member of the unem-
ployed starts cheerfully out, with a letter
from the Government Bureau in his pocket
and nothing else. H'e has an idea that the
station where he has the job will be within
easy walking distance of Bourke. Perhaps
he thinks there’ll be a cart or a buggy wait-
ing for him. He travels for a night and day
without a bite to. eat, and, on arrival, he
finds that the station is eighty or a hundred
miles away. Then he has to explain mat-
ters to a publican and a coachdriver! God
bless the publican and the coachdriver! God
forgive our social system!
Native industry was re-
presented at one place
along the line by three
tiles, a chimney-pot and a
length of piping on a slab.
Somebody said to me:
“Yer wanter go out back,
young man, if yer wanter
see the country. Yer
wanter go away from the
line.” I don’t wanter;
I’ve been there.
You could go to the
brink of eternity so far as
Australia is concerned and
yet meet an animated
mummy of a swagman
who will talk of going “out
back.” Out upon the out-
back fiend!
About Byrock we met
the bush liar in all his
glory. He was dressed like
—like a bush larrikin.
His name was Jim. He
had been to a ball where
some blank had “touched”
his blanky overcoat. The
overcoat had a cheque for
ten “quid” in the pocket.
He didn’t seem to feel the
loss much.
“Wot’s ten quid?” He’d
been everywhere, including
the Gulf Country. He still
had three or four sheds to
go to. He had telegrams
in his pocket from half a
dozen squatters and supers,
offering him pens on any
terms. He didn’t give a
blank whether he took
them or no. He thought
at first he had the tele-
grams on him, but found
that he had left them in
the pocket of the overcoat
aforesaid. He had learned
butchering in a day. Ho
was a bit of a scrapper
himself, and talked a lot
about the ring. At the last
station where he shore he
gave the super, a sheol of
a hiding. The super, was a big chap, about
six-foot-three, and had knocked out Paddy
Somebody in one round. He worked with
a man who shore 400 sheep in nine hours.
Here a quiet-looking bushman in a corner
of the carriage grew restless, and presently
he opened his mouth and took the liar down
in about three minutes.
At 5.30 we saw a long line of camels
moving out across the sunset. There’s some-
thing snaky about camels. They remind me
of turtles and goannas.
Somebody said, “Here’s Bourke.”
The above is written more in sorrow than
anything else, and if it lacks interest it
isn’t my fault.
Henry Lawson.
P.S.—Never tackle the bush without a
good mate. With one you can do anything
and go anywhere.
Kaiser William left only £2,500,000 be-
hind him. [2B/4/’BB.]
“Ouida” uses scent on her hair and eye-
brows that costs £8 an ounce. [29/3/’9o.]
In England [writes Sappho Smith] they are
wearing their watches set in the handles of
their parasols. Watch-chains are now never
seen, and watch-pockets are equally out of
date. Leather bracelets enjoyed a brief
popularity, but these are now discovered
to be clumsy, and the well-dressed English
woman wears her “enemy” in the pretty top
of her en tout cas. [l2/5/’BB.]
Apropos of the present N.S.W. mining
boom, we are reminded of the big Thames
(N.Z) mining boom of 1870 and ’7l, in
which Melbourne and Ballarat investors were
so largely interested. The Caledonian mine
was turning out 20,000 ounces of gold a
week, and had paid over half a million in
dividends, when a mixed syndicate of Vic-
torians and Aucklanders secured the adjoin-
ing ground, Tookey’s, out of which the
rich shoot was supposed to run. When the
Caledonian drive was within 50 feet of the
boundary, Tookey shares stood at £4O, on
the prospect of the reef continuing. But
it didn’t, and the moment the news reached
the Auckland shareholders that the lode had
pinched out, three or four of the smartest of
them chartered the s.s. Coomerang—there was
no cable in those days—slipped quietly over
to Victoria, and got out at from £4O to £3B
before it was generally known in Australia
that Tookey stock was not worth more than
£2O in N.Z. [2l/4/’SS.]
Gladstone received £24 a page for his
article in the “North American Review” on
Freetrade. [l9/4/’9o.]
The No. 1 North Gympie Phoenix mine,
Gympie (Q.), has paid altogether dividends
amounting to £294.000. [25/2/’BB.j
A certain wealthy member of the N.S.W,
Parliament obtained re-election by a tele-
gram. Feeling in his constituency was very
much against him, and it seemed certain
that his rival would win by a big majority.
So small did he consider his prospects of
re-election that he did not care to visit the
constituency at all. His party, however, at
the last moment persuaded him to show up
at the nomination and soften his defeat as
much as possible. He then dispatched the
following telegram to his canvasser: “Tell
the electors I will be up to-morrow.” The
canvasser carefully added the words.
“Promise £5 on my behalf.” By the time
the candidate arrived the majority of the
electors were rubbing their hands in antici-
pation of a fat bribe. When the coach
reached the township, the candidate was
astounded to find several hundred electors
enthusiastically cheering him, and still more
astounded when he was elected by a big
majority. The same night the member left
for the city in total ignoraiice of the strata-
gem. Next day a concourse of the “free
and independent” applied to the canvasser
A SOLEMN FACT.
GLOBETROTTER (to well-known Melbourne lawyer) : “You a
hydraulic engineer! I thought you were a lawyer?”
LAWYER: “Well, I am a lawyer; but in Australia all lawyers
have to be hydraulic engineers. They meet so many
people with water on the brain that they have to
draw it off before they can make themselves under-
stood.” [18/2'88.]
for their expenses, and they were candidly
informed of the trick, of which the member
was perfectly innocent. A riot was averted
by the canvasser inviting them to the nearest
whisky-mill. [Zo/5/’BB.j
The Edison Phonograph Society has
offered to give no less than £3OOO for the
first thousand words spoken into the instru-
ment by Stanley. [22/3/’9o.]
•Mr. Jacob Pitman, brother of the inventor
of shorthand, has just died at Camperdown,
Sydney, aged 81. He was a very old colo-
nist, having arrived in South Australia dur-
ing the reign of Governor Hindmarsh, 53
years ago, and was the first phonographist
to land in Australia. [22/3/’9o.]
Isaac A. Isaacs, the Melbourne barrister
who was admitted to the N.S.W. Bar the
other day, was born at Beechworth (Vic.).
Isaacs, although only about 30 years of age.
is now one of the leading common-law men
in Melbourne. He was for years a clerk in
the Prothonotary’s office, and while there
gained that deep insight into legal proce-
dure which he possesses. He held a “watch-
ing” brief in the great divorce-case of
Malpas v. Malpas on behalf of a person fre-
quently mentioned in the case, and whose
honor it was thought might be attacked.
[l6/6/’BB.]
How to save, your butter bills. Spread
your bread with butter, then scrape it off as
closely as you can, and hold the buttered
side down when you eat it. Your tongue strikes
the butter at once, and you get just as much
flavor as if you had three times as much
butter and ate it the other way. P.S. —This
was sent by a correspondent named Donald
McCallum.
A country paper announces that Kaye,
of the Hatfield bushrangers, died lately in
Albury Gaol. This reminds us of some
strange events in connection with the Hat-
field gang, who put the Balranald district
in shivers some nine years ago. They con-
sisted of four young men—Gorman, Kaye,
Jones and Hobbs. Having stuck up half the
district, they were captured by the police and
some civilians at Ivilfera station. Constable
Power was badly wounded, and for this the
four were sentenced to death, but the sen-
tences were commuted to terms of imprison-
ment varying from 10 to 21 years. A short
while afterwards Power blew his brains out;
Grainger, a young storekeeper, who assisted
in the capture, threw himself overboard on
his way to England in the following year;
and Senior-Constable Beresford, who led the
police in the attack, went to Queensland,
where he was killed and eaten by the blacks.
Some two years ago Jones, the youngest of
the gang, died of heart disease in Darling-
hurst. Mr. C. G. Casey, of Queensland, made
himself conspicuous at the fight between the
gang and the police, and narrowly escaped
gettins: half an ounce of lead in his head.
[2/6/’BB.]
ANOTHER PICTURE.
Rich! Yes, we’ve struck it! What is in
store ?
A station, a racer, a house by the shore,
A gaily-dressed wife with much gauds round
her neck,
A dozen of servants at call and at beck.
Of ease and of fatness as much as one may,
A “would it were night,” and “would God
it were day,”
A life where the muscles grow placid, brains
dull,
W'hose flowers are not plucked ’cause you’ve
acres to cull.
A trip home to Europe, good dinners, old
wine.
Then back to these pastures of “jumbuck”
and kine?
No, no! As I’ve lived, as I’ve loved, let
me die.
To blazes with broadcloth, belltopper, white
tie.
I could not breathe freely shut up within
doors,
Girt round with a waistcoat, environed by
bores.
I envy not squatter, nor merchant, nor king;
Aye, nought, save the scope of a bird on the
wing.
The nuggets come easy, and easy they’ll go
’Mong the mates on the top and the boys
down below.
Give me freedom and health, pants, high
boots and red shirt,
A show in the pan and a heap of wash-dirt.
And so while there’s “prospects” by flat,
creek or hill
I’ll handle the shovel, the pick and the drill.
Contented to bottom on tucker, sweet rest,
My hand within Nature’s, my head on her
breast.
[lB/l/’9o.]
GEORGE BIACK.
ROSE’S REPENTANCE.
Rose has of late repentance shown
For being heartless: she,
Having no heart to call her own,
Has stolen mine from me.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


IMPORTANT MATTERS! Spring Changes in the
Masculine Wardrobe! ORDERING BY MAIL
from HENRY BUCK’S
We are accustomed to the responsible task of selecting goods for men who write from
a distance, want something good, and leave the rest to us. If you have Spring purchases to be
made, you can leave them to us with all confidence. We shall be at least as careful in choosing
as you would be yourself, and as far as taste is concerned—good taste in men’s wear has been
a famous HB specialty for 40 years.
HB UNDERWEAR for Spring
Aertex Cellular Vests and Trunks—the
famous cotton weave, which is very cool in
summer but gives perfect protection against
cold changes, too.
Quality No. 88, per garment .... 5/-
Quality No. 931, per garment .... 6/6
Aertex Athletic Singlets—
Quality No. 931, per garment .... 5/6
Pure wool summer-weight Golden Fleece and
HB Singlets, short sleeves, size 36in„ 10/6;
38in., 11/-; 40in., 11/6; 42in., 12/6; 44in.,
13/6.
Athletic Singlets in same weight and quality
of wool, sizes 36in. to 40in„ 9/6; 42in. and
44in., 10/6.
MS
AITCHBEE SHIRTS for Spring with AITCHBEE
(Regd.) NON-CURL COLLARS
In these collars an unseen interlining stiffens the
points. They’re soft—not starched—yet will not
wrinkle, crumple or crease. The really perfect shirt-
and-collar combination. English Broadcloth, with fade-
less woven-stripe two-tone effects in fawn, brown, wine,
russet, blue, helio, pink and grey. 1 Cl £
Shirt, plus two matching collars 19/0
HB Kote-Shyrt, with one collar (attached),
10/6 and 13/6
State size of collar worn.
HB HATS tor
Spring
The new Spring hat
color is "Acacia —a
light grey just tinged with
green, worn with a very
dark green hatband. We
have it in HB Australian
Felts at 25/- and 30/-.
Also in fawns, browns and
greys. State whether snap
brim or bound edge pre-
ferred. Also Woodrow at
35/-, Mossant at 35/-,
Borsalino at 35/- and
55/-, and Stetson at 55/-.
HB 2oz. Sports
Felts
Extremely light felt hats,
weighing not more than
2oz. ventilated with four
eyelet holes each side—-
as smart in lines and looks
as any first-class heavy
felt—in the newest hat
shades of fawn, brown
and grey—designed and
recommended specially
for sporting wear, particu-
larly golf. At 1 OIC
Henry Buck’s, *Oj ”
HB TIES for
Spring
Club Ties —all Club and
Regimental stripes—in
pure rep silk, 4/6 each.
Marocain silk-and-wool
Ties. Uncreasable, un-
stretchable, wonderful
for wear. Unlike most
ties they are cut “on
the straight.” Hand
block printed patterns.
5/6 each.
Real Irish Poplin silk-
and-wool Ties, of every
conceivable pattern,
color and stripe, includ-
ing Atkinson’s Royal
Irish Poplin and Elliott s
Irish Poplin. Uncreas-
able. A magnificent
selection at 7/6 each.
HB HALF-HOSE
for Spring
The present most re-
markable value in all
our store is a range of
new patterns of Austra-
lian-made AITCHBEE
pure wool socks. The
patterns are as attrac-
tive as anything we’ve
seen, the wearing quality
is exceptional, yet the
price is only 3/9 per
pair—3 pairs for 10/6.
Various patterns, in
greys, fawns and
heathers.
HB Ribbed Cashmere
Half-hose, a permanent
favorite, 4/6, 5/6 and
6/,6 per pair.
f
wmmw
HB PULLOVERS for Spring
For spring and summer sports we advise either Cream Pullovers or Sleeveless Colored
Pullovers. The sleeveless colored are gaining quickly in popularity, and Henry Buck’s
are one of the very few makers who have a really wide range of colors, patterns and
weights in this style.
Sleeveless colored pullovers, 16/6, 17/6,. 21/-, 25/-, 28/6, 37/6 and 42/-
Plain Cream Pullovers (with sleeves) 25/-, 27/6, 30/- and 32/6
Heavy Cable Stitch Cream Pullovers, finest warm quality to wear after strenuous exercise,
34in. and 36in. 35/-, 38in. 37/6, 40in. 40/-. Also slightly lighter* weight, 5/- less.
ms
j§
mm
H
mv~
tsm
fM.
m
mm*
m
m
m
m
m?
m
-sm
mm
m
a
mi
m
m
m
v
HB BRACES
for any time!
The most serviceable braces
that we know —and inci-
dentally the best value-
are the genuine made-in-
France “OB” French
Braces, with a construc-
tion so simple that there’s
nothing to break, yet so
clever that they give im-
mediately to every sudden
twist, turn and bend of
the body.
Price 4/6
NOTES
RE
ORDERING
State size and price. Mention
if any preference re color and
pattern, or if to be worn with a
suit or coat of any particular
color and cloth.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
BUCKS
MENRY
J Of SWAN
Of SWAN SION STREET
HENRY BUCK PTY., LTD.,
Swanston Street, at Queen’s
Walk, Melbourne, Cl.
am
4
%** ■••• N s 5 ' \
X • j
S'fSJSsw'wyw
t
6
&
W,
%
im
n
: SfSs
X
HB FLANNEL TROUSERS
for Spring
Quality of cloth and quality of cut are the
all-important things in flannel trousers. It
is impossible to find higher quality than HB.
Grey and Fawn HB Flannel Trousers, vary-
ing grades, 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/- and 39/6.
Cream Trousers —Serge,
25/-; Viyella, 30/- and
35/-; Flannel, 38/6 and
45/-; Gabardine, 30/-,
37/6 and 50/-.
When ordering,
state waist
measure m e n t
and inside
1e ng t h of
trouser - leg
from crutch.
HB Handkerchiefs
for any time!
In these days when
many handkerchiefs
wear so badly that
they’re hardly worth
buying at all it’s worth
while getting something
guaranteed good. HB
Hemstitched Handker-
chiefs, fine quality pure
linen, 8/6 per half-
dozen.
1


BINDER TWINE
“RENOWN” BRAND
Smooth, even twine, good yardage.
Will give every satisfaction in the
field.
MANUFACTURED AT MASCOT BY
J. SCOTT, LTD.,
Rope and Cordage Manufacturers,
Head Office Stores,
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 82861. Box 25 IDD.
SAMPLES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
*»-
m
face Blemishes
disappear
□OR disfiguring
spots, rash and
pimples, apply
Zam-Buk, the soothing
herbal, balm. It pene-
trates the tissues and
results in rapid and
perfect healing.
Theres nothing ")'ust as good.”
7amßuk
HAIR
&
MEED
c
HERES
wnw-
gdsgd
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrOJUrCs CMEXICAN)
Vkdtud Siam,
♦removes the grey**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBUUY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
sgd
INVINCIBLE
MARINE MOTORS are stocked
in 12 popular sizes: to 60 h.p.
“The World’s Best Since 1906.”
All Spare Parts always available.
Write for 30-page illustrated
Catalogue.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS
LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms:
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET
(Near Harbor Bridge).
% -
lllllin
ONARCH
I Cigars
► CRAICfcAITHEN
Wholesale Distributors
. .Sydney NSW-
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
MICK SIMMONS
for all
SHOOTING
EQUIPMENT
on
SPORTING
RIFLES
that bring' down
the big; fellows
No. 24—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE, 1892
MODEL, 25/20, 32, 38, 44
calibre, central fire, full or half
magazine, 24in. barrel; length
over all 42£in.; weight about
71b. Octagon barrel . . . £7/7/
Carriage Paid.
No. 25— WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 53. 25/20 or 32
W.C.F., 22in. round nickel steel
barrel, lever action similar to 1892
Model, handles the ordinary cart-
ridge, also the special Hi-speed;
weight about 61b. £B/-/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 41 —SAVAGE SPORTER
REPEATING RIFLE, MODEL
23A, 25/20, or 32 W.C.F. cal.,
25-inch barrel; weight
6ib. £5/10/-
Carriage Paid.
3
Low-priced
Dependable
Rifles!
FAMOUS F.N. SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
22-caL, take-down, with safety bolt,
21 in. barrel, weight about 3 Jib. 21 /•
(Post Paid.)
THE MAINE SPECIAL BOLT
ACTION RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down,
with safety bolt. For short, long or
long-rifle cartridges; 21 in. round
barrel; weight about 3Jib 25/**
Postage, 1/6; other States, 2/8.
MOSSBERG BOLT ACTION RIFLE,
22-cal., takes short, long or long-rifle
cartridges, bead front sight, ladder
rear sight, weight about 4 Jib.. 30/*
Postage, 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.
Simplicity! Efficiency! Rapidity!
This New Automatic Shot Gun has
them all. Absolutely the very last
word in Automatic Shot Guns.
No. 4.—BROWNING
AUTOMATIC
SHOT GUN,
12G
sgd
Slide grip,
steel barrel,
take-down system;
magazine holds five
cartridges. All mov-
able parts are inside
a receiver closed at rear, which
device affords absolute security to
the shooter. Great rapidity and
accuracy of shooting are obtained
with -this gun. Weight about
Biib «£9/10/-
Carriage Paid.
Detailed Profusely Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on Request.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
Human Gold.
A CAPITAL STORY OF THE TROUBLES AND TRAGEDIES OF A
MINER’S LIFE,
BY N. E. GLEDHILL.
STEVE HARDING lived with his wife in
a tumble-down shanty on the outskirts
of the Golden Mile. They were a queer
couple. She, a diminutive, white-haired old
woman, with deep-set eyes and a prominent
nose, looked the reincarnation of a witch.
He was reckoned queer, too, by his mates.
Quiet and secluded, he seldom ventured
further than his back yard, unless it was
to the City Arms. Even then he drank alone.
Occasionally, if he happened to meet one of
his work-mates there, he would nod to the
barman to pull another drink, saying: “A
man needs a jar on a day like this.” His
mates never tried to draw him out; it might
have hurt his feelings; but they were satis-
fied lie was “queer.”
Harding was a “louser” and poor; which
means that he was honest. “Lousing” was
a job for a trusted man. It was seldom that
anyone popular with the crowd got a chance
at it.
When a new lode Was located running in
from the chute, the rock was drilled, a charge
placed in it and the fuse ignited. After the
explosion the “louser” was the first man
allowed in. He picked up the loosened
lumps of visible gold and watched them
safely on the cage. He was searched each
time he came out, as a matter of form ; but
he was trusted. They realised that he had
plenty of opportunities of planting anything
in the stope.
Still, the gold was disappearing. In fact,
during the past few months the losses had
become serious. Everyone was suspected;
even among the men themselves, each one
vaguely doubted the next. But had anyone
suggested that Harding might be “in on the
deal” he would have been laughed at.
At each change of shift, when the men
came to the surface, they were searched
thoroughly. It was useless. Whoever they
wore they were certainly making a good job
of it.
Then Harding was informed that in future
he would do all day-shifts. He knew what
that meant; he was under suspicion, along
with the rest. It hit him hard. “Strike me
dead,” he said, “before I’d pinch an ounce
of it!”
But he was interested. He had a shrewd
idea that the stuff disappeared without actu-
ally being taken to the surface by the men.
Of course, it was no business of his; but he
decided to keep an eye open.
It was puzzling. Besides Walters, his
mate and himself there were twenty men
working on the level. It might be any one
of them.
The chute was bare enough; a thousand
feet straight drive to the stope. On one
side a few drills lay in a heap ; on the other
was an open cut in which stood two, sanitary
pans.
It was not in the stope, of that he was
certain; and unless the men were getting
away with it under their armpits !
“Wake up, Steve!”
He ceased his calculations and smiled as
Walters clapped him on the back and, walk-
ing over to one of the pans, carelessly threw
something in it and continued on along the
chute.
There was really nothing unusual in the
action, but it set Harding thinking.
Supposin’? No, it was too unlikely; yet
to-day was Wednesday, to-morrow Thursday
—to-morrow the pans would be taken up
and emptied. There was just a chance —
at least it was possible.
He walked over to the pan and turned it
around. Then he tilted it on one side and
looked underneath. Just as he had sus-
pected ; a small cross chalked on the bottom
to single it out.
“Damned clever,” he grinned, as he replaced
the pan in position and proceeded back to
the stope.
He had gone about twenty yards when he
saw Walters leaving the stope and coming
in his direction. Slinking against the wail
in the shadow of an air-blower, he waited.
Walters passed, walked to the pans, and
after glancing casually around to see if he
was observed, opened his shirt and drew
out a handful of specimens.
“Jack!” Harding stepped out of the
shadow and approached him.
“Hell’s delight! You, Steve? You
frightened six months’ growth out of me.”
“What have you got there, Jack? Have
a bit of sense, will you? You’ve got a wife
and kids to think of. Strike me, it ain’t
worth it. What are you goin’ to get out
of it?”
Walters was silent.
“A drop o’ beer, and a few bob, p’rhaps-
an’ p’rhaps a few months if you’re pinched.
Here, give me this ; we’re goin’ to get rid of
it while we’ve got a chance. I’ll put it back
in the stope after the next blast.” He took
the stones. “Now beat it, Jack, an’ if you
take a mug’s advice you’ll leave this alone.
It’ll get you nowhere —and, what’s more, it
ain’t yours.”
He watched Walters disappear along the
chute and examined the colors. “Good stuff,”
he said to himself; “a man could hardly
blame ’em!”
So engrossed was he in the stones that he
had failed to notice the cage stop at the level
and someone alight. He had scarcely put
them in his shirt when he became aware
of someone alongside him. He glanced up.
“You, Mr. Teeney! We never expected
you down here.”
“Obviously,” was the reply. “Very inter-
esting specimens you were looking at, Hard-
ing. They’ll be handy.”
He held out his hands and Harding
emptied the contents of his shirt into them.
“I thought you had more sense, Harding.
This will go bad with you.”
“But—but you don’t think I was thievin’
the rotten stuff, Mr. Teeney?”
“No, you probably found it here —or you
were just minding it for someone, eh?”
Teeney grinned. “It has taken us two
months to run this down. You’d better get
your coat, Harding; the Chief will be
anxious to see us.”
The news that Steve Harding had been
arrested for gold-stealing came as a thunder-
bolt among the men. By most it was regarded
as a huge joke. But the fact remained, he
had been caught red-handed. There could
be no doubt about it. They thought it over;
after all, it usually was the silent ones.
Five days he was in Kalgoorlie gaol wait-
ing his trial. On the second day he was
allowed a visitor, and Walters was shown
into the cell. Harding thought he could
guess the reason for the visit, and it made
him smile.
They talked about health, mines and luck
until the warder strolled out of earshot.
Then Walters moistened his lips.
“By Hell, I’m sorry for this Steve. It’d
have killed the missus if I’d have been
caught. I came to see what you’re goin’ to
do abbut it.”
Harding looked at him. “You’re a blasted
idiot, Jack,” he said. “This is goin’ to
hurt—l’ve got an old woman, too. Strike
me, I wouldn’t have done a stretch for a
thousand ounces of the stuff. But if you
think I’m goin’ to shelf you, you can rest
your mind—l won’t. ’Tisn’t a man’s game.”
He shook the other by the shoulders.
Promise me you’ll look after the missus,
Jack. Give her a few bob—l’ve got nothin’
—and —give her a hand with them fowls, will
you? It’s her hobby, you knew. You can
come and see me sometimes an’ let me know
how things are goih’ on.”
* * * *
Three months was the sentence, and he
worked it out.at Coolgardie. Later they were
stricter and it would have meant twelve at
Fremantle.
His wife was his only visitor; and it
broke him up when she came to see him at
the end of a week. Strictly, it was against
prison rules; but Harding was too popular
for them not to waive a few restrictions.
So she arrived every Sunday, with her basket
of food, and authority closed its eyes.
He wished she wouldn’t; it only made her
feel itjmore. H’e hated her to come—too far,
he said, for an old woman. And yet he
wanted her to stay.
When one Sunday passed without her com-
ing, he was afraid. He was sure there was
something wrong. Next morning the prison
chaplain told him she was dead.
The weight of the world seemed to settle
about him then. The parson tried to com
fort him with religious assurances, but hi
was brushed aside. “I know nothin’ aboul
religion,” Harding told him; “and if it mean;
they can take a man’s wife and tell him it';
for the best, I don’t want to know anythin'
about it.”
How he lived through the last month of
his imprisonment he never knew. Two and
a half months he served ; two weeks off foi
good conduct. He laughed loud at the idea—
two weeks from three months for something
he hadn’t done!
He walked to the station, caught the
express to Boulder, and made straight for
his home.
For the first time he could have cried
It was of hessian, two rooms and a wash
house. Everything was as he had remem
bered it; the papers in the same tidy heap
the stove spick and span, the teacloths flung
over the fence to dry. But it seemed hollow
and deserted. He unlocked the back dooi
and walked slowly to the fowlyard. Empty !
He laughed again; but it was derisive. What
else should he have expected, anyhow?
He pulled the front door after him and
cut through a vacant block in the directioi
of the City Arms. He felt like a man win
had suddenly been released to light aftei
being confined in darkness for years, and In
hung his head slightly. Besides, what righ
had he to look honest people in the face
They might not like refusing to recognis
him. But he must have money if he wa
to live. He would go to Dale and put i
to him straight. Dale was a good chap—
he had been a regular digger himself one
At least, Dale had always trusted him an<
he might give him another chance. In anj
case
A voice startled him; “Hello, Steve! Well
I’ll be damned. When did you get out? Conn
on, I’ve got a deener —have a drink.”
All the hatred and loathing in Hardin;
rose and throbbed about his ears. He kne'v
the voice, carefree and happy; it soundei
maddeningly jubilant. Last time he had hear
it, it * was cringings and imploring. II
recalled it well: “What do you intend doin'
Steve ?.... Yes, I’ll give her a few bob—
I’ll look after her.”
She was dead.
He raised his head slowly. “Drink wit!
you? I’d see you in Hell first, Walters. I
it wasn’t for makin’ myself as big a skunk
as you are, I’d see you where I’ve been fm
the last three months.”
Harding pushed him aside and walked on
He went through the subway and over the
leases, until he could see Dale’s house in the
distance, alongside the assay office. Tlier
it took him half an hour before he could
make up his mind to go any further.
“Thx-ee months don’t change a place
much,” he thought to himself. “I suppose
they think I got enough' to start an assay
office o’ my own!” He smiled cynically. “If
I weren’t broke I wouldn’t come near the
lousy place again. But twenty years under-
neath don’t make a man too fit for other
jobs.”
He had reached the gate. It was not until
he had raised the latch that he noticed Dale
standing smoking on the front verandah.
“Good day, Mr. Dale.”
“Well?”
“I’m sorry I had to come to see you, Mr.
Dale. I suppose you think I’ve got a
darned cheek. But I want work, I’ve got
to live somehow and you always trusted me.
You wei'e the only one I could come to.”
Dale frowned and was silent.
“Believe me, I never pinched an ounce of
that stuff, Mr. Dale. Twenty years I put
in there, and nothin’ more than the suit o’
clothes I stand up in.”
“Harding, I found it hard to believe that
you were dishonest. I had always trusted
you, and it seems as if that was my reward.
(Continued on next page.)


. r ?j Jl i ''/fm l }l Picture
' Cells a Slory’*
rmp
«
'
Never neglect your kidneys!
Avoid that backache by taking Doan’s Pills.
WEAK KIDNEYS spoil your joys, making
you feel old and wretched, and unfitting
you for either work or play. Why not prevent
such trouble? Middle-aged people, in particular,
should take an occasional course of Doan s Back-
ache Kidney Pills as a precaution. This helps the
kidneys to rid the blood of impurities that cause
backache, rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, dropsi-
cal swellings and urinary disorders. In many
serious cases of kidney trouble Doan’s Pills have
proved highly successful.
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mrs. A. Knight, 64 Angel Street, Newtown, Sydney, says: “My
husband was a great sufferer from backache for-some time. He was
almost crippled with the ailment., and compelled to knock. off work
for a good while, as every movement caused him increased suffering.
He tried remedy after remedy in the hope of a cure, but they all
failed to give him any relief, and his back ached on m spite ot
treatment. Hearing of a cure effected by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, I induced my husband, after a lot of persuasion, to try these
pills. He is very glad that he took my advice, for they completely
cured him, and he has not had the slightest pain in his back since.
They are a grand remedy for backache, and should be taken by all
who suffer from this trying complaint.”
Ten years later Mr. Knight says: “I have had no return of my
old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over
ten years ago. I always keep this medicine in the. house and
take a few doses whenever I feel a little off color and it does me a
lot of good.”
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Backache Kidney Pills.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 61 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says: “A member of
my family suffered terribly with pro-
truding piles. The pain was so great
that he could, not sleep at night and
would toss about for hours. He had
been suffering for three years, and we
were always having advice and using
different remedies, but nothing did
him any good until we got Doan’s Oint-
ment. This remedy proved excellent;
it gave complete ease. I cannot say
enough in praise of Doan’s Ointment
and recommend its use whenever
opportunity offers.”
Many years later Mrs. Wark says:
“I am pleased to tell you that the
member of my family who was cured
of piles by Doan’s Ointment is still
free from this trying complaint. This
remedy is a certain cure for piles.
Mr. A. H. Francis, 192 Union Street,
Erskineville, Sydney, says: “I used
Doan’s Ointment for itching and pro-
truding piles and I am pleased to tell
you it completely; cured me. Previously
I had tried all kinds of ointments but
they gave.me little or.no relief. I was
suffering terribly when I first applied
Doan’s Ointment and had little hope
of it doing me any good,'but its sooth-
ing and healing effect was noticeable
almost at opce, and by the time I had
used one pot I:was completely cured,
all sign of piles having disappeared
entirely. I am a great believer in
Doan’s Ointment and consider it the
best pile remedy known.”
Eight years later Mr. Francis says:
“I have not been troubled with piles
since Doan’s Ointment cured me.”
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
I can’t think- you’re a common thief, though,
but you know a man’s chance of getting
back on tlie mines after he has been con-
victed of stealing. It is impossible.”
Harding nodded. He knew that quite
well —he had known it would be _ wasting
time to try, but he had come in spite of it.
“See here, Harding—l’d rather have you
than a hundred others that are there now.
I’m willing to take a big step if you’ll play
up to it. I can’t put you back on the Horse-
shoe, you know that; but we have amal-
gamated with the Chaffers, and I am sending
some of the men over there. I’ll give you
a chance. Have I your word that you’ll make
the most of it? It is my reputation as a
judge as well as yours as a man that is at
stake, and I think I can trust you.
“Thank you, Mr. Dale, thank you, I
He put out his hand but withdrew it hastily,
and bowed and backed his way to the gate.
“Thank you, Mr. Dale; you won t be sorry.
I’ll work up to it.” _
“Very well, Harding. Number two shaft,
day-shift, Monday. Go down .to the eleven
hundred and report to Mr. Wright.”
* * * * .
At seven-thirty on the following Monday
Harding was mooching around the change-
room, crib-bag in one hand, a spider in
the other. The exhilaration of an honest
■job—hard work didn’t matter —was exciting
him. He paced up and down impatiently
until the whistle blew eight, and the winders
’roared, and dripping men stepped out ot
the cages and cracked lewd jokes with those
who took their places.
“Eleven hundred!”
“Right you are!” came in a chorus.
Several men alighted, candles in hands, ana,
still unused to the darkness, walked halt-
blinded along the oozing, clammy chute to
their respective stopes. Mechanically, Hard-
ing followed. Cockroaches—great green
tilings that never see the light of day scat-
tered everywhere.
“Eat a man alive if he went to sleep for
five minutes, them damn things,” someone
remarked. , „ ..
They hung their crib-bags from the pipe
which ran along the roof of the chute.
“Make a man crook. There” —said a big
fellow, hanging his crib-bag and addressing
one of the insects —“if you get hold of that
we’ll call you Houdini.”
Harding was puzzled.
To him the voice sounded uncommonly
familiar. , . , , , ~
“Hell! Walters!” he exclaimed, only half
to himself, as the realisation came to him.
Walters turned as he had heard his name.
“You, Steve —well I’ll be damned! On
the eleven? We’re workin’ here, too. These
.are my mates. Ted, Dave —this is Steve
Harding. How the hell did you get here?
“Stow it, Walters. I’m here, and I m
stoppin’ here because I’ve got to get a crust.
And it looks as if I’ve got to work with
you _—all right, I will. But listen, don t
talk to me, Walters, because I don’t want
to hear you—you’re a louse. And when a
man’s a louse he’s not a man, and that s
enough.” He spat deliberately, hitched up
his dungarees and walked off.
Walters looked at his mates with a grin.
“Go quiet, boys; he’s got rather particular
who he talks _to now. His holiday must
have turned his head a bit.”
The three roared; Harding heard from
where he stood. In spite of himself he
winced.
Three days passed, uneventfully enough;
and except for a nod or an occasional word
to the other two, Harding was silent. It
was a four-man job, and, as they had the
stope to themselves, the silence hurt him.
They divided the work: one day he would
truck, the next he would watch the charges
while another took his turn at pushing, the
next he would handle the drills, and so on.
Mechanically he took a new job each
day, and the others sorted themselves accord-
ingly. He was like a foreigner isolated in
the babel of tongues around him.' Some of
the jokes he could have roared at; but he
would only feign indifference and assume a
more sombre look. It broke him up to do it.
It made a machine of a man, he thought.
But he was determined. “The other two
are all right,” he said to • himself, “but he s
a cur, and I wouldn’t spit in the same pad-
dock as him.” It was not so bad while
they were working; a man could work and
think of the past, or guess at the future and
forget other people.
The stone made him think, too. Tons ot
it, and a nuisance, carted away in loads, just
for the sake of a bit of yellow stuff, which,
after all, was only another colored metal.
Supposin’ they—he wondered who the “they”
were —supposin’ they were to stop buyin’
gold and offer a big price for quartz? We’d
be shovellin’ gold in here, and they’d risk
anythin’ to lay their hands on a lump of stone
just like they do gold now —the blasted fools.
And he would shovel faster at the heap, as
though it eased his mind.
He was too open-natured not to feel the
brunt of a silence that he hated. He
detested crib-time because he ate and smoked
alone. Throwing stones at the toecap of a
boot was a poor pastime when there were
others to whom he could but wouldn’t talk.
He dreaded the hour more than he did a
day’s graft.
The watermains were on the plats. As
the stope they were working was three or
four hundred yards from the shaft, the men
were forced to walk back for their water
and carry it to where they had hung their
cribs. They could have gone up to eat; but
it saved time to have it in the chute. Be-
sides, it allowed them a chance to have a
decent smoke. . .
Each day, when the whistle blew at twelve,
the men, with clock-like precision, downed
tools. Automatically arms were stretched,
caps pulled off and faces wiped with them,
and the three men set off along the chute
to the watermains,- with Harding, as usual,
a few paces behind.
The fourth day.on the new job was what
the men called a trimmer: up on top it was
106 degrees in the shade.
“Blasted hot ! What a man wants down
’ere is a couple o’ ice pipes.”
Harding looked up at the speaker. . “Yes, ’
he said, lowering'the drill. “I think I’ll
have to get,a.booze.- It’s near dinner, any-
way” ; and as he went along the chute the
three followed.
He reached the tap,-put his mouth under
it, let the water run on his head, and, squat-
ting on an oildrum a few-yards away, rolled
a cigarette. The other three, flinging them-
selves on the ground by the watermain, fol-
lowed.his example.
“Queer cuss, Harding,” said one of them;
“damned if I can understand a man making
a hermit of himself like that, can you?”
The voice, subdued as it was, reached
Harding where he sat. He turned on the
drum and smiled at the wall in front of him
as Walters replied—it seemed to Harding
to be for his benefit:
“He doesn't like me, Ted; we were in a,
bit of . a clean-up once, and he was annoyed
with his share of it.”
Walters glanced behind, but .Harding was
vacantly drawing figures on the ground.
“You know, Jack, the best thing we can
do is to clean up the stuff that’s on hand
while we’ve got a chance.”
“Good idea, Jack,” interposed the other.
“Teeney’s been hanging around the last
couple o’ days, and it’s a million to one
he’ll be down any time. We’ve had a good
spin, and we’d be mugs to go up now.”
Harding cursed to himself. “Gold, no-
thin’ but gold! That fool couldn’t keep his
hands off it if it was red hot!”
“We’re as safe as in God’s pocket,”
laughed Walters. “Leave it where it is.
Go about hidin’ the damned stuff and they’ll
ferrit around till they collar , it. Leave it
in a crib-bag and hang it under their noses,
and they’ll pass it a hundred times in a
mornin’.” .
Harding sat bolt upright. “Leave it m
a crib-bag! Hang it under their noses!
But they couldn’t mean that his bag was
with them! If they were found !”
He kicked the drum out of the way and
swung around on Walters.
“You low-down, thievin’ cur! Them fools
don’t know any better; but —can’t you keep
your rotten hands off anythin’? By God,
if Teeney comes down here!” He threw
down his cigarette and dashed along the
chute in the direction of the stope.
“Leave those damned bags where they are,
you fool!” shouted Walters hoarsely.
But Harding was beyond hearing.
Reaching the stope. he grasped his bag and
tore it away. Immediately there was an
ominous crack in the wall above him, and
a flving “pale” struck. him, felling him.
Then with a rumble and a deafening roar
the sides of the stope crashed upon him,
burying him beneath ten tons of mullock.
Distress bells rang, sirens shrieked; the
cages rattled, and men: came running from
all directions. Desperately they dug to shift
the huge heap of earth and rock.
Dale pushed his way through the crowd
with the mine doctor.
“Get the trucks —every man on to it. Any-
one underneath?”
“Steve Harding!” came in a chorus, and
someone added : “He’s a goner.”
“Shift it. Double time if you get him
alive.” , ~
They tackled the mass from all sides, and
as one dropped out exhausted he was
replaced by another.
But it was hopeless.
By midnight they rolled away the last
stone and dragged out the mangled body,
still clasping in one hand a fracteur bag,
with the others burst open alongside him.
The gold lay scattered around.
Dale stooped, picked up one of the yellow
slugs and gazed down at the body.
“He was honest once, honest as the day.
But it got him just like it gets the rest of
them —the cursed stuff! Once a man gets
his hands on this he can’t leave it alone.”
Hail to the Bards!
Hail to the poets who sang of our land
In the hardy old pioneer days!
Men who visioned her stately and grand,
And feared not to offer their praise!
Bushmen and seamen and scholars and all —
Men of strong hands and quick hearts;
Lovers of Nature who came at her call
From mansions and meadows and marts!
Hail to the grandsires who wrought for their
sons,
As they in their turn wrought for theirs—
The eagle-eyed heroes of Anzac _ and Mons,
Of Egypt, Bapaume and Pozieres!
Hail to the singers with little to gain,
Their scanty possessions to lose,
Whose bodies might suffer from hunger and
pain, • .
Whose hearts no misfortune could bruise!
Shall we whom they offered their sacrifice for
Refuse like our fathers to stand?
The Heroes of Peace, like the Heroes of
War,
Gave all for Our Glorious Land!
s.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.
Harbor Lights.
To ships at war with wave and wind—
Wild waves and winds that shout—-
When coastal lights are left behind
Our harbor lights cry out:
“We show the way, we point the path
To sheltered anchorage
From dread of deatli and dread of wreck,
Sea-peril and sea-rage.”
When ne’er a star, high shining, sheds
Its gleam upon their way,
And tossing, harried through the Heads,
Those ships for guidance pray,
Seen are the faithful harbor lights
By folk that shoreward peer,
And heard their call: “Oh mariners,
Steer on, and have no fear!”
When over South Beef sweeps the foam
Beneath Macquarie Light,
And under seas that curve and comb
The Sow and Pigs grow ,white,
To craft, wave-worn and weather-worn,
And watchers, wet and wan,
Those winking lights, those steadfast lights,
Call out “Forge on, forge on!”
Thus, when winds shout on stormy nights
And clouds the stars eclipse,
Bright vigiling, the harbor lights
Give counsel, to the ships ;
Safe-beaconed in from risk of wreck,
Sea-peril and sea-rage,
Through them the wide-waste wanderers
Find sheltered anchorage.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QULNN.


sg
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-307 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Rourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185/f.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss oiie of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase fn 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
Wp
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSEL!,, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydneys
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street,
Melbourne:
G. N. Bedna.ll, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Begistci
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Clk fldocrtistr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
t h e Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
P.
N.S.W. Representative:
THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Business Sagging?
ADVERTISE
IN
Che telegraph"
BRISBANE
OR IF YOU ALREADY DO SO
increase
Space
PUBLICITY IS
THE LIFE-BLOOD OF TRADE
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Mm cM id not
well with diqedtm
take
faschQffl"
«_ < = : "
'V* rCNt.
<» PILL* '■*')
• ' *«*V >3
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
at
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information 3 copies , advertising rates of “The Examiner/ 9 “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months jrom
for which I enclose £ .
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
dgd
o
0°
6
6 V
2
s 6
p
tvf'
s®
o
>3
o' -
• • ■" V*o<
• ••■'


WHyIfHE KNIGHT ENGINE
u
enor
s
nr
n
ir
£
§
sr
L
J
0
V
c 7/ie 1930
WILLYS* KNIGHT
70 B
THE patented Knight double sleeve-valve engine
has no complicated mechanism of tappets,
cams and springs to weaken or break; no
valve heads to collect carbon and thus fail to
seal compression. There are just two metal
sleeves working smoothly and silently up and
down, one within the other, in a protective film
of oil, and that is all.
Every action of the Knight engine is either a
gliding or a rotary one. The result is remarkable
smoothness and quietness of operation. And the
longer the Knight engine runs the smoother
becomes its operation. Carbon, instead of being
harmful, serves to seal compression even more
tightly.
In the new Willys Knight 708 is presented a car
of outstanding beauty, power and speed. The low,
graceful lines, the rich color harmonies and the
luxurious interior appointments show the work of
a master designer.
See this car at your nearest Whippet-Willys Knight
dealer.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
State Distributors:
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lopsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
