

Jak
. m m
• :• S
■Spiff:
I '
.MjMpwjaaafMfy
..' -rJ»
~ . p
Mimt
m
■s
■
.-
•K-f
m
,■*■ :d
Has
■
is
H
/!:V. :
! • 11l
' . U'M '
/ Jn
• .-Wv- ' -.
■I »p« 1 Ir
W- ...
'
m
jjjlpF
ggpp
Ml
\
You can buy
an AKUBRA
wherever good
hats are sold
In all the newest colors
High
Quali
e
£<
Art.
The Bulletin
vyipoh weeJc
Vol. 51.—N0. 2617.
Wednesday, April 9, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TV7RITE for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
It
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON! ;
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Kipp. Illustrated Penm inship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 314
J-'YSAGHT 7
o
a
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron shquld specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
è
m
THE DINNER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah i the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
M
m
A
, <2
M
f ' Ah JpOl
“y h
THE WELL-GROOMED AUSTRALIAN
, uses a ' \
ROLLS RAZOR
The One Blade British -made Safety
that strops and hones itself, and
carries the manufacturer’s guarantee
for five years.
Rapid Relief
Spells; Back Pains; Headaches; Rheumatism;
* Blood; Stiff, Swollen Joints; Blurred Vision.
é
WEAK
AILING
AND IN
RAIN
NOW
QUITE'
WELL
ê
POISONED
BLOOD
FULL 0F x
VIM AND
VIGOUR^
I
CURED
NERVES ]
DIZZINESS!
RHEUMATISM
BACKACHE
NEW
MAN
V
DULL SICK
HEADACHE
BRIGHT EYES
AND CLEAR
COMPLEXION
lo More Bad Nights or Getting up Worse than When You
W €
If you are 111, the way to get well is to remove the CAUSE of
your illness as well as the symptoms. If your blood is poisoned, jf
your system is full of uric acid, you cannot be well or feel well, and
aches,'pains and miserable ill-health are bound to oppress you.
Salts, purges, ordinary kidney pills may give temporary relief, but
if you desire the one remedy that definitely gives prompt relief
and genuine improvement in health, even where other things are
bound to fail —you must try Harrison’s Pills —the remedy that has
a record of success without equal in the annals of proprietary
medicine. 1
WHAT OTHERS SAY:—
Here are a few extracts from typical
unsolicited letters received from
grateful one-time sufferers:—
Narrandera, N.S. W.
•‘Harrisends Pills have lessened the
dizziness a/id cleared the dull feel-
ing in my head.” — W.S.
1 Ipswich, Q’land.
“Have been prone to all kinds of
aches and pains for years. Nothing
ever did me good till / tried Harri-
son’s Pills, which gave me relief
at once. I last took the pills three
weeks ago, have had no more pains
and feel better than for a very long
time.” — T.R.
Qreenough Flats, IV.A.
“I got a bottle of your pills for
rheumatism, etc. In my time I
have suffered severely, have been
through medical courses and tried
all remedies with little or no relief.
However, I must admit I have had
relief from Harrison’s Pills-—in-
stance, lying on my side at night
was impossible longer than half an
hour. Since taking the pills I have
slept the whole night through on
my right hip.” — F.W.M.
PROMPT, SURE RELIEF—
OR NO COST!
You don’t risk a penny trying
Harrison’s Pills. Either send to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Aus-
tralia House, Sydney, for a free
sample, or get a package from the
nearest chemist or store under
Guarantee. If the first package
you buy doesn’t give you relief and
show you in the clearest way that
it is * the best remedy for your
trouble, you can have your money
back. Don’t suffer. If you wish
to get rid of rheumatism, back-
ache, joint, limb or loin pains,
headaches, weak, dizzy spells, con-
stipation, kidney, bladder or Urinary
troubles, get a package of Harri-
son’s Pills to-day— and get real
relief within 16 hours.
Three sizes: 18 Pills, 2/-; 36 pills,
; (i 8 pills, 5/- at all chemists.
Harrison’s
Pills - t»H
Reliable Relief
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
m
J.uj
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges t-tt .taining Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. V iA fy» United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 da vs. burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous d: ug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6 in stamps
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eutnenthol Chemical
Co., Ltu.,
The Red Page
A Passion of Flowering
D. H. Lawrence’s early death was inevit-
able and foreseen by him. Many waiters
in the course of their musings on life have
touched on death, too; but Lawrence from
the first walked with death in mind. In
that strange, early-mature book of his “The
White Peacock,” written with the very
breath of the English flowering countryside
upon it, there is no peace in the lush
meadows, none in the very waters of the
millpond. Hardly has the book begun,
with its crowding beauty, than Lettie, the
radiant, challenging girl, muses aloud to
one who seems lethargic and over-contented,
“When death is just touching a plant, it
forces it into a passion of flowering.”
Without any news of how' Lawrence has
died—whether by an accident, a definite ill-
ness or a slow decline of all his physical
powers—we can be safe in saying, some-
what as they said of William Morris, that
he died at 44 of being D. 11. Lawrence. He
had this passion of flowering, as of one just
touched by death, and in every book, what-
ever its unevenness, he gave himself away
as if it might be his last testament. This
outlook made him unafraid, left him free
to. make experiments. As Hilary Lofting
said of him 10 years ago on the Red Page,
Lawrence was a “trier,” a trier with genius,
of course. His readers have had to take
his defects with his qualities. Experiment-
ing, he risked great blunders: exploring, he
sailed often into shallow waters. even into
miasmatic swamps; but sometimes into
unguesced havens. After his very earliest
novels, with their uncanny precocity and
well-shaped power, he suffered the appalling
interruption of the war, which struck him
sidelong while it took most men full in
the face. Jerked in that way, he seemed
to lose his control of form while retaining
his perceptions in all their acuteness. After
that, the books of his that earn our most
awed gratitude are surely not his novels,
except that each one contains marvellous
passages, but his books of places, “Mornings
in Mexico,” “Sea and Sardinia,” “Twilight
in Italy.” The great passages in the novels
are allied to such books. There is the chill
of the Appenines in “The Lost Girl”; the
cruel gleam of Swiss snows in “Women in
Love”; in “The Rainbow,” English farms
and cities, seen outside and in. Mexico,
Arizona, Sicily, he knew by living in as an
inhabitant, not as a tourist in the hotels
that act like blinds before the seeing eye.
“Life piled on life were all too little”; in
this spirit he visited Australia, paused
awhile, said as he w r ent flower-gatliering up
the Bulli Pass that the countxy’s sheer
beauty might well hold a man for a life-
time, but felt the need of the old world,
the Meditei’ranean, with its sad complexi-
ties again. He had his harvest: he brought
us his sheaves—wheat, tares, poppies. We
stare, a little blinded, at some lines closing
an early poem of his, “Snapdragon”:—
And I do not care though the large hands of revenge
Shall get my throat at last—shall get it soon,
If the joy that they are lifted to avenge
Have risen red on my night like a harvest moon,
Which even Death can only put out for me,
And death I know is better than not to be.
It will be long before Lawrence’s life-work
can be fairly seen through all the mist of
adulation and dust of abuse that have
hidden its extent and quality from us. All
we know for certain yet is this passion of
flowering.
NETTIE PALMER.
Gentlemen, the Movies!
Some 20 or more years ago I reported the
first continuous movie show in Melbourne.
To-day. despite all its mechanical forward-
ness and opulent enterprise, it is flatter,
more banal, more fitly the refreshment of
the intellectual so-sos who are mentally
spawned on its themes.
To be sure, great men have seized and
command the industry. Those Who Can’t
Read have found affinities in Those Who
Can’t See. Hollywood has swallowed them
all and made them directors, super-directors
and stars. To those necromancers we are
grateful for many shrewd quizzes into the
human soul—the truth that seducers, de-
sirous of owning a maiden’s charms, give a
subtle hint of their intention by offering
her a parkful of Chryslers, two handfuls of
Koh-i-noors and a couple of chateaux; the
truth that cuties, especially chorus girls,
have not the slightest suspicion of the evil
man’s hopes until he has pawed them after
18 or 20 goblets of the best; the truth that
they are then prevented from slipping
through the cracked ice by the memory of
a hymn learnt in their youths; the truth
that Russian Ivans save their eyes from
the burning irons of the Soviet by the
wealth of tears brought about by thoughts
of their mothers; the truth that vamps are
invariably dark; the truth that all wistful
country heroes yearn for a splendid career
in the -citv. invariably represented as a
fade-in of the said lad sitting at a momen-
tous desk in Wall-street smoking- a Cauli-
flora Splendida whilst barking into a tele-
phone a huge order to his broker; the truth
that all millionaires breakfast in dinner-
suits, and all railway engineers direct the
sleeper-laying in Wilson Barrett shirts and
gloves; the truth.... But why proceed?
You know the routine.
The truth about the business is that it
must ever remain cheap, or fail. As soon
as it begins to give itself airs and pretend
that its art director is William Shakspeare
and that its captions are the joint composi-
tions of Ibsen and Pirandello, millions
of people will be finding other uses for their
Saturday evenings than the mad munching
of minties in the soft dark of a movie
mosque. It has been charged against Holly-
wood that it has created its public, whereas
it should really be urged that the public
has created Hollywood. Hollywood is only
the gigantic trick-face mirror wherein the
Average Man beholds himself. The gutter-
snipe intellectuality of the largest bilge fac-
tory on earth is the guttersnipe intellectu-
ality of the Adonis who takes all his cultural
peas with his knife. The bravo who sus-
pects that Corot is the name of a scent
and whose sole dips into the classics are
by way of the sporting sections of the news-
papers or of the 749 True Histories of Ned
Kelly, is the mental twin of the bravo wh6,
in a 5,000.000-dollar film, lures Art and
Beauty up an alley to wring their damned
necks.
Though floating high on a wave of news-
paper approval, which I blandly suggest is
in most big cases the echoed huzza of the
advertising department, the movie and
talkie monopoly besmirches everything it
touches. In its organised befoulment it
cannot even take the simple story of Jesus
without spending twice Edgar Wallace’s
annual income on a representation of the
allegedly bawdy nature of Judas. It cannot
buy a story from a prominent author with-
out such preposterous Deadwood Dicking
of its scenes that the original manuscript
is entirely forgotten. Hollywood is the last
refuge of the sham and the tame; the
asylum of the truisms that the trite never
let die. Ideas that would be contemptu-
ously discarded by Ethel M. Dell have their
hair freshly curled and marcelled in the
studios and are sent forth in a demonstra-
tive array of fleshly pinks to vamp the
innocents of the outer suburbs. Writers
without talent and actors with it, the riff-
raff of the arts and the impostors of all
persuasions are commonly enlisted at huge
salaries to expend their energy, their perspi-
ration and their voluptuously veloured
thought, not to mention weeks of God’s
good time, in producing something that is
as debonairly brilliant and as conspicuously
close to the van of culture as “Sonny Boy”
and “Three Blind Mice.”
I would laugh about it, were I not weary
of laughing. I would howl about it, were
not howling a compliment. I can only sit
off watching it make the world pretty for
the moron and the ninny, armed only with
the philosophy that there are things beyond
its noisome contamination, things illumin-
ated by the fancy of exceptional men.
things of poetry, sincerity and charm
things on which the highbrow can ponde;
and ponder, smile a little and at times for-
get.
C.R. BRADISH.
America Conquers
America Conquers England is by Ludwell
Denny. The subtitle is “A Record of
Economic War”; it might have been
“Theme and Variations in $ Major.” The
theme is that there is not room in the
ever-narrowing world of civilisation for
two such Powers as Britain and the United
States. Consequently there is war to the
knife—under-surface and underhand. Vari-
ations deal with the value of the Prince
of Wales as’ a super-salesman in South
America and elsewhere; the D’Abemon
mission to South America, which in turn
brought about the visit of President-elect
(as he then was) Hoover. And many
others.
The book is heavily documented, and
many incidents and articles unknown to
the public generally are presented—naked.
The insidious work of oil promoters in
regard to wars and rumors of wars is made
plain. The relations of Great Britain and
the United States, at present rendered diffi-
cult by reason of the fact that Canada
must be safeguarded, are rehearsed at
length. The possibility of the ultimate
absorption of the Dominion is canvassed
and even, assumed; thereafter, Great
Britain, freed from any commitments in
the Northern Americas, will be free to join
in with the other European nations to figly
the “gorged and soulless.” gold-fed tyrant.
A. World War is scheduled to take place
any time within the next century.
Meanwhile it is essential to the further-
ing of the plans of the contestants that one
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


ë
’Phone: M 2J { 01
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
— ■ —...
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


With truly feminine
discernment, women
distinguish Oakland’s
finer qualities
8
»
B
is
a car with
just those added
shades of excel-
lence that the finer
feminine sense fully
appreciates.
A man sees its mech-
anical excellence in
actual details of design
and construction, but
a woman intuitively feels
this excellence without
a glance at the engine
or a glimpse at the
chassis. A man responds
to Oakland’s surge of
poweron hills and on the
speed-inviting stretch
of long straight road.
Milady truly appreciates
how smooth and exquis-
itely balanced this mighty
power is . . . how easily
controlled and how de-
lightfully responsive to
the lightest touch of a
dainty hand or foot.
Keen feminine dis-
cernment recognises
distinction in the round-
ed body lines, so unlike
those of any other car,
and in the exclusive
colour combinations . . .
distinguishes the ele-
gance in the interior
appointments and luxury
in the deep, wide cush-
ions. Here is the har-
monious expression of
all that she desires in
a motor car.
Oakland dealers every-
where are proud to
demonstrate . • • and
they will gladly explain
the protection provided
by the General Motors
Warranty, and the easy
purchase scheme avail-
able under the G.M.A.C.
Terms Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS
(Australia) Ptv. Ltd.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne
t Adelaide - ‘Perth
Q4KIAND
c/j Car that Dainty Dande can Drive
It's a GENERA L MOT ORS car- look inside and note the difference!


0
oV
i
to
*
*r
4k
COMMERCIAL ART.
Commercial Art and Advertising are creating big business to-day.
That is why TRAINED Commercial Artists are commanding big
incomes. Splendid positions await young people who train
with us.
YOU who have drawing ability—are you taking advantage of this
opportunity?
The Art Training Institute offers you the teaching of TEN of the foremost
Specialists in the several branches of Commercial Art. Such service is
quite unique and without parallel in the history of Commercial Art in
Australia.
Our Director of Studies, Mr. Tom Alban, is the most highly qualified
Art Instructor in Australia. He is an Exhibitor to Royal Academy,
London; King’s Prizeman, Royal Drawing Society; awarded 12 gold, silver
and bronze medals in great National Competitions. He had experience
with Paton and Price Berry Advertising Services.
PERSONAL OR POSTAL TUITION.
n
6 OPsles I
}oo]Uusmtiaf
The Photographs of our Instructors
appear in our FREE BOOK, “THE
NEW ERA OF COMMERCIAL ART,”
70 pages, hundreds of illustrations in
full color. SEND FOR IT TO-DAY.
Please mention “The Bulletin and
enclose 9d., cost of registered postage.
living;
fa
SOSwanstonSi Melbourne
or other should form an alliance, political
and economic, with Germany. America is
endeavoring in every way to get a footing
in the business world of Germany, and, by
reason of her immense available capital,
is able to do so where and when Britain
cannot, by reason of depleted money-bags.
The question arises: Will Great Britain sink
to the level of a second-class Power; if
so, when?
This volume should be read by all those
who still hope to see Britain a benevolent
master of a large part of the globe. It is
a terrific rebuke to all those whose foolish-
ness of mind and blindness of heart would
lead them further into present economic
and political heresies. The problem of
what would happen to Australia in the
event of British prestige vanishing and
British suppor-t being withdrawn is one
worth careful consideration. Yet while all
these problems are urgent for solution we
continue a slow process of economic suicide,
because we seemingly have no one big
enough in the world of Australian state-
craft to tell the unadulterated truth.
“Where there is no vision the people
perish.”
J.M. PRENTICE.
Tomlinson’s Triumph
In a well-reasoned article on whether
poets make successful novelists, Nettie
Palmer (R.P. 19/2/’3O) casts a quite unneces-
sary slur on H. M. Tomlinson’s “Gallion’s
Reach.” In that book Tomlinson rose to
instant fame as a writer who could put his
gfenius for atmospheric impressionism to
the uses of fiction. When the novel
appeared in 1927, the critics placed it
among the great books of the year.
“Femina” and “La Vie Heureuse,” the
Parisian weeklies that combine in an annual
award for the best piece of fiction, had no
hesitation in handing their 1927 prize to
Tomlinson. And, after the critics had sung
their paean, Tomlinson was given first place
in the fiction section of the review of the
year’s literature in “The Annual Register,”
which since 1863 has commanded respect
for its accuracy:—
A very simple story of adventure, but it gives
Mr. Tomlinson the opportunity of painting a series
of magnificent pictures in the manner which has
made his travel books famous; pictures of the
misted Thames as the Altair slips slowly past the
wharves, of storm on the high seas, of the teeming
and mysterious jungle. But he is not a land-
scape artist only. He has a keen eye for character,
and the book is full of contrasted figures vividly
realised.... It is a masterpiece of vitality and
beauty.
“Contrasted figures vividly realised”
describes the novel in a nutshell. Norrie,
the world wanderer, with his whisky and
his profane philosophy; old Perriam, the
shipowner; the age-old Ah Loi, with his
Eastern mask and his perfect Western
culture; Parsell, the mad ethnologist wan-
dering in the jungle; the skipper, the
second officer and the others, all are drawn
with a dexterity and a humanity that make
us live with them until the tale is told.
Billiter-avenue, “a region of grey lime-
stone and glass stratified into floors”—
could there be a better picture, to those
who have sought ships there, of that narrow
London street? On page after page there
are passages of intense beauty and dramatic
realism, and all through the book char-
acters are contrasted, emotions are con-
trasted, with fine scenic back-cloths. A
most effective manner.
I prefer to think that Mrs. Palmer made
an unintentional slip when she cast her
slur. If she did not, she has missed the
beauty of one of the finest latter-day efforts
to unite in descriptive fiction the pangs of
a human soul and the mystery of Nature.
STAN EAST.
Hilarities
This page has no hesitation in commend-
ing Hilarities, by Hal Eyre (Angus and
Robertson). It is a collection of mostly
light-hearted, good-humored, witty essays,
illustrated by the author, selected by
Llywelyn Lucas and introduced by J. le Gay
Brereton. The publishers’ blurb is so much
closer to the truth than the usual thing of
the kind that it can be repeated here with-
out a blush:—
Hal Eyre is a born essayist, with the inner eye
and a humor rooted in toleration and wisdom that
makes him kin to Charles Lamb and E. V. Lucas.
These sketches and essays in little on subjects
ranging from the “Old Mining Days” to “Community
Singing” and “Uncle and the Vitamins” are most
felicitously called “ Hilarities.” Humor bubbles
spontaneously from almost every page. Once, Hal
Eyre, as if to show his versatility, leaves the lighter
vein and in “The Lone Fossicker” gives us a grim
and poignant short story that should be in every
anthology of Australian prose. Australia has, so far,
given us very few humorists whose humor leaves no
bitter taste. Hal Eyre is one of them.
The kinship with Lamb and Lucas is
restricted to the inner eye and humor
mentioned. There is no kinship in the prose
style. There is nothing in Eyre that can
be lifted out and read apart from the con-
text in an enjoyment of beautiful writing.
There is no flowing; his manner tends to be
jerky, a tendency that is accentuated by
too frequent paragraph breaks. But no one
seeking bright literary entertainment should
be much troubled by that. In fact, it is a
merit in a way, since a good deal of Eyre’s
humor arises from dry remarks and shrewd
quick observation. Whatever his defects,
he is seldom artificial, which is more than
can be said for one of the essayists with
whom he is said to have kinship. Nor is
he diffuse at the considerable expense of
nothing, as is the way with most who set
themselves up in the craft. It scarcely does
justice to his work as a whole to quote a
mere skit like “When I Sang with Melba,”
but the brevity gives sufficient indication
of wffiat the book holds to excuse whatever
injustice may be involved:—
The fact of having sung in public with Dame
Nellie Melba is something to boast about. Those
people who know both of us, especially the musical
critics, may attempt to belittle my claims, but the
fact remains.
There we were, just like two ordinary people,
trilling out the only song I know, our voices mingled
in harmony; but, outside a few privileged beings,
the wonderful combination of harmony was lost to
the world.
In the streets outside, the ordinary work-a-day
world was proceeding about its business; people were
dodging, or attempting to dodge, motors and tram-
cars, and sometimes succeeding; the pigeons on the
roof of Her Majesty’s opposite cooed as they listened ;
while the world’s greatest soprano—Melba—and I
sang.
Our efforts were to do honor to the toast of
the health of Mr. W. Leighton Bailey. Melba, of
course, took the soprano 1 part, while I sang some-
times in bass and at other times in a light baritone.
The rest of the Institute of Journalists who were
singing “For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow” with us may
say they didn’t notice me; but they noticed that
after the three cheers were given at the end 1 Dame
Nellie called for a “Tiger.” Well, she glanced at
me when she said it. Anyhow, they can’t take away
from me the knowledge that I have sung with Melba.
Bright journalism; but Hal Eyre goes
considerably deeper than that even when,
as in “Uncle Vitamins,” he is
apparently fulfilling” a daily newspaper
assignment. Perhaps he plumbs deepest
into humanity in “The Lone Fossicker,”
wherein, as the publishers say, he for once
leaves the lighter vein. For that reason
“The Lone Fossicker” is badly placed in the
book. It comes first. You read the title
Hilarities, and the first thing in the coui;se
is this very fine but poignant and indeed
bitter tale. Its place is obviously at the
back of the book, to be read after the
reader had become acquainted with Eyre.
It gives quite a wrong idea of what’s ahead;
at the other end it would put the seal of
excellence upon the work.
A Satchel of Books
The Crooked Eye, by Katharine Virden
(Chapman and Hall). Levi Dixon, the
usurer of Kent Town (U.S.A.), was beaten
to death one afternoon. His screams were
heard by many, but the killer got away. The
inhabitants discuss the mystery, and suspect
innocent people for the next couple of liuu-
dred pages until But read it and find
out who the owner of the eye was. It is
an American horror story by a practised
hand.
Tracking Down the Enemies of Man, by
Alfred Torrance, M.D. (Knopf). The writer, a
British medico, served on health commissions
in the tropics, which conducted campaigns
against the tsetse fly, the mosquito respon-
sible for yellow fever, the malarial mosquito,
the germs of leprosy, of cholera, and of
elephantiasis and a score of other insects
whose annual bag runs into millions of
human beings. The breezy account of his
adventures contains more thrills than 40
moving-pictures.
In Beyond the Swamps (John Lane)
Robert Tanacre exploits a fascinating theme.
The crew of a little petrol-driven mystery
ship, built for the R.N. during the war,
stumble on a lost colony of Imperial Rome.
The inhabitants, having been shut off from
the. world Tor 2000 years, are the same in
their social habits and religious views as
when Livy was writing. Into this welter
of superstition and cruelty comes H.M.S.
Image with her long-range guns, search-
lights and other terrifying modern con-
trivances, and does good service for justice
and humanity. The author reconstructs
this miniature Roman Empire on the shores
of a hidden sea with imagination and humor,
and at the same time tells a rattling good
adventure story.
The Return of John Storey, by Olive
Gregory (John Lane). A blacksmith’s son
goes back to Widham, the English mining-
town where he was born, after 28 years in
Australia. He finds it in a bad way owing
to the outrageous behavior of Sir Thomas
Grey, who owns the town and its mine. So
he buys Sir .Thomas out, comes to a satis-
factory arrangement with the maddened
workers (“I want to run the pit as a trust
—with you as shareholders. Every penny
you put into that mine will be doubled. There
will be a bonus on all output.”) After
which the right girl accepts him. and they
decide to spend the rest of their lives doing
good in Australia and England alternately.
The book may be a little weak in economics,
but it is strong in sentiment and drama.
The Northern Saga, by E. E. Kellett
(Hogarth Press). The expert who has ren-
dered these picturesque tales in English
makes one most important point—he jumps
heavily upon the common notion that a saga
is a bit of primitive fiction. He admits the'
existence of spurious examples, but the “saga
proper is history: it is true.” “Such touch-
ing up as the stories received was not de-
liberate, it was unconscious.” “Truth,” of
course, has to be accepted with the qualifica-
tion that it was that of an imaginative and
superstitious race and time. The introduc-
tion occupies 76 of the 205 pages, and is
not the least part of the book in literary
quality and value. The chosen sagas include
some used by Maurice Hewlitt and other
adapters; all are rich in narrative quality,
drama and beauty.
British Women of the Twentieth Century,
by Elsie M. Lang (Werner Laurie). The
first volume of a series which will deal with
the recent development of various phases of
life, art and science. It gives chapter and
verse for what anyone who has taken the
trouble to look accepted long ago—the re-
markable incursion of women into almost all
forms of occupation. An instance of this
quite near at hand is the fact that the
“Woman’s Mirror” since its inception in
1924 has without a break given a whole page
of paragraphs weekly to chronicling what
women are doing in professions, trades, etc.,
in the world to-day. The book traces the
movement from its earliest pioneers to the
present. It is a volume calculated to make
a mere man his head and think.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Cyclone: May be right. But we’ll hold to
our opinion... .W.M.: Yes, but whether wages are
high or low is of very little consequence. What
matters is the cost of living; and that is governed
chiefly by output or yield C.G.R.: The Bulletin
didn t say the first thing to do was to reduce wages.
What it has said and proposes to go on saying is
that the wages paid must be earned A.J.:
“Dave’s Luck” out H.R.D.: Even being 17 is a
poor excuse for trying to rhyme “country” and
gum-tree”... .Leamington: “The Limit” only just
beyond it.... J.J.F.: It’s been better done a hundred
times.... Leatherhead: The verse is nearly as thin
as the sixpence.... M.L. (Yic.) : Let yourself go a
bit sometimes. Workmanship is always good, but
there is never any feeling A.C.A.D.: Good-o!
That’ll learn the lady:—
She’s a very haughty lady,
Sees your clothes are old,
Pants without a fold,
Just as you pass her by.
Kids she didn’t see you, maybe,
When you raised your hat—
She cut you, so that’s that.
Next time pass her by!
....Keith S.: “Salmon Gums” gets close; others
trite and ordinary Rursum, F.C.8., S.W.K., Per-
kins, Col man W., A.D.Z., Sigma: Also ran....
George William H.: Get on to a simpler form. The
sextet is very poor. Look at those “doths” !....
F.T.: Only rhymed phrases, most of them worn to
rags. .. .Ashton C.: Takes too long to make its
point.... R.E.L.: There’s a sweetness of rhythm, but
a very meagre vocabulary. Suggest for you much
more reading and less writing R. J. 8.: Well, in
the first competition £5OO went to two ladies who
had never published a book, and, in the second, one
prize goes to a man who had never written a story
before, and a second to a lad; ~hose only published
work was a small thing turned out semi-privately.
.. . .R.P.W.: Story of rich profiteer who took his
housekeeper and grand piano to the top of Mount
Drummer, Gippsland, and lived by killing and eating
swagmen, possible, but not probable... .Alex. A.:
Good exercise, that’s a 11... . Harold S.: You may do
something. There’s thought in those last two lines.
. ...P.8.Q.: As cheerful as a pound of dough....
Ole Blue: Fair for autograph purposes... .H.T.:
Going very bumpy... .V.C.1.: Heavy as a booky’s
bag. . . .Thirste (or thereabout) : Both smell of lamp-
oil.... E.D.: Ideas rather foxed... .J.P.: All outers.
.... The Spirit of the Age: Looks like the stuff
that was missing from 0. Henry’s cocktail M. J.:
Try the right sort of technical journal M.D.:
Still out of range R.F.T.: Can’t see where it
could go H.J.S.: Best plan would be to read the
yarn and see....Tarwooma: Bit late... .E.J.F.: No
place there for the abstract... .Idealist: Instructions
followed A.F.S.: Too far off the solid
earth.... Lyn: Why not aim where you saw the bird ?
. ...M.P.S.: Merely unsuitable... .E.T.R.: Not quite.
. ...M.E.M.: Writer protests he was speaking in a
literary, not in a literal, sense. He is passionately
fond of gum-trees, but likes a bit of fish now and
again. Vance Palmer has peddled both, and you’ll
find the fish a very choice lot P.P.: Make only
a par V.K.: Rather quibbling. Have you read
Hay ?... .H.H.: Review in type.... Bellerive: Glad
to see you again. And here goes:—
THE ACCUMULATION.
A rocker and a broken chair,
Worn shovels and a broom,
And a ugly-looking hatchet
Like a weapon of grim doom.
Old harness and a coil of rope,
A pile of window-sashes,
The portion of a office desk
Bespattered with ink splashes.
Sheets of tin I carried out
And a pile of roofing slates,
A sack of brass and copper,
A pair of rusty skates.
’Midst litter, dust and cobwebs,
Within the spacious shed,
From a hook did fall a bucket
Which barely missed my head.
A gridiron and a tin of fat
And jar of hardened honey
Did finish up my contract—
I’d fairly earned my money.
After which we hope nobody will ever again say
that poets avoid hard work... .W.A.: “Now autumn
is here it is autumn time.” Seems quite feasible.
G.M.C.: One is on it already J.U.: Can’t
find it a home.... J.A.L.: Space shortage beat it....
0.P.: Try it on Scullin; he seems pretty short of
ideas.... T.P.8.: Bit obvious... .W.G.: Not keen on
prophets... .Tenfrsix: They’re getting as much space
as can be afforded....J.N.: Miles off the target
C. I. Tizen: Case against Shakspeare dismissed. Costs
lid R-0.C.: You have yet to do stuff that a
reader might get his teeth into L.R.: Doesn’t
make Shaw any more visible than he’s always been.
. ...8.G.: Reads as if you wrote it whilst shaving.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.D.C.: Not listening-in to church-porch back-
biters... .V.R.: That gag has been heralding the
approach of Easterjor years S.J.: He was a wise
friend who tried to stop you sending it....E.T.:
Black and white won’t fill your wallet.... M.A.:
Tedious jests and uncultivated penmanship... .C.H.:
At the moment the Religious Editor is indisposed.
. ...V.K.A.: No, thanks. “Translations from the
most spicy journal in the Argentine” are not in
our line... .C.D.: Buxom batch of damsels ; but alas
they had nothing new to say... .F.R.P.: Can’t see
that gloomy collection putting us in a pleasant
frame of mind... .W.N.: Learn how to attach arms
to bodies... .H.F.: The cadaverous ironmonger’s
assistant buried with due solemnity... .R.J.M.: •
Sorry, but little Bobby can’t have his table manners
corrected' here... .H. 0.: No sympathy for your
angular straphangers S.W.: You might place it
elsewhere... .8.F.: Good —you’re losing some of your
bad habits... .L.E.: Don’t like the bristly line....
G. 8.: The quip is old enough to be the great-grand-
father of the sketch... .K.T.: Getting better....
S.N.G.: Call at the P.O, for it 8.L.8.: Met its
Waterloo at 214 George-street.


e
è
40*
■
mm
i a h
I Jr
■
< Jk- % s
.
lil S:^,<r>V
#SS
■ "v'^gg
B
.*>.
r ,
I-
* 9fcv *T I
WmA,
m
m
■
;
H
X<f
II
'i
■K
f
■
M
'_'■
J
a
w
8
H
iH!
■
W&T
i^9H
noui~


The Bulletin
Vo!. 51— No. 2617.
—a..
April 9, 1930.
AS ONE PARASITE TO ANOTHER.
THE FROWSY BUNG (to McShortoddg): "That meant for me , bat it applies equally to you, my lad!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : $6 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.I.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.i
<1 months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonu-ealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof.
Id. Ulsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
D. H. LAWRENCE—
By Nettie Palmer . . . . . . .. 2
TWENTY YEARS WITH THE MOVIES—
By C. R. Bradish 2
AMERICA CONQUERS ENGLAND—
By J. M. Prentice . . . . . . 2, 5
.HAL EYRE’S “HILARITIES” 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
IS THIS CRISIS A FRAUD? 8
ATTACK ON FEDERATION 8
THE WHEAT PUDDLE 8
THINGS WE CAN DO WITHOUT . . . . 8
CENTRAL RESERVE BANK . . . . 9, 16
CASUAL AVIATION 9
MILITARY EXECUTIONS 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. . . .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with illustrations) . . . . .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . . . . 14
A.M.P. SOCIETY 14
AMALGAMATED PICTURES 14
FINNEY, ISLES ' ..14
HOTEL SYDNEY 14
SOUTH AUS. BREWERY 14
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 17
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..IS
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 19, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS .. ..22
HINTS ON MEASURING 22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 25
Free Service Department .. .. 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . . . 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 37
ROSEHILL RACES 35
SANDOWN PARK RACES 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
“GONE A MILLION!” and other Frith
illustrations .. . . . . . . .. 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 42
SERIAL—“MEN ARE HUMAN”—
By Vance Palmer .. .. ..43, 44, 46
“As We Said Before”—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“THE GAOLER’S NIECE”—
By J. H. M. Abbott 49, 50
VERSE —By John B. Castieau, E. Cameron,
E. M. England, D. P. McGuire, Myra
Morris .. .. .. .. .. 50
NEXT WEEK.
Special Easter Holiday Number. It will include
the first chapters of the £4OO Prize Story by Vance
Palmer and, among a great quantity of other interest-
ing matter,. one of the funniest stories ever printed
in Australia —“The Talkies Come to Burrumba.”
A special article of exceptional interest will deal
with the Browns of Newcastle, and explain why
John Brown left half his vast fortune to Adrian Knox.
TTuT&ulle&m,
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 1930.
IS THIS CRISIS A FRAUD?
Apparently there are a good many Labor
men and sympathisers who believe it is.
They refer to it as a “stunt” and a “frame-
up”—a plot to bring down wages and lower
the standard of living. What are the facts?
A nation is just a collection of families.
John Smith, being a reasonably intelligent
person, knows that his earnings must pay
for his own and his wife’s spendings. There
is no getting away from that; by no
legerdemain can £1 of earnings be made
to pay for £2 of goods. If his earnings are
large or his spendings small, John can put
something by in the Savings Bank; on
the other hand, if his credit is good he can
buy more than he can pay for at the
moment. But he knows that if he doesn’t
pay to-day he must pay some time in the
future, and that, when he pays, the money
must come out of his earnings. He hopes
for a time when his earnings will be excep-
tionally good: he believes he will then be
able comfortably to wipe out the old debt
and pay current expenses as well. But if
he is pressed for payment at a time when
his earnings are exceptionally small, then
he knows he will have to screw and scrape
to get clear. There are very few families
that have not gone through all this. Many
are going through the latter part of it now.
Times were good, credit was easy and debts
were run up, at the furniture store, for a
motor-car, for a block of land. Then work
got slack, the pay-envelope was lighter and
the man to whom a balance was owing
grew more insistent. In some cases the
furniture or the motor-car has been taken
back; in others the family is pinching itself
to get clear
A nation can drift into the habit of
living beyond its means just as easily as
a family can. And it can go very much
further, as a rule, because its credit is so
very much greater. The process in its case
is exactly the same as in that of the
family, and just as simple. It merely bu3 r s
more than it can pay for. During the nine
years from July 1, 1920, to June 30, 1929,
Australia’s excess of imports—things it
bought from abroad—over exports—things
sold abroad—was £63,016,998. That would
have been bad enough in itself, an average
of over seven millions a year. But the
nation had built its house and furnished
it on boiTowed money on which it had
(of course) undertaken to pay interest.
Altogether these loans amount to over 1100
millions; but only 600 millions matter
seriously—the balance is made up of inter-
nal loans: that is, loans within the family.
The nine years’ interest on the external
loans, payable where the money was
borrowed, amounted to 220 millions; and
this could only be paid by exports, too.
If John Smith is earning £350 a year and
has to pay £5O interest on money borrowed
to buy his house and furniture, he knows
that he can keep square only by spending
£3OO and no more. It is just the same with
the nation. The average interest payable
abroad during the past nine years was
about 241 millions a year. Its spendings
should therefore have been that much less
than its earnings. Actually, however, as
we spent seven millions a year more than
we earned, on the average; we went 31£
millions to the bad; that was the amount
for which we had to get credit.
Nothing is more demoralising than easy
credit. John Smith’s family, content vfith
a gramophone when they pay cash, must
have a player-piano when the credit bug
bites them. Then when a whisper goes
round that John Smith has lost his job,
not only does his credit stop short but
the collector is waiting on the step 1 for
every instalment as it falls due. It is no
different with a nation. Drought cut deeply
into the wool and wheat harvests of four
States at the very moment when prices
were falling heavily; hardly a copper- or tin-
mine in the continent was able to stand up
against the fall in those metals; and lead
and zinc, which had been worth over £26
in 1928 and more than that previously, fell
to something under £2O. The nation’s
creditor got nervous just as John Smith’s
creditor does in similar circumstances,' the
nation being simply a multitude of John
Smiths. First they stopped giving further
credit, then they stood on the doorstep
waiting for payments as they fell due.
Not only that, but they began sacrificing
the p.n.’s we had given. Even at last week-
end, though matters had improved consider-
ably, our old promises to pay £lOO (at 5
p.c. interest) were being sold in ' London
for £9O.
When John Smith’s credit is stopped,
after he has been making very free use
of it, and when the bills began to pour
in, he suddenly finds that the family has
to do without many things.' For a while
there are likely to be troubles within the
family. John, when his wife tells him that
they could have paid their way if he hadn’t
gone on strike so often and had worked
harder, is liable to reply that they need not
have gone into debt if she had managed
better. But this will not alter the fact that
the family has been living beyond its mhans,
that its credit has been stopped and that
now the old bills have to be paid. Mr.
Garden is merely the collective John Smith
in that mood when he comes to Mr. Cleary
and tells him that it was the missus’s fault
—she mismanaged things. And Mr. Cleary
gives the only possible answer when he
tells him that, however interesting these
domestic arguments may be, they don’t pay
a single bill.
é
THE CONSTITUTION ALTERATION
RILL.
There are four aspects of the Federal
Government’s Constitution Alteration Bill
which call for careful study by the electors.
(1) It is doubtful if our Constitution can
be revolutionised to the extent proposed
except by an Imperial Act. That is the
opinion of Edward Mitchell, K.C., who is
generally recognised as the Commonwealth’s
foremost Constitutional authority. The
Scullin Government bases its view to the
contrary largely on the opinion of Justice
Dixon (also an authority) that the power
to amend provided for in Section 128
“authorises the alteration of this section so
as to confer power of amendment in future
on Parliament alone.” But, then, one of
the three questions to be answered at the
referendum concerns the addition to the
Constitution of an entirely new section
(Section 129), and no non-political lawyer
of standing has claimed authority for that,
so far as The Bulletin is aware.
(2) Assuming that the political and indus-
trial changes aimed at bv the supporters
of the bill are vital to the country’s wel-
fare, the expensive litigation which will
almost certainly be the outcome of a “Yes”
vote, in the circumstances, might not matter
much. If Australia expresses a clear wish
to exchange Federation for Unification, the
Imperial Parliament is not likely to stand
in the way for long. But is Australia, as
a whole, likely to benefit by Unification?
The system works fairly well in small
countries—Britain, Belgium, Maoriland, and
the like—though even in small countries
national Parliaments tend to devolute
domestic, powers, and concentrate on
national ones. Would it suit Europe, the
U.S.A., Canada, South America—or Aus-
tralia? Our national Parliament, after
trying hard for many years to govern the
Northern Territory from the south, is still
making a mess of it. And Perth is further
from Canberra than Darwin is. But the
arguments against Australian Unification
need! no stressing nowadays. They are so
strong in this country, which is virtually a
Commonwealth of large islands, each with
a different set of problems, and even a
different climate, that the advocates of the
new Scullin measure have spent a lot of time
emphasising that the Government has no
intention of using most of the powers it is
asking for.
(3) But if Section 51 (which provides that
the Federal Parliament shall not dis-
criminate between the States as regards
taxation) is amended, and if an additional
section gives Federal Governments what
Opposition-Leader Latham, during the
second reading debate on the bill, rightly
called “unlimited legislative powers” (sub-
ject to a majority in both Houses, and one
month’s delay), then it is obvious, human
nature being what it is, that the new
powers will be used, eventually, by some
Government. In considering this point it
is only necessary, to recall what happened
in the case of the Federal Arbitration Court.
In the early years of Federation the High
Court followed the theoxy laid down by the
U.S.A.’s famous statesman-lawyer Marshall
in McCulloch v. Maryland: the States were
recognised as supreme outside the juris-
diction given to the Commonwealth by “the
39 Articles” of the Constitution Act. As
Griffith, C.J., put it in Deakin v. Webb,
they “could not be interfered with by any
outside power.” Then came the war, and
a change in the personnel of the High Court
bench. In 1920 the High Court ruled that
powers given to the Commonwealth were
giyen without implied reservations, and
that, accordingly, the Federal Arbitration
Court was empowered to deal with many
matters in regard to which it had been con-
sidered impotent. The A.S.E. case decided
that it could fix the wages of engineers
employed by the W.A. Government, in
common with those employed by private
trading concerns. Nothing was needed to
start the machinery of the Court but a
dispute. Naturally, when union secretaries
and others realised that higher and higher
wage-awards were to be got by faking dis-
putes and by getting Labor sympathisers
appointed to the Federal bench, they set
to work in those directions. Their activities
have, cost Australian industry millions
sterling in the past 10 years, not so much
in raised wages as in the uncertainty and
ill-feeling created by conflicting State and
Federal awards. The development has also
lowered the prestige of the national Court,
and it is partly responsible for the crisis
which is now penalising so many workers'
in all the States. If the Scullin Govern-
ment gets the answers it wants at the
referendum it is as certain as anything can
be that it will be exploited by the machines
which control big block votes in the alleged
interests of sections, and to the certain
detriment of the taxpayers as a whole.
(4) And particularly to the detriment of
the smaller States. They came into the
Federation 30 years ago on the oft-given
assurance that the Constitution would not
and could not be altered except in minor
details. To quote Quick and Garran (Aus-
tralian Constitution): —
“The disability of a Federal Legislature to
alter the Federal Constitution is one of the
organic features, and a prominent charac-
teristic, of every Federal system.”
Such a breach of faith as the, substitution
now, by either an Australian or an Imperial
Parliament, of Unification or anything like
it for Federation would justify an injured
State in withdrawing from the national com-
pact, and there is a suspicion that some
would be pleased to do it.
THE WHEAT PUDDLE.
One of the schemes of the Scullidores is
to impose a wheat pool upon the fanners
of Australia; and on principle as well as
on all past experience it ought to be
strenuously resisted. There may be some-
thing to be said for a voluntary pool; any
number of farmers are entitled to co-operate
in this way. But a Government has no
right to seize the entire product of a man’s
labor and take the marketing out of his
hands, disposing of the goods when and
where and how it likes.
The simple truth is that somebody can
get something out of a compulsory pool,
or hopes to. In the first place there is a
constant struggle on the part of certain
Ministers and the heads of departments to
bloat the importance of their offices. Port-
folios are multiplied, and superfluous Minis-
ters must do something to justify their exist-
ence. The easiest way is to reach out for
new jobs; and so the creation of new
departments and new branches of depart-
ments goes on. Always there are men
inside who know that the bigger the branch,
even though it may be losing money, the
bigger the salaries of those on top; and
always there are people outside who see- a
chance of pickings. In the case of a wheat
pool the pickings appear to extra large
and numerous and juicy. The cost of
handling wheat under the compulsory pool
set up in war-time amounted in one great
wheat-growing State to no less than lid.
per bushel. The average cost since the
pool went out of existence is about 7d.
The pretext for pooling is that it achieves
orderly marketing. The experience ol
Canada is that it is also liable to achieve
most disorderly marketing. The Dominion
tried the very scheme for which Parker
Moloney is the Australian Ministerial
claquer, and the present slump in the mar-
ket is the direct consequence. The plan
was to compel the world to pay a higher
price for grain by holding back a certain
quantity. A higher price was realised; and
immediately almost every country in
Europe added to its area under wheat.
The Canadian pool was left with 200 million
bushels of wheat, whose existence is respon-
sible for the deplorably low price now
ruling and likely to rule for some time.
Growers got a dollar, less freight and, other
charges, leaving only a penny or two over
3s. at prairie sidings. And to pay even that
much it seems certain that many millions
more than the reserve fund built up out of
a one per cent, deduction will be consumed.
The Provincial Governments will have to
make good the deficiency.
The Canadian experience merely supports
the Australian. A compulsory pool became
almost a necessity in war-time. It was a
matter of urgency that wheat should go
forward in large quantities to the Allies;
and a pool enabled national advances to be
made to growers. The system was begun
in 1915 and lasted six years. But, though
a war-time necessity, it was none the less
a shockingly ill-managed business. One
certain comparison can be made. We know
what Australia averaged for its harvests
f.o.b. during this period of compulsory
pooling, and the Argentine knows what its
harvests realised during the same period
without a pool. The comparison is start-
ling :
In Favor of
Australia. Argentine. Argentine.
1916 . . 4/11 5/2 -/3
1917 .. 4/3 7/1 2/10
1918 .. 4/11 7/3 2/4
1919 . . 5/7 7/8 1/11
1920 . . 6/8 10/2 3/6
The consumer is vitally interested in
this matter, too. When there is a com-
nulsory pool there is only one seller, who
is liable to fix a price for local consumption
high enough to hide or partially hide his
failure in the foreign market. This, of
course, is precisely what is happening to-
day with regard to sugar. The price to
the Australian consumer, even though he
lives alongside the refinery, is £26 10s. per
ton. The surplus is sold in the foreign
market at between £ll and £l2 per ton.
The wheat pool created in war-time fixed
the price for local consumption in 1920 at
9s. The average price got for the same
season’s harvest for export was 6s. Bd.
If the farmer was likely to get the benefit
of this or any other increase in price The
Bulletin for one would not make much
trouble. But on all past experience these
compulsory pools are so inefficient that poor
average prices are realised, and they are
so extravagant and wasteful that out of
even the indifferent gross return far too
great a bite is taken. That poor average
prices are realised has been shown by the
comparison of the average f.o.b. prices got
respectively by Australia and the Argentine
in 1915-20: in not one single year did the
Australian average equal the Argentinian.
And the extravagance and wastefulness of
the pool system is proved, among many
other things, by the inquiry made into the
results of the voluntary pools of 1924 and
1925 on one side and free marketing on
the other. For all the States free marketing
gave the farmer and l|d. more than
the pool in those two years. And you get
confirmation of this from two sets of
figures—one showing that year after year
a smaller proportion of farmers will have
anything to do with a pool unless they are
dragooned into it and their harvest com-
mandeered ; the other that during the exist-
ence of the compulsory pool the area under
wheat shrank every year, going from over
12 millions in 1916 to below millions
in 1920. Yet, in the face of those figures,
this is the plan by which Mr. Scullin and
his henchman Parker Moloney propose to
encourage wheat-growing!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Things We Can Do Without.
The Scullin Ministry’s proposals regarding
the restriction of imports are drastic, but
in the present situation any other measures
would be futile and absurd. Yet there is
a bright side even to the new outlook on
foreign trade. When a country is blockaded in
war-time or in difficulties with its creditors
in peace-time it has to either do without the
things it has been in the habit of importing


NOT ALL LOST.
“Well, Missus, they’ve taken the motor-car, and we can’t buy the piano-player after all; but there’s roses in the front, and some bonzer spuds just ready to dig
at the back.”
or provide them out of its own brains and
material. European countries, which have
had frequent experiences of both kinds,
have made surprising discoveries concern-
ing their own resources, and there is no
reason why Australia, which in comparison
is only mildly in difficulties, shouldn’t make
an equally profitable use of its predicament.
Food and drink came in last year to the
value of lOi millions, and clothing, blankets,
rugs and so forth accounted for another
6| millions. Leather, leather manufactures
and rubber manufactures cost l\ millions;
2i millions were spent on earthenware, glass
and glassware, crockery and cement; pianos
and paints and varnishes ran away with
another million, and yet another million
subsidised oversea manufacturers of lino-
leums and similar floor-coverings. In these
categories alone, and they are not the most
important, 23 millions were devoted to pro-
viding employment for people in other
countries to the detriment of the Australian
industries that should have been supplying
these commodities.
Forty-three millions were spent on metals
and metal manufactures—far too large an
amount for six million people possessing
rich metalliferous deposits and a well-
developed engineering industry. It doesn’t
take rash courage to say that if put to it
Australia could have done 20 millions’ worth
of the work involved and cut the balance of
foreign orders in halves.
But Australia doesn’t import all its
non-essentials and luxuries. There is an
annual expenditure on main roads—which
means motor speedways—of three or four
millions, some of it borrowed. The function
of these roads, apart from the pleasure they
add to joy-riding, is to provide a means of
transport which cuts into the earnings of
community-owned railways and tramways.
Motor roads are luxuries, and expensive
luxuries, and they could and should be
dropped till the country can afford them.
Mr. Seullin’s proposals are designed to
save the 40 millions or so required to be
lopped off Australia’s foreign purchases to
balance her accounts with the outside world.
That ,is good as far as it goes, but it
doesn’t go far enough. Another direction in
which self-abnegation might profitably be
practised is in the matter of severely
pruning the network of rules and regulations
that, affect public and private industry—
particularly those ordinances designed to
prevent people from working. They can’t
be enumerated here—it would take a bopk
as big as a Bible to catalogue them. Largely
they are the product of Arbitration Court
lawyers, but outside these are the accretions
of tangled red tape that contribute so
heavily to the slowness of the Government
stroke. The threat of a “regulation strike”
that crops up whenever the workers in a
public service feel aggrieved couldn’t be
brandished if the regulations didn’t contain
much that was unnecessary and inconsistent,
A country that has got into a financial and
economic mess and wants to clear it up
can t find space to wield a broom so long as
it is impeded by such a top-hamper of
tape as Australia carries.
Central Reserve Bank.
No great objection can be taken to the
scheme for a Central Reserve Bank con-
tained in the measure introduced last week
by the Federal Treasurer. The Bulletin
doubts whether such a bank is needed, ques-
tions even whether at this juncture, when
the re-establishment of credit is most de-
sirable, the proposal may not do more
harm than good. But if its necessity is
accepted, the scheme has only one feature
that ought to be entirely re-cast. That
is the one which describes how the new
institution shall be governed.
The control is to be vested in a board
of nine, consisting of a governor, two
deputy-governors, the secretary to the
Treasury, a representative of Labor and
four others representing various groups of
great financial interests. Thus five men will
be more or less subject to Government
pressure, especially, in the case of one of
them, if a Labor Government is in office.
Why two deputy-governors, anyway? And
why appoint them to the board when the
governor is present? The principle is wrong;
these two men will be officers subordinate
to the governor, yet as directors may re-
verse or upset their chief’s decisions. One
deputy-governor only is needed; and his
job should be to take the governor’s place
on the board as elsewhere when the gov-
ernor is not present.
One other point needs re-considering.
The governors and deputy-governors are
to be appointed for seven years; all other
directors apparently for three, and it seems
that the whole lot are to retire at one and
the same time. Thus a Labor Government
coming into office may, and no dobut
would, give the board a Labor complexion,
while a Nationalist Government would give
it a Nationalist complexion. Yet it is
above all things desirable that this institu-
tion should be lifted clear above party
political influences—indeed, above political
influences of every kind.
+
Military Executions.
The annual enactment which makes pos-
sible the existence of a standing army in
Britain—it is colloquially referred to as the
Mutiny Act—embodies many new features
this year. Most important are those relating
to the death penalty for soldiers on active
service. These, as laid down in the old
Army Act, which has stood almost unaltered
for a centuiy at least, were seven in num-
ber, and ranged from giving up an impor-
tant position or inducing anyone to do so,
to misbehaving or inducing others to mis-
behave before the enemy “in such a manner
as to show cowardice.”
If the cables are right, four of these sec-
tions have been wiped out. For the benefit
of any intending wooer of glory at the
cannon’s mouth it may be noted that he
can now be legally executed—the word
“legally” is used advisedly, since “there’s
a dea.l more done in the field than ever
gets into general orders”—only for aban-
doning or inducing anyone to abandon a
position which it was his or their duty to
defend; for treacherously holding corres-
pondence with or giving assistance to the
enemy; and for knowingly doing anything
to imperil the success of H.M. forces on
active service. If anyone now feels like
“discharging firearms, drawing swords or
beating drums” with a. view to causing a
false alarm, he can sleep serene in the
knowledge that if he is an officer his portion
will be merely cashiering, and if of “other
ranks” nothing worse than penal servitude.
Seriously, the new provisions show a
great advance in common humanity and
in the understanding of the soldier’s
psychology. It was a commonplace in the
Great War that many a man who had dis-
played exceptional courage and fortitude
previously would suddenly crack up under
some stress not outwardly apparent. Rated
as “cowardice,” this meant the finish of his
military career. If his reputation was
hitherto unquestioned he was mercifully
taken out of the line. Too often some
untried youngster with no record had to face
a firing party for doing exactly the same
thing.
It is to the everlasting credit of the Aus-
tralian controllers of the A.I.F. that they
refused to enforce the death penalty, though
heavily pressed to do so. A.I.F. offences
in the face of the enemy which would have
involved a capital sentence were trifling in
comparison with those recorded in the other
units of the Allied armies, taking the pro-
portionate numbers of the forces into con-
sideration. This fact has been widely pub-
lished and must have played no small part
in the decision of the MacDonald Govern-
ment to reduce the list of capital offences
as laid down in the Army Act.
4
Casual Aviation.
Once more a party of Australian airmen
bound for Europe has been forced to land
in wild and almost uninhabited Nor’-West
Australia. Smith and Shiers have been
rescued, but not before their tiny stock of
provisions had been exhausted. The lesson
which the crew of the ’plane and the
authorities who profess to supervise aviation
in this country should have learned from
the experience of Kingsford Smith and the
tragedy of Anderson and Hitchcock has
been ignored.
This latest instance of the danger attach-
ing to such flights should surely bring the
authorities to the point of insisting that
those undertaking adventures of this kind
should make eveiy possible provision against
isolation in the wilds. They might see to
it that one member of the party at least
should have some ability to determine the
position of the ’plane after the forced land-
ing. Neither Smith nor Shiers appears to
have been equipped in this respect, and in
any case the necessary instruments were
not carried. Fortunately, radio saved the
situation.
It is a matter for congratulation that
tragedy has been averted. None the less,
the happening entailed public expenditure
which no private enterprise has any right
to impose on the community. It is out
of the question, of course, that those
embarking on such enterprises should be left
to extricate themselves from their plight.
But that does not absolve responsible
authority from doing its utmost in advance
to ensure that such adventures should be
safeguarded,' as far as is humanly possible,
from disaster.
Leaving out questions of rigid official
inspection before such flights are under-
taken, and insistence on adequate provision-
ing and navigating Capacity as opposed to
the mere holding of flying certificates, it
seems time that the authorities banned
the direct route which has led to three
serious happenings in a single year.
4
Air and Hot Air.
The Briton at home and abroad is so used
to hearing of the immense superiority of
the foreigner in aircraft manufacture and
commercial aviation that he is apt to let it
go at that. If what C. R. Fairey, the
famous British aircraft designer, told
London recently is true, there is no reason
for this attitude.
Just returned from an inspection of
American conditions, Fairey said that all
the airlines there were working at a loss,
with the result that the Government mail
subsidy had to be augmented with a
£1,000,000 grant. Pursuing an investigation
of Germany’s activities, in one day he saw
only three ’planes land in the great Temple-
hof ’drome at Berlin, the nucleus of the
German system of which so much is heard.
Only one of these ’planes was German, and
it carried one passenger.
Fairey blames the Briton’s dislike of
crying his goods in the market-place, a prac-
tice which his American and German rivals
have exploited to the nth degree. He quotes
as an instance the belief sedulously incul-
cated in every American child that hun-
dreds of American airmen in American
’planes crossed the lines in France, while
unemotional records show that, of the few
American air units which saw active service,
all were equipped with British or French
machines, their own being worthless for
military purposes.
Unfortunately this same propaganda has
been broadcast in Australia by a series of
American films purporting to depict the
triumphs of American airmen: If there has
been any similar glorification of British
or French fliers, this country has seen noth-
ing of it.
And still Fairey overlooked one point in
favor of British aircraft design, and one that
may be commended to the notice of thou-
sands of Hollywood-obsessed Australians.
It is that many Continental designers engine
their ’planes with British machines. The big
Fokkers which Kingsford Smith did so much
to make familiar to Australians are so
equipped. The giant Dornier passenger
’plane, largest of its kind in existence,
depends on half a dozen British engines.
The country and the race that produced
Newcomen, Watt, Symington and Stephen-
son have not yet gone to the wall in the-
matter of mechanical genius and scientific-
attainment.


ë
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
ē
QUIET RESTFUL
COOL Open to the
Summer Sea Breezes,
with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths, Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommoda-
tion.
TARIFF:
From 4} Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS:
Y3GI2 (4 lines).
The centre of Queens/onc/s
c/isSingu/sf>ec/ Soc/o/ Life.
€cmom
WM
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables : Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
_\\N
POLITICAL
POINTS
ê
“I wonder if he’ll come at this!”
expert organisations for doing the job, and
handing it over to some raw board, with
a makeshift organisation, more or less com-
posed of political derelicts. The farmer will
have to do some hard kicking to prevent it.
A fish of this size isn’t caught every day,
and there will be a host of hungry people
pushing in for a slice.
The importing interest has whitened its
face with chalk to represent terror, and
is explaining that Australia will be in a bad
way for Customs revenue when imports suffer
wholesale reduction. No doubt it will be;
even though' the stoppage of £40,000,006
worth of loan-imports saves the nation from
bankruptcy, there will be a gap in the paper
revenue till the return of prosperity causes
other branches of income to look up. Higher
duties on such imports as remain will help,
and economies are possible, but still a tem-
porary gap may be expected. And instead
of weeping about it the best idea is to
say that it is a da-slied good thing. So many
troubles are permanent that a merely tem-
porary one is quite a change.
Now we begin to see why Chief Justice
Adrian Ivnox so suddenly retired from the
hearing of a matter connected with the coal-
miners’ trouble and passed the job on to a
puisne brother. Somebody, in the words of
a member of the Bar, “tipped him the wink
about something” ; and though the something
was a secret then, it is pretty certain now
“That’s mine, I tell you!”
that someone whispered in his ear that John
Brown, already a very sick man, was making
him one of his chief beneficiaries. There
doesn’t seem to be any need for another
appointment to the by no means over-worked
Bench just now; but that hasn’t affected the
rush. There are at least a dozen law-dogs
scrapping for the bone in Sydney alone; and
Adelaide is beginning to be very annoyed
at the consistency with which its champions
are passed over.
Though under the preferential voting sys-
tem it will take days to get the final result,
it looks as if the Liberal Government in S.
Aus., which has held office for just three
years, fell heavily on Saturday. Butler’s
own seat is in danger, and at least a couple
of his colleagues are hard pressed. It may
be the swing of the pendulum, or it may be
that Butler is not a tactful or stimulating
leader —some of his own people have been
growling that he antagonised almost every
important interest in politics, while going
out of his way to conciliate the people who
merely want to see pubs closed on Saturday
afternoon. Anyway, the Liberals, who held
27 seats in the last Assembly, will be lucky
if they have 16 in the next one, while Labor
looks like increasing its 16 to 27 at least. And
if the Country party improves its numbers
to three or four, it will be at the expense
of the Liberals. It is a striking swing-over,
and may have some repercussions in the
Westralian elections next Saturday, although
Labor is the defending not the attacking
party over there.
The ever grumpy Hughes got together a
meeting of his “party” in a Sydney suburb
the other evening and told it the old story
that all the trouble arises because, in six
years of Bruce-Pagc, imports exceeded ex-
ports by £40,000,000. When he (the super-
man Billy) was in office everything was
different. Still, in one year (1920-21), under
the super-Bill, imports exceeded exports by
£32,600,000, which is the worst in Aus-
tralia’s record, and in 1921-22, also under
Bill, the addition to the foreign debt was
£40,300,000, which was the worst up to
then. He set the ball rolling and his unwise
successors let it roll. William’s whole policy
is a dreary and inaccurate pawing among
the debris of the past. Even if the nation
put him in office it couldn’t live the past
over again, and it doesn’t want to.
The Scullidorc Government is still making
foolish promises. It has informed Collier
of Westralia that the demand for a Federal
bonus of 10s. per ounce on gold is inadmis-
sible, for to give a dole to the rich mine
and the poor one alike would be prepos-
terous (the same as giving £5 to the rich
baby, but this wasn’t specified). Still, Sculli-
dore pointed out that every State has power
to subsidise its own mines. If Westralia
makes the effort, and finds that “through
the disabilities that the State lias suffered
by reason of Federation” it can’t pay, then
Westralia will be justified in asking the
Commonwealth for a bigger grant at the
expense of its embarrassed neighbors, and the
demand will be “sympathetically considered.”
But the Constitution forbids the granting
of a Federal bounty which doesn’t apply to
all States, and it would be a thin evasion
to pretend that the money wasn’t a Federal
bounty, if it was admittedly a Federal grant
for the payment of a State bounty.
The tradition that the Speaker represents
the dignity and authority of the H’ouse
rocked to its base the other day when two
or three Nats., including a Minister, dropped
on N. S. Wales Speaker Levy and told him
the Assembly was a bear-garden and asked
him what he was going to do about it. Levy
was deeply shocked and was unable to
officiate at the next meeting of the men-
agerie. The humorous touch was given to
the incident by Opposition-leader Lang, one
of the worst-mannered members of the House
for 20 years, and more than anyone else
responsible for the general hoggishness of
the Chamber: he spoke a panegyric on Levy
and trounced certain daily newspapers
which, he said, had maligned the Speaker.
A bewildered House unanimously passed
Lang’s motion deprecating such attacks. It
would have been more to the point if it
had passed a motion deprecating Slang.
So that they won’t forget his address to
them on the necessity for drastic cuts in
expenditure, Vic. Premier Hogan has had the
speech typed and sent to heads and sub-
heads of departments. He calls attention to
the way outlay has mounted in 10 years,
and attacks “contingencies,” under which
heading so many extravagant things are
cloaked; he is also hostile to new appoint-
ments. What with the falling off in revenue
and the inability of some people to pay
taxes, Hogan says there is little chance of
the year’s deficit being less than the £400,000
which he estimated in December.
There seems to be a lot of superfluous
hate in the administration of the Vic. ’Bus
Act, designed to protect the railways against
unfair road competition. ’Bus-owners on
one suburban route frequently land heavy
fines for overloading. As the number of
vehicles allowed by law to run is set much
below the passengers demanding transport,
the drivers have to either break the law or
leave their patrons to walk to work, there
being neither tram nor train in the vicinity.
The compact little piece spoken by Baron
Somers in opening Vic. Parliamentary ses-
sion numbered only 243 words, and Gordon
Webber, sec. to the Cabinet, is credited with
being the draftsman. The acuteness of un-
employment was .stressed, and it was inti-
mated that the Unemployment Insurance
Bill and certain other financial provision
would be proposed. Then followed an inti-
mation that the Tote Bill would be submitted
early to enable some more money to be
raised for hospitals. The only other measure
mentioned was a Sewerage Districts Bill to
facilitate putting in hand work in rural
towns. The Speech, though so brief, was
not a record for brevity: the one Governor
Sydenham Clarke, primed by Irvine, fired
off in May, 1903, totalled only 62 words.
Britain’s President of the Board of Trade
told the Tariff Truce Conference at Geneva
that he was a convinced Freetrader, but all
the same “distressing conditions revive ' and
strengthen the desire for more Protection
where Protection already exists, and create
a strong desire for Protective measures even
in Freetrade countries.” So the gentleman
recognises that the march of progress has
left him behind. The recent raising of the
“It’s poison—but how I do enjoy it!”
familiar ghost in the Lords brought a pas-
sionate assurance that the Ministry is still
a bitter-ender in its opposition to “food
duties.” In point of fact, it raises by import
duties over £17.000,000 a year on sugar,
£700,000 on cocoa and chocolate, £250,000 on
coffee and chicory, and about £620,000 on
currants, raisins and other fruits, which are
food or a colorable imitation.
N. S. Wales Chief Railway Commissioner
Cleary was told by Jock Garden the other
day that he was “unable to override the
solid circle of higher officialdom which for
so long has acted as a clog on the efficient
administration of the service.” Cleary didn’t
say whether he was or wasn’t, but the
following day he gave some instances of the
way in which the hands of the Commissioners
are tied —not by the high officials, but by
the conditions which Parliament has allowed
the unions to place on the service. Recently
a boiler inspector was appointed, a young
man, but the best-qualified for the job. T
officers’ association protested because m
rule of seniority—what Lord Fisher called
“the rule of Buggins’s turn” —-had been aib '
regarded. The matter had to go before a
conciliation committee and was the subject or
a departmental inquiry that had cost £IUUU
as far as it had gone.
This, being a time of reformation, Dm
N.S.W. Premier might spare a moment to
repair the Treasurer, who needs it badly.
In pre-Stevens days N.S.W. was told once a
month how the revenue, ordinary expendi-
ture aqd loan expenditure were getting on,
and intelligent people were glad to know.
Now the smaller part of the figures appears
once a quarter, the railways being omitted.
Railway returns appear punctually once
every blue moon. The last blue moon was
a number of months back, but another is
expected. Meanwhile reports have suggested
a railway deficit of as much as £3,000,000
for the year, which is wild beyond belief.
Stevens is a pleasant, popular gentleman, an
oasis of politeness in a desert of vulgar
slangwhang, and can add up a column of
figures with breathless velocity, but his
secrecy is a bore.
N.S.W. Premier Bavin’s party, though
assured enough that longer hours must be
worked, is still scared stiff when it comes to
saying so; and not one definite thing has
thus far been done towards accomplishing
this most obvious necessity. Even Cleary
“Go on, Cleary — you’re insured for seven
years”
of the railways, though one of the most
forthright persons in the community, has
deferred the evil day for another week. Still
that seems to be only with the object of
letting the necessity soak in; Cleary is con-
vinced of it, and Bavin has encouraged him
to go boldly into the lions’ den.
The “United” party in Maoriland has
not been living up to its title. There was a
lot of heart-burning over the allocation of
portfolios, and shortly, after it reached the
Treasury benches the party quarrelled with
its organiser Davey, who has been a thorn
in the side of the Ministry ever since.
Baronet Ward is a sick man, and by all
accounts a rather dictatorial one, and the
leadership of the House has devolved on
George Forbes, divested of the authority that
might have enabled him to keep the team
together. In the last three months half a
dozen erstwhile members of the party have
asserted their independence. Now Jenkinson,
who represents Parnell, an Auckland suburb,
has resigned to re-contest the seat under
another banner. A coalition with the
Coatesites seems the only alternative to an
early dissolution.
Brisbane has devised a new method of
dealing with the unemployed question. Lud
Mayor Jolly has opened a fund to finance
relief works in and about the city, and the
State Government has promised to sub-
sidise this at the rate of £1 for every £2
subscribed. But it promises to be only a
drop in the bucket, and the bucket threatens
to get larger: the tremendous overloading of
the State railways staff is becoming an insup-
portable burden, and the pruning-knife is
being sharpened. Other branches of the
State services are not much better.
It is one of Australia’s most petted illu-
sions that the public debt is invested in rail-
ways. The truth is that the greater part
of the debt is invested in other and worse
assets, and the latter are becoming bulkier
every year. This is one of the stumbling-
blocks in the way of a frequently-proposed
easy remedy, but there are others. A typical
year’s loan estimates are 31 millions —40 for
railways and 21 for sundries and thingum-
bobs. Without the railways to lend respect-
ability the thingumbobs might be poorly
received.
Small doubtful debts accumulate about the
Federal Treasurer as minor embarrassments
environed Bichard Swiveller. Among the
Commonwealth’s benevolences in the days
when it was being good to everybody was
its housing scheme. On this savings banks
and other institutions advanced a million or
two with the Federal guarantee of repay-
ment. For sheer want of money repayment
is postponed indefinitely. It doesn’t signify
much, but like the swapping of the joint-
stock banks’ gold for Government paper, it
means so much more of the public resources
locked up in Commonwealth promises to pay,
and so much less available for ordinary busi-
ness.
ASSES AND?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘lf there were not so many long-eared auditors
there would be fewer long-tongued speakers on public
platforms.’ Mr. Maxwell, M.H.R., told a Geelong
audience.”
From point to point he passes
In garrulous review,
And all the list’ning asses
(Myself, you know, and you)
Their lengthy ears do waggle
And look in sorry case,
As after him they straggle
In hopeless mental chase
Of all the carrots he discloses
Away in front of their fat noses.
Prize after prize he dangles
Before their solemn gaze,
And donkey wit entangles
In talk of donkey days,
When pay will be stupendous
And work a bagatelle,
When thistles grow tremendous
And cart themselves as well,
Their succulence for aye renewing,
To waiting jackass jaws for chewing. ;
A clear, decisive picture
Behold, howe’er it gall,
This bland but blist’ring strictur
On voters one and all.
But men are slaves to leaders,
As some outstanding brute
Bays on the timid feeders
In ev’ry pack-pursuit.
Think not instructors of our masses
Mean all they say. They’re not such asses.
VICTOKIA.
HASEN.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bildad”: One seedy-looking and unpopu-
lar member of society is doing well amid the
general trouble. Recently an enraged man
of business wanted to put a bailiff on to a
rich but miserly customer, and was told to
wait because all the available bailiffs were
busy raiding the sticks of poor men and
women for rent. Meanwhile his applica-
tion was put down on the waiting list. The
cheap variety of landlord is having a thin
time. There is a tendency to measure him
by the landlord of fiction such as Dickens’s
Patriarch, who employed Pancks to collect
his dues in Bleeding Heart Yard, and by
similar objectionables. But in England the
tenant is liable for rates, wherefore he gets
his dim and breathless den at a reduction
on Australian figures, and the most that the
Patriarch can lose is his rent —if the tenant
gets away before the bailiff arrives or if
the furniture proves null and void. Also his
empty tenement doesn’t pile up bills against
THE BARGAIN-HUNTER.
FELICE: “Isn’t she the girl who married the shopwalker at
Hordern’s?”
ELISE: “Yes.”
FELICE: “And are they happy?”
ELISE: “Oh yes, in a way But she sometimes thinks she might
have done better at David Jones’s.”
him, and the Mayor and Corporation stand
the loss. An Australian cheap landlord may
have good times, but when he has bad times
they are liable to be very bad.
❖ ❖ * ❖
“Penfield”: Queer what different answers
you get to the question, almost invariable
these days, “Well, how’re things?” A Mac-
quarie-street doctor says he’s doing no good
at all: “They’re all satisfied with the family
doctor now. Poor devil, they don’t have to
pay him.” A barrister .says he hasn’t been
so busy for years. “When things are good
and people are busy, ‘Oh, damn it,’ they say,
‘I suppose he robbed me, but let’s get on
to the next job.’ When they’re bad they say,
‘I can’t afford to be robbed. Get to him !’ ”
The small suburban trader is having a bad
time —he mostly blames the big department
stores —and few factories are working full
time; but one little shop is having the rush
of its life. It makes baskets —hawkers
baskets. Another man who said he was
doing better than usual was a carter, special-
ising in furniture. He’s got a contract with
a couple of t.p. firms. “I been getting three
or four jobs a day regular shifting stuff back
to store. One of my people has had to take
a big basement up in Redfern, and it s packed
floor to ceiling with ‘re-possessed’ goods, as
they call ’em.” But one of the most curious
cases of all was the city seedsman. He said
orders were coming in as he’d not seen them
come for years, largely from little town and
suburban shops; so I looked for a suburban
seedsman. ‘Broad beans? Sorry, I m out.
It’s a strange thing, but I can’t keep my
stock of broad beans up. Everybody seems
to be digging a bit of their back yard and
growing something.” Which was the most
comforting thing I’d heard on my rounds.
* * * ■ *
“Uramao” : Painters and house-decorators
see some strange things from their eeries.
In Wellington (M.L.) one was at work on
the ceiling of a Roman Catholic presbytery,
and was unnoticed by the dignitaries below
taking farewell of Archbishop Redwood, who
'was off on one of his tours. A priest from
the west coast, of abnormal rotundity, had
come up to Wellington for the occasion. As
the prelate and his entourage hurried through
the room the plump little ecclesiastic knelt
down to kiss the episcopal ring. The whole
party then passed out, leaving his riverence
on his knees. He tried one leg and failed
to get on his props; an attempt by means
of the other was no more successful. Then
looking all round he laid down on the cocoa-
nut matting and rolled till he reached a
table several yards away, by means of which
he was able to haul himself to his feet and
join the other clerics in a final cheer for
the Arehbisli. as he drove off. You can’t
keep a good man down.
* * * *
“7346” : At a party in Cairo one night all
units of Allenby’s issue were represented. A
Digger of the ’ Camel Corps got into con-
versation with a charming old English lady
who had sons in the Light Horse. “And tell
me,” she said, “something about your life
with the camels. Do you have names for
them just the same as the Light Horse had
for their dear gallant horses?” “Yairs,
Missis,” said the camclier enthusiastically
-—“just the same names too!”
❖ ❖ H*
“Medicurse”: For many years that dread
disease pernicious anaemia has taken a heavy
toll of life by its insidious destruction of
the blood corpuscles. There is now a cure
in most cases with sheep’s or calf’s liver.
This can be taken minced finely, flavored
with sauce and served ice-cold. It is best
taken raw, although the cooked preparation
has some benefit. The most used, though
the dearest, method now in vogue is to use
one of the trade extracts, usually a table-
spoonful three times a day. Recently it has
been discovered that hog’s stomach gives even
better results than liver, and an extract of
hog’s stomach called ventriculin is prepared
for -the purpose. It can be taken in soups,
broths and so on, and is practically tasteless.
* * *
“Feng-Shui”: American missionaries have
caused a fine rumpus in Japan. It was
proposed to send a troupe of geishas to Wash-
ington at the sea-
son when the
cherry-trees, a gift
from Nippon,
should be in bloom.
In a natural set-
ting the dainty
little flower girls
were to perform
their national
dances to the tinkle
of a national
orchestra. The mis-
sionaries aforesaid
spoilt the entente
cordiale by cabling
to the State De-
partment that
geishas were no-
thing but prosti-
tutes and that the
pure American soil
would be contami-
nat e d by their
•small and shuffling
feet. An enormous
clatter immediately
arose in the local
press. American
publicists were
quoted on the
lewdness of Ameri-
ca n life itself,
statistics were pro-
duced to show that
the amount of
prostitution in the
States at least
equalled that in
Tapan, and Ameri-
can movies were
pointed to as indi-
cating that the
geisha might even
conduct an evan-
gelical campaign to
improve the moral-
ity of their hosts.
The quaintest fea-
ture of the uproar
was that the
Japanese press
took no part except
to smilingly report
the progress of the
fight. All the bit-
ter comment on the
rudeness, intolerance and Pharisaism of the
missionaries came from resident Americans.
* *
“Percy Pawnticket” : The voice, lifted in
lamentation and appeal, smote upon the
silence of the night. “Lemme in! Lemme
in, someone, ean’tcher?” it chanted. “Lockin’
a man outer ’is own ’ome! I ain’t drunk; I
ain’t drunk, I tell yer!” This was the
chorus of a long song in which the exile
told his household (and the whole street)
many other things, such as that it was not his
fault if he never couldn’t get work. The
monotonous recitation had become almost
soothing, when it changed to a shriek. “My
Gawd! My Gawd /” That yell took me from
my bed, and I was one of those who hurried
down into the street to see what had
happened. The man who had been making
all the noise had flung himself down on the
ground, apparently careless of how he might
damage the pavement or himself. It appears
that, having cadged some matches from a
late wayfarer, he had made an investigation,
revealing the fact that the house was empty.
“Now I know why the missus gave me
four bob this mornin’ an’ told me to go out
an’ enjoy meself,” moaned the victim of
base deceit. “It’s the fourth time in a year
they’ve give me the slip, movin’ out without
tellin’ me they was goinh But I found ’em
before, an’ I’ll find ’em again.” Then he
broke down utterly. “Wot breaks me ’eart,”
he sobbed, “is that it makes people think
they’re tryin’ ter git rid of me!”
* * * *
“Clement R. d’Uppe”: Just as the Gwydir,
for Sydney, was about to cast oft' from the
Newcastle wharf the other evening a man
JUDGING BY APPEARANCES.
“Billy’s been growling again. He says I put all he earns on my back.”
“Oh, I’m so sorry. Is he out of work, too?”
carrying a bag as big as himself dashed up
the gangway. By the time he recovered his
breath the vessel was rounding the heads.
Gathering himself and his luggage together,
he handed one of the deckhands two coppers,
which, he explained, was for his fare. "It’ll
cost you a bit more than that,” said the
astonished old salt. “But,” remonstrated the
much perspiring one, “it’s only tuppence to
Stockton, isn’t it?” “Stockton be damned!”
was the reply, “we ain’t goin’ to Stockton ;
we’re ’eadin’ for Sydney.” “Sydney be
doubly damned !” gasped the passenger. “Why,
I’ve just come from there by train, and my
wife has the dinner waiting over there in
Stockton, not a quarter of a mile away.”
But back to Sydney he went, and he had to
pay his passage, too.
* * * *
“Digger’s Batman”: The Diggers’ Pension
Appeal Board has at last settled a most
unusual but apparently well-founded claim.
The appellant was passed as physically sound
on enlistment, and was sent overseas, but
directly he started the long route marches
which were a part of the training corns
grew on the soles of his feet to such an
extent that he was unable to stand. After
he had had several terms in hospital, only
to immediately develop corns again after
being discharged as cured, he was returned
to Australia. Up to the time when the
Repat. Commission wiped out the privileges
of men whose complaints were held to have
been due to pre-war disability, he was given
constant treatment without any material
benefit, the corns recurring whenever he took
a job or did any walking. He lost his pen-
sion as a result of the commission’s deci-
sion, but it has now been restored, with a
wad of back pay as a solatium.
* * ■* *
“Wickham Terrace”: One of the features
of Brisbane that strikes the observant new-
comer is the brisk trade in tickets for the
State lottery. All sorts of trading establish-
ments sell ’em, and they vie with one another
in the matter of slogans. A supreme effort
in that direction is made by a tobacconist,
who announces “We cater specially for
Jonahs.”
V 'l*
“Bagman”: Even in these hard times it
takes a lot to shake my friend Fusil’s con-
fidence. When he lost his job in a whisky
agency the other day he went to another.
To questions as to experience, Fusil replied
“I’m the best whisky salesman in Australia”
—and looked as if lie believed it. Said the
manager, “We have a line we bought 10
years ago and can’t shift. Suppose you
have a try on commission?” A week after,
Fusil came back looking thunder. “I’m still
Australia’s best whisky salesman,” he said
as he threw down his untouched order-book,
“but I take off my hat to the blighter who
sold you that stuff and made you think it
was whisky.”
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Tos”: He was a small-part actor, and
he used to haunt his agent’s office, saying,
“Anythin’ doin’ for me to-day, Ted?” And
Ted would respond : “Sorry, Charlie ; nothin’
doin’.” As the weeks went on words became
superfluous. Charlie would look in, lift his
eyebrows inquiringly, and Ted would shake
his head. This went on for weeks. Then
one day Charlie broke silence. He strode in
saying “Oh, by the way, Ted, don’t .book
me for anything during the next fortnight.
I’ve decided to take an ’oliday.”
% * * *
“Illawarra”: Things happened in those
Westralian goldfields townships of a genera-
tion ago that would have been impossible
anywhere else. The police inspector who
was in charge of the district and the ser-
geant whose job was mainly with the town-
ship w r ere a study in contrasts and intensely
antipathetic. The former was a lively young
man who had got there by family influence;
the latter was a dour Scot with 20
years’ army service in India who strongly
disapproved of his superior’s tendency to
patronise the pubs, and who was credited
with several attempts to bring the inspector’s
failings to the notice of authority in Perth,
Then, unexpectedly and suddenly, the town
got the shock of its life. An English mining
promoter had given the sergeant 100 shares
in a property that turned out trumps, and
the beneficiary sold them for something just
under £lOOO. The easy-gotten wealth put
him off his balance, and the man who had
always been regarded as a confirmed Recha-
bite embarked on a week’s strenuous jam-
boree. Persuasive constables had to haul
him out of bars, to the vast delight of the
community, before he returned to his old
dour self again. It was a great chance for
the inspector, and he rose to the occasion
by going out of his way to 'shield the ser-
geant. It was a fine return, though neither
man was destined to stay long in the force.
*!» * * *
“Chev.” : When Melbourne citizens emerged
from their homes on the morning of the No-
license referendum they found continuous
white lines running parallel with the tram
tracks broken every four feet or so with the
slogan, “Vote No.” Wherever there was an
asphalt road this device appeared, and it
turned out that what looked like a titanic
job had been executed with the utmost sim-
plicity. One of the tyres of a motor-car
had been embossed with the appropiate let-
tering, and by means of the same system as
is used for marking tennis courts 400 miles
of thoroughfare had been converted 1 into anti-
prohibitionist hoardings. The No-campaign
director, E. E. Liston, who took the
responsibility, is a member of the City Council
and chairman of the Traffic and Buildings
Regulations Committee.
* * * & *
“R. Volt” : The fuss made over Marconi’s
“lighting” of Sydney’s electricity exhibition
is somewhat staggering. Equally .magical
feats are performed every time the beam
station in Melbourne calls up the English
end to transmit a message about the price
of beef. The principle involved is just the
same and so is the amount of current used.
All that the Italian inventor was _ asked to
do was to transmit an impulse, which when
received is boosted up by local batteries until
it is strong enough to close a relay, and that
is precisely what is done in ordinary tele-
graphic communication every day. Under ihe.
new regenerator system used on the old-
fashioned cables, an operator emulates Mar-
coni every time he presses a key in Adelaide,
which works relays through a dozen different
stations until the signal reaches Electra
House in London. The problem of trans-
ferring electrical power over long distances
by radio is still as far off solution as ever
it was, as far as commercial purposes are
concerned.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: The bleaching of hair due to
shock mentioned by “Clericus” (B. 19/3/’3O)
is not uncommon, and is due to a sudden
development of gas bubbles which serves to
mask the pigment in the hair. These gas
bubbles act like little mirrors, reflecting the
light and producing the iridescent whiteness
of a lily or a white feather. When hair
grows gradually grey, it is due to a deficiency
of pigment in the new growth, which is
developed with gas bubbles in place of pig-
ment. Hair that is suddenly whitened, how-
ever, frequently returns to its normal shade,
since the pigment is still there. The common
stoat is reddish-brown in color in Scotland
in the summer, but in the autumn, when
moulting, it develops its new coat with gas
bubbles and becomes snow white, except the tip
of its tail, which is black all the year round.
Whiteness is not pigmentary, but structural,
and in nearly every case is due to reflection
of light from gas bubbles or crystal-like par-
ticles. It is minute deposits of uric acid
which account for the whiteness of a butter-
fly.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Jobs are hard to get
in Sydney these days, and applicants for
advertised positions take up their .stance
sometimes as early as 6.30 a.m. The record
in the early-bird stakes is held by a girl
who astonished a business man by appear--
ing on the scene half an hour after he had
sent an advertisement to a daily paper. The
applicant explained that she made a practice
of standing near the counter in the news-
paper office, where she sometimes got a
chance of scanning advertisements as they
came in. She got the job.
A BED OF ROSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hit by the cowcatcher of a train at Otahuhu, a
Chinese gardener named Chung Doo was thrown in
the air and fell with his vegetables in a bed of
roses on the platform. He is recovering.”— M.L. paper.
He fell, along with baskets twain of greens,
Cabbage and toothsome lettuce, one sup-
poses ;
Potatoes, possibly, and stringy beans,
Peas whose deficiencies a pod encloses;
lie fell, a trifle hard, the reader gleans,
But still—he fell into a bed of roses!
Celestial luck, I seem to hear you say:
We poor Caucasians seldom fall that way.
It caught him bending, tossed him up before a
“Wfiaffor” from those bewildered lips it
drew.
Above that billowing blouse I see an aura,
Above those dungarees of dingy blue:
He took Pomona with him back to Flora —•
Although it’s doubtful if lie ever knew
Or thought of the reunion, anyhow,
Being a humble vegetable Chow.
It picked him up unwary, and he fell,
For momentary press distinction singled— r
Theme for a ballad or a villanelle
Or roundelay that Villon might have
jingled.
Conceive him lying there with good Brownell
And Marechal Niel about him intermingled,
And spare a hope that chaps like me and
you,
When comes our turn, will fall as soft as
Doo.
N.S.W.
IFORD


“Lamia” : “Barang Kali’s” old cannon near
the museum at Batavia isn’t the only sacred
and tourist-haunted piece of ordnance in
that city. Another, which lies near the
Penang Gate, dates from 1671 and once
frowned from the walls. Its name is Si-
jagoer of Mariam Besar. Its breech is
fashioned like a closed fist and a Latin
inscription on its reads “Ex me ipsa renata ”
(Out of myself was I reborn). The natives
believe this cannon can confer the gift of
and they burn incense before it.
They further believe that it will some day
be joined by its mate —a cannon now at
Bantam —and that happy day will see the
end of the Dutch rule in Java. A few years
ago a trio of Australian girls visited this
cannon. Two of them were brides-elect; the
third was wavering on the brink of an engage-
ment. Coaxed by the native in charge to buy
some incense and burn it, the brides-elect
refused, but the other girl, more kind-hearted
but entirely ignorant of what it was all
about, gave the native a guilder and gravely
put the incense on the fire. She blushed
later when she heard what it was all about,
but she married shortly after her return to
Australia and within a year became the
mother of an exceptionally comely son. The
marriages of the other two have been child-
less.
# * ❖ *
“P.X.”: In these days of the motor-car
the old lambing-down shanty hasn’t much
of a chance, and a bad half of them have
had to try something else. Still you get
a whiff of the old business now and then.
On the N. S. Wales-South Aus. border where
the Broken Hill-Adelaide line cuts it there
are a couple of small huddles of humpies,
one on the S. Aus. side called Cockburn, the
other, smaller and meaner, named Burns —
after an old-time Treasurer. Now Burns has
a pub whose proprietor was stupid enough
to go into court the other day suing a station-
hand for £25 19s. 6d., board and lodging
for 22 days, with stabling, etc. Presently
Butler, the bushman, told his tale. He’d
come in to the pub on May 18 with a station
cheque for £4O. The pub obliged by cashing
it, and that night the landlord’s son slept
in the room with the bushman and the
change. In the morning the change was
gone. But the dam wasn’t dry yet: Butler
still had a savings bank account. On May
21, the day after what was left of the £4O
was found to have vanished, he dug into this
THERE ARE OTHER SUCH
THINGS.
HARD-UP PUNTER: “That chap
won £300 on the double.
Gee , if I had £300 I’d spend
it on a car—something fast
and snappy!”
THE LADY: “Yes —but why a car?”
account for £lO. And thereafter: May 22,
£3; May 23, £10; May 25, £10; May 27,
£10; May 28, £10; May 29, £5; May 30,
£10; June 1, £10; June 4, £6; June 7, £5.
Always either the good Samaritan’s son or
his daughter went with Butler to the savings
bank. On one of these almost daily expedi-
tions he asked, so he says, how much he
owed now, and was told £2. He drew £lO,
and when he got back to the shanty they took
£9 of it and told him that’s what he
owed. In the three weeks he was in Burns
he never went anywhere except to the sav-
ings bank and the pub, and outside the pub
never bought anything except a couple of
shirts. After which the good Samaritan had
the nerve to sue the poor devil for > £25
19s. 6d. And because the poor devil admitted
that on the last day he was at the hotel lie
bought some wine, whisky and beer for
which he did not pay, the P.M. had to give
a verdict against him for £3 Is. The Bench
said it was “not at all favorably impressed
with the plaintiff’s story nor with his eon-,
duct”; and if ever a prize is offered tor
putting a conclusion mildly, that I‘.M. ought
to enter. ' q ...
“J.G.”: The demolition of the Jewish
tempie in Bourke-street, Melbourne, now in
progress, is disclosing to passers-by tlie high
watch-tower of the old Insurance Fire Bri-
gade, whose building survives in Tittle
Bourke-street. It is the relic of a time when
the insurance cos. of the city were dissatis-
fied with the volunteer fire brigade, which
was in charge of Sam Manger. I). J. Stein,
of the Loudon Fire Brigade, was brought
out to run the Insurance Brigade. lor
several years the rivalry between the two
bands of firefighters was intense, so much
so that at times instead of fighting flames the
firemen would pull each other’s hoses out of
the plugs and indulge in fisticuffs. 1 lie
Government at length took a hand, and the
Metropolitan Fire Board was established.
The rival brigades were disbanded, and the
Metropolitan Brigade was formed, taking in
most of the best men of the two old brigades.
Stein, who died years ago, was appointed
superintendent, and Mauger was made a
member of the Fire Board, a position lie
still holds. When the new brigade was estab-
lished the two old fire stations were dis-
carded. ,
“Tributer”: The strangest sports ground
in Australia is that at Walhalla (Vic.),
which appropriately enough has a lofty
perch. There isn’t much flat land in the
vicinity, so the miners levelled the top of a
hill nearly 1000 ft. above the town. Thou-
sands attended the sports, which brought
athletes from all over Australia to compete.
Those were days of heavy drinking, and
men who intended to get blotto used to
cut down, on arrival at the top, a good bushy
sapling and stow it away in a place pro-
vided. Then they would divide their atten-
tion between the sports and the publican s
booth. By the time the sports were over
they would be staggering, and their last act
would be to lay themselves down on tlieir
saplings. There were always good Samaritans
to drag them down the hill, sometimes
through mud and slush, and a quartz-carrier
waited at the foot to cart them in his dray
to their respective homes or camps, and, if
necessary, put them to bed. After next pay-
day he would collect his freight charges, and
it was his boast that he always got pay-
ment.
* * *
“H.L.R.” : Jack London’s yacht, the Snark,
has finished her voyages. When London
abandoned the craft in Sydney it was sold
for recruiting purposes to a trader in llie
New Hebrides. Later it was purchased by-
Andre Naturel, a French trader of Epi, one
of the islands of the group, who had the
yacht refitted and named it after his plan-
tation, Valdespaire. In 192 S Naturel, with
about 20 natives on board, was passing
through the Segond Channel, at the southern
end of Tortu Santo, on a recruiting mission,
when a sudden hurricane arose, and the
Snark was capsized. She sank like a stone
and the only one to escape was her owner.
$ $ $ H*
“Truthful James”: John Lucas, M.L.C.,
massive subject of The Bulletin's first
caricature, reproduced in the Jubilee Number,
•is dead, but faint traces of Lucasville rail-
way station, which was named after him and
which he frequented, survive. Just beyond
Emu Plains, out at tin' back of Sydney, the
Western-road crosses Knapsack Gully over a
graceful stone bridge that formerly carried a
railway track. At the western end of the
bridge and immediately above it are the
remains of the station, which was the dead
end of the zigzag by means of which the
Blue Mountains were first crossed by rail. A
little beyond the bridge and to the right of the
road is a wide cutting, and here traces of
the old railroad are noticeable. At the end
of the cutting is all that is left of the
station.
**** > ' '
“M.A.8.”: I was inveigled into consult-
ing Madame Mahoney. She was, exactly as
I expected, an elderly Irishwoman with a
moustache. Her little black eyes were shifty
and not by any means concentrated on the
brightly illuminated crystal ball into which
I was commanded to gaze. “Oi see throuble
in your past and in your future,” she said,
fixing her black eyes on the place in which
by previous motions I had showed her
where I kept my pocket-book. “Phwat do ye
see in the crystal?” “I see,” said I boldly,
"a continent with five big towns stuck round
its edges, and it seems to be in trouble. How
will it all come out?” She had expected a
question about a dark woman or a fair man,
but her black eyes never flickered. “Hook
you right in the centre of that continent,”
she said, “an’ tell me what ye will be seeing
there.” “It is so bright that it hurts my
eyes,” I replied. “Your eyes is wake an’
your faith is wake,” she retorted, “but whin
you an’ I are rotting ’neath the sod tliim
that has wake eyes will see an’ tliim that has
no faith will be sorry. Continents” —and here
her voice got really thrilly—“guard their
YES. THINGS MIGHT BE
WORSE.
T HE MAN: “It’s not often you
hear a girl both play and
sing these days.”
THE GIRL (bored stiff) : “No,
thank Heavens!”
saycrits. You guard yours. I guard mine.
They don’t matter. But the great enormous
continent of Austliralia wid its foive towns
round its rim houlds riches thim towns niver
dreamt of.” And she hit the table a bang
that dislodged the crystal ball. On my way
out I noticed smells and signs which indi-
cated that Madame is not above taking in
washing.
* * * *
“Jim G.”: If the wave of retrenchment
overwhelms the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment there’s one out-back mother who will
raise a cheer. There’s 13 in her family,
including herself and Dad, and r they’ve just
moved on to a new farm. “What a pity,”
I said to the mother, “that there isn’t a
school within reasonable djstance.” Her
reply dumbfounded me. “Why,” she said,
“that’s why we shifted ! I don’t want my
boys to grow up to be counter-jumpers.
Education’s ruining half the boys in the
bush. Send them to schools and colleges
and they get ashamed of the farm, and all
tligy think about is sticking on a collar and
a tie and working in a shop!”
* * *
“Lao-dah” : Recently a Los Angolan mother
sought an injunction to prevent her daughter
espousing a Filipino, and hundreds of Cali-
fornian women are waiting on the verdict
with bated breath. A law of the State
forbids the marriage of white women with
Mongolians. Until lately the Filipino has
been roughly classed as a Malay, but
the march of science goes on, and
the latest opinion of the ethnolo-
gists is that he has more Mongol
blood in him than aboriginal or
Indonesian. It seems unsafe that
the legality of the marriage bond
should depend on scientific verdicts,
for there are as many fashions in
science as there are in women’s dross.
If it is possible to prove that the
Filipino is yellow, it should be
equally possible to prove that the
Hindu is white, because of his tinge of
Aryan blood. And where would Uncle’s
exclusion laws be then?
* ' * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The perennial quest for
buried treasure has lately been transferred
to Peking. The discovery that the famous
Empress Dowager Tze Shi had been literally
entombed in pearls stimulated interest in the
fate of tlie rest of her Court’s ill-gotten gains.
A story had long been current that the late
Prince’ Kung had buried 40 million dollars
somewhere in the city during the Boxer row.
An aged eunuch who was in his employ paid
a visit, to the Government, and immediately
afterwards a lumber yard belonging to one
Hsiang Mu was seized. It was then remem-
bered that a lawyer named Yao, with no
possible interest in : the timber trade, had
bought the yard and was reputed to creep
out o’ nights and do his daily dpzen with a
pick and- shovel. Thh Government emphati-
cally denies that it is after treasure trove, Put
the place remains ringed .with troops while
the hungry multitude) pokes its nose- between
the palings and ipurmurs’ “Whaffor?”
* #' * *
“Scotia”? “Sassenach’s” . theory (B.
12/3/’3ol that the Scottish bagpipes are
of English origin is unsound; earth’s
grandest music is much older than the Eng-
lish race. When the tribe of Albanians
from the Armenian border migrated to the
land now .known as Scotland, which hap-
pened about 400 8.c., they took a form of
bagpipe with them. The use of the P 1 !?'
spread to the Celtic races throughout Luroi _»
but their improvement and development vi -
the work of the Highlanders of Scotland, wno
taught their use to the English and Irish- * P
till the fifteenth century the Highland oa»-
pipes had only one drone. They then developc
a second drone, and during the eighteentn ce -
tury the big bass drone was added. -
Irish developed an instrument with ion
drones and worked by a bellows, which na.
been almost totally discarded now. L ar
in the present century an English firm intro-
duced an instrument on Highland
lines for the use of Irish pipe bands, put
with a wider range and different tone ; hut
this did not survive for long. Irish pipe
bands now used the ploh mhor of the High-
lands.
* * * *
“Turpy”: “I never thought my ole man
’ad much of a sense of ’umor,” said Henry
the painter, “but ’e ’as. ’E proved it the
other day. I was up ’ome an’ I sez to dad,
‘Them outside doors is lookin’ a bit crummy ;
nearly bleached white. I’ll smack you on
a coat of nice dark green.’ Which so I done.
But the sun got on ’em while they was dry-
ing, an’ they blistered something cruel —-
knobs like eggs all over ’em. The ole man
come out an’ ’as a squiz. ’E looks at th
blisters, an’ ’e looks at me, an’ sez solemn
as a Judge, ‘ ’Arry, you shall never darken
my doors again !’ ”
tje ❖ *
“Branxholm”: Scottish law r has always
been interesting to Sassenachs by reason of
its peculiar findings. One such by the bail-
lies of Boness has been attracting attention
in the ribald press of the Southron. A boy
found 71 eggs—presumably hens' —on com-
mon land, and handed them to the police.
His parents made a claim for them in his
name, but were refused immediate delivery.
The Bench ruled that the eggs must be
retained for the (Scottish) statutory period
of six months to enable the owner of
the hen or hens that laid them to prove
proprietorship. Failing that, they are to be
handed to the boy’s guardians at the expira-
tion of the six months.
# * * *
“Lao-dah” : The low-wage and industrious
.Ah Sin is not having things his own way
in the vegetable industry in Vie. Most
of the gardeners along the Yarra flats are
mortgaged up to the hilt. I estimate
that my friend Loong Ah works IS hours
a day, every day of the year, and makes less
than two pounds a week. He takes a rest
on Sundays by wandering about liis holding
plucking up the weeds. Practically all tlje
Chinese round Melbourne are now debtor
slaves to their compatriots, and two recently
solved their difficulties, one by throwing him-
self into the river and the other by taking
an overdose of opium. One reason is the
high price of fertiliser, but the principal
cause is the innate conservatism of the Chow.
One I know who has a motor-tractor in
good order still plods along behind his ancient
moke. The white growers at Werribee and
other irrigation centres have put the kybosh
on Ah Sin. He doesn’t know what is hap-
pening to him, so he simply lights another
ball of chandu and murmurs “WhafforV”
*}» jjs
“Solo”: Two spiders were walking along
the Block in Collins-street, Melbourne, the
other day and I chanced to overhear their
conversation. I understand the spider lan-
guage, although I cannot speak it. One was
dressed in grev, the other in a suit of
dingy black. The chap in black was tell-
ing his friend that he had been forced from
his home in St. Paul’s Cathedral, where he had
lived for over 20 years and his parents
before him. Since they had started to finish
the spires lie and the family simply had to
get out “One would have thought,’ ho said
bitterly, “that after leaving the Cathedral
unfinished for over 40 years it never would
have been completed. By the way, where do
you live Spi’” “In Collms-street.” said the
other, “in the old home where the family have
lived for over 40 years, and where w r e- are
safe for another 40-—in the pool box in
Scots’ Church.”
BACHELOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As the firelight hovers low,
Trim the pipe and fill the glass.
See the ruby vintage glow,
Watch the shadows on the brass.
Rest in comfort —check the sigh—
Hush! The Ladies hurry by.
Here a form, a vision rare;
There a grace by Heaven lent.
Love and laughter charge the air,
Wit and pretty compliment.
Raise the arm and head on high,
Toast the Ladies passing by.
Setter, pipe and leather chair;
Wine and firelight on the beams.
Dog and man—a heart laid bare
That so long lay wrapt in dreams.
Dreams of twenty—check the sight.
Hush !.... The Ladies hurry by.
SEAN


Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 289 of 1930.
LOUIE MAUD RYAN Petitioner
PATRICK FRANCIS RYAN Respondent.
TO PATRICK FRANCIS RYAN late of Coff’s Harbor
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Louie Maud Ryan
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion. AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the twentieth day of June next and
in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petition will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this twenty-fourth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] D. C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
John A. K. Shaw, Lewis & Co., lie Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. « ,
Possessing features that racegoers
e
appreciate—
ROSS
FIELD GLASSES
The extremely wide field of vision
in Ross Binoculars, together with
their brilliant illumination, make
them particularly attractive as
Racing Glasses. They can be
focussed almost instantaneously,
and in every way offer the most
outstanding value. Call and in-
spect our Complete range.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Sight-testing Opticians,
23*25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
LTD.,
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers*
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Quick doesn't propose to rest
because he is out of official harness. He
is circularising Australian poets and versi-
fiers with the intention of bringing out still
another anthology.
11. T. Vickers, secretary to the Victorian
1 remier, has spent 40 years in the office of
which he is now head. Before that he was
a reporter on a Bendigo daily. Pitman’s
shorthand was his passport to the Premier’s
office in 1890..
‘S.T.S.” : Easily the most effective speaker
at the Mawson welcome-home in Adelaide
was Prof. Edgeworth David. With Ant-
arctic experience of his own to draw upon,
lie has the ways of a skilled orator, and
lie had the. packed Town Hall audience
hanging on liis words. Mawson himself,
while no orator, hak the gift of clear and
direct speech, as though talking to a
friend; and, of course, he has a lot worth
hearing to say.
The Fairfaxes are generally regarded os
the oldest newspaper-owning family in Aus-
tralia, but in fact the Thomases beat them.
John Fairfax was still “at the case” in
England, struggling to make a crust out of
his ‘Leamington Spa Chronicle,” when
ihomas I. was producing the “Register”
in Adelaide. Actually this first number had
been printed in England before S. Aus-
tralia’s pioneer- ship brought him and his
press, along with the first Governor, to
Holdfast Bay. Until Keith Murdoch last
year secured control for his friends of the
Melbourne “Herald” the Thomases had held
the “Register,” sometimes with outside
partners, sometimes alone. Evan Thomas,
present head of the old house and still
interested in the paper, belongs to the third
generation. H’e has just packed his bags
for London and the Empire Press Con-
ference. The Fairfaxes got into the imprint
of the “S. M. Herald” in 1841 —five years
after the first Thomas established the
“Register.”
Knox has been the best-known name in
the sugar-refining business of Australia for
the past 87 years, and Brown in the coal-
mining business for most of the 85 years
the late John’s family has been in the busi-
ness. The first Knox made his little start
as manager of a very small sugar business
in 1843; the first Brown defied the great
A. and A. Co., and started to dig coal at Mait-
land in 1845. It was the first Knox who
welded various little sugar refineries
ADRIAN KNOX, Chief Justice of Aus-
tralia, retires from the Bench to help
nurse the John Brown estate, in which
he becomes very largely interested
under the will of his old friend and
admirer.
together and produced the C.S.R. Inciden-
tally the C.S.R. didn’t have an easy time
for a good many years, and twice at least
Knox was recalled, once from abroad and
once from retirement, to save it from the
rocks. That was the father of Adrian, late
Chief Justice.
The retirement of C. G. Hylton from the
big job of superintendent of the Zinc Corp.
leaves E. J. Horwood the only one of the
old Victorian-trained heads along the Broken
Hill line of lode. In the beginning most of
them came from Victoria, Zeb Lane the
most outstanding; then for a few years
they were nearly all Americans, Schlapp
and Patton the pioneers; after that a few
with European reputations, Courtney and
Delprat the greatest of them; finally men
trained on the job, though several of them
had their beginnings at the Adelaide School
of Mines. Hylton, who came from Ballarat,
was one of the first mill bosses at the Broken
Il'i 11 Prop., and grew with the field. He
made the Zinc Corporation’s mine a good
one to work in; and, an enthusiastic gar-
dener and beautifier, he helped to make
Broken Hill a better place to. live in.
“Padraic”: Further to “Taltingan’s” rerni-
niseences of the
late W. E.
Maiden, of
M enindie (B.
26/3/’3O), the
old man never
tired of telliifg:
how he pegged
out the site of
the Central Mine,
Broken Hill, ami
gave it away to
a profligate who
sold it for £9OOO
and drank him-
self to death with
the proceeds.
Maiden himself,
though a publi-
e a n, “n e v e r
touched it.” An-
other story con-
cerned a meeting
with Tys o n.
Maiden, at 19,
was overlanding
homewards from
the Cape River
diggings (Q.),
and was boiling
the billy near
Bourke when a
lone horseman
pulled up and
was invited to
have a pannikin.
The guest, Maiden
said, was a silent
man, but after a
few questions he
offered his host a
job as a station-
hand. explaining
that he was
.T im m y Tyson.
The offer wasn't
accepted, Maiden
being homesick
H. PENFOLD
HYLAND, head of
Pen folds, who en-
tirely disagrees with
the additional excise
duty.
for Menindie even at that age. The sandy,
wind-swept old Darling township will sadly
miss the handsome, white-haired old figure.
Vic. Parliament adjourned early the other
day to allow the Speaker to attend a pre-
sentation at the “Herald” office to Paddy
Bennett, who had just put up a record of
40 years in the service of that journal. It
was a rare compliment, as well as a unique
acknowledgment of the friendship poli-
ticians bear towards the little journalist, who
has helped so many of them. Fink made
the presentation from the staff, and added
one from the board of directors.
An unusual sort of clergyman was Carlile
McDonnell, just dead in Adelaide at 62. He
won all sorts of honors at Dublin and Cam-
bridge, distinguishing himself in the foot-
ball field as well as the schools. In 1910
he came to Australia, but later resigned his
“living” on a point of conscience. Ever since
1917 he was senior English teacher at St.
Peter’s School, but was always ready to
take services (without fee) for any clerical
brother needing a holiday. He was a strong
supporter of the W.E.A. and the Repertory
Theatre.
Sydney’s venerable cleric and indefatigibie
worker, Archdeacon Boyce, was 86 last Sun-
day; a> native of Tiverton (Devon) he came
to Australia at the age of nine, and began
the job of making a living as a bank clerk.
He was ordained 62 years ago.
Now in Sydney Hospital is Ned Coakley,
a lucky digger on the way back from Papua
to Ireland with the £20,000 he took out of
Midas Creek. Coakley wandered the world
considerably before he struck it rich. He
took part in the Jameson Raid of 1896 on
Paul Kruger’s country, being one of the
scouts attached to the expedition.
Hobart schoolmaster W. A. Downie, who
was farewelled the other day by several
generations of his pupils, and loaded with
gifts ranging from reading-lamps to flowers,
has been in the blackboard-andKluster busi-
ness for no less than 53 years. Among those
who fired congratulatory remarks at the
tremendously popular old gentleman were
Premier McPhee, Opposition-leader Ogilvie,
K.C., ex-cricketer Charlie Eady, M.L.C.,
Mayor Soundy, Director of Education Brooks
and W. A. Woods, M.H.A.
Jimmy Mitchell, the leader of the anti-
Labor forces in Westralia, is the third
native of Bunbury who has won to the
Premiership of the State —John Forrest and
Newton Moore were the other two. Jimmy
didn't enter polities till lie was past 40. He
was a country bank manager when Northam
returned him to the Assembly; that was in
1905, and it has gone on returning him ever
since. He has the same gift which was
once credited to George Reid —the ability to
fall asleep placidly and unconcernedly when-
ever a Parliamentary debate grows weari-
some.
The. Murray’s oldest steamboat skipper,
Captain Walter Bailey, looked in at Mel-
bourne the other day. His acquaintance with
the river dates back to 1876; his first vessel
was the Hero, which still churns up and
down. The old man has vivid memories
of the drought of ISB2, when the paddlers
were stranded oh the banks. Three sons
are well-known Murray traders.
So far back as 1893 Bryan O’Loghlen,
then Attorney-General of Vic., predicted that
Isaac Isaacs “would reach the highest legal
position in this land.” He made the predic-
tion the day after Isaacs left the Patterson
Cabinet because he differed from his legal
superior on the question of prosecuting cer-
tain boom-time company directors. The pro-
fessional difference didn’t affect the fine old
Irishman’s appreciation of “this brilliant
young Australian,” as he called him.
C. M. R. Dumas, just elected for the 16th
year president of the Provincial Press Asso-
ciation of S. Aus., holds sundry other records.
He has been president of the whole Aus-
tralian body twice; his son Lloyd was lately
recalled from London to edit Adelaide
“Advertiser”; and his own Mount Barker
“Courier” will this year celebrate its lmlf-
century of existence. For all the time lie has
been editor and sole proprietor.
Laurie Chapman, new chief clerk of Vic.
Chief Sec.'s Department, is just on 40, and
has been 26 years in the service. He was
private sec. to several Ministers, and John
Bowser, who was Chief Sec. 11 years ago,
predicted that “this young fellow will be
head of the department before he is 42” —a
prophecy which seems likely to be fulfilled,
as the present head will reach the retiring
age in two years.
H. W. Potts, just returned to Australia,
is the man who put Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College so much on the map that stu-
dents have come from all parts of the world
to attend its courses. When he retired five
years ago he went to England to direct the
Australian Farm Training College estab-
lished in Norfolk by the wealthy Anglo-Aus-
tralian .Tilden Smith. Then came the slump
in immigration, and when the training h.q.,
Lynford Hall, was burnt down 18 months
ago it was allowed to remain burnt down.
An odd mission is that of Dr. Ashby, who
has come to Australia to lecture on an Inter-
national Association for Mediterranean
Research. It was founded in Rome last
year “under the direct patronage of Musso-
lini,” and undertakes to teach students “the
science of excavation” for art treasures that
are buried, and the preserving and photo-
graphing of such as are in sight. Just
where Australia can help will doubtless be
made clear in the lectures.
Maurice O’Connell, found dead in his
lonely tin-scratching claim in the Mount
Molloy (N.Q.) district the other day, was
a tough old battler typical of the trade he
followed. The passing mailman, wondering
why he had not called for the rations left
by the roadside on the out trip, found the
old chap dead and buried him. Close on
J. HOW LETT ROSS, the new chief presi-
dent of Vic. A.N.A., better known to
The Bulletin as author and critic.
30 years ago O’Connell was well known in
British New Guinea, where he followed the
various rushes, including those to the Gira
and Yodda fields. He was 80 when the
Last Prospector located him.
J. M. C. Corlette, newly installed president
of Australian Institution of Engineers, is
the first Newcastle man to fill that chair.
Chief Engineer of Hunter District Water
Supply and Sewerage Board, he figures in
the Army active list as a colonel.
L. R. Macgregor, new Australian Trade
Commissioner in Canada, is the Scot who
had the handling of Westralian wheat dur-
ing the war. In 1922 Bananaland snapped
him up as agricultural organisations direc-
tor. He is temporarily succeeded as Direc-
tor of Marketing by E. Graham, Under-Sec.
of Agriculture.
On Monday the evening papers in Sydney
went from a penny to three ha’pence; and
that was the end (for the time being) of long
negotiation. The “Sun” group wanted to
make it lid. all round; the “S. M. Herald”
refused to come in on this. Then began a
struggle to win the very well-organised News-
agents’ Association. But this body, whose
head serang is John Campbell, the secretary,
would neither bully nor be bullied; so the
“S. M. Herald” remains at Id., and with it
of course the other morning papers, while
the evening papers, being both in the other
JOHN CAMPBELL.
stable, push themselves up a ha’penny. The
chief job of Campbell, the Newsagents’ pic-
turesque head, is to maintain good service
by agents, that being part of the contract
under which they are granted the monopoly
of a “block”; in bad cases the assoc, goes
the full length of forcing a hopeless agent
out of the business.
“Mount Burgess”: Herbert Hoover, U.S.
President, arrived in iCoolgardie (W.A.) in
’96, a serious-looking and thoroughly compe-
tent stripling. ITe was one of Bewick, Morc-
ing’s young men—“B., M. and Co.” had a
big say in the mining ventures of that period,
and they certainly brought capital to the
fields. It was not until some of their mines
started on the downhill track, as was inevit-
able, that they became the most persistent
applicants for exemption from labor condi-
tions that Wardens’ Courts ever had to deal
with. But the Sons of Gwalia, at Leonora,
and the Fingal, on the Murchison, were
money-makers. Hoover was at the former
as manager for a few months in ’97; he
returned to Westralia for the firm once or
twice, years later, in an advisory capacity.
J. S. Goode, the Russian journalist who
wrote the penetrating article on Australian
trade unions and the recent Congress, in
The Bulletin of March 26, has been so
struck with Yance Palmer’s serial “Men
Are Human” that he is seeking permission
to translate it into Russian. It is, he
declares, one of the few Australian stories
he has read in which the atmosphere of
this country could be carried over into his
native tongue; and he ought to know. He
has a long list of English translations to
his credit, and was the sole translator of
Conan Doyle’s stories before the 'war.
One of the results of the change of Gov-
ernment in Maoriland is that the Dominion
will be represented this year and for the
first time at the International Labor Con-
ference at Geneva. The rep., A. W. Tocker,
Prof, of Economics at Canterbury College,
is a young Maorilander who won his spurs
as an economist by his researches into Aus-
tralasian banking methods while he was off-
sider at the college to Prof. J. B. Condli ffe.
When Condliffe went to Honolulu to run the
Institute of Pacific Relations, Tocker stepped
into his shoes. He knows all about M.L.
trade and finance, but his ability to deal
with Labor problems remains to be proved.
Lent to Westralia by the Commonwealth
Soil Research Dept, (of which he is head),
Prof. J. A. Prescott, the agricultural-
chemistry expert of Adelaide University, is
spending some weeks in the western State
to analyse various soils and give an opinion
as to their value—and chances for the
farmer.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting:
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
■ZtyenmL IRRIGATION PLANTS
Call for less attention —Operate at lower cost. Proved the finest Complete Installation on the
market —comprising
SyxmL OIL ENGINES
Save pounds because they run on Crude Oil
IMPERIAL CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
IMPERIAL SPRAY SYSTEM.
Numbers now in use.
We are experts on Water Conservation Problems, and will advise you concerning your special
proposition. Special particulars forwarded free.
a. h. McDonald & co. pty., ltd.
SHOWROOMS AND W T ORKS: 566-574 BRIDGE ROAD, RICHMOND, E.l, VICTORIA
(12 Minutes from City—Take Flinders Street Tram).
Branches at Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
W-McF.
è
In Business. . . .
Guessing No
Longer Pays.
C UESSING is a fair gamble when
° everybody’s doing it —but the
guesser hasn’t a chance when he bets
* against competitors who put their
money on known facts. With the
co-operation of the leading authorities
in every field of business the A.H.I.
has assembled these fundamental facts
and principles in its Courses and
Service. With their aid every element
of guesswork will be eliminated.
Write to-day for the 78p.p. book,
“Forging Ahead in Business,” which
gives" full particulars.
Alexander Hamilton
Institute
Courses controlled in Australia by:
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank
Place, 410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street. ; [P7
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
The best tip for the moment seems to
be to make everything shipshape and be
prepared for any storm.
These days the Commonwealth Bank board
—which includes the governor of the bank
and the secretary to the Treasury—seems to be
in almost permanent session in the nation’s
chartroom. The directors’ chief concern
appears to be our debt in London. No
doubt it was they who recommended the
Government to “mobilise” Australia’s gold
a while ago, and to take still greater powers.
There is not much doubt either that if
serious danger arises of any Australian
Government defaulting over an interest pay-
ment, they will be prepared to recommend
a mobilisation of all Australian bank re-
sources in London: that is to say, the
withdrawal from the banks of all private
credit-giving facilities in London and lodging
all that function with the Government,
operating probably through the Common-
wealth Bank.
Meantime, as a compromise, a 50 p.c.
super-tax lias been put upon various Customs
tariff lines, and various other lines may
not be imported at all; others may be
imported to the extent of onc-lialf of recent
imports. All this in a desperate effort to
right the balance of trade, and make every
possible penny got for our exports available
to meet our public commitments.
These entirely exceptional movements
must have a reaction upon the Stock Ex-
changes : what reaction depends largely
upon their success. But, whether they are
successful or not, we are plainly in for a
period of vigorous measures whose imme-
diate effect must be very disturbing.
For our sins we are for the time being
the toad under the harrow.
The Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Ordinakt Department.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 \ Q , T
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 j ’
1910.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
1915.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374.595
1920.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
1922.. 6,225,479 3,210,194 626,422 235.525 2,153.338
1923.. 6,579,192 3,450,862 665,855 291,286 2,171,189
1924.. 7,066,013 3,475,869 703,097 83,251 2,803,795
1925.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206112,880 3,015,579
1926.-7,911,325 3.808,764 748,221 125.144 3.229 196
1927.. 8,429,228 4,209,829 799,365 51,902 3,368,132
1928.. 8,872,654 4,383,268 842,804 58,901 3,587,681
1929.. 9,320,824 4,505,820 984,608 238,356 3,592,040
The brisk progress of Australia’s greatest
life office was checked slightly last year, and
bonuses were less corpulent. The £15,107,915
of new business put on the books under
28,457 policies was £1,967,922 less than was
written under 2062 more policies in 1928,
when the figures included a nice block of
£1,270,000 of cover in connection with the
N. S. Wales Government superannuation
scheme. Compared with the previous year
total gatherings were £448,170 better, net
premiums (£5,513,085) accounting for
£209,667 of the increase and interest, etc.
(£3,807,739), for the balance. Claims took
only 55 p.c. of the amount figured upon as
against 56 p.c.; but the taxgatherer made
off with an extra £136,581 (taking £284.721
in all), thus accounting for all but £5223
of the increase in exes. A much larger pro-
vision was made for contingencies, so not
much more was added to the funds than in
the previous year.
Mainly because of all this the actuary
figured the year’s divisible surplus
(£2,941,005) at £64,533 less than the pre-
vious year’s. Still, the distribution was a
handsome one, being equal to 54.6 p.c. of
the premiums on participating policies. Just
how policy-holders have fared in this way
the next comparison makes clear:—
1893-1898.. 34.1 p.c. 1924.. .. 52.9 p.c.
1898-1903.. 34.8 „ 1925.. .. 54.5 „
1903-1908.. 36.0 „ 1926.. .. 57.7
1908-1913.. 38.2 „ 1927.. .. 57 9
1914-1918.. 30.2 •„ 1928.. .. 58.1
1919-1923.. 42.0 „ 1929.. .. 54.6 ~
So far as taxation is concerned prospects
are that it will be increased before it is
reduced. Already it has had its effect upon
costs, and therefore, incidentally, on bonuses:
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
19n0.. £8 15 6 p.c. 1924.. - £9 19 0 p.c.
1910.. S' 7 1 „ 1925.. 9 14 6 „
1915.. 8 9 7 „ 192 G.. 9 9 1 „
1920.. 9 17 3 „ 1927.. 9 9 8 „
1922.. 10 1 3 ~ 1928.. 9 10 0 „•
1923.. 10 2 5 ~ I 1929.. 10 11 2 „
Owing to the shrinkage in first premiums
the effect upon new business costs is much
more pronounced:—
Renewal New Ex- New Bus.i-
Premiuins. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. £353,345 £39,951 £58,905 99.6 p.e
1887 .. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70.1 „
1897 .. 1,220,405 105.788 179.215 87.4 ~
1910 .. 2,022,470 185.559 291,775 79.8 „
1920 .. 3,153,682 334,682 555.863 99.9 ~
1922 .. 3,422.427 339,06 S 626,422 113.9 ~
1925 . . 4,026,766 473,422 727,206 94.1
1926 . . 4,245,046 469.259 748.221 96.1 „
1927 . . 4.447,024 600,020 799,365 81.3 „
1928 . . 4,684,114 580,771 842,804 88.7 „
1929 . . 4,975,758 501,844 984,608 126.8 „
The year’s increase in taxation was respon-
sible for a growth of 27.3 p.c. in the cost
ratio. Of course, the exact amount to be set
against first premiums can only be esti-
mated. The results in the table are figured
on the assumption that old business costs
7 p.c., and the balance of exes, is charged
against new business.
However, wide margins are disclosed in
matters upon which soundness and prosper-
ity depend, so handsome bonuses can be
relied upon. One of the irtost fruitful sources
of profit is the difference between the 3 p.c.
which the office assumes the Assurance funds
will earn and the actual amount realised
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1905. . £4 9 8 p.e. 1925.. '£s 12 5 p.c.
1910. . 4 9 8,, 1926. . 6 14 2 „
1920. . 5 4 10 „ 1927.. 5 14 0 „
1923. . 5 10 3 „ 1928.. 5 14 7 ~
1924. . 5 11 11 „ 1929. . 5 15 9
The hardening of interest rates should help
there.
The £78,513,002 which the society con-
trolled at pec. was invested in the follow-
ing proportions:—
1905. 1915. 1920. 1928. 1929.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Loans on mortgage. . 43.5 36.7 22.9 24.6 24.7
Public securities . . 26.7 41.3 59.3 55 3 55.8
Premises . . . . 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.7
Loans on policies . . 20.5 16.3 13.2 14.7 14.9
Other assets. . . . 6.4 3.9 2.9 3.6 2.9
During the year new building operations
in Melbourne added £18,608 to the book
value of premises. These stand now at
£1,337,008, and are worth a lot more.
The Industrial business has stepped along
in this wrny
Industrial Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 593.859 30,850 181,379 381.630
1920.. 705,525 67,386 217,869 420,270
1921.. 830,709 68,326 253.515 508,868
1922.. 967.988 107,579 276,749 583,660
1923. . 1,118,109 138,902 299,250 f r , a co-
written off, £21,222 J
1924. . 1,245.064 181,918 331,0,94 f
Written off, £ll6B 3 1 30,884
1925. . 1,397,888 227,059 362,824 1 7Q7 IQ ,
Written off, £lO,Bll f ’
1926. . 1.557,073 365,494 389,855 1 7Sfi , 99
Written off, £15,302 )
1927. 485,709 423,964 1 snn 0 7 0
Written off, £6007 3 800,3
1928. 583,292 455,849 1 HRI s 7.
Written off, £6837 ) ’
1929. . 2,056,443 601,909 518,403 1 q 97 777
Written off, £8354 )
The £1,562,073 of premiums gathered last
year was a record. Exes, took 25.2 p.c. of
the year’s income compared with 24.7, 25,
25.9 and 26.6 p.c. back to 1925. Valuations
here are on a 3£ p.c. basis, and the year’s
divisible surplus was £211,554, or £18,707
less than the previous year’s. But that was
after setting aside £23,040 for contingencies,
and paying an extra £17,733 in taxation
(£35,455). Over 58 p.c. of the total policies
issued are still in force.
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd.
f Dividends s Nominal
Profits. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
Feb., £ £ £ £
1919.: 6,023 10 p.c. =: 1200 5 p.c. = 3,035 70,210
1920.. 5,219 10 „ ~1200 5 „ „ 3,035 71,194
1921.. 10,076 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 6,07 l 73,999
1922.. 7,214 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 6,071 73,942
1923.. 6,243 10 „ ~1200 5 „ ~ 3,035 75,950
1924.. 6,224 10 „ ~ 1200 10 „ „ 6,071 74,903
1925.. 6,136 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 6,071 73,768
1926.. 9,779 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 6,071 76,276
1927.. 8,332 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 6,071 77,336
1928.. 10,069 10 „ ~ 1200 10 „ „ 6,071 80,134
1929.. 10,531 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 8,550 80,915
1930.. 21,480 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~ 15,767 85,428
This co.’s pi’ofits depend mainly upon the
earnings of Union Theatres, the big operat-
ing concern which welded the showing
interests of Amalgamated, Wests, Spencers
and Greater ,T. D. Williams about 16 years
ago. Amalgamated is interested through its
holding in the General Film Co., which con-
trols Union Theatres and Australasian
Films—the latter does the hiring.
Recently Union set out on an ambitious
programme of development, including the
purchase of country and suburban theatre
circuits and the putting up of costly build
ings in the capital cities. Hence its paid
capital bounded from £300,000 to £1,000,000
by cash issues in the last two years. Amal-
gamated put out £109.290 of its paper, and
increased its holding in the Film co. (now
150,538 £1 shares, in at cost. £159,568) by
£102,252.
In addition, Amalgamated holds £4OOO
worth of scrip in three small subsidiaries,
£23,396 of debenture and other investments,
and owns the Melbourne Majestic and St.
Kilda theatres. The Majestic is a lease-
hold, on which £40,925 has been spent, and
the other one a freehold, in at £8215.
Returns from these interests and exes, com-
pare as follows:
Properties. Divs., etc. Expenses.
1922 .. .. £4752 £4,465 £1570
1923 . . . . 4820 3,533 1675
1924 .. .. 4888 3,038 1267
1925 .. .. 4963 3,679 2072
1926 .. . . 4949 7,501 2238
1927 . . . . 4831 5,932 1996
1928 .. .. 4724 8,012 2234
1929 . . . . 5006 8,020 2061
1930 . . . . 5488 19,147 2463
The £21,480 netted last year was 12.6 p.c.
on average capital compared with 10.8,
13.8, 11.5 and 13.4 p.c. back to 1925, so
the 10 p.c. div. was repeated without diffi-
culty.
The actual position, of course, depends
upon how the operating cos. are getting
on, and that is not disclosed; though the
figures suggest that the Union Co. is winning
satisfactory returns on its larger capital.
For the three years to the end of June, 1927,
it is said to have netted more than twice
the amount it paid in divs.; its declared
profit for the 12 months to June 30, 1928.
was £97,639. But circumstances have altered
completely since. Much of the new capital
is represented by very expensive buildings, in
some of which there is still plenty of space
to let. Also the public is dipping deeper into
its pockets for its cash, and admission
prices to picture theatres have been cut.
On the other hand, the cos. have dispensed
with some expensive frills, and the two
big organisations—Union and Hoyt’s—have
called a halt in their construction pro-
grammes and ceased outbidding each other
in the film market.
All this and doubt whether the theatres
will escape extra taxation in the future has
kept the price for picture scrip down—it
collapsed following the special taxation pro-
posals of the Bruce-Page Government. Thus
Amalgamated’s pound share- can be had at
175., as against 28s. a year ago. The return
at the current figure is 11.7 p.c. so long as
the 10 p.c. div. continues.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane).
lo
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 29,833 8 p.c. = 17,977 11,856 55,181
Transferred to capital, £10,715 .. 44,466
Premiums on new shares. . 1,509 45,975
1920.. 33.098 10 p.c. = 24,001 9,097 55,072
1921.. 29,019 10 ~ „ 26,562 2,457 57,529
Transferred to capital, £12,500 )
Tax thereon, £95.. ..)
Loss.
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
Profits.
1923.. 22.302 7 „ „ 20,481 1,821 24,522
1924.. 9,244 3i „ „ 9,660 24,106
1926.. 24,948 8 ~,,22,080 2,868 26,974
iC26,. 23 898 8 ~,,22,079 1,819 28,793
1927.. 20,313 8 „ „ 22,079 27,027
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough Branch, £12,247.. 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ „ 19,337 314 20,000
There has been a change in the co.’s trading
policy. Hitherto a lot of attention was given
to credit business in country centres, where
several branches were opened. But owing to
the double handling of stock and the button-
ing of many pockets, due to drought and
financial stringency, returns from country
centres became unsatisfactory. So it was
decided to close down there and concentrate
on livening city counter turnover. The with-
drawal resulted in a loss of £12,247 at
Maryborough * that was the year before last,
when heavy legal exes, bit into takings, and
reserves were assaulted to give shareholders
5 p.c.
The last of the provincial branches was
closed during the past term; and whatever
business the co. missed by restricting its
long-term credits was more than got back
in the general run of trade, largely for
cash: —
Gross Ratio
Profit. Exes. Exes, to Gross.
1925 .. £174,251 £149,303 85.7 p.c.
1926 . . 186,031 162,143 87.1 „
1927 .. 179,914 159,601 88.7 „
1928 . . 167,208 158,848 94.9 „
1929 . , 154,859 144,501 93.3 „
1930 . . 160,421 140,770 85.9 „
Also overhead benefited, and the net result
reached 7.1 p.c. on average capital compared
with 3.7, 3, 7.3 and 8 p.c. back to 1926.
Nevertheless 7 p.c. was paid, making an
average of 7.2 p.c. over the last five years.
And the visible prop for capital is none too
substantial.
H'erc is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —
1921. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Capital . . £250,000 £275,993 £276,243 £276,243
Liabilities . . 215,787 202,412 119,093 119,950
Stocks . . 242,847 220,046 151,316 178,495
Freehold . . 138,327 127,935 131,259 139,325
Plant, etc. . . 23,571 27,895. 31,885 31,812
Book debts, etc. 111,418 137,849 100,793 79,596
Cash and in-
vestments. . 21,934 5,247 6,675 6,381
As the t.p. balances, etc., were got in •
money was put into stocks («P
during the year), which are claimed to
conservatively valued. There was ti
change in the more or less liquid surp
(£139,522, including stocks). The growtu
in the book value of freehold is due to r ® c
struction of part of the old Queen-str
premises, where a new three-storeyed bui
ing is being put up at an estimated post
£17,000. The money has been arranged 101
at 01 p.c. Incidentally, the freehold m
claimed to be worth over £50,000 more tm
its book value. „ ..
The extra space should help to turtne
liven turnover. But reduced spending aia
the recent heavy increase in the cost
importing threaten to make trading ditncuit.
Still, Queensland may feel the pinch less
than N. S. Wales and Victoria, and the value
of some of the stock-in-hand may have in-
creased. The market’s opinion is that tne
pound shares arc worth 10s. as agauns
14s. 3d. a year ago. The return at the
current price is 8.7 p.c. on a < p.c. mv*
basis. The backing amounts to Lis. ;>d. i i
net tangibles.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd. Toße . Re .
Dec. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 16,450 121 p.c.* = 15,387 1063
1924.. 15,252 10 ~ ~ 14,083 1169 2,448
iq2s 16 917 10 ~ ~ 13,000 391< 6,36;>
wit:: i6;723 io :: ,: 13,000 3723 io.oss
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13.000 1603 11.741
iq9tt 14 981 10 ~ ~ 13,000 1961 13,70_
1929!. 14,026 10 ~ ~ 13,000 1026 14,728
*l4 months.
This hotel was put up a year or so before
the war on a 50-year leasehold bought irom
the Citv Council by Central Palace Build-
ings Ltd. The co. had a chequered career,
including five years without a license, and
it was not until 1921 that shareholders got
a taste. A couple of years after that there
was a reconstruction, the present title was
adopted, assets were written up ±bS,OUU,
and two now shares handed out for ever.\
one (pref. or ord.) then held. Thus paid
capital became £130,000. From that point
the table picks up the story.
About three years ago available accom-
modation became unequal to the demand, so
the premises were remodelled and an extra
70-odd rooms added. The board, which went
outside for the money, hoped to gather a
much increased revenue at small additional
cost. But the figures have not moved accord-
ing to anticipations, though enough lias been
netted each year to pay the 10 p.c. div. and
leave a little for reserves. ■ ■■
For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts gross profits (£54,85(5) fcll awaj
£3116, but a cut of £2lBl in exes. (£40,830)
softened the fall, and the net result was
10.7 on capital as against 11.5, 11.2, 12.>
and 13 p.c. back to 1925. That was after
striking off £5065, or £6BO less than m. the
previous term for depreciation, etc. JVlucii
depends upon whether that, together with
anything that may have been spent out ot
earnings on renewals and charged to work-
ing account, proves to be adequate.
The position as balance-sheet figures dis-
close it is as follows:— m mg 1929
Paid capital .. .. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft . . . 19,125 44,516 43,734
Creditors " •• M 74 8,498 6,241
Ruildinsrs . . • • 137,373 168,747 166,493
Furniture-and Plant . ; 25,276 29,331 2^o
Book debts, cash, etc. 3,559 4,963 3,843
During the year the excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids was lightened by ±44Uo,
reducing it to £41,029. The lease runs out
in 1960. and a sinking fund lias been created.
but the' board has not yet been m a position
to invest the money outside the business.
For the current term lighter takings ma.i
be expected. The market notes this the
financial position, the narrow margin between
earnings and distributions and the slend
prop for capital, and offers 17s. 6(1 for the
pound shares as against 20s. Oil. 1- mont /
back At the current figure the return is
11.4 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c. div. continues.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
mm’ 32 294 10 p.c. = 25,000 7,294
noon” 39 468 10 ,25 000 7,250 218 54,602
88:: B*B 8:: ::?»>» *•«; ft «
1922.. 30,821 10 „,, 25,000 0,821 Re^’veS
iQ9Q 37 515 10 ~ 25,000 12,515
£: SS? 10 : ;; & 000 »,000 g
Added to reserves £89,377 . . ’
1 93 5 KeS 4 e 33l9 Ca ro t;, p el’ 32 500 8 000 2819 2.819
19 ? 5 -■ in 40 000 10,000 4747 7,566
ill?:: Ir’Ml i°o:: 10:00? 7553 15,119
Freehold depreciation and msur-
‘inoe reserves taken in £60,065 ..
1928 t0401fg0h0t,10£404°,756o 40 lfg 0 h 0 t, 10 £4 0 4°,756 9 .
19 29 ReS 6^5 C l^5O,S ) «O 4045 Iffl
111®:: 62,242 10 P „ „ 50’, 000 10,000 2242 30,346
17’nr 35 years capital was kept steady at
£250,000, and. visibly, the co. did not put
(Continued on page 16.)


é
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed (inter alia) for the purpose of:—
(a) Acquiring from J. T. Seccombe, of Coff’s Harbor, N.S.W., certain
Timber Rights, C.P. Lands, and other assets, including Ply-board
Manufacturing Machinery, Buildings, etc., situated at Grady’s Creek,
approximately 70 miles from Brisbane, on the Kyogle-Brisbane railway.
(b) To conduct and carry on the business of Sawmillers, Plywood, Veneer
and Butter-box Manufacturers, and act as Timber Merchants generally.
20,000-ACRE AREA. In addition to other valuable timber properties
being acquired, the Company also becomes possessed of the preference rights
now held by J. T. Seccombe, to cut timber from a virgin forest of 20,000
acres, some 2\ miles distant from the proposed mill site and Government
railway. Copies of J. T. Seccombe’s documents relating hereto may be
inspected, as appears on page 8 of the Prospectus. The following state-
ments concerning this area have been compiled from the reports of Messrs.
Mac Kay and Petrie, copies of which are available:—
This forest is one of THE LARGEST, MOST VALUABLE AND
PROFITABLE timber properties 'in Australia to-day. The area is
estimated to contain not less than 360,000,000 super, feet of timber,
the value of which, on account of the magnitude of the forest and its
length of life, it is almost impossible to compute. CUTTING AT THE
RATE OF 7,000,000 SUPER. FEET PER ANNUM, there is sufficient
timber to give continual cutting for at least FORTY YEARS. Messrs.
Mac Kay and Petrie, both of whom have made an estimate, COMPUTE
NET PROFIT AS A LOGGING PROPOSITION TO BE NOT LESS THAN
10/- PER 100 SUPER. FEET—EQUAL TO £1,350,000 AT PRESENT-
DAY PRICES.
The value of this timber converted into Plywood or Sawn Timber is
much greater still.
POLICY OF DEVELOPMENT.
The present intention is to convert weekly 50,000 super, feet into
Plywood and 90,000 super, feet into Sawn Timber, and the estimates given
in the Prospectus have been drawn up on this basis. Southern Queensland
is well able to take many times the proposed output of Sawn Timber. The
demand for Plywoods is increasing throughout the Commonwealth, and the
recently imposed duties make it impossible for the imported article to compete
with the Australian product. Australia imported last year 1 1,000,000 square
feet of Plywood, and Softwood Timber to the value of approximately
£4,000,000.
This Company will have the advantage of being able to supply all
classses of Plyboard whether pine-ply or the most precious of timber for the
highest class plyboard demanded by the furniture trade—and at competitive
prices.
ADVANTAGES OVER COMPETITORS.
PLYWOOD MANUFACTURE.—It should be apparent that this Com-
pany should have a considerable advantage over most Plywood manufacturers
through its low-priced timbers, brought about by the acquisition of its own
forests. As an instance, many Brisbane Plyw’ood manufacturers are paying—
because of non-ownership of their own supplies—as much as two and a half
times the price for timber as the same quality timbers can now be landed at
the Company’s mill site. An unlimited demand exists on the Brisbane
market for Plywood Logs at 32/- per 100 SUPER. FEET IN THE LOG,
EQUAL TO 8/- PER 100 SQUARE FEET IN PLYBOARD. THIS COM-
PANY’S TIMBER IS COSTING 3/- PER 100 SQUARE FEET IN PLYBOARD,
AS AGAINST 8/- BUYING IN THE OPEN MARKET.
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROFITS.
From Plywood Factory £20,333 0 0
From Sawmilling 17,900 0 0
£38,233 0 0
£2500 0 0
7800 0 0
: 10,300 o o
£27,933 0 0
£l2OO 0 0
9750 0 0
10,950 0 0
To general Reserves and for Establishment, Development
and Wasting Assets £16,983 0 0
ACCESSIBILITY OF TIMBER AND TRANSPORTATION.
A perusal of Messrs. Mac Kay and Petrie’s reports, and on areas (a)
and (b) Mr. G. W. Nutting’s report, will show the almost ideal nature of the
country from which the timber is to be extracted.
Practically all haulage on the three areas has a down-grade tendency
towards the mill, which is to be situated on the Company’s property and
adjoining the Government railway station. Further, these investigators found
“no difficulties” to be surmounted in the laying down of tram lines. The
value of the timber is such as to warrant costly tramway systems—its value
is, therefore, the greater because of low costs through calling for tramways
of low-price construction.
These forests have been locked up for want of transportation—the
Government railway now nearing completion, and linking up Brisbane and
Kyogle, N.S.W., will pass through the properties concerned.
It is interesting to note that in Queensland Hoop Pine is now being
hauled 40 miles to the railway, and then railed some 200 miles to Brisbane
for conversion.
This Company will draw its supplies from virgin forests containing
approximately 375,000,000 super, feet of valuable Softwood Timbers, and
the fact that the control of the Company is in the hands of practical sawmillers
should ensure the profitable conduct of the undertaking. Also that the
estimates given in the Prospectus as to costs and earnings are conservative.
SAWMILLING. The Company’s Sawmill is in an equally advantageous
position, situated as it is in the midst of a virgin forest possessing millions
of feet of our country’s most valuable timbers sufficient, according to Messrs.
Mac Kay and Petrie, to give continuous cutting at 7,000,000 feet per annum
for 40 YEARS TO COME. Little imagination is needed, little knowledge
is required of timber value and the general shortage of timber, to form some
conception of the wealth in this Company’s hands.
These vast timber reserves should not only ensure the Company having
continuity of supplies of timbers, but should also ensure it having the same
advantages in the future as it now enjoys over competitiors who are not so
favorably placed.
VERIFICATION OF SAWMILLING COSTS.
Messrs. G. L. Briggs & Sons, Ltd., Sawmillers, Importers and Timber
Merchants, Sydney, and who are also conducting a sawmilling project (at
Briggsvale, North Coast, N.S.W.) similar to that outlined herein, have been
asked to check the sawmilling estimates. Following are extracts from their
certificate:— v
“As requested, I have looked over the costs in connection with the
Sawmilling proposition included in the Prospectus of Kyogle Softwoods,
Ltd., and, in my opinion, the cost of production, as stated the
amount as freight 3/-, which I have not checked), is quite con-
servative ....
“I may mention that my idea of costing varies in detail from that
given in the Prospectus, but the total estimated cost which I arrive at is
SLIGHTLY BELOW THAT STATED.”
Less executive Expenses
Reserve for Taxation, say
Less:— .
8 per cent, dividend on Preference
Shares
15 per cent, dividend on Ordinary
Shares
COPIES OF THE FULL PROSPECTUS AND REPORTS WILL BE FORWARDED UPON APPLICATION TO
KENNETH BULLEN,
2nd FLOOR, NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
And c/o OFFNER, HADLEY & CO., Chartered Accountants,
7th FLOOR, AUSTRALIA HOUSE, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.


Are Your
Investments
Safe ?
See “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”
for April
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER
22/6. Prom Newsagents, or
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth.
ANNUM,
Bulletin
Brisbane,
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.-— Advt.
$ $ £ $
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colhson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
* * sjs *
In any plant where the storage of acid or acidulous
liquids is necessary, metal tanks are practically
useless. Pioneer Wood Tanks for such purposes are
absolutely efficient, as, no matter what type of
liquid is stored, they remain unaffected. Managers
of butter factories, mines and cyanide plants have
found Pioneer Wood Tanks far better than any
other type. Full particulars from the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria. — Advt.
* # * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.— Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
831-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
&
YG
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. AiiHtruliiNian Agentx. 20 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—-
I*—To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call jor our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANYLIMITED
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
wA waft
[ PREPARED J
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
on much fat. But in the last half-dozen
years capital has been doubled by the issue
of bonus scrip, £111,455 of which was pro-
vided from inner reserves. Nevertheless, as
admitted net earnings more than doubled
in the last eight years, the 10 p.c. div. has
been maintained with even more ease than
formerly, as far as one can see. Still, too
much notice need not be taken of the profit
figures published in the past.
Last year’s gross profit on sales and net
profit at branches (£55,619) was £920
lighter, making a drop of £12,012 over the
last three years. But that was after some-
thing had been whisked away to provide
for taxation and depreciation. Rents and
interest (£43,783) brought in an extra
£2169, and were sufficient to pay 8.7 p.c.
on capital; exes. (£38,458) climbed £3066.
Thus, after allowing for £1298 dropped into
the insurance reserve, the slip in the net
result was only £lBO3, the final figure being
12.4 p.c. on capital as against 12.8 the year
before. It is plain that the co. continues
to rake in profits in fine style, notwithstand-
ing the check that drought, unemployment
and other difficulties has placed upon spend-
ing in S. Aus.
Balance-sheet movements are encouraging;
1924. 192 G. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital £400,000 £400,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 257,197 135,079 150,311 168,236
Property, plant,
etc. .. 445,518 401,714 413,015 376,866
Stocks .. 17,514 17,844 26,315 26,365
Book debts . . 35,190 48,555 48,769 46,749
Advances .. 52,954 142,359 209,576 258,835
Debenture
t.nmtpps 71 47Q r - —..
Cash .. !! 24*733 19,775 21,740 24,767
The more or less liquid surplus (£188,480,
including stocks) was £38,391 stronger than
at the close of accounts in 1929. And the
position is probably better than the bare
figures suggest; liabilities, up £11,925 during
the year, include provision for taxation, etc.
—£44,756 of genuine profit was raked out
of this heap a couple of years ago. The
shrinkage in the book value of fixed assets
suggests that depreciation is not being over-
looked. But the most encouraging feature is
the rapid growth in advances, up £205,881
over the last half-dozen years. In addition
to nice interest earnings, this must mean
bigger sales, which looks well for future pro-
fits.
The market for the scrip has been affected
by the gloom on the Adelaide Stock Exchange.
The pound shares can now be had for 275.
6d. as against 355. 6d. a year ago. At the
current figure the return is 71- p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis, and that is a very satisfac-
tory yield on a stock of this kind. The
visible backing is 21s. 3d. in net tangbles.
Southern Star Insurance Co.
This little co.’s nameplate says it is the
Southern Star Fire, Accident and General
Insurance Co., Ltd., and the title is the most
imposing part of it. The co. was launched
in Melbourne in 1925 by the Southern Cross
Assurance Co., which took £lO,OOO in paids.
The public lias taken up £48,971 of scrip.
Thus at Aug. 31 last subscribed capital was
£58,971, of which £44,094 "was in hand,
including the vendor’s consideration. There
was £20,461' coming to sundry creditors,
£lO5B to the bank, and the window was
dressed with £8972 of reserves for unexpired
risks, etc. Tangible assets comprised book
debts, £2482; loan, £7O; shares, £166; equip-
ment and prepayments, £1930; the lot total-
ling £16,871 less than the outside debt. To
balance the books, goodwill was in at
£35,214, and another £34,723 was labelled
“Establishment account.” Even if the
£14,877 which shareholders can be called
upon to dredge up were got in, tangibles
would be still nearly £2OOO short of the
amount necessary to cover the outside debt
when the books were last ruled off.
Why the co. has been permitted to drift
so far is probably because the Southern
Cross is the chief creditor. Recently it
reinsured its accident risks with the Star;
this may have some connection with last
year’s growth of £17,814 in the amount
coming to the Star’s sundry creditors and
of £20,636 in its goodwill item. It cannot,
however, be considered in the best interests
of Southern Cross policy-holders; and those
who hold policy contracts direct with the
Star would be unable to find the security
usually looked for and to be reasonably
expected. The co. is only justified in con-
tinuing to function to the extent to which
the Southern Cross is prepared to support it.
The, chief sin of the management has been
extravagance. In 4| years the cost of gather-
ing an aggregate income of £52,052 was
£59,266, or 114 p.c.; claims were moderate
at £25,017, or 48 p.c. of the takings. Thus
aggregate cash losses to the date of last
balance were £32,231. Gatherings for the
12 months to Aug. 31 last were £13,667,
but £15,583 was scattered in exes., while
claims took £9622.
Obviously this kind of thing cannot go
on much longer. Something very extra-
ordinary will need to happen if liquidation
with total loss of all subscribed capital is
to be avoided. '
The Central Reserve Bank.
The Government’s idea of a Federal
Reserve Bank has a great deal to recom-
mend it, but one thing which doesn’t recom-
mend it much is the proposed management.
And the management is a matter of import-
ance.
In some respects the Reserve; Bank will
be a section cut off the Commonwealth Bank
and set up on its own separate account.
It is to take charge of the note-issue busi-
ness, and to do loan business for the Com-
monwealth, States and corporations, though
it may not have a monopoly of this line of
industry. It is to do a multitude of things
which other banks can do, and also, by
reason of its superior status, some that
they can’t well do. And in order that it
may be above suspicion it is to leave some
things undone. It isn’t to dabble in land
or own shares in common or garden banks
or in commercial undertakings, nor is it
to join in the scramble for the deposits of
the public. At a time when such a multitude
of mixed institutions are in the deposit
scramble, this is a matter of prime import-
ance. The feature which makes the new
departure worth while is that other banks
(publicly-owned savings banks excepted)
are to deposit with it 10 per cent, of the
amount which they may be called upon to
pay on demand, and 5 per cent, of the
amount for which they are liable at fixed
dates. These will be genuine cash reserves,
and the Reserve Bank will naturally hold
them.
Then comes the surprising intimation
that the Reserve Bank is to be governed
by nine individuals, of whom five will repre-
sent banking, commerce, manufacturing,
primary industry and labor, and what any
one of these arbitrary and not easily dis-
tinguishable sections of the community
should be doing in this connection it is
hard to say. Something, but not much,
might be said for putting the board on a
sectarian basis, with a member apiece for
Anglicans, Roman Catholics, Presbyterians,
Methodists and Baptists. This would do
the injustice of leaving some sects unrepre-
sented, but the proposed method gives art
and letters no representation, which is
almost as bad. And something might be
said for allowing the States a boarder
apiece.
Neither bankers, traders, manufacturers,
farmers nor laborers will have any deposits
in the Reserve Bank, for it won’t cater for
the private depositor. None of them will
provide it with capital. It is to commence
with £2,000,000 transferred from the Com-
monwealth Bank, and none of them provided
capital for that institution either. It began
with nothing except a Government guaran-
tee, and made its money for itself like the
self-made millionaire of fiction. If any
class representative is to be present to
clamor after favors and benefits for his
class out of the Reserve Funds he will be
out of order. And if the Labor man proves
to be a non-worker, and merely a nominee
of the caucus with a mission to expose the
corrupt state of society, he will be worse
than out of order. H'e will be disorderly and
a nuisance. Much is said to little purpose
about making national enterprises free of
political control, but this seems rather like
reversing the process.
The Newnes or Wolgan Valley (N.S.W.)
oil-shale field is to be given another gallop.
Australian Oil and Gas Producers has been
formed in London with a capital of £lOO,OOO
to take up an option over the interests of
the Commonwealth Oil Corporation, which
worked the deposits up to 1923, and wasted
half a million _ in the process. Atrocious
management, disguised as labor, transport
and technical difficulties, handicapped the
co.’s attempts to make a profit out of the
rich deposits. Much of the former co.’s plant
is on the ground, though it is inefficient and
in the wrong place. Arrangements are being
made in Sydney between the co. and officials
of the Miners’ Federation to engage labor and
settle conditions and rates of pay.
* * * *
The dream that Otago (M.L.) can revive
the glories of its gold-dredging days by
emptying the water out of the Kawarau
River dies hard. The first attempt failed
dismally. Water gets into the river from a
number of sources, and one dam couldn’t
stem the lot. Now it is argued that what
one dam couldn’t do two dams might. So
“an eminent engineer in Australia” has been
asked to go over and report. If he says
there is a fair chance of success a co. will
be formed to take over the liabilities of the
existing but moribund dam-building and
claim-leasing co.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) struggles on. So
far nothing much has been struck in its
bore at Poole Range, but the reported dis-
covery of gas in a water bore on a neigh-
boring cattle station is regarded by the board
as important. Kimberley Exploitation Syn-
dicate, which last year spent some time and
money looking for tin and other metals in
Nor’ Westralia, has obtained the right
from the Freney Co. to prospect on part of
its concession where “petroliferous smelling
emanations” are said to be obvious.
=!= * * *
w iluna Gold Mines, L»td., which is a sort of
lay figure for the Wiluna* Gold Corporation
in Australia, held its annual meeting in
Perth the other day. The past year’s develop-
ments, it _ was said, had added great value
to the mine, and ore reserves, including a
probable 358,000 tons of 38s. 6d. rock, were
given as 1,405,400 tons averaging 395. per
ton. Production is expected to be reached
about the middle of next year.
* * * *
Tributors continue to play a prominent
part in Ivalgoorlie gold-mining. In February
they raised and treated at the Bake View
and Star 4010 tons for nearly TOOOoz., while
on the Great Boulder they got 3000 oz. from
2900 tons. With returns from the North
Ivalgurli and Associated added, about £44,000
of the field’s yield for that month was the
result of tributors’ efforts. Royalties, treat-
ment costs, mining requisites, etc., mopped
up a large amount; thus in some cases the
surplus was substantial, in others it was
small.
* $ * *
In these days of gloom-laden tin-dredging
reports the cheerful statement by Tongkah
Compound that it earned a net profit of
£92,799 for the year ended September 30,
1929, and paid four dividends of Is. Gd.
(£74,560), come as a wellspring in a thirsty
land. But that was with t.o. averaging
over £2OO per ton. Of the balance of the
year’s profit £15,970 was struck off works,
and £2OOO sent to the dredge insurance fund.
Tongkah Compound took over its present area
at Mantin-Setul, where it has two dredges, in
1920; but the present machines were not
in commission until some years later. The
average recovery for 1929 was ,70lb. per
yard, while for the first quarter of 1930 the
figure was .651 b. Costs for 1929 were under
4d. per c.y.—a good record. Paid capital
is £207,113 in £1 shares paid to 16s. Sd.
At Sept. 30 la«st the more or less liquid
surplus amounted to £43,530, excluding
shares in the four subsidiaries, in at £47,153.
Scrip on Sydney Stock Exchange at the
week-end stood at 21s. 10£d., buyers.
The tin slump has squeezed many Aus-
tralian-owned dredging concerns, and pushed
others to the "bread line. Lampeh, a Mel-
bourne float with a property in- Siam, is
considering putting up the shutters till the
clouds roll by. Chairman Ambrose Pratt
told the annual meeting the other day that
the dredge, which is only equal to 40,000
yards a month, was nea*ring richer ground.
But he questioned whether it would be worth
while working this ground with the metal
at present prices, since by doing so the co.
would use up an asset which was bound to
increase in value later. Paid capital is
£150,000 in £1 shares, of which 50,000 are
10 p.c. cum. prefs. paid to 17s. each, and
the balance f.p. ords. Authority was given
the directors to deal with 20,000 prefs. which
have been forfeited.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Commomvealth’s debt in 1920 and
now? (2) Would it be safe for a man to
put all his money in Commomvealth bonds?
—5626.
(1) At June 30, 1920, £381,309,905; at
June 30, 1929, £541,986,111. (2) There
is risk in every investment —even in Com-
monwealth bonds. No doubt both British
Consols and American Victory loan are ’
safer. But Commonwealth bonds are the
best-secured things in Australia.
Of what importance is the fire policy
issued by a co.? Would the loss of the
policy affect the owner’s claim in the event
of his house being burnt down?— s7so.
A policy is a certificate of title, and not
the title itself. In the event of loss you
still therefore have a title, but you must
prove it. It is always advisable to keep
a policy of fire insurance away from . the
premises covered by the policy.
About 12 months ago it was decided to
i form a Co-operative Bacon Factory. I
applied for shares and paid application
money, but the provisional directors have
not gone any further with it and not allotted
any shares. (1) Can I claim my application
money? (2) Can they deduct anything
for commission on shares applied for? —5233.
(1) and (2) If it was merely an appli-
cation it can be withdrawn, and nothing can
be deducted. But if you joined in any way
in the promotion of the co., you may be
liable for expenses incurred.
(1) What caused the big rise in prices
a few years ago? (2) What caused the
recent decline? (3) Is a recovery likely? —
5201.
(1) Two causes probably operated, (a)
Production declined through so many mil-
lion men being put to a non-productive job.
(b) In war-time prices didn’t much matter
so far as the warring Governments were
concerned; loans were easy, and prices were
pushed up, as they always are when loans
are easy. The war-time extravagance was
carried over into peace-time, and high prices
were thus maintained. Also, it took some
time for production to get back to normal.
(2) When the war-time riot of loans stopped
most of the world found that, instead of
having plenty of money, it was really very
poor. But while consumption thus lessened,
production, stimulated by war-time dis-
coveries and developments, greatly increased.
(3) The world over, attempts are being
made or have been made to “stabilise’ 7
pi'ices, as it is called: as to rubber and
tin, for instance; now as to wheat. A
restriction of world output may raise prices;
restriction of local output is ineffective. A
fall in prices is always inclined to go too
low, just as a rise is inclined to go too high;
so a partial recovery in price levels is
possible. But without restriction of world
output a substantial rise in price levels is
improbable, though the market for a single
product—wool, for instance—may be in-
fluenced separately by change of fashion,
increase of area of consumption, etc.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.S. (Sourabaya) : Still a gamble, with
good chances of moderate success ; nothing like the
figures quoted, though. .. .H.H.G.: Wouldn’t....
8.5.: Sorry, never heard of it. Where does it live?
.... T.S.C.: Better keep your policy going. Some
other office may presently take it over... .C.R.M.:
Quite feasible. Many S.B. drawings are sold, some
by auction, more privately. The buyer really pays
a bonus for an immediate drawing, instead of having
to take his chance... .E.M.: You have committed
yourself to pay £ I per share if called upon....
1.5. F .: Write it off as 105 t.... Ex-Digger : Not at
present. Fall in rural land values is almost inevit-
able. We don’t know any other country where
they are so high.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
The news-reel at the St. James exempli-
fies some of the things which that form of
entertainment does best and worst. A bil-
liard-playing exhibition by Lindrum is in
the first category.
There are many other personal items which
could be screened as easily, and which would
interest the whole English-speaking world
outside the U.S.A. For example: Baldwin
or Churchill at a public meeting; Bennett
or Barrie giving opinions on popular novels
or plays; Dean Inge or Bishop Barnes talk-
ing Church politics; Cosgrave or De Valera
dealing with the situation in Ireland ; part
of a Cup-tie final; half an hour on a British
cruiser during gunnery practice, or with a
Guards or Tanks battalion during army
manoeuvres. Under present conditions about
the only world celebrity, outside the movie
world, that every patron of the talkies knows
by sight is the colorless Hoover.
One or two British public men have figured
in the news reels (notably Prime Minister Mac-
Donald), but they have never been given time
to say anything worth listening to. What
kind of man is Lord Beaverbrook or the
editor of “Punch” or P. G. Wodehouse or
Norman Lindsay or J. 11. Thomas or Aldous
Huxley or Lord Beatty? What are their
voices like? How do they express them-
selves? What message would one of them
have for the world if given, say, 20 minutes
in which to deliver a message? It is
anomalous that in an age which is absorbed
in personalities the talkies should ignore
the personal touch almost entirely in
favor of band turns that would be liable
to get the bird if the perpetrators were pre-
sent in the flesh.
# * *
“The Lone Star Ranger” (Fox Movie-
tone) at Sydney Regent is the first Zane
Grey in which mustangs have been ridden
and beads drawn in the Rio Grande coun-
try under all-talkie rules. The experiment
is a great success, the sound-screen supply-
ing more realistically than any other medium
could the madhouse atmosphere of a commu-
nity in which anybody is liable to be a
gangster, and a gunman can become a police-
man by explaining that deceased drew first.
George O’Brien plays Buck Duane, the
reformed outlaw, whose sense of sportsman-
ship is such that before throwing a gun
at the villain he says courteously, A m wait-
ing on yew, Lahson,” and gets winged for
his chivalry. Buck loves Mary Aldridge (Sue
Carol), and in this land where nobody works
he has plenty of time to tell her about it.
The only element of surprise in a conven-
tional story of the -temporary triumph .of
evil and its eventual defeat is the revelation
that Mary’s sanctimonious-looking uncle.
Colonel Aldridge, is the chief gangster. The
Colonel —alternatively referred to as the
Judge—is a Moriarty minus the brains and
phis a capacity for remorse which was lack-
ing in Holmes’s old enemy.
Miss Carol makes a bewitching little Mary,
and adds to her other charms a gift of pre-
vision which enables her to teach jazz to
the natives of Texas years before its appear-
ance. The photographer of this seenically-
beautiful picture is Daniel Clark, who has
no superior in the world as a handler of
outdoor shots.
¥ * *
Erich von Stroheim has been blamed for
claiming to be Hollywood’s best actor. How-
ever, his performance in “The Great Gabbo
(Paramount), which reached Sydney Capi-
tol on Saturday, shows that he knew what
he was bragging about. He is a tragedian
who makes polished crooks and Great Lovers
look characterless.
As Gabbo he is the world’s greatest ventri-
loquist. Otto, the dummy, talks and sings
while its owner is eating, drinking or stuffing
yards of silk into his mouth. Gabbo is a
megalomaniac, and the basis of the play is
BETTY COMPSON.
the develop-
ment of his
malady. II e
has an assist-
ant, Mary
(played by
Betty Comp-
son), whom he
loves, but
treats so badly
that the scene-
shifters e x-
press a wish
to “knock his
bla r k o If.”
Other m e ru-
bers of the
company . feel
the same way,
but Mary
hangs on. The
weirdly human
dummy is a
tie between
them. He talks
to it about
her, and makes it talk to her about him, and
she brushes its hair and tidies it up gener-
ally as a mother might. Betty Compson,
with her remarkable talent for registering
femininity, is a perfect foil for this bull-
necked, bull-voiced Prussian, with his scarred
forehead and insane eyes. At last she leaves
him, sorry for herself, but sorrier still for
him. Years pass, and they meet again in
another show. He has been lonely without
her, so lonely that he —the Great Gabbo
himself! —is willing to marry her. He
arranges a supper party, at which she is to
be told of her good fortune. She staggers
him by refusing his invitation. Then comes
a frightful blow: she is the wife of her
dancing partner. The shock upsets his tot-
tering reason. He smashes the faithful
dummy’s eye in with a blow of his fist, wan-
ders on to the stage during a ballet dragging
it with him by the leg, tries to howl down
the music, and is removed to an asylum.
It is the best-acted and best-produced
talkie this Showman has seen, and the only
one that strikes the authentic note of high
tragedy. There is not a dull moment or
weak performer in the show, but it is spoiled as
an artistic whole by the long-drawn-out bal-
lets, in which Miss Compson, Donald Douglas
and Helen Kane distinguish themselves. All
but the last of these gorgeous displays—the
one into which Gabbo intrudes —are as irre-
levant as a custard-pie-throwing act would
be in “Lear.”
“The City Girl” (Fox Movietone), a part-
talkie at Sydney Regent, gives a credible
picture of life' in a wheatbelt —any wheat-
belt. Tustine, the farmer, sends his son
Lem to Chicago to sell the crop. Lem makes
a bad sale and brings back a waitress whom
he has mar-
ried on the
spur of the
moment. The
h a r v e s ters
have a low
opinion of city
girls who wear
rolled stock-
ings and show
plenty of leg.
Mac, their
boss, bursts
into the bride’s
room with the
worst inten-
tio n s while
Lem is at
work, and the
farmer, wh o
already hates
her, finds him
t h e r e. The
big moment in
an uneventful
show is a
fight between
MARY DUNCAN
in “The City Girl."
Mac and Lem on a bolting mule-team just
before a hailstorm which ruins the crop.
Mac, cowed by the hiding he has had, admits
he was lying when he accused Kate of invit-
ing him into her room. A benign smile irra-
diates the iron countenance of Mr. Tustine.
The family, though insolvent, is united.
Mary Duncan and Charles Farrell, as the
city girl and her husband, are a likeable
pair of stars. A little girl—misguidedly
named Dawn O’Day—is charmingly natural
as Lem’s sister.
: - s ¥ # *
In “Devil-May-Care,” the M.-G.-M. talkie
which started an extended run at Melb.
Plaza on Saturday, Ramon Novarro appears
in his favorite role of a cloak-and-sword
hero, and another illusion goes west. He is
as handsome and debonair, as inexhaustible
in resource and as irresistible in love as
ever, but when he opens his mouth he
becomes an ordinary American citizen,
though with a quite attractive singing voice.
Also the lady who plays opposite him and
whose name has slipped the memory is just
a Hollywood flapper regarded in a vocal sense.
It seems incongruous for the romantic senti-
ments of French countesses of the Napoleonic
era to be uttered in an American accent,
faint and fair as it may be. It would not
matter if the story was realistic, but when it
is merely the old melodramatic set of sten-
cils, with Napoleon the symbol for warlike
glory, the hero the symbol for reckless der-
ring-do and the heroine the symbol for
romantic passion, consistency demands dia-
logue of the same order. Probably people
did speak a hundred years ago more in the
way these American actors speak than in the
manner of Stanley Weyrnan; but their
actions were different.
When Novarro is put against a wall to
be shot for a Napoleonist he begs the final
favor of being allowed to give the orders
to the firing-snuad. He makes them shoulder
and carry arms, and when he has got them
working like a good militai’y machine he
commands the right about and seizes the
opportunity to leap over a wall and escape.
There are sundry other moving incidents of
a like sort, but the piece is loosely slung
together and fails to hold the attention.
¥ * *
The good Lord, when He ordained that Sir
James Barrie should grow up with the
uncannily matui’e brain of a master dimmatist
and the emotional make-up of a> sucking
infant, probably had in view the insatiable
mother-love demands of Hollywood. The plays
of the noted Scotch sentimentalist need less
sub-editing for the simple purposes of the
screen than those of almost any other play-
right. It is a dubious distinction. In fact,
it is a devastating criticism, and “Seven
Days’ Leave,” which is Paramount’s talking
version of “The Old Lady Shows Her
Medals” and which ivas released at the
State Theatre, Melbourne, on Saturday, is
a striking example. Here we have the dear
old Scotch body who has missed the ex-
perienec of marriage and the joys of mater
nity. Tlie war is a Heavem-sent opportunity
for her to indulge these emotions vicariously.
She learns of the heroic deeds of a Scotch
laddie, and from his unclaimed letters she
discovers he is without a mother. She adopts
the role, he gets his Blighty, and when he
comes to London she offers! her virgin bosom
as his haven of refuge from the horrors of
Armageddon. Unfortunately he turns out
to be not the romantic hero of the dis-
patches. His wound was self-inflicted, and
he shocks the old lady’s patriotism by express-
ing an invincible repugnance to returning to
the firing-line. Consistency demands that he
should be shot as a deserter, but the Barrie
sentiment prevails and he goes back to earn
the death of a belated hero in action after
listening to the old lady’s arguments.
The greatest living master of theatrical
devices is not found wanting. The theme
is worked out with the utmost brilliance.
Beryl Mercer gives a charming portrait of
the spinster Sarah Dowie and Gary Cooper
is a typical Barrie hero, six foot, gawky
and hiding a tender soul under a display
of Gaelic gruffness. The play would have
been better done by Britishers. Holly-
wood’s heavy hand gives the show away
where a Boucicault company would have
more or less effectively concealed it.
MRS. GAMP HAS HER EYE ON THE FUTURE.
“I have had a very wide experience in organisation. I presided at the birth of the Labor party. I also had the honor of being the presiding deity at the birth of the
Nationalist party.” —Billy Hughes at the opening of the headquarters of his new “Australian” party.
“‘Would you be so good, my darling dovcy of a dear,’ Mrs. Gamp observed in a low voice, ‘as to put that somewheres where you can keep it in your mind? I’m
well be known to many ladies, and it’s my card Gamp is my name and Gamp my nature.’”


m
m
S 3
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
<1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asaociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately*
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evoiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO P.RUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ... “The Belle of New York”
Criterion “Journey’s End”
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Hawk”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
New Comedy “Lombardi, Ltd.”
King's “Love Lies”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
In season and out this Showman has
striven to encourage Sydney Turret amateurs,
ilis criticisms have been so consistently
gentle and friendly that other shows have
maliciously implied that he was not as dis-
interested as a critic ought to be. After
his last eulogy, wherein he said, among other
kind things, that the play was foul, the light-
ing atrocious, the players gawky, the pro-
ducing abominable, the scenery primitive, the
seats uncomfortable, the programmes puerile
and the whole thing a confidence trick, the
vicious rumor was broadcast that lie was
obviously trying to do a line with' the lead-
ing lady. He admits that the enthusiastic
strain of his criticisms probably did encour-
age such a construction in evil and profes-
sionally jealous minds, and it is to correct
such impressions that he hereby reviews the
latest show.
“At Mrs. Beam's’’ is not a Turret show
at all. At least, it is not a bit like the
Turret this Showman mostly knew. It is a
comedy with a laugh unusually often. Unlike
that wretched imposition “The Balcony,” it
is a play in which the action, takes place on
the stage. It is cleverly constructed: sound
plot; good dialogue; effective silences; fine
exits and entrances. It is admirably cast.
The boarders at Mrs. Beam’s look and act
like boarders. Like boarders they play
bridge and patience; like boarders they
cackle; like boarders they link up the two
risky-looking newcomers with horrible mur-
ders that have been occurring in France.
It is a curiously, horrific germ for comedy to
spring from, the murders of numerous women
by a male who is alleged to eat some of the
flesh of his victims. Nothing could be much
more gruesome. But how does lie go. about
eating them? Why, with a knife and fork!
No more need be said; at once it is rich
comedy. The plot works out of these suspi-
cions to sound solution in the discovery—
by the permanent boarders ; the audience is
let into the joke early—that the temporary
boarders are in fact rogues, and the large
RITA McLEAN, new English lady in “Love Lies” at Melbourne
King’s.
trunk which one good soul suspected of hold-
ing the cli'opped-up remains actually holds
the proceeds of sundry swindles, including
the permanents’ own treasures.
Two players stand out as their parts insist
they should. Beatrice Tildesley as Miss
Shoe, a spinster with an endless flow of
chatter, and Clarence Murphy as the male
half of the temporary boarders. Miss Shoe
could quite easily be a dreadful monotony;
that she could talk even more and be seen
even more with pleasure is an extremely high
tribute to the sweetness of her interpreter’s
voice and a most disarming smile that lasts
and yet does not become wearisome. Clar-
ence Murphy has similar attributes, and both
players have suavity and polish. If more
is-not heard of Mr. Murphy, this Show-
man will wear a ripe sunflower next St.
Patrick’s Day. Doris Fitton, as the other
half of the temporaries, is excellent where
vigorous acting is demanded, and Garry
Byrne caps a good bit of character
acting with a beatific drunk turn. Caro-
line Forsythe and Kitty Horne do first-
rate work as other boarder. types. William
Highfield is a trifle loud, but generally 0.K.,
Nina Littlewood is decorative, and Sylvia
Lance Thomson makes a sound study of
Mrs, Beam. John Hayter is more awkward,
than an awkward part necessitates, but looks
new to the glare. of imitation tiaras and
boiled shirt-fronts. Marguerite Cullen-Ward
is too intent upon being Marguerite Cullen-
Ward to find time for such a mere pastime
as acting. The main scenery is quite good ;
producing tip-top; lighting A 1 and pro-
grammes cheap. Nothing is to be achieved
by swearing, but cane chairs are damned un-
comfortable. The general attack is more
sincere than any previously noticed at the
Turret, and the show altogether is one that
this Page commends without any reservation
whatever. It justifies an existence that
rather needed justifying.
* * ¥
Choose a flat stage, add a couple of light
love affairs, throw in a rich and vulgar Aus-
tralian uncle who objects to nephews marry-
ing, one S’African ditto, pour in a Spanish
widow, take two dozen chorus ladies and
peel same, being careful not to remove the
pips and pith. Stir in two capable com-
edians, garnish with bright scenery, whip to
a stiff froth with farcical situations and
serve while boiling. You will then have
“Love Lies,” the new White and Edgley
enterprise at the King’s, Melbourne —witty
nonsense by Stanley Lupino and Arthur
Rigby. The music by Hal Brody is gay
and English and free of the drear monotony
of syncopation, though the singing that
accompanies it isn’t such as would stir
Melba to a public announcement of a new
discovery. The futuristic Bobby Gordon and
the familiar Clem Dawe are two inexhaus-
tible farce merchants whose pleasure in their
job is downright infectious. They' frequently
touch brilliance. Peter Lane is a tenor hero
with a stiff neck who passes muster. Neither
Rita McLean nor Betty Eley, song-an’-dance
prima donnas, do anything to justify the
voyage from London. The best singing comes
from that hardy perennial Marie Eaton.
Ballets are simple
but charmingly
rhythmical. The
dish is as palatable
a thing of its kind
as has been served
to Australia for
many a day.
After adding
considerably to Mel-
bourne’s gaiety by
staging Maugham’s
“The Circle” at
the Bijou, Gregan
McMahon evened
things up by plung-
in g the intelli-
gentsia assembled
into profound
gloom with Nor-
m a n Mawwan’s
“Jacob’s Ladder”
on Saturday.
Macowan wms here
with the last Bouci-
cault co. and is an
excellent actor. As
a playwright he is
a nark, coming at
a time when this
country is trying
to be cheerful un-
der a load of eco-
nomic depression.
A play in which
the hero dies of
angina pectoris in
full view of the
audience and takes
three acts to do it
is lacking in artis-
tic subtlety. More
pathos would have
been conveyed if a
sympathetic doctor
had occasionally
emerged from the
sickroom shaking
a clinical ther-
mometer. The story of the old soldier who gets
a psychic message from a dead officer pro-
phesying that a poet friend engaged in writ-
ing an epic has three months to do it in
lacks the verisimilitude demanded of stories
in this realistic era. Ruby May failed to
dispel the miasma of melancholy by making
a confession of infidelity to her husband’s
corpse in the last chapter: and Thomas
Skewes, Charles Row and Katherine Balmer
shared the low spirits of the audience.
Ernest Branscombe’s Westminster Glee
Singers, wdio debouched on Melbourne for
the fourth time at the Auditorium on Satur-
day, should emulate Wilkie in dipping a
bucket or two of profit out of the rising tide
of reaction against the talkies. Good houses
greeted them at both the afternoon and even-
ing performances. The pure voices of the
boys, the rich notes of Albert Greene (the
basso humorist) and the hearty richness of
the tenors of Ernest McKinlay, .Charles
O’Connor and Braseombe were heard in
melodies as Eng-
lish in their qual-
ity as the Malay
curries served at
our best pubs.
¥ *
Bernard Heinz-
opened his latest
series of “celebrity"
concerts at Mel-
bourne Town Hall
on Saturday with
Nadejine as the
star performer.
The big, burly,
black-browed Rus-
sian basso has been
compared with
Chaliapin. The
trouble about these
comparisons is that
they invite —com-
parisons. Judged
on his own merits,
Nadejine may be
acknowledged t o
possess a massive
voice, under auto-
cratic control, a
declamatory drama-
tic style and an in-
telligent grasp of
the dramatic ele-
ments of the Slav
operatic arias he
specialises in. He
has none of Chalia-
pin’s disarming and
child-like . ingenu-
ousness, his deep
sympathy and
humor or his plat-
fo r m airs and
graces. The orches-
tra’s contribution
was Tschaikowsky’s
Fifth ; Symphony,
which is a discon-
certing mixture of
lovely melody and
commonplace assertion of the obvious. The
University lads and lasses executed it to a
large audience’s satisfaction.
H- * *
George Wallace, who goes to a reputed
£l5O-a-week appointment in London, solonged
a packed Tivoli on Friday night in Mel-
bourne. If he takes his inimitable Russian
band, including the fat drummer, with him
he should earn that figure. In some farewell
remarks he said that the Fuller organisa-
tion, which before the talkies had 12 Aus-
tralian revue companies- in operation, now
has-only. two. Jim Gerald, who . has suc-
ceeded George at the Tiv.,. is,_ of course, the
other. George modestly .said it was possibly
a case of the survival of the fittest, and spoke
truly.
* # *
Allan Wilkie’s new development is appre-
ciated by Adelaide, which has Sliakspeare
always more or less at hand, but is far
less 'likely either to see. or to read the
eighteenth century dramatists. Also these pro-
vide a fine set of fat parts for Wilkie him-
self —Sir Peter, Sir Anthony and the rest
—and a gorgeous collection of costumes for
Miss Hunter Watts. Not all the dash and
spirit of Alex. Marsh can blink the fact that
Charles Surface (for example), ideal of the
eighteenth century, was an absolute bounder
by the taste of the twentieth, but the experi-
ence is none the less valuable for that.
¥ * *
The Gravestock people turn Backhaus
loose this year as a test. case. Various
importers of stars have cancelled contracts
with less brilliant lights owing to the depres-
sion in things generally. On how Backhaus
draws them in will probably depend the
fate of sundry others. He starts an Aus-
tralian tour at Sydney Town Hall on April
26, and will give at least three other con-
certs there.
* ¥
Accepting the talkie invasion in the only
sensible spirit, the band of musicians calling
itself the Professional Symphony Orchestra
continues, to find work for itself at Sydney
Town Hall. Its first four or five concerts
were looked upon as a very daring venture:
it is now r in the field with a bill for .10 more.
They begin on Saturday night with Fred
Quintrell conducting and a programme
which includes Tschaikowsky’s Fourth Sync
phony in F minor, the “Egmont” overture,
Elgar’s “Pomp and Circumstance” and the
Bacchanale from “Samson and Delilah.”
Best seats are going for the bare 3s.
The Palette
“The Crest of the- Road,” an Australian
landscape, stands out of the ruck of nruon
mediocre painting in Herbert Rose’s exhibi-
tion at Che Sedon Galleries*, Melbourne.
Rose has much to say about France' ain
Italy, but none of it is new and most or it
is commonplace, despite the wealth of archi-
tectural oddities.
“F.S.”: Victoria has its annual art. award
too. It is the Crouch prize, and was inaugu-
MARJORIE CARR, with Allan Wilkie in Adelaide.
rated by Col. Crouch, M.H.R., and his sisters
to perpetuate their father’s memory in Bal-
larat, where he ran a successful business.
There have been four awards, all going to
Victorians. A. E. Newbury, of Eltham, gets
the £lOO this year for a landscape.
Miss A. M. E. Bale is up again at the
Fine Arts, Melbourne, with her flower pieces
plus some landscapes. A persuasive light
envelops “The Shadow of Castle Hill,” and
the variety of foliage in “Autumn Evening in
the Garden” is admirably handled. Miss
Bale lias been pegging away at her horti-
cultural still-lifes for as long as this critic
can remember, and they are generally charm-
ing ; but they still carry the faint sugges-
tion of the seedsman’s catalogue which pre-
vents them being completely and magically
real. 1
Artistic Melbourne should feel deeply in-
debted to the W. R. Scdon Galleries for a
show of English, Italian and Dutch Old
Masters, 14 in number and valued at £BOOO
The poorer the work the higher the figure.
Thus, a Madonna, plus child, a thoroughly
conventional piece of work, is priced at 2700
guineas, presumably because it was painted
by Romanino, who belonged to the sixteenth
century and the school of Brescia, though
what class he sat in and whether he gained
liis leaving certificate isn’t stated. The “Por-
trait of a Man” (400 guineas), by Nicholas
Maes, on the other hand, is the glowing pro-
duction of an honest dauber, and is superior
to any of the last 20 purchases of the Felton
Bequest, including the 14,000-guinea Tinto-
retto. The catalogue is silent as to the
seminary Maes attended, but it is suspected
that it was the Academy of Nature. A
Canaletto, not the great Canaletto, but his
nephew, who perpetuated his style (1800
guineas), is a delightful example in the
topographical manner, and is better than the
specimen in the National Gallery. The left-
hand corner also holds delights for the
purely artistic observer. A landscape by
Van Goyen (seventeenth century) and a sea-
scape by the Englishman George Morland
have sundry charms of atmosphere, but most
of the others show to excess that marvellous
capacity the Old Masters had for making an
outdoor scene look like a studio still-life.
Such an one, however, was not the appro-
priately named Hendrick Pot, who attaches
liis signature to a group of bon viveurs dis-
cussing a bottle of wane, a plate of oysters
and the latest one about the manager and
the typist. A jolly picture. “Attributed
to” must be understood before all the names
of painters mentioned. In dealing with Old
Masters one never knows.


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike.
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
H ed a nd
wtkfast
Tariff
,f desired i
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
ft
H O
T
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel.” Svdney.
A
/OOS'^
Whether travelling by boat, train or car, if you have
booked in at “Scott’s” there is always the satisfaction
of knowing that, at the journey’s end, real comfort
awaits you and efficient service is at your command.
For over 60 years “ Scott’s ” has been
recognised as Melbourne’s foremost
residential hotel.
Bed and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff
Hotel
Collins St., Melbourne s _ 49
A Wire /s Enough ~ T j e 'ScottsoteJ Melb
ê
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
THE BELL SEEMED TO KNOW.
THE CITY VISITOR: “And how often do you get a fire in this quiet little place?”
T HE COUNTRY FIREMAN: “Oh, I dunno Pretty well every time the bell rings.”
“Wang”: Old Bob Dangle and I were
seated on a log yarning when young Bert
Smithers from the next farm came along.
He stood in front of us with a most woe-
begone expression, and every now and again
he’d rub his bingy and groan most dismally.
“What’s up with yer, Bert?” old Bob asked
curiously. “I’m crook, my word lam crook,”
wailed Bert. “I got cancer or ’pendercitis
or somethin’, I reckon. I’ll have t’ see th,
doctor. I been like this fer a fortnight.
“Is that all?” exclaimed Old Bob. “Yer
don’t wanter let trifles like that worry yet
or yer’ll put yerself inter yer grave. What
if you have cancer or ’pendercitis or any-
tliink like that? It ain’t anythink ter get
alarmed erbout. Look at me. I had cancer
once, an’ had it cut out. Both me ’pen-
dixes ’as been took out. Had me liver oper-
ated on fer hydatis. Had ter have a toob
stuck inter me heart ter drain it, ’count o’
me blood-pressher bein’ too great. One of
me lungs is gorn; had ter have it took
out ’cos it wus becomin’ enlarged. Three
times me stummik’s been operated on, an’
look at me now! I never felt so well in
me life.” Bert listened to the recital with
bulging eyes, and still groaning and holding
his tummy walked meditatively away. I
turned to Old Bob. “What did you tell him
that for?” I asked. “You never had any of
those things you mentioned, did you?”
“Course I didn’t,” answered Bob; “but I
had t’ say somethin’ t’ encourage th’ young
feller.”
:|: * # >1:
“Darken” : The subject was that curse of
the bushwife on washing-day—hard water.
Long Jim was telling us how, on Budda-
badali station, it took nine bars of soap to
wash his “.Tacky Horve” flannel. “The water
fairly crinkled when you poured it out,” he
said. “’S nothing,” chipped in old Benson.
“Out on the Barcoo I drunk water once that
wus so hard that me old horse Baldy, who
never bucked in his life before, kept chuckin’
me off to hear me rattle.”
H* He H*
“Vercal” : The abos. at Cairns (Q.) when
they assemble to prepare for a corroboree
hold entertainments twice a week and draw
good crowds of the townspeople, who respond
with pennies and thrippences. The night
I went the proceedings were a bit dull till
the master of ceremonies, a nigger in a white
shirt and little else, led forward a black
brother. “The nex’ item on the protest,”
said the M.C., “is a song by Mr. Charlie
Woodpile entitiem ‘How Do They Know I’m
Irish?’ ”
* * *
“Barwick” : Here’s a variant, rather better
authenticated than most of such stories, of
the legend that ascribes the legerdemain of
Indian fakirs to hypnotism. When Col.
Barnard, chief of police at Calcutta, went
to see a very famous native magician he
took a Kodak with him. He was ushered
into a courtyard thick with the smoke ascend-
ing from two braziers. The juggler, naked
except for his loincloth, bowed repeatedly
and then produced a thick coil of rope, which
he commenced “paying away” from his
hands. It ascended straight up into the
air. Barnard’s camera clicked. The rope
went up so high that the end was out of
sight. Another photograph was taken. Then
a small boy who was standing by the juggler
commenced climbing the rope. A snapshot
of the boy climbing the rope was taken. The
boy went up until he too disappeared, while
the smoke from the herbs almost blotted
the rest of the courtyard from view'. The
juggler, professing anger at the boy’s dis-
IT HAD GOT IN THE WRONG PLACE.
AGENT: “Wonderful lot of scenery about here, isn’t there?”
HOUSEHUNTER: “Yes, and too dam’ much of it between here and the railway station.”
appearance, started in pursuit of him up the
rope. He was Kodaked too. Finally the
man descended the rope, wiped a blood-
stained knife, ami said that he had killed
the boy for disobeying orders. He then
pulled the rope down and coiled it up, when
suddenly the boy appeared, but not before
Barnard had got two more pictures. Both
master and boy salaamed profoundly, and the
trick was over. Col. Barnard went into his
dark room and developed the films. They
were all the same. Neither the juggler nor
the boy nor the rope had moved.
* # $ #
“Silentio”: Recently on the banks of
George’s River I saw what might easily bam-
boozle a newchum into thinking he had
come into riches unlimited. On a rock near
the bank was a patch about a foot square
that looked like opal. The surface was
hard and the whole thing was a blaze of
color in the sunlight, showing all the gor-
geous blendings of a good specimen of stone.
The veining was as natural as you like.
Overhead was a giant river gum, where
from a broken limb the sap had leaked on
to the rock, and by freaks in its refractive
indices had made the color. I’ve seen odd
bits in the North, of this mock stone, but
never so big a bit.
* * * *
“Etfein”: A well-known and jovial pub-
keeper of the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.I
was Pa Ware. To him came one calm
morning three clients—sick, sad and
sorry, for they had morning-after-the-
good - night - before. Penniless, their
dull eyes and dried tongues pleaded
mutely for help. Quoth Pa: “And is
this the shtat.e ye’re in after three of
me good whiskies; three each, for, be
the Powers, rvell do I know that is all
ye had. Look at me, look at me, ye
poor divils. Me wid sivinty-two dhry
gins to me credit, and able and all to shtand
on one leg and balance on the other to put
on me pyjamas, so I did.”
* =|! * *
“Eelirendi” : The discovery of the Starcke
field, described by “Up North,” was not con-
fined to Billy Webb. His two brothers were
in it too. The first nugget found weighed
2500 z., and was brought into the warden’s
office when notice of the find was reported,
a fortuight after the actual discovery. A
photo of the nugget was taken between a
loaf of bread and a tin of treacle, and these
photographs were distributed around the
town inscribed with the words, “Not bread
and treacle, but roast beef and champagne.”
The consequent rush to the Starcke River
was, and still is, locally known as the
“Bread and Treacle Rush,” and it was the
roast beef and champagne slogan that led
to the trouble in which Billy Webb had a
narrow escape from a lynching. Billy Webb's
widow wears a brooch made from a lump of
the original 2500 z. nugget.
* * # *
“V.C.” : Jack Howe wasn’t the only man to
break records at Alice Downs station, Black-
all (C.Q.). The smartest man, after Howe,
the station ever boasted was Kevin Hoffman.
In 1922 he tailed and cut 785 mixed lambs in
40 minutes. Ten men did the catching, Jack
Brooks and Bally Goodeman were at the tar-
pots, and Bill Gaukrodger, now managing
Muringo, did the ear-marking - , assisted by
Pincher, a half-caste. Hoffman, who was
later overseer on Malvern Hills and Ruth-
ven, was a fine boxer, and Tommy Burns,
who fought him in the old Theatre Royal at
Rockhampton in 1908, was the only man
who ever downed him.
* * * *
“Lot 13”: I have seen one abo. recover
after a bone had been pointed at him. In
the course of a camp-fire brawl near Mur-
gon (Q.) a big fellow, Brandy, was laid out
by a terrific crack on the side of the head.
Apparently honor was not satisfied by a
broken jaw, for a few days later a bone was
pointed at Brandy, and the big chap began
to dwindle. Probably his damaged jaw had
something to do with liis condition; but he
was not the man to die for a clout on the
head, and lie was patently dying. One even-
ing, however, there was a great hullaballoo
in camp. A sliver of bone had come out of
Brandy’s mouth. It did not occur to the
native mind that the splinter was part of his
own jaw. It was the sign and symbol of
the “point,” and obviously it was retiring
beaten from its encounter. Brandy at onco
recovered.
* * * *
“Boro-Belle”: Some people throw money
away when it is thrust into their hands.
I’m one of ’em. Walking along a N.Q.
beach the other day I noticed an object the
size of a cocoanut bobbing about on the edge
of the tide. It was a glass ball, encrusted
with a two-inch thickness of what appeared
to be tough grey slime. With the aid of
a pocket-knife this was scraped off and the
thing was identified as a marine survey float.
Two days later when the controversy died
down as to whether a survey ship had lost
it from a net or whether it had been used
by opium runners, an acquaintance bor-
rowed my knife. On opening it he asked
wdiere the ambergris on it had come from.
I had scraped into the sea about 40 ounces
of ambergris valued at £3 an ounce.
(Continued on payc 21.)
THE THINGS YOU DIDN’T GET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“That was a beaut I missed,” said Alf, as
he threw back his hook,
“You noticed ’ow the floater jumped an’ ’ow
the bamboo shook.
But that’s the way o’ this ’ard world. You’ll
learn it, lad, I bet,
The best things in the flamin’ earth are those
you never get.
“There was a gal I useter know who meant
a lot to me,
An’ if I’d got ’er you might guess ’ow dif-
f’rent I would be.
I didn’t. P’raps she’s ’appier now with
growin’ kids around,
Yet though I’ve travelled ’arf the world no
better gal I’ve found.
“The one I got, she left —maybe she wasn’t
all to blame;
If she’d ’ad anybody else it might ’ave been
the same.
I’ve never seen the other one since she gave
me my check
An’ sent me down the long, long road to end
a battered wreck.
“I wouldn’t care to meet ’er now, for, matey,
don’t yer know
I picture ’er as she was when I knew ’er
years ago.
Most likely she’s grown old an’ worn an’
changed a mighty, lot,
The only one I ever loved —the gal I never
got.
“In big things an’ in little things ’twill
always be like, that:
No matter wot a feller ’as Vs bound to flog
the cat.
Yer bait yer ’ook an’ throw yer line an’ land
a catch —an’ yet
The best fish in the flamin’ creek fis one you
didn’t get.”
VICTORIA-
P.T.F.


S>
o (IkFLAT FIFTY
better/
O
y
NEW HANDY
. PACKING
( Two Twenty- fives)
FULLY
ROUNDED
CORN ERS
Although many “ flat 55 tins of fifty
cigarettes have made their appearance,
it has been left to “COUNTRY
LIFE” to produce one that is really
improved—“and better”.
Here, now, is a really up-to-date,
convenient package. It disappears into
coat or hip pocket, while the simple
inner packing preserves your “Country
Life” Cigarettes in all their perfection.
At all tobacconists.
The Improved
FLAT FIFTY
(\* 1
(.f(ind to the pocket)
IZ/m Ke \s£Y-
and tins oPIOO
COUNTRY LIFE
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
67
Made in Your Own Country at The
Garden Factory —Raleigh Park—
by W. D. & H. 0. IFILLS
(AUSTRALIA) LTD.


'(Mr?
{ >(
\ ft
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD,
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times have you promised someone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
Cbmmonwealtb Savmos Bank of Hustralla
(Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Governmf til,
SEASONS MAY COME and
SEASONS MAY GO
But the holiday appeal of
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
never varies.
Spring, summer, autumn and winter
alike, the mountain scenery is the
finest in Australia, just as the Gov-
ernment Chalet is the finest holiday-
house in Australia.
Consult the
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
NO SO BAD AS THAT.
POLCIEMAN: “Did you lose your head?”
LADY DRIVER: “No, I think I’ve escaped with a few scratches.”
“Avon”: Dr Peter Buck, whose mother
was a Maori princess and who has made
first-hand study of the customs of all Poly-
nesia, reckons that the Maoris learned most
of their arts and crafts after they reached
New Zealand, and that tlicir tutor was a
cold climate. At the opening of the new
meeting-house at Kaiti, near _ Gisborne,
which is constructed after Maori architec-
tural rules (except for such introduced
gadgets as windows), he said that no other
Polynesian race could build such strong walls
nor devise such elaborate carvings, while the
traditional Maori clothing had no parallel in
any part of the world. Alone among Poly-
nesian races the Maoris had clung to the
idea of their meeting-liouse —the place for
social diversion and tribal discussion, and
they were one of the few races in the Mid-
Pacific that were still proud of their lan-
guage and traditions, and cherished them.
si? H?
“Up North”: The more sophisticated
Papuan tribes have taken kindly to football,
more especially in the north and north-
eastern division. Niggers travel 30 miles
to watch the play. The Papuan finds it
hard to pass the ball and kick straight,
but he puts a lot of vim into the game.
Occasionally skin 'and hair flies, but
rough play is promptly checked by the patrol-
officer referee lest brown brother’s blood-lust
should leap into action. The Lieutenant-
Governor gives a prize occasionally. Matches
between the native police and rubber tappers,
plantation “boys” and tribes, keep the village
sports arguing for weeks beforehand. Gape
Nelson has some fairish teams and the Koko,
Togohau, Mumuni. Saga and Orokaiva crowds
are very keen. The village belles line up
to ’the matches to barrack for their pet
boys, and so the civilisation of Papua
proceeds.
* h’: ?I?
“Scran”: Platypus rugs are not so scarce
nor so valuable as “Shypoo” (B. 5/3/’3O)
seems to imagine. I took one to London
in 1924 expecting to get £lOO for it. It
consisted of 40 picked
skins of good color, all
caught on the north-west
coast of Tasmania, where
the cold winters make the
fur particularly good. I
tried all the more im-
portant buyers, including
Christies, but failed to
interest them. I found
that the value of a fur
was not in its quality but
in its popularity, and
platypus is not well
enough known to be popu-
lar. I received only one
nibble -while in London,
from the then Tasmanian Agent-General, iCol.
Snowden, who offered £OO.
* * * *
“Pick” : Rabbit homes are formed upon a
plan that the cottontail architect only devi-
ates from when country too hard for mining
hinders the way. The entrance is always
the largest opening. At full speed hosts of
bunnies may tumble
into it together
when escaping an
enemy. At a few
feet from the en-
trance, tunnels that
never sink deeper
than two feet un-
derground radiate
in all directions,
each with a narrow
exit some distance
away. Fleeing rab-
bits never attempt
to enter by these
exits, because their
passage might be
obstructed by others
inside. Leading
laterally and ex-
tending downward
from these runs are
many short blind
burrows. Some are
used for storing
the nesting furni-
ture, others for the
sanitation of the
underground com-
munity. Far along
the fanwise runs
are deeper tunnels
that sometimes go
down Bft., but rise
again till they are
near the surface.
They are the dor-
mitories and safety
rooms that often
are entirely missed
by the rabbiter who
does not under-
stand the plans of
the tenement. When
burrows stretching
from these deep
leads go still deeper
they contain the
babies and juven-
iles of the tribe
and old does, but never any bucks,
* * *
“Pick’ : When an ant colony is on trek
to a new home, in addition to the eggs,
young fry and stored food that the workers
have to transport they are expected to act
as horses for the aristocrats of the tribe.
Locking his mandibles with those of the
blueblood, the slave heaves him up and
hurries off over the grass stalks, pebbles and
sandy patches with the burden. Seemingly he
bears the loads with no more labor than if
running free, though the haughty rider
usually is as big or bigger than the fellow
carrying him. Besides carrying him the
carrier protects his lord. When danger
THE RIVALS.
TOMMO (inspecting Snow's new cart ): “Can she speed?"
SNOW: “Too right! She made a Rolls-Royce look sick this morn in’.”
threatens, or enemy ants attack, the bur-
dened one clears for action by unshipping
his master, who hides while his lackey
rushes into the fray. Having beaten off
the attack or inveigled the foe away from
his charge, the slave returns to reload and
resume the march. Even when the menial
is killed or disabled in battle, dignity does
not permit of the riderless aristocrat fend-
ing for himself. He awaits the coming of
another carrier.
“Passer": Word comes of a mateless
sparrow—one of a pair that escaped from a
steamer a year ago—being hunted down and
shot at Fremantle amid general satisfaction.
Westralia has striven hard to keep out
exotic pests from the East, but it is an
almost hopeless undertaking. Thirty years
ago I saw one of the first rabbits captured
on the goldfields exhibited in a Menzies pub;
curious crowds came to inspect the stranger
and, incidentally, brisk up Bung’s business.
In the years that followed hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds were spent on the erection
and maintenance of alleged rabbit-proof
fences between the mining and agricultural
districts, but they didn’t block the march of
the invader; merely retarded it for a bit.
The sparrow is overlanding, too. by easy
stages and the Trans, train. The State
may have better luck with the starling, for
which an equally keen eye is being kept. A
few years ago a pair were reported in the
south-west, and a zealous departmental
officer rushed to the scene and set a gang
of axemen felling a huge tree where the
birds were supposed to be nesting. The
intruders were believed to have perished in
the crash, but nobody ever found as much
as a feather or an eggshell.
* * *
“S.S.S.”: The death sickness had taken
her, and Mere Boanges, head of an old
French nursing sisterhood, was slowly sinking.
Strange it was, almost unbelievable, that
anything, even death, could soften that iron-
souled woman who had ruled her hospital
staff with a rod of quiet sarcasm and one
look of a cold, grey eye that cut into the
soul. Her eyes one wished to forget; her
hands, exquisite and always doing good, one
found unforgettable. On my return from
the Islands they told me that .she was dying
and greatly desired to see me. She lay in
her long black robes on a little couch under
a flowering red-gum. So white, so different.
Her eyes not really hard. We greeted, then
sat a long while in silence. “Tell me about
your island,” she said at length, her voice
all soft and gentle. I told her of the long
low line of hospital above the beach with
its sick of many nations; of the dugongs that
soughed on the reef; the orchids and the
tortoise-shell; of the garrison of fine big artil-
lerymen who marched to church on Sunday:
of the palms and the pearls and the sunshine,
Again the silence. Suddenly she asked:
“And what are the little birds like?” “There
are no birds, Mere Boanges.” “Then come
you away,” she said; “where God’s little
birds can’t live, it is a wicked place.”
* * * *
“Billy See”: The linesman’s yarn about
t he niggers hanging on to the O.T. line until
t i iey brought it down isn’t bad, but Binghi
had more sense than that. He could cut
fencing-wire easily, and steel springs from
abandoned carts were not beyond him In
Wyndham (Q.) a while ago I was shown
a collection of native tomahawks made from
pieces of the springs and tyres of carts
which broke down during the wild rush to
Hall’s Greek in 1886. The steel had been
cut to lengths of about Sin., and was hafted
with a strip of pliable wood bent double
around it and lashed with kangaroo sinew,
The cutting of the steel was done by patiently
filing it half-way through with a piece of
quartzite and then bending it backwards
and forwards until it broke,
* * * *
“g ea Nomad”: I can’t say whether the
marc j 1 () f science has evolved a more scien-
process G f “pickling” Chinamen who
(de at ge£lj p u i : j n my time it was by the
j njoctioil of formalin. A vein was opened
and formalin was pumped in as the
Hloocl ran out. The chief officer used to
co ]j ect £o() a nob for each corpse. Many
G j d Chinamen, returning to the Flowery Land
tQ (>ud their days, used to oblige by expiring
gea< Q ur Chinese carpenter got a terrible
shock o ne morning as a man emerged from
t J le s t o kehold, staring dreamily, the pupils
o £ eyes like pinpoints—a confirmed
o pi nm -smoker. He stared queerly at the
horizon, then dropped dead at our feet. When
the chief pumped in tlie formalin the corpse
opened his eyes—wide! The carpenter ran
away screaming, and afterwards refused to
ma k e the box.
* * * *
«Ynrri” • The Piithnsinstin <rold-di£rfrpr siin-
Yam - The el “ku s iastic »old digger sup
pbes a good illustration of the say leai-
mg oft work to ( chop wood On Sunday,
he isn t working, he wasiesi his
clothes, Wpls and docs some extra
cooking. In the afteinoon he takes a striH
over new ground, lias exhilarat i g sci ambles
mt « deep g ll . aad P,-E i ( ?Ad;w ;
and after sampling likely-lo gpac,
returns with a £s^!? jP* T i these show
chief aa dan other in hi s lmt. f tl ese s w
ool?r whe 1 . '
holiday has been well spe t.
THE WHISTLER IN THE HUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve been thinking of old faces, and I'm
dozing as I write;
I can feel my fingers slipping from the pen;
My thoughts are all a-wander to the blue
hills over yonder,
And as I doze I wonder what became of
various men.
There was one I well remember, a tall, strip-
ling mate of mine,
Whose whistling was a thing of rare
delight.
From the harvest time till shearing, through
the bush or in the clearing,
His old tunes were sweet and cheering,
and he’d whistle half the night.
Oh, I loved his merry warble; I can hear
it in my dreams
As I heard it in the bush huts long ago.
I can hear the sweet notes pealing round
the walls and to the ceiling,
To the rafters they are stealing soft and
low.
I can see the bearded shearers as they’re
resting after tea.
And in fancy hear the stories that they
told.
But they cease their yarns or reading as the
strains fall low and pleading,
And he whistles on unheeding “Silver
Threads Among the Gold.”
They forget that backs are aching and that
wrists are sore and stiff
As they listen to an old familiar tune;
And rouseabout and shearer move their seats
a little nearer
Just to hear the old tunes clearer that
their mothers used to croon.
Now the melody is faster, Scottish reel and
Irish jig,
And station-hands are peering through
the door;
Drowsy eyes grow bright with pleasure, tired
feet that crave for leisure
Tap a merry tuneful measure on the
broken earthen floor.
The cook prepares for baking—he is busy
by the fire —
With his arms dipped to the elbows in the
dough.
But I fancy he remembers while lie gazes
at the embers
Bygone Mays and dead Decembers in the
years of long ago.
Now the light is growing dimmer, there are
shadows in the hut;
The dull flicker of a slush-lamp casts a ray.
From the earth floor to the ceiling, like some
weary soul appealing,
Liquid notes are softly stealing till they
faintly fade away.
N.S.W.
JIM GRABAME.


ë
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by-
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
liberal advances if
required.
office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. o. PARNHAM, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
Farm Accounts.
We have shown in previous articles liow one mouth’s transactions are recorded in
the books. Each succeeding month’s business will be recorded in similar fashion.
Ail items of expenditure are debited to accounts opened under suitable headings,
and all items of income are credited to appropriate accounts. Thus at the end of the
year you may add up the total expenditure as per your various expense accounts,
compare them with previous years’ figures, and draw some valuable conclusions therefrom.
If you are, say, a liay-farmer, and one year, as an experiment, you decide to put more
fertiliser on your land, you may find out whether the expense was justified by
increased returns from produce sales, comparing two or more years’ figures for the
purpose. Of course, there will be other factors to be taken into account. There might
be a glut of hay this year, with reduced prices; or the season might be bad, and the crop
spoilt from that cause. If you make a weekly note in your Diary of market and
seasonal conditions you will be able to get a very fair idea of how any enterprise has
panned out. This is just one illustration of the statistical value of well-kept accounts
and a Diary; our main object, however, is to ascertain the year’s trading results.
The items of income and expenditure, no matter how varied, and no matter how
large or small your farm might be, are respectively credited and debited to Ledger
Accounts through the Journal. If your farm is a small one, all miscellaneous items of
revenue expenditure can be conveniently debited to one account —General Expenses.
It will only be necessary to open special accounts for the more important outgoings,
such as Stock Food (on a dairy or sheep farm), Wages, Rent, etc.
CAPITAL AND REVENUE EXPENDITURE. —Money spent for which some-
thing of a permanent nature (such as land, buildings, plant, improvements, etc.) is
acquired is called capital expenditure. You get something in exchange for your money
which should equal it in value, and which only becomes less valuable by depreciation
—through wear, tear, decay, obsolescence or effluxion of time. Money spent directly
in the production of income—such as wages, stock-food, freight, etc.—is called revenue
expenditure; you get no immediate or permanent tangible return for your money,
though you aim eventually to get it all back, with a profit. In keeping acccounts it is
most important that a proper understanding of the difference between the two classes
of expenditure should be grasped; otherwise profits might be unintentionally inflated
or deflated by the wrong treatment of items appearing in the accounts. Capital
expenditure might be termed the investment of money (an asset) into a different kind
of asset; instead of leaving your capital in the Savings Bank or invested in Common-
wealth Bonds, etc., you risk it in assets which you hope will, by care and good
management, give you a much higher return. Revenue expenditure is the charges
incurred in working those assets so that the latter will produce income, and which
has to be offset against income before the true profit can be arrived at.
The distinction between capital expenditure and revenue expenditure is one for
careful judgment. Both are debited to Ledger Accounts, and appear as debit balances.
But the debit balances of accounts representing expenses are wiped out each year by
transferring them to Profit and Loss Account; the balances of those accounts representing
assets, on the other hand, are carried forward year to year, and form part of the
Balance-sheet.
THE YEAR’S OPERATIONS. —The transactions of the farm will be written up
each month as shown in Example 2. At the end of the year a Profit and Loss Account
and Balance-sheet must be drawn up. The most convenient period to be covered by a
year’s accounts, all other circumstances fitting in, would be from July 1 to June 30 —the
period asked for by the income-tax authorities. But this might not always be suitable.
The best time to balance would be the slack period following immediately after the
realisation of the year’s crop, in the case of farms which depend mainly on a yearly
harvest. In the wool industry this will vary according to latitude. Orchardists, too,
have different seasons. With a dairy- or poultry-farmer it won’t matter much; their
business goes on from day to day, and June 30, being in the slack period, would probably
be quite suitable.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.—The P. and L. Account contains on one side
(the debit) the balances of the expense account in the Ledger; in other words, the
expenses of running the farm (including depreciation of fixed assets) for the period
covered by the accounts. On the other (credit) side, it shows all the income from sales
of produce, etc., during the period. On the credit side it also shows any profit from
natural increase, etc., in livestock; or, in a bad season, it will show on the debit side
any depreciation in the value of livestock through drought, etc. The excess (balance)
of total credit entries over total debits represents the profit for the period; if there is
an excess of debits the balance represents a loss.
The following is an example of the P. and L. Account of a dairy-farmer:—
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT as at June 30, 1929.
19291 | | || 1929| |
June|30| ToWages ! |[ £261 10 0 June|30l By Produce Sales £667 10 6
„ Freight | | 46 7 8 I „ Sundries 7 10 O
„ General Exes.| | 32 10 7 | „ Stock Acc’t 109 10 0
„ Interest I 30 0 0
| „ Rates & Taxes | | 20 6 0 |
| „ Depreciation—| ||
Improve- | 11
| ! ments I 5 0 0
| i Buildings | 4 10 O
| „ Balance, being
profit | 384 63 II I
I £Z84JL0 e|| | | £784 10 6
| | ' ~ June 1301 By Balance | [ g|§4 6 3
Next week we will start to explain how a P. and L. Account is compiled from a set
of Ledger Accounts.
MEASURIN’.
“J.S.P.”: Suppose you want to measure
paddocks when a tape or chain is the only
instrument on hand. For a paddock of
three sides, measure all the sides, add to-
gether and divide by two. From this
result subtract the length of each side separ-
ately. Multiply the three remainders and
the half sum together, and the square root
of the product will be the area of the pad-
dock. If the sides have been measured in
chains or yards the result will be in square
chains or square yards respectively and may
then be reduced to acres. Ten square chains,
or 4840 square yards, equal one acre.
When dealing with paddocks of four sides,
measure across from corner to corner, being
careful to keep a straight line. This line
will then divide the four-sided paddock into
two of three sides. Find the area of these
two by the rule already mentioned and add
them together. This procedure is not neces-
sary when the fences are at right angles;
it is sufficient then to multiply length by
breadth. The rule may be applied to
paddocks of any number of sides by chaining
across corners until the whole is divided
into triangles. To avoid confusion sketch
a rough plan, and as each line is measured
make a note of it on the plan.
To set one fence at right angles to another
with the tape only, peg the zero and 12ft.
mark together at the end of the base-line
(A). Stretch the tape back along this line
and peg at the 3ft. mark. Then hold the
tape at the Bft. mark, pull all sides taut
and peg where you are holding it. The tape
now forms a triangle with sides three, four
and five feet, and the angle at A is a right
angle. So that a line through this point and
the last peg is the one you want.
To find the height of an object, place a
stick upright in the ground and measure it
and its shadow and also the shadow of the
object, using the same unit of measurement
throughout. The figure sought can be found
by multiplying the long shadow by the height
of the stick and dividing by the short shadow.
Floats for measuring height of water in
elevated tanks often get out of order and
can be dispensed with. A pressure gauge is
more reliable and quite cheap. Attach this
to a tap near the tank and always to the
same tap. A column of water one foot
high exerts a pressure of 0.431 b. per sq. in.
Let the tank overflow once and mark the
pressure registered, say 151 b. If the tank
itself is 6ft. deep it should be empty when
the gauge reads 12|lb. Put a mark here.
Any pressure showing below that will be
due to the water in the outlet pipes. A
glance at the reading between these two
marks will show how much water is in the
tank, and the difference between full and
empty will be the same whatever the height
of the tank from the ground.
Now for the quickest method of finding the
capacity of circular tanks. The capacity of
a cylinder 3ft. long in gallons equals the
diameter in inches squared divided by 10.
Thus, for a tank 6ft. high and 10ft. across
the working is 120 x 120 div. by 10 - 1440
gallons for 3ft., and 2880 gallons for 6ft.
For accuracy add 20 gals, per 1000, but the
other is near enough for practical purposes.
BREEDING GRASS.
“Timothy”: Though it’s a century and a
half since Bakewell, Tull and other British
cattle-owners commenced to apply the prin-
ciples of selective breeding, since extended
to almost all varieties of farm livestock and
crops, the improvement of grass has been
almost entirely neglected. The matter is of
importance; the Empire’s grass-derived pro-
ducts —meat, milk, wool, hides and dairy
produce—total an annual value of close on
£700,000,000. Britain alone consumes
£325,000,000 worth.
Now grass is receiving .scientific atten-
tion. On an experimental farm on the hills
above Aberystwyth in Wales pedigree grasses
are being bred, and parcels have already been
forwarded to Australia, Maoriland, Canada
and South Africa, where they will be tested
under practical conditions. Prof. R. E.
Stapleton, who is in charge of the work, has
made an extensive study of the tastes of
sheep, cows and other livestock, whose
instincts, he reckons, impel them to prefer-
ence for the most easily digested and most
nutritive grasses, and he has also made pro-
longed researches into the question of the
most suitable mixtures of grasses for vari-
ous soils and climates.
Hitherto Britain has been an extensive
importer of grass-seed, particularly from
M.L., whose clovers, grown in a similar
climate, have proved valuable. N. S. Wales
also contributes useful grasses. Now, at
the Welsh Plant Breeding Station of the
Imperial Bureau of Plant Genetics, experi-
ments will be made in the improvement, by
selection and cross-breeding, of grasses from
all parts of the Empire, and it is hoped that
a reciprocal traffic in seed will be created
which will result in a general benefit to all
the grasslands that flourish under the Union
Jack.
TACKLING THE BLACKBERRIES.
“Te Aroha” : I have had good results in
Maoriland by following the procedure here
outlined. Cut when the plant is at its lowest
vitality—February is the month in Ward’s
country. Cut in swathes; the fire will do
most of the work. Burn in the afternoon.
After the burn, top-dress the ashes with
basic super, and include in the fertiliser
some grass-seed—paspalum, rye, sub.-clover,
red clover and white clover. This will be
eaten down to the ground by the stock in
the winter months. In the early spring, top-
dress again with sulphate of ammonia. This
will mean a vigorous and rapid growth of the
grasses, and a consequent smothering of the
blackberry shoots.
TOP-DRESSING ON THE GRAND
SCALE.
“Rudford”: The Speck does not lack pas-
toralists who are adopting progressive
methods. E. N. Cameron, of Mona Vale,
Ross, has undertaken to top-dress a mini-
mum of 6000 acres this autumn, and may
do SOOO acres. As I write 287 tons super,
have been delivered and spread, and work is
going forward at the rate of seven tons per
day. A spreader is being used in conjunction
with a motor-lorry.
Here is another for Tasmania. Is there
any Maorilander sowing over 400 acres of
subterranean clover in one hit? L. C. Rey-
nolds, of Colebrook, has put almost that
acreage down this year, making his total
1000 acres.
CURING BACON ON THE FARM.
“Fysh”: The salting-room should be cool
and free from dust and dirt. -the Desi
curing mixture is 251 b. salt, lib. saltpetre,
and lib. brown sugar. Spread some ot tins
over the flesh and press it firmly into eveiy
depression, and well into the ends ot tire
joints. Rub it daily for three days, but
not too hard. The time taken m curing
depends on the thickness of the pieces ot
meat. When the meat is fat the salt absorbs
less readily. , , . ~
After the first three days of rubbing, it
will be sufficient to sprinkle the salt nnx-
ture on daily for about IS days, turning the
sides daily. When it is cured, brush the
meat with a stiff brush and remove any
scraps of loose flesh or fat. _ Wash the
sides in cold water; then soak in 20 gallons
of water in which 11b. of bicarbonate of
soda has been dissolved —this makes the
bacon mild and sweet. Follow this soaking
with another wash in cold water. Trim the
sides and bones. Hang the sides up to dry
where they will be free from dust or insects
and will have plenty of air for three days.
They will then be ready for smoking.
A smoking house is necessary. It can be
made from a packing-case, 3ft. x 2ft. x ISin.,
a length of 3in. downpipe, a length of 2in.
downpipe, a kero.-tin, a piece of tin 6in. x
6in., another piece, Sin. x Sin., a bag and a
few strips of hessian or chaff-sacking. With
one of the 2ft. sides of the case make a door
Tack strips of hessian over the top and the
two side edges, fix the door and stand the
case on foot-high legs. Cut a _ hole in the
back above the floor to suit the 3in. pipe, to
which fix a 6in. elbow. Cut off the balance
to fit 4in. from the top of the case. Put
it in position and tack the small piece of
tin half-way between the top of the pipe and
the roof so as to make a false top. Cut the
top out of the kero.-tin, puncture it witli
holes 2in. apart around the lower sides, and
punch a few underneath. On one side, 2in.
from the top, cut a circular 3in. hole for the
sleeve 3in. long. Mark off a line lin. from
one end. Cut a few nicks in it and bend at
right angles. Fix it in place with a few
rivets; this must be made a sliding fit for
the elbow.
The escape flue is made' from the 2in.
pipe, with a 3in. elbow to fit on a sleeve
fixed about Sin. from the'floor. Fasten hooks
in the roof to hang the bacon. Make the
escape flue smaller than the inlet so as to
keep plenty of smoke in the case. The kero.-
tin stove is, of course, set on the ground
just outside the case and- the smoke goes
in through the Sin. pipe, around the bacon
and out the 2in. pipe.
Put some hot coals in the tin, cover with
a little straw and sawdust and 1 drop in the
Sin. x Sin. tin on the sawdust (this should
have a handle for lifting out). Cover the
tin with a wet bag folded double, putting
a piece of wire across the tin first. The
sides will have to be cut to fit this case, or
a bigger one could be made, keeping to the
same idea.
Sides take about 12 hours and hams double
that time. The Sin. tin is to keep the saw-
dust from blazing, and the wet bag to cool
the smoke before it enters.
A POST EXTRACTOR.
“D.”: Removing posts from the ground
without manual labor is a- simple business
provided you have a horse chain and motor-
tyre rim. Hook the chain round post close
to ground, bringing chain up over the rim,
where it fits snugly in the hollow. A
gentle, steady pull, and up comes the post.
There is no dead pull. I removed 50 posts
last week in as many minutes when shifting
a line of fence.
GREEN TIMBER AND A PROBLEM.
“Grunter”: I want to get to the bottom
of this green timber-dry gully dispute. In
South Queensland, I have 800 acres of un-
rung catchment which I will soon be depend-
ing upon for irrigation. Also I want it to
produce a bit of beef. Why should dead
timber dry up the gullies?
Green timber keeps the ground thirsty,
and the thirstier it is the more rain it takes
to make the water run. After a dry spell,
the grass doesn’t get a shoot on until the
green trees have had their fill. The trees
drink more than the grass does. And how
do tree roots bind the soil? Won’t matted
grass-roots, particularly artificial grasses
such as paspalum, Rhodes, kikuyu (the best
binder I know for a dam bank), do it better?
QUEENSLAND-GROWN COFFEE.
“W.P.D.”: I read that Amalgamated
Coffee Plantations has 35,000 acres in New
Guinea, and proposes, for a start, to plant
5000 acres with coffee, and later to culti-
vate palm oil, tung oil, kapok, vanilla, cocoa,
pepper and other tropical products. No oue
can question the right of an Australian com-
pany to exploit the resources of New Guinea
to supply Australia with coffee and the other
products named, but Queensland could pro-
vide the Commonwealth with all the coffee
it consumes. Coffee has been grown in the
State for half a century.
A few weeks ago a friend sent me some
bunches of berries he gathered from a tree
(Continued on page 25.)


TWO City conveniences
for tHe Country Home
/
DELCOLIGHT and Frigidaire are two
great modern conveniences which
bring city comforts to country homes.
ē
Delco-Light is a com-
plete power plant
designed to furnish
light and power where
electricity would not
otherwise be available.
It is entirely self-
contained. Easy to
instal and economical.
Delco-Light not only
gives you Electric
Light in any room at
the touch of a switch,
but enables you to
employ various labor-
saving devices such as
pumps, a washing
machine, electrjic iron
and vacuum cleaner.
ĕ
ė
exactly which
would be most
suitable for
your require-
ments. Write
for illustrated
Booklets B with
full descriptions.
w
DISTRIBUTORS
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.
104 George Street, Launceston.
ŵ


POPULAR COWBOY SADDLERY
Hi
MB
The
Texas Ranger
Cowboy Saddle
In nut-brown hide, double-
rigged, as illustarted,
£l3/18/6
Freight paid for cash with
order to any N.S.W. Rail-
way station.
Fancy Studded Cowboy Bridles, with
gold-color bit, with nickel horse-
head on cheeks. Two patterns,
72/6 and 76/- each.
Breastplates to Match . . 65/-, 75/-
Cowboy Spurs . . 7/6 to 35/- pair
Cowboy Chaps—
With fringe, 87/6; with conchas, 95
Cartridge Belts. Single row, 10/6; double, 20/-
Write for Catalogue of Texas and Australian
Saddlery, Whips, Harness, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS, 39S George Street, Sydney. Bon 785 G.
ẁ
%
(there 's a
%jne-Poi/nt
Pencil, to
match am]
‘SwcuiPen
Black and
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
soy-
Ladies’ Pen
Lavender
22/6
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30/-
/FOR
•SWAN*
PENS &
ALL PENS
Ttit _
VOG^®
for colour
IsMcjkb Aued give
am cUduuuon
tb ifvi 'SHOW IN-
HARMONIOUS AND
CONTRASTING TONES
ARE NOW AVAILABLE
TO MEET THE TREND
IN POPULAR TASTE
COLOURED “SWANS” FROM 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS” FROM 17/6
Black or Mottled).
•‘Fyne Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd., 181, Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
B fA.J
Garages equipped with
Tecalem it
LUBRICATING APPARATUS
render the best service to Car Owners by
keeping cars “youthful” and' eliminating
the cause of 80 per cent, of repairs.
Particulars from
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD. Hay Street. PERTH
CORNELL, LTD. 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD. - Bateman Street, MELBOURNE
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD. Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Factory Representative - - - - Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD. Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, LONDON, N.W.10
ẃ
No. 6
TONIC
EFFECTS
Doctors frequent-
ly recommend
Guinness as a
tonic restorative
after Bronchitis,
Influenza and
other illnesses. It
ẅ


M,*'<A
«Q
, y
y:
*% n
Squared toe and low-
cut sides
Made in the finest four leathers
obtainable, this Abbey Shoe fits with
maximum ease from the first time
on. The instep arch is accommo-
dated in the most natural fashion—
since the upper curves specially at
the lacing. The low-cut sides
increase both smartness and comfort.
No risk of bulging at the ankle.
ORDER BY POST.
Every half-size is available in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width, and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf - - 52/6
Glace Kid - - - - 52/6
Black Box Calf - 50/-
Patent Leather - 60/-
Sports Catalogue post free On request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” Sydney.
FPL in
w
Little Giant
Sash Support
A set for any size window
can be sent anywhere
for 5/-, post paid. So
strong, two (one on each
sash) will support a
pair of sash weighing
161 b., or four a pair of
sash weighing 321 b.
Use Solid Frames,
stronger and less costly.
The Old
Window Prop
may be good enough
for the humpy,
but it’s out of place in the modern
country home. It is untidy, unsafe
and unnecessary.
No matter how far out back you may live,
you can now have the comfort and convenience
of box-frame (pulley and cord) windows, with-
out the expense, freight, difficulty of instal-
lation, or cost and trouble of renewal.
And no matter how near town your home,
it will pay you better to specify, instead of the
clumsy and perishable cords and weights, the
“Little Giant Sash Support.’’
Fit the LITTLE GIANT yourself
with a screwdriver.
Write for particulars to the
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.,
10 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Green
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
Start your fortune.
•n
Get the banking habit. The most
fascinating game in the world is
to watch small deposits grow into
large. Start now with a small
deposit.
Ask for Literature
regarding our Plans
Have a Bank Account—Keep It Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
in his garden at East Brisbane, We hulled,
cleaned, dried, roasted and ground the beans,
from which we made delicious coffee. The
tree, once it has made a start, is hardy, and
does not require a particularly rich soil or
intense cultivation.
Wholesale grocers in Brisbane are willing
to buy all the Queensland-grown coffee
offered, and will pay a shilling a pound for
the beans in the parchment; but they com-
plain that very little is available. There used
to be a number of coffee plantations both
in North and South Queensland. At Buderim,
50 miles from Brisbane, some coffee is still
grown; but 95 per cent, of what is used is
imported. There is a duty of 3d. per lb. on
imported beans, and that would help local
cultivation. The picking trouble, as with
cotton, is a drawback, but surely it could be
overcome.
WHITE WAX-SCALE.
“Bonzo”: Now is the time for citrus
growers to spray against white wax-scale.
There is a good deal of it about in N.S.W.
this year, though at present it is only small.
I still stick to soda as being the most effec-
tive agent, and not likely, used in proper
proportions, to do harm to either tree or
fruit.
Last week I got excellent results with 30lb.
of soda to every 60gal. of water. The addi-
tion to every cask of a full packet of con-
centrated soap powder helps the mixture to
adhere and not drip to the ground before it
has done its work. Spraying should be
done in the morning only; a heavy dew may
spoil the afternoon’s work. And obviously
to spray when there is a threat of rain is
an unwise gamble.
WHAT MATTERS MOST IN FRUIT-
GROWING.
“Hop Scrub”: For the best growth of
fruit trees, the physical condition of the
soil is relatively more important than the
proportion of plant food present. Chemical
analysis is useful only in so far as it indi-
cates the presence of toxic substances and
determines the humus and lime content.
Instances have been noted where soils actually
poorer in nitrogen, phosphorus and potash
gave better returns of similar fruits than
much richer soils. In the case of pineapples
this is especially noticeable. “Horses for
coui’ses” is paralleled by “Fruits for soils
and districts.” Peaches and almonds prefer a
light soil of porous texture; pears, a moder-
ately heavy soil. Citrus fruits may be grown
with commercial success over a wide range
of soil types. Climatic conditions are a
deciding factor. Inspection of the physical
texture of the soil to a depth of six feet
is advisable. Observations of species and
varieties which grow well in the district is
a good indication of the suitability or other-
wise of the soil for fruit-growing. Occasion-
ally the character of the native timber is an
aid in diagnosis. Queensland with its scrub
and forest soils is one clear-cut case of a
correlation existing between the native vegeta-
tion and soil values. In general the surface
soil is of less importance to the fruitgrower
than the subsoil.
A MALLEE CATCHMENT.
“Bogaduck”: Here’s an idea for a water
catchment in Mallee districts where the
sandy soil renders ordinary dams out of the
question.
Two hundred yards away from the home-
stead was a long ridge, which was prac-
tically one large outcrop of limestone. The
farm’s only water supply came from a
bore, whose water was almost too salt for
stock to drink. The salt, moreover, corroded
the piping and rods. It was decided to fix
up a rainwater catchment.
The few stumpy bushes were cleared off
an area nearly an acre in size on a level
patch of the outcrop. Projecting rocks were
broken down with a spalling-hammer, and
used to fill up hollows. Drayloads of lime-
stone gibbers, carted off near-by fallows,
were dumped over the cleared patch,
knapped up, and scattered over the area to
bring the surface level. In the middle of
the following winter, after a week’s rain, the
whole area was rolled with a road-roller
hired from the district council.
Then a pit was dug where the tank was to
be, tons of limestone were burnt in it with
mallee roots, and the mixture of lime and
ashes thus obtained was scattered thinly over
the surface, wetted and tamped down. It
set like concrete. Along the lower edge of
the catchment two cement concrete drains
were constructed, leading to the tank. The
lime pit was then enlarged, shaped and the
floor and walls constructed of heavily rein-
forced cement concrete.
The tank has a capacity of slightly over
120,000 gallons. Light showers soak into
the surface without any water running into
the tank, but even moderately heavy showers
cause an intake. Out of an annual rainfall
averaging 13 inches, six or seven inches are
available for an intake, resulting in an over-
flowing tank every spring. It is sufficient
to water 10 horses, four cows, a small
nock of sheep and still leave enough to grow
a small plot of vegetables.
It cost £BO for cement, reinforcing rods
and piping. No account of the time expended
was kept beyond that it took the spare time
of three men for nearly three years. Its
builders vote it an unqualified success.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from, Service Department.)
. (1) What docs it cost to plant citrus trees
m Q’land? (2) Boohs on citrus-prowing in
Australia? ' (3) Is Cairns (Q.) suitable for
citrus-growing; if not, where are the best dis-
tricts in Q’land? —'5645.
(1) Apart from cost of land, up to £5O
an acre on rough and £lB on cleared ground,
including trees. (2) The Agricultural Dep’ts
of the different States issue pamphlets on
citrus-culture. (3) Cairns district is not
considered satisfactory on account of exces-
sive rainfall. Better results are expected in
the Cardwell or Murray River districts, where
the rainfall, though heavy, is not distributed
over many months of the year.
(1) On what area could a single man
mahe a living as a marlcet-gardener near
Liverpool (N.8.W.)? (2) How much capi-
tal would he required to start pig-hreeding?
—<5134.
(1) Depends on class of soil, water supply
and type of crops to be grown. Many people
on medium-class soil are making a good
living growing tomatoes, cabbages, peas,
beans, etc., on five acres. (2) Brood sows
will cost from £6 to £2O, according to quality
and age, and a pure-bred boar will cost
about £lO to £2O, according to age and
quality. Possibly six to ten sows would be
needed. Other items such as sties, yards,
fenping, utensils, etc., would depend on the
class of business contemplated, but the cost
would be approximately £lOO to £2OO. The
first essential is to make sure that a cheap
food supply is available.
What is the method of harvesting and
cleaning canary seed in 8. Australia? I
grew some this season, hut on stripping it
shelled very hadly. —s44s.
Harvesting is done by means of a stripper,
but as ' the ears ripen unevenly and the
grain tends to shake out when ripe, care
must be taken in deciding when to commence
harvesting operations. The cleaning is done
by a. winnowing machine specially built for
handling small grains, although a rough
cleaning may be made by an ordinary cereal
winnower.
How to eradicate lucerne flea or clover
springtail from a subterranean clover patch
in Tas.f— s7ll.
Consult the Tasmanian Agricultural Dept.,
which has been experimenting with sprays
suggested by Dr. Tillyard. Lime sulphur
sprays, starting from the autumn onset about
April or May, may be effective. The most
suitable strength is not yet known, but
sprays of various strengths could be tried,
care being taken not to damage the foliage
of the clover. Another spray is phenyl at
a strength of 1.70. Another method of con-
trol is to starve the pest by fallowing the
pastures.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Vetinino” : When your horse needs a pur-
gative get the chemist to mix four or five dram?
Barbadoes aloes (according to size of horse)
with 20grs. to 25grs. calomel and 2 drams of
ginger, and make into a long ball with lin-
seed meal and treacle. Give by inserting into
a piece of hose about 18 inches long with a
bent stick inside. Put hose into back of
horse’s mouth in middle, and push stick, and
pill is swallowed. This saves chewed hands
and fingers.
“Disc Harrow”: Why is it that fruit-trees
growing in the vicinity of houses bear better
crops than those out in the open? Three
year's ago Vic. apple-growers had an almost
complete failure, owing to thrip, but I was
working then, on a place which had two
houses, and in each case trees near the
building escaped attack. Smoke hanging in
the air might have something to do with it,
but one of the buildings was used only for
sleeping. Is it that the pests do not like
the presence of man?
“The Lad” : A good remedy for sore teats
is glycerine and boracic acid in equal parts
dissolved in water. Be careful to see that
no scab blocks the point of the teat; should
one form remove it and paint the part with
iodine.
. “Grunter” : In spite of what Government
pig experts aver, early mating—at, say, six
months—won’t stunt the sow, provided, of
course, she is fed for her job. And once
she has started breeding, keep her at it.
Even a spell of a month or two will tend
to make her coquettish, if not barren.
“Huffin Guffin”: Sheep farmers on the
poorer country of Western Vic. consider that
subterranean clover is going to save the
situation. A sheep man told me that bis
land formerly would not run a sheep to the
acre. Fats were unknown. Now he fattens
three sheep on that area.
“Tangaloli”: To make a ploughshare last
longer and work more effectually, take a
small piece of cast-iron and break it up to a
rough powder. Then take the ploughshare
(malleable or wrought only) and turn it
upside-down with the point over a hole in
a hot forge fire. Put about a tablespoon
of the powdered iron on top of the point and
heat until the powder melts. Spread liquid
about with a small poker and then allow all
to cool; do the same to the back end of the
’share-wing. In using this ’share, the top
surface will wear down, but the under side
will not—result, a sharp edge.
“Silentio”: I have an apricot-tree that
was 20 years old before it bore any fruit:
now it carries a great crop annually. A plum
for five years barren was induced to bear by
heavy root pruning. Bark-bound trees that
are not doing well need scoring with a knife
from ground-level to where the branches
start. An apricot that has run into too
much branch will stand cutting right back to
bare trunk stems; the new growth after a
year or two will bear like a new tree. But
do the job in a favorable season.
“TJ7D” : To prevent crayfish spoiling the
banks of bore-drains, cut the top and bottom
out of a kerosene-tin, and down one side,
and flatten it out. Where crayfish have bur-
rowed through the bank, make a straight slit
with a spade, and force the tin down into it.
In nearly all cases this will prevent any
fresh outbreak.
“Vetinind”: If preparing grey horses,
cattle or pigs for agricultural shows, washing
once or twice with fresh buttermilk will
remove all scurf and discolored patches or
stained patches on tails. Brushed on to a
mane it will also make the thing stay in
place on the side of the neck preferred.
“Brady’s Lookout”: Let me nominate the
blacksmith’s tongs for re-straining barbed-
wire. Draw staples from four or five posts,
grip barb with jaws of tongs and lever
against post, holding pressure with handles
under left armpit while you drive in first
staple. It is a quick and sure tool for the
job.
“Otnim”: If you’ve got to pull pumpkins,
marrows or the like before the vine dies, cut
off a good section with the fruit and let it
die off. This seals the end and stops bleeding
and the fruit will last much longer, though
not actually ripe and hard.
“Otnim”: A small packet of kale seed
gives enough seedlings to plant a quarter-
acre. The plants will grow as high as five
feet in good soils, and the leaves can be
pulled off all the time. It’s one of the best
winter lines for the poultry-farmer, and ran
be chaffed with stock feed.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last.
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” : or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
■ Wanted competent sawyer for North Coast (N.S.W.)
sawmill; one who would cut timber by contract
or on shares preferred.—s7os.
Young man (20), Sydney, well educated, wants
work, any kind, anywhere.—s 743.
Man, sheep and wool exp., secretary and account-
ant, wants job with stock and station agent or on
sheep property. Refs. —5729.
Young man, well educated, knowledge French and
German, 24 years in exporting office, seeks work as
teacher, translator or in office, anywhere.—-5721.
Young man (19), Hawkesbury diploma, varied
exp. in N.S.W., wants job as jackeroo or similar
position on farm. —5702.
Foreman painter, Sydney, wants job city or
country; 25 years’ exp. Refs. —5709.
Carpenter (29), with painting, gardening, clerical
and country store exp., wants job anywhere. Refs.
—5706.
Englishman wants job anywhere. Station and
orchard exp. Good mechanic; can drive tractor or
truck. Refs. —5707.
Returned soldier, Sydney, middle aged, married,
wants job as caretaker of flats for home and small
salary; able keep books. Refs.-—5688.
Returned soldier (43), N.S.W., married, with
family, wants position as manager, accountant, store-
keeper or planter ; 20 years’ Island exp. Refs. —5650.
Girl (19), N.S.W., domesticated, wants position
as housemaid, shop-assistant or theatre-attendant.-—•
5662.
Englishman (29), educated, wants job on planta-
tion in Islands or anywhere.—s6lB.
Married man (37), exp. alluvial tinmining Tas-
mania and Nigeria. Used to steam- and electric-
driven gravel-pumps, wants position. Refs. —5646.
Salesman (28), 12 years’ exp. hardware trade all
branches, capable taking charge of department, wants
employment Western district, N.5.W.—5633.
Housekeeper, Q’land, Scotch, refined, two school
children, exp. all domestic duties, wants position in
bachelor’s farmhouse. Small wage.—s69B.
Lady (23), Q’land, wants position as companion
or nursery governess; willing to travel. Used to
bush 1ife.—5748.
Qualified chemist, Sydney, teetotaller, exp. pre-
scription and counter works, wants employment, any-
thing, anywhere.—s7s6.
New Zealander, Vie. orchard exp., desires study
irrigation methods, particularly citrus. Smail
remuneration for services.—s69l.
Man (38), commercial exp., with small capital
and own car, wants partnership going concern, in
or near Brisbane.—s 724.
To buy first editions of Hovell and Hume’s
“Journey,” Keats’s Poems (1818) and early Shalc-
speares.—s73o.
To exchange wireless set, two pairs headphones and
22 novels for small collection of stamps.—s6B9.
Words of poem beginning “All houses wherein
men have lived and died are haunted houses.” —5742.
Information as to the whereabouts of William
Henry Fairweather, last heard from in January,
1894, at Hill End (N.5.W.).—5745.
To buy, second-hand, Vol. I “Official History of
A.1.F.”—5642.
To buy “Federal Capital Pioneer Magazine,” Vol.
I, No. 8 (May, 1927), and volumes or single numbers
of “Sydney Gazette.”—s647.
To buy first six issues “Lone Hand.”—s6s9.
Words of “Starlight’s Last Stand.”—s663.
Words of “Errantry,” by John Galsworthy.—s66l.
Information Sought.
(1) What notice to quit, on either side,
must be given in. the case of a boarder 'paying
weekly in advance? (2) If a boarder leaves
■in the middle of the week is he entitled to
any refund? (3) If a landlady gives a
boarder notice to leave at once can he claim
a refund, and must he leave? (4) Could a
landlady remove the boarder's property to
outside his room during his absence? (5)
Would the answers to these questions apply
if the boarder paid at the end of the week?
(6) What N.S.W. statute governs this
matter ? —5518.
(1) One week. (2) No. (3) Not unless
the landlady has good ground for her demand,
such as misbehavior constituting a breach
of the implied conditions of the letting.
(4) Yes, if ho has refused to leave when
legally required to do so. (5) Yes. (6)
Landlord and Tenant Act.
How can lake salt be made suitable for
household use? Would it be worth while
having a go at it commercially? —s6l6.
Salt gathered from lakes requires to be
washed, to remove deliquescent salts, then
put through a centrifugal to extract the
moisture, thence through a heated rotary
cylinder, crushing mills and dressers. The
machinery and plant are costly. There is
already an over-production of salt in Aus-
tralia and competition is very keen.
(1) What is the botanical name of the
wattle-tree used for tanning? (2) Where
can young trees be secured in large quan-
tities? (3) How old have the trees to be
before the bark is saleable? (4) What is
the average return from each tree? —5599.
(1) Acacia decurrens, A. mollissima and
A. pycnantha generally yield a higher per-
centage of tannic acid than other varieties.
(2) It is cheaper and preferable to raise
plants from seeds (which may be obtained
- from most seed merchants and nurserymen)
and to sow the seeds in situ. Seeds require
treatment before sowing, and the usual prac-
tice is to take a five-gallon tin full of water,
bring it to boiling-point, then immerse all
the wattle-seed that can be got into it.
The tin is left thus until the water is cold.
If the seeds are not soft enough to cut
with the ■ finger-nails after a single treat-
ment, the process should be repeated. With
very old seed it is advisable in the first stage
to boil the seed for a period not longer than
an hour, to be ascertained by experiment.
(3) A return may be expected during the
fourth year from thinnings. Best results
are obtained during sixth, seventh and eighth
years. (4) From mature trees, up to 701 b.
bark; from thinnings, up to 501 b. bark.
(1) What arc the prospects of making
money by purchasing an aeroplane, visiting
country towns and taking passengers for
10s. rides? (2) Any other way of making
money with a ’plane? (3) What ’plane to
buy? (4) How long to get pilot’s certificate?
(5) Total cost, including insurance? —5400.
(1) Depends on your initiative and quali-
fications of Passenger flights
are popular just now. (2) Don’t know of
any to fit your case. (3) Moth or Avian.
(4) Usually about two years; under very
favorable conditions, six months. (5) Aero-
plane, £850; instruction and practice, £150;
total, £lOOO. Insurance is a recurring cost
and would depend on policy taken out.
(1) What are the minimum and maximum
ages for stokers in the R.A.N.? (2) Rates
of pay? (3) Period of enlistment? (4) Any
medical examinations? (5) Many vacancies?
(6) Where to apply?— s49B.
(1) 18 and 25. (2) Stoker, second-class,
ss. 6d. per day; stoker, 7s. fid. (3) 12
years. (4) Yes. (5) None at present. (6)
In your case, District Naval Officer, Bris-
bane.
(1) When does Canada's harvest com-
mence? (2) In what part, east or west?
(3) Is work plentiful during that time? (4)
In the winter? (5) Fare to Vancouver from
Sydney? (6) Is Brisbane a port of call?
(7) Is a passport necessary? (8) Are there
any cheap passages? (9) Any chance of
working passage? (10) Rate of wages ordi-
nary Canadian field-hand? (11) Is the Can-
adian summer fairly warm? —5551.
(1) Middle of July to end of September.
(2) In the Provinces of Alberta, Saskat-
chewan and Manitoba, which are in the west.
(3) Yes, for experienced men. (4) No, but
a handy man can usually find employment.
(5) Third-class £3l 10s. (6) No. (7) Yes.
(8) Not that we are aware of. (9) Very
little prospect. (10) In the harvest season
men often earn $3.50 (say, 14s. 6d.) to
$4.50 (say. 18s. fid.) per day and found.
Higher wages have been earned in some
seasons. (11) Quite bearable to an Austra-
lian, so far as the wheat-growing districts
are concerned.
(1) Is rabbiting profitable in N.S.W.?
(2) In what portion are rabbits to be found?
(3) Best poison to use? (4) Average price
for skins? (5) Where can traps be obtained,
and at what price? —s4s3.
(1) Yes, if a man knows the game, and
strikes good country and markets. (2) Said
to be most plentiful in the mid-west and nor-
western districts. (3) Poison is rarely used
and is not recommended. (4) Skins last
winter averaged from 3s. to ss. per lb.; at
present prices range from Is. to Is. 6d. per
lb. (5) Any ironmonger can supply at about
255. per dozen.
I passed the Leaving Certificate examina-
tion in 1917, French B, History B, English
B, Latin B, Physics L.B. (1) Is that pass
sufficient for entry to Sydney XJni.f (2) Arc
there Laic lectures at night? (3) Cost of
Law course and time it would take to com-
plete?—ssfifi.
(1) No, since you failed to pass in Mathe-
matics. To qualify for entrance to the
Faculty of Law you must pass in Higher
English, Higher Latin, Mathematics and
French, one of the two last-mentioned to be
at the Higher Standard. (2) Lectures in
the Law School are delivered from 9 to 10
a.m. and from 4to 6 p.m. (3) Total cost
of graduation in Law is £103; combined
B.A. and LL.B. course takes five or six
years.
(1) Dimensions and quantities for square
or oblong concrete underground tanks, (>ft,
deep, to hold 2000 gallons and 5000
gallons respectively? (2) Would heavy-
gauge, wire-netting be used for reinforce-
ment? (3) Should the floor of the tank
be given a week or 10 days to set before
building the walls, or could the whole job
be finished in three sections, with 48 hours
between each? —s4ll.
(1) 2000 gallons, 7ft. 4in. square, or 6ft.
by 9ft. oblong; 5000 gallons, lift. fiin. square,
Oft. by 14ft. 9in. oblong. (2) Practically use-
less for such work. (3) If possible, do all
construction in continuous pouring. If not,
build floor and, say, Ift. of walls at least in
one pouring. When pouring new sections, after
concrete has set, clean joint thoroughly and
place mortar (1 cement, 2 sand) to thick-
ness of lin. in joint before placing new work.
Write for booklets to the Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Association, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney.
(1) I hold a third-class ( N.S.W .) marine
engineer’s certificate. What engines does it
allow me to drive ashore in N.J3.W.? (2)
Arc first-, second- and third-class certificates
issued to enginedrivers' on examination in
■N.S.W.? (3) Arc drivers’ .certificates issued
to internal combustion and refrigerating
enginedrivers on examination in N.S.W.?
(4) Are Q’land enginedrivers’ certificates,
steam and internal combustion, accepted in
N.8.WJ— 5350.
(1) None. Your certificate applies to
sea-going work only. (2) Yes, under the
Scaffolding and Lifts Act. Conditions are
set out in a form obtainable from the Dept,
of Labor and Industx-y, Sydney. (3) Certifi-
cates granted in terms of (2) apply in
specific cases to appliances driven by inter-
nal combustion engines. (4) A practical
driving test must first be passed.
(1) Is there a market for wattle-bark in
N.S.W.? (2) What price per ton? (3 ) Is
there a market for the timber other than as
firewood? (4) Would it be worth while
planting the tree on land not adapted to
farming? (5) What is the best variety to
plant? (6) How to obtain seed? —5480.
(1) Sydney tanners buy it. (2) Prices
during the current season for S. Coast
(N.S.W.) bark have ranged from £lO to
£l2 10s. per ton, according to yield and
place of collection. (3) No. (4) Tho culti-
vation of wattle has not been proved to be
payable in N.S.W. (5) Acacia decurrens —
var. mollissima. (6) A. A. Murphy, Woy
Woy, or any seedsman.
The leaves of mg oleander bush have been
infected with a sooty mould fungus. Cause
and remedy ? —5546.
Probably brown scale. Spraying with mis-
cible red oil or white oil also gives good
results; thoroughly mixed, 1 gallon to 40
gallons of water is recommended.
(1) Where can I learn boot and shoe
repairing in Q’land? (2) Books on the
subject? —sls7.
(1) There are boot-making classes for
apprentices and others engaged in the trade
held at the Central Tech. Coll., Brisbane, but
the instruction given does not include repair-
ing. (2) Hasluck’s “Boot Making and
Mendiilg” ; Plucklett’s “Boot and Shoe Manu-
facture” ; Lord’s “Boot Repairing by Ad-
hesive and Other Methods.”
(1) Are there any reliable statistics of
the amount of capital from abroad privately
invested in Australia in the last 10 years?
(2) How does the output of Australian fac-
tory-workers compare with those of the
United'■ States? (3) Has there been any
falling off in Australian factory production,
per capita of persons employed in the last 10
years? (4) Are there evidences of a definite
policy of “ca? canny ” on the part of trade
unions in Australian manufacturing indus-
tries?.—ss74.
(1) We cannot find any authoritative
compilation of the sort. (2) In Australia
for 1027-28 the average wage of factory
employees was £205.51, and the average per
head of value added to raw materials was
£360.62 ; for each £1 of wages £1.754 of added
value was produced. In the U.S.A. in 1927 the
figures (taking the dollar at 4s. 2d.) were
£270.63; £688.16, £2.542. (3) For each
£1 of wages in 1918 there was an added
value of £1.766, so there is a falling off of
£0.012 per capita. (4) Available figures don't
supply conclusive evidence.
(1) Has a perpetual-motion machine ever
been successfully devised? (2) Is there a
standing reward for a successful machine of
the kind? (3) Would a pump that, requires
no driving power save the water that it
pumps be considered a perpetual-motion
machine? (4) Must such a machine be so
made as to run for ever without attention?
(5) How can a patent be taken 0ut? —5547..
(1) The accepted definition of a perpetual-
motion machine is that it is one which
creates energy. Thousands of attempts have
been made to construct such a machine, but
it is impossible. (2) No. (3) Don’t know
exactly what you mean, but the patent
offices of the world are littered with designs
for hydrostatic contraptions, some of them
very ingenious. The only trouble about them
is that they won’t work. (4) That, also,
is impossible. (5) Consult a patent agent;
but if he’s honest lie’ll tell you not to waste
money on patenting perpetual motion.
(1) Price obtainable for scheclite in Syd-
ney? (2) Sydney firms interested? (3)
Uses?— s236.
(1) Quoted in London 325. to 345. per
unit for 65 per cent ore. Sydney prices not
available. (2) Frank Hambridge, Lohmann
and Co., Elder, Smith and Co. —all of
Bridge-street; and O. T. Lempriere and Co.,
Macquarie-place. (3) Principally in the
manufacture of tungsten steel and in elec-
trical apparatus as filaments for globes, con-
tact points and voltage regulators.
(1) Is it compulsory for a teacher employed
by the Q’land Education Dept, to be a con-
tributor to the superannuation fund? (2)
In the event of his resigning from the depart-
ment at any time does he get a refund of
money paid in? —5335.
(1) Yes, unless specially exempted, as in
the case of teachers over 40 at time of
appointment. (2) Yes. He is refunded his
annuity contributions plus 3 per cent, simple
interest, and the surrender value of his assur-
ance contributions. No refund is made on
payments for incapacity allowance.
Must a cow within the Sydney metro-
politan urea be branded, and what is the
procedure? Cost of branding? —s499.
Branding is optional, but brands must
1/e registered. Application for registration
should be made to Stock and Brands Branch,
Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, on the form
prescribed for that purpose, copy of which
will be forwarded on application.
llow to set about paradise-bird hunting
in New Guinea ? —5687.
They are protected under the Birds and
Animals Protection Ordinance 1922, and
permission for collecting the birds is given
only to the representatives of accredited
museums, who pay a license fee of £2O, and
are allowed to collect only a limited number
of specimens.
How many species of the Zizyplius-trec
are .indigenous to Australia, and what are
their uses?- —5713.
Z. jujuba , a Queensland species, put to
no use there, extends to India, where the
leaves are used as cattle fodder. The wood is
said to make a good charcoal. Z. oenoplia, a
northern Australian species, has a fruit
. which is said to be eatable, and is cultivated
as a hedge-plant.
Who was Cincinnatus? —5782.
A Roman who twice left his farm to
become Dictator. Defeating the Aequians in
a single day (458 b.c.), he entered Rome in
triumph and then went back to his farm.
The roots of the 40-years-old Moreton
Bay fig-trees around my residence are spread-
ing towards the house. Are they likely to
affect the foundations? If it is necessary
to destroy them, ivhat is the best way to do
it?— 5592.
Should there be sufficient distance from
the house, cut a trench about 10 feet from
the tree trunk, three or four feet deep and
cut through all x-oots. This may need repeat-
ing about every three years. Should it be
thought necessary to destroy the trees, they
should be grubbed right out.
Brief Answers.
V.M.8.: Can’t enter into controversies
regarding the interpretations placed upon the Book
of Genesis. .. .T.G.8.: There is no known mineral
that will produce red or pink colors in flowers....
G.J.: You have apparently confused sulphate
of ammonia and nitrate of soda. Both supply
nitrogen in a form in which it readily dis-
solves in water. Get leaflet “Maintaining Fertility in
the Vegetable Garden” from Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney... .A. B.: Consult Johns’s “Who’s Who m
Australia”. .. .N.H.W.: Federal Government Printer,
Melbourne. Price 7s. 6d H.S.M.: The “Bookman”
for March, 1908, published a review of solutions to
“The Mystery of Edwin Drood.”. .. . A.C.D.C.: See-
combe’s “Military Misreadings of Shakspeare” is
worth 10s. 6d H.E.8.: Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
George-street, Sydney. Price, 10s. 6d T.G.8.:
In 1922-23 the duty on piece goods, woollen or con-
taining wool, was 30 per cent, preferential, 45
per cent, general, under Tariff Item 105 (F). Raw
phosphate is free, unspecified. If ground, it would
still be free under Item 403, as “a manure, if not a
superphosphate”. .. .8.C.C.: 116 Eaton-square, Lon-
don, S.W.I. Address him as “The Right Hon. Vis-
count”. .. .R.C.: Vic. Taxpayers’ Ass., 360 Collins-
street, Melbourne, will be able to assist. The
“Commonwealth Year Book” and the “N.S.W. Official
Year Book,” available most public libraries, will
be found helpful... .Mrs. P.: Can’t say for certain
without making a post-mortem examination, but it
is likely the dog received some injury. Ask the vet.
who attended him....N.D.: The skin that covers the
base of the bill of the Australian grass-parrot (bud-
gerygar) is dark blue in the male and pale blue in
the female. During the breeding season the color
changes to brown or cream in the female. There is
no difference in size between male and female....
J.S.: W. H. Hole and Co., 46 Foster-street, Sydney ;
T. Gallecher, 387 Catherine-street, Leichhardt, Sydney ;
and Veda Manufacturing Co., 34 Nelson-street, Annan-
dale, Sydney... .R.D.S.: (1) Write Dept, of Agricul-
ture, Brisbane, for leaflet on ginger cultivation. (2)
It is possible that the question of ginger-growing in
Q’land will shortly receive consideration by the
Tariff 80ard.... L.L.: No value. .. .S.T.: Not in
demand locally... .E.M.C.: Worth very little, if any-
thing. .. .S.R.: (1) Any of the established coaehing
colleges will give you a good training in English. (2)
Consult a teacher of elocution. .. .G.R.: (1) The
club can; the secretary cannot. (2) Not at present.
... .G.M.: Stott’s Island, Tweed River (N.S.W.), has
an area of about 350 acres. It is a reserve for
public recreation and preservation of native flora.
. ...F.J.8.: Care J. Farran, 77 King-street, Sydney.
The co. has now been incorporated in New Guinea
Goldfields, Ltd G.F.N.: When in Sydney Hagen’s
bag held 12 graded irons and five woods, these last
a bit shallower faced than those in ordinary use....
F.C.B. : (1) “The Writer” (monthly, 6d.), 34
Paternoster-row, London, E.C. (2) Incorporated
Society of Authors, Playwrights and Composers, 11
Gower-street, London, W.C.I. .. .E.F.: Obtain pam-
phlet on blackleg in calves from Q’land Dept, of
Agriculture. .. .L.K.H.: Call at Sydney Technical
College and interview W. E. Gundry, Officer-in-charge
of Correspondence Courses. .. .J.C.: Instruction in
bridge-building forms a part of the diploma course in
local-government engineering at the Sydney Technical
College. Interview the lecturer-in-charge of the
course... .8.J.R.: (1) Any hotelkeeper may supply
rum (of Q’land origin, about 30 overproof) in any
quantity, and any merchant with a wholesale license
may supply a minimum of two gallons. (2) Walter
Cavill and Co., 379 Sussex-street, Sydney. (3) John
Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex-street, Sydney....
I'.A.: See Chapter IV “Commonwealth Official Year
Book.” You can see a copy at the Mechanics’
Institute, Launceston. .. .H.M.: Essie Jenyns (stage-
name of Essie Jennings) married John Robert
Wood, of Newcastle, N.S.W. Her stepfather was
William J. Holloway D.S.H.: Can’t diagnose skin
diseases without inspection. Consult a skin specialist.
. ...G.A.J.: The tropical parts, like Central Q’land
or the North, would probably give you most satis-
faction. Sydney has a comparatively mild winter,
however, and you would be better there than in a
good many other places... .G. 8.: There is no specific
remedy. We have never heard of starvation as a
cure for it. The ordinary methods of treatment
are rest, application of heat to the part, blistering,
restricted diet and injections. The prescriptions
used should not be taken except under medical
supervision. .. .R.S.C.: Don’t take risks where your
eyes are concerned. Wrong treatment and incorrect
glasses can do them a great deal of harm....
D.G.: Write Massey-Harris, Co., Ltd., Glenelg-street.
South Brisbane, Q’land. .. .Sappho: “Dohori” is
pronounced with the first syllable as in “Do,” the
first note of the tonic scale... .W.L.8.: Ask Vic.
Public Health Dept., 295 Queen-street, Melbourne
for leaflet on exterminating rats. . . .G.W.8.: Try
Elliott, Donaldson and Douglas, Ltd., 14-24 Ann-
street, Brisbane... .J.G.: Peacock Bros. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Martin-place; United Typewriter and Supplies
Co., 4 Nithsdale-street; Lightning Calculator Co.,
7 O’Connell-street —all of Sydney B.B.: The
greatest known ocean depth is 32,089 feet—it occurs
off Mindanao Island, Pacific Ocean J. 8.: In
doctrine, the creed mentioned is in harmony with
the main principles of the evangelic bodies, “as
embodied in the three creeds of the church” F.M.:
In the Sydney Metropolitan District, passenger-carry-
ing vehicles are registered by the Police Department.
Outside the Metropolitan District they are registered
by local-government bodies. The penalty for breaches
of the ordinance requiring the licensing of vehicles
plying for hire is £5....G.N.: (1) Ihere are no
regular open periods, the lifting of the prohibitions
being guided by prevailing conditions. An open period
of five weeks has recently expired, and it is hardly
likely that trapping will again be permitted inside
of two years. (2) Will answer later J.T.E.:
The qualification required to play in an All-England
Association football team is birth in England. A
player playing with a Scottish club, if qualified by
birth for England, may play for England against
Scotland. .. .D.C.: Necessary educational qualifica-
tions are provided for in Regulations X and XI of
the N.S.W. Nurses’ Registration Act. Copies of
previous papers may be obtained from the Government
Printing Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, 6d. each.
Inquiries should be directed to the matron of the
hospital at which the applicant desires to commence
her training. The next examination conducted by
the Nurses’ Registration Board will be held on
May i M.P.: Paint your roof with one or two
coats of Malthoid roof coating, obtainable in black,
red and green... .8.C.C.: “Warra” id an aboriginal
word that in different dialects has different meanings,
among others high place, mountain, the edge, the
brim the end, left-handed, and yesterday E.E.:
A fair average size for a cricket ground would be a
minimum of 140 yards by 130 yards, the greater
length being on the wicket line... .T.D. . Apply Old
Age Pensions Office, Chalmers-street, Sydney....
O L ■ Colonial-brewed beer used to be called “she-
oak”’ in disparagement, to indicate that it was
inferior to English-brewed beer. The word was
derived from the name given to trees of the Casuarina
eenus the grain of which was thought to resemble
that of English oak. The prefix “she” is commonly
used by timber-getters to indicate inferiority
(Many others mailed.)


“Me and My Old Dutch”
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
(As good for women as for men)


ŵ
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
ẁ
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard o 1 Quality throughout tho Empire «
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING
is a serious matter and difficult to solve.
BUT
THE HIGH COST OF ASSURANCE
has been solved.
DOMINION FORESTS Bond Assurance
cuts premiums in two and also gives you a planted freehold
acre. Write the Sole Brokers:
PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Nowadays the swine rush down a steep
place into the pedestrian.
* 9
HER MISTAKE.
The barmaid that Jones loves is fat.
Therefore his wife is scarcely right
To say they're thin excuses that
He finds for staying out at night.
“We will go on with the fight for Prohibition if
it takes us centuries.’’ — Vic. cold teaite.
He realises that Rum is not bilked in a
day.
* *
Humpty Dumpty sat in a stall,
Moaning “Crikey! doesn’t it pall!”
All the king's horses and all the king’s men
Couldn’t drag Hump to the Talkies again.
PROOF.
SERIOUS-MINDED LADY: “I’ve just been reading Herbert Spencer.
Of course you believe in heredity, Mr. Bateman?"
MR. BATEMAN: “Too right. That’s how I got my money”
“Captain E. Quitty, of the Salvation Army.”
He would be one of the E. Quittys of
Redemption, no doubt.
* *
EDITORIAL CAUTION.
“An alleged bag-snatcher was arrested yesterday
in Redfern after an exciting chase. Articles claimed
to be the proceeds of the robbery were picked
up; they are stated to have been dropped by the
accused as he ran.” —Sydney paper.
Miss Rachel Cohenstein is believed to
have been gazing into a window containing
alleged jewellery when ( according to her
story) she felt a sharp pain in the left ear.
Turning, she saw, according to her allegation,
Giuseppe Macaroni, a reputed scion of South-
ern Italy, with whom, so she says, she at
one time kept company. She is reported to
have complained to the police that an ear-
ring, which she asserts was given to her by
her soi-disant assailant, was missing—with
ear attached. The police are said to have
searched Giuseppe and found a case of
razors, an earring, and wliat Miss Cohen-
stein claims to be her ear.
It is asserted by the Crown Law Depart-
ment that more may be heard of the alleged
assault.
* #
MATRIMONIAL ADDITIONS.
“Applications to the Divorce Court by people with
children are comparatively rare.” — “Sun.”
The infant must not tarry, or
Romance will soon he done with;
There’s either one to carry, or
■ There’s one to carry on with.
* * '
It is explained unofficially that the recent
row in the Melbourne Stoushwives’ Assoc,
was due to a misunderstanding. All the
members tried simultaneously to reach a
colleague who had carelessly omitted to
remove the “Reduced from 19s. lid.” ticket
from her hat.
# *
MATED.
“Deceased, who had a wide reputation as a
chemist, married Ann Elizabeth Sawyer.”
Than he who iceds to suit his need
There’s no one that is wiser;
This chemist, sticking to that creed,
Married an Ann Eliza.
POSTERITY EXAMINES THE
BYSIKWYGE.
Professor Loo-Chung, the ninetieth cen-
tury’s leading authority on ruined Sydney,
was lecturing to the alumni of the ancient
university city of Oodnadatta. “Fresh dis-
coveries,” he said, “have been made with
regard to that dead-
liest of all pre-his-
toric monsters the
Bysikw T yge. We know
nothing of its appear-
ance. No bones have
been found as in the
ease of the Bronto-
saurus. This, liow-
ver, we do know —
a more effective
engine of destruction
has never emer-
ged from the primor-
dial ooze which our
white predecessors
termed the Trydzorl.
As you know, pre-
historic Sydneyites
ate in Restrongs.
Mounds of tumuli,
known as Benstans,
have been unearthed
in many of the Res-
trongs. On these the
pleasure-loving Syd-
neyites made merry
with jazz—probably
some kind of drink.
Came a day when the
Bysikwyge sprang on
the frequenters of the
Benstans. In the
pathetic euphuism of
the period they “were
brought under the
Bys i k wyge.” The
Bens having been
destroyed, the mon-
ster turned its atten-
tion to the Oris
and Theayters.
Thereafter sc i e nee
traces it moving
methodically from
one deed of ruin to
the next.
Its end was sud-
den. The all-power-
ful Pollertisliyuns—
ruthless where their
own interests were
cone erned—decided
that the Bysikw’yge
was becoming a
menace to the nation and hence to themselves.
They exterminated it (how we do not know),
but the holocaust came too late. It had con-
sumed the country’s wealth and with its
wealth its strength. Our Chinese ancestors
came into their splendid heritage without a
struggle.” 10-2-4.
It is the loafing workman who is fired
with the greatest enthusiasm.
* *
“America is now claiming to have discovered the
South Polar regions.”
Great Scott!
AID FOR THE NEEDY.
“Two of Lady de Chair’s friends are circularising
those who have been entertained at Government
House for subscriptions to reimburse her for expenses
incurred in her vice-regal duties.”— “Guardian.”
It is not without precedent. There was a
gathering at Tattersall’s Club last month
with a similar object.
First Friend: “Well, boys, he’s getter go to
England, an’ we gotter see he goes. See! Let the
meeting’s motter be ‘Give till it ’urts.’ ”
Second Friend (warmly): “’Ear! ’Ear!”
Hibernian Voice: “Oi’d suggist havin’ a go at the
HE’D FOUND THEM THAT WAY HIMSELF.
“I say, Miss Jones, would you mind treading round the floor a
bit — I’ve lost all my pins?”
bagmakers furrst. The divils must have med a
forrehin out of um.”
First Friend: “Put the bagmakers down for a
hundred quid each, ’Erb.”
Second Friend: “An’ then there’s the railways.
Look at what ’e’s spent travelling between Melbourne
an’ Sydney alone!”
Hebrew Voice: “Thith cove Cleary theemth a good
mark. I thee by the paper he’th giving up half hith
thalary. Leth touch Cleary for a bit.”
First Friend: “Put Cleary down for a monkey,
’Erb. Clapp the same.”
Second Friend: “An’ now, boys, we come to the
pubs.”
First Friend: “Menzies a thousand; Australia a
thousand”
Australian Voice: “Down’t fergit the punters,
blokes—Theo Marks, Sam Hordern, Perce Jones and
suchlike. Many’s the time they’ve hit the poor
cow to leg.”
First Friend: “Put ’em down for a thousand each.”
Second Friend: “And now, gents, I propose that
all present donate 10s. each to the cause, an’ call
it a day.”
(Motion carried.)
Thus was Sol Green enabled to leave for
England to see Strephon run in the Ascot
Gold Cup.
H. S.
* *
CHARGED QUARTERS.
They had the kind of honeymoon
That luxury demands;
He. loved to l spend a sunny noon
Upon the ocean sands.
But times have changed, and he, poor chap,
Has had financial shocks;
His'bank account is now a gap,
And he is on the rocks!
# *
Estate-agents like to impress their views
upon us.
* #
THE TACTICIAN.
Jones blew in at midnight with a waggish
grin. “No, dear,” he said. “I didn’t have
to work back at the office to-night. In fact,
things were so slack that I was able to
leave earlier than usual. Besides which, I’d
promised to take the typist out to dinner
and a show.”
“I see you’re in one of your facetious
moods,” his wife smiled. “Npw, have a
drink and come to bed without any more
of your nonsense.”
Jones did so, congratulating himself
heartily. He’d told her the truth for once.
* *
GLORYING IN IT.
“A proud attendant escorted Jack Hobbs, the
famous bat, on a tour of Westminster Abbey.”
Most folk when it comes to insanity,
Are glad that of it they are well free.
Here’s one who with cheerful inanity
Is proud to have bats in his belfry.
* *
“Women are again growing long tresses.”
Yet neglected wives are still getting their
hair off.
THE REBUFF.
“Suspecting the man wanted the money for drink,
I offered to buy him a lemonade. He declined it.
With sickly stuff that makes me ill
Think you an alms-debt can he paid.
Give me your aid, sir, if you will,
But not, ah not, your lemonade!
UNDELIVERED LETTERS.
Dear Sir, —-
So pleased are we with your freelance con-
tributions that we have decided to offer you
a retaining fee of £750 p.a. But you are
not to overwork.
A couple of short
pars, every week or
so will be ample.
Trusting that you
will see your way
clear to sign a five
years’ contract on
these terms. —
Yours admiringly,
Eustace Hi g ii-
brow. Editor.
Adored One, —I
hope you will not
regard this note as
presumptuous, but
needs must when
Love overmaster-
ing Love —drives.
Ever since I saw
you walking along
Pitt - street last
Friday I have been
madly in love with
you, and it is the
dream of my life to
meet and marry
you. I might men-
tion that I have
£200,000, am 21
years of age and
have won three
beauty competi-
tions. My mother,
before her death,
taught me that
wives should obey their husbands in every-
thing, and hand their husbands all their
(i.e., the wives’) money.— Phyllis Lovebird.
Hear Mr. Mugge.—ln your letter of the
24th inst. you state that you lost £8 follow-
ing the racing tips published in our paper.
As we do not wish you to suffer from any
sense of grievance we are herewith enclosing
a cheque for £l6, representing reimbursement
plus salve for wounded feelings. Hoping
that this will meet with your approval, and
that you will not cease to avail yourself of
our information.—Yours, etc., Accountant,
“Sporting Snaps.”
Tallama.
* *
There was no moaning at the bar
When I da,shed wildly out to see
The wreck of Smithson’s motor-car.
Rather was there unseemly glee.
Some blighter drank my beer on me.
* ¥
“This is the fourth recent safe robbery in which
there has been no arrest.”
In short, what were once merely safe
robberies seem to have become safer robberies.
THE HIGHER MATHEMATICS.
THE MAJOR ( trying to express his love):
“Words jail me.”
MERCENARY MARY: “Let’s have it in figures,
then!”
TO THE LAST POET.
Brother, across the years to he,
I offer you my hand
And gaze at you in sympathy —•
The last of earth’s bright band.
I feel for you, because to-night
I’m hanged if I know what to write
The songs that I would like to sing
Have all been sung before;
My lyre, with its broken string,
Seems stilled tor evermore.
I cannot steal from Keats and such:
The editors all know too much.
My lot is very, very hard.
The best songs have been sung
By many a lofty-minded bard
When this old world was young.
But how much worse your lot will be
. When there’s so little left for me!
P. T. F.


Economy caps the true
satisfaction Chevrolet provides
in all motoring essentials
performance .... appearance . . . .
and comfort
TT was the enthusiastic recep-
tion by motorists the world
over—and particularly in Aus-
tralia —of Chevrolet’s obvious
values that placed Chevrolet in
the position of leadership in the
low priced field.
Shrewd buyers found in Chev-
rolet six-cylinder construction
allied with refined appearance
both in coachwork and appoint-
ments, and performance equal to
any demand . . . essentials that
mean quality transportation.
Owners were interested in
Economy—so they engaged in
friendly contests to determine
petrol consumption. And the re-
sults—3B miles per gallon, 32
miles per gallon, 28 miles per
gallon—reflect not only on the
drivers’ skill and the road con-
ditions, but also the in-built
economy of the smooth, power-
ful Chevrolet Six Engine. The
same economy is evident in
every phase of Chevrolet owner-
ship—it truly provides satis-
ẃ
faction for every-
body, everywhere.
ẅ
H
o
pi
!>
K
o
FOR- EVE P-Y BODY EVER-YWHER.E
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD. - Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne
Adelaide
Perth


• • • •
If SKF Wasn’t Quite So Big
“The Highest Priced Bearing in the World ”
Would Be Higher Priced
S3CS[F Ball and Roller Bearings have never been sold on
any other basis than performance. They can’t be. No
other bearing in the world costs so much to make. The
purchasing price of other bearings, many of them, might
be lower, but they cost more —much more —to USE.
SSCSO 3 * produces not one type, but many different types of
anti-friction bearings. The special ore it requires comes
from its own mines. The charcoal it uses in processing
its special steels comes from its own forests. Its labora-
tories, plants, factory, branches extend right round the
world. Amongst its 23,000 employees 27 languages are
spoken.
EftCSIF supplies greater service to more customers in more
places than any other anti-friction-bearing manufacturer
in the world.
Remember, when you select or specify anti-friction
equipment for any purpose, that ffiCSIF is the mark of a
world-wide organisation devoted to friction reduction
through better Ball and Roller Bearings.
The SKF Ball Bearing Co. Ltd.
MELBOURNE : 595 Bourke Street SYDNEY: Cr. King and Kent Streets
Telephones: Cent. 10644, 2270, 2271. Telephones: M 2268, 2269.
REPRESENTATIVES IN OTHER STATES.
\
.20°
factory <
P
■
,V,.,
F
HSO
m
HP
i
o
«l
f™
■«■
JiS
Bam
1111
WMMm
!|HHj |Hj|jpßi ’" ; (| 1 fjfjj |jjlijj ’, r (>*‘- : '’
BiWMHMB Mini
S'Sf
/f
■HHBBI
\
H


IT ISN'T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN'T A
. DYNAMIC
O* <th * bow f*
1
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker”
Moderately Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY
THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR
m
• ~
Packed and delivered rail or _ boat, Sydney.
Everything complete; Price, £37.
Safe, sure and automatic refrigeration
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs lid. per day to run.
You will marvel at the clever idea 01
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurable
it is worth its weight in gold.
To operate:—
Once a day —take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about your
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that the
temperature is right for the Freezer
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long.
18in. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Shelves
and Primus Stove.
Write for pamphlet concerning “ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR,”
“Keeps food nice without the Ice.”
Manufacturers’ Representatives:-
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129.
which
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Poverty
Point
“D.”: An episode in the life of Marie
Studholme, the musical-comedy actress who
has died in London, aged 55, gained pub-
licity for her in one of A. E. W. Mason’s
best-sellers a quarter of a century ago. She
was leaving the Savoy supper-room with a
princely Indian one night when the latter
lost his temper and insulted her. A young
British officer, who was a stranger to both
of them, knocked the potentate down a flight
of stairs, thereby causing ructions at both
the War Office and the India Office. Marie
Studholme was a lovely little thing in her
heyday, whose smile and flawless teeth
gleamed from every picture-postcard shop in
the kingdom.
“C.R.”: Muriel Starr attributes her
insolvency to the talkies, but those who
remember her earlier performances with
gratitude and her more recent ones with
sorrow will absolve the alleged enemy of
legitimate. Few actors or actresses possess
the fortitude to retire from the scene while
the going is still good, as Fred Niblo did;
or to subside gracefully from the role of
principal girl into more elderly parts, as
did Irene Vanbrugh, Mrs. Brough, Emma
Temple, Beatrice Day, Dion Boucicault and
others. These people earned the thanks
of their audiences and, incidentally, con-
tinued to draw most of the attention. In
one of her last appearances the Vanbrugh
did nothing but knit and say “O-oh!” at
intervals, and by these simple exercises suc-
ceeded in completely eclipsing the youthful
and beautiful star who had the major role.
“L. de R.” : The modern theatregoer is not
in the mood for tragedy, and Hunter-Watts’s
Ophelia, despite its studied moderation,
stirred portion of her Melbourne audiences to
laughter. I wonder how they would have
reacted to a Malay exponent of the role I
saw in Java. This lady really portrayed mad-
ness, especially in its indifference to external
reality. Her hair hung in lank locks, her
eye was wild and her cheeks were hollow.
Hunter-Watts dresses her Ophelia with the
utmost care and she also omits the bawdy
songs which Shakspeare, a supreme realist,
put in her mouth to indicate the sexual
repression which is the real cause of her
collapse. The omission takes all meaning out
of the comment of Laertes, “This nothing’s
more than madness,” and Hamlet’s advice
to his unhappy mistress to enter a nunnery.
But Wilkie always did prefer Dr. Bowdler’s
Shakspeare to Shakspeare’s.
“Camelia Camp-pie”: Bernard Shaw is not
so doctrinaire as some of his writings indi-
cate. In his earnest youth, Warde Morgan,
now managing for Leo Carrillo in Melbourne,
was cast for the Valentine in a London
presentation of “Candida.” After studying
the part from several angles he decided to
write to the dramatist and put his idea of
its meaning before him. He compiled several
foolscap pages. Shaw’s reply, written on a
postcard, was, “You seem to be an intelli-
gent young fellow. Do it as you like. You
will probably be right anyhow.”
“Peanut”: If the shades of George Mus-
grove and James Cassius Williamson are
hovering in the wings of Sydney Majesty’s
these days, they must be chuckling at the
wonderful offset to the talkie invasion their
old favorite “The Belle of New York” is
proving. A month or so back the legitimate
theatres were half-empty; the other Friday
night I was faced with a “Standing-room
Only” notice at 7.15. I spent the evening
in a half-empty talkie emporium. May the
Taits seize the opportunity with a well-s'>eco-
tined grip. “The Orchid,” “Cingalee,” “Shop
Girl” and “Country Girl” are only four of
a great number available, each having in a
square inch of its make-up more tunefulness
and genuine comedy than is to be found in a
dozen of the tripey inflictions we have suffered
in recent years. It is so long since any of
them has been staged that they would arrive
with the freshness of new show’s.
“Cauboy”: It is not right to say that
Melbourne does not want good music. More-
over, it is prepared to pay for it—in modera-
tion. The other Sunday I attended a con-
cert of the Professional Orchestra at the
Plaza, St. Ivilda. There were easily 4000
in the audience. There were about 60 per-
formers, all capable musicians, and they
included Stanislaus Tareynzki, possibly the
greatest violinist in Australia. The con-
ductor was Slapoft'ski, and the programme
was fine. The proprietors provided the
theatre free, though, apart from the rent,
there were the usual charges to meet. The
entrance was by silver coin, and the amount
collected was £45, which works out at a
little over fourpence halfpenny per head. In
leaving I threaded my way through approxi-
mately £120,000-worth of limousine.
“Hamfat”: Singer .Jack Kirby’s father
was one of N.S.W.’s first industrial inspec-
tors, and now looks after the industrial busi-
ness of the Fullers. Jack was only 35 when
he died in London last month.
“Aix-les-Coogee” : Bill Curtis, now a Iv.C.,
was one of Sydney’s best Ichabod Bronsons.
Years ago he played the part in a 10-nights’
revival of “The Belle of New York” at Syd-
ney Palace with Philip Lytton’s Amateur
Players. Albert Whelan, an early Ichabod,
reached a three-figure salary in vaudeville;
so did Olive Lenton, a former Belle. One
of the Portuguese Twins in one J.C.W. show
was Jim Watts, who afterwards sang in
grand opera in London, danced with Genee,
and eventually became principal comedian
with the Greenwich Village Follies. He
specialised in faded lady impersonations, and
asked £2OO a week to return to Australia in
vaudeville. He left here at £3 10s.
“J.W.M.”: “Roxy” (B. 19/3/’3O) is a
sort of abbreviation of the name of Rothafel,
who, when I was there in 1924, was the big
panjandrum of the then largest movie theatre
in New York, the Capitol. The entertain-
ment was colossal, and Rothafel not only
arranged all the varied items, but managed
things generally, including the Capitol radio
station, of which he was announcer-in-chief.
Rothafel was known to millions of radio
listeners as “Roxy” and his performers and
artists as “Roxy’s Gang.” In 1926 he
resigned all his interests with the Capitol,
formed a company, built and opened the
Roxy Theatre, a magnificent affair.
“Avon”: Christchurch (M.L.) possesses a
new city organ—the biggest instrument of
the kind that has been imported into Aus-
tralasia for donkey’s years. It was bought
with insurance money. Maoriland’s exhibi-
tion of a quarter of a century ago had as
one of its frills an organ which, while it
didn’t compete with the Sydney and Mel-
bourne wind-boxes in the matter of the
number of stops, was a marvel for tone.
When the exhibition ended, Seddon, with a
royal gesture, presented the organ to Christ-
church, where for many years it enabled
Doc. Bradshaw, the city tune-merchant, to
bathe his soul in music at free or near-free
recitals to such an extent that there is
scarcely a family in the flat town that doesn't
boast a member who has at least a nodding
acquaintance with all the masters, from Abt
to Wider. The exhibition organ crackled to
ruin in a big blaze in war-time. liill and
Beard, who built the Westminster Abbey
and the Sydney and Melbourne town organs,
though they didn’t have carte blanche, have
made a very fine job of the new one.
The Inky Way
“Sunornoose”: There is a story of a Mel-
bourne newsboy who, asked “Where are your
aitches?” by a man objecting to the cry of
Lrald! ’Erald!” came back smartly witli
1m keepin’ ’em fer the ‘Hage’ an’ the
Hargus,’ in the mornin’.” But the paper-
seller of to-day is too busy hustling for
coppers to provide any copy. I know only
two exceptions in Sydney. One is the. King's
Cross newsboy, who specialises evening after
evening in the same shrill slogan, “Full
account of the ’orrible ’orrer,” and the other
a newcomer on one of the avenues to the
Quay who urges upon passers-by daily for
two hours on end in cheerful and resonant
tones: “Don’t go home without a piper.
You’ve got ter take a piper home with you.”
I put him down as a cockney, and he seems
determined to become an institution. His
formula never varies.
“Clarenza”: I remember a N.S.W. police
inspector, now dead, who blocked the press
photographers from getting a snap of a
man who was to be tried on a capital charge.
Two camera men were waiting for their
victim when a relative of the accused made a
strong protest to the inspector. “I can’t pre-
vent them taking photos in the street,” said
he, “but we’ll see what sort of a picture
they’ll get.” Then he himself escorted tlm
accused across the open space, with an out-
size umbrell*. held so that nothing w&s visible
but two pairs of legs moving beneath it,
“Lao-dah”: Touching the dunder-lieaded
method of censoring what Australia shall
read. Not long since a Melbourne literary
man ordered from Europe a set of photos of
the nude for Norman Lindsay’s studio-use.
The Customs panjandrums promptly sat oii
them, and although the consignee took Aus-
tralia's leading portrait-painter down to trj
to argue, them out of their decision, the bale-
ful things were duly condemned and burnt.
“Spare Sub”: Not long ago that section
of the Sydney daily press which constantly
declares itself for Australia Before All fea-
tured, especially about our Australian Christ-
mastide, topical little drawings depictin'’
American citizens, from bankers to bootleg*
gers, set in surroundings of snow and ice
These have now been superseded by drawings
of obviously British scenes: the two famous
“London Opinion” artists, Bert Thomas ™d
Alfred Leete, are contributing .stuff “specify
drawn’ for the Evening News” And T
shouldn’t doubt it if I hadn’t seen the same
drawings m the English paper some weeks
ago. But why complain? Everybody knows
that Australian black-and-white' artists hav"
no use for filthy money.
WHEN COPPIN PLAYED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve seen the mightiest picture-shows
And famous plays by scores,
With the greatest stars a-twinkling
And the house packed to the doors,
But the most entrancing theatre
That ever I sat in
Was the hall in my old home town
Where George Coppin played “East
Lynne.”
Check pants with evening-dress adorned
Carlyle, that howling swell,
And no young fresh ingenue
Was the Lady Isabel;
But, ah ! It was with joyous shouts
We kicked the front door in,
And stormed the gallery benches
When George Coppin played “East
Lynne.”
The scenery was badly mixed,
The costumes were absurd;
A fishnet inexplicably
In a boudoir scene occurred;
But we nearly raised the roof off
With diabolic din,
And went home quite hoarse with ch'.' i-me-
When George Coppin played "East
Lynne.”
And the pathos—ah, the pathos!
Black-goggled Madame’s woes
Stirred us to our very marrows
And our tears bedewed our toes.
The dying che-ild was twenty-six,
111-favored, too, as sin;
gulped and sobbed all shameless
When George Coppin played “East
Lynne.”
Ah, me! We grow more worldly-wise
A-travelling down the years,
Not so prodigal of laughter,
Not so prone to salty tears;
But old thrills have power to stir us,
And an ember glows within
At the memory of the evening
When George Coppin played “East
Lynne.”
N.S.W.
HYRAM.


Hanking. Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £ 529,988
Preference Shares .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
w
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3Q Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
(lßrisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co,, Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
Winter Here is
Summer There!
Holiday in HAWAII
South Sea Isle of Sunshine and Surf
Sail by the Niagara or Aorangi
May 29 June 26 July 24
£75 First Saloon, £55 Second (Return)
CAN ADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
EXCURSIONS TO HAWAII
Kf
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Agents, 247 George Street, Sydney.
s
/*
■:
VV\
m
V
Mil
Ihe
Sill 0/ (Kg Solomons
Full of charm and interest the Solomon
Islands are only 7 days’ steaming north-
east of Sydney.
To those in search of an Ideal Sea
Trip the opportunity should be now
availed of for a Holiday Cruise among
these Wonderful Coral Islands.
The S.S. “MATARAM” sails from Sydney
30th April and 11th June, visiting more
than a score of Picturesque Island Ports.
Round Trip 4\ Weeks.
Fare £4l Return.
Write for Booklet No. 52/S to
BORNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
bank of new south wales
EST ABU SB ED 18 V
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ŵ
£7,500,000
O
o
CO
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Dvrectors •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Huddart ParterLjsHS?
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing’*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vetsa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per dailv per- q - _ _
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMIT
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Sireat. Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
ẁ
.THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
%
&7V
The perfumed touch that
makes your toilet complete
Cuticura
TAX CUM POWDER
The finishing touch to the daintiest
toilet . . . Cooling, refreshing, and de-
lightfully perfumed and medicated, it
imparts to the person a delicate and dis-
tinctive fragrance and leaves the skin
sweet and wholesome.
Talcum Is.3d. Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
LIIXUS VALUES N°l
HAND HONED
la STEEL.
ILJ &J 1
\
Send to
LUXITS VALUES
G.P.O. Box 1878 K, Sydney.
IOIHIVd 3HI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —-
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


A heavier carrying capacity . . . .
and in consequence, better returns of beef,
butter-fat, wool, or fat lambs whichever
you produce.
The use of
Sulphate of Ammonia
with superphosphate on grass, in areas of good rain-
fall, or which are subject to irrigation, is an important
part of “the new system of grassland management.”
Officers of the New South Wales Department of
Agriculture recommend a mixture of superphosphate and
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA for
pastures, and progressive dairy
farmers and graziers are proving
on their own holdings that there
is money in such a mixture.
Write for Literature to
NITROGEN FERTILISERS
PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And Box 481 AA,
G.P.0., Sydney.
(f-38
J'i
C'~s-?jL<£ri.'-srs
fC'r r
F&s?A
sg%v;qflig*®
SfcjwagSMj
tfTv‘V~>v m
w
«1
IK .. ■
":KT
mm
.SsStf,
:W
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
-
Isa*
avour
special box prices on recnie
Wholesale Distributors
„ CRAIC &AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
w
Keep a Box of
EjtnJtok
Always Handy
VL
r
' 3
( \r
f/!
✓
FOR
CUTI ♦ BRUISES ♦ BURNS
SCALDS ♦ ECZEMA ♦ RASH
PIMPLES ♦ BAD LEAS
ULCERS ♦ SEPTIC SORES
ACHES A STRAINS
1/6 box 6* 3/6 family site. All dealers.
There's no Finer Healer
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“S.T.S.”: S. Aus. is doing its bit in a
side-line of production and export. At Port
Adelaide 270,000 cases of apples were shipped
for Europe during March alone.
* * * *
“Q.E.D.”: The figures that find their way
into reference books about the population
of Australian towns are utterly misleading.
For instance, Swan Hill and Camperdown
(Vic.), included in “Ready R.’s” five-figure
list (B. 19/3/’3O), contain about 4000 and
2000 people respectively. The mistake,
of course, arises from the population of the
shire having been given in each case.
* * * *
“303”: Plenty of jewellers will sell you
white sapphires, though, according to Pro-
fessor Church, of the Royal Albert Museum,
London, one of the foremost living authorities
on precious stones, there are very few in
existence in any part of the world. Cer-
tainly there is no record of a colorless
sapphire ever being found in the Queensland
fields. Where do the white sapphires in
the shops come from?
* * * *
“Sucre”: Gherkins, lilliputian cucumbers,
are retailed in Sydney cookshops at seven
for sixpence. In Queensland, round about
Bowen, they are plentiful in their unpickled
state, but their commercial value is utterly
ignored. Meanwhile, the Yankee cans his
Cucumis angv/ria and sells it to Australia
at five bob a tin. The tin contains about
100, so that the retail profit must be nearly
300 p.c. A local gherkin cannery should be
a remunerative enterprise.
* * * *
“T.M.C.”: Time was when every English
railway company had first, second and third
classes for passengers ; the Midland inaugu-
rated a new era by abolishing the second
class. Now the Transatlantic liners are fol-
lowing suit, and it is expected that second
class will soon be as obsolete in the ocean
greyhounds as it is on British railways. On
the White Star and other boats all the
second-class cabins are becoming “tourist
thirds,” between which and ordinary thirds
the distinction is apparently of the slightest.
* if * *
“Cossack”: A Nor’-Westralian publican,
who numbered a fair sprinkling of Chinese,
Japs and other Asiatics among his customers,
called my attention to a point of bar
etiquette where East and West diverge. The
Caucasian pays for his drink when he orders
it or when he gets it. The Asiatic seldom,
if ever, hands over the money till he has
disposed of his liquor to the last drop. It
struck him as strange at first, Bung added,
but he soon got used to it; and, after all,
it made little difference, because the colored
man rarely lingered over his drinks.
* * * *
“W.W.” : Over 30 Tasmanians, most of them
youthful, were among the crew of the N. T.
Neilsen-Alonso when, with her five chasers,
she nosed into the Derwent with -£>5,000
barrels of whale-oil from the Ross Sea.
Most of them were emphatic in declaring
the trip a fair cow. The only fatality
occurred at Hobart hospital a few hours
after the smelly factory-ship had tied up,
a young Tasmanian, who had been ill on
board for two months, failing to rally after
being carried ashore,
* * * *
“C.Q.”: One of the melancholy sights in
England after the war was the military dump
at Slough. Here tractors, motors, machines
of every kind stretched mile on mile, slowly
sinking into the mud. Mars’s scrapheap
is now the site of a garden city and 140
factories, one of the factories belonging to
the Victorian Aspro people. The two
Nicholas brothers, who built up a huge busi-
ness out of experiments conducted in the
back of a Melbourne pharmacy when the war
cut off the supply of German aspirin, arc
now attacking England’s headaches at the
rate of 600,000,000 tablets per annum.
* * * *
“Boorabbin”: Bigjohn Forrest, when he
ran Westralia, was a Treasurer of more ori-
ginality than most of the tribe. He happened
to be at Coolgardie in the roaring days when
a big mining deal was in progress, and a £ 100
revenue stamp was needed for an important
document. Nothing of the kind was obtain-
able locally; indeed, there were insufficient
revenue stamps to make up the amount, and
one of tbe would-be parties to the sale told
Forrest of the difficulty. “That’s easy
settled,” quoth the heavyweight Premier;
“gimme a pen.” This and paper were sup-
plied, and the. Treasurer wrote out the
“stamp,” 0.K.-ing it with his own signature.
If only philatelists could collect used revenue
stamps, as well as postal ones, that particular
one would be a prize.
* # * *
“Cull”: The consignment of flock rams
and ewes which slipped out of Australia for
Russia just before the Federal embargo on
sheep export were landed in their new home
minus only 90 of their number. The mob
of 5000 jumbucks is the largest that has ever
embarked on the high seas, and the feat of
carrying the woollies through the tropics
with such small loss is a notable one. Tin-
man responsible was N.S.W. sheepman James
Joyce, who has just returned to Australia
to give an account of his argosy to the
shippers.
* * * *
“H.J.K.”: Bret Harte’s “heathen Chinee”
was a mere half-wit alongside the bunch of
Chinks who many years ago occupied a
market garden at Bentleigh (Vic.). Noted for
the most economical use of their Yan Yean
reticulation, there was more than a suspi-
cion that there was a big leakage not
recorded on their meter. But after months
of tedious watching the M.B.W. officials
decided that all was fair and square. The
Chinks prospered, and went back to the
Flowery Land. Their old garden plot is
now covered with red-tiled bungalows, and it
was while these were being built that the
secret of the Chows’ economy was discov-
ered. At each joint of the main that passed
the salad-growers’ garden was a neatly-con-
structed tunnel that conveyed, in galvanised
spouting, the water that oozed from the main
through weakened caulking. Sunken iron
tanks had been used to store the stolen
liquid.


UP „
tV>
around sharp
w
1/ v;' £- *•"'
£ >*>.
*
H
mUm
A
y
m
/
m
A
I
*3
\Jm
i
k
'A
Lower
Cost of
Operation
ON rough country roads,
it’s all the same to the
1930 Whippet Four. The
new and higher compression
engine gives more than 20
per cent, added horse-power
—resulting in even faster
speed, quicker getaway and
greater hill-climbing ability.
By the Whippet’s remark-
able performances in the
hands of thousands of satis-
fied owners, convincing proof
is provided of this fine light
car’s capabilities.
Operating economy is now
reduced to an absolute mini-
mum. Petrol consumption
averages 30 and more miles
to the gallon, while bigger
hearings, heavier crankshaft,
full forced feed lubrication
and silent timing chain are
important advantages that
ensure exceptionally low
maintenance costs with long,
dependable service.
Whippet’s longer wheelbase,
oversize balloon tyres and
longer springs give this low-
priced car exceptional riding
qualities.
Arrange with your local
dealer for a complete demon-
stration of the economical
Whippet Four.
rjte 1950
IPPET
FOUR
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD., , „ . ,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED, „ D .
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHQRN & CO., LTD., „
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


A BR'TOH WM^IHWr
leads the W9r
RENRUt
QUADRUPLE
Price, 45/-
( PF ith Gauge,
5/- extra,)
The remarkable efficiency
BRITISH “RENRUT on its A*"*
Hand Pump « based . eering
les s construction and eaSIES T of
excellence. It 1 " pe rate-—due to
all hand pumps t P. nder> which
a double-acting bQ y h upwar d[ and
draws in-* The inner high-
downward stroke does the rest .
pressure Manufacturers:
Patentees and Sole r q LTD.,
WILLIAM TURNER &d, £nglan d.
Eyre Works, wholesale Factor
Procurable from Large^
Will fully inflate the average motor tyre iu
one minute.
If unable to obtain
write to our Factory/
Representative: Mr.
JOHN ARNOLD,
GP.O. 3ox 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
ŵ
A great drink this
ẁ
RESCH’S D. A.
The famous DINNER ALE
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The scratching of Amounis took a lot of
interest out of the Rawson Stakes at Rose-
hill. It had rained on Friday and was
squally on Saturday morning ; and McGrath,
trainer of the Australian champion, thought
the track would be too heavy for him. In
point of fact it was firmer than that on
which he won the V.A.T.C. Futurity Stakes
so brilliantly. The race was thus reduced
to a match between the two Maoriland
horses, Nightmarch and Chide, although
there were three other starters. Nightmarch
was naturally favorite, , but there was big
money for Chide, who is a rather good-
looking dark chestnut; and plenty of book-
makers were willing to take 5 to 4 Night-
march, Trautwein’s horse closing firm at
2 to 1.
Loquacious made most of the running.
The part of pacemaker evidently doesn’t suit
her, for she subsided when Nightmarch ran
up to her about three furlongs from home
and finished a bad last. Nightmarch sailed
into the straight with a clear lead, which
Pike, on Chide, was unable to reduce. There
were three lengths between them at the
end of the nine furlongs (run in lmin.
54isec.), with Reed sitting still on Night-
march and Pike shaking his stick at Chide;
Donald was a bad third. It wasn’t much
of a race, but perhaps it was as good as
the club deserved for a £650 purse. The
Rosehill people don’t throw their money
about.
Chide can do better, but allowing for an
improvement in condition he was very well
sold if Trautwein gave 6000 guineas for
him, as alleged. A better horse than the
Paladin gelding—up to a mile at least-
carried 10st. 111 b. in the first division of
the Railway Handicap and won amidst
rounds of cheering for horse (Greenline) and
rider (Pike). Raisin was favorite at 7 to
2, but a slow commencement settled what-
ever chance she had; Greenline (6 to 1),
on the other hand, though he started on the
outside, was always conspicuous. Pike took
him to the front at the entrance to the
straight and the wonderful weight-carrier
had a little in reserve at the finish of seven
furlongs, traversed in lmin. 26fsec., Venetian
Lady and the Queenslander Soulton (who
has a rough chance in the Doncaster) being
a close second and third respectively. Green-
line is now one of the favorites for the
Doncaster, his lOst. 21b. notwithstanding.
Pen the us was all the rage for the second
division of the Railway Handicap, and the
event proved that his owner saved punters
a lot of money by withdrawing him from
the Doncaster, in which he had 9st. With
31b. less he was well beaten into third place
by Sir Chrystopher (4 to 1) and Spanish
Galleon. Lorason gave him a long start
over the last two furlongs and would have
headed him in another stride or two. This
Page was impressed with Lorason’s appear-
ance and form, and, all going well in the
meantime, will have him and Troilus on its
side for the Doncaster. Sir Chrystopher
won well in a shade less than Greenline’s
time, and comes down from Bst. 41b. to
7st. Gib.; but the last furlong of the Rand-
wick mile may be too much for him..
The divisions of the Three- and Pour-year-
old Handicap went to High Disdain (7 to
2) and True Shaft (10 to 1), winners at
the same course on the previous Saturday.
High Disdain showed great pace for six
furlongs,, but did not finish like a Doncaster
horse.; True Shaft, on the contrary, came
home so well, to beat Malvina and Spear-
man (an early winner), that his party
must be regretting its omission to nominate
him for the rich mile handicap. A three-
year-old gelding by Arrowsmith —Thea, he is
a stable-companion of Nightmarch. Taisho
was backed for High Disdain's race and
ended up fifth after being interfered with.
He looks a pretty good sort. So does the
Queensland-owned Royal Flavour (8 to 1),
who landed a big stake for the Smedley
stable by running past Ivavalli over the last
bit of the Parramatta Mile. She was.
however, a trifle lucky, inasmuch as imported
Abbot’s Lad, favorite at fours, was left
10 lengths at the barrier; and then he
ran third.
Gwillian G, a mare from the country, by
Colugo—Soultoria, gave a sterling exhibition
of gameness in the Autumn Handicap, for
which she went out at 12 to 1. Second or
third for about a mile, she moved up to
the leader. Potent, shook him off after a
struggle that lasted a couple of furlongs.
FAIR WARNING.
JACKY (to opponent who keeps evading his pet knockout punch) : “By cripes, you
do that again, I’ll knock yer plurry head off!”
and then had to meet a resolute challenge
from Happy New (7 to 1). When caught
and apparently beaten she summoned up
another effort for Simpson and it carried her
past the post half a head in front. She is
in the Sydney Cup with 6st. 121 b less
than on Saturday—and in a field not remark-
able for class so sturdy a bit of stuff must
be respected. Her time for the 12 furlongs
was good—2min. 34Jsec. Sir Ribble was
third and Peacemaker fourth; neither flat-
tered his Cup supporters.
* * # *
The A.J.C. round of autumn meetings
will begin on Saturday at Warwick Farm,
where Phar Lap, Amounis and Nightmarch
are expected to meet in the Chipping Norton
Stakes, the best of the two-year-olds in the
Fairfield Handicap, and many Doncaster and
Cup candidates in the Liverpool Handicap
and the Autumn Cup respectively. Secretary
Cropper, ' who is convalescing after an
operation, will be a regretted absentee, but
his work w r ill be in good hands, for the
A.J.C. has an eminently capable staff.
Fancies:—
Fairfield Handicap: Dellwood; next,
Chemosh.
Liverpool Handicap; High Disdain; next,
Sir Chrystopher.
Chipping Norton Stakes : Phar Lap ; next,
Amounis.
Autumn Cup : Crucis ; next, Ividaides.
Cabramatta Mile: First Arrow: next,
Gesto.
$ * t $
Erie Connolly, now in Sydney with Dark
Man and Broken Doll, has an elder brothei’,
called “Big Harry,” to distinguish him from
the Harry Connelly who won a V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle years ago with Aquarius.
Last week H. E. Connolly experienced
mixed fortune. His horse Acearak, which
had scored over the battens at Moonee Valley,
was sent out favorite for the hui’dle race
at Sunbury, but had to be content with
second honors. The pendulum swung back at
Sandown Park on Saturday, when Harry
landed the Trial Handicap with Sombre, a
20 to 1 chance. Being a modest bettor, the
senior representative of the Connolly clan
would have little cause for repining in the
first instance and reason for elation in the
second.
Sunbury racecourse belonged to the late
Sir Rupert Clarke, and went by inheritance
to his son. A long lease at a peppercorn
rental was granted to the local club, but
Sir Rupert stipulated that a new secretary
should be appointed, as the man in office
had offended him over administrative matters.
The bones of Paul Pry, one of Sir Rupert
Clarke’s favorite racehorses, are interred
near the Sunbury winning post.
In fulfilment of lease conditions, the Sun-
bury Racing Club has ei*ected a modest
grandstand and made other impi-ovements to
the course, which, however, compares poorly
with that at Sandown Park. Yet, in terms
of an Act passed by the Victorian Parliae
ment last season, Sandown Park is under
sentence of comparatively early extinction.
The Sunbury course, little farther distant
from Melbourne, may continue for all time.
Merson Cooper and Ben Cha<ffey, members
of the V.A.T.C. committee, ought to change
the name of the two-year-old Lucky Saint,
which they race in conjunction. Lucky
Saint, is a brother to the 1924 Williamstown
Cup hero, San Antonio, and knows how to
gallop; but his career so.far has been full
of misfortune. In an ea«rly start he chipped
off part of one hoof. On other occasions he
has encountered interference. Made favorite
for the juvenile event at Sandown Park.
Lucky Saint lost by a neck to the 10 to 1
pop, Chilperic, whose rider, Frank Dempsey,
had missed a place on the favorite in the
previous event. Vic. punters do not idolise
Dempsey now\
lla*rry McCalman prepared Ben Chaffey's
Whittier for a Doncaster Handicap victory
in 1924. He landed the. Adelaide Cup of
1928 for a Bendigo patron with Altimeter.
Chaffey was peeved at his horse, Finsbury,
being relegated to third place, and McCal-
ma<n resigned as trainer to the wool baron.
Harry does not enjoy g'ood health, and
abstains from reassembling a big team; but
probably he would, be coming over to Sydney
at Easter if Faramancli (by Valais) had
stood up properly to a Doncaster Handicap
preparation. The" crushing defeat of Mr. J.
F. Ryan’s prad in the Sandowm Park Plate
knocked those plans awry. Jopim, winner of
the race, is a half-brother to Parkwood. and
belongs to a nephew of E. L. Baillieu, being
trained (like Parkwood) by Frank Mus-
grave.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Recently arrived from England, Johnny
Peters made his first appearance at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, and made a*
great impression by the manner in which he
settled the claims of Australian Bill Tyson.
The visitor ran out an easy winner on points
at the end of 15 rounds, practically every
one of which he won. The natty little Eng-
lishman fought throughout with a lot in
reserve, and Avlien properly settled down
should make things sultry for all comers.
Fast and clean, both in attack and defence,
he rarely wasted a punch, and, despite
Tyson’s long reach and awkward style, Peters
quickly summed him up after the first couple
of rounds, and thereafter treated him to
a rare lacing. Stabbing stiff lefts to the
face and ripping both hands to the body.
Peters frequently had liis opponent groggy
until the final gong brought relief. Tyson
scaled Sst. 61b. and Peters Sst. s^lb.
Footbrawl
“Old Q.”: H. P. (“Taffy”) Parish, who
died recently at Bowral (N.S.W.), where he
was manager of the Government Savings
Bank, was one of the outstanding identities
of Rugby Union football in its golden days.
A wing three-quarter of considerable merit,
he was a member of the N.S.W. team which
toured M.L. in 1594, and was also capped
that year and next against Victoria. On
the social side of the game his unfailing-
cheerfulness made him a favorite wherever
he went, and added even more to his fame
than his football.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland Rugby Union has
just been counting up its gains. Two of
the League’s basic clubs in Brisbane have
made up their minds that it is no use fol-
lowing a professional code which confines
its adherents to a small section of Aus-
tralian sport, and an infinitesimal one in
Lancashire and Yorkshire. The clubs in
question are University and Christian
Brothers, the latter in its early days one of
the most famous Queensland Union clubs.
With the addition of West End, a new club,
the Union will field eight teams in each
of the three grade sections this year, while
in Toowoomba, Warwick and the Darling
Downs generally the swung- over to the
amateur code has practically wiped out the
rival game.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: So completely has the
Rugby Union code returned to favor that
the various State bodies are hard put to
it to find grounds for their teams. Even the
N.S.W. Union is at its wits’ end to house
the junior section of its players, though
enclosed areas are not a necessity in then-
case. There will be no fewer than
50 new teams of the sort playing this
coming season, and to the ground problem
must be added an acute shortage of the
necessary referees. It is hard enough for
codes who pay their whistle-wielders to
keep up the supply. With the amateur R.U.
the job is a nightmarish one.
**-.!:*
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. Rugby League will
open its season on April 26, with the Union
following a week later, as usual. It seems
fairly certain that inter-State matches with
Queensland will be played in spite of the
recent feud, while a side from Maoriland is
to be brought across to offset as much as
possible the Rugby Union team from Britain.
The Union will, exchange visits with Queens-
land and Victoria, the latter showing in
Sydney in July. The League programme
also includes a country match and, probably,
a game between the returned Kangaroos aiid
the Rest.
* * $ *
“Cash Amateur”: Like one or two of the
Waratahs, some of the Rugby League , Kan-
garoos just returned to Australia are find-
ing it hard to get into collar again, few of
their employers having reserved their jobs
for them. They will probably come out
all right, as the Waratahs did, and will have
this advantage that, while the amateurs
gained nothing but glory, the professionals
have achieved that and a bonus of £l5O to
boot.
“Fitzscray”: The first chop of the axe
under the new Victorian Football League
regulations as to payment of players fell
last w r eek on 11. Bunton, of Albury
(N.S.W.). Bunton explained that Fitzroy
Club, for which he asked permission to play,
had agreed to pay him £5O down and make
up his wages to £5 per week —this in addition
to payment for playing in matches and a
bonus at the end of the season. After that,
Carlton Club tried to outbid Fitzroy by
offering £75, but this, said Bunton, he had
declined. After a statement by a delegate
that Fitzroy had really offered £lOO cash,
the matter was thrashed out until 2 a.m.,
when Bunton’s application was turned down.
(Continued on page 37.)
EXPRESSIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A sigh went up from the gallery when Hagen
missed a putt on the third green at Riversdale. It
was not so much an expression of sympathy as a
sigh of commiseration and understanding, a sigh
which said quite plainly, ‘He does miss them some-
times, too.’ ” —Melbourne “Sun/-'
I know the sigh of satisfaction
(I’ll use it should these lines collect) ;
The troubled breath of love’s distraction,
That, too, with ease I can detect.
The sigh of grief, the sigh of pleasure
Convey a message clear to me,
For these be sounds of simple measure,
A sort of sighing A B C.
Yet must I own, though most attentive ears
I lend,
The sigh that says—-
“Well, well! He’s missed it. law sorry.
Played a better shot myself yesterday. Just
shows you. These champions aren’t all
they’re cracked up to be, though, of course,
I’m pretty accurate when I’m on my game.
Why, if I got the practice”....
—I can’t completely comprehend.
I know the sigh of sin regretted,
Without the aid of formal speech,
The* envious wheeze of hunger whetted
By glimpse of treasures out of reach;
The sigh of pain, the sigh of pity
Supply an easy theme to me,
Like some uncomplicated ditty
That sings a simple melody.
But I confess, or should if any made demand,
The sigh that means—
“ The favorite’s beaten. There goes a good
tenner. Might have known the cow’d be dead
to-day. The wife wants a new dress, too,
and her mother’s coming to dinner to-morrow.
The payment on the wireless set’s due
Monday. Wonder if Uncle Joe’d be good
for a touch”....
—I fail to fully understand.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


V xs a => SS. 7
a ns
pa □ d n\
horn a a □ n
/joo □ □ □ □ □□a\
iaaa □ □ n o-o non
taan □ □ □ on now
■ □ □ a □ ■ nj
\D □nag 5x
n a C? JJK
\7
if ;;
Shot
3 l JO f «an it is *_ an a spare
? hI Y the harHpJ' C press • PrnK
safest vv a y f s r J S to e star
r : v*iF c -"“s
The
SPALDING
kr o-flite
GOLF BALL
IS
teed
for
72 Holes
X» but s”;
‘‘ ands / included,
painting in
The Dufabilitglest For
zffuMr%
KRO-FUTF
MULTI-DOT
GOLF BALLS
for
Di
'Wing
Length
as well as
Durability
the
KRO-FLITE
has no equalJ
r/////mm///////n,
(N.S.W.) PTY.
352 Rent Street
Sydney


Clothes
for Men
ẃ
and 1 heir
Sons.
All-Wool
English Cap
For Golf, Motoring or
Evening Wear.
Days in the open—motoring or
golfing—call for the need of a
smart-looking cap.
In the evening, too, for the
cabaret, theatre or party, a cap
is in correct style.
All-Wool English models. One-
piece crown or golf shape. Smart
shades and shapes.
8/6
10/6
12 6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
ẅ
Va
PTY. LTD.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ThornycrofT
FREIGHT
and
PASSENGER
CHASSIS
STAND 26
Royal Agricultural
Show
sert,:"dVou EVER HAVE A
GAMBLE ? ”
g»ert; m | risked a uttle
TH»SN\OP?N\HCi **,
Berts Vo u 010 ?”
<HERT : Yes, I PUT OM A hew
SUSPENDER TO trv ''
The Nineteenth Hole
In the deluge of books purporting to teach
the art and mystery of golf there are few
which can claim Australian authorship. Aus-
tralian aspirants have found that the men
who have written expertly on American and
European conditions often fail to solve Aus-
tralian problems. That cannot be said of
“Golf, by Ivo Whitton,” published by the
“Herald” Feature Service of Melbourne. The
photographs of Australia’s greatest amateur
illustrating the essential strokes in golf are
better than anything of the kind yet seen in
this country. Each is faced by a brief and
lucid exposition of how the stroke must be
made. If printed matter can teach golf, this
publication stands by itself.
* * # *
“Carnoustie”: The international golf
match between America and Britain for the
Walker Cup opens at Sandwich on May 15.
Bobby Jones will captain the American side
of eight, which also includes H. R. John-
son, the American amateur champion, and
Yon Elm, for some years past one of the
most formidable amateur players in the
States. lie is one of the few who have
squarely downed the mighty Jones, whom
he beat in the 1926 American amateur
championship, after tieing with Walter
Hagen in the open event the year before.
$ % :1c
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. team to
defend the Kirk-Windeyer Cup in Maori-
land set off across the Tasman last week.
Two of the side, R. K. Lee Brown and W.
R. Dobson, were members of the team which
unexpectedly regained the Cup from M.L. in
1925. H. W. Ilattersley and S. A. Keane,
two of the most brilliant of the young division,
make up the quartette, while Dr. P. S.
Jones, one of Sydney’s keenest golf enthusi-
asts, will look after the business end. This
is the fourth time the Cup has been played
for, and N.S.W. has won it twice. Victoria
has also entered the lists and is due for a
win on this occasion.
% ije
“Baffy”: The visit of the Hagen-KirkWood
combination has been so successful that
already plans to import other leading- pro-
fessionals of international reputation are in
the air. The Australian Professional
Golfers’ Association is considering ways and
means, with the intention of inviting at least
a couple of first-class British players, or
even a team. This would play matches
against professional teams in each State, con-
cluding with a test against an Australian side.
English professionals, with their more limited
season and fewer financial opportunities,
should not be difficult to entice this way dur-
ing the British winter.
XXX*
“Cracker”: Bobby Jones has been play-
ing some amazing golf in America of late.
Last week he won the South-Eastern open
championship at Augusta, Georgia, march-
ing through a 72-hole stroke event with 284.
Two of liis rounds were 69 and 71, but in
the others he slipped a bit, recording a
miserable 72. His average was thus a
fraction under four per hole, the par for
the course being 72. Sherman himself
couldn’t have been more devastating.
* * x *
“Hoylake”; I once read in a novel —by
“Ouida,” I think it was—of a stroke of the
Oxford boat,’ who put his back into it so
superhumanly that at the finish he was “row-
ing at twice the pace of his comrades.” I
am reminded of this by a reference in the
British press to a gentleman who left all
his fortune to his wife, desiring that she
should marry again without financial let or
hindrance. The sorrowing widow remarked
that he was like that. An ardent golfer “he
often conceded his opponents longer putts
than were necessary.” I wish I knew his
system.
The Watermen
“Shell”: Since the one-time Australian
professional sculling champion of the world,
Major Goodsell, ensconced himself in America
and refused to leave its protecting boun-
daries, there has been no one to challenge the
Englishman Bert Barry, who won at Van-
couver the title that used to be Australia’s
own particular property. For the first time
for 55 years two Englishmen will row for
the stake and title on the Thames on May
31. The challenger, Ted Phelps, is one of a
famous Thames sculling family, as is the
defender, Barry. The race will be over the
gruelling Putney-Mortlake course of miles.
Five hundred pounds aside is the stake,
apart from side wagering.
Ht * * *
“Toowong”: Queensland’s test race to
select a crew for the King’s Cup turned out
a fearful fiasco. It was started in semi-
darkness, and after a general mix-up in the
pouring rain “no race” was declared. A
second attempt next morning was also de-
clared off, a poppet in the Maryborough club’s
boat breaking. One more attempt in bad
weather, and on a course invaded by sailing-
boats, saw the G.P.S. eight finish on its own,
the others being either swamped or crowded
out. G.P.S. was declared the winner and
automatically the State representatives. A
meeting of the responsible authorities has
cancelled this, and clubs desiring to have
another go have been invited to send down
their teams to Brisbane at the expense of
the Q.R.A. As that body is confessedly dead
broke and at great difficulty to find money
to send the State crew to South Australia,
the response is not expected to be enthusiastic.
Racquet and Bawl
“Eight”: There’s one thing to be said
about the Australian tennis heads —they
flip their fingers at expense when it comes to
having the country represented abroad. With
Daphne Akhurst lost in matrimony, like
Esna Boyd, and the feminine section of
tennis in all the other States unable or
unwilling to go to Wimbledon, South Aus-
tralia has been given a chance. Kitty le
Mesurier, one of the best and most consistent
women players Australia has produced, has
been nominated by the High Gods of the
game as Australia’s representative at the
world-famous tourney. The young South
Aussiette pays all her own exes., of course,
and was going, anyway, but now the brand
has been popped on her she avoids the
ignominy of being accounted a cleanskin.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: In spite of statements to
the contrary, Suzanne Lenglen is never likely
to return to tennis, either as a professional
or an amateur. The volcanic lady some
time ago opened a very swank shop in Paris
for designing and demonstrating all sorts of
sports clothes for women—selling them is, of
course, understood. She is making a very
good thing of it by all accounts, and isn’t.
even going to take the trouble to apply to be
whitewashed as an amateur again, as her
male partner in the breakaway to the pro-
fessionals, Paul Feret, did.
Car and Cycle
“Garry”: Either Kaye Don’s ear the
Silver Bullet vibrates excessively or he has
been having very bad luck with the sur-
face of Daytona beach. On his first record
attempt the jarring broke part of the super-
charger; on the second it fractured a petrol
pipe; and on the third it got so bad as
2(X) m:p.h. was neared that Don couldn’t keep
his seat. The same thing happened at the
fourth attempt, the bumpy beach being
blamed. As heavier cars than Don’s
(Segrave’s first Sunbeam weighed 3§ tons
and Keech’s Triplex Special 3J tons) have
gone well over 200 m.p.li. on sand without
shaking their drivers to bits, it seems likely
that the Silver Bullet is over-engined for
its weight and wheel-base.
* % * *
“Fairplay”: “H.H.M.” fB. 26/3/’3O) is
mistaken not only as to the car driven by
Alex Jewell on Southport Beach some 13
years ago, but also as to the speed recorded.
The car was one of the early Big Six Stude-
bakers, and the fastest time of several heats
was at the rate of 84.1 m.p.li. The Sl.B
m.p.h. recorded was established by a 1912
Model Four Cylinder Overland, driven in
alternate heats to the Studcbaker by another
driver. At that time both speeds constituted
records in the respective horse-power classes
of the cars in question.
* * ' «!
“Diesel”: For some time the motor world
has been waiting for the development of an
effective heavy-oil engine for motor-cars.
European and American designers have been
giving the matter much attention, and though
France and Germany have several makes of
these engines on the roads in commercial
lorries, the perfect car design has not yet
been achieved. America, however, will be
represented at this year’s Indianapolis 500
by a car burning heavy oil. The designer,
C- E. Cummins, says his bantling will be a
6-cylinder job of 5996-c.c. piston displace-
ment, designed for higher speeds than the
normal type of similar engines. There will
be a lot of interest in the new car, for its
success in the big American race may revolu-
tionise the motor industry.
Jfc
“Mestizo”: The Argentine, famous for its
horse racing and polo, is no less keen on
motor-car spins. The big annual event is
the Grand Premier Nacional between Buenos
Aires and Cordova, 408 miles inland, and
back. The latest contest was won by Juan
Gaudino, -who has a European as well as an
Argentinian reputation as a pilot. Driving
a Chrysler Imperial, he covered the circuit
of 936 miles in 18 hours llmin. 53 2-ssec.
—an average speed of over 51 m.p.h. The
roads were mostly dirt and gravel, and not by
any means the best of their kind, either.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The announcement that J.
Fitzgerald, the Victorian professional cyclist,
had put up a new world’s record in Brisbane
for the quarter-mile has roused some excite-
ment among the cognoscenti. He was clocked
to do 23sec., or l-ssec. better than German
rider Engel’s figures for the same track. It
has been the custom in Brisbane for riders
in these flying sprints to be paced up to the
mark by motor-cycles. If this was done in
Fitzgerald’s case, his figures, like those of
Engel, will not go on the record books. The
practice was banned years ago, since it made
an ostensible race into a semi-paced event.
Miscellaneous
“Kandy” : The Australian Eleven stretched
its collective legs in the time-honored one-
day match at Colombo last week. The
tourists knocked up 233, Ponsford, Bradman
and Woodfull all getting runs, while the
loeal men had 30 up for one wicket when the
rain closed proceedings. The feature of the
match was the excellent slow bowling of E.
Kelsart for Colombo; he took six wickets
for 65, a feat which would be a feather in
the cap of any international bowler.
* ❖ sfc
“Cash Amateur”: The Australian team for
the Empire Games in Canada will be like
the famous crow which had to carry its own
rations on a flight over inhospitable country.
The new ruling of the International Federa-
tion which bans any “pocket money” allow-
ance to touring amateurs will apply to them.
Hitherto athletes for the Olympiads were
allowed a maximum of ss. a day for this
purpose, and the rule was general in the case
of other touring amateur combinations, apart
from the so-called amateurs of the Australian
Elevens. The present rates of exchange and
the discount on Australian money will not
lighten the hardship, either.
* * * *
“Chev.” : Something new in records between
the two largest capitals is being attempted
this week. Two young Victorian horsemen,
W. G. Hicks and J. Abraham, are setting out
to ride to the Sydney Show. They hope to
be no more than 10 days on the road
and to average 56J miles a day. The ride
will be checked by accredited officials all
the way. The previous recorded best was
111 days, by Miss Grace Waugh in 1914. It
should prove an excellent test of horsemaster-
ship, since the daily average for 10 days on
end should test the stoutest nags.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The Australian Swimming
Union has departed from all precedent in
decreeing that in future it will not record
on its books the feat of any swimmer who
merely equals a previous record. The idea
has nothing to recommend it. All other sports
have the sense to see that the mail who
equals a previous world’s best is quite as
deserving as the original performer. If the
A.S.U.’s foolish idea became general, dozens
of world-famous athletes whose names remain
on the books as tributes to their prowess
would cease to be remembered as they
deserve,
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: Maoriland put up a record
for entries in the annual King’s miniature
rifle match with 13,147 boys from the
Dominion schools, Australia’s entry was
only 2370, so there is some ground for con-
gratulation in the fact that the Aussie con-
tingent collected 16 medals for scores over
97 to 13 taken by MX. contestants. In the
list of the Empire’s best 100 units, the All
Blacks took pride of place with 10 schools
headed by Auckland Grammar, which finished
13th. Australia has seven on the roll, with
the Sydney R.A.N.R. lads in lltli place.
* * sis *
“Burgee” : Proof of the vogue now enjoyed
by the Bermuda rig is seen in the announce-
ment that Lipton’s latest challenger for the
America’s Cup will carry a mainsail of that
type. The new yacht, Shamrock V., took
water on the Clyde last week, and remains,
so far, a mystery ship, all that is certain
being that she is about 75ft. overall with a
centreboard. Her mast w T ill be 150 ft. from
the deck, and she will carry no bowsprit.
The new craft will race at the leading British
regattas this summer, and will then be jury-
rigged for her trip across: the Atlantic under
sail. America is building four new yachts
as defenders of the Cup, and will test these
in July. The first race for the Cup takes
place on September 13, the series continuing
until one side or the other has won the
majority of seven races.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: Sydney’s biggest sports
arena, the Cricket Ground, is to be recondi-
tioned at last. An entrance into the ground
by a tunnel is to be added at the Padding-
ton end, while a new stand which will in-
clude roof accommodation is to be built. Other
much-needed improvements not mentioned
are the extension of all the existing stands
right down to the picket-fence, eliminating
the intervening spaces, from which it is im-
possible at present to see anything when a
big crowd fills the ground. The improve-
ments in the Melbourne Cricket Ground dur-
ing the last two or three years have placed
it ahead of the Sydney arena in respect of
public convenience. It may be lose majeste
to say so, but many people put the Adelaide
Oval of to-day in second place, with the
S.C.G. well back third.


3k
'*££t&rM.,
rSKk
'v^V
*3&
aw
?€4^g%
<*c i,r »*»«
'• . ..*«-, j.>;
'V,
\
f
" 'V V
Sv/ •
-...•...r,-V-.
-/**&*■
*-.:
*<si
m
-
/:•.. • C'-^as
f'<j*V>>*
/5
4
■>
0/
0
mMs
tAh
Investment
that holds against
financial tides/
The Security of a Bank
but a higher rate of
interest than a Bank
has ever offered to
depositors
w
To-day’s need is for a safe investment that will return a substantial income.
Bank interest is sure enough but not sufficient. Among the dangerous tides
of finance to-day the Merron Estate, Ltd., stands out like a solid rock of
security. Its business is built on the soundest form of finance in existence—
the advancing of money against approved securities.
r
Your money, no matter how much or how little, is secured by loans on
solid securities made on conservative valuations by men of expert capacity
and judgment.
COMPLETE PROTECTION AGAINST LOSS.
No money is advanced without ample security. Moreover, the securities
themselves are insured against loss, destruction or default. Also, the Share
Capital of the Company is a substantial guarantee to investors.
You can place your money in our hands for safe and wise invest-
ment and be assured of a guaranteed return of 10 per cent. This
is a higher rate of interest than any bank has yet offered .
ŵ
11 Martin Place
(next door to Com-
monwealth Bank),
Sydney.


mark your
LINEN in the
MODERN WAY
“A Few Stitches
& They’re On. ”
nAMEs
s
<ZrXU
They safeguard all apparel and household
linen Neat Distinctive and Fadeless.
w
Actual Size
Style No, 6
The Prices are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/ 6; 6 doz. 5 /-; 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH
85 Cubitt Street,
Australian
Weaving Co. pty. Ltd.
Richmond, Melb.
ust a Moment from Everywhere
The Wentworth—Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
—is handy to theatres, shops and banics—yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the city.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maclurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine.
Wire or write your reservations.
Ohe "Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
111
tT
AUSTRALIA’S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
Under'
Royal
Warrant
ŵ
To H.M.
King,
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920. j
CHAMPAGNE <
Charleslleidsieck
MIME
Australasian Agents—
wift & Company Unultsi
SYDNEY.
Champagne
'-harleslleidsitf>-
REIMS
<rr **ob
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian After is—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Tosti’s “Good-bye” is not more mng-drawn-
out than Sydney's to the De Chairs. It lias
been said to them with flowers, with boomer-
angs, with painted trays, with stocked card-
boxes, with tea and the fatted (and fatten-
ing) cream-puff, with fruit-cup. The In-
stitute of Journalists said it last week in
Australian sunlight, prisoned some in long
slim, some in squat rotund bottles. A lunch
went with the gurgles at Farmer’s. Here
the pleasant oak-room was filled with tables
at which Inky Wayfarers had come to a
full-stop, so to speak. At a long table, under
the clock, sat the vice-regal guests, she flash-
ing a frock and millinery as blue as the
Harbor at noontide. Sir Dudley was as spick
and shining as a battleship in repose. His
color-scheme was cruiser grey. It was a
nice friendly party, and women scribes turned
up in force, for Lady de Chair has always
been an extremely friendly hostess to press-
women. Sir Dudley made a fine upstanding
speech on the usual sound lines; and then
he and his lady were whisked away to other
farewells and other handshakes.
The wives of State Ministers farewelled
Lady de Chair within Parliament House on
Friday afternoon, and in the evening the
Turret Theatre players and the Society of
Women Painters combined in a joint pro-
gramme at the Milson’s Point theatre. Mrs.
E. M. Irvine, the president of the Women
Painters, made a graceful speech, and a poem
specially written by Mary Gilmore was read
by Beatrice Day.
Lady de Chair’s new dressing-case of
crocodile leather is handsome enough to
impress even the bell-boy at a millionaires’
hotel. It is the gift chosen for her by her
women friends, headed by Mrs. George Vivers
and Mrs. Sidney Jamieson. The fittings
are of Pacific Island tortoise-shell, and her
monogram is in Australian gold.
When Sir Dudley de Chair leaves us he
will take with him as intimate a bit of
Australia as any man possesses. It is a
token of copper oft old 11.M.5. Sirius, the
first warship to enter the harbor. The metal
was stripped from the vessel when she was
scraped down in what nowadays we call
Careening Cove. Next it figured in the
steeple of St. James’s Church; when reno-
vations were being done there it’ passed to
the keeping of an old sailor, who now hands
it on to the Viking.
The Admiral who must
keep on smiling.
Time was when
an admiral with
one eye passed
muster ; but that
was in England
and a hundred
years ago. To-
day and in Aus-
tralia you must
have two eyes and
a twinkle in
each. You must
have every tooth,
and advertise it
every time you
dazzle a press
camera with your
movie-hero smile.
You must be an
after - dinner
speaker, a maker
of epigrams, a
competent bazaar-
opener and a go-
getter in general,
or you won’t make
enough friends to
justify a vote-
hunting Govern-
ment in keeping
;he brass-bound service afloat.
David Jones’s Exhibition Hall, with its
rafters and columns wrapped in fleecy wool,
looks like the palace of a shepherd king who
has decided to go into the clothing business,
but in fact is the headquarters of the Golden
Fleece Exhibition; and below the hundreds
and hundreds of pounds’ worth of fleece lent
by Vicars for pillars and arches there is a
comprehensive display of woollen garments.
Hats, stockings, bathers, undies, rugs and
tweeds and sports wear are arranged in
seductive fashion, and in colorings vivid or
softly blurred to fit the occasion on which
they are to be worn. Near-human wax figures
arrayed in these Australian-grown, Aus-
tralian-made garments are posed in some-
times unintentional intimacy; as, for
instance, the young man in his _ woollen
underpants who is gazing in a connoisseurish
way at the tall young woman in the opposite
section who, hand on hip, is full of satis-
faction over the fit of her cosy lingerie.
Lamberts “Across the Black-soil Plains”
an.i Tom Roberts’s “Shearing Shed” are
hui' ; on the walls to give the touch of art
that makes the real seem more realistic.
The show will run to the 17th of the
month; and in connection with it upstairs
in the auditorium a clever show, “The
Pageant of the Golden Fleece,” a sort of
super-mannequin parade, served with dance
numbers and musical effects, shows lovely
woman arrayed in wool from the time she
slips out of bed till midnight, when she
retires to the blankets. She is exhibited at
her morning dip, out riding, seeing outward-
bound friends, having lunch (“Mary had a
little lamb”), golfing, skiing, drinking cock-
tails and dancing, the last in a woollen-
backed satin frock.
In preparation for the Easter Show the
beauty tests in the underworld are just
about finished. Brunette belles in the potato
family roll flashing eyes on their meaner
sisters. Victory is in their mein, pride in
their whole expression. They look like Cin-
derella’s sisters off to the ball in all their
finery. Maybe they have been chosen to
represent not only their own farm but the
whole district. They don’t brag much to
the Spanish onions. These are a passionate
The Underworld gets ready for the Show.
race, ever ready to bring tears to the eyes
of the pitiful. The finalists among the
carrots and turnips are modest. Both are
inclined to be sentimental and mushy. They
dream heroine-wise of their success in lifting
the mortgage off the old home. The cabbages
from their turban-like formation persist in
thinking themselves of the Orient, and view
with assumed Buddha-like calm the excite-
ment that is surging around them. Strictly
speaking the cabbages are not of the under-
world, but, in view of their meditative atti-
tude, one hesitates to class them, as one
does their feather-headed sister the cauli-
flower, as certainly of the demi-monde.
The Chief Justice’s lady was welcomed
home with a little flutter by the members
of the Deaf and Dumb Society last week.
The rooms at 5 Elizabeth-street are now fully
furnished, and the surroundings have been
made as pleasant as funds and enthusiasm
could contrive. The guest, who has been
understudied as president of the women’s
auxiliary by Mrs. Milner Stephen, was
greeted by that lady in a speech whose
shining point was that the building had
been opened free of debt. Then came a
touch of pathos. One of the men members
of the society made a speech welcoming the
newly returned in the sign language. This
was translated for her by Ella Doran, and
Padre George Poynder acted as interpreter
between the speech-maker and the deaf in
the audience. Mrs. Blackall, Newcastle’s
Mayoress, told of the work done to help
afflicted brother and sister in the coal city,
and Mr. Laskie, president of the newly
formed Newcastle branch of the society, was
another guest of honor. Premier Bavin’s
wife, who is secretary of the women’s
committee and was to have shared the party,
was too ill to be present.
Two hospitals in Sydney are run by
women. They are the Crown-street Women’s
and the Rachel Forster. The latter is
managed and with one exception staffed by
women; the former’s house committee is
entirely made up of women. Both hospitals
ended their last year free of debt; indeed,
Crown-street had' a balance of £l9OO. Mrs.
Albert Littlejohn pointed out these facts
in the Fullerton Memorial Hall when Crown-
street was holding its annual meeting.
Knight Henry Braddon warmed his hands
over the blaze of feminine exaltation and
meditatively remarked that running the new
isolation block will mop up £6OOO a year,
so loins must be kept girt. He added proudly
that, though only 35 years old, the hospital
had built up assets to the tune of £200,000
and brought .2000 babies into the world.
Lady de Chair was at the meeting—her last
official visit to a hospital in which she has
shown a keen interest.
The “Cocoa” Cadburys are enthusiastic
good workers, and Mrs. Barrow Cadbury,
who has just rushed through Sydney and
on to Melbourne, is no exception to the
family rule. 'Snatching the brand from the
burning is her favorite occupation. She was
one of the first, women magistrates on the
bench of the Children’s Court in Birming-
ham, and has been active in its work since
1905: since leaving England she has written
nearly a hundred letters to young people
whose acquaintance she first made in court.
She is president of the Birmingham Mater-
nity Hospital, too, and her Tuesday-after-
noon classes for working women have 300
on the roll.
Pianist Backhaus and his pleasant wife
are to arrive-in Sydney on the 22nd. They
are travelling on the Ormonde, and will pro-
bably come overland from Melbourne. On
April 24 they will be the guests of the Music
Teachers’ annual conference committee in
the Blaxland Galleries. The Kretschmann
Club is being Continental, and
party to the musician on Sunday, the 27th-
Tlie passer-by in Rowe-street last Friday
paused for more than a second glance at
the etching from the Arts and Crafters to
the Vicereine, who has been the patroness
of the society during her stay in Australia.
The etching is in a cover' of supple Austra-
lian leather; its red, blue and purple tooling
a design of several varieties of Tasmanian
berries. A beautifully-illuminated address
on parchment went with the gift.
Last week, when the Dutch boat arrived
from Java, there was a family party wait-
ing to welcome home Kittic Baas, of Mos-
man. But she wasn’t there, and the captain
had a story to tell: on the very point of
embarkation Miss Baas had been injured in
a motoring accident at Sourabaya and had
to be left behind: she had thought it
best not to send a fragmentary cable. And
then, before inquiries could be made from
Sourabaya as to the little lady’s progress,
a cable came reporting that she had died
of heart failure. There will be great sym-
pathy for the aged mother: at 94 she must
be almost Sydney’s oldest native-born. Be-
fore her long-ago marriage she was a Baptist,
of Redfern.
Dorothy Draggletail was a neat maiden
compared with some who go dancing these
nights. These long floor-sweeping trains are
a menace not only to the wearer and her
partner but to the couple at the back of
them. The other night one of those girls
who will be graceful let her moire tail
Salome at the back of her as she stepped
forth. Heaven alone knows how she con-
trived not to get her own feet tangled up
in it as she stepped backwards. All went
well till in the intricacy of the dance she
began to step forward. • At that moment the
monocled rascal behind her was stepping
lustily back, and his foot clamped right
down on the lady’s tailpiece. Moire is stout
stuff and it refused to give up the struggle.
So the wearer was dragged back and the
man dragged forward, and they and their
partners found themselves sundered savagely.
Then, looking as surprised as a pair of trout
in mid-air, the girl of the erring train and
the woman of the roaming foot collapsed on
the floor.
Wise lasses emulate old-fashioned pictures
of their mothei’s waltzing to the Blue Danube,
and elegantly dance with the flowing drapery
Others have recourse to a safety-pin.
clutched in an extended hand; others have
recourse to the good old safety-pin, and
simply hitch the verbose material out of
their stride.
Now that the Knoxes aren’t dispensing so
much law they’ll be able to dispense more
hospitality. Their parties (as is the manner
in all Judges’ families) have been of the
meagre and carefully raked order. Hence-
forth. no doubt, there’ll be many a capon
picked and many a flagon drained in the
home at Woollahra.
- A ghostly game of oranges and demons,
with John Brown and Fate taking sides,
ottered to Adrian Kpox as fabulous a choice
as the “gold piano or ivory castle” that
wrinkles the brow of childhood with per-
plexity. In his ease the whisper was
“Which’ll you have-—the Chief Judge’s sword
of justice or a million pounds?” And Knight
Adrian with a seraphic.smile stretched out a
hand for the moneybags, murmuring
ecstatically “Gone a million !” For, you see,
"Gone a million!”
lie had already worn the Chief Justice’s wig
and found that as a piece of millinery it
wasn't so very effective; after all. Also it is
inclined to weigh a bit heavy on the brow.
A million pounds in cash or kind and a
chance to administer the Brown collieries is
no doubt to the veins of the late'sixties what
romance is to the blood of youth.
Romance still lives. Last week Miss Alice
Bowman, of Elizabeth Bay, youngest sister
of Arthur and Reg and the late Dr. Bowman,
of Parramatta, and Bunty Macarthur were
married in Miss Bowman’s flat, with sister
Mrs. Trade as matron of honor and a group
of the old friends of both bride and ’groom
present. The two have held a close friend-
ship since the days of youth, and the
marriage has caused a simmer of beatification
among the middle generation. The bride’s
home at Palm Beach is the present address
of the couple.
Rumor, who has a busy job these days
as news-editor of all the flapper papers,
buzzed up and down the city last week
saying for a penny a time that Elizabeth,
the younger Knox girl, and a god-daughter
of John Brown, had been left a cool million.
When the terms of the will came out the
amount proved to be a mere thousand.
“What’s that?” shrugged the business girl.
“Any girl can win that with a lucky ticket
in Tatt.’s.” Older sister Mrs. Peter Poole,
of Armidale, gets another thousand, and
her son Peter £250. John’s sister Mrs.
Nairn, who is an associate partner in the
firm, takes John’s freehold property at
Edgecliff, and a maid and a cook who had
been for some time with the family get £250
and £2OB a year respectively. But the gifts
to good causes (unless the ex-Chief Justice
is a good cause) are painfully small.
Life even in the best battleships must
become monotonous when Peace spreads her
pinions, and some commanders, according to
Mr. Michael Arlen, take to gin and bitters.
By way of variety, Commander Wylie, of
Sydney, took to lithographs. His collection
is considered by experts to be unusually
fine, though its examples are exclusively from
the heyday of the art —between 1779 and
1850, when the greatest artists of the times
delighted to try their hand at this medium.
The Commander has about 300 prints, which
may be seen presently in a private exhibi-
tion.
Tragedy waited at the end of a journey
which brought Phyllis Waithman from Eng-
land to marry a young man at Ocean Island,
Andrew Armstrong. The lady was held up
in Sydney—she found it wasn’t easy to reach
the speck in, the Pacific on which her high
hopes were built. But eventually she did
get there —and 10- days later was dead as
the result of an accidental fall.
Zoe Rotliwell, of Melbourne, who has been
visiting Sydney with her aunt, Mrs. A. J.
Stoddart, made no fussy entrance to matri-
mony. By way of St. Mark’s, at Darling
Point, she slipped across the divide and
became Mrs. Douglas Hill-Douglas, of Long-
reach (Q.).
Sunday evening was well spent seeing and
hearing “Splinters,” an all-British talkie
which presents Tommy Atkins keeping up
his spirits amid shot and shell by means of
a concert-party in the lines. That a fas-
cinating revue can be built up entirely with
a male cast rather gives the knock-out to
the sex-appeal fetich. AH the “ballet girls”
in this are soldiers, and except for knuckly
knees and rather large hands in the close-ups
they make jolly nice-looking girls, too.


Technical Books
Useful for Everybody
Jobbing Work for the Carpenter, Builder and Handyman. By
Edward H. Crussell
Hardening, Tempering, Annealing and Forging of Steel. By
Joseph V. Woodworth
Watch- and Clock-makers’ Handbook. Dictionary and Guide.
By F. J. Britten
Modern Piano-tuning and Allied Arts. By W. B. White
Regulation and Repair of Piano and Player Mechanism, together
with Tuning as Science and Art. By W. B. White
The Piano. Scientific, Technical and Practical Instructions
relating to Tuning, Regulating and Toning. By Daniel
Spillane _
Model Railways. Design, Details and Practical Construction.
By Henry Greenly
The Automobile Engineer Reference Book ' •
Die and Press Tool work
Power Gas and the Gas Producer. By J. C. Miller, M.E
Gas-engine Troubles and Installation, with Trouble Charts. By
John B. Rathburn
Good Practice in Construction. By Philip G. Knobloch
The Furniture Styles. By Herbert E. Binstead
Concrete on the Farm and in the Shop. By Colin Campbell . .
Woodworking Machinery for Small Shops. By Murray Ball . .
Stair Building and the Steel Square. By Hodsgon-Williams ....
Brickwork and Its Construction. A Textbook for all Workers
in Brick. By Walter R. Jaggard
Concrete Roads and their Construction
Manufacture and Uses of Concrete Products and Cast Stone.
By H. L. Childe . . ;
Processes of Flour Manufacture. By P. A. Amos
The Art of Drawing in Lead Pencil. By Jasper Salwey ......
Graphic Design. By W. G. Raffe
Elementary Craftwork in Metal. By Alfred J. Shirley
Galvanising. A Practical Treatise. By Heinz Bablik
Railway Signalling. By S. T. Dutton
Railway Signal Engineering (Mechanical). By Leonard P.
Lewis
ẁ
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
“THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,”
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
UaMGS
&
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAMOND-CIfiCLE-RINGS
FROM £.15*15*0
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem Rin&s completely
fulfil the most exacting demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest rin£s procurable.
Speaking from an experience of oyer half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rin&s
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other rin&s.
Drummond's rin&s are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rin£s that can be made.
WM-DEUMMONB & CO.
HOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS-*
=n AND PEARLS r==
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
AT THE FIRST TWINGE,
OR IN CASES OF CHRONIC
Rheumatism
HERE’S THE VERY BEST THING TO DO
Get home to wife or mother just
as quickly as you can. Ask her if
she has wisely kept a supply of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in
the house. If not, get a supply from
your chemist. Take two at night,
one before meal-times and see how
quickly relief will come.
At the first twinge of rheumatism,
pains in the muscles and limbs, stiff,
aching back, swollen joints, get “ De
Witt’s ” and take them regularly.
They will quickly rid the blood of
pain-giving poisons and save you
days and nights of untold agonies.
In chronic cases of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica and kidney trouble,
where the suffering has lasted years,
De Witt’s Pills have worked wonders.
Read just these two letters from
thousands received, that tell of pain
banished, health restored, thanks to
“ De Witt’s.”
Mr. R. H. Rogers, Rollingstone,
via Townsville North, Queensland,
says: —“ For about three years I
suffered' from chronic pains in the
back so badly that I could not stoop
—I felt just tired-out with pain. I
tried various remedies, but with no
result. I saw an advertisement con-
cerning De Witt’s Pills, and heard
people speaking of them very highly.
I commenced taking them and the
first day after the pain eased and
after the first bottle I had no pain at
all. I began to sit up and take notice
of life once again, and after my
second bottle, well I never felt better
in my life. lam indeed very thank-
ful ,to De Witt’s Pills.”
Mrs. Edyth Clifton, Powell Street,
Geelong East, Victoria, says : —“ For
the last 2h years I have suffered from
chronic pains in the small of the back
and stomach. I tried certain remedies
that did me no good. My husband
and grandfather told me to try De
Witt’s Pills, and after taking only
four pills I noticed a difference. I
have now taken one box, and I feel
better than I have done for the last
twenty-one years.”
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
will banish pain and suffering, steady
nerves, purify the blood and gives
splendid youthful vigour and vitality.
No matter what remedies you have
previously tried and found to fail,
test “De Witt’s ” and see how quickly
health comes back.
ẃ
DeWITT’S PILLS


ALWAYS
ALWAYS
ẅ
w
ŵ
ALWAYS
RIGHT
Catanach’s Prices
24,892 —A Dainty 8-
Stone Diamond Ring,
.Bct. Gold and Platinum-
set, £22
24,861—Dainty 5-Stone
Ring, Hexagon Centre,
18ct. Gold and Platinum
Settings, £lB
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Proceedings at the opening of Parliament
were depressing. The day was cold and grey,
and the cheerlessness of the H’ouse was
emphasised by a notice in the vestibule that
forbade “persons” to touch the walls. The
Queen’s Hall, where of yore there used to
be a pleasant clatter of teacups on such
occasions, was inhabited only by a scornful
Queen Vie. in cold marble, and whether your
ticket was pink, green or piebald it didn't
entitle you to a spoonful. Thrift is a beau-
tiful virtue, but when an Australian Parlia-
ment can’t boil the billy at the opening of
its corroboree it ought to shut down on cere-
mony _ and just bog in. Many invitations
weren’t accepted, possibly because the taste
for sackcloth and ashes isn’t very widespread,
and the only bright spots in the pageant
were provided by the gay uniforms of his
Ex. and his attendants, who have here no
abiding city. The women assembled were
garbed in sombre hues. The unpleasant
business was rushed through as quickly as
possible. The reading of the proclamation,
the stage entry of the Governor (attended),
the summoning of the inhabitants of the
“other place” and the Speech “the Throne”
delivers but doesn’t take the slightest respon-
sibility for occupied less than 10 minutes.
The proceedings collapsed so suddenly that
the cannoneers who are supposed to start
wasting good ammunition as soon as the
Governor sits down —this economy atmo-
sphere is responsible for the verb “wasting”
—missed their cue and were popping away
when the guests of Parliament, their duty
done, were fleeing to their firesides in limou-
sines and sedans, owned or chartered. Lady
Somers wore navy blue with pointed fox furs
and a hat decorated with a navy and grey
ribbon. Frank Clarke’s lady had a hydran-
gea-blue frock beneath a mastic coat, topped
with a beige straw hat, Mrs. Alan Currie
sported a nigger-brown felt hat and a chenille
embossed coat of mushroom brown ; Speaker
Peacock’s lady made a forlorn attempt to
cheer up the gloom with a small dash of
red on a black hat that was worn with a
black suit.
Unintentionally a signal of distress was
hoisted by Parliament at the opening of the
special session convened last week to relieve
distress—the Australian flag was raised on
the staff upside down. But that was not
the only incident. The Speaker’s tongue
stumbled when lie was reading the Lord's
prayer and he had to retreat to amend his
effort. It was remarked, however, that he
got through the petitions in the prayer all
right but put in “power” before “kingdom”
in the trimming at the end. And finally lie
led the Faithful Commons away from the bar
of the Council a moment too soon, so that
the Governor had to bow to the backs of
departing M’s.L.A. and retreat by another
door—the one at the rear of the dais.
Some of the ragshops of Bourke-street
started Easter sales last week, and were
favored by a warm spell that mightily stimu-
lated the disposal of left-over light frocks
and jumper suits. Many of these wore good
buying at the price, even though there are
not many more weeks this season in which
to "wear them. The sports apparel especi-
ally does not become dated like more fanci-
ful garments. An outfit of thick cream crepe
de Chine which had a pleated skirt and a
trail of fuchsias embroidered on the blouse
section was priced at three guineas and was
good value. Evening frocks have slumped in
price, and the tweed coat-dress is edging
toward the bargain-counters.
The Garden Week show, inaugurated in
a small way eight years ago with the object
of founding a horticultural scholarship in
memory of the late John Cronin, curator of
the Botanic Gardens, covered five acres of
Wirth’s Park this year. Within the pavilion
that houses the circus during its seasons
there were dahlias, ranged in baskets and
bowls, that made a blaze of color from floor
to roof. Elsewhere green slopes were broken
by beds of petunias, begonias and other sea-
sonable blossoms. The rose display, set out
on long tables, showed that yellow varieties
are again finding favor. Many new varieties
of dahlias were brought forward, among them
a deep lilac bloom known as Nagel’s Ideal.
Gladioli, tuberous begonias and carnations
made a particularly good showing. The
Burnley School of Horticulture supplemented
its floral entry with fruit and vegetables, and
Rutherglen vineyards sent grapes.
Outside the building a fountain splashed
upon a lake where water-lilies floated, and
in a near-by bush-honse were some rare
foliage plants. The makers of hand-wrought
pottery had a chance to show their wares,
Michael O’Connell being represented by a
sundial, a seat and other pieces, and there
was an outcrop of quaint elves and such
conceits. Stringy-bark and pine saplings,
lichen-covered wild cherry-tree and other
rustic forms of wood were shown made up
into summer-houses and garden furniture.
Pine cones adorned a building where ferns
and pelargoniums sprouted in window-boxes
of scooped-out tree-stumps.
In “Love Lies,” which opened at the
King’s on Saturday, the curtain lifts to
Mendelssohn's wedding march. There are
bridesmaids with pink cart-wheel hats and
frilled taiffeta frocks of a paler tint, and
another bevy in soft frills of pastel tones,
mauve, pink and blue. The little bride sports
a knee-length frock of white chiffon, with
baskets of colored blossoms embroidered on
it. Later in the piece the chorus prances
in diaphanous draperies of rainbow hues.
Sports frocks of white georgette, with polka-
bordered hem, red, green, yellow or royal
blue, are worn with matching Breton caps
in another scene. The curtain falls on an
array of smart evening gowns.
The Wallaby Club boiled the billy at the
Oriental last week to farewell its hon. sec..
Dr. Allen Robertson, who has booked pas-
sages for himself and Mrs. Robertson by
the Narkunda. The founder of the club,
which goes “on the wallaby” at week-ends,
was the late Dr. Henry, and it has 35 years
of existence to its credit. Dr. Robertson has
been secretary for about a quarter of a
century, and club meetings have been held
in his rooms. There was a big roll-up of
the walkers to say good-byes to their
“Robbie.” A gold watch and chain inscribed
with the marsupial and “a votre sante” was
handed over by the president, Prof. L. J.
Wrigley, whose compliments were echoed by
Theodore F’ink and Dr. L. S. Latham. There
was a dainty wristlet-watch for Mrs. Robert-
son. Dr. Robei'tson, w T ho is a member of
the council of the Vic. branch of the 8.M.A.,
will represent that body at the London con-
gress this year.
The C. of E. Grammar School chapel saw
the welding of links between Nance West
and Arthur Vivian Bridgman on the 2nd.
The bride, a daughter of the Wests of
Elsternwick, had embroideries of seed pearls
and silver thread on her white satin robe,
and Limerick lace surmounted attachments
of tulle, and she carried a sheaf of white
lilies streaked with gold. Three ’maids
sported frocks of apricot pink fashioned with
long bodices from which depended Hares of
georgette.
Alice Richardson, who during the last few
years lias had terms as hon. sec. of the Aus-
tral Salon, has her passport ready for a
voyage to Europe, with a look in at ’Murca
later. Members of the Salon gave her a
parting brew of coffee at the M.LjC. the
other afternoon. The present hon. sec., Iris
Shaw, handed over a- posy dangling the
purple and gold ribbons of the salon, and
Mrs. James Booth, head of the committee,
led a chorus of good wishes. Alva Zacutte
brought singers and instrumentalists to enter-
tain the guests.
A versatile musician, pictured here, is
Mona Nugent, who adds a sweet and well-
trained soprano
voice to a
capital key-
board tech-
nique. She
gained her
Mus. Bac. de-
gree some time
ago, and last
year added a
diploma of
singing to her
q u alifications,
having been a
pupil of Clar-
ice Malyon at
the Uni. Con.
She is well
known to list-
eners-in as a
singer and
player, and
she is to give
a recital at
the Assembly
Hall to-night.
Linda Parker, a young pianist who, like
Nancy Weir, was advised by Shura Cher-
kassky to go abroad for further study, was
the beneficiary of a complimentary concert
at Hawthorn Town Hall last week. Mayor
Lewis heading the organising committee.
Miss Parker is a pupil of Harold Elvins,
and held his scholarship at the Albert-street
Con. for three years. She played the Moon-
light Sonata, and was associated with Mr.
Elvins in a two-piano version of Men-
delssohn’s “Capriccio Brilliante.”
The six-year-old ( daughter of the house
of Somers, who rejoices in the regal name of
Elizabeth, is thrilled at the possession of
her first pair of dancing slippers. She is
attending a class at St. John’s Hall, Toorak,
and is a promising pupil.
Mrs. George Dyson, of South Melbourne,
recently met with an accident and her con-
dition is causing much anxiety in her home
circle. The fine-looking old lady, who is in
her ninetieth year, is head of a family well
known in art and literary circles. Carica-
turist Bill Dyson, Edward and Fred are her
sons, and her daughters are Mrs. Harrison
Owen, wife of the playwright; Mrs. Lionel
Lindsay, Mrs. Harry Blake and Mrs. G.
Overenden. A second generation includes
Mrs. Dyson’s grandchildren Betty Dyson and
Dick Overenden, who are following the path
of art.
Eileen, eldest daughter of the J. Starrs of
Hawthorn, who went to London some months
ago to seek a theatrical career, has not
lacked for engagements. After some broad-
casting experience she booked up with a
musical comedy co., and now news comes
that she is shortly to marry James G. Con-
nolly, who manufactures tyres. The acquaint-
ance began during Mr. Connolly’s visit to
Australia about four years ago.
At the Uni. Symphony Orchestra’s concert
at the Town Hall the big attraction was the
first appearance of a Russian baritone,
Nicolai Nadejine, a tall young man in an
evening suit that was a symphonic poem,
with a white blossom in his coat-lapel and
his black hair brushed to sealy glossiness.
He declaimed the “Song of the Volga Boat-
men” and other things in Russian, and is
now, as our grandmothers used to say, all
the rage.
Here is a picture of Mrs. Merson Cooper
from the Johnstone, O’Shannossy and Falk
studio. St. Vincent’s Hospital and St.
A n t li o n y’s
Foundling Or-
phanage ar e
her chief
charitable in-
terests, an (1
though she is
setting out for
a six months'
holiday li e r
thoughts have
been more
occupied with
the radium
fund of St.
Vincent’s and
the just-
launched
appeal for
£lO,OOO for
the orphans’
home than on
her voyaging.
As president
of the auxilia-
ries of the hospital, she has spared neither
time, trouble, nor money to help the insti-
tution through its many difficulties, and she
will be sorely missed by the Sisters of
Charity.
Bren an Hall was gay with dahlias and
pot-plants on Friday evening when members
of the auxiliaries and the medical and nurs-
ing staffs met to wish Mrs. Cooper a pleasant
tour. The Mother Rectress gave greeting with
flowers, and Dr. A. N. McArthur compli-
mented Mrs. Cooper on the success of her
efforts to obtain a radium supply for the
hospital, £4OOO having been collected to date.
During Mrs. Merson Cooper’s absence her
place as president of the central auxiliary
of the institution will be taken by Mrs.
T. J. Ryan.
Knight James Barrett, chairman of the
Uni. Con., and Father Murjahy, of Newman,
who is on the finance committee, echoed the
welcome of Prof. Bernard Ileinze to Nicolai
Nadejine and his wife at Melba Hall on
Thursday afternoon. There were flowers for
Madame Nadejine—Nelle Tritton, of Bris-
bane, that -was—who trod for a while the
Inky Way in Sydney. Her black gown had
true-lover’s knots in white scattered upon
it, a motif repeated on her straw hat. Con-
tralto Cecily Kelly, from the Speck, and
Mauricette MacGillicuddy, pianist, enter-
tained the crowd.
Old Grammarians of Lowther Hall, Essen-
don, congregated at their former Alma Mater
to elect office-bearers in a garden-party set-
ting. Headmistress Elizabeth Ivirkhope was
a guest, wearing figured chiffon blending red,
fawn and black, with a black hat. Bessie
Skinner, retiring president, did the honors,
the reins, after the poll, being handed to
Gwen Harris. Ena Bridgeford takes up the
duties of hon. sec. and treas.
Bridge was played at the Myers tea-
rooms the other day to help the Sutherland
Homes for neglected and destitute children.
About 80 tables were occupied, and the
return amounted to £7O, which included pro-
ceeds of a few raffles. The card party was
arranged by Mrs. R. A. Edmanson, Mrs. ,T.
L. Malcolm, Mrs. E. A. Bennett and the
secretary of the homes, Mrs. A. Wenborn.
Oscar Hammerstein, who comes to us with
his wife from N’Yark on a holiday trip, is
one of the outstanding figures in the Ameri-
can theatrical world, and took a part in the
creation of “The Desert Song.” “Rose
Marie,” “Wild Flower” and “The Show
Boat.” For 11 years he lias been dabbling
•in play-writing with very profitable results.
Mrs. Hammerstein is no stranger to these
parts, being the daughter of Captain and
Mrs. Blanchard, of Alma-road, St. Kilda.
She lias had some experience on the stage
and in the movies, and won a beauty com-
petition in Melbourne before setting out to
seek fame and fortune. A daughter aged
four accompanies the visitors.
With the passing of Vandyck’s photo-
graphic studio goes another old city land-
mark. The name has stuck out in Collins-
street for nearly half a century. When
Robert Portous first set up as a portrait-
maker he had as a neighbor downstairs
Gunsler’s Cafe. It was the gay place of
the town. The ladies of the ’eighties, in
their bustles and hour-glass waists, attended
by mashers in tailed coats, made it their
rendezvous. It is on record that one of
the sports of the time threw handfuls of
gold to the crowd outside the night his horse
won the Melbourne Cup. Later the eatery
changed its name to the Vienna but
remained a fashionable resort, and it is still
in the same line of business.
Stagefolk needing a snack are frequenting
a brand-new resort opened by one of their
fraternity, Edna Lyall, at one time a mem-
ber of Oscar Asche’s troupe and afterwards
with Muriel Starr. Then she became Mrs.
Salisbury-Eskdale, and for a time retired
into private life. Her partner in the busi-
ness venture is Leonard Watt, and they con-
stitute the staff. It is a cheerful place.
Posters decorate the walls. Red and green
enamelled chairs are drawn round bright
little tables, and a bright log fire blazes
merrily in an open place on cold evenings.
Ninety-four is a good load of milestones
to carry, but Mrs. H. H. Murray, of Marys-
meade, didn’t let them damp ner birthday cele-
brations. The reception-rooms were filled with
flowers sent by friends, and the hostess, who
received each guest, cheered her black lace
and velvet with a posy. A daughter, Mrs.
.T. A. Richardson, lent a hand with the enter-
tainment. During the evening Archbishop
Hindley proposed Mrs. Murray’s health, and
the old lady got on her feet and responded
with a spirit and alertness which surprised
her guests.
Dr. William Bossence, lately appointed
to the medical staff of the Fremantle Hos-
pital (W.A.), is the possessor of a splendid
baritone voice, which has been heard on
the concert platform here and over the air.
He first came into prominence in the musi-
cal world by winning the prize offered by a
newspaper for liis singing of the Credo from
“Oteilo.”
T. I. W. Kelly, who is bound for the
U.S.A. with Mrs. Kelly on the business of
the Queen’s Bridge Motors Co., of which he
is manager, was farewelled by the directors
and staff at the Palms, where there was
dancing. Mrs. Kelly, w T ho received a bou-
quet, wore flowered lame, full of skirt, with
a train of tulle. Mrs. T. J. Noske, wife of
the chairman of directors, was in black and
green floral chiffon.
When Lady Emily Lutyens was in Aus-
tralia her two daughters kept her company
and the trio made a long stay, for they liked
the climate and the company. Daughter
Edith caused a sensation in London last
month when she married Anthony Sewell
by electing to have a blue wedding. A blue
tulle veil floated over her velvet train. The
’maids, also in blue velvet, had head-
dresses shaped like haloes and bouquets of
blue lilies. Sir Edwin Lutyens, most fashion-
able of the Empire’s architects, who has
been superintending the remodelling of
Delhi, found time to plan the church deco-
rations and gave them an Australian touch.
Dwarf eucalyptus-trees were set in blue
pottery jars in the chancel. London added
its bit to the color-scheme by turning on a
bitterly cold day, so that the faces of the
guests might tone in.
The Firm has lost Mollie Fisher, who
lately made a rapid climb into the limelight
of musical comedy. The vivacious little
Tasmanian attracted notice overseas, and
when the heads of J.C.W. called her into
the office to sign a new contract they were
informed that Clayton and Waller had got
in ahead of them and booked her for a
London musical show.
The Se-wards, who have been staying in
this city to be near Mrs. Seward’s mother,
Mrs. Umphelby, have sailed away to their
Westralian home to attend the marriage of
their daughter. When that is over they
will gather their suitcases for a jaunt to
London, where their son, Dr. Seward, awaits
their attendance at his wedding.
Muriel Campbell, lion. sec. of the Albert-
street Con. for the last five years, has
resigned, and Vera Crellin, an ex-s'tudent, has
taken her place. Past and present pupils
gathered at the Con. one evening last week
and honored the retiring officer, who is a
violinist, with music. On behalf of her
friends Fritz Hart handed the guest of the
evening a handsome cigarette-case.


DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
'Slw
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut .
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are aavisea
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is _
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a Sr’H.y
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
m
THESE ENCHANTING COCKTAIL GLASSES
and glass shaker are a good example of the versatility
of Stuart Crystal craftsmen. Whether you want
handleut glass of classic shape, or the airiest whim of
the modern designer, you will find the loveliest crystal
hears the registered name Stuart.
t
I
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
jGarlton
OVENWARE
English Manufacture.
n.* i..
Uamty
yet unbreakable
in oven use
Price of
medium size
Round Casserole
12/9
Carlton Ovenware adds
grace to any table; its
design is pleasing and its
utility unquestioned. It
holds the heat far better
than other cooking ware,
and the sunken handles
make for safety and
economy in oven space.
DOES AWAY WITH DISHING-UP.
-5^
v
Will not break
with heat or sud-
den chill, and this
is guaranteed!
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Smedley Service.
Amusements.
IJOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
100 PER CENT. TALKIE.
JOAN CRAWFORD in
UNTAMED,
Also SOUND and TALKIE,
THE LAST PERFORMANCE,
With MARY PHILBIN.
(Both pictures conditional.)
Fublic Notice.
Woodrow famed Hats
SEE PAGE ADVERTISEMENT,
“BULLETIN,” APRIL 2, 1930.
SOLE AGENTS
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND:
Gollift and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, BRISBANE.
And at WELLINGTON, N.Z.
TQ
♦
•••
A pictorial
guide to
America
FasciNaTiNC this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Oceanic Steamship Ca
NATSON LIME
Dept. M 4. 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
ROYAL: THE HAWK.
(Commencing Saturday.)
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GLADYS MONCRIEFF in
THE MAII> OF THE MOUNTAINS.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
LEO CARILLO in
LOMBARDI LTD.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHITE & EDGLEY’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
LOVE LIES.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Knight John Goodwin presented the stand-
ards to the war veterans on a platform in
front of the new City Hall. Archbishop
Sharpe did the consecrating, and Rabbi
Levine was amongst those present with the
Mayor. The Municipal Band played every-
thing from “Colonel Bogey” to the consecra-
tion anthem.
Charles Dearden, son of writer Kathleen
Watson, engineered Nicolai Nadejine’s first
appearance in Australia at His Majesty’s.
The baritone drew a big crowd. He is a
very large person with an engagingly boyish
manner. His songs were given in six dif-
ferent tongues. Madame (she was Nelie
Tritton, of Brisbane) watched her singer
from a box where she sat alone in a pretty
Frenchy frock. Other concerts follow in
Sydney and Melbourne.
Leon Gordon’s company, with “Brewster's
Millions,” was enthusiastically greeted at His
Majesty’s last week. Fullers are taking
the Royal for a vaudeville house, and Frank
O’Brian, in his farewell at the Empire, said
he was coming back to Australia in two
years—he was quite sure that by then the
talkies would have ceased to sweep the
board.
Esmee Smith, who is to be married at
the end of April, was guest of honor at a
tennis party given by Mrs. A. T. Biggs,
Mavis Weatherlake and Miss Joyce at Chats-
wood, Toowong.
Texas has been indulging in a carnival.
There the first amateur race club formed
in Queensland held its meetings. Its rules
were drawn up by H. F. Elwyn and C. F.
White; both were at the carnival. A. E.
Bracker, another foundation member, was
there too. The fine weather held, and very
pretty summer frocks were worn at both
races and ball.
S’John Goodwin and his lady went to the
Queensland State School Girls’ swimming
carnival at the new city baths, R. M. King
receiving their Exes., who afterwards left for
the Downs and Toowoomba’s show. There
a new brand of wheat, Flora, which hails
from Florence, was exhibited by D. Ryan,
of Allora.
Mrs. H. Cameron, president of the
Q.W.E.L., had some cheery things to say
about the modern girl in a debating-club
address. The girl of to-day is fundamentally
not different from her grandmother, Mrs.
Cameron thinks, save that she has more
opportunity to shape her own life.
Social evolution had given girls new
social opportunities, but there had not
been a corresponding evolution in human
anatomy to give them stronger bodies,
“steadier nerves or bigger brains.” And so
on. After which everyone adjourned for
supper.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Chamber of Commerce delegates visiting
our city have been responsible for a little
burst of gaiety. This applies, of course, to
the feminine portion; the men, with three
sessions per day, have their noses kept to
the grindstone. Following the arrival of the
visitors there was a reception at the Town
Hall by Mayor Bonython and his wife, the
latter wearing a black crepe-de-Chine frock
with the new waist effect, and a black hat
with crown of black and silver. Five of
the Hobart delegates brought their wives,
and W. B. Darker brought his secretary
(Miss King) to perform the job for the
conference. The floral decorations of the
Town Hall, for which the Mayoress is
always personally responsible, won general
admiration.
In aid of the Lud Mayor’s unemployment
relief fund, a
capital book,
entitled “Who’s
Who in Adel-
aide,” has been
published for
the modest
sum of a shil-
ling. It con-
tains 500 car-
toons, every
well - known
c i t i z c n
Judges, sports-
men, artists
and business
men being
r e p r escnted,
from the
facile pen of
Iverwin Mae-
graith, wh o
has contri-
buted so many
sketches to
The Bulletin. Every penny goes to charity.
Wives of Adelaide men connected with the
conference have been busy under the leader-
ship of Mrs. J. A. Riley in showering hospi-
tality on the Hobart ladies. There has been
an abundance of motor trips, morning teas
and bridge parties.
There was a rush for seats at the Town
Hall for the reception tendered to Douglas
Mawson on his return from the Antarctic.
Professor David suggested that Captain John
Davis was a reincarnation of Sit Francis
Drake, red beard and all.
Mona Zeppel, the clever little Adelaide
dancer who made such a hit in Clem Dawes’s
company at the Theatre Royal, was given
a farewell party at the Palais Royal on
Saturday night prior to her departure.
Mrs. Napier Rirks organised a bridge
party for the Babies’ Aid Society. It was
held in the large welfare-rooms at the top of
the Charles Birks building. There was a dis-
play of babies’ outfits made by the girl
employees at Birks’s in their spare time and
given away to poor mothers by the committee.
There was a good attendance at Chelten-
ham for the A.T.C.’s autumn meeting. The
weather was more like spring, and some
smart flocking resulted. Mrs. J. H. Morish
wore a crocus-blue georgette frock and chic
close-fitting black felt hat. Our lawns look
quite Oriental in these days when every other
woman is in scarlet or yellow.
Allan Wilkie and Miss Hunter-Watts held
an informal reception after the first produc-
tion of “The School for Scandal" at the
Theatre Royal. A member of the com-
pany, Miss Mimi Myles, sang “The
Pipes of Pan.” Legal lights and highbrows
were well represented.
This Easter is to see a crop of weddings.
The Lud Mayor will give away his two fine
daughters Betty and Ada within the next
few weeks. Other brides-to-be are Robei't
Henderson’s daughter Lilian and the late
Barr Malcolm’s daughter Primrose.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A pure gem of a day fell for the second
March meeting at Ascot. The gardens were
a glory of reds and purples, and from the
plane-trees, flecked with russet and gold, an
occasional leaf fluttered. Frociking was
summery, with a leaning towards felt mil-
linery. Lady Campion, in tiers of black silk
fringe, sat in the v.-r. cubby-hole between
Mrs. Selby-Smyth, in blue and pink chiffons,
and Mrs. Kerr-Pearse, in pink. Nell Stewart’s
cafe-au-lait laces dropped over shell pink;
Mrs. Eustace Cohen’s turnout ran to fawns,
and included a smart little scarf; Doreen
O’Hara favored the same shade for her suit
and little woollen cap; and Mollie Atkins,
who aeompanied her, -was in a floral anil
white jumper suit. Bottle-green had aD
innings with Mrs. Monger, and royal blue
with Mrs. Newman; Mrs. J. Hargrave
favored all red, and Betty Goff was attrac-
tive in navy with a white felt hat. Mrs.
Dickson chose mushroom georgette; Mrs.
Mills was smart in dark red ; blue was pre-
dominant in Violet Vincent’s patterned
silk. Black laces flowed about Mrs.
Langlois Lefroy and green leaves spotted
Mrs. Ted Lukin’s black satin. The corn-
flower blue of Mi’s. Sidney Bell’s chiffons was
repeated in her hat and slippers.
A tall, graceful bride was Thelma Mac-
queen when she walked up the aisle of
Trinity Church on the arm of her uncle,
W. G. Randell, to exchange vows with Harry
Coombes. The wedding garment of ivory
satin swept about her ankles, and a tulle
veil, worn over the face and foaming into a
train behind, was held in position by a
btcndeau of apple blossoms. Pink and white
gladioli nestled in the wedding sheaf. ’Maids
Jessie Davidson and Marjorie Berkeley wore
powder-blue moire with a dash of silver in
their blue hats.
Some 200 lovers of music had an earful
in the Karrakatta Club ballroom when the
Music Teachers’ Association arranged a pro-
gramme of delightful sounds. Secretary Miss
Young engineered the party, and president
C. Huddle and his wife did the welcoming.
The Mace quartette, Iris Parker, Frank
Robertson and Aileen Johns warbled, Jean
Norman played, Mr. Lec-kie accompanied, and
Keith and Eric Cummings gave some violin
and piano duets.
The Repertory Club emerged from its
summer recess with a Short Play even-
ing. There was no charge for members, but
a shilling booking fee made quite a harvest.
Excellent acting by Mrs. Alec King and
Mick Driver put the soul of bonnie Scot-
land into “The Old Lady Shows Her Medals.”
Miss Cass, Enid Stephenson, Miss Heaney
and P. Cannot played the other character
parts with' credit. Brian Curlewis’s treat-
ment of the Toff in the spooky spine-tickler,
“A Night at an Inn,” won him much praise.
Sol Sainken, Hcdley Freedman and Tom
Richards were his cut-throat pals. Coralie
Clarke, author, producer and heroine of
“Shielded Eyes,” made a laudable effqrt.
The curtain rang down on the thrilling
climax of “Shall We Join the Ladies?”
Ethel Anthoness is wearing a new finger
adornment. Stanley, youngest son of the
Bridgetown Wheatley clan, slipped it on.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Thelma Findlay was married at St. John’s
Church, Launceston, to Philip Frith. The
bride looked charming in her picturesque
dress of ivory moire ring velvet, very long
and plain, with tight sleeves. The tulle veil
fell in a cascade from under a Russian
halo head-dress of seed pearls. Lofna
Findlay, Gwenda Coogan and Nancy Findlay
followed the bride in ring velvet frocks in
sunset larkspur and briar-rose pink, making
a lovely blend of color. The bridegroom is
a popular member of the Tamar Rowing
Club, which provided a guard of honor and
an archway of crossed oars from church door
to gate. The celebrations were at the Metro-
pole.
John Hood, a Rhodes Scholar who took
high honors at Oxford and is now on the
staff of the London “Times,” is engaged to
Margaret, elder daughter of Sir James and
Lady MacLeod, of Wimbledon Park, London.
Sir James is the British Consul-General at
Tunis.
The Newnham Racing Club had a chilly
day for <their autumn meeting, which gave
many women an excuse to come out in all
their winter toggery. Among the throng
were noticed the Bruce Gibsons, the Rupert
Agnews, the C. R. Fields, Mrs. Guy Mere-
dith, Mrs. P. H. Harrisson, Mrs. Charlie
Martin, the Allan Stewarts, the Cliff Head-
lams, the, R. A. Afflecks, the H. 11. Deans,
the V. C. Halls and daughter Barbara, Mrs.
Gordon Hughes, Kathleen Mercer, Audrey
Stanwix, E. Green, Sybil Youl, the Roy
Kings, Mrs. E. S. Archer. „
The Repertory Society "presented Ashby
Duke’s comedy “The Man with a Load of
Mischief.” The staging and setting were
exceptionally good, and after a slight stiff-
ness in the machinery on the first night
things went well. Molly Davron, the lady;
Dorothy Foster, the maid; R. Dobbie, the
nobleman; D. Purvis, the Man; with R.
Doherty and Mrs. Brough, as landlord and
landlady of the inn, formed a strong cast.


ẁ
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; VVm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.0.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereash Street, SYDNEY.
'/itsW A
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ”
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
mcph isto
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki g, etc.
From alt Stationers, etc.
L. A C. HARDTMCTH. of " KOH-I-NOOR ” Pencil fame.
London Office—39. Kinpaway. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGALL. P O. Box 165. SYDNEY.
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER.
ILLU BY
DARYL; LINDSAY.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Josie’s Father.
DUNCAN’S cart rested under a bough-
shed at the back of the hut. It had
come to be an absurd object, with its
rusted tyres and perished woodwork, the
mere skeleton of a cart, and had provided
a home for successive generations of fowls.
Years ago he had taken it out periodically
and given it a coat of paint, but that was
while he still had ideas of going off trapping
again. It was beyond any mending or
decorating now; it would have collapsed if
he had pulled it out of the shed and tried
to fix up the shrunken wheels and ant-eaten
body. He knew this, and he did not want
to put it to a test. The cart had always
been the symbol of his independence, and
as long as it was intact, keeping the out-
ward form of a cart, he was moderately
satisfied.
But now he had no need to deperfd on
this illusion any longer. He had been talk-
ing to the Donovan boys on the Warra
fence, and they had offered him their whole
outfit—horse, cart and harness—for eleven
pounds. It was a bargain, a sound old
plug, and a cart that wo.uld last as long as
he would. They were giving up skin-
hunting, they said, and going shearing, and
they had bought a second-hand car from
the butcher in the township. Duncan had
been thinking of this offer for days, brood-
ing on the prospect it opened up for him
as he lay in bed smoking, the candle burn-
ing on the kerosene-box beside him. There
was young Jim’s eight pounds! He had
drawn the cheque, but it remained under
the tea-tin on the mantelpiece; and except
for this purchase from the Donovans he
had no notion of any use for it.
He sat in the sun looking at the old cart,
his legs crossed, his bare shins showing in
the openings of his unlaced boots, his eyes
puckered up against the light. It was
Sunday afternoon. No Work to do; nothing
to fill in his time! He was left to con-
template the strange look of emptiness that
had come over the world around him; the
strange silence in his heart, like that of a
clock that had run down.
Up at the homestead there were a couple
of new cars standing outside the tennis
court, but he could not see them very well,
though the, sun radiated from their wind-
screens. His eyes had been going back on
him, now that young Jim was not there to
take out the in-growing lashes with his
tweezers. Bad sight! That had always
been his trouble since the .first attack of
blight. He remembered that darkened room
at the back of the hotel kitchen where he
had spent the longest six weeks of his
life—the smell of potatoes from the scullery,
the rattle of dishes, the flopping of the
Chinese cook’s slippers as he moved over
the concrete floor. Doherty’s droving-plant
had left him there when he couldn’t travel
further, and he thought it was the end of
him when he heard the horse-bells moving
north. At the time he would have been
quite satisfied to finish; life was no good
to him without his eyes. But Joanna, com-
ing into him with his meals, changing his
bandages, saying a word now and then, had
put heart into him, shaming him from
giving up like a blackfellow.
“Plenty people get better,” she had told
him. “You lie still, and let me look after
you. I ain’t what you call a first-class
nurse, but I’ll see you through.”
And now he was still above ground, while
her grave was under the leaning river-gum
not a hundred yards away!
Memories drifted like smoke across his
brain as he sat looking at the rotting cart.
The night Ella was born, with the floods
out, and himself forging through miles of
wet darkness to find a woman who would
come to his tent! Camps in quiet river-
bends, with the old horse standing knee-
deep in water, and the children chasing
one another over the grass in the dusk!
The smell of johnny-cake freshly baked on
the coals when he came home from going
round his traps! Long journeys over the
plains to new country, travelling in the
moonlight, sleeping in the day! Nothing
had gone right since he stopped moving—
nothing! When Joanna had died in child-
birth he had told himself he was staying
on because of young Jim and the girls—•
but where were they now? He had been
stripped bare as the old ringbarked tree
just below the hut, whose leaves, bark and
outer limbs he had seen fall year by year
till now there was nothing but a bleached
and ghostly trunk.
The dog beneath the cart growled and
came out bristling, and he roused himself
from his dreams as Boyd McCurdie
wandered up from the creek with his gun
on his shoulder and a blanket strapped
behind him. He had gone up the creek
shooting the afternoon before and looked
tired and dishevelled, his clothes crumpled,
his chin unshaven, and his battered felt
hat pulled down over his eyes. Coming up
to the bank to where Duncan was sitting
he dropped his swag and sat down on it,
beginning to roll a cigarette.
“Someone up at the house, eh?” he said,
looking at the waiting cars. “How long
have they been there?”
Duncan shook his head.
“Don’t know,” he said. “I didn’t see
them come. From Warra Downs, I think.”
“Oh, Farquhar and some of his women,”
said Boyd with a slight frown.
They smoked for a while in silence, the
dog sniffing round Boyd’s legs.
“By the way, I saw the Donovans at
the Warra fence,” he said. “They told me
you were thinking of buying the horse and
cart they’ve been using. That so?”
“They offered it to me for eleven quid,”
said the old man defensively.
“But you didn’t close with them?”
“Not at the time. I said I’d think it over.”
The old, leathery face with its stubble
of white beard Was as inscrutable to Boyd
as a page of writing in a foreign tongue.
He felt that if he stayed there for hours
he would still be unable to get into touch
with him or find out what he was thinking.
Did he know about Josie’s condition? Had
he any suspicions of who was responsible?
There was no answer to either of these
questions. The old man’s reserve was like
a dark pool fringed with undergrowth,
round which he skirted vainly, trying to
find the’ depth and whether there were
snags at the bottom.
He went up to the house, feeling un-
washed and heavy-footed, no clearer in
his mind that when he had left home. There
was laughter on the verandah and the
tinkle of teacups, > and he stopped with a
flutter of the heart by the fence of the
tennis court as an echo of what seemed to
be Barbara’s voice caught his ear. But
no! It was only Farquhar’s young sister
telling of how the car had got bogged on
the Maroubra flats when they were coming
home from a dance. The old man was enter-
taining a crowd of them, evidently. He
could distinguish the voices of the Farqu-
hars, Ken Cameron’s wife and that of a
young governess who had just come to
Magnus Downs. But their chatter sounded
thin and brittle, and he did not want to
meet any of them just then. He slipped
into his room for a wash and a change of
clothes, hearing, as he plunged his face in
the water, someone asking his father when
Barbara was coming back to Niva Downs.
Boyd had dressed before he noticed the
letter waiting for him beside the looking-
glass. He picked it up and looked at it
for a while without opening it, knowing as
soon as he saw the round, childish writing
that it was from Josie. The visitors were
passing outside his closed door on then-
way to the cars. He could hear his father
ridiculing Farquhar’s ideas about the neces-
sity of having a telephone; persisting that it
was more of a nuisance than it was worth.
“Tell Boyd we’re horribly disappointed,”
said Farquhar’s sister. “I really believe he
went off because he knew we were coming.
When he’s alone here we’ll never come to
see him—never.”
Boyd’s attention was divided between the
echo of the voices outside and the half-
dozen lines scrawled on the paper in front
of him. There was nothing impelling in
those few words of Josie’s; she had heard
he was home, she wrote, and she wanted
to see him; but she did not thrust her
claims on him forward in any open way.
There was, indeed, hardly any hint of a
claim at all. Yet he guessed that some
sense of urgency had driven her to sit down
and put the few words on paper.
He sat down on the side of the bed,
feeling in much the same plight. Of course
he must go and see Josie, but what then?
In the three weeks since he had come home
he had faced the matter often enough, yet
he could not see his way clear ahead of
him, could not even bring himself to talk
it over with his father. How would the old
man take it? He hadn’t the least idea.
Sometimes when they talked together he
fancied his father knew all about it, and
was probing him to find put whether, now
the mischief had been done, there were any
Quixotic ideas about remedying it in his
mind. But he couldn’t be sure. And
anyhow it was Josie’s point of view that
interested him most. What did she want
from him?
“When do you expect Larry down with
the cattle?” he asked his father that night.
“In about a fortnight,” said McCurdie.
“They left Grassmere a week ago. Why?”
“1 was thinking of riding up to meet
them,” said Boyd casually.
“You were?” said his father in surprise.
“Good Lord, there’s no need for that. There
may be a few scrubbers among them, but
Lafry’s got enough men to eat them alive
if they give any trouble.”
“That’s so,” assented Boyd, “but I was
going to Maroubra, anyhow. That letter
I got to-day it was from Josie.”
McCurdie flashed a look at him and his
neck seemed to thicken with the flow of
blood. A mutter of anger or incredulity
arose in his chest, but was lost somewhere
in his throat. He was silent for a while,
and then pulled out his tobacco-pouch and
began to fill his pipe with fumbling fingers.
“H’mph!” he muttered. “So that’s the
way of it, is it?”
“Yes,” Boyd admitted. “That’s the way
of it, worse luck.”
They stood on opposite sides of the fire-
place, gazing down into the cold grate
while Mrs. Cleary came in to take away
the tea things. Even when they were
alone McCurdie did not seem to know
what to say. His pipe would not draw.
He knocked the fresh tobacco out into the
grate, his face reddening as he bent over,
and then felt for his pouch again.
“Well, it can’t be helped,” he said at
last. “These things happen—they’ve hap-
pened to all of us The old man hasn’t
a suspicion. Neither have Jeff or Larry.
I’d have spotted it if they had. Dead
sure of that.”
“No,” agreed Boyd ironically. “Mace
seems to have been made the scapegoat.
That wasn’t altogether my fault.... I told
Larry to pick him up at Cafferty’s and give
him a job With the cattle.”
“Oh, that fellow,” said McCurdie. “No
need to worry about him! He’d find a job
chasing him wherever he went.”
He was trying to take it lightly and could
not. A heaviness descended on his
shoulders, a look of dourness came to the
lower part of his face. The touch of old
age that Boyd had noticed on the night of
his return seemed to settle definitely on his
big figure, taking the spring out of it.
Quite obviously he was haunted by that
dark shadow of himself that had lately
been so much in his mind.
“Duncan’s daughter!” his eyes said
plainly. “That old waster and his family
again! When will I ever have done with
them?”
Boyd, reading the thought in his mind,
had a sudden sympathy for his father. If
only he had waited till he had gonel
“Sorry to have sprung this on you,” he
said impulsively. “It’s my funeral. I’ve
got to face it in my ow’n way.”
“No, no,” said McCurdie. “I’d a right
to know. At least.... better news like this
shouldn’t come in at the back door. Any-
thing that concerns you is my affair....
But for God’s sake don’t take it too seri-
ously. That girl—it’s nothing to her. You
can make your mind easy as far as she’s
concerned. As long as we’re sure she’s
not left without money and a good home.”
He had recovered himself now and
seemed eager to assure Boyd that nothing
very important had happened, after all.
Was Duncan disturbed about it? Not in
the least! The old chap hadn’t said a word
about the girl since she left. And the girl
herself wouldn’t worry. She took life as
it came, and would probably hold her head
higher than ever when it was all over. He
made jokes about the affairs of his own
youth, but all the while there was a slight
hollowness in his voice, a lack of convic-
tion, and Boyd was glad when he took a
stiff nip from the decanter on the side-
table and went off to bed.
But a little later he came wandering
back in his pyjamas, his slippers dragging
on the linoleum, and his fingers fumbling
with his pipe and tobacco-pouch.
“You feel you ought to go over there?”
he said. “Lots of things are better settled
at a distance. That girl’s not putting the
screw on, is she?”
“No,” said Boyd. “It’s not just because
of the letter I’m going. I meant to see
her, anyhow. It’s myself I want to satisfy.”
“Oh well, if you look at it like that,”
said the old man. “But don’t let sentiment
carry you too far. Women know how to
use the soft pedal.... I’ll see you before
you go in the morning.”
He took a book from the case and trailed
off with it under his arm. Boyd heard him
draw the little table up to his bedside and
settle himself down to read.
Life was not such a simple affair as it
seemed to his father he felt, as he sat on
the edge of the verandah outside his room
gazing at the dark outline of the pepperina
by the gate. It was a mobile and incon-
stant thing, always changing its features
and perspectives. He tried to look at Josie
objectively, keeping her well on the edge
of the skyline, but that letter had made a
difference, bringing her as disturbingly near
as on the night he had arrived home.
When he tried to think of Barbara it was
Josie’s face came before him—Josie huddled
up at her bedroom window, sitting with
her legs beneath her, probably, as she used
to do at school, and trying, as she looked
back, to find meaning in words of his that
really had no meaning.
CHAPTER XXV.
The Return of Barbara.
“What the devil am I worrying about?”
McCurdie kept asking himself as he moved
about his work after Boyd had ridden off.
“This is nothing—the sort of trap any young
fellow is liable to fall into. Any anthill
can become the size of a house if you
brood over it.... And the girl won’t break
her heart. Born with a bit of the brumby
in her. like her mother before her.”
(Continued on next page.)


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 13 1 for your reservation.
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
But he could not quite put away the
feeling that the future was not so secure
as he had thought it, that it held all sorts
of dark possibilities. A depression hung
over him as vague as the film that some-
times obscured the sun on hot afternoons.
Boyd was so damnably self-contained and
incalculable! There had been an abstracted
look on his face when he" rode away and
the things he said only came from the sur-
face of his mind. What if he were harbor-
ing some absurd idea of putting things
straight by marrying the girl! He had not
suggested anything of the sort, but there
was no guarantee that such a hare-brained
notion mightn’t carry him off his feet any
moment. McCurdie flinched from the idea
as if it were a snake he had trodden on.
“That would be the dead finish!” he
thought. “End of everything we both
cared about! Muck up his life, and mine,
too!”
He refused to consider such a disaster.
Boyd was not a fool, and he would recog-
nise that such a sentimental sacrifice as
that would merely mean cutting his own
throat without making the girl happy!
There were other sides of it to consider,
though. What if the women got hold of
the truth of the affair and began scandal-
mongering? There were plenty of men who
wanted to edge him out of politics, and
any stick was good enough to beat a dog
with. Farquhar! The fellow had political
ambitions of his own and that flat-chested
sister of his had been interested in Boyd
ever since the races. Nothing to stir up
trouble like a jealous woman!
And again he thought of Barbara, whose
image was the first thing to flash before
his eyes in the moment of Boyd’s confes-
sio n. He had
guessed from the
little Boyd had
told him and from
the way he had
told it, that they
had come to an
understanding in
Sydney; but how
would she take
this? No chance
of hiding it from
her for long! There
were some people
who had to be
given the truth
naked and*direct;
their very make-up
demanded it, even
though they kept
their own truth to
themselves. Bar-
bara was that sort.
Yet she was a
woman, after all.
“If it had been
someone she didn’t
know!” he thought
explosively. “Wo-
men can forgive
anything that hap-
pens outside their
own boundary
fences.... But
that girl!”
He was conscious
of an underground
feeling of resent-
ment against Dun-
can, as if this affair
was something the
old fellow had deli-
berately planned.
Since young Jim’s
death Duncan’s
figure had taken a
more prominent
place in his mind,
and had become
the centre of obscure emotions. The
father in him had been drawn to Duncan
after the accident, and he had wanted to
give some proof of his sympathy, but when
he had received a check there was a sudden
reversal of his feelings. Something inhuman
and sinister in that dull-eyed silence! The
very sight of the old fellow pottering about
the saddle-room, with his boots unlaced
and his trousers sagging round his hips,
could rouse an irrational anger in him now.
Not a spark of will in him; just helpless,
spawning life! He found himself bullying
him in a way that conflicted with his own
sense of justice. They had been building
a new wing to the yards, and Duncan had
dropped a heavy rnulga rail on his foot,
laming himself badly. It seemed part of
the old fellow’s perversity that he should
still vrtant to hobble round, cutting the
old hides into strips and taking the hair
off them or carrying tools to the men at
the yard.
“Why the devil don’t you go and lie up
for awhile?” McCurdie asked him. “You’ll
be crippled for a month if you’re not care-
ful.”
The old man muttered that he liked
moving round.
“A man can always find something to do
on a place like this,” he said.
“Rot!” said McCurdie. “You’d be better
on your back. It won’t help any if you’re
tied to your bunk when the busy time
comes.”
Duncan did not say anything, but the
very look in his narrowed . eyes implied
that that had never happened yet.
“Yes,” thought McCurdie, moving off.
“You know your own value as well as the
next man, in spite of the way you keep
your mouth shut. Full to the back teeth
with your own brand of pride!”
He had an uneasy conviction that the
old fellow cherished a grudge against the
place because of what
had happened t o
Young Jim and Josie,
and brooded over it
secretly. It was a
feeling that came to
him strongly when he
lay awake at night,
listening to the flap-
ping of a bit of loose
iron on the window-
screen and the strange
cracking of the cane
lounge on the veran-
“‘She and Boyd were made for one another ; thought McCurdie, watching her slide her hand along the black horse s neck
before setting it free.”
dah that had been unused since Ada had left.
What did Duncan go off to think about
when his evening meal was over? He
couldn’t read now, yet his candle was
always burning till late in the night. The
picture of him lying on his bunk beside
the guttering candle, wishing evil to the
place, threw a disturbing spell over Mc-
Curdie’s imagination. Why hadn’t he let
him drift off when he wanted to years ago?
The fellow was like a crow, sitting on a
dead limb and keeping silent, but spread-
ing a shadow of ill omen.
One afternoon he was drowsing on his
canvas chair at the end of the verandah
when he became conscious of a stealthy
tread of feet and a pair of hands closed
over his eyes.
“Guess who it is,” said a cheerful voice.
“Three tries.... But it’s no good; I’ve
given myself away!”
McCurdie gripped her wrists and sprang
up. Even before she spoke a flash of in-
tuition had told him it was Barbara. She
was standing beside his chair in a velvet
crush hat and short riding-skirt, with an
orange scarf round her throat that brought
out the dark brilliance of her eyes, and
when she saw his confusion she laughed
wickedly.
“Caught you asleep!” she taunted him.
“I thought you never slept in the daytime,
Uncle Mac. What’s that’s you were always
saying about old fools who dozed off in
their chairs?”
“Missed my sleep last night,” he defended.
“Hardly closed my eyes till near morning.
You’ve taken me in the rear, young lady.
Found me without a rag of decency to
cover me! This is what comes of having
no woman in the house.”
He felt his chin, which, was covered with
nearly a week’s growth of beard. It was
the first time he had realised that he had
been letting himself drift, burying himself
in underground thoughts, and taking no
care of his outward appearance. His shirt
was soiled, his skin grimed with dust, his
boots covered with mud from the postholes
at the yard. Queer how he had fallen into
the ways of the sort of moony bush-hatters
he despised!
“Here, sit down and read something while
I change,” he said abruptly. “You’re look-
ing as. if you were back in your teens aga .
Feeling as if a door had opened, en.
She bent down to pick up a magazine,
her eyes sober. .
“Half a dozen of them!” she told him,
“light and air flooding in from all around.
.... It’s good to be back here again.
When he returned she was lying back m
the canvas chair immersed in a magazine,
her hat off, a slight frown between her
brows. As he shaved he had been wonder-
ing why the hand that held the razor was
unsteady, and the image in the glass so
blurred. Unsure of himself? Well, there
was some excuse for that! But there was no
fear that Barbara would get anything out oa
him! He would skirt round the subject of
Boyd’s absence lightly, and fend off an>
curiosity she might
show. Not that
she was likely to
have heard the
faintest whisper
yet that might
rouse her suspi-
cions.
“You’ve heard
we were moving
out?” he asked
her. “Ada’s in
town now. having
the time of her life
buying carpets and
furniture. Didn’t
know herself how
she hated this
place till the time
came to leave—
just as I didn’t
know how deeply
I was rooted.”
Her eyes were
watching him criti-
cally.
“You’ve got a
sentimental streak
in you, Uncle
Mac,” she said.
“It’s the one thing
that makes you
human.... I hope
Boyd’s going to
throw down roots,
too.”
He gave a mirth-
less chuckle.
“Signs don’t look
too good, do
they?” he said.
“Three weeks at
home after he
came back from
Sydney, and then
off on the road
again. They were
wanting to lend
him a hand with
the cattle, though;
there’s only Larry
in charge, and
Larry’s got no
head on him....
You knew he was
away?”
She let him see
she was perfectly
aware of that.
“He wrote and
told me all about
it,” she said.
“Wrote? Since
he left here?”
“A couple of
days ago,” she
assured him.
“That’s why I
came over.... You
don’t mind n«
staying the night,
do you, Uncle
Mac? I’ve been wanting to get away from
myself—from the self I show Leo,, anyhow.
.... And you needn’t beat round the bush
with me. Boyd hasn’t kept anything back.
I know all about that girl.”
There was a simple directness in the
way she spoke that gave him a feeling of
having been brought down to earth with
a thud. He was conscious of the warm
blood creeping up to his eyes.
“Josie?” he said indistinctly.
“Is that her name?.... Yes, of course it
is. It’s no use pretending I don’t know
everything about her.”
A crooked, half-ironic smile played about
her mouth. McCurdie looked down at her,
disconcerted, fumbling with the tobacco he
(Continued on page 46.)


sis
X 5
,s?.\
£
S®'
* *'t:.
u’SK.
e«
8
mz.
m
tM
Wf,
C-*Lk'>*S
S3*
Bk
:;k,'
s«
&
•&■■; /*
1 .
~- an.
If;
; >:
S29K
idft33
ISSIi
£5B
P?
M£3
S#.
&^99R
Rag
ivy*>»
as*
;?f • ''{ft- ■
<' -■./<. v, w..'.
,; ----- —
«a*V.'
-*•
&t?S;
:c:;m
ife
p o h
>lv *• . oiuiJiir)
i ’i
«r~z\v%
aiuuqof
rn /%&.&&$+ i'»w iifJwfa
Mi).
V«!
■irvyi
mtk
SiF
WSTvv.
'■<iuEf*. v ;. l* l
>. . * • ;•; '**.•*■£
m.
;«V I f r
m,
ifci/k"*' / *
/: ;
..«! 7 - VK
sac
&jwuv
••V- :*•• ?
$
Si
5£
es
£
fcs
M
s=-
PS
m
SVo
&p& \
sn
■m.
xzrJ*
A STOPPER
“OUT ON ITS OWN
There can be no two opinions about
it. Overwhelmingly popular as
Johnnie Walker always has been,
the new stopper with the milled
edge provides its crowning point
of excellence. Any whisky would
be the better for such a stopper
but when it’s on Johnnie
Walker, well, it tops the very
finest of spirits.
Pull up the tag —remove the
capsule—draw the cork with
finger and thumb —and enjoy
the fi'iest blend of matured
Scotch whiskies that ever a cork
restrained.
Born 1820-
Still gomg Strong
0
m
>
as
Cfi
>SkL*C
' §35
m
£
2®:--
Si-
n.OHfP WHWinw. Aimbro,
WJ
*3
lr-h t ASy?bJ.KJ>UJ(>’ i / \
L“ :
kjET I PINT. <5 a OZ-,
VtlWiWlia
v aOv?\
«.eo
Wii
'.v?;
Mi/r
yv,
ttiJ
i'l
l'\
r-^i-
awarp>
m.OHIST EAHIBmON « t
•* *** * **’ ••' £la#*“4
,i> /C<a-i V* 4 *
¥7f
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY,
LONDON, AND KILMARNOCK
MELBOURNE


jl
J
RAMENO" BRAND
if
!
£very Conceivable Quality in
Men’s High Grade Knit-Wear,
The men who instinctively choose
“Rameno” Brand “Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters look forward to months and
years of comfortable, serviceable wear. The
knitting is flawless; the designs smart and
exclusive; the colours tasteful and appropri-
ate. These, then, are the reasons why
“Merino-Knit” is an ever-growing vogue
amongst men who like to feel that in every
,j:espect their Sports Wear is absolutely
dependable 5
Made exclusively fey*
MERINO WOOLLEN
MILLS PTY. LTD.,
TThc Specialist House
fop Men's Super-Quality
Knit-Wear.
“Rameno” Brand “Merino-Knit” Men’s Cardigans and!
Sweaters, Golf Hose and Half Hose are knitted from the;
finest Australian Wool. The old adage says—“ Wear?
Wool and be Well,” and “Rameno” garments, besides!
being ideal for both business and sports wear, are a
practical assurance of personal comfort and good health*
STOCKED BY ALL GOOD MERCERS
HAIR
NEED
0
HtRES
■umu»
w
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrCUbn’S CMEXICAN)
Vkdnut Stain,
THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct 6d. being postage.
©
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to ‘‘BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH” be-
ing our Registered Trade Mark the follow-
ing are also our Registered Trade Marks,
each complete in itself.
“ii” “OM” “M” “N”
“BX” “H” "K" and “S"
Any one of these marks will protect our
mutual interests.
"■GOUROCKSXLTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
y\LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information _ can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
X
IICTiSS®
Double Value!
In These Two Double-Barrel Shotguns
Never have we known of such advantages being offered,
at the prices of these guns. Tested for safety—assembled
by expert gun-makers—simplified and strengthened
throughout.
No. 330 Hammerless
12-16-20 and .410 Gauges
Jostam Anti-Flinch Recoil Pad, Lyman Ivory Sights, Chrome Vanadium
Steel at vital parts. Barrels are Proof-Tested, with matted rib. Automatic
Safety. Capped full pistol grip. Walnut stock, finely checkered.
No. 3H—Hammerless
12-16-20 and .410 Gauges
Without equal at the price. Barrels are Proof-Tested. Have matted rib.
Coil Springs. Automatic Safety. Half pistol grip Walnut finish stock.
Steel butt plate.
T he greatest gun values in years —
Send jor complete information — now.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD. P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS COMPANY
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
STEVENS
was ramming into the bowl of his pipe,
and unable, when he saw her neat, crossed
legs and her foreshortened figure, to regard
her as anything but a girl. The girl who
had come riding oyer to the place on Satur-
day mornings on her fat pony! It had
been a sentimental luxury to talk famil-
iarly with her, but there had always been
an impassable gulf of years between them,
and neither of them had really wanted to
cross it till now. Yet he didn’t want to
talk to the girl, but to the woman in her.
For awhile there was a strained silence,
and then Barbara leaned forward in her
chair, looking out over the overgrown
flower-beds.
“What a wilderness your garden’s be-
come,” she said with sudden irrelevance.
“Weeds to the gate! Why don’t you get a
man to look after it?”
“Tried to,” he said abstractedly. “Some-
one w'ho’d potter about it as well as looking
after the b00k5.... There was something
—an understanding between you and Boyd,
then?”
“He didn’t tell you?”
“Boyd hasn’t told me anything since he
was born,” he muttered w,ith a touch of.
bitterness. “Nothing important, that is. I
don’t blame him, of course. My own fault,
probably! Taught him when he was a, boy
that things go flat when the cork’s taken
out of the bottle.”
She was sitting forward with her chin
in her hands and her head slightly averted.
There really was an understanding, she
admitted: it was her feeling for Boyd that
had made her battle to get free.
“Otherwise I’d have just drifted,” she
said. “I can’t help owning that Though
it’s the main thing one isn’t supposed to
admit.”
“And this?” he said, watching her. “What
difference does it make?”
“None to me,” she said promptly.
And then looking at him searchingly she
added:
“Would it to you, if you were a woman?”
He didn’t know. He had never attempted
such a flight of imagination, and he was too
overjoyed to find her taking a sensible view
of the situation to give any sincere reply..
But there were things he had heard of
women doing. With an air of lightness he
suggested one or two of them.
“That’s bunkum,” said Barbara emphati-
cally. “Why should I have any grudge
against her. It’s not her fault, and she
can’t help being hurt, no matter how things
go No, I’m pretending again! That’s
how I ought to feel, not hoW I do, really.”
She rose and went to the edge of the
verandah, looking up to the yard. Her
horse was still tied up; would she let
him go?
“Good!” he assented, reaching for his hat.
“I’ll walk up to the yard with you...
Hullo, that black devil, is it? You weren’t
afraid of your neck, eh?”
“It’s tame as a poddy calf,” she told
him. “Leo’s been working it all winter.”
There was an extraordinary surge of
happiness and relief in his mind a.s he
walked up with her, listening to her talk-
ing of Leo’s marriage to one of the Aiken
girls and the improvements she was having
made at the homestead. Her bright presence
sent a warm stream flowing through him;
it was a delight to watch the very move-
ments of her feet. Here was a woman after
his own heart! No getting things out of
proportion; no letting herself go in a
tumult of hysteria! Yet her toughness did
not come from indifference, like that of
some of the women he knew. Faint little
lines round the corners of her eyes showed
that she had spent some bad hours in
thinking about her life.
“She and Boyd were made for one another,”
thought McCurdie, watching her slide her
hand along the black horse’s neck before
setting it free. “If she can stick this”
CHAPTER XXYI.
A Meeting.
Boyd had not found the cattle where
he expected them. They had taken a
devious track because of a shortage of
grass on the direct route, and he had been
in the saddle a week, making inquiries of
various drovers and wayside stations, before
he came across them on the very edge of
Maroubra. He discovered that they had
had a bad trip. The cook had taken sick
and they had been unable to get another,
while the cattle had proved hard to handle.
More than once they had rushed, leaving
a trail of dead and crippled, and the
cheerful Larry, who had never taken a mob
on the road before and who shirked respon-
sibility of any kind, looked as if he had
gone for many nights without sleep. His
hair and clothes were unkempt and there
were lines of nervous irritability around his
mouth.
“They’re fair bastards!” he said as he
finished his breakfast after setting them
off on the road. “Horns as long as slip-
rails and hides you can’t mark with a whip!
A man lighting his pipe at night is enough
to set them galloping. God strike me dead
if I ever go on the road again unless it’s
with sheep!”
“Never mind,” said Boyd. “I’ll pick you
up to-night and give you a hand from now
on. An extra man to take his turn on the
watch at night will make all the difference.”
Leaving the cattle moving on in a dim
cloud ahead, he struck off to the right in
the direction of the Maroubra homestead.
It was unfamiliar country to him, harsh,
sterile, with scattered patches of mulga
scrub and strips of ironstone plain covered
with coarse tussocks. His horse was foot-
sore, and stumbled on the harsh flints, and
he had a sense of fatigue as if all the miles
he had ridden were an accumulated weight
on his shoulders. Yet it was not really the
hours in the saddle that had tired him. It
was the irksome way his thoughts about
Josie went round and round in his mind
like a calf tethered to . a post. When he
rolled himself in his blanket at night, or
when he opened his eyes in the morning,
the one question was continually before
him. How was he to face the fact that it
was his child she was carrying? What did
she expect him to do? In the few lines
she had scrawled to him there was not a
hint of what the situation meant to her.
. “It was Ella made her write to me,” he
reflected. “She’ll take her cue from Ella
all along the line.... Well, I’ve got to go
through with it.”
The realisation that he was thinking only
of himself and his own future sent a slight
shiver of disgust through him; he remem-
bered how Josie’s family had always suffered
in their relations with his own. And he
had been intensely aware of Josie as a
human being! Yet it was a fact that his
feeling for her had suddenly withered at
the root; the thought of her was like a
lump of lead embedded in the cells of his
brain. Even though she had demanded
nothing from him and had carried herself
all through in a way that ought to have
roused his warmest sympathy!
A mile or two inside the Maroubra fence
he came upon a man' converging toward
him through the timber, a short, thick-set
man with a coil of wire on his shoulder.
They gave 'one another shrewd, appraising
glances as their hoi-ses drew' near.
“Abernethy?” grunted the little man.
“That’s so,” was the reply. “McCurdie—
Boyd McCurdie.”
For a full minute they rode together
before the little man spoke again.
“H’mph!” he said. “A bit late in giving
notice about those cattle, aren’t you?
They’re on the run already.... My name’s
Fallon—Andy Fallon.”
Boyd regarded him closely out of the
corner of his eye. He was short and solidly-
built with a reddish, sun-chapped face and
a clipped moustache the color of dried
grass. In spite of his floridity there was a
bleached look about him. His eyes were
pale and his eyebrows almost invisible,
while the growth on his chin had a tint of
faded yellow. He sat squarely on his heavy
mare and when he spoke there was some-
thing harsh and rusty in his voice. But
he did not speak very much. He rode
slightly ahead, keeping his mare at a steady
amble and shifting the coil of wire from
one shoulder to another. The station came
into view, a small, shingle-roofed homestead
with horseyards at the rear and a straggling
garden in front filled with long grass and
leafless peach-trees.
“Better go in and talk to the women,”
said Fallon at the yards. “They’ve been
expecting you any time the last week. I’m
going on to leave this wire with one of
the men.”
An old man with an open mouth and a
few teeth that showed like charred stumps
in a clearing, came pottering over from
where he had been wiring two posts of the
yard together, and in silence took charge
of Boyd’s horse. He went down the track
toward the house. A couple of dark-eyed
children who were playing with a cattle-
pup in the dust looked up at him with
large, half-frightened eyes and scuttled like
rabbits into the kitchen.
“Mummy!” he heard them call.
“Mummy, there’s a man coming!”
He became aware of a woman suddenly
appearing at the kitchen door with a flour-
sifter in her hand. She stared at him for
a moment and then a smile spread over
her face as she bustled across the yard.
“Why, it’s Boyd!” she said expansively.
“I wouldn’t have known you from a crow,
Boyd. Not unless I hadn’t half expected
you to come.... No, don’t look at me! I’m
that untidy I want to run away and hide.”
For his part he had some difficulty in
realising that the woman before him was
Ella. Her figure, even her face, seemed to
have broadened and spread, and in spite
of her dishevelled look she had the assur-
ance of a matron. Everything about her
had coarsened, but she radiated good-humor
and vitality.
“Josie!” she called • out, as she ushered
him into the sitting-room. “Where are you,
Josie? Here’s Boyd!”
He heard the creak of a bed somewhere
inside. In a little while Josie emerged,
looking dull-eyed and embarrassed, as
though she had just awakened from a doze.
Their glances met, and Boyd felt a twinge
of shame pass. through him; it was like
looking into the eyes of some small animal
he had knocked over with his gun. What
sharpened this feeling in him was the reali-
sation that Josie had lost any physical lure
she possessed. Her features seemed to
have shrunken and become insignificant, her
skin had lost its healthy clearness, there
was a falling-away of flesh around the cheek-
bones. Yet nothing in her attitude made
an obvious appeal to his sympathy. She
was just amiable and apathetic, as though
her. mind had gone to sleep. It was Ella
who did most of the talking.
“We heard the Abernethy cattle were
going through,” she said, as she bustled
about laying the table. “But we weren’t
sure you’d be with them Going to take
over the place yourself now, ain’t you,
Boyd?”
(To he continued next week.)


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
w
Write for booklet to BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers;
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
“Alternate
feeding"
viz., Benger’s Food in turn
with the breast, before, and
during weaning time, is
recommended by doctors.
Baby continues the bene-
fit of natural feeding,
mother avoids the over-
strain usual at weaning
time.
J
Food
£«*d. TBADK MARK
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A N.S.W. District Court Judge travelling
on circuit to a backblocks town fell in with
an entertaining stranger who was going to
the same destination. They got on admir-
ably, and the authority on Blackstone and
Coke became quite charmed and voted him
WELL, I NEVER!
SHE ( unencumbered ): “Whose boys?”
HER OLD SCHOOLMATE: “Why, mine!”
SHE: “Well, I never! You married!”
HER OLD SCHOOLMATE: “Why, don’t I look as if I ought to be?”
the most agreeable companion in the world.
Arrived, one stranger asked the other how
long he was going to stay in the township.
“Three days,” was the reply. “Same time
as myself,” said the stranger effusively.
“I’ve come to the Quarter Sessions over a
cattle-duffing case. The fact is (confidenti-
ally) I’vo come to be tried. They .say I
stole the bullocks, and between ourseives,
I did ■ —but they can’t prove it!” Next day
his trial came on, and picture the awful con-
sternation of the accused when he saw sit-
ting on the bench the man to whom, only
the night before, he had communicated his
dread secret! But the Judge was not going
to use that unofficial statement against him.
The jury found “not guilty,” and his Honor
acquitted the quaking prisoner without a
smile on his countenance, merely remarking,
with a faint cough, “You are found not
guilty.”
When ignorance is bliss ’tis folly to open
your husband’s letters.
A Bathurst paper tells a picturesque story
of old Port Arthur, at the time when padded
cells were introduced to prevent “solitaries”
from dashing out their brains against
unpadded walls, and which padding pre-
vented the rats from swarming in, as had been
their wont, upon the dark-cell occupant.
Briefly put, Warder Dodds playfully put
into convict McPherson’s cell a Tasmanian
devil, a vicious tiger of an animal we’l
toothed and strongly clawed, “as a bed-
mate to caress and keep him warm.”
McPherson, at the expense of much blood
and flesh, managed to kill the fierce beast,
and, when the matter was reported, Dodds
was reduced to his former convict status —
not for “brutality,” but for acting contrary
to the regulations in “supplying a prisoner
with a companion to beguile his solitude.”
This is the true story of a policeman, a
barmaid and a Sydney remittance-man. The
latter was known generally as Chummy, pre-
sumably because he was a newchum: he
got his remittance
every quarter, and
for three weeks or
so after getting it
he was in an irre-
sponsible state and
affectionately maud-
lin. It was at one
of these periods
that he walked
abroad late at
night with two
bright halfpennies
in his pocket, and
in a humorous
moment gave one
of them to a bar-
maid in payment
of a drink. The
golden-haired angel
was sleepy, and
taking the coin she
solemnly gave him
19s. 6d. change,
and Chummy de-
parted in a state
of muddled com-
placency. Less
than five minutes
later Tottie dis-
covered her mis-
take, and in just a
quarter of an hour
a policeman laid
his heavy hand on
the delinquent at
his lodgings. Then
the remittance
gentleman rose to
the occasion. “Loo’
her e, old —hie —
chappie, ish all
right, on’y my liF
shoke, y’ know.
Ther’sh shquid f’r
ye an’ come back
an’ shee me pay
Tottie her sov-
ereign.” The offi-
cer’s great soul
melted at the
appeal; he took the
quid, the bar-
maiden got her
money back, and
the offender went
his devious way.
Then the con-
stable remarked that he thought he
would have a drink also, and laid the
other bright halfpenny on the counter, and
the girl shrieked when she saw the coin,
and there was weeping and gnashing of teeth
and much assorted execration.
Squatter Bullant came to town, a woman
talked to him late at night at a street
corner, and he missed a £5O-notc out of
his vest pocket, whereupon he grabbed her
and handed her over to the police. The
female searcher at the watclihouse found
naught, wherefore the woman was sent
away. A fortnight afterwards, in tears, she
met the arresting constable and told him
she had stolen the note, but wished to make
restitution. He concurred with her proposal
that, while he looked the other way, she
should slip it under the cuff of his great-
coat. He would honorably promise not to
take it out till he got to the watchhouse.
This would get him the glory of having
recovered the note, and he would attain his
ambition, which was his “promotion to the
THE ONE HE TUCKED UP.
HE (to waitress ): “I’ll have boiled fowl also; and please bring me the leg he used
to tuck up, not the one he so long roosted on.”
plain clothes.” The transaction was duly
accomplished, but on reaching the watch-
house he could not find any note. The woman
had slipped it under his cuff on the first
occasion, which accounted for the non-
success of the female searcher, and had now
taken it out.
A Sydney doctor made an awkward mis-
take the other day. There was a little
girl among his patients, and she lived m
one of those terraces where every house is
built exactly alike. Therefore the doctor,
being in a hurry, dashed into the wrong
house, charged upstairs to the bedroom,
found another little girl in bed there, and
seeing that she was evidently convalescent
gave her half a glassful of evil-smelling
medicine and went off. When he was gone
the infant aroused the house with her shrieks
and explained the outrage which a strange
man had perpetrated upon her, and her
father ran 300 yards or so in pursuit of the
doctor with a large poker, but luckily failed
to overtake him. This is only one of the
many evils of the terrace system. It is
related on unreliable authority that another
Sydney surgeon was so much deceived once
by the awful similarity of terrace houses that
he cut off the leg of the man next door by
mistake.
Have you noticed it? The modern blue-
beard is generally a red-headed man.
We read that Mrs. Sophia Laramore, of
Waterbury (U.S.), has just finished a curious
mortuary wreath in memory of her late
husband. It is made of relics of that
gentleman and of the wives who preceded
her (for it seems that Mr. Laramore was
strongly addicted to matrimony). The frame
is of putty, into which, while soft, the widow
has put a heterogeneous collection of articles,
such as Mr. Laramore’s spectacles, his pill-
bottle, and many articles which he had
treasured during his life, such as a jack-
knife, a piece of candy, etc., buttons from
his old clothing, and a small bottle con-
taining cheese made by his first wife.
Enclosed in the frame is a picture, which
is surmounted by a device in flowers and
leaves, made entirely of pieces of cloth, etc.,
drawn from the late Mr. Laramore’s clothing,
and the shirt in which he died is used to
compose a fearful and wonderful bird. Hair
watch-chains and teeth go to make up the
rest of this most strange and tasteful thing
in wreaths.
A Bulletin correspondent was shown the
other day by a pretty little woman in Queens-
land a lock of hair alleged to have been
nourished on the empty head of his Royal
Nibs the Duke of Edinburgh. She was married
about the time of his visit to Australia,
and spent part of the wedding trip in Sydney,
at Petty’s. She bought the hair at a high
figure from the lady’s maid who did the
chores and things for Alfred, at a high price
and as a great favor. It has been a house-
hold relic of the Ear West ever since. The
children have been brought up to duly rever-
ence the miserable looking rat-bait, and
visitors from afar off, with the grass-seed of
the autumn months in their tangled locks.
gaze on it with awe and reverence. The
Bulletin has heard of the clever girl who
sold it to the artless bride, but is not going
to give her away. At one time and another
she sold enough to various guests to stuff
a full-sized double-mattress, for she had the
run of all the hairbrushesl in the house, and
neither length, color nor quality was allowed
to interfere between her explanations and
the completion of the deal. She also acknow-
ledges having sold other interesting relics of
the Royal and penurious person which were
of necessity left behind at the hotel.
Rev. Dr. Bevan, of Melbourne, has taken
a new departure by praying for “all writers”
(press and otherwise), as well as for the
Royal family and all who are put in authority
over us. In a reverent spirit we are now
twanging the lyre:—
THE LAUGHING JACKASS.
When the dew lies deep ,on the upland lawn,
And the clouds are tipped with gold,
When the first grey gleam of the early
dawn
Breaks over the sleeping wold;
Then far and near you will always hear
A voice both loud and gay:
’Tis the little grey bird whose song is heard
A-bidding the dawn good-day.
When the sun peeps in at the breakfast
hour
And rouses the swagman lone
To find that the ’possum has filched bis
flour,
Or the cat his mutton-bone;
Then, close by the way on some ragged spray,
The jolly grey bird is seen
A-splitting his sides, for he seldom hides
The sound of his satire keen.
When deep in the heart of the pathless scrub
Some wight has lost his way,
Or down in the creek with a broken hub
The waggoner toils all day ;
Then the little grey bird, you may take my
word,
Atop of some neighboring tree,
Is waking the wood to his mirthful mood —
“What a jolly good joke,” thinks he.
G.H. MITCHELL.
TO ALL WRITERS.
The Doctor doesn’t draw the line,
He doesn’t pick and choose,
He even pleads for aid Divine
For writers on the “Noose” ;
And those who do the leaders for
The “Argus,” yea, forsooth;
They’ll sit around the Golden Shore
And learn to tell the truth.
Men may get to life eternal
Through the “Town and Country Journal” —
Think of that!
The “Sydney Morning Herald” staff
Will possibly be there ;
The chaps who work the “Telegraph”
For plumage can prepare.
And (though a proof of “ratting” mean
Appears on every page)
Along with Bertie and the Queen
They shove the Melbourne “Age,”
And the Doctor’s supplication
Covers e’en the “Australasian”—
Think of that!
But, members of the Fourth Estate,
This warning, prithee, heed:
St. Peter will be at the gate
To criticise your screed;
And many a pressman’s guilty soul
St. Peter won’t let in ;
He’ll say “You never wrote, but stole
Bits from The Bulletin.”
Not on prigs did Dr. Bevan
Call a blessing down from Heaven—
Think of that!


SHOOTING
equipment
High-grade Shot Guns
Sporting' Rifles.
Mick Sirnmonds’ stocks, the most complete
tn all Australia to-day, embrace the j ore-
most English, American and Continental
manufacturers.
ŵ
No. 2.—THE
MAINE SPECIAL
BOLT ACTION RIFLE,
22-cal., take-down, with safety bolt. For
short, long or long-rifle cartridges; 2 I in.
round barrel; weight, about
3*lb 25/-
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 2/8.
ẁ
No. 11.—
STFVFNS*
“FAVORITE” RIFLE,
22, 25 or 32 calibre, R.F. round 24in.
barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech-
block, take-down action, open front- and
sporting rear-sights; weight
4ilb. 40/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 2/2.
ẃ
No. 15.
WINCHESTER
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
1904 MODEL,
For 22 short, long or long-rifle rim-fire,
cartridges; 21 in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear-sight;
length of rifle overall, 37£in.; plain
frontsight; weight, about 41b. . . 40/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 8/2.
ẅ
No. 23
WINCHESTER
REPEATING CARBINE,
1892 MODEL,
25/20, 32, 38 or 44 calibre, central
lire, full or half magazine, 20in.
round barrel; weight,
about 5 fib ■flr A
/ 12/6
Carriage Paid.
w
No. 37.—BROWNING
AUTOMATIC RIFLE
MODEL 24,
22 short or long rifle; each rifle takes
one size cartridge only; walnut stock,
pistol-grip, 19£in. barrel; length, 36in.;
bead front- and screw rear-sight, safety
ŵ
ẁ
The Last Word in Automatic Shot
Guns!
No. 4.—BROWNING
AUTOMATIC
ẃ
SHOT
GUN, 12G,
Slide grip, steel barrel, take-down system;
magazine holds five cartridges. All movable
parts are inside a receiver closed at rear, which
device affords absolute security to the shooter.
Great rapidity and accuracy of shooting are
obtained with this gun.
Weight, about Bjib
(Carnage Paid.)
ẅ
No. 1
HARRINGTON
and RICHARDSON’S*
STEVENS’ RIVERSIDE,
or IVOR JOHNSON’S
5.8.8. L. GUN, 12G,
Top action, automatic self-ejecting, steel
barrel, solid, case-hardened, pistol-grip,
walnut stock; weight, about
6 * lb 50/-
Carriape Paid.
*-ga=
No. 19.—THE
CERT D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12G,
Steel barrels, left choke, cross-
bolt, extension rib, bar locks, i
pistol-grip, plain finish; weight,
about 71b ; £4/5/-
Carriage Paid.
Detailed Projusely Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on Request.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS Ltd.,
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
Still Progressing!
THE
A.M.P. SOCIETY
(ESTABLISHED 1849)
The ANNUAL REPORT for the year 1929, which has just been issued,
discloses the following figures, indicating the success of the operations
for the year:—
NEW BUSINESS—
Ordinary Department
Industrial Department . . . . . .
£15,107,915
4,383,916
BUSINESS IN FORCE (Original sums assured)-
Ordinary Department . .
Industrial Department . . . , , ,
£19,491,831
£182,707,667
30,501,776
An INCREASE of nearly £] 1,000,000 for the year.
£213,209,443
CLAIMS AND MATURITIES PAID-
Ordinary Department . .
Industrial Department . .
£3,585,920
555,153
£4,141,073
TOTAL FUNDS
An INCREASE of £4,519,818 for the year.
£76,779,055
INTEREST EARNED ON MEAN FUNDS
REVENUE FOR THE YEAR ..
£5/ 14/4 per cent.
.. £11,377,267
The IMMENSE SUM of £2,970,440 WILL BE DIVIDED amongst the participating
members in the Ordinary Department,
YIELDING REVERSIONARY ADDITIONS TO THEIR POLICIES
of
£5,130,000.
A Purely MUTUAL INSTITUTION, controlled by its members.
All classes of Life Insurance business transacted.
DIRECTORS:
Sir Alfred Meeks, K.8.E., M.L.C., Chairman. Rodney R. Dangar, Esq.
Sir Samuel Hordern, Deputy-Chairman. Dr. G. H. Abbott.
Alex. Jobson. Esq. Geo. M. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq.
H. W. Apperly, General Manager.
F. T. Bridges, Assistant-General Manager.
C. A. Elliott, F.1.A., Actuary.
A. 0. HoUingworth, A.1.A., Secretary.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Offices in the leading Capital Cities, Country Towns;
and Field Representatives in all Districts.
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
Wi
i
vs
>7
&
DOM ■
BiNiuriHt liouiw
1
SUPREME
SINCE
1510
The fitting
conclusion
of a perfect
AFTER luncheon or din-
ner there is still nothing
to compare with a glass
of Benedictine Liqueur. Its
smooth, delightful flavour
and exquisite bouquet are
equalled only by its fine
digestive qualities. For
cocktails, too, a dash of
Benedictine is unsurpassed.
BENEDICTINE
For Workshop
Home & Farm
*** SIEVERT
St °ckmolm
I
716
A genuine Sievert Blow Lamp for motorists,
radio work and general use. Every household
and workshop has need of a Blow Lamp at
times. The low price of 7/6 brings the
Sievert within reach of all.
Approximately 5 inches high.
Burns for an hour at one filling.
Supplied with special safety valve and a patent
self-cleaning device.
Petrol can be used down to the last drop.
Directions supplied with each lamp.
JJS'PKerson^)
PTY., LTD.
SYDNEY .. 51 Bathurst Street
MELBOURNE 582 Collins Street
Lejral Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
1 WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
In Divorce.
No. 3574.
GEORGE THE FIFTH by the grace of God of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Ireland, and
the British Dominions beyond the Seas, King,
Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India.
To JOHN McCLEW, formerly of Wellington, Tram
Conductor, but now of parts unknown.
WHEREAS JANE BEATRICE McCLEW, of Wel-
lington, claiming to have been lawfully married to
you, has filed her petition against you in our said
Court praying for a dissolution of her marirage with
you, wherein she alleges that you have been guilty
of adultery with Alice Margaret Laery.
TAKE NOTICE that unless within thirty (30)
days after service hereof on you, exclusive of the
day of such service, you file in our said Court at
Wellington an answer to the said petition, a copy
of which, sealed with the seal of our said Court,
is served on you herewith, the said Court will
proceed to hear the said charge proved, and to
pronounce sentence therein, notwithstanding your
absence. And, further, take notice that before filing
the said answer you must enter an appearance in
person or by your solicitor at the registry of the
said Court at Wellington aforesaid, and that, if you
do not enter such an appearance, you will not be
allowed to address the Court either in person or by
counsel at any stage of the proceedings.
Sealed at Wellington this 27th day of March. 1930.
[L.S.] E. RHODES,
Deputy Registrar.
This citation was extracted by Charles Archibald
Lawrance Treadwell, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
The Petitioner’s address for service is at the
oifices of Messieurs Treadwell & Sons, Solicitors,
Number 4 Panama Street, Wellington.
Any friend of the respondent who reads this
advertisement is requested to forward it to the said
Respondent.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, -who will
quote you price for the original.


HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
*TU E CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone : Brunswick 744.
Were you on tlOie
this morning ?
_,<Ts r Westclo:xr
\U Y*\
il
A
l'v
SKt
1 \V
Big B
en
■v'
21
11
10
2
3
A
1
5
You can rely on
Big Ben
or any other
Westclox
with confidence
SELECT Big Ben or any other Westclox alarm and be on time every
morning. Big Ben’s reliability is known all over the world and
millions depend on him for a prompt cheery morning call.
Look for the name Westclox” on the dial of the clock you buy . . . that
trademark is your assurance of timekeeping reliability.
Prices range from S/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE
ẅ
In sealed
melal box
6/-
3o\rn
or
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii
w
ŵ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
ẁ
The Gaoler’s Niece.
IN WHICH J.H.M. ABBOTT
INTRODUCES US TO SOME MORE VERY
INTERESTING PEOPLE OF THE CONVICT DAYS,
“The sacristan he says no word to indicate a doubt.
But puts his thumb unto his nose and spreads his
fingers out.”
—The Ballad of Nell Cook.
IN chronicling the curious story of Mr.
Bartholomew Monypenny’s disgrace and
discharge from his not unimportant office
in the year 1840, it is impossible to refrain
from calling to mind the quotation from the
Ingoldsby Legends. Nothing could more
aptly illustrate the mental attitude of Peter
Throgmorton, Esq., of Sydney, Comptroller-
General of Convicts, when he listened to
and disbelieved the solemn statement of the
said Bartholomew Monypenny, officer-in-
charge of the new establishment which for
three-quarters of a century thereafter was
to be known as Darlinghurst Gaol. More
especially since the lady in the case rejoiced
in the baptismal name of Eleanor Smith
Cook. But before we come to the painful
interview that took place between Messrs.
Throgmorton and Monypenny, there are one
or two preliminary matters to be discussed.
In 1830 that chivalrous woman Mrs.
Caroline Chisholm had already begun the
great work that makes her memory glorious
for all time in Australia. She had come
with a sick husband to Hobart Town in ’3B,
and then to New South Wales, where they
settled at Windsor, on the Hawkesbury.-
Captain Chisholm was an officer of the
East India Company’s forces, and had been
driven by ill health to seek a cooler climate.
But the attention demanded by an ailing
husband by no means satisfied the motherly
instincts of this remarkable woman, and she
found ready to her hand the work to which
her life was to be devoted —the loving care of
all those human beings to whose needs and
distresses it seemed nobody’s business to
minister. Mbst particularly did she devote
herself to the assistance Of’ the many young
female immigrants who were at that time
being landed in Sydney with no one to
guide, advise or assist them.
Eleanor Smith Cook landed from the
immigrant ship Duke of Clarence in Sydney
Cove in 1839.' She possessed red hair, great
beauty, hot passions and a remarkable devo-
tion to Nell Cook, to the neglect of every
other interest whatsoever. And she was
not fundamentally respectable. Caroline
Chisholm had all the virtues, was not extra-
ordinarily good-looking, and was devoted to
everybody except Caroline Chisholm. We
make their joint acquaintance at the Royal
Hotel in George-street on a winter afternoon
in 1839.
“Look you, Nellie,” the elder woman was
saying, “it distresses me to hear your story.
When I obtained you the situation at Kissing
Point which you have so foolishly abandoned,
I made every possible inquiry into the
respectability ; of Thomas Jenkins’s family,
and I cannot believe what you say about
that excellent, man and his loathsome
addresses to yon. Later in the day I will
send a messenger to Mr. Jenkins, and request
his attendance here to-morrow, so that he
may hear the awful thipg you accuse him
of. Stay here, Nellie, and think it over. You
understand? Consider the matter carefully.
Your whole life may depend upon it.”
The lady rose from her chair, and turned
towards the door of the upstairs parlor in
which she had received the girl. The girl
rose too, and Mrs. Chisholm could not but
admire her beauty, as well as deplore the
wickedness of which she believed her guilty.
“I tell you, ma’am,” said the girl, her wide
eyes a little tearful — “I tell you ’tis true.
’Tis gospel truth, ma’am.”
So virtuous was her aspect that Mrs.
Chisholm hesitated on the threshold, and
looked at her for a moment.
“Well, then, if it is, he shall answer for
it. Rest assured of that. But sit you down,
and reflect calmly. I will return in a little
while.”
She left the room, and, as the door closed
behind her, Nellie smiled sweetly, dropped a
curtsey, and made use of an expression that
would certainly have shocked Mrs. Chisholm
had it reached her ears.
Then she sat down, laughing to herself.
“Pooh ! Old Jenkins! Well, if he didn’t he
was a fool not to!”
Not long was she left to soliloquise in
loneliness. Seven or eight minutes had
barely elapsed from the time of Mrs. Chis-
holm’s departure before she heard voices
outside the door. One she recognised as the
calm tones of her benefactress. The other
brought her to her feet with a little exclama-
tion of alarm.
“Tli’ doomed hussy, Mistress Chisholm!
Sh’ve stole my goold watch an’ chain. Dang
my buttons, ma’am, ’tes not for to be borne
wi’. I’ve coom in here to Sydney to-day for
to inform on th’ lass to th’ police, and to
tell your good self, and I’ll see her behind
the bars. So I’m tellin’ ye, Mistress Chis-
holm.”
“Pray, come in here, Mr. Jenkins,” the
thoroughly alarmed lady heard Mrs. Chis-
holm say. “Nellie Cook is in here now!”
“Gobbless my soul, ye don’t say so, ma’am !”
With a panic that was excusable, the
young woman drew a gold watch and chain
from the bosom of her dress, and looked
wildly round for some place to hide it. But
she was too late. As she was gliding across
the room to where two big vases at either
end of the mantelpiece suggested possible
hiding places, the door opened, and she was
discovered in the middle of the apartment,
with the gold watch dangling at the end of
its massive chain in her somewhat shaky
hand.
“Th’ hussy, th’ hussy!” bellowed the
wrathful Jenkins.
“Pray, Mr. Jenkins, if you please!” M!rs.
Chisholm gently remonstrated.
With a shrieked curse, Miss Cook flung
the watch at its owner’s head. Deftly lie
caught it in a leg-o’-mutton fist.
* * * *
Peter Throgmorton, Esq., sat in the
gaoler’s office at Darlinghurst in judgment
upon the gaoler. Opposite to him, his bur-
liness a little shrunken, and his usually red
face somewhat paler than its wont, stood
Mr. Bartholomew Monypenny, the gaoler.
He was not at his best. Not even the most
accomplished rogue and liar majr feel at
case when he realises that the lie's he has
told might just as well have remained unsaid.
Mr. Throgmorton was a tall, dry, pre-
cise, thin man with a piercing eye, an
assured manner, and a vast knowledge of
errant humanity and the vanities with which
it deludes itself. A man with great experi-
ence in the arts of subterfuge and deceit as
practised by his fellow men. A man sour
and bitter, both of thought and of tongue.
“The plain facts, Mr. Monypenmy,” he
■was saying in his nasty fashion, “appear to
me to be these. This exceedingly handsome
young woman, Eleanor Smith Cook, was
placed in your custody last year for the pur-
pose of serving a sentence of twelve months,
awarded her for the larceny of a gold watch
and chain from her employer, Mr. Thomas
Jenkins, of Kissing Point, on the Parramatta
River. She comes here to serve her sentence
of hard labor, and it is your duty to provide
her with such. She might have been em-
ployed in the laundry, or as a sewing-woman,
or in the hospital, or in other ways. You
select her for personal service in your house,
as a cook and housekeeper. Very good. Very
good, Mr. Monypenny—you are perfectly
entitled to do this. It is a privilege of your
office to be allowed the use of two servants
chosen from the well-conducted prisoners,
and there is nothing in the regulations to
say whether they shall be male or female
prisoners. I have not a word to say against
your having chosen the woman Cook to
attend upon you in your household, Mr.
Monypenny—not a word. The matter was
entirely one for your own direction.”
“If you please, sir, I would like”—the
gaoler sought to interpose some kind of
explanation, as he had tried to do before,
but was again checked by the uplifted, claw-
liire hand of his superior.
“A moment, Mr. Monypenny—one moment.
All in good time. The facts are quite clear,
I think—quite clear. Cook became your
housekeeper, and I have no doubt was a very
useful one. Certainly, she must have been
ornamental. Your relations with her”——
Mr. Monypenny was not this time to be
restrained. “ Won't you hear me, sir? I tell
you there was nothing between us. Nothing.
She was treated as the ugliest of ’em would
ha’ been. Nobody can say my relations with
her”
“Pray control yourself, Mr. Monypenny.
I was about to observe that, as nobody can
say—excepting herself and yourself—what
your relations with the young woman
have been, it is to be assumed that they were
perfectly respectable and correct. I am not
at all concerned with what they were in
fact. No business of mine—none whatever.
What I am concerned to know is why, at
the termination of her sentence, she was not
released from Darlinghurst. She remained
an inmate of your home for nearly five
months after she was due for discharge. She
wore Government clothing, and ate Govern-
ment rations, when she was not entitled to
them—'and for this, as you know, she was
sentenced yesterday to six months in Parra-
matta gaol. The evidence was very clear.
I was in court, and heard it myself. So it is
this morning my painful duty to inquire of
you what you have to say in excuse of
your conduct in permitting this fraud to be
perpetrated. I shall be glad to hear it.”
“Well then, sir, I know ’twasn’t right,
what I done. But there’s extenooatin’ cir-
cumstances, sir. This pore young woman,
Mr. Throgmorton, is my niece, an’ moreover
she’s a horphan, sir, without a friend in th’
world. Was I to turn th’ pore young thing
adrift, sir? I ask ye that.”
With level brows the Comptroller-General
regarded his subordinate dispassionately. For
a few moments he did not speak. Visibly
Mr. Monypenny sagged beneath that cold
and hostile gaze. When the words of doom
were uttered he had nothing to say.
“A good lie, Mr. Monypenny, is .worthy
of some admiration, even though it be de-
tected ; a weak and feeble one merits nothing
but contempt. You forget that I have
known you from your boyhood, and that I
knew your father, old Tom Monypenny of
Penrith, before you were born. You were an
only child, and never knew brother or sister,
so I am not rash in stating that likewise
you never had niece or nephew. It gives me a
good deal of satisfaction, having been so fool-
ishly lied to, to dismiss you from the service.
You will remove your effects from the gaol
to-day, otherwise they will be placed outside
the gates, in the street. You understand? I
will give you till eight o’clock this evening
to get out. By the way, it may be of interest
to you to learn that your handsome house-
keeper and the constable who was charged
to take her to Parramatta yesterday have
disappeared. So when you settle down else-
where in the pursuit of whatever career you
may decide upon adopting in the future, you
will need to seek another housekeeper—or,
as you are pleased to put it, another niece.
You have my sympathy. Mr. Monypenny—
my very deepest sympathy in the multiplicity
of your misfortunes.”
* * * *
The Waterholes Inn, on the Great North-
ern-road, between Patrick’s Plains and Mus-
wellbrook, was a flourishing house in 1860,
under the efficient charge of Mrs. Eleanor
Smalldeal, a buxom and still attractive
widow of about forty, who was known
locally as Ginger Nell on account of the
color of her abundant tresses. It was a
changing place for the horses of the mail
coaches, and a popular house of call for
all whose business led them to travel up or
down the valley of the Hunter River. The
accommodation was good, and the stabling
excellent. You may recognise how commo-
dious the latter must have been by the great
stone buildings still standing at the back of
the dairy farm which the old inn has been for
very many years.
One summer evening in the year men-
tioned above, a very stout gentleman in a
buggy that was drawn by a pair of rather
lean horses came down the road from the
(Continued on next page.)


fHERMOs
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
iiiiiii
BRITISH
FLASK
iVi
i i St
When you are buying a
vacuum flask or j ug- look firs t
for the name—THERMOS
—your guarantee that it is
British . . . that it is a pioneer
product... that it has a lining
of Stronglas, the extra strong
glass that no ordinary bumps
or knocks will break ! That’s
the flask you need—for hard
long, efficient wear. Ask
for—and get —THERMOS.
0l& T.I.
ẃ
ẅ
northward, and drew rein before the open
door, -beside which, seated on a chair in
complacent enjoyment of the coolness, Mrs.
Smalldeal occupied herself a little desul-
torily with some crochet work. She rose to
welcome the stranger, and to offer him the
hospitality she supposed him to be seeking.
As she looked at him she started a little,
and as he looked at her he uttered an
exclamation of wonder and surprise. Recog-
nition was mutual.
“Good God!” he said. “D—n my eyes if
it’s not Nell Cook!”
“Why,” exclaimed the landlady, “I do be-
lieve it's Mr. Monypenny. Dear me, now,
who would have thought of such a thing?”
For nearly a minute they stared at one
another without speaking, until Mrs. Small-’
deal broke the silence.
“Well, Bartholomew,” she laughed, “so
you’ve found me at last? Are you going on
or do you wish to put your horses up and
take supper?”
The stout man grinned at her apprecia-
tively. “Ah, then, Nell,” he said, “you
always was a cool one, and no mistake.
After all th’ trouble ye got me into, too —
let’s see, it’s near twenty year ago, if I don’t
make an error? Go on? Not me —there’s
one or two things I want to larn about, lass,
before I go on. One or two things that’s
puzzled me all these years. Is this your
place? I say, call th’ groom, will you,
please. I’ve come from t’other side, o’ Scone
to-day, an’ th’ ’orses could do with a bit
o’ lookin’ after. And as for supper, I could
do with a feed ineself.”
She called down the passage, and a man
came out who took the horses. Mr. Mony-
penny alighted from the buggy and followed
her into the bar.
After suitable refreshment had eased his
pains of travel, and she had given directions
to a servant maid to set a place for the new-
comer at her private table in her own room,
they found themselves seated opposite one
another with a meal between them.
Largely Mr. Monypenny talked about him-
self and the prosperity that had come to
him —first of all on the goldfields and then
in pastoral properties in the north-west of
New South Wales.
“And, Nell, my girl,” he said at last, expan-,
sively, “ ’tis to you I owe it all. If it
hadn’t been for you I’d ha’ lived and died
a-lookin’ after lags. Mebbe you’ve never
realised what you done for me, but I have.
I owes it all to being led astray by your
pretty face when you come to Darlinghurst
under my charge all that long time ago.
All my prosp’rousness is due to your good
looks —and, of course, to me being the feller
to appreciate them. That d—d old Peter
Throgmorton he’d never ha’ seen nothing
in you but jest a female pris’ner. That
he wouldn’t. Well, he’s dead now, so I
won’t say anything unkind ; but what’s the
use of a man like that who’d be unable to
appreciate a woman like you?”
Mrs. Smalldeal smiled, and her garrulous
companion asked her to fell him Avhat had
happened to herself through all these years.
“There’s one thing I’m most curious about,
Nell,” he said. “How’d you and the police-
man come to vanish like you did? Did you
do a bolt together—or what? How did it
happen? Come, tell me—l’d like fine to
know.”
“Well, Bartholomew, you weren’t the only
one to admire good looks. There were others
—there was one in particular who saw me in
the court when they gave me that sixer at
Parramatta which I never served. He was
a good friend to me. He looked after me
for two years. Like ybu looked after me in
Darlinghurst, Bartholomew.”
“The devil he did! But how did you
come to get away from the policeman?”
“Oh, this good friend of mine managed
it easy, Bartholomew.”
“But, damme, I searched for you every-
where. Who could lia’ done it?”
“Oh, I don’t see why I shouldn’t tell you.
But do you think you can stand a shock,
Bartholomew? You knew him very well.”
“Of course I can, Nell; I’m a man as
can stand anything.”
“Well then, my old friend, it was Mr.
Peter Throgmorton.”
Mr. Monypenny had overestimated his
capacity for standing shocks. He gaped at
her for a while.
“Who —who did I hear you say?” he
gasped presently.
"Mr. Throgmorton, the Comptroller-
General.”
Stout Bartholomew's.face turned from red
to purple as he looked at her. Presently he
rose clumsily, almost upsetting the table in
his awkwardness as he lurched towards the,
door. He gasped; hoarsely a- characteristic
farewell. " '
“Damme,” he said—“damme, Nell, that’s
too much for to stand !”
Rudderless.
II'ow can we tell the thing we do?
How can we tell the false from true?
What comes, carries no sign :
Unless wicked, we choose, the right,
Or what appears so in our sight,
Without thought, good, malign.
So, when we stumble into 111,
Can it be said it is our Will?
Ours is, indeed, the Pain:
Nor does experience teach us aught,
However dearly it be bought.
Our one thought, instant Gain.
So, Self, unconscious perhaps, decides,
While Destiny our deeds derides,
Poor helpless beings we,
Drifting with times and circumstance,
Trusting alone to gearless chance
On an uncharted sea.
VICTORIA.
JOHN R. CASTIEAU.
Rain.
Over the hills, the hills of summer, falling
Like wreaths of music, comes the quiet
rain,
Warm as a mother with repose for pain ;
Calm as her voice out of the twilight calling
When lamps are lit and shadowy visions
start
From hedge and tree. The grass, sun-
spent and slain,
Leans to the touch of comfort, and again
Life breaks from the clod, life breaks within
my heart.
O sweeter than peace its clamor, as more
sweet
Than silence is the music 011 the hill.
You have besieged w r itli sound my quietness,
And loosed within me by its stir and press-
An exultant well-spring, rising, rising till
It floods my heart and surges to your feet.
VICTORIA.
E.CAMERON.
The Team.
Out of the ash and kurrajong
The swaying bullocks go,
To the rhythm of the curling thong,
Heads held out, held low.
The dust is thick on wheel and side,
And pine stacked ingot-wise;
The sunglints glance from horn and hide
And shallow, limpid eyes,
Over the black road, mile on mile,
To the mill with its clang and smoke,
With the pepper-trees a-rustle while
The beasts 101 l in the yoke.
The noontide ripens, long hours wane;
Yellow the landscape glows;
Out of the little town again
Slowly the good team goes.
Ned has tippled his last long glass
And heard the latest tale.
What does he dream as the red wheels pass
Where the dust hangs like a veil?
Of a lusty girl with niglitblue eyes?
Of a toss that he nearly won?
Of the mate who waits where the bluegums
rise ?
Or just of the day’s work done?
On the distant peaks a last ray shakes
Like an argent waterfall;
The long-pent silence swells and breaks
Into a magpie’s call.
Down on the flat the white boles drown
In a sea of amber light,
And the patient team goes swinging down
To meet the coming night.
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.
Exile.
There is an island singing to the sea,
And, murmurous, the daisy-sprinkled turf;
Goes swiftly to the low-intoning surf;
Sea-winds are singing to an island tree,
"Where blossoms fall upon the flowing sea.
And there are children singing by the sea;
The sun is shining on" their golden curds. \
O brown-limbed boys! O snowy-bosomed
girls!
Shake down the blossoms of the orange-tree
That they may drift upon the flowing sea!
And I, who hear no, singing by the sea,
And walk alone the shores of sad-, grey
lands,
May find an orange blossom on these 1
sands—
A blossom fallen" from an island tree
And' drifted hither on the flowing sea.
LONDON.
D.P. MCGUIRE.
Lost.
I am lost-! ...
I am lost!
Thick, trees bar nry way '
Where the sky is embossed
With tendril and spray.
I am lost!
I am lost
Where- the crisp, curling bracken
Is looping its lingers
And hemming the track in.
The wind and the earth, and the pale, float- i
ing sky .
Are dancing around me when I would go by.
The spinneys of swamp-bush with stems dark
and scrawny
Are building up ambushes grey-green and
tawny.
The sun-dews as bright on the ground as
spilled money
Are holding my feet in their pools of pale
honey.
The spiders have spun
Silken silver and thin,
A thousand fine tangles
To hold my knees in;
And tall, slender grasses
With pendant jade shells,
And silk-petalled trumpets
And fluted flower-bells
Are ringing a music that fashions strange
spells,
Are tinkling a music that murmurs and dies ;
And thick o’er the sorrel
All ruby and coral
The bees circle past me and dazzle my eyes!
I am lost!
I am lost!
I am lost in the wild !
The doves and the thrushes
Beyond the swamp-rushes,
The doves and the thrushes
Are calling me “child.”
Here nothing is ugly,
Here nothing defiled.
The doves and the thrushes are calling me
“child”!
I am lost!
I am lost!
O could I for ever
Be left here to wander, be left here and
never
Go back to the town and the cramped, busy
places,
The drab, teeming streets and the grey,
haggard faces,
'l'lie dull social round
With its mean little graces !
For here with my feet on the fern-covered
ground,
My steps may be lost,
But my soul it is found !
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


IPfl
A*.’;?
1
'
m
'kh
■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—-
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES Sr CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featherston Street. Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
1:1
Victorian Office—-‘Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents-—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., liTD., Adelaide., S.A.
Queensland's
Largest and Most
Effective Advertising
Medium —
THE “BRISBANE COURIER”
These amazing comparison figures should prove beyond all doubt the
superiority of the “Brisbane Courier’’ as an advertising medium: —
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1929.
“Brisbane Courier”:
29,1521
columns of advertising.
Two other Brisbane dailies one a
morning, the other an evening:
28,6721
columns of advertising.
This is easily the strongest evidence, too, that the “Courier” is first in
CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Specimen copies and Rate Cards from Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 -
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
CIK Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and. is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NE¥sPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G, N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3f»5 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
w
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN'*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
✓
L
s
be
To
Ml
L
\
LITY
, vigoioos yo°
alert, ” ; heal*.
•^ ,^sr»^ h :: rr 'uve
w . cause « troub les * o , v n c ° tr „(»
_efiecu«'* 5
COMES FROM
REAL HEALTH
SSBB*
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
June 11, 1929.
“Examiner” Office, Launceston.
Dear Sir, —It may interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
wood, Sulphur Creek, Mcorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart, Winnaleah.
I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE YOU GIVE 'ME
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information. Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne ;
W. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I endlose £....
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
9\*
0
>3
o°
s 6 V^ e
.• * A ce oO-
• , v \a «f


A STATEMENT
. By •
CHRYSLER MOTORS
w
ŵ
v.-.
PLYMOUTH
■*' .-''i .... ..
OWING to the misleading and inaccurate statements which are being
made respecting the proportion of money that goes out of Australia
from the sale of American cars in the Commonwealth, the Chrysler
Corporation, as manufacturers of Plymouth, De Soto, Dodge Brothers and
Chrysler cars, deem it necessary to publish an affidavit covering the
percentage of purchase money paid for their products, which remains
in Australia.
STATUTORY DECLARATION
BY CHRYSLER EXPORT
CORPORATION
1 HENRY BARRE PHIPPS, of Kembla
J Building, Margaret Street, Sydney, in
the State of New South Wales, Vice-
President of the Chrysler Export Cor-
poration, do hereby solemnly declare
and affirm:—
I. That the following percentages of
the retail price paid for Chrysler-built
Australian Sedan Cars remain in Aus-
tralia :
Plymouth . . . . 75.98%
De Soto . . . . 74.52%
Dodge 6 . . . . 74.34%
Chrysler 66 .. 72.51%
Chrysler 70 . . 71.34%
2. The above proportions are dis-
tributed between the Commonwealth
Government for duties, Australian
workmen for wages, Australian manu-
facturers of bodies, tyres, batteries,
and other components, and Australian
Merchants distributing our products.
And I make this solemn declaration as
to the matters aforesaid according to
the law in this behalf made and sub-
ject to the punishment by law provided
for any wilfully false statement in any
such declaration.
Sydney this twenty-
seventh day of March,
1930. Before me
(Signed) H. B. Phipps
THESE FURTHER FACTS ARE
CONVINCING!
The Commonwealth Government collects an
amount for duty equal to one-third of the cost of
the unassembled Chassis.
British Insurance and Shipping Companies receive
75 per cent, of the total money paid for ocean
freight and insurance.
Assembling, body-mounting, tuning and testing are
carried* out entirely by Australian workmen.
Australian capital is exclusively invested in the
many firms distributing Chrysler Motors Products
throughout the Commonwealth.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE COMPONENT PARTS MADE
IN AUSTRALIA AND USED IN PLYMOUTH, DODGE,
DE SOTO AND CHRYSLER CARS:—
BODIES
WINDSCREENS
BATTERIES
COWLS
TYRES
MATS
HOODS
BUMPERS
ALL MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Mora than 90% of all Chrysler-built Motor-cars sold
in Australia are equipped with Australian-made bodies
When you buy a Chrysler Motors Product, you
directly assist Australia’s Secondary Industries—
'You help to increase the revenue of the Common-
wealth—You give employment to Australian
workmen—You get a car which has proved by
performance its suitability to Australian roads and
conditions—You get good value for your money.
CHRYSLER MOTORS
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS OF CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCTS
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
