

•-V:
■*i
:: -:>N:
■ ./.
i:
m
m
*
s ■
i*
? :
■jr
m
TOOTH V KB l/AM
AUSTRALIAN BREWED
LAGER, THAT REACHES
THE GREATEST HEIGHTS
Of LAGER PERFECTION"
A IS THE OUTSTANDING
ACHIEVEMENT OP THE
KAMOUX KENT BREWERY
The Bulletin
Ae Rafter tjf/C K fctnidt <U*/~ @m.om,
Vol. 51.—N0. 2636.
Wednesday, August 20, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'T’HE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
* now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The greatest mistake a man can make,
One which always stamps him “a snob,”
Is to let his pride his fate decide,
When starving, and seeking a job.
Take the first offer you get to-day,
That is the manliest, wisest way ;
And when you take cold, relief assure
By taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
SJyl
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
Please send, ivithout obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mn A ddress
5.8.316
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
asd
THE SUPPER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ Good evening
merrie gentlemen !
V-aur sup per awaits
you;
With the lobster,
salad and cheese 1 have
served my Worcester-
shire Sauce. Ah'! it is
indeed a delicious
relish.”
m
a
=M
"i till i l
"SWAN” INK
FOR “SWAN” PENS AND ALL PENS
tx
Lo««"
Last Drop,” 2/- 40z., i/3 2|oz., 9d. 1 Joz., 6d.
400 z., 5/6 300 z., 4/6 200 z., 3/6
BLUE-BLACK, RED, GREEN, VIOLET, BLUE.
Sold Everywhere.
Australian Agents: PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTV., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THERMOS
IL.
4 6.i\s»
BRITISH
‘TH ERMOS’ the
British vacuum flask
keeps hot drinks steam-
ing hot for 24 hours.
And cold drinks ice
cold for 3 days! Ask
for ‘THERMOS’ by
name. The only flask
lined with Stronglas
the strongest lining ever
made. Lengthens the
life of the flask in-
definitely. increases its
efficiency. And saves
you money.
fllfi T. 7.
Take a ‘THERMOS’
jug to the office, a
flask to the works,
a lunch case or flask
on picnics. When-
ever you need a hot
drink or an ice-cold
drink, ‘THERMOS’
will never dis-
appoint you.
m
*-jY.
The Red Page
James Hingston
James Hingston, well-known writer of the
’seventies, and author of “The Australian
Abroad,” was not an Australian.
Born
Within the sound of Bow Bells,
Without the sound of an aitch,
he grew up as sharp as a nail and as eager
to be thrusting. Fired by the success of
his brother E.P. (editor of Artemus -Ward’s
books of lacetise), Hingston determined that
if there were any money to be made in
journalism, he was the man to make it.
Accordingly, _in 1878, he presented himself
at the “Argus” office; and, like a luggage-
train, the whole building seemed to pass
over him; so it is a wonder 'that anything
of him was left. But he refused to be
Juggemauted, and came back always
with the same results.
At last an article was accepted.
It was about Tramways!
This article brought in a flood of letters
to the office; and, among them, one from
Julian Thomas ( alias “The Vagabond”),
who buffeted Hingston; but not without
Hingston buffeting him again. The editor
was of the opinion that the Lord had
delivered Thomas into Hingston’s hands;
and afterwards the way was opened for
a series of “Travel Talks” which Hingston
had conserved for the occasi'on in a corner
of his sleeve. Hingston worked hard, and
kept himself from intruders. His output
put out his quality; yet he could write on
any subject, not insisting on exactness, so
long as he was sure of a reader’s attention.
His argument amounted to this, “People
don’t want to be instructed and won’t be
bothered about the truth. ‘ What is Truth?’
said Pilate, who knew that not half a dozen
people can ever be persuaded to agree upon
any as tine or false.”
Here is a letter addressed to my father;
a letter so characteristic of Hingston that
we seem to see him, with the expression on
his face of a closed door after it has snapped
off somebody’s finger.
Thursday night.
You are evidently cut out for a critic; if not
for an author.
The idea of your taking notice of a newspaper
article stating on which side of the meridian a
place is. What doe. s it matter whether it is south
or north of the Equinox, so long as it is somewheret
Goldsmith put into the first edition of his History
a battle between Richard the Third and Monte-
zuma.... and it read well and amused those who
read it ; which is, after all, the principal part of
the business. Ignorance is bliss in more ways than
one. The world has gone on for centuries believing
that “All who enter here leave Hope behind” is
written over the Gates of Hell. Why disturb such
belief by disclosing the fact that the real inscrip-
tion is “lei on parte FraneaUs”.’ One does as well
as another.
If I state that a rani’s horn takes root in the
soil of one of the Seychelles Islands, and grows
into a pretty shrub, the public are pleased; and, if
you don’t know it is so, what does it matter?
The world believes that a hair of a horse’s tail
will (soaked in a water-trough) turn into an eel.
I am stating that one of the Seychelles group is
founded on the back of a kraken, and not on coral
growth.... and I suppose you don’t know that much!
[Alt the same, McCrae well knew; and he showed
me afterwards inhere Hingston had prigged it from,
out of “Cyrus’s Garden, or The Quincunx,’’ by Sir
Thomas Browne. ]
The thing is to write what ain’t in Guide Books,
and never would be in Guide Books. -That’s the stuff
the public appreciates, and remembers. The cutting
of steaks from living Abyssinian oxen, for instance;
that bosh made Bruce.
No answer will be read.
Hingston cracks a whip through all his
letters. “Don’t come near me I know
my own business best.” But I’m afraid
McCrae was sometimes a bit of a rogue
elephant; and purposely baited Hingston
for the pleasure of seeing him wince.
In Hingston’s room at “The George” on
the St. Ivilda-road, my father would remark,
“You are making a wrong statement when
you say that the double-cocoanut comes
from Praslin alone.”
“Damn the double-cocoanut!” Hingston
would answer. “This precision stuff is going
to ruin you! Why don’t you write nonsense
the same as I do?” Then, after a
pause, “Your offer to look for blunders in
my last contribution has got me beat. It
would mean doin’ away with two-thirds of
the article perhaps the ’ole thing! The
mistakes are the staple of it!”
Having said this much, Hingston would
begin to boil; and at last, unable to re-
strain himself any longer, exclaim, “I tell
you what, McCrae; I’d like to see you
correcting the manuscript of ‘The Senti-
mental Journey’! The most darling book
of travel ever written.”
Thereupon my father would get up out
of his chair, looking sadly towards Hing-
ston, until he had brought the door between
the enemy and himself... .when his face
would become wreathed in smiles, and he’d
trot away home.
Once McCrae met him at Shillinglaw’s;
and, thinking to make hay while the sun
shone, told Hingston that in his last
Saturday’s article he had confounded the
Musa Paradisticaux with the common
Chinese or cavendish banana, Hingston
made a noise like a knife skidding along
the side of a tin plate. “You fill me with
dismay, and I tremble!” he exclaimed.
“My goodness me! If I ’adn’t ’ad two
woodblocks cut and given to the ‘Argus’
printer last week I’d cancel the article off
’and! I shiver all over at the idea of you
reactin' it; because you must know five
million times moxe about bananas than I
ever 'ave in the ’ole of me life!”
Then Shillinglaw chipped in, “All the
same, you is ere wrong' about St. Gothard
in the ‘Australasian.’ ”
“That’s different,” protested Hingstpn.
“I didn’t mean it to be right! Damn it!
The main thing is to ’ave your stuff, read-
able. Nothin’ else matters a row of pins.”
He lost everything he had in the financial
catastrophe of the ’eighties, but that he
took philosophically:—
The good lies in this residuum; that one was wise
to take two - holidays when the chance was given.
That the opportunity having existed, it was taken
advantage of ; that youth, and means, were exploited
before they were swept away.
The remembrances remain to the good.
In the picture-gallery of Memory, scenes which
are ineffaceable can be recalled; and a' store of‘
beautiful things are thus put by which the world’s
worst doings cannot obliterate.
And so he goes out; an unexpected figure
of dignity. ■■ -.• • j
HUOH McCRAE.
Censorship by Ghost
The other night I with a thousand
or two other Australians, a rare experience.
I heard some of these thousand or two cry
“Author, author!” at the end of an Aus-
tralian play. When she appeared from the
wings, shy and charming as" an Australian
playwright ought to be, there was just the
sort of applause that a shy and charming
playwright ought to get. She bowed, and
then, with perfectly adjusted diffidence and
certainty, she said her say. , It amounted
to this: “If there are present to-night any
descendants of the Macarthur who lived in
the day of Governor Bligh, I sincerely hope
they will not take offence because, follow-
ing the dictates of my Art, I have made
Macarthur out to be a rogue.”
Now, that was very thoughtful of Miss
Egerton Jones; but it seems to me there
was more in it than a playwright’s concern
for the probable feelings of some possible
persons. I believe, in fact, that Miss Jones
delivered her post-curtain apology because,
like everyone else who takes up a pen in
Australia and ventures upon creative effort,
she was under the influence of ghost censor-
ship. I know I find myself asking, after
having read any striking or unusual book,
“Could this have been written in Australia?”
and the answer is mostly “No!” A recent
book of this kind that may serve as an
example, and is worth mentioning anyway
is Hetty Green; A Woman Who Lovec
Money, by Boy den Sparkes and Samue
Taylor Moore (Heinemann). There is
nothing outre or likely to bring the blush
of shame to the cheek of our maidenly
Savonarolas of the Civil Service about this
book: it is simply the rather scurrilous
biography of the American woman, the
Witch of Wall-street, who died in 1916
worth between 13 and 20 million pounds.
As depicted, she is the greediest, hungriest,
stingiest, most avaricious, miserable, scrap-
ing, grasping miserly old hag that I have
ever met in print. When she was worth
millions she let her son’s injured leg get
into a disgusting and dangerous condition
simply because, though she loved him, she
could not bring herself to spend. She
eventually schemed to have him taken by
a doctor and treated as a charity patient.
The book, crammed with that sort of thing,
is “strong,” even as scurrilous biographies
go. It oould not have been written in
Australia—and not only because Australia’s
cash-and-carry and all-merino snobocracy
is, ipso facto, immune from sincere
biographers. There is something .more
deadening to expression than any snob
influence that would save any such pretty
character from the public gaze—the thing
which I have called ghost censorship; i.e..
psychological environment.
A Miss Jones feels only the weight of a
minor part of this influence—the purely
personal. She is strong enough to write
her play in spite of it, but it remains on
her conscience afterwards. It would be
that personal part, too, that would exert
the greatest power in preventing the birth
of any such book as Hetty Green. But
this personal side really is only a minor
part of the deadening influence which forces
our creative artists unconsciously into a
state of mind in which they simply dare
not express themselves. The result of that
influence can be seen on all sides, but
most patently in the fact that, with only
one or two exceptions, no one is writing
anything in Australia that could not have
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—the bulwark of our reputation for honest trading.
NS
Ends Saturday, 23rd August!
V
r
£5/12/6 Suits
Tailored to
Measure
s
You have just time to order a suit at the Sale Price,
and you will have the advantage of the generous Sale
reductions. For instance, our famous £5/12/6 Suits
are now offered at 84/-. Materials includes Worsteds,
Tweeds and Serges in plain and fancy designs, and
every fabric is all wool
Price £5/12/6
Sale Price, the suit to measure 84/-
£5/19/6 to £6/15/- Suits, 105/-
The suitings offered at this remarkably low Sale
Price include Tweeds, Fancy Worsteds, Serges, Her-
ringbones, etc.
Prices £5/19/6, £6/15/-
Sale Price, the suit to measure . 105/-
£7/17/6 Superior Suits, £6/19/6
We will make you a suit to measure of a super-grade
Suiting for £6/19/6. The materials offered include
all-wool Tweeds, Flannels, Homespuns, Saxonies, etc.
Price . ; £7/17/6
Sale Price, the suit to measure £6/19/6
Place your order, and send a deposit immediately, in
order to secure the advantage of the Sale Prices.
Patterns and self-measurement form will be sent
promptly on request.
4/11 Striped Harvard
Working Shirts Now
4e>
All the Working Shirts quoted here are made in our own work-
rooms and are excellently finished, with collar and pocket attached.
Striped Harvard Work Shirts with yoke shoulders. Double sewn.
Price 4/11
Sale Price, each 4/6
5/3 Double-back Work Shirts, 4/9
Striped Harvard Shirts, with six-inch double back. They are also
double sewn.
Prices 5/3 5/9
Sale Prices, each 4/9 5/3
6/6 Double-back Work Shirts, 5/11
Strongly made striped Harvard Work Shirts, 9in. double back.
Double-sewn. Price 6/6
Sale Price, each 5/11
5/9 Black Working Shirts, 3/9
Many men prefer a Black Shirt for working hours, and Anthony
Horderns’ provide Black Shirts of excellent serviceability at a very
low price. Prices 5/9 6/6 8/6
Sale Prices, each 3/9 5/11 7/9
5/11 Grey Twist Shirts, 5/6
These Working Shirts are of Grey Twist Harvard, a very strong
material. They will give exceptional service. Price 5/11
Sale Price, each 5/6
ds
ds
ds
(All Men’s Wear Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carriage on all these goods.)
Our Tool and Hardware Sections, Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Open daily at 8.30 a.m. All other
departments open at 8.55 a.m. as usual.
Anthony Horderns'
’Phone : M2JfiX
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


FROM DARWIN DOWN TO HOBART
FROM PERTH TO PORT JACKSON
A
a
mmm
■
r:
-
:
■■m
r< 11 k
y^-H
sfppifip
SWIBm
’
m
»:
.
spg|g|s
mm®
I
■
.
•r*
r“
/
.... '
' .
' ' JTVC'VoAo^-.Tiv^c-r/-:
1
.
■
if
HOHO
U>
V' '\'' \V n \\ v *V' '\'
"\\"\'A\Vv\'',\'W\'\\'
Wk
>vv*
IAI every point of the compass
CONATION'S
FAVOUHITE
CALL
within the tropic belt
where record Camel teams make
subject fit for argument, you’ll find it so.
Far down South, in spacious hotel
lounge where figures from the Stock
Exchange give rise to talk, the same
thing shows.
East or West—it matters not—at
any point within this Commonwealth
of ours, where men unite at end of
day for the refreshing glass, you’ll
find an overwhelming call for Old
Court Whisky.
Banker—boundary rider—cook, city
men or desert folk—all types, all
creeds —find common preference in
the unvarying quality, the flavour,
the maturity of Old Court Whisky.
Old Court Whisky has won a place
in the habits of the Nation. It has
come to be accepted as Australia's
Whisky the World’s purest and
finest spirit
a
AND
mwi
cjke World* ftyivesV
THE NATIONS FAVOUHITE


“As Lean as a
Vegetarian’s Cat”
I 'HAT’S what he said he was. He lives away back of
Gundagai. He wanted a suit. He had so much faith
in us that when he said he was as lean as a vegetarian’s cat,
he really thought he was giving us his measurements. When
he was adipose, we made him clothes. He is now lean, and
we gave him a perfect fit
by mail. We can do the
same for YOU. That’s
ś
£7171- and £B/8/-
Suits to Measure
Wm
MURDOCH Suits will suit all
sizes and tastes. You’ll look
smart in a Pure Wool Worsted
Suit to your measure. Colors
are Blues, Browns, Fawns, Navys,
Greys, etc.
There are also some Indigo Dye
Serges, too. Faultlessly tailored
to your measure.
D.B. Style, 5/- extra.
Send for Patterns right away—
no obligation whatever.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
Kindly address all letters to Desk R.
•1
m
H r
7
park iCEORCtSLSYDN E,y
"STILL RISING IN PUBLIC ESTIMATION
been written at least 30 years ago. Our
creative artists work in shackles. It is
fixed in their sub-conscious that there is
firmljr established a petticoated officialdom
by whom the public is pleased to be told
what is good for it; what it may do, what
it may have, what it may hear and see:
They see the imposing ranks of well-paid
film censors, and the slipshod, disgraceful
and yet all-powerful governmental apology
for a system which allegedly does the job of
censor of literature. The deeds, misdeeds
and plain stupidities of these are unim-
portant in themselves. It is the accumula-
tive effect of them that is killing the im-
pulse to create and express. Those who,
declining to see that Australian creative
workers are hampered in this way, cry out
that all that we want is time, are right to
this extent, that we have so allowed ourselves
to be browbeaten, so passively and cloddishly
accepted the cowering down, until our
minds and spirits are those of children who
won’t be let, that it will take us a jolly
long time to force ourselves above it. How
complete is our subjection to this ghost
censorship .is indicated by the fact that any
writer will tell you opposing it is futile.
Writers simply consult it—subconsciously,
of course—and then proceed to write some
heap of ineffable dulness that To-morrow
will throw at the cat.
CECIL MANN.
“The Meeting Pool’s” Sequel
Hailed on its appearance last Christmas
season as classic in children’? books, “The
Meeting Pool,” by The Bulletin’s MeL
bourne critic, M. G. Skipper, is now a regular
M. G. SKIPPER.
feature of
British broad-
casting pro-
grammes. On
the latest
advice from
overseas i t
was entertain-
in g Bristol
kids. Also, it
wag being
translated into
Finnish! This
Christmas its
sequel, “The
White Man’s
I Garden/’- is
to be pub-
lished. “The
Garden” i s
another col-
lection of
folklore
culled from the Kadayan tribe of Borneo
and imbedded in a continuation of the story
of the rubber planter’s island of “The
Meeting Pool.” The story, however, is con-
tinued with a striking difference—the White
Man goes off to the war, and during his
absence the jungle returns and overruns his
plantation, and it is the plants, not the
animals, that are the leading characters.
The People Next Door
Cricketer Bradman, who is young enough
to have known better, has written a book,
or, rather, is in the process of writing it,
or having it written—another best-seller
autobiography will pour itself upon the
world somewhere about Christmas time,
when the final figures about Test matches
and photographs of the author when he
used to play with a kerosene-tin wicket
have been added.
The fact is not surprising, although it
certainly is a departure for a man to write
a ■ story about his career at its beginning,
when he has only met himself and the book-
bagman who arranged the business, instead
of at the end when anecdotes about the
personalities he has met may give his out-
pouring of soul a touch of interest and
excuse. Nowadays autobiographies are
mostly written by people who didn’t
oughto; but there is a great hunger for
this kind of pseudo literature. At least two
British publishing houses keep “ghosts”
constantly producing books purporting to be
the personal reminiscences of all kinds of
people who have, in some way struck promi-
nence; and the business side of those houses
eagerly sustain the pursuit, for new subjects.
There is the market. When the alleged per-
sonally written story of the life of the
British jockey Steve Donoghue was issued,
one Sydney bookseller gave an initial order
for 15,000 copies, and they sold like hot
cakes.
It is not so strange. Curiosity about
the people next door has always been a
human characteristic. The newspapers
sensed it long ago and cater for it in abun-
dant personalia, and more and more the
publishing houses are following their lead.
The books produced are mainly journalese,
but there is this consolation—the ones many
of the supposed writers would be capable of
producing would be considerably worse.
Some day a literary ghost will write an
account of his life. It should be worth
reading!
HAROLD MERCER.
The Banned “All Quiet”
Though N. S. Wales Chief Secretary
Chaffey is valiantly protecting the citizens
of his State from the pernicious influence
of “All Quiet on the Western Front” (all
those, that is, who hadn’t read it before a
magistrate was shocked), the rest of the
world, with one curious exception, con-
tinues to be corrupted. Italy is the excep-
tion. (Australia, of course, does not pro-
hibit it—only N.S.W. in its wisdom.) Italy’s
reason is, presumably, that Mussolini pre-
fers that war should seem to his country-
men to be a beautiful and glorious adven-
ture.
In Germany in 15 months, a million
copies have been sold, and the publishers
claim that this is a world’s record for any
book. In translation, the figures are: France
440,000, U.S.A. 325,000, England 310,000,
Czecho-Slovakia 81,500, Spain 75,000, Nor-
way and Denmark 70,000, Holland 70,000,
Sweden 67,000, Japan 50,000, Lettland
23,000, Finland 22,000, Hungary 21,000,
Poland 20,000, Yiddish edition 6700, Bul-
garia 5500, Roumania 6000, Greece 3000,
Esperanto edition 2400, Russia 2000. The
sales of editions in various dialects, from
Slovakian to Catalonian and Cape Dutch,
have not yet been totalled, but these, too,
are said to be surprising.
Couldn’t Mr. Chaffey do something about
it? Couldn’t we send out a missionary
expedition to save the few in these countries
who are still undefiled?
I. L.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit, though
not necessarily with the Red Page’s endorse-
ment: —
General Literature. —Linicoln, by Emil Lud-
wig; Adventure, by J. E. B. Seely; Theatre
Street, by Tamara Karsavina; A Gallery of
Women, by Theodore Dreiser; The Roaring
Forties, by Capt. D. J. Munro; Christopher
Columbus, by J. Wasserman; Life of Lord
Melbourne, by B. Newman; Lord Carnock,
by Harold Nicholson; Twelve Against the
Gods, by Wm. Bolitho; Everyman at War,
Edited by 0. B. Purdom; A Rolling Stone,
by Bertram R. Bunny.
Novels for Popular Reading. —'Susan Out-
side, by Sheila Macdonald; The Mammon of
Righteousness, by P. C. Wren; , Secret
Places, by Joan Sutherland; The Blue
Beyond, by Wilfred C. Busse; Raymond the
Dangerous, by L. S- Bethell; The Noose, by
Philip Macdonald; Keerboskloof, by Norman
Giles; Negrohead, by Roy Bridges; The
Waggon Train, by Charles Wesley-Sanders;
Miss Pell Intervenes, by J. E. Jeffrey ; Who
is Jonathan Scrivener? by Houghton; The
Matheson Formula, by J. S. Fletcher.
A Satchel of Books
,The Shadow Crook, by Aidan de Brvme
(Angus and Robertson), is a Sydney thriller,
and quite as good as the average imported
one. We do not always catch the colloquial
nuances of Darlinghurst when its residents
speak. The Jew Abel Mintos, is always
making cryptic remarks with a pre-war
flavor such as: “Hall-porters and lift atten-
dants are peculiarly susceptible to the lures
of gold/’ But it all adds to 'the excitingly
loony atmosphere of the work, and the plot
is as involved as an argument about the
Sales Tax.
Famous Shipwrecks, by Frank H. Shaw
(Elkin Mathews). First-rate yarns by an
old sailing-ship officer, loving the ships whose
assassination or suicide he describes. The
tragedies of the Titanic and the Lusitania
are told with great dramatic power and
there is little in sea fiction to excel the
picture of Admiral Tryon obstinately stick-
ing to a? plan which involved the destruction
of his own ship, H.M.S. Victoria. -.One of
the most memorable stories is that of the
Dunbar, which attempted to enter Sydney
Harbor via the Gap in 1857. The records
of a score of other shipwrecks make up a
fascinating chronicle.
Pearl Diver (Heinemann) is Victor
Berge’s account of his adventuring oVer and
under the southern seas, as told to Henry
Wysham Lanier, who does the job of a Han-
sard reporter for his acquaintance. Berge, a
Swede, was in Australia for a while, and
his local color, though sometimes forced,
is truer than that of most foreigners,
which helps the credibility of his more
remarkable adventures in the profession he
eventually adopted. The story has a strongly
realistic quality, a matter-of-fact simplicity
that can make a reader follow the chap
Berge hither and yon though that leading
figure has no character to speak of.
Treatise on the Gods, by H. L. Mencken
(Knopf: Roycroft Library, Sydney), reveals
this American iconoclast in slightly louder
voice than usual, though the agnostic nature
of his theme suits his downright manner to
perfection. His finding is that both theology
and poetry are based on the theory that it
is better to believe what is false than to
suffer what is true. Poetry he brings in
merely for illustrative purposes. To sup-
port his idea of theology, lie makes attack
upon mythologies, the Old Testament and
assorted creeds and sects past and present:—
The Greeks, imitated in all things by the Romans,
had little save rubbish to offer them in the theo-
logical department. Greece, for hundreds of years,
had been absorbing gods, as readily as it absorbed
arts, sciences and philosophical ideas. Taking the
sun-god from the Northern barbarians, it called
him Zeus and set him to reign over the whole
ghostly realm; taking the Earth Mother from the
same source, it gave her the head of a horse and a
wig made of snakes, and called her Demeter. Many
of the other gods of the Athenian Greeks were
borrowed in like manner. They got Dionysos from
Thrace, Pan from Arcadia and Asklepios from Thes-
saly.
In like terms he deals it out to theology, with
such items of information about his own
country, by w'ay of support, as: —
It seems to be generally felt that the President of
the United States ought to be a member of some
church or other —safely Protestant, of course—and
that he should attend its public ceremonials more or
less regularly. Dr. Coolidge began going as soon as
he got to the White House, though before that his
devotions had been feeble and scanty. Dr. Hoover,
after years of backsliding, became a passionate
Quaker the moment he was nominated. And so on
back to George Washington, a vestryman.
Some readers will no doubt see scarlet all
the way through. Others, of blunter sensi-
bilities, might wish earnestly for the literary
treat of a reply by Dean Inge, with the
further literary treat of a second reading of
the Treatise to follow.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
D.M.R. : You are not a convincing mur-
derer. .. .M.H.: Tale of an ant has merit, but 3500
words merely smothered it Pons: Too heavily
stocked at present... .Adele R.: Not badly done, but
you don’t make it credible Lewis II.: A Thursday
Island Jew swindled like that! Don’t believe it....
Plain D.: Not a fresh idea in the lot. ... Fairplay:
But why wasn’t it denied when it was published
nearly 50 years ago?... .F.C.8.: Asa general rule
degrees or other alphabetical additions to a name,
unless they are titles of nobility, are omitted in
addressing correspondence. The exceptions occur
when you are addressing someone personally unknown
to you on an academic matter connected with the
profession... .N.T.H.: Price of a newsager.cy business
is based upon the number of papers sold, the
amount of shop trade apart from papers, and the
locality. A reasonable amount to pay for 10,000
papers would be £I3OO, plus stock and fittings at
valuation S.P.: No figures are available showing
number of members of the A.I.F. who had served in
the S’African War W.P.: George Jean Nathan,
730 Fifth-avenue, New York; H. L. Mencken, 1524
Hollina-street, Baltimore, Maryland A.L.K.: Turra-
murra means “high land”; Collaroy, “long swamp
reed” T.W.: In the case of about 95 per cent, of
stamps, the unused specimen is most valuable. Four
per cent, would be valued at the same unused as
used ; the odd one per cent, would be more valuable
used... .A.T.: “The Cold Sou’-west” blew out again.
. ...Parnus: Fails to pin the needed interest to
Ferguson J.H.F.: Try it on the Mayor of Foots-
cray H. 8.: Pity you don’t work a rhyme in now
and then. .. .R.R.A.: Length is the chief objection
to it... .J.L.G.: Samples suggest that you need some
more experience of the earth T.M.: Have read a
lot worse for the age, but you need to mature a
great deal yet D.A.M.: Keep it up—the cricket,
not the verse... .8.J.8.: Afraid it’s become a quibble ;
also stale Kipyard: Kipling’s “If” and Omar
now level in the w.p.b. marathon for hardy annuals.
. ...A.D.: Not the class of story needed... ,C. A.fi.:
“Septimus Simpkins Succeeds” —not here 1.T.:
Has merits and faults; too much detail, too little
action, weak in construction.... J.L.: That snake
didn’t bite... .O.McL.: Merely wind, water and an
insipid youth... .D.J.C.: The art of fiction is to
conceal its fiction—you don’t W.W.: Not badly
told,- but a bit nebulous... .A.C.W.: Too weak to
stand W.C.G.: Story of the parson and the fatal
pillow might interest a Dorcas meeting... .P.V.R.:
Can’t give a run to the satire on currency... .M.P.:
Not quite... .J.C. W.W.: “A Bird of Passage” on
the wing E.C.F.: Merely bluffs the reader....
T.G.8.: A flame jumped out of the furnace and
bit it Burragorang: Verse let it down—not a bad
idea, either Sand Plain: Fossicked over without
any luck S.K.C.: Greatly struck by your approach
to “the Bridge”:—
A glow of pride elates us, as the spans from shore to
shore
Bow archly to each other, drawing nearer than
before;
Like lovers reaching forward, to embrace with arms
outspreading,
And then become united by a happy iron wedding.
Unfortunately, the rest didn’t keep up to that level.
....Sally Horner: Not quite in Jack’s class at
picking ’em 0ut.... Eula: Both fall short.... Boora:
At least it is cheerful.... Page Cord: Close....
H.P.D.: Both imagery and metre waggle a bit....
W.M.B.L.: You expect to be told to “send them to
the ‘Herald.’ ” Not quite, that, but still they’re
not good enough.... Faceplate: Has a stiffness about
it like a cabletram going round a corner... .A.G.M.:
Well done, but immature S.M.H.: “To the South
Pole’’ via basket... .J.R.R.: Study grammar and
composition E.B.: An overdose of Wagner....
P C.: “Keeping Afloat” —no, foundered C.P.K.:
“Down West” dropped below the rim L.G.: Could
be condensed into a par W.Y. J.: All but
K. : Taking no risks with “Bush Fires” W.Y.J. :
Button trick more ingenious than convincing....
L. : Can’t find a place for it F.C.M.: “The
tumult and the shouting died,” and so did “Bobbie.”
J.C.: Hasten to say we “would not like to
use it.”... . M.M.: Doleful pilgrim toiling home....
A.R.: Worn-out theme and poor style B.J.B.:
Don’t care for person with “demoniacal look in
his eyes” F.G.: “The proposal” disposed of....
M. : “Ungentlemanly George” an unwelcome
guest C.A.S.: More incident than story D.McT:,
Pretty good descriptive matter, but this is not the
place for it V.W.: Study hard; then try again.
. ...II.G.: Suitable for young ’uns’ magazine....
A.J.M.: “Victims”—one more... .W.H.B.: Too much
of that infant... .E.D.C.: Good material, but wordy.
. ...G.L.L.: A gloomy recital... .W.C.G.: Failed to
bring down either of your brace of yarns... .W.S.:
Fragmentary... .L.R.: No offer for the equine gold-
mine. .. .J.G.B.: Too short for stories; too long for
pars. Also endings fall flat V.W.: Wait till you
grow up J.E.: A capital yarn if capital letters
could make it so... . W.E.B.: On the balance....
A.G.M.: Dark-horse story done to death... .C.A.B.:
The Bulletin doesn’t propose to rob the Canberra
lessees. On the contrary, it says that the evacuation
must be done decently and in order. But if evacua-
tion isn’t taken in hand promptly, it is liable to be
done indecently and in disorder.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.L.H.: Looks as if the dog had a bath in Indian
ink and shook himself dry over a sheet of Bristol
board... .J.J.: A lamentable lot. ...R.R.: Close-up
of film actors not for this shop... .K.H.: Discussion
about prima donna’s complexion very tame... .C.G.E:.
Joke an old acquaintance ; drawing no good... .L.L.:
You’ve embarked on a long voyage... . B.W.T.:
Remove the corpses... .G.E.T.: Some improvement
in the drawing. .. .H.L.: You have climbed another
rung.... J.W.C.: So far the brush has beaten you.
. .. .A.T.: Well, perhaps it keeps you out of mischief.
. ...R.N.: Suspect your silhouettes shelter a multi-
tude of sins.... V.E.: Not above catalogue level....
F.B.: No use for dialogue between the homing
drunks... .N.A.D.: Do a bit of thinking before
beginning a sketch... .C.T.B.: You ignore the rules
of the game.... J.H.: Some vigor in your work, but
no humor... .S.M.: You’re a clumsy craftsman and
a retailer of tenth-hand jokes... .H.D.: Not in the
market for optical illusions... .S.J.F.: You’re neither
observant nor witty... .A.L.R.: Not a home for
threadbare puns... .H.M.: Unskilled... .L.C.B.:
Better announce your retirement,.. .T.A.G.: Gag and
drawing labored... .F.N.; A slight improvement....
K.B.: No cheque for that.


9
m I
\
in
.
h
'
its
. ■
Hi
1 Hitt ■
• - ;
mm
se
i
&
<\
m
mm
:■
5
:
11
SI
I i
*
H
BB
a
m.
■
wm
H HI
■ i
Hi
'
'
•V'
13
S'-:
wmm
nm wm
m
* *■'« * ' ■*' >
J^/


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2636.
August 20, 1930.
A BIT TO GO ON WITH.
“Very useful rains have fallen over almost the whole of the southern half of the continent, and the already excellent prospects of record wool and wheat harvests have
been still further improved.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211, George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; •Phone BTJ7I.
Victoria: lUr2O Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to an y address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
tl months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies, — Commonwealth, New Zealand,
Papua and Fiji: 60z., Id. United Kingdom: h°z.,
Id.; All Sea Route: 60z., Id. U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part
thereof, Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
HE]) PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
JAMES KINGSTON, by Hugh McCrae . . .. 2
CENSORSHIP BY GHOST, by Cecil Mann .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
WHY NOT PRINT SOME NOTES? .. ..8
AUSTRALIA’S POOR HOUSE-ARCHITECTURE 8
SHOULD WE SPEND OR SAVE? .. ..8
THE POLITICIAN’S BOTCHED JOB . . . . 8
TRUE ECONOMY 9
THE ABANDONMENT OF CANBERRA . . 9
UNPAID RENTS AND EMPTY HOUSES . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with drawings of Senator “Paddy”
Lynch and others) .. .. .. .. 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
SOME COMMUNITY ENTERTAINMENTS
(illustrations by Frith) .. .. .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA . . 17
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE 17
MEGGITT’S 17
MILLAQUIN SUGAR 17
SAMUEL ALLEN AND SONS 17
HOTEL METROPOLE 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
THE IDEAL RAINFALL 22
WESTRALIAN WHEAT CROP 22
VICTORIA’S GREAT SEWAGE FARM .. 22
INCOME-TAX DEDUCTIONS 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. .. ..26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
ROSEHILL RACES 35
V.R.C. RACES 35
TEST CRICKET 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER .♦. .. ..39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
NEW SERIAL—
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover . . . .42, 43, 45
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 46
FORESTRY-BOND PROSPECTS . . . . 46
N.S.W. SHALE INDUSTRY 46
ARE BRITISH COINS GOOD IN AUSTRALIA? 46
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop”) .. .. .. .. 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“MISS MARANOA,” by Steele Rudd .. 49, 50
VERSE—By Dr. Souter, Dulcie Deamer .. 11, 50
ffuTtßixlleiM
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20, 1930.
WHY NOT PRINT SOME NOTES?
1 1-' Smith, Brown and Jones were put on an
otherwise uninhabited island with their
families they would soon be driven to intro-
duce a system of barter. Smith having
■ caught more fish than his family could
consume would exchange some of it for a
few pounds of potatoes of which Brown
had a surplus; and Jones, who was a boot-
maker, would sell Smith a pair of foot
coverings in return for some of the fish
which he had caught and some of the
potatoes which he had got from Brown, in
exchange for fish.
Soon, however, they would discover that
this was a roundabout system and involved
unnecessary handling; and then they would
probably invent a system of notes. Instead
of taking from Brown more potatoes than
he needed, Smith would accept a note rep-
resenting the surplus value of his fish; and
when he bought the boots from Jones he
would hand over the note along with some
fish in payment. The next step would be a
common issue of notes. But this would
require some thought. How many and of
what total value should the issue be? They
might sit down and write out a great
number of notes having a face value of
ss. each. But they would not be worth more
than they could buy. The abundance of
55.-notes might result in mullet being 10s.
each, a pound of potatoes ss. and a pair of
boots £5. If they met and decided to tear
up half the notes, the prices, other con-
ditions being the same, would at once fall
by one-half: that is to say, the little com-
munity in its trading would have to pay
only one note where formerly it paid two.
Originally the currency would have been
inflated; the subsequent proceeding would
be what the economists call deflation.
The Smith, Brown and Jones community
would have learned one important lesson:
that the issue of paper money does not
increase wealth. This little island com-
munity would thus find that it was just as
well off when it had 50 of its currency notes
as when it had a hundred.
The sympathetic Labor man, looking
around and seeing a great number of unem-
ployed, and knowing that you can buy
things with pound-notes, and knowing,
moreover, that bank-notes are very easily
and cheaply printed, is sometimes disposed
to say, “Well, print a million or two and
give them to these unfortunate people in
return for work. If they work for them
they will earn them, won’t they?” It
sounds quite logical. But in the first place
a great deal depends upon the work they
do. If they shifted no end of sand in return
for the money; if, indeed, they built an-
other railway, they would not necessarily
add one penny to the wealth of the country.
But, the sand shifted or the line built, the
notes would remain in circulation. The
Commonwealth Bank could not take them
back and destroy them without pricking
the bubble which the issue had made. So
exactly the same thing would happen as hap-
pened in the Smith, Brown and Jones com-
munity. Pound-notes would be cheap. That is
to say, the community would have to pay
more of them to purchase an article than it
did before the new issue. This cheapness
would not apply only to the new issue. It
would apply to the entire issue. This
would mean that people who had money in,
say, a savings bank would, in plain English,
be robbed of portion of its value: its pur-
chasing power would be reduced. The local
price of all commodities would rise, and
wages would almost inevitably rise to cor-
respond. If they didn’t, the workers would
be merely worse off than they were before
the note issue.
In the Smith, Brown and Jones com-
munity it did not matter a straw whether
a mullet was worth nominally ss. or 10s.,
because all other commodities had the same
standard of value. But ours is not a com-
munity of that sort. It is not self-contained.
It has to buy some goods from abroad and
it has to pay 30 millions a year interest on
its overseas debts, and it can only get the
money by producing goods and selling them
in overseas markets in competition with all
other producers. We might do without most
of the overseas goods at a pinch, but we
are committed to the payment of the inter-
est; so our export goods simply have to be
produced at a price which will command
buyers against all competitors. And that
is why any inflation of the note issue would
be fatal to us. It would increase costs
at a time when reduction of costs is urgently
necessary. It would increase the cost of
living; and, while it would give a certain
amount of temporary employment, it would,
by raising the cost of production, throw
more people out of work than it put into
employment. Instead of helping us out
of our difficulties it would push us deeper
into the bog and make our escape from a
first-class crisis practically impossible. Of
all schemes for the amelioration of our
conditions it is the maddest.
Fortunately it is not at all likely to be
tried, unless the Federal Government falls
completely into the hands of the wild men.
And even then it would not be a simple
process. The note issue is in the hands of
a department of the Commonwealth Bank,
controlled by the directors; and that board
is happily beyond political influence. To
change the policy of the institution would
call for a change in the constitution of the
bank, or a complete severance of the Note
Issue Department from the bank; and
neither could be done without the sanction
of the Senate, even if the House of Rep-
resentatives should be so misguided as to
agree to it. Yet the clamor for an increased
note issue, even though it comes to nothing,
does our credit harm; and we cannot harm
our credit without it costing us something.
We have heavy bills tc meet and we must
borrow to meet them: there is no other way
out. Evety wild utterance by a supposedly
responsible person puts up the price of the
accommodation against us.
THE AUSTRALIAN HOME.
An old melodrama, “The Birth Throes of
Australian Architecture,” was revived at the
Melbourne Town Hall lately, the producers
being the Royal Victorian Institute of
Architects. The exhibition is an annual
event, and the latest one prompts the same
melancholy reflections as heretofore. The
members of the R.V.I.A. seem to be in as
complete a state of disagreement regarding
the climate of their native country as they
are regarding the nature of its inhabitants.
If the outside appearance goes for anything,
out of a typical row of suburban dwellings
might emerge a Spanish hidalgo, a Greek
philosopher or a Moorish tribesman, and
surprise nobody.
Few of the members of the institution on
whom his Majesty has conferred a blessing
appear to realise, even foggily, that the first
aim of architecture is to express function.
In that respect they are 50 years behind
the motor-car designers. Imagine a Gothic
limousine or a Spanish-mission 10-ton truck
or a baby car built on the lines of the
Parthenon and tty to fancy yourself driving
them!
The aim of the architects here assembled
appears to be to provide the house-owner
with a dwelling which will tell the world
the size of his bank account or the size
he would like you to think it is. The
smaller the dwelling, often the more pre-
tentious its front elevation. Scarcely any-
, where will you find the sort of home which
suggests that a couple went into it to enjoy
married bliss in pleasant seclusion and
added a room with the arrival of each
infant; yet I have seen a dwelling of this
casual sort and origin in the Mallee, and
it was truer architecture than many of the
examples in this exhibition.
The architects are obviously engaged in
giving their clients what they want or think
they want. And why not? it may be asked.
The reply is, certainly! But why call the
result architecture? The architects have,
of course, this justification—if a few of
them were true to the principles of their
art and others were not, the few would
have a harder struggle than they have at
present, and they might even be forced out
of business altogether. Thus they have
more excuse for what they do than the
State Savings Bank and other Governmental
home-builders. These Government depart-
ments offer their patrons uglier, more pre-
tentious and unarchitectural designs even
than the private architect, and with the
aid of public money they are engaged in
irreparably defacing the countryside. They
act on the well-known principle that in a
democracy everybody is born with as good
judgment in aesthetic matters as anybody
else. And so it might be if the architects
had not fuddled his brain by making archi-
tecture a question of taste and fashion,
which are perpetually changing, instead of a
question of fundamental laws, which are
good for all time. Left alone, a man will
often build a henhouse which is twice as
beautiful as the dwelling that has been
built for him. Arbitrary standards of taste
having been dragged in, however, the lay-
man has become as incompetent to design
his own house as to paint his own portrait.
The consequences may be gauged by any-
body who indulges in the great national
pastime of the Sunday-aftemoon stroll with
wife and baby. Not one suburban dwelling
in a hundred has any claims whatever to
be a work of art or architecture. The de-
signers have been so fussy and self-conscious
about the front elevations and so natural
and unassuming over the back elevations,
that if all the houses in the country were
magically turned to the rightabout there
would be an improvement in domestic archi-
tecture immediately.
Australia once had a beautiful domestic
architecture with every possibility for end-
less development and adaptation, as may
be seen in Hardy Wilson’s fine book on
“Old Colonial.” In those days the archi-
tects presumably had standards they were
proud of and the courage to stick to them;
and the public looked up to them. Their
descendants, with rare exceptions, having
joined the Potboilers’ Association, the
public shows its contempt for them by
giving their job to ex-plasterers’ laborers
turned building contractors.
M. G. S.
SHOULD WE SPEND OR SAVE?
What should the man who wants to be a
good citizen do in our present circum-
stances? Should he button up his pocket,
sit tight on what "he has and can get hold
of, and so make himself safe against worse
trouble; or should he spend as freely as he
can and trust to that policy to improve
his own position, along with that of the
rest of the community?
This was a very good country once. Up
to 20 years ago most of us didn’t do badly.
In fact, looking back, most of those who
are old enough to remember will probably
decide that the community was as happy
and prosperous then as it was immediately
before the present depression hit us. We
had our bad times, but we also had our
cakes and ale. Now and then we borrowed
a bit too much, it is true, but on the whole,
if we didn’t quite pay our way as a nation,
we at least had pretty fair assets to show
for our borrowings. Then we went gay, and
lived 40 millions a year beyond our means.
As was bound to happen sooner or later,
our creditors presently pulled us up sharply.
But Australia remains what it was.
If it were a goldfield on its last legs
the counsel of prudence would be to save
up before clearing out. But it is nothing
of the sort. It is still a fine field for human
enterprise, capable of supporting in the
comfort of 20 years ago all who are here
and millions besides. Industries that we
once believed to be impossible have been
established: we have our iron and steel
works; we have multiplied our wool and
cotton and knitting mills; we have im-
proved our flocks and done something to-
wards improving our pastures; new cultural
methods and appliances have made wheat-
growing fairly profitable in areas once re-
garded as infertile; within seven years we
not only have shown that rice can be grown,
but have harvested more than enough for
our requirements; we have immensely im-
proved our wines; and, as last week’s Bris-
bane Show proved, we are producing the
highest quality butter and cheese in
northern districts where such industries
were thought to be impossible. Australia
is capable of giving us not merely all that
it was giving us 20 years ago, but something
more.
To repair the damage will certainly call
for sacrifices. And first among those sacri-
fices must be the idea that we can con-
tinue the gay life. We have to tear away
all the frills that we began to put on our
way of living 20 years ago, and to which we
added more frenziedly after the war. But
to proceed on the assumption that the
bottom has fallen out of all things is
absurd.
The extravagances which will have to be
sacrificed are not only of spending. We
have been even more wasteful of time than
of money. Our output of work per man
has fallen away almost unbelievably. The
result has been a colossal increase in cost
of living, which has hit the wages man
hardest. When he slowed down on the job
he thought, as a rule, that he was taking
it out of the boss. As a matter of inescap-
able fact, he was taking it out of his fellow-
workers. It is the go-slow bricklayer, lay-
ing one brick where the tradesman of 30
years ago laid four, who has more than
doubled rents; it is the coalminer with
his darg and his incessant strikes who has
almost doubled every other urban work-
man’s gas bill. Getting back to where we
were 20 years ago is not, then, going to
be an entirely unpleasant process. At any
rate, it will have its compensations. If
we cut out the loafing, on the job and off
it, we shall live cheaper. The general
level of wages and salaries may no doubt
•have to be lowered. That, however, is
largely a matter for the workman himself
to determine. The history of the past 10
years, and the history of the past 12 months
in particular, has shown that he can’t have
it both ways. He can either go slow, like
the average coolie, and get a coolie’s wage;
or he can go hard, like the average Ameri-
can workman, and get an American work-
man’s pay. But he can’t work like a coolie
and get paid like an American artisan.
Since loafing on the job and off it, com-
bined with extravagance in spending, put
us where we are, loafing on the job and off
it, combined with extravagance, cannot
possibly save us. The thing above all
others that Australia must do is work. But
work doesn’t include sand-shifting; that is
merely camouflaged loafing, no matter how
hard the men themselves may toil. The
call now is for men who will find productive
jobs for others. But such men are faced
with two forbidding facts. First, they find
the community tightening its purse-strings.
Manufacturers must get quick custom;
with the banks unable to help them far,
stock cannot be carried for months. So
long as the community continues to hoard
what it has, so long will recovery therefore
be difficult, if not impossible. The other
forbidding fact is the attitude of the worker.
It is true that this is less forbidding than
it was. The worker does realise in large
numbers that the times call for much better
service than has been common during the
past few years; and in large numbers they
are giving it. But they are doing it in
most cases in defiance of the advice of their
leaders, who still have some mad idea that
this depression is all a put-up job.
It is not suggested, of course, that there
should be anything but the most careful and
considered spending. The great object at
the moment is to employ our own labor on
productive things; and whether we should
spend our money ought to be governed
largely, if not wholly, by that consideration.
A recognition of that, coupled with a deter-
mination on the part of the worker to play
his part, will probably do more to bring
back prosperity than anything else of which
the private citizen is capable.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Politician’s Botched Job.
Ti-ie Commonwealth Income-tax people arc
champion losers of High Court cases. They
were recently routed over their refusal to
allow a subscription to the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association to be deducted from income as
a reasonable business outgoing—which it
certainly is, for graziers have to associate
to defend costly arbitration cases and pro-
tect themselves against lawless strikes, such
as the one which has just petered out; other-
wise they would be fought, and probably
beaten, separately. Straightway the depart-
ment had a clause barring the deduction
inserted in the new Income-tax Assessment
Bill.
An Englishwoman with property in Aus-
tralia applied for a rebate of Federal tax
under the arrangement with Britain pro-
viding against double taxation. The tin-
gods refused it on the ground that the appli-
cation had not been forwarded in time;
time being fixed by themselves. The High
Court decided against them, as it nearly
always does when the powers of the tin-
gods are challenged—unfortunately they can
only be challenged by the well-to-do.
“There is nothing about time or discretion
to be found in the section,” Justice Rich
declared. His Honor went on to say, with
perfect truth, that “the Act is a thing of
shreds and patches, and resembles a kind
of statutory Joseph’s coat. From time
to time patches have been made to stop
or mend leaks and holes, and to meet the
decisions of the High Court; frequently
they do not fit or harmonise with the main
garment of the Act.” He suggested that “a
careful codification of the Act by a
man accustomed to legal ideas, and
acquainted with the fundamental concep-
tions upon which taxation of income has
proceeded for a century in Britain, might
at least give the taxpayer relief from cross-
word puzzles and the mere interpretation
of a lawful but disorderly assembly of
words.”
This is one of the matters in which the
politicians have let Australia down. They
have a perverted talent for passing legisla-
tion in quantity—so, 60 or 70 ill-considered
bills in a session—but vital powers entrusted


TWO LOST BABIES.
“London newspapers last week devoted more space to a kidnapped baby than to the Test forecasts.”— Astonished cable.
CHORUS OF PAST TREASURERS: “Where and oh where has our darling baby gone?”
to them they hand over to bureaucrats,
being too ignorant or too indolent for the
proper exercise of these powers themselves,
So-called commissioners not only assess
incomes and collect taxes; they draft the
Acts, and interpret them at their own sweet
will. They virtually make and enforce
laws. So do the barristers placed on Arbitra-
tion Court benches make laws. And so-
called boards are set up to spend the
people’s , money without being accountable
to the people—concerns like the N. S.
Wales Main Roads Board, which proudly
announces that it has got rid of £16,200,000
in five years, and whose grand new speed-
way from Sydney to Newcastle (parts of
it have cost upwards of £28,000 a mile) has
been held up for many Weeks at the
Hawkesbury connection owing to a grotesque
and costly miscalculation of the power of
the river currents.
The politicians have let Australia down
Under their incapable and improvident
direction the country has drifted into its
present mess. It is not right that they
should continue to receive full-time (and
boom-time) saianes for the part-time job
which they have so shamefully botched.
The True Economy
__ y
It is a hard job to be a Freetrade survival,
just as it is to be a last believer in witch-
craft, and the conscientious “S. M. Herald”
finds it so. Its leading article of 13/8/’3O
started in this encouraging strain:—
“Next Monday, at the adjourned meeting
of the Treasurers, will he decided whether
the Governments will face with courage the
financial crisis which is now upon us and
take the only course possible to make Aus-
Simple” 11 7 P
So it is. When a country's exports in an
ordinary year have been *36,000,000 short
of the amount necessity to pay its bills
for foreign purchases, etc., and when it can
no longer borrow the £36,000,000, the simple
way to meet that position is to buy less
and save £36,000,000. Then as there is
also a local scarcity it becomes a case of
reducing local paper expenditure or increas-
ing taxes in paper or doing some of both,
The “Herald” wobbles all over this ques-
tion without making any mention of a re-
duction of foreign purchases—the foreign
purchases that Australia can’t pay for.
Reduction of foreign purchases means a
tariff blockage of avoidable imports, and
the old ancestor-worshipping paper’s trouble
is that its grandmother warned it against
encouraging “hot-house” or “pampered”
Australian industries, which a blockage
might do.
The old paper is also hostile to further
large increases of taxation, which is too
heavy already, so it pins its faith mostly
to “economy.” But the saving of paper
expenditure in Australia won’t pay for pur-
chases abroad. Moreover, if economy is
carried far enough it means turning a mul-
titude of public employees out; and there
is little gain in ceasing to pay Smith for
the work he is doing if the country has to
pay him for sand-shifting instead, or put
him in gaol for stealing food, or bury him
and leave his family unprovided for. The
only way to lay the monstrous apparition
of the retrenched and economised Smith is
to create more self-supporting industries
into which Smiths and their growing sons
may x learn to fit themselves. And the simple
way to do that and to. save many urgent
millions at the same time is to purchase
less stuff abroad.
Great Britain, the home of Freetrade,
begins to awake to this. In the same issue
0 f the “S. M. Herald” it was mentioned
that British Laborites are rapidly assimilat-
ing the Protectionist doctrine, and that the
caS e for Freetrade threatens to go by default
for lack of sincere supporters.
——-
Unpaid Rents and Empty Houses.
*
The more i mpecun i ous section of the
human race, especially in N. S. Wales, is
i arge iy composed of people who can’t pay
the re nt of their humble homes; and
attache d to them is the landlord who can’t
collect any rent from the home with dead-
broke tenantg . Yet the landlord is respon-
gible for the rateg on the home of the d.-b.
tenants, as well as for the interest on the
inevita £ le mor tgage.
A fair number of small land lords got into
the business without any desire that way.
There happened a time when lettable homes
were scarce, and to make them scarcer the
Fair Rents law was set raging to ensure
that the tenant who had got in could stay
in, for lack of another place to go to, at
less than he had agreed to pay, and could
be compelled to pay even that with the
utmost difficulty. Then the building of small
lettable homes practically ceased; but Jere-
mjak took to runn i n g up shacks for sale,
Th t were smaU deposit, and the
balance s P read oTer etemit y at a fair,y
high rate of interest secured by a first and
second mortgage. As etermty dr fted along
™sht happen that the owner-tenant had
to :move so as to be handy to a c g
J°k> an d as he mostly couldnt sell his
humpy and recover the house-famine puce
represented by the deposit and two mort-
gages, he let his investment. At . one perio
three families crowded into a single shac
because shacks were scarce. Now ey
crowd because money to pay for shacks is
scarce. As a result the same individual
be an oppressed working-man tenan
m one suburb and a brutal landloid in
another, and make little m either capaci y.
The loud, and easy remedy is that every-
body who is unable to pay his or her rent
should live rent free until he or she is able
to pay. I'n other words, the owner, or
nominal owner, should stand the loss. It
is certain that the genuine, sufferer should
neither be sold up nor ejected into the
roofless street because of sheer misfortune;
but it is also a misfortune that the landlord
has no easy way of passing on a share of
his loss in the shape of a deduction from his
payments for interest and taxes, especially
taxes. Where the loss is a distressful
matter to him this spreading process would
be specially logical—if anything is really
logical.
Under the British way of doing things the
tenant is the man liable for the rates; and,
as the cost of police, education and poor
relief comes largely out of local taxation,
rents are comparatively low because rates
are high. In rare cases rates are the
higher of the two. So when the tenant stops
payment the owner bears only a share of
the loss, and he needn’t be in such haste
to bailiff the unfortunate occupier.
♦
The Abandonment of Canberra.
The Military College is to definitely remove
to Sydney next January or February, and
the Naval College is shifting to Port
Phillip, so the dispersal of Canberra has
started. It is difficult to reverse the process.
Barring a few brass-hats the Customs people
can’t be moved to the toy inland metropolis,
for they are wanted at the seaports, and the
excise officers have to stay around the
brewei'ies and distilleries and keep an eagle
eye on the liquor. Canberra isn’t a manu-
facturing place, so it neither brews nor dis-
tils, except that it brews disagreements and
distils eloquence. Postal officials have to
be scattered all over the continent and
dependencies selling the stamp and the
postal note, and roping in the deposit; tele-
graph men must be handy to the broken
line; Federal bobbies and schoolteachers
are mainly in North and Central Australia,
and can’t be spared from there; and of the
1621 Federal railway officials no less than
1607 have to obey the call of duty far away
from the Federal Capital territory, else the
Federal train wouldn’t start. Canberra is
neither the centre of a complicated foreign
policy, nor of a dazzling court, nor of a
church, nor of a widespread conspiracy
against civilisation. It has no industrial
prospects worth mentioning. Its “port”
is a small detached dud 140 miles from the
metropolis itself, and it has been practically
abandoned with the removal of the Naval
College. The proposed railways to Yass
(28 miles) on one side and to Jervis Bay
(140 miles) on the other have ceased to be
mentioned. It has become a question of
stopping foolish expenditure, and planning
a decent, unhurried liquidation and removal.
♦
A Court That Still Creaks.
That very creaky and unsatisfactory legal
machine the Commonwealth Arbitration
Act has come back from its latest visit
to the repair shop looking more rickety
and unreliable than ever. The Scullidore
notion was that the Act ought to be made
quite definitely a means of raising wages
and reducing hours, and to that end it was
proposed to replace Judges, whose tenure of
office is not dependent on the course of
party politics, by commissioners who would
have to watch their step if they didn’t
want to earn the sack. No limit was set on
the number of these officials, and there was
to be no appeal from their decisions, save
in certain not veiy clearly defined circum-
stances. The only thing they couldn’t do,
apparently, was to increase hours or reduce
wages. There was to be absolute preference
for unionists and a repeal of penalties that
might be inflicted on unions, their members
or officers for defying awards, including the
penalty of cancellation of award. In short,
the unions were to be invited to regard
the Act as a “heads we win; tails the em-
ployer loses” institution.
The Senate couldn’t swallow such a naive
piece of jerrymandering, and a compromise
has been arrived at under which the com-
missioners are limited to three and given the
same protection in their employment as
Judges. Their awards are made subject to
review by the Court, and the right of appeal
to the High Court on constitutional points
is retained. That practically leaves matters
where they were save that there are now
three tribunals instead of two. _ The abso-
lute right of preference has gone into limbo;
defiance of an award is still the subject of
penalties against unions and their officers;
and about all that has been gained from the
Trades Hall standpoint is that an award
cannot be cancelled no matter how it is
flouted, and that it now takes three Judges
instead of one to alter the basic wage.
Even the magnificent democratic principle
of the open ballot has been diluted by a
provision that the Court can order a secret
one to be held.
It is not anywhere inherent in these alter-
ations that the Court will have any more
power to enforce its authority, or that union
bosses will have any more respect for arbi-
tration tribunals, than has been the case
in the past. The machinery has been made
a little more complicated, and the additional
cogs cannot but make it slower. Possibly
that won’t matter much. Australia’s need
just at present is the invention not of
ways to find out how much wages should
be paid for a job, but of jobs W which
wages can be paid.
,
An Aerial Fantasy.
For the thousandth time, or thereabout,
India has been invaded from the north-
west passes. The happening is of little real
moment, being no more than an incursion
of wild robber clans hungry for loot, with
the usual accompaniments of murder and
rapine. There is one aspect of the affair,
however, which contains a warning for those
in charge of Australian defence. Though 70
aeroplanes whose pilots are experienced
in these frontier disturbances attacked the
tribesmen, the advance was not appreciably
stayed nor the morale of the invaders
affected. In all 6000 bombs were dropped
in the opening attacks, yet casualties were
insignificant, although the airmen faced no
more serious opposition than rifle-fire.
Of late years Labor in Australia has
preached concentration on the air arm at
the expense of all others, one of its chief
arguments being that it is cheaper to equip
and man than a force of infantry or a naval
unit. In view of the aeroplane’s short life
and its fuel consumption and maintenance
costs, it is doubtful whether the disparity
between the expense of the different arms is
anything like as great as many people
imagine. But considerations of cost apart,
the Great War, as well as those minor colli-
sions which followed it, have driven home
the lesson that, though the ’plane is a valu-
able auxiliary, it is worthless as a decisive
factor in warfare.
That any Australian party should go
on pinning its faith to it seems impossible
in view of these Peshawar happenings. Or
would be impossible if it really believed that
there was any necessity for defence at all.


•l* •; •
: ; *ii> ;;
Vi jjln if
N< • | • >| f:: ,«
Si' •IV —-v..-V c*
.• •..^^ir.r.'r — !
t : jj!! t:» s*. *'«s • M l
-—A ;!•;»,. ~3 ’ J: == :: ,;:: * t:;; !
.J....,*t*•*;;**' . y>.v’v
■ V' i i- i
\y. ]•••••
rv
•:: ;•
Av.’.VANW^VVftWyA'v-V.V.
v...
0% mV
t' :. ' * 1 " ; -
Jfl $
iJS
<msssr
jSSS
r%« ir ~
§■; w
Si .j"ssm
■w a..
iSJt 5 ::. :
< V
;:::::
*<sS? Jit
.4^*st>; ....
J
/•%
:: A'
ss. r*s>
~,.\ !
:;
'v.\ ,* " t:
/.*■s/vj:// ..
s :
na-yi* $
i'vV'"
I
—v —iJ V r •'•' ;.V Jv i”' " &.?•-— i
V.WA\%»«WW'«"*"" v ■
Vxxvfc* J
SHELL
MAKES
GOOD CARS
BETTER
ŝ
POLITICAL
POINTS
Prior to his departure for England, where
his presence is alleged to be essential, Prime
Minister Scullin elevated his tail and said
he wasn’t going as an impoverished character
but as the representative of a proud nation
which had always paid and always would pay
its way. It would have been better to take
this cock-a-doodle for granted. People were
quite aware at the moment that Australia
was waiting to hear from a Bank of England
agent here, and from bank managers in
London, whether it would default on its
interest payments or not, and though Parlia-
ment is nominally prorogued it is liable to
be called together by telegram at the shortest
notice should the patient become worse. A
less flustered man would have been content
to- look calm instead of shouting on the
roofs that, despite all appearances, he was
calm.
The Westralian “Primary Producer” has
taken a vote of its readers on secession.
There were 1125 for, 8 against and 10 in-
formal ; but this is no real test of public
opinion—you could get a lot of people to
vote that the earth is flat, and only a few
would bother to deny it. Still, Westralian
opinion is needlessly irritated by bureau-
cratic stupidity. In a recent case the sufferer
was a Perth manufacturer (returned sol-
dier, too), who tried to get a Defence Depart-
ment contract for the supply of jam. Twelve
varieties were specified, and he tendered for
WHIRROO!
“I would say to the Commonwealth: ‘We refuse
to pay your taxes and you can send your army to
collect them.’ "—Senator Paddy Lynch (W.A,).
12 ; also his price was 9d. a dozen less than
the accepted figure, and “your jams,” he
was informed by letter, “are highly regarded
by the board.” He lost the contract because
he did not quote for strawberry and black-
berry jam, these berries being scarce in
Westralia • so camp bread will be smeared
with jam brought 2000 miles or more.
In a neat reference to Sir Otto Niemeyer’s
descent on Melbourne, Harold Cohen said
lie had been studying the Book of Nehemiah
and found it appropriate. For Nehemiah
was a bailiff, and had assumed control of the
treasury. True, and he also “rebuked the
usurers and caused them to make a covenant
of restitution” ; and he said “We after our
ability have redeemed our brethren.”
Labor Premier Hill has set Scullin an
example by making a 15 per cent, cut in Minis-
terial salaries, in effect handing back £1172
out of £7750. Not bad for the Government
of “a mendicant State,” as the soreheaded
“Age” calls it. As a matter of fact, S.
Aus. has taxed and retrenched more heroic-
ally and has experienced worse luck than
any other State, though it looks like having
a first-class season at last.
The Disarmament Conference in London
permitted the Japanese to increase their navy,
and they propose to spend £50,000,000 on
four 8000-ton cruisers, an aeroplane-carrier
and 15 additional flying squadrons. Yet so
dissatisfied was the Navy faction with what
its delegates brought back from London that
at the welcome home a man offered the
leader a dagger wrapped up in silk, as a
gentle hint to go away and disembowel him-
self.
“S. M. Herald” mentioned the other day,
with mingled astonishment and pride, that
N. S. Wales had in five years spent “over
£30,000.000” on roads. In later issues it
reported that the railways were reduced to
such straits, notwithstanding recent re-
trenchment, that the Government would
have to ask the Courts to reduce wages, and
that the position of the tramways was rela-
tively as bad. It is rough on the railway-
men and trammies, and they only deceive
themselves when they say “Lang will put
things right,” as so many of them are
doing. Lang is as much to blame as Bavin
for the crazy expenditure on speedways and
the resulting losses on rail- and tramways;
and he was an even more reckless borrower.
The short and simple annals
of a busted family, showing
that paper surpluses are no
good for paying gold debts.
The home, the furniture and
the motor-car were all on the
instalment plan, and the mort-
gages were owing to firms
which were largely on the
instalment plan themselves
and liable to bo hustled by
bigger firms. When the work
scarcity set in the instalments
fell behind, and at the same
time the value of the security
fell. The case may be sum-
marised : Liabilities, £800;
assets, £1200; paper surplus,
£4OO. Net result, one home-
less family camped in the
scrub, or possibly an old man
found drowned with a motor-
car tied round his neck.
All sorts, of schemes are
being put forward in Victoria
to square the State ledger
without extra taxation. The -
Irvine-Shiels expedient, smit-
ing the public and railways
services, finds a good deal of
favor, but since 1902 the vot-
ing influence of the Govern-
ment employee has increased.
His wife, daughter, sister,
mother and aunt have now a say
at the ballot-box, and no party dreads
“vengeance” votes more than Labor. Raids
are likely to be made on motor fees (which
now go to road maintenance), the liquor
licensing fund, the railway development
fund, and any other stocking that can be
found. Bv doubling the betting-ticket tax
an extra £50,000 might be raked in to pick
up what the tote misses, and another farth-
ing in the £ on unimproved land values
would yield £250,000.
The last noise heard before the big Par-
liamentary door slammed at Canberra was the
voice of Lazzarini and co. demanding that
the Government should print £20,000,000
more paper money for the relief of distress.
There are loads of paper in the banks
already, waiting to relieve distress, if people
would only come along with solvent cheques
and take the stuff away, and i keep it away;
but the banks can’t give it away unless they
put an item in the balance-sheet: “Lost,
stolen, strayed or embezzled, £20,000,000.”
And as soon as that appeared there would be
a rush to have the banks declared insolvent.
Presumably the idea of inflationists like
Lazzarini and Yates is that the Common-
wealth should pay local salaries and other
bills with their new paper money, while
it lasted. But it is not certain that it would
last long. Very likely either the recipients
would put the paper in the banks or their
trades-people would, and the banks would
plant the surplus in the Commonwealth Bank,
which would use bad words and put in it the
cellar. Whila there is no more work being
Three Notes for Nothing.
done, and no more wages being earned, the
only way to get twenty million more £1 notes
into early circulation is to put trusted
officials at vantage points throughout the
Commonwealth with instructions to give
three notes to everybody who passed. Then
they would drift back to the banks just the
same, and the unemployed would presently
be waiting at the same vantage points to see
if the official philanthropist was coming along
to make another distribution.
Sydney lived for two or three years under
the rule of Commissioners and no decent in-
habitant wept over the loss of aldermanic
rows and scandals. But Bavin was worried
in his conscience about the sin of depriving
residents (including lodgers) of their votes,
and Buttenshaw’s uselessness is chiefly con-
fined to promising railways; so Sydney has
recovered its Council. But it now requires
MR. SCULLIN ON HIS TRAVELS.
SCULLIN (to his party): “Come on, hop in—he can
stand a lot more yet!”
nine aldermen out of 15 to make a quorum
instead of nine out of 26 as before, the
Bavinshaws having been too casual to alter
one figure while altering the other. There
are nine non-Labor aldermen, but unless they
are all present, which they rarely are, the
six Laborites walk out and business stops.
A quorum was got somehow the other day,
and the stupid Civic Reform crowd grabbed
the opportunity to give the general manager
of the electricity department a rise of £lOOO
p.a. (to £3000), and the rest of the staff a
one-twelfth reduction. Bavin should have
let the Commissioners carry on.
An attempt is being made in Brisbane to
wind up the so-called Amateur Turf Club,
This is the concern which contracted to buy
the Albion Park course from Wren and
Nathan, of Melbourne, at a price—£4so,ooo
—that will keep it paying instalments till
the crack of doom. There is no reason why
the Government should recognise a very ques-
tionable transaction which clashes with its
honest efforts to put Queensland on a paying
basis. It has every right to say that Albion
Park shall no longer be exempted from the
operation of the anti-gambling laws.
When the House of Reps, was sitting,
and bounty-hunters were as common in the
neighborhood as crows on the golf links, it
was asserted that a concern whose affairs
were being discussed did not want a bounty.
“You surprise me,” said Paterson, tbe
Cocky from Gipnsland. “Perhaps we could
induce it to take one.” The Tas. fruit-
growers, at least, are not to be “induced.”
A motion debated at their annual confer-
ence was that the Commonwealth be asked
to pay a shilling on every bushel of apples
and pears exported for three years. It was
opposed on the honorable ground that boun-
ties are wrong in principle and unjust to
the taxpayer, and defeated by 33 to 23.
One of Victoria’s bad bargains was a ship-
load of Pullman sleeping-cars brought from
the U.S.A. at a cost of £12,635 each, not
counting duty. They are hulking objects
which weigh 75 tons apiece and cost 7d. per
mile for haulage, while Australian-made cars
of the same size cost £9792, weigh 45 tons,
and cost 4d. a mile for haulage. The im-
ported vehicles are being put aside as too
expensive to run. The interest is still
running.
Canberra has been chill and lonesome
since Parliament closed. Members are
expected to be away resting for six months,
so the chill is to be durable. Comparatively
few workmen will be about, for there isn’t
much money to spend, and there is little
animation (even suspended animation)
about new building jobs when so many places
are empty. The shifting of Government
departments to the new quarters is post-
poned, and that won’t mitigate the general
sluggishness.
The tenor of a report representing the
views of a hundred British Chambers of
Commerce is that Britain badly needs Pro-
tection, otherwise called “safeguarding of
industries.” There is a certain amount of
“safeguarding” now, and the effect has been
good, but the MacDonald Cabinet has-started
to whittle it down. The Chambers of Com-
merce want it whittled up instead. Their
opinion is that the policy of commercial
non-resistance is played out, and that, though
the meek are to inherit the earth, they are
an unconscionably long time about it.
The Hogan Government’s latest measure of
economy is to stop the payment of a subsidy
of £3OO p.a. to Hugh Pye, the State cereal-
ist. Some authorities consider that Pye’s
services to Australia in the breeding of
new wheats are comparable with the great
Farrer’s. Replying to a deputation, Pol-
lard, Assistant Minister for Agriculture,
pointed out that Pye was entitled to £2 a
week under the superannuation scheme and
implied that he ought to be satisfied with
that.
The Prime Minister took part in a his-
toric scene before he left Canberra for parts
abroad; he addressed heads of departments
—who, like the politicians, are all getting
boom-time salaries —and “stressed the need
for the strictest economy.” With pride he
announced that the amount paid for over-
time had been reduced one-tliird in the
March quarter. The overtime bill for 1928-
29 reached £95,500; holiday pay, travelling
time, Sunday duties, and travelling, district,
higher-duties and away-from-home allow-
ances ran away with another £479,000, the
total of salaries, wages and concessions being
£10,160,000. The harmony of the proceed-
ings was not disturbed by the presence of
soldiers. They have been “rationed” so
relentlessly that even warrant officers on the
£260 p.a. mark are losing eight weeks’ pay
this year. It is what the soldiers get for
not belonging to a union, or for recruiting
an army from the wreck of the compulsory
system, and thus marring the vision of an
undefended Australia which thrills the
Lewises and Longs.
Australian politicians begin to realise
rather late in the day that there has been
callous neglect to provide sand-shifting and
railway-construction works for unemployed
women. It seems to have been taken for
granted that every female has a male of some
sort to depend on; in fact, many of them
have dependants themselves. The workless
girl can’t draw attention to her case by
demonstrating in public, after the fashion
sometimes employed by the male of her
species, without earning the reputation of
being unsexed —at least, if she demonstrates
sufficiently to attract attention and secure
the offer of sand-shifting employment that
reputation is liable to come her way. The
hair of a Vic. Minister lately rose up on
his scalp in horror when told that workless
girls were putting their honor in pawn for
food, but the matter is such a tragic com-
monplace that he might as well have left his
foliage in its usual attitude.
WHAT SCARED HIM.
“The whale that entered Sydney Harbor and passed
under the bridge got out to sea again.”
“No, I didn’t mind the harpoonists or the
reporters or even the photographers.
It was a fellow who looked like a tax-
ation commissioner that put the wind
up ME!”
Westralia is deep in the secession move-
ment, with S. Australia and Tasmania hang-
ing round on the brink, and the men who
engineer the show cut a rather grotesque
figure. “Federal extravagance” is quoted
unanimously as the prime cause of the dis-
satisfaction, but they were a reasonably
happy family till money ran short and
Federal economy set in. Among Federal pay-
ments for 1928-29 appeared:—
Sinking fund on State debts . . .. £931,726
Special grants to States .. .. .. 520,000
interest on State loans' .. .. 4,089,643
Road grant to States .. .. .. 2,000,000
Loss on Westralian railway .. .. 90,524
£7,631,893
In addition the Commonwealth helped to find
£26,436,799 of loan money for State poli-
ticians, who howled for more. Many of these
politicians are now prepared to swear on
a stack of Bibles that they wouldn’t be in
difficulties now but for Federal extrava-
gance !


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Gladys”: The honor of being the first
whale to swim under Sydney Harbor Bridge
belongs to Humpy Cetacea, a well-known
member of the younger set. In sportive mood
the flapper, who had just outdistanced a
school of killers, came in from the sea, made
straight for the bow of steel, swam beneath
it, spouted ecstatically, waved her tail, and
turned eastward again. A reception com-
mittee of harpoonists, reporters and photo-
graphers, in a dozen fast launches, then
entertained the visitor, showing her the
various beauty spots of the harbor, and, at
her own earnest request, accompanying her
to Woolloomooloo. An enjoyable game of
hide-and-seek was then played, and work on
the bridge ceased while Humpy, in the
exuberance of her spirits, broke the deck-
house of the harpoonists’ launch with her tail
and then butted the “S. M. Herald” launch
with her nose. As she afterwards explained,
she thought something of that kind would
be expected. Interviewed late at night while
enjoying supper off Ben Buckler, Humpy
said the Sydney folk were the most hos-
pitable in the world and the best sportsmen
she had met in 60 years. She had greatly
admired the harbor a,nd thought the bridge
was simply lovely. _
“The Ancient”: Last week’s visit of a
whale to Port Jackson recalls a tragedy of
140 years ago, when a midshipman of lI.MS.
Sirius and two marines, who were proceeding
in a boat from Watson’s Bay to Sydney Cove,
lost their lives. Mr, Midshipman Daniel
Southwell, who was in charge of the look-out
station at South Head, thus records the
incident: “It was Friday, the 23rd [of July,
1790], when, having breakfasted here, the
four got into a little flat-bottom’d boat. They
had not got above one 3rd of the way,
being a short mile below P’t Bradley, when
NOW YOU KNOW WHAT THE EINSTEIN THEORY IS.
“I see Einstein has been quite rushed in America. His theory is evidently getting
more popular.”
“Oh, yes! The curved figure is quite in again.”
a great whale app’d (for the first time
since we have been here) in the harbor,
spouting and dashing about in their usual
manner. This monstrous creature; either
thro’ being mischievous or playful, no
sooner espied the boat than he pursued and
never left her till he had overturn’d and sent
her to the bottom. At first, in rising, he
half fill’d the boat, and with their hands
against the whale did they bear the boat off.
In vain they thro’ out their hats, the bags
for our provis’s, and the fish they had
caught in hopes to satisfy him or turn his
attention. It seem’d bent on their destruc-
tion, and with one sudden and tremendous
gumboil consigned three of their number to
their hapless fate and an endless eternity.”
* * * *
“Ziff” : There would be less depression in
the taxi-cab business if trips like this one
were more plentiful. With a new speed-
ometer affixed, a car recently left Melbourne
for a trip to Darwin and back, being hired
on the basis of 9d. per mile, all costs
for petrol over 2s. per gallon to be borne
by the hirer. In parts of North Aus. the
price is . over ss. per gallon.
“C.Q.”: A Caulfield (Vic.) dairyman has
a deep feeling of resentment against Charles
Two, of more or less blessed memory. For
19 years he has been hawking milk on
Sundays. The other day he was fined five
bob and cautioned against taking further
liberties with the statute passed in the reign
of the Merry Monarch, which declares that
“noe person or persons whatsoever shall pub-
licity cry, shew forth, or expose to sale
any wares, merchandizes, fruits, herbs, goods
or chattells whatsoever upon the Lord’s
Day.” In view of the roadside trading on
the Sabbath on every motor highway, the
“whatsoever” is interesting.
“Avon” : Years ago, in my reporting days,
a certain strike was settled, or supposed
to be settled. The news came to me at mid-
night, and it was my job to get the details
of settlement. I had only an hour to do it
in—we went to press at one—-and it was
a case of getting busy on the telephone. I
tried all the employers and union officers
on the ’phone, but without luck. They were
all out save one chap, who knew nothing.
“But,” he said, if you ring up such-and-
such a number you’ll probably catch Bill
Spluffum at home. He knows all about it.”
I rang the number. A female voice replied
tartly to my request to be allowed to speak
to Mr, Spluffum: “No, you can’t speak to
him.” “It’s very important,” I pleaded.
“Even if he’s in bed, please wake him up.
I must speak to him.” “Oh, must you?”
came the unexpected retort. “Well, why
don’t you ring up liis wife? E[e’s gone back
to her.”
* * *
“Nakhoda”: Australian aviators continue
to put fresh countries on the map. Flores,
where Cunningham made a forced landing, is
mostly a terra incognita even to 1 Dutchmen.
Yet it is the largest island between Java
and Timor, being 200 miles long by 35 miles
wide, and its lofty volcanic peaks provide a
fine spectacle for passing steamers. Beeswax,
sandalwood and a favored brand of small but
sturdy horses are the chief exports. Malay
fishing villages are strung along the coast-
line, the wild interior being sparsely popu-
lated by Negrittos. Prof. Macmillan Brown,
of Maoriland, noted the prevalence of Cau-
casian features among the natives, but
scouted the local theory which places the
credit or blame on the shoulders of the early
Portuguese colonists. Kissar, a small island
in the chain, however, has a genuinely Euro-
pean community, which has preserved its
characteristics for three centuries. It has
been proved to be descended from eight
Dutch soldiers, dropped there in 1665 and
forgotten.
* sH * *
“Taparora”: Even the famous voyages of
Columbus and Vasco da Gama hardly
excel some of the feats of the Polynesian and
Asiatic mariners, sailing without compass
or instrument, and keeping a course by sun,
wind and stars. There was a reminder of
this the other day in the rescue of a crew
of Malays from Bird Island, an isolated dot
in the Banda Sea not far from the steamer
route between Singapore and Eastern Aus-
tralia, by the mail liner Taiping. Bird Island
is a nesting-place for sea-fowl, and when the
Taiping stood close in to give the passengers
an eyeful, signals of distress were seen. Then
a native craft carrying 35 living skeletons
pushed off; it was explained that they had
left Amboyna in the Celebes, some hundred
miles n.-e., en route for the Arus, and had
been blown out of their course. For a month
they had subsisted on birds’ eggs, and there
was no water except from occasional showers.
Fed and provisioned, the stout-hearted dere-
licts refused further aid, and set sail again
for their destination-
“Gabanintha”: There were occasional
complications in the administration of jus-
tice on the Westralian goldfields in the roar-
ing ’nineties owing to the intimate commer-
cial relations of the various parties. At
Peak Hill one of the justices was the local
butcher, and before him was haled one morn-
ing a neighboring squatter, charged with
having been drunk and disorderly and
assaulting a police constable, and generally
HE’D HAD EXPERIENCE, TOO.
“I’m not a good waiter! Why, sir, I’ve waited at the Regal Hotel, the Majestic Hotel,
the Nightmare Cabaret and”
“And I’ve waited here a damn long time, but that doesn’t make me a good waiter.”
having had a high old time the night before.
“Have you anything to say?” demanded the
Bench, after the delinquencies of the pas-
toralist, who had .some influential family
connections, had been set forth at length.
“Only this,” hiccoughed the delinquent; “if
you give me ‘time’ I’ll never sell you another
bullock.” The J.P. decided that a fine would
meet the case.
* * * *
“Captain Nemo”: Arthur Munn, who was
hanged for wife murder in the Shivery Isles
recently, put up a record for length of resi-
dence in the condemned cell. His tenancy
lasted 63 days.
Hs * * #
“Pan” : A branch of ethnological research
that isn’t followed up as closely as it ought
to be relates to that large race called Small
Boy. When perfectly healthy, members of
this race are prone to be immoral,
hedonistic, and horrible liars.
Their legal code is strict and lias
in it some elements of nobility, but
it is hopeless for grown-ups to
attempt to decipher all its inner
mysteries. These people attach a
great deal of importance to cour-
age. In the tribe of which I was
once a member the initiation rites
included the crossing of a creek
that was quite four feet deep in
the middle, and you weren’t allow-
ed to swim, even if you knew how.
You had to walk, stumbling over
shingle, tangling your toes in the
dark green river-weed; shutting
your eyes and mouth desperately
as you plunged under in the middle,
and emerging, gasping and splut-
tering but immensely proud and
happy, to be congratulated by your
peers. The idea of telling any
adult person about it I’m
quite sure never occurred
to any one of us. It was our
business, not theii’s; a
part of our own code —
on r own freemasonry,
which in spots, I think,
w r e prized because it had
such delectably criminal
tinges. We all thorough-
ly believed, for instance,
that no fewer than three
boys had been drowned
while undergoing the
ordeal by water, and that their parents
never knew how their offspring got spiffli-
cated. I wonder how much my nippers know
that they don’t tell me!
* * * *
“Deco”: It isn’t only at week-end resorts
that the cold eye of suspicion is liable to
fall on seeming honeymooners. lam purser
on a coastal steamer; a few minutes before
the gangway was pulled up on our last
trip, one of the second-class passengers
approached me to inquire about his chances
of getting a refund. Producing a ticket
made out for Mr. and Mrs. Blank, he came
straight to the point. “Say, mate, how do
I get on about this? My shield’s scaled me!”
* * * *
“X.S.”: One of Melbourne’s soup kitchens
is situated in a short lane branching off
from the leading red-light district. Sometimes
1000 unemployed turn up at a time to receive
their daily ration and the capacity of the
lane is about 250. Consequently it has been
packed tight from end to end with hungry
humanity. This condition resulted in such
grave restraint of trade that the lady resi-
dents appealed to the police to have the
abuse removed, pointing out that their busi-
ness was being as hard hit by the depression
as any other. The request seems to have
been regarded as reasonable; anyhow, the
clients of the soup kitchen have since been
cleared off the pavement and confined to the
roadway.
“Morehead”: There is one lending library
in Sydney that is probably unique in Aus-
tralia. It is run as a side-line by a y<3ung
law clerk, and consists of books that either
have been barred by the Customs or would
be if any bookseller sought to import them.
The enterprising proprietor imports his stock
in single copies, which ensures their escaping
censorship. It costs two guineas to obtain
the benefits of membership, and five shillings
is charged upon each book borrowed. The
books are delivered and collected by the
librarian in person, and the demand is so
brisk for Joyce, Lawrence, Harris and other
authors of the same type that the business
is a highly profitable one. The promoter has
nothing but approval for the present mode
of literary censorship.
$ * * *
“P.X.”: N. S. Wales police have been
making a raid on insurance offices suspected
of not being what they ought to be: and
two lots of directors and other officials are
waiting their trial on charges of conspiracy
to line their own pockets. Only one of the
accused escaped committal, and he hap-
pened to be a lawyer. He had signed two
or three documents as director of a co. of
which, he declares, he didn’t know he was
a director; also the minutes of a directors’
meeting at which certain things were done
allege that he was present—he and one
other man. It all looked just about as good
or as bad for him as for most of the others,
and all he could offer by way of explanation
was that he really couldn’t remember either
signing the documents or attending the
meeting. And then one of those queer
things happened which make some people
believe in Providence. The man who was
supposed to have been at the directors’
meeting with the lawyer-director travelled
a good deal; and it occurred to somebody
to see whether his name was on the sleeper
lists about the date when this meeting which
the lawyer couldn’t remember was alleged
to have been held. The chance of discover-
ing anything was about one in a million;
actually there was proof that at the date
the meeting was supposed to have been held
in Sydney the other man was in Adelaide.
After that probably the S.M. began to think
that the failure of the lawyer-director to
remember certain things mightn’t be so queer
as it had seemed. Anyway, the Court dis-
charged him.
* * * *
“A.M.R.” ; When our transport took us into
the harbor of Alexandria, Trooper William
Jones, of the Auckland Mounted Rifles, was
posted as sentry at the top of the gangway,
with explicit orders to allow no one on
board. Bill was a conscientious chap, full
of that spirit of thoroughness which pos-
sessed so many of us in the early days of
the war, and when the pilot’s launch
presently fuzzed alongside, and that dignitary
briskly mounted the gangway, he found him-
self within inches of a fixed bayonet. “No
one allowed on board,” Bill told him
peremptorily. “But, man, I’m the pilot,”
said the other, opening his eyes wide. “I
don’t care a damn if you’re Pontius Pilate,”
the sentry told him_ determinedly, “you can’t
come aboai’d here.” In the end the exas-
perated official had to retreat to his launch
and cruise forward, from which position he
hailed the bridge and explained matters in
forcible language. Bill didn’t receive any
decoration for his literal obedience to orders,
but we never ceased to feel grateful to him.
THE PESSIMIST AND THE OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said the weary Old Man to the weary Old
Tree:
“I wonder if you’re ’alf as weary as me?
I’ve lived in this country for seventy year,
An’ all of me time ’as been spent around ’ere.
I’ve ploughed and I’ve ’arrered, I’ve reaped
an’ I’ve sown,
An’ I ain’t got a couple o’ pound o’ me own!
“Gawd spare me days !”
Said the weary Old Man,
“Can you see the use of it?
Damned if I can !”
Said the weary Old Tree to the weary Old
Man:
“Your seventy years isn’t much of a span.
I’ve grown on this spot for a hundred and
ten,
While five generations of boys became men;
I’ve brought forth my leaves, as the seasons
came round,
And blossomed, and seeded, and nourished the
ground.
“God spare my days!”
Said the sturdy Old Tree,
“The good Lord that made us
Has some use for me/”
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


“Gammon”: Queer how closely fact often
follows fiction. Last week a Sydney lady
sued a hairdresser for damages on the
ground that he had supplied her with a hair
dye which had turned her tresses green, and
a sympathetic jury awarded her £5O damages.
In Samuel Warren’s “Ten Thousand a
Year,” a book highly esteemed by our grand-
fathers, Tittlebat Titmouse had precisely the
same experience for an initial outlay of
Bs. 6d. The difference was that Titmouse
sought to remedy the mischief with a second
preparation and awoke to find himself with
a purple thatch and white whiskers. The
Sydney lady took no more chances ; she got
rid of the offending color by having her hair
bobbed.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: Minister for Labor Farrar, of
NtS.W., has been striking some odd “vic-
tims of the depression.” Among the harassed
recipients of relief were the son of a man
worth £30.000, the wife of a prosperous
bookie, and a husband and wife who owned
between them three cottages and two blocks
of land, and had £5OO in the savings bank.
“Do you think we could live on ten pounds a week if we married?”
“Yes, Jack, I think we might stand it for a week—but no longer.”
But thg breed flourishes equally when cash
is plentiful. At the beginning of the war
I used to be pestered by a large youth who
made drawings of people at 2s. 6d. a time. He
would whip out a small block, do an unrecog-
nisable profile, and hold out a fat, unblem-
ished hand for his fee, representing that it
was his only means of evading starvation.
One day I suggested enlistment as a way out
of his troubles. He gave me a stern lec-
ture, explaining that he was an Englishman,
and as such would allow no man to show him
where the path of duty lay. From then
onwards he cut me dead whenever we met.
When I got back from the war he bailed
me up again (having forgotten me), and
had produced his pad and begun the old
patter before he remembered. He was a
mendicant for the love of it. I learned after-
wards that he drew a remittance income of
£3OO a year.
$ * * *
“Hamer”: Binks set out for his home at
Lindfield with a bottle of whisky in his
pocket and the best part of another bottle
inside him, and woke up at Hornsby. Having
hastily caught the wrong train back he woke
again to find himself at the Sydney Central.
By the time he reached Milson’s Point again
he had augmented his internal whisky supply
sufficiently to convince him of the foolishness
of taking any further risks. Scorning the
train, he mounted the escalators and made
his way to a taxi pulled up at the side of
the street. With a lurch he opened the door,
and sinking into the seat instructed the
taxi-man to “Drive like Hell to Blank-road,
Lindfield.” Then he slept again, more
soundly than ever. When next he woke the
morning sun was streaming into the taxi—
and it was still at Milson’s Point. What
he had overlooked was that there had been
no driver in charge- when he took possession.
* * * *
“Chev.”: Last year the 650,000 motor
vehicles in Australia ran, on an average of
5000 miles per vehicle, over 3,250,000,000
miles. The number of deaths from automobile
accidents was less than 900, which gives an
average of 3,600,000 miles run per fatality.
This puts the lethal aspect of modern trans
port in a new light. Probably the accident
rate is no higher than in the days of the
spider buggy, the horse that is liable to
bolt and the precarious stage-coach.
# * * *
“S.T.S.”: The disappearance of a bridge,
though sounding like a catastrophe, is Adel-
aide’s best news of the moment. After the
1914 drought, a Millbrook reservoir Avas
made in the hills, drowning out the village of
that name, and a new winding road was
made just above high-water mark. Last
year a bridge on the old drowned road
showed its railings above water. Then it
emerged entirely, and latterly it has stood
in a vast dry paddock. Its re-drowning is
the measure of the lake’s gain from August
rains; but there is a long way to go before
adequate supply for next summer’s needs is
held.
*s* "I* ❖ -!*
“O. McKay M.” : The gent, who removes
the dead marines from my suburban resi-
dence refuses to let the depression get him
down. Parking an empty dozen in his bag
the other day he handed me 7d. instead of
the customary bob. I remonstrated, but he
explained that, the price had dropped, and
he made only 3d. a dozen on returns now.
“Got me ma-in-law to keep, too,” he said
cheerfully, “an’ me sister an’ ’er Ben, an’
their three kids, an’ me own missus an’ our
five. Takes a lotta singin’ out ‘Bottle-o’
ter feed that mob.” I asked why he didn’t
put some of his dependants on the job to
help. “I ’ave,” said the breadwinner for
13, “but there ain’t no profit in them kids
of ’Liza’s —they charges me tuppence a
dozen fer their trouble. Name of Isaacson,
me sister’s ’usband,” added the bottle-o.
* * $ *
“Jacques”: Touching names that were
held to have an enemy flavor during the war.
In 1914 I was working for a Newcastle
coal co., and was allotted the unpleasant
task of sending circulars to various suspect
shareholders to verify their nationality, as
. the Government commandeered all the shares
belonging to an enemy subject. One of these
circulars went to German Yerge, and was
promptly returned by him with the crisp
footnote “I am no German.” His subse-
quent bequest to returned soldiers left no
doubt on that point.
* :|: * *
“Peine Forte”: There is a vague idea that
the “third degree,” the police inquisition of
an accused for hours on end for the purpose
of extracting admissions from him, is essen-
tially an American process which is not .
authorised by English law, and is uncompro-
misingly condemned by British Judges. Yet
in the latest murder case at Perth it is men-
tioned that “from before midnight until 7
a.m. the prisoner [a lad of 19] was con-
stantly interrogated by detectives, before
being arrested and charged with wilful
murder.” Evidently it matters little what
Judges say; it is the criminal law itself
which will have to be amended. Duress is
duress, whether 'it is the body or the mind
that is placed upon the rack.
* * * :S
“F.S.”: A Melbourne furniture-dealer re-
cently went bankrupt, and his creditors
waltzed in and seized three shopsful of wash-
stands and escritoires. Then they began to
make discoveries. People began to roll up
who claimed to be the owners of the articles.
One sideboard had no less than three claim-
ants, and there were 17 excited persons to
assert ownership to seven bedroom suites.
It turned out that the bankrupt had been
in the habit of selling his goods on the lay-
by system, and his memory was faulty, appa-
rently, because he frequently sold the same
article to several different persons. As they
were not allowed to remove their purchases
until the instalments had been completed
there were no immediate complications,
although there was evidence that he had
sold the same bookcase no less than three
times in one evening.
❖ 5jS %
“Strandite”: With the destruction by fire
of the Leicester-square Turkish baths last
week London loses its oldest business of the
sort, and the cheapest of the many West
End baths. For some queer reason London-
ers, who are far from being so attached to
their tubs as tradition makes out, have
IF ONLY SHE COULD GET IT!
H IS MOTHER: “Any sensible woman would be satisfied with what Charles tells me he
gives you ."
H IS WIFE : “Yes, so would I, dear.”
always .supported more than their quota
of Turkish baths. Including those in clubs
like the Bath and R.A.C. there are over
a dozen between .Charing Cross and Pad-
dington. Also excellent Turkish baths are
to be found in s.-e. London and even in
the East End. The one just destroyed
was frequented chiefly by actors and jockeys.
sfc
“Chevroford”: The worst motor thug in
Victorian history is still at large somewhere
in the, Cabbage State. After hitting another
motor-car he made off at high speed, pur-
sued by a driver who had witnessed the acci-
dent. The pursuer’s petrol gave out, buc
not before he had seen the speedster run
over a woman. From the description the
police identified him with a motorist who
ran into two men a month previously, kill-
ing one and seriously injuring the other.
Us * * *
“S.T.S.”: A promising little liar has been
unmasked in Adelaide. He had an entirely
new one, about being son of a Boer farmer
in S’Africa, having come to Australia to
try hig luck, and wanting to get back home
as a stowaway. But the Reformatory re-
ported that he was a former inmate of
entirely local upbringing.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil” : Further to “Annie Laurie” and
“Annan Water” (B. 30/7/’3O), there is an-
other “correction”’ which appears to have
been missed. Ahndra’ , Mcßurrns tells me
that the ballad had originally a chorus, the
music: of which consisted of the first two
phrases of the air; the words were
And the band played “Annie Laurie ”
And “Coinin’ Through the Rye” ;
When it changed to “Annie Rooney”
I laid me down to die!
Whether it was Lady Nairn who deleted
this part in re-setting the song, possibly on
account of its being regarded as a-Sassenach
interpolation, my informant did not mention.
But I have heard it used at smoke socials
in the good days before early closing.
* $ $ $
“Oxmead”: I grow very tired of reading
about “bandits” ; every miscreant who goes
in for robbery under arms nowadays, or
indeed any sort of robbery in the open, is
liable to be dubbed a bandit by the daily
press. Thus we have motor-bandits, train-
bandits, ’bus-bandits, and I suppose the bag-
snatcher will be elevated to the dignity of a
bag-bandit next. Why on earth should we
borrow a word from the Italian of which the
primary meaning is “outlaw” and apply
it to people who stick up other people in
the streets? Webster defines bandits as
“lawless bands infesting mountainous dis-
tricts in Sicily, Italy, Spain, Greece and
Turkey.” Our old-style bushranger may
have been a bandit of sorts, especially when
there was a price upon his head, but it is a
ridiculous designation to fasten on the foot-
pad of the suburban side-street.
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: French Henri, who had charge
of the hulk at Thursday Island when I
lived there, was the sole survivor of a party
of convicts who escaped from New Cale-
donia in an open boat. After suffering great
privations they eventually reached the coast
of New Guinea. Upon crawling ashore they
were surrounded by natives, who gave them
water. That night they made a great feast
at which the dusky maidens of the tribe
danced round the fires with cocoanuts swing-
ing from their hips. The refugees were sur-
prised at this kindness, as they knew the
reputation of these savages, but they ate and
were happy. When the moon went down,
the fattest of them was taken away into the
bush, and next night the chiefs daughter
danced with a skull dangling at her hip.
One after another they went, until only
Henri remained, “I being spirituelle —nothing
of me then but brain,” he explained. “Me.
I make eyes to the daughter of the chief,
and I show her how to make the so pretty
necklace of seeds and the shell. By-and-bye
we marry.” For ten years he lived amongst
them; then the Dutch Government at
Merauki heard of it, and insisted upon rescu-
ing him. His own country pardoned him—his
having been a political offence- —and desiring
not to return to France to disgrace his
family he went to Thursday Island, and
was given charge of a coal hulk. “And
here am I now but a cockroach!” he said
to me sadly.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: These are black times for those
who deal with the necessitous. In Sydney
the other day, because a landlord evicted
his non-paying tenant, sympathetic neigh-
bors wrecked the premises. In Melbourne
a man lent money on some furniture, and,
as he could collect neither interest nor prin-
cipal, tried to seize the goods. A crowd of
unemployed intervened. The police were
sent for, and it was then discovered that the
furniture didn’t belong to the debtor but
to his daughter. A Leeton (N.S.W.) credi-
tor met with an even more disconcerting
experience when he had the farm of a
debtor put up for auction, and found after it
had been knocked down to himself for £l,
that it was knee-deep in mortgages. The
catch in these methods of evading financial
obligations is that the capitalist is bound to
get discouraged in time. The position of
those who have defeated him may then
resemble the plight of the 13,000 weavers
who are starving in Bombay owing to the
success of Gandhi’s civil disobedience cam-
paign. It is a horrible thought that members
of the Unemployed Union may yet be pre-
vented from going pony-racing because there
are no financiers left with sufficient confi-
dence to lend them the necessary cash.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Fritz’s figures for his sub-
marine losses during the war agree with
British estimates. The memorial unveiled at
Kiel in June is dedicated “to the 5182 heroes
and 199 U'-boats that did not return during
the World War, 1914-18.” Our Admiralty
had definite knowledge of 178 U-boats sunk
by enemy action, 14 disabled and sunk by the
Germans themselves and 7 interned in
neutral ports hopelessly crippled. Thus
Germany, which had about 300 submarines
engaged in active operations, lost two-thirds
of them. As an offset the Allies lost
17,716,982 tons of shipping, of which nearly
half was British.
* * * *
“Nikko”: Everyone in our street knew
that Mrs. Binks was filling in the blank-
caused by her husband’s absence on a busi-
ness trip with a mild flirtation with the
good-looking commercial traveller who
usually called on Wednesday afternoons.
So when one Wednesday Binks returned
before his time and seated himself with the
morning paper on the front porch, and
shortly after the third party was observed
turning in at the gate, the neighborhood
awaited the denouement with pleasant anti-
cipation, for Binks has earned the reputa
tion of a jealous husband. But they
reckoned without the ready resource of Mrs.
Binks. Leaning over the porch rail she
called in a loud voice, “Nothing to-day, thank
you.” The visitor paused irresolutely. “It’s
no use your coming any further,” continued
the lady, “and it’s no good your calling
again until things brighten up a bit.” By
this time the traveller-friend had sensed the
proximity of danger, otherwise Binks, and
with a respectful touch to his hat he turned
back into the broad highway.
LOOKING BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There I was when first you knew me; this
is where I am to-day.
Granted that I haven’t travelled very far
upon my way.
That I’ve wasted time in tramping on the
tracks that intertwist
(And upon those pleasant by-ways there is
little I have missed).
Will I bo the loser by it? Will it matter
at the last
That I haven’t on my journey travelled
either far or fast?
High my hope was when I started, but ere
long I came to know
There were no short cuts to take me to the
place where I would go.
But I found a maze of footpaths sheltered
from the burning sun,
And along the happy valleys all my tramping
has been done.
But although the gdal is distant and the
track is hard to find,
I’ve got something worth the having when
I cast a look behind.
From the place where first you saw me to
the place that’s mine to-day,
By the rule which custom sanctions there
is but a little way.
But the record of my progress does not spoil
my deep content,
For it cannot be computed by a yardstick
measurement.
And my few misgivings vanish, though the
goal be faint and far,
As I gaze along the pathways where the
golden memories are.
When your purpose somehow slackens and
it hardly seems worth while;
When you feel you’ll be no nearer though
you tramp another mile;
When the hopelessness of all things gets you
fairly by the throat;
When the doubting little devils gather round
to grin and gloat—
Then a man can find some comfort, and per-
haps some pleasure too,
Though the future be forbidding,, when he
takes a backward view.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


THE DIGGER AND THE DOUGHBOY.
“Returned soldiers made some strong remarks at their State congress about American war films. Said Mr. Butler (Grenfell): ‘We don’t wish to detract from the work of the Americans, but we do not think that it is a fair thing that our children
should see Yankee soldiers in scores of American war stories, while they see nothing of their own soldiers.’ ”
AUSTRALIA: “Don’t you think my Digger deserves a part, Mister?”
UNCLE SAMUELSTEIN (director of the newest talkie): “Well, bo, he won’t get no part in any American film. If you want him to have a part —why, you got to make a few films of your own.


■
'
'
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asflociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and' no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) in the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH. General Manasrer.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Sydney Stubbs, the new Speaker of the
Westralian Assembly, was Mayor of Perth
some 28 years ago; he has sat for a country
constituency these many years past. He is
the eighth occupant' of the chair since the
State obtained the full rights of self-govern-
ment in 1890. His predecessors were James
Lee Steere, Charles Harper, M. H. Jacoby,
Timothy Quinlan (all dead), Michael Troy,
“Mulga” Taylor and Thomas Walker. Lee
Steere (1890-1903) had the longest run of
any; he died in harness.
The Speck’s new Solicitor-General is
Philip Lewis Griffiths, who steps into the
vacancy created by the death of L. E. Cham-
bers over the head of Crown Solicitor Banks-
Smith and half a dozen others who seemed
to have better chances. Griffiths started
earning a crust as a “Mercury” reporter
early in the century before he turned to
law. Attorney-General Baker, formerly the
junior member of the Hobart legal firm of
Griffiths, Crisp and Baker, probably had
most to do with the selection of his old
partner for the position. The new Sol.-Gen.
is a Daylesford (Vic.) State School pro-
duct, winner of scholarships galore and an
LL.M. and M.A. (Melb.).
P. A. HOGE, once again president of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange.
General Smith-Dorrien, who was killed in
a motor accident last week, saved the British
army from annihilation in August, 1914 (it
was the stand of his 2nd Army Corps at Le
Cateau that barred Von Kluck from Paris),
and lost his nerve in doing it. He had
fought bravely and well all over the Empire,
but he couldn’t stand seeing men slaughtered
on the World War scale. So, though he had
made no mistakes, he was the first general to
be “stellenbosched.” He did well on the
East African front, which was relatively
all quiet, and ended his military career as
Governor of Gibraltar.
John Walker, a former Moderator-General
of the Kirk in Australia, has been made a
D.D. Glasgow Uni. thinks this means
Doctor of Divinity; the McCommonwealth
will know that it’s short for Devil for
Dunning. Long ago the Rt. Rev. John
proved himself a wonderful fund-collector,
and that has been the biggest part of his
job for a dozen years or more. When the
sensible proposal to have a “union church”
at Canberra was turned down and the Kirk
decided to build a “cathedral” of its very
own at the Capital That Is Going to be
Scrapped, John Walker was put in charge,
and so far has raked up about £70,000
towards it.
A valuable citizen was George M. Roberts,
just dead in Perth. He was born at Clare
(S.A.), learned his job at the School of
Mines in Ballarat (Vic.), and became chief
analyst for B. H. Proprietary. He was one
of the first into Westralian gold, on the
Murchison, at the Lake View and Great
Boulder, and ultimately became general man-
ager of Associated Northern Blocks. As
side-lines he had an interest in wool-growing,
and represented the goldfields on the Senate
of Perth University.
Australia doesn’t realise the quality
of the board which rules the Common-
ROBERT GIBSON.
wealth Bank,
although a good
part of it has had
a suspicion lately
that in Robert
Gibson the bank
has a chairman of
exceptional ability.
His wide know-
ledge of finance, his
clear head, his
tremendous indus-
try and his extra-
ordinary memory
had impressed his
colleagues from
the outset, and on
the retirement of
John Garvan there
was no question
about his succes-
sor. Formerly in
the hardware trade
in Melbourne, he
had experience of
both merchandis-
ing and manufac-
ture, and for a
good many years
past he has been
chairman of
Robert Harper and
Co. His term of
office as a director
of the bank is
about to expire;
but it ought to go
without saying
that it will be
renewed.
Martin Hannah, w T ho fixed up the Aus-
tralian timber exhibit displayed at Parlia-
ment House, Melb., last week, is an old-
time Labor stalwart who never had much
luck in politics. Thirty-seven years ago he
led deputations of unemployed to Premier
Patterson. Vic. Assembly first made his
acquaintance in 1904, when he was elected as
one of the two members for the railway
service under Irvine’s separate representa-
tion scheme. Then Collingwood took him to
its heart, but by standing for the constitu-
ency and being returned when not officially
selected by Labor he offended the heads in
1920, and a year later Tunnecliffe, the
present Chief Sec., beat him for the seat.
Timber is his hobby.
P. V. O’Brien, who has just retired from
the position of engineer of goldfields and
agricultural water supply in Westralia, is a
Maorilander who joined the Government
service at Coolgardie 36 years ago. Those
were strenuous days for surveyors and
engineers on the goldfields, with roads to be
cleared in all directions and an ever-increas-
ing demand for water supplies and telegraph
lines. He made such a name for efficiency
that, after the completion of the Mundaring
water scheme —John Forrest’s so-called
“river through the desert” —he was trans-
ferred to the Mines Department and appoin-
ted engineer for mines water supply. Later
he was given supervision of the whole 360
miles of pipe-line and pumping stations, from
which' the agricultural areas were now being
served as well as the goldfields, and found
corrosion problems to grapple with and hun-
dreds of miles of branch lines to be laid.
Born in Auckland 65 years ago, he is a
brother of Mrs. William Macleod, one-time
The Bulletin’s “Akenehi.”
The survivor of Australia’s longest matri-
monial partnership, Emma Jacobs, died at
Geelong the other day, aged 100; her hus-
band, Morris Jacobs, was 102 when he passed
out two years ago, and the pair had then
been married nearly 80 years. Morris was
several times Mayor of Geelong.
Maoriland’s greatest oratorio singer, John
Prouse, passed over recently at 75. Native
born, he went into the timber trade and was
a merchant in that line to the time of his
death, but he possessed a glorious baritone
voice, and no performance of “Elijah,” “The
Messiah” or “The Creation” in the Shivery
Isles for the last 50 years has been complete
without him. He studied under Sir Charles
Santley in London for a while, and Santley
made him chief soloist at an Albert Hall
performance of “Elijah,” Prouse was an
accomplished concert artist, too. He toured
with Kubelik, Backhaus and Dolores, and
on one ocasion sang in Melbourne with Melba.
Scenic artist Syd Clint, who has just
died in Sydney at 37, was the youngest
son of Alfred Clint, one of the best known
of Australia’s stage painters. Sydney
picked up his knowledge of the game from
his father, and was also a Julian Ashton
pupil. He exhibited for years with the
Society of Artists and did a good deal of
black and white for The Bulletin.
Senator “Pompey” Elliott, who was pre-
sented by Lord Beaverbrook • with an
electioneering motor-van equipped with
microphones, amplifiers, loud-speakers and
a gramophone, is one of Melbourne’s
leading patrons of the arts. He has
a large collection of paintings by Aus-,
tralian artists, and he is one of the
trio who made the cheap symphony concerts
at the Town Hall possible by guaranteeing
the discrepancy, if any, between expenses
and box-office receipts. The concerts were
such a success that the Senator and his two
colleagues were sued and fined for over-
crowding the building.
A. H. Bennett, dead suddenly in Adelaide,
was one of that city’s most popular and
“clubbable” medical men. Born in Moonta
62 years ago, and trained in Scotland, he
was just a country doctor till he went, to
Vienna for ear-and-throat training and settled
in Adelaide as a specialist. Flowers, dogs
and horses were liis hobbies, and he bred
fine specimens of all of them.
A successful woolgrower and an indefati-
gable worker for the man on the land was
Alfred Edgar Hunt, M.L.C., who died at
Mosman last week. Born near Parramatta 69
years ago, he was prominently identified with
all the interests of the primary producer, and
was a pillar of the organisations connected
therewith. A public-spirited and intensely
patriotic citizen, he did notable recruiting in
the campaigns of the war years. He married a
sister of “S. M. Herald” editor Brunsdon
Fletcher; his widow survives him with three
sons (two others were killed in the war)
and three married daughters.
Brisbane lost one of her best citizens in
Henry Monteith, chairman of directors of
the Brisbane Newspaper Co. Born in Glas-
gow in 1862, he came to Brisbane in 1886,
and after 17 years in the Civil Service started
business on the Brisbane Stock Exchange
and built up a wide and profitable connec-
tion. He became a director of the B.N.C.
in 1916, and chairman in 1927. During the
war he worked untiringly for men on active
service, transacting business gratuitously for
hundreds, while advice and assistance were
always forthcoming for returned soldiers.
As a memorial to an only son killed in
France on the eve of the Armistice, he en-
dowed the Queensland branch of the Boy
Scouts with £5OOO.
George Julius, the engineer who invented
the automatic totalisator now in common
use on racecourses, is an archbishop’s son.
When The Bulletin was many years
younger, Archdeacon Julius was at Ballarat,
and rather shocking the orthodox. Later he
went to Maoriland, and now rules over the
GEORGE JULIUS, the engineer who pro-
duced the automatic totalisator.
see of Christchurch. The son, after leaving
Melbourne Grammar, went into the West-
ralian railway service, and straightway began
on the research work he loves: his first big
job was on Westralian hardwoods. Nowa-
days, as chairman of the Commonwealth
Council of Scientific Research, he is tre-
mendously interested in plans for lifting
Australia’s wool and wheat production; and
it would be pretty hard to find a man a
much more important job just now. Though
son George is 57, dad, the arcliibishop, is still
hale and vigorous.
The most misunderstood and abused man
in Australia will shortly retire into private
life. He is Commonwealth weather-man
H. A. Hunt, who has been foretelling a wet
Melbourne Cup since 1907. Hunt arrived
Commonwealth Meteorologist HUNT.
in Australia from the Cold Land 46 years
ago, and got a clerical job in the Sydney
bureau, from which he rose to be one of the
leading meteorologists in the world. He
deduces the local weather from a perusal of
reports covering 17,000,000 square miles of
land and sea, the biggest area of its kind
controlled by any meteorologist. Most people
will be surprised to learn that Hunt’s fore-
casts are over 80 p.c. correct. The habit
of regarding a forecast covering a whole
State as applicable in its entirety to the tiny
part embraced by a capital is mainly respon-
sible for his reputation for never being right.
The busy life of Judge Montgomerie
Hamilton, formerly of N.S.W. District Court,
ended at Strathfield last week. He never
looked the great athlete he was, being neither
tall nor muscular, but during most of his
existence he was one of the fittest men in
Australia, and he had tremendous powers
of concentration. He, C. G. Wade and
Sammy Woods were the first Sydneyites to
draw the attention of Public School England
to Australia as a producer of super-foot-
ballers. In addition to representing Scot-
land at Rugger (he had previously captained
the Marlborough XV) he was a first-class
golfer, oarsman, lacrosse player and moun-
taineer. li'e was a sound though not bril-
liant lawyer, and his judical mind, charm of
manner and remarkable capacity for work
helped to make him a success on the Bench.
Freemasonry was his chief hobby, and he
knew all about dogs. He married into the
Innes family and has left two sons and a
doctor-daughter.
An Adelaide scientific party has just
started a month’s residence at McDonnell
Downs, in Centralia, to study the natives.
It is strong all round, comprising Profs.
Cleland, Wilkinson and Harvey Johnston,
Drs. Fry, Campbell and Pulleine, with Hale
and Tindale, of the Adelaide Museum, whose
recent excavations in the Murray bank
below the Nor’-west Bend have brought them
repute as authorities on aboriginal relics.
Adelaide University has asked Charles
Martin to return to Australia and succeed
the late Brailsford Robertson as head of the
Animal-nutrition Research, with a professor-
ship of bio-chemistry. He did good work at
Melbourne in the chair of physiology, and
the acetylene plant made for Lemnos Hos-
pital in war-time, mostly with his own hands,
is well remembered. Latterly he has been in
London, as a director of the huge Lister
Institute, and with a specially warm heart
for Australians studying medicine in Eng-
land.
C. J. James, who spiked his last copy in
Brisbane last week at 75, was one of the
pioneers of out-back Queensland’s Inky Way.
Born in Monmouth, he came to Queensland
at 19, joining the staff of the Brisbane
“Courier.” In the great days of the Palmer
rush he was on the “Cooktown Herald”;
in 1879 he and W. H. Campbell started the
“Western Champion” at Blackall, on the
Upper Barcoo. Ten years later the journal
and plant were transferred to Barcaldine, on
the Central railway, where the “Champion”
became a power in the land.
SPRINGTIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring is in the air, my Sonia. Can’t you
sniff the first boronia?
With its penetrating perfume Martin-place
will shortly hum.
Aye, the season which discovers such delights
for bards and lovers
Stealthily approaches if it hasn’t actually
come.
See the gentle green that pushes out from
the hydrangea bushes!
Note the kookaburra’s laughter holds a
slightly blither ring!
A preliminary warner that it’s just around
the corner
(As is usual in August), gladsome spring!
Violets in dainty posies florists bind, and
pale primroses ;
Daffodils proclaim their presence and the
arum-lilies tower;
Furs are on the wing, and sables—also
winter vegetables;
Ever rarer on the menu comes the lordly
cauliflower.
Park and paddock, beach and bracken feel
the grip of winter slacken;
Signs galore and tokens plenty to the least
observant bring
The eternal trust complacent that it’s
pleasantly adjacent—
Right on schedule time, as always—good
old spring!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


TOBACCO
To-days Profit-making Opportunity
MILLIONS WILL BE MADE IN NEW INDUSTRY
National Tobacco Corporation
PRESENTS
STRIKING FACTS FOR INVESTORS
30 PER CENT. PROFITS TO SHAREHOLDERS ANTICIPATED
Overseas investors have grown rich exploiting the Australian market because a low-cost and
high-price industry like tobacco offers an exceptional opportunity for the profitable investment
of capital.
The National Tobacco Corporation of Australia Limited now gives you and every good
Australian a chance to keep these profits in Australia and establish a local industry which will
be a most valuable national asset.
All Eyes on Pomonal!
On the foothills of the Grampians, prosperous Pomonal—the Tobacco
Township of To-morrow—is developing at an amazing rate. Here
National Tobacco Corporation will operate a great tobacco-growing
enterprise that will make “the Golden Leaf of the Grampians” known
throughout the Commonwealth. “Richest land and choicest leaf” is
the verdict of all the experts who know Pomonal.
DO YOU KNOW
That over 20,000,0001 b. weight of tobacco is imported into the Commonwealth every year, and costs Australians nearly £3,000,000?
That Australia produces only 1,000,0001 b. weight—worth less than £150,000?
That in America there are more than 3,000,000 acres in tobacco cultivation, while Australia has less than 2000 acres?
That there are 46,000 tobacco-growers in America and less than 500 in Australia?
That to meet only two-thirds of Australia’s requirements 50,000 acres are needed, which would mean 10,000 more settlers?
That only 25,0001 b. weight of first-grade leaf was produced in Australia last year, and that many years must elapse before even the local
demand can be satisfied?
That there is a rich export market waiting?
That this great new Industry has already passed the experimental stages, and that working costs and the differences between gross and
net profits are definitely known?
STUDY THESE PROFITS
Here are some actual returns from Australian-grown tobacco:—
“A net return of £1705 from seven acres.”
“16 2 acres returned to the grower £3405” (equal to £206 per acre).
Bulletin No. 53, Department of Agriculture, Victoria, states: —
“Very good returns for tobacco crops have been secured in the four seasons just passed, in many cases from £lOO to £l5O per acre
being received. When it is recognised that approximately £25 per acre will pay for all the labor required, it will be seen that a
handsome margin of profit is left.”
YOU ARE INVITED TO PARTICIPATE
as “ground-floor” original shareholders of The National Tobacco Corporation of Australia Limited in the development of a great Tobacco-
growing enterprise, operating under skilled management in the RICHEST CROP-PRODUCING DISTRICT IN VICTORIA.
To those who avail themselves of the opportunity offered advantages must accrue which will be denied to future investors.
THERE ARE NO FREE SHARES, PROMOTERS’ CHARGES OR VENDORS’ CONSIDERATION, and every original shareholder will
be a cash subscriber for shares at par (24,000 Ordinary Shares have already been purchased at £l each).
PROFIT BY SOUND ADVICE. Get in while the opportunity lasts. Full particulars may be obtained from
THE NATIONAL TOBACCO CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Cut out and Mail this Coupon
THE MANAGER,
THE NATIONAL TOBACCO CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Bank of Australasia Chambers, No. 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
VICTORIAN OFFICE: C/o Messrs. W. B. BENNETT & CO., Public Accountants, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me, without obligation, literature and prospectus of your Company s Share Issue.
Name •.
(State whether Mr-, Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS
S.B.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) “Follow Through”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “Coquette”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The New Moon”
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Last week an audience of seventeen and
two policemen watched a play entitled “Good
Business” in a Sydney basement —that is
to say, the Community Theatre.
The seventeen part of it was quite all right.
In the legitimate these days it is not unusual
for the players to outnumber the audience
by at least six to four. But the two police-
men were a puzzler. They might have been
expected in a place like Piper’s Siding, where
there are no open-air counter-attractions to
speak of; but this was in Darlinghurst, a
place that is a regular Scotchman’s paradise
of free entertainment. Quite apart from the
off chance of seeing some of the best sharp-
shooters in Australia in the moving melo-
drama “The Underworld Vendetta,” this
place teems with first-class shows, so good
that thrilled audiences think nothing of
standing up to them for hours.
For example, while this basement perform-
ance was dragging on, there was a packed
attendance on the side of the street not two
blocks away. So tense was the interest of
this audience that applause for the per-
formers was quite out of the question. The
crowd just stood, faces thrust forward, hands
clenched, a circle of hardly restrained excite-
ment. In the centre four powerful-looking
men were deliberately helping a thick cable
to run into a small hole in the ground. It
ran off a tremendous drum, not in any mis-
guided haste, but slowly, inevitably. The
four men, like the brilliant actors that they
were, watched it going down the hole with
unwavering amazement. They did not speak.
With their degree of Art. speech would have
been redundant. A subtle gesture, as when
one of the four would turn slightly and spit
thoughtfully over his shoulder, but no more
than that. None of the customary futile
patter about these illusionists. Not theirs
the easy business of producing white rabbits
from a hat. They produced nothing. They
simply stood and watched a thick cable dis-
appear down a hole. And about them,
gripped by the sublimity of this great art, the
audience stood like so many fascinated
chickens in front of a carpet-snake.
Of course, that w v as the secret of the show
—sheer mesmerism. At any rate, after he
had at last torn himself away from it, this
Showman thought less of the entertainment
than he had whilst watching it, though that
may have been only because, a couple of
hundred yards further on, he encountered a
magnificent display that held an even greater
“The audience stood like so many chickens
in front of a carpet-snake.”
crowd in even greater suspense. This was
played by only one actor, a splendid speci-
men of a young man dressed in a leather
overcoat. He had the bonnet of a motor-car
raised and was staring fiercely at a sparking
plug. Every now and again he mumbled
phrases culled from all the best war books.
He also looked at his wristlet-watch from
time to time and mouthed strange prayers,
beginning, “I’d like to catch the blank who,’’
or “May the blank blank blank who blank
blank fall down and blank!”
Perhaps there lies one of the great secrets
of these open-air shows—they are not cen-
sored. However that may be, it seems cer-
tain that the reason the legitimate is having
such a tough spin these days is because of
the prevalence and increasing attractiveness
of these great free entertainments of the open
streets. has the legitimate to compare
with the grinders that go along at night tak-
ing the rough edges off the tramlines and fill-
ing the darkness with showers of gold. Who
wants to pay to see trapeze artists when he
can have better performances from dogmen
on every block? And what about the whale
that came up the H'arbor to have a look at
the bridge? Even if this was, as some be-
lieved, arranged by Mr. Stuart Doyle to
advertise a forthcoming movie, it was a show
on its own of tremendous power.
Indeed, some of the best of these free
shows have to do with advertising. Take that
splendid show staged in Fross and Hoat’s
window, and holding hundreds spellbound
every day. The window is arranged to repre-
sent the bottom of the ocean. A man enters
clad in nothing but a diving ,suit and walks
firmly about the deep. Suddenly his attention
is riveted on a cranny in the rocks. He bends
forward, his hand searches in the crevice.
Eureka! His smile of triumph nearly splits
his metal helmet. He turns towards the audi-
ence, now pressed forward with noses flattened
on the window. Dramatically he thrusts out
his find for everyone to see and admire —a
Blasko’s patent nutmeg-grater. It is all so
tense and thrilling that some of the audience
have to move on, completely exhausted from
excitement.
Thrills! The street vibrates with them!
Great and intense acting, it is everywhere!
Nothing could be more foolish than the rather
common belief that actors are a vanished
race. That idea surely arises from the obsti-
nate habit of still looking for them in
theatres. Or, at least, so this Showman
thought as, together with the other 16 in the
audience and the two policemen, he sat and
watched last week’s presentation of the play
entitled “Good Business.”
* * *i* *
That was Wednesday night at the Com-
munity. The next night, a little chilled by a
thought of what happened to the chap who
said he had “breasted bigger rivers,” this
Showman emulated Abou’s angel. No “great
waking light” was taken along; what was
much more gratifying, something like one
was found. It was a war play in six scenes
by Leslie Haylen, a young journalist on the
Wagga “Advertiser.” If this Showman had
any faith left in Australia’s commercial
entrepreneurs, he would suggest that one or
another of them should go out and have a
look at it, even though such a visit might
lead to scrapping some imported masterpiece
of theatrical twaddle. Three of its six
“Mumbled phrases culled from the best
war books.”
scenes are uncommonly good. One is bril-
liant. _ The general pattern is original and
ingenious. The war and post-war sentiment
rings_ true and is clean. The soldiers, re-
freshingly, are not neurotic snivellers—those
charmed beings who apparently all sur-
vived to adorn the writing profession. They
have no illusions about the business at hand,
but they do not cringe over it. They hold it
off with that twisted humor which the hard
gods allowed them for a shield. It is drama-
tically convincing.
The story begins in the drawing-room in
London of. General Grestham, a parade-
ground soldier, who has come out of the war
as he went into it. It is an Armistice anni-
versary, and he is uniformed and beribboned
for the occasion. To him the day represents
nob a peace but a war anniversary. He is
Quoting, as usual, the gospel according to
the Times.” Across the room sits a French
girl who is in the house as a governess. By
the time the clocks are due to strike eleven
Mrs. Trott, a charlady, and the General's
butler are also in the room. All stand for
the two minutes’ silence, the curtain falling
after a. stroke or two of the clock. The next
scene is a London basement, where Mrs.
Trott is having a visit from two of her lady
friends, when the Rev. Thomas enters with
the shattering news of the death of her repre-
sentative at the war. Thoroughly well acted,
chiefly ,by Ethel Gabriel as Mrs. Trott, the
scene is one 'of the strongest three in the
play. The next, a bomb-proof shelter in
France, is another of this trinity. Here
Grestham’s parade-ground soldiering stupidly
sacrifices his men. It is greatly strengthened
by the convincing acting of Edward Howell.
Ifi the next scene, a weak spasm of shrill
theatrics, the French girl of the opening-
scene permits herself to be the mistress of one
of the invading German officers as an alter-
native to the rest of the village women, in-
cluding the sisters of the convent in which the
scene is set, being similarly treated. When,
a few years later, her Piere, who had been
a prisoner of war in Germany, comes back,
there is a child to test his love, which fails.
The next scene, possibly the finest in the
play, certainly the best acted, is on the
Embankment, where three heroes rather gone
to seed discuss the hero business in frank
and profane but not whining terms. One of
them is the butler. Then we are back again
to the first setting, with the two minutes’
silence just finishing.
Considering the absurd limitations of the
“theatre” the piece is surprisingly well pre-
sented. Of the characters the general takes
swallowing, but the rest are true enough.
Mrs. Trott could not have been bettered by
Lawson, and Private Simpson could not have
been bettered by Mr. Haylen. The acting is
nearly always sincere, except in the disas-
trous convent scene, where none of it is.
Frank Carswell is worth mentioning beside
Howell and Miss Gabriel for the soundness
of his acting, and Asthore Taunton was at
any rate decorative—so much so, in fact, that
the commercial stage has just filched her
from the basement.
* ¥ ¥
What are called “concert performances”
of grand opera are usually about as inspir-
ing as a monochrome reproduction of a
Turner sunset. You get only one of the
four legs on which opera stands —music,
acting, scenery and dressing. Sydney Phil.,
which essayed such a presentation of “Aida”
at the Town Hall last week, suffered under
the additional handicap that Madame
McArden, who was to sing Aida’s music, and
Maurice Ballance, who was to have been
King of Egypt, were not able to appear, and
were replaced by Molly de Gunst and Clifford
Lathlean, who had had practically no rehear-
sals. Miss de Gunst. Raymond Beatty as
Ramphis and Vladimir Elin as Amonasro
were able to infuse into their singing some
of the dramatic fervor Verdi wanted it im-
bued with; the chorus was well trained, and
the orchestra fairly competent. Gerald
Peachell, as conductor, made the most of his
material, and a nearly full hall resounded
with vigorous applause. But opera isn’t
oratorio, and it’s no use trying to pretend
it is.
For the third time this year Sydney
Players’ Club has brought forth a tame
rabbit, though it shapes as if it might pro-
duce a dramatic wild cat some day. The
piece was John Hastings Turner’s “The Ford
of the Manor,” which has an original and
fairly plausible plot, but there are arid
patches where the play is held up by obvious
padding. A revolution in England has placed
in power a mild bunch of Communists whose
most heinous crime is to quarter the home-
less poor on the aristocracy. The Lord of
the Manor’s quota is an inebriate, the
inebriate’s daughter and an ex-Canadian
farmer who is versed in the habit of pigs.
The lordly person insists upon treating the
party as his guests, and the usual comple-
ment of English house-party hangers-on help
complicate matters. There are great oppor-
tunities for fun and satire, but the author
rather muddles his way through. Doris
Williams acted well, and so did Edward
Cavill and Naomi Waters. F. S. B. Apple-
ton’s idea of a lover appeared to be a male
mannequin in a Robot fashion-parade. The
rest kept their ends up.
* * V
With the end of the season at Adelaide
Royal—“ Tea for Three” just suited his
cynical style—Leon Gordon faded away in
the direction of Hollywood. He has built up
a good Australian co.; Mary Macgregor has
made great advance in her art, and Frank
Bradley now seems a fit successor to Athol-
wood in all character parts.
V * V
A note from the North :
We Banangianders, even in the small dog-and-pub
villages, have been deluged of late with the straw-
berries from the musical salad of the cities. The
number of famed artists we receive per month acts
as our barometer to the progress of the talkies in
the cities. During the last three weeks our local
town hall (previously known by the vulgar as the
“yell and bawl”) has reverberated to the small
versatile fingers of Eddie Cahill on his piano and
the trilling of singer George Brooke. We have heard
Josie Melville saying her baby-voiced “Ooh I do
hate washing dishes!” in “Sally.” We have been
astounded by the value of Kubelik’s violin, and the
Westminster Choir has gleed in harmony, only to
be replaced by Mr. Wirth’s beneficent smile as he
watches the opening numbers of his circus. But
the local talkies, which sound rather like a tin-
hare corroboree in a kerosene-tin, have collected all
the really big hpuses. The barometer is telling a
poignant story.
V # V
The presentation by Beresford Fowler at
the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, of Shaw’s
first play, “Widowers’ Houses,” explains
what is wrong with the Australian theatre.
Mr. Fowler claims, probably correctly, that
his is the first performance in this country.
That is to say, Australian producers have
neglected, or carefully avoided until too
late, one of the most intelligent, amusing
and stimulating plays available to their
generation.
Much of it is obviously dated. When
Shaw made Blanche Sartorius say “damn”
and ask her lover, Dr. Trench, to marry her,
he was trying to shock his audience as was
A. A. Milne later when he made the parson
of “What Every Woman Knows” say
“bloody,” and as when the latest playwright
makes his women talk about contraception
and say—whatever he has the courage to
make them say. “Widowers’ Houses” is
not a great play, but compared with the fluff
regularly imported from N’York and London
it is a masterpiece. It is so much more vital
than “Little Accident” or “Lord and Lady
Algy,” even though those pieces have the
services of actors and actresses like William
Faversham and Miss Taliaferro, that it even
survived the massacre it got at the hands of
Mr. Fowler and his fellow assassins. It and
other plays Mr. Fowler puts on are so much
more significant than the stuff customarily
selected by the panic-stricken firms which
control the legitimate theatre that, whereas
“Clad in nothing but a diving-suit.”
“Lord and Lady Algy” and “The Prince
and the Pauper” drove even the adult
infant away from the Comedy, Mr.
Fowler is actually renewing the taste for
playgoing, despite the disadvantage of a
ridiculously small stage and a cast of student
performers. There were actually several
limousines outside the Queen’s Hall on
Friday and a gentleman with an opera-hat
lent almost unbearable splendor to the
shabby interior.
“Widowers’ Houses” deals with a pro-
blem which happily is absent in Australia.
It must be because Australian playwrights
never mention it. Mr. Sartorius (quite
efficiently portrayed by George Lomas) is
an unscrupulous and cynical realist who
makes his money by squeezing rents out of
slum dwellers. As he remarks, if he improved
his disgusting tenements the poor would
not be able to afford to live in them. Hence
he is discharging a public duty in that state
of society to which it has pleased God to
call him. Dr. Harry Trench (which Frank
Keane, looking like a rosy kewpie, made into
a figure of unconscious fun) is an aristo-
cratic idealist and dilettante. .He falls in
love with Sartorius’s daughter Blanche
(played with moderate intelligence by Flor-
ence Cheers). Blanche is a typical Shavian
female, strong-minded and clear-sighted.
When her lover discovers the source of her
father’s wealth, she makes it quite plain
that she will not share Trench’s poverty
simply because he has scruples about sharing
her father’s filthy lucre. Lickcheese (Beres-
ford Fowler gave the best performance of
his career in this part) is a miserable little
insect who does Sartorius’s dirty work —the
rent collecting—for him. He justifies his part
in the villainy on the score that if he did not
drive other people’s wives and children into
the gutter his own w T ould be found there.
The stalemate between Blanche and Trench
is dissolved when Shaw, with typical agility,
reveals to Trench that his own income is
obtained from a mortgage on Sartorius’s un-
savory dwellings. The battle between Trench’s
idealism and self-interest has a foregone con-
clusion. He soon satisfies himself that all is
for the best in the worst of all possible
worlds —or it can’t be helped, at any rate.
In their quaint way the Fowler players
gave the piece an understandable interpreta-
tion. Audrey O’Bi'ien, as a parlormaid in a
skirt which was short even for these days,
was flung in, presumably, as a concession to
the popular demand for sex appeal.
%•
3LO, Melbourne, made amends for “The
Prince and the Beggar Maid” by broadcast-
ing Shaw’s “Candida” last week. The play
has lost the power it had to shock on the
legitimate stage, but coming over the wireless
to listeners used to the platitudinous tripe
ordinarily purveyed by the station, the un-
conventional remarks of Marchbanks on the.
subject of marriage must have sounded like
the lid of Hell come off. Under Frank
Clewlow’s direction the play carried excel-
lently. With its wealth of wit and its lack
of action it makes an admirable broadcaster,
like others of the Shavian canon.
* * *
Rickard’s Tivoli in Melbourne, alias Hugh
D. Mclntosh, is enjoying some free pub-
licity, having been reported to the Health
Commission for overcrowding.
Not much of “Pot Luck” except the luck
is left now at the Tivoli, where Kenneth
Duffield’s Brilliant London Musical Extrava-
ganza will continue till further orders. This
week clever little Sadie Gale lias been added
“Who wants to pay to see trapese artists?”
to the long list of stars, stated to be
of the first magnitude. The latest occasion
in the afternoon on which The Bulletin
looked in the gallery was open and packed,
as were the other sections. This is some-
thing new even in the memory of the Oldest
Inhabitant.
* %■ #
All goes well* with “The New Moon” at
Melbourne Royal. The news of the French
Revolution continues to arrive in time to
save the lives of the most melodious members
of the cast. Communications in those days
seem to have been more reliable than in
these, what with the beam telephone afflicted
with atmospherics and telegrams suffering
from messengers with a Bradman complex.
* * *
Among musical events coming and come
to Melbourne are Gladys Moncrieff, who is
singing at the Capitol, and Kubelik, who
will unslieath his bow at the Auditorium
on Saturday. Another is Premier Hogan’s
voice reiterating that there will be no increase
m the income tax.
* * *
Vic. Prof. Orchestra has brought its
season at the Auditorium to an abrupt con-
clusion, owing _to lack of public interest.
The V.P.O. mishandled a promising situa-
tion. It has never been able to make up its
mind whether it should be high-, low- or
mezzo-brow. It is better able to do justice
to a first-class programme than the largely
amateur performers of the Melba and Uni.
Conservatoria, which command packed houses
at the Town Hall. Most of its evenings
have been like a succession of theatre inter-
vals, the only difference being that its audi-
ences have
been expected
to remain
silent while it
plays pieces
which every-
body has heard
ad lib. at the
movie parlors
or on the home
wireless or
gramop hone.
Consequen 11 y
there is no
section of the
community
whom it could
conce i v a h 1 y
appeal to.
There is an
audience wait-
ing for him if
c onductor
Slapoffski has
the courage to
go after it.
“The easy business of
producing white rabbits
from a hat.”
Eleven months ago to-day The Bulletin
reported on this page that 11 legitimate
shows were on in Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane. To-day only one play and two
musical shows are being run by professionals.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camoerdown, Sydney
You are throwing away money every time
you discard a wafer blade.
CHANGE TO A
ROLLS
RAZOR
Remember, the price of a Rolls includes the
orice of the strop, the hone, and the device
by which the Rolls Razor strops and hones
itself. The one Blade of a Rolls Razor is
guaranteed for 5 years.
THE IDEAL GIFT FOR A MAN.
Imperial No. 1, 50/-; No. 2, 40/-
THE ROLLS RAZOR CO.
OF AUSTRALIA,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia.
Dividends, Written Re-
June, Profits. Ordinaries.* Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 197,892 Nil 110,000 16,258
Premiums on new shares, £106,659.. ( <?oo
1921.. 237,772 15 p.c. - 11,014 251,659 j
Premiums on new shares, £134,275.. ( 9nq
1922.. 228,080 15 p.c. = 37,773 211,001 )
Premiums on new shares, £14,934.. ( ... 7sfi
1923.. 234,418 15 p.c. = 52,081 10,000 )
Premiums on new shares, £158,051.. ( ~, Qi -,
1924.. 264,542 15 p.c. = 57,732 10,000 ) 4
Premiums on new shares, £233,876.. ( 7fi7 r7(l
1925.. 300,536 15 p.c. = 87,102 10,000 ) D ‘ , ' >
Premiums on new shares, £204,917.. t
1926.. 319,707 15 p.c. =119,359 20,000 )
Premiums on new shares, £233,328.. 1,299,469
1927.. 341,711 15 p.c. =149,726 25,000 1,381,760
Premiums on new shares, £254,338.. 1,636,098
1928.. 355,019 15 p.c. =185,937 30,000 1,690,486
Premiums on new shares, £250,212.. 1,940,698
1929.. 391,624 15 p.c. =223,438 30,000 1,994,190
Premiums on new shares, £237,149.. 2,231,339
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
*Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
Last year another half-million 10s. ords.
were put out at the usual 100 p.c. premium.
That raised paid capital to £4,040,749 at
June 80 —the figure includes £2,117,350 of
4 p.c. pref. money, a legacy of the ’nineties.
There is another £89,452, including £12,851
of share premiums, to come; thus share-
holders have subscribed no less than
£3,808,682 since 1920, one-half capital and
the other half premiums. The latter, of
course, were added to reserves, which had
climbed to £2,255,549 at the close of last
accounts. The premiums mean that the
flood of new capital is costing the bank only
71 p.c., so the 15 p.c. div. isn’t really any-
thing of the sort on the bulk of the ord.
scrip.
During the boom period the return looked
for on sound bank stock was about 5 p.e.,
so the new issues provided extra benefits to
shareholders, and helped to keep the price
of the ords. around 30s. for several years.
Now that conditions have changed a pause
in the- issue of new capital can be expected.
Also investors want at least an extra 1 p.c.
on their money; hence the ords. have dropped
to 20s. 6d. in the market. The return at
that price is 7.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis;
and the backing is 21s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Obviously the market has its doubts about
the 15 p.c. To pay it, after satisfying the
pref. requirements, total funds (capital and
reserves combined) will need to net over
6 p.c., or 5.2 p.c. if the div. drops to 121
p.c. At the lower rate the return would be
6.1 p.c. at the current price. Actually aver-
age funds turned in 6.5 p.c. last year as
against 7.1 p.c., 1929; 7.9 p.c., 1927; 9.7
p.c., 1924. Much will depend upon whether
bad debts are heavier than the board has
allowed for.
After making whatever allowances were
considered necessary, and paying all taxes,
there was a spring of £19,756 in the year’s
gross profit:—
Gross Profits.* Salaries. Other Charges.
1919 .. £405,071 £170,558 £64,245
1921 .. 607,261 278,831 90,658
1923 .. 676,210 336,076 105,715
1925 .. 854,836 405,044 149,256
1926 .. 906,463 440,601 148,155
1927 .. 992,451 478,533 172,207
1928 .. 1,056,244 523,484 177,741
1929 .. 1,138,028 560,009 186,395
1930 .. 1,157,784 584,559 183,384
*Less taxes and provision for contingencies.
Exes, took all the increase and £1783 be-
sides, mounting to 66.3 p.c. of the gross
profit compared with 65.5 p.c. in the previous
year, and threaten to be difficult to restrain.
A contraction of £2,015,812 in deposits,
chiefly current accounts, was largely met by
a reduction of £1,583,361 in the book value
of advances: —
Liabilities.
1919. 1929. 1930.
Notes .. £71,517 £244,027 £230,138
Bills etc. .. 377,909 1,717,110 1,635,677
Free deposits .. 6,669,835 10,182,121 8,223,513
Fixed deposits . . 5,385,396 13,998,925 13,941,722
Liauid assets . . 3,997,750 8,933,551 8,772,427
Advances . • 9,733,568 22,260,876 20,677,515
Premises . . . . 499,095 904,3-00 1,054,910
The shrinkage in the note issue reflects con-
ditions in Maoriland. Much of the £150,610
added to the book value of freeholds was
on account of the new Sydney premises,
which are not yet fully let. When the books
last closed the bank had in liquid form £36
10s. Id. of every £lOO of the public’s money,
and there were advances and premises with
book value of £142-odd to represent the
balance. It is a very satisfactory position.
At £6 Bs. the £lO paid prefs. yield 6.2
p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. They participate
in new issues, and have priority as to capi-
tal ; the backing is £3O 3s. 2d. in net tan-
gibles.
The New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Mav, £ £ £ £
1920.. 112,590 131 p.c. = 50,000 62,590 927,207
1921.. 271,803 13j „ ~ 100,000 171,803 1,099,010
1922.. 52,592 13J „ ~ 100,000 1,051,602
1923.. 181,960 14.2 ~ ~106,250 75,710 1,127,312
Taxation reserve not required 30,000 1,157,312
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,007,312
1924.. 186,257 124 p.c. =112,500 73,757 1,081,069
1925.. 243.331 13.2 „ ~ 118,750 124,581 1,205,650
Transferred to capital, £150,000 :. 1,055,650
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125.000 83,617 1,139,267
1927.. 244,172 12£ „ ~131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
1929.. 232,088 11.5 „ ~137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 1,101,551
On the threshold of altered world conditions,
which are causing most traders much con-
cern, this highly successful Auckland-con-
trolled fire and marine office makes its fifth
and richest gift to shareholders inside the
last dozen years. Another 4s. per share
(£300,000) is to be transferred from reserves,
making paid capital £1,500,000 in fully paid
pound shares. Also an extra penny was
comfortably tacked on to the div. (Is. lid.
per share). So, without putting any new
money into the business meanwhile, share-
holders received in divs. nearly twice as much
as they did 12 years ago. This has been
made possible by the accumulation of large
reserves, returns from the investment of
which have followed on the heels of rising
divs. for more than a decade. Thus most of
the profit from underwriting has been avail-
able to swell investments and the returns
therefrom.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the
market continues to heavily discount the
future by paying 455. 9d. for the scrip.
Taking the gift and the final div. into the
reckoning, the immediate return at that price
is only 4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis; and
that rate will now call for £6350 more than
was distributed last year. The investor who
looks for 6 p.c. on his holding counts on the
co. paying £201,195 p.a. in divs. This is
£32,985 less than the average net profit over
the last five years; it will call for 13.4 p.c.
on £1,500,000 of capital, or for the distribu-
tion of another £511,950 of bonus scrip if
the div. remains at 10 p.c.
Last year’s net result was £27,400 better
than the previous year’s. It was made up
of £140,114 from interest and rents, which
accounted for £6039 of the increase, £99,386
from underwriting and an unexplained addi-
tion of £19,988 to the investment fluctuation
and contingency account (now £32,477). An
encouraging feature is the continued down-
ward trend of the expense rate: —
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1900. . £342,336 £195,864 £95,651 57.2 27.9
1906.. 565,149 j 129,361 111.9 22.0
1910.. 605,509 ' 391,321 " 172,593 64.5 28.5
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 67.2 28.2
1925. . 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1926. . 1,066,012 633,973 355,380 59.5 33.3
1927.. 1,121,425 664,684 338,588 59.3 30.2
1928. . 1,150,232 694,344 361,367 60.4 31.4
1929. . 1,183,974 724,190 362,574 61.2 30.6
1930. . 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
♦General. fSan Francisco disaster.
It cost £297 less to gather an extra £15,408
of net premiums last year. But claims were
£13,529 heavier, so the improvement in the
underwriting surplus was only £2176. With
property values in a state of flux, over-insur-
ance is causing underwriters much concern
these days. Because of this, wide policy-
writing and other things, little relief from
the unfavorable claims experience of recent
years need be looked for until conditions
become more settled.
Policy-holders, as usual, are well protected.
At May 31 capital and reserves combined
were 217 p.c. of the year’s net premiums, and
that is 67 p.c. more than is usually con-
sidered adequate. Also funds are invested
in good quality assets: —
1914. 1927. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 450,000 1,050,000 1,200,000 1,200,000
Liabilities .. 252,929 353,339 392,909 360,203
Public securi-
ties .. 521,979 1,845,803 1,879,142 1,981,827
Mortgages.. 195,409 33,967 28,774 61,625
Shares, etc. 395 9,955 103,015 122,324
Freeholds . . 349,457 409,529 444,307 425,268
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 240,249 445,023 512,234 465,710
It can be taken for granted that they arc
well worth their book values. The year’s
surplus earnings went mainly into Govern-
ment securities, and the hardening of interest
rates augurs well for future interest earnings.
The trustee section of the business con-
tinues to expand. At May 31 trusts, etc., in
hand aggregated £5,787,223, or £253,483
more than at the previous balance. The total
was only £429,738 a dozen years ago. The
business is said to be profitable, but to what
extent is not disclosed.
Meggitt, Ltd.
/ Dividends \
Pref.
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 67,627 3994 20 p.c. = 8,963 51,962
Tran«forrpd to eaDital. £29.876 .. .. 22,086
1919.. 21,236 4000 20 p.e. = 14,938 24,384
Co. reconstructed. One fully-paid £1 ord.
issued for each of the 248,966 10s. ords.
and £1 10 p.c. first and second prefs. issued
for each of the 20,000 first and 20.000
second prefs. in old co. Goodwill increased
by £lOO,BlO.
Deficit.
1921.. 7,525 2000 4 p.c. = 11,526 121,749
Loss.
1922.. 20,746 2000 Nil 144,495
Profit.
1923.. 36.857 8000* Nil 116,638
1924.. 27,725 4000 5 p.c. = 16,368 108,281
1925.. 21,410 4000 5 „ „ 16,368 107,239
1926.. 5.892 4000 Nil 105,347
1927.. 30,115 4000 61 p.c. = 20,461 99,693
1928.. 30,027 4000 7* „ „ 24,552 98.218
1929.. 31,385 4000 7| „ „ 24,552 95,385
1930.. 31,628 4000 6J „ „ 22,506 90,263
♦lncludes arrears.
For many years overhead grew with increased
production, and the co. did not get the full
benefit of its expanding output. That was
chiefly because the demand for linseed meal
as stock food greatly exceeded the demand
for the oil. But the recent development of
the lino, industry here —for which this co.
is mainly responsible—and the arrangements
made with Blundell, Spence and Co., of
London and Hull, to use their trade-marks
promised some relief in the problem of main-
taining a balance between oil and meal.
It was Meggitt’s chairman, S. W. Philips,
who induced Michael Nairn and Co., the
big Scottish lino, people, to take over a
struggling business in Sydney. The new
concern now turns out enough to satisfy the
Australian demand.
Despite depressing conditions the business
held well last yeaf; there was a rise of
Is. 2d. per tin in the Sydney price for lin-
seed oil, and the management was able to
show £11,497 more gross profit (£93.333).
But exes. (£61,705, including something for
bad debts and depreciation) took £11,254 of
the increase, leaving a net improvement of
only £243. After handing the prefs. their
10 p.c. (£4000) there was enough to show
8.4 p.c. on the ordinary capital compared
with 8.3, 8 and 8 p.e. for the three preced-
ing years. But “in view of prevailing con-
ditions” lid. was nipped off the final div.,
making 6J p.c. for the year. The £5122
thus left in the business reduced the amount
of capital unrepresented by tangibles to
£90,263. Goodwill, not treated as an asset
herein, figures at £115,747. Over the last
decade the ords. have averaged 4.2 p.c.; but
the 1920 reconstruction makes that worth
more to old holders.
Balance-sheet movements are encouraging:
1922. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 19,188 44,419 124,004 72,452
Premises and
plant . . 99,995 168,733 158,866 162,282
Stocks .. 69,410 86,257 133,040 89,519
Rook debts .. 55,405 58,314 77,016 79,176
Cash, etc. . i 17,251 24,543 41,342 30,811
To make a substantial cut of £51,552 in the
debt, largely drafts for linseed shipments,
the book value of stocks was reduced £43,521
and cash balances were drawn upon for
£10,571 last year. Investments, chiefly the
co.’s interest in the lino, business, figure at
£17,770. Excluding these, but including
stocks, the more or less liquid surplus
(£109,283) was £3Bl lighter than at the
previous balance.
During the current year the co. will have
to fight hard to maintain its turnover in
stock food. Results will partly depend upon
the course of prices in the oil and raw seed
markets. The 1922 and 1926 figures are
sharp reminders of what can happen in the
co.’s buying markets —mainly India and S.
America. In the investment market the ords.
are priced at 14s. as against 19s. 3d. a year
ago. At the lower figure the yield is 8.5 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis; the backing amounts
to 14s. 6d. in net tangibles. For the 10 p.c.
cum. prefs. 245. is asked; at which figure
the return is 8.3 p.c. The net tangible cover
figures out at £l3 17s. for the firsts and
£l2 12s. for the seconds.
The Millaquin Sugar Co.
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 53,564 8 p.c. = 40,000 13,564 129,734
1921.. 29,022 8 „ „ 40,000 118,706
1922.. 64,025 8 „ „ 40,000 24,025 142,781
1923.. 71,333 12 „ „ 60,000 11,333 154,114
1924.. 48,249 8 „ „ 40,000 8,249 162,363
1925.. 71,023 12 „ „ 60,000 11,026 173,389
1926.. 71,656 12 ~ „ 60.000 11,656 185,045
1927.. 51,784 10 „ „ 50,000 1,784 186,829
1928.. 59,849 10 „ „ 50,000 9,849 196.678
1929.. 62,428 10 „ „ 50,000 12,428 209,106
1930.. 6»,657 9 „ „ 45,000 17,657 226,763
“We have had a very fair season, and our
business has run smoothly,” say the direc-
tors of this carefully-handled Bundaberg
milling and refining business. The new
refinery, which began earning early in the
previous term —the old one was destroyed by
fire in 1927 —is fitted with what is claimed
to be the latest equipment, which probably
means that costs have been reduced. On
the milling side, however, the average price
for last season’s raws was £2O ss. 10d. as
against £2O 17s. lid. for the year before.
That was because the surplus sugar exported
realised an average of only £9 17s. per
ton, or 13s. less than for the previous season.
Also sugar content was poorer, due to a
severe winter. Nevertheless the board con-
fessed to a trifle more net profit: 12.5 p.c.
on capital as against 12.4, 11.9, 10.2 and
14.3 p.c. back to 1926, when the average
price of raws was £l9 10s. 7d. Net. a point
was knocked off the bonus, making, it 1 p.c.
and reducing the year’s distribution to 9
p.c. Probably the directors consider that
the position should be further strengthened
in view of the trend of events m the in-
dustry. ~ , , .
In the southern States, which pay about
four-fifths of the bill, and where the posi-
tion generally is not well understood, there
is much dissatisfaction concerning the price
of sugar. The agreement between the Com-
monwealth and Queensland Governments
prohibits the importation of foreign sugar,
and puts the price of raws for home con-
sumption at £27 per ton until Aug. 1, 1931,
with concessions to jam- and confectionery-
manufacturers, etc. Because production
exceeds consumption by more than one-tliird
of the entire crop, and the excess has to be
sold in the world’s markets at a heavy
loss, the home price is inevitably high in
order to give those engaged in the industry
what is considered an adequate return. In
the circumstances the Federal Government
has ordered an inquiry into the whole busi-
ness. Meanwhile, investors play for safety,
and price the co.’s pound shares at par or
thereabouts as against 28s. a year ago. The
visible backing amounts to 295. in net tan-
gibles. Further, the inner strength is known
to be substantial; shortly after the destruc-
tion of the old refinery the chairman
admitted that a revaluation of the assets had
disclosed a large surplus.
Finances are snug :
1923. 1929. 1930.
Paid' capital .. .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors .. 123,475 116,010 101,571
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 335,246 415,427 395,975
Plantation, etc. . . 72,512 68,505 66,510
Railways and tramways 48,271 43,074 40,339
Stocks .. •• •• 144,122 90,310 91,345
Book debts . . ■ • 43,520 17,837 19,643
Investments . . . • 65,374 171,699 181,536
Cash .. . . . • 108,544 48,264 57,985
During the year £14,439 was lopped off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, which
includes “other liabilities.” The more or
less liquid surplus (£248,938, including
stocks and investments) was £36,838
stronger than at the previous balance. On
fixed assets £24,182 more was written off
than was spent.
The outlook for the current term is for
another satisfactory crushing, but owing to
the low price for sugar now ruling in the
world’s markets the result may not be so
good.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 52,438 10 p.c. = 50,000* 2438 14,296
1921.. 40,274 H „ „ 37,500* 2774 11,522
1922.. 37,943 71 „*„ 37,500* 443 11,079
Pref.
' 8 p.c.
£
1923.. 38,130 406 71 p.e. =37,500* 224 10,855
1924.. 43,677 6,023 7i ~,,37,500* 154 10,701
1925.. 41,457 11,177 8 „ ~26,000 4280 6,421
1926.. 49,358 13,687 9 „ ~29,250 6421
Reserves.
Inner reserves disclosed, £10,000.. 10,000
1987.. 50,213 14,920 9 p.c. =29,250 6043 16,043
1928.. 48,492 15,025 9 ~ ~ 29,250 4217 20,260
1929.. 43,794 15,736 9 „ „ 29,250 18,968
1930.. 33,005 16,000 3*,, ~ 11,375 5630 24,598
*Divs. paid on face value of scrip and excess over
5 p.c. transferred to capital.
This wine and spirit, general-merchandising,
shijiping and agency business was established
by Samuel Allen at Townsville over half a
century ago. The public became interested
in 1923 through an issue of pref. scrip. The
£350,000 of ord. capital, provided mainly out
of profits, is still largely held by family
interests. In 1920 a half-million ords., paid
to 10s. each, replaced a quarter-million fully-
paids, and up till 1924 divs. were declared
on the face value of the paper. Any excess
over 5 p.c. in the rate went to reduce the
unpaid balance on the scrip; in this way
£75,000 of profits (ss. per share) were capi-
talised. But the strain on earnings was too
severe; to relieve it the 500.000 ords. paid to
13s. were converted (in 1925) into 325,000
£1 fully paids, and reserves thereby given
a chance to accumulate.
Meanwhile a lot of attention was given to
the indenting and agency side of the busi-
ness, especially in Sydney. Melbourne and
Brisbane. But earnings in this section re-
ceived a sharp check last year, owing to
tariff increases and restriction of imports.
In N.Q., where the co.’s major interests are,
turnover and profits are said to have been
well maintained. Nevertheless gross profits
for the 12 months to June 30 (£176,665)
were £9027 lighter than the previous year’s,
while exes. (£143,660) were £1762 heavier.
(Continued on next page.)


Touched
Bottom ?
There’s money to be lost by
buying the wrong stock or
trusting the wrong people.
There’s money to be made by
picking the right stocks and
buying at the right time.
"The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
doesn’t know everything; but
it has a wonderful accumulation
of data and unequalled sources
of information, and it places
these at your disposal.
AUGUST NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
It looks a good deal of money; but it
may save you losing all you’ve got.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
****
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
:fc H* Hs
Economy is a feature that holds a big appeal in
Pioneer Wood Pipe, for not only is a considerable
saving made in initial cost—but also in freight,
transporting, handling, laying and maintenance costs.
The'service rendered by Pioneer Wood Pipe is of the
highest standard of efficiency. Strong, durable, un-
affected by frost, heat or electrolysis, and absolutely
non-corrosive. Write for full particulars to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
•!*
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale. — Advt.
* x * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
Sfc ❖ S&
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83 % was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castiereagb
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 42 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
insure: with the
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 1 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
agents wanted where not represented.
Thus, after allowing for the pref. require-
ments, the net result dropped to 5.2 p.c. on
ord. capital compared with 8.6, 10.3, 10.8 and
10.9 p.c. back to 1926; and shareholders had
to be content with an interim 3£ p.c. for
the year. Conditions are unfavorable for
improvement in turnover, though not to such
an extent in Queensland as in - some other
States, and results for the current term will
depend to some extent upon the extent to
which exes, can be got back.
To meet the withdrawal of £52,672 of
deposits, etc., and spend £13,643 more than
was written off on freeholds, the co. went
to its bankers for an extra £21,265, reduced
the book value of holdings in other cos. by
£32,890 and drew upon liquids for the
balance:—
1922. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £287,500 £512,000 £525,000 £525,000
Overdraft . . 81,919 116,922 100,076 121,341
Deposits, etc. 107,707 136,913 136,163 83,491
Freeholds .. 76,669 201,053 229,886 243,629
Shares in other
cos. . . 29,420 35,242 47,513 14,623
Stocks .. 95,352 153,486 108,481 99,103
Book debts .. 279,891 414,201 414,952 405,175
Cash .. .. 9,717
The more or less liquid surplus (£299,446,
including stocks) was £12,252 stronger than
at the close of accounts in 1929. Much
obviously depends upon the soundness of
book debts; the drought has broken, but
prices are down and it may take a while for
many of the co.’s clients to wipe out old
balances.
There are 200,000 8 p.c. prefs., half firsts
and the other half seconds, which have
priority as to dividend only. For the firsts
16s. 3d. is asked,, and for the seconds
13s. 6d.; the return at those prices is 9.8
and 11.8 p.c. respectively. Last year’s profit
was over twice their combined annual require-
ments. The ords. are on offer at 10s. The
backing for all shares is 20s. lid. in net
tangibles.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 16,017 10 p.o. = 12,000 4,017 41,082
Co. wound up and ss. per share ( £30,000) dis-
tributed in cash.
New eo. formed, assets written up and 30,000
fully-paid £1 bonus shares issued.
June,
1921*. 14,424 10 p.c. = 12,500 1,924 2,866
1922.. 17,852 10 „ ~15,000 2,852 5,718
1923.. 18,556 10 „ „ 15,000 3,556 9,274
1924.. 18,392 10 „ „ 15,000 3,392 12,666
1925.. 18,671 10 „ „ 15,000 3,671 16,337
1926.. 18,213 10 „ ~ 15,000 3,213 19,550
1927.. 18,551 10 „ ~ 15,000 3,551 23,101
Premiums on shares, £15,573 .. .. 38,674
Old plant revalued and specific reserves
(£11,299) taken in .. .. .. 49,973
1928.. 18,190 10 p.c. = 16,054 2,136 52,109
1929.. 24,002 10 „ „ 21,000 3,002 55,111
1930.. 23,944 9 „ „ 18,900 5,044 60,155
* 10 months.
The profit for the first half of the term
was “appreciably higher,” but the result for
the. last half absorbed all the gain and more
besides, and earnings were still on the decline
when the books closed. So, although 11.4 p.c.
on average capital was netted for the year
compared with 11.4, 11.3, 12.3 and 12.1 p.c.
back to 1926, the final div. was reduced to
8 p.c. p.a., making 9 p.c. for the year.
It is clear, therefore, that last year s
figures do not reflect the full effects of the
adverse conditions which developed as the year
advanced, and which seem likely to continue.
Unemployment and recent heavy increases
in excise have affected the bar trade —whisky
houses say their turnover has already fallen
off 33 p.c.—while the shrinkage in pastoral
and other incomes has caused many pockets
to be buttoned tightly. This means that a
lot of country visitors, for whom the Metro-
pole largely caters, will postpone their holi-
day to the city, and the co.’s earnings will
suffer accordingly. Also overhead threatens
to be stubborn, and a stinging increase in
income tax will have to be met during the
current term. Hence the market, which paid
31s. for the pound shares a year ago, now
prices them at 265. Allowing for the final
div., the return at the current figure is 6.3
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The visible
backing amounts to 255. 9d. in net tangibles,
all of it represented by premises,
what they can earn.
The future is uncertain and definitely un-
favorable, the chairman says. So nothing
better than 8 p.c. need be looked for until
conditions improve, and nobody can say
exactly when that will be, or what the
improvement will amount to. The fact that
the board has specially earmarked £2OOO as
a dividend equalisation reserve might be
taken as a suggestion that it is not certain
that 8 p.c. will be easily earned in the
immediate future.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
1921. 1927. 1929. 1930
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £210,000 £210,007
Liabilities . . 9,462 8,880- 39,093 38,458
Fixed assets. . 138,307 164,636 316,244 313,629
Stock.. .. 3,600 2,247 2,816 9,153
Cash, investments 29,548 35,663 3,644 2,988
To see the new building to completion
£60,000 of fresh capital was got in a couple
of years ago. It brought with it £15,573 of
share premiums, which were 'added to reserves
and lifted the total in the share resistor
to £210,007. The premiums, by the way
mean that the new capital is costing the eo'
only 6.4 p.c. oh. an 8 p.c. div. basis. Equip-
ment is claimed to be maintained in excel-
lent order, and much depends upon that.
East year £2615 more was written off than
was spent on fixed assets, reducing their
?qoi Iii U r e P¥ 29 at June 30 - Since
IJ-1 tit,3,622 has been added to this item
xoo I nr^ l< l Jors , liave P ut U P £G °,OOO and only
£28,006 has been added to the outside debt,
which was £26,317 in excess of the more or
less liquids when the books last closed. The
year’s growth of £6637 in the stock item
suggests that the board bought liberally in
anticipation of increased excise.
Metal Markets and Share Prices.
The sale of zinc concentrates to the Brit-
ish Government provided shareholders in the
Barrier cos. with some handsome bonuses
during the last few years. Now that the
contract has run out, and the price of spelter
has fallen below £l6 a ton, both the North
and South have ceased production of zinc
concentrates, and the North is using its zincy
tailings for filling underground. Sulphide
Corp., which ships its zinc concentrates
direct, to the co.’s own works at Seaton
Carew, England, continues to produce the
material. The Electrolytic Zinc Co., which
draws supplies of zinc concentrates for its
Risdon (Tas.) works from the Barrier,
has a lot of material bought from the British
Board of Trade still on the ground at the
Hill. By the time these supplies are ex-
hausted it is expected that the mill at the
co.’s own mines, on the Tas. West Coast,
will be ready for the feed.
How sudden and severe the collapse of
metal prices has been is clearly illustrated
in this comparison : *
Average for Average for
5 Years to 6 Months to Price,
Dee.,’29. 30/6/’3O. 16/8/’3O.
Lead .. .. £27 3 1 £2O 19 7 £lB 3 9
Zinc 29 16 1 20 15 5 15 17 6
Silver (standard) 2 4 17 14
Nor is there anything in the statistical posi-
tion on which to build hope of a sustained
advance in the price of either lead or zinc;
but activity in the brass trade, and the
restriction of smelting operations in Belgium,
is expected to firm the market for spelter.
Of course it has all made the market for
silver-lead shares very sick: —
North. South. Sulphide. Zinc.
Average price,
October, ’29 .. 121/9 73/7 21/6 52/-
July ’3O 50/- 36/4 10/7 21/11
Price, 16/8/’3O .. 42/6 32/- 9/3 20/6
There has been no halt in the downward
trend for the last 11 months. Norths
show the greatest drop (65 p.c.), followed by
Zinc (60.5 p.c.), Sulphide (56.9 p.c.) and
South (56.4 p.c.). With mining costs and
metal prices at their present level there is not
much profit in ore treatment at the Bar-
rier. All the cos., however, have substantial
investments outside the business, and, until
conditions alter, it is largely to this source
that shareholders will have to look for divs.
Those interested in the renascence of
mining in North Queensland are waiting
anxiously for the first run of the Palmer
River Co.’s dredge at Strathleven. Gold
dredges have never been popular in Queens-
land. The failure of one in the Cania River
years ago was responsible for much of this
antagonism. This dredge was put into the
river bed, which had good values in fine
gold; but the bottom was rocky and irregular,
and nothing like the expected values were
recovered. The Palmer show,, however, pro-
poses to tackle ground which is practically
river flat. Success will mean a lot, for
there are thousands of acres of such flats
and terraces in N.Q. which, though not pay-
able for small-scale working, should be worth
while with a big turnover.
* * * *
A local syndicate, the Irvinebank Co-op.
Mining and Milling Association, headed by
M. O’Callaghan, previously manager, has
taken over the State treatment works at
Irvinebank. Wyatt’s lease, recent scene of
the Whitworth , Corporation’s activities, is
their principal mine, negotiations with the
owner for a two-years’ tribute having been
finalised. Since taking over, the co. has
crushed 110 tons of public stone for 9i tons
of concentrates valued at £733. The mill is
running one shift on 20 head of stamp's, but
is expected to go two shifts shortly.
* * * *
“Old Forty”: The oil boom in Queens-
land looks sick. Roma has been displaced in
favor by an area on Blythesdale station,
some dozen miles east of the old cattle-
duffing metropolis. There are “gratifying
indications” at Blythesdale, and • that’s all
so far. Elsewhere there is little doing, and
numerous boring permits have been forfeited.
A year ago there were 382 of these cheques
on the Bank of Hope outstanding, and 19
cos. were putting down 21 bores. To-day
there are 193 permits still alive, and the
eight existing cos. have 11 holes in the
ground.
Kimberley Options, Ltd. (W.A.), has put
C. M. Harris’s condemnatory report before
shareholders, who are considering the advis-
ableness of winding up. Some, however, still
think that further inspection of the co.’s
concessions should be made.
* * * «
Bundi Tin, a Melbourne-floated show work-
ing two contiguous areas in Malaya, is going
round with the hat. Some time ago, when a
second dredge was wanted, the co. decided
not to increase its small capital (£85,000 in
£1 shares, all f.p.), but to take advantage
of an offer from some of its shareholders to
advance £47,000. Much of this has been
repaid, but close on £9OOO is still outstand-
ing. So the face value of the shares is to
be raised to 255., though the directors hope
to get through on no more than 2s. 6d. of
the increase. The dredges are at present
closed down under the restriction scheme.
Buyers offer 6s. for the shares.
* * * *
Tingha Tin, Melbourne controlled, has
exercised its option over aj?out 500 acres at
Kundang, Malaya. The conversion of the
title from an agricultural to a mining lease
has been approved by the Government. The
area contains about 13,300,000 c.y. of .751 b.
dirt, assaying 72 p.c. metallic tin. Equip-
ment of the property is hung up until the
position clears.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Which Commonwealth loan would you
recommend at present prices? —B42l.
For best return from interest only, any
of the 6 per cents. Except the Dec., 1930’5,
they can be had at a shade under par; the
yield including redemption is £6 2s. 6d. p.c.
or thereabouts. Over the whole bond .section
the highest return on a redemption basis
is £6 15s. p.c. from the 51p.c., 1933’5; they
show an immediate yield from interest only
of £5 Bs. 3d. p.c.
(1) The position of Amalgamated Textiles,
Ltd.? (2) Are their shares likely soon to he
listed on the Stock Exchange??— B294.
(1) The co. operates mills at Albury,
Orange and Goulburn. At Sept. 30, 1929,
paid capital was £449,481, various re-
serves made total shareholders’ funds
£489,101. The outside debt was £80,786.
Against that were stocks, books debts and
cash totalling £157,586. Shares in other cos.,
admitted to have no saleable value, stood at
£10,000; plant, etc., £224,937; freeholds,
£96,123; intangibles, £81,240. Losses
totalled £40,374 for the five years to Sept.
30, 1928. For the next 12 months a profit
of £15,009, or 3 p.c. on capital, was claimed.
The plant was bought and mill buildings put
up when prices were at their peak. To bring
the figures more into line with the actual
position 6s. Bd. is to be struck off the face
value of each pound share. After the writ
ing down paid capital will stand at £299,654,
on which last year’s profit was 5 p.c. The
management says the co. continues to get its
fair share of trade, and that there was a
profit for the six months to March 31. The
co. appears to have turned the corner. (2)
No.
(1) What is the reason gilt securities
return 6 p.c. as against 4 p.c. 30 years ago?
(2) On what grounds has capital claimed
33j p.c. above its requirements of 1900 and
got it? How does society provide the differ-
, cnee? —B3Bl.
Interest moves with two things: (1)
security, (2) commodity price-levels. (1)
In countries where conditions are sound and
settled, money is cheap; where they arc
unsettled, it is dear. Thus bills have lately
been rediscounted in France and England at
from 2i p.c. to p.c.; in Portugal at 8 p.c.
In Australia at present it can hardly be said
that there are any gilt-edged securities; a
cloud, more or less heavy, lies over all of
them. (2) In 1904 the price level of all
commodities (Melbourne wholesale) was 890
Fifteen years later (1919) it was 2055. It is
now somewhere in the neighborhood of 1700.
This rise in commodity price-level means that
money is worth approximately half of what
it was 30 years ago. Hence the rise in
wages, etc.; hence the rise also in interest.
Economists don’t agree as to what produces
these fluctuations ; The Bulletin has many
times expressed the opinion that the varia-
tions in the world’s output and stock of
gold are a powerful factor.
What is the scrap-iron method of recover-
ing copper at Mount Morgan (Q.) ? —8502.
The mine water carrying a small percent-
age of copper in solution is pumped from
the mine and passed over scrap iron con-
tained in a series of wooden vats. The copper
is precipitated by the scrap iron. The pre-
cipitate, about 75 per cent, copper, is col-
lected from the vats, dried, bagged and
marketed.
Is the lime treatment of Mt. Morgan ore
a success? Is the process a patent? —7Bs4.
Lime treatment —presumably precipitation
of copper from solution by the use of lime—
is not being used at Mt. Morgan. F. J. Mur-
doch’s process for precipitating copper in
solution with milk of lime is to be used by
Cion curry. Copper, Ltd. Office, 293 Queens-
street, Brisbane. A process in which lime is
used to precipitate copper is described in the
“Chemical, Engineering and Mining Review,”
Melbourne, June (1930) number.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.N.: A gamble, at very long odds....
J.R.A.: If the right to cancel was made part of
your contract and you exercised that right, of course
you can’t be made to pay. The question is whether
tha right was made part of the contract. .. .J.L.:
No evidence of a commercial pool has yet been found,
but quite enough to warrant further exploration....
G.J.F.: You can do much better... .E.C.P.: The
preference is worth very little because there are so
few ordinaries, and all outside liabilities (including
debentures, if any) must be satisfied first. .. .E.C.0.:
Can’t say. Depends entirely upon the terms of the
policy contract... .Adam: Don’t know with regard
to newspaper work in particular • but, while all
have an unemployment problem, Australia is the
only one which is in serious danger of overseas
default. Canada is in the best position.... Lucy
W.: No; such concerns are in for a bad time, unless
exceptionally fortunate.... Saltbush : Afraid you must
pay. No doubt the share salesman lied to you; but you
would have to show that the prospectus also lied....
Captain’s Flat: The crux of the position is the railway
link. It is certain no help can be had from the State
Government, and private money for the job is not
visible just now. Lock up your interests and wait.
. ...A.H.R.: See page 46 this issue... .F.P.G.: Yes
quite sound. Has paid 10 p.c. for many years; but
fall in values will affect earnings... .C.W.R.: Don’t
think you were over-charged... .R.C.G.: Future looks
quite good; co. has several big contracts in hand.
But it’s not a stock to lock up and forget.


o
value for you
More wealth
for Australia
Skilled labour of Australian artisans equipped with modern
machinery—a large proportion of it, Australian-built
speeds production in General Motors Australian plants.
npO-DAY 100,000 Australian
A owners can testily to the value
in General Motors cars value
measured in years of trouble-free
life and miles of satisfying per-
formance.
This value is made possible by
painstaking research. By skilled
design. By progressive engineer-
ing. By choice of the finest
materials. By never-ending vigi-
lance of inspection and testing,from
chassis frame to finished car.
Increasingly
A ustralian-made
Many of Australia’s fastest grow-
ing industries help to produce the
materials from which these cars
and trucks are made. For in the
interests of still greater value to
the purchaser, General Motors
Australia has pledged its entire
resources to a constantly expand-
ing programme of Australian pro-
duction.
Already it has expended over
in the Common-
wealth, in pursuance of this pro-
gramme. Its total requirement
of Australian materials, including
bodies, wood, metal, fabric, Duco,
tyres, and batteries, is largest in
the motor industry. And as more
and more Australian products be-
come available in response to this
growing demand, the amount and
variety of Australian material re-
quired per car is steadily increasing.
Weigh these values
World’s largest research and
engineering resources. Modern
production facilities in five Aus-
tralian assembly plants. All possible
Australian material and labour
employed. Value proved by
100,000 Australian owners.
These are sound reasons for
choosing a product of General
Motors Australia when you buy
a car.
As easily as a
razor blade cuts
paper an oxywel-
der cuts steel.
Cutting a fender
well for the spare
tyre of a General
Motors commer -
cial vehicle.
i'lM
r ; ;
Ml. V
i a
r
■
1
i%SPk
s»___ _.
m
mm
zmwmsmmmMmMm
HH
*W*™
:■-:■■
»:
1 ~ V*.
■if
i i
: : ;
w.;
1
m:
B
ns
mm
1
n
.
Wi
1
I
1
Assembling axles to chassis frames. Not even the “set” of a single
bolt is an “unknown quantity.” Automatic power wrenches drive each
nut home with the same measured, unvarying force.
■
m
sSS!
W.
pm
&
■
jSPTj
mi
♦riiilffF
■
HHI
Ml
ft
, . ; ...<••
■
rf#i
■ ■
H
Every Australian-built body for General Motors
car- is checked and doubied-cbecked for peifection
of finish —at the plant of Australia's largest body
builders, and again bef. re it is lowered to the
assembly lines at General Motors plant.
CHEVROLET - PONTIAC - OLDSMOBILE
OAKLAND - MARQUETTE - BUICK
VAUXHALL - LA SALLLE - CADILLAC
Also Chevrolet Trucks, General Motors Trucks
Pontiac Express Deliveries.
For their dependability and long
life General Motors Australian
cars are chosen by experienced
motorists in all six States. Here
is an Oakland V-8 leaving the
new City Hall. Brisbane.
General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
; ; r ■ ,\ >
“More Wealth for Australia More Jobs for Australians ”
Send this coupon to-day for illustrated
FREE BOOKLET, on the values-to you,
and to Australia —in General Motors cars
and trucks.
General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
(Address your nearest Branch.)
Send me, without cost or obliga
tion, a copy of More Wealth for
Australia.
Name
Address -


Make secure
what you can’t
: 1
m
am
SAFE PROTECTION for your books,
papers and valuables
Fire- and Burglar-resisting Safes. •.-.Strong-
room doors, etc. List of Banks, Insurance
Offices, Government Departments,' Firms and
Corporations using these safes will be supplied
by request.
Buy direct from Manufacturer.
J. L. KELLY, 455 Macaulay Road,
Kensington, Melbourne, Wl.
4 MONTHS TO XMAS.
Not very long, but time enough to make provision for the extra expense
which is inevitable at that period. Christmas retains much of the old
spirit; it is a time of rejoicing, of hosp-tality and the giving of presents,
and because it is summer-time in Australia it is a holiday period.
All this means expense, and with most of us that means the provision
of the money in advance.
The Purpose Savings Account, and you, can do it.
Open one or more now, at any Branch of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank of Australia, use them sincerely, and Christmas will find you
prepared.
The Bank adds interest at 4 % per annum.
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
STOCK FOR MARKET
Every Head Full Value
2*
If those are the figures you want to secure
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs, Pigs, to
Winchcombe, Carson
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney; or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
OFFICES:
Winchcombe House,
Bridge St., Sydney.
AND
99-101 Eagle St.,
■Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Wrasli”: With Bill at the windlass
handle, Joe, in the bucket, began the descent
of our 120 ft. mining-shaft at Broken Cart.
Reaching for his pipe on the tip, Bill slack-
ened his hold of the handle, which jerked
out of his grip, and Joe shot down the shaft
at rapidly-increasing speed. Bill clutched
wildly, but vainly, at the madly-whirling
crank. Then when he saw by the rapidly-
lessening turns of the rope that Joe would,
soon thump hard on the bottom, he hurled
himself bodily across the''handle, and the
spinning windlass was brought up with a
IT DIDN’T OFTEN HAPPEN LIKE THIS.
BOSS: “This is the second time this morning I’ve caught you loafing.”
JACKY: “Yairs, Boss; mine tinkit this your lucky day.”
fearful jerk. Bill, rubbing lrimself painfully,
waited to hear thanksgivings pour up fio'i
down below Instead, “Let her go a bit
further, Bill, Joes voice called up in a
business-like way.
*. * * *
Ostrich : Dad was heading a committee
oi local residents who w.re framing a pro-
test against tne proportion of roreign labor
employed on the roads. A list of the aliens
and the.r nationalities was be.ng comp led,
and all went well till the case of Darkie
I ? es ,. ca F ne u .p. ' I dunno what color you and
call im, ’ said Dad. “’ls mother was a
black gm, and I think ’is father was an
Afghan camel-driver. ’E’s got a bit of Dago
in im the Jones part of it sounds Welsh,
and e s that intelligent ’e might ’ave a
streak of Orstralian. ]E talks like a Kanaka,
es got a nagger’s, ’air and a Chow’s eyes,
and e fights like an Irishman.” “’As ’e got
any Scotch blood in im ? ’ inquired a voice
from the rear. “I wouldn’t put it past
im,” said Dad. “That’s easy, then,” replied
the voice; “list ’im as Tartan.”
*'* * *
“Barangkali”: In the days before the
disappearance of the main reef lost Clunes
(Vic.) most of her population, which con-
sited mainly of Cousin Jacks, I, a callow
youth, did my first shift underground w.tli
James Trevithick as my instructor into the
mysteries of mining. Crib-time came and
dames and I sat down together. I had
some bread and cheese. James opened his
bag and produced a pasty that looked to me
a yard long. We ate in silence for some
minutes, I continually stealing sidelong
glances at the rapidly diminishing pasty.
James, noticing mv interest, took a huge
mouthful, and clearing his throat said, “Will
ee have piece o’ pasty, m’ boay?” “Yes
please, Mr. Trevithick,” I replied gratefully’
but got nothing. Again James spoke, “Will
ee have piece o’ pasty, m’ boay?” And again
I replied as previously, but with no more
result. A third time came the inquiry, “Will
ee have piece o’ pasty, m’ son?” But to this
I replied, “No, thanks, Mr. Trevithick.”
“Well, m’ boay,” came the prompt retort,
why didn’ee speak up like a man before?”
❖ 1 * ❖ :Jc
“C. Coral”: Jimmy Susin gave me a
poser the other day. “You see them wan-
gai-tree?” (The native plum of the islands,
with great spreading branches.) “Yes!”
“Now you look them cocoanuts growing ’long-
side —-every one he twist away from that
wangai. What’s the matter —them two
kind tree bad friend? Cocoanut-tree growing
’longside ’notlier kind tree, he all right; he
grow straight. But when you plant him
close to wangai-tree, he bend himself right
away. Every time he do like that, winch
way?” I couldn’t tell him, but it’s a fact.
* * * *
“Frigid” : “Sai E.” (B. 25/6/’3O) asks
for an explanation of the oily marks on san-
dalwood-trdes. This tree relies for susten-
ance upon a parasitic feeding through the
roots of associated vegetation, particularly
that of adjoining acacias. It draws more
nourishment on the western side than any
otherthus causing the sap to rise more on
that side. The rate of oil exudation depends
wholly upon the degree of humidity of the
atm sphere, and not upon the sun. Sandal-
wood-trees growing on slopes exude more
than those on the ridges; the latter get more
of any breeze blowing.
H:
“Fornie”: It’s amusing, in these days when
the M.L. pastoralists
and dairymen have
been so thoroughly
converted to the
notion that it pays
to propagate pasture,
to cast one’s mind’s
eye back to the time,
not 25 years ago,
when in the most
fertile agricultural
districts grass was,
if not exactly cursed,
at least considered a
very equivocal sort
of a blessing. It
grew not only where
it was wanted but on
every untended inch
of soil, and most
particularly and cus-
sedly it grew on the
roads. I well re-
member the first
time I, as a cub re-
porter, attended a
road-board meeting
in a village a few
miles out of Ashbur-
ton (S.I.). Early
in the proceedings
grass was mentioned.
The reporter from
the rival rag leaned
over to me. “We can
scoot,” he said.
“Once they get on
to grass they stay at
it till it’s time to
adjourn.” “No,” I
said virtuously, “I’ll
see it out.” That
was at 2.30 p.m.
Five and a half
hours later I stole
away, hearing for
quite a while on my
homeward way the
voices of seven
cockies, a lawyer and
a s t a t i o n-agent
blended into a sort of
antiphonal cantata.
Every one of them
had his pet method
of grass-eradication ;
each pet method was
different from all the
others, and each was
cherished and de-
fended with the zeal of a Mahomet.
“E.S.”: Add to the feats of
white trackers the long-dis-
tance trailing of a youngster
by George and Tom Akers,
two Warrego River selectors,
in the winter of 1916. The
stray was a four-year-old boy
named Nichol Froushegor,
who wandered from his home
near Charleville on July 11.
He was found six days after-
wards, 70 miles from his start-
ing point, and still going
ahead. The two brothers fol-
lowed, and read the story of
his bare-feet tracks. the
whole distance, mostly through
stony and densely scrubby
country, where the average
man couldn’t see a mark.
These brothers have many
good sleuth performances to
their credit, and when there
is tracking to be done the
locals _ don’t bother about
Binghi; they go after one or
both of the selectors.
* * *
“Oollarinua”: A welcome
visitant to Centralia is what
residents call the flood-bird.
Slightly smaller than a crow
and bluish grey, it makes its
appearance some days before
heavy rain. Usually the birds
travel in pairs, and when a
crow's nest is found in which
eggs are, the female flood-bird
will surreptitiously tip out the
fggs. and deposit her own,
leaving Mrs. Crow to do the
hatching. During the last
eight years of drought the
birds have not been seen, but
recently several have made
tlr ir appearance in the coun-
try between Charlotte Waters
and A1 ee Springs. Hopes are high that
dry' V speli raId th ° breakin s of the prolonged
“Zwig”: The thirsty one pushed his way
into the deserted bar. “Whoa now steady
boy stea dy,” he crooned soothingly,’looking
a „ T? -„ o i w
™ R,,,? 0 * ’ a *J d folding tight
1 ®JV te ti p? pe tlia * tugged and jerked m
1S Y . 1^ e uS a P in t in a hurry, he
counselled the sleepy barman. “This prad o’
mine s an impatient sort o’ beggar.” The
barman pulled the urgent, stranger his beer as
fast as it could he run from the tan The
QUITE A FAILURE.
“Did you give him the emetic as I told you?"
"I did that, Doctor—six of them, but they done him no good—
they wouldn’t stay on his little stomach.”
customer emptied the pot and was fumbling
m his pocket when of a sudden, the halter-
rope that he held tugged extra violently, and
he was dragged out through the half-open
ooor. The barman did not bother to follow,
A man had to pacify his horse. Ten minutes
later the stranger was standing outside a
hostelry in a different quarter of the town,
tugging violently at a halter-rope, while this
time his mate stowed away a pint.
* * sN :Jf
"Usi”: I was interested to read that
the airman Matthews, who was rescued
after a long tramp through Burman jungles,
was severely bitten by leeches which “dropped
from the trees.” I have never seen this tree-
haunting leech myself, In many walkabouts
in Papuan jungles, the creature has always
been found standing on his tail on the
ground quivering with eagerness as the foot-
falls of an approaching traveller told him
that Jcai was coming. If anything in the
way of boots, gaiters or putties has been
devised that can keep the brute out, I
haven’t come across it. In my Papuan
days the best safeguard against the blood-
suckers in bad leech country was to walk
at the tail of the procession, with all the
barelegged carriers and native police ahead
of you. By the time -you came along, the
leeches had selected all the victims they
needed.
* * * *
Wob” : While it is not uncommon for the
tropic-dwelling turtle to come far south of his
natural beat, it is rare that tropic fish, and
especially reef fish, wander into colder
waters. An exception was the poisonous
stonensh caught the other day at Wellington
Point, on the muddy foreshores of Moreton
Bay (Q.). The hideous little beast is
usually confined to the northern end of the
Barrier Reef, both on the reef itself and in
the channels where it lies doggo on the
bottom. It is the terror of barefooted natives,
and of the dress diver, groping barehanded
in the weed for hidden shell. The spines on
the back secrete a virulent poison and a
prick from them causes intense agony, and
sometimes death. Even when the pain has
gone, after effects in the form of numbness or
partial paralysis often persist for some time.
JOE’S QUERY.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
“This land is shrinkin’ bit by bit, an’ gettin’
smaller day by day,
An’ wot will be the end of it,” said Joe, “is
mighty hard to say.
Time was our grand-dads used to blink in
wonder at the puffin’ trains,
But wot do you suppose they'd think o’
motor-cars an’ airyplanes?
I ain’t a-kiddin’ you, o’ course, I’m over-
fond of heel an’ toe,
An’ yet I reckoned that the horse would
<( last my blinkin’ time,” said Joe.
I ain’t the sort that likes to croak and chip
at progress, spare me days!
An’ yet I’m none too sure that folk weren’t
just as well in bullock drays.
* [ land gets smaller ev’ry way,’* said Joe.
It leaves a chap perplexed
To know a cobber’s here one day an’ Gawd
knows how far off the next.
Across the plains they scoot and scour, they
travel like a lightnin’ streak,
An’ throw behind in half an hour a stretch
that used to take a week.
“The Never Never soon will go, it’s doomed
as far as I can see;
An’ when the scrub’s all mapped,” said Joe,
why, where will West o’ Sunday be?
An when they’ve brought it close as close,
wot used to be the Furthest Out,
Wot in the blazes d’you suppose our back-
blocks bards will rhyme about?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
i?i» Hi <•
SiSi! !]* :•: ul:i
mM
s
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
ş
From
First August
“ ROOM ONLY”
Tariff.
Single Room - - - from 12/- per day
Double Room - - - from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath
and Toilet - - - - from 21/-per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and
Toilet from 40/- per day
Breakfast
2/- and .5/6.
And a la carte.
Light Luncheon
in the Winter Garden
2/6.
Luncheon and
Dinner
d la cavtc in Grill Room,
minimum 4/-.
d la carte in Dining Hall,
minimum 5/-.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney”
š
Thc Australia Hotc, i
SYDNEY
£
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto '*
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, H ard and.
Extra Hard D. grees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki B» etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
Jfc * C. HARDTMUTH. of “ KOH-I-NOOR" Pencil fame,
Loii'io'i Office—2o. Kincaway, W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUOAUj. P O. Hos 165. SYDNEY.
“Trig” : White ants get blamed for a lot
of damage they don’t do. One of their com-
petitors in the wood-eating business is a
large spider. The other day in a Sydney
suburb I was pulling down an outhouse made
of fibro-cement sheets tacked to Oregon joists
when I came across four or five of these
creatures. Each had insinuated himself be-
tween the she .thing and the joist, and had
made a hefty m‘eal on the wood, which had
the characteristic ant-eaten appearance. The
biggest of the spiders was a full five inches
across, flat and crab-like in appearance and
very dark grey in color. As each spider was
uncovered it made a lightning leap to the
ground and concealed itself so quickly in the
debris scattered around that I had no oppor-
tunity for extended observation, but judging
by the marks they- make in timber they
should be capable of administering a nasty
nip.
NO DEPRESSION IN HIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
AIREDALE: “How's the world treating you?”
F OX THRRIER: “Can’t grumble; three good fights and a bone a day.”
“Niakh” : The most favored substitutes for
tobacco in my youth • were the roots of gum-
trees. Juvenile connoisseurs considered that
the best varieties were those obtained at the
greatest depth below the surface of the
ground, and sewerage excavations, which
were then just beginning in Adelaide, gave
them the opportunity to gratify their predi-
lections. A piece of root obtained at a depth
of seven feet was regarded as having a
better aroma than one secured at five feet,
and an eight-footer was regarded as the
equivalent of a Corona Corona.
* * * *
“Piecrust” : Dad’s purchase of a new colt
had resulted in discord. He had a strong-
opinion of tlie animal’s powers of speed, and
wanted to enter him for the races. Dave
swore the quadruped was only fit for cat’s-
meat. The argument was stiil going strong
when Dave, setting out for his holidays in
Sydney, was instructed by his sire to pur-
chase and forward a stop-watch for timing
purposes. “Don’t forget now,” said Dad,
“or I’ll flay the hide off yer when yer get
back.” A day or two later a parcel came.
It arrived while the family were at dinner.
and Dad tore it open. Next moment Mum
was saying “Hush!” and the table tilted as
Dad sprang up. “That’s just like Dave!”
he roared. “’E knows I can’t get ’at ’ini!
Listen to this!” He read the enclosed
letter: “Dere Mum and Dad. Ime sorry I
coodn’t get a stop-watch for timing Bewty,
but I am sending the inclosed instead. I
think you will find it just as good. I won
sixty quid at the. races to-day, so don’t
ixpect me home for a long time. Yours
trewly, Dave.” In the parcel was a calendar.
* * * Sl!
“Juugor”: Is there any part of Australia
where the pepper-tree won’t flourish? On
“WHO THE DICKENS HAS BEEN MEDDLING WITH MY FOUNTAIN-PEN?”
the Westralian goldfields 35 years ago, when
the numerous settlements were rapidly becom-
ing municipalities, the township dads used
to debate long and earnestly what shade
trees, if any, would grow best in the wide
main streets. Cue decided to give peppers a
trial, but hardy as the Tasmania aromatica
is, it took it all its time to strike down roots
in holes that had to be blasted out for its
reception. For months the peppers, sur-
rounded by guards to defend them from
predatory goats, looked sickly, shrivelled,
stunted things, despite the water lavished on
them, and odds were freely laid against their
survival by the local know-alls. The climax
came when a councillor aros > in the local guild
hall to move that a man should be engaged
to paint the tree-guards white, and another
councillor added the sarcastic suggestion that,
while the operator was about it, he might as
well paint the infant trees green—“just to
show what they oughter look like.” Yet the
peppers, after the first desperate struggle,
lived and flourished ; in fact, they throve so.
luxuriantly that within 20 years an embit-
tered prospector was enabled to hang him-
self on one of them.
=!= * !* : *
“E.S.S.”: Riding one hot day towards
what looked like a beautiful pool of water,
we got near the edge of the slight hollow and
the promised drink suddenly evaporated.
Though the horses wanted a drink as badly
as we did, they showed no concern about th 1
atmospheric deception. Subsequently, when
other mirages had us guessing, the horses
either seemed to see nothing or to recognise
at once that the alluring things weren’t
real, and when we overtook a mob of thirsty
sheep we saw them mooch close past a mythi-
cal lake without interest, though one of the
drovers turned aside to investigate. Later
on we saw a small sheet of water a little
way off the road; but w'e were tired of
deceptions, and only for the horses per-
sistently pulling in that direction we would
have passed it—it was a real pool. The
moral is, when in doubt ask your horse.
“Up North”: Mysterious rumblings, like
cattle stampeding over a saltpan, are occa-
sionally heard in N.Q. and the Territory. On
the flat country running back from the west
coast of Cape York Peninsula I have heard
these sounds half a dozen times, with Vary-
ing intensity. On a bright day when there
was no sign of a storm it sounded like a
distant peal of thunder. On a still night
the rumble reminded me of the Triumph’s
guns at Gallipoli. Bushmen put it down
to bursting granite, due to alternate expan-
sion and contraction under variations of
temperature ; but the outside shell of a granite
boulder bursts with a sharp, pistol-like
report. Binglii says: “Big pfeller devil
plenty angry down longa ground.”
* * * *
“Sigma”: In a recent instalment of “The
Passage,” in The Bulletin, mention was
made of “the rains and -the monsoonal season
now being on.” Everywhere in Queensland
people talk about the “monsoonal season,”
yet, unfortunately, we are not in the track
of either the north-
east or south-west
monsoons. We arc
under cyclonic in-
fluences, and these,
like our seasons, are
irregular and uncer-
tain. If the dis-
turbance is suffi-
ciently large and is
travelling in the
right direction, it
goes inland and we
have good seasons;
where volume or
direction is wrong
we get drought in-
land. This has been
well demonstrated the
last few years, when
drought has had
command in the
West. One cyclone
struck the coast
north, of Townsville
and travelled west-
erly, good falls of
rain being experienced
as far south as the
Ilughenden - Clon-
curry railway line,
but it worked itself
right out before
reaching the western
borders of the State.
In countries in the
monsoonal belt tin;
rain comes with
almost clock-lik *
regularity and may
be relied upon almost
to the day; the ex-
tent of the fall is
assured also. Mr.
Palmer, of course, is
not at fault. He has
used the term “monsoonal” as Queenslanders
use and understand it.
“Alias” : There is a legend that white ants
will not work over galvanised-iron, but it’s
just a legend. Forty years ago every N.
Queensland telegraph linesman’s report con-
tained items of this sort: “Replaced 14 top
pins eaten by white ants”; “Line earthed 30-
mile post, pin eaten by white ants.” Those
pins, about a foot long by one inch in
diameter, were at the top of galvanised-iron
poles, 20 feet from the ground. Every known
hardwood was tried, ; including jarrali and
every conceivable treatment, but the termite
ran his little tunnel up the post and got
to work.
"Eureka” : Dad, Dave, the Pommy and I
were out riding in the back country looking
for stray sheep and shooting kangaroos.
Nightfall found us in the middle of a thick
patch of prickly-pear. We managed to find
a spot just big enough to lie down in with-
out touching the prickles. We took off our
clothes, as it was a hot night and turned in.
Presently Dave started to iaugh. “What are
you laughing at?” Dad asked. “The Pommy
says lie walks in his sleep,” Dave replied.
* * * n.
“Dai It.”: One of the greatest nuisances
that campers-out have to contend with in
many parts of N.S.W. and Queensland is
corkscrew grass, which is very tenacious of
life and flourishes often when drought has
killed all else. It is so called on account of
a peculiarity of its seeds, which, sharp as a
needle at the ends, will penetrate the outer
skin with the slightest touch, and then begin-
ning a slow rotatory movement, work into tin;
flesh out of sight after the manner of a
tick. Painful skin eruptions often result.
Owing to their incursions many a good pair
of blankets has been “dumped,” and
socks galore have gone the same way. Bush-
men in country where corkscrew grass grows
search every mug of tea before drinking it.
Yet the seeds don’t seem to do much harm
to stock.
* * * *
“Viau”: Whitebait aiv nut confined to
Maoriland. Each year, when the flame-tree
blooms, Kanakas come from all over the sur-
rounding landscape to a small estuary near
Cape liigney, Astrolabe Bay, Mandated
New Guinea, bringing scoops and con-
tainers of all descriptions. The moon
goes, and then invariably in comes a dense
shoal of whitebait about one acre in extent
and • packs into the inlet. I once had to
wade chin-deep through it. I have heard of
a similar visitation near Salamoa, in the
same territory.
“Pick": Rabbits dispose of the earth
excavated during the formation of an exten-
sive burrow by throwing it over their backs
and. with a tremor that causes if;to sink
among their fur, load the loosened earth,
upon themselves and their mates. Then
they carry it outside the tunnel, travel some
distance away, and distribute it over the
flats by springing into the air and vigorously
shaking themselves. When the trucker
SHE HADN’T SOAKED IT IN.
"Have you seen my fiancé yet, Many?”
“No, Miss—it not alonga wash, mine tinkit.”
emerges he looks like a moving ball of earth,
but he re-enters the drive with his fur clean.
The prancing, jazzing and gyrating that
rabbits often perform oh the flats below
their tenements is not, as commonly sup-
posed, their play. They are getting rid of
the soil that would otherwise be an obstruc-
tion about the doorways of their warren.
MORNING IN THE HUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A din of tinware in the light
Of early morn at Bogan Bight,
And bleats in shed and pasture;
A crusty cook who growls on sight,
“Hot coffee left, tea on the right,
And there’s the buns, and blast yer!”
From rows of bunks they tumble out,
The shearer and the rouseabout,
Dag-picker and the presser,
With sleepy eyes and half a doubt
That, cook’s too early with his shout
Of “There’s the bell and bless her!”
They rush the cookhouse fore and aft,
Enough to drive the babbler daft,
A-crowdin’ near and nearer;
And oft the smoky breezes waft
Anathemas upon the craft
Of picker-up and shearer.
He bangs the dough with main and might,
And bustling with the morning’s flight
He grumbles, “Let’s get past yer!”
And to each hesitating wight
Rasps “Coffee left, tea on the right,
And there’s the buns, and blast yer!”
With brownie, bun and steaming tot
They stand around the buckets hot,
All gonning in a hurry,
Until they’ve gulped and scoffed the lot,
Then leave the cook to plan and plot.
And curse the rice and curry.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
Ihe Sianaara oi Quality throughout tho Empire.
IWonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-uas
Detonators
Cartridges
m
EVERY CAR...EVERY LORRY
Should be lubricated every 500 miles
with
ALEMITE
Lubricating Systems
and Lubricants
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets f
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
THE MAN
ON THE BAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
NOTEL WINDSOR
C[?]PARK & CASTLEREAGH
SYS SYDNEY
THE IDEAL RAINFALL.
“It. K. Deea”: 80 far this season the wet
districts of the Commonwealth —the areas
used for dairying, grazing, etc.—have had
bounteous falls of rain, while the dry areas
have received rains sufficient to promise well
for a successful wheat yield. My people
have been growing wheat and wooi in Vic-
toria for nearly 60 years, and for more than
half that time they have kept careful records.
During the recorded, period light yields have
followed a year of heavy rainfall almost as
surely as they have followed a period of
drought. This raises the question of what
is an ideal rain?
The light soils of the New Mallee can
do with considerably less rain than, say,
the heavy black soil of the Wimmera plain,
always provided it falls at the same suit-
able time.
For this there are two reasons: (1) The
light Mallee soil is more permeable and per-
mits a greater percentage of the rain to enter
its body, thus minimising the loss by sur-
face drainage; (2) the water absorbed by
the sandy soil is conserved more readily than
in the case of soils of the heavy tvpe, be-
cause, irrespective of tillage operations, the
evaporation is not nearly so great. Mallee
soil has a lower water-holding capacity than
Wimmera soil; the approximate figures are
12 per cent, and 80 per cent, respectively.
This means that, with both soils saturated,
an acre-foot of Mallee will contain 200 tons
of water; an acre-foot of Wimmera approxi-
mately 500 tons.
Computing further, and taking an inch
of rain to equal 100 tons of water per acre,
we find that it requires 4in. of rain to
satisfy Mallee to a depth of 2ft., whereas
10in. are required to produce the same result
in the black soil of the Wimmera—assuming
that 100 per cent, is absorbed in 'each
instance. Should the rain come in dribs
and drabs there is a much greater chance
of a 100 per cent, absorption in both cases
than would be the case if it all arrived in
one fall and in a short space of time. Should
the latter happen a greater percentage of the
rain would be absorbed in the Mallee than
in the Wimmera. Therefore the ideal rain
for the Wimmera is decidedly different from
the ideal rain for the Mallee. In other
words, your ideal rain will vary with the
soil, and with the time of year and the farm-
ing practice. _ The ' “sit-back’’ condition is
when your soil and subsoil contain moisture
equal to GO per cent, of the saturation point.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT CROPS.
“Veracity”: “Mug Cocky” (B. 23/7/’3O)
lias not delved deeply enough into the rea-
sons for the excellent light-land crops you
see in Westralia this season. Whether
farming heavy or light country, the amount
of cultivation given does not always deter-
mine the yield.
Last season was not favorable to light
country. March rains gave an early start
to the crops sown on it; a dry April
caused rapid growth; a wet May did not
check the growth ; and the rains ceasing in
July caused the crops to run to ear. Then
came heavy frosts in August; and early-
sown crops which had looked like yielding
15 bushels were, in many instances, not
harvested. This occurred without exception
throughout our district (Koorda), whether
the land had had numerous workings or
otherwise.
This season conditions have been different.
The first rains commenced on April 15, 203
points being registered for the month. May
was warm and dry except for eight days,
during which a total of 60 points fell, so the
light-laud crops got a strong start. A wet
June, 392 points, with absence of frosts, did
not check the growth, and by July 8 a
further 186 points had been recorded. A
succession of heavy frosts checked any ten-
dency for the plants to run to ear, and 32
points at the end of July Ihft farmers with
light-land crops looking forward to a yield
of 15 bushels and upwards.
In my own instance, well-worked fallowed
light land last season was not harvested;
patches yielded five bushels. A fair esti-
mate would have been 12 bushels ; the aver-
age was three bushels. This year non-
fallowed light land, ploughed after early
March rains (108 points), cultivated and
drilled on April 21 with 471 b. of graded
Nabawa and 1201 b. of super., should, on
present indications, return 18 bushels.
Crops on heavy land are likewise showing
every promise of a record yield owing to
the extremely favorable conditions which
prevailed during May. Well-fallowed land is
snowing the results of extra cultivation, and
P c°o^ d u d tlie sprin * rains are normal yields
of 30 bushels should not be uncommon. And
the land, in many cases, was bought for 10s
per acre, payable over 20 years; light land
was cheaper still.
VICTORIA’S GREAT SEWAGE FARM.
The Westralian Government which gave
Perth its sewerage system blunder; d badly
when it decided to establish unsightly septic
tanks and filter beds on the banks of the
kwan, and discharge the effluent into the
shallow river. It was urged to save the
owan from desecration and pump the sew-
age to a farm between the river and the
ranges, but went on its heedless way, and
the succeeding generation has cursed it
heartily. . W'hat an opportunity was missed
may be judged from a well-known stock-
man’s account, written for The Bulletin,
of a visit to the metropolitan sewage farm
at Werribee (Vic.), “the largest and best
cattle-fattening property in the Southern
Hemisphere,” he pronounces it
When I was at the farm, 11,000 head of cattle
were fattening on 9000 acres, divided into 20-acre
blocks lined with trees. Eighteen stockmen were
employed moving the cattle; altogether there is a
stall of nearly 300 men, and the place is practically
self-contained. The 9000 acres is covered with
sewage every 16 days. So perfect is the drainage
that the cattle can be put on three days after the
irrigating ceases.
The farm carries upwards of 3000 breeding cows.
It specialises in baby beef, and sends to the Mel-
bourne market one to three hundred fat cows, steers
and calves almost every week. It has the biggest
Shorthorn stud in Victoria (one of the sires cost
1200 guineas), the largest Polled Angus stud, and
the second-best Hereford stud; they are a treat for
a cattleman to see.
Besides the cattle there are about a thousand
horses on agistment (the number has gone as high
as 2000), and a good many thousand sheep and
lambs. There are also hundreds of acres of lucerne,
which is cut for hay, and a very large area under
maize for grain. And the farm is a financial
success; with its aid the Board of Works is enabled
to give the people of Melbourne what is claimed
to be the cheapest sewerage service in the world—
a rate of Bd. in the £ sufficing.
Any man on the land who goes to Melbourne
for a holiday and misses making a trip to Werribee
to see the farm is neglecting his education. He
will be made welcome and afforded every opportunity
to inspect the studs and the fattening cattle by the
manager, Mr. Frank Vincent, who has grown up in
the service of the boai'd.
The latest year for which figures are
given by the Government statist shows a
profit on farm trading account of £44,289.
Cattle yielded a net profit of £31,209; sheep,
£17,631; agistment of horses, £BB2B.
SHARPENING COMBS AND CUTTERS.
“Kripple”: There is no need to pay an
expert to grind the tools at a small shearing
or crutching. After a little practice on dis-
carded tools to give confidence, the job is
simple enough. You require freedom from
vibration on the grinding machine, which
must run at the correct speed—24oo revs,
for emery lap-type discs and 1500 for the
Burgon abrasive powder type. (These
speeds reversed have upset sheds and tem-
pers. ) And tools must be thoroughly cleansed
from grease, otherwise the life of the abra-
sives will soon be deadened, causing unneces-
sary and wasteful changes.
Assuming that the discs have been prepared
with the proper grades of emery—coarse for
combs, fine for cutters—and have attained
full speed, proceed as follows. With cutter
on holder, place it lightly on the centre of
the disc on the up-running side, and with
fairly quick action move it backwards and
forwards for three or four seconds on a
horizontal plane. Withdraw and have a look
at the edges, s : de on. A whitish streak
along the edges denotes that they are not up.
Continue until they are, always lifting off
points first. With cutters lightness of
touch _ means everything. Combs are dealt
with in much the same fashion, only a good
deal more pressure can be applied; and that
should be more at the heels than the points.
If stubborn to bring up, lay aside until cool,
going on with another meantime.
Printed instructions with machines urge
the use of pendulum for holder. I don't;
and I got through 20 years as a shearing
expert without them. In my opinion they
are awkward affairs, making for slower mani-
pulation and minimising the human touch,
which gives much the best results once con-
fidence has been established.
When grinding wear glasses. A speck of
emery in the eye may prove very troublesome.
A FIG OF TOBACCO.
“Nick O. Teen”: Early lambs, like early
birds, are apt to get worms. The drench
usually recommended consists of two ounees
of arsenic, 241 b. washing soda and three
figs of tobacco in eight gallons of water.
Some of these remedies are handed down from
generation to generation without review.
Now what is a fig of tobacco? The term has
long gone into disuse, even in the country of
origin.
Strictly speaking, a fig of tobacco is a piece
weighing about half an ounce; but in ;.he
old days figs differed in size and weigut.
Nicotine, \ the tobacco alkaloid, is a deadiy
poison; Plug tobacco contains from 4
to 7 per cent, of nicotine. It is pos-
sible for a farmer or grazier to destroy or
seriously impair the health of his lambs by
assuming that a fig is another term for a
plug and making up the drench accordingly;
and it is by no means an unnatural assump-
tion. The cheapest tobacco, as a rule, is the
strongest in nicotine, and in nine cases out
of ten cheap tobacco is used when making
the drench.
If it is supposed that a fig of tobacco is
a plug weighing two ounces (incidentally,
plugs vary in size and weight) and the
cheapest brand is used, the drench may con-
tain the nicotine extracted from six ounces
of strong tobacco—at least four times the
quantity intended when the old formula was
invented. _ It should really contain no more
of the poison that can be extracted from an
ounce and a half of medium-grade. Realisa-
tion of this fact is most important to stock
owners.
DAMS AND WING-DRAINS.
“U. Murray”: Every summer landowners
have reason to kick themselves for neglect-
ing to clean out their water storages during
the last dry spell. A thing still more
neglected is the provision and maintenance
of wing-drains, in the many cases where the
main water-course may be sometimes in-
sufficient.
The failure of water storages to fill with
the, winter rains is nearly sure to throw
one’s entire stock-management out of gear.
Almost every water-catchment may be
much improved by the simple and inexpensive
adjunct of wing-drains; they can be cut at
the rate of miles per day with a plough,
followed by a V-shaped contrivance (which
can be made at home) to push out any loose
dirt the plough may leave.
I shall never forget a tank I came across
out in the Bland country. It was in the
middle of a pine scrub, where one would
have imagined no water had run since the
making of the world. After an abnormally
dry winter, spring and summer, its 24,0<X)
cubic yards were almost full, and it looked
like a young lake with its swimming water-
fowl. On inquiry, I found the secret was
over eight miles of wing-drains.
A most important feature of such wing-
drains is that one of the patchy storms which
in summer may often go by only a few
hundred yards wide will very iikely ‘replenish
a dam _ into which the main water-course
may fail to run the whole year.
PRAIRIE GRASS IN S.A.
“Tumbe Munda”: Prairie grass is very
palatable and nutritious; moreover, it pro-
duces a large bulk of fodder and makes its
maximum growth when other grasses are
practically dormant. But it has one fault.
Forming a crown above the surface, the
plant can be easily grazed out, and as all
other plants are ignored by stock until there
are no more crowns left, prairie should not
be included in mixtures.
In South Aus. I have had prairie grow-
ing for many years. After the first winter
rams it will send up fresh, succulent leaves
to a height of 18 or 20 inches in a few
weeks, cocksfoot, oats and kindred feeds
making only a few inches at the same time.
A neighbor, seeing the growth of my prairie,
decided to grow some. He put in a quarter-
acre, and as soon as it came up shut two
pet lambs and a calf on the plot. Result,
plants all destroyed and an angry farmer who
•swore he would never grow the thing again.
Work up your land well and roll it. Broad-
cast 401 b. of seed per acre, also manure;
then plough the seed in to a depth of two
inches. Smooth the surface and leave. Ret
the plants get well established before you
put stock on, and they must not be allowed
to graze it too short; sheep are the principal
offenders in this respect. When you see
the stems cut down to about six inches
remove the animals until fresh growth is
made. With care and an annual manuring
you will have a paddock which will provide
good feed when it is most needed.
TOBACCO FARMS IN N.Q.
The Queensland Government is cytting up
a tract of Crown land in the Mareeba dis-
trict into 30 tobacco farms. The orders
to the surveyors are that each farm is to
have about 60 acres of arable land suitable
for tobacco, and an area of grazing laud up
to 200 acres; though it will be obviously
impossible for the successful applicant to
make a living out of grazing. The areas
will be available for agricultural homestead
selection under the group system at 2s. 6d.
per acre. '
Preference will 'be a given to persons who
have had farming (preferably tobacco-grow-
ing) experience, and who possess sufficient
capital to carry them on for a year or two.
They will be required to undertake to put
five acres under tobacco during the coming
season from December to February, and
hence to prdceed with the clearing and
stumping forthwith. Officers of the Agricul-
tural Department are now at work on the
design of the farms, and applications will
be received by the Land Administration
Board up to the end of August. If a bright
tobacco of good quality is produced, the
B.A.T. Co. will buy at up to 2s. 6d. per
pound, and 500 pounds per acre is not an
extravagant estimate of a good crop.
This is a very interesting move towards
keeping in the country the £3,000,000 p.a.
we now send abroad for tobacco. If early
results are favorable more tobacco farms
will be made available, as there is no lack
of Crown land in the Mareeba district.
Capital leaf has already been grown in
Mareeba, and the N.S.W. State expert is
confident that “we can produce-there tobacco
that will displace much of the product now
imported.”
THOSE INCOME-TAX EETURNS.
“Tuart”: Persons whose income is derived
from salary, wages, commission, dividends
or rents have to put in their income-tax
returns by July 31. Farmers, pastoralists,
gardeners and “other producers” are allowed
till the end of August, and can get an
extension of time if they apply, giving reason-
able grounds, before the due date. Federal
and State taxation offices have been amal
gamated; even so, the preparation of returns
is such a puzzle that many men on the
land find it expedient to hand the thing over
to so-called experts or to the taxation
branch of some association or co-operative
concern. To read the list of instructions
accompanying the forms, conflicting as they
are on numerous points, is alone enough to
give a man a headache. As The Bulletin
has said, there is a crying need for one
uniform income tax, expressed in language
that any ordinary person can understand, and
not packed with conundrums.
The printed instructions don’t give all the
deductions that can be legitimately claimed.
For instance, the Commonwealth allows you
to deduct wireless license fees “even if not
incurred in the production of income.” This
may be only a small thing, but every six-
pence counts. The Commonwealth also allows
for expenditure incurred in ploughing and
grassing; in the destruction and removal of
indigenous timber, scrub, undergrowth, detri-
mental weed and plant growth; in the
eradication and extermination of animal or
vegetable pests; in the preparation of land
for agriculture, and in drainage when the land
is thereby improved. The States, generally
considered, are not so liberal; for example,
N. S. Wales doesn’t permit subtraction of
the cost of rabbit or dingo fences erected
during the year, though the Commonwealth
does. On the other hand, the cost of un-
successful water-boring operations may be
claimed under N. S. Wales law but not under
Commonwealth law.
Motor-car tax is an unconditional Federal
deduction, but N. S. Wales bars it “except
where incurred in the production of assess-
able income.” Rates, wild-dog and stock
taxes and show entries (where the tax-
payer is a studbreeder) are deductible, and
so are sums laid out on telephones, tele-
grams, radiograms, postage and duty stamps
“in production of assessable income.”
Travelling expenses are also allowed in some
cases; the writer would certainly claim for
a trip to a show with exhibits, though he
would be prepared for argument about it.
Repairs to property, machinery, imple-
ments, utensils and plant may be deducted.
Depreciation is also allowed on buildings,
implements, machinery, fences, wells- and
dams. In short, claim everything you regard
as a fair deduction —it doesn’t pay to be
too modest in these matters.
RUGGED COWS.
“Dimon”: The rugging of cows is favored
by many dairymen in the Coraki district,
Richmond River (N.S.W.), and milk pro-
duction shows a considerable increase on the
usual winter yield when the cows were not
rugged. Rugging is worth considering in all
places where the pastures do not afford
proper shelter and results are not satisfac-
tory despite hand feeding. Milk supplies from
most centres are comparatively small in
winter, and the price of cream and butter
is higher. So every gallon that can be added
by a little attention to Strawberry means
more to the dairyman then than at other times.
To adequately rug a herd is admittedly
a big initial outlay. Rugs that will serve
(Continued on page 25.)


Save a clear 75 $
on labour costs
with this new
9
7
12
7
i 6"
ii
m
P
'Jb'
m
ILL
V
MnO
ml
01
,A
mm
*s
-•' »/" ’•'■«- <> •
Ov
m
3L>
? FN
*=T=H
sag B ?*
*\vl/
n/f&vv PP«4
i'/i.JS |!*l
mW*'*
\\\"\ ijf
dfefWytf WL^" ' **'
; Wm^^m
/, >**•
□
□
a
IMMOVABLE Ll-B— "
MMUOCK FARM
The “Cyclone” Ring-
Locks hold the stiff
upright stays to the
line wires in a vice-
like grip, thus prevent-
ing stock from forcing
the wires apart or lift-
ing the fence and
scrambling through.
T’S stronger , it’s easier to erect, it’s
guaranteed stock proof, and it’s
cheaper than a plain wire fence
with droppers.
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fence is the only
fence made throughout from HARD-
DRAWN galvanised steel wire that
will not stretch out or sag.
Only one post every 22ft. is needed to
make a rigid stock-resisting fence, and 5
chains of complete “Cyclone” fence can
be strained up in one easy operation.
A. beautifully printed “Cyclone” Catalogue of
64 pages will be sent to you free on receipt of
the coupon below. Write to-day for a copy.
44
Cyclone” [5 lines 2b high]
Sheep Fence
(Shown above]
This Fence Is Made in Two Weights:
Style SH, 10 gauge throughout £23/10/0 per mile; 6/9
per chain.
Style SL, top and bottom wires 10 gauge, uprights and
intermediate wires 11 gauge, £22/10/0 per mile; 6/3
per chain.
Orders for less than half a mile charged at chain rates.
•‘Cyclone'’ Ring-Lock Fences are made in several heights
and with various spacings of wire to suit all classes of stock.
Cyclone" Steel Fence Posts
These posts are made of a specially rolled “T" section,
and because of their shape and construction, have greater
holding power and are stronger than any other steel post.
“Cyclone” Steel Posts are excellent for use with
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fences. Packed and sent out in
in bundles of 10, with standard boring (starting from
top of post): 6" 6” 8' 6" 5 5" 6 . Slotted and punched
at top to take barbed wire.
sft. posts .... - 1/8 each.
5 ft. 6 in. posts - • 1/9 each.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO.
PTY. LTD.
24 JAMIESON STREET. SYDNEY.
189-191 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE. PIRIE ST., ADELAIDE
ſ
To CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD., m
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced
Catalogue of "Cyclone” Metal CJates and Ring-Lock Fences.
Name-
Address -
SF6
'Bulli.iW, 20/8/ 30.
ß
Vfhu n
Cyclone fences
are belter
1. —Cheaper and more
effective than a plain
wire fence with droppers.
2. —Offer tremendous resist-
ance and high breaking
strain.
3. —Stiff uprights will not
bend.
-Immovable Ring-Locks
hold uprights to the line
wires in a vice-like grip.
—When erected, stay taut
and firm; will not sag
or stretch out. j
There’s a Cyclone
Metal Gate
for every
need.
Special “Cyclone”
Strainer loaned
free of charge*
£
a o
Lock
FENCE
Sold in five>chain
rolls ready to erect
FARM & STATION
GATES,
These gates are manufactured from a special steel
tubing and have no bolt holes drilled in the frame to
weaken the construction or let in water. All struts
are electrically welded for greater strength.
The method of hinging “Cyclone” Farm and Station Gates
makes them swing easily for years.
There are many styles and designs suitable for every purpose, and
all are illustrated and priced in the big free “Cyclone” Catalogue.
The famous “Cyclone” “N” Gate. Style 120
Manufactured from If and If metal tubing. The “Cyclone" “N" is one of the
sturdiest and most popular paddock gates in Australia.
1§" frame, to fit openings * - 10 ft. 35/6, 11 ft. 38/-, 12 ft. 39/6, 13 ft. 42/*
1§" frame, to fit openings - • 10ft. 45/6, 11 ft. 48/6, 12ft. 50/6, 13 ft. 54/*


FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed prim aril v for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
diamond
<rr>
lasting
•^ld)
dianioni
BATTERY
60 VOLTS
efficient
One of the Four Diamond Factories
The best Batteries are built in Diamond Factories, which are equipped with
the last word in modern machinery.
Equipment, plus knowledge, plus research, plus scientific methods, are respon-
sible for Diamond Batteries winning an outstanding reputation throughout
Australia.
Here you have a striking example of an Australian Industry which has been
given the opportunity and has triumphed for Quality of Product.
s
AND DRY CELLS
(RADIO, BELL, SIGNAL, TELEGKaEH, siAKijER, ETC.)
Diamond Batteries and Dry Cells last longer—numerous testimonials from owners of Radio Sets pay tribute to their extra life and
ArtOHL
“A” BATTERIES:
FREE--Sew Catalogue of Diamond Batteries Mailed to your address.
ALL RADIO DEALERS.
DIRECT FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY
GROUND FLOOR, “WHITEHALL,” RANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, Cl. PHONE: F 4952.
N.S.W. REPRESENTATIVE:
REG. ROSE & COMPANY,
KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND REPRESENTAVIVE:
J. B. CHANDLER & CO.
45 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE;
§
0
4,
■ m
r : - V. •
W.McF.


Light and practical
.... and smartly smooth-fitting. The
Abbey Riding Boot is pliant and hard-
wearing, with stout elastic insets that
preserve its suppleness and assure
close fit.
The boot is lined with soft leather
that increases comfort and durability.
There are no raised seams inside, and
the upper exactly follows the foot s
natural shape.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 42/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 37/6
Sports Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
worries
when uou travel with
CANADIAN PACIFIC
Passengers’ luggage for-
warded to any point in
Canada or United States
by C.P.R. agents. Carry
no luggage* • merely
give directions. All lug-
gage transferred to
steamer, hotel or train
as desired.
This efficient system enables
you to enioy travel without
annovanee or ineonven’enee.
F-s-ane InKS'ae’e worries
bo k C.P.R. oil the way. lit-
erature and details on request.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS • STEAMERS * HOTELS
ś
WHIP THONGS
Made from Best Kangaroo Leather in
Chandler’s Own Factory.
STOCK
6ft.
THONGS.
7ft.
12/9
14/6
16/3
10ft.
18/3
20/-
22/3
Bft.
14/6 ea.
16/3 ea.
18/3 ea.
12 ft.
22/6 ea.
24/6 ea.
26/6 ea.
8-plait: 11/3
10-plait: 13/-
1 2-plait: 14/9
9 ft.
8-plait: 16/3
10-plait: 18/-
12-plait: 20/3
BULLOCK THONGS
(Green Hide).
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
4-plait : 9/- 10/- 11/3 12/3 ea.
SPECIAL STOCK WHIPS.
These Whips are specially constructed
of the very best materials, the bellies
being made of solid kangaroo leather,
and are plaited in the following fancy
colors Brown and Black and
White, Black and Tan, and Green
Kangaroo and Tan.
6ft. 7ft.
15/- 16/9
17/6 19/3
8-plait:
1 2-plait:
1 6-pi ait:
8-plait:
1 2-plait:
1 6-plait:
19/6
9ft.
21/6
27/6
29/9
22/6
10ft.
24/6
29/9
32/-
Bft.
18/6 ea.
22/6 ea.
25/6 ea.
12 ft.
28/6 ea.
34/- ea.
37/6 ea.
Whip Handles. —Malacca Cane, 3ft.,
2/6; steel-lined and ferruled, 2-Jft.,
2/6; 3ft., 3/- each, Leather Grip,
steel-lined, 15 ferrules, 3ft., 7/6.
Special English 2ft. 6in-,
6 ferrules, 11/6 each.
Prices F.O.R. Melbourne.
WJI
3331 Tim
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
0
IU
Doctors and nurses will tell
you of the dangers of in-
fection. Even the slightest
burn or scratch may be-
come infected. Suffering and
life-long scars may be the
penalty. BE PREPARED,
keep Zam-Buk handy.
Spread it liberally on the
affected part. Instant re-
lief, germs are excluded,
and normal healing starts.
1/6 & 3/6
per box.
Ti.E PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. MeLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH,
for cold weather, though they are not much
good for rain, can be made out of old bags,
lined with any warm material, such as that
used for saddle-cloths. But a handy-man can
make the canvas rug that serves for alt
weathers at a little extra cost.
On some farms a shelter is fixed up in
the paddock for the cows to camp in on bleak,
v/et nights. This doesn't cost much; a low,
broad structure built of saplings and roofed
with bark is all that is necessary. A patch
of scrub or a thick clump of bushy trees
answers the same purpose on frosty or
windy nights. Cattle always seek such
shelters to camp in, but a great many farms
are conspicuously barren, no thought being
given to anything but grass. My. experience
is that a pasture that is well sprinkled with
trees does better than one that is absolutely
stripped.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Particulars of new woolpadk of paper
fibre?— B274. „ , . .
The pack is woven from a fibre derived
from wood pulp, and its chief advantage in
the eyes of wool-users is that, unlike the
jute pack, the fibres don’t get into the wool,
save at the joins which are sewn with jute
twine. Disadvantages are that the weave
is vfery coarse and open, admitting dust and
damp. So far as the very limited Aus-
tralian experience of this class of pack goes
it is not established that the extra, cost is
compensated for by the small addition that
may be made to the price paid for the wool.
Can a farmer not a member of the
Graziers' Association employ a man not a
member of the A.W.U. in his shearing shed
for less than the Federal award rates.—
8112. , _.
Quite legal. Federal Awards are binding-
only upon the claimant unions and their
members, and the respondents to the awards.
A farmer who is not a; member of the
Graziers’ Association is not a respondent
and can employ non-unionists, but not union-
ists, at less than award rates.
Correct oil-and-turpentine drench treat-
ment for a horse with worms? —8011.
Starve from 12 to 24 hours, depending on
the horse’s condition. Use one pint raw lin-
seed oil and loz. oil of turpentine as one
drench.
(1) Could I make a living off five acres
of land in bananas? (2) Average net return
per acre p.a.f (3) Minimum capital re-
quired to start? (4) Best district in Q’land?
(5) Is suitable land available for rent or
terms fvo.m the Government or privdte land-
owners? (6) Average cost of land per acre?
(7) Average cost of clearing land? (8)
What is the outlook of the banana industry?
(l] Yes. (2) Under good conditions, £7O
to £9O. (3) Depends on the individual. If
all work done by hand, labor and mainten-
ance included, £6OO to £7OO. (4) Northern
district. (5) and (6) Suitable land ean.be
purchased or leased in the Tully district.
Lease about 30s. to 40s. per acre per annum,
purchase £5 to £lO. (7) £8 per acre. (8)
Promising.
I have a small paddock of sorghum three
to four feet high. It has not gone to seed,
but the top leaves have been killed by frost.
Would it be fit to feed to cows ?— BOl4.
There is always an element of danger m
using frosted or stunted sorghum that lias
not formed seed heads. It should be cut and
allowed to dry for 48 hours before being fed
to stock.
I intend to buy a 30 -cwt. motor-truck to
cart bananas to the railhead 20 miles distant.
The road is bumpy when dry and a bog ivhen
wet, and there are several creeks to be
crossed. (1) What advantages are there in
a six-wheeled truck for such work? (2) Is
upkeep more expensive? (3) Could a 30 -cwf.
Chev. be converted into a six-wheeler,, and at
what extra cost? (4) Lowest-priced six-
ivheeler on the market? (5) How to obviate
bruising of fruit while en route to railway?
—BO9l.
(1) Greater tractive power in mud, owing
to four-wheel drive ; less vibration, and almost
no tendency to skid. (2) The considerably
higher first cost increases interest and de-
preciation charges. Petrol consumption is
about the same, and although more tyres may
be used on the vehicle, the final cost for this
item is little, if any, greater owing to the
reduced load per tyre and reduction in wheel
spin. (3) C. Victor Rowell, 250 Parramatta-
road, Burwood, Sydney, is manufacturing
six-wheeled equipment for motor-lorries,
and is prepared to undertake the con-
version of four-wheeled vehicles to six wheels.
He could give you a quotation. (4) The
lowest-priced rigid six-wheeled chassis in a
recent list is the “Willys-Manchester,”
which costs £330 in England. (5) If the
prevention of injury to the fruit is
what you have mainly in mind, it
is a matter for you to compute whether
the increased price obtained for the
fruit will compensate for the increased
cost of the vehicle, which certainly will
carry the fruit with less shaking than in
the case of a four-wheeler. Special measures
to improve springing might be suggested by
the agents of the make of truck you select.
(1) Are the Melanesian Mission lands
recently thrown open in Norfolk Island suit-
able for banana growing? (2) If so, are any
blocks available, and would an experienced
Q’land banana-grower be able to take up land
there? —8245.
The land was made available for settlement
in 1925, and they have since all been taken
up. Ten farms, each of approximately 13
acres, will shortly be made available for
settlement. They are suitable for banana
growing, and application will be by public
tender. The tenure is 28 years, Crown lease.
The Administrator’s Office. Norfolk Island,
will supply further particulars.
(1) Where is vanilla grown? (2) Most
suitable climate? (3) Method of planting
and\ cultivation? (4) Yield? (5) Market
price?— B277.
(1) Ceylon, Seychelles and Hawaii. (2)
In a hot and humid climate, from sea-level
to about 1500 ft. (3) Fairly hard to culti-
vate and requires support in the form of
liglit-foliaged trees, or trellises made from
a suitable light timber. Cuttings 3ft. long
should be planted against the trees or other
supports and tied up to these until estab-
lished. Prune back after 18 months’ growth.
The crop may be expected in three years
from time of planting. It is necessary to
pollinate the flowers by hand. (4) An acre
of healthy vines, about GBO plants, should
give about 2001 b. of cured pods. (5) Approxi-
mately 16s. per pound in London. Further
information can b ob ained from Agriculture
Department, Brisbane.
What is known regarding the efficiency of
sodium chlorate as a weed d sir oyer. Does
it, like common salt, render the land infer-
tile? —8304.
Experiments in the United States 18
months ago showed that the chlorate could
destroy convolvulus. The Vic. Railway Dept,
is using it as a general weed destroyer with
encouraging results. The N.S.W. Agricul-
ture Dept, has tried it on skeleton weed
(10 p.c. solution, both spray and dry) and
found it efficacious if used in the younger
stages of growth. The M.L. Agriculture
Dept, reports that it appears that most soft
weeds can be destroyed by one spraying of
the chlorate, while repeated sprayings weaken
or kill Californian thistle and blackberry. The
M.L. experiments, however, are incomplete.
Experience in the U.S.A. is that the land
can be sown the first year after spraying.
Is there a good sale for turkeys, and what
price do they bring? What food do they
require, and how should the young ones be
reared ? —BO4B.
Fair demand. Prime bronze gobblers
realise from 355. to 455. per pair.
The birds should be fed a crumbly
mash of one-third bran and two-thirds
pollard, mixed with hot skim-millc wth
loz. fine salt dissolved in it to mix
51b. of mash. A mixture of cracked wheat,
and maize should be given for the last feed
at night. Young turkeys must not be over-
fed, but kept keen for every feed to avoid
digestive troubles. Adult birds may be fed
mainly on wheat or maize, but a morning
feed of mash could be given with advantage,
especially if the birds have a limited range.
To prevent blackhead, give one dessertspoon
of ipecacuanha wine to each quart of drink-
ing water one day per week from the time
the poults are one week old until the
“caruncles” appear on the head.
On what terms does the M.L. Government
make advances to farmers? —8302.
Under the Advances to Settlers Act long-
term advances years) may be obtained
up to three-quarters of value of freehold or
borrower’s interest in a leasehold, with a
maximum of £3500. The current interest rate
is per cent., save on advances to repay
mortgages, when the rate is 6| per cent.,
these being reducible to 5f per cent, and 6
per cent, respectively for prompt payment.
Repayments are at the rate of £3 9s. lid.
for each £lOO, half-yearly. Loans up to
£5OO are made to settlers on security of
stock or implements, repayable in five years,
at 61 per cent. Under the Rural Inter-
mediate Credit Act loans up to £2OOO for
five years are made on security of live-
stock or produce at 6| per cent., advances
being limited to 80 per cent, of the value of
security.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Ollen”: If your cattle-dog takes to kill-
ing sheep, tie a dead lamb to his neck and
let him drag it round for a few days. Mut-
ton will be off his menu afterwards.
“Cam”: Don’t throw away that old
separator. Take the inside portion of the
spinning bowl which holds the cups, and
solder to it four or five fins. Place it on
its spindle, and then fit on the milk and
cream delivery pipes, after cutting the in-
side out of the lower dish and soldering
•a patch over the hole made when removing
the upper pipe. The job can be done in au
hour by anyone handy with a soldering-iron.
Result, a serviceable blower for the home
forge.
» “Bagman”: A good bush grate can be made
out of a kerosene-tin. Split it along the
centre of one side and up round both ends
till you reach the opposite side; open this
piece straight up and punch a few holes
round it. Set it in the front of the hob
with the opened piece leaning against the
back of the fireplace. The thing will
throw great heat into the room and makes
no mess at all.
“Bung”: To tighten the haft of a hay-
knife, clippers, or any blade with a loose
wooden handle, melt together three parts
of resin to one of powdered bath-brick or
crockery. Take out the blade, scrape, clean
the inside of the hole, and fill it with the
molten mixture; then heat the spike of the
blade and force it into the handle. When
cooled off it will be rigidly firm.
“Burracoppin”: Lanterns are certainly
better than big lights for night work, but
the best of them will go out at inconvenient
times. To remedy this, take a piece of tin
4in. wide and long enough to go round and
shield the space between the top of the glass
and the tin draught chimney. Compress d
air won’t put it out then. Keep the wick
low; bumping makes a high wick flare.
“Tanta-tyga”: Steaming crushed grain for
pig food is sheer waste. Experiments con-
ducted at Roseworthy College (S.A.) showed
that pens on crushed raw grain gave 50
per cent, better results than those on the
same food cooked, and other tests have
revealed that raw grain makes better bacon.
“Jack Point”: Grit made from green
bone used to be highly regarded for feeding
to poultry; nowadays it is used only by
people keeping fowls in a small way. The
modern idea of adding sterilised boue-nrmal
to the ration, and making up the deficient
protein by feeding meat meal is safer and
better.
“Dux”: Concerning strychnine baits for
rabbit poisoning (B. 16/7/’3ot the Aussie
method differs from that followed by M.L.
rabbiters. Here we use loz. of strychnine,
2oz. of icing sugar, 30 drops of oil of aniseed,
and enough glycerine to make a stiff paste.
Naturally great care is exercised in the
mixing; mouth and nostrils are covered w ; th
a handkerchief. A shallow plough furrow is run
through the property to be poisoned. For thi'ee
nights the rabbits are fed on sliced carrot; on
the fourth the poison is introduced, each piece
of carrot being thinly smeared. I have seen
over 400 rabbits picked up after the fore-
going quantity of poison has been usM ; the
best figures recorded were 1068 from double
the formula.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
Z'h*! se . rv l ce is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
be , r ight of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-schoolteacher (40), with survey exp., wants
subsidised school or job on station as tutor and
other duties. Go anywhere.—B262.
Youth (19), Hawkesbury Ag. Col. dip., wants job
as jackeroo or any capacity on farm or station. —
8252.
Male teacher (22), N.S.W., wants subsidised school
or position as tutor on station.—B2s3.
Married couple, Sydney, desire position, town or
country. Man (35), carpenter, gardener, general
handyman; wife (25), children’s nurse (hospital
exp.), companion-secretary, teach music, elocution,
arts and crafts, physical culture. Refs. —8222.
Steno-typist (Q.), eight years’ exp., wants posi-
tion anywhere. Refs. —8220.
blacksmith (N.S.W.), ship, engine, boiler, oxy-
aeetylene and mining exp., wants job anywhere.
Refs.—B236.
1 oung Englishman, refined, offers services to tra-
vellers in return for passage to England.—Bl96.
Nurse (Vie.) would act as companion to invalid
traveller.—B2o7.
Clerk (27), Sydney, 12 years’ exp., well educated,
wants job any sort, anywhere. Refs. —8317.
Married man (36), N.S.W., no children, 20 years’
station exp., wants job as boundary-rider on out-
station, or would take charge of sheep property. Can
count and draft. Refs. —8307.
Registered pharmaceutical chemist (Melb.) wants
position as assistant, town or country.—B29B.
IV anted young lady in early twenties as companion
to lady on cattle station, s-w. Queensland. Applicant
must be bright, good-looking, trustworthy and com-
panionabla; 30s. per week and keep. Fares paid.
—8291.
Youth (18), Q’land, six months’ exp., wants posi-
tion as jackeroo on sheep station, Q’land or N.S.W.
Kefs. —8287.
To buy second-hand car dynamo, 80,712 volt., for
battery-charging and experimental work. Need for
rewinding no objection. Tasmanian inquiry.—8263.
To buy book on tennis-racquet stringing.—79B7.
Wanted to buy Havelock Ellis’s “lianga Creek”
(1922), Edward Dyson’s “In the Roaring Fifties”
(1906) and early Australian fiction.—B229.
To buy first issue of the “N.S.W. Valuer.”—B2B4.
To exchange Sheldon course in salesmanship for
“Master Mind” course, or will buy.—B232.
Whereabouts of James Knox, late of Tarana
(N.5.W.).—8269.
Words of verse beginning “The kookaburra does
no work, he has no work to do.” —8308.
Information Sought.
What are the rice and tea seasons in Java,
and the approximate quantity of each ex-
ported yearly ? When is the monsoon season?
—7967.
No special season for rice. Several crops
may be harvested during one year. No
special season for tea either; the leaves are
picked as they mature. In 1928 Javan rice
exports totalled 9,080,990 kilogrammes. Tea
exports were 00,977,600 kilogrammes. The
wet monsoon lasts from November until
April.
A reply on this page recently stated that
the standard times of N.S.W., Q’land, Vic.
and Tas. are 10 hours ahead of Greenwich.
That being so, please explain how Melbourne
and Sydney broadcasting stations give
stumps (6.30 p.m. English time) scores in
the Test matches before 4 a.m.f —8244.
English summer time is one hour in
advance of Greenwich mean time. This
year from April 13 to October 4.
My son, about to leave school, wishes to
become an electrical engineer. (1) Should
he go to a technical school, full time, or
endeavor to obtain a job with a firm of
electrical engineers and attend a night
school? (2) At what age could he be appren-
ticed to the trade? (3) Cost of college train-
ing? (4) Period of apprenticeship? (5)
What are the prospects of the trade? —Bl7s.
(1) If you can afford it, let him take full
day course; otherwise find him employment
and let him attend night school, especially
if he is anxious to start earning. (2) Owing,
to awards, preferably before he is 16. (3)
At Working Men’s College, Melbourne, £64
to £7O, including books and instruments,
for full day course of three years or night
course of five years, (4) Five years. (5)
Good, with State electricity enterprises and
private manufactures steadily expanding.
What causes quicksands, and what causes
things to disappear in, them? Are there any
in Australia? —B224.
They occur mostly in cases where fine
sand is mixed with clay or calcium carbonate,
enabling it to take up such a degree of moist-
ure that it becomes unable to support the
weight of men or animals. Most dangerous
quicksands are found in Iceland. Don’t
know of any very bad ones in Australia.
flow to play the Japanese game of Go-
Pang ?~ 8145.
It is played on a square board of 361
squares by two, three or four players. Each
player has counters of a distinctive color.
There is nothing on the board to start
with. The player having the first turn places
one of his men on any square he likes, then
his opponent does the same, and so on alter-
nately. In the simplest form of the game
the object of each player is to place five of
his men in a consecutive row, either vertic-
ally or and when a player suc-
ceeds in doing this the game is at an end.
There are variations of the game that aim
at the encircling of an opponent’s pieces.
(1) What part of Canada has the mildest
climate? (2) Is that part mostly commer-
cial or agricultural? (3) Where could I
obtain newspapers of principal cities? (4)
What docs it cost an Australian to have
£lOO put to his credit in Canada?. —7S46.
(1) British Columbia, especially Van-
couver Island. (2) Principal industries are
salmon canning, paper manufacture, timber,
mining and agriculture. (3) Only obtainable
by subscription. (4) At present about fti:
any bank in Brisbane able to do the business
would quote you.
Vance Palmer scored a good climax when
he made Lew Callaway take Peter's body
to sea. But was it legal, a cemetery being
available? —Bll4.
The method of disposing of the body
recognised by the common law is by burial.
Other methods, such as by cremation, re-
quire statutory recognition. Burial in the
sea (not being on the high seas beyond
territorial jurisdiction) has no specific legal
authorisation.
How is gypsum calcined to make plaster
of Paris?— Bool.
It is heated in kilns or ovens in such a
manner that the carbonaceous fuel does not
come in contact with the sulphate, which
would result in its reduction to sulphide.
The temperature is not allowed to exceed
about 130 deg. If heated to above 200 deg.
the sulphate becomes anhydrous, and is said
to be dead burnt. In this condition its pro-
perty of setting when mixed with water is
greatly impaired.
What is the scale of teachers' salaries of
the N.S.W. Education Department, from
juniors to headmasters? —7974.
Juniors commence at 17, at a salary of
1111 Os. Bd. p.a., rising in the second year
to £lBB 15s. lid. p.a. Maximum salary for
headmasters is £727 9s. 7d. p.a.
Do we drink more Australian-made spirits,
beer and wine than foreign made, and how
do present-day figures on the subject com-
pare with those of 30 years ago? —S3o9.
In N. S. Wales the aggregate consumption
of spirits in 1901 was: Australian, 12,400
gallons; foreign, 1,233,320 gallons. In
1928-29 : Australian, 468 500 gallons ; foreign,
607,900 gallons. Standard of measurement
is “proof gallons.” The quantity of beer
consumed in 1901 in N.S.W. was: Aus-
tralian, 13,118,300 gallons ; foreign, 1,757,900
gallons. In 1928-29 the figures were: Aus-
tralian, 29,475,000 gallons; foreign, 156,000
gallons. Consumption of wine in N.S.W. in
1901 was: Australian, 700.000 gallons;
foreign, 94,000 gallons. In 1928-29: Austra-
lian, 1,753,000 gallons; foreign, 31,000
gallons.
How far below zero can the temperature
be measured and at what number of degrees
below zero can a person live? —8214.
Zero on a thermometer is an arbitrary
point and doesn’t mean the absolute limit
of cold —otherwise there couldn’t be “degrees
below zero.” Kelvin and Joule have calcu-
lated that the absolute zero is minus 461
degrees Fahrenheit. The lowest natural
temperature measured on the earth’s surface
is minus SS.B degrees F., registered in June,
1886, at Verkhoyansk, Siberia. The lowest
temperature at which a human being can live
depends to some extent on environment and
manner of living, but generally speaking a
temperature of minus 40 degrees is dangerous
to life.
Best method of hyacinth cultivation? —
8320.
They like good loamy soil with an addition
of leaf mould, sharp sand and well-decayed
cow manure. Plant in well-drained pots,
leaving the top of the bulb just exposed.
The soil should be loose and not too moist.
The pots should be placed out of doors and
buried under six inches of soil mixed with
wood-aslics. When the bulbs have grown an
inch and are well rooted, bring them indoors
and gradually admit to full sunlight.
Hyacinths like plenty of water and air, but
draughts and dry, cutting winds retard
growth.
The glass bulb of the last audio valve in
my five-valve “ all-electric” receiver gets very
warm after the set has been running for a
few minutes. The other four valves are
quite cool. Is this condition normal? —B3lB.
The last valve is a power valve, whicli
may take as much as five times the current
of any of the other valves. Under these con-
ditions the glass bulb will become warm,
but unless it gets very hot there is no need
to worry.
Conditions of the prize offered by Macphcv-
son Robertson for a three-act Australian
drama? —Bl76.
The competition is open to all writers
who are either Australian-born or have
resided in Australia for not less than five
years, not necessarily the five years imme-
diately preceding the competition. First
prize, £6O; second, £25; third, £lO. Mel-
Melbourne Repertory Theatre guarantees
production of wanning play, and will have
right of production of any other play sub-
mitted at usual royalty of 5 p.c. of gross
receipts. Australian Broadcasting Co. has
offered 10 guineas for right of one broadcast
of winning play, 5 guineas for any other
selected. MS. under a noni do- plume , accom-
panied by a sealed letter containing competi-
tor’s name and address and bearing only
the nom dc plume on its face, should be
addressed to “Australian Drama Competi-
tion,” c/o Editor, the “Herald,” Melbourne,
not later than Dec. 31, 1930. Judges are
Archibald Strong, Bernard Cronin and
Frank Clewlow. Plays must have an all-
Australian atmosphere, all-Australian setting
and all-Australian characters.
(1) What was the cause of recent riots
in evacuated towns in Germany? (2) Did
the fact of France maintaining negro troops
in Germany, in authority over white people
lower the prestige of white people in the
eyes of the black races? (3) Is there now a
large half-caste pnnnlation in the former
occupied areas? —8216.
(1) Hostility was shown to Germans who
had fraternised with the occupying troops
(2) Can’t speak for Black Brother, but it
wasn't likely to increase his respect for the
white man. (3) No statistics available.
(1) What is the “Kreutzer ’’ Sonata? (2)
Didn't the term melodrama originally have
an entirely different meaning to what is
usually styled melodrama nowadays? —B27s.
(1) Beethoven’s Op. 47, for piano and
violin, dedicated to his friend Rodolphe
Kreutzer, violinist and composer. Tolstoy
discovered in this work an intense eroticism
(probably not intended by its rather ascetic
composer), and wrote a novel on the sub-
ject. The sonata was first performed in 1803
by Beethoven (at the piano) and the violinist
Bridgetower, and later became very popular.
(2) Properly speaking, a melodrama is a
play in which the dialogue is interspersed
with music, or in which the actors speak
their lines to a more or less appropriate
musical accompaniment. In popular par-
lance, of course, it is a. crudely constructed
drama, in which time-honored stage tradi-
tions are given full play.
What is the meaning of Miramar? Is it
an al>o. word? —S2s6.
Probably it is a variation of Miramare
(meaning sea view), the name of the Imperial
Palace near Trieste in Austria. There
is an abo. word “miomer” that is said to
mean flour.
When and how was coal first found in
A ustralia ? —8286.
Fishermen, chancing on coal lying on the
water’s edge of a bay near Port Stephens,
brought specimens to Sydney in June, 1796;
but their discovery was not investigated. In
February, 1797, a ship bound to Australia
from Calcutta was beached on Preservation
Island (Bass Strait). Members of her
crew overlanding to Sydney for help found
and used coal at Coalcliff (now Clifton,
15 miles south of Botany Bay) on May 15.
George Bass confirmed this discovery in
August. On September 19 of the same year,
Lieut. T. G. Shortland, of the Reliance, dis-
covered coal on the Hunter Estuary. Towards
the end of 1799, coal was exported to India ;
and in 1800 to Cape Colony.
(1) Where can I obtain a four-cylinder
block for a small model standard car? (2) /
have spent a lot of money for reboring. The
local mechanics say the block has gone soft
and is useless. Is this possible? —Bl6s.
(1) From K. G. Miller, Botany-road,
Sydney. (2) It is essential when a block
has been rebored to line up the gudgeon pins
with the crankshaft journals. Unless this
is done the pistons will not run true and
much undue wear on the block will result.
The block is then accused of being soft.
(1) Australian imports for year ending
•June 30, 1930? (2) Revenue from Customs
duty on same? (3) Exports same period?
(4) Value of factory output and salaries
and wages paid in factories in same period?
—8079.
(1) Merchandise, £130,813,471; bullion
and specie, £320,798; total, £131,134,269.
(2) £30,155,387. (3) Merchandise,
£97,100.000; bullion and specie, £27,748.549 ;
total, £124,848,549. (4) 1929-30 figures not
yet available. Value of factory output for
1928-29 was £420,445,288 ; salaries and wages
£90,986,908.
Is a certificate of any registered medical
practitioner sufficient to entitle an applicant
to invalid pension, or is examination by
specially appointed doctor necessary? —Blss.
A medical certificate must be furnished
with the application. Applicants are also
examined by a Government doctor as to
whether they are totally and permanently
incapacitated.
(1) What is the best time to visit the
F.M.S. with a view to seeing the various
rubber estates, their method of tapping, and,
the manufacture of sheet rubber. (2) Address
of someone in Sydney who could advise as
to local conditions, hotel accommodation, etc.?
—Bl6l.
(1) The rubber companies have arranged
to cease operations for some little while,
owing to the slump in rubber prices. If yop
are proceeding to the F.M.S. about September
next, you will be able to ascertain on your
arrival in Singapore from any of the rubber
companies there whether tapping has been
resumed. (2) Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge-street, Sydney, can give tourist
particulars.
(1) I am 25 years of age, of good physique,
and home had experience of fruit-growing,
retail grocery and hardware, and mechanics.
What is my chance in Kenya Colony, Africa?
(2) Landing fees, fares, etc., from Aus-
tralia? (3) Language spoken? (4) What
is the present state of affairs in Kenya?—
8031.
(1) Kenya is.no place for a man without
capital unless he has a position to go to.
(2) Under contract you must have £3O
before being allowed to land in South Africa
—otherwise £lOO. The fares are from £2l to
£25 third, about £45 second, and £6O first-
class from Melbourne to Durban —from Dur-
ban to Mombassa £29—Mombassa to Nairobi
rail fare, say £lO. Dalgety and Co., will
give further particulars. (3) English, Hin-
dustani and some native dialects. (4) Same
as the rest of the world—depressed.
Is the failure to prosecute those who sell
■ 'possum skins in Sydney because of a loop-
t hole in the Act or in administration? Men
in the country are charged with having such
skins "in their possession," but I haven't
heard of that happening in Sydney. —Bll2.'
The department responsible says the law
applies to all districts, town and country, and
that there is no discrimination in the admin-
istration of the law in Sydney as apart from
the country.
How to make a good house paint? Is
it cheaper than to buy it ready mixed? —
SI 33.
Take white lead in oil and zinc oxide in
oil in the proportion of three parts lead and
one part oil; reduce to a brushing consist-
ency with raw linseed oil and add a little
pale terebinc and pure turpentine. This
should give a good white paint. It is more
satisfactory to buy a well-known brand of
paint with a guarantee of the manufacturer
behind it. Paint mixing and shading is a
job with many pitfalls.
(1) What, is a rodent ulcer? (2) Remedy?
(3) Cause? —8312.
(1) A skin cancer of the face or ear. (2)
Chiefly radium, X-rays or operation. (3)
Probably chronic irritation to a sensitive
skin, but nothing certain is known.
Brief Answers.
D.M.: There is no limit to the amount of
English coin which may be taken out of Australia.
... .R.If.S.: Instal a grease trap as near as possible
to sink, etc. Periodically the grease which collects
in the trap can be lifted out and buried. A 5 per
cent, fall should be quite sufficient for the secondary
pipes... .W.H.J.: In the matter of lubrication the
agents should be able to give you the best advice.
... .R.M.D.: (1) and (4) No. The consent of the
Minister to the leasing of a holding under the N.S.W.
Returned Soldiers’ Settlement Act is required at all
times. (2) The deposit of 10s. is applied to the
cost of dealing with an application. (3) Every
application requires a separate fee K.B. J.: Postal
address in both instances is Charters Towers....
A.J.H.: It is, subject to certain exceptions, a rule
in law that a written contract cannot be varied
by word of mouth. In the circumstances it would
appear that the landlord has a right to enforce the
written agreement V.R.C.: The statement is in-
correct. .. . YV.B.R.: Freight on saddle weighing 281 b.
from Brisbane to Menindie would be, by passenger
train, charges prepaid, 15s. 3d. ; charges paid at
destination, 16s. 6d. ; by goods, 10s. 2d. and 11s. 2d.
... . J.F.: You must take the publication for the term
for which it was ordered unless some adjustment
can be made... .F.M.: Send a registered letter to
your neighbor pointing out that the post of the
dividing fence is being used for a purpose not
contemplated in its erection and stating that if
injury is done to the fence you will hold him respon-
sible. Retain a. copy of the letter C.A.P.: Duty
on binoculars is: British, free; general, 20 per cent.,
plus primage duty of 21 per cent., which applies
also to the value of the packing A.S.M.: If
trust is constituted under a will, apply to executors
and, if they refuse, bring the matter before the
Registrar of Probates. In the case of a trust con-
stituted by a settlement or other writing, if trustee
refuses to supply account, bring it before the
Master in Equity, who may refer it to the Court.
... .Q. 0.: The fowls pick up worm eggs, either
from the litter, food, water or the ground. Vic.
Agriculture Department recommends “Nema” (tetra-
ehlorethylerie) capsules, obtainable from Clark King,
Guildford-lane, Melbourne. One capsule per bird
should be effective T.L.P.: Not safe to feed the
carcases to other animals whether poisoned with
strychnine or cyanide. No reliable estimate can
be given ; of the time required for oxidation of
cyanide... .D.R.F.: Where the executor appointed
under the will survives the testator but dies
without having taken probate he will be treated
as if not appointed and the Court will commit the
administration of the estate-to. another person,, usually
the wife, if living, or the next of kin T.E.i (1)
If the husband is in a position to do so he is required
to contribute towards the maintenance of his wife in
the asylum. (2) It is not desertion, but he could be
proceeded against for his contribution towards her
support... ,C.C.: You can’t re-enamel a saucepan
with enamel paint T.P.K.: “Moore’s Almanac,”
obtainable through your local newsagent, should
5uit....8.R.: Suez Canal cost £29,725,000;
Panama Canal, £75,000,000 .. .. A.C.; It is recovered
at the Albury (N.S.W.) Woollen Mills, and sold as
a by-product. .. .A.S.R.: Obtain certificate of the
title from vendor and make search at Lands Titles
Office for incumbrances. Arrange with vendor, to
meet you and wife at office by appointment and
there fill in the required forms and have them wit-
nessed, taking the certificate of title with you. Get
the transfer stamped and lodged. Search fee, 2s. :
duty, for every £5O and fractional part, 10s.; also
a few shillings for forms'.'. .'.A.A.C.: The rigging and
hanging of a net is a specialised job. Your safest
plan is to get a licensed fisherman to do the job.
... .A.C.W.: (1) Fares, Auckland to Vancouver, first-
class, single £6O 10s., return £lOO 10s.; second-
class, £4O 10s. and £67; third-class, £24 and
£4l. (2) At least £3O. (3) Write C. M. Croft,
Shortland-street, . Auckland, M.L G.A.: Beyond
cleaning your mouth with salt and water three times
a day you should not . attempt to treat yourself.
If the condition continues see a doctor... . L.N.M.G.:
Consult a nose specialist. An examination is neces-
sary to diagnose your trouble. You may have an
infected sinus... .S.J.: The Vital Statistics branch
of the Health Dept, says it has no information of
definite value on the subject. Sydney specialists
say that there is Comparatively little in Australia.
It is seen most in Tasmania, northern N.S.W. and
the South, Coast of N.S.W. They know of no areas
in Victoria specially affected... .T.H.F.: Winch-
combe, Carson, Ltd., 48 Bridge-street; Goldsbrougb,
Mort and Co., Ltd., Macquarie-place—both Sydney.
....R.T.H.: Chapman is 29, Hobbs 47 F.0.F.:
Sydney Bushwalkers’ Club, 258 George-street. ...
E.J.C.: Very little. Canvass Island traders with
offices in Sydney 8.H.: He died April 19, 1925.
. ...J.G.; Attend an art school. If that is not pos-
sible consult the various correspondence schools. You
can’t learn from textbooks... .X.Y.Z.: Yes, and the
damages would probably be substantial.... C.D.R.:
Among many varieties of Swedes suitable for feed-
ing to stock Imperial Purple-top, Champion Purple-
top and Skirving’s Purple-top are recommended as
good, even croppers.... G.H.: See local Clerk of
Petty.. Sessions . regarding license. Also write secre-
tary, Homebush Selling Agents, 10 Bligh-street, Syd-
ney.... N.A.: Bushel weights of sweet sorghums are:
Saccaline, 561 b.; Cowper, 501 b.; Early Amber Cane,
471 b..... W.G.: A special rate pension of £8 per
fortnight may be reviewed any time... .11. M.: Yes.
H.B.: “Tyres and Vulcanising,” by H. 11. Tufford
(10s.) ; Dymock, Sydney... .C. 8.: The Treaty of Ver-
sailles limited Germany’s armaments. See “Statesman’s
Year Book” (1930), page 936....Ayr: Write Foley
Bros., Roma-street, Brisbane.... H. 8.: Question too
vague. “Scheme” might mean anything.... L.F.:
Estimated pop. of Canada, 1929, 9,786,800....
F. : Write C. E. Crane, organiser, Agricultural
Rureau, Agriculture Dept., Bridge-street, Sydney.
Other addresses are: Farmers and Settlers" Assoc.,
7 O’Connell-street; Graziers’ Assoc., 66 Pitt-strcet;
Primary Producers’ Union, Bridge-street—all Sydney.
. ...N.P.: The average yield from Herd’s Mammoth
loquat trees, 10 years old, would be 1-1 bushels per
tree. Trees 20 yea rs old would yield approximately
3 bushels per tree. .. .N.S.E.: Write to T. N.
Powell, fruit inspector, Leeton (N.S.W.), who would
visit the property and advise... .F.B.W. : Probably
G. E. O. Craft, Ingleburn, N.S.W., or C. A. Clarke,
manager for J. and A. Brown, Minmi, N.S.W., may
be able to supply Pekin ducks... .E.M.: (l) Com-
monwealth Year Book (55.), obtainable from Com-
monwealth Statistician, Canberra. (2) and (3)
Copy of the Commonwealth Constitution (Is. 3d.),
also report of the Commission appointed to investi-
gate the Federal Constitution (16s. 9d.) x is obtain-
able from same address... .M.U.: The official open-
ing of the Sydney Harbor Bridge is expected to take
place in December, 1931, or January, 1932....
V.V.S.: Get in touch with Island traders; one of
them might know of a billet. (2) Knowledge of
tropical’ agriculture, native labor and conditions and
good health. (3) Burns, Philp, and W. R. Carpenter
—both Sydney.... K.P.: Except as regards Asiatics,
Africans and Polynesians, very little restriction is
placed upon the acquisition of land by aliens for
mining in Q’land. . . .S.H.H.: On the information
given you probably are not liable to income taxation.


■ •
mm
Features of the New Sedans in*
elude: —Lower roof line, lower cen-
tre of gravity, added roominess,
adjustable driving seat, rear window
curtain, rich fittings and uphol-
stery, etc., plus all the New Ford
Improvements recently announced.
Town Sedan, additional: Special
upholstery and special interior
fittings, side arm-rests and disappear-
ing centre arm-rest in back seat,
robe rail, dome light, exterior cowl
lights. Prices: New Fordor Sedan
£305 . . Town Sedan £315 . . at
nearest Ford works.
nnonncing the
New
Fordor Sedans
. Ford Motor Company of Australia
Pty. Ltd. announces the New Three-window
Fordor Sedan and the New Town Sedan.
IHESE new Sedans, now displayed by Ford Dealers in the
principal centres throughout Australia, possess a dignified grace
of line and contour. Their modern streamlined design exhibits
character and personality unusual in a low-priced car. They
have an atmosphere of substantial quality by reason of their
fine materials and fine workmanship. The longer, lower
bodies give generous room in front and rear compartments.
Interiors are richly appointed and the colour schemes correct
and inviting. These New Sedan hodies are constructed
completely, and by new methods, in the Ford manufacturing
plant at Geelong, Victoria.
I
‘For National Economy'
The New Three-window Fordor Sedan
No less than 77% of the selling price of these Ford closed cars remains in Australia
• • • • the remaining 23% goes to the Canadian Ford Company—a British organi-
sation employing British workers, and British capital.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRAI
Geelong :: Sydney :: Brisbane :: Adelaide :
I A PTY, L T D
Perth.
N .C .29


Thp cen/ne of Queens /on c/s
’ c//shnpufs/>&c/ Soc/o/ /-*£'
€emm&
motel
ROTCJPt
BRISBANE
ŝ
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 83211 —6 Lines.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established ,
DiRECTOKs-James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W H. Hart, Esq. , M. J. Ryan, Esq..
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
Central Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. \\ ales. also ,e P'^ cat
through the leading Bankin? Institutions covering: Australasia and the World, tn 3
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital
Bonds Subscribed exceed ’ ’ „
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed i4VO,UUU
(.Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Approx. 120,000 acres
Area planted
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office*.*...'.'. Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith W y lie & Co ” Ltd ‘
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sinele rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
In carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff, irf/l-f/o
weekly Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc.
Situated right opposite Spencer Street Station, no
taxi fares- railway porter carries baggage acioss if
necessary? ’ Please write for detailed tariff card.
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
SMOKE-OH!
Times are hard, but "Dorman, Long and
Co. made both ends meet last week.
v *
“In nearly every town in America are papers
strongly advocating the open saloon.”
These would be the organs of pub-liquor
opinion, no doubt.
* *
TAKE YOUR PICK.
A man from Lough Shannon named Brough
Intended to purchase a plough;
But a thorough search through
His pants brought him scant dough,
So he bought not a plough but a trough.
D. M. K.
* ¥
THE WORM TURNS.
“No, Herbert,” said the beautiful girl
coldly. “I can never marry you. The man
LESS WEARING.
BERTIE: “Would you like to sit this out and talk?”
GERTIE: “No, I’m fearfully tired; let’s dance, if you
don’t mind.”
I marry must have an iron nerve, muscles of
steel, a heart of gold, a brain” •
“You’re sure it’s a man you want?’ inter-
rupted the reject, diffidently.
“Of course,” she snapped. What else
do you think I’d be likely to marry, you
idiot?”
:“I was just thinking that your require-
ments sounded more like a Meccano set.”
“We should solve our financial problems by with-
holding interest payments from Federal bond holders.”
Appropriately enough, this suggestion
comes from Rep. (udi) Yates.
AS MAN TO STAR.
“To a Bulletin picture of ‘Mary' Astor.’ ”
I never hare seen you; I never shall see
You , as other than this. You’re a shadow to
me.
And I trust you’ll remain so, I grant you
all grace —
But how could you ever live up to your face?
J. H.
¥ ¥
THE BLOOD-STAINED ACCENT.
(Our Great Imported 27/6 Crime Serial.)
“A man who has been victimising residents of the
Eastern Suburbs has a strong English accent.”
“Guardian.”
“One of the motor-’bus bandits is said to have
spoken with a strong Irish accent.” — “News.”
Synopsis of preceding chapters: Sydney
is panic-stricken. Crimes are being com-
mitted in English, Irish, Scotch and Welsh.
Police H.Q. have fallen back on the despe-
rate expedient of vagging every immigrant
in the State. Still the crimes go on. The
confidence trick is worked in Erse; a widow
is robbed of her savings in Czechoslovakian.
And now young Reggie Woosh (holder of
Sydney University’s Diploma of Detection)
gets his chance. Attended by Winnie Fresh-
water, of the ultra-smart Five Dock Younger
Set (yes, reader, a pure girl’s love has
entered his life), he delves boldly into the
heart of the mystery.
Read on from here :
Chapter XXX.
Reggie was being helped into liis 10,000-
guinea fur coat by an assiduous under-foot-
man as Winnie, bewitching in a flimsy
Paquin creation of Domain red, swept into
the great Greco-Chippendale hall of his flat.
“To-night, beloved,” and the dazzling Woosh
smile caressed her, “we enter society. ‘The
Duds’ are inflicting one of their frightful
entertainments on a party from Govern-
*ment House and followers. You and I will
suffer with the smart. It is in a good
cause.”
A wave of the detective’s bejewelled hand,
and the ’plane was in the portico. To don
his gibus at a rakish angle, pin a green
carnation in his lapel, and spray himself
with Jockey Club was the work of a moment.
For a split second Reegie stood in thought,
the embodiment of the Perfect Gent, of crime
fiction. Then with a sweep-
ing bow he ushered the girl into
his glittering Puss Moth, and
they were borne citywards...
Fatewards.
The Amateurish was packed
to tbe orchestra, which was
appalling. Everywhere pained
faces could be seen, grinning
as if their owners liked it.
Vice-regality was earning its
money and a bit over by grin-
ning harder than anybody.
On the stage beautiful
Muriel Clump (who used to
be a prominent number of the
ultra - smart - road
Younger Set in 1895) is being
made love to by young
Horace Bones. Vibrant with
passion, Horace (as the Duke
of Orpington) addresses the
shrinking sexagenarian: “Ay
adoah you! Honor brate, Ay
doo-00. Reelee!”
It is a breath of Old Eng-
land herself —the England of
the Brixton “Bon Marche”;
of the Surbiton Younger Set.
In a flash Reggie is on the
stage and covering “The
“Duds’s” leading man with
his automatic.
“Hands up, Bones!” The
Woosh voice is steel-hard
now. And then, as the Police
Chief rushes from the wings,
“Clap the darbies on him,
Childs. And see he doesn’t
get at the prussic acid in his
signet ring.”
That night Reggie and
Winnie sat late over their
champagne and caviare.
“It was quite simple,” he
said. “The crimes were
clearly being committed by an actor.
Now all our rotten actors are unem-
ployed owing to the talkies, and hard at
work either sand-shifting for Mr. Bavin or
striking for Mr. Garden. Bones alone was
both bogus and leisured. Certainty came
when I heard him imitating a duke. He
used what is known in our police courts as
an ‘English accent.’ ”
The detective waved his Corona-Corona.
“It’s easy when you know how,” he said.
The Woosh smile was Bradman-liko in its
boyish modesty. ,
10-2-4.
“The law relating to divorce has been liberalised
in Turkey, where women now possess full Western
rights.”
The pious Moslem woman thanks
The Prophet for a life grown sunny.
Once without any right to beans,
She now has independent means
Known in the Courts as Allah-money.
¥ *
“The Australians have been handicapped by the
rain in every important match to date.”
In fact, they have more reason to fear
England’s teem than its team.
THAT SETTLED IT.
POET: “But I beg you — I’ve put my whole, mind into this poem!”
EDITOR: “And I tell you we’re not buying blank verse!”
Australia’s trump card in this depression
game is a spade.
* *
PRO AND CON.
Thousands of homes have been wrecked by
drink;
Beer has put millions of men in clink;
But, on the other hand, just reflect,
On the countless ships that water has
wrecked.
* *
Push Paradox: “It is often the girl
who is not too good who is described as*
good-oh.”
* *
DIAGNOSIS.
“What was the cause of Sir Isaac Newton’s ill-
ness?”—Professor Osborne, in “Argus.”
The Prof, enshrouds in mystery
The cause of poor old Isaac’s pain;
But those who study history
Know it was apple on the brain.
* H-
ANOTHER RECORD.
“Of course we’re all frightfully proud of
her,” smiled Mrs. Johnson. “As the papers
have pointed out, this is the first time in the
world’s history
that it has been
done; she’d had no
previous experience
whatsoever.”
“How on earth
did she come to get
the idea?”
“Well, Mr. John-
son and I had taken
her over in the car
to visit friends.
Suddenly Mr. John-
son said: ‘She’s
gone!’ Just like
that. And some-
how —you’ll smile,
I suppose—but I
knew. Second
sight or something;
it’s in my family.
And her being a
great home-lover,
and all that. I
said: ‘Mark my
word s’ But
perhaps you’d like
to see her?”
“I most cer-
tainly would. I’m
anxious to get
photographs”
“Another thing
your readers might
be interested to know is that she’s expecting.
Mr. Johnson always says”
“But here she is !”
And with statelv mien the first eat to cross
the North Shore Bridge entered the room.
WAR DIARY OF A W.A.A.C.
“A cable says that the anonymous authoress of
‘W.A.A.C.,’ to which several papers have directed
the attention of the police, has written an even
more outspoken work called ‘W.A.A.C. Demobilised.
In it she complains that all the Australians she
came across in France were unspeakable bounders,
though she met some gentlemanly ones afterwards
while looking in shop windows.”
Jan,: Ordered to France at last. Hooray!
My young sister Effie said: “Yah! They
only'send the old horrors there.” Id have
landed her one, only I m n lady. .
meet some Australians and get insulted.
Efiie’s always getting
insulted, but she says
I have the wrong sort
of face. I’ll learn her
before the war ends.
Feb.: Well, here I
am at Havre. Plenty
of Australians, but
no insults so far.
Saw a dream of a boy
to-day, and asked him
the time. He pointed
to the Town Hall
clock. When I turned
to smile my thanks
he was hurrying away.
So much for the so-
called Anzac initia-
tive !
March: Still no
luck. Have tried the
shop-window dodge,
but whenever I line
up beside an Austra-
lian he takes a fur-
tive look at me, and
edges off. Very
strange!
April: Picked up a
more or less blithered
poilu to-day. As he
was broke I had to
pay at the estaminet.
Poilu introduced me
to Indian friend, who
pinched my purse.
Complained to an
Anzac. Anzac _ got
purse back. Decided
to reward him by
sacrifice of virtue. Revealed decision
to Anzac saying: “In this war ®
lover is a necessity for every W.A.A.C.
of literary tastes. Morality’s, loss is your
gain. Take me.” At same time gave him
one of my slow, electrifying smiles. Anzac
covered eyes with hand, and said r “My
Gawd!” Then looked again, shuddered
violently and said: “I wouldn’t have ; a
sheila with a dial like yours on me mind.
Take my tip, Missis, next time you go pirat-
ing wear a marsk.” The unspeakable
bounder ! Made up mind, then and there, not
to accept advances of another Australian as
long as I was in France.
Max F.
* *
CENTRE OF INTEREST.
A deckhand hauled the gangway up,
“Let go,” the first' mate roared;
The would-be tourist ran like mad.
But failed to get aboard.
The passengers with interest gazed;
The crew asked “Who is he?”
The skipper peered, and the very ship
Stood boldly out to see.
MAN’S PLACE IN THE UNIVERSE.
“Aubrey, I think Nero wishes to bury this bone. Dig a hole
for him.”
“The building is surmounted by a winged Mer-
cery.”—“ N ews.”
It is probably tbe first time the soaring-
prices in the trade have been symbolised in
this way.
DEATH BY MISADVENTURE.
“The general impression is that the death knell
of racing in the Federal Capital territory has been
sounded. On a recent Saturday one of the fielders
could not meet his obligations on the last race.”
— “Sun.”
On dusty Outer and in Paddock fair
The Nation’s idols revel in their sport.
The North Shore Cwsar, Billy Hughes, is
there;
.1 n army from the Arbitration Court;
Hundreds of Union bosses, and about
Ten thousand Civil Servants, great and
small,
Suddenly comes a horrifying shout,
And countless patriotic faces fall.
“Sol Ike," the panic rumor goes, “is bust,
‘The Turf Leviathan,’ his clients say,
‘Regardless of liis obligations just,
Has stated that he cannot pay his way.’ ”
And so the politicians’ Turf Club died,
And to this day a warned-off Yid laments
That at the scat of government he tried
To emulate the ways of Governments.
MAX F.


BLACK & WHITE
■
mm
m
IH
lllilllltll §§|i §§§
H 'll ni H
m m
f
■ -
m
m
■
ifgi®*
■K
§l3l
«hlHlh| |g§|§
■
■■■■■
mi
.
■
m
m
™ m
■
■
mm
m
■Hi
H
■Hi
I 1111
mm
m
m
B^gjgsdydH
■
ssii
H "'
Hi
lill
■
■
H
mMMmsm
it?
■
.
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY


Sheepmen Everywhere
are changing
to this
• O •
Sib
a
/A
111
en
is
%
■R
1
r„
1
Gritprufe Handpiece
THE “Gritprufe” Handpiece has leaped into popu-
larity. Only last year it was a new Lister
improvement. To-day it is accepted by
shearers all over the country as one of the greatest
developments in shearing equipment since mechanical
clipping was first introduced. Everywhere old
model handpieces, even of other makes, are either
discarded for the Lister “Gritprufe” or converted
by Dangar Gedye to embody this time- and
money-saving convenience.
ş
LISTER ALSO GIVES
YOU
The new Lister Handpiece,
besides being sandproof, also
has a Lid Bush oj special
design which makes level
tension a matter oj seconds.
Then there are ihe tubes,
cores and joints of special
steel and proved design, and
the new Friction Arm —
another exclusive Lister
money-saving feature. Write
now for full details of the
“Gritprufe” and Lister’s
many other interesting fea-
tures. Ask, also, for shed-
plans. We will send them
to you absolutely free.
You’ll find them most help-
ful. No obligation.
Here’s What Experts Say
Messrs. Horton, Maclure Pty., Ltd., of
Kallara Station, Louth, write on the Ist
November, 1928: “The particular hand-
piece fitted with some kind of improve-
ment to the Tension Nut was given to
a good shearer, who shore something like
7000 or 8000 sheep which were pretty
sandy and rough cutting, and he assures
me that he had not had the slightest
trouble with the Tension Nut or Bush
during the time, and considers this a
good performance.”
Expert Charles Lobdale writes on the
16th September, 1929: “I have used the
new Lister patent ‘Gritprufe’ Nut,
which, after using it right through the
shearing at Elton Downs, Hughenden,
enables me to class it as a most splendid
improvement in every detail. It cannot
get loose like the old style and is so
easily levelled that it practically does
away with the whole of the trouble which
did exist with the old-type nut, which
used to wear with vibration and get out
of order by the same thing.”
Mr. T. H. Junor, expert at Noondoo
Station, Warwick, Queensland, writes on
the 27th November, 1929: “After shear-
ing 75,000-odd sheep with 20 handpieces
fitted with your new patent Tension Nut,
I now wish to make my report on the nut.
' “I have been 27 years experting with all
makes of shearing machines, and this nut
is the finest thing I have ever seen on a
shearing machine. I never had to tighten
a nut right through the whole shearing,
nor did I put a Tension Spring bit on;
they were not even marked. In the old
type of nut they were continually cutting
off. I did not put a crown plate in, and
the handpiece very seldom got out of
level, and if one did become unlevel all
I did was to slacken the lockrring and
tap the nut one side.
“I find the machinery runs much quieter
and the handpieces run lighter. On the
whole, I never want anything better.”
Mr. P. Guilfoyle, of Eton Vale, Rowena,
writes on the 9th September, 1929: “The
new Lister shear is a great piece of work.
I never saw a machine run so well. The
new Tension Nut is a wonderful improve-
ment.”
British
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD.
The Shearing Machine Pioneers.
10-14 Young Street, Sydney
WRITE NOW FOR CATALOGUE AND FREE SHED
PLANS


THE GOSSARD LINE of BEAUTY
■
bhhhh
mamm
■ a*
m
■
■HUI
n
MHHI
I^—l
a
mm
kIIiIi ■■■ M 1 ■■. §§l I ■ 1111 i§§
.
j --
: 5;.
f "fc
m
wm
Hi
Mimaaii
A lightly boned hook-around that gives adequate support,
shows the popular raised waistline. Made of brocade and
hand-loomed elastic, it is Model 1010.
AsYou Stand Before Your
Mirror Do You Know
What Figure-Questions
to Ask Yourself?
There are only three. They represent the supreme
test of a correctly fitting foundation —the test which
Gossard foundations unfailingly meet in all their
various designs.
Is your bustline supported to its natural contours,
so that you have the bouyant, well-curved look of
youth? Does your figure line curve in at the waist,
showing no ripple or bulge, and slope gently out to
meet the hipline? Through the back and front —over
the hips—is there a tracing of natural contours, re-
strained just enough to bring a firm line, and a com-
fortable feeling of support? These are the questions
which permit you to make a test of your figure and
your foundation as you stand before yourown mirror
No matter what style of corset you prefer, remember there
is Gossard to perfectly answer this figure test for you.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W*
MADE
WITHIN
THE
EMPIRE
Poverty
Point
“Jonop”: I call on Richard Dix to refund
my only benevolent relative the price of
a joint of beef, adequate for a family of five,
with potatoes, beans and onions to match.
Finding a youngster buying soup bones from
the local butcher on a recent Saturday, my
benevolent relative discovered that the family
could afford nothing better and had subsisted
on that diet for a considerable time. So she
bought a regal joint and a kingly supply of
vegetables for the kid as a week-end treat.
On Monday she met the youngster and asked
if the family had enjoyed the Sunday dinner.
“We didn’t have it,” the kid replied. “Mother
sold it to a neighbor and went to the pit-
chers. Mum’d never seen Richard Dix in
a talkie.”
“Shoot, Darn Yuli” : A dramatic incident
took place the other Saturday night at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, which was lost on that por-
tion of the audience which does not study
the daily papers. After singing “Lily of
Laguna,” Colin Crane came out in response
to an encore and a loud shout went up for
"Old Man River.” The baritone looked up
at a box and said, “Shall I sing it, Mr.
Mclntosh?” Hugh D. made a gesture sug-
gestive of Hannibal—or was it Napoleon?—
burning a bridge of boats, and Crane obliged
with the number. In an opposite box,
Charles Wenman, of J.C.W., viewed the
little bit of byplay grimly. Mclntosh’s
organisation was at the moment up before
the courts on a writ for having already in-
fringed the Firm’s copyright by allowing
Crane to sing the item.
“Lever de Rideau”: Gustave Slapoffski,
the conductor of the late Professional
Orchestra in Melbourne, used to be a star
conductor many years ago at the popular
concerts of the old Town Hall. On one occa-
sion his orchestra was to play the “Fidelio”
overture of Beethoven, at the most dramatic-
point in which a trumpet is heard offstage,
announcing the approach to Florestan’s
place of confinement of Minister for Prisons
Fernando. A member of the orchestra was
therefore stationed with a bugle in a pass-
age at the back of the audience, and with
one eye to the keyhole he waited breath-
lessly for Slap, to look in his direction.
When the signal came he straightened him-
self up, put his lips to the mouthpiece and
the notes, faint but clear, were about to
float over the auditorium when the instru-
ment was snatched from his lips and a
gruff Irish voice asked him phwat the divvil
he was up to. The policeman on duty had
been watching his suspicious behavior.
“C.A.8.”: “Cine Ma’s” reference to an
actor appearing in two theatres in one
building (B. 30/7/’3O) reminds that Robert
Purdie went considerably better. His two
appearances were 40 miles apart. When
Raymond Longford was taking films for the
Commonwealth, Purdie was appearing in
scenes at the H’awkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege, leaving by the 4 p.m. train to fulfil his
engagement in “Bulldog Drummond,” then
showing at the Sydney Opera House. His
frequent wild rushes for the train with his
make-up still on was a source of joy to the
residents.
“Spokeshave”: British film-makers an-
nounce a forthcoming all-talking screen ver-
sion of Shakspeare’s life, to be called “The
Dark Lady,” in which “little if any license
will be taken with actual historic fact.”
In view of the circumstance that John Mase-
field, after wading through an ocean of
Shakspearean literature, was able to state
all the information about the Bard that is
genuinely historic in a single paragraph, the
filmateers will have their work cut out. The
proposed, title of the opus indicates that the
theme will be the alleged love affairs of the
great Elizabethan, as believed by some autho-
rities to be depicted in liis sonnets. After
studying all the pros and cons of the matter,
I once read the sonnets through again and
again—I was laid up in hospital—and I came
to the conclusion that the orthodox theory is
as good a one as any. Nevertheless, it remains
only a theory. Also, the bard’s principal
love affair appears to have been homo-sexual,
a natural enough thing in the poet’s day, but
now regarded as the worst of vices. If the
producers have settled on that, the picture
is likely to meet the same fate, as that
beautiful and sincere novel “The Well of
Loneliness,” which is banned in Australia.
“A. Major”: Siegfried Wagner, who died
the other day, had music bred in his blood
and bone. His father was Richard Wagner;
his mother, Cosima, illegitimate daughter of
Franz Liszt and the Countess Marie
d’Agoult. The countess had made a literary
niche for herself under the pen-name of
Daniel Stern, and defied the conventions
which forbade marriage between a com-
moner and a noble lady. Cosima’s first hus-
band was Hans von Rulow, a pianist of
note, whose memory was amazing but whose
manner was austere. Cosima, hook-nosed,
imperious, intellectual and intensely ambi-
tious, was no mate for him. Richard Wag-
ner, who possessed the most original musical
mind of seven centuries, dominated this for-
midable woman and made her his apostle.
Richard died in 1883. Cosima carried on at
Bayreuth, producing her husband’s operas
for close on half a century exactly as she
thought he would have desired. He demanded
consummate stage-craft—the orchestra and
the voices are only two legs of the stool
on which the Wagner operas stand. Sieg-
fried, their son, trained the Lord knows how
strictly, led the orchestra as soon as he was
considered fit to do so, and when his mother
died he succeeded to the direction at Bay-
reuth. He improved the stage settings; con-
ducted marvellously, and composed opera
prodigiously on his own account. Able,
genial, intensely sympathetic, beloved by all
who worked with him, his fame, so far, is
reflected almost solely from his parents. His
grand-dad, the dear old “Abbe” Liszt, died
at Bayreuth in 1886, just after witnessing
“Tristan and Isolde,” with its great love-
death scene,
“Craiser”: Assuredly the purveyors of
highbrow music are not above the usual
methods of publicity (B. 23/7/’30). A
few months ago pars commenced cropping
up in the press about the world-wide renais-
sance of interest in Beethoven. Not only
were we told of his love affairs and of his
habit of not wearing Jaegers next his skin,
but we were informed that appreciation of
any music but his was the mark of an
inferior mind. Presently the scribes dis
covered that there was a nation-wide thirst
for the great composer’s works. Then, as
if Providence had spoken, one Backhaus
arrived, a pianist, and one who, it appeared,
had devoted his life solely to the works of
the man of Bonn. Now that Backhaus,
having gone through almost the entire range
of Beethoven’s works, has departed, we are
being told that Mozart is the purest creator
of celestial sounds. Has this anything to
do with the fact that he wrote much for
the violin and that Kubelik is about?
“C.R.” : I am interested in the Australian
Drama Competition sponsored by the Society
of Australian Authors and the Melbourne
Repertory Society and heavily subsidised by
chocolate king MacRobertson. According to
one of the judges, plays must have an all-
Australian atmosphere, all-Austral : an set-
ting and all-Australian character. The first
two conditions are artistically objectionable,
though perhaps pardonable on patriotic
grounds and not so very crippling to the
playwright. But the third proviso introduces
some quaint problems. In the mighty drama
which is at the moment boiling in my brain
and which I propose to submit, a Chinaman
from Li’l’ Bourke-street forms an effective
foil with his Oriental subtlety and malevo-
lence to the simplicity and nobility of my
white Australian hero. Must I naturalise
the sinister Ah Sing, and if I do will he
be accepted as an Australian character by
the judges, in view of the fact that the
Chinese Government refuses to recognise a
Chinaman’s' right to change his nationality?
The Palette
Gladys Owen has been takiug a full paint-
box and insufficient powers of observation
around Europe. The results, which have
been hung at the Fine Arts, Melbourne, are
all the difference between, say, Baedeker’s
description of Paris and an actual visit to
that holy city.
Gwen Barringer, the latest occupant of
the Society of Arts Gallery in Adelaide,
presents a mixed bag, ranging from Brad-
ley’s Head (N.S.W.) to Hahndorf (S."A.),
from Hobart Customs House to Rome, from
the Harbor Bridge to Big Ben at West-
minster. As side-lines she throws in gum-
trees, flower pieces and the still-life of little,
dolls and idols. In everything, except per-
haps in the realisation of Australian sun-
light, she shows power. Power is her
strong suit, and she is probably now at the
top point of her range in art. Moderately
priced, the works are selling well. There
is money in Adelaide yet, as witness the
really amazing success of Boxall’s recent
show.
Bernard Hall, director of the National
Gallery and the last of the Eminent and
Early Victorians, has hung his life’s work
for the last time at the Athenseum, Mel-
bourne. It comprises 62 epitaphs to a reso-
lute academician. If his art has never been
of much interest to serious artists, it has
never descended from its Olympian heights
to potboiling. Hall’s art is as ortho-
dox, if as unimpressive, as the Pyramids.
He is the pillar of conventionality, the high
priest of formalism. He landed on these
shores a generation or so ago as the mis-
sionary of the Royal Academy tradition, and
he would have cheerfully allowed himself
to be eaten alive rather than have
recanted. Artistically, his work is as dead
as last year’s mutton. His large paintings
with figures in them may be dismissed with
the remark that everything in them looks
like marble except the marble. The chief
depicts a nude woman sitting on the world.
It is the sort of idea which the daily news-
paper cartoonist wmuld be bored to tears
with inside five minutes, but Hall has stuck
grimly to it for 25 years, and is vaid still
to be engaged in perfecting it. Hall is like
that.
The Inky Way
“Stephen Sink”: Defunct Sydney “Sunday
1 imes” had 20 editors in 10 years, but the
editors weren’t nearly as bad as the managing
directors. One of these came in one busv
sporting Saturday afternoon. “Where’s all
the staff?” he yelled. “They’re all out. sir.”
“Out! Do I pay them to be out? I pay
them to sit here and write.” The same man
came on a bunch of bright-eyed copy boys.
Angered at their apparent idlene~s, he
glared at one lad. “What are you doing?’’
he snapped. “Nothing, sir.” exclaimed the
lad, coming eagerly forward ready to carry
the message to Garcia. “Nothing!” Th-
in a naging director turned purple. “Nothing!
You're fired.”
“M.G.S.”: The first time artist Percy
Leason’s name appeared in print was when
as a small boy at Kaniva in the Mallee he
allowed a railway truck to run over his
foot. The limb was despaired of, but an
operation, performed without an anaesthetic
and involving the removal of dozens of bone
splinters, was executed by a young doctor
named MacDean, and was considered such a
remarkable save that it was fully described
in the “Australian Medical Journal” of the
time. It was the palings purloined from the
doctor’s fence which provided the cartoonist’s
first studio, as described in the Jubilee num-
ber of The Bulletin. Death closed Dr.
Maclean’s promising career before he had
reached the prime of life, but he left a
daughter, Mrs. Betty Davies, who wrote
“The Touch of Silk.” Both Deason and Mrs.
Davies were born at Kaniva. which has also
been extraordinarily prolific in shire
engineers. They are scattered all over the
continent.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. Zuinnn
Ordinary Shares .. .. ••
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,5J1
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
fire Insurances
Marine Risks :
jeffccted on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separate.y by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
s
Southern Business Men
Should Concentrate on
QUEENSLAND!
Tiic Queen State has less unem-
ployment than any other State in
Australia, and it is confidently anti-
cipated that she will be the first one
to regain prosperity.
The spirit of optimism is amongst
her farmers, growers, and land
owners.
You cannot afford to ignore this
market, and the most profitable way
to sell goods in Queensland is to ad-
vertise them in Queensland’s Oldest,
Biggest, and Finest Newspaper—
®he (Courier
the Paper with the Largest Circulation.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.. LTD .
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative : Robert D. Fisher
74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative. L. S. Marks.
The Argus Building, Elizabeth and Latrobc.
streets. ’Phone F 3906.
ALL, AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
50
Subjects Weekly,
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends cvcrs'-a" ' — 1
■Hi
:
fi
I
H-
I
LJ'
'=d
HJ$A> CANADA" lEIUIROIPIF
Travel round the Sunny South Seas and
enjoy, not some, but every possibility of your
overseas trip* U.S.A., Canada, or Europe
may be either reached, or happily rounded off,
by a tour through the South Sea Islands, and
splendid accommodation on Royal Mail Liners
obtained with the expert assistance of Union
Company Officials.
Offices: Sydney—Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL LINES
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Agents, Brisbane—Perth.
ft
'ism
m
m
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly ' sailings by , the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
£Bl
BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and I
Adelaide. • j
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story. .
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers. I
BURNS. PHILP &,C?,L T . D
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
BAN ft OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTA HUSHED 18 n
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
śd
sd
as
.. £7,500,000
.. 6,150,000
.. 7,50U,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign place.-, DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Ottice: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
.. . 15,000 tons, Sept. 15
fCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 18
. . 11,000 „ Nov. 25
IThemistodes 11,500 ~ Dec. 16
*First class oniv.
tCabin class. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32
p.g 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS .DECKS—DECK' CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS' SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: RO7Ol. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
, MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87..12. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker!
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained .on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
CollliiBStreat, Melbourne; Bridge S ir.ee c. Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
ś
SCHUTE.
BELL&Cud
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
II
Personal Attention.
Office}: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
NZ HUNTS ASSOCIATION
' NZ GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP HOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the U oriel ’» Leading
AdvertUlng Agen ‘.left.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM t 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney
Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE - - - - * 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.


-SIBUSSIST
AUCKLAND, N.SC. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
J-JOW lucky for Business Men that
the railway line to rich Broken
Hill was built, and that everybody
there reads
“THE BARRIER MINER”
with their advertisements in it.
Important
.. A
To
Motorists!
f | 'HIS little valve Core
plays a very impor-
tant part in the service
of your tyres. Good new
tyres may be seriously
damaged by the gradual
escape of air permitted
by inferior Valve Cores.
To get the most service
from your tyres, and
avoid annoying delays
while motoring, be sure
that all your tyres are
equipped with Genuine
Schrader Valve Cores.
Five in a box, just enough
for your tyres.
Sold by tyre and acces-
sory suppliers ♦.. every-
where.
Insist upon
the Qenuine
Be Sure It’s a
SCHRADER.
S c// y <t/ ‘fcC'cA
3s®£
Wt
Look
for
the Name
cMrader
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
3
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know .
m
a
*
CIGARS
r -
x
%
Tender and carefully cured, the
mellow leaf used in Club Reil
Cigars possesses the mild mellow
flavor best suited to Australian
taste. Obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists, or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
CRAIG AND
AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
FPL 9
ŝ
mm mif m
wmwmmm
mmmm
M MM WM
:-o
:■:
l »S§B«® >&*£
\’«S§BBB§« ■><¥:?
S XvXv
s sss
ft
k 'V
She s so much
better since she's
taken Guinness
Famous doctors testify to the stimu-
lating and restorative properties of
GUINNESS in cases of mental and
physical exhaustion. During the trying
time of nursing it is invaluable.
Guinness is easily digested—it stimu-
lates the appetite—it gives strength.
Guinness is a natural beverage— natur-
ally matured. Its goodness is due to the
Malt, Barley, Hops, Yeast and Water
from which it is made, and to these
alone —Guinness is absolutely pure.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
+
N.B. One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo*
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GF/A/K2
SHADOW SHOWS.
Sydney Lyceum is giving one of the most
enthralling entertainments that Australia
has seen in a film house, and there isn’t a
kiss of pashun, a crime, a sex joke or an
undraped female leg in it. It affects the
habitual talkie patron like a visit to the
country after a series of hectic city binges.
The first part consists of comic shorts—
none bad and one or two very good: the
feature is “Southward Ho with Mawson!’’
Hurley, the A.I.F. photographer, interprets
m a resonant Australian voice. No one
else speaks, and he isn’t seen, being behind
the camera. His affectionate and under-
standing remarks about birds and animals
provide a warmly human touch, and he has
a racy, _ Digger-like wit which harmonises
well with the ship’s atmosphere. The
voyage is traced from Cape Town to the
Crozet Islands, to Kerguelen and on to
Antarctic lands which human eyes had never
before seen. The scientists attend to their
work; the seaplane is lowered into the ice-
strewn ocean, takes off and flies inland,
enabling Mawson to explore regions which
otherwise would have been inaccessible; the
little ship battles with a gale, crunches
through solid ice—and the camera shows it
all, A glorious picture, a credit to Aus-
tralia, and an example of what the film
industry can do for culture in the right
hands.
# * *
In “His First Command,” which opened its
Sydney career at the Haymarket, a cavalry
officer challenges one of his men to fight. The
officer isn’t cashiered, and the trooper is
given a commission, though shortly before-
hand the C.O.’s five-year-old daughter has
been making unsuccessful efforts to teach
him to ride. All perfectly insane, and the
cause of verisimilitude isn’t assisted by the
fact that the U.S.A. Government—ever ready
to get publicity for any of its Services—
has allowed genuine cavalrymen to be used
in the outdoor, shots. The actors look no-
thing like soldiers, and vice versa. There
is a regimental ride —described on the screen
as a steeplechase—which would have been
effective if the operator hadn’t so speeded
it up on the night this critic attended that
the horses shot past like racing cars.
The love interest is attended to by Wil-
liam Boyd, as the trooper, and Dorothy
Sebastian as the Colonel’s daughter. ■ She
keeps him at arm’s length till he saves the
small girl already mentioned from being
jumped on by the oncoming regiment. The
child falls off her pony, and he lies across
her, and has one of his arms injured. There
is some barrack-square comedy, but it is
old stuff.
“Personality,” on the same bill, is a much
more intelligent job. Johnny Arthur—always
funny, though always the same in appear-
ance and business—is an up-and-coming busi-
ness lad who meets the bludgeonings of
fate with the hide and resource of a race-
course crook. Sally Starr is his suffering
little wife, and she has one of those hungry
mothers whose visits are not so much
friendly calls as forays. The husband loses
his job, and after being reduced to peddling
vacuum-cleaners makes a miraculous re-
covery. As in most of these pictures of
life amongst the U.S.A. near-poor the
dialogue and interiors are simple, and the
acting is restrained. They seem very real
to alien eyes—perhaps because they are
directed by men who have lived that kind of
life themselves.
# * #
“Hot for Paris” (Fox), which arrived
recently at Sydney Regent, has evidently had
its temperature considerably lowered by the
censors, but it remains a stupidly vulgar
show. Victor McLaglen’s part resembles the
one he had in “What Price Glory.” He is
again a roaring, swaggering, girl-mauling
American in France, and he exploits the
same toothy grins and feats of strength as
in the other talkie. The rest of the charac-
ters are equally familiar. El Brendel is
an amiable half-wit—a type he seems
destined to represent for the rest of his
screen career. Fifi Dorsay is one of those
nude, pure and infuriatingly vivacious
French girls who are never to be found off
the English-speaking stage, and Charles
Judels, as a Parisian business magnate,
kisses every man in sight.
_As for the plot, McLaglen, who is a
sailor, has unknowingly won first prize in a
sweep on the Grand Prix. The sweep-pro-
moters chase him about France with the
money, and he flees, under the impression
that they want to arrer* him, and continues
to flee till Director Raoul Walsh has worked
off all the gags and exploited all the situa-
tions demanded by film convention in the
circumstances. The photography is splendid,
and the performers keep things going at
top speed throughout. As in the case of
Hollywood’s war pictures, it offers fair enter-
tainment for those who aren’t easily shocked,
and don’t know what unreal bunkum it all is.
* * #
Paramount’s “The Border Legion,” which
opened at Sydney Capitol, is the most pic-
turesque “Western” that has been imported
to Australia to date.
Several of its heroes are dangerous crimi-
nals (their equivalents are now operating
further east with machine-guns instead of
single-barrelled pistols), but kind hearts
lurk beneath their homicidal exteriors.
Furthermore, the action takes place in 1802,
which by dramatic convention brings the
stars’ assassinations under a sort of Statute
of Limitations.
Jack Holt, in a Civil War uniform, and
Eugene Pallette, as a top-hatted river
gambler, bump their men off just to show
the idiosyncrasies demanded in a Border
legionary, and the scene changes to the
mountains from which the comrades prey on
Capitalism. Later, Richard Arlen—a re-
spectable bourgeois cowboy—is arrested for
a murder which was the work of a legion-
ary. and so Fay Wray comes into his life
Pallette—fat, genial, passionately loyal to
his picturesque leader—dominates the land-
scape whenever he is in it. No one could
look less like a murderer, and the same
applies to Mr. Holt. But such discrepancies
don’t matter. The things that make the film
worth while are the horses and the way
they are ridden, the glamorous scenery and
the skilful photography.


When they most
need it...
Leading fruitgrowers in all fruit-
growing districts use Sulphate of
Ammonia in varying quantities from
1 cwt. per acre upwards. A Drouin
(Vic.) orchardist who produces
excellent export apples uses 1 cwt. of
Sulphate of Ammonia
per acre, scattered over the loose soil
and harrowed in when the trees are
blossoming. Sulphate of Ammonia
acts quickly and assists the trees just
when they most need it.
Sulphate of Ammonia is now
cheaper than ever. Ask your usual
fertiliser agent, or packing shed or
association secretary to order for you.
Our agricultural service is at your disposal gratis.
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PTY. LTD.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
KIDNEY TROUBLE
BEATEN BEFORE THE DAY STARTS
Out of bed with a
grumble —back aching
through the day, pains
in muscles and limbs,
rheumatic twinges—be
warned, Kidney Trouble
is undermining health!
t
Another day of pain and misery another day when the mere
thought of work tills you with loathing ..... another day just to
struggle painfully through instead of living it every hour with a keenness
and joy in the daily tasks and a zest for pleasure.
Do you not ‘* wonder ” sometimes what really is the true cause of your
chronic ill-health ? No doubt you, as thousands of other sufferers, have
endeavoured to spur up your system with heart-exciting drugs, or
endeavoured to cleanse the body with strong and eventually weakening
purgatives. Maybe for the chronic backache you sometimes endure, the
burning rheumatic twinges that torture you, you have rubbed ointments
and lotions into your skin—and with what disappointing results ?
We wish it were possible to show you the thousands of letters from
clergymen, clerks, farmers, housewives, miners, soldiers, sailors, indeed,
from every class, who tell of health restored, chronic suffering ended
—thanks to “DeWitt’s.”
There are two things, however, we can do. We ask you to go to your
own chemist and get his candid opinion of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills. He can show you and tell you all about the prescription clearly
printed on each box, and why it is so good for the troubles that arise
from kidney disorder.
Then, again, he can tell you about our definite guarantee. Purchase
your 3/6 bottle, or the larger, more economical size, 6/6. Take two pills
at night, one before mealtimes. In 24 hours from the first dose, you wi
see (from colour of urine) they have started their health action. It this is
not so, return partly-used bottle to the proprietors and your money is
refunded in full. That is our faith in this remedy that the public have
tried and trusted for over 40 years.
Are you going on with another day of pain and weakness,beaten heroic
the day starts? Surely, with our guarantee before you, you will not
hesitate, but give De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills a fair trial . Many
have said that after just a few doses their pain has ended and, what is o
greater importance, those whom De Witt’s Pills have restorer o ea
have been able to write months afterwards to say that never has the old
pain come back, never have they felt so fit and vigorous m their life.
De WITT’S PI LLS


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Thirty-four three-year-olds were among the
runners at Rosehili on Saturday, and they
were a rather nice lot. Two (Confider, a
Saltasli gelding, and Fearsome, by Top Gal-
lant) carried off divisions of the Maiden
Handicap in promising style; and Tregilla
won the second division of the Tliree-year-
old Handicap in relatively the fastest time
of the day; he galloped seven furlongs in
lmin. 20sec., and was by no means all out
at the finish. He is an upstanding chestnut
colt by Treclare—Maltgilla, owned and
trained by C. O. Battye. Second and third
in this race were the Maoriland geldings
Bayacre and King March, King March being
favorite at 5 to 2; Tregilla was solid at
fours. King March, who is reckoned to have
a Derby, chance, finished five lengths from
the winner, but came home pretty well after
having Jbeen badly placed.
Another 5-to-2 favorite, in Killarney, went
under in the first division of the Ilighweight
Handicap, but lie handled his lOst. 101 b.
stoutly and in a few more strides would have
beaten the stopping Cleave (6 to 1). In
this race Beckwith bled badly and had to be
piffled up; probably the last has been seen of
him on a racecourse. High Disdain opened
favorite for the second division, but drifted
to an outside price; however, there must
have been money for him, as he came back
to sixes and fives. Considering his rather
burly appearance, he made an excellent show-
ing, giving way only in the last lialf-furlong
to Roseal (7 to 1), who carried Bst. 81b. as
against his lOst. 71b. Clearly High Disdain
is entitled to his high position in the Epsom
betting.
In the Shade’s running in the Rosehili
Handicap, for which he was favorite, sug-
gests that he is over-rated. Anyway, he
took no part in the finish, although he was
fourth at the half-mile; Crown Area (5
to 1) won, running away, from Sunflare
(8 to 1) and Exact (12 to 1) in course-
record time for 10 furlongs—2min. s|sec.
Crown Area belongs to Booth, who must
be sorry he didn’t nominate the plain but
honest son of Acre —Moorefield for the
Metrop. Old Don Moon (3 to 1) completed
a very profitable double for the stable by
landing the Flying Mile after a desperate
finish with the Maoriland mare Eaglet (4
to 1), Roley (10 to 1) and AA r augoola (7 to
1). Bartle was on Crown Area and Don
Moon; Johnstone and Darby Munro also
rode two winners apiece.
Chide and Paquito started in Don Moon’s
race. Neither was backed to any extent;
Paquito finished sixth or seventh, but never
looked like winning. The spell lias done
Chide good, and when he trains down a bit
he will be worth considering for a han-
dicap. Bacchus ran a fairly good race
behind Crown Area. Limerick’s brother
Dunraven was backed for the second divi-
sion of the Maiden Handicap, but ended up
ten or a dozen lengths behind Fearsome. He
in a long way below the Limerick standard.
* * * *
For Rosehili on Saturday:—
Dundas Handicap: High Disdain; next,
Waugoola or Pentheus.
Granville Stakes: Sweet Accord; next,
Valentino.
August Handicap : Sunflare; next, Spear-
shot or Bacchus.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap: Tre-
gilla ; next, Goldminer or Burracootboo.
Parramatta Mile: Black Douglas; next,
Gleaner.
* * * *
The “Nationals” being over, Victorian
sportsmen are concentrating on spring racing
prospects; but little enlightenment in that
direction was obtained at the V.R.C. August
meeting. However, Mollison, Scintillation,
AVaterline and others are billed to appear in
the weight-for-age event at AVilliamstown this
week-end. The most, interesting happening at
Flemington was Cragford’s victory in the
August Handicap, of 11 miles. J. P. Arthur’s
gelding went out a slightly better favorite
than Hazelwood, who could get no nearer
than tenth in a field of 15. .Cragford was
handicapped at his Caulfield Cup weight, but
the apprentice jockey claimed 51b. He is a
sluggish galloper, and, after being forced to
the front, looked like being overhauled by
El Rey, but over the last half-furlong was
going much better than Jack Holt’s repre-
sentative. El Rey will meet him on 61b.
better terms in the Caulfield Cup. Cragford
is by the sire of Taisho, who gave a lot of
cheek in important Victorian events (in-
cluding the Derby) last spring, and ruled as
Doncaster favorite for a while. P. B. Quin-
lan has charge of Cragford.
AValvin’s success in the Elms Handicap,
for three-year-olds, at the Australian Cup
meeting brought this Burrabadeen gelding
into the limelight. Vincent O’Neill, of Spear-
felt fame, who holds Walvin on lease from
bookmaker Wallace Mitchell, entered him
for only one big spring handicap—the Caul-
field Cup. With 7st. 111 b. he appears rather
well taken care of, but ante-post punters
have been nibbling at the chestnut, and
naturally a good deal of interest attached
to his reappearance at Flemington. He
touched 5 to 2 in wagering on the second
division of the Apprentices’ Handicap.
O’Neill doubted whether Walvin was far
enough forward in condition to win, and he
drifted to 4 to 1, being in only slightly
better request than King of Revelry at
barrier-rise. Walvin scored creditably by
half a length from Strogoff, whose colors
were triumphantly carried on the same after-
noon in Adelaide by Herbor (Fulham Park
Plate) and Axinus (Guineas).
Parkwood, jointly owned by the Baillieu
brothers ahd W. S. Robinson, landed the
Maribyrnong Plate two years ago. Tested
for stamina, he failed signally. The son
of Backwood has not been entered for any
of the rich spring handicaps, and is being
reserved for sprint contests. He appeared to
have a mortgage on the first division of the
V.R.C. Apprentices’ Handicap, and 2 to 1
was the closing offer. Parkwood assumed
charge just after entering the straight, but
Zanibar soon overhauled him and won easily.
Zanibar, a son of Quantock, is owned and
trained by Ted Fisher, who later won the
Three-year-old Handicap for A. S. Chirn-
side with Starglint, a gelded son of Great
Star. As Starglint is too much of a handful
for any featherweight jockey, Fisher secured
the services of Ossy Phillips, who had to
declare 71b. overweight. The opposition
wasn’t strong, but no one expected Starglint
to overcome it by eight lengths. Wilts (by
Devizes) and Sonnica (by .Cragford’s sire)
filled the minor places. Sassaby—like his
stablemate Hazelwood in the August Handi-
cap—finished down the course. Starglint has
only 6st. 101 b. in the Caulfield Cup, and must
be written down as a possible winner.
Fisher, who has experienced ill-luck
for several months past, went close to land-
ing a treble. In the Ilighweight Handicap
his own horse, Easby, a brother to Easing-
wold, led to within a few strides of the post.
Nepean, from the Orleigh Park stable,
which used to shelter Artilleryman, wore him
down and gained a length victory. The
jumping events went to Not Infallible
(Hurdle) and Brenda’s Son (Steeplechase).
Imported Durability was favorite for the
little-sticks contest, but had to be content
with third. Night Lark (5-to-2 favorite)
gave an unaccountably poor display in
the steeplechase, knocking up at a mile and
a half and finishing last.
* * * *
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Underwood Stakes: Mollison ; next, Water-
line.
August Handicap: Ocean Bound; next,
Bessemer. i
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack Roberts, the Newcastle welter, has
had another win at Sydney Stadium, belting
the Sj?uth Coast boxer Rus Critcher into obli-
vion m the second round. Jack doesn’t give
the crowd much of a run for its money, but
there is always a thrill in his brisk methods.
THE PATRIOT.
DRAKE: “Not laying now?”
DUCK: “No—not until the Test match is over.”
Melbourne has a new boxing hall, situ-
ated in Fitzroy, and on the opening night
the house was packed. Bill Lang, still look-
ing fit for a mill, was referee. In the main
bout Bobby Hay (9st. 31b.), a local boy
who has languished for lack of opportunity,
proved too strong for Halliday (Bst. 13J1b.).
After the N.S.AV. lad had gamely stood up
to solid punishment for 14 rounds Lang
called a halt.
* * $ *
“Strangler” Lewis (17st. 91b.) and Karl
Sarpolis (15st. 21b.) gave a capital exhibi-
tion of straight wrestling at Melbourne
Stadium, wisely abstaining from pseudo-
ruffianism and simulated agony. Karl, with
a spectacular flying scissors, gained first fall
in the fourth, “Strangler” getting even with
headlocks in the sixth. In the seventh, Sar-
polis again connected with his flying scissors,
but “Strangler” this time came forward
with it and pressed the other’s shoulders
home.
The Fifteen
England was in a good position when
stumps were drawn at the end of the first
day’s play in the final Test, the board read-
ing 316 for 5 wickets. The Oval pitch rolled
out easy, and the weather was ideal. Never-
theless the batting was very slow, with the
exception of a dashing 50 from Duleepsinhji.
Hobbs and Sutcliffe opened in characteristic
fashion, Hobbs going for 47 when 68 was
on the board, caught by Kippax off AVall.
Sutcliffe plugged along—it took him 3£ hours
to get his first 50 —but, with the exception
of Duleepsinhji, could not keep his partners
for long. Whysall, Hammond and Leyland
all went for trifling scores, and at tea time
Australian stock was booming with half
the home side gone for 197. AVyatt’s advent
was the signal for another stonewalling trot,
which fairly wore the tired bowlers down,
Sutcliffe taking full advantage of this in the
closing stages; his captain was con-
tent to stick. Sutcliffe ended the day with
a priceless 138 n. 0., his seventh Test century,
while AVyatt was also going strong for a
careful 39. Our bowlers seemed short of a
gallop, though AVall, who took 2 for 72,
was always dangerous. Grimmett (2-98)
was not at his top, but McCabe (1-49)
troubled the batsmen. Victor Richardson
was omitted from the side in favor of Jack-
son at the last minute, and the fielding
towards the end of the day suffered from
lack of his inspiring influence and example.
* sS N= *
“Aigburth”: One feature of the English
selection for the final Test is the venera-
bility of many of the players. Hobbs is only
three years off the half-century, while Parker,
AVhysall and Hendren are all over 40. Then
the rest taper off from 35 to 22.
* * * *
“Aigburth” : Bradman’s performances have
started an English controversy as to the best
batsman of all time. Someone has coun-
tered this by asking who was the worst.
“Plum” AVarner plumps for Fred Morley,
once a Notts bowler. Writer fancies Walter
Brearley, the Lancashire amateur fast
bowler, who used to lay odds that he would be
back in the pavilion within two minutes of
his going out last wicket down. Among Aus-
tralians, my nomination is the late Jack
Saunders, of Victoria.
$ $ $ $
“Badian”: The Australian Eleven in Eng-
land has so obsessed Australian cricket
attention that the forthcoming tour of the
spectacular West Indians has been over-
looked. It is good news to hear that L. N.
Constantine has been released by the
Lancashire League club, Nelson, by which
he has been employed for a couple of seasons
past, in time to join the W.I. side, which
is due here in December. Constantine, like
many of the team, is a colored man. Of fine
physique, he is a dashing batsman of the
hitting type, a dangerous fast bowler and a
magnificent field in any position. He was
one of the star turns of the last W.I. tour
of Britain, for, in addition to his cricket
ability, he is, as Arthur Goningham, of
Australia, and Johnny Briggs, of England,
were, a popular comedian on the field.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : That remark about any one
of the old-time English professionals being
willing to take on the entire Australian
Eleven for the money paid to their modern
confreres (B. 16/7/’3O) is not so far-fetched
as might seem. When Stephenson brought
out the first English team to Australia in
1862, one of the matches was against Beech-
worth, in Victoria. The game ended early,
so George Griffith, an old-time Surrey pro-
fessional, played an eleven chosen from
the Ovens and Murray district. The home
side went with a score of I—a1 —a no-ball. All
the batsmen were bowled for a duck, save
one who went l.b.w. with the cypher opposite
his name. Griffith then batted, his total
being B—6 off the bat and two wides. When
bowling, Griffith had only three men to field
for him. That was in The days when the
Ovens was a roaring goldfield, so some allow-
ance must be made for the local habit of
refreshment—mostly rum, by all accounts.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
After their fortnight’s rest barrackers
rolled up on Saturday to Melbourne’s League
games, some 20,000 going to Victoria Park,
where Collingwood was' at home to Mel-
bourne, then level for second place. The
ground was a quagmire, but the game was
fast and hard. From the start Melbourne
tried to break away, but the opposition kept
level until an impression arose that the
locals were merely pulling the legs of the
visitors. This was shown to be correct in
the last quarter. A goal giving Mel-
bourne a one-point lead, Collingwood
settled down and piled on 8 goals,
finishing with 104 points to Melbourne’s
57. At Richmond the home side car-
ried all before it up to half-time. Then
Geelong woke up, and, snatching a small
lead, stuck to it, winning eventually by 71
to Richmond’s 65: 16,000 persons paid
£328 to see them do it. The licking leaves
Richmond in fourth place, with a rather
precarious hold on it, as they have tough
games to come. Essendon made a belated
effort to reach “the four” by downing Fitz-
roy by 91 to 71: and Carlton had a couple
of hours’ practice at North Melbourne’s
expense, winning by 55 points to 27. St.
Kilda beat Footscray 61-52, and South Mel-
bourne climbed over Hawthorn with 94
points to 73.
“ Jolimont”: The Victorian Cricket Asso-
ciation and Football League are at their
annual wrangle over possession of sports
grounds. For years the League has been
gradually extending its season, and it will
only be starting its semi-finals on Sep-
tember 20, a week before the opening of
cricket. It is entitled to 25 Saturdays, but
its custom of postponing the club games when
Victorian teams are visiting other States
results in a considerable “spread.” There
is no reason why the League should not follow
the example of Rugby ana Soccer players in
N.S.W. and play its club competitions
right ahead without regard to the absence of
crack players. The cricketers need a couple
of weeks for wicket preparation after foot-
ball and should get it.
% H* H* He
The Rugby Union first-grade competition
in Sydney came to an end on Saturday when
Randwick won the premiership and the Shute
Shield by beating University at Sydney
Cricket Ground by 31-11, or 8 tries, 2 goals
and a penalty to 2 tries and a penalty. This
is Randwick’s first win since the post-war
revival of the club, or, to go further back,
since 1897. University forwards made a
brave fight of it, but in the closing stages
the splendid Randwick back division was
irresistible. In addition to the first-grade
win, Randwick took reserve-grade honors
and is in the final for the third division.
Glebe-Balmain’s heavy side made short work
of Eastern Suburbs at Uni. Oval, winning
24-10. Malcolm and Jack Ford were again
in great buckle for the winners and should
trouble the British side. At St. Luke’s
Western Suburbs had an easy trot against
St. George, winning 37-9. Fullback Stewart
converted 5 tries and kicked 2 penalty
goals for the winners. At Manly, the local
side won a fast and open game from Northern
Suburbs by 12 to 3. Duncan, the State
five-eighth against the Britons, gave a bright
showing for the losers.
* * * *
The Great Public Schools of N.S.AV. con-
cluded the 40th annual battle for the pre-
miership in Sydney last Saturday, when
St. Joseph’s College ran over The King’s
School to the tune of 2G to 5. The pre-
miers went through the season undefeated,
scoring 207 points to 23, and in addition
to_ taking the premiership won the second,
third- and fourth-grade titles, a uninue per-
formance in the story of the games. “Joey’s”
has turned out many first-class footballers,
the most notable of the moderns being Jim
Carlton, the N.S.W. wing three-quarter and
sprinter.
* * * $
A very notable athlete crossed the line
for the last time in Sydney when Judge
Hamilton died, at 70. Born in Parramatta,
he went to Marlborough College, and later to
Edinburgh and Geneva. A fine Rugby foot-
baller, he was for two years in the Scottish
side, after an argument between Scotland and
England as to which should claim his services.
Rowing and lacrosse .were among his other
athletic activities, and when he returned to
Australia he introduced the latest methods
into local Rugby. For years the late Judge
was an official of the N.S.AV. Rugby Union.
The latter seems to have been something of
a preparatory school for the Bench, several
Judges, including the late Gregory AVade,
C.J., and Judge White, having played for
the State.
* * *
James Baxter, manager of the British
Rugby Union team, holds a distinguished
place in British sport. An old Rugby inter-
national, he is one of the most notable
yachtsmen in Britain ; he is a member and
official of the Royal Mersey and the Royal
Dee yacht clubs. A first-class oarsman, he
was for years captain of the Mersey rowing
club, while as a golfer he was thought good
enough to captain the Royal Liverpool,
which has its headquarters at famous Hoy-
lake. A Chesh'ireman, he represents big
commercial interests in Liverpool, just across
the water.
sN * $ *
The Rugby League games in Sydney fur-
nished a surprise when Western Suburbs,
winners of nine consecutive matches, went
down to their old rivals, Eastern Suburbs.
It was a rattling good go, with final
scores 23-18, or 5 tries and 4 goals
to 4 tries and 3 goals. Eastern Suburbs
were 3 points ahead at half-time, and the
second spell provided football which had the
big crowd on its toes all the time. Kan-
garoo Busch, at five-eighth, was largely
responsible for the Eastern victory. Wests
had only five forwards available, and played
two five-eighths, with the result that they
were overcome in the pack and ruck play.
Newtown, a fast-improving team, did well
to down North Sydney at Marrickville by
27-10. Balmain, expected to give South
Sydney a gallop at Wentworth Oval, failed,
South’s heavy side prevailing in a rough
game by 21-11. At Earl Park, St. George
had no trouble in squelching the weak Uni-
versity side, the scores being 33-2.
* * * *
“Real Mackay”: The football strike in
North Queensland (B. 13/8/’3O) rages more
furiously than ever. Another batch of
players indulged in a sympathy strike last
week because certain rebellious players had
been fined £2 by the Cairns Rugby League.
Townsville is also a seething scrum, so to
speak, and the recalcitrants in both centres
are hard at work reviving the old Townsville
Rugby Union.
(Continued on next page.)
The opening day of the Empire Games in
Canada saw the English team score well. Lord
Burghley took the 440 hurdles in 54 4-ssec.,
a Canadian record, while Englehart won the
220 sprint in the good time of 21 4-ssec.,
with the Canadian Fitzpatrick a close second.
Noel Ryan clicked for Australia in the 400
yards free stroke swimming event, covered in
3min. 49 4-ssec. Maoriland also scored when
Savidan, Randolph Rose’s rival, won the
6-mile trot. The time given, 30min. 49 4-ssec.,
is a Canadian record, and not so far behind
Nurmi’s world’s best of 29min. 7 4-ssec.
* * * *
The N.S.W. women’s golf championship
has been collected once more by Miss Wray,
who first annexed the title in 1906. The
winner finished 5 and 4 on her opponent in
the final, Mrs. Morgan, who was runner-up
to Mrs. Clements last year.


e»ERT , . <V | HOPEb \T WOULD KEEP
FINE FOR THE LAST TEST.”
Bert :* our Bovs h*vont
had much luck
GiERT ; fc It mwavs seemed to
r/mm”
Bert ‘. f, ENQLA.NDS Wonderful
team work, —What l iJ
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”; Victoria’s victory in the tri-
ennial Australian Rules carnival at Adelaide
is the Dark Blues’ fifth. The series began
in 1908, when the men from Melbourne
started their winning trot. South Australia
collected the next championship, but Vic-
toria got it back in 1914. After the war
Westralia came into the picture in 1921,
but lost again to Victoria at Hobart, the
winners contriving to hang on in 1927. Vic-
toria has thus taken home the bacon on three
consecutive occasions.
* * * *
“Glenclg” : The alarming increase in pro-
fessionalism in Australian Rules football,
which caused the Victorian League to take
such drastic steps for its regulation at the
beginning of this season, was discussed before
the League Council in Adelaide. O’Halloran,
K.C., advocated open professionalism on Vic-
torian lines instead of the under-the-lap
system obtaining in South Australia. The
K.C. was also emphatic on the question of
tightening up the rules for inter-State clear-
ances in order to prevent the luring away of
first-class players from the smaller Leagues.
This proposal met with general approval.
* * * #
The British Rugby Union team now in
Australia was farewelled on its departure
from Maoriland by the Premier, himself an
old Rugby player, and the members of the
Cabinet and Parliament at Parliament
House. Among those extending the glad
hand in Sydney are the Governor and the
Lord Mayor, the latter a vice-president of
the N.S.W. Rugby Union. Though defeated
in three of the four Tests by the All Blacks,
the visitors, the fifth side to visit us from
Britain, have done far better than any other
British combination to tour Maoriland since
Stoddart’s 1888 side. They won 15 of their
21 matches, and are the first British side to
win a Test against the All Blacks in Maori-
land, a distinction hitherto reserved for the
Springboks and Australians. After the
single Test against Australia in Sydney on
August 30, the tourists go to Brisbane, play-
ing through N.S.W., and at Melbourne and
Perth on their way home. Largely composed
of players from the British universities, with
a sprinkling of army men, the visitors made
a fine impression in M.L. from both the
social and sporting points of view.
* * * *
The brief tour of the N.S.W. Rugby
League XIII in Queensland ended with the
satisfactory record of two wins and a draw, the
Blues defeating Queensland and Toowoomba
and drawing with Ipswich. Both wins were
by narrow margins, and the Northern
players are evidently well up to the form of
the past few years. Seven of the side
stayed to play in the Kangaroos v. the Rest
match in Brisbane for Tom Gorman’s bene-
fit. The Kangaroos won by 41-30 before a
disappointing attendance of 3000. However,
the receipts came to £250, which is not
unworthy even of the fine player who
benefits.
H= * * *
The M.L. Rugby League footballers wound
up their disappointing season in N.S.W.
and Queensland by defeating a combined
side from Sydney and Queensland Univer-
sities in Sydney by 18 to 12. Though they
failed in their big engagements, the tourists
did well in the minor matches, winning five
out of 12 played in all. The visitors in-
cluded more than one player of promise, not-
ably the scrum-half Abbott. The trip has
liad one good result in attracting the atten-
tion of the N.S.W. and Queensland Leagues
to the standard of the game in M.L., and it
is likely that the Australian bodies will
undertake a scheme of coaching across the
Tasman.
The Fifteen
Northamptonshire mightily cheered the Eng-
lish defeatist school in the match just before
the final Test by making 249, and then dis-
missing the Australians for 93 on a glue-pot
wicket from which V. W. C. Jupp (6-32)
profited mightily. Jupp, on a couple of
occasions a candidate for representation
against Australia, is now in the also-ran
class. A good batsman, he bowls slow right-
hand leg-breaks, and on such a wicket as was
encountered can turn almost at right angles.
Australia had to follow on. This time
the score was 405 for 8, Woodfull making a
characteristic 116. and Richardson having a
beautiful hitting knock for the same total.
Woodfull’s sixth century; Richardson’s
second. Verdict a draw.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The dropping of the popu-
lar Chapman from the English captaincy
roused the wrath of the great majority
of English cricket critics. His batting aver-
age in this series of Tests was 44. while lie
was a menace to the Australian batsmen in
the field. It is difficult to justify his omission
at this end, and most Australian backers
breathed heartfelt relief at the news. There
has always been a curious sub-current of anta-
gonism to Chapman as captain, as all who
will recall the press agitation to have Jar-
dine the skipper of the last English side
in Australia will realise.
* * * *
“Double Gloucester” ; While according Jack
Hobbs all honor for his feat in beating W. G.
Grace’s record of 54,896 runs one must query
the claim of those who rate him as the
world’s greatest batsman. Grace made all his
earlier scores on wickets which would shock
a modern player, and, in spite of modern
critics, against bowlers of a far higher
calibre than are common to-day. As an all-
rounder, there is no comparison. The Glou-
cestershire wonder took 2576 wickets in first-
class cricket in addition to his batting con-
tributions.
* * * #
“Colchester” : Essex, which is one of the
English counties always bemoaning its bad
luck, must have felt inclined to kick itself
the other day when Jack Hobbs put up the
world’s record total of runs in first-class
cricket. When young John, of Cambridge-
shire, started life as a professional at 10s.
a match and expenses, he was not in great
demand. He offered to sign up with
Essex, but the county spurned the sugges-
tion. Then, in despair, Hobbs hooked up
with Surrey, and before long was in the
county team. His initial first-class game
was against the county which had turned
him down. In that match he scored his
first century in big cricket.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : A hideous rumor shook
Australia’s cricket world the other day when
a cable announced that two of the Eleven
in England had been “approached” with a
view to their transferring allegiance to Eng-
lish cricket organisations. No names are men-
tioned, but one is described as a bowler,
and the other as a batsman who, on Aus-
tralian form, is “more brilliant than Brad-
man,” while the bowler has “a world-wide
reputation.” If the furphy be correct, some-
thing drastic will have to be done to stave
off the calamity. If Scullin can manage this
at the Imperial Conference he is assured of
re-election for the tenn of his natural life.
Racquet and Brawl
“Toowong” : For the first time since 1925
Queensland has succeeded in beating N.S.W.
in the inter-State tennis match. Queens-
land won 3 of the 4 singles matches and two
of the three doubles events. The N.S.W. side
included such front-rank players as Walker
and Dunlop. Interesting was the advent in
inter-State tennis of Duncan Thompson, the
Rugby League football player, who has
represented Australia, N.S.W. and Queens-
land. Only one other player, if memory
serves, can claim a similar record. This
was the one-handed St. John, who represen-
ted Queensland at Rugby Union and tennis
with considerable distinction, and was close
to inter-State cricket form as a bowler, to
boot.
He H* Hs ❖
“Top Spin” : It looks as if that visit from
an American tennis team is likely to come
off (B. 13/8/’3O) after all. Following on
a cable from Jim Willard, who has had
the matter in hand, the Australian tennis
authorities have cabled inviting the Yanks
to visit Australia next summer. Willard’s
message was to the effect that Lott, Van
Ryn, Allison and Bell are willing to make
the trip. The first three can all be rated
to-day as front-rankers. Bell’s status is not
so well known, but he should be of sufficient
calibre to give the best of our men a go> if
their European and Davis Cup form is to
be taken as a criterion.
* * * *
“Baldhead”: Since the old variety show,
with its frank exposure of the female figure,
has disappeared many have wondered where
the habitues of the front stalls have gone.
The answer is that they may be seen at
tennis matches in which the female element
is predominating. If any doubt me, refer
to the pages of the pictorial press. As final
evidence I call in the recent comment of a
leading English tennis critic on the play of
Mrs. Fernley Whittingstall, formerly an Eng-
lish tennis hope as Eileen Bennett. Says the
expert, dwelling gloomily on the lady’s tennis
capacity: “She can confidently claim to
possess the world’s most elegant tennis legs.
You can’t have everything.” Maybe, but
as a constant attendant at the White City
I have money to back the Australian pro-
duct.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotlram”: The Australian golf champion-
ships are set down for Melbourne this year,
and will commence at Oakleigh on Sept. 9.
The meeting, running over 10 days, will
also be made the venue for an inter-State
teams’ match. A 36-hole stroke competition
for professionals and the amateur foursomes
championship of Australia over 36 holes
stroke play will open the programme. The
open championship follows, and then the
amateur and professional events. Present
•champions ai’e; open, Ivo Whitton; amateur,
M. J. Ryan; professional. Rufus Stewart:
foursomes, F. J. Bulte and Legh Winser.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Victoria has for some
time specialised in youthful golfers—Ryan,
winner of last year’s Australian amateur
championship, is one of several outstanding
instances. N.S.W. is likely to challenge the
Cabbage Garden’s supremacy in this respect
with Jim Ferrier, the 15-year-old son
of the Manly club’s secretary. The
lad, incapacitated by a foot injury for other
games, has given his whole playing time to
golf under his father’s tutelage. How far
he has progressed is seen in his victory in
the Manly championship over Apperley, who
has one championship of Australia and five
of N.S.W. to his credit. Young Ferrier
finished 1 up on the champion after a neek-
and-neck go over 36 holes. Considering his
youth and the calibre of his experienced
opponent, the performance was astonishing.
:«c
“Carisbrooke” : Dunedin has a reputation
for being thrifty, but it isn’t where golf is con-
cerned. The city already boasts three large
golf clubs, a fair allowance for a population
of some 90,000, but these have become so
crowded that another has been formed. The
newly-laid-out course is at Macandrew Bay,
from which the club takes its name, and has
been specially designed to prevent conges-
tion, crossed fairways being avoided as much
as possible. For this reason, and alsp, per-
haps, because the subscription is small,
several local chieftains and duniwassals are
reported to have been injured in the rush for
membership.
* $ * $
“Carnoustie” : In spite of the fact that it
is the short approach and the putting that
win championships, the glamor of long driv-
ing is irresistible to many players. America
has recently been claiming the usual world’s
championship in this respect, the candidate
being one Clarence Gamber, a pupil of
Tommy Armour. The latter claims that
Gamber’s average drive is 360 yards. Armour
adds that the young man habitually gets on
the pin at one 385-yard hole with a drive
and a 25-yard chip. Tommy being a Scots-
man I’m prepared to believe him. All the
same, I’d like to know if he is game to bet
on Gamber’s performances as stated by him.
* * *
“Fitzcray”; Melbourne is adding to its
public golf courses; Malvern Council is having
a nine-holer laid down under the eye of J.
Young, the Commonwealth Club professional.
There is enough land available to extend to
the full 18 holes later. J. Wilson, formerly
of Albert Park, is the club’s greenkeeper.
Much depends on whether the Malvern
Council—an unco’ guid crowd—will permit
Sunday play. The Sabbath is about the
only day on which folk who have to resort
to public courses can get a fair go. Moore
Park, in Sydney, counts Sunday as more
profitable to the municipal undertaking than
all the other days of the week combined.
Car and Cycle
“Garry”: A little information has been
allowed to leak out concerning the car which
H’arkness and Hillier, of Sydney, are making
for Norman Smith, so that he may assault
Segrave’s record at Ninety-mile Beach in
M.L. The engine, lent by the British Govern-
ment, is one of the hush-hush Rolls-Royce
aero monsters designed for the Schneider
Cup ’planes. It weighs 15001 b. and develops
2000 h.p. at maximum revs. Cylinder dimen-
sions are bore 6in., stroke 6-Jin.; how many
cylinders is not stated. Segrave made his
record with 900 li.p.; Kaye Don failed dis-
mally with 4000 h.p. Smith hopes he has
struck the happy medium. The body of
Smith’s car, which will weigh, with motor,
2J tons, has been designed on the rather
angular lines of Segrave’s “Golden Arrow.”
Don’s much bigger “Silver Bullet” was so
beautifully streamlined that it offered only
56 per cent, of the head resistance of the
“Arrow,” but Smith reckons that what was
gained in that way was lost in steadiness.
The M.L. Government, which has a sporting-
streak and a keen eye for a good advertise-
ment, is importing electric timing apparatus
and in other ways doing its best to help the
Australian driver. As to the beach, Smith,
who did 146.31 m.p.h. on it with a 160-h.p.
car, swears it is perfect—there’s a 16-mile
perfectly straight, smooth stretch, 200 yards
wide, with sand so hard that the heaviest
car at high speed hardly feathers it.
* * * *
“Blah”: Messrs. Shippam and Dixon, two
young Cambridge graduates who set off to
tour the world, have not been well treated by
their publicity hound. After announcing that
the jpair intend to penetrate “uncivilised wilds
where motor-cars are as rare as a drink of
water,” he disclosed that the tour will be the
old time-worn one across Canada, Australia,
India, and so home through' Persia. The
most difficult section of the journey will
be “the 2000-mile stretch of desert” from
Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie. The stillest
problem on that route is to avoid tyre punc-
ture from the litter of broken bottles and
empty sardine-tins discarded by the numerous
motorists crossing backwards and forwards.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The Irish Tourist Trophy Race,
to be held near Belfast shortly, is the
eleventh of the series, and has grown to one
of the most important motor-racing events
in the world. Limited to 70 cars of all
types, time and distance handicaps being
allowed, the race is over 410 miles round a
13H-mile circuit. Last year there was a
crowd of 500,000 watching the race, which
was won by Carracciola, driving the Mercedes
in which he recently won the Grand Prix at
Dublin.
H* ' •!> -1*
The Dunlop-Perdriau people have announ-
ced the details of the famous Goulburn to
Sydney cycling road race for both amateur
and professional riders, which will be held
under their auspices on September 13. The
race this year will be longer than usual, for
instead of finishing as heretofore at Enfield
the cyclists will carry on through Ashfield to
Canterbury racecourse, this extending the
run from 131 to 135 miles. The first prize
for the professionals will be £5O, in addition
to 10 place prizes and special prizes, includ-
ing the “Referee” cup and £lO for fastest
time.
* S= * *
“Sprocket”: The classic Goulburn-Sydney
road race under Dunlop-PerdTiau auspices
will be run on Sept. 13. It is, as usual, a twin
event, divided into amateur and professional
sections. Both will race together, but
whereas the professionals will cut up £250,
the amateurs will be rewarded with trophies
valued at £144. These prize lists are the
richest yet raced for on N.S.W. roads.
Miscellaneous
“Bulimba”: Everyone knows that curse
of the bowling-green the incessant smoker
who throws his matches on the turf regardless
of their effect on running woods. A Bris-
bane club recently placed a neat glass recep-
tacle marked “Matches” at the head of each
rink. The committee was gratified to note
on casual inspection that these were filling
rapidly and commented thereon to the green-
keeper. “Full!” said that worthy. “I should
flamin’ well say they are. I spend half me
time sweepin’ the dead matches orf the
green and stackin’ ’em in the pots.”
* * * *
“Shell” : Australian oarsmen got something
of a shock last week when the cable
announced that Bobby Pearce had accepted
a lucrative job offered him on his arrival
in Canada. The best Pearce could do here
since his Olympic victory was to gain pro-
visional acceptance as a water policeman, and
the Canadians, who are as practically enthu-
siastic in their sport as their American
neighbors, grabbed the chance with both
hands. There is a faint flavor of professional-
ism about the deal, but that may be said of
every sport nowadays.
* * * *
“Spike”; The annual athletic contest
between the Australian Universities in Mel-
bourne saw only Queensland unrepresented.
A waterlogged ground precluded any sen-
sational times, though the 440 was won by
Francis of Melbourne, in 52sec.- —pretty good
going. Melbourne scored heavily, coming out
on top with 68 points. Adelaide (51) and
Sydney (21) filled the places.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Fraction by fraction the
world’s sprinting records continue to dwindle.
When Charles Paddock ran the 100 yards in
9 3-ssec. thus becoming one of a group of
five who had done the same, the wiseacres
said that the limit of human speed had evi-
dently been reached. When Charles did the
1(00 metres in 10 2-ssec., the same judgment
was pronounced. Both figures certainly stood
for nine years. Then early this year the
American mulatto Tolan brought the 100-
yard figures down to Last week
Percy Williams, the Canadian Olympian, ran
the 100 metres in 10 3-10 sec. The day may
come when we shall see the 100 run in
9 flat, with corresponding improvement in
other running times.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Prior to his departure for
England, Walter Lindrum told an interviewer
that there could be little chance of improve-
ment in the standard of professional billiards
in England until the control was taken out
of the hands of the trade. Each prominent
player is harnessed to one billiard-table firm
or another, and these concerns take turns as to
whose tables will be used in the event of that
year. The result is that one lot of players
has the advantage of playing on a table to
which it is accustomed, and a neutral atmo-
sphere is thus impossible. The champion
opens against Claude Falkiner in London on
September 15, and will be accompanied by
Tom Newman on his return to Australia.
#** . *
“Blue Bar”: A quaint match came off in
England the other day, when Sir William
Edge, M.P., wagered he would beat 114
homer pigeons in a race from London to
Ibstock in Leicestershire. Both sides started
from Westminster Palace Yard, the birds by
air, and the M.P. by car to the tram and
then by car again to Ibstock, Ins distance
being 99 miles by train and 18 by road to
Ibstock. The fowls won, respective velocities
being pigeons, 904 yards per minute; poli-
tican, 839 yards. Writer knows no Aus-
tralian politician likely to beat 114
flying pigeons, but he will back a lot of them
to out-distance the same number of talking
parrots under go-as-you-please or any other
rules.


((
HEENZO is easily
the best remedy I have
ever used for banishing
chest and throat ailments,
r%
d
m
■ ■
Writes Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS, the
eminent English Operatic Baritone.
OF IMPORTANCE TO
PARENTS
is the fact that HEENZO
does NOT contain any
poisons or digestive-upsetting
drugs — that’s why HEENZO is the best
of all family remedies for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA.
ş
Every leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells HEENZO


9
I
am
1
BMP
in
often wonder tokal ike
!'Vintners hrn)
One half so precious
as the Goods
ihey onar%^:^
S :
mat I
►
mm
n
1 H
■
11.
m
: a
■i
1111 l ■
i
B—l
*
■
'
■
Hi
■
■
■
m :
: I
B I
m
i m
i?
• 1 Warn
E SPARKUNiJ
9
I
HOCK.
.1
HM
■
lan m
ssms
i
■
■Ssl
I
I
m Hi
IP
EH
*
*
*
»
A!
*
w
hh .a
::
I
Mil
■
■
p
mes
r CMI.


Use CASH'S RIBBONS
fa Shoulder Straps
—and this just
CAN'T happen
fc
/
Cash's Ribbons are most
durable, and never break
or fray, once threaded,
you don’t remove them :
from the Garment—as
š
'Washing RIBBONSI
look like new after repeat-
ed washing. Made in
daintiest fadeless Pastel
Shades, with Brocaded or
Floral Effect in- various
widths
Ask your Draper
. for Cash’s.
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond Melbourne.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Perries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
;
i
JflQ
□ Qu
;iuu ULmiifH]
m
m
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4J Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines)
Undei 4
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiarfelleiicdi
nxii
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGH6
Gfiriesllcidsitf^
ItEIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Ajjerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITEQ, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sir Hugh Allen and Hector Macquarrie
were perhaps the most widely known pas-
sengers the unlucky steamer Tahiti was carry-
ing- to San Francisco when her tail-shaft
fell out and, something going wrong with the
works, ller holds were flooded. Sir Hugh,
who is a director of the Royal College of
Music, had during his visit to Australia and
Maoriland made innumerable friends by his
friendly nature and humorous tongue. Hector
is -the ex-soldier who bucketed his way from
Sydney to Cape York in a Baby Austin and
turned his experiences into an entertaining
travel-book.
Thinking of their plight, shared by nearly
300 brothers and sisters in distress, Sydney
spent a troubled week-end. Still fresh in
the minds of those who had seen the film
“Atlantic” was the agonised waiting of the
people on the stricken vessel. But the Tahiti
withstood the onrush, and it was not neces-
sary to proceed with the transhipping of
passengers till'Monday morning. And then,
soon after Captain Toten had decided that
transhipment could no longer be delayed, the
Ventura reached the scene, and the five boat-
loads of passengers already launched reached
the Matson liner’s decks. The rest ol the
passengers quickly followed, though Captain
Toten and his officers still remained aboard
in the hope of yet saving their waterlogged
craft.
Some of Sydney’s best families have got
very hot under the pearl-necklace about the
blotto on the scutcheon revealed in Doris
Egerton Jones’s “Governor Bligli.” Not
possible that the ancestral pastures, the
wad in the bank, the gilt-edged securities
could own such base beginnings as rum!
Bligli has always been anathema to the
State’s oldest families; still, every night of
the first week of the play found some of
the pioneers stealing into the Grand Opera
House, where, after the first surprised surge
of protest, they have laughed gaily at the
reported shortcomings of the bad lads of the
old days.
Most active among the descendants of the
leading characters is Hope Johnston, great-
grandson of that Major Johnston who
deposed Bligh. He never fails to swing the
kilt of his old clan at the Pioneer Club’s
junketings, and can and will name every indi-
vidual twig of his family tree at a moment’s
notice.
Ruby Zlotskowski was the acknowledged
prima donna of the Royal Art Society’s con-
versazione, in which', as usual, there was
more music than conversation. Hundreds
seized on the opportunity of a night-out, for,
in the social paralysis which lias attacked
Sydney, parties other than school reunions
are few and far between. It’s to be hoped
that the roll-up will mean more red seals
along the foreshores of canvas. The Kirri-
billi Burgess couple were among those who
arrived early at the Education Galleries, and
his eye had a roving look as though seeking
a fitting mate to the Dattilo Rubbo his wife
had already secured. Syd Long’s work drew
brother artist B. E. Minns, while Mrs. Minns,
who lives mostly in the mountains these times,
held quite a levee. Will Beattie’s sailor songs
were fitting accompaniment to Charlie
Bryant’s sea pictures, and no one ever sat
a i>iano-stool more gracefully than Alice
Bryant, whose fluttering chiffons suggested
a nocturne in grey and lavender. Aubrey
H’alloran’s tall young daughter chaperoned
the Chief Mason of the State. Among the
best dressed were Mrs. John Banks and the
Souter girls. There were more bronze copper-
tops than this Letter has seen for years and
years at one party, and a girl with a sleek
red top that looked like a helping of calf’s
coat stood before John Banks’s “Emancipa-
tion” in a frock as blue as the girl’s in the
picture. Mayoress Hilda Marks was the
chief guest of the evening, and was squired
by an unofficial brother.
Hilda Marks, by the way, some years ago
met in Burma one of the characters in Ten-
nyson Jesse’s “Lacquer Lady.” Wanting to
buy some silk, the Australian was recom-
mended to the “silk Madame.” She found
her an old lady of over 80, nearly sightless,
still indomitable, and still indisputably the
brains of the small silk factory she ran in
her own home. She told Miss Marks that
her father, a Lyons velvet-maker, had been
brought by the old King of Burma to in-
struct the people in the art of silk-weaving,
and she herself, as a young girl, had taught
the ;Court ladies the joys of weaving their
own brocades. It is as a young girl she
appears in the novel.
The Royal Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s Ball
at the Ambassadors put a curl into the tail-
end of a week which socially had been
about the dullest on record. Sir Philip Game,
who is the new Commodore of the club,
played bridge in the Empire-room with
Vice-Commodore Andrew Wilson, Paul Ross
and Frank Buchanan, and Lady Game
danced in a frock of burgundy chiffons. Miss
Crowdy and Lieut.-Commander Gifford com-
pleted the Government House party. The
Andrew Wilsons and the E. P. Andreas
couple played hosts to the Vice-Res., but the
C. Schultzes’ table carried the most impres-
sive decoration. This was the model of a
stately galleon riding proudly at her moor-
ings in a sea of violets, and was said to be
more or less a replica of the first Spanish
ship to enter Manila Bay. Everywhere floated
wide and free the red and deep blue of the
club colors; even the vice-regal posy
embodied them in its red carnations and
blue streamers.
Allan Wilkie and his frail-looking wife,
Miss Hunter-Watts, with playwright Doris
Egerton Jones, were the guests of the
Women Writers last week, and there was
the female equivalent of three hearty cheers
when the actor-manager assured the congre-
gation that neither talkie nor movie nor
Bernard Shaw could kill flesh-and-blood
drama. Mr. Wilkie is inclined to think
that G.B.S. is biased in favor of the talkie
because two of his plays have just been
bought at whacking figures for the sound
cinema. But, in spite of his brave words, he
admitted that, whereas Australia used to
know as many as 40 and 50 companies, city
and touring, now a meagre nine or so answer
the roll-call. Doris Egerton Jones, in
fur that in the distance looked like the
coat of a jungle cat, but might have been
good home-grown ’possum, flung a bowpot
to the city’s slie-scribes for the generosity
with which they had supported a sister of
the pen. President Mrs. Baverstock made
the introductory remarks, and this Letter
gives loud applause for Isabel Gullett, the
ever-cheerful secretary, who is largely respon-
sible for the popularity of these luncheons.
The silver girdle on Mrs. Jessica Lee’s
twilight-blue frock suggested a band of hope
at the welcome-home given last week to presi-
dent Dr. Mary Booth'. Mrs. Lee, who has
been queen or the Empire Service Club in
the rosy-cheeked doctor’s absence, handed
back the crown and sceptre, and the good
work among young boy-settlers will be car-
ried on in spite of lean times. In fact, Dr.
Booth is quite complacent about wangling
cash for her pet project since she managed
to squeeze £lOO out of the British Treasury
to help it. The drawing-room of the Women’s
Club looked virginal with white lilies and
jocund with spring blooms for the occasion.
The brimming baskets of violets, primroses'
and sweet-peas thrust upon the Vice-reine
and Dr. Mary seemed as inappropriate to
that staid room as the laughter of youth.
But everything else was seemly and decorous.
That winter garment of repentance, the cut-
away, pushed-off-the-face hat, was still
perched on many heads, and furs and top-
coats 'upholstered every chair. Mrs. Hey
Sharp was the afternoon’s hostess.
There was great applause among women
interested in welfare work last week when
they heard that Ruby Board had been
appointed a member of the Advisory Com-
mittee of the
U n e mployed
Relief Coun-
Council. This
committee is
faced with
the devising
of schemes for
the relief of
u n e m ployed
women, and
Su by, a
raghter of a
former Direc-
tor of Educa-
t i o n, will
bring her
heritage of
sound com-
monsense and
a d m i nistra-
tive ability to
the problem.
She has long
been an active
member of the National Council of Women,
and is its acting-president.
Ex-Civic Commissioner Garlick and his
wife were effulgent in one of their last bursts
of official glory at the Lapstone Hotel the
other night. The Lapstone, which was once
the Colin Smith home, has the Nepean as a
border to itss spreading grounds, and on the
night of the' dinner-dance given in honor of
the Garlicks the old river was silvered with
searchlights and with the best Mother Nature
could do in the shape of a moon. Over 250
journeyed up from the city to dance and to
applaud the inevitable speeches made by D.
R. Hall, John Garlick and even Mrs. Gar-
lick. The dinner was so good that in Con-
tinental fashion the chef was brought in and
toasted by the company.
The death last week of Joseph Vickery,
full of years and good works, recalls one
of this Letter’s early tragedies—or was it
a comedy? On information supplied by one
of the family the Letter announced the
engagement of old Ebenezer, Joseph’s father,
to a lady who had served him in a clerical
capacity. Without wasting time over pre-
liminaries Ebenezer fired in a writ for some
thousands—that he, an old man, many times
a grandfather, should contemplate marriage
with a young woman, surely held him up to
ridicule. The Bulletin took his word for
it and paid some hundreds, which he passed
over to one of his Methodist funds. Within
three months he was married to the lady!
Mrs. Dan Kelly, just back from London,
is enthusiastic over the Royal Academy
opening, and more than enthusiastic over
the high quality of the portraits. Tallulah
Bankhead, with too many clothes on for the
taste of her public, was a disappointment.
But the actress herself —she wears a pinky
lace dress in the Augustus John portrait—
proclaims herself quite satisfied. The Queen
in her blue velvet cloak, with its sable
collar and her choker of pearls; won the eye
and the heart of the Kirribilli woman, who
also rhapsodises over the hydrangea on
the stairs leading from the lower to the
upper gallery, and the roses that for a whole
week glowed velvet and mysterious in every
nook and cranny not occupied by the human
foot or the pictures, Reville, that master
builder of clothes, was perhaps the most
interesting person from a woman’s point of
view the lady met in her travels. H'e had
been for his first holiday in years and had
chosen Sumatra for it; joining the homeward-
bound boat at Colombo, immediately the big,
fattish man with the flexible fingers became
the lodestar of the women. He could tell
them everything about fashionable London,
which many of them were visiting for the
first time. Clubs, people, jewels, scandals —
he had them all at his finger-tips. Another
thing he had with him were water-color
sketches of princesses, duchesses and famous
actresses in creations he had designed for them.
The ladies over in London with the American
group at the Naval Reduction Conference
were amazed, Mrs. Dan says, at the magni-
ficent jewels worn by the wives of the Eng-
lish diplomats and celebrities at various
functions, but whispered of the lack of style
shown in the garments. Probably the day
after the party duchesses and so on criti-
cised the American ladies in much the same
way. Isn’t it a good job for the peace of the
world that some diplomat years ago was wise
enough to insist on uniformity in garb for
men!
Friends in Perth and the world over will
be sorry to learn that Mrs. Zabel, of the
Roycroft Library,, last week met with a
motor accident that sent her to Sydney Hos-
pital. This is expected to be her address for
the next few weeks.
Doris Harris, now of Manar, Potts Point,
but until a week ago of Kirribilli, dashed off
to the altar the other night with a young
man she had known only one week. He is
Warrington James, whose people live in
Hampton Court, another big Darlinghurst
flattery. The bride was dressed in black
from top to toe, while sister Zita wore
moire, ivory white and very long. A friend,
Mrs. Horace Newman, stood by in royal-
blue chiffons, and a supper at the Australia
rounded off the quick romance. /
Marie Ney, the Maoriland actress who
appeared in Sydney as the ingenuous flapper
with the Marie Tempest company and after-
wards migrated to London and still greater
successes, has been married in England to
T. H'. Menzies, a Scots rubber-planter of
Malaya, who was evidently fascinated with
the actress’s name before he met her, for in
1926 he won the Singapore Gold Cup with
a horse named after her. Marie has been
appearing in “The Three Musketeers” at
Drury-lane. Her people used to run one
of the best-known guest-houses in Welling-
ton (M.L.).
Mayoress Hilda Marks gathered the press-
women of Sydney around her one day last
week to stimulate friendly co-operation over
a dish of tea. Dignity and charm were
wedded in her caped frock splashed with a
tawny design and collared in squirrel, while
her friend Miss Blunt, who helped her circu-
late chatter ! and cigarettes, was neatly
wrapped in beige kasha. These cigarettes
were dispensed from a solid silver box pre-
sented to the city by Sydney Burdekin, civic
potentate of an earlier day, and most sump-
tuous entertainer the city has known—every
three months he served out a lordly dinner
to the city’s aldermen. Mr. Marks confided
that, though he couldn’t emulate that hos-
pitality, he was spreading a lunch for city
and suburban aldermen within the next week
or so, and owned under cross-examination
that it was the first feast of the kind to be
spread for many a year.
Maurice Chevalier, in a glutinous mixture
of dollars, chewing-gum and sentiment, filled
the Prince Edward from cellar to chandelier
for his opening last week. This time the loved
of flappers, old and young, makes his plunge
in “The Big Pond,” he, a simple son of the
South, having fallen in love with the daugh-
ter of a chewing-gum king. Judging from
the soulful looks that lingered on the good-
looking young male as he paddled about in
the Venetian moonlight, there wasn’t a lass
in the theatre who wouldn’t cheerfully have
changed seats with the girl, even though the
Sydney night was ripped through by a wind
that stabbed the Milanese step-ins like so
many stilettos of ice. There was real money
in the house, for the management had moved
forward its opening to the Wednesday night.
Hitherto the grand openings have been on
a Friday; but Friday is now a late shopping
night, and therefore no longer the silver-
lined show-night of the week.
Cold tongue and fruit salad followed by
chestnuts were the fare of the English-Speak-
ing Unionists one day last week. The
chestnuts were provided by Henry Brad-
don, who passed around the fruits which
he had gathered a day or two previously for
the Ivooroora business girls’ club. The feast
was spread'to the glory of the four school
kiddies who had carried off the the E.S.U.’s
prize in the yearly essay competition. The
toast of the day was a joint one, “The King
and the President,” and that went down
even better than the composite anthem in
which Heaven was apparently asked to pour
its blessing on both. Only one lady knew
the ■ words, so the hymn, strong in senti-
ment but rather water-wavy in volume, beat
feebly at the dome of the Blaxland Galleries.
But probably a choir of waiting seraphim
seized on the frail thread of sound and
wafted it to the sapphire throne.
The Sydney University Medical Society
was lucky in securing Mrs. J. C. Windeyer
as the president of its ball committee. The
lady is a good'
worker with
vivid ideas,
and is as en-
couraging to
any cause she
takes in hand
as an electric
battery to a
20-to-l chance
at the ponies.
She is peren-
nially presi-
dent of the
K i ndergarten
Union, and
unde r her
direction that
body continues
to dredge its
quota of gold
and silver out
of the shoals
of the river
Stony Broke.
She is the wife of Professor Windeyer, of
the Medical School, and an amateiJr gardener
of renown. Our photo is by Dayne.
The serious mind will dominate Music
Week, commencing August 30, but there will
bo sounds of revelry by night at David
Jones’s on Friday, September 5. when musi-
cians from every State will disport them-
selves in fancy dress. Roland Foster and
Dr. Keith Barry are the organisers, and an
entertainment committee, including Elizabeth
Plummer, Emily Marks and other well-known
people, is taking charge of the cabaret and
side-shows.
Joe Gardiner, whose name is still borne
by a chain of bootshops, claims to have
held the first baby-show in Australia. It
was during the Diamond Jubilee of Queen
Victoria, and Joe, then a youth with his
way to make, reasoned things out. Every-
body would come into the city to catch a
glimpse of the illuminations and the decora-
tions, and how would they amuse themselves
all day and all night? The theatres couldn’t
cope with the crowds, and father and mother
trailing about with small kids wouldn’t want
to go to a dance hall. Then the beauty of a
domesticated scheme dawned on him, and
the first baby show came into being. Well,
the people from the back of beyond arrived,
excursion trains dropped them into the city
by the hundred, and the streets were a pro-
cession. “And,” says Joe, “where did they
all go at nights? Where, I ask you, did
they all go? Nowhere. That’s where they
went. Those people had never seen a city
illuminated before, and they walked up and
down gaping and goggling, and when they
didn’t walk up and down they tried stand-
ing. That baby show was dead-born.” And
Joe when he closed down had still more of
liis way to make than he had before.
Ramsay Pennicuick dropped this Letter
a line the morning after a house-warming
party in Arthur Benjamin’s new London
home—-in gt. John’s Wood. The musical
part consisted of the first performance of the
host’s new “Dances” for piano and orches-
tra, and Constant Lambert’s “Rio Grande.”
(Constant is the son of the late artist
George.) Arthur played the piano in both
items and Constant played the percussion in
his own number. After that everybody
danced in a marquee on the lawn. There
were about 150 guests, including most of the
musical celebrities of London, amongst them
the Australians Dorothy Helm rich, Taylor
Darbyshire, Aylmer Buesst and Fred Coven-
try.
OVERHEARD.
He : “Oh, that was in the bon days! ”
She ( inquiringly ): “The good days?”
He: “Rather! The Before Otto Niemeyer days.”


This is a group of Stuart Crystal. It is the
product of Stuart s of Stourbridge, England
makers, in bygone days, of much of the old
cut glass that is most highly prized to=day.
It is not a 'whit less beautiful, this modern
crystal from the original glass works, but,
unlike the antique glass, it is priced within
the means of other than wealthy collectors.
The name Stuart is etched on every piece.
KJr mai^wm
m
ms
Wl
' 9
MfcSS
■
; ■ _
1 HHi
■
i -
.
Kmmmmmi
mm
*
mm
mmwmmmn
n
i
X
m
m
li
Si
English Hand*made Crystal
Gbtainable -wherever beautiful glass is
sold.
Thousands of both men
and women have been
astonished with the unusual
success of this modem treat-
ment for such uric acid dis-
orders as backache and rheu-
matism. Men who were losing
their strength, activity and
power —who were being
termed “old-timers”—have
“come back” with such freshness and vigor as to
amaze their friends; women who were fast losing
their capability and charm have found a new way
to health! Hundreds of one-time sufferers have
voluntarily recorded their experiences of this
remedy, most of the letters stating that successful
results were promptly obtained where every other
form of treatment had failed.
FIND THE CAUSE!
How useless to soothe a symptom and leave the cause untouched!
Yet thousands are doing that—taking old-fashioned kidney pills
and salts—things which merely treat symptoms! But with the modern
remedy— Harrison’s Pillls —all this is changed. Harrisons Pills
have shown people they can easily get rid of uric acid aches and
pains, gaining such energy and freshness as they have not known
for years. By getting rid of the deadly uric deposits—as well as
uric acid itself—Harrison’s Pills give HEALTH— reaI health—
positively, safely, and without fail!
GET BACK YOUR ACTIVE YOUTH.
It is a demonstrated fact that of all the remedies offered for uric acid
and rheumatic disorders, not one equals Harrisons Pills for giving
quick, safe, sure relief and a definite return to healthy activity. There
is nothing like this remedy for those who feel too old before their
time. . . . Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for bringing back the elastic
step of vigorous youth! Harrison’s Pills bear the signature of
a London Physician, and are sold under a straightforward guarantee.
STOP
BACKACHE
and
RHEUMATISM
k This Easy Way t
MADE fT)
HIM A NEW MAN.
Dear Sirs, Due to uric acid and severe rheuma-
tism I was practically dead at 77. In spite of
the severity of my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have
made a new man of me, and I feel not a day
older than fifty. 1 have never known any
remedy act in so remarkably beneficial a
manner. (Signed) B. Jacobson, Blackman s
Point, N.S.W.
£lOO
will be paid to anyone proving this is not a safe and
effective remedy bearing a genuine London doctor’s
signature.
YOU TAKE NO RISK WHATEVER WITH
HARRISON’S PILLS.
Either you throw off your ageing pains and weakness, gaining quick,
unmistakable benefit, or the trial costs you nothing! Simply get a
package of Harrison’s Pills from the nearest chemist or store.
Three sizes, at 2/-, 3/~ and 5/-. Take as directed, and if not
freed from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased with
the improvements in your health, strength and general bearing—
your money will be returned. This guarantee clearly protects you
in making a trial, but if preferred a Free Sample will be sent
on receipt of name and address with stamp for postage. Address:
Amalgamated Laboratories,
46-52 Carrington Street, Sydney.
'
TAKE
Harrison’s Pills
Backache & Bladder
For Backache, Rheumatism, Neuritis, Constipation, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiff, Swollen Joints, Urinary and Bladder Troubles.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel’s New Tariffs
Single Room,- Bed and Breakfast, from 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 157-
Single Room, Inclusive, from 207-
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 ... 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 3/-
me WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
A Perfect qloss
A GLOSSY, healthy-
looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s no
secret; .just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
FIRST
SOLD
ſ
ß
jßWantfs
Macassar OH
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Cliznbethan
Tea Rooms
[?] 8000 [?]
Buckley [?] Limited
[?]
When the Chatterer arrived at the Town
Hall for the Lud Mayor’s Ball, the cloak-
room was crowded with women struggling
into gloves, which have returned with the
extended skirts. Every patroness sported
yards and yards of dress material, diaphanous
in most instances, allied to bridge coat or
other wrap of the latest mode. The surtouts
in many cases sported collars of lace or
fur that stood up as straight as a paling
fence. The phrase of the novelist who re-
ferred to his hero as “arranging his neck
in his collar” came to the mind irresistibly
on viewing these stiff enclosures.
Scenic-artist Coleman designed the setting
for the jollo, and the main hall has never
looked better. The platform was occupied
by a lawn fringed with beds of begonias,
cinerarias and poinsettias, that blended into
a back-cloth depicting winding paths bor-
dered with crimson gums, and a central foun-
tain. Roseate lights shining amid garlands
were draped from tall foliage-decked Ven-
etian masts around the gallery, and islands
of pink and white prune blossoms and ferns
dotted the floor beneath. The scene when
the dance was in full swing was very color-
ful. Red was much in favor for feminine
attire, and black was worn by many. Skirts
fell to the ankles, sometimes to the toes; but
trains were non cst.
Lady Somers was unable to be present,
but the Governor attended and delivered her
apologies. Mayor and Mayoress Luxton had
extended greeting hands to most of the 2000
guests before the arrival of his Ex. Mrs.
Luxton wore black lace and carried a posy
of lilies of the valley. Mrs. Ronald
McDonald, wife of Captain McDonald, who
has taken Colonel Davidson’s place as secre-
tary to Lord Somers, waved a white feather
fan against her black robe. In the group
gathered about the dais with the city fathers
and their womenfolk were the Premier and
Mrs. Ilogan, she in a caped gown of green
satin; Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Kerr, Major
General and Mrs. Coxen and Dr. Telford,
of Ballarat, with Mrs. Telford in black
valvet. Mr. and Mrs. Alan Currie danced in
flesh-pink draperies sprinkled with rhine-
stones. Mrs. Albion Walkley held a green
feather fan against her white chiffon. General
Chauvel was accompanied by his lady, who
sported a pale green flowered frock. Other
guests were the H. J. Mansons, Mr. and
Mrs. de Bavay, Mrs. Percy Blackbourn, in
a beautifully cut gown of deep cosmos georg-
ette ; Lieut.-Colonel White and his wife, she
also in purple ; Wing-Commander and Mrs.
Adrian Cole, and Mrs. D. Grant, in black.
Ila Bonney, a pretty, tall undergraduate,
a cousin of Bert Hinkler, who was at her
first big dance, wore white georgette with a
medici collar of silver lace. Her unsliingled
hair was wound in plaits about her shapely
head. Neville Collins chose black tulle,
shirred about the bodice, with a flared skirt.
A long cape with a high collar of white fur
was a striking addition. Marnie Clarke wore
a flounced frock of mace-tinted chiffon with
a touch of red.
For the first time in weeks we have had
a really fine Saturday, and at Flemington at
the week-end we basked in warm afternoon
sunshine. In the morning there was a dis-
tinct touch of winter in the air, which made
the gradual rise in temperature doubly wel-
come. The attendance was somewhat sparse.
As nobody trusts the weather even when it
promises good behavior, the fair patrons
almost to a woman donned furs. Though the
lawns were fairly dry, the track was heavy,
and the gees in the six-furlong race on the
straight took a curved course seeking the
best going. The more than usual amount of
elbow-room on stands and lawn was appreci-
ated by regular racegoers. Mayoress Luxton
was there in a fur-collared black coat and a
knitted swathed toque that suggested the
Breton fisherman’s cap of musical comedy.
Mary Power, fiancee of aviator Kingsford
Smith, was in cobalt blue with squirrel fur
on her coat and a felt hat. Rita Scharlitt,
who accompanied her, sported a squirrel
coat and grey millinery. Mrs. Russell Gabb,
Mrs. W. J. Wearne and Mrs. T. V. Millea
chose the popular black-and-white mixture.
Mrs. Keith Allard was attractively turned
out in black, other smart dressers being Mrs.
Esmond Downey, Mrs. D. P. Mackey, Mrs.
L. Aldridge and Mrs. Forbes McKenzie.
There was a gay parade of military uni-
forms at No. 9 on Friday evening when
Major .J. M. Mathew led the officers of the
Engineers’ Corps in a jazz advance. Mrs.
Mathew helped her husband to receive the
guests, wearing a caped gown of black crepe
de Chine. General “Pompey” Elliott was
there with Mrs. Elliott, who looked as dainty
as a bit of Dresden china in figured black
georgette.
Twenty old boys of Melbourne Grammar
School staged a dance at St. Kilda Town
Hall last week. Among the guests were
Mayor and Mayoress Luxton, R. P. Frank-
lin, headmaster of the school, and Judge
Macfarlan. Mrs. F. Loxton, of Brisbane, was
there with her daughter Alice, whose frock
was of cream-grounded, . floral-patterned
taffeta.
Old and not-so old girls of the C.E.G.G.S.
had their dance this year at Bibron’s. The
committee was led by the president, Mayoress
Luxton, who was accompanied by her hus-
band. A posy of pink blossoms was passed
to the civic lady, over whose filmy gown
was a black velvet wrap with a white fur
collar. The headmistress, Miss Gilman
Jones, was there in powder-blue lace
draperies. Gladys Onians, hon. sec., danced
in georgette of the hue of a deep pink begonia.
Other committee members were Mrs. J. W.
Barr, in white satin; Jean Cuming, Joan
Elvin and Hylda Martin.
Ex-students of Camberwell Grammar
School also chose Bibron’s for their hop, and
the principal, Dr. M. A. Buntine, and his
wife smiled on the proceedings. The Rev.
T. R. Mappin, president of the committee,
extended a welcoming hand to the guests.
Broothorn pictures here Hilda Wh'alley,
who is taking the rsle of Orpah in Fritz
Hart’s bibli-
ea 1 operetta
“R uth and
Naomi,” which
forms half the
bill of the
A 1 b e rt-street
Con’s, show
at the Bijou
Theatre this
week. Miss
Wha 11 ey, a
d a u g h ter of
Mr. and Mrs.
John S. Whal-
ley, of Nortli-
cote, who are
at present
touring
Europe, is a
s e c o n d-year
student at the
Con. and pos-
sesses a fresh
"soprano voice.
Her mother, who was a pupil of the late
Benno Scherek, is an accomplished pianist,
and an elder sister is the wife of the con-
ductor of the Malvern Symphony Orchestra,
W. J. Mallinson.
An afternoon fancy-dress party for child-
ren from two to twelve years of age, held
in one of the big class-rooms, was made the
means of swelling the building fund of the
Melbourne ,C. of E. Girls’ Grammar School.
Dainty dresses of all periods brushed frills
with the raiment of fairies and flowers, who
fraternised with characters out of storybooks
and nursery rhymes. Mrs. Prank Apperly
and painter Arthur Streeton had an anxious
time judging the rig-outs, but a selection was
made at last, and Miss Gilman Jones, princi-
pal of the school, was called on to hand over
the prizes. The organisers of the gay doings
were Mrs. Maxwell James and Mrs. George
Elliott. School prefects and some others
carried on the good work with a hop for the
senior students and their friends in the
evening.
Connoisseurs of art thronged the Print-
room of the National Gallery one afternoon
last week, when Lord Somers spoke the pro-
logue to the opening of a show of the
works of the late George Lambert. Dr.
Sugden also made a speech, in the course of
which he said the Gallery trustees had spent
at least £25,000 on the works of Australian
artists. His Ex. traced the story of Lam-
bert from the time the painter went abroad
on a travelling scholarship up to his service
as a war artist in Palestine. Dr. C. Bage
and Dr. A. Leeper provided some supple-
mentary reminiscences. This Page’s eye
roved the walls during the orations, interest in
which was distracted by consideration of the
various fashions depicted in the late paint-
er’s figure groupings. They ran the gamut
from the gem hat of the ’nineties, resting
above piled-up hair and linked by a shaped
bodice to yards and yards of umbrella-cut
skirt, down to the marcelle wave and
abbreviated attire of last year. John
Longstaff, Arthur Streeton, Dora Wilson,
George Bell and Daryl Lindsay represented
the brush-and-palette fraternity, other first
viewers being General Chauvel’s lady, Mrs.
H. Whiting, some Grimwades and Gladys
Owen. Envious glances were cast upon
the loaned exhibits, particularly the pencil
portraits, mostly the property of the Spen-
cers, Russell Grimwades and Keith Murdoch.
Watching Gann’s mannequin parade last
week was like turning back the leaves of the
fashion books. Dresses may now sport accor-
deon-pleated, shirred, gathered, flat flared or
straight flounces, ruches, bands or tucks by
way of trimming. Equally catholic are the
jackets, without which no go\Vn of to-day
seems complete. These may follow the lines of
the hunting-field, very well-shaped and close-
fitting, and in the shortest sorts may be of the
sleeveless bolero style. A model that took this
Chatterer’s eye was an ensemble in black
and white. The black georgette gown had
a white jrnke, and white faced one side and
the collar of the coat. The skirt featured
a couple of flat flounces. Then there was
a draped georgette evening gown of vivid
blue, with a wealth of godets that swept
down the the floor. Cords and tassels pro-
vided ornamentation in other cases. An
exquisite wedding gown of mediaeval cut,
with long sleeves and a* train, into which
the wearer seemed to have been poured
while melted, was of embossed cloth of
silver. Miles of white tulle formed the veil.
Only one dress had a price to it. This was
a quite ordinary ensemble —black coat and
figured frock of some silky fabric —30 guineas,
please!
White tulle that fluttered to the ground
from the anchorage of a white satin bodice
was the wedding apparel of Dorothy, elder
daughter of J. N. Williams, of East Malvern,
when linking her fate with that of Graham
John Nicol last week. Her sister Wyn, who
was bridesmaid, wore a peach-pink frock
modelled on the same lines. The after-
rejoicings were staged at the Windsor.
Legal-light George Oswald Reid, son of
the G. W. Reids, of East Kew, entered into
a partnership in the sacristy of St. Pat-
rick’s Cathedral one day last week. The
other half of the new fiiun is (or was) barris-
ter Beatrix McCay. This modern Portia was
arrayed in white moire with a veiling of
Limerick, mounted on tulle. Patricia Allan,
in pale green frock and felt hat, attended
her. The newly-weds made a call at a hos-
pital after the ceremony to get the blessing
of the bride’s father, General McCay, who
has been seriously ill. Congratulations of
relations and a few friends were offered at
the Lyceum Club rooms.
Jean, daughter of the late D. F. Smiths,
of Canterbury, kept a tryst at the Collins-
street kirk last week with Donald, son of
Mr. and Mrs. D. A. W. Robertson, of Syd-
ney. The fair-haired bride, who held a sheaf
of lilies, had clouds of tulle cascading over
a gracefully fashioned, unadorned robe of
white satin. Her maid was Kathleen
Franklyn, whose chiffon frock blended
autumn tints in its floral pattern. Congratu-
lations were said at Menzies’.
At the Myer Emporium on Thursday
afternoon there was a cafe chantant for the
Free Kindergarten Union —the Lilian Can-
nam F.K. at South Melbourne in particular.
The management of the big Bourke-street
stores provided four o’clock tea in the
dining-room; and the committee sold 500
tickets. Baldwin Spencer’s lady was presi-
dent of the bunch of women responsible
for the entertainment and side-line sales.
Mrs. Clive Rowan, Mrs. C. Francis and
Mollie Neil being hon. secs.
Pianist Edward Goll, Muriel Cheek, A. C.
Bartleman and Edouard Lambert, • with
whom was associated the string quartette
of 3LO, gave their services at a Town Hall
concert last week to gather funds for the child-
ren’s homes of the Mission of St. James and
St. John. The boy choristers of St. John’s
lifted clear soprano voices in a variety of
numbers, including Handel’s “Let the
Bright Seraphim” and Arditi’s waltz-song
“Dream of Home.” Percy Code played a
trumpet obbligato to the Handel excerpt.
This is a Dickinson-Monteath glimpse of
Mrs. Norman
Blagdon, who
has been nomi-
nated to re-
present the
Power Ward
of Hawthorn
in the next
election. She
is hon. sec. of
the auxiliaries
of the Insti-
tute for the
Blind, and hon.
sec. of the
B e n e vo 1 e nt
Society. She
has interested
herself in the
A f t e r-C a re-
Home of the
District Nurs-
ing Society,
and the Minis-
tering Ghil-
dren’s League, and altogether has a very
fine record of social service.
Mrs. May Playle, who was responsible for
the smooth running of the tearoom attached
to the National Gallery, has taken over the
management of a new eatery in Collins-
street, the Wentworth. Being located within
eoo-ee of thi-ee picture theatres and the
Town Hall, the establishment should not
lack for patronage. It has attracted the
attention of organisers of entertainments.
and a shivoo on behalf of the Queen Victoria
Hospital will be held there next week.
Gladys Moncrieff’s first appearance at the
Capitol, wdiere she sang between talkies, was
a gala occasion, and every seat was booked
before the show started. John McCormack
co-starred with the Australian favorite per
mechanical medium. In white satin, aglitter
with rhinestones, and wearing a halo of
white blossoms, Miss Moncrieff sang “I Was
Dreaming,” “My H'ero” and other numbers
before a black velvet curtain that scintil-
lated with sequins. Then, donning a crim-
son-lined military cape, she was heard with a
male chorus in a number from the “Love
Parade.” Floral tributes included horseshoes
and baskets. A huge emblem ornamented
with a shamrock bore cards from John
McCormack and the Fox Movietone Co. The
gallery girls sent down a shower of tiny
posies and a bevy of balloons descended
from the roof.
Lorna Trist and John Simons, pupils of
Mr. Homewood, of the Uni. Con., gave a
recital of music for two pianos at the
Assembly Hall one evening last weeek. A
Brahms sonata and a fugue by Max Reger
were composed for two keyboards, while
Debussy’s “Fantaisie” and “Nights in the
Gardens of Spain,” by Manuel de Falla, were
originally scored for piano and orchestra.
Miss Trist took the soloist’s part in the poetic
French work, Mr. Simons taking the lead in
the other compositions. Both young players
did remarkably well, and Miss Trist received
as a reward more flowers than she could
carry. Her co-recitalist collected more than
an armful of parcels and boxes.
One of Melbourne’s oldest landmarks, the
hostelry known as Ye Olde Mitre Tavern, in
Bank-place, went under the hammer on
Thursday, and was knocked down to the
Royal Insurance Co., whose premises are
adjacent, for £24,500. In the early days
this inn was the meeting-place of huntsmen,
among whom was the late baronet W. J.
Clarke, then a very youthful follower of the
chase. When the licensing law of a few
years ago demanded that hotels should have
accommodation for boarders there was talk
of having the tavern remodelled, but senti-
ment prevailed, and this bit of old Mel-
bourne was kept intact for a while. Now
the march of progress can no longer be
denied, and the wreckers will have their way
with the old building. It has for years been
the favorite eating-house of the legal frater-
nity owing to its proximity to the law courts.
Early daffodil seedlings raised in one of
the suburbs were a feature of the Royal
Horticultural Society’s show at the Town
Hall. Almond, peach, plum and prunis blos-
soms made a lovely display. A particularly
fine collection came from the Lyle lady’s
garden at Toorak.
Mrs. J. M. Pittendrigh, at her Toorak
home last week, presided over a tea-brew
that enabled friends to say farewell to
Mrs. Len Darling, who is returning to Eng-
land with her husband.
There is rejoicing at the District Nursing
Society’s headquarters over the financial
return from the ball which the Rotarians
helped to sponsor. The hon. organiser of
the society’s collecting campaign, Mrs. M.
M. Phillips, has received a cheque for £666
as the result of the jollo.
Should the Duchess of Bedford carry out
her intention of flying to Australia, it is
considered likely that she will travel under
the pilotage of Bert Hinkler when he brings
out a big ’plane next year. The Duchess,
who has several notable air exploits to her
credit, was a passenger when Hinkler and
his navigator flew in the aerial derby in
England lately.
The little Methodist Church in Clifton
Hill mourns the passing of Madame Conly,
who, like Evelyn Scotney, commenced her
vocal career in the choir of that tabernacle.
Dr. Hilda Bull (Mrs. Louis Essen) has
been reappointed by the City Council as
medical officer in control of infectious
diseases. During her previous term of office
she gave valuable service in the matter of
serum inoculations for diphtheria.
It looks as if Nina Murdoch’s book
“Seventh Heaven” is going to prove a big-
success. The N. S. Wales authoress, now
settled in Melbourne, has told the story of
a European tour in so breezy and fascinat-
ing a way that there is a boom in sales here.
Early last week booksellers had to draw on
their window displays.
H. J. Manson, Maoriland’s Trade Commis-
sioner, has decided to retire after 25 years
of service. He intends to go back to his sheep
station, and will return to the Dominion
very shortly. Mrs. Manson and her daugh-
ter Myrtle will linger a while in Melbourne,
saying good-byes, before settling down to a
pastoral existence. Mr. Manson while in
Australia has interested himself in many
philanthropic causes, to which he has given
valuable aid.
Hollywood, which has learned a lot since
it went into the talkie business, has dis-
covered that Australia produces golden
voices. Amy Castles has accepted a tempt-
ing monetary bait, and the operatic soprano,
who earned her laurels in Europe, will now
have a chance to conquer new worlds.


ADELAIDES Best-Value hotel
Courteous Service
from a staff of sixty
K
fi
Prompt, efficient,
courteous attention is
assured at the Gros-
venor from the time
you enter until you
leave. A staff of
sixty people offers
service with a smile.
300 rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Yale locks on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
cm
k
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
■rt
r
“*3
Food
K««A Trauk Mark.
fretful
backward- delicate !
I have a home for young
and delicate children and
every fresh child which
comes under my care is at
once put on a diet of
Benger’s Food, for I find
that by far the best food
I have ever tried.”
— Matron.
Write for booklet fo;—BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M4l 3 1 for your reservation.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis : In the coastal town of
11 law arr a Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is brought up by Alary West,
a rosy-cheeked spinster so motherly
that she is generally known as “Mrs.”
Early she leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, which
he does so effectually that he heads
the scholarship list in the local school’s
annual examination. His foster
mother, hoivever, is too poor for him
to be able to take advantage of the
free education offering, and, though
his teacher described him to the in-
spector as one of the most promising
boys he had handled, Jimmy begins
shovelling at G. J. Grey and Co.’s
coke ivories, where he quickly wins
fame as a boxer. He also attracts the
interest of Basil Wellington, an
Oxford man who is running the local
“Guardian,” and who coaches him for
night school. While he is at work
one day a party which includes Grey
and two daughters and Major Dal-
gety, manager of the Keira Alain Coal
Co., comes on a tour of inspection.
Jimmy sees Alma Grey and at once
idealises her as the unattainable. He
meets her some time later when, surf-
ing, she is carried out to sea by an
undertow, and he goes out and helps
in bringing her safely to shore.
CHAPTER VII —(Continued).
TO the regulai- surfers, it was just an
ordinaiy rescue. All the fun was over.
The crowd which had collected began
to melt away. But in her frenzy of fear
Muriel Grey had witnessed a deed of hero-
ism which should have rung around the
world. She had seen her sister marked for
certain death, when a superman had come
from the heavens to snatch her back.
Jimmy owed much to Muriel’s hysteria.
According to Alma she made very much of
a fool of herself. To start with, she threw
her arms around Jimmy and kissed him and
called upon Heaven to reward him for sav-
ing her sister’s life. Then she called Jimmy
a hero, which he knew he was not, and
next she slipped away, while Alma was
resting on the beach with Jimmy by her
side, and walked right across the street in
her bathing costume, into the shop of a
strange chemist, whose ’phone she borrowed
to tell her mother and father a disconnected
story which at first led them to believe that
Alma had been drowned. Then she dressed
herself so hurriedly that when she saw her
mother and father dash up in their motor,
she rushed out of the sheds in her camisole
and didn’t realise the fact until, five
minutes later, her mother noted the fact
and ordered her back.
Although their impression that Alma was
dead had been corrected, her parents were
quite prepared from Muriel’s message to
find her in extremis, and when C.J. saw
her sitting on the beach, laughing and talk-
ing with a strange youth, he crossed to the
chemist’s to countermand orders he had sent
for a doctor, a trained nurse and a special
bed in the Illawarra private hospital.
As he ’phoned, Muriel repeated her story
with improvements. Every time she re-
called that awful moment when Alma was
swept past her, a new horror was added to
it. The sea was awful; it had become much
calmer during the past half-hour; the under-
tow swirled like the rapids of Niagara, and
Jimmy’s heroism was that of a very Pala-
din. Then something dark had stealthily
approached Alma as she drifted. She was
sure it was a shark, by the way it turned
on its back to bite—a shark fully fourteen
feet long—and just as its jaws were about
to close, Jimmy came with a swoop like
an eagle and tore Alma into safety.
Mr. and Mrs. Grey were used to Muriel’s
hysterical utterances; all the same, they
regarded Jimmy, whoever he might be, as
having performed an extraordinarily heroic
deed and shuddered when they thought of
the shark. They discounted the narrow-
ness of the escape, but quite accepted the
assertion that a shark had been one of the
characters in the little melodrama.
Meanwhile Alma and Jimmy were seated
side by side on the warm sands. They had
forgotten Muriel. They were utterly un-
aware that Mr. and Mrs. Grey were any-
where else than in their rented cottage.
Alma was quite prepared to enter the water
again in order that Jimmy might start
upon his proffered course of instruction in
surf shooting, proficiency guaranteed in
eight lessons.
“Here’s your mum and your old man,”
cried Jimmy. He had glanced back and
saw Muriel and her parents coming to-
wards them.
Both were so effusive in their thanks
that Jimmy, not naturally a shy youth, felt
anxious to escape, more especially as
Muriel kept up a constant fire of extrava-
gant paeans regarding his bravery.
When the girls had been dispatched to
the dressing-sheds C. J. Grey turned to
Jimmy.
“And what might your name be, my
boy?” he asked.
“I thought you didn’t know me in this
rig, sir,” smiled Jimmy. “I’m Packington.
I’m firing at your ovens.”
“So you are,” replied Grey. “I bieg
your pardon. Neither my wife nor I will
forget what you’ve done for us to-day. If
there’s anything I can do to help you in
any way, let me know.”
“Thank you, sir,” said Jimmy.. He made
no suggestion, though there was one which
crossed his mind. “Ask me to dinner at
your cottage as you were going to before
you found who I was,” but he' didn’t say it.
To do C. J. Grey justice, he went out
of his way to express his gratitude to Jimmy
as far as was consistent with their relative
“May looked hard at him. She had scarce ly expected to hear this sort of talk from him. This was a coke-worker, an egg-deliverer
of unusual parts.”
positions. He wanted to make a money
gift, but Jimmy, remembering that he had
deliberately allowed Alma to be carried
out and that his heroism was really a fig-
ment of Muriel’s imagination, reckoned it
would be over the odds. But he couldn’t
find any way of refusing the inscribed gold
watch and chain, and he was not aware that
the old man had instructed the manager
to push him on at the works as far as was
consistent with reason.
The girls urged upon their parents to
invite Jimmy. Muriel compared him with
a number of picturesque figures in history
and legend.
“But I didn’t employ Sir Mordred at
thirty-five shillings a week firing my ovens,”
replied her father. “It’s impossible. It
wouldn’t be so bad if he were working
somewhere else. But as it is it would be
subversive of all discipline.”
“He seems well educated, too,” added
Alma. “He’s evidently a boy who has am-
bition.”
“Yes,” snorted her father. “He’s thinking
about becoming a professional prize-fighter.”
“I don’t believe a word of it,” retorted
Alma, her little jaw squaring.
“Nor I, either,” interposed Mrs. Grey.
“He’s quite a gentle type of young fellow.
I’m sure he wouldn’t hurt a baby.”
The predilection of the professional boxer
to hurt babies was firmly fixed in the minds
of both mother and daughters.
“Anyhow,” cried Grey. “I’m not going to
allow you people to dictate how I shall run
my works. Women are putting their
damned noses into everything nowadays.”
“You ought to know better,” cried Mrs.
Grey as he left the room, “than to use
such language before your daughters.”
During their conversation on the beach,
Jimmy had been more fascinated by Alma
than ever. Once more, she was different
from all the other girls he had known. His
earlier love affairs, such as they had been,
had found him self-possessed, humorous,
audacious —just the qualities which are most
appreciated—except in those cases wherein
his judgment had led to his being voted too
slow. With Alma he was not slow. He
was entirely at his ease. The conversation
never flagged. There had been dozens of
things he had wanted to say to her, when
they were interrupted. Still, he was afraid
of her—afraid partly of the fact that he, of
the bowyang status, was addressing a
daughter of the elect, but more afraid of
her own personality, afraid of that square
little jaw that he longed to press against
his own cheek. Still he had held her in
his arms. That in itself was a memory to
carry through life.
For a week the Greys did not appear on
the beach. In view of the narrow escape of
Alma from the man-eating shark—which,
by the way, had reached the Sydney press
—Mrs. Grey had issued a prohibition against
bathing. As the days passed she grew more
temperate, and at last accompanied the
girls to the beach. She was still apprehen-
sive. When she saw Jimmy at his post,
her fears were allayed.
“Good morning, Mr. Paekington.”
Jimmy, despondent with fruitless waiting,
looked up to find the mother and the two
daughters once more clothed in bathing
costumes and in their right minds, ready
for a swim, and obviously—all three of them
—pleased to find him there.
Jimriiy was promoted to the seventh
heaven, though, naturally, he had no chance
of speaking to Alma alone. The conversa-
tion was largely technical, turning on the
art of breaker shooting. Still, Alma was
present.
During the succeeding week he saw them
on several occasions, sometimes with Dal-
gety, who congratulated him on his rescue
and dismissed him much as a monai'ch
might confer a medal on a private. One
day the girls came down alone and dis-
obeyed their mother by getting into their
costumes before her arrival with Dalgety.
Muriel was splashing in the shallows, while
Alma sat with Jimmy. They heard a swish
of sand behind them.
“Alma,” said Dalgety, meaningly, “I
think your mother wants you.”
Jimmy saw her jaw harden. She resented
Dalgety’s interference.
“Did she tell you she wanted me?” she
inquired.
“She did not tell me,” replied Dalgety,
“but I am sure she does.”
“Then,” said Alma, “I’ll wait until she
sends for me. What was it you were say-
ing, Mr. Paekington?”
Jimmy could have hugged her there and
then, not from love, but from pure un-
affected admiration of her courage and
determination and pride.
Dalgety walked off to the water too much
of an English gentleman to retort, but
raging inwardly. Outwardly, too, when he
spoke to Muriel and assured her that that
damned young whelp ought to be horse-
whipped.
“I think you’re horrid,” said Muriel. “If
you’d seen him save Alma the other day
you wouldn’t talk like that.”
“Oh, I daresay he’s plucky enough and all
that sort of thing,” replied Dalgety, “but


s
c Proper Feeding Is Essential
Feed a dog too often and he’s slug-
gish. Under-feed him and he’s weak.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme-
is full of vitamins.lt is put up in tins, consisting
of red meat, fresh vegetables, cereals, ground
bone and cod liver oil Dogs seldom tire
of it..... Try a tin today.... All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
rsnHßgjsi
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age- It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
cT
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
ś
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES-For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Write for Illustrated Folder
Address Manager
it’s a bally impertinence of him to speak
to you girls as if he were a gentleman.”
“We spoke to him, Mr. Funny!” said
Muriel.
“I wish you wouldn’t use those expres-
sions, Muriel; it’s like a shopgirl.”
“If you don’t like my style of speech,
I’d better not give you any of it,” she re-
turned.
Dalgety didn’t pursue the subject. He
was very much in love with Muriel, and it
was an understood thing that they were
to be married in two years’ time, when she
was twenty. He knew that serious quarrels
often develop from trifles, and he didn’t
want to lose Muriel.
Jimmy met Alma half a dozen times
more, but his fear of her prevented the
conversation ever becoming personal. He
was not even aware that they had returned
to Sydney until one day, after he had
missed them from the beach, he found a new
tenant in the cottage.
For the time being his romance had
ended. Both Alma and her mother gave
him to understand that they would never
lose touch with him, but he had not been
asked to write. On each successive Christ-
mas he received a card from them; that
was all. C. J. Grey seemed to take a more
kindly interest in him at the works; he was
promoted to a job that would bring him
£2 a week—not a bad wage for a boy of
seventeen; but, although he spoke to Jimmy
frequently, he never referred to his family.
Jimmy had to seek solace in his dreams of
brown and rose and green, ludicrously mixed
with black bathing costumes and plump
brown legs, and Dalgety and the white-
faced Muriel in a camisole and skirt, and
an apocryphal shark, and in the growing
pride that he was making of Patsy Quirk
an amateur boxer of the first rank.
CHAPTER VIII.
Patsy Quirk made wonderful progress
under Jimmy’s tuition. Employed on the
surface of the Keira Main, he was relieved
of the danger of becoming muscle-bound,
while the multitude of varied movements
he had to call into play filled out his frame
miraculously.
In a year his lathiness was a thing of
the past. He was no longer Antinous but
Apollo, an Apollo more beautiful than the
statue, for his beauty was one of motion.
With Patsy every move was a picture. As
he sparred with Jimmy, an artist who knew
nothing of the game would have delighted
to watch them for hours. His footwork, a
trifle slow at the outset, was now almost
catlike. His poise was perfect; his centre
of gravity was always under his nearer
foot. His shoulders and arms swung with
a rhythm that was poetry itself; his blows
came lightning-like, with the ball of his
further foot as their buttress.
Jimmy looked on Patsy with the same
pride that Mum and Wellington looked on
him. Had it not been for him, this sub-
limated essence of physical perfection would
still be the rude uncultured scuffler he
was when he had fallen in the street brawl.
The competitions of the Boys’ Band this
year were obscured by a tournament, organ-
ised in aid of the Illawarra hospital and
embracing the whole South Coast. Jimmy
himself entered for the middleweight event.
Patsy, who was remarkably modest, had to
be persuaded.
“Say we’re drawn together?” asked Patsy.
“I’ll try to out you, Patsy; and you’ll
do the same.”
The trouble was to find sparring partners.
It would not be fair to either for them to
box together now, and the rest of the lads
in their push were quite outclassed. Des
Quirk worked below, and, with a few not-
able exceptions, the miner makes a very
poor boxer. His work is too cramped and
laborious. Bert Burnett was tolerably
quick, but he couldn’t hit hard enough to
print a pat of butter. Stan Carlisle, on
the other hand, was slow. He had a solid
punch, but you could see it coming seconds
before it landed. Wellington, they dis-
covered, was a pretty good boxer of the
Mace school, but his age told on him after
a couple of rounds.
At last they made a find in a newcomer
—Greave, a clerk in one of the local banks
and an exquisite in attire, a very silvertail.
Greave was a member of the surf club;
he stripped fairly well, and when he sug-
gested putting them on Jimmy felt that
it was not the easy task he would have
deemed it when he first saw Greave.
So it proved. Jimmy had no fears about
his ability to defeat the clerk in a straight-
out contest; but the man was good.
“I’d like to do a little more boxing than
we get down here,” said Greave.
Here was a gift from the gods. The surf
club allowed the boxers their premises at ;
night; and with Greave as their chopping
block, Jimmy and Patsy got ready to con-
test the amateur middleweight supremacy
of the South Coast.
Jimmy’s collected verses—collected in a
drawer of his room—by this time numbered
hundreds, one of the hundreds concerning
Alma. The rest ranged from his earlier
imitations and paraphrases to others more
original in form but stale in subject.
“Don’t write the Iliad; Homer did that
some years ago,” advised Wellington. Jimmy
had been considerably influenced by his
incursions into the ancient world; he had
turned out odes to Aphrodite and Achilles
and Ulysses and the rest of his heroes and
heroines. Always sensitive to criticism, he
was hurt for a time, but eventually he
recognised Wellington’s point of view.
“Don’t you see,” the editor had said,
“when a master’s dealt with a thing, it’s
finished, as far as the rest are concerned?
Kipling’s one of the best, but if he tried a
new version of ‘Hamlet’ it’d be a damned
impertinence. It isn’t only the beginners
who’d do this sort of thing. There are big
men in literature who’re egotistical enough
to think they can write a much better Book
of Job. But they can’t. Job’s is a finished
product, like the Pyramid of Cheops or the
Mona Lisa. Nobody can do it again.”
Reluctantly Jimmy thrust the inspiration
of the classics from him. He also aban-
doned, his idea of putting the age of
chivalry into Kiplingesque verse, which, he
felt, would be far better suited to the spirit
of the period than the prettiness of Tenny-
son and the rest who had pussy-footed with
the clash of joust and the spell of wizardry.
He was watching Greave and Patsy
Quirk. Greave at times adopted the bear-
cat methods of some of the later American
fighters. Patsy met most of these attacks
by standing off and choosing his spot and
landing.
Jimmy felt an emotional thrill a.t the
picture of these two magnificent men
battling in beauty. Why had no poet
ever taken pugilism for his theme? “Mc-
Andrew’s Hymn” recurred to him: “Lord
send a man like Robbie Burns to sing the
Song o’ Steam.” Why had not the Lord
sent a man like Kipling to sing the song
of pugilism, the song of strife, the song
of stoush—ah, that was it? The Song of
Stoush. Its lines seemed to swing with
the rhythmic swing of Patsy’s shoulders.
When he went home that night Jimmy
sat down and composed his Song of Stoush.
Next morning, before his swim, he touched
it up and by Saturday was sufficiently well
satisfied with it to submit it. Wellington
ran through it.
“That’s it, Jimmy,” he cried. “You’ve hit
the idea. This is good. It’s not only good;
it’s right outside the other stuff you’ve
written. You’re getting near the end of
your apprenticeship. You’ve got a copy of
it?” he added.
“Then put this in an envelope and send
it right along to ‘The Ishmaelite.’ ”
“ ‘The Ishmaelite’?” Jimmy faltered. The
most he had hoped for was that, some day,
Wellington might think enough of his
verses to put them in the “Illawarra
Guardian.” “The Ishmaelite” stood for all
that was best in original literature in Aus-
tralia. Nearly every writer of note in the
Commonwealth looked back to the time
he had first scored as a contributor to “The
Ishmaelite.” It had made reputations.
When a man could get his copy into its
columns, he knew that at any rate he was
no piffler with letters.
“Do you think they’d put it in?” asked
Jimmy.
“Pretty well sure of it,” replied Welling-
ton, for years a contributor of political
and literary articles to “The Ishmaelite.”
“As far as anybody can judge another
person’s taste, ± should say it’s the very
thing they want.”
Jimmy rushed for the next issue of “The
Ishmaelite” and was profoundly dis-
appointed to find no sign of “The Song of
Stoush.” He confided to Wellington with
make-believe jocularity.
“Why?” cried Wellington. “You didn’t
expect it in at once! They’ve enough verse
in that office to supply them for a year
—just waiting a chance. If it appears
within six months you’ll be lucky.”
Jimmy was luckier than that. In next
week’s “Ishmaelite” was “The Song of
Stoush,” signed “James Garr Packington”
and the same day came a cheque for £1
55., the weirdest and most extraordinarily
designed cheque known to finance. Jimmy
exhibited it proudly to Mum and Welling-
ton and the boxing squad and everyone else
with whom he was sufficiently familiar.
The foreman at the cokeworks was
perhaps most impressed of all. It
knocked him right off his perch. He didn’t
think much of the verse himself. It was
full of bad grammar. Still, the paper
people must know moi’e about it than he
did, and they wouldn’t put it in unless it
was good. The foreman was rather proud
of his literary connections. He had a
brother-in-law whose testimony to the
efficiency of Cope’s Bronchial Balm had
been printed throughout the length and
breadth of the continent with a portrait
of the author. But that wasn’t poetry. The
stock of the literary brother-in-law slumped
and the foreman began to look at Jimmy as
people look at the bearded lady in the circus.
Mum was perhaps proudest of all. For
the first time in her life Mum showed a
tendency to be superior. And why not?
Her boy, her Jimmy, had come out as a
real poet, not a poet who writes in albums
or for church reunions or literary societies,
but a poet sq real that newspapers would
print his work and pay real money for it.
During the next fortnight Mum spent more
time away from her home than she had in
the previous two years.
Jimmy’s next verses he forced from him-
self. He wrote, not because he was in the
humor, but because he was intoxicated with
success. “The Ishmaelite” turned them
down with three words in the Correspon-
dence Column. J'mmy lost heart, but, on
May Harland.
Wellington’s advice, he sent the verses to
the Sydney “Dispatch,” another weekly,
which paid him half a sovereign for them.
Jimmy was grateful for the half sovereign,
but he had no pride in the verses after
rejection by “The Ishmaelite.”
Fearful of incurring rejection again,
Jimmy tried his third set—probably the
best of the three—on the “Dispatch.” They
came back by return post. Jimmy con-
sulted Wellington.
“And you sent these to the ‘Dispatch’—
really thought the ‘Dispatch’ would take
them?” asked Wellington. “Don’t you
know their politics? The ‘Dispatch’ is
everything that’s anti-Labor, and here you
go and expect them to publish revolution-
ary copy! You’ve got to study your buyer,
Jimmy. You wouldn’t send cabbages to
the meat market. That’s what you’ve done
here. Now fire them along to ‘The Ish-
maelite’ and watch.”
“The Ishmaelite” printed the set inside
three weeks and Jimmy received another
cheque, this time for £1 10s. Success
tempted him again to force his muse and
he received some serious setbacks. But he
kept on and found that he could earn on
an average about five shillings a week by
his verse—an addition to his wages not to
be despised.
During the past year his finances had en-
abled him to refurnish Mum’s cottage
throughout and to substitute a neat mission
bookcase for the plain shelves which had
hitherto carried Mary West’s little library
of well-read books. Her laundry business
had been gradually expanding, and she now
permanently employed in her laundry a
powerfully-built girl, the daughter of a
Dapto farmer, who was not averse to
Jimmy giving her a kiss and a hug as they
passed in the passage.
The spectacle of Rosy at the tubs, throw-
ing about heavy blankets like straws, in-
spired Jimmy to write her into a verse
repining that the damsel who should have
been an Amazon or a Valkyrie was doomed
by modernity to apply her strength to the
wash-tub.
“It’s a decent bit of verse,” commented
Wellington, “but the sentiment’s all wrong.
Romance isn’t a matter of geography or
period. It’s here and here-—in your head
and in your heart. If you haven’t got it,
vou could go through the whole Siege of
Troy without feeling it. I once knew a
man who had gone right through the Indian
Mutiny. To him, the most outstanding
incident of the lot was the failure of the
soda-water camejs to come up in time at
Chinninwalla. You can find more romance
in Kembla-street on a Saturday night than
you can in all ‘The Idylls of the King,’ if
you’ve got the temperament. That laundress .
is a more romantic figure than all your
Amazons —and she’s real.”
Jimmy found that there was too much
romance in Rosy. With the fifteen shillings
paid him for the verse he bought her a
necklet, thinking it was her due as the
inspiration. Rosy took trie present to mean
that Jimmy was very much in love with
her; while, as a matter of fact, he wasn’t
a little bit. He had kissed her and hugged
her simply because she was such a fine
physical specimen that it seemed rank
blasphemy not to kiss and hug her.
Now he had to dodge Rosy until the
attentions of the lad who delivered the
milk relieved him of further trouble.
Jimmy still led the strenuous life, but
found time to continue doing little jobs
for Mum, among them the delivery of her
eggs and her figs at Mrs. Blessington’s shop
at the station end of Kembla-street.
One morning there were three dozen
eggs to deliver. Jimmy took the egg box,
walked along to Mrs. Blessington’s and
entered the door. A strange girl was be-
hind the counter. It was May Harland.
CHAPTER IX.
May Harland was tall and fair—not
divinely fair, but paganly fair, as Venus
might have been. Her hair, brilliant as a
new sovereign, was innocent of peroxide,
which led to its being described by Welling-
ton as “prematurely gold.” She had a skin
of cream, large merry blue eyes, lips car-
mined by nature, a set of the whitest and
most regular teeth exposed by a mouth a
trifle large, and dimples in her cheeks. When
she was smiling—which was generally—
fascinating little wrinkles puckered around
her eyes. She was not baby-faced, but she
wore an air of eternal youth. She was
eighteen now, but you were convinced that
she would never grow up to full woman-
hood. When she was thirty, or even fifty, (
she would still irradiate that air of joyous
irresponsible girlishness.
In form she was a middleweight, like
Patsy and Jimmy. Her figure gave you the
impression that it dominated her corsets.
They had to do what they were told, in
encompassing that firm harmony of clean
healthy muscle. She carried her shoulders
well back and swung her legs from her hips
when she walked. She was wearing a light
blue dress, low at the throat and high at
the hem. Her hair was gathered in by one
blue silk knot, allowing eighteen inches of
it to swish, a very Niagara of gold, adown
hoi* back ' %
Her quick eye had taken in Jimmy from
head to foot as he entered.
“Nice cut of a boy,” she thought, as she
smiled to welcome his aporoach.
“A boshter tart,” thought Jimmy, restrain-
ing the impulse to leap the counter, clasp
her to his bosom and kiss her good and hard.
What he said was “I’ve brought the eggs
from Mrs. West.”
Wh'at she renlied was “Mrs. Blessmgton
told me they were coming; three and two-
pence, isn’t it?”
She opened the cash register and slapped
the money on the counter.
“You’re new here, aren’t you?” he asked.
“First appearance this morning,” she
chuckled sending a ripple of dimples over
her cheek. “I’ve never been in Illawarra
before, but I’m glad to get to a place
like this because of the surf. I’m just
crazy on it. I had a board up where I was,
outside Lismore, and I can shoot standing
up.”
Jimmy rejoiced. There was much pros-
pect of future intimacy with a recreative
bond of sympathy already hi existence.
(Continued on page 45.)


Auction Sale.
BUCYRUS STEAM SHOVEL and Drag
Line, in A 1 order, in use for only three
woeks To be auctioned with other Oon-
tractor’s Plant at the Government Irriga-
tion Settlement, Theodore (,Q.) Xeptem™*
2. Details on application to h RAMv “•
DAWSON, Auctioneer, Rockhampton^Q.
Amusements.
qydn e y ’ S c h leTf - theatres.
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FOLLOW THROUGH
(Commencing next Saturday).
CRITERION: COQUETTE
(Commencing next Saturday).
|. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE NEW MOON.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
HAPPY DAYS.
(Passed for General Exhibition.)
ALSO
WM. BOYD in
HIS FIRST COMMAND,
With DOROTHY SEBASTIAN
(Passed for General Exhibition.)
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The attendance on the big day of the Bris-
bane Show fell away thousands from last
year’s figures; but the weather was perfect
and the crowd in gay humor. At noon the
vice-regal party arrived with an escort of
mounted police and occupied the dais. Witn
the Governor-General and Lady Stonehaven,
Sir John and Lady Goodwin at the princi-
pal table were Ernest Baynes, Rear-Admiral
and Mrs. Evans, the Chief Justice and his
lady, the Premier and Mrs. Moore, Brigadier-
General and Mrs. E. M. Ralph, the Mayor
and Mayoress, Mr. and Mrs. P. J.
Symcs, Mesdames V. Corrie and Affleck, Miss
Edna Hiron, Archbishop Duhig, Bishop de
Witt Batty, Colonel D. C. Cameron, J. A.
Angus (Sydney) and John Hiron. Lady
Stonehaven was in black mariette with black
tagel hat; Lady Goodwin wore rose cendre
and mariette and rose baku hat. Mrs. E. R.
G R Evans was in buff-toned mariette with
buff hat; Chief Justice Blair’s lady chose
oyster Chantilly lace; and Mrs. Moore was
in black pin-spot crgpe de Chine with droop
black hat.
In the evening the vice-regals went to the
girls’ ball in the South Brisbane City Hall.
Lady Stonehaven was in ebony mariette ;
Lady Goodwin wore Florentine-blue lumi-
nous satin; Mrs. Evans wore black lace;
and Mrs. J. Cadell Garrick chose rose and
gold. There was a tremendous roll-up of
the younger set.
The carnival race meeting was well
attended. In the evening Sir John and
Lady Goodwin gave another dinner party
to Lord and Lady Stonehaven, Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Evans, Commander and
Mrs McFarlane, Colonel and Mrs. Camp-
bell,' Joan Macdonald, Leith Graham, Kath-
leen St. John, Squadron-leader Scriven and
others.
This pretty maid is Sheilah Logan, who
wore white taffetas at the hall on the Mool-
tan in aid of
the creche
and kinder-
garten when
making he r
debut during
Show W eek
in Brisbane.
An expert
hockey and
tennis player,
she is the
daughter o f
the G. D.
Logans, of
Cassilis st a-
tio n, Rich-
mond, North
Q u e ensland,
and of Tar-
r a n g a 1 m a.
Milne - street,
Clayfield, the
historic old
home of the
Milnes which her father bought for a town
residence. Photo by H. N. Maitland.
Balls in aid of the creche and kindergarten
are usually well patronised, and _ Show-time
visitors in town made the function on the
Mooltan more than ordinarily successful.
The lights shone warmly through the scarlet
bunting which enclosed the ship ; flags, car-
pets and palms transformed the wharf; gum-
tips and Oriental lanterns decorated the
decks; and Iceland poppies, sweet-peas and
roses made bright the lounges and music-
room. The Governor-General and Lady
Stonehaven and Sir John and Lady Goodwin
received the 25 debs, who were presented
by Mrs. A. E. Moore. Nancy Gore, from
Assam, India; Sheilah Logan, Betty Kil-
o-our, Peggy Menzies, Maud Hogg and Mary
Luya were among the bevy of maidens. Lady
Stonehaven wore black silk muslin; Lady
Goodwin cactus-red satin beaute: Mrs. A.
E. Moore foxglove pink; Mrs. Evans, the
Admiral’s wife, moss-rose pink silk; the
Blair lady black satin beaute; and Mrs.
W A. Jolly apricot. Prior to the ball Sir
John and Lady Goodwin had a dinner party
at Government House.
Vickers-Maxims and Lewis aircraft guns,
port and starboard lights, gay gold braid on
scarlet and blue uniforms distinguished the
United Service Club Ball in the City Hall.
There was a roll of drums when the Gov-
ernor’s party arrived and officers made a
guard of honor.
At the Nudgee College Old Boys’ Associa-
tion Ball in the City Hall, Justice J. D.
Macrossan and his wife received the vice-
regal party, and Archbishop Duhig accom-
panied them to their seats. Lord Stonehaven
danced first with Mrs. Macrossan, then with
Ladv Stonehaven and Mrs. A. E. Moore.
Lady Stonehaven wore black lace and chiffon
with beautiful pearls; moonlight-blue was
Lady Goodwin’s choice; Mrs. A. E. Moore
was'in pale pink with black Chantilly lace,
and Mrs. Macrossan wore rose-pink tulle.
Nearly a hundred more babies turned up
at the cr&che in the Show grounds this year,
and there yvas plenty for the voluntary
workers to do. There were better entries
for cattle, pigs and poultry than ever before.
The Arts - and Crafts section also calls for
special mention; pewter and leather work,
pottery, weaving, China painting and ex-
quisite bookbinding were features. The
Angora rabbits reminded one of fairy tales
and made one look around for Alice in
Wonderland.
During the week Rear-Admiral Evans
entertained some 600 people at a dance on
the Australia. The C.T.A. had a ball in
its club rooms. The Moreton Club enter-
tained Lady Stonehaven and Lady Goodwin
at lunch.
In the pavilion at the Women’s Industries
Court were cotton and forestry exhibits, and
there was an interesting show of black-and-
white by Bulletin artists in the always en-
tertaining Bulletin stall. This year for the
first time Brisbane “Telegraph” also had a
stall, where models of printing presses, rolls
of paper and demonstrations of “how we
print” were features.
Josie Melville retains her old-time popu-
larity here; she won incessant applause _in
“Hold Everything,” the Show-time offering
at His Majesty’s. At the Roval the Richard
Bellairs company has moved on to make
room for Nellie Bramley in “Fair and
Warmer.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Contributions to the Mayor’s unemploy-
ment fund are steadily coming in. The
bridge organised by Mrs. F. Villeneuve Smith
was responsible for £6B 10s. The Big Store
Ball, held in the Adelaide Town Hall and
energetically organised by Miss Lovett and
F. Sugg, secretary, gave the fund another
lift. The Hayward family, who represent
the firm, were there in force, and entertained
the Mayor and Mayoress.
The R. N. Spongs, of McLaren Vale, gave
a dance to celebrate the debut of their
daughter Helen at their home, Taranga.
Almond blossom and sweet-peas were massed
everywhere, and the deb., a handsome girl,
looked well in oyster moire velvet.
To meet Mrs. Hugh Corbin, from Auck-
land, Mrs. Reginald Walker entertained a
number of friends at her residence, Folke-
stone, Kensington Gardens. Sweet-peas,
irises and violets formed the decorations. The
hostess wore cinnamon-figured ring velvet
and close-fitting felt hat to match. Mrs. Corbin
was in green and black patterned crepe
de Chine and a green felt hat.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson held an all-day
at-home at Urrbrae, Glen Osmond, to raise
money and clothing for the Mayoress’s work
among the poor of the city. She was assisted
by the wives of the staff of the Waite Insti-
tute, Mesdames Prescott, Davidson, Trumble,
Davies, Hopkins, Best and others. Mrs. J.
E. Davidson arranged a musical programme
which was given both morning and afternoon
in the huge ballroom. There was a good
attendance, and one room was stacked with
parcels.
The Victoria League made an at-home of
their annual business meeting in the Insti-
tute Building, North-terrace, afternoon tea
being served in the water-color room, where
Gwen Barringer’s charming work is on exhi-
bition. Small tables were arranged with
bowls of mixed flowers, and some of Adel-
aide’s prettiest girls, in charge of Mrs. Keith
Wilson, dispensed the cup that cheers. Lady
Hore-Ruthveu, the Mayoress, Miss Murray
and Mrs. Nutter Thomas were among the
guests, many of whom referred to the hospi-
tality overseas which League membership
had secured them.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Madame Austral did not favor much jewel-
lery at her first concert. A diamond pendant,
a string of pearls, and two rings were the
only adornment for her black lace gown and
rose and gold lame wrap. The glorious
voice flowed through some soul-stirring Ger-
man melodies, English and French numbers
and her favorite selection from “Aida.” John
Amadio piped delightfully and Nils Nelson
was a wizard at the piano. The Jack Vin-
cents, Mrs. Ted Lefroy, Mx-s. Ross and her
Professor, Kittie Gillies, Mrs. Jerry Chai-les,
Mrs. Frank Davies, Mrs. Nottidge Moseley,
the Jack Highams, Mrs. Meares and the
Horace Jones couple were in the enthusiastic
audience.
The Repertory Club held one of its merry
social evenings this week. A comical Eistedd-
fod was the subject of the amusing playlet
written by Mr. Gatherer. Tom Tracy was
the bewhiskered and susceptible professor;
Nessie H'organ, his somewhat prim assistant;
Dorothy Fallows, Norrie Johns and Tom
Richards were competitors. “Bewax-e of
Bears,” an effort by Sol Sainken, was enacted
by Phil Shappere, Dorothy Mark, Dorothy
Fallows and Norman Wingrove. George Hay-
wood, who was in splendid voice, sang diffi-
cult songs to Gladys Orchard’s accompani-
ment, and Molly Ick and Dorothy Mark
recited.
A bevy of young things twinkled their toes
at Gwennie Male’s coming-of-age party. Mrs.
Male lifted a welcoming hand in georgettes
of tangee hue worn under a chenille coat.
Flowers bloomed upon the delphinium back-
ground of Gwennie’s bouffant taffetas. King’s
Park Pavilion, with its snug l’ed brick
interior and low panelled ceiling, was festive
with greenery, pink carnations and sheafs of
gladioli. Pat Lang, Jean Hadley, Angy
Bunning, Joy Hill, Grace Thiel, John Lavan,
Harry Chandler and Dennis Keall were
among the merry-makers.
A handsome crocodile-skin suitcase was
handed over to pleasantly surprised Mrs.
Adam Johnston, at the Victoria League’s
at-home. Mrs. Johnston has looked after
the league’s coffers for 16 yeai-s and many
nice things were said about the way she
has done it. Her Ex. was present; Mrs.
Kerr-Pearse, Chief Justice McMillan’S lady,
Mrs. Mahood, Mrs. Harold Hamilton, Mrs.-
John Forrest and Mrs. Gray wei-e in the good
roll-up. Mrs. Marshall, Mrs. Baird and
Mrs. Cox provided music.
The movement run by the Y.W.C.A. for
the assistance of unemployed women and
girls distributed in one week 350 garments,
of which 250 were made by its sewing group.
Every Tuesday a musical entertainment is
held, and on Wednesdays Mrs. Henrietta
Burns gives instruction in wool work—so
don’t discard scraps of your old skeins. These
and left-over garments are alike welcome.
Of the receptions for Austral and Amadio,
the Repertory Club’s afternoon was the most
informal. Molly Ick, in sherry-red romaine,
successfully steered the diva into a crowded
room and performed introductions at the
most opportune moments. The luxurious
pelt of an Arctic fox made the upstanding-
collar of madame’s biscuit coat, worn with
matching headgear. Mrs. Patou hovered near
in beautifully cut navy satin with a dash
of cherry about the neck. Grade Baker was
noticeable in black with a scarf collar, and
Marcia Hodges and Flora Bunning wore
blue velour coats trimmed with bunny.
Barrie’s “Seven Women’’ pleased Madame
and Amadio, who beamed brightly upon the
cast.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Midland Hunt Club finished up its
season with a point-to-point steeplechase,
starting from the G. Reaches’ estate, Chis-
wick, Ross, and finishing on the Campbell
Town racecourse. The course ran within
sight of the main road for the whole seven
miles, so the way was lined with cars and
riders. Barbara Bennett, riding her sister
Molly’s horse Beau, showed the way home to
Rupert Agnew, on Misfit, and Mrs. Arthur
Bennett, on her own Kelvedon. There was a
dance at night in Powell’s Hall.
The Art Society’s winter exhibition was a
particularly interesting one this year. It
was a free show, and members provided after-
noon tea daily. E. M- Nicholls and H.
Kelly gave prizes for black-and-white work,
and there were some clever efforts, notably
those of Mrs. Jones and Madge Walker.
Blanche Murphy, with oil-, and E. E. Unwin,
with water-color exhibits, showed some
attractive studies.
The annual tree-planting at the Hobart
Sanatorium took place on a sunny day when
the wattles were just showing color. Uver
250 of these trees have now been planted by
the secondary-school children. Knight John
Evans, whose work for the Wattle League
has been untiring for years past, and Mrs.
Connor, sec. of the league, made brief
speeches.
The party of 10 Victorians who arrived
to sample our winter sports had an enjoyab.e
trip, though there was little ski-ing and skat-
ing for them. The phenomenally warm
winter left very little snow,. but the
party had one fair day at National Park.
Small dances have kept the younger folk
warm during the last few months. Hutchin s
Old Scholars’ affair was one of these, when
about 250 tripped it in the school gymna-
sium. A buffet supper was spread m the
dining-hall. The committee of not-very-old
boys included A. Bidincope, D. Brain, E.
Reid, R. Vincent, C. Walsh and A. White.
A committee of IS girls, with Kitty Cook
and Marie Johnston as joint secretaries, ran
a very successful dance at the Continental.
Marcus Trappe’s orchestra made the music.
Mrs. Alan Miller (formerly Mabel Goodhart,
barrister, of Sydney) made her first appear-
ance as a bride, and plenty of dainty frock-
ing was in evidence.
“Historicus”: Florence Nightingale, the
heroine of the Crimea, played a part in
Australian history. In 1866 Henry Parkes,
the Colonial Secretary of N. S. Wales, was
distressed about mismanagement and careless-
ness at the Sydney Infirmary. He wrote to
Miss Nightingale and asked her to select
and engage for the colony a staff of trained
nurses. This was done, and the ladies, the
first trained nurses to arrive in the colony,
came to Australia under the charge ot Miss
Orburn.
“Runa”: After long years of abuse and
persecution the weasel is receiving a good
word in Maoriland. His chief offence was
that, imported to deal with the rabbit pest,
he turned his attention to native birds
instead, finding them an easy and plentiful
means of replenishing his larder. Despite the
law’s protection Maorilanders harried the
weasel and his kin openly, but a farmer now
asserts that since a weasel took up his
abode in his haystack the mice that once
infested the vicinity have disappeared. He
also asserts that the weasel in seaside locali-
ties prefer crabs to birds.
“Canny Lad”: Some idea of the money
professional golfers can command in Ameri-
ca is seen in the recent difference between
Macdonald Smith and his employers, the
Lakeview Club of Chicago. Smith is a Scot,
and before he went to the States probably
thought himself lucky to earn four pounds a
week. Lakeview was giving him £l2OO a
year and perks, to say nothing of a free leg
in the big competitions. His contract ex-
piring, Mac asked for £2OOO. This was
refused, and he has announced his intention
of going back to Blighty, where £2OOO-a-
-year jobs for professionals are as rare as
teetotallers in Aberdeen.
“Brassey”: Australia, with its half-dozen
or less municipal golf courses scattered all
over the continent, has good reason to envy
the opportunities for playing the game
afforded by American cities to their citizens.
There were 270 municipal courses in the
States last year, and on them 111 million
rounds were played. So popular is the game
among folk who would never dream of play-
ing it in Australia, that an American muni-
cipal championship lias been regularly staged
for some years past. On the last occasion
53 American and three Canadian cities sent
along representatives. Australia would be
lucky to muster three.
“Blue Chccquer”: An interesting speed
test was recently held in Norway when
carrier-pigeons were raced against an aero-
plane over a 70-mile flight. Five of the
birds came home ahead of the ’plane, which
hit up 105 m.p.h., while a sixth practically
dead-heated with the machine. The birds’
time is not recorded in the report, but taking
the ’plane’s speed as a criterion it is no-
thing out of the way for such a short flight.
In justice to the pilot, it should be said
that he had to take off from the ground at
the same time the birds were released, and
was thus handicapped by the preliminary
run and climb.
Sydney songbird Ethel Osborn is trilling
her way steadily to the top branch in
London’s musical world. By last mail comes
word of her on a programme arranged by
Georgina and Adelina Ganz for an audi-
ence which was a long list of England’s old
historic names. Duchesses and Countesses
were thickly spread on the front chairs, and
Mrs Guy d’Hardelot, of song fame, was one
of the keenest listeners. Phyllis Archibald,
who was here with the Melba Opera Com-
pany was the contralto on the bill. The
concert-givers are daughters of the cele-
brated composer-pianist Wilhelm Ganz, who
wrote “Sing Sweet Bird” and other sac-
charine ditties.
“S.T.S.” : Enter for the suspended-anima-
tion championship a land co. of the N.T.,
headquarters in Adelaide. It will have a
jubilee next year, and long ago it bought
many N.T. blocks at 7s. 6d. an acre. It
still holds 73,000 of them, but for umpteen
years its annual report has read simply:
“There has been no opportunity of dealing
with the land during the year. Income is
sufficient to cover expenses.” The said
income is £164, interest from Government
stocks into which the proceeds of former
sales were put. Land tax tries to dis-
courage this holding-for-a-rise by hitting the
little co for £9O each year; on the other
hand, four of the • shrewdest business men in
Adelaide give their services as directors for
seven guineas—between them.
“Mako”: The falling cocoanut doesn’t
always miss. An Englishman who was walk-
ing round a Fiji plantation, and freely exer-
cising his national privilege of abusing every-
thing foreign, was suddenly struck on the
head by a descending nut. When he recov-
ered consciousness he insisted on boarding
his steamer without delay. To the story of
the cocoanut he lent an unbelieving ear.
“Look here,” he grumbled as he panted down
to the Lautoka wharf, “if I’d known these
damned niggers were so vindictive I’d never
have come ashore. You can call it a cocoa-
nut if you like, to save the tourist traffic.
but I shall tell England the truth!”
“Mells” : A baker’s cart rattles down our
street daily bearing the cheerful slogan, ‘‘Eat
More Bread.” But even in these straight-
ened times I doubt if people will. In every
city and town in England, and in a great
many villages, philanthropists who lived and
died centuries ago left bequests to be applied
to the purchase and distribution of so many
loaves, so many times a year, to the deserv-
ing poor of the parish. This form of charity
is mostly left for churches to administer, but
of late years many of them have had to move
the law courts for permission to amend the
terms of the bequest in favor of some other
form of relieving poverty. It is quite likely
that there never were more deserving poor
in England, but the applicants for alms in
this shape have dwindled till they are often
non-existent. It may be a gratifying proof
of the advance in the standard of living lint
the fact remains that even the needy don't
want bread like they once did. Not dry
bread, anyway.
“Up Top” : There is a type of prospector
who seems to care, more for the thrill to be
got out of a lucky strike than for the
wealth involved. Will and Frank Ilann, who
located the Palmer, dished highly payable
stuff, brought to civilisation news ot the
golden river—and left to others over of
tons of gold. Jim Mulligan, who prospected
on the Palmer before the rush discovered
values of half an ounce to the dish, but as
soon as the scouts of the great rush loomed
over the ironstone ridges he moved on. Ola
John Dickie, of Ebagoolah and the Alice,
was another northern prospector who pulled
but a poor reward out of ground where his
packhorses had ambled over ree_fs studded
with gold. In the last Mandated Territory
rush the prospectors “Shark-eye ’ Park and
Nettleton, though they pulled a fortune out
of Koranga Creek, left the vast and easily-
worked deposits of the Upper Edie un-
touched. „ „ , ...
Raymond McGrath, who left Sydney with
a scholarship in his pocket, is doing well at
Cambridge. His pet subject was architecture
but he had a mastery of other arts. Before
he went awav from his native land he
issued a book of his verse, the type for which
he set up and which he later printed on
Jack Lindsay’s press. The verses he illus-
trated with woodcuts of his own making, and
distributed them as parting gifts to His
friends. Lately in an open competition he
won first place for interior decoration and
furnishing, carrying out the whole of his
idea in black glass. Even the chans were
glass, and the black glass tabl'e was so
arranged that below its surface as you dm c
you saw fish swimming and flashing red
o-old Raymond now edits the house maga/une
for Clare College. He lias just married an
American bride, and the two went .honey-
mooning in Spain. He wrote some implo-
sions of his travels for the Architectural
Review,” and his handwriting was so beauti-
ful that the editor reproduced the, whole
article in the script. Funny lltt] o
nail sketches illustrate it. Eileen McGrath
clever sculptor, now one of Raynor Holt s
assistants at the Tech., and twiw iunn
up for the Society of Artists Ti a veil in n
Scholarship, is a sister.


A
Fishermen
Will Tell You
That Rods and
Lines and Bait
Play Their Part
In a Successful
Fishing Week-end.
But the Articles
Absolutely Necessary
Are One Boat
One Bottle Opener
Glasses
And to Console
Their Sorrow
When the Fish
Won’t Bite
One Case of
Reschs
DA
The Refreshing
DINNER ALE
HAIR
&
cr
need
r
HERES
•umu- -
U
Urey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPQjU&riS (.MEXICAN)
Vkdtud StaJjtv
’-REMOVES THE GREY**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
// unobtainable locally, posted
direct (■s/<?), 6d. being postage.
fp
TO
V N
utlcu^
attend
• ly
(uticura
dintmcnt
COM
Within the
Reach of All
CLEAR, healthy skin and soft, lustrous
hair are your best assets. They are so
easy to lose through neglect, yet so easy
to retain if you will only use Cuticura
Preparations every day . . . The Soap
cleanses, the Ointment heals and the
Talcum imparts a pleasing fragrance.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co;, Sydney, N. S.W.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
(pQfpeiu^
fattiness
EVERY mother who wishes to see her
children’s charm reflected in the garments
they wear, will find in “80-PEEP” PRINT
the ideal fabric. Although it is woven to with-
stand the rigorous treatment of healthy
children, it is wonderfully soft and thoroughly
washable.
M
*'Looks good*
is good."
for Childrens Wear.
ŝ
ş
Produced by the makers of "Tricoline ”
—the equal to silk.
“80-Peep” Print is 36in. wide
and is obtainable in many styles,
designs and colorings. Sold by
leading Drapers and Stores.
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write
H. G. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“I’m a member of the club here,” he
announced. “I’m down every morning.”
“You’re one of the lucky ones who' don’t
have to work for a living,” she said, with
a little gurgle of laughter.
“Yes; I’m one of the lucky ones who have
to toil at a coke oven on the night shift-
five till three in the morning; I tell you
the sunrises are something lovely.”
He liked to hear her laugh, although it
made him want to kiss her.
“What a shame! I think it’s rotten that
anybody has to do that. It makes me mad
sometimes to think how some people have
so much money to waste while we have
to live our lives fooling with coke and
milk shakes and those sort of things.”
She was a revolutionary; another bond
of sympathy!
“But we’ve got all the best things in
life all the same,” said Jimmy.
“How do you make that out?” Her
eyebrows drew together quizzically.
“They can corner the thousand-pound
motors and the Pekinese pups, and they
can charge us big prices for some things;
but we’ve got the sunlight for nothing and
the surf for nothing, and we don’t have to
pay at the gate to look at the hills and
the trees and the flowers.”
“And the sunrises?” she interposed with
a chuckle.
“Yes and the sunrises,” he agreed. “We’ve
got them to ourselves. We’re the mono-
polists in sunrises.”
May looked hard at him. She had
scarcely expected to hear this sort of talk
from him. This was a cokeworker, an
egg-deliverer of unusual narts. She began
to be interested in him as something more
than a good specimen of the human male.
“Anything else we poor people can have
without paying?” she inquired meaningly.
“Any of the sentiments?”
“All of them; the sentiment that’s paid
for isn’t a sentiment.”
A customer came in.
“Good-bye,” said May, and, as she smiled,
she gave him her hand, a warm plump hand
that grasped his own tightly but without
coquetry.
As she had thought Jimmy an unusual
cokeworker, he left thinking her an un-
usual worker of the soda fountain. From
Mary West, who was a close friend of Mrs.
Blessington, he heard part of the girl’s
history. Later, he heard the rest.
She had come from the West and was
the daughter of Bill Harland—Mulga Bill,
the discoverer of the Roaring Gimlet, whose
personality had been forgotten, but whose
name had remained one of the age of
heroes wherever gold was sought and traf-
ficked in. Bill might have walked the
streets of the Australian capitals for a
week without finding anybody who would
recognise him; but if you mentioned the
name of Mulga Harland where mining men
foregather, from Bendigo to Charters
Towers, it would be as familiar as that of
Richard Cceur de Lion to a conference of
schoolmasters.
Bill Harland had been a prospector lured
from his stope in the three-thousand-foot
level of Lansell’s at Bendigo when the
world rang with the news of Bayley’s find
at Coolgardie. Bill had been on a visit
to Melbourne when that first junk of solid
gold, hacked from the outcrop by Bayley
and still bearing the marks of his axe, lay
in a window in Collins-street.
Within two months he had accomplished
the march across the desert from Southern
Cross to Coolgardie. There he had worked
until he had earned enough for a prospect-
ing outfit, when he had gone further into
the desert, spitting on stray pieces of quartz
and rubbing them on his moleskins, dry-
blowing where there were good prdspects,
learning from the aborigines the indica-
tions for tracing water —a scarcer commo-
dity than gold—and narrowly risking death
from thirst and hunger every few weeks.
For two years Bill was just one of the
prospectors who sifted the sands for two
hundred miles around the spot where Bayley
had filled his buckets with the golden
slugs. Then eveiy newspaper in Australia
was seeking his photograph. The cables
made Bill Harland known to the financial
centres of London and New York. He be-
came Mulga Harland, the man who had
happened across the patch of rich stone
which was subsequently floated into the
Golconda G. M. Company, capital £1,000,000,
of which Bill received shares to the value
of £20,000.
Bill abandoned the structure, half-tent,
half-cottage, where Mrs. Harland existed
with her three bare-footed and tousle-
headed children. They all went to live in
a big villa in grounds in West Perth. May,
then seven, was sent to boarding-school,
and the two younger children were placed
in charge of a kindergarten expert. Mrs.
Harland went back to the youth she had
shelved during her life in the Mulga, and
for five years the family prospered.
Then the bottom fell out of the Gol-
conda and out of a dozen other shows in
which Bill was interested. He made for
the mulga again; but in the intervening
years the ground had been combed out for
hundreds of miles. He fell to the status
of a “ ’weight-chaser,” Mrs. Harland and the
children following his fortunes in weather-
canvas, until at last he scraped together
board and galvanised-iron and hessian and
enough to take them to the other side of
the continent, where he had heard wonder-
ful stories of gold-impregnated sand which
chemistry and mechanism had alike failed
to separate. With the confidence of the
man who has smelt gold, Bill felt certain
that he possessed the secret.
For another five years he had worked
on the shore of Byron Bay, making just
.enough to keep them going in the season
when the gold was to be won by primitive
and laborious means. At other times he
trapped rabbits. The two boys helped in
both industries. May had secured a billet
as a nursegirl in the township and made
it safe by her musical skill.
When she left the boarding school at
Perth she was its star pianist. During the
succeeding years she had always found
somebody ready to place a piano at her
disposal. She gave up the nursegirl’s job
to become the “orchestra” of a picture-
show. Then Bill Harland, the man who
had run the whole gamut of financial ex-
perience—like so many of the gold men of
the country—died suddenly. Mrs. Harland
took the youngsters back to Bendigo, to
live with her brother, who had done well,
but not sensationally well, in speculation;
and May went to Sydney to another movie
job at thirty shillings a week.
In the West Mrs. Blessington had known
her mother and had been a good friend to
Mrs. Harland in the darkest days. When
May received a letter asking her to secure
a suitable girl for fifteen shillings weekly
and her keep, she put in her resignation to
the movie man, said a sentimental good-bye
to one or two boy-friends and took the
train to Illawarra.
Mrs. Blessington, who had not seen her
since she was thirteen, was astounded to find
that the strapning young woman who
bounded along the platform and, with gurg-
ling laughs of delight, hugged her joyously,
was her friend’s daughter. She was sur-
prised that a girl of such physical attrac-
tions! and such manifest mental ability
should have been ready to take the position
she offered. With a brain far above the
average, May had profited to the utmost
from her early schooling, and, later, from
the advantage of close association with
parents whose intelligence was keen and
whose education was sound as far as it
went. Had the virus of gold—as great a j
menace as the virus of alcohol—not coursed'
in the blood of Mulga Bill, he would prob-!
ably have been a man of substance.
Then the girl had ideas and taste. Dur-
ing the months following she remodelled
the shop, making it twice as attractive as
Mrs. Blessington had. She found that a
saving of over a pound a week could be
effected during the summer months by
making their own ice-cream instead of im-
porting it from Sydney. She overcame Mrs.
Blessington’s scruples and added to the
usual drinks of the soda fountain half a
dozen more elaborate and expensive
draughts served in strangely-shaped tum-
blers with nickelled holders.
“Might as well have it near the shop,”
she said, pointing to the piano. “It’ll be
a big draw.”
“I’ll get a man to shift it,” replied Mrs.
Blessington weakly. She was past pro-
testing against the views of this big, master-
ful girl.
“Can’t wait for him,” replied May, and,
to the astonishment of the older woman,
who was small and fragile, she seized the
instrument and hauled it to its new posi-1
tion. I
When the place was fairly filled and Mrs.
Blessington was behind the counter, May
would sit at the instrument and turn off the
latest ragtime airs. In a month the takings
had risen forty per cent. May had taken
charge of the shop. Though nominally
proprietor, Mrs. Blessington had no say in
the management.
It was May who dealt with the travellers.
May who arranged everything, May who
introduced the profitable system of supply-
ing hampers to motoring parties. Her
capacity for work was tremendous. The
girl never iseemed to tire. In addition to
looking after the shop, she would have
three-parts of the housework done before
Mrs. Blessington could compass the re-
maining quarter—and she found time to
turn the weed-covered yard into beginnings
of a flower garden.
“Flowers in the shop help a heap,” she
explained. “They’re too dear to buy and
you can’t rely on sending out any of those
kids to collect them.”
A very dynamo of energy, the girl had
far more time to herself than most of her
class. She surfed, went to all the dances,
covered all the regulation beauty spots of
the district within three months, and, by
the dexterous use of dimples, secured at a
minimum of hire and an elastic time-limit
the use of the very best bicycle in the
garage.
“May,” said Mrs. Blessington at the end
of three months. “You’ve made a wonder-
ful difference to my business. Before you
came I was only clearing about two pounds
a week. Do you know what it’s been for
the past six weeks? Seven pounds 1”
“That’s good, Aunty,” said May.
“It’s too good,” the widow went on. “It
isn’t fair. I’ve been thinking that I ought
to take you in as a partner. What do
you say?”
“Oo!” cried May. “You’re too good,
Auntie. I only did what you paid me to.”
“That’s just what you didn’t,” protested
Mrs. Blessington. “You did so much more
that you’ve more than doubled my profits.
Of course, it won’t be seven pounds every
week. In the- winter it’ll drop to almost
nothing at times. But we’ll divide evenly
after this.”
May went over to the woman and hid
her face on her shoulder that she might
not notice the tears in her eyes.
(To be continued newt week.)


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Forestry-bond Business.
Some light was thrown on the inside of
the forestry-bond industry the other day
when a deputation waited on Vic. Minister
for Forests Beckett, requesting that Crown
lands be made available for afforestation
purposes at cut rates. The applicant was
the Forestry Pulp and Paper Co., of Gee-
long, a concern with a nominal capital of
a million and a half, but whose actual paid
capital very few seem to know. The co.
said it had 60 men engaged, and 5000 acres
in Vic. and 600 acres in Tasmania had
already been planted. In a bond prospectus
issued over a year ago the co. was offering
the public acre-lots planted with pinm
insignis seedlings for £3O an acre. In another
prospectus asking for share capital, the land
was stated to cost the co. £5 an acre, and
maintenance for the required period and
other charges brought the cost to £2O,
leaving the co., on its own estimates, a
profit of £lO an acre right at the jump.
Now the co. aims to do better for itself.
A. C. S. Holland, a director, last week
offered the Vic. Lands Department ss. (not
£5) an acre for land on the S. Aus. border.
As Minister Beckett remarked, it seems to
allow for a big profit to the co. on bond-
sales. But to bondholders, who have to
depend on actual profits from the timber
grown and sold (not on bonds sold, as is
the case with shareholders), the following
remarks made by the Minister give small
encouragement
Victoria has 52,000 acres planted, unfortunately,
with Pinus insignis. The delegates to the forestry
conference at Canberra did not favor this type of
tree. If you can grow the better type of softwood,
it may be all right, but then there is no market.
I have before me particulars of a forestry venture
in which the promoters claim a return of £5OO and
upwards from each acre. If you could do that we
should all be millionaires.... The department has
50 acres of big pine planted 45 years ago at Macedon,
and we cannot get an offer for it. The proportion
of milling timber is very 10w.... If you were to
get the timber for nothing you would have to
spend 50s. a ton on it. If the future depended on
the pulping industry, there is enough timber in
N.Z. to supply the world.
Of course, no one can say what conditions
will be 10 or 20 years hence; they may be
better or they may be much worse. What
The Bulletin particularly objects to is
that the forestry-bond business, which is
financed by share capital, and includes the
selling of land and services to bondholders,
appears to give an immediate and highly
profitable return, whereas the actual forestry
industry, the capital for which is mainly
supplied by bondholders—who, as a rule,
take all the risks—has no present profits
and only a doubtful future.
N.S W. Shale Oil Industry.
The Broken Hill interests which have paid
a deposit on John Fell and Co.’s Wolgan
Valley oil-shale leases and works, along with
the railway to Newnes Junction, have not
yet completed their inquiries and calcula-
tions; that exhaustive investigator H. W.
Gepp, lately chairman of the Development
and Migration Commission, has been taking
a hand.
The situation is complicated. The main
deposit is in a hill about four miles through
at the base. Shale had been found on either
side of this base. On the Wolgan side
it was about Ift. 6in. thick; on the other or
Capertee side it is thicker —about 4ft. It is
rich on both sides. On the Wolgan side it
could be reached from the Sydney (western)
railway line by branching off at Newnes
Junction; on the Capertee side it could
only be reached from Sydney by travelling
30 miles further along the Western line.
Sutherland, who laid out the works for the
Commonwealth Oil Corp., decided to save the
30 miles and build a connecting line along
the Wolgan Valley, which is so narrow
a gorge in some places that much tunnelling
had to be done. It was a fatal mistake. The
cost of mining the 18in. seam on the Wolgan
side was prohibitive. The Broken Hill people
believe they can do it for much less.
The original idea was to carry a tunnel
right through the hill (four miles), anc} it
was thought that the shale extracted in the
course of the work would go a long way
towards paying for the job. But after they
had gone about a mile on one side and
three-quarters of a mile on the other it
was found that the seam thinned as it ran
in; and the work was stopped. By that
time, on railway, surface works and mine
development, about a million and a quarter
had been spent. The Bulletin understands
that John Fell and Co., who took the whole
thing over from the C.O.C. debenture-holders,
put it under offer to the Broken Hill cos. for
£30,000.
The position now is that the co. has a
very rich deposit (up to 120 gal. to the ton)
from 4ft. to 4ft. 6in. thick on the Capertee
side of the mountain and a very costly rail-
way and a quite satisfactory refining plant
on the Wolgan side of the mountain, where
also there is an 18in. seam, very expensive
to work. To get the Capertee seam shale
to the works one of three things must be
done. (1) It must be carried down the
Capertee Valley, along the Western railway
and back to the works along the Wolgan
Valley. This is out of the question at
present. (2) The tunnel will have to be
finished. (3) An aerial tramway will have
to be built over the mountain. Either of the
latter propositions will be expensive.
Some day a line will be built through the
Capertee valley; and, besides reaching this
shale deposit, it will carry a certain amount
of agricultural freight. (Wolgan is hopeless
from the latter point of view.) Such a
line will cost about a quarter of a million ;
and quarter-millions are not easily got just
now. It is certain, however, that, unless
Australia opens up oil wells, these Capertee
deposits must be tapped; and the prospect
of making a success of them has been greatly
improved by recent developments in the pro-
cess of “cracking” oil. When the C.O.C. took
Wolgan over the best that could be done
was to get out about eight gallons of petrol
per 100 gallons of crudes. It is believed
to be now possible to get as much as 70
gallons. However, the Broken Hill people
are not as much concerned with that aspect
of the problem; what they want most is
crude oil for their new Diesel-engined electric
power plant.
British Coins in Australia.
“Bullionist”: A recent Service Depart-
ment reply to a question concerning the use
of British silver coins in Australia quoted
Australian law and practice correctly enough,
but overlooked the point that the Imperial
Coinage Act of 1920, which reduced the
silver content of the silver coinage from
921 per cent, to 50 per cent., makes a pro-
vision that the new coins shall not he legal
tender in any of the self-governing dominions
unless proclaimed to be so by the Governor
or Governor-General. No such proclama-
tion has been made in Australia. Until
very recently the British coins of the 50
per cent, mintage have circulated in Aus-
tralia at par, though an effort was made by
the Commonwealth Bank to collect them for
shipment, and at the present time, strangely
enough, they are eagerly sought for here,
commanding in some instances a premium of
6|- per cent. The demand, of course, comes
from people who intend travelling to Britain.
Double florins are still legal tenjder in
Australia, as they were all coined prior to
1920.
Hume Pipe Industries.
Latest advices from L. J. Clifford, chair-
man of Hume Steel, Ltd., who is now abroad
pushing Hume industries, are very satis-
factory. In January last he arranged the
formation of Hume Steel South Africa
(Pty.), Ltd., with headquarters at Germis-
ton, Transvaal. This co. has extensive con-
tracts in hand. Present intention is to set
up three more factories in S’Africa.
An agreement in Honolulu having also
been finalised, works are going up there;
and negotiations for the establishment of
Hume steel-pipe plants throughout the west-
ern half of the U.S.A. and in Canada have
been finalised.
These developments have become possible
and been greatly facilitated by the linking
up of the old-established Hume Pipe cos. at
various centres with the improved methods
and inventions of Hume Steel, Ltd. The pool-
ing of ideas with successful manufacturers
throughout the world, ensuring their co-
operation in the field of technical research,
will also result in considerable advantage
being derived by the Australian co. and the
pipe industry in the Commonwealth.
Mr. Clifford’s programme will shortly take
him 'to England to finalise the formation of
a co. to operate in Britain, for which pur-
pose he has already arranged the capital.
Large contracts in Queensland and M.L. were
recently received by the parent co. (Hume
Steel, Ltd.), which called for works at
Brisbane and Wellington. For the latter
Hume Steel patented plant is being supplied
direct from Australia, and the necessary pre-
liminary machinery has also been shipped to
S’Africa, Britain and America in connection
with the developments in those countries
already referred to.
More Uses for Our Timbers.
An Australian hardwood that is coming
into use in large quantities as a result of
the stiffening of the timber tariff is the
mountain ash of southern N. S. Wales, Vic.
and the Speck, sometimes called Tasmanian
oak, though it isn’t an oak or an ash, but
a eucalypt ( E. delegatcnsis ). It has a clean,
even grain, works well, and can be used for
any purpose up to and including elaborate
carving. A N. S. Wales firm has success-
fully tendered to supply the Postal Dept,
with telegraph cross-arms of this timber for
12 months —the first time it has been used
for the purpose—and the same firm is get-
ting ready to manufacture the ash into doors,
window-sashes and mouldings. Hitherto im-
ported Oregon lias had practically a mono-
poly of the latter field.
Telephotography Comes Next.
“Feng-Shui”: The countries which are
likely to avail themselves most of the tele-
photo service are China and Japan. Both
use the same picturegraph form of writing ;
and it has never been successfully romanised,
for the reason that there are only 400 sounds
in the entire Chinese language, while there
are 45,000 characters to distribute them
amongst. Consequently a sound like “wang”
may have a hundred or more meanings. To
get over this an ingenious Englishman in
the cable service suggested giving each
character a group of figures, and the Chinese
immediately became great users of the tele-
graph. Telephotography makes this code
method no longer necessary. A telegram was
recently lodged in Berlin by the Celestial
Minister in his own writing, and the orginal
message was photographed and sent by wire-
less to Nanking, where it arrived in a per-
fectly legible condition. Most Chinese
merchants in Australia use pidgin English to
communicate with each other, and a weird
lingo it is. The telephoto system installed
at. Melbourne and Sydney ought to be of
great interest to them.
Cement in Casks.
“Jackaburra”: With the protection they’ve
got, our cement manufacturers should give
their attention to catering for the demand
that exists for cement packed in casks. One
of the chief arguments used by cement
importers was that their paper-lined barrels
saved loss in transit by rail and truck —an
important point to purchasers living three
or four hundred miles out. The superiority
of the imported article was also alleged, but
the two main selling points were (1) no loss
in transit, and (2) practically air-tight paper-
lined casks rendered the cement impervious
to outside moisture conditions. As cask
cement commands nearly £1 per ton more
than that packed in bags, the margin should
be sufficient to cover extra cost of casks,
which, incidentally, would be made of Aus-
tralian timber.
Our cement manufacturers can easily
dispel the old myth that the Australian
article is inferior. In a test conducted by the'
Engineering section of the Queensland Uni-
versity the only rival to Australian cement
was English; half a dozen foreign brands
finished down the lane. But the other com-
plaint cannot be so disposed of; at any rate,
I can say from long experience in selling
cement that a great many people would
readily pay an extra price for barrels.
sfc # * Hi
“Fourwalls”: I wonder if the postal
authorities gave a thought to the possibility
of unscrupulous people obtaining stocks of
lid. stamps and, with the aid of type and
press, converting them into 2d. stamps, thus
emulating officialdom? This has been done
in other countries, where the face value
of stamps has been increased by the simple
expedient of over-printing them. Obviously
the sooner the new stamp is alone issued
the better.
* * * *
Davies, Coop and Co., shirt and under-
wear manufacturers, of Melbourne, are the
latest to take advantage of the raised tariff.
The firm, a large consumer of cotton yarn,
will supply its own materials from a 70,000-
spindle plant recently purchased from David
H'ealy and Son, of Heywood, in Lancashire.
The mill will be the biggest of its kind in
Victoria, and, when it starts, early next year,
will give direct employment to a hundred
hands, while the annual output of cotton
yarn will run from 1,500,000 to 2,000,000
pounds. The lint will come from Queens-
land, and the co. will carry out all processes
from spinning the raw cotton to the finished
garments in its factor.
# # * #
Something new in the way of British ship-
building cast up in Sydney the other day—•
the oil-tanker New Zealand, belonging to
the Texas Oil Co. Built at Glasgow, it is
unique by reason of its oxy-welded plates.
The old-fashioned rivet often worked loose
and “wept,” losing more or less of the bulk-
oil cargo ; the new welding is expected to stop
all that. Incidentally, the New Zealand’s
capacity is 4,000,000 gallons of oil.
$ $
“Kapul”: It might help our exports and
also do something for the unemployed if the
Commonwealth Government told the Adminis-
trator of New Guinea to throw open a dis-
trict where there is good reason for believ-
ing gold exists. Some years back a few
parties of prospectors, acting on the advice
of an ex-patrol officer, entered the district
of Nakani, New Britain, to locate a reported
find. The area was located and pegging of
claims was proceeding when the natives
drove the party away, killing several white
men. It appears they were after the scalp
of the ex-patrol officer for some grievance,
real or imaginary. All the parties were
driven to the coast and forced to embark.
A punitive force later rounded up the
offenders and restored order. The. Adminis-
tration then established a station, in charge
of a patrol officer, some miles inland, and
there has been no further trouble with the
natives, who now seem quite friendly. Never-
theless, the district remains closed. Other
nations would not hesitate to throw open any
area similarly affected, and if the natives
liked to look for trouble —well, what is the
Administrator for? In our present circum-
stances we certainly can’t afford to neglect
chances of this kind.
# * # *
The motorist who needs to economise
these times could not do better than watch
his speedometer. At 20 miles an hour the
average tyre has a life of 15,000 miles; at
40 it is reduced to 10,000; and at 60 it re-
quires the services of Dr. Voronoff at 3300.
* * * *
So much synthetic nitrate is now being-
produced in Europe—chiefly in Germany—
that the chief producers of the synthetic and
natural article have reached an agreement
covering the world, with the exception of
United States’ interests. England, Germany,
Chile, France, Belgium, Italy, Czechoslo-
vakia, Poland and Norway are the parties
to the agreement. Chile, now the principal
producer of natural nitrate, has undertaken
not to undersell the synthetic product, and
the synthetic producers agree not to export
to any other signatory country, including its
colonies or dependencies. The British pro-
ducers will thus avoid competition through-
out the Empire, which considering the huge
demand for nitrates for fertilising and other
purposes, is not very reassuring to consumers
and possible consumers. The widespread Mond
interests are behind the move.
* * * *
S’Africa has decided that, after December,
criminal proceedings may not be instituted
against people selling their motor-cars before
the hire-purchase payments on them have
been completed, though a civil action for
recovery will lie. The motor trade, which,
as in Australia, has flourished on the t.-p.
system, is up in arms. However, the Union
Government is of the opinion that much of
the present depression is due to people
having no money for anything save
car instalments, and declines to see why
motor traders should have a prior claim to
other creditors. Eighty per cent, of the
cars in South Africa are sold on the hire-
purchase system, while the number of regis-
tered motorists in comparison with income-
tax payers has staggered the Union officials.
jj- *j: $ $
Westralia reports that even the indus-
trious and frugal Italian is finding times too
hard in the State. During the past few
months many of the men employed for years
at mining and timber-cutting have been re-
turning to Europe. The stream of arrivals
is also falling off, most of those landing
since March being the wives and families
of Italians domiciled in the State. Curi-
ously enough, most of the returning travel-
lers have taken out passports for France
rather than for their native land, where
unemployment is said to be rife, while
France is still a happy hunting-ground for
the worker.
* * * *
The business of milling M.L. flax (Phor-
miurn tenax) , which is claimed to be the
Dominion’s pioneer export, has fallen on evil
times. In the last 20 years exports were
valued at £12,000,000 and the industry was
getting so profitable two or three years ago
that various cos. were formed to cultivate
the flax. Up till that time all the flax
was self-sown, growing on swamps and the
bottoms of valleys where nothing else could
thrive. At the latest estimate of 95,000
acres under the vegetable, 10,000 acres wore
cultivated. But the price has slumped almost
to £2O; and a deputation of millers recently
asked the Government for a subsidy on
wages because, so it declared, the industry
cannot make a profit when the price is below
£25. To keep 1500 men in their jobs it was
suggested that the State should make the
price up to a payable figure. On last year-*
production, 12,000 tons, that would cost close
on £60,000. The Government wagged its
beard and said that money was tight, but
it would think about it.
* * * *
Anyway, the P. and O. can see a silver
lining. It has ordered two new 21,000-ton
liners for the Australian run. Named the
Strathaird and the Strathaven —a new
departure in P. and O. nomenclature —they
will replace the Naldera and Narkunda in
due course, these last replacing some of the
older craft in the London-Bombay service.
* * * *
Something new in motor trucks which has
just reached Australia from the factories of
the English Karrier Co. is claimed to be
the largest British automobile ever to reach
Australia. A six-wheeler, the 6-cylinder power
unit is 37-82-h.p. developing up to 120 h.p.,
the drive being the rigid 4-wheel type, all
four driving wheels being fitted with Westing-
house pneumatic brakes. There are four
speeds forward, 21 m.p.h. being attained at
1000 revs. Australian-made 38 x 9 Dunlop
tyres are fitted/ the largest yet made in this
country. The weight of each cover is 15441 b,,
of each tube 1641 b. The job is for the
Commonwealth Oil Co., and has a tank
capacity of 2000 gallons of spirit.
* * * *
“MacFlecknoe” : Tingha tinmines (N.S.W.)
produce an unusual stone. It is translucent,
ranging from smoky to clear, and contains
forms like pieces of grass or grass seeds. The
mineral is rough when dug, but cuts and
polishes well, and is used locally as an orna-
ment. Similar stones have been found in tin
areas in Malaya. The whole district round
Tingha, though, is a happy hunting ground
for the geologist, and many varieties of gems
and near-gems are to be found. Topaz, from
amber to clear white, is common, while at
Copeton, not far away, some exceptionally
hard diamonds have been unearthed. In the
last stages of cleaning the Tingha tin, sapph-
ires are often brought to light. They are not
very good quality, but there is a market for
them, especially for the rare green or yellow
stones.
* # * *
The big land-agent business built up in
Adelaide by the late W. B. Wilkinson has
broken in halves. The two sons will carry
on one, and the other half —Sando and Wyles
—will move into King William-street. The
reason advertised is that “the heavy over-
head of so large an organisation is no longer
warranted, in the general depression” ; which
seems an odd reason for running two offices
and two staffs instead of one.
* # * *
One of the nightmares of the motor-car
owner is the inefficient and often extor-
tionate individual who sets up as a motor-
repair expert with half a dozen spanners and
a blacksmith’s hammer. In most cases he
ruins the car entrusted to him for treat-
ment, while the subsequent bill usually
wipes out all grief for the disabled car.
Queensland is out to stop that with an
amendment of the Inspection of Machinery
Act, which will compel all motor mechanics
to pass an examination for a certificate of
competency.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Aviation is waking up in Maoriland after a
long sleep. Boeings (America) say they are
going to start a flying-boat service between
the four centres within the next two> months,
and Safer Flying, Ltd., has been registered
to sell autogiros.
% ❖ ❖
Arrangements have been completed for the
financing of the wool research scheme in
England which was inaugurated in July. The
British Research Association is undertaking
the job, and every wool-dealing firm is ex-
pected to help in raising the £20,000 annually
called for. The collection of this will ensure
a grant of £lO,OOO p.a. from the British
Department of Scientific and Industrial
Research. The main purpose of the inquiry
is to help wool in its fight against other
fabric materials.
* * * *
South African Wool Council has decided
to admit Japanese buyers to the Union on
a basis of equality with Europeans. To the
Australian, long accustomed to the alert and
profitable buyer from Nippon, this will seem
a belated concession, and one that should
prove worth while to the Afrikander wool-
grower, since the Jap is only second to the
Frenchman in his liking for the finer sorts
with which Australian merino-breeders have
so generously endowed South Africa for
years past. Whether the change will be to
the advantage of the Australian grower of
similar types has yet to be seen.
* * * *
Mackay (N.Q.), long renowned for its
sugar and rum, is after a deep-water port,
the open roadstead inside Flat Top Island
having been for many years an infliction,
necessitating heavy lightering and tranship-
ment charges. Forty miles north is an ex-
cellent harbor, Port Newry. From this the
Mackay Harbor Board intends to construct
a 12-mile branch line to link up with the
Great Northern railway. As the board will
have to find the money for the line, special
freight concessions over the G.N.R. section
between Mackay and Port Newry junction
are being asked for.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Wonderful how
soon a community settles down to meet new
conditions. The garage down our country
road is going its hardest, not on cars, but in
retyring and otherwise making once
more serviceable push-bikes, which have been
rescued from sheds and—to judge by appear-
ances —rubbish heaps. The local nursery-
man reports: “Mv average income has been
around £3OO, but so far I’ve taken nearly
£BOO this year. Everyone is going in for
vegetables, and wants seeds and young
plants.” Our engineer, who normally employs
“two men and a boy” in his little factory,
and who was nearly broke 12 months ago,
is now working double shifts on a tiny little
line that a new duty made possible. He is
using B.H.P. steel, which means that some-
body else .in Australia is a tiifle busier.


AS WE SAID BEFORE.
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
He had spent most of his life in dull soli-
tude at Burrumbeet (Vic.), and so when he
bade his family farewell and started to pay
his rich Melbourne brother a visit, the sights
A TALKING SALAD.
DEADBEAT (to windward of howling swell): “For Heaven’s sake,
gimme a shilling. I haven’t eaten anything for weeks.”
SWELL (whose nose is to leeward): “Pah! Now tell me the truth,
my good man. How many onions have you eaten this
morning?”
DEADBEAT ( hesitatingly): “Well, sir, to tell ye the truth, I DID
eat a couple.”
SWELL: “Yes, I should think you did. Talking to you is like
talking to a salad.” [B. 2/4/’87.]
of the metropolis were to him like Paradise.
The shops dazzled him, the theatres elevated
him far above sordid thoughts of .beef and
slaughtering, and the end of it was that
he outstayed his welcome. One day his
brother said, “Don’t you think, Tom, that
your wife and children must miss you?” But
lie did not see the hint. Taking it as a kind
suggestion, the town-struck Arcadian grasped
his relative’s paw and stammered, “ Thanks ,
Bill, thanks. I’ll send for ’em,!”
Recent N.S.W. official returns show that
there are 375 aboriginals still alive on the
Clarence River. 557 on the Richmond, 105 on
the Tweed, and 38 on the Brunswick. Dur-
ing the tempestuous enthusiasm of our
Jubilee sliivoo each adult of these was allowed
Jib of tobacco, and this burst of extrava-
gance was capped by a donation of 31b. flour,
lib. of sugar, Mb. suet, Mb. raisins and a
few currants to enable them to make their
own plum puddings! Shade of Soyer! Fancy
a black gin starting to mix a pudding. As
it was the niggers ate the sugar, raisins, and
currants raw, greased themselves all over
with the suet, and plastered the flour over
the fat, in order to make themselves
“cobborn miall” (very fierce) for the night’s
corroborec. [B. 6/8/’B7.]
Louis Kitz, who died in Scotland of sun-
stroke (!) the other day, had been a Vic-
torian colonist since 1832. H’e was connected
with the early history of Geelong, and was
the first man in Victoria to start a vine-
, yard and a woollen factory. He also claimed
to be the first Victorian volunteer. He sold
some of the best Victorian wine to be
obtained in Melbourne at his Bourke-street
shop, and was a genial old fellow always
ready to swap experiences and manufacture
history. [B. 16/7/’B7.]
THE PRIEST’S DINNER.
One of the best-known Irish R.C. priests
of the early days of Victoria was the late
Father Courtenay. H’e had seen a lot of life
on the diggings, and was chock-full of queer
old yarns. At a “spread” given to him on
one occasion, up-country, when he had to
speak of the unbounded generosity of his
flock, he mentioned that he had never been
mistaken in his people’s liberality, except
on one memorable occasion. It was this:
He first took possession of the presbytery
at Murdering Gully on a Saturday night.
The next morning a 12-year-old “gurrl” pre-
sented herself at the priest’s house and
handed in a forequarter of mutton in a
tin dish. “Well,” sez I to myself, “they’re
beginning early.” Shortly afterwards a
six-foot digger turned up with a leg of
mutton, supported by peeled potatoes. “They
mean I shall have plenty of victuals, any-
how,” sez I to my servant-man. He had
hardly made the remark when a woman who
spoke vehemently in
Irish (which the
priest couldn’t un-
derstand, Heaven
forgive him !) made
an oration over a
dead rooster. Father
Courtenay took this
as a formal welcome
to Murdering Gully,
and made a brief
but gracious acknow-
ledgment in the
tongue of the “base
and brutal Sassen-
ach.” He had just
retired to jot down
the pearls of his first
sermon to the kind
but barbarous miners
of the Gully when a
bootless lad handed
in a piece of beef,
which was quickly
followed by a pig’s
cheek donated by a
man with one eye
and a wooden leg.
Then followed dishes
of dumplings,
treacle - puddings,
rabbit-pies and all
sorts of things till
the table groaned—
and so did the priest.
Then there came a
calm; and it was
the first time Father
Courtenay thought
it was possible to
have too much of a
good thing—all at
once particularly
as many of the
articles presented to
him were eminently
perishable —in hot
weather. Well, after
Mass, he was more
astonished than ever
when the old Irish-
woman called again
and kicked up a
furious row. With
the aid of an inter-
preter, Father Cour-
tenay ascertained
that she demanded
to get back her
deceased rooster!
The priest began to
philosophise on the
volatile nature of
human benignity
when the bare-
footed youth pre-
sented himself with
a jaunty salutation :
“W ant the beef,
Mister, and look
sharp! ’ Then came the timid little
girl with, “Please, sir, I called for the
forequarter.” “Here it is, me gurrl,” says
the serving-man, “an’ tell yer ma, like
a nice little child, to be hanged to her and
her dirty generosity!” And as the dumb-
founded little maid turned the corner of the
house, up came the long digger with the
goatee. “That leg o’ mutton, Boss, plaze,”
sez he, addressing the coachman, who was
standing at the garden gate. Well, Mick, the
man, was exasperated-like, and sez he:
“Wbat the divil did you bring it here for
at all, if you wanted it back?” Sez Mike:
“D’ye suppose me and the priest kem here to
be made omadhauns of?” Hearing signs
of a mighty storm, Father Courtenay pre-
sented himself upon the scene to prevent a
breach of the peace and a scandal. H‘o
arrived just in time to hoar the digger
demand of the stableman: “Then what the
blazes d’ye mean by bangin’ up that there
thing on the fence?” The priest and his
man followed the digger’s digit and beheld,
hung upon the railings, a piece of board
upon which was neatly painted the words,
‘DINNERS BAKED DAILY.” The matter
was at once placed in the hands of the police-
man, when it was ascertained that on Satur-
day night the local signwriter had, while
in a beastly state of intoxication, hung upon
Father Courtenay’s fence an “order” which
he was taking home to deliver. 18.
21/12/’B9.]
Woman, we believe, has her good points,
but telling the truth about her age is not
one of them, and it is a recognised fact that
any mean, horrid male thing who seeks to
pry into this question is no gentleman. The
N.S.W. Education Department sent round
circulars recently to all the lady teachers
asking them in respectful, not to say diplo-
matic, terms to mention how old they were,
and several hundred
raging females on
their last legs re-
sponded that they
were exactly 25.
They had an idea,
you see, that the
Government wanted
the information so
that it might come
round when it had
nothing to do and
wink at them and
call them “o 1 d
girl,” or ask “Who’s
yer hatter?” or that
the documents would
be read out in Par-
liament, and then
the House would
adjourn singing “Oh,
my, here’s a gor-
geous girl!” or else
they thought that
wicked old creature
Parkes, when he had
to rise early and
dress by candle-
light so as to go
down and look after
his bleeding country
on a cold morning,
would take a pocket-
ful of their letters
to read as he swore
himself along to his
work, and would
show them round to
all his pals. But,
unfortunately, i t
was nothing of the
kind. The Govern-
ment simply wanted
to pension off all the
ladies when they
got old, and now the
giddy thing of 45
who put herself
down as 25 finds
that she will have to
labor at spanking
girls twice as large
as herself till she is 80 before the
department will recognise her as being
even 60. Consequently the feelings of
these unhappy middle-aged ladies are
now a mixture of agony and wrath,
hunger, tears and Paris-green, and it
is rumored that they are getting up a
return circular which runs thus: “Sir, —
Owing to a clerical error I stated my age
as 25, whereas, not to put too fine a point
upon it, it should have been, as I might
almost say, 45. I enclose my photo., from
which you will see that I look very young
for my age.” This ought to set the matter
right, unless the confidence of the depart-
ment is so much shaken that it will be neces-
sary to send an inspector round to judge the
age of the ladies by their teeth. [B. 23/7/’B7.]
One steamer landed 1000 cases of grog
lately at Thursday Island, the population
of which is 400. Thirsty Island.
At a North Queensland port the other day
someone lost his travelling-bag. It was
found by a constable and opened at the
police station, and the contents were two
pairs of gloves, a toothpick, a bottle of
moustaclie-dye, five packets of cigarettes, a
pot of rouge, a shoehorn, a box of cachous,
a set of false teeth set in gold and a bottle
of corn cure. This catalogue was duly pub-
lished in the local press, so that the man
who lost the bag might know the things were
all there; but somehow he seems to have got
discouraged and never called.
Should woman-suffrage ever be granted
here, there is one man who will wish he had
a flour mill tied round his neck and were
buried in the deep blue sea. That man is our
“Answers to Correspondents” artist. Already
one fair enthusiast has sent along enough
pink paper for a circus poster, and if we
read her cockatoo-fence style of writing
correctly, she wants us to “tell her all about
‘Protection,’ and ‘Home Rule,’ and the ‘Land
Bill,’ and ‘Payment of Members,’ and what
are the real duties of an Ad Valorem,”
That’s about all she wants to hear of this
trip, but she cautions us to “explain these
subjects fully, and in language easily under-
stood by a new beginner of Political
Economy.” Simply that, and nothing more!
Why our fair friend omitted to ask for the
usual recipe for removing freckles and a
tasty way of dishing up cold mutton is a
greater mystery than the Bermagui trouble,
but we are very certain that the men who
advocate woman-suffrage after this notice will
never die in their beds while we can wield a
meat-axe and get within coo-ee of them.
[B. 6/8/’B7.]
The American Mrs. “Bonanza” Mackay's
new cloak, to be made entirely from the little
bits of beautiful green plumage found around
the bills of birds of paradise, will, it is esti-
mated, cost £2750. Mrs. Mackay has dis-
patched two expert marksmen to New
Guinea, where they are now engaged in
wholesale slaughter. Mrs. Mackay, we read,
gave five dollars to a Californian charity
the other day. [B. 13/8/’B7.]
North of Townsville lives Smiler, a pub-
lican who is also an undertaker. The float-
ing population which supports the whisky
mills of the trans-Capricornian region have
hitherto been dead against such an arrange-
ment, but our friend the publican aforesaid
has succeeded in convincing his clients of
the convenience and respectability of being
decently buried when the cheques are cut out
instead of roaming off with the usual coup
de grace in the shape of a bottle of rum, to
die of jim-jams in the howling wilder-
ness. No doubt “the funeral of Mr. J. Jug-
gins will move from his late residence, the
Shearers’ Arms,” etc., reads a trifle more
high-toned than “found dead in the bush,’’
and this has doubtless gone far to convince
the dwellers of the Mudville district of the
advantages of such an arrangement for their
convenience. The hearse stands at the rear
of Smiler’s pub, and in the off-season is
used as a fowlhouse, and occasionally as an
extra bedroom. The history of this cheerful
vehicle is surrounded in mystery, but it is
popularly supposed to have been seized many
years ago for goods sold and delivered over
A NEW VEGETABLE TO HIM.
OLD STONEFACE (who was raised on the Never-Never): “Brick
and tile plant! That’s something new, ain’t it? I allers
thought they made ’em with a machine, but seems like
as ’ow they grows ’em in Sydney.” [B. 26/2/’87.]
the bar, as within the memory of the oldest
local liar the ghastly object has always been
sold with the house as a fixture. The pre-
sent proprietor has so far only obtained a
third share of the undertaking business, as
the corpse-case is supplied by the local car-
penter and the horse by a Chinese cabbage
purveyor, who, when he has blacked up his
mokes for the occasion, heads the procession
as chief mourner. Apropos, when we' were
in far Northern Queensland years ago we
one day asked Billy Little, J.P., the local
butcher, for an afternoon’s loan of his meat
cart—then the only wheeled vehicle on the
goldfield. “I can’t do it* my boy,” replied
Billy; “we’re going to bury Long Jim Hop-
kins to-day, and we’ll want it to cart the
poor devil to the creek.”
In Chicago it is not considered good form
to re-marry in less than two hours after
securing a divorce.
THE HAPPY (AUSTRALIAN) SHEP-
HERD SWAIN WITHOUT TRIMMINGS.
He’ll shift his sheep just far enough
To ’scape all prying eyes,
Then at his pipe lie’ll calmly puff
As on the grass he lies.
And all the day his thoughts will stray
On aspirations vain,
And flit from rum to far Cathay
And back to rum again.
And as he muses o’er the fun
His cheque will bring to him,
The sheep are rambling off the run
“Beyond its purple rim.”
Then, when his dream of bliss is o’er,
He wakens with a shock,
And “sools” his dog around a score
Of “crawlers” from his flock.
Then as the sunlight fades away
He strikes the beaten track
Two thousand sheep had trod that day,
But only half got back.
All undisturbed he reaches home
And seeks his well-earned rest—
Why should he moan o’er sheep that roam?
He does his level best.
And all in vain the manager
H’owls forth his wicked swears
And cries, “You dog I’ll damage yer.”
The shepherd only glares;
For sheep may come and sheep may go,
His cheques go on for ever,
And well he knows that rum will show
The profit of endeavor.
H. H. C.
THE LEGEND OF MAMMON CASTLE.
In the days that will be olden after many
years are gone,
Ere the world emerged from darkness float-
ing out into the dawn,
On a mountain rising steeply from the
depth of marsh and wood
Lowering proudly o’er the lowlands Mammon
Castle proudly stood—
Mammon Castle, built of marble that was
cut and reared with pain
By the poor and starving wretches who
were serfs on that domain;
All the jewel-studded windows shone at sun-
set like a fire,
And a diamond was flashing from the needle
of the spire.
Now the nobles held the castle by a title
that was old,
And they drank from crystal goblets and
they ate from plates of gold ;
The coffers of the castle they were plenished
by the thralls,
And many were the revels that were held
in Mammon Halls.
And the plunder from the toilers more than
paid for silks and wine,
So the flower-beds were bordered with the
jewels of the mine ;
All the serfs were taught to worship both
the lady and the lord,
And the nobles taught their children to be
wiser far than God.
But a vassal preached sedition and in a
gloomy hour
Came the wild and haggard vassals to the
gate of Mammon Tower ;
They asked for food and shelter and were
answered by a blow,
And, rising in their anger, soon they laid
the castle low.
The jewels of the castle went to buy the
people bread,
And according to his labor was the toiler
clothed and fed.
And with the wood and marble—my dream-
ing tells me so—
Many little homes were builded in the valleys
down below.
HENRY LAWSON.


NO INVESTOR IS SAFE WITHOUT IT
How many tens of thousands of people were ruined in the ’nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
and the bad?
We are on the edge of a similar disaster. Already scores of companies have gone into liquidation. But no great amount of
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen?
The files and other data at the command of the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” are so complete that the companies themselves often
apply for permission to consult them.
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
No investor, great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make gure it
is safe.
You need not buy the “Monthly” without testing its value. Send for a sample copy, along with 1 id. stamp to cover postage, and
judge whether it is not worth 22/6 a year to you.
THE TIREDEST MAN.
The tiredest man Australia ever knew is
dead. His name was Gideon Smith. He died
in comparative oblivion at the early age of
52 years and four months; he claimed re-
lationship with Governor Carrington, a con-
tention amply supported by the intense
vividness of his yawn. Recognising that
chronic weariness was their son’s strongest
characteristic, his parents secured him a
position in the police force at an early age,
and for 20-odd years he fluttered feebly
about his beat, dragging his feet after him
with a painful effort, lurking in the shadows
hooked to convenient projections, sleeping in
unfrequented places, leaning hopelessly in
out-of-the-way corners, and hanging deject-
edly over railings and horse troughs, grow-
ing more and more fatigued as the years
rolled on. Then they wanted to make him a
sergeant, and he collapsed. He did not
throw up his billet, for that would _ have
required too great an effort —he simply
rolled out of the force, and lay in a state of
coma for three days, and then awoke and
feebly expostulated. He said he could not
carry another stripe—it would make him lop-
sided. Exhausted by the prospect, he suf-
fered a relapse, and was confined to his bed
for nine solid weeks.
During Constable Smith’s long service
in the force he never arrested a man unless
the culprit wanted him to, and then he would
hang heavily on to his prisoner, shut his
eyes, and leave matters entirely to the good
MISS ESSIE JENYNS, the best-known
Australian actress of her day; she was
the step-daughter of W. J. Holloway,
with whom she appeared in many
Shakspearean plays. Afterwards she
was Mrs. Wood, of Newcastle.
[B. 1/12/’88.]
sense of the malefactor. One night, in a
moment of unparalleled enthusiasm, he took
charge of a mild little inebriate who had no
particular objections to advance, and who
valiantly towed his captor to within a hun-
dred yards of the lock-up before coming to
the conclusion that he was exceeding his
functions as a common drunk and incapable,
and then he subsided, and flopped down on
the footpath, leaving the tired and despond-
ing officer with a limp prisoner on his hands.
Gideon expostulated in weary, mournful
cadences, pointed out the unreasoning aggra-
vation of such a proceeding; and called upon
his prisoner in the Queen’s name to exert
himself; but the inebriate merely muttered
some treasonable ejaculations, and relapsed
into unconsciousness.
Constable Smith was hurt and indignant—
he calculated the distance to the lock-up,
took a mental estimate of the tonnage of his
prisoner, gave a feeble haul at his collar,
again surveyed the track to the haven of
drunks, fluctuated for a moment, and finally
groaned in spirit and sat down on the pros-
trate citizen, pending his better judgment.
When the bibulous offender awoke he found
himself weighed down by a great piass of
somnolent policeman, but he contrived to
crawl from under, and departed, leaving the
arresting constable slumbering as peacefully
as a little child.
Gideon, too, was subject to fits of absence
of mind consequent upon his excessive faint-
ness and the extreme difficulty fat men
experience in recalling circumstances, especi-
ally in so warm a climate; he could not
think two thoughts consecutively without
being thrown into a profuse perspiration,
and the effort necessary to sustain a state
of mental alertness always winded him in
a few seconds. Towards twelve o’clock one
night, near the termination of
his police experience, he en-
countered a wounded woman
who was lying in a state of
unconsciousness up a right-of-
way. He felt that the woman
was wanting in consideration
in thus foisting her troubles
on a fatigued and dispirited
man; but, knowing his duty
as an officer of the law, he
sent a boy, who happened to
be passing, away for a cab,
and then propped his exhaust-
ed nature up against a house,
and enjoyed a short respite in
sweet forgetfulness. When
the cab arrived he scrambled
wearily into the vehicle,
directed the Jehu to drive to
the hospital, and subsided
again into a condition of pro-
found lethargy. When awak-
ened at the hospital he sum-
moned up all his energies—
and found he had forgotten
the woman!
After withdrawing from the
force, Gideon Smith took a
long rest to recruit and bol-
ster up his shattered figure.
He weighed about 16 stone at
this stage of his mild career,
and had to shore up his frame
against a brick house or a
stone mill —he could no longer
trust to fences and such
feeble structures. He secured
a position on a stool in the
Lands Department, but left
before the end of his first week
because his rest was dis-
turbed by the chief clerk, who
would insist on his licking the
stamps. Then he accepted a
billet as night-watchman at a
furniture warehouse, but aban-
doned it on finding that his
sleep was broken at eight
o’clock every morning by the
advent of the employees. He
next placed himself at a small remuner-
ation to advertise a cheap restaurant.
The proprietor, however, refused to pro-
vide a boy to dust the flies off him,
and he languidly withdrew. Occasionally
it had occurred to Mr. Smith that the
life of a shepherd was one singularly adapted
to a man of his taste and weight—the duties
were not onerous; it was work a fellow could
lie down to, and, with the assistance of a dog
to bark for him, the functions could be per-
formed in sleep. Gideon wished to be a
shepherd, and by degreees communicated his
desire to an influential friend, who obtained
for him a situation on the staff of a large
pastoralist holding land in Rodney (Vie.),
and in due time ex-constable Smith was
installed as a tender of sheep in a lone hut
in the valley of the Goulburn.
For four months Gideon Smith continued
to mind his flock, and during that time he
maintained his characteristic weariness and
grew several degrees fatter; and there lie
would have remained to this day had not
external influences conspired to remove him,
as he had become too tired to change his
mind. Nearly the whole of his pastoral
career he passed on the flat of his extensive
back in the shade of a friendly wattle, only
assuming the perpendicular under pressure,
for the exertion of throwing a shadow was
too severe a strain upon his exhausted ener-
gies and tended to crack his faculties and fill
his being with unspeakable weariness. One
Sunday morning, however, after a few days’
hard rain, Gideon was grievously awakened
from his deep sleep by a pilegetter, who
stopped in passing to shake up the prostrate
shepherd and inform him that the flats were
flooded and he’d better get up and strand
himself on a greater eminence if he’d no
desire to be put to the inconvenience of being
found drowned, and inquired into by the
coroner. Mr. Smith grunted a vague remon-
strance, wearily rolled his cumbersome per-
sonality over in the bunk, and, seeing only
about two inches of water on the floor of the
hunt, moaned a pathetic and profane com-
plaint about being harassed and worried to
a shadow by officious idiots who wouldn’t let
him get his natural rest. He furthermore
remarked, in a ghostly whisper with a fading-
inflection, that there were stacks of time,
surged over again, and snored like a reed
instrument.
An hour later a conscientious settler,
diverging from the submerged road, paddled
up to the isolated hut, and clamored violently
in the ears of its fatigued occupant. Gideon
opened one eye slightly, and groaned de-
spondingly—he saw there was no rest for the
weary in this wicked world. “Can’t you
let a feller alone?” he feebly moaned with
touching pathos. “Can’t you see I’m tired?”
Tfie settler directed his attention to the
sloppy state of his surroundings, and reminded
him that the fountains of Heaven were
opened and the waters of the great deep
broken up. Gideon Smith slowly yawned and
said he didn’t care a curse—lie was sleepy.
He put a theological imprecation upon the
settler’s eyes, and pleaded pitifully to be
allowed to have a wink of sleep. At eight
o’clock a rescue party, passing in a boat, gave
him a call; they said they were going down to
ferry Muldoon’s family off the Point, and
earnestly advised Mr. Smith to arise and
JAMES MIR AMS, the Vic. politician and financier, to
whom the collapse of the land boom brought
great trouble. [B. 1/10/’88.]
wade for the high ground, if he didn’t want
to be waterlogged in the flower of his man-
hood. Gideon again yawned, lifted his head,
gazed with an eye of sad reproach at the
rising water, now within an inch of his
wayworn person, summoned all his faculties
to an intense appreciation of the comforts of
his bunk, then sighed heavily, and sank back
on his pillow. “It’s all right, chaps,” he
murmured, drowsily, “I’ll come off when I’ve
had a rest.” Then a happy afterthought
struck him, and he remarked, with a little
more vigor, “P’raps you chaps’d jest step in
an’ hoist my bunk up a foot or two, if yer
not in much of a hurry.” Our hero was
dimly conscious of being directed to a pit
of fire and brimstone, as be fell again to rest.
Ex-policeman Smith was disturbed again
in an hour or so by the cool flood laving his
feet, and rippling insidiously along his
spine. He turned once more, and his soul
was full of gall—Man and Nature seemed to
conspire to rob him of brief respite from
awful languor and bodily fatigue. He pon-
dered a while: if he got up he would have to
scramble nearly half a hundred yards to dry
land; wouldn’t it be better to wait a while,
and see if the flood were not about to sub-
side? Perhaps if he could woo sleep to his
tired eyes again, he might not feel so
entirely prostrated when he awoke; anyhow,
it was awfully wearing on the system to
get np suddenly like this. Many a time he
had thought how tiresome it was to have to
breathe, to be forced to keep on working
like a machine, drawing in and blowing out
air from night till morning, and from morn-
ing till night. Gideon gazed dejectedly into
the yellow waters, lifted himself on his
elbow, made a mental calculation of the
laborious difficulties of reaching solid earth,
pondered on his physical weariness with in-
tense grief, wished somebody would come
along with a cart with nice soft springs and
PHIL MAY.
[B. 30/10/’88.]
transport him bodily at so much for the job,
propped himself a little higher, and was on
the point of making a superhuman effort
when he discovered that h,is feet were tangled
in the chaff-sack mattress. Then he sighed
and spread himself on the bunk once more—
that was justification enough. He gave, it
best. He just crowded on to the dry side
of his bunk, drew up his knees, and slum-
bered. . , „
Towards evening on that wet feunday a
number of laborers from a vineyard dis-
covered a hut sailing gaily on the, face of the
flood ; in it they found a body floating amongst
hand-made furniture and other wreckage.
Gideon Smith was at rest. —Edward Dyson.
[B. 21/12/’B9].
A story all the way' from Spain. A young
Madrid doctor became engaged to a lovely
girl, but he kept on postponing the marriage
till she got mad and began flirting with the
other fellow. Just when the latter had got
absolutely maudlin in liis affection the doctor
came to the scratch and they were joined,
while the discarded lover swore fearful oaths
in the church and vowed r-r-revenge. Then
there was bliss in the sawbones’s household,
and after a time there was a little Spanish
baby, and on the second anniversary of the
wedding there was a party and no end of
presents, and the rejected lover came and
made it up, and brought something pretty
in a box. But when the doctor opened it
it exploded and blew his head off, also his
wife’s head, and the baby’s little topknot,
and drove the remains of the doctor’s
mother-in-law into the stove, and five guests
were carried to the hospital on shutters. But
the rejected lover lay down flat on the carpet
wdien he saw the fond husband begin fooling
with the infernal machine, and his laugh
was the last thing the family heard before
they went to pieces.
A jilted young man at Doey’s Plaiif (Vic.)
drank himself to death to assuage his sor-
rows. His girl was so overcome by remorse
that she killed herself with strychnine. The
swain was a fool and so was she. We are sorry
for her death: the poor little woman was
too innocent and artless to know, and to
console herself by the reflection., that, had
he suicided decently with strychnine and left
a note for the coroner saying that some
girl had jilted him, scores and scores of
women would have gone about laying the
flattering unction to their souls that one
man at least had died for love of them. When
the time comes for us to swallow five grains
of the deadly alkaloid and die,, we will
scribble on a piece of paper: “I die for the
sake of a woman whom I love,” and then,
after dissolving the drug, we will stir into
it a small bottle of bitter beer and' drink
the draught, well knowing that when the
news gets into the papers, a lot of the little
simpletons who don’t believe that we ever
had any other girls will complacently re-
mark : “Dear me! Poor fellow, I never did
think he was quite right. He was always
a little strange in his manner, but I did not
anticipate he would end himself —how dread-
ful ! —for my sake.” And when the funeral
goes by they will slyly lift up one corner
of the Venetian blind to see how many cabs
follow the hearse, and then they will burst
into tears for a moment, and go and sew
that lovely trimming on their new opera
cloak.
ODE TO THE YARRA.
{By a Sufferer.)
Gigantic gutter ! Sewer-receiving stream,
Across whose breast the ferry-boat doth
steam! ...
Thou who dost cherish many a mystic stink
And fostereth many more upon thy brink,
At whose delicious scent e’en angels wink,
I think.
Where can we find a blacker, inkier flood?
Where sit the tranquil rats upon the mud
And whisper to the decomposing cat —
No more thou’lt scare away the gentle rat,
Or sit and yowl upon the doorstep mat,
I wot.
The sad-eyed puppy and the gloomy goat
Together on thy peaceful bosom float —
Deeming their tasks on earth are all com-
plete,
Not dreaming they’ll be used for sausage-
meat —
To Heaven they point, in resignation sweet,
Their feet.
The anxious butcher with a hook in hand
Upon thy brink with eager eye doth stand,
In order to augment his weekly wages.
The reason why his time he thus engages
It grieves us to record upon these pages—
Sausages!
Sweet innocents oft sport upon thy bank,
All heedless of their mother’s threatened
spank;
Too oft, alas ! they tumble in, are drowned,
Thou buriest them —alas! not underground,
But when the diver comes a-scraping round,
They’re found!
Crawl on, thou dank and dismal Yarra,
crawl,
While we with bated breath thy praises
scrawl,
By fertile meadows and by gum-trees tall,
By Merri Creek, by Kew Asylum’s wall,
The sweetest stream on this terrestrial ball,
We bawl.
THOMAS K. PITT.
[1887.]
MY UNCLE.
My uncle never drinks a drop,
He’s “steddy as a jedge.”
And yet eacli day as it comes round
He duly takes the pledge.
He takes it more than once a day—
Beginning with the dawn ;
He pledges takes from morn till night—
And keeps them all in pawn.


Patents,
AN IMPROVED DEVICE FOR HAND-
LING MATERIAL SUCH AS SAND,
GRAVEL, CRUSHED STONE OR THE
DIKE.
'T’HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 3711/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Re ALFRED EDMOND GEE—Deceased.
VV/ILL PERCY SMITH (or anyone know-
™ ing his whereabouts), stepson of th
late Alfred Edmond Gee, late of Hobart
in Tasmania, Doctor of Chiropractic, pleas*
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hobart.
LOTHIAN’S LIST
Of New Books and Announcements.
Just Out! A New Thriller,
THE VANISHING HORSEMEN
By A. E. YARRA.
A really well-written and exciting tale of
adventure in Australia.
THE VANISHING HORSEMEN,
As good as the best of the Wild West cowboy
stories.
THE VANISHING HORSEMEN.
Messrs. Lothian have arranged for publication
of this book in London.
6/- at all booksellers and libraries.
(Postage extra.)
In Active Preparation
A LIFE’S PANORAMA.
Some recollections and reminiscences of things
seen and heard, by John A. Gurner.
A book with a special appeal to Australian
readers. Mr. Gurner is the well-known K.C.
and his memories go back over 70 years and
cover events in many parts of the world.
The volume will be fully illustrated, well
printed, and handsomely bound. Large Or. Bvo.
Price 20/- net. (Postage extra.)
Advance orders should be placed at once with
booksellers to secure early copies.
Now Ready.
THE ABORIGINAL WORD BOOK,
by JUSTINE KENYON.
With a foreword by A. S. Kenyon. The most
authentic collection of aboriginal words and
their meanings ever published. Beautifully
printed and neatly boxed.
Price 2/-. (Postage extra.)
THE REMEMBRANCE BOOKLETS.
A very dainty and attractive series of Gift
Books suitable for all occasions at all times
of the year. Weddings, Birthdays, Christmas,
New Year, any event calling for friendship
remembrances.
Now Ready.
A MESSAGE TO GARCIA.
EMERSON’S FRIENDSHIP.
OMAR KHAYYAM.
In Preparation.
MATESHIP, by Henry Lawson.
LIFE, LOVE AND LOYALTY,
by Elbert Hubbard
THE DIVINE IN MAN, by Hubbard.
Neatly boxed. Price 2/- each. (Postage extra).
Send for Lothian’s Catalogue of Australian
Books, post free on application.
THE LOTHIAN PUBLISHING CO. PTY., Ltd.,
The Rialto, 497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
See the name
LODGE
on every plug
in your engine.
You will be sure that you
have the best plugs for
your car— whatever its
make or nationality.
Stocked by all gar-
ages throughout the
Commonwealth.
& I)
e
*4[)£
ItfG
m
LODGE
C 3
-or nearly all
engines screwed
metric.
Price 0/«
in sealed red
metal box.
LODGE PLUGS LIMITED,
Rugby, England.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SHOOTING
equipment
High-grade Shot Guns
Sporting Rifles.
Mick Simmons’ stocks, the most complete
in all Australia to-day, embrace the fore-
most English, American and Continental
manufacturers.
š
No. 2.—THE
MAINE SPECIAL
BOLT ACTION RIFLE
22-cal., take-down, with safety bolt. For
short, long or long-rifle cartridges; 2 1 in.
round barrel; weight about
3£lb 2 5/m
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 2/8.
ſ
No. 17.
WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, 1902 MODEL
22-cal., rimfire, 18in. round steel barrel,
bolt action; peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard; rubber heelplate;
weight about 31b. . . 34/6
Postage, 1/G; Other States, 2/8.
n
No. 42.
“THE SAVAGE”
REPEATING RIFLE,
1929 MODEL
22-cal., 24in. octagon barrel, slide action,
pistol grip; handles short, long or long-
rifle cartridges; magazine holds 20 S.,
17 L. or 15 L.R.; length overall,
40 inches; weight about
5 fib
*5/2/0
Carriage Paid.
V*. >\
No. I.
HARRINGTON
and RICHARDSON’S’
5.8.8. L. GUN
Top action, automatic self-
ejecting, steel barrel, solid,
case-hardened pistol-grip, walnut stock,
32in. barrel; weight about
*W* 52/6
Carriage Paid,
ß
No. 19.—THE
CERT D.8.8.L,
GUN, 12G
Steel barrels, left choke, cross-
bolt, bar locks, pistol-grip,
plain fininsh; weight about
71b
Carriage Paid.
*4/5/-
Simplicity! Efficiency! Rapidity! This
New Automatic Shot Gun has them
all. Absolutely the very last word in
Automatic Shot Guns.
No. 4.—BROWNING
AUTOMATIC
SHOT GUN,
12G,
s s
Slide grip,
steel barrel,
take-down system;
magazine holds five
cartridges. All mov-
able parts are inside
a receiver closed at rear, which
device affords absolute security to
the shooter. Great rapidity and
accuracy of shooting are obtained
with this gun. Weight
about B£lb
Carriafi? Paid,
Detailed. Frojusely Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on Request.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED
;h haymarket, Sydney
“ Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
Miss Maranoa.
STEELE RUDD’S STORY OF A GOME-BY-CHANCE AND THE LUCK OF
BARNEY McGEE.
AN autumn evening in May. After tea
you’ll short-cut through the grass pad-
docks on a visit to Don Oberhart, a
couple of blocks beyond your little homestead.
Rover, accompanying you, will he in his
element hunting about en< route and repeatedly
giving useless chase to invisible quarry,
returning after each fruitless effort, to pant
noisily at your heels.
Your visit to Don will be one of sympathy
and encouragement. Having changed his
policy and pinned his faith to wheat-growing,
he put all his eggs into one basket for
several seasons in succession and lost. When
you arrive you will find Barney McGee there
on the same eri’and, talking and laughing
glibly for Don’s benefit.
Neither of you, however, would for worlds
let Don know the real purport of your visit;
and you’ll each lie cheerfully in giving your
opinions of the prospective yield and the
golden future of wheat-growing generally.
You’ll reckon the values of wheat lands must
in time rise stupendously, and when they do
rise those who “hang on’’ will be on the
pig’s back. At last Don, who often enough
has himself taken a hand in cheering others
up, will turn from the fireplace and grunt:
“Yes, they’ll be on the pig’s back right
enough, if they’re not on their own or in the
blanky grave!”
Then you’ll make a clumsy attempt to
change the subject. But Barney, who has
broken more laws and told more lies and
got out of more tight places than you pro-
bably ever dreamed of, will come to the
rescue.
“Do ye know what it was I was thinking
of the other day, Richard?” he’ll break in
with a broad smile on his sun-flamed face,
and shaking his iron-grey head wisely.
You won’t know, of course.
“Well, damme if I wasn’t thinking of
picking up a likely sort of hack somewhere
with foot enough to win a handicap or two,
and making >a few pounds as well as getting
some fun out of it.”
‘■‘Well, why don’t you, Barney?” you’ll
grin.
“I was thinking more than once that that’s
what / ought to darn well go in for,” Ober-
hart will put in cynically. “I might make
more out of racecourses than out of blasted
wheat paddocks. Couldn’t lose any more,
anyway, and it wouldn’t be any worse
gambling.”
“The thing is to pick up the right sort of
horse,” Barney will emphasise—“one of the
kind that Terence McGee bought for a
couple of pounds from a drover who was
drinking at Ryan’s pub.”
“ Buttonhole?” Oberhart will remember.
“You’d go a long way before picking up
another like him for the same money, or for
a couple of hundred either! He turned out
to be a thoroughbred, one of C. B. Fisher’s
imported horses, sent west to serve some
station mares on the Barcoo. I remember
him.”
“And when Terry put a bushel or two of
corn into him and the brushes on him,”
Barney will enthuse for your benefit, “Gad,
but he was the finest looking animal ever
ye clapped eyes on, though before that he
was just a sleepy old clothes-peg of a sheep-
drover’s moke.”
“Terry could judge a horse in the rough,
what a lot of ’em can’t do; that was the
reason,” Don will say, dropping into the
armchair he made for himself out of half a
beer-barrel, to smoke thoughtfully, while you
reflect on the merits and make of some of the
best hacks you knew and rode in bush races.
“He won every race that Terry started
him in,” Barney will rattle on, smoothing
his brow with his rough palm, and fixing
his grey roguish old eyes first on you, then
on Oberhart. “And after being sold for
£5OO, damme if he didn’t win the Brisbane
Cup for the fellow who bought him from
Terry, and then went south.”
You’ll think of the meagre monthly cheque
you receive from the factory in return for
all your hard constant labor and sigh en-
viously.
“What’s that long-tailed brown thing you
keep running about your place doing nothing,
Barney?” Oberhart after a silence will ask
casually.
“A long-tailed thing? Oh ! Miss Maranoa,
ye mean.” And Barney, breaking into a
chuckle, will suspect the other of a joke of
some kind. “She’s one of the idle rich,”
he’ll add—“lives on the fat of th’ farm
without doing a hand’s turn for her support
—like Richard here.” And he’ll laugh as he
fancies he has turned the joke on you.
As though he hadn’t heard, Oberhart will
continue between puffs from his pipe:
“You’ve had her a long while, Barney. Wliat
do you call her Miss Maranoa for? Not a
bad cut of a mare. I was watching her trot-
ting along your fence the other day.”
“Sure I’ve had her for five year—since
she were a pet foal,” Barney suddenly becom-
ing grave will reply. “Her mother, the
fastest mare that ever wheeled a beast in th’
bush, died in th’ foaling of her ’way out
there in the ranges. And when old Mick
Maranoa fell into the hands of the bank and
rolled up his swag, which was all he had
left out of a couple of thousands, to clear
away with, the Devil only knew where to, he
left the foal with me to look after till he’d
come back, and if he didn’t come back I was
to reckon it my own for the paddoeking of it.
‘And,’ sez he, as he went off, ‘handle it at
two years, Barney, just to keep it quiet, but
don’t let anyone ride it at alj!’ And divil a
man has ever been on Miss Maranoa’s back
but myself.”
“Old Mick Maranoa’s mare?” you’ll sud-
denly wake up, gaping wonderingly at Bar-
ney. “A well built bay with black points
and a beautiful head, was she?”
“She was all that,” Barney McGee will
affirm, while Don Oberhart, his curiosity
aroused, will stare inquisitively at you.
“He won the first handicap held by the
squatters at the Plains with her,” you’ll
continue, “and rode her himself with a red
swag strapped before him on the saddle.”
“Gad!” Barney will laugh, “I believe I’ve
heard him sphake of it, Dick, but I usen't
always take a deal of notice of him, for ’twas
always horses and races and rumors of races
that he liked to talk about. There was no
depth in him. But he was the fine horseman
—few there was could ride like him, especi-
ally when he had a couple of Ryan’s rums
on board.”
Sitting up straight and eyeing Barney
closely you’ll ask, “Do you know what that
foal was by?”
“You mean the mare, Miss Maranoa,
Richard?” from Barney.
“Yes—a mare now.”
“How the divil would I know, Richard?”
Barney will chuckle. “But do you know
yourself?”
“This is getting interesting”—and Don, sit-
ting up, too, will knock the ashes from his
pipe.
“Well, yes, I do, since you’ve told me what
you know, and I’m the only person that does
know. Old Terry, wherever he is, doesn’t
know and never did know.”
“Why, what’s the strong of it, Richard?”
Oberhart will ask. “Some horse-planting
trick?”
You’ll shake your head and answer: “No,
but I was working for Jimmie Williams when
he rented Greenmount and had Melbourne
and Challenger and Kyogle and Italian and
Wild Wave sent there for a while, and Jim
Edwards, who was managing the place, was
allowed to take in a few mares at a high
fee to Wild Wave and Challenger, but they
had to be pedigreed mares with a certificate.”
“By th’ powers, there’s something behind
all this.” And Barney, drawing closer, will
fix you again with his little grey eyes.
“Old Mick Maranoa brought this mare of
his that I’ve described,” you’ll continue, “to
be mated with Waverley, but Edwards”
“Do you mean, Richard,” Barney will in-
terrupt excitedly, “that Miss Maranoa is got
by Waverley? Why, he was one of th,
greatest thoroughbreds that were ever im-
ported,- and won a lot of blue ribbons—sure
ye must be dreaming, Richard?”
“Yes, what’s the matter with you,
Richard?” and Don will gaze dubiously upon
you, too.
“I don’t say anything of the sort,” you’ll
go on, “for Edwards wouldn’t take the mai\
without a certificate, though he was sure
she was at least three-quarter thoroughbred.
But,” you’ll pause to stare alternately inti
their faces—“but this mare you have, i:
she’s the foal of Mick Maranoa’s mare, wa i
got by Melbourne —a greater racehorse than
ever Waverley was.”
“ Melbourne?” Barney will echo in amaze-
ment.
“How do you know that, Richard?” from
Don.
“Because I had a job at Greenmount
under Edwards, I suppose,” you’ll answer
discreetly.
“But you said he wasn’t taking mares
without pedigrees?”
“Neither was he to Waverley or Kyogle,”
you’ll repeat. “Well, there were times when
I was in charge of the stud for half an lioui
or. so, when Edwards was attending to other
things. He tvas attending to other things on
the day when Mick Maranoa left the stock
mare we’re talking about; and to tell yon
the truth, whether out of kindness or devil
ment I don’t know, I saw Melbourne enter
the yard where she was about five minutes
after Mick had gone. You can guess tin
rest! Edwards returned about twenty
minutes later, when Melbourne was back ii
the stable again. But soon as he saw tin
old stallion he suspected, and asked me a lot
of awkward questions. And it was the onh
time that ever I seriously lied to save m 3
skin or my job.”
“Upon my soul!” and Barney’s muscle
will twitch Avith suppressed excitement.
“If that's the case,” Oberhart will sugges:
calmly, “you’ve got a thoroughbred mare in
your paddock, Barney, by a Cup-winner
and the sire of Archie and Wheatmeat and
Yabba ! So what in the name of Erin ch
you want thinking of picking up a hack to
win a couple of handicaps for? There mighi
be a goldmine in this Miss Maranoa for all
we know.”
“Well, I’m certain of this,” you’ll answer—
“that the foal Mick Maranoa’s mare dropped
was by Melbourne and no other.”
Then in silence you’ll study both their
faces as if expecting them to thank you fo:
having handed them a goldmine.
Suddenly the mood of Barney McGee will
change. “Pshaw!” he’ll say. “It mightn’t
have been the same foal at all, or the same
mare either. And Mick Maranoa knew far
too much about horses to leave a thorough-
bred foal in th’ keeping of anyone—not to
saA r e his soul, he wouldn’t.”
“What are you giving us?” Oberhart will
interrupt indignantly, while you too will
stare wonderingly at Barney.
But Barney will feign not to understand.
“Let’s get away home,” he’ll suggest, “and
not be deludin’ one another any longer about
races and racehorses and th’ like. It must
be dark outside, I’m thinking.” And rising
and saying good-night to Oberhart, he’ll lead
the way out of the door, chuckling.
Arriving home Barney will display a
caution and excitement that will seem mys-
terious even to Mrs. McGee, his faithful com-
panion and drudge for thirty years and more.
“ Jamesy!” he will call to his eldest son,
who is in bed. “Soon as ’tis light and before
you bring the cows in, put Miss Maranoa into
th’ stable and lock the door, and say never
a word to no one that she’s there. And
Katie” —going to his wife’s door—“if any-


Shelley
CHINA*
Beauty
plain
of contrast-
ing colour en-
hances the purity •
of Shelley’s “Dainty
White” China, and
adds lustre to its
beauty. White
China is once again
in vogue, and
the noble Shelley
ware—fashioned by
in a -
dress
skilful potters
from English
Bone China with
craftsmanship in-
herited for genera-
tions in the Shelley
potteries —has ,a
reticent charm of
,its own, suggest-
ing the quintessence
of leisured loveli-
ness.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Lu Lucie Attwell
& Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• B.ITISH MADS
IM CASE OP ANY DIFFICULTY IM OBTAINING
WR.ITK TO
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Legal Notices.
TO WILLIAM STEPHEN OSBORNE, son of James
Osborne, deceased, who died at Ashburton, in
New Zealand, on the 17th day of February, 1908,
and any child or children of the said William Stephen
Osborne, and all persons claiming by, through or
under him or them. , , , .
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 31st day of
July, 1930, by a Judge of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand, you are hereby called upon to send in
to the undersigned on or before the 31st day of
March, 1931, your claims to the estate of the above-
named deceased, failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 6th day of August, 1930.
G. G. ROSE, Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,.
Wellington, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND,
1 TOWNSVILLE.
No. 54 of 1930.
Mr. Justice Douglas.
BETWEEN CUMMINS & CAMPBELL, LIMITED,
Plamtifi
And ALFRED HENJtY THEODORE THOM
Defendant.
To ALFRED HENRY THEODORE THOM.
TAKE NOTICE that Cummins & Campbell Limited
a company duly incorporated and carrying on business
at Townsville and elsewhere m the State of Queens-
land has commenced an action against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville by Writ
of that Court dated the tenth day of April 1930
claiming the sum of Six hundred and twenty-eight
nounds ei°bt shillings and nine pence AND IHAI
§you the said Alfred Henry Theodore Thom wish to
defend the said action you should cause an appeal-
ance to be entered for you in the said Court at
Townsville within thirty days from the date-of this
publication AND THAT in default of your so doing
the said Cummins & Campbell Limited may by
leave of the Court or a Judge proceed therein and
Judgment may be given in your absence.
ROBERTS, LEU & NORTH, Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
Denham Street, Townsville.
TO NORMAN CADMAN formerly of Dunedin in New
* Zealand motor mechanic but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Dunedin
citing you to appear and answer the 1 etition of
Susie Cadman wherein she prays for a divorce from
you on the grounds that a separation order made
against you at Dunedin on the twenty-eighth day of
April 1922 is still in full force and has so continued
for not less than three years and such citation inti-
mates that in default of your so doing the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition and to pio-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding your absence.
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within sixty days after
the date of this publication to attend in, person or
by your solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at
Dunedin and there to enter an appearance without
which you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings. ... ,
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme, Court Office at Dunedin.
Dated this 11th day of August, 1930
D. C. E. WEBSTER,
. Deputy Registrar.
- Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
ALEXANDER IVAN WALKER WOOD is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service is at
the office of Messieurs Tonkinson and Wood,
Imperial Buildings, 1 Dowling Street, Dunedin.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
Fully qualified matron
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision.
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street* Moreland, Melbourne.
TeleDhone: Brunswick 744. -
HOTEL PACIFIC,
CAIRNS
(NORTH QUEENSLAND).
The Terminus of the Sunshine Route to the North.
Mm
mm
mmims
TENDERS are invited ft. the purchaee o. the above Hotel, situated on the a*-* *•**
«■—> «—*> “ d lhe Un “ i ‘ rrf
Term of the Lease —walk-in, walk-out.
/■o') Freehold, License, Goodwill and Improvements only.•
(3) Unexpired Term of Lease, Furniture, Present Lease expires 31st December,
In the event of a Sale, Stock to J>e taken ‘‘ in the event of the sale of the freehold,
1931. Arrangements have been made with the lessee,
Z&' 35 bedrooms, upstairs, exclusive
of sleeping area on two balconies of dimensions gin. wide.
Watov laid on “oS*'» ““
sample rooms, 2 garages, large laundry—Bar 70 teet oy
fixtures. Electric lighting throughout £8254 ; BAR, £7807; WAGES, £52 per
43»,*tSfcS SWS !>■*- “ EER • *-> ’
Hogsheads oI Hotel and Freehold (approximately) .. ... £J5,™O
Cost Price of Furniture (*VV™ximatey) . ' up to one-half of the purchase price
The financing of a bona fide pm chase on fi balance to be paid by purchaser.
SHS «• a®--— * - —*°
unsuccessful tendereis. f anv tender submitted.
The Vendor reserves the right to accept oi to reluse any
For any further particulars desired, apply to—
THE PUBLIC CURATOR OF BRISBANE.
Public Curator.
Brisbane, 11/8/’3O.
one calls to ask questions about Miss
Maranoa, ye knows nauthin’ about her ye
understand?”
Though Mrs. McGee will understand
enough, she will ask from under the blankets .
“Whatever on earth has come into your
head now, Barney, that you’re so concerned
all at once about old Mick Maranoa s pet
foal? Are you afraid that someone is going
to steal her from you? Or is Mick liimsell
coming back at last to pay all he owes for
the paddocking of her? It would be a bless-
ing if he would!”
“Never mind all that, Barney will
answer, closing up the house; “but just keep
quiet on what I’m telling you m case any-
one might come to ask questions about what
isn’t their business.”
That night you’ll lie in your bed think-
ing and recalling those days when you worked
at Williams’s stud-farm under Edwards, the
manager. And in fancy you’ll see Mick
Maranoa arriving there again, leading lus
stock mare, and hear him, in the absence of a
certificate, pleading in vain for Edwards to
mate her with Wild Wave or Challenger.
Then, as Mick departs dejectedly, but leav-
ing the mare to be called for on his return
from town the following day, and Edwards
goes off to supervise the stack-building, you 11
hear again a mighty crash of a stable door,
a joyous roar of a stallion, a sudden responsive
love squeal; and then you’ll see Melbourne,
his glossy coat shining in the sun, his eyes
afire, his neck arched, bounding across the
yard, and Maranoa’s stock mare glancing
with glad eyes over her shoulder _ at Ins
approach, and swinging and swaying her
flowing tail in assurance of his reception.
“Gad,” you’ll burst right out, rising from
the bed, “this Miss Maranoa, got by Mel-
bourne, could be a Cup-winner!”
* * * *
A glorious Boxing Day ’way back in the
’seventies—the first race-meeting held at
Mt. Sibly. “The Mount” consisted of waste
country reserved by a Government of
squatters for “closer settlement,” and border-
ing this reserved area were mighty stations,
such as Headington Hill, Eton Vale, Clifton
and Pilton, all lying there within their
cheap, pointed sheep fences, like living land
sharks.
The race-meeting itself was a squatters’
outing. They provided the prizes, shaped the
course, marked it out near the foot of the
mount. They ran the meet, in fact, all over:
took charge of the scales; rang the bell in
warning for each race, and “clerked” the
course. Also, they provided the performers—
rare imported horses, some were, too! The
few cockies came along, bringing their
families in carts, to look on and spend a
shilling or two at the booth if they were lucky
enough to have any about them to spend.
But Barney McGee, being a genial, liead-
wagging Irishman, was an exception. Barney,
who was a “sport,” turned up leading a bay
moke in the rough that he had entered for
the Double-rein Bridle. Beside him Jamesy
“th’ son,” walked proudly, while Maggie, tile
ten-year-old daughter, trotted breathlessly
along on the off-side of the animal.
They came in touch with the crowd, a
galaxy of horsemen, buggy-pairs, fours-in-
liand, horsemen and horsewomen (these all in
belltoppers), families in spring carts, drays
and all the rest, gathered beneath the shade
of the wild apple-trees. Their friends catch-
ing a view of them, began calling out: “What
have you there, Barney? Something im-
ported?”
“Sure, ’tis nothing of a prestige to be
imported in this country,” he’ll laugh while
taking a shorter grip of the reins, and nudg-
ing the son to keep further away, “for ’tis
imported myself I am.”
And to “She’s only got six thoroughbreds
against her” he’ll respond : “I wish it were
seven, for being thoroughbreds they’d think
it’s th’ Day of Best, and she’d have it all
her own way.”
But soon the bell will sound the time to
saddle-up for the Double-rein Bridle.
“Are ye ready?” Barney’ll ask of the son,
as he girths the bay mare tightly. “Slitand
ve away, Maggie.” Then gripping the son
by the bare toot he’ll toss him into the
saddle and adjust the reins for him.
“Now go your hardest, Jamesy,” Maggie
will counsel ‘'proudly,' “and don’t let any of
them beat you.”
“Listen to her!” th’ son will grunt, touch-
ing Lady McGee lightly with his bare heels
and moving her. through the staring, laughing,
wondering crowd.
Grabbing Maggiot by the hand Barney will
rush away to take up a position near the
winning-post upon Maloney’s waggon, that
has on it a couple of bales of chaff as an
improvised staging.
“Fifty to five you can’t pick it in one,
Bell?” one purse-proud squatter will call
to another.
“What about the bay thing with the bare-
footed boy cm it?” Bell replies. “.What odds
it won’t win?”
“Twenty to one.” And Bell will toss him
a sovereign. . , , .
“Why, that’s my mare ye’re backing,”
Barney will say excitedly to him.
“Well, I’ve seen worse looking thorough-
breds than her in the rough. Can the boy
ride?”
“Phwat! Can Jamsey ride?” Barney will
splutter. “Can a duck swim or a business
man steal?”
Instantly the crowd, yelling “Off!” will
break in, and Barney and Maggie will go
perilously near falling from the bales of
chaff into the long grass below.
“Good start! Good start!” is all that
anvone can hear for several moments. Then:
“Young Leopold! Clifton! Brown Hodgson!
Rainbow! Rainbow taking the lead!”
A nntllPr
Suddenly from a throng of throats: “What
about the rough thing ? Lady McGee!
She’s gaining on them!”
Shouts of mirth mingled with surprise will
rise up. Barney himself will stand stolid.
But Maggie carried away by excitement will
clap her hands and cry “Go it, Miss Mara-
noa!” until her parent, pinching her arm, will
hiss: “Will ye shut up yer Miss Maranoa
and remimber ’tis Lady McGee!” and Maggie
will shut up suddenly.
As the field moves up into the straight
with the “rough thing” three lengths in the
lead and Jamesy in his bare feet sitting her
like a rock or a staghorn, t!*e crowd of
squatters will be bewildered. But Barney
McGee’s cocky friends, few though they be.
will rush round and cheer him as though
another Napoleon had jumped up.
“Your mare’s won,” they’ll shout, “and, by
damn, have licked the head off all the impor-
ted wonders!”
Though shaking like a leaf, Barney will
stand on the waggon watching Lady McGee
being led to the scales and the son lifted
from the saddle and placed on them. Barney
wasn’t one of those to count chickens before
they were hatched.
But the moment “Weight” is declared, lie
will grab Maggie by the hand again, and
jumping from the waggon will rush to con-
gratulate Jamesy and fondle and pat the
restless perspiring mare. Then turning sud-
denly to Maggie he will shout : “Bun home,
girrl, quick, an’ tell yer mother that Lady
McGee have won th’ Double-rein Bridle!
The home is two miles away, but, starting
off, Maggie will run like a lrare pursued by
a hawk.
And while Maggie is running, those who
had lost a wager or two will turn to Bell and
say: “You knew something about the
rougliie!”
But Bell will only smile.
* * * *
Three years or so later.
There’ll be much excitement at the cheese
factory one morning after New Year, when
the papers arrive. The suppliers, some
seated in their carts, will be calling to each
other: “Miss Maranoa that old Barney Mc-
Gee and Bell the squatter own between them
won the treble yesterday, and is a hot favor”
ite for the Brisbane Cup.”
Some will laugh and some will cheer tor
Barney McGee. But you, biting at your
underlip, will keep silence.
A few afternoons following, you and Don
Oberhart will be at the railway station un-
loading your drays and puffing and sweating
and feeling dejected, when Barney, wearing
a new tailor-cut tweed suit and smoking a
cigar, will step from the up-train, and, cross-
ing to the goods-shed, will greet you both
with a broad smile and a warm handshake.
You’ll both respond like a pair of invalids,
until lie adds:
“She was th’ foal that was got by Mel-
bourne from Mick Maranoa’s mare all right,
as Richard here well knew, and was the only
one who did know, and Mick himself died
away out back, and Bell the squatter was
his trustee. And so, of course—well, 1
suppose ye understand ?”
Cleopatra.
The room grows dark. Beyond the palms
The sun’s blood, welling ’neath night s
Dries from slow red to ash. Now calms
Earth’s day-tired breast. The lights
appear,
Each a fire-tear.
Ship-lanterns down the river go;
The veiled adventure of the sea
Spreads dim; the steady rowers row
Towards silver-whispering destiny;
’Tis thus with me.
As one at the inbreathing hour,
When revel’s late lamps flicker down,
The pillow sees like a cool flower,
Shrugs off the tattered spangled gown,
And the snake crown
Of twisted and enamelled gold
Lets fall to lie with neck-chams spilt
’Neath weary feet, wine-wet and cold.
And plucks back with hands ringed and gilt
The veil-thin quilt,
So seems this dim bed to my sight.
Set on three steps green-leafed with jade,
Though that is swallowed by the night.
The canopy of gilt brocade,
Like a wing’s shade,
Summons to wisdom-plumaged sleep—
The dark, unjudging, goddess-dove.
Then like those ships towards the deep,
Her shadowing pinions spread above,
Moveless I’ll move.
They, with their lanterns, meet the sea,
The song and wine booths now behind;
Towards silver-whispering destiny
They row in silence, calm and blind:
As is my mind.
Loud are the booths of wine and song,
The hurrying feet go round and round;
The war-gong and the temple-gong
Utter alike a dazing sound;
Love, like a hound,
Bays here, bays there; scents blood, seeks
Tears with keen joy the supple throat;
With hot tongue kisses hands and feet;
In offal rolls a sleek-groomed coat.
But when the boat
Casts softly off, and feels the stream
Accept it with unslackening hands,
The tumult of a tawdry dream
Seems that for which the city stands.
Better low sands
Asp-haunted, where vague rushes sigh
Of rest, and universal night
Blends unknown sea and unnamed sky....
Yes, like a long ship to my sight
This bed waits white!
Dusk has the wide room wholly now;
As age dulls beauty, mists obscure
The field of stars. Sleep at the prow
Will bring me where no hosts immure,
Nor years endure.
Now drops the booths of song and wine
(So early and so fully known!)
Far, far astern. All, breath of brine,
Hither on a slow wind-sigli blown
To meet my own!
Me the great waters voiceless call,
Laid quiet on this barge of sleep.
T.ike a dim sail the brocade pall.
J ’Twixt my tired breasts I feel death creep.
Last tooth of love, bite deep!
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


ś ś
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featkerston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/' 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents*—Messrs. ELDEIt, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established 185
ADVERTISERS!
The Court instructs every Jury to keep an
open mind, and record a verdict according to
the evidence placed before them.
When considering- future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age.”'
Audited net Sales... 122,501 ..daily
(60% Metropolitan—4o% Country).
Over 96% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is “Australia
First,” and its effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in S months.
THE NET SALES OF
3%
gt&
ŝ
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 rpiles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: "Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cbc Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “TIJE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Crotch, price l k?. m
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.TV. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8VV70.38.
Representative in Victoria: -
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cist waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer,”
“The
Telegraph ”
(lßrisbane) .
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Bafrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
fa the inhst popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Stree-t. Sydney.
knowing
pupv
uKtieyes
ş
X/f ANY brilliant and accomplished
people have had grey eyes; and
grey eyes are said to denote a steady,
resourceful and determined character.
Eyes tell about health as well. If the
whites have lost their brightness and
are dull and yelloiv-tingcd, it means
you are constipated; that beauty and
health are being impaired by waste
and poisons, which are spreading all
over your system. The best remedy
is the famous vegetable laxative —•
Beecham’s Pills. One at night gently
cleanses the system. Buy a box
to-day.
š
dad
Worth a Guinea a Box*
V*
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER’’ is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER" has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner ” “Weekly
Evening Express” obtainable from:
and “Saturday
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W.
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.. Sydney.
Plee-.se forward The Bulletin for 12, 0, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME ...
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
i-'SW
yf
o\
JS
0
0°
6
6)*
s e
0&
JP (&®
••• X,
/sir
••■ s e^
c‘P 1 ,v,(
• . *° o<
CA V ' > "v^ v


CHRYSLER MOTORS
LOW COST
QUALITY CAR
The Lowest-priced Full-size Car
asd
Plymouth is the
only car in the
lowest-priced
field that is built
by Chrysler —there-
fore it is the
only car in
that field to offer
the distinctive
engineering re-
finements and
the precision
craftsmanship
which have made
the Chrysler
name world-
famous.
The Plymouth
still stands alone
%
ML
%
b
among cars of lowest price
with 4-wheel hydraulic
brakes safe, weather-
proof, self-equalising, need-
ing no lubrication and
permanently noiseless.
The Plymouth
still stands alone
among cars of
lowest price with
its full-size
throughout—
in body, frame,
axles, transmis-
sion and power
plant.
You’ll sense the
difference in
Plymouth the
moment you take
the wheel.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Neu) South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lanes Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .......... Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Aitwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania . Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea . n #.... W. R. Carpenter 6r Co., Ltd., Rabaul
