

SERS
»g
9b
o
$5
£
G
4?
*
*336
Q
KING GEORGE IV
A POPULAR "SCOTCH" SELECTION
Produced by
The Distillers Agency lie
EDINBURGH
954
m
m
s
m
I
o.
PAT C* ft
The Bulletin
*— QJi .
Vil. 51.—N0. 2629.
Wednesday, July 2, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r T , IIE Now Library Catalogue for 1030 is
1 now ready, and wiil be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
When winter’s magic carpet white
I' o'er the landscape spread.
Despite of all its beauty bright,
Of colds it. brings us dread.
But they who keep (heir confidence.
And live by rules of rommousense,
For coughs and colds ran t use assure,
With Wood-' (,'reat Peppermint Cure.
Story
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
WO Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, pour New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 315
vnvaisnv
9 a 6
iIHOVSATt
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaghts Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
\
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
y////////////////Z
I
/
1
m
1 \pw
'/////////////////s
THE DINNER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah ! the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
Winchester
A;
jr
S';
H'
5TAYNLE55
*P
&
$s$
WM
'4Z
taM
<r
'J-:
SBR
£8
$
"iVo?
g
as
5SX
it
\t
4
t\ S-S
sms
nw
lUS
w
ss
wwcffEsrm
TRADE MARK
STAYNLESS
CENTER FIRE CARTRIDGES
WITH all the old-time Winchester accuracy and dependability
and our special non-corrosive priming mixture, which neither
rusts nor pits your barrel. They save you the trouble of con*
stantly cleaning your barrel and long protect the shooting
qualities of your favorite guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
.jVjTAftvays use Winchester Ammunition
Winchester Arms- they ore made for each otherj:^'
HAVE YOUR VERSE AND
STORIES CRITICISED
BY AN EXPERT.
Stories, 1/0 per 1000 words; Verse, Id. per line.
P. E. SMYTHE, 8.A., Dip. Ed., Barker College,
Hornsby.
CRICKET ENTHUSIASTS
will all want C. V. GRIMMETT'S new book,
“GETTING WICKETS.” Paper cover, 2/6; postage,
4d. Cloth, 3/6; postage, fid. Supplies will reach
Australia shortly. Order your copy now from
THE BOOK DEPOT,
135 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
■PIRECT MECtlUivrEp WOMEN 1
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
\
The Red Page
Frauds, Artistic and Otherwise
A devastating light is thrown on the
picture industry— not the moving-picture
industry, but the picture-inside-a-frame
industry—by the arrest of J. C. Millet in
Paris. Millet has for years been diddling
connoisseurs, fooling critics and separating
American millionaires from portion of their
riches by imitating his respected grand-
father’s drawings and paintings and selling
them at the ridiculously enhanced figure
which age and ignorant art magazine chatter
give to the painting of previous genera-
tions. Emboldened by the ease of his
success, young Millet went on. according to
his own confession, to forge works of
Manet, .Monet, Daubigny and others. Some
of his copies he sold for as much as £3OOO.
The industry prospered and he employed
other artists until the enterprise grew into
a major business. Altogether, the frauds
foisted upon the innocents, for whom there
can be no sympathy, number between 3000
and 4000.
In the present debased condition of art
standards the scheme is as easy as winking.
There are dozens of people besides Millet
engaged in it. The fraudulent proceeding
has a respectable antiquity. It is impos-
sible to-day to say with certainty whether
a Renaissance painting was done in whole
or part by its alleged author or by his
pupils or ingenious forgers centuries later.
Of late years the thing has become easier
than ever. A new method of copying Old
Musters has lately been developed. By
tlie old method a painter’s mannerisms w'ere
directly imitated. To-day a competent
realistic painter, instead of regarding the
picture he is copying as a work by a par-
ticular painter, will regard it as an arrange-
ment of tone in color and record his im-
pressions precisely as he would any col-
lection of objects in Nature, such as a
landscape or a vase of chrysanthemums.
There are in Melbourne to-day some copies
of Old Masters by an Australian realist
which would probably prove indistinguish-
able from their exemplars unless chemical
tests or the eyes of a great artist were
applied to them. The painter has no in-
tention of selling them as originals—he is
an honest craftsman—but no doubt he
could do so if he wished.
The Paris scandal should be another
warning to the Felton Bequest committee,
which handles the largest benefaction to
art in Australia and still persists in its
old-fashioned reliance on the judgment of
amateur art experts, on professional critics
w’ho have never painted a picture or even
looked on Natiire with the eyes of true
artists, dhe difference between a great
work of art and one not so great is usually
a matter of the minutest fractions. The
ability to recognise those differences is
only possible to one whose eyes, through
constant observation of Nature, have be-
come at least as highly organised as those
of the great painter. There are probably
not more than half a dozen artists in the
world to-day with this ability. Yet the
ielton Bequest people and suchlike corpor-
ations continue merrily to buy pictures on
the evidence of men who substitute pre-
judice and fashion for genuine knowledge.
The sad state of art criticism has recently
been exemplified brilliantly in Melbourne.
Painter Streeton is the art critic for the
Argus. ’ Streeton has achieved some fair
measure of objective vision, but his best
canvases are still only somewhat paintv
approximations to the superb reality of
Nature. He recently declared a French
painting of the nude hanging in a
Melbourne hotel bar a greater realistic
presentation of human flesh than that
of one of Australia’s leading realistic
painters. Even painters belonging to
Streeton’s own school were appalled at the
self-exposure of this artist-critic’s inade-
quacy of vision. An even more glaring
example was provided by Blamire Young,
wdio criticises for the “Herald.” Attacking
the same artist, on his own ground he
declared that in depicting landscape he had
obviously left his spectacles at home. Yet
1 oung’s own pictures have never reached
within coo-ee of natural appearances. His
best, work is only a romantic synthesis of
reality. It is glorified poster designing or
stage scenic painting. His light is the
spotlight of the theatre. When he attempts
reality his pictures are notably deficient in
everything that comprises reality.
Literature has no more to do with paint-
ing than it has to do with music, but the
vast majority of Felton Bequest pictures
have been chosen by literary men or artists
like Bernard Hall who are literary men
before they are painters. It would be
interesting to know how many productions
of the junior Millet factory are hanging in
Australian national collections.
F.S.
Th e Golden Key
In the last few years a few wise men
have noted that traditional education is
more a tradition than an education. One
ot these is an Australian, Dr. Neil Mc-
Queen, and The Golden Key (Angus and
Robertson) is a book setting forth his
views in challenging terms. There are no
beg pardons or nice apologies. It is an
example of how burning enthusiasm can
seize a pen and blaze up in a fiery inspira-
tion which sears the mentality of all who
come near. If you do not want to have
your comfort disturbed, do not read The
Gulden Key. If you think that your edu-
cation was the best in the world, do not
read The Golden Key. If you love your
old school and think that its graduates are
the best ever, do not read The Golden Key.
Ihe main point made by the author is
that the traditional curriculum of schools
is uninspiring and, in the main, useless.
If good and clever citizens are produced
it is in spite of their school training rather
than because of it. The blame for the
trouble, says the author, lies in the idea
that “secondary schools exist only for the
purpose of preparing pupils for a university
course. This enables the university to
dictate largely the curriculum of the schools.”
Quite useless subjects are demanded to the
exclusion of ones which would be definitely
helpful to the children in after life. The
university insists on modern languages in
the matriculation, but sees not the slightest
import in subjects like physiology or music.
Ninety-nine of the children who leam
French will never hear it or speak it, but
everyone is compelled to listen to ,music
at least once a week.
Mathematics finds Dr. McQueen in a
particularly pugnacious mood •
Children should learn what degree of accuracy in
measurement is necessary. A great many pupils
should never go on to algebra at all; the solving of
a quadratic equation has very little bearing on life
for the great majority.
In this the author will have the support
of every thinking man of affairs. What
excuse is there for teaching girls advanced
mathematics and neglecting infinitely more
important subjects. Does trigonometry
make good mothers? Does algebra help a
female to cast a considered vote on elec-
tion days? The die-hard will probably
retort that advanced mathematics make for
clear thinking. Fiddlesticks! When you
place them alongside history, political
economy or the intelligent appreciation of
a Bach fugue they fade into the hinterland.
Contemporary events form a compulsory
subject in Dr. McQueen’s curriculum:—
Teachers of the older type naturally cannot see
the point of it. The older aimed at preparing
children for examinations; the modern school all over
the world aims at preparing children for facing
up to the responsibilities of life. We believe that a
knowledge of the work and problems of the world
to-day is an essential part of the equipment of any boy
or girl who is to pull his or her weight in the world.
School work, almost every one will agree, is in-
tended as a preparation "for life’s work, and yet
the great majority of young people in our schools
get no instruction to enable them to understand
what is going on in the world now. It is most
necessary to give training in discrimination so that
all printed matters may not be regarded as sacred.
Of course Dr. McQueen has committed
the unpardonable fault of being in advance
of his time. Education has slowly but
surely improved in the last 25 years, and it
will improve much more in the next 25.
By then Dr. McQueen’s theories will be
practice whereas now they are merely ex-
pressions of anarchy. His book is possibly
the -most valuable contribution to educa-
tion yet made by an Australian.
DOURBLE GRADUATE.
More About Bad Smells
“S.N.R.” asks (R.P. 7/5/’3O) if the author
I attacked intended his verse to be aesthetic
or eclectic. I do not know, but the natural
presumption is that a poem is meant to
be aesthetic. If the poet had intended his
poem to be a scientific study of sex per-
version he should have published it as
such. It is generally recognised now that,
the prosecution of Havelock Ellis for pub-
lishing “The Pyschology of Sex” was a
mistake. It was a scientific study. But
what would be said if a ppet. or a novelist
were to give us, in the form of art. certain
of the information in this standard work?
“S.N.R.” cites incest in the Bible, but is
that not recorded as an unembroidered
fact, and not as something to be decked
out in filthy detail?
The question, I submit, is not one of
reason, but of instinct, which is often a fat-
surer guide. Civilisation’s accumulated
sense of decency is not the same in every
country, but there is pretty general agree-
ment that certain things are indecent. I
know a well-educated poet who laments
that convention will not allow him to
write on the organs of generation, and
I have heard of a man outside a lunatic
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our assurance and your 'guarantee.
, Better Clothes —for Boy
from
m
(THE SENIOR STORE).
For many decades mothers everywhere have looked to the “House of Economy” to supply
their children s needs. They know they get clothes that stand up to the hard gruelling wear
alt healthy youngsters give them while at the same time they have the benefit of our Famous
Low Prices. Read through the lines we list below—you may order them by mail or ’phone
with the same confidence as if you had paid a visit to the store knowing that we guarantee
satisfaction complete ana absolute with every purchase.
m
mm
All-Wool Tweed Suits, 22/6
Mothers! What splendid value this is—smartly made suits
from dark grey all-wool tweeds. A splendid material that
will give real satisfaction in wear and appearance. With plain
knickers to fit boys 5 to 15 years. Price, the suit .... 22/6
With Golf Knickers to fit boys 9 to 16 years, price .... 25/-
Boys’ All-Wool Knickers, 4/11
Another exceptionally fine offer of knickers in all-wool tweeds
in shades of grey and navy cheviot serges. Smartly cut and
well lined. To fit boys 4| to 15 years. Price 4/11
Boys’ Serge Knickers, 7/11
Fine quality indigo serge knickers. Cut with two pockets and
well lined. To fit boys 4to 15 years. Price 7/11
Navy Flannel Blazers, 10/6
Boys’ good quality navy flannel blazers, with two-color cord
edges. To fit boys 2 to 15 years. Price 10/6
Heavy Tweed Overcoats, 26/6
These are smartly cut from heavy dark grey tweeds with
raglan sleeves and belt all round. Fully lined. To fit boys
from Bto 17 years. Prices 26/6, 27/6, 28/6
Double-breasted Overcoats, 25/-
Boys smartly cut double-breasted overcoats in shades of fawn
and grey. These have half belt and are fully lined. To fit
boys 2to 8 years. Prices 25 /-, 27/6
(All Boys’ Wear, Second Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
Send for our New Mail Order Catalogue
It is a veritable Savings Bank for every housewife,
showingas it does, innumerable opportunities to
economise on every household and personal need. We
cordially invite our country friends to write for this
comprehensive book, which brings the 'opportunity and
advantages of shopping at the “House of Economy”
to the farthest corners of the continent . Post free on
request.
Anthony Horderns'
'Phone: MZlfll
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 27ISC, G.P.O.


3HK
»w
wMzms^
:
W-A*
,S*(J3
.«:-2
- -«-'* 7^f?v^gl^r<»s^g^
- - "
&*!&*
•VS*?:
V*'»'r 1
-*r&>
ps3
Sss£s
S^y-f
Sltfi
-Vvv £;^--'
•&>i3s£i!h‘‘ , &
fc-/.--«^-B*^
sgpr
>*y'
s 5«?£«?JS!"v
i >, *
t2g'>? ' • L-
.
•iSw>A"***’ , iS'" -'
§^B»r ?
388SS*-.. .
:.^fi£
' -
* : .<4.3j»S|
'<^sSr<s«
&g
«
■'\*-
-,'.,ivC-s'' »x
. x .
-^; ;x
-■>• .<,*sJ'*Cb. *t A,-. •••■'“*.
: #S3l!i
X r ssoX?*
i--s^Bw
■ „J^ssS^
»ii*a£
* r ':^^f3pS
gjSsfe
5*23*? vs.
, :S.
J-l-.»'».i<.MjjsJCC * >
,Z;r,?T-.
&Ss*
:••• ■
spsa
s*®SsiSBSS^S
-^^iP
- -■
rr*«
...<;
*?**•)»
■ -:
«rw
Ss*
h&tyse
■ as
jstsSsfa^s&sagg
;*;■:■ *
a s&
ad .
S62riSt
.^AagMS
SSK
H -
K 1
: C:
«s
BsS
£#&*&
§£s
i! ‘---
*£*■<*■
gg«fesfer^3S
as
»s
xs
’Jss
m
V rf»
Sr?pM
i^-T
& t&z
W&
~*&du>i
*m.
a»
""*• -'
sfe3?r
- £:# 7**rrr>•’* 4*w> a
•sa
•' '■ *• *■ *'
Ktefl*4Sr- -. • .-*-«nA*
esssp
g
sxrn'steSSrt.
s^;:;,..^er^^-5-:--.--;-----
-•isse
s£>iXE^vs
S«V
?S
Sk£S
p -
acjSS
:i I p
SS»B
SS» -
»SB
aga^
«*>:«
Sf^i
3E^
-5»
3g
isn*«^S
I*s®
PfiJK
w« -.
9«Su
S& :
tl/ A \\
■
as?
sera
1
SSe
r ' ■
f£t.
i?!r
jTs^SgSS
$8
&&
kSS-i
■viy*
SB*«
!*S*3i
SPSfi
:*'
:'^
s«s*
•" «
-ft— r
2*^
w;
P«sf
-.r;- •■
fm-Wz
Sffi
:. 58
PS*
ssw
&&
mmgg
jSfs
J«»«8
?»435i
Sr*!
®e n
sSO
m
r^efJiff?^
>x.-;'r.;r
bsms
ys.c*S£
.l-V*
’'X
can
*• * "•'' y<v»F« **' .
f*
Z*<-*-Jtr
spgCK-
»*' rriiaSSH l ??
'-J>i
Kingsford Smith
in the” Southern Cross”
on his
Trans-Atlantic Flight
used
PLUME
and
Mobiloil
Although Plume is not marketed outside
Australia and New Zealand supplies were
made available in Ireland for this great
flight, at Squadron Leader Kingsford
Smith’s request.
OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.


rS&v:'-:*
How to
see
AMERICA
This new Bureau will tell yon!
OU are invited to ask questions about the United
* States! The new free travel service of The
Oceanic Steamship Company (Matson Line) has been
organized just to answer them.
Headed by an American railway expert, newly
come out to Australia, the American Railways Travel
and Information Bureau is ready to help you plan
your next trip home by way of the United States.
Why not let the Bureau suggest an itinerary? No
charge for the service. And you should have a copy of
the new free booklet, “To England Across America”
(illustrated with latest photographs of National Parks
and cities). For this and any other service you may
need, call on or write our American Railways Travel
and Information Bureau.
SOaANK STtAMSHIpCa
MATSON LINE
Dept. M 13 —12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Tel.: 87981.
McILWHAITH, McEAOHARN, LTD. I Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
DALGETY & CO., LTD. j Fremantle, Albany.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Brisbane and Queensland Ports.
asylum who professed to think that certain
physical urges should be satisfied in public.
These theories may be sound,'but the die-
tates of civilisation are against them, and I
believe civilisation to be right. I submit
that there should be similar restrictions
upon art. After 30 years in daily journalism
I may still be hopelessly old-fashioned, but
there are things in recent books that affect
me like a filthy story told for the sake of
the Author 1 tMnk 1688 ° f the teller and of
M. L. CRITIC.
Maoriland Economically Considered
Dr. J. B. Condliffe’s just-published, New
Zealand in the Making is the first "attempt
to review the progress and development of
the Dominion from a purely economic stand-
point. The qualifications of its author are
impressive. He is a Maorilander by birth,
a product of N.Z. Uni., undistracted by
political affiliations. The impartiaf insider
is the ideal historian, and rare, because it
is so difficult for the insider to escape per-
sonal and doctrinal prejudices. -' If Dr.
Condliffe has such prejudices he has care-
fully concealed them. In his summing up
of various phases of the life of the young
community he gives the economic verdict
according to the facts.
The work, the fruit, as the author dis-
closes, of 15 years of close statistical study
of the effects of legislation and of trading
and industrial developments, stands on a
more scientific plane than that of such
shrewd foreign investigators as Rossignol
and Siegfried, a.nd though—and this is in-
evitable—less colorful and drier reading
than such a frankly partisan political pam-
phlet as Alfred Saunders’s two-volume
“History of New Zealand,” and the quasi-
personal commentaries in the books of
Reeves, it draws a larger field into focus
and gives a truer perspective. The conflict
between Wakefield’s famous “Theory of
Colonisation” and the more empirical ideas
of Sir George Grey and his successors in
the field of land legislation, Vogel, Bal-
lance and John McKenzie, is illuminatingly
traced, the author incidentally paying a
long-overdue tribute to the memory of that
much-maligned statesman Julius Vogel. Dr.
Condliffe also appreciates the strong influ-
ence which the writings of J. S. Mill and
John Ruskin had upon political thought in
the young colony, though he has to admit,
as every observer has noted, the purely
opportunist and disconnected character of
most of the important political innovations
with which the name of the Dominion is
associated.
The relations between Maori and Pakeha
are fairly comprehensively examined, and a
great deal of attention is paid to the effect
of foreign trade developments and the
growth of the pastoral industries. Of most
interest, however, to the practical student
of politics are the chapters dealing with
“borrowing for development,” which the
author neither praises nor condemns; the
economic functions of government, and the
Maoriland experience with the State regu-
lation of wages. In regard to borrowing,
Dr. Condliffe traces a connection between
the influx of foreign loans, the productivity
of the people, a.nd the scale of land values.
Up to a certain point, he shows, the influx
of cheap money was accompanied by in-
creasing productivity, but a continuation of
the stimulant in larger doses reduced pro-
ductivity. This also seems to have been
the effect in Australia. The treatment of
the subject of wages regulation is thorough,
and the summing up is worth quoting:—
It is not proven that it [State regulation of wages]
does slow up production as much as industrial con-
flict might do, and even if this were proven, New
Zealand majority opinion would regard the cost as
well repaid by the safeguarding of the standards of
living of the economically weak.
But, of course, as the author shows, the
authority of the Arbitration Court is re-
spected, its impartiality is not seriously
challenged, and even the strongest and most
turbulent unions have learned that the
whole country stands behind the law. In
Maoriland even trades-union leaders gain
knowledge by experience.
Dr. Condliffe’s book is recommended
without hesitation as a treatise especially
suitable for the guidance of young poli-
ticians throughout Australasia, irrespective
of party. It has so little political color that
it couidn’t cause the most ardent Com-
munist or the most crusted Tory irritation,
and it is packed with facts —a book Carlyle
would have relished.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
Australian Stories Abroad
If you want to make an occasional
cheque by writing fiction for English maga-
zines, be wary of setting the Eternal Tri-
angle in Australia. It has been done, by
brilliant pens, but it doesn’t pay as a
habit. Get off the mainland and try cocoa-
nut palms, burnt sienna complexions, black
eyes and red hibiscus. Northern Queens-
land offers high lights and McLaren has
captured some of them, Dorothy Cottrell
did an astounding thing in netting the vast
circulation of the “Ladies’ Home Journal”
with Australian matter. But. it isn’t done
every mail day.
Living by journalism and some fiction
—the latter ceased to be “returned with
regret” when it ceased to be Australian—-in
London for three years, I know what the
ordinary pen can do. With an honest
literary agent to push my little barrow I
got occasionally into good magazines with
illustrated Australian articles and an occa-
sional short story. My agent, however,
suffered much anguish of “returned with
t " a “ ks m the process. After long and
? bst ‘ nat ® beating against stony editorial
llf r aid,s > *• took the advice of the person
# was trying to sell almost unsaleable
st;ua ’ aad Mexican border stories sold
ea , S , 0 is: Try them with a
aaid- Doiled bandit yarn set in a
tnangle armed with six shooters,
SYDNEY BRIDGE.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit,
though not necessarily with the Red Page’s
endorsement
General Literature.— Knocking Round,
by J. Le Gay Brereton; A Room of One’s
Own bv Virginia Woolf; Gentlemen in
u a 1 j rlor ’ b .v Somerset Maugham; Byron,
by Andre Maurois; Ne Obliviscaris, by Lady
1 rancis Balfour; New Worlds to Conquer,
by Richard Halliburton; My Tropical Air
Castle, Frank L. Chapman; Pulpits and
Personalities, by the Janitor; Ju-Ju and
Justice in Nigeria, by Franck Hives; Who
Moved -the Stone? by Frank Morrison.
Novels of Literary Merit.— The Woman of
Andros, by Thornton Wilder; Diana, by
Emil Ludwig; New Zealand Short Stories,
by O. N. Gillespie; Negrohead, by Roy
Bridges; Her Privates We, by Private 19002.
Novels for Popular Reading. —The Town
of Tombarel, by Wm. J. Locke; Wild Justice,
by George A. Birmingham; Pilgrim’s Ford,
by Muriel Hine; Time, Gentlemen, Time, by
Norah Hoult; Powder and Patch, by Geor-
gette Heyer; Ten Creeks Run, by Brent, of
Bin Bin; Secret Places, by Joan Sutherland;
Blair’s Attic, by Joseph C. and Freeman
Lincoln ; Mary Simnel’s Marrying, by Mar-
garet Baillie Saunders; Regency Windows,
by David Emerson ; Some Other Beauty, by
I. A. R. Wylie; The Pleasure House, by
Cosmo Hamilton.
A Satchel of Books
Jf Difficult Art, by Georgia Rivers
(Bkeffington). This novel originally ran
through the “Woman’s Mirror.” The author,
a Victorian, writes with remarkable ease.
Original metaphors flow from her pen as
freely as bromides from the tongue of a
platform orator. It is a dangerous facility,
but Miss Rivers holds the balance fairiy
evenly between daintiness of expression and
sincerity of feeling. The gradual unfolding
of Anna Madox, a girl who has reached
18 with an unusual ignorance of her own
biology,, is cleverly depicted. The characteri-
sation is better but the plot slighter than
in the author’s first novel, “Tantelego.”
The Other Woman, by Vina* Delmar
(Allan: Robertson and Mullens), is another
book by the author of “Bad Girl,” which is
said to have been written when she was 14
years old. Miss Delmar, like so many Ameri-
can writers, is exclusively engaged in holding
up a mirror to Moronia. None of her
characters ever say anything worth saying,
do anything worth doing, or think anything
worth thinking. They are, in fact, various
aspects of the great cliildman and cliildwoman
who, according to some psychologists, com-
prise 70 per cent, or so of the nation—of,
perhaps, any nation. They jazz, listen-in'
worship Greta* Garbo, believe in the divinity
of the prevailing American President, and
are fooled and robbed by anybody who has
the key to their simple emotionai reactions.
Miss Delmar never departs from straight-
forward depiction of these dreary people and
fills her entire canvas with them, whereas
European novelists, with the aristocratic
tradition, usually give their morons small
walking-on parts bv way of providing con-
tra*st with the leading characters. It says
something for her art that Miss Delmar
makes her picture interesting.
Europa’s Beast (Chatto and Windus), by
R. 11. Mottram. is that fine writer at his
worst. (And it may be mentioned that
when Mr. Mottram relaxes be can. write
as badly as most people.) Skene, of the
war books, makes another appearance. He
has a job in connection with a housing
scheme at Easthampton. and it leads him
into a love affair with the wife of a young
man whose war injuries, superimposed on
a good public-school education, have left him
inarticulate to the verge of imbecility. Ray.
the husband (who is providentially killed in
an aeroplane accident), Olive, the wife and
their relations and acquaintances are con-
vincing enough, but they are negligible
people, moving against a prosy provincial
background. The slow-moving narrative is
held up periodically by the presentation of
an episode as it occurred, and as it impressed
Skene, Olive, though her creator evidently
does not see it, is a congenital sensation-
seeker who will betray Skene as readily as
she would have betrayed her first husband.
The Levinskaya System of Pianoforte
Technique and Tone-Color (J. M. Dent) is
a work in which a very, accomplished pianist
and teacher, Madame Levinskaya, challenges
the theories of Matthay and Breithaupt
concerning touch. The domain of touch is
a vast one. The ideal legato touch—that
on the “held” note—can be obtained, though
Madame does not say so. by taking a lead
pencil with a rubber and letting it fall on
to a key from a height determined by experi-
ment. The distance and the weight of the
pencil must be adjusted to the resistance
offered by the pianoforte’s action. To dupli-
cate the effect through the agency of the
complicated muscular system of the human
shoulder, arm, wrist and fingers is a matter
for deep thinking on the part of most play-
ers and of pure instinct for a favored few.
When it comes to staccato and the various
forms of rapid passage playing, mechanical
essays at illustrating the perfect touch fail
utterly. The piano-player, either electrical
or pneumatic, emphatically does not get it.
Madame Levinskaya claims that Carreno’s
technique—“the simplest, most effortless and
most natural that, one can imagine,” as
Breithaupt put it —was an exemplification
of the principles she lays down. Exactly
what those principles are remains more than
a little obscure to this commentator after
reading 244 pages about them.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken m contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.M.C.: Good ; but articles on the subject
already in type.... H.S.: Yes, arbitration has been a
failure. But strikes and lockouts, the only practic-
able alternative, are also failures, and are stupider.
The 16-months-long trouble on the coalfields may
have shown the weakness of our arbitration system.
But it also, showed the cruelty and wastefulness and
general unsatisfactoriness of the strike-and-lockout
system... .Charles T.: Nothing has been decided
about a Third Novel Competition. It will not close
this year, at any rate... .Primary Producer: Name
and address, please.... Brady’s Lookout: Shrewd
observation in it, but treatment’s too awkward....
J.K.: Tribute at least sounded as if you meant
it... .H.A.D.: Tt’s terrible reading epitaphs on a
day like this.... 8.M.: Send it personally to Brad-
man—and we’ll then back England C.T.: Can’t
take... .8.M.U.: Shows a great improvement. One
held for another reading. .. .G. 1.: “Only a Girl” only
a dud.... Onlooker: Has most of the qualities of a
talkie song... .R.C.D.: Two lines, for rhyme’s sake:
I went into the air for a breather,
The earth looked a picture beneath her.
. ...G.W.: Sorry; still misses. .. .Magnum: Took
quite naturally to the basket D. 8.: Chief fault
lifelessness... .B.McW.: That applies to you, too,
and to hundreds of others.... Mulex: Examine your
rhymes with a tuning-fork... .N.M.: Theme so dismal
you must be very young and happy... .P.0’8.: The
old can has been belted too often C.C.T.: Tough
job—embalming Life in a sonnet T.S.M.: “Up-
rootin’ Stumps”—you’re the chap they want for the
next Test... .J.S.W.: Has an old stiffness about it.
Suggest a course of modem verse. J.T.: Mere
unanswered questions make a poor substitute for
verse. .. .R.H. Takes a cheerful dirge to get through
in these days of depression. .. .8.H.H.: This column
is suing Amy for compensation. Yours makes at
least a thousand, ranging from acrostics to epics.
. ...J.G.C.: Agreed that the “common cold has
never had a sonnet written about it,” and if you
look up the sonnet form you’ll find it still hasn’t.
....Esau: Don’ti fancy those refrain touches....
Z.V.W.: Fail to strike any new note... . T.M.: Might
have had a hearing months ago... .E.L.S.: Second
reading beat “The Flapper” G.M.C.: Stick to
plainer terms. Thanks for suggestion... .C.D.: Can’t
place the sentimental swagman. ... J.Iv.P.: Takes a
good unrhymed line to bear repeating that often.
LF. : Quite empty.... Bellerive: Zoological In-
spiration, No. 4: —
THE HYENA.
The ferocious hyena
Of zoological renown,
Of muscular strength
And skin of brown.
In the gloom of night as
It steals forth from its lair
Its shrill wails waft
Through the darkened air.
(Next Week: “Favorite Table Fish.”)
... .E.W.0’8.: Most of your pieces show a few
good lines, but you hammer out your stuff too thin
and incessantly you sacrifice seme to get a rhyme.
Even 10 years ago there was no mining worth
the name at Coolgardie. “The Lightning Con-
ductors” and “Oxy-Acetylene” are quite outside cur
range, but Mates” and “East Bound Freight”
would have a good chance if more carefully and
less ramblingly treated S.W.K.: There’s a bit of
swing about your verse, and you rhyme ingeniously,
but that isn’t enough Garrabarra: Name
and address, please! A.McK.: All beer and rain.
. ...1.C.: Delicate little idyll; sorry can’t use....
tt- A-D.: Needs condensation. No objection to clearly
written MS A.C.: Neither gold nor glitter....
8.V.A.: “Renunciation” renounced.... C.M.N.; Too
short for a story; too long for a par....M.5.; Tiger
returned, yarn inside P.C.; Crude style and
unpleasant subject... .J.P.; A mouldy anecdote....
E.M.G.: (1) Newspapers generally entrust book re-
viewing to members of their staffs or to outside
specialists in various subjects. (2) So little book pub-
lishing is done locally that publishers seldom engage
readers. Most of such work is performed by a staff
man, or in certain cases by well-established literary
men on a retainer R.L.; Estimated population of
Australia at end of 1929 was 6,414,373 A.M.R.:
In blank verse only; Robertson and Mullens, Mel-
bourne, 4s. 6d Y. 8.; Biographies of Bret Harte,
by T. E. Pemberton and H. C. Merwin. Both at
Public Library, Sydney K.M.: A colored plate
of the Maclnnes tartan will be found in “Clans, Septs
and Regiments of the Scottish Highlands,” by Adam.
....A.C.: The Bulletin has made frequent protests
against the abolition of compulsory military training.
See issues November 6, 13, and 20; December 11;
January 1 and 8, and others since... ,M.F.: See W. W.
Thorpe’s article “Evidence of Polynesian Culture in
Australia and Norfolk Island” in “The Journal of
the Polynesian Society” (vol. 38, No. 2) J.McC.;
One stirring stanza from “The Old Man Speaks”:—
By my long grey whiskers, growing
On my stubborn chin, and flowing
By my eighteen stone of carnal, struggle-sweetened
human flesh.
By my soul, I tell you fellows,
W.A. has got the yellows.
Hark how Jimmy Mitchell bellows
With his damfool Groper doctrine of blue ruin and
Seeesh!
Breaking up good old Australia!
By the roaring Sons of Gwalia,
By the stamps that crashed at Boulder, grinding out
the golden dough,
Here and now I lift my glass, sir:
Mitchell’s just a flaming ass, sir,
And we won’t break up the nation, but we’ll work
and make it Go!
....David P.; Thanks, and good luck.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.S.: Broken-down drawing, and the gag’s no good.
. ...L.A.W.: Some merit in it —but not enough....
M.D.: Appalling 8.T.: You haven’t found a
breaker to carry you in yet H.L.: You’re coming
on with the pen.... C. K.: Can’t recall previous
work; present attempt promising N.S.: Middling,
but we want them better A.H.M.K.: Go and pun
no more S.P.: Net a bit nearer R.L.: A
scratchy lot L.E.: Laughed at it in infancy
J.S.W.: Sort of stuff that drives editors to beer ...
E.S.M.G.: Unattractive.


a
-
'
mMmli
a
:J>
m
.
*%**
: ■
« m
i <‘i
*tu r :<
' A
‘ * Jf*
. •<’ JR
K«
/ *
CM
c
t


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2629.
July 2,1930.
HIS MASTER’S VOICE.
“After having valiantly declared that, if necessary, the rationing of soldiers would be extended to the Public Service generally, Mr. Scullin has discovered that there is
not a clerk too many on the staffs.”
CAPTAIN SCULLIN: “You hop over in two minutes.”
CLERICAL SAR’-MAJOR: “I have to advise you, sir, that we do nothing of the kind.”
CAPTAIN SCULLIN: Ah, well, in that—er—case I—er—quite agree with you.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Mas. 0
HEAD OFFICE: 21b George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; Phone i>797 1.
Victoria: llb-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Sooth Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar §7 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is,; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7 s.
To ant address Overseas: 12 months, £1 Ids.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz. s Id. United Kingdom: boz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional boz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: b°z. or part thereof,
Id. elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
FRAUDS, ARTISTIC AND OTHERWISE .. 2
EDUCATION- McQUEEN’S “GOLDEN KEY” 2
“NEW ZEALAND IN THE MAKING”—
By Dr. J. B. Condliffe 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . • 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . .. 7
EDITORIALS 3, 9
NOW IT’S UP TO THE UNIONS! .. - 8
UNKNOWN AUSTRALIA 8
HOAV INDIA CAN BE SAVED 8
“THE AGE” ON THE niGH HORSE.. .. 9
EVADED INCOME-TAX SWINDLES . . . . 9
KINGSFORD SMITH’S FLIGHT . . . 9
THEODORE AND TAXATION 9
A CARTOON BY KCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with eartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. . . . . ..10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . ■ 11, 12
“THE PRODIGAL SON”—
A Cartoon by PercivaJ . . • • ..13
PERSONAL (with a Low drawing of the late
Sam Allen) . . . . . . . • . . 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“EMPEROR JONES” at Sydney Playbox . . 16
UNDRESSING REPLACES ACTING . . . . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP .. ..17
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND 17
ROBERT HARPER’S 17
SWAN BREWERY U 7
MOREHEAD’S 17
M. ALLEY’S 18
N. PERPETUAL FORESTS 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED ... 18
A BORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 26
MICROBES IN THE MILK 22
DEFICIENCY DISEASES 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..26
FI?EE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKK-OH (with drawings) 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) .. •• 35, 36
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY RACING .. 35
TEST CRICKET 35
INTER STATE FOOTBALL 35
SYDNEY -WOMAN’S LETTER—
(lllustrated by Frith) . • •. .. 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
THE SERIAL—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Yance Palmer.. 42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE—With drawings by Phil
May and “Hop” .. .. .. .. .. 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“As Between Men,” by Margaret Fane and
Hilary Lofting .. .. •• 49> 50
VERSE.—-By Robert D. Fitz Gerald, J. M.
Prentice, M. Forrest . . . . 45, 60
feztUdzfll
WEDNESDAY, JULY 2, 1930.
NOW IT’S UP TO THE UNIONS!
Sir Otto Niemeyer, a director of the Bank
of England, is on his way to discuss with
the Government ways and means of tiding
the Commonwealth over its immediate diffi-
culties. Australia has two problems: one,
how to keep straight in the future; the
other, how 7 to make its gold payments in
London until the general revision of its
policy bears a full crop of fruit. The
cause of our trouble is beyond all doubt
whatever. Instead of exporting enough to
pay our interest bill, amounting now to
about 30 millions a year, and for our
imports, we have not sent nearly enough
to pay for our imports alone. In seven
years our imports exceeded our exports by
over 56 millions, so that we went into debt
not only for that amount but for 180
millions, the total of our annual interest
bills, besides. Nothing seemed wrong on
the surface so long as we were able to
borrow abroad to make good the deficiency;
but when our loans failed, then we were
suddenly faced with the necessity of pay-
ing in gold not only for our imports, but
our interest as well.
The Scullin Government, did what it
could and did it promptly. It raised the
Customs duties on some lines and placed
embargoes on others in order to check the
flow of imports. But checking the flow-
of imports cannot of itself save us.
Even if w 7 e imported nothing at all—and
in our present backward state of industrial
-development that is quite impracticable—
there would still be the 30 millions or so
of interest to be paid annually ; and that
can only be paid .in gold (which we haven t
got) or in exports which can be sold for
gold. Our imports last year were so pro-
digious that our exports nothing like paid
for them, and there is no accumulation ot
exportable products in Australia to pro-
vide for our current interest bill. By
commandeering gold and exporting all that
could be spared the bill was paid for some
months; but while our next wool and wheat
crops are growing, there will be payments
to be made for which no provision has
been made. We have no hope of raising
loans abroad except at rates which would
show our desperate plight, and it is not
certain that we could raise them at any
figure; and local loans are utterly value-
less for the purpose—we could only export
paper, and our paper is not worth anything
outside this country.
This, then, is our immediate problem. If
we reduce our imports sufficiently, our
coming harvests of wool and wheat, along
with our other products, will pay for our
purchases abroad and leave the necessary
30 millions over. But until we can do our
harvesting and sell the proceeds, our in-
terest obligations must be financed. So far
the Commonwealth Bank, by drawing on
Australian gold to the limit of safety, has
been able, with the assistance of one or
more English banks, to meet our bills.
This has meant piling up huge overdrafts in
London; and there is a limit to the accom-
modation which even great London bank-
ing companies can give. That limit has
been reached or almost reached. It is in
these circumstances that an appeal has been
made to the Bank of England, the national
institution. Australia can heartily congratu-
late itself that there is a Bank of England
to fall back upon.
We are now in the position of a trading
concern which has got itself into most
serious difficulties through extravagance and
gross mismanagement of its affairs and
asks to be helped out, Before we can
expect relief we shall have to show that
we realise our extravagance and gross mis-
management, and are resolved to behave
differently. Presumably the mission of
the Bank of England director and the
officers who come with him is to ascertain
whether we do really realise the one and
are resolved upon the other. To what
extent can we satisfy them? To what
extent do we realise that we have been
spending far too much and producing far
too little? To what extent do we realise
that we have been living in a fool’s para-
dise and are resolved to get out of it? To
what extent do we realise that, even if
hitherto we had been living within our
means, the enormous falls in the- world-
values of our staples—especially wool,
wheat and metals—would make it neces-
sary for us to radically reduce our costs of
production in order to hold our markets?
James Scullin and his Ministers are in a
position of tremendous difficulty; and the
greatest difficulty is created by the very
men who ought to be helping them. They
will certainly have to show more than they
are able to show at present before they are
likely to convince any banker that we
realise the hole we are in and are resolved
by hard work and economy to get out of it .
Whether they will be able to improve that
showing by the time they meet the men
who can save Australia (temporarily, at
any rate) depends more than anything else
upon the conduct of the leaders of the
great labor unions of Australia during the
next few months.
No doubt a section of Labor may say
that whether the London moneylender is
paid or. not is not giving it a moment’s
concern. But if it has no cencern for the
London moneylender it may be begged to
have a little for itself. Nothing is surer
than that the failure of Australia to pay
its interest in London will mean,, for one
thing, that we shall find the door of the
loan-market slammed in our face. Nobody
has gained more from loan works than the
casual laborer. Default will mean that he
can bid good-bye to all such jobs for
the rest of his life. Further, default would
inevitably produce such a disturbance of
credit in Australia that the unemployment
we now know is a bagatelle by comparison
with the unemployment we then would
know. And how the foreign creditor
(including the very considerable U.S. credi-
tor) would take our default is worth con-
sidering.
HOW INDIA CAN BE SAVED.
The second part of the Simon Commis-
sion's report on Mother India amounts to
a declaration that even the most well-
meaning body of Liberals cannot recom-
mend a form of democratic government
which, will enable a heterogenepus mob of
320.000,000 people, of hundreds of different
castes, creeds, races and breeds, to satisfac-
torily govern itself. It recommends the
splitting up of India into a number of
handier sections which can be given some
measure of autonomy while, on a federal
basis, the British overlord continues to con-
trol the central government as before.
In this connection it is interesting to
note that*a “Colonial Governors’” confer-
ence is being held in London, and that it
is not getting the attention one of the finest
advertisements for British imperialism
deserves. The Crown colonies contain up-
wards of 50 million people, and arc jostl
in the tropics.. They make Tittle! fuss■ poli-
tically because they are small and scatteied
for the most part. Most of them l a
legislative chambers, but the Governmen
appoints a majority of the members an
ignores the advice of the others when it
sees fit. The rulers are thus left free to
hold the scales of justice more or less
evenly between the antagonistic races and
creeds, and the different interests have to
arrange their differences before _they can
get the Government to move. The result
is a steady education in the virtues o
tolerance.
The system is best seen in operation in
places like Singapore. There the enormous
influx of Chinese would long ago have
swamped the indigenous Malay and the
aboriginal tribes if it had not been hel m
check by the British raj. The first thing a
Chinaman does when he lands in Singapore
is to join up with the revolutionary Auo-
min-tang, and it is one of the jobs ot tne
Government to see that the Kuo-mm-tang
does not usurp the throne. An unadulter-
ated forai of democracy in Singapore would
result in the supremacy of the Chinaman
and the extinction of the rights of all the
other races there. The Malay States on
the neighboring peninsula, which also have
large yellow majorities, would be torn by
political upheavals, and the Englishmen,
if there were any Englishmen left, would
have to stand helplessly by watching the
organisation of two centuries go to wieck.
Under the present compromise the different
races are being taught to live together
while they are in the political kindergarten
class.
A well-conducted Crown-colony neighbor
has also a valuable effect on native-ruled
States. Thus the Sultan of Johore, from
being a frequenter of racecourses and. an
objectionable lounger around European
clubs, has developed into an able adminis-
trator whose fief is a model for the
rest.
The success of Crown-colony government
—and, on the whole, it is an amazing suc-
cess—offers some suggestive hints for the
future governance of India. India is no
nearer being a nation than are the con-
glomeration of races that throng the
bazaars of Singapore; but there are certain
communities of interest observable here
and there. Thus there are parts where the
prevailing interest is in agriculture depend-
ing on an irrigation, system, and others
which are predominantly industrial. There
are parts where the monarchical system still
flour shes, where a good begum is a matter
of local pride and where a grand vizier
riding on an elephant is more fully under-
stood than a loquacious politician in a
frock-coat riding in a Ford. There are
still other savage and unpopulated spots
where great empire-builders like Rajah
Brooke or Stamford Raffles can do more
good than a muddled election every three
years. If the British Government takes its
courage in both hands and, ignoring the
noisy nationalist, divides India up into
handy sections and gives each its appro-
priate type of administration, the success
of one portion might become the envy of
its neighbors and stir them to emulation,
with satisfactory results. The attempt to
treat India as already a nation when she
obviously isn’t has only resulted in a mess.
UNKNOWN AUSTRALIA.
This article vias written hy a Mel-
bourne man whose work has taken him
to Wyndham, in the Far North-West
of Australia.
The scene down this Gulf of Cambridge
is wonderful beyond words. The great peaks
drop a sheer thousand feet almost to the
water’s edge, seeming to defy you to wrest
the secret of their hinterland. To one stand-
ing in the prow of the vessel, it looked as
if the man at the helm was again and again
deliberately beaching his craft, so close
does the ship come to the land’s edge
before turning into another channel. It is
quite impossible at many points to tell
which way the vessel will turn.
The last stage, when this north-west
outpost is located, seems to leave the
journey only half-finished, as you observe
the valley running on, and, far away and
beyond, tier upon tier of mountain range
until all is lost in the purple and grey
distance.
\Vyndham—official Wyndham—is a dreary
plaoe, consisting of a score or so of build-
ings, including the Government quarters
usual to these places. Were it not for a
huge concern —the Government meatworks
—which is the mainstay not only of the
town but of the whole north-west province,
there would be nothing to see or do. But
one glance at the headquarters of this
immense undertaking gives you the measure
of the country which lies behind it. View-
ing this mass of buildings, a town in itself,
you are snared in the meshes of conjec-
ture and curiosity.
Had you come to Wyndham 20 years
ago your inland journey of inspection would
have been by camel or donkey, or, perhaps,
if you were fortunate, by horse. While
these old methods of transport still exist,
they have been all but eliminated by the
motor-car. At one time it took a team
of camels nine weeks to go to Hall’s Greek
and bnck: now there is a six-wheeler Ley-
land truck running over that same route
within the week, So yom tour to-rt»y h,'
motor-car, with comfort as well a. 1
\fter skirting the water’s edge for abou
a mile and passing a lonedittb
the end of the range,.you sc t out anto- tl
ing'to drcumstanee'rand 1 it is" well there
are such guides, for in places the gra^
reaches to the height of the car hood
Gradually the ranges come nearer, until at
last there is a rough mountain road hewn
out of the side of the range, with the King
River oi the right Across the stream are
stretches of beautiful country again. A
£ richly pastured land cons itutes the
Government'stud-farm, where bulls are bred
and sold to the stations.
The country, in places becomes wild an
inaccessible, especially near the upp
reaches of the King, from which is dmvn
the never-failing supply of water for tK
works and town. A pumping-plant lifts U
to the top of the range to pass by gia\ita-
tion to the works. Great man-eating croc -
diles haunt the delightfully cool pool, so that
your first intention to wash away the du.
of the road is hastily abandoned. Hard by
the pumping-station is a huge, bottle-tree,
35 to S feet in girth, where history was
once made by the Nor’-AVest Mounted
Police. They had had a long trek after
some natives who were “wanted. Having
secured their quarry, they had to camp tor
the night, and as the blackfellmv in his own
country is as slippery, as the eel, the poher
were not taking the risk of leaving them in
the open overnight. But what could they
do—where secure, their prisoners? the busli
brings its own resources. The blacks were
set to work to cut a hole in the side oi this
huge tree, which was known to be hollow m
the centre: The opening made, the whole
gang was incarcerated in a novel but very
effective lock-up. On subsequent occasions
it was similarly occupied; there have been
as many as 15 blacks inside that tree at
one time.
If you retrace your steps to about the
Six-mile, where the right-hand turn was
taken the day before, and bear now
to the left, across the roadless plain, you
come on more delightful pastoral country.
For mile upon mile you pass through grass
sometimes two feet and often six feet high.
At times you deviate so that the stockman
can make his count of the cattle grazing
in the area. He no longer uses the horse
for this work; the motor-car keeps him m
constant touch with his huge territory.
There is a further advantage in the car
in that a good resounding horn will bring
the cattle running towards you, so you arc:
able to study the stock in larger mobs and
form more accurate opinions.
From one creek or hole or billabong you
pass to another. Here you find not. only
mobs of cattlo but large numbers of native
game. Kangaroos are plentiful, native com-
panions are in large numbers, and wild
duck, wild geese, ibises, cranes and parrots
of almost every hue. Many of these inland
waters arc covered with water-lilies, white
with a blue centre, gorgeous in their effect.
Not only have you scenery of the finest, you
also have sport unsurpassed anywhere. Your
catch with the hook may quite truthfully
weigh 181 b. to 251 b., and be as satisfactory
to the palate as it was on the line.
In places there is now more definite
evidence of the tropical nature of the
country; great masses of dark green
foliage border the watercourses, in the
murky corners of which many surprises
await the over-curious, not all pleasant
—pythons and crocodiles among them.
Then away again over more rolling plains,
with the ranges far ahead, and at their foot
the Ord River. As far as the eye can reach
it is green pasture land, watered lavishly.
This is a countiy where opportunity is
calling loudly to big men with stout hearts.
It is a country where man can achieve
. unparalleled success if he has the experience
and the grit necessary for the big under-
taking. The time was never more oppor-
tune than the present, for the world’s
supply of cattlo is rapidly diminishing, and
our country needs stimulated primary pro-
duction. The countiy has a climate which,
except for about eight to ten weeks in the
year, is declared to be first-rate; and what
little discomfort you experience during that
brief period is compensated for by the
wonderful new life that, is ever greeting the
eye. - The sun is undoubtedly hot for a
few hours a day, but by no means unbear-
ably so: the evenings and the early morn-
ings are indescribably beautiful. The nights
are cool.
As you head back for Wyndham you feci
as if you will awaken directly from a
pleasant dream. Away in Canada, you
meditate, they have to grow fodder for winter
use, and must house and feed the stock on
their lone ranches. Here there is all-but
perpetual sunshine. Your stock almost
take care of themselves. Surely it is only
because the countiy is not known that move
men have not come to take a hand in its
development ! There is a market provided
and controlled for the express purpose of
creating an outlet for the stockraiser;
every year this huge place absorbs all the
available cattle in the province, but could
easily double its output. There is no need
for black labor; this land will stand up all
the time to the white man and reward him
handsomely for his faith and his endeavor
It is one oi' Australia’s golden opportunities
SMITHMELH .


“YOU’RE NEXT!”
“The New York stock market suffered another heavy decline to-day. It is estimated that 3000 million dollars in market values have been swept away .-Cable
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Age” on the High Horse.
M Uons ’ worth4ow .°” foreisn
The question, therefore, for the N. S.
Wales Government to ask itself is: “How
can we spend the new tax-money so as to
increase production?”
Hitherto the usual idea of Government
money-spending has been to shift a bit of
sand in order to put a few pounds on to the
value of a slice of Government land or
build an unnecessary road at appalling cost,
The road might conceivably aid production
a little; but as a rule it hasnt done so.
Works of this sort are worse than wasted
m the present crisis,
The ideal thing would have b
over to the wheat-farmers as manymen as
w °uld undertake the job, the
and house them and the> to provide
them with wha ev S § extent
"P°“ 68
Re time for that is past. Reding w o .
Jet there may be a ce
directly productive work whichi could be
done 011 - th ® Xr work
There her iort of ,prod uctive^work
of equal valupbup to which it wouWbe
more who produces something that
wg can ged abroac i he who produces some-
saves us from buying abroad is
th save us from a crash. It may be
v | ayg and means could be devised of
. {he unemployed in this further
y y
- cag6) the thing of importance is
something for our money—something
tha * win help us to right ourselves. Hence
p rac tically all the usual jobs ought to be
rlded G ut. The catching of one single fish
bad saves f.he import of a tin of sardines
j g Woldb more to the country at this junc-
ture tban t h e building of a mile of new
unpro( luctive road; the growing of a single
busbed 0 f wheat, the rearing of a _ single
] amb> j s worth more than the shifting of
f be b jgg es t suburban sandhill.
———♦ .
The Evaded Income-tax Swindle,
T 7, ~ nn nre
Ita Boldin-All the Treaeurera arc
badly off for money as “Iways ai.e and
“The to"
“ to
old pig-
headed prejudice which is; Eritish but by
no mcall J n^ rld d Y o^ e ’ income-tax
heavens would drop it the income tax
returns shared the common lot, yet to make
them accessible would go far toward stop-
ping the most prolific swindle m public
'“whenever the law has an expensive out-
break of energy and investigation it fimk
that a quantity of affluent people have
diddled the Government out of part or the
whole of its dues, and have been diddling
a long time. It would discover this earlier,
and oftener, and more cheaply if the man
who was asked for credit was in the habit
of looking up the applicant’s income-tax
return before granting it. The same
process would be a valuable check on
fraudulent insurance and other companies.
There would still be room for a certain
amount _of deception, inasmuch as the enter-
prising crook might pay on an imaginary
income in order to create false confidence;
but it would at least be a rare case of the
State profiting instead of losing by the
swindling taxpayer, and the ill-gotten money
could be refunded to his victims after his
bubble burst.
There is wild talk of charging honest
people 100 per cent, more income tax, and
it would be well for the law to try its
hand at the dishonest people first.—Yours,
etc., James Edmond.
$
Kingsford Smith’s Flight.
To fly across the North Atlantic, foggiest
of seas, westward, against wind and weather,
is one of the supreme tests of airmanship.
The feat has now been accomplished five
times. Before Kingsford Smith’s flight one
aeroplane and three dirigible balloons had
made the passage; but thus far no ’plane
has succeeded in flying from Europe to the
American mainland. Huenhnefeld, Fitz-
maurice and Koehl saved their lives by
finding an island off the coast of Labrador
after being in the air 36 hours. Smith, under
rather worse conditions of wind, but with
better radio equipment, made a slightly
longer flight in 31 hours, three of them
consumed in a desperate endeavor to pick
up bearings.
The quartette that manned the Southern
Cross survived a terrific ordeal, as their
leader has indicated, only because the
mechanism of their ’plane, as regards con-
struction, engines and wireless set, was as
nearly perfect as human care and skill could
make it, and because the crew knew their
jobs. Luck favored them not at all. They
were dealt a bad hand, played it as well as
man could play it, and won through. Their
achievement has demonstrated that a multi-
engined ’plane, competently piloted and
navigated and able to maintain radio com-
munication with land, can fly any sea in any
weather with a large safety margin.
That is a big thing. The world, though
it is being forced to become air-minded,
is still rather air-scared. It is only 22 years
since men first flew in kites with an engine
in place of a string, and the terror of great
heights continues to obsess many minds,
Australia is playing a notable part in com-
bating that obsession. Not only is the
record of the native-born in the matter
of air-pioneering a marvellous one, but we
have, in proportion to population, a better
commercial air service than is enjoyed by
any other nation. When floods recently
disorganised the railway communications of
northern N. S. Wales the mails of the State
continued to go to Queensland, by air. Our
sparsely populated continent is becoming
Melbourne “Age” has struck an uncom-
promising attitude, like that of the Kaiser
before he left for Holland, about the sug-
gested intervention (by request) of the
Bank of England in Australian financial
affairs, and declares it to be impossible
and unthinkable, also uneatable, indigest-
ible and an irreparable insult.
Still the position is there, as the Kaiser
discovered. Australia requires prompt
assurance from a reliable quarter that
money will be available to make up what
.its Treasurer is short to pay interest in
England, and that it won’t be offered the
money on terms which will imply that it is
a busted Khedive or a Sultan with a
harem. The amount represents nearly
£30,000,000 for the year, and it won’t wait;
a very big shortage is certain; and the old
loan sources have dried up. If the Bank
of England or any other institution fills
the void for three years, which is the
period talked of, it naturally wants very
positive assurance that said void is a
diminishing and disappearing one. Other-
wise it would be a case of lending a good
many millions to a debtor who would be
that many millions, plus interest, more in-
solvent at the end than at the beginning.
When anybody puts money into a business
to save it, he naturally wants a right to
interfere should it keep on being lost.
Nobody dreams that any attempt will be
made to interfere with the tariff, for John
Bull, financier, has no desire to lend us
money so that it may be spent in buying
fluff from J. Bull, manufacturer, and others,
instead of in protecting his own securities.
Should such an interference be proposed,
Australia would have much popular sym-
pathy when it replied that it wouldn t
commit suicide to save itself, and that it
preferred to go to the dogs in its own
patriotic way. But any offer of efficient
help is likely to be trammelled with con-
ditions intended to make a resumption of
the old insanity impossible.
♦
Give Us Something for Our *W.
This week N. S. Wales began collecting 3d.
in the £ of all wages, salaries and dividends,
the money to be applied to unemployment
relief. The intention is to spend the money
on works, nominally at any rate cutting out
all semblance of dole or charity. Ihe
intention is excellent; but it does not
ensure that the public will get anything of
real value for its money. And that is ot
even more importance.
Australia’s supreme need at present is
production. For many years past the nation
has been loafing on the job, consuming on
the average nearly 40 millions a'year moie
than it has produced. Now we are pulled
up shorth and have to get into the collar.
Every article that we buy abroad has to
be paid for in hard cash; and we can mi y
get the hard cash by sending away things
that we can sell. In addition we have to
every year less of a terra incognita because
of the activities of aerial photographers;
and, mainly by reason of the regular pas-
seng' and mail services, running to schedule
under every condition of weather, the dis-
tances between our widely dispersed cities
are becoming negligible. Our Kingsford
Smiths are curing us of the fear of time and
space, and this young country owes them a
debt the extent of which it is hard to
realise.
Theodore and Taxation.
Mr. Theodore said the other day that he
would have some bad news to announce
next week, when his Budget is to be un-
folded. The community is prepared for bad
news, but not for another addition to its
income-tax burden, if the Treasurer is
turning that over in his mind. It is already
carrying more income tax than it can stand.
Ordinary Federal rates on earned income
go up to 2s. in the £ on £7600 and ss.
on anything above that figure; on property
income they are 3s. 5.7 d. on £6500 and ss.
above that amount. To these rates Page’s
super-tax (8 p.c.) and Theodore’s (10 p.c.
to 20 p.c. according to the taxable income)
are added. Companies pay 14.4 d. in the £.
State tax on personal earnings in N. S.
Wales rises to 2s. lid. in the £ on £7OOO
and ss. on anything more; on property it
is 3s. 6a. in the £ on £5500 and ss. on the
excess, if any. The company tax is 2s. in
the £ on £5OO and 2s. 9d. on £4501 and
upwards. On top of these imposts there is
a special tax, designed to bring in £3,000,000
for the unemployed, or nearly half the
amount produced by the ordinary State
tax in 1927-28—a good year. Victoria has
also brought in a special income tax to
provide work for the workless, and Queens-
land is about to follow suit.
It is now easily possible for a man who
has been struggling all his life to make
provision for his family and his own old
age to find 10s. in the £ of his income taken
from him in taxes and rates. There are
cases in which the expropriation exceeds
11s. in the £.
Britain, with its immense shipping trade
and overseas investments, may be able to
endure income taxation on this scale. Aus-
tralia’s position is vastly different, and it
ought to be clear to the Scullidores that it
would be dangerous, as well as disheartening,
to bleed the resident taxpayers any more.
The foreign film interest should, however,
receive attention, and Mr. Theodore has
tardily promised to tax its huge profits,
which have become more bloated than ever
since the talkies came in. The Treasurer-
ought to make the tax 50 per cent, and
refer the squealing Hornswogglestein, to the
exposure of that person’s tax-dodging
methods made in the N.S.W. Parliament
by J. T. Lang. For the rest, he should
cut down the terrific cost of government.
though the public-service unions howl till
they are black in the face. If it is neces-
sary to “ration” warrant officers it is thrice
necessary to effect savings in the civilian
departments —and the Shepherds of Can-
berra, it should be remembered, are exempt
from the State income -and; unemployment
taxes.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
SOMETHING YOU SHOULD KNOW.
The Commonwealth is now receiving applications for a 6 per cent, loan, repayable November 15, 1938.
All persons with money available for investment—from £lO upwards—can invest in the Loan. A £lO Bond will yield 12/- interest
yearly.
There is nothing sounder than Commonwealth Loans. The security is absolute.
There is nothing more readily saleable than Commonwealth Loans. This is important, as the investment can be turned into cash at
any time.
Money put into this Loan will earn interest from the date of its lodgment—and all interest is FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX.
Full particulars and application forms obtainable from Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post Offices, Members of Stock Exchanges.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
EDWARD G. THEODORE,
Treasurer.
POLITICAL
POINTS
thanks for his election, Marks,
iho r;I V ydne y Lud Mayor, said he regarded
wirh ori ncil as a great business concern,
, e v °ters ;ls shareholders and the
‘; el men as directors. Some of the last lot
,n, J / abor aldermen took the same view.
charged directors’ fees, though the
„2 al Commissioner who probed the Buu-
neiong case didn't look at it. in that light—-
lacKmail, ‘bribe,’ or ‘present,’ whatever
,T,a? y be called,” was his coarse description.
■Jim, butchery of Vic. ’possums has not
Ai tded the w-ealtli predicted by the poli-
ticians who authorised it. A glut of skins
caused prices to drop and made nonsense
?L ttle stones that trappers were pulling in
toil a week. Hundreds of men were lured
into buying equipment and licenses, and not
au ol them were out of a job at the time.
, ‘M'aold Wienholt is back in the Queens-
lanct .Parliament as member for Fassifern
Ihe represented it for three years before
going to the House of Reps, in 1912), hav-
ing won the by-election hands down. He
could have got Ministerial endorsement but
refused it. Wieuholt’s return is something
more than a personal triumph, due to recog-
nition of his fine character; he stood for
reduction of members to 50 and for aboli-
tion of “the cursed borrowing policy”—“no
further debts to be incurred without direct
authority by referendum.”
M r hile not definitely, hostile, Scullin gave
the gold-bonus delegation an unsympathetic
hearing, saying he did not see the force
paying a bonus on the amount now- pro-
duced. He contended that production would
continue at the present rate without a bonus,
winch is questionable. Anywmy, bis Gov-
“Federal Labor intends to tax the profits of
foreign film corporations.”
DISGUSTED MILLIONAIRE : “An’ not nine
months since we helped this crowd to
knahek out Bruce! Well, of all the
ungrateful guys!”
crnment is committed to bounties on cotton
seed and yarn, shale oil, flax and linseed,
sweet wine and sewing-machines, and not
one of them is conditional on present pro-
duction being exceeded. If these bounties
are warranted there is no arguing against
a bonus on the one commodity which is sure
of an overseas market at the highest world
price, especially as Labor’s share is reckoned
at three-fifths.
Ex : Treasurer Page threatens to become a
man of one idea, like Moses Gabb. Gabb
wants to know if there is a quorum present,
which is comparatively harmless, though it
makes people wish Gabb wasn't present.
Page wants to know if the Prime Minister is
aware that some retailers have taken advan-
tage of the tariff to raise the price of boot-
laces by 6d. per ton or more. A really irrit-
able Prime Minister might answer, one of
these short days, that he isn’t aware, and
doesn’t intend to be, and that it wouldn’t
make much difference if he was.
Glowrey, one of the Rural Progs., has
come out as a strong champion of an elec-
tive Vic. Ministry. He predicts that the
economic position will force the requisite
Constitutional change within two years, for
the people are weary of party wrangling, and
want stable government; even Labor, he
says, will be obliged to come off its aloof
perch and join with the rest of the Assem-
bly in choosing Ministers. How far mem-
bers have swung round to the sane reform
will be shown in August, when Dick Tout-
cher will submit another motion.
The nerve of these Sydney Labor fyosses!
Having heard a bit of evidence from per-
sons of doubtful authority on the subject
of the New Guinea mining ordinances, an
A.L.P. committee has improvised a new r set
and ordered the Commonwealth Government
to put it in force immediately. The com-
mand would be impudent enough if it were
issued by New' Guinea miners; it is a thou-
sand times cheekier coming from -windbags
who have as much idea of the country and
the industry as a toad has of a hip-pocket.
A typical Friday report from Canberra: —
The Treasurer (Mr. Theodore) left to-
night for Sydney.
The Assistant-Minister for In dust it
(Mr. Beasley) leaves for Sydney to-
morrow.
The Attorney-General (Mr. Brennan),
the Minister for De-
fence (Mr. Green), the
Minister for Markets
(Mr. Moloney) and the
Assistant-Minister for
Customs (Mr. Forde)
left to-night for Mel-
bourne.
Presumably the rest
had gone on Thurs-
day. They return
with fair punctual-
ity on Monday or
Tuesday, but there
are complaints that
many private mem-
bers don’t turn up
till Wednesday, so
that Moses Gabb is
worn to a whisper
calling for a quorum,
while those who get
back to the village
on Tuesday are bad-
tempered enough to
eat one another.
From Melbourne “Age”:—
The inestimable resources of Australia and the
dauntless spirit of her people are assets of far
greater worth than any liabilities she is ever likely
to contract.
The misfortune is that they are so hard to
realise on. It has been brutally remarked
that a woman’s most wonderful asset is her
virtue, but that she can't raise money on
it without losing it. Two essentials are that
the Australian should work hard at his pro-
ductive job, and, that lie should have a pro-
ductive job to wrnrk at instead of giving it
away to foreigners.
The proposal of the Simon 1 Commission to
extend the franchise from 2.8 p.c. of the
population of India to” 10 p.c. isn’t likely
to improve matters much. Three-fifths of
the present electors are illiterate, and in
some places voters’ cards have to be printed
in different colors or with a candidate repre-
sented, not by his name, but by a drawing of
an animal, such as an elephant or a mule.
This may be appropriate, but it is more
conducive to ribaldry than the spread of
democratic intelligence.
Trouble for Queensland and the sugar
industry goes on brewing. Thus far the
plea has always prevailed that it was neces-
sary to support the sugar business, even at
heavy cost, because of the supreme need of
settling the North. But the representative
of large southern interests has just reported
that, so far from settling the North, the
sugar industry is now keeping it unsettled,
because no labor will take to any sort of
farming when it can draw £9 a week wages
from a heavily-subsidised sugar-farmer, who
in scores of cases is making a bare living for
himself.
Premier Jimmy Mitchell, of Westralia,
says he won’t increase the State income tax
which Collier reduced in 1927, having
hoarded up Commonwealth grants for
the purpose. The Ministerial programme
at Perth includes a continuance of Federal
subsidies; a Federal bonus on gold, of which,
attractive as it looks, the bulk would go to
Westralia; and secession, which would finish
Federal grants of all sorts. A deputation
recently suggested an early meeting of Par-
liament to consider the position. Mitchell
replied that the position being as clear as
mud nothing of the sort is necessary.
The Port Adelaide River has lately been
deepened, but the Harbors Board reports that
“full benefit will not be felt till the channel
is widened 150 ft.” This would cost an un-
obtainable £200,000 and, as the Public Works
committee points out, it would not bring in
more revenue, though it would reduce ex-
pense for ships. So the job is to be indeti
nitely postponed, like the other costly under-
takings which Premier Hill lightheartedly
promised on the hustings.
Queensland’s new Jury Act, now in force,
restores the old householder qualification, as
well as special juries for civil cases; on
application, a special jury may also be em-
panelled for a criminal trial. Labor decided
that any male elector might be a juror, and
made no provision for keeping undesirables
off the list. The consequences were so scan-
dalous that, the Gillies Administration was
forced to instruct the police to strike off
ex-convicts. Under Moore’s measure, persons
of evil repute who have contrived to keep
“outside” must also stand down.
Baldwin, hitting back at the newspaper
barons who demand his scalp, said at a
party meeting the other day that “a rapidly
made enormous fortune, combined with the
control of newspapers and the power of
attacking without being hit back, goes to the
head like wine.” Warming to his work, he
stigmatised as “preposterous insolence” the
attempts of the Rotliermeres, Beaverbrooks
and Hearsts to dictate to party leaders what
policies they should adopt and what col-
leagues they should nominate in the event, of
Great activity at Canberra.
taking office. The Conservatives gave Bald-
win a vote of confidence, and public feeling
will almost certainly be on his side. The
non-alcoholic intoxicant, he refers to made
Northcliffe a megalomaniac; Rothermere and
Beaverbrook look to be going the same x-oad.
Theodore has been informed that Can-
berra is “facing ruin,” and that its only
hope lies in a big building programme, and
the rapid transfer of Government depart-
ments. But the distracted Treasurer has
reduced the proposed expenditure for 1929-30
from £1,200,000 to £400,000, so clerical
toilers can’t come in any large quantity, and
horny-handed toilers are leaving. A question
arises, now that the first excitment has
passed, whether the country can afford enough
Federal officials to populate a city of such
frill. It is impossible to concentrate there
mauy of the postal, telegraph, telephone,
savings bank, customs, excise or military
and naval officials, or the Federal railway
staff, or the men who pay old-age and other
pensions, or those who care for aborigines,
or the weather bureaus, or many other busi-
nesses, In fact, there are far fewer possi-
bilities than were reckoned when an architect
from America planned another Washington
by the Cotter.
There is probably no truth in the report
that Jock. Garden has gone on strike, and
will organise no more strikes unless bettor
supported; still, trade in his line has be-
come as flat as a pancake on a* great plain.
The Sydney meat upheaval, intended to regis-
ter a protest against a return to the eight-
hours day, hardly got started before the
men involved realised that eight hours isn’t
an outrage which calls for blood, and that
whole nations would be glad to get it. An
anti-eight-hours strike at Yallourn is in
the doldrums because the strike goes on, yet
the job doesn’t stop. The coal stoppage has
died. The news that Broken IT ill may have
What it may come to.
to choose between less wages and stoppage
hasn't started a revolution. Jock and Co.
are good strike-makers when times are pros-
perous and money is plentiful, but not in bad
times when the stocking is just-on empty.
A bounty of £2 on every sewing-machine
manufactured in the Commonwealth is on
the programme. Very good sewing-machines
have been made here, but the value in 1928
declined to £49,098, which was £30,000 less
than in the year before, average wages in
the trade having risen by 335. sd. per week
per employee inside two years. Trades Hall
and other philanthropists arrange this sort
of thing without any care as to whether pro-
tective duties go up to correspond, and thsy
don’t mind in the least even if foreign coun-
tries are reducing pay while Australia is
raising it.
As a side-light, on India’s demand for
independence, the peasants of Weihaiwei,
the naval station which Britain is about
to return to China, have petitioned the
British Minister concerned imploring him
not to restore the district to Chinese,
sovereignty. Over 300 villages signed the
document, which was couched in the piteous
terms of a condemned but innocent man
begging not to be handed over to the
executioner.
A published reason why Scullin and Co.
boggle at a gold bonus is that if the industry
didn't develop, but stuck fast, the Treasury
would be paying something like £500,000
annually and gaining nothing. A Sydney
paper rushed in with what it considered the
simple and obvious remedy:—
Let Mr. Seullin tell those who seek the bonus
that he will pay £1 for every ounce in excess of
last year's production and for new gold generally.
It looks quite easy, doesn’t it? If £2,000,000
of gold was produced last year and £2,100,000
arrived this year there would be, in round
figures, 25,000 ounces of “excess” entitled
to a. bonus and 500,000 ounces not entitled.
Out of 21 ounces exhibited, by different appli-
cants and all looking alike, 20 would be
classed as the ounces which would have been
harvested in any case, while one would be
the ounce which would have been left lying
in the earth save for the bonus; and it would
be the devil of a job to decide which was
which. The idea might be applied to the
baby bounty; nothing for the baby which
intended to be born in any case, and £5
for the “excess” infant which was attracted
by the money, but would otherwise have
stayed away.
Hertzog has got his Women’s Franchise
Bill through the S’African Senate, so another
country will soon be in electoral servitude to
the skirt. Every white woman of 21 and up-
wards is to have the vote, and it is reckoned
that 486.011 will be enfranchised for a start,
Their new boss.
whereas male electors have to comply with
income and educational qualifications, and
there are only 426,000 of them. Native
women are excluded, even in Cape Colony,
where certain gentlemen of color are en-
rolled under the old Cape Colony rights
maintained when the Union came into being.
The colored vote has always swung against
the Dutch candidate. The flapper will swamp
that slight advantage, for, pro-Dutcli or pro-
British, the South African woman has no
love for Kaffir, Cape boy or Hindu.
“Eyes Right”: Section 138 of the Defence
Act, not yet repealed, provides that “at the
termination of each annual training every
trainee shall be classified.... as ‘efficient’
or ‘non-efficient,’ ” the non-efficient being “re-
quired to attend an equivalent additional
training for each year in which they are
non-efficient.” The training, prescribed by
section 127, is “16 whole-day drills or their
equivalent, of which not less than eight
shall be in camps.” Camps are to be dis-
pensed with ou the score of economy, the
permanent soldiers are to be put off for from
five to eight weeks of the current financial
twelvemonth without pay, Duntrooners are
to be drafted into the Department of Statis-
tics, and now “the requirements for efficiency
for 1929-30, for officers and soldiers,” as set
forth in the latest. Army Order, are “attend-
ance....for four whole-day drills or their
equivalent.” Is Parliament impotent? Is
the R.S.D. content to let pacifists ride rough-
shod through every Act and Regulation
which have been-, devised for the safety of
the Commonwealth ?


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Oldtimer”: The wounding of the Duke
of Edinburgh by a lunatic, which has been
commemorated by a tablet, caused one of
those strange bursts of fury to which con-
servative Sydneyites have always been sub-
ject. The explosion over tlrn alleged burn-
DIDN'T GRAN REMEMBERI
GRANDMA: “I must say I fail ta see any good points in the present skimpy mode of
dress.”
ETHEL: “Oh, Granny, look at the trouble you used to have with the clothes-line
breaking.”
i-ng of a toy Union Jack in the Domain
which impelled “Bull” Ryrie to demand that
the unknown perpetrator should be “deported
•first and tried afterwards” was nothing to
it. Neither was the feeling against young
Osmond Esmond, wdiich led to his being con-
fined to his ship as a public menace while
the Free State campaign was on, though a
midshipman brother had been killed at Jut-
land and an uncle had won the V.C. No
one could be found to.defend O’Farrell till
W. B. Dailey agreed to take the hopeless job
on, and he was "cut” by most of his fellow-
members in the Australian Club for his
pains. Dailey got himself disliked again
over the Mount Rennie case.: He was spokes-
man _of a deputation which wanted Lord
Carrington to delay the boys’ execution till
a petition for mercy could reach the Queen.
That was his last. appearance at Govern-
ment House. Carrington never spoke to
him again.
* * * *
“Meteren” : Army accidents? I recall one
near Strazeele, and the victim wouldn't have
swapped his issue for a horse in Tatt.’s.
About three-quarters of a mile back from
the front-line posts officers were firing rifles
at a small tin floating in a farm pond. Well
over on the opposite side of the pond the
mob were at two-up, backs turned to the
shooters. Suddenly one of the school spun
around and flopped into the ring, causing the
others to grab their stakes under the impres-
sion lie was diving on the “centre.” He
couldn’t fathom what had hit him till blood
started oozing down a sleeve; then with a
yell he grabbed his bet and rushed around to
the doc., who was amongst the shooting
party. “Bullet hole in right shoulder —
ricochet off the water” was the verdict. There
was no court-martial. The casualty was
patched up and asked to walk close to
the front line, and then report at the nearest
dressing-station that he’d stopped a stray.
“C.Q.”: A struggle different only in degree
from that which raged over the Nicene creed
is being fought round a little old Presbyterian
church in Dorcas-street, South Melbourne.
Some months ago the elders decided that the
fane should be closed and its congregation
accommodated in a neighboring kirk ; but five
or six families whose grandparents had
worshipped in it refused to budge. Locking
the doors was tried without success ; the locks
were forced and service conducted under
the illumination of torches and candlelight.
Then the authorities spiked the musical side
of the revolt by using the pipes of the organ
to barricade the windows. Even this has
not deterred the little band of malcontents,
who continue to use as much of the instru-
ment as remains.
“Templar”: A claim for damages arising
out of a motor accident in circumstances
mildly described as “unusual” lias been heard
in England. A 22-year-old damsel sued her
bloke for negligent driving, as a result of
which she had lost an eye and sustained
facial disfigurements. The Judge told the
jury to disregard the fact that the parties
were engaged and to treat them as if they
were unknown to one another; “the lady.”
his Ludship added, “brings the action quite
rightly and the young man very properly
defends it.” The jury assessed damages as
£1375, after which plaintiff and defendant
had lunch together and the winner told an
inquisitive reporter that there was no ques-
tion of the engagement being broken. An
insurance co. paid, of course.
“Mudurup”: No great engineering work,
such as Sydney’s Harbor Bridge, ever nears
completion without an undercurrent of croak-
ing and hinted doubts as to whether some-
thing won’t go wrong with it at the last
moment —or afterwards. When the West-
ralian Mnndaring dam was almost finished
many know-alls were found contending that
structural defects would prevent it holding
the weight of water contemplated, and that,
sooner or later, it would burst and flood
the whole countryside. Nothing has ever
gone wrong with the big reservoir, or the great
water scheme which depends on it, but all
this fool talk, combined with some embittered
newspaper criticisms, so weighed on the mind
of the designer and eugineer-in-chief, C. Y.
O’Connor, that he took his own life before
the work that was to be a monument to his
genius came to completion. Probably few
great engineers are so sensitive, but it shows
what the silly, unbalanced yapping of scare-
hunters and sensation-mongers , may do.
THE SCANDALMONGER ( 1030 model).
“My dear, she’s a perfect wireless fiend. She relays everything I tell her!"
“It. Volt”: The danger that larks in the
uninsulated wire was brought home to a
young man in Elsternwick (Vie.) when he
tried to turn on his morning shower. He
was pulled off the tap after his father had
insulated himself by standing on a cork mat.
It was found that the electrification, extended
to the iron roof, the gas pipes and a clothes-
line outside, and one inmate of the house got
a shock from the handle of a frying-pan.
“10-2-4”: At Ascot the
other da*y a bookmaker
was struck dead by light-
ning. If he was like most
of the pencillers I have
known the event represen-
ted an all-too-rare inter-
vention on the side of
justice by the Heavenly
authorities. Yet public
opinion in England was
stirred as the death of the
late Archbishop of Canter-
bury, a genius and a* saint,
entirely failed to stir it:
and the King, catching the
infection, sent £25 to the
no-doubt affluent widow.
The art of life, like the art
of cricket, boxing and most
other sports, is a matter
of timing; it consists in
getting publicity at the
right moment. Early in the
war an English officer mur-
dered his wife’s lover, who
was suspected of being a
spy, or Germain or some-
thing, and became a popu-
lar hero. Later a sergeant
followed suit and was
hanged, public opinion hav-
ing veered back to the pre-
war British view regard-
ing the undesirability of
private-enterprise exec u-
tions. The most, tragic
spectacle I ever witnessed
was the death of an aged
Sydneyite whose closing
years had been cheered by
the certainty that he would
have a large and represen-
tative funeral. He left for
his eternal, reward in Mel-
bourne Cup Week.
“O. McKay. M.”: I’m beginning to give,
up hope of the job of Court Scribe at
Athens, but at one time I was pretty confi-
dent. I thought that was the least George
of Greece could do for me considering that
tve were fellow-boarders at. Brown’s Hotel, a
modest but exclusive pub in Dover-street,
London. An affable monarch in exile, he
recalled that the ancient Hellenes had this
unpleasant habit of ostracising their rulers.
He suggested that as they'd let Pericles take
the helm again after a retirement in the
country, the moderns might give him, George,
a second chance; but when I left London
lie was still boarding at Brown’s.
* * * *
“Max F.”; The Manly Council has erected
a tablet at Clontarf in memory of the man
who fired at the Duke of Edinburgh there
in 18GS. It is traditionally difficult to pene-
trate the mental processes of aldermen. If
the thing had been done by a pre-Commission
City Council the obvious explanation would
have been that there were crooks in the back-
ground with a financial interest in erecting
monuments to criminal lunatics. But the
Manly councillors, though thick of head, are
pure of heart, so we can only conclude that
they have squandered the ratepayers' money
on a belated and somewhat ungenerous
demonstration of Empire, patriotism. As
most people know, the Duke turned German
20 years after the attempt on his life in order
to secure a Prussian principality, arid his
son was responsible for the deaths of many
Allied troops (Australians among them) as
a Hun commander. But why drag that up
so many years after the Armistice? The
imperial aspect apart, O’Farrell is, of course,
not worth a moment’s notice. His technique
was rotten. With everything in his favor the
best he could do was to wound the Duke in
the behind and an inoffensive stranger in
the foot. If he deserves a tablet masters
of the stamp of Deeming and Butler should
be immortalised by statues.
“Nikko” : We went to inspect a flat in a
big Sydney block, and as the caretaker was
absent a lady with yellow hair on the second
floor kindly offered to show us round. From
the top storey there was a comprehensive
view of the two upper floors of flats in the
next street. “Why, we can see right into
their rooms,” remarked a member of our
party. “Too right you can!” said the yellow-
haired lady; “but they’re no class in that
block. I’ve bin in two divorce cases over
them already.” Followed a stunned silence.
“Not. that I mind,” our cicerone proceeded.
“I came out twenty pound to the good over
the last one. And, as I always say. what's
the use of eyes if you don’t keep them open?"
“M.G.S.” : During the war Australia had
a moral censorship which was almost as
fussy and quite as silly as F. M. Forde's
is now. It was found that Diggers were
writing to their wives and sweethearts on
more esoteric subjects than the Army com-
missariat, and with a frankness which dis-
tressed the censors terribly. They began
to make excisions and even to suppress
documents altogether. I knew one dear old
colonel who carried round in his pocket a
collection of Egyptian postcards which he
had virtuously prevented from reaching their
destination. The ban even extended to
literature written years, sometimes centuries,
before Armageddon,
* * * *
“G. City”: Motorists have become quite
used to road-side stalls; but one enterpris-
ing lady on the Southern-road (N.S.W.)
broke new ground the other day. A traveller
got his little 'bus well bogged close by, so
to see him home she took his runabout as
a trade-in, later got it out of the muck with
a horse, and is now looking for someone to
come along and fall into difficulties with a
truck or a Rolls.
:J: * * $
“Avon”: Everyone had contributed at
least one good lie except the man from
Maoriland. He didn’t get into the spot-
light until In- was retrieving his change;
then, pursuing a threepenny-bit to the edge
of a beer-puddle, he pressed it smartly with
his thumb-nail so that _it skipped like a
young ram and landed in his other hand.
Congratulated on the mastery of a difficult
art, lie said he. was reminded of an occasion
25 years ago when he was sent to interview
a fellow in one of Harry Richards’s shows —
a wiry little Frenchman with pointed ears.
“I caught him in the bar of the pub he was
staying at,” the man from Maoriland went
on, “and showed him the dodge. ‘By gar!'
he said. ‘Clevair! Show me again.’ I
obliged, but it was no good—he couldn't
get the hang of it.” “Who was lie?” asked
someone in a bored tone. “Cinquevalli,”
replied the man from Maoriland,
SING A SONG OF PRETTY LEGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Now showing, hosiery in all the newest shades, in-
eluding chocolate eclair, rnarron-glace, cocoaniit, cara-
mel and sugar-beet. “ —Fashion advt.
When Mirabel and Mary-Lou,
And sweet Elise and hoyden Sue
(And all the dimpled rogues that you
And I, old man, have chatted)
Went stepping it last year, their slim
And silken legs, at Fashion’s whim,
Were fuselage or aeroplane;
And every saucy little Jane
Went aviator-hatted.
But fashions come and go, and grey
(The dreadnought shade) of yesterday
Is one with Nineveh and Tyre
And happy times when skirts were higher,
While aquaplane and submarine
Are dead as breeks of blue nankeen ;
And La Mode’s hectic fever
Sets golden Gwen and dark Denise
And Adrienne and pert Therese
(And all the others, like as peas)
A-twinkling up and down the street,
Their legs aesthetic sugar-beet
Or cocoanut and sugar-kiss;
And every knowing little miss
Goes coiffed a la coal-heaver.
So if you must woo Ella Rose,
And yearn to say it, lad, with hose,
This year of grace shun pewter, puce
And platinum, for they’re the deuce
Arid all, and quite declasse! .
Now pretty legs have run amuck
In caramel and toffee tuck,
With brandy-snaps for svelte Elaine,
Or nibble-nuts and sugar-cane;
While blithely—Miss Bonbonni&re—
Fares Phillida in choc, eclair,
Sweet Maude in marron-glace.
Sing hey, for fashions come and go
And lolly-legs arc com m e il taut.
s.a,
ROB MCCONNAL.


“Harold Hardupp”: Many efforts have
been made to get the s.-p. bookmaker—-or,
r; *ther, his agent—out of the Liverpool
(A.S.W.) Old Men’s Home, where Dan
O Connor, the Australian Demosthenes, ended
las days. Years ago men who were taking
sixpenny bets from other inmates were
tracked down and fired out; but that did
not end the business, nor did other clearances
made periodically since. Recently it was
decided that the inmates were taking a mor-
bid interest in the racing results sent over
the air, and this feature was cut off. The
indignant oldsters protested, and were once
more privileged to hear how Alsoran shaped
in the Goats’ Handicap; but following a
new , crusade against the sixpenny “betting
evil,” the racing broadcasts have again been
banned. I have no use for the s.-p. book-
maker, but it is a heartless proceeding to
deny broken old men one of their few plea-
sures in an idiotic attempt to protect their
morals.
* * * *
“P.N.”; A tear or perhaps a tear and a
halt ought to be dropped on the grave of the
Sydney “Sunday Times,” the oldest Sa*bbath
paper in Australia, and for most of its life
the best. Even in its last moments, when
there was no hope for it, it was a better
sheet than most of those which had greater
success. It is rarely easy to say definitely
what a paper dies of —mostly there is a
complication of diseases—but the beginning
of the end in this case came when amateur
journalists and men without any training in
newspaper management took charge. Theo-
dore Fink, the lawyer, and Hugh Denison,
the tobacco manufacturer, have a lot to
answer for, because they put themselves at
NURSED IT WHEN IT WAS A BABY.
FILMA: “Have you heard the terrible story that’s going round
about Hilma?”
ILMA: “Heard it, my dear! Why, I started it.”
the head of two publishing concerns' (Melb.
“Herald” and Sydney “Sun”) which have
been phenomenally successful. Scores of other
men with a few thousands to burn have set
out to become newspaper magnates likewise.
Bpt Fink and Denison knew what they didn’t
know at the beginning, and picked men who
did know. The queerest combination the “Sun-
day Times” ever suffered from was Hughie
Mclntosh and his then bosom friend Willie
Holman, the one sure tha*t what Sydney
wanted was 20 fight reports a week, the
other that its soul craved for 20 long poli-
tical articles. Presently Hughie was partly
converted to politics—'lie became an M.L.C.
WOMAN’S TIGHT CORNER.
THE MAN : “I think men are damned fools to marry.”
THE GIRL: “Fes, so do I. But what else can girls marry?”
in due course —and then a “Sunday Times”
article, was liable to begin with Hughie in
liis political mood, switch on to Hughie
in a fight-promoting mood and wind up
with. Willie Holman addressing a public
meeting; and the hospitals threatened to
become full of people who had dislocated
their necks trying to follow a “Sunday
Times” leader. Then Hughie and his friend
dropped out and another man with great
ambitions came in—and left the best part
of £lOO,OOO behind him when the bailiff
took possession.
>:= * * *
“Feng-Shui” : If Cloncurry’s only claim to
being healthy were
the unusual number
of excessively fat
residents, as im-
plied by “GIY”
(B. 18/6/’3O), I
should be sorry to
have to live there.
A surplus of animal
tissue, often morbid,
is a common phe-
nomenon in the
tropics. The ten-
dency is in most
cases hereditary,
and it is made more
active by the fact
that newcomers to
the tropics usually
develop enormous
appetites and thirsts
to match, together
■with a distaste for
any other form of
exercise but lifting
the elbow and draw-
ing the long bow on
the club verandah.
Dr. Cileuto con-
siders that it is the
high temperatures
which stimulate the
gastric juices.
When the patient
has become adapted
to the climate and
his appetite has
become normal he
is likely to be al-
ready burdened
with a’layer of adi-
pose tissue which
makes him lazier
tha*n ever. The
most miserable resi-
dents of the tropics
are the fat men,
and the most
miserable fat man
I have known was
an Englishman who
stripped like a
Greek athlete at
20, but after four
years in Borneo
tipped the scale at
17 stone. Despite
his outward aspect
of a jolly young
Falstaff, he was a
congealed mass of
nervous irritability
and psychological maladjustments.
* * * *
“Wandering Aussie” (Eng.) ; Before
reaching a pub in Wales , the other day I
had pushed a bundle of Australian papers
under the strap around my rugs; and the
porter’s hungry eyes when he carried the
luggage up to our rooms told me that lie was
from Australia too. He wasn’t complaining;
his people at home hadn’t been able to get
his remittances away, so he’d temporarily
chucked up his art-student career and taken
this job in a picturesque spot where,
anyhow, he could fill in his spare hours
happily. He told me that, so far as he
knew, there weren’t a great number of
Australian students who had been thrown
right on their beam-ends, but there were
plenty whose allowances had been quite
seriously cut into by the heavy discount on
Australian money in London.
I|c •!: ijs
“Cauboy” : A Melbourne daily recently dis-
covered a sensation in the alleged sale by
J.C.W. of the Royal to a Sydney firm of
haberdashers. Actually negotiations have been
proceeding with
various parties, but
nothing has been
settled at the time
this is written. A
profoundly disil-
lusioned Firm has
been anxious to
realise on several
of its properties for
a long time. The
long campaign of
abuse to which they
have been subjected
has soured the
Taits, who are pro-
bably less interes-
ted to-day in drama
than in real estate.
When Nevin Tait
remarked at the
final curtain of the
last grand opera
season at His
Majesty’s that even
at a guinea a seat
the enterprise had
been unsuccessful
a< roar of laughter
swept across the
house. As a fact,
tli e Firm lost
£40,000 over the
venture. It gets
some gloomy satis-
faction out of the
circumstance that,
w'hile the public is
paying only Bs. Id.,
lid. of which is
tax, for a first-
class revival of
“The Belle of New
York” at the Royal,
as much as 6s. 6d.
is being extracted
from it for a> seat
at the Athenaeum
to view an Ameri-
can moving picture.
“Chevroford”: The latest motoring record
was put up by a drunken Melbourne driver.
After colliding with one car he reversed and
hit another; then, speeding blithely on his
way. lie butted into a tramcar. The three
accidents earned liim a fine of £2O, though
one of the magistrates wanted to add a term
of imprisonment.
$ $ * $
“Exon”: Does anyone in Australia—even
the most uncompromising prohibitionist—
imbibe toast-and-water nowadays? Our
great-grandfathers set some store by it, and
in the Oxford college where I spent some
years of •my remote youth huge goblets,:of
toast-and-water, as well as plain H2O, wmre
placed on every table at dinner for under-
grads. who might, be prejudiced against beer.
I can’t .say I ever saw anybody drinking
the quaint beverage, but it had a rich amber
glow which made, it . pleasant to. look on.
It was probably a survival from the
eighteenth century, and for all I know it
may still be compounded in the college
kitchen or buttery and carried into hall,
night after night. Old customs die hard
at Oxford.
* * $
“Groper”: The spin of a coin had a lot to
(Bo with John Kirwan’s presidency of the W.A.
Leg. Council, which brought him a knight-
hood the other day. Eight years ago the Chair-
manship of Committees became vacant, and
the voting resulted in a tie between Ivirwan
and Jimmy Cornell, the one-time Labor
stalwart who left the party over the con-
scription issue. The pair tossed a, penny to
decide who should get the job, and Kirwan
won. In Westralia, as elsewhere, the Chair-
man of Committees is almost always given
first call on the vacant Presidency, and when
Ned Wittenoom retired the usual precedent
was followed.
❖ ❖ *
“George St.” : An ingenious financier who
has fallen foul of the law in Brisbane em-
ployed unusual methods. He engaged several
travellers, demanding a deposit of £5 from
each, and fitted them out with a parcel of
socks and stockings, together with instruc-
tions to leave one leg-covering with the lady
of the ’ouse, as a guarantee of good faith,
and book her order for the other or others.
The scheme didn’t work as well as was ex-
pected, and when the salesmen asked for
their reward at the end of the week the
financier confessed that his only assets were
unissued socks and stockings. He suggested
that they should take sufficient of these to
mane things square. The idea was coldly
received, not only by the canvassers, but by
the landlord, the typist and the office boy;
and when the warehouseman came along with
Ms account the police were called in.
* # *
“ Silver side” ; The brief strike in the but-
chering trades which Sydney lias weathered
recalls a similar, happening IS years ago at
Kalgoorlie, and the way in which the brutal
capitalist met it. Over a seore of master
butchers pooled their resources, shut all
their shops except a big one in the
heart of the town, and, working in
shifts, sold meat there from dawn to
midnight for cash only. The public,
having no choice, fell in with the con-
ditions, and the shop, with its struggling
crowds of customers, resembled a race-club
bar on Gup day. It was about three days
before the slaughtermen capitulated, and the
master butchers were enabled to recover
some arrears of sleep. “But it was wortli
it,” said one of them to me afterwards.
“You wouldn’t believe the. amount of ‘ready’
we raked in!” And he licked his lips
recalling those crowded hours when hundreds
of pounds rattled into the tills and every
scrap of meat vanished as fast as it could
be cut.
*#' ■ * *
“Erua”: Two Sydney youths who found
themselves retrenched,, with no prospect of
further employment, evolved a scheme that
proved successful beyond their most opti-
mistic dreams. From a warehouse they
bought several lengths of good material,
which they packed into two battered suit-
cases. Then they put oh their oldest clothes,
knotted colored handkerchiefs carelessly
round their necks, and set out for a subur-
ban cruise. The economical housewife, after
inspecting them and their wares, murmured
“Smuggled goods,” and decided it was too
A MOST IMPORTANT POINT.
“Before the decree, is granted there is one point I’d like settled.
Who is to have the custody of the sedan?”
good an opportunity to be missed, the con-
viction prevailing in Suburbia that sailors
are invariably in possession of contraband
bargains. The youths went from one
triumph to another, though' occasionally a
conscientious citizenoss upbraided them for
lawless practices. To inquiring police they
displayed their warehouse receipts and haw-
kers’ licenses, and continued on their path.
To-day they have a small car to carry the
goods they peddle round, but they leave it
at the street corner while they fill the role
of the sailor with' the smuggled bargains.
* * * *
' “Iverys”: A famous landmark in the Far
North of Maoriland, the mast at Awanui,
is to. be sold. With the passing of Awanui
it is no longer of any use, and Authority
has a just regard for the siller to be got
for the 40 tons of steel contained in the
400 ft. of perpendicular. The now out-of-date
and deserted station was built m 1912 by
the German engineers, of the Tclefunken Go.
It had a daylight range of 1200 miles and
a night range of three times that distance.
THE GIRL WHO KISSED IN PARTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How the wine glows in the glasses,
With the light upon them shed,
Till the shadows on the damask
Make a stain of ruby red!. .. .
Rich, ruby rich in color
Was the passion that we’ve known;
But the glasses are half-emptied
And the glamor’s partly flown,
And I think, in gazing on you,
With your anger half-suppressed,
’Twas the girl who kissed in parting
Was the, girl who kissed the best.
When your eyes with love were lighted,
When our love was warm and new,
The sweet face that shone before me
Swept all others from my view;
But to-niglit they crowd around you,
All the faces of the past,
Some with frowns and some with laughter,
Some with sadness overcast;
Some a tender thought reviving
Of old passions and their zest
’Twas the girl who kissed in parting
Was the girl who kissed the best.
Lady, let no anger tarnish
All the sweet and golden trove,
Freely garnered in the hours
That were splendid with our love!
If our souls have reached a parting
Let the parting still be sweet,
Whilst our passion yet is tender
And has roses for our feet,
Let the memories we carry
With no hatreds be oppressed;
’Tis the girls who kiss in parting
Are the girls who kiss the best.
N.s.w.
The Frequent Loveb.


THE PRODIGAL SON.
Sir Otto Niemeyer, a director of the Bank of England, is coming to Australia to discuss with the Government ways and means of getting the Commonwealth out
ot the financial and economic difficulties precipitated by its failure to raise further foreign loans.”
THE PRODIGAL SON'S FATHER: “Well, my son, what about it? Are you coming home?”


m
Book your accommodation at the Chalet, j
MT. BUFFALO, NATIONAL PARK,
for the snow sports season NOW 1
Information and advice at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST RUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney; Queen’s Walk, Melb.!
A CLOCK THE WHOLE HOUSEHOLD
CAN RELY 0N....
m
Eight-day French lever movement
Clock, sJin. high, and 12£in. long.
Excellent value at
What a boon such a timepiece
is! The clock illustrated is abso-
lutely reliable, requires winding
only once a week, is not liable to
get out of order, and can be
moved for dusting purposes
without affecting its accuracy.
Its appearance is most attractive
—a clear, bold dial and a British-
made inlaid Mahogany Case.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LIMITED
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some July birthdays :
High Commissioner Ryrie, 65, and Prof. Heinze
(Melb.), 36, on Ist; W.A. Governor Campion, 60,
Theo Fink (Melb. “Herald”), 75, Federal Minister
Blakeley, 44, and musician Frederick Bevan (Elder
Conservatorium), 74, on 3rd; Speck’s Premier
McPhee, 52, on 4th; Justice Piper (S. Aus.), 65,
and Rev. K. J. F. Bickersteth, M.C. (headmaster of
St. Peter’s, Adel.), 45, on sth; S. Aus. Governor
Alexander Hore-Ruthven, 58, and Vic.’s Chief Justice
Irvine, 72, on 6th; pianist-composer Percy Grainger,
48, on Bth; Justice Milner Stephen (N.S.W.), 58,
and Canon Poole (Adel.), 85; Brig.-Gen. L. C.
Wilson (Q.), 59, on 11th; Brig.-Gen. R. L. Leane
(S, Aus. Police Commissioner), 52, on 12tli; Lloyd
Dumas (Adel. “Advertiser), 40, on 15th; Federal
assistant-Minister Forde, 40, Prof. Harold Davies,
Mus. Doe. (Adel.), 63, C. H. Bertie (Syd.), 55,
and Percival Serle (Melb.), 59, on 18th; Vice-
Admiral AV. R. Creswell (Vic.), 78, on 20th; Melb.
barrister E. F. Mitchell, K.C., 75, E. S. Cunning-
ham (Melb. “Argus”), 71, and “Smiler” Hales, 70,
on 21st; journalist Ben Hoare (formerly of Melb.
“Age”), 88, on 22nd; Bishop Moyes (Armidale),
46, and Prof. AV. E. Cooke (Syd.), 67, on 25th;
Justice Crisp (Speck), 56, and AA r . R. Alexander
(AHc. Parlt.), 59, on 27th; Randolph Bedford, 62,
on 28th; and Sydney’s eminent surgeon Alexander
MacCormick, 74, on 31st.
William Ardlie, of Warrnambool (Vic.),
must be the oldest practising solicitor in the
Commonwealth if not in the Empire. It is
65 years since he was admitted to practise;
he was born 87 years ago at Moonee Ponds
when Melbourne was hardly out of its wattlc-
and-daub stage.
There is a heartfelt tribute to Tas. Gover-
nor O'Grady in the autobiography of Jack
Jones, M.P. for Silvcrtown in the House
of Commons. “Jim O’Grady,” his comrade
writes, “is a big, jovial chap, full of humor
and popular with every party. He is surely
entitled to be considered a great man.” And
“Jim likes his glass of K eer as much as I
do.”
Sydney’s new Lord-Mayor MARKS.
“W. Casey”: Touching the claim that
A. W. Wheen was the only A.I.F. man to be
awarded the MM. and two bars (B.
25/6/’3O), Ernie Corey, of Monaro
(N.S.W.), holds the M.M. and three bars,
something unique not only in the A.I.F. but
in the British Army as well. With J. Buckley
and J. Thompson he collected the M.M. for
stretcher work. In the next action Thomp-
son was wounded by a shell, and Corey stood
by him under heavy fire until aid arrived.
For this he was granted a bar, and the other
two came later. Corey never thought to
see Thompson again, believing him to have
been fatally wounded, but when he was
welcomed home at Cooma his old mate, to
his surprise and delight, was there to greet
him. Buckley answered the last roll-call
in Sept., 1918.
“4803”: I can mention another Digger
besides A. W. Wheen who collected the
M.M. with two bars —McCulloch, a Tas-
manian. I was on the parade at Tidworth
barracks (England) in 1919, when General
Rosenthal decorated him.
Passed out in Hobart, at 72, J. W. Beattie,
photographer, the greatest authority on
island history and the best advertising agent
the Speck ever had. He took his camera
wherever there was scenery to be snapped,
and many of his pictures were widely repro-
THEODORE FIN, of Melbourne
“Herald”—he is 75 this week.
duced. As a side-line he made a collection
of relics of the early days of Port Arthur,
which was purchased by the Launceston City
Council for the Queen Victoria Museum.
He was born in England, arriving in these
parts in IS7B.
Maui Ngatata Pomare, of M.L., who died
recently while on a visit to California, repre-
sented the native race in the Massey and
Coates Cabinets, holding the portfolios of
Health under Massey and Internal Affairs
under Coates. He w r as the son of the chief
of the Ngatiawa (Bay of Plenty) tribe, and
studied medicine in the U.S.A., graduating
at Chicago Uni. Returning to Fernland he
became a health officer to the Maoris, and
in 1911 entered Parliament as representative
of the Western Maori electorate, a seat he
held till the day of his death. King Georgs
made him a K.B.E. eight years ago. He
possessed the amiability and eloquence of
the cultured men of his race, and was of
massive build.
If a vote was taken to discover the best-
known journalist in Australia, Monty Grover
would be among the first three. His career
in Melbourne was so impressive that when
Hugh Denison and his friends in Sydney
bought the old “Australian Star” -they
brought Grover over to reconstruct it. So
far as staff was concerned they gave him
a free hand, and so he was able to lay the
foundations of the powerful “Sun” of to-day.
Though he made his later reputation as an
organiser, it was as a writer that Monty
Grover first won recognition; and the
announcement that The Bulletin’s next
serial will be his work will be received with
joy by all those who remember his humor,
the extraordinary vigor of his style and the
extraordinary range of his knowledge and
interests. The story. “Thirty Pieces of
Silver,” will start on July 30.
Father Gallivan, of Northcote, and Father
O’Brien, of Mortlake, two Vic. parish priests,
celebrated their golden jubilees last week.
Each had two nephews among the clergy
at the special high mass. The long-distance
record in this class is held by Monsignor
Shanahan, of Hamilton, who has been a
priest 66 years and looks no more in age.
Captain W. H. Bennett, the one-time
shipper of the famous Loch Vennachar, died
the other day in Melbourne. The old chap
was so tough that even a newspaper report
couldn’t kill him before his allotted 85 years.
On May 31, 1926, his demise was duly
recorded in the Melbourne press, with full
obituaries, and to celebrate it the sea-dog
held a luncheon party —and sent an account
of the proceedings in his own hand to the
papers eoncei’ned.
James _ Sadler, Adelaide poet, has
reached his 70th year. Forty years ago,
when he was an officer of the Savings Bank,
he wrote under the nom de plume of A. B.
Original, and published a much-treasured
volume of Lyrics and Rhymes. “Kuraya” is
the pseudonym attached to his excellent verse
nowadays. With the late John Harvey
Finlayson, Sadler was joint literary repre-
sentative of the old Adelaide “Register” in
London for some years.
Just celebrated his golden wedding, C. of
E. Bishop Sprott, of Wellington (M.L.). A
North of Ireland and Trinity College, Dub-
lin, man, he was ordained in 1879. In 1887
he came to Auckland, and five years later
he entered on the task of keeping the Windy
City in the straight and narrow path; his
bishopric came to him in 1911. During
Archbish. Averill’s absence at Lambeth,
Bishop Sprott is M.L.’s acting-Primate.
J. A. Boyd, the new president of the Mel-
bourne Chamber of Commerce, has been
member for Melbourne in Vic. Assembly and
for Henty in the House of Reps. In 1907-
OS he was an Hon. Minister in the Bent
Cabinet. His daughter (Mrs. Robertson)
is a champion tennis-player.
“D.”: “Ted” Simpson turned up to see
Apperly win the N.S.W. golf championship,
which was as it should be. He beat Apperly
for the State title at Royal Sydney (which
club he had helped to found) 23 years ago.
The veteran lawyer was not only a “natural”
at every game of skill to which he turned
his hand (lie was as good at billiards as
lie was at golf not many years ago), but
one of the shrewdest business men and
suavest negotiators Australia has known. He
was the power behind Nationalism when
the party was strongest, and it only began,
to wilt when he dropped out. No man who
has wielded anything like his financial and
political power is so little known to the
public. The reporters gave up the attempt
to overcome his scorn of newspaper fame
years ago.
Bernard Archer, dead in Brisbane after
long suffering as the result of war injuries,
wds a poet of exceptional quality, whose
work has attracted attention outside Aus-
tralia. Born at Toowoomba, on the Darling
Downs, 33 years ago, he was educated in
Tasmania, and went oversea, in 1914 with
the 12th Battalion. Badly wounded in
France, he tried farming on his return,
but found himself unequal to it; three
years ago he went into the Red Cross
hospital at Chelmer, near Brisbane, to
await the end. The only book of his
verse published is “Singing Bird and
Battlefield”; a collected edition of his work
is now on the presses in London.
The first woman admitted to practise law-
in Palestine, after a long fight, is Australian-
born Freda Slutzkin. The Slutzkin family
began its Australian history with the arrival
in Melbourne of a little man from Russia,
NEIL MACGROARTY, M.L.A., Attorney-
General for Queensland, who has been
having a busy time over the Mungana
inquiry and one thing and another.
wiio started business with a pack and opened
later as a manufacturer in a small way of-
women’s underclothing, thereby laying the
foundations of a comfortable fortune. Freda’s
father has always been an enthusiastic
Zionist, and divided time between Pales-
tine and Melbourne; the large wiiite house
overlooking Bethlehem which Ailenby made
his headquarters, was his property.
The Cowra (N.S.W.) district lost a
pioneer when John Mclnerny died at 85.
Born in County Clare, he was a squatter
near Young during the Lambing Flat riots.
Sixty years ago he bought the Ballacolla
property, and it has been in the hands of
the family ever since.
Samuel Gould, dead in Adelaide at 63, had
been conductor of the Harmony Society of
S.A. for the whole 25 years of its existence,
and put through- at least one performance of
Handel’s “Messiah” in every one of those
years.
Alexander Krakowslty, just dead while
travelling in Europe, was a clever little
Russian doctor who, having married the also
fully-qualified Dr. Christina Goode, of an
Adelaide family, came to practise in Aus-
tralia. He also did good work for sundry
British embassies in Asia, and after the war
both he and his wife received the Medal of
Honor for services rendered to France.
SAM ALLEN, once the greatest figure in
the bookmakers’ ring in Australia, died
June 23.
From one who knew her :—•
Tall, handsome Isabel Ramsay, journalist, who
has died at Colombo, was about the best-known and
best-loved figure in Britain’s Australian colony. Shi;
had lived for years between Paris and London, had
met every prominent Australian who visited either
city, and had never been known to write or say an
unkind word about any of them. She was married
to Dr. Foa, of the Italian Embassy in Paris, and
had a small girl. Her job latterly had been to do
the overseas social news and fashions for Sydney
“Sunday Times,” and she and her paper passed out
almost simultaneously.
The Hill Ministry in S.A. has appointed
a strong committee of local experts to advise
it on finance. W. J. Young, managing direc-
tor of Elder • Smith’s, has been in many
Commonwealth and even Imperial confer-
ences since the war. Wainwright, assistant-
Auditor-General, was with Young (and Darl-
ing) on a similar committee appointed by the
Butler Ministry in 1927. Melville was a
public actuary at 22 and Professor of Econo-
mics at Adelaide at 27. Stuckey, Under-
Treasurer of S.A, since 1923, has also" been
public actuary ; and H'unkin is an ex-politi-
cian, Public Service commissioner and
authority on industrial affairs. Opposition-
leader Butler has publicly welcomed the
appointments, and offered Premier Hill a
“political truce.”
A quaint identity has passed with the
death at 83 of the Bev. John Young Wai.
founder of the Chinese Presbyterian Church
in N.S.W. and for 32 years Chinese pastor
in Sydney. A native of Canton, he arrived
in Victoria in 1867, and after some gold-
mining experiences took a course of training
under the Foreign Missions Committee of
the Presbyterian Church. He came to Syd-
ney in the ’eighties and helped to establish
the first Chinese church, in Foster-street —
later removed to Campbell-street—and tin-
second one, at Alexandria. So highly was he
thought of that he was elected Moderator of
the Sydney Presbytery, but lje declined the
honor. He retired from the ministry eight
years ago. One of his sons is a Sydney
doctor.
Major H. L. Griffen, D. 5.0., recently
found dead in a Singapore hotel bedroom,
will be remembered by ma-ny old Papuan
hands as assistant R.M. at Kokodah, in tin?
Northern Division, and later as R.M. at one
of the Gulf stations. An Imperial gunner
in the Boer War, he collected his D.S.O.
as O.C. the half battery of the It.A. which
saw the finish as part of the military escort
at the peace conference at Veereeniging. He
never clicked very completely with the Aus-
tralian miners of the Yodda, of which field
he was assistant warden, but none the less
he was a good sort, and very useful with
his hands —lie had won one of the big army
boxing championships. Writer last saw him
as boarding officer for the transports _at
Colombo during the argument with Fritz.
KINGSFORD SMITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By tracks untraversed, to far lands that call,
Adown the ages men their ways have won;
"Twas his to wing the longest trail of all —
The pathway of the sun.
From east to west and ever west he went,
No span too perilous, no height too steep,
From sprawling continent to continent,
From deep to yawning deep.
I'rom Golden Gate to Golden Gate he wound
A ribbon round the world, a route to trace,
By tropic Honolulu outward-bound,
Homeward by Harbor Grace.
Drake and his Admirals may sounder sleep
To know the'captains of the skies their
kith.
Upon the roll of Fame ’tis ’graven deep,
The name of Kingsford Smith.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


MORE
■and better
m
’•Vy..
>By..
Qualitg
<w«/Q.uantiti|
In addition to the new, different and finer
blend of purest Virginia Tobacco which
COUNTRY LIFE offer, these better cork-
tipped cigarettes also give you 3 more
smokes for your usual eighteenpence. 23
Country Life for 1 /6—Quality and Quantity
IT'
and
15/0
also
in tins of
50x100
CORK TIPPED
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Made in Y our Own Country at the
Garden Factory Raleigh Park
—by W. D. & H, 0, \Vilh
(Australia) Ltd.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hei; Majesty's (com. Saturday) .... “Mr. Cinders”
Criterion “The Garden of Eden”
t3TATB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (cimi. Saturday) “A Country Girl”
New Comedy (com. Saturday) .... “Tea for Three”
" orT ’ s Movies and Talkies
fc,T - ATE Movies and Talkies
»
In two Sydney theatres any night this
week a leading lady may be caught in the
act of publicly removing her wedding dress.
Miss Taliaferro, in the smart comedy "The
Garden of Eden,” at the Criterion, removes
her gown with enthusiasm, brazenly, out in
the open, on top of a low stairway. She
stands there with bare knees; lace-fringed
pants and nothing else of note.
The discarding arises from a wedding-
uay row with her beau, an effeminate snob.
“he bride, who thought he wanted her for
love alone, whereas he melodramatically
wanted her for that plus the family name
she was masquerading under, gets into a
violent rage, tells the ’groom off in the most
royal style imaginable, and winds up by
tearing off the frock. The last action, com-
ing on top of intensely emotional acting
and speaking, is only a hair’s-breadth off
being ludicrous; with scores of actresses it
would be plain laughable. Even the Talia-
ferro just gets away with it, and that is
a “- At thrown in, of course, for its box-
office value, but, though it is. a tough test
tor an artist, the play’s plot necessitates it,
and the character Miss Taliaferro plays
warrants it. It is an impulsive action, which
is over in a few seconds, but which lives
throughout the rest of the play.
The other leading lady who surprised this
Showman by getting out of her wedding
gown in public view- was Gladys Moncrieff,
m a stale revival of stale “Katinka” at Pier
Majesty’s. After her theatric wedding in
the first act to the brutal Boris Knoekapint-
off,'or whatever his name is, and the dis-
covery that she has been plotted out
of her dear Ivan, leading up to the scheme
to elope, Ivatinka Moncrieff goes off-stage, to
be discovered a little later entering a room
composed almost entirely of glass at the
side of the stage. There, in fairly full view,
in perfectly cold blood, with the assistance
of a few maids, the beauteous bride chastely
and decorously removes her wedding dress.
Why ? It has nothing on earth to do with
the show, and as a spectacle, especially com-
pared with the Taliaferro exhibition, it is
boring. It is about as artistic as a man
taking off his socks, and not half so divert-
ing as if, say, Gus Bluett stripped off his
trousers and got about in his suspenders
and the abominable mo. he has fastened to
his face for this production, under the im-
pression, apparently, that it makes him
look like an American millionaire whereas
it merely makes liim look like a most unfortu-
nate Gus Bluett. There appears to be only
one reason for this undressing episode—it
is a substitute for acting. As such, per-
haps, it ought to be welcomed. There are
worse substitutes in the same show, notably
the alleged acting itself. Anyway, it is at
least an addition to a piece that wa<s always
mechanical, and now creaks painfully. To
make it worse, this edition of it is poorly
cast. Plerbert Browne and Romola Han-
sen are about the only two who look as if
they might possibly be what they are sup-
posed to be.
The piece makes way on Saturday for
“Mr. Cinders,” the first fresh goods un-
packed at Her Majesty’s for months. If
the Cinders gentleman lives up to reputa-
tion, Sydney will have a couple of worth-
while shows at least. “The Garden of
DORIS FITTON, guilty of launching Sydney’s latest amateur
experiment, the Independent Theatre.
Eden,” for all the heaviness of its first act,
is thoroughly engaging comedy, admirably
acted and produced. The producing gets
down to such curious details as the genuine
long French loaf and real French money—
in thousands ! Yet nobody in the piece
excep't Leal Douglas looks or sounds at all
French. Wonderful what can be swallowed
with pleasure in a theatre!
* * *
Duncan Macdougall is a sensible pro-
ducer, and “The Emperor Jones” at Sydney
Pla.vbox is a fair example of his handiwork.
It demands tense, almost fierce, acting, and
Macdougall sees that it gets it, per Arthur
Reardon. Most of the faults in the presen-
tation _ belong to the play. The wmrst of
them is the sickly, self-conscious repetition
by Jack Lloyd, as Cockney trader Smithers.
of the gory adjective which doubtless is sup-
posed to simulate realism. It is used so
much nowadays in books and on the stage
that a few years hence it ought to sound as
unobtrusive as “damn.” But for the present
—or as Lloyd uses it —it still has a bold
emphasis which distorts the picture. In fact,
present writer, having read the play a year
or so ago without noticing the woi*d parti-
cularly, gained the impression that Lloyd
was tossing further helpings of it into the
conversation on his own account.
Another distortion in a good picture is
made by the firing of a revolver, which, an
essential part of the plot, has to happen
six times, mostly with a scene’s length be-
tween shots. Dialogue and lighting are toned
down admirably to suit the basement that
makes shift to be a theatre. Then at inter-
vals off goes the nine-inch cannon and shat-
ters everything. The explosions are deafen-
ing; wholly out of proportion. Even in a
large theatre the use of a full-grown revol-
ver is usually a loud faux pas. Here it is
a wrecker. You get the impression of its
being fired smash into a mirror. Thinking
back on the show afterwards, you remember
noise first. It is a pity, too, that Arthur
Reardon, otherwise so gifted. for the part,
does not look, and sound, more like O’Neill’s
Emperor Jones. “He is a tall, powerfully-
built, full-blooded negro of middle age. His
features are typically negroid, yet there is
something decidedly distinctive about his
face.... He wears a light-blue uniform
coat.” This might explain a good deal.
Reardon wears a red coat, and in the first
scene, where an impression of near-great-
ness in the ex-convict pseudo-emperor should
be fixed, he looks like a nigger hall-porter.
He is rather thin, rather young-looking; a
figure unlikely to inspire respect or to sug-
gest greatness.
It is to the credit of Macdougall, Rear-
don, O’Neill and others concerned that such
distortions as these do not prevent the con-
struction of a fair picture. “The Emperor
Jones” is a study of two influences warring
in one character—inherent negro supersti-
tiousness, and enlightenment provided by
more than average brains, experience and a
certain amount of education. The action
occurs on an island in the West Indies, not
yet self-determined by white marines. Jones,
sentenced for killing a fellow negro gambler,
had subsequently killed a despotic warder
and escaped to the island, where the natives
had accepted him as their emperor. The
play opens with the Cockney trader,
Smithers, telling this Emperor that his sub-
jects have at last deserted and fled to the
hills, which indicates pending invasion and
the end of the reign. Jones goes to the
jungle, meaning to cross the island and
escape. He gets lost, panics, and, in a suc-
cession of weird scenes played in half-light,
encounters ghosts and shades of convict
days, of his murders, of a slave auction;
fires his six shots one by one at them; gets
more and more demoralised by superstitious
fear, and finally gives up the struggle, to
be found helpless and killed by some of bis
ex-subjects, who, organised by Smithers, have
been effectually working all night upon the
panicked, bewildered Emperor’s nerves.
After the first scene Reardon’s acting and
Macdougall’s producing get better and better.
Scenes of the auction fantasy, the vision of
the murdered negro and, the last straw for
the wretched Jones, a Congo witch-doctor,
are high lights in one of the best things
the Playboxers have done.
* * *
The most widely attended show last week
in Melbourne was that provided by a lady
who volunteered to
escape from a
strait waistcoat
while suspended
over the Yarra
from an arch of
Prince’s Bridge.
The disciple of
Amy Johnson look-
ed like a spider
strugglng at the
end of a thread,
but she eventually
escaped and was
lowered into a
boat. The eman-
cipation of woman
is expected to be
considerably ad-
vanced in conse-
quence.
# *
Melbourne intel-
lectual drama
addicts browsed
over “The Vosey
Inheritance” o f
Granville Barker
at the Playhouse
last week. “Brows-
ed” is the right
word, for the piece
has all the drama-
tic fury and inten-
sity of a 40-acre
grass paddock. In
fact, it amounts to
a doddering nuis-
ance, and should
have been arrested
long ago for loiter-
ing on the reper-
tory stage without
visible means of
support.
The Reps, have
made some excel-
lent ■ selections of
.... , late, notably
Milne’s delightful “Ivory Door,” so it
is somewhat surprising to find them
having a liaison with this piece Any-
thing as badly constructed would last a
week on the commercial stage and never
be heard again, but “The Voysey Inheri-
tance” keeps cropping, up over and over
again as if it had the secret of perpetual
old age. It is so monumentally dull that
an evening with it leaves an indelible im-
pression on the mind, like three hours in
the dental chair. Mr. Barker was seized
with a good idea in the notion of a solicitor
inheriting a legal business run by his dad
on the fraudulent manipulation of trust
funds, but he never succeeds in whipping it
into aJL&SXf 1 ’
th. Jce uSbw the
play, he feels it his public duty to say some
nasty ones, in the hope that they will help
to put it out of its misery. If calling it a
shambling and uninteresting work won t
serve the purpose, he is prepared to call it
a dreary, clumsy nitwit of a play mid stand
by the consequences It has its moments,
unfoitunatehy That is probMdy whv it still
survives The Renertorians certainly made
the most of those P The dear edd repressed
EngS geatleS
r“ y cifa d w s^ th a e n & jhs
for Mr. Barker’s elocutionary water supply,
But they couldn’t
have made a play
out of something
that never was a
play if they had all
been Vanbrughs
and Boucicaults.
!f. ¥
Like an immense
green caryatid sup-
porting a vast edi-
fice of sound, Flor-
ence Austral con-
tinues to stand on
the platform of
Melbourne Town
Ilall firing her
bowchaser over an
absurd little plan-
tation of palms in
pots at successive
forests of attentive
ears. Remember-
ing the lady as a
student possessed
of a fine store of
musical raw
material, but appa-
rently not a very
intelligent idea of
how it could be
turned into manu-
factured goods, the
present critic is
impressed with
what a few years
have done. The re-
sult is a striking
testimonial to the
value of energy
and ambition in
the overcoming of
natural disabilities.
Possibly there is a
Svengali in the
background as well,
and madame’s hus-
band, John Amadio,
may be his workaday name.
How much of it is artifice and how much
art —how much, in short, is due to the potter
and how much to the pot—it is impossible to
say. From the listener’s point of view it is
only necessary to note that Austral’s sing-
ing appears to be the genuine finished article.
To gauge the size of the achievement it is
only necessary to compare her singing of
Brunnhilde’s “Battlecry” with that of others
one has heard. The trouble about singing
is that the more it tries to express non-
musical ideas the less it has of the charm
of beautiful sounds —the more, in short, it
usurps the function of ordinary speech. In
fact, many songs would be better spoken,
and, as usually sung, Brunnhilde’s push-yell
is indistinguishable from that of a Footscray
barracker urging on his side against Colling-
wood. But Austral keeps an extraordinary
balance between speech and sound, not only
in this song but in terrific vocal outbursts
such as George’s “Hymn to the Sun.” In,
the songs of Brahms she is exquisitely lyri-
cal. Here singing is only singing and, the
words being in a foreign language, the aver-
age listener is spared having to worry about
what it all means. As what it means is
usually remarkably like tripe, he gains all
round.
Last week flautist Amadio was indisposed
and local pianist H’enri Penn took his place,
playing with much skill and grace.
* # *
The tone-catliedral known as “Beethoven’s
Fifth,” which is a house not built with
hands, and may, for all this Showman cares,
be a mosque or a synagogue, made one of
its evanescent appearances to an audience
at Sydney Town H’all the other night.
Albert Cazabon was clerk of works, the pro-
fessional orchestra provided the-skilled labor,
and the architect’s plan and specifications
were treated with respect, so that the man-
sion took its tremendous shape and became
visible to ears. One or two pearls, a seraph’s
wing and a rainbow seemed a little distorted,
but it was a fine piece of conjuring. Most
notable item of a miscellany of light pieces
v/as Cazabon’s own “Autumn Nocturne,”
which improves on acquaintance.
* * *
Nellie Bramley continues her Sydney
season of mostly light domestic comedies
with “Skidding,” wherein are recorded the
trials and tribulations in American politics
and home life of the Hardy family. Not at
all a bad play of its bright, entertaining
kind, and the Bramley company makes a
rattling good job of it. Miss Bramley her-
self, William McGowan, Austen Milroy and
Ronald Riley carry most of the lightweight
burden and manage to give the presentation
a convincing air of naturalness. On Satur-
day the company vacates the Opera House
for a season at the Palace, opening in
“Let’s Get Married Again.” The Opera
House will be taken over the same day by
Allan Wilkie, Miss Hunter-Watts and “The
.Jealous Wife,” with Shakspeare and other
items to follow. After the Wilkie season
Nancye Stewart and Mayne Lynton are
billed to revive Hall Caine’s “The Christian”
at the same address.
Shadow Shows
Clara Bow is at Sydney Capitol in “True
to the Navy,” a Fox movietone. It enables
her to exploit the mannerisms which have
won her the title of “the ‘lt’ girl,” and cursed
millions of families with tragic imitators.
In addition to being a first-class advt. for
the u S Navy—the pictures of the battle-
ships steaming in line and engaged m target
S3roM«cS r SMS. 18 /. eooa
Clara i* ,J Unpaid ip a MWrtjto
shop—a house ot call with a moral
atmosphere wh cl would cause an Aus-
tralian wine-saloon to be closed down in
short ordei- Eebd - y .- em
ployer, she ga^' fiequent
the place, each ot them. be she
loves him and lnm alone. All „oes
ably so long as there is only one ship in
port, but when the entire fleet arrives she
crashes. There is a fight between her rivals,
i» the course of which the ginger-beer dive
;;
them all—Fiedenc Marsh. Knowing no-
BRYL WALKLEY, who hat returned to Australia to help
introduce “Mr. Cinders” at Sydney Majesty’s this week.
thing of her past, he registers passion. So
does she. The marriage bells are about to
chime when Marsh’s shipmates give Irel-
away, and he throws her over. This leads
up to another of those melees which, if the
movies are to be believed, are staged by the
lower-deck in every port that the U.S, Navy
visits. Miss Bow joins in spiritedly, satis-
fies Frederic of the sterling nature of her
affection for him, and is gathered to his
bosom.
Those who like pictures of the sort will
like this one immensely. The “ ‘lt’ Girl”
wriggles and flounces, storms, languishes and
kisses in a manner that is funny as well as
vulgar. An admiring U.S. critic has de-
scribed her as “a real honest-to-goodness
American store clerk.” If the Americans
don’t object no one else has a right to, so
the matter may be left there. Harry Green,
as her employer, is presumably an honest-
to-goodness American storekeeper. God for-
bid that our tradesmen should imitate his
volcanic methods, but he is amusing for brief
periods on the screen. Taken in protracted
doses, he becomes tedious, as his style and
voice never vary. The sailors are lifelike,
They make love sloppily, and wade into their
fights with all the healthy zest of dogs,
„ „ ~
Universal’s all-technicolor “King of Jazz,”
at Sydney Regent, foreshadows the appear-
ance in talkie form of classics such as “Gul-
liver’s Travels” and “Alice in Wonderland,”
which require miracles to make them drama-
tically acceptable. Paul Whiteman walks
on carrying a toy bandstand and handbag,
Lilliputians emerge from the bag, and take
their places on the stand. They expand, and
the audience is faced by the Whiteman
orchestra in action. Ladies are shown walk-
ing through New York’s streets who dwarf
the sky-scrapers, and finally we are pre-
sented to a grand piano which is alternately
small enough to be played and large enough
to hold Whiteman, his band and a couple
0 f dozen chorines. The new technique
enables the entertainment to be put through
a t express speed, backgrounds fading into
backgrounds and acts into acts without a
second's pause; and it is also responsible for
a barbaric splendor which makes the scenic
effects of the old-time stage appear pathetic-
ady trivial in retrospect,
It is the first satisfactory show in techni-
color that the writer has seen, largely be-
cause the ballets are small enough to be
massed near the audience. The Russell
Market Dancers—as well matched as so
many same-model, same-year cars, and better
drilled than any Guards detachment—supply
most of the leg-work, and they only number
H 3. (Or the troupe referred to may be the
Sisters G. or the Brox Sisters or the Holly-
wood Beauties; they are all on the absurdly
inadequate programme, but it gives no lncti-
cation of which is which.) Gershwin s tine
“Rhapsody in Blue” is gorgeous spectacu-
larly, but disappointing as a musical item.
The triumphant trumpet notes, which are a
feature of it, grow dim when they should
peal, most stirringly in exactly the same way
ns the faces of the performers do when they
re^ de from the camera
There is some melodious singing—always
pleasantest when it is softest—by John
Boles, Glenn Tryon, and lovely Jeanette
Loff, but the most admirable and novel
feature of all is the humor. Most of. it takes
the form of cleverly staged and acted play-
lets which go with a rush and end with a
snap, and rarely last longer than a bnskly-
told anecdote. Altogether a splendid enter-
tainment with hardly a weak point apart
from its unattractive title.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited*
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castiereagh
Street and Martin Place. Sydney.
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
IT IS SOUND ECONOMY
to employ Pioneer
Guaranteed Belting,
THE LEADER SINCE ?858
A reputation for long-life service without breakdowns has won for Pioneer
Belting a place in the largest industries of Australia. The largest drive in
the Southern Idexnisphere is Pioneer equipped, whilst in plants where economy
in operation is the watchword, you’ll find Pioneer Belting giving faithful
uninterrupted service. Specify guaranteed Pioneer Belting—there’s a special
make for each industry.
“PIONEER”
GUARANTEED
LEATHER BELTING.
Weatherproof because Waterproof.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address)
k J
How Much Is a Year of
Your Life Worth?
MANY men succeed sooner or later
whether they have special business
training or not. But the tragedy
is the number of men that wear out
years of their lives in mediocre posi-
tions when they might just as easily
be doing larger, more profitable things.
It is the splendid privilege of the
A.H.I. fo help men move more quickly
from where they are to where they
want to be—to save the years that
might otherwise be wasted.
Write to-day for the free book ‘‘Forg-
ing Ahead in Business,” which gives
full details of the
Alexander Hamilton institute
Courses Controlled in Australia bv
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank
Place, 410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street. PlO
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
The “Wild Cat’s'’ advice to investors for
months past lias been to play for safety, and
especially to disregard those little market
spurts that are occasionally, worked up.
But there are always people who are pre-
pared to take a chance. They rightly believe
in the recuperative powers of Australia:
they are satisfied that, just as the country
recovered after the collapse o’c the boom of
the late ’eighties and early ’nineties, so it
will recover from the collapse of the boom
of the late ’twenties. What they want to
know is when they should get in: that is
to say, has the bottom been reached, and,
if not, when is it likely to be reached?
Nobody can be .sure about it, of course.
Much will depend on the assistance we can
persuade the Bank of England to give us.
If we don’t get - that assistance it seems
hardly possible that we can escape making
an arrangement with our foreign creditors;
and the Bank of England will want to
avoid that as much as we.
But the Bank of England cannot save us.
We must save ourselves. We have not yet
half-realised how the markets have gone
against us—wool, wheat, metals, practically
everything. If we had no other trouble on
hand, this would constitute one'of the first
importance, and would call for a complete
readjustment of industrial conditions. There
is no sign of a widespread realisation of this.
The reduction of imports was imperative,
and the Government did it in the only waj r
possible. But that may have unpleasant
as well as pleasant reactions. (1) The in-
crease of duties may lead to retaliatory mea-
sures. It is unfortunate, but we will have
to put up with it. It will add to our diffi-
culties, however. (2) Unless a strenuous
effort is made to reduce costs of production
and distribution, our high tariff will push
up the cost of producing those staples which
we must sell abroad in order to meet our
interest and other commitments; and a
great reduction in the cost of producing
those .staples is called for by the smashing
decline in their values.
Our difficulties are therefore by no means
passed. The greatest of them we have not
yet even faced. This is not, the “Wild
Cat” hopes, pessimism. The optimist recog-
nises difficulties, and takes his coat: off to
meet and beat them. The pessimist says
“What’s the use!” and leaves his coat on.
The ostrich buries his head in the sand lest
he might see what he doesn’t want to see. He
is the poorest creature of the three.
We must beware of mistaking ostrichism
for optimism. It is the former, not. the
latter, which tells us that, the worst is
passed, and that now is the time to get
in for the great rise.
The Bank of New Zealand.
Dividends.
“A.” “B”&Ord. Writ-
-10 p.c. 174 p.c. ten
March, Profits. v -~y —' Off. Reserves.
1920.. 469,049 268,750 50,000 2,046,520
Transferred to capital, £1,125,000 1,521,520
Govt.’s Ord.
Divs. 13& p.c.
1921.. 827,256 112,500 300,000 50,000 1,886,276
1922.. 682,043 112,500 300,000 50,000 2,105,519
1923.. 553,638 112,500 300,000 2,246,937
Profit on sale of securities, £148,112 2,395,069
inner reserves disclosed .. 184,465 2,579,534
Premiums on - new shares 3,454 2,582,95 S
1924.. 735,832 137,436 349,871 2,831,513
1925.. 819,286 162,500 400,000 3,088,299
Premiums on new shares £2311 3,090,610
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO 3,190,610
1926.. 912,160 212,404 499,928 3,390,378
Profit on sale of securities, £143,420 3,533,798
Mortgage
Shares.
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Divs. 14J p.c. 7 i p.c.
1927.. 847,671 231,250 537,500 3*064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73,511 3,683,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 .. 3,683,991
1928.. 841,878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £212,005.. 3,944,530
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,173,157
A better showing than might have been
expected in the circumstances. For the 12
months to March 31 there was a drop of
over £8,108,000 in the value of the
Dominion's exports (£49,046,000), due
mainly to low prices for wool and dairy
produce. At the same time imports
(£49,168,000) increased by over £4,062,000,
notwithstanding the efforts of the banks,
aided by the Government,, to restrict credit.
Most of the increase of imports was on
Account of the motor trade.
When exports are paid for, mostly through
London, the money is added to the funds
held overseas, and the amounts are credited.
less charges, to the exporters’ deposit
accounts in their home banks. Thus the
years adverse trade movements show up
in the B.N.Z.’s accounts in a shrinkage of
£5,715,719 in its London funds (£6,743,499),
a contraction of £42.042 in deposits, and a
spring of £6,268.135 in advances.
Earnings, however, were favored by the
movements:—
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1920 .. £1,376,838 £430,109 £450,484
1922 . . 1,509,256 528,174 577,840
1924 . . 1,709,289 562.59 G 389,661
1925 .. 1,775,324 567,495 367,343
1926 . . 1,888,309 600,068 354,882
1927 . . 1,830,881 611,270 350.740
1928 . . 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
1929 . . 1,916,600 648,581 333,866
1930 . . 2,013,526 684,745 359,048
‘Less provision for contingencies.
Thus the management wrote gross profit
£96,926 ahead of the previous year’s. Exes,
took £36,164 of the increase, and the tax-
gatherer made off with an extra £25,182,
leaving a net increase of £35,580. After
attending to the pref. and mortgage-share
requirements, the balance of the year’s net
earnings was 17.8 p.c. on average ord. capital
Com payed with 16.9, 15.6, 18.7 and 21.9 p.c.
back to 1923.
To pay current rates of dividends on the
present , £6,858,114 of capital, including
£529,959 of 4 p.c. debenture stock, total
visible funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) will have to earn 7.6 p.c.; actually
they turned in 8.7 p.c. last year. They are
high ratios, w’hich suggest a conservative
valuation of the assets. Indeed the £861,493,
including £365,043 profit on the sale of
securities, brought from hiding and openly
added to accumulations during the last seven
years, leaves no doubt on that point.
In the Long-term Mortgage Department,
where advances are made on the amortisa-
tion principle at 6 p.c. with currencies up
to 36 years, an extra £421,737 was put out
or loan last year, raising the total to
£1,124,862. To do it £102,550 of debenture
stock was issued, and £319,187 was trans-
ferred from the ordinary banking funds.
Trade movements, already explained, and
the bank’s own strength show up in the
next comparison:—
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1920.. £5,765,337 £3,708,305 £37,661,611
1922.. 4,294,230 3,713,175 28,676,603
1924.. 4.072,101 3,368,426 30,501,720
1925. . 4,168,844 3,658,551 30,079.283
1920.. 4,444.392 3,721,791 31.121,288
1927.. 3,765,593 4,016,265 29,664.024
1928.. 3,797,080 3,985,303 30,339,033
1929.. 4,290,793 4,313,722 33,939,651
1930.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33,897,609
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1920.. £33,120,009 £19,431,848 £361,108
1922.. 18,250,158 24,783,560 296,473
1924.. 26,011,290 20,128,292 352,474
1925.. 26,232,552 20,614,286 437,760
1926.. 26,482,848 22,662,697 484,103
1927.. 23,897.114 23,924,980 520,877
1928.. 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
1929.. 30,233,353 22.841,453 549,383
1930.. 23,792,798 29,109,588 579,871
The contraction in the note issue suggests
reduced spending by the public. The nature
of deposits is not disclosed, but according
to the quarterly returns about 55 p.c. of the
total is interest bearing as against 49 p.c.
a year ago. To meet the growth in advances
liquids were drawn upon for £6,440,555, but
they tvere still 55.8 p.c.*' of the liabilities to
the public at March 31. The bank was then
holding only £4 2s. 4d. of the public’s money
for every pound of its own. It is a very
strong position.
The pound ords., which fetched 625. 6d.
a year ago, are now at 575. 6d. on the market.
Allowing for the final div., - the return at
the latter figure is 5 p.c, on a 14£ p.c. div.
basis.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd,
Reserves
(Assets
Dividends. include
, * — N £BO.OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Good-
Mar, Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, will).
£ £ £ £ £ £
1920.. 45,808 10,600 19.200 496 15,612 55.564
1921.. 38,125 10,500 19.200 600 7,525 63,389
1922.. 41.020 10,500 19,200 600 10,720 74.1U9
Inner reserves disclosed -. 80,000 154.109
1923.. 46,016 10,500 19.200 600 15,716 169.825
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19.719 789,544
1925.. 51.488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
1926.. 50.453 10.509 19.200 1500 19.253 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18.117 265,220
10 p.c.
1929. . 49 5 887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,897
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
Dry-goods are mainly non-luxury lines; and
for that very reason, though never carrying
wide profit margins, they hold the business
fairly well even in the leanest times. Partly
because of this, Harper’s, whose ramifica-
tions extend through the Commonwealth, felt
the pinch less than most other traders last
year. Turnover is reported well maintained,
and the board wrote the year's net profit
only £1046 short of the 1929 figure. Thus,
after handing the prefs. their £10,500 and
attending to the B (employees’) shares,
which carry a maximum 6 p.e., the £36,541
that was left was a comfortable 15.2 p.c. on
the £240,000 of ord. capital compared with
15.6, 15.5, 15.2 and 16 p.c. back to 1926. So
the 2 p.c. bonus was repeated, keeping the
distribution at 10 p.c.
The bonus is paid from returns on money
invested outside the business. For more than
a decade the management has been steadily
building up the co.’s cash resources, the
declared aim being to provide for extension
of the undertaking when opportunity offers.
Thus at the close of last accounts Govern-
ment securities alone had a book value of
£149,770, up £25.745 during the year. Cash
holdings totalled £63,122; the two together
represented 6s. Id. of every pound of tan-
gible assets at March 31, which makes the
results achieved all the more remarkable.
They are a fine testimony to the conserva-
tive quality of the management.
To what extent earnings will be affected in
the future is difficult to say. What is plain
is that the co. is exceptionally well equipped
to weather a rough passage, and to take
advantage of any trading opportunity:—
1019. 1920. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. 398,208 415,000 420,000 420,000
Mortgages.. .. 36,733
Deposits . . . . 31,318
Overdraft . . .. 72,103
Sundry creditors.. 94,014 57,030 48,092 49,531
Freeholds .. .. 135,082 145,413 140,998 140.000
Plant, etc. .. 81,709 05.291 55,068 54,140
Leaseholds ~ 400
Stock .. .. 234,710 175,092 144,807 102,702
Sundry debtors . . 145,850 139,378 136,712 124,865
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc... 22,367 112,221 203,804 212,982
The low figure at which creditors (including
amounts in suspense) appear reflects the
management’s cash-purchase policy, whereby
maximum discounts are gained. The growth
of £17,595 in the stock figure and a shrink-
age of £11,547 in book debts suggest that
trading became more difficult toward the
close of accounts. Freeholds are probably
worth a lot more than their book value, and
plant is said to have been substantially
written down.
Owing to the hardening of interest rates
and the altered trading outlook, the market
has revised its estimate of the co.’s scrip.
The pound ords„ which fetched 38s. a year
ago, are now at 30s. or thereabouts. Allowing
for the final div. the return at the latter
figure is 6.9 p.c. on a 10 div. basis:
the backing is 375. 7d. in net tangibles. The
prefs.—-there are 150,000 of them, carrying a
cumulative 7 p.c. with priority as to capital—
can occasionally be had around par. The
cover is £4 4s. 2d. in net tangibles, and last
year’s profit was over 41 times their annual
requirements.
Swan Brewery (Perth).
Dividends and
✓ —Dividend Tax Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinarv. Off. serves.
£ £■ £ £ £
Sept.,’22.. 19,400 1500 10 p.c. =16,232 4,630 269,952
Mar.,’23.. 33,618 1500 20 „ ~ 20,290 6,159 275,621
Sept.,’23.. 22,608 1500 16 ~ ~ 16,232 166 280,331
Premiums gn new shares, £21,035.. 301,366
Mar., ’24.. 43,252 1500 16 p:c.= 20,527 10,101 312,430
Sept.,’24.. 27,115 1500 16 „ ~24,655 5,223 308,167
Mar., ’25.. 44,736 1500 16 ~,.24,655 326,748
Sept.,‘2s.. 23,360 1500 16 „ 24.055 425 323,528
Mar., ’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ „ 24.655 10,182 333,582
Sept.,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 „ ~ 24.655 10.076 325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720 .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. 405,029
Mar., ’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c. =26,754 425,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £55,933 . . 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531 - 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 542,962
Mar., '29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 .562,808
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 567,524
Mar.,’3o.. 67,910 1500 20 „,, 42,545 ■ 591,389
Though the eo. is controlled and largely
owned by Melbourne, all its trading is in
Westralia, which is feeling the pinch less
than most. So the co. continues its career
of prosperity, helped by the general progres-
siveness of the State and the absorption of
two old competitors. The Castlemaine was
bought in ’26, and the Emu in ’27, and
the Swan’s reserves benefited by no less than
£124,779 as a result of. the deals, thanks
to the market’s high opinion of its scrip.
The admitted result of the last 12 months’
trading was not so good as the previous
year’s. Gross profit (£276.644) eased
£10,759, while exes. (£170,050, including
£46,779 openly struck off for depredation)
were back £4BOB. Still, reckoning in
£10,077 dropped from somewhere into re-
serves, and allowing for the modest pref.
requirements, the net result was a juicy
26.7 p.c. on the £425.454 of ord. capital as
against 29.2, 27.3, 23 and 21 p.e. back to
1926. So the 20 p.e. div. was repeated, and
there was £23-865 to spare; thus reserves
were heaped £115,935 higher than paid capi-
tal at March 31. Also there is probably some
true profit in the £136,014 labelled “Accounts
in credit, including goodwills accruing,” to
which £24,571 was added during the year.
And, of course, there is the inner strength,
whatever it may amount to, created by a
conservative valuation of the assets.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
Mar.,’2o. Mar.,’29. Mar.,’3o.
Capital £358,190 £475,454 £475,451-
Accounts in credit, etc. 60,371 111,143 136,014
Other liabilities .. 81,452 98,052 102,309
Freehold and plant . . 654,179 844,349 966,322
Mortgages . . . . 58,588 51,082 47,705
Stocks . . . . . . 54,759 69,539 67,251
Shares in other cos. . . 6,897 111,722 111,722
Book debts . . . . 81,973 130,423 119,206
Cash, etc. .. .. 3,353 84,386 37,005
The outstanding feature last year was the
purchase of hotel freeholds, on which
£147,619 was spent, raising the total cost to
£724,105, and the book value to £616,226;
it is the way breweries have of ensuring
income. The brewery, plant and equipment
which cost £671,882 are in at £342,100, or
£27,063 less than at March 31, 1929. Thus
the net increase in the book value of fixed
assets was £121,973; nevertheless, the more
or less liquid surplus (£144,566. including
mortgages and shares) was only £98,391
lighter than at the previous balance.
The market notes the co.’s strong posi-
tion, but is very doubtful about the pos-
sible effects of threatened taxation and
reduced spending, and has shortened its offer
for the 255. paid ords. from 925. 6d. to
635. over the last 12 months. At the latter
figure the return is 8 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div.
basis; the visible backing amounts to 48s.
9d. in net tangibles. The well protected
prefs.—there are only 50,000 of them, carry-
ing a fixed cumulative 6 p.c. and enjoying
priority as to capital—seldom come on the
market.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane).
Towards
April, Profit. Dividend & Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
£,
1920.. 13,867 15 p.c. = 14,175 9,162
1921.. 10.046 10 ~ ~ 9,562 484 8,678
1922.. 16,381 10 i, ~ 9,562 6819 1.859
Reserves.
1923.. 19,842 15 „ „ 14,343 5499 3,640
1924.. 19,388 15 „ „ 13,781 5607 9,247
, Dividend ~
1925.. 19,455 15 p.c. = 13,500 5955 15,202
1926.. 17,708 124 „ ~ 11,250 6458 21,660
1927.. 14,768 124",, „ 11,250 3518 25,178
1928.. 16,624 12l .. „ 11,250 5374 30,552
1929.. 15,582 124 „ ~ 13,656 1926 32,478
1930.. 12,027 8 „ „ 11,233 794 33,272
Four years ago 24 points were snipped off
the annual distribution, reducing it to 124
p.c. That was because the co. lost the Bris-
bane agency for the Orient line, and drought
clouded the outlook in the pastoral industry.
Still, more than enough was earned to pay
the 124 p.c. to the close of accounts in 1929.
By then the drought had broken, and pas-
toralists were faced with the problem of
restocking, which meant a strong call for
accommodation. Hence the board decided to
gc deeper into the pastoral-finance business;
to do this it put out 70,000 new £1 shares at
par over the last two years, making paid
capital £159,959 at April 30; there was then
only £4l to come in. Also, it was declared,
the aim would be to keep the div. steady at 10
p.c. and build up support for capital.
Meanwhile seasonal conditions improved,
but wool values collapsed. At Brisbane the
average price for the greasy staple for April
last was B.Bd. per lb. as against 14.6 d. for
April, 1929. No hint is given as to how many
bales the co. put under the hammer last
year, or the number it had on hand when
the books closed, but commission earnings
(£30,9161 were £7753 lighter. Interest, divs..
etc. (£13,294), brought in an extra £2574.
thus reducing the slip in gross profits
(£44,210) to £5179. There was ,a saving of
£1713 in exes. (£31.785), but more capital
was calling for attention, so the net figure
receded to 8.5 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 14.2, 18.4, 16.4, 19.6 and 21.6 p.c.
back to 1925, the year before the long dry
spell began. The div. was cut back to S p.c.:
on capital as it now stands 8 p.c. will call for
£12,800, or £773 more than was netted last
year, while a 10 p.c. distribution will require
£16,000. The latter may be within the co.’s
reach some day, but not until things become
more settled and costs are got down. It was
a struggle to pay 10 p.c. in 1921 and 1922,
when wool averaged about 124 d. per pound.
The financial position has improved :
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £90,000 £90,000 £120,000 £159,959
Liabilities .. 17,235 81,619 101,323 87,063
Properties . . 27,382 97,582 93,886 93,174
Book debts . . 41,609 65,432 123,915 146,111
Shares in cos... 35,736 41,011 41,236 41,236
Cash, etc. . . 21,349 1,915 1,802 1,900
Plant, etc. . . 5,361 9,251 8,522 7,681
Last year’s £39,959 of new capital enabled
the board to add £22,196 to the book value
of advances, clip £7914 off the overdraft
(£67,179) and reduce the amount coming
to creditors (£19,884) by £6346. Thus the
more or less liquid surplus (£60,948) was
£36,554 stronger than at the previous bal-
ance. Advances, which have more than
doubled in the last two years, are the danger
(Continued on page 18.)


Ticklish
rp*
limes
You can’t be sure of any invest-
ment these days,
Some of the oldest companies
are close to the edge,
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly
doesn’t know everything; but
it has a wonderful accumulation
of data and unequalled sources
of information, and it places
these at your disposal.
JULY NUMBER
ON SALE SATURDAY
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
It looks a good deal of money ; but it
may save you losing all you’ve got.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.— Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. —Advt.
$ i\i $
The specification of Pioneer Wood Pipe, on
practically any description of. liquid-conveying pro-
ject means a definite and considerable saving in
initial cost —without the slightest sacrifice of effi-
ciency. In fact, Pioneer Wood Pipe, being abso-
lutely non-corrosive, unaffected by extremes of
climate or electrolysis, extremely strong and durable
—is capable of giving conduit service of the very
highest standard of efficiency. Illustrated catalogue
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * *
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, .or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale. —Advt.
* * *
Bismuth.— We are buyers, of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity, available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Get your
m
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI"
&
3 o fflu On
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1
DT
Swift & Company, litd., Australasian Agents, 26-30 Clarence St.,
Sydneyi
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
spot, for the co. lias not yet had an oppor-
tunity to do much in the way of strengthen-
ing the provision for extra contingencies.
The scrip, for which 325. was paid a year
ago, is now at par or a bit less on the market.
The backing figures out at 425. 2d. in net
tangibles.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
This co. manufactures builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware, etc. Goodwill (£22,682)
is not reckoned as an asset hereunder: —
, Dividends Towards
Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
, £ £ £ £ £
' 1925.. 9,082 222 9 p.c. = 11,284 21,325
1926.. 15,481 2700 8 „ „ 10,918 1863 19,562
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ „ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,600 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 4J „ „ 7,491 1358 2,694
When the co. took over the business of F.
Malley and Son 11 years ago, a building-
boom had begun. It continued for the next
decade, because we got high prices for our
primary products, borrowed more of the
savings of thrifty people in other parts of
the world than we should have and scat-
tered the money freely. The co. shared in
the largely artificial prosperity, its paid
capital advancing from £70,000 in 1920 to
£196,473 at the close of accounts in 1928,
since when it has remained steady. Earn-
ings grew nicely, too; after attending to the
pref. requirements, they reached 14.4 p.c.
on average ord. capital for the year to
April 30, 1929, compared with 12.5, 13.7,
9.3 and 7 p.c. back to 1925.
But recently the outlook changed com-
pletely. Prices for our products have
slumped and overseas borrowings stopped;
but the interest bill remains, money has
tightened, capital values are being readjusted
and spending generally restricted. Thus for
the last six months the building trade has
been slow, and is likely to continue so for
some time. One result has been a slip of
£16,673 in Malley’s gross profits (£72,406)
for the year to April 30 last. Exes. (£60,857,
including £lllO struck off the book value of
investments) were only £1452 lighter, leav-
ing the net recession at £15,221. Half-way
through the term the position looked good
enough to give the ords. an interim jj.c.,
but no final div. was paid; and then, after
handing the prefs. their £2700, only £I3SS
remained for reserves, making them £2694
in excess of goodwill (£22,682).
A shrinkage of £27,726 in book debts and
a growth of £6950 in stocks further reflect
the co.’s troubles :
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £166,473 £196,473 £196,473 £196,473
Liabilities .. 30,405 40,009 44,111 38,671
Freeholds . . 39,165 44,122 55,062 55,712
Leaseholds . . 20,886 19,824 19,197 18,040
Plant, etc. . . 33,356 39,213 39,285 38,670
Stock.. .. 39,102 64,061 65,472 72,422
Investments .. 1,193 1,955 1,955 1,877
Book debts.. 52,187 62,236 77,891 50,165
Cash, etc. . . 7,806 13,331 1,626 5,94 S
Stocks, claimed to be conservatively valued,
have been reduced since the close of accounts.
All known bad debts have been rubbed out
and provision made for doubtful ones, and
the plant is reported in good order. The
more or less liquid surplus (£89,864, includ-
ing stocks) was £12,969 lighter than at the
previous balance.
Alive to the altered conditions in the
trade, the management has lost no time in
putting new lines on the market. Some of
these have been well received and orders are
coming in. Future results will very largely
depend upon the co.’s success or otherwise in
this direction. For the pound ords. the
market now offers 11s. as against 235. 3d.
a year ago. At the current price the return
is 8.1 p.c. on a4| p.c. div. basis; the back-
ing amounts to 20s. 4d. in net tangibles,
some of it plant, worth what it can be made
to earn. Leaseholds are also in at a sub-
stantial amount; and this is another item
that falls under suspicion in these dull
days. For the prefs. 13s. is offered after
previous sales at 245. 6d. They carry a
fixed cumulative 9 p.c., have priority as to
capital and are entitled to a premium of
2s. 6d. in a wind up or return of their
money. The net tangible cover amounts to
£6 12s. 9d., and last year’s profit was over
four times their annual requirements.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
This co., which is the pioneer of the bond-
selling method of financing forestry ventures,
first put up its sign in Maoriland in May,
1923. At the start it bought 50,000 acres
freehold in the Waikato district, North
Island, which it offered the public as a
forestry proposition in bonds at £25 an acre.
At that price the co. transfers its title in
the freehold to the trustee for the bond-
holders, and undertakes to plant with soft-
wood trees one acre for each bond sold, and
to care for the forests until realised at the
direction of the bondholders, or for 20 years,
whichever is the shorter period. The esti-
mated net return from each acre was £250
if file crop was sold for wood-pulp in approxi-
mately 12 years, or £5OO if it was marketed
for general timber in about 20 years.
The scheme soon became popular; the
bonds were offered on easy terms, small
wage-earners were attracted by the proposi-
tion, and presently millions of pounds were
invested. Meanwhile the co. bought more
land, mostly in the vicinity of the original
lot, and extended its sales organisation to
Australia, and then north to the Dutch
East Indies, Malaya. India and China, and
also to London and S. Africa.
During the half-dozen years, to March 31
last the co. has sold 125,630 bonds aggre-
gating £3,454,922 (face value) and planted
117,950 acres with trees. Progress over the
last four years has been as follows :
Total Total
March, Bonds Sold. Amount. Area Planted.
1927.. 86,353 £2,158,900 54,655 acres.
1928.. 101,602 2,584,309 82,579 „
1929.. 117,531 3,147,129 107,088 „
1930.. 125,630 3,454,922 117,950 „
Owing largely to altered economic condi-
tions, sales w r ere checked last year, when
5099 bonds, with a total face value of
£307,793, were put on the books as against
15,929 bonds aggregating £502,520 in the
previous term. And, of course, the area
planted ivas less than half the previous
year’s. The acreage jinder trees is less than
the number of bonds sold, because planting
is carried out during the winter months
only. Still the disparity is not great.
The result of last year’s sales campaign, as
shown in the p. and" 1. account, was a sharp
drop of £242,954 in the face value of bonds
sold, including sundry income:—
Land and
Develop- Mainten- Dividend
March, Sales, etc. ment. ance. Profit. 8 p.c.
1929.. £563,203 £388,789 £156,364 £18,050 £13,668
1930.. 320,249 165,666 135,709 18,874 14,739
Actual expenditure on land and development,
which includes the cost of selling the bonds,
was £223,123 lighter, and £20,655 less was set
aside for maintenance. So the profit claimed
w T as a trifle better, but that was before
£lO,OOO had been set aside for taxation for
1929 and 1930. Assuming that one half of
this amount was on account of last year, the
net profit was £13,874, or £865 less than the
8 p.c. div. called-for. The true profit, liow T-
ever, depends mainly upon whether the allow-
ances for planting and maintenance, which
totalled £1,052,834 at the close of last
accounts, are more or less .than prove to be
necessary, and whether the co. is able to
collect all the £751,987 still to come in on
bondholders’ account. When the books were
last closed the co. had £11.066 of free re-
serves to set against the £15,000 at which
goodwill figured.
One thing in particular the bondholder
has to note. When he sees that a profit’has
been made he may conclude that his busi-
ness has made a profit. That is entirely
wrong. The bondholder has -no interest in
the co., which is a concern in 240,619 issued
£1 shares, paid to £191,265. • The co. makes
its profit—for the present at any rate —not
out of forestry, but out of the sale of. bonds
n*nd the carrying on of the. work which the
co. has undertaken on behalf of the bond-
holders.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —
1929. 1930.
Paid capital £178,474 £191,266
Sundry creditors .. .. .. 160,750 91,361
Land 71,902 33,343
Plant, etc. 16,221. 21,686
Investments .. .. .. 1,682 58,547
Bondholders’ balances .. .. 934,348 751,987
Other book debts . . .. 21,005 13,056
Maintenance reserve .. .. 311,781 455,952
Cash 13,526 11,695
The £12,792 of fresh capital got. in. during
thd year, and the funds provided by bond-
holders’ payments, enabled the boa*rd to lop
£69,389 off the outside debt, 1 add £144,171 to
the maintenance reserve fund and £56,865 to
the book value of investments. The net
reduction in bondholders’ balances was
£182,361, but the amount of forfeitures, if
any, is not disclosed.
The reserve fund belongs to the co., but
is deposited with the trustee for the bond-
holders as a guarantee that the co. will do
its job. The trustee reports that the co.
has satisfactorily carried out its obligations
to date, and its ability to continue to do so
financially is certified by the auditors to the
trustee.
The trustee, the Australasian Forestry
Bondholders’ Trust Co., considers that the
bulk of the timber ought to be marketed for
pulping purposes, and the Forestry Co. has
agreed to co-operate financially in any mar-
ket proposition mutually agreed upon. It
is far too early yet to say whether any-
thing approaching the estimated profits for
bondholders is likely to be realised. The
longer you have to wait for a return on your
money the more chance there is for mis-
chief to creep in. One thing that has crept
in already is the smashing fall in the market
value of almost all commodities, timber
among them.
Commonwealth Loans and Probate.
Apropos the suggestion (B. 25/6/’3O) that
a probate loan might be issued, bo the
great convenience of Australian testators, it
is pointed out that, although no arrange-
ment has yet been made for the issue of
bonds acceptable in payment of State probate
duties, the prospectus of the loan now on
the market contains a provision that stock
and bonds of the loan will be acceptable in
payment of probate and succession duty due
to the Commonwealth. This is in common
with the prospectus of every other Com-
monwealth loan issued since 1915, since
when over £10,000,000 of Commonwealth
probate and succession duty lias been paid
by this means.
Unfortunately the Stale duty, which
these stocks and bonds will not pay, is much
in , excess of the Commonwealth duty, which
they will pay. The N.S.W. duty, for
example, is from 2 to 2£ times greater than
the Commonwealth duty; and the N. S.
Wales rate is not the highest among the
States.
Position at the Barrier.
The Barrier cos.’ contract for the sale of
zinc concentrates to the British Govern-
ment ran out on Monday last, and is not
being renewed. Because of this and the low
price for metals the B. H. Prop, and Block
14 cos., and Sulphide Corp. told the union
that they would make every effort to con-
tinue operations for three months if the
men accepted a 174 p.c. cut in wages and
contract earnings, and provided the prices
for metals did not further weaken. Even
then the cos. claim that they would be
shouldering more than half the total loss
involved' in continuing operations. Still, the
men considered the offer “too childish
to be entertained.” So the Proprietary and
Block 14 mines will close immediately, thus
throwing 500 and 200 men respectively out
of work. The British, which employed about
500 men, closed on Saturday last. All this
will swell the ranks of the unemployed at
Broken Hill to over 2000. Sulphide Corp.
has not yet definitely stated what it is going
to do at the Central,. but since ore from all
three mines w r as treated at the Central mill,
a slackening of hands there is certain.
If the present low prices for .metals con-
tinue it is expected that the North, South
and Zinc Corp. will give the unions the
statutory three months’ notice to terminate
the present agreements. Exactly what the
cos. received for zinc under the British con-
tract has never been made public. But on
the basis' of .last year’s production every £1
reduction in the .price for zinc concentrates
will mean an annual loss in revenue of
approximately £41,000 for the North;
£34,000, South; £28,000, Zinc. Corp.
Doubtful of the effects of this and the drop
in the price of lead and silver, the_ market
now offers 545. 3d. as against 1265. in Sept,
last for the North’s pound share, 375. 9d.
as agginst 745. 6d. for Souths, and 235. Id.
as against 545. for Zincs.
The range of metal prices of recent years
has been as follows: —
Average for Average Average
5 Years to for for Prices,
Dec.,’2B. 1928. 1929. June 21,’30.
Leifd .. £29 4 9 £2l 3 3 £23 4 10 £lB 3 9
'Zina-.. Sill 2 25 6 4 24 17 7 10 1 3
Silver , ' _
(Standard) 24 2 2 20 13
Prior to a few months ago lead had not
got below £lB per ton since 1914, and
zinc has not sunk to such a low figure since
1902, while the price for silver is the lowest
since records began. And there is nothing
in sight to suggest an immediate rise in
prices.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Position and prospects of New Guinea
Gold and Exploration? —7oo6.
Absorption of N.* G. Gold and Explora-
tion by N. G. Goldfields is now practically
completed. By this time you should have
received transfer forms to fill in and return.
The basis of purchase by N. G. Gold is .one
f.p. £1 share for every five paid to 2s. 3d.
in the original co. As the new, shares will
be paid up, you will incur ,no liability.
Shares are of course a gamble. But the
concern is soundly backed, and seems to have
put in a good deal of honest development
work on its holdings during the past few
months.
(1), Are Keep-Macphcrsons likely to pay
pref. div. and arrears at next annual meet-
ing? (2) Date of next meeting? (3) Are
prefs. likely to lose their capital? (4) Have
they the right to force the co. into liquida-
tion f (5) How can they do it? —iloO.
(i) Unlikely. (2) Balance-sheet due
November. (3) Pref. capital was covered
four times over on last balance-sheet ngur.es.
Actual position was probably not quite a*s
good. (4) and (5) Not unless the co. is
unable to pay its debts, or the Court thinks
it fair that the co. should be wound up.
If pref. divs. get into arrears pref. share-
holders will probably have voting powers.
See co.’s articles.
I insured a car in the Royal, hut in the
policy the “Royal” is crossed out and
“Legal” substituted. Why? Is the co.
reliable? —7136. _ . ' ...
The Legal Insurance Co. is a subsidiary
of the Royal, which has funds of nearly 40
millions and guarantees the policies ot the
Le°-al Co Write to the Royal Insurance
Co., Spring-street, Sydney, explaining the
position. _____
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Yic. N.: The N.S.W. newspaper tax was
ultra vires because the State trespassed on the
Commonwealth’s territory. But there seems no ques-
tion of trespass in connection with the new V ic.
income tax.. ..M.W.: If safety of capital is very
important, no G.M.: No, quite a gamble....
A.J.W.H.: Ditto, only more so. . . .C.W.V.: One sub-
ject at a time, please, to avoid confusion in filing
and search. .. .Jay: An exceptionally well-chosen lot.
A little doubtful of 4, and future of 10 is very un-
certain Joe Li.: There are no statistics. But the
fact that some mining cos. have paid divs. speaks
for itself H.M.C.: Can see no cause for alarm.
R.L.N.: Max Wurekers has explained that the
co. is not broke, but as it can’t see any prospect
of profitable trading it thinks it had better liquidate
before all the money goes,.. .1.P.: (1) Get your
premium back if you can, and take out another
policy. (2) There are many reputable Australian
offices.... W.L.: (1) Sorry can’t place it. (2) Cer-
tainly not a “reliable investment.” All reef-tin
shows are in and out —mostly out. .. .R.S.T.: The
N.S.W. co. has been doing very well. Dearer
money would account for a fall in market values
apart from any other cause. For the same reason no
early firming need be looked for. .. .A.S.F.: (1)
Probably go lower. (2) Yes. ...E.H.: (1) Answer
later. (2) Outlook too uncertain for anything but
a gamble.


When Buick owners choose
a new car they buy
HE highest praise a motor car can
receive is the fact of purchase by
an owner whose last car bore the same
maker’s name.
Among motorists of your acquaintance,
you will probably find many driving
their second or third Buick. Some
will be driving their fourth or fifth
Buick. They are loyal to Buick year
after year because they know and
value Buick’s reliability, fine appear-
ance, and exceptional riding comfort.
Their individual confidence in Buick
Stamina is confirmed by the world’s
motor registration figures. These show
that of the 2,000,000 Buicks built since
1904, 1,500,000 are Still on the roads.
Now even greater beauty, power, comfort
The 1930 Buick emphasises Buick
leadership by even greater dependability,
BUICK
even more Striking beauty of line and
color, even smoother riding comfort,
than ever before.
Buick’s famous valve-in-head engine
now delivers 8% more power. In top
gear it will take you from io to 60
miles an hour in less than 30 seconds,
crawl in traffic at 3 miles an hour, or
pick up speed on alin 8 grade. Be-
cause of Buick power, you seldom
touch Buick gears except in Starting.
Buick’s new double-ading shock absorb-
ers iron out rough roads. The new
Steering Road Shock Eliminator checks
Steering wheel vibration. Powerful
four-wheel internal expanding brakes
give you perfed confidence at all speeds
and on all grades. Non-glare wind-
scteen and adjustable driving seat Still
further increase safety and comfort.
Convenient Payment Terms
As a Buick owner, you command ser-
vice of uniform excellence from 300
Buick dealers throughout Australia.
The 1930 Buick is warranted for one
year.- You can purchase out of income
if you prefer, under the liberal
G.M.A.C. terms plan. Ask your local
dealer for a demonstration.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA)
Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
“More Wealth for Australia—
Alore Jobs for Australians A
,•, v ■ v *Vj ■
'tilf, "-fvV
1
v sea
a
m
f
! M
3
yi-
S'
m
. :
-■' ■■-■ A
■
.. K■ s .v:
j»J 111 ■
mmm
■
..
mm
::m
m
>.
I ■'
dD
It’s a
General
Motors
Car.


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
<n
'7^
■>
kill!
w. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
w. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C l.
NO6EL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard oi Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobol
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-uso
Detonators
Cartridges
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 6/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner d
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £3/13/6 weekly. Special quotations fdi-
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station ; no taxi fares ; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, i*
sufficient address.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QULITY POLISH
KIWI
“V ang”: Dad was showing the visitor
the few sights of the township. They came
to a magnificent red-gum growing on the
outskirts of the village, with a wooden .seat
nestling against the trunk. “This ’ere tree,”
said __ Dad, “is known ’ere as th’ ‘answer
tree.’ This i.s where th’ young blokes come
with their girls to propose.” “And very
nice, too,” remarked the visitor. They
strolled about for another quarter of an
hour, and then came on another fine tree
growing just opposite the local pub. “I
suppose this tree has a name, too?” asked
the visitor. “Too right it has,” answered
Dad- enthusiastically with his eye on the
pub. “It’s called the ‘question tree.’ A
certain question is always asked under it.”
The visitor took the hint.
* * * *
“Wallaby”: Jumbuck had given Jacky a
job splitting posts. After a couple of days
lie sauntered down to see how the job was
going. Jacky was sawing off a billet in
NO TROUBLE ABOUT THAT.
DOCTOR: “Keep her warm and I’ll give her a mixture—we must get her pores open.”
MOTHER: “Oh, there won’t be no trouble about that, Doctor. Open your ’ands, dearie.
The doctor wants to see them.”
time with a very slow and mournful tunp,
the burden of which was: “O-n-e p-o-u-n-d
o-n-e w-e-e-k: o-n-e p-o-u-n-d o-n-e w-e-e-k.”
Very few billets had been sawn. Casting
his eye around, Jumbuck said: “You’re not
making much of a show, Jackv. You ought
to be able to make a quicker job of it than
this at a pound a hundred.” Jacky raised
an astonished face: “Cripes! Did y’ sav
pounder ’undred, Boss?” Jumbuck nodded.
The flash of Jacky’s teeth was like the full
moon coming from behind black clouds.
\\ hen Jumbuck left Jacky’s saw was biting
into the log in time to a new tune: “Pounder
[undred! Pounder ’undred! Pounder
undred !” And the tempo was prestissimo.
* * *
“8.C.”: On the road with a* mob of
wethers, I made camp one afternoon just out-
side of Cowra (N.S.W.) at a spot known
as Seven Mile. Having turned the horses
loose and got a fire on the go, I was rummag-
ing in the tucker box, when up stalked an
abo. and his gin. “Goo'day, borse,” says the
buck. “’Day,” says I, not bothering to look
up. “Gotta bit o’ tea. borse?” I gave him
a bit. “Gibbit bit o’ soogar, borse?” I
gave him a bit. “Gibbit bitta bagga, borse?”
That fed me up. “Garn ! Do a bunk!” I
says, making a swipe at him. But the
darkie ducked. Retreating out of rea-ch he
turned round, and, curling up his ugly lip
snarled : “Ach —plurry whitefella!” “Or —
or,” chips in the gin, obviously of mOre philan-
thropic kidney. “Or —or —don’t call ’im
thart, Bort. ’E can’t ’elp being plurry
whitefella!”
* * * :J:
“Ashmead”: The blacktra*cker’s art is
being brought up-to-date. Sam, an abo.
attached to the police station in a W.A.
wheat town, sometimes obliges the local
cookies by tracing straying stock. One night
a Road Board member, who had been motor-
ing round the district tacking up election
notices, reported to the police that he had
lost a suitcase containing polling documents.
Could lie borrow Sam in the morning? Next
day Sam was on the job, going over the
otficial’s route. In the vicinity of a bill-
posted tree he closely examined the dust, and
gleaned the following information: A motor-
ist had stopped at night, walked back along
the road and picked up a suitcase which had
fallen off the driver’s side running-board of
a car that had passed previously. The
traveller had taken the suitcase round to the
front of liis car, examined it in the glare of
his headlights and walked round to the side
of the car again, where he threw the suit-
case in. There was no door on the diver’s
side, apparently, for black brother traced the
man’s movements round to the other side
(where he had alighted and where he re-
entered). Scrutiny of the wheel-tracks
revealed that the rear tyre, driver’s side,
was brand-new. The observant nig. had
noticed a one-door car so shod driving about
the town, and was able at once to name the
man who had found the missing case. Reward
—a month’s 'baccy.
IN PAPUA, TOO.
"You don’t think my daddy is mean, do you?”
“Well, I wouldn’t say he’s mean; but I never heard of him spending anything except
his youth.”
“Bad Australian”: The Government sur-
veyor of 40 years ago set out the boundaries
of a selection pretty much as he pleased,
laying out a x'oad or setting apart a portion
of the block for a public camping ground or
water reserve wherever he judged
these to be necessary. The selec-
tor who approached him in the
right way generally got pretty
generous treatment. iCourtenay-
Jones, the newchum, who had
just acquired Dingarooby, wasn’t
one of these. He had applied for
a block of Government land adjoin-
ing his property, and when the
surveyors arrived he rode down to
the camp and accosted the first
man he met, who happened to be
Tom Browne, the foreman, who
was running the job in the absence
of his boss, who was down with
'flu. “Mai good man,” said Jones,
“I desiah to give Mr. Theodolite
some instwuctions as to how I
requiah mai selection laid out.”
“Sorry, the boss isn’t here,” replied
Tom, “but we’ll attend to your
selection all right.” Then, after
the usual bush custom, he invited,
“Have a pannikin of tea?” “Mai
good man, Ai did not come heah to
pahtake of youah tea,” retorted
the hyphenated person, “but to
give my instwuctidns welative to”
Here Tom cut loose, “Not so
much of the ‘good man,’ ” he
roared, “and you’d better take
yourself and your instructions
out of this, Mr. Johnny-come-
lately, before I put a head
on you.” “By cripes,” said
Tom, as the astonished Courtenay-Jones
disappeared down the track, “I’ll fix him.
I’ll run a road through the cow.” Which he
did, and, as an afterthought, cut out the
creek frontage for a water reserve.
* * * *
“Tributer” : The Yic. town of Dandenong
came by its name in a quaint way. A con-
signment of lime from the first lime-kilns in
Victoria, near Sorrento, was being shipped
to Melbourne b.v ketches in 1840. One of
these went ashore near the site of Frankston.
The lime was unloaded and stacked near the
shore. A number of blacks were camped
near by. Mistaking the lime for flour, they
stole several bags and travelled about 12
miles inland at full sp'eed, before they corn
sidered themselves safe from pursuit. Then
they mixed their stolen goods with water, on
their ’possum nigs, and placed the resultant
dough in the ashes to bake, the result being'
uneatable damper and ruined rugs. In
disgust, they called the place ‘Dandenong,’
which' means “no good damper.” De Villiers,
a retired policeman, afterwards opened an
inn, there, which he called the “No Good
Damper.”
Sfc # *
“Mataki” : As a ganger in Maoriland for
many years I have been called upon dozens of
times to settle the question of short-handle
versus long-liandle shovels. Not a little
gore has been spilt around my dump over
this question. My own used to
go to the long handle, but I’m afraid I was
wrong. Last week I had some gravel
measured up in two cubic-yard lots, and
selected two workers, one a newly arrived
young Irishman and the other a Maorilander
of the same age and physique. Everybody
was satisfied it was a fair go. The Irishman
had a square-nosed shorthandled shovel, the
Maorilander a long-handled round-nosed
affair. In each case the man had the tool
he preferred and was accustomed to use.
The square-nose won hands down. Pat had
been resting seven minutes when the last
shovelful was lifted into the dray.
* * *
“H.J.K.” : Ah Lon, our cook, had no time
for ferrets, traps, nets or guns, but he could
always catch a plump buck rabbit. He gener-
ally chose moonlight nights for his expedi-
tions : and for a time there was a suspicion
that he raided traps, but as the paws of his
victims were not maimed we had to give up
that notion. One night, mellowed by square-
face, he became comparatively loquacious on
the subject. “Me stoppem up hole,” he
remarked. We could get no more out of
him; but one night I tracked him, and saw
him closing up a warren with pieces of
sacking, which he poked with a stick far
into a burrow. Then softly padding over
to a lucerne patch which the bunnies often
visited he clapped his hands loudly, and a
scurrying sound told me that his cul-de-sac
was being amply packed.
THE MALLEE ROOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have been dead for many a year
Beneath the kindly ground,
And the green grass with shield and spear,
And the gold grass in ripening ear
istood sentinel around.
And the cool rain has washed me,
i UC , e warm suii has dried me,
Al ’d north wind has bleached me
1 hat still am sweet and sound.
Summer and winter, spring and fall
In turn have kissed the land.
And the grass sprang at Nature’s call,
the grass died and made my pall,
. The wind sang in the sand.
And the hot sand has brushed me,
And the cool rain has washed me,
And the west wind has hushed me,
Each with a friendly hand.
But the Angel of God has come at last
To grant my long desire.
■ he pale days of death are past,
The garments of Earth aside are cast.
And my heart sings like a lyre.
The hand of the Lord untames me.
The breath of the Lord inflames me,
I fly to the Lord who claims me :
And my soul—my soul is Fire !
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


§ Send
W&ti
ro
Carson
Growers!
Grasp
and
Gain
the advantages
arising from
that advice.
Wmcncombe, Carson
Ll D.
enjoy outstanding popularity as selling brokers
because clients’ results show the benefit of the
firm’s capable work in selling the clip.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.,
Winchoombe House, and 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER
PROFESSION?
mmmmmm
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
p i,
m
m
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, .Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
_ The centre of Queens/onc/s
' < - y ifi ct/stingu/sfac/ Soc/o/ Life.
rnetmom
_\\N
fjofcl
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball"
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon's, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
“Gorget” : One of the obsessions of inven-
tors is the production of a diving suit which
will enable much greater depths to be probed
than is at present possible. Every year an
announcement is made that a new outfit has
been satisfactorily tested, and after that
comes silence. The diver continues to
adhere to the old-style clumsy apparatus
which necessitates the pumping of air from
above, with consequent limitations to the
efficiency of the man below. As things are
at present, 30 fathoms (180 ft.) is the work-
ing limit; lower than that death waits, be-
cause of the terrible pressure of the dead-
weight of water aloft. The latest invention
in the way of diving garb is said to enable
a diver to work at a depth of 15,000 ft., and
the London cable message announcing the
epoch-making achievement solemnly says
that the dress was tested in a tank. To
have proved the claim the tank would have
had to be constructed of armor-plate about
Bft. thick, and the diver would have had to
be subjected to pressures analogous to those
produced by continuous explosions of T.N.T.;
but these interesting details weren’t men-
tioned.
* * * *
“Eureka” : On parts of the far South Coast
of N.S.W. are to be seen big trees resemb-
ling Moreton Bay figs except that the dense
foliage grows down to within a couple of
feet of the ground. Underneath one of
ANOTHER OF THESE INCONSIDERATE WIVES.
"Stand up and belt into it — can’t yer? Doncher see I’m waiting for me shaving water?”
these you would never get wet no matter
how hard it rained, but a wise busliman
never camps under one of them, no matter
how bad the weather may be. They prove
a great temptation to the inexperienced
newchum seeking a warm, dry camp. In the
morning he wonders what is up with him,
for though lie has slept well he is very tired
and weary. The trees exude a • sweet odor
which induces a heavy, dreary feeling not
unlike the effects of morphia, and finally
a heavy sleep. On awakening one has a
violent headache, which .is only relieved when
the tree is left well behind. Cattle seem
to know the effect that these trees will lifive,
as even in the roughest wea*ther they do not
seek shelter under or near them.
“Wang” : Phipps had been missing fowls
and ducks from his poultry-yard for some
time, and as it was well
fenced he guessed the
thief must be two-
legged. One evening lie
secreted himself in the
pen. He had not been
waiting long when lie
heard stealthy footsteps
approaching. The gat l
,was opened and a dark
shape entered the yard.
The intruder, as lie
made his way to the
fowlhouse, bumped
against Phipps’s foot and
stopped for a second to
investigate. “Quack!
Quack!” said Phipps.
“Stay t h ere, little,
duck,” .said a voice in
a low tone; “I’ll get
you when I’m coming
ba c k.” The “little
due k” -was waiting,
armed with a three-foot
stick, as the thief
emerged from the fowl-
house carrying a bag.
It was neighbor Binks.
“What's the game ?”
asked Phipps, and con-
tinned reproachfully,
for he and Binks had
always been good
friends. “Y’know this
isn’t cricket, stealing a
bloke’s poultry.” But
Binks was in nowise
abashed. “What would
you call it then?” he
asked cheekily. Haven’t I just been caught
out for a duck?”
* * * *
“Avon” : The art of hospitality as prac-
tised in an older world has not been entirely
forgotten by we Antipodeans—Amy Johnson
could say a word about that—but unless I
am growing fanciful in my old age the nice-
ties of the business are not now r , and on
this side of the world, so well appreciated.
In the Mackenzie country, which is the
hinterland of the most magnificent stretch of
flat land in the world—the -southern part
of the province of Canterbury (M.L.), over
which Samuel Butler travelled to reach his
“Erewhon” —I and a mate of my own age,
21, had occasion to beg a night’s shelter at
the homestead of a squatter named Mac Alpine
—a dour old Scot of close on 90, with shaggy
eyebrows and eyes colder than the grey twi-
light glimmer on the lake that fringed one.
side of his vast estate. We were ushered
into his presence as he sat, plaid-wrapped,
before a roaring fire, with three collie dogs
nosing the fender. He put us through a
brief cross-examination, and the fact that
we both bore Scottish names—my com-
panion was a Burns—and had sufficient
know-ledge Of his broad Doric to answer his
queries intelligently, placed ns in his good
books. We dined royally on scones and fried
trout, and the extent of our appetites appeared
to please him. When bedtime came, which
was after Burns had recited some pieces by
his namesake and had had his prouuncia-
MOTOR-BOATING IN THE FARTHEST NORTH.
tion meticulously corrected by our host, the
old man looked at us critically and remarked :
“Ye’re ower young for whisky, but a wee bit
nightcap will do ye nae hairm. Will ye
tak a tot o’ my ginger-wine? It’s guid
stuff, but I warm ye ’twill spoil ye’r palates
for ither vintages for a day or twa.” We
were two poor lads, unused to “vintages”
of any sort, as Mac Alpine well knew. But
that little compliment pleased Burns and me
tremendously, and I mention it as an example
of the delicacies of hospitality.
*** ’ *
“Emms”: Fox-terriers have an ear for
music. I have one that appreciates the
better sort of stuff, but is distinctly averse
to jazz, and howls discordantly when a fox-
trot is unleashed on the pianola. He will sit
a silent and absorbed listener for hours so
long as his tastes are respected, but there arc
two composers he won’t have at any price.
At the first two chords of any of their pieces
he leaves so rapidly that the Golden Arrow
would have to be. flat out to overtake him
until he gets out of earshot. After allow-
ing sufficient time for the number to be
finished, lie returns and resumes his seat.
He’s a valuable dog, so we don’t intend
taking him to the talkies.
❖ % #
“Nyleve”: The small mining claim is
usually soon worked out, but there is one
at Nerrina, better known as Little Bendigo,
three miles from Ballarat, which holds out
like the widow's cruse. Hugliie Duncan
started to paddock this alluvial ground
about 30 years ago. and is still working it.
He is a talkative chap on every subject
save the yield of his claim.
>1: : j :
“Eureka”: Things were pretty slack on
the farm, but Dad didn’t like putting the
new hand off, as lie had very little money
r.<nd was a stranger in a ' strange land.
Rabbits were plentiful, so Dad gave the
youth a gun and told .him to take a couple
of the dogs and do a bit of shooting. In
less _ than half an hour, Clioom was back
Smiling broadly. “Got ’em both first shot,
sir!” he boasted. They were Dad’s best
dogs, too.
“Emrus”: The recent destruction by fire
of the old hotel (long delicensed) at Tinten-
bar, Richmond River (N.S.AV.), recalls the
story of a funeral in the days when the
cedar industry was at its height in those
parts.. Owing to the prohibitive freights then
prevailing in the coastal shipping trade,
whisky was as scarce on the river as pigs
are in synagogues, so an illicit still was estab-
lished and did a thriving trade among the
thirsty cedar-cutters. But as the industry
grew, distribution of the spirit was hampered
by frequent confiscations of consignments
ni route from Tintenbar, the place of manu-
facture, to Ballina, eight miles distant, the
chief market. All avenues of transport were
watched by the police, and the industry was
up against an embargo on export, when a
death occurred at Tintenbar and funeral
arrangements provided that the interment
should take place in Ballina. With the eon-
nivance of the undertaker, and quite nnbe-
known to the people who had assembled to
follow the funeral of the deceased, the moon-
light-still gentry commandeered the hearse
and placed a large consignment of liquor
in the coffin and on the floor of the vehicle,
Then, with drawn blinds hiding the contra-
band, the cortege, consisting of the hearse,
with a solemn-faced individual at the reins,
and the sulkies and buggies of the friends
of the deceased, commenced its eight-mile
journey to Ballina. The police patrolling the
road doffed their hats as the procession
passed, and the first halt was called when,
having left the patrol miles behind, the
driver got down from his seat, transferred
the liquor from the hearse to a light waggon,
drawn by fast horses waiting in readiness on
the road, and, to the bewilderment of the
mourners, drove back with the hearse. The
real funeral happened later, with a smaller
attendance. The locality of the still was
never discovered by the police.
"Honi Pikau”: It was the first day of
the month and I was in the village pub,
when in walked Henare Waipiro. “Firrem-
up again,” he commanded, “te trinks on me.
Te missus have te new papy boy tis morn-
ing." “What are you going to call him?”
I asked. Henare shook his head. “I stay
here a little while to get te good notion,”
he said thoughtfully. Just then the
postman bustled in and deposited a batch
of letters on the counter for Mr. Bung, who
looked at them and snorted “Bills!” “Ha !”
exclaimed Henare, “tat give me te goot itoa.
I call te new* ferrer ‘Pill' —he came on te
first of te month!”
❖
“Harold Hardupp” : The ant is an absurd
creature. Some of the tribe surprised the
caretaker of a Sydney building by invading
his premises on the sixth floor, where they
made raids on his sugar. Whether they
smelt the sugar from afar and came up the
lift, or swarmed up the outside wall, or
dropped off a cloud is unknowm, but there they
were, and attempts to discourage them with
deadly poisons failed. The caretaker reported
the matter to the police, hut no arrests were
made. Then as suddenly, as they had appealed
the tiny black invaders evacuated the posi-
tion they had made such tremendous efforts
to occuny. Senseless little beasts!
* * * *
“Jesmond”: Who is responsible for the
theory that white ants must be in communica-
tion with the ground? During heavy
w'eather recently several large limbs of a
manna-gum blew down. As the tree seemed
healthy we examined the limbs, and found
them riddled with termites. The ants had
nested in the limbs about six feet from the
trunk and had worked both towards the
trunk and away from it. Six inches below
the first branch there was not a sign of
an ant, though they had worked right to the
tips of the affected branches. Of course, they
may have been working towards the ground,
but why, if communication with the ground
is necessary to their well-being, had they
expended so much energy in working the
other way? The nests were not new—at
least two ye;ws old, to all appearance.
OLD PETE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We found him under a wilga-tree,
dust as he’d lain for a snooze, maybe,
Though never a shred on his bones had lie.
The ants had cleaned him from head to feet;
All that was left lay there complete.
Dried and bleached by the summer heat.
Between his teeth was his pipe awry;
And from its socket his one glass-eye
Was starin’ up at the brazen sky.
’Twas Pete McLucky! Tom, Jack and Jim
Took off their hats and they swore to him,
As he smoked mayhap with the seraphim.
AYe laid the frame on a sheet of bark
With care as though it still held a spark,
For “Mind his pipe!” was a mate’s remark.
And we bore him home to a rocky cave,
And built it up for his box and grave
And monument where the wilgas wave.
Then on the rock that his tomb became.
In deep, bold letters they carved liis name :
“Pete McLucky—white and game.”
With pipe still gripped as did Fates ordain,
There rests old Pete in his wild domain,
For ever snug from the wind and rain.
n.s.w
E. S. SORENSON.


II 111
K
a#
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES —For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for (llnstrated Folder •
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO„ LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM. Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
SBPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MICROBES IN THE MILK, ETC.
"Jackpot”: Bacteria or microbes are the
lowest forms of plant life, and consist of a
single cell. They occur everywhere, and vary
considerably in many ways, but in all cases
darkness, moisture, sufficient warmth and
suitable food (which must be in solution)
are essential for their propagation. They
increase by either simply splitting in halves,
each half maturing and doing likewise, or by
producing spores (or seeds) which germinate.
The organisms are readily killed by heat,
but sometimes the spores are highly resistant
to it, so that bringing a substance to boiling-
point may not necessarily render it free
from infection. Let us apply the foregoing
points to some problems of the man on the
land.
It is impossible in practice to prevent these
organisms gaining entrance to foods;
attempts to minimise their numbers and
effect are all that can be done. Milk is
turned sour by a microbe which converts
the milk-sugar into lactic acid, the latter
causing the casein to coagulate. Remove
mud and manure from the cow’s udders
before commencing to milk and you will
prevent much infection, not only by the lactic
acid bacteria but also many that cause the
flavors found in second-grade cream. All
utensils after being thoroughly scalded
should be turned upside down so that they
may drain and dry. A few drops of water
remaining in the bottom will allow a fresh
crop of microbes to multiply and lie there
waiting for the milk to arrive. Thunder and
lightning do not sour milk. It is the warm,
moist conditions prevailing at the time which
favor bacterial growth. Therefore, during
this kind of weather exercise special care a-nd
cleanliness.
Boiling of milk kills most of the microbes,
but it is then necessary to hinder more from
gaining entrance. A double thickness of
cheese-cloth placed over a vessel containing
milk will arrest ma»ny germ organisms as
they fall with the particles of dust in the
air.
Remember that every germ gaining
entrance will, under favorable conditions,
increase to several millions in 24 hours. Cold
inhibits bacterial growth but does not kill
the microbes or their spores. They remain
dormant until the temperature rises.
A covered drain is an ideal spot for bac-
teria to flourish in all the essentials being
present. In the country home wherever
possible drains should be open. Sunlight is
the best and cheapest germicide.
Flesh of an animal killed after a fast
will keep better than that from one brought
straight in from the paddock. The unassimil-
ated food materials in the blood are an
excellent medium for bacteria to grow in.
The blood of an empty beast is much less rich
in these materials than that of a full one.
Be very careful in handling dead wool if
you have cuts or sores on your hands; this
teems with spores and dormant organisms
of a putrefactive nature. It is safer to
wait until the cuts heal, or wear gloves.
If you smell a rotting carcase, and think
of typhoid, don’t waste good saliva by spit-
ting. The typhoid bacillus lives in water,
and is not air-borne.
THOSE USELESS LOGS.
“Fysh”: Visiting a Queensland neighbor,
I found him depressed. He had bought his
farm the season before on the assurance of
an agent that it would carry a beast to four
acres. He has G4Q acres and about 100 head
of stock; the stock had practically eaten
the place out, although it was a good
season.
It was an ordinary scrub farm, which
means that there were logs and stumps in
abundance. We stepped the length of one
log; it was roughly 40ft. long and about
18in. through. That one log covered up
60 sq. ft. of ground, on which, of course,
no grass was growing, and there were many
hundreds of logs like it on the farm. Also,
each stump was rendering useless at least
a square foot of ground. Dotted about here
and there were brigalow sucker clumps, far
too many for shade, and each clump took
up more ground.
I left a man determined to get to work
at once with a firestick, and, later, with
a bag or two of Rhodes grass-seed. There
are many places like his in Queensland —
many in our district alone.
Now is a good time to burn those useless
logs off, for a fire will not be so likely to
get out of hand and sweep the grass paddock.
Have a stroll round your own farm and see
how much valuable grass land is covered by
wood. The result may surprise you.
TACKLING DEFICIENCY DISEASES.
"Mick”: Breeding and young stock make
heavy demands on the land for the minerals
used in the formation of bone, etc., A
10001 b. bullock requires, in addition to other
minerals, the equivalent of 1331 b. of super-
phosphate and 2011 b. _ of lime; a* brood sow
will lose lloz. of minerals per day in her
milk. Nearly all our soils are deficient in
phosphates and lime. Fodder grown on such
soils must also be short of these elements,
and the shortage is passed on to the stock.
Coasty cattle, the twin disease of sheep (fatty
infiltration of the liver) and stunted and
generally unthrifty stock result when these
minerals are not obtainable.
Speaking broadly, the lower the pastures
are in mineral content the lower is the carry-
ing capacity, the slower the growth of young
stock and the higher the incidence of
disease.
Top-dressing will do a lot to remedy the
position. The application of super, has' been
found to increase the phosphate content of
the herbage two and a half times, and the
lime content threefold. On poor pastures and
broad acres it is often impracticable to top-
dress, and the use of licks has to be con-
sidered. A recent Bulletin contributor has
indicated a good lick for sheep and cattle,
and the following is suggested for pigs:
Charcoal, 30 parts; sterile bonemeal, 10
parts; salt, 8 ; sulphur, 4 ; sulphate of iron,
Protein deficiency is also noticed in Aus-
tralia. This is best overcome by close graz-
ing, as young grass is over twice as high
in protein as old grass. The encouragement
of plants of high feeding value, such as
clovers, is an important consideration, in
combating both mineral and protein defici-
ency. The response of these plants to the
extended use of phospha*tic manures is play-
ing an increasingly important part in
improving the stock health of the Common-
wealth. Their increased use is to be strongly
recommended.
THAT RABBIT-NETTING JOB.
“Veracity”: I suppose thousands of miles
of rabbit-netting are erected annually in Aus-
tralia, yet no instructions are ever issued by
the manufacturers. I pass my experience
on, having put up many miles on my West-
ralian farm.
Unroll from right to left, when facing
the fence. Place netting in the trench and
attach loosely to the top wire which is to
take it, sa*y, about every 30ft. About 12ft.
from the end of the roll attach a wire-strainer
to the top selvedge and to the top wire of
fence. Take the strain gently; then with
an assista-nt go back half-way and pull the
netting towards the machine. More slack
can now be taken up by that contrivance.
On no account attempt to strain the roll
with only the machine. It must be eased up
each time until no further slack can be
pulled by hand. Before releasing the strainer
device, anchor the netting by tying the top
selvedge to the nearest fence-post.
Attaching the strainer 12ft. from the end
of the roll allows enough slack to lie on
the ground ready for attaching the next roll.
When the top selvedge is tighter than the
bottom one, the roll will always have a ten-
dency to leave the fence while being unrolled ;
should the reverse be the case, after strain-
ing, a few judicious snips of the lower selv-
edge will often make the netting lie flat on
the fence.
With some of the lower grades it is almost
an impossibility to make a neat fence, but
one seldom meets with a bad A-grade roll.
Naturally six inches of netting straight in
the ground will stop more rabbits than
Gin. rolled up in the trench.
TO REMOVE POSTS.
“Red on Black” : If you have a long line
of fence to pull up, try this. Cut a stout
green fork with prongs four or more feet
long. Bore a hole through prongs close
to crutch, and insert the thickest piece of
iron or piping you have. Trim stump and
nail on a piece of batten, a little longer than
fork at such an angle that the fork when
upended, step-ladder style, will be almost
perpendicular.
Place on near-side of post, and fix link end
of a plough-chain to the swingle-bar on
your horse. Pass hook end over bar in
fork; twist chain twice around bottom of
post; hook on the near-side. The post will
come out cleaner if the bar over which the
chain slips is not too close to the foot. If
you have a wire rope place through chain
on post and over the bar, back through
chain and again over bar.
A sulky pony with this leverage can pull
out an unloosened strainer post.
DEALING WITH DENIS.
“Grunter”; “Bendee’s” pig jiu-jitsu (B.
28/5/‘3O) doesn’t appeal to me. When a pig
is running away from you, which he mostly
is, the hind leg or tail is the most accessible
part of his architecture. I recommend the
tail as a referee hold and the hind leg to
gain the verdict. The front leg is too near
to the part lie bites with for iny liking. If
you want to pitch him into the next pen,
pull or propel him by the hind leg, whip
your »rm under his brisket and swing him
over, easing his fall by the hind-leg hold. You
can thus handle him expeditiously and land
him softly on all fours. Don’t let him go
down with a bump.
When loading, I find a cob of corn no
inducement at all. By the time you’ve headed
him into the race and jambed the hurdle up
behind him, as “Bendee” suggests, he’s too
stirred up to worry about corn.
Here’s the method of loading adopted by
our local pig-carter, who handles a few
thousand a year. I had 30-odd stores penned
at the foot of the race. He walked in
amongst them and said they were “a nice
lot.” Then he wrenched off his hat, leapt
in the air and yelled “Ho! Ho! Ha! Ha!”
There was a wild rush for the only exit ( the
race) and while I was still, looking for # a
stick to poke the sulky ones up with, he was
putting up the tailboard.
BIG-TIMBER COUNTRY.
“Bad Australian”: Intending settlers
should not be led away by the old cry, still
voiced by the unthinking, that “land that
will grow big timber will grow anything.”
Many a* good man who has wrestled with
hill country in Victoria and south-west West-
ralia has found, to his cost, that it is not
true.
The greater part of the Victorian hill
country north of the Dividing Range, where
some of our biggest timber is found, is of
granitic formation overlaid at irregular
intervals with basaltic caps, ranging from a
few acres in area to several thousands. The
timber consists of messmate, blue-gum,
peppermint, mountain-ash and white-gum,
with a dense undergrowth of scrub-wattle,
bracken, dogwood and occasional patches of
hop-scrub. There is little or no appreciable
difference in the size or density of the vegeta-
tion, whether found on the granite or the
basalt. The basaltic caps have proved ex-
ceptionally fertile; on certain areas highly
remunerative crops of oats, barley, potatoes
and turnips have been grown for 40 yea*rs
with little rest and without the aid of arti-
ficial manure. The granitic areas, com-
prising about 70 or 80 per cent, of the whole,
rarely yielded more than a few payable crops
of oats, and appear to be better adapted to
the growth of indigenous timber and such
fruits as apples, quinces, pears, plums and
raspberries, than anything else.
The great majority of the selections on
the granite country have been abandoned,
and are now nothing more than tangled'
wildernesses of scrub-wattle a*nd bracken, and
the new forest growth which is rapidly
replacing the original ringbarked timber.
This country was originally settled by young,
hardy men, most of them possessed of prac-
tical pioneering experience and a small work-
ing capital, who, a>fter spending the best
years of their lives battling against tremen-
dous difficulties, and in the majority of
cases handicapped by lack of roads other than
the impassable bush tracks, have gone out
much poorer, except in experience, than they
went in. The majority of the settlers on the
basaltic areas have managed to hold on and
with improved roads and transport facilities
are now in a fair way of doing. So, I say
keep off our heavily timbered, scrubby
granitic areas. The heavier the timber the
greater reason for keeping off.
THE GRAVENSTEIN APPLE.
“Disc Harrow” ; It is a profitable variety,
planted in moderation. When of good size
and color it sells well; green cookers for
the Christmas market often bring the best
prices of the whole year. But here’s a
warning-—don’t put in too many. The fruit
has a habit of Tailing in the least wind,
which' makes a lot of work in strawing and
picking up. As the Gravenstein is harvested
just when the spraying and other work is in
full swing, the time taken to keep the straw
clear is often a drawback.
If considering planting a patch of Graven-
steins, it is best to put in a variety such as
Granny Smith, and graft the Gravenstein to
it when established. The Gravenstein wood
is subject to “gnarl,” for which no remedy
has yet been discovered ; instead of the branch
being symmetrical it becomes lined with deep
grooves and twisted in all directions. Often
the sap for a whole leader has to pass through
a channel no thicker than a finger, and a
heavy crop breaks the tree to pieces.
If the course of planting another variety
and afterwards grafting the Gravenstein is
followed, the worst that can happen is that
the diseased leaders will break, when others
can be trained up in their place. The stem,
being of different wood, will never be affected.
The Gravenstein is on the soft side for
export; it pays, however, because it thrives
anywhere, and is far from being of shy
fruiting habits—the trouble is to keep the
buds thinned out—and because of its good
appearance and flavor.
UNSEASONED FRUIT-CASES.
“XSA” : Fruitgrowers are now almost; uni-
versally adopting the new Canadian bushel
case, but this must be made of well-seasoned
timber. Damp cases will quickly cause the
contents to rot. Retailers do not empty
cases until convenient; it. may then be too
late. In N. g. Wales this year a number of
choice consignments have been condemned
through premature rot.
The cost of well-seasoned shooks is about
one penny more than the cheap lines now
offering, but that small amount is a sound
insurance against loss. Growers who export
to Maoriland or the other States arc par-
ticularly cautioned to select nothing except-
ing well-dried shooks.
FARM POULTRY-YARD REPLACE-
MENTS.
“Jack Point”; Fowls are the best of all
farm side-lines. Even if no birds or eggs are
sold they keep the family supplied with food,
whilst the manure is eminently useful. Dur-
ing the next couple of months see how you
can improve your flock, and possibly enlarge it.
If your birds are well-bred and you ca*n
manage the hatching without much trouble,
by all means go ahead. If you have “just
fowls,” don’t waste time breeding from them.
Buy a hundred or so day-old chicks from
a reputable poultry-farmer. Feed them well
(milk added to the ration will solve half
the food problem), see that they are snugly
housed for the first few weeks at least (the
missus and kids will probably attend to the
brooding), and in about six months you
should have betwen 30 and 40 excellent
pullets, whilst the cockerels will form a
welcome addition to the menu.
The greatest curse in poultry-raising —as
in many other forms of animal husbandry—-
is the mongrel male. If every farmer who
runs fowls as a side-line killed off every male
bird on his place, it would be all to his
advantage, and the result would be more eggs,
fewer mongrel (which means unprofitable)
chickens and more contented birds. It is .a
foolish idea to hang on to some cockerels
because your inexpert eye thinks they may
be good to breed from later. When you
are ready to breed, you can buy a well-bred
cock for about 10 shillings, and you will
save yourself a lot more than 10 shillings
worth of trouble and feed by killing off the
superfluous males now.
ORCHARDISTS SHOULD KEEP BEES.
“Hatter”: Some fruitgrowers imagine that
the wind will fertilise the fruit blossom.
This is not the case. Fruit pollen is moist
and is seldom carried by the wind; _ the
transfer must he made by insects, especially
bees. Fruit which has not been completely
fertilised drops off when small. The same
result occurs with melons and similar plants
that have not been properly pollinated.
The New York Horticultural _ Society
recently published some highly significant
results of tests. In three cases wind pol-
lination gave 2Jlb., 41b. and of fruit
per tree. Bee pollination gave 441 b. in two
cases and 1501 b. to 2001 b. in a third series.
SHARPENING PLOUGH DISCS.
“Fysh” : It is an easy matter to sharpen
plough discs on the farm by making a disc
holder; with this the disc can be hammered
out on the anvil, hot or cold —hot is safer.
The disc support consists of two upright
pieces about 20in. long. One is stood up-
right; the other attached to it at right
angles, like a stay for a strainer post. A
brace should be fastened between the two
sticks to keep them together, and the foot
of each should have small blocks fastened to
it as a further support. If the disc is not
equipped with its bearing the rod may be
driven straight into the 4x4 upright.
If the hearing is in place it should be driven
into a hole bored for it at an angle, but if
the rod is not more than three-eighths of an
inch in diameter there will be ample play
to prevent inconvenience. With a machinist
hammer the edge of the disc can be thinned
quickly, while the disc is slowly turned.
A gadget of this sort will save many a
trip to the blacksmith.
THE FARM GATES.
“Red on Black” : The motorist who leaves
the gates open is a pest to combat. _ One
fairly effective method of countering him is
the 'half-moon gate, a semi-circular wing
contrivance which is always open for the
vehicle, but through which stock rarely find
their way. Then there is the ditch across
the open gateway covered with 2/in. steel
(Continued on page 25.)


lid
i
■
I
New shaped holes distribute bending strain
and make 17 % extra weight possible. Blade
held steadier. Made, too, from steel strip in
one continuous operation so that every blade
must have the same perfect edge. Probak blades
fit two-edged safety razors. Sold everywhere at
fixed prices—1/8 per packet of 5, 3/4 per packet of 10.
a new and wonderful two-
edged safety razor
blade is here! •
result of twenty
years’ experience
in design and
manufacture
Made and Guaranteed by the Auto Strop
Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Rd.,
London , Eng.
PROBAK BLADES
Managing Agents for Australia : PHIPSON & CO., LTD., 181, Clarence St., Sydney.
mm
m
m
THE SUNTYNE
COMBINED GRAIN AND FERTILISER DRILL
AND SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
8 Row 17 Tynes Cultivates sft.
12 Row 25 Tynes Cultivates 7£ft.
14 Row 29 Tynes Cultivates 81ft.
16 Row 33 Tynes Cultivates 9£ft.
20 Row 41 Tynes Cultivates 12ft.
24 Row 49 Tynes Cultivates 14ft.
THE SUNTYNE LEADS IN POPULARITY BECAUSE:
The Cultivating Points compact the seed bed and cover it with a mulch of
thoroughly pulverised soil.
The seed with fertiliser is sown on the level compacted seed bed, and secures
full advantage from the stored moisture in the soil.
It will cultivate and sow as shallow or as deep as desired.
Flexible Floats save the tynes and ensure uniform cultivation.
The All-steel Lid keeps seed and super, perfectly dry.
Forward Lever and Hitch for tractor working available at small extra cost.
Illustrated Catalogue, Prices and Terms will be posted free on request.
THE SUNDERCUT
STUMP JUMP DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-Disc sLa cultivates sft. 14-Disc size cultivates 7ft.
THE MOST WIDELY-USED DISC IMPLEMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
Unequalled for ploughing in stubble and for dealing with heavy weed growth.
Paddymelon, Stinkwort, etc. Also works well in rough country and in virgin
Mallee Lands. Cultivates to a depth of four inches.
Alternate 20-inch and 18-inch discs, set with undercut, cut to a uniform depth
and leave a granular tilth ideal for moisture catchment and conservation.
Cultivates more soil per horse-power used than does any other disc implement.
Differential Cog Jump operates without increasing draught. Tractor Levers
supplied in lieu of team levers at small extra cost.
Illustrated Pamphlet, Prices and Terms will be posted free on request.
*
1 :•
i i
Hi
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Ask for General Illustrated Catalogue of all Sunshine manufactures.


&
f£
It
%
&
3#?
?S
uV<*
W*
*«w
;>>*<
K»il
few;
%4
gig
V*
?&=*
eaa
•Jl-
#7l
Hi
rs-i
Sirt/"
wi
«m-
L*%6
V.:>A
VNr
««*•*
KV-;.
/nrrn 1
ftrfl
«sw
#\ >j
■,^:T
,-, A
< »i!i
&3
.r^
«S
sO'
/ >» *•
JM!
H R-H TMB
■w;
ss
3 Tl
J-v£l
Gordons
7x3
«.v**
5T£
v:
S<v
v?
dry Gin
- 'lm *
distillery;
LONDON,
ENCLAND.
ds
tajJqulray.gordohsc?!:
133333313?
EEiisiiaaaGEESEaa
no/v?
Insist upon
GIN
The Ingredients used in the production of GORDON’S GIN
are of the finest quality procurable, and contain the greatest percentage
of those important properties which are considered by the Medical
Profession to be most beneficial to the human system. It is very
highly rectified and contains no impurities of any kind ; it is there-
fore very easily digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very highest standard of
quality and absolute purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
WHITEST, PUREST & BEST
The Heart of a good Cocktail
BY APPOINTMENT
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World.
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


:
A smart, smooth fit
Of the lightest and most practical
type, the Abbey Riding Boot is pliant
and hard-wearing. Stout elastic
insets preserve its suppleness and
guarantee close fit. A soft leather
lining increases comfort and dura-
bility. Special arching of the upper
over instep eliminates tightness and
allows full muscle freedom. There
are no raised seams inside.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 427-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 37/6
Sporting Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,’’ Sydney.
PPL 183
r
Why suffer with
Skin Troubles
WHEN Cuticura Ointment, because
of its absolute purity, and antiseptic and
healing properties, in combination with
Cuticura Soap is unsurpassed in the
treatment of pimples, eczemas, rashes,
irritations and all forms of skin troubles.
Ointment Is. and 2s. Soap Is. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
Sayers
Green
m mm
Seal
Remedy
for all stomach worms
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains lcc. Carbon Tetrachloride per scc. dose.
000 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixlev Brisbane
Dalgety & Co Melbourne
Gollin & Co Adelaide
Gollin & Co Perth
King Lawless, Ltd Auckland, N.Z
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding scc. and acting as
Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
CHANDLER
Farm Gates
Made in Our Own Factory Under
Skilled Supervision.
CHANDLER FARM GATES
are made from the best quality lfin.
diameter steel tubing. All joints are
electrically welded.
Gates are fitted with our own patent
hinge, which brings the gate within £in.
of the gate post; also patent latch. By
means of our special pipe-bending
machine we are able to turn the
corners, thus avoiding breaking the
frame and providing a solid, one-piece
structure of enormous strength.
All gates, unless otherwise stated, are
made 3ft. lOin. high. All gates are now
covered with Chandler Ringlock Fencing.
Sizes.—We send gates to suit open-
ings, allowing for space taken up by
latch and hinges.
Wire-netted (Rabbit-proof), 6d. per
foot extra.
W
Fig. R 1.108.
Very strong tubular Steel Gate, braced and
welded. Our cheapest farm gate. Prices: —
10ft.
24/-
lift.
26/-
12ft. wide.
28/- each
m
Fig. 181.
Is exti’a strutted for wide widths. Prices:
12ft, 40/- ; 13ft., 41/6; 14ft., 44/-; 15ft.,
46/6; 16ft, 50/-; 17ft., 53/6; 18ft wide,
57/- each.
Send for free copy of our Fence and Gate
Catalogue, which contains a complete list of
our Farm Gates.
Prices are F.O.R. or F. 0.8., Melbourne.
234-236 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
m m
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
figs
JuDestingfor
Piling up every little surplus so'"profitably and
wisely that full financial independence comes at
a very maximum of speed— that is what our NEW
Investment plan means to you
WRITE FOR A PAMPHLET
Have a Bank Account — Keep it (growing
The Primary Producers Bank of Australia Ltd.
Head Office: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at Londoi^
bars, some inches apart. Cars can cross
without trouble, but no animals will face
the contrivance. Better than these is a
self-releasing gate, the details of which I
briefly sketch here.
Take tAvo bottles with broad necks and fill
one with sand. Roll a piece of tin to a
pipe one-third of an inch in diameter, and
four inches in length. Wrap a cloth round
this and force it two inches into the sand-
filled bottle, and fit the empty bottle on to
the other end. Open out a petrol-tin, cut it in
halves and punch three holes in each end.
Then wrap round bottles and pass thin Avire
through the holes and round the bottoms of
the bottles. The gate should have a post to
prevent it swinging too far back. Prop the
gate against this, and six inches away put
in two blocks on the roadside, eight inches
apart and parallel with the gate; they should
be as high as possible without blocking it.
Wrap what is left of the tin round the bottom
rung of the gate and fasten securely; this
is to give a smooth surface for the bottle
to rest on. Noav drive a stiff piece of wire
through the tin round the bottles, so close
to the centre that it grazes the necks. Rest
a bottle on the tin covering the lower rung
of the gate. If the' bottle cannot swing
without touching the ground dig a trench for
it. By resting the bottle against it the gate
can be kept open, but when the sand runs
into the lower bottle the gate will be released.
This gives the driver time to get well aAvay,
but not time for sheep scared off at the
car’s approach to Avander back.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is an ( a ) average , (b) good
crop of subterranean clover seed per acre
when cultivated commercially for seed? (2)
What machinery is used for threshing it, its
cost and its maker’s name? —7058.
(la) 4001 b., (b) 6001 b. (2) Threshing is
usually carried out with a threshing machine,
or reaper-thresher or combined harvester set
up as a stationary thresher. After passing
through the thresher, the material will con-
sist of a mixture of seed, seed pods and
broken stems. This must then be put through
a special huller which rubs all the seed out
of the pods. Such a huller, the “Hill,” is
manufactured by Goodwin and Collins, 18
Maclean-street, W. Brunswick, Melbourne,
price about £75. But the majority of
groAvers use inexpensive makeshifts.
How to poison rabbits with strychnine and
thistle-root? —7016.
Take black thistle-root, wash it well, and
cut into pieces about an inch long, or shorter
if thick. Place the pieces in a vessel,
Sprinkle sugar over them, stirring occasion-
ally, and leave for about two hours. The
syrup should then be poured off and the roots
spread out on a clean log and allowed to dry
in the shade. Then to 21b. of thistle-root
add as much finely powdered strychnine as
will fill the top of a wax vesta matchbox,
distributing the poison well over the roots by
stirring them in a billycan or jam-tin. The
strychnine should be well powdered before
use, using pestle and mortar.
(1) What arc the most suitable manures
for grape-vine culture? (2) What kinds of
grapes are the most suitable for table use? —■
7080.
(1) Depends on the soil. On average clay
soils, superphosphate has been found to give
beneficial results, but in light sandy soils a
fertiliser comprising potash, nitrogen and
phosphoric acid would be more suitable. (2)
Muscat, Hamburgh, Black Hamburgh and
Gordo Blanco in the order named.
Are “Q’land wild carrots ” suitable for
soups, etc., in lieu of the domesticated
variety? Can seed be procured? —6s3s.
No. They are carrots in name only and the
roots are not edible. Seed could be obtained
in endless quantity.
(1) Cause and remedy of pale combs in
White Leghorn laying pullets? (2) Cause
and remedy of pullets laying eggs with
watery yolks? (3) A pullet suddenly
stopped laying and from then on her comb
gradually shrank until now it is only about
an inch long. She had some digestive trouble,
but castor oil seemed to cure it. Cause and
cure for non-laying ?\ —7155.
(1) May be due to the birds being bred
from parents with Aveak constitutions, or
may be due to faulty feeding. In the latter
case the remedy is obvious. (2) “Watery
yolks” are beyond our experience. If you
mean watery Avhites, this is causing concern
in several countries besides Australia. Re-
search is being made, but so far no definite
cause has been found. (3) Looks as if she
ate something that upset her and the castor
oil removed it. If well fed she will pfobably
come into lay as soon as she recovers, and
her comb will become normal.
I irish to employ an abo. as a laborer
on a mixed farm near Brisbane. Is this
permissible, and what tvages would I have
to pay him? —7191.
You must obtain the permission of the
Protector of Aboriginals, Charlotte-street,
Brisbane, before employing the man. The
rate of Avages is then fixed by agreement.
Who invented (1) the stripper; (2) the
harvester; and (3) the stump-jump plough?
—7285. ’
(1) .T. Ridley, an Australian, in the early
'forties. (2) H. V. McKay, an Australian,
invented the “stripper-harvester,” which com-
bined stripping and winnowing operations, in
1884. (3) R. B. Smith, of South Australia,
in 1876.
What is whale fertiliser used, for?' What
are, its chemical contents and is it still
manufactured in W.A.f. —7306.
It is an organic manure supplying mainly
nitrogen and phosphoric acid. Its nitrogen
contents are 2 to 3 per cent, higher than the
average “blood and bone” on the market,
whilst the phosphoric acid contents are
about the same amount lower. It is no
longer manufactured in W.A.
A representative of N.S.W. Wool and Fur
Co. is offering angora rabbits ( female ) in
the south-eastern Queensland highlands at
£6 65., with service at £l. They guarantee
to buy fur at £1 per pound till 1932. What is
the co.? What is the guarantee worth?
The issued capital of this co. is 30,815
shares, first issue called to 7s. ; 3435 shares
Second issue, calling to 7s. Tt is the co.’s
intention to establish a stud fa*rm in Bris-
bane by the end of the present year. The
prices quoted cover all charges from Sydney,
delivered to purchaser’s address. The
rabbits are selected from the flock rabbits at
the co.’s rabbitry at Ponyara, Ca*stle Hill,
Sydney. The co. guarantees “to purchase
wool from purchasers of its stock, and pay
21s. per pound to the end of 1931.” Presum-
ably the wool has to be of a certain quality.
Co.’s address is Dalton House, Sydney.
When is the open season for kangaroo
shooting in N.S.W.? Are permits necessary
to shoot them,? —69o2.
Varies with different districts. A list
of the present open seasons can be obtained
from the Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney.
No permit is necessary to kill kangaroos
for sale during an open season, but the
skins must be produced to the nearest police
station for a certificate prior to consignment
for sale, which must be not later tha*n 14
days after the close of the open season.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bill R.”: When held up with a bogged
dray or waggon, try hooking the team to
the rear-axle and pulling backwards; as a
rule, the vehicle will come easily along its
own ruts. When marking a forward move
again, sheer off in a new direction. If the
load still refuses to budge in the soft patch,
hitch a couple of horses with a long chain to
the wheel.
“H.W.E.”: If you have a horse that pulls
back on the reins when you tie him up, try
this old dodge. Get a light rope and double
it to form a crupper. Place the loop over
his tail, and lead the other ends through
a “D” on the saddle, then through the bit-
ring to the post or rail. You will only have
to do this a couple of times; you can tie him
up with a piece of string thereafter.
“Kell” : Dairy-farmers in northern N.S.W.
and Queensland who have the choice of sell-
ing pigs over the scales or by auction should
carefully study the market when offering
corn-fed pigs. Thirty per cent, is the usual
live-weight deduction on animals bought over
the scales at so much a pound. This figure
is fairly accurate for animals fed on skim-
milk, but it is about eight per cent, too
large for the corn-fed baconers. There is
not so much waste in pigs fed on si hard diet.
“Minerva”: For belt-paste crush to a
powder half a pound of resin, put it into
a tin and pour over it a pint of boiled lin-
seed oil. Stand tin on the back of stove,
stirring with a stick till the resin is dis-
solved. The mixture is highly inflammable,
so care must be taken that it does not boil
over.
“Wescocky”: When cultivating or seeding
over newly-cleared ground with a combine-
drill it is a good plan to carry an old saw in
the grain-box. Roots that take 15 minutes or
more to remove from between the tines, at
the same time causing the skinning of one’s
knuckles, can be disposed of in a couple of
minutes if sawn in halves. Even with
machines of exceptionally low clearance a
saw can be used easily.
“J. Point”: For cleansing dairy utensils,
etc., and dissolving arsenic, washing soda is
much more commonly used than soda ash,
yet, allowing for its containing over 60 per
cent, of water, it is dearer and no better.
Washing soda costs 10s. and soda ash 15s.
per cwt. (Brisbane prices), so that for the
additional 50 per cent, you pay for the ash,
you get well over 100 per cent, more soda,
while rail freight charges per hundredweight
are the same. Apropos, though, warm water
is a great help.in dissolving various forms of
soda, very liot or boiling water retards
dissolution.
“Disc Harrow”: If a whetstone goes
“dead” bury in wet ground and leave for
.several weeks. This will restore the porosity
and leave it as good as new. To leave a
stone in the sun spoils its cutting properties,
so take as much care of it as of the tools
themselves.
“Fysh”: For barbed-wire cuts, mix
together equal quantities of unsalted lard
and boracie acid and keep in an ointment-
tin with a tight lid. Make a little into a
paste with kerosene and smear it over the
wound.
“XSA” : Citrus men should carefully watch
trees which have recently set a false crop,
and remove the fruit as soon as possible.
This crop will be of no value. Fruit whicii
set prior to mid-March —in N.S.W., at all
events —may be worth a« little.
“Berseen”: Three ways of removing aphis :
(1) Mix lib. of soft soap with 10 gallons of
water and syringe with a fine spray nozzle.
(2) Steep lib. coarse shag in 6 gallons hot
water, with Soz. of soft soap, and spray.
(3) Mix lqt. quicklime and 1 peck soot with
3 gallons water. After allowing the mixture
to settle skim off the spot and spray.
“XSA”: Now that imported lemons are
banned growers should concentrate upon
curing, which renders the juice acceptable.
The fruit should be clipped green (silvery)
when size has been attained, and packed in
a paper-lined case.
“R.H.P.”: Re rickets in pigs. I had
trouble for three years Avith pigs of the
York.-Berk. cross, stied and fed on a meat
diet; SO per cent, of the young ones died
or became useless and had to be killed. I
thought I would have to shift the sties to
get rid of the rickets, but I found a better
plan. I got a good sort of wild boar and
bred to the York.-Berk. sows. The young-
are very hardy, and there has been no sign
of rickets since.
“Bonzi” : A device tried in England looks
better than our rubber-stamp method of
dating new-laid eggs. Each egg is packed in a
waxed pa-per bag, bearing the grower’s name
and address and the date. The cost of the
bags is trifling and the eggs fetch better
prices,
“Awani”: Never set guinea eggs under-
neath a guinea hen; as soon as the chicks
hatch she is likely to run them off their
legs. A common hen is preferable, and I
find a Wyandotte better than any. The
clucks don’t require food for the first 24
hours, and then they need only rolled oats
for the first few days. After that give them
sop made of bread soaked in milk, and, when
they are three or four weeks old, chick feed.
“L.A.8.”: Build your fowl-pens with the
timber on the outside ; this provides a mini-
mum of hiding-places for vermin to breed,
and tlie house is more easily cleaned. In
the summer wire-netting can be stretched
over the back and ends, and climbing beans
grown.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
. Strong, intelligent youth, Q’land, wants job,
pioneering or travelling, bush or 0i1y.—7273.
Surveyor, exp. with theodolite, dumpy level and
irrigation levels, wants employment straightening old
boundaries, etc. —7294.
1 oung man, Vic., expert pruner, vines, deciduous
and citrus trees, exp. on irrigation settlements, wants
job anywhere.—73l4.
Youth, N.S.W., exp. farm and station work, wants
work anywhere.—7324.
Returned soldier (31), Vic., married, exp., wheat,
sheep-farming and tractors, wants job as manager.
Vic. or N.5.W.—7341.
7 oung man (N.S.W.) Hawkesbury Coll, graduate
with mechanical knowledge and practical exp., wants
job station or farm. Refs.—736l.
Exp. nurse wants position involving travel. —7266.
Young lady (26), Q’land, exp. in shorthand, typing
and journalistic work; good knowledge land and
sea travel, wants position as travelling companion
or secretary.—7297.
Exp. woolclasser, Q’land, married, Bradford and
Australian exp., wants job as book- or store-keeper
on station ; could take charge oi shearing. Refs.—
7219.
Man (35), N.S.W., wants any kind of work any-
where.—723s.
Exp. housekeeper or companion help, Q’land, wants
position country town, take full charge children ;
good needlewoman, nursing exp. Refs. —7246.
Young chap (Vic.), wants work, farm exp., driver’s
license.—724s.
To hear from ex-members A.I.F. Pioneers (all
divisions) interested in first Q’land Reunion Dinner
during Exhibition Week. (To J. Craig, P. 0., Store,
Murarrie, via Brisbane, Queensland.)
Ex-A.I.F. sister (double certificated), desires
private cases, relieving or position as attendant in
professional r00m5. —7286.
V oung man, Q’land, wants training for flying
pilot’s license, giving services in return for in-
struction and keep. Knows motors and has built
and flown gliders.—7lB2.
Young man invest £4OO to £5OO in half-shave
producing mining proposition. Capital needed to
increase production is covered by assets. Investor
draws wages. Sleeping partner entertained.—727l.
To hear from persons who have had exp. of
power take-off for stripping, and who would give
information. Advertiser chiefly interested in Hart-
Parr tractor and Sunshine header. —7318.
To buy Stewart’s “Handbook of the Pacific
Islands,” sailing directions of the New Hebrides
and Santa Cruz group ; and charts of New Hebrides
and New Caledonia. —7280.
To buy second-hand etching press, geared action,
rollers at least 18in. wide.—7l79.
To buy copy of No. 1, Vol. I (New Series) of
“Tasmanian Journal of Agriculture.”—7lBo.
To buy volumes of I.C.S. library for courses of
building contracts, concrete contracts and carpentry
and joinery.—7188.
To buy papers published in German concentration
camps or in Australian camps or on transports
during the war; also Lawson’s “While the Billy
Boils” (1896) ; and novels b3 r John Sinjohn.—72s3.
To buy “My Brilliant Career,” by Miles Franklin.
—7256.
To buy a few rooted suckers of the giant bamboo
for growing in N.S.W. —7257.
Copy of book by Mark Twain containing his
defence of American pronunciation of words against
the English.—7o74.
To hear from solicitors advertising for George
William Francis about two years ago in Sydney
papers.—7336.
Whereabouts of Frank Gale, late of Napier Creek,
Albany (W.A.). —7304.
Information Sought.
(1) What chance have I of leasing an
island inside the Barrier Reef —say one of
the Percy Islands group? (2) What rental?
—6430.
(1) No islands open for selection or
lease. A list of those open for occupation
license and a map showing approximately
where they are situated are obtainable from
the Lands Dept., Brisbane. North-east Island,
which is open for occupation license at the
Land Office, Mackay, is one of the Tercy
Islands group. (2) Land Office will supply
particulars. Advise you to .inspect island
before taking out license.
Upon my retirement from the N.S.W.
public service, I intend to reside on Lord
Howe Island. Would I be liable for income
lax on my pension by N.S.W., Federal and
Lord Howe Island authorities? —7l2l.
You would be subject to both State and
Federal income tax in respect of income
derived from N. S. Wales.
Has hydrophobia eves' affected dogs in
Australia? —69BB.
No. The authorities are most particular
about quarantine arrangements for imported
dogs, and there should be little chance of
the disease being introduced.
(1) llow arc, nurses appointed by the
N.S.W. Bush Nursing Assoc.? (2) Could
a fully qualified nurse with A.T.N.A. certi-
ficate/get an appointment? (3) Salary? —
7117.
(1) Nurses are appointed by the Central
Council. (2) It is necessary to hold certi-
ficates in both general and maternity nurs-
ing, to be State registered and a member of
the A.T.N.A. (3) £175 a year, with board
and lodging.
(1) How is a position as male attendant
in a N.S.W. mental asylum secured? (2)
Qualifications? (3) Salary? —7ll6.
(1) Personal application must he ma<le
to the medical superintendent of the hos-
pital where appointment is desired. (2)
References as to character must be produced.
Previous experience is not necessary. Appli-
cants should be under 30, unmarried, of
fair education, in good health' and not less
than sft. Sin. in lieight. (3) Salary on
appointment is £231 9s. 7d. and ranges to
£305 9s. 7d. subject to satisfactory service
and the passing of nursing examinations
(one at the end of each of the first three
years of service).
'Methods of catching crayfish on the
Murray and its tributaries? —6993.
(1) A line weighted with sinkers is laid
across the river. Attached to this line every
three or four feet are smaller lines about
two feet long, with meat tied to their extremi-
ties. The long line is gently lifted. to the
surface and any attached crayfish are scooped
into the boat. (2) Baited traps similar to
salt-water lobster pots. (3) An acetylene-
light is used at night, when the water is
clear, to locate the crayfish. When a cray-
fish is seen, a long-handled landing-net about
two feet in diameter is thrust over the cray-
fish. which is lifted to the surface. (4) Wire-
netting of about 1-j in. mesli attached to
strong fencing-wire, with meat or other bait
in the centre, is lowered to the bottom. This
net is hauled vertically to the surface and
the crayfish attracted by the bait arc secured.
How are mining wardens appointed in
N.S.W., and what, are their qualifications
and salary? —7l7B.
With one exception they are police
magistrates. All are selected on account of
their knowledge of mining conditions and the
Mining Acts. Salaries range from £S7S to
£943 per annum.
(1) Can vegetable dyes be produced from
any Australian plants? (2) Have any been,
exploited commercially? —7l76.
(1) YTs, particularly from the eucalypts.
(2) Attempts have been made in the past,
but little success has been achieved owing
to the competition of cheaper dyes derived
from coal tar.
How can we obtain a liquor license for
a building in N.S.W. consisting of reading-
room, library and assembly hall, owned and
run, by 350 working men? —7oBB.
You would have to register as a club.
Under the Local Option provisions of the
N.S.W. Liquor Act. the number of clubs in
an electorate shall not at any time exceed
the number of clubs in the electorate regis-
tered on March 1, 1906. If there should
be a vacancy in the electorate it can be filled,
but unless there is such a vacancy then no
new club can be registered.
How many oyster-beds are licensed by
the N.S.W. Government, and the average
acreage ? —7052.
At the end of 1929 there were 5068 leases,
comprising areas having a total of 1,140,609
yards of foreshore, as well as 3104 acres
of offshore lands. Average acreage cannot
he computed.
(1) Can a person summons another for
a sum less than Bs. ? (2) What is the lowest
■sum of money that can be sued for? —7196.
(1) Yes, under the Small Debts Recovery
Act. (2) There is no statutory minimum.
(1) What would be the freight on an
American five-seatcr car from Sydney to
Rabaul? (2) Would I have to pay Customs
duties on arrival at Rabaul; if so how much?
(3) Would, there be scope for using the ear
there? —7193.
(1) From £2O to £27, according to size.
(2) Duty of 10 p.c. (3) There are good
roads and plenty of cars in the Territory.
Must farm-produce agents be registered
in Brisbane? If so, cost of registration and
ivhere must application be made?— 7192.
Yes. Application for a license, accom-
panied by a fee of £l, should be made to the
Clerk of Petty Sessions of the district in
which it is proposed to carry on business.
The Court of Petty Sessions may then issue
or refuse a license.
How are cadets in the Commonwealth
Meteorology Service appointed? What quali-
fications must applicants possess? Commenc-
ing salary ? —7190.
Appointments are made by tlfe Common-
wealth Public Service Commissioners, Can-
berra. The rule is for vacant positions to
be filled by competitive examination, the
holding of examinations and subjects thereof
(including mathematics and physics) being
notified in the “Commonwealth Gazette.”
Salary ranges, according to age of appointee,
from £99 to £360 p.a.
Eight ladies have formed a bridge club to
play once weekly for eight, weeks, each player
contributing a fixed sum each week; the
winner and second to take the proceeds. They
do not play Progressive. What is the fairest
method of scoring? —697B.
“Plus and Minus” scoring should bo
adopted. After each session each player’s
result, either plus or minus, should be
recorded, the scores being added at the end
of eight weeks, and the player showing the
greatest surplus of plus over minus should
be the winner.
(1) How many types of engines similar to
the Wright-Whirlwind aero, are there in
Australia? (2) Is the crankshaft a fixture
and do the cylinders themselves revolve?
(3) Arc there any ’ planes in Australia fitted
with this type of engine apart from the
National Airways machines? —6992.
(1) Similar engines in use locally are
Genet IT., Genet Major, Mongoose, Lynx
IVb, Jaguar, Jupiter VL (A.L.), VI. (F.H.),
VIII. and XI., Scarab, Salmson and Anzani.
(2) The cylinders and crankcase ate
stationary and the crankshaft revolves. It
was in the old rotary engines such as the
Clerget, the Le Rhone and the Gnome that
the crankshaft was stationary and the
crankcase and cylinders revolved. (3) Tin;
National Airways aeroplanes are Avro X.
monoplanes fitted with three Lynx IVb
engines. There are about 20 types of aero-
planes in Australia fitted with static radial
air-cooled engines. Nine of these types are
fitted with Jupiter engines and four with
whirlwinds.
What is the maximum speed in still air
of the Australian or American crow, the
Hack swan, the falcon hawk, the carrier-
pigeon and the swift? —6994.
No record for crow, black swan or falcon
exists. The black swan is regarded as faster
than ducks, whose speed is 47-50 m.p.h. The
carrier-pigeon flies TO-SO m.p.h. over moder-
ate distances, and falcons are supposed to
be faster. The swift is usually regarded
as the speediest of all fliers, but it has not
been clocked. The speed of swallows, which
are somewhat slower, has been recorded
electrically at 106 m.p.h.
What is the greatest speed that has been
attained by (1) aeroplane (2), motor-car
(3)', motor-cycle (4), motor-boat? Who
made these records and what was their
nationality? —72oS.
(1) 857.7 m.p.h.. Squadron-loader Orle-
bar (British) ; % (2) 231.76 m.p.h., late Sir
Henry Segrave (British) ; (3) 134.68 m.p.h.,
Ernest Henne (British) : (4) 96.41 m.p.h.,
late Sir Henry Segrave.
Where can I get, information concerning
the teaching of music ( class-singing, theory
and musical appreciation) in the State
schools in N.S.W.? —7031.
Consult the Syllabus of Primary Instruction
and Courses of Study for Secondary Schools.
Both syllabuses can be obtained at. the Gov-
ernment Printing Office, Sydney.
What are the doctrines of Babaism?
Where are the adherents to this religion? —
7274.
The sect is an offshoot of Babi-ism, founded
in Persia in 1844, now split into two camps,
the Ezelis and the Bahais. The latter sect
has gained many adherents in the United
States. A fundamental doctrine is that no
revelation is final.
Who is considered to be the greatest living
musical composer? —72Bl.
In our opinion, Sir Edward Elgar.
(1) Is the mother of a deceased soldiei'
of the A.I.F. entitled to a pension if her
husband, is still living? (2) If so, docs pen-
sion date from, death of son? —7165.
(1) Yes, if she was dependent or partly
dependent upon her son during the 12 months
prior to his enlistment, or is at present without
adequate means of support. (2) No. Only
from date of granting application.
How can a boy become a cadet midship-
man in the R.A.N., and what age must he
be? —6342.
Applications are not to be invited this
year. In ordinary circumstances, appli-
cations are accepted only from boys who
attain the age of 13 years during the calendar
year in which the entrance examination
they apply to take, is held. However,
if new entries are to be invited in
1931, consideration will be given to the case
of boys whose thirteenth birthday falls in
1930, and who would ordinarily be ineligible
for entry in 1931.
Can I purchase obsolete telephone instru-
ments from the P.M.G.’s Dept. {N.S.W.) ?
—7278.
No complete telephones are disposed of,
as it is - the practice to recover any service-
able parts before the instruments are sold.
Obsolete instrument parts arc disposed of by
competitive tender. Particulars from the
Superintendent of Stores, 64 Harbor-street,
Sydney.
(1) Can the secretary of a club acting
in an honorary capacity be prosecuted for
misapplying the club’s funds and goods?
(2) Can he be forced to make restitution?
(3) Could a charge of larceny as a bailee be
brought? —72ll.
(1) “Misapplying” is vague, but if. it
amounts to a wrongful taking or carrying
away with a felonious intent to convert the
funds or part of them to the taker’s own use
without the consent of the club, then lie is
liable to prosecution. (2) If found guilty
the Judge might make restitution a condi-
tion of shortening the term of imprisonment.
(3) Yes.
Where was Kingsford Smith’s ’plane, the
Southern Cross, built; what type was it;
icas it new when he flew the Pacific in it,
and, if not, what was its history? —72B4.
Kingsford Smith’s associate, O. P. Ulm,
states that to the best of his knowledge the
’plane was entirely built, by the Atlantic
Aircraft Corporation in the U.S.A. in 1925
or 1926. It was a three-engined Fokker-type
monoplane equipped with Wright-Whirlwind
.14 (200-h.p.) engines. It was sold to G. H.
Wilkins, the Australian polar explorer, and
used by him for survey flights in the Arctic
regions. In 1927 the machine, which had
been damaged, was sold by Wilkins to Smith
and Ulm. They had it reconditioned by the
Douglas Aircraft Co. of California, and the
J 4 Wright engines were replaced by .15
engines of the same maker, of the same
power as the old ones.
When should amaranthus seeds be sown?
Should they he sown in a shady part of the
garden, and do they require much manuring?
—7291.
To obtain the best results, a few seeds
should be sown during September, October
or November, when the ground is warmed,
in clumps, where they are intended to grow.
Afterwards thin out, leaving those that
promise the best color. Give plenty .of
manure and water during the growing
period. They should be planted out in the
sunniest border in the garden. The more
sun the more brilliant the color.
(1) How long from date of issue can I
hold a mining lease in Vic. without making
another payment? (2) If a mining lease is
granted to me on freehold property, Old
Title, can the owner of the land debar me
from operating provided, I am prepared to
pay for damage? (3) Can an owner of free-
hold land, Old Title, included in a mining
lease, commence mining on his Own property,
and, if so, has the lessee any claim on
minerals the owner brings to the surface?
(4) What is the usual royalty paid on
minerals icon from private property: also
royalty on minerals from Crown lands? (5)
Will the Mines Dept, grant me a mining
lease if I peg an area of freehold land, Old
Title? —6981! . . .. . ..
(1) Six months, rent being payable half-
yearly in advance. (2), (3) and (5) By
“Old Title” we presume you moan land
alienated by the Crown in fee simple on or
before March 1, 1892, No mining
lease can be granted in respect oi land so
alienated. The right to any minerals in the
land may be secured under an agreement
iii writing with the landowner. (4) Except
for gravel, sand and coal no royalty is
charged on-minerals won from land, either
Crown or private, leased under the Mines
Act.
Brief Answers.
IL.E.L.P.: (1) Yes; created Viscount in
1916. (2) See a manicurist. (3) It was never pub-
lished under its original title. The author’s address
is Bedford Hills, New York. (4) Advertising for it
in the “Wants” column... . D.E.: Write Chief Secre-
tary, Provincial Government,' Madras, India, and give
particulars, including mother’s name... .C.G.: Write
Department of Agriculture, Sydney, for free leaflet,
“Poisoning Green Timber with Sodium Arsenite.”
G.G.: It is expected l the Sydney Harbor Bridge
will be completed about the end of December, 1931,
or early in 1932. No arrangements have been made
for celebrating the event... .C.C.D.: If you desire
a family crest, write College of Heralds, Queen
Victoria-street, London, E.C.4. If you wish to
ascertain what crest some family is entitled to,
consult the standard works on the subject....
F.W.8.: For a start, borrow from the Country
Reference Section, Public Library of N.S.W.,
“Freetrade and Protection” and “Single Tax” —
both in the Debater’s Manual Series... .M.C.A. : A
copy of the Q’land Woolelassers’ Award can be
obtained from the Government Printer, Brisbane
V.E.: Holmstrom’s “Modern Blaeksmithing” (75.„
6d.), Horner’s “Smithing and Forging” (11s. 6d.)
and Saunders’s “Forging, Stamping and , General
Smithing” (305.) ... .C.R.8.: Distance between Mum
gindi (N.S.W.) and St. George (Q.) is 78 miles:'
Route followed by most motorists is through Thallon
and Mindigully... . W.A.S.: Compton Mackenzie’s
address is Isle of Jethon, Channel Islands. . . .C.L.H.:
(1) Full size is 9ft. x Oft. Net should be 7in. high.
(2) Mick Simmons, George-street, Sydney. .. .5.8. F.:
“Port of Spain Gazette” and “Trinidad Guardian” —
both published daily at Port of Spain, Trinidad....
T.A.: £5O; after which there is a deduction of £1
p.a. for every ten pounds... .W.L.: (1) Curator of
Intestate Estates, William-street, Melbourne. (2) If
you placed the transfer in the hands of a solicitor it
was his duty in safeguarding your interests to
make the necessary searches and he is entitled to
the charge... . T.J.P.: (1) “Writing Advertisements,”
by J. D. Woolf (215.) ; and “Advertisement Lay-out
and Copy-writing,” by A. J. Watkins (17s. 6d.).
(2) “Making Type Work,” by B. Sherbow (7s. Od.).
(3) “Newspaper News,” “Advertiser’s Monthly” and
“Advertising in. Australia”. .. .J. 8.: There, are eight
double-deck ’buses operating- in Sydney, all of the
Leyland-Titan type, licensed to seat 51 passengers.
. ..i1'.0.N.: An introduction by a friend, a com-
munication by letter or a personal interview with
a member of the profession. .. .J. A. H.: (1) Prepara-
tion used in Melbourne is Eltho (Reg'.) durable
hygienic preserving -process, 82 William-street, St.
Hilda. (2) Fancy wrapping papers can be obtained
at. most stores. Attach to book, using a paste com-
posed of one part of glue to two of paste. Then
brush over with a fluid wax obtainable at stationers,
or make it yourself by treating a stick of amber-
colored transparent sealing wax with denatured
alcohol, leaving the mixture to stand overnight....
J.R.: The only relief provided is in respect of taxa-
tion of the same income by the U.K. taxing autho-
rities. , English dividends are, not subject to Aus-
tralian income tax.. . .8.D.: Get “Gold,” by T. K.
Rose or “Dental Metallurgy,” by E. A. Smith....
F.P.: Write Tost, and Rohu, Martin-place, Sydney.-...
A.M.: U.K., Italy, Japan, France, S’Africa, Belgium
and Egypt are chief purchasers of Australian wheat.
. ...S.E.G.: Naldera was built at Greenock in T9lB.
Gross tonnage, 16,088; length, 580 ft. 9in.; breadth,
67ft. 2in F.D.: See “Scientific American Cyclo-
pedia of Formulas”... .J.0.J.: (1) Complete working
drawings could be obtained from any naval architect.
Cost, £7 7s. (2) Speed with a 15-h.p. engine would
be 12 to 14 m.p.h F.L.: “The Film Finds Its
Tongue,” by . Fitzhugh Green, “Sound Motion. Pic-
tures” by Harold B. Franklin, “Sound Projection”
by Rudolph Miehling. .. .H.M.: Not so far as we
can trace. All on sale here are imported.... F.C.H.:
C. J. Alley, Burt-street, Rozelle; A. G. Connell,
Ralph-street, Alexandria—both Sydney.... L.H.: Send
particulars to Lyster Ormsby, 235- Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... . J.P.0.C.: The symptoms point to black-
leg. Preventive vaccines from Government Bacterio-
logist, Yeerongpilly (Q.), and proprietary vaccines
from veterinary supply houses... .A. 8.5.: The Tas.
Hop Pool is voluntary. Its affairs have not been
inquired into by any court; but an investigation is
being made by an officer of the Commonwealth
Markets Department.... L.R.: It is illegal to buy
tobacco leaf without being a registered dealer, nor
. could you manufacture even the smallest quantity
without being ' licensed and supervised by
the Customs Department.... F. 8.: Quite repu-
table and -on par with similar institutions.
. ...C.F.T.; (1) Only roots obtainable in
Melbourne. (2) Spring. (3) Gill and Searle, 73
Elizabeth-street. (4) No—too coarse. .. .K.P.K..:
Get in touch with Thelma Houston or Daisy Mangan,
both Post Office Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
. ...J.S.: (1) There are no flax mills in N.S.W.,
but one has been established in Colac (Vic.). (2)
Flax may be purchased with or without seed and
roots. (3) The usual practice is to harvest with
a reaper and binder, and thus it is marketed with
the roots... .C.C.: (1) Write G. Darling, 370 Little
Collins-street; J. Larrit, 84 William-street; S. -T.
Warnock, 84 William-street; G. S. Anderson, 360
Collins-street; C. B. Norton, 20 Queen-street; and
Dolamore and Doig, 422 Little Collins-street—all.
Melbourne. (2), (3), (4) and (5) Will answer
later 8.N.: (T) See Brief Answers, “Wild Cat”
page (B. 18/6/’3O). (2) He expects to return to
Papua shortly. Present address, care Cooper and
Oertel, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney... .W.ILK.: The
Titanic sank after striking an iceberg in the
Atlantic on April 15, 1912. Out of a total of 2224
on board, 1513 were lost A.R.C.: Virgil was
misled by the resemblance of the bee to the
drone-fly (Eristalis tenax). Its larva is one of the
rat-tailed maggots which live in decaying animal
and vegetable matter and sewage... .W.H.: As such
a practice is against the spirit of the law, we
cannot advise you how to avoid its letter. . ..A. H.M.:
(1) As preference is given to canecutters who com-
pleted the .previous season, a newcomer would have
very little prospect of obtaining a cut. (2) The
cutting season extends from the beginning of July
to the middle of December. (3) Write to the
managers of the South Johnstone (Innisfail) and
80. Linda sugarmills for advice... .J. 8.: Application
can be made for pension both by you and your
wife. The annuity would be treated as income, plus
the capitalised . value of such annuity. It is more
than likely that a pension at a slightly reduced rate
would be made available to both P.C.: Assum-
ing you have been domiciled in N. 8. Wales for at
hast three years, you can apply for a divorce on
the ground of your wife's desertion. You would
require to serve* her with process in England and
this will involve expense —heavy expense should she
desire to contest your claim —so that it is im-
possible to give any estimate of cost W.S.:
Queensland railways freight rate on flour is based
on the “short” ton of 20001 b. because that is the
measurement by which it is sold. You are not
being swindled!... (Many others mailed.)


! V .V
■
l
r^\
IS
1
\
cm
XSTi
M
m
(r
P
m
LONG
LI
&
Because Pontiac pistons
save 4 miles of wear
in every hundred miles
you drive
apart from the proof afforded by the
experience of owners, engineers know that
Pontiac niust be a long-lived, reliable car.
A glance at the chassis—a quick examination of
the engine specifications supply convincing
evidence !
The rugged, powerful Pontiac engine saves wear
because its pistons travel on the average 222 feet
less per mile than other cars in its field-—a saving
of four piston travel miles in every hundred road
miles! The engine makes fewer revolutions per
mile, too, resulting in less bearing strain . . . less
wear and tear generally.
And, wherever wear may occur, Pontiac’s vital
parts are extra heavy . . . over-sized for extra
service ... for LONG LIFE.
With this long life Pontiac offers fine performance
. . . power . . . smoothness . . . hill climbing ability.
It offers marked reliability, rarely needing more
than superficial adjustments ... almost never re-
quiring replacements. It offers beauty of line and
colour . . . luxurious appointments. It represents
a value outstanding among cars of its price.
Pontiac dealers are proud to demonstrate. They
will tell you how easily you may buy under the
G.M.A.C. Terms Plan, and how well your invest-
ment is protected by the General Motors Warranty.
Get from them—or from the plant of General
Motors (Australia) nearest you, the free booklet—
“ How to Get Long Life from Your Car.”
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE: SYDNEY: MELBOURNE: ADELAIDE: PERTH:
Wickham Street, Carrington Rd., City Road, Birkenhead, Cottesloe Beach
Newstead. Marrickville. Melbourne. Port Adelaide. Perth.
FREE BOOKLET.
Have you read u How to Get Long Life
from Your Car?” Free on application to
plant of General Motors (Australia) nearest
to you.
lu
G
UF£
Will
fill
UM
PONTIAC SIX fir 1930
A famous name a finer car
“More Wealth tor Australia - - More Jobs for Australians ”


m m
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years tlie co-operative
policy of tile P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJ AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M.B.E.S. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
__ N.S.AV. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Crain Insurance and ■_
Agency Co., Ltd.
mm
Leipzig Trade Fair
GERMANY
mm
THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS
(TWICE YEARLY.)
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Engineering and
Building Fairs, starts AUGUST 31, 1930
INQUIRIES INVITED, INFORMATION GLADLY GIVEN BY:—
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
C. N. KEPPEL,
C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd.,
Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
“Germany invites the display of Australian Primary Products
for presentation to the World’s Buyers.”
SMOKE-OH!
No; the British Government is not going
to do the appropriate thing and make her
a Knight of the Garter.
ft ft
“It is disgusting to see women doing that sort of
needlework on trams.” —Speaker at Brisbane
W.C.T.A. meeting.
Perfectly true, but some women are
always making bloomers.
ft- ft
A Newtown (N.S.W.) pianist has been
shot from behind while playing jazz. Distant
a*s we are from the great cultural centres, it
is cheering to note these signs of an active
spirit of musical criticism in our midst.
ft- ft- ' /
“Aeroplanes fitted with cocktail bars are now
being built.”
. Hitherto aeroplanes have had to nose-
dive to get a cocktail.
“Australian XFs Tail a Failure/'
Evidently we didn’t send enough wags.
ft- ft-
It is the wife’s nag that brings many a<
Sydneyite to Callan Park.
ft ft •
Recent rains in N.S.W. were a good
example of team work.
THERE’S SOMETHING IN THAT, TOO.
“This ’ere child endowment is like beer.”
“How’s that „ Dad?”
“It’s after six you need it most.”
“Defendant denied all knowledge of the 14-year-old
boy who was found drunk. He said he was 67
and was only amusing the children by riding on
their scooter.” — “Sun.”
No wonder moral people hoot!
Who would, not he a hooter
When little hoys go on the scoot,
And old men on the scooter?
ft *
Most of our Governments are doing sound
work.
PUNTER’S INTELLIGENCE TEST.
Q.: Who is Premier of N.S.W. ?
A.: Ted Bartle.
Q.: What are the chief provincial centres
of the Mother State?
A.: Menangle an’ Gosford.
Q.: What has caused the present financial
depression?
A.: Short odds an’ crook tips.
Q.: Where does Parliament sit?
A.: A. J.C. rooms, Bligh-street.
Q. - Translate the phrase “Totics
quoties.”
A.: Tote divvy.
Q.: What does the term “fall” mean ?
A.: Coupler quid murdered.
Q.: Name some classic works of litera-
ture?
A.: Jim Hackett and Jack Molloy.
Pom.
ft ft
“If we keep our cradles empty somebody else will
fill them.”— Councillor Kane, of Melbourne.
That, of course, is when Kane isn’t Abel,
ft ft
POWER OF THE PRESS.
Little did Mary Brown foresee the tremen-
dous consequences of her purely spontaneous
letter to the editor of the great metropolitan
daily:— '
Dear Sir,—Among your beautiful ads. this morn-
ing I found the news that Hilda Smith, of Surry-
loo, was the cleverestest hopscotch player in Sydney.
I beg to disbufe this clame as I am the acknpleged
champiun of our school and could beat Hilda
hollow, so there. — Mary Brown.
The appearance of the above caused a
furore. Letters poured in challenging Mary
and Hilda “on square or circle court, either
with tors.or ball.” There was nothing for
the “Daily Cami-Knicker” to do but
organise a tournament. Excitement reached
fever pitch. The “Gami-Knieker’s” circula-
tion rose by leaps and bounds. The art
section was kept busy, and the paper became
a mass of blotches inscribed:
“Tor used by Miss Smith.” (Challenger.)
“Miss Brown favors a round court, as above.”
“Dent in ground made by tor of Miss Jones.
(We believe Miss Jones to be a cross-hoppy dark-
horse.)”
“Typical study of a typical school-girl hopping
into ‘rester.’ ”
The fever spread to Canberra. A Labor
Minister insisted that one throwing for
“rester” was permitted to place the toes on
the starting-line. An Oppositionist called him
aliar - the discussion became so heated
that the pair met in Martin-place for a
practical demonstration. A huge crowd col-
iected, but so diverse were the criticisms that
the function ended in a common brawl, in
t he course of which Sir John Limelight
(referee) was knocked unconscious.
Meanwhile the champions trained with
grim determination.
Never had the Town Hall, where the finals
were staged, been so crowded. After a bitter
struggle, Minnie Green, a freckled unassum-
ing orphan, walked away with the first prize
—a £l5OO motor-car and useful gold-mounted
dressing-case. As she took them she thanked
the editor of the great organ of public
opinion which had been responsible for her
triumph with a dazzling smile, and said:
“I alwayth read the ‘Cami-Knicker’
becautli they theem to get tlie newth of evry-
MERELY THAT.
“How is it Millie, you’re always out when
I come to see you?”
“Oh, just luck!”
thing firtht and I read every word of it.
Ethpethly the murderth. Ith a luvly paper.”
Publicity experts are trying to arrange for
a visit of not less than a week by Minnie to
Government House, but at the time of going to
press, though their Excellencies have expressed
the highest admiration for the girl’s splendid
prowess, nothing has been definitely finalised.
Sof-Tupt-Op.
* H-
THE COM RLE AT THIEF.
“John Burns was charged with the theft of a
fur stole in November, 1928. According to the prose-
cutor, Burns gave the stole to a girl, and later
disappeared with it.”
He stole into her father’s home;
He stole her heart that day;
Tic stole the stole he stole for her,
And then he stole away.
* *
The “Toowoomba Chronicle” supplies proof
of the spread of alcoholism in the North :
Wanted a Young Girl to assist professional home.
Apply Box 13”
# *
HIS BLASTED HOPES.
The ancient wept lugubriously; now into
his beer, now into his beard.
“I’d ’ave ’ad a job for life if Labor ’ad
got charge of the Sydney Council,” he
moaned. “Me parst services would ’ave
bin rekernised. I done a lot for the move-
ment in me time, though I’m rising 90 now.
Wasn’t it me that designed the first slidin’
panel, and organised the vote in the old
men’s ’omes durin’ the conscripshun referen-
dum? Wasn’t it me- ?”
“Yes,” said his mate, “but yer too old, lad.
They gotter dror a line somewhere.”
“Yer wrong, blarst yer,” hiccupped the
octogenarian. “I'd lia’ bin set, despite nie
age. Jock Garden wus goin' ter pay me
six quid a week ter farm the Town ’All
‘pigeons.’ ”
C. L.
* *
“Little 80-Peep has lost her sheep,”
Read James from his nursery hook.
“What else,” he sneered, “did. the girl expect,
When she took them out with a crook?”
* ft-
Under the plea of reducing expenses, the'
Brisbane electrical authorities have decided
to use undressed poles in suburban streets.
The next step, obviously, will be in the
direction of naked lights, and the North is
wondering how long it will be before Mr.
Forde hops in. •
ft- ft-
“The family lived for a week on oatmeal made
with water.” — “Herald.”
Outside Aberdeen they make it with oats.
* *
“The ‘ crow settled on the tree, cawing derisively.
....Taking careful aim, Ryan shot the bard.”
— “News.”
After all, what does a poet more or less
matter?
* H-
“William Long was convicted of stealing.”
—“S. M. H&rald.”
This was what put the Long into Long
Bay.
* *
“German women, who once had a reputation as
housekeepers, are becoming as indifferent as their
sisters elsewhere in the preparation of meals.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
A case where the Wurst is always liable
to happen.
* *
SA ND GROPER’S CHA LLENGE.
“Man in George-street lives 18 years on raw
vegetables.”
Headlines acclaim this George-street feat
For what it’s worth;
But his performance I can heat —-
For thirty years in William-street
I’ve lived on earth.
* *
THE DINKUM OIL.
“When you ask a woman to do anything for you
she either refuses or else goes and does it.” — “Argus.”
“When you leave here,” said the crystal-
gazer in a thrilling whisper, “unless you
see nobody at all you will meet with a
dark man or a light man, unless you meet
a brindled man in the event of not meeting
a freckled man, and providing a striped
man doesn’t appear. He will either speak
to you or keep silence, and unless you pro-
ceed in another direction you will follow
him and very likely hear, or not hear, of
something to your advantage or disadvant-
age, as the case may or may not be. If
you obey, or disobey, the instructions he
may possibly give you
I shouldn’t be surprised
if something comes of
it or you hear nothing
further of the matter.
Three-ha'-pence, please.”
TIME ENOUGH TO SEE ABOUT THE
REST.
“Well, you know, Peggy, you’ll have to
take me for better or for worse?"
“Oh, don’t worry—until we’re married I'm
just taking you for granted!"
The reporter had just returned from an
unrewarded attempt to get information from
the gentleman whom the great organ of
public opinion had libelled in its previous
issue. “What did he say?” asked the editor.
“Nothing.” “Nothing at all?” “Not a word.”
“You mean to say he declined to be inter-
viewed?” “Absolutely.” “Well, I suppose
you'd better keep his comments down to
two columns.”
PONY PATRON'S PROTEST.
“Wot won th’ larst?” you’ll 'ear ’em cry
On train and tram, on ’hus and ferry;
It doesn’t matter how I try —
I can’t escape that flamin’ query:
“Wot toon th’ larst?”
“Wot won th’ larst?”—-why, spare me days,
A man can’t drink a quiet beer
Without some coot comes up and hrays
In sozzled tones into ’is ’ear:
“Wot won tli’ larst?”
“Wot won th’ larst?”—l’ll het a dollar
The cry that’s drove me orf me crumpet
Rome goat will at me spirit holler
When Gabriel blows ’is final trumpet—
“ Wot won tli’ larst?”
THE MOOCHER.
“FRY AND FREEZE.”
(A Capital Novel.)
Chap. I.
The blazing sun beat pitilessly down on
the parched landscape. A choking dust-
storm tore - across the open spaces. A car
standing in the street burst into flames
from spontaneous combustion. Birds fell
from the withered trees, overcome with heat.
No citizens were in sight. They had taken
refuge in their ice-chests. In short, it was
summer at the Federal Capital.
Chap. 11.
The parched landscape was white with
snow. An icy sleetstorm fled across the
open spaces. An abandoned car with a burst
radiator offered mute testimony to the powers
of King Frost. Birds fell from the with-
ered trees, overcome by cold and hunger. No
citizens were visible. They had sought
shelter in their stoves. Briefly it was winter
at the Federal Capital....
Chap. 111.
(Those characters who survived heat-
stroke in Chap. I, having perished from
blood-poisoning following on infected chil-
plains in Chap. 11, the author ran out of
material, and the story accordingly ends
here.)
J.S.M.


H
1
m
K,
m
m
NX.
1
n
Wj
1
H
m
m
ss
B
f
«S
WWOCaaSaBSCiiiMMMMMWWBWPiWWWaoSigftBBegeje^SSgBI
mVVN'
V\\\*
ss
m;:
*
xV\\V
NS?
S 5
£*
i
mm
m
1
I'wffl&jsm
B
m
■amt*
ipiir
£
tas
INK
ft
91
iii
Ss,\
M
/<
I
y«
«A
1
M
5 LAI
i*A«
iSi
mu
I
KMgS
.
II
3sr<
e
M
Hi
&
i
m!Ph^
Siiil
it
?f*Z*
SB
HI
m
1
ffe'wfaik
*£J|fe
*
■lll
u-^5
rJiWi
W////M
(>,',
mmm
m
WM
I
ss=
v^\v\,V’
\m iSmm!
&
!*m
=£ss-
-
NS
«/»
CS'iVk,
nU'iit
H
\3
trade
MAR
Hi
Mi
-.sa
sv;
gg
S 5
aSS*
NSSSB^
ii
4 nil
MBal
"IMS
W'
P^~S§
I
385?
v pi m
,* CHAMPION RESERV^i
m
mjm
m
|g§|jj?
ill
. PORT ;$
' °Wn bottling ;:Nig|
HARDY S, SoN ®
A°ELAJt>s. MELBOURNE £ SYDN -«s|;|i|j]|;-
im.iiHiniimiV-
South Australian wiH e
0
sm
NET i Pint &fllmii
%s
O
31
VVxWV
L'wK
Wi
Si
iliiiiii
I :
liiiiiiiii:
I niuti...........
I!!:-::-
lit! I! Il;lllllll*:-r
•ill li::::::-'
I. mill .til Ml II
•i min mi hi ii
~:... .ini n
BLEACH &BLEACH
C_A
HARDY’S
WINES
e/ 7
T INTAR A
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world’s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wines.


Glowing Colours
Tints
SIS
230 C
27/6
Jade
80 /•
USE
'SWAN
INK
Whether your choice lies in delicate tints
or glowing colours you can find a “ Swan ’
which will meet the most exacting taste.
Self-filling “ Swans ” besides being obtain*
able with black or mottled holders, are also
made in the following colours: —Black and
Jade, Lapis Lazuli, Jade, Scarlet, Tangerine
and various Pastel Shades.
Swan'
pens
Coloured ‘Swans’ from 22 '6
(Other Self-Filling ‘ Swans ’ from 17/6 Black or Mottled)
“ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils frc m 7/6
Self-Filling “ Blackbird " Pens from 9/ -
Of Stationers and Jewellers
IHus'rated Catalogue post free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,Swan House. London, WI.
Factories: London and Liverpool
Managing Agents & Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
M. (A.)
!©®l& IN YOUR NIRNON!
Constipation, partial or complete,
is fatal to your looks
X
mm
Nature abhors a system that is not daily and completely
cleansed of its waste poisons, and she intends you to abhor
it too. Dull eyes, a muddy skin, excessive perspiration, a
coated tongue, are her warnings that your blood is absorb-
ing dangerous toxins.
Watch for danger signals in yourself. If you find them
though you may not be conscious of being constipated in
the ordinary sense, you are suffering from incomplete
elimination. You need Eno’s "Fruit Salt”. AglassofEno
taken first thing every morning gently dismisses the waste
matter from your body before it has had time to stagnate.
£no may be given to children with perfect safety.
it
FROM Mil
ii
c (s>he words €>no and "tyruit Salt" are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RTTCHIE &. CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
the Ajftrshave fise
K
a
a
a
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges that last and
From Stores,
Chemists and
Hairdressers.
give a cleaner, far,
far better shave.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Kirby Beard and
Co., Ltd., Raven-
burst Works, Bir-
mingham, Eng.
Also London, Red-
ditch and Paris.
m
KIRBY BEARD & G^Ltd
[I
Natural Goodness
GUINNESS is a delicious beverage, full,
of natural goodness. The beautiful colour
—the creamy head —the inviting flavour
—are due to Barley, Malt, Hops, Yeast
and Water, and nothing else.
That is why Guinness is so good for you
—it is absolutely pure. Guinness gives
strength—it restores exhausted nerves —
it stimulates the appetite.
You feel better when you’ve had a
Guinness —you keep fit by taking it daily
with your food.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo-
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GF/A/KI |
▲ ▲ ▲


Vr
i
11
10
4
=5 v*
J
On Duty in the Dark
WestcloX’
Don’t fumble for a light to see the'time at night..
With Big Ben’s luminous dial you can plainly see
the correct time in the dark.
And in the morning Big Ben’s cheery call will
wake you promptly at the desired time.
Big Ben leg Model
'Vs
10
Baby Ben Leg Model
,7 A
fbckei Ben
There are numerous
WESTCLOX ... reliable alarms
in nickel and beautiful colors,
Pocket Watches and Auto
Clocks.
Prices range from 8/6 to 25/-
Built by the makers of
Big Ben and other JVestclox
WESTERN CLOCK CO.
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth,
Brisbane 13
ALEMIT
The Great Friction
Reducing
Lubricating System
Reduce friction in your automobile
chassis and you not only reduce wear
and tear, but you reduce operating
expenses.
The ALEMITE Systems of Lubrica-
tion force out all gritty grease, forcing
in at the same time, pure, ALEMITE
solidified oil lubricant, leaving the
bearing perfectly clean. Grit and
sand are the greatest enemies to bear-
ings. All old lubricant should be
removed and replaced with clean
lubricant every 500 miles.
15,000,000 motor cars are equipped with
one of the ALEMITE Systems. Lorries, de-
livery vans, aeroplanes, agricultural machin-
ery, petrol engines, etc., are also equipped
with ALEMITE to insure perfect lubrication
at all times Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd. * . 894 Hay Street, Perth,
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd.
535 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122Pirie
Street, Box G.P.0.496
E. Adelaide
t
W).
AUMIfL
thi
PAT-*
400-pound
Drum equip-
ped with
H-M 112 Truck
Pump H-M 100
ALEMITE CORPORATION
Chicago, U.S.A.
Cable Address: ALMlT 'Chicago
K.AUS-3
A Mite of Alemite is worth a ton of gritty grease
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
Poverty
Point
“Flaming Youth”: “Yes, of course we’re
married,” said the male mummer, and they
were shown a double room. They had hardly
become settled when a messenger came to
demand, on behalf of the landlady, a further
assurance of their marital condition; then
the landlady herself arrived. “Madam,”
said the exasperated actor, sternly, “we’re
married, I tell you—both of us. Her husband
and my wife are both in America.”
“Cauboy”: Owing to a doctor having given
it as his opinion that a woman who died in a
London theatre collapsed through laughing,
the Lyric Theatre, Hammersmith, has taken
out a comprehensive policy over all members
of its audiences during the revival of “Dandy
Dick,” a Pinero farce. Considering the
quality of some recent revivals here, a policy
covering the possible consequences of a yawn
ought to be considered by our conscientious
managements.
“Cine Ma”: Melbourne being what it is,
I am wondering when public opinion, or the:
vocal section thereof, will prevail on the
management of the State to put skirts and
trousers on the Grecian statues which em-
bellish that majestic theatre’s interior, a
la Leason’s recent cartoon. It would not
be the first time such measures had to be
taken. Many years ago Phil Goatcher
painted some nude figures on the ceiling
of the Princess, and they passed unnoticed
until somebody murmured about some
places not being fit to take one’s children
to. Bulletin artist Hal Gye and painter
George Benson were thereupon deputed to
make the ladies decent. Benson lay on his
back on a swaying platform while Gye
from the floor directed him where to lay
on the necessary draperies. The result may
not have been artistic, but it was eminently
satisfactory from a moral point of view.
“Sprat”: A recent pQverty Point par.
suggested that all politicians are ticket-
cadgers. Bunkum. There is no need for a
member to cadge a ticket, especially in these
days when the Federal Treasurer is on the
lookout for additional revenue. It is the
common practice for managers to send passes.
Quite recently members received through
the post from a well-known firm season
passes to all its theatres. Most of them were
returned. Politicians as a class at least try
to be as honest and self-respecting as any
other section; they may commit sins, but
these are in many cases rather due to the
vicious Parliamentary system which invites
deception and discourages political honesty.
Anyway, I refuse to believe that their stan-
dard is so low as to be bought by the gift
of an admission ticket to a Yankee movie.
“El”: Christ on the stage has been intro-
duced by Edmond Haravcourt in his new
play “Le Passion” at Paris Comedie fra*n-
caise. There is something incongruous in
the scenes of Calvary in the midst of the
glitter of a State theatre. Haravcourt shows
the Last Supper, the Garden of Olives, the
scenes before Pilate and the Cross itself.
The Crucifixion is a dangerous thing to
attempt in a theatre, but the Parisian press
praises the mummers for a* sincere effort to
play their roles with reverence and restraint.
“L. de Itideau”: Effeminacy is steadily
growing on the Australian stage, despite the
fact that audiences’ detestation of it is grow-
ing in the same proportion. A recent musi-
comedy in Melbourne failed for this reason.
Male members of the chorus stand
aghast at the girlish pranks ballet mis-
tresses ask them to do nowadays. One recent
recruit to the dancing side has had his eye-
brows plucked. Theatregoers have become
over-polite and merely show their opinion of
the new development by staying away, but
an earlier generation was sturdier. A
famous London comedian was engaged for an
Australian vaudeville circuit. The night
before he was due to appear in Melbourne
he attended a performance at another house,
during which he took out a pocket mirror
and combed his sleek locks under the watch-
ful eyes of the gods. When he subsequently
appeared at the Tivoli he got the bird, and
the creature Avas so ferocious that at the end
of a fortnight he was glad to see his contract
cancelled. It cost the management £7OO.
“L.H.P.”: Jimmy Hutchison, representing
Otago “Daily Times” (M.L.) at the Empire
Press confab, once gave the Martin Simon-
sen opera co. a sensational dusting for a
performance of “Maritana.” This roused
the ire of conductor Harcourt Lee so much
that he waited for Jimmy next night, re-
fused him admission to “Carmen,” and
eventually bustled him down the dress-circle
stairs. During the interval Simonsen came
before the rag, and, holding a copy of the
“Times” in his hand, dramatically cursed
the paper, saying the writer of the notice
had ruined the show, and there would be
no more performances. Then the co. broke
up, a few running a small show in the coun-
try, the others getting back to Australia as
best they could. What Hutchison had
Avritten was only too true.
“Jonop”: With Hannen Swaffer boosting
her, Vera Pearce, one-time Tivoli Follies
favorite, has gone to America to play in
“Dear Love” at a three-figure (English)
salary. Vera’s earliest public appearances
were in a film in which, I believe, W. S.
Percy, now doing comfortably in England,
was a co-conspirator. She was also Nurse
Cavell in an Australian picture in the days
when censors were less ruthless. This was
resurrected in a Sydney theatre at the very
time Pratten and all his censors were hold-
ing up “Dawn,” which had the same his-
torical heroine.
“L. de R.” : William Faversham, at Melb.
Comedy, provided the most spectacular col-
lapse of recent years. He put on three
ancient wheezes in Avhich he had played to
crowded houses some thousands of times
during the last 30 years, according to pub-
licity. The local critics worked manfully
to bring the people to see the phenomenon,
but, despite their distinterested efforts, the
first two plays ran only a fortnight apiece.
The theatre Avas then closed for a week, and
the last show ran eight days. The Firm
professes to be staggered at this result, but
what cinema proprietor would put on a
20-year-old film, with Bryant Washburn,
Tom Mix, Anita Stewart or Lila Lee in
the lead, and expect to get away with it?
“Lond”: Frank Harvey, playing robustly
a lighthouse-keeper in his own melodrama
“Cape Forlorn” at the Fortune, London, is
assisted by another of Australia’s old
friends, Louis Bradfield. He was the dapper
little comedian of “In Town,” the first of the
musical comedies that were to displace the
“Ma Mie Rosette” kind of opera. He still
carries his years wonderfully. In war-time
he was once barracked for not being at the
front. He came to the footlights, uncovered
a bald head and explained that two sons were
representing him in France.
“Sceneshifter”: Allan Wilkie is wrong
when he advertises “The Jealous Wife,”
as “produced for the first time in Sydney.”
I would like a quid for every time George
Colman’s comedy has been staged in the
Harbor Town from 1850. Billy Hoskins and
Florence Colville were great as the Oatleys,
and generally played the piece—boiled down
to three acts — plus a*nother. At the Royal
in 1870 they played it with “Much Ado
About Nothing,” appearing in both plays, a
solid night’s work. William Creswick pre-
sented it at the Victoria in 1878, and fare-
welled in it at the Royal next year. At the
fall of the curtain he blackguarded Sydney
for the poor support given his return season;
the attraction of “Carmen” and other Lyster
novelties at the Victoria had proved too
much’ for “the great English tragedian.”
Rose Edouin (Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis) also
played the piece that year at the Victoria,
appearing on the same nights in the tights
of “Aladdin,” Byron’s burlesque. Playgoers
in those times wanted plenty for their coin.
The Inky Way
“Lao-da*h”: International status has at
last been given the Australian language.
“Bifur,” an ultra-refined and ultra-cultured
art magazine, of Paris, recently printed some
“Tales of Australia,” by P. R. Stephenson,
“translated from the Australian.”
Fred Robertson, associate editor of
the Adelaide “Advertiser,” has retired at 72,
after 58 years of it. He started under J. H.
Barrow, editor and founder.
“Momus” (London) : With the departure
home, via Siberia*, of Max jVlurray, who con-
ducted “London Calling” for the “Daily
News,” the Cadbury sheet lias only one Aus-
tralian left on its staff —L. M. Cotton, who
is noAV art editor. Cotton, who entered jour-
nalism four years ago, was in turn car-
toonist, reporter and deputy-chief sub-
editor on the now defunct “Morning Post.”
After some months on the “Sun News Pic-
torial,” he set off on a tour of the Argentine
and Brazil, eventually finding Fleet-street
via a circuit of Iceland in a trawler.
“Penfield”: On behalf of a Sydney syndi-
cate the “Sunday Times” building and plant
has been secured by payment of a small
deposit; if the purchase can be completed
the total handed over to the bank will be
£50,000. What will be done with the outfit
depends on the capital available; in their
brightest moments the promoters of the
scheme have visions of an evening paper.
Harry Davies, the journalist with the
Westralian gold-bonus hunters, has been
grinding out newspaper copy, mostly on min-
ing and finance, for close on 35 years and
regularly contributing to The Bulletin for
a quarter of a* century. He is a native of
Los Angeles who struck Australia in the
early ’nineties, and, after some opal-gouging !
experiences in N.SJW., moved on to the West-
tralian goldfields. For .years he represented |
the “West Australian” at Kalgoorlie and
ga*rnered all the information procurable about
the Golden Mile; when the mines started on
the down-grade he transferred his activities
to the daily paper’s office in St. George’s-
terrace. On the fields he Avas known as
“Wot’s Fresh” Davies, owing to his in-
variable greeting to everybody when he took
liis walks abroad or picked up a ’phone
receiver. Harry cherished political ambitions
in liis earlier years and was nearly stand-
ing for the State Parliament, but they faded
out as he gradually became more immersed in j
crushings and long tons a*nd the share-
market.
THE SONG-AND-DANCE SISTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Right, left, back, forth, with rhythmic grace,
Arms, legs and smiles that work as one;
Dress, hair, complexion, shape and face
Paired like a double-barrelled gun ;
With feet that know not corns or blisters
You trip, O singing-dancing sisters!
Your voice production’s thin and rough
(The rest of you I’ll swear is not!).
The songs you sing are dreadful stuff,
Infected with composer’s rot.
Then when I doubt if I can stay
You swing two shapely legs my way.
Music and song are, after all,
But fleeting. Even thrush and lark
Have no dance steps and sometimes pall.
Straight down the aisle as from a mark
You kick, and sports would give their souls
To score those simultaneous goals.
To bald, bad gentlemen in front
Your sisterly relationship
Seems fraudulent—an old pro. stunt
Invented every season’s trip.
I care not what blood ties may be
When you both point a toe at me.
And take this solace to your hearts,
O pairs of Rosebuds, Mays and Mauds,
Your mild deceptions cause no Smarts.
I’ll swear you are not greater frauds
(In spite of all sardonic twisters)
Than other people’s non-pro. sisters!
S.A.
BILL O'C.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .•. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders. . 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
m
ARE YOU A
Mr. MICAWBER?
Waiting for Better Times
won’t make you prosperous.
You’ve got to “go after”
business if you want it.
START NOW!
<s>s><s><s
ADVERTISE
YOUR GOODS
AND SERVICES
IN
%he Brisbane (Courier
Queensland’s
Leading & Largest
Newspaper,
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane.
’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative :
Robert D. Fisher, 74 Pitt-street.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative :
L S. Marks, The Argus Bldg.,
Elizabeth and Latrobe streets.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
%
&
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Oua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deair. with every subject of
interest to women.
Sail the South Seas
for CANADA
... UNITED STATES
... EUROPE
|VJ O amount of planning can
* devise a more perfect trip!
Seas of Romance . . imposing
ocean liners . . a choice of two
charming routes. Go by Auck-
land, Suva and Honolulu to Van-
couver (Canada) or by Welling-
ton, Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco. Then, if Europe is in
your mind, you may cross from
either point. Discuss your plans
with the—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO..
247 George Street. Sydney.
59 William Street, Melb., C.l.
mm
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION Royal Mail Lines.
m
Winter Tour to Papua
To those people who are in search of an
Ideal Winter Holiday Excursion of a duration
V
a
%
of three weeks, the opportunity
now presents itself of an excel-
lent trip to the Sunny South Sea
Islands by the Burns, Philp Line.
A trip to Papua (British New Guinea)
is one that can be strongly recom-
mended.
Next sailings from Sydney via Bris-
bane, July 26, Aug. 27, and monthly
thereafter.
Fare: £4O and £44 Return.
Apply for descriptive Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Read “B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color, 96 pages of
Travel, Story and Pictures, 1/-
Oopy, all Newsagents. .
iy a
of
A
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
m
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAII COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYEVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER,..who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart Parker Lyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
CollluBStreet, Melbourne; Bridge jiibbc, Sydney.
iIL
Flashlights << Batteries<‘ Radio Tubes
ELECTRIC TORCH
m
ROTOMATIC SWITCH
The GREAT Battery Economist
The constant purchase of
batteries is due in no small
way to the light being turned
on accidenaltly The
ROTOMATIC SWITCH in-
sures you against waste of
batteries Always lights
when you want it
Positive prevention against
accidental battery discharge.
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
~ CHICAGO U.S.A. ..
XEbe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com*
munity.
No advertising campaign de*
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


Still cheaper Sulphate of Ammonia
A reduction of £lfll|6 per ton in the price of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
will take effect as from the Ist July
The new price will be £12/12/- per ton free
on rails, less 22% for cash, and at this price
supplies of Sulphate of Ammonia can be obtained,
as usual, from all fertiliser manufacturers or their
agents, or direct from The Australian Gas Light
Company, Haymarket, Sydney; The Broken Hill
Proprietary Company, Newcastle, New South
Wales; The Metropolitan Gas Company, 196
Flinders Street, Melbourne; and The South
Australian Gas Company, Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Sulphate of Ammonia literature, and advice regarding the
use of fertilisers direct from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
360 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
WONDERFUL VALUE FOR THE MONEY
M
m
m
ml
m
No. 113
KEMP
STYLE
SADDLE
y
. his saddle is built on the lines of the saddle
used by Professor Kemp in his buckjumping
shows, and is the best type of Poley Saddle
to ride a- buck in. Note how the pads run
up almost level with the head of the saddle,
which is the secret of its success. It is
made throughout in long-wearing kip, and is
fitted with folded girth, surcingle leathers
and n.-p. irons.
£B/8/- Or £8 without Surcingle.
Freight paid for cash with order to any
N.S.W. Railway Station.
Write for Our Catalogue, showing Australian and
American Saddlery, Whips, Harness, etc.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.
Box 785 G. 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Patents.
WIRE-SPLICING TOOL.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 235T5/25 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
FLOOR-POLISHING AND -SCRUBBING
MACHINE'S.
’T’HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 8268/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention, within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN OIL ENGINES*.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 24249/25 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the "invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
PR O C ESS FOR PURIFYING AND
AGGLOMERATING FINELY DIVIDED
MATERIALS.
■“THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 7393/22 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SURFACE
MARKERS.
r T v HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 12094/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN VACUUM
DOUBLE HEAVIER.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 18943/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Boro-Belle”: Mourilyan (N.Q.) sugar-
mill has established a world record in pro-
ducing, as an average for the whole 1920
season, a ton of 94 net litre sugar from
11.44 tons of cane. At one time it took 10
tons of cane. Incidentally, if every gallon
of petrol sold had a proportion of power
alcohol added, Australia could make a more
profitable use of its 40 per cent, surplus of
raw sugar which has to be exported. At
present it brings less than £lO a ton.
:I: :]: *
“Chev.”: An Austrian named Nudl, who
worked in the Bosch factory in Germany, but
has been resident in , Melbourne for the last
Ift years, has invented an incandescent ray
which takes the place of the ordinary igni-
tion on motor vehicles. It is based on the
electro-chemical affinity of metals, and is
claimed to have great advantages over the
old way of firing cylinders. As proof thereof
lie fitted his “Raysola” to a Chevrolet car,
which' thereupon broke the Adelaide-Darwin
record. After 5000 miles the spark plugs
showed an unusual freedom from carbon.
:I: * *
“Gouge” : There is a strong movement, in
Papua- to try to induce the Australian
Government to include rubber among bounty-
fed products. Only the most favorably
situated estates can continue producing a*t
the present prices. Some reductions in costs
have already been effected by amalgamations
and centralisation in the two heaviest, pro-
ducing districts, but even if the process is
carried a< good deal further the outlook is
the reverse of encouraging, unless Govern-
ment assistance in some form is forthcoming.
* * * *
“R. Volt” : Having established satisfactory
telephonic communication with the Cold
Band, the A.W.A. engineers need only a
length of connecting-wire and a few local
adjustments to bring the telephoto apparatus
now being used between Sydney and Mel-
bourne into operation. It is expected that
this will be done within the next few months.
It will then be possible to transmit black-
and-white drawings, newspaper cuttings and
legal documents across the world. The event-
ual . setting up of the “S. M. Herald’s”
foreign cable page in London is no idle dream
of the future.
* * * *
“G.M.”: A historic scrap of Melbourne,
the site of the A.M.P. building, at the
corner of Collins and William streets, was
offered for sale the other day and passed in
for £llO,OOO. The land has a frontage of
98 feet to Collins-street by a depth of 814
feet to William-street. John Batman bought
it in 1837 for £6O. It is certain to be sold,
but the price offered is a good index of the
decline in Melbourne street vhlues, largely
due to the high Federal valuations for the
purposes of the Federal land tax.
* * * *
H. C. Nankervis, manager of the Adelaide
branch of Kitchen and Sons, moves up to
the head office in Sydney. His S.A. job goes
to Milford Lee, who was a Fort-street
(Sydney) boy 20 years back and has been
with Lever Bros, ever since, in every Aus-
tralian State, and also at Port Sunlight, in
England.
* * # *
“Her Jong”: There has been disappoint-
ment among Australian beef-growers because
Australian beef tenders to supply the Italian/
Army have been turned down in favor of
one by the South African Imperial Cold
Storage Co. Nothing to wonder about. The
cattle are bred and butchered and the car-
cases treated under cheap black labor con-
ditions. The quality may be inferior to
the Australian article, but it would be
strange if the Union couldn’t undersell the
Commonwealth.
* # * *
“C.Q.”: Unexpected possibilities have
opened up in front of the Kamper automatic
gear (B. 18/6/’3O). Sam McKay, of Sun-
shine, was so struck with its potential value
to harvesting machines that he is having
one made and fitted at his own expense.
Harvesters are affected by the same troubles
as motor-cars—over a patch of heavy crop
they require to change down, and unless the
driver changes up again immediately he
strikes a light patch there is waste of
effort and risk of damage to the racing-
engine.
* *
“Easy Terms”: The time-payment system,
having exploited all other fields, has now
taken to the air, the local committee of
the S. Aus. Aero Club having hit on a
scheme of flying instruction which will
enable the poorest to come in. Hitherto,
intending learners had to put down £25 in
one lump. In future the rates will be £3 10s.
per hour for dual instruction in doses of
not less than one hour. An hour’s solo
teaching will cost £2 10s. and on completion
of the “A” course, only £1 10s. an hour will
be required for the final flutter which pre-
cedes the granting of the certificate.
■jf * *
“Eureka”: “This cigar is made right here
in Sydney,” said the King-street tobacconist.
“Try it and see if it isn’t equal to anything
imported. When we can get men to smoke
nothing but the Australian products,” he
added, “there will be fewer unemployed.” I
felt for a match to light the cigar and he
handed me a box. Yes, they were made in
Sweden, though the Australian article is
both abundant and of first-rate quality.
'!* •I* jJi
“C.Q.” : Tlie daily service recently estab-
lished by Australian Airways between Mel-
bourne and Sydney got a glorious advertise-
ment out of the reception to Amy Johnson.
While 15,000 people were being informed by
the announcer at Moonee Valley that the
’plane carrying the girl flier was being un-
avoidably held up by fog and cloud, the roar
of a propeller made every eye turn heaven-
ward. A Fokker, similar to the one Kings-
ford Smith and Ulm piloted across the
Pacific, soared over the sands with half a
dozen passengers and their luggage, dipped a
curtsey and then proceeded to its landing-
ground, and the audience was informed that
it was the daily ’plane, and was 15 minutes
ahead of schedule. On a* recent trip the
machine carried lOcwt. of freight, in addition
to passengers and mails.


DASPYL
MADE
AUSTRALIAN
BRASS WORK
-. •
CATALOGUE; "B ,
twa
PLUMBERS’
AND ENGINEERS
■SUPPLIES'.
John Danks & Son
m.LTD.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY
WORKS POL’NPEI) LBS 9
JUST OUT
A NEW AND REVISED EDITION
OF OUR
Plumbers’ Catalogue
Send for your (post free) copy.
THE LEADING PLUMBERS use Daspyl
Brasswork. It holds a high reputation
throughout the Commonwealth, and
every line in Daspyl Plumbers’ Lead
and Brasswork carries our guarantee.
Daspyl Goods fully comply with the
requirements of the various Boards of
Works; and the range in Plumbers'
Lead and' Brass Fittings bearing our
Trade-mark is very complete.
iffi
= JOHN
cuimuuiwiuiiu
: uro
pT
tmmiifmmuj
&SON 1
niiiimiiiiiiimiii
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AT THE FIRST TWINGE,
OR IN CASES OF CHRONIC
Rheumatism
HERE’S THE VERY BEST THING TO DO
Get home to wife or mother just
as quickly as yoii can. Ask her if
she has wisely kept a supply of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in
the house. If not, get a supply from
your chemist. Take two at night,
one before meal-times and see how
quickly relief will come.
At the first twinge of rheumatism,
pains in the muscles and limbs, stiff,
aching back, swollen joints, get “ De
Witt’s ” and take them regularly.
They will quickly rid the blood of
pain-giving poisons and save you
days and nights of untold agonies.
In chronic cases of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica and kidney trouble,
where the suffering has lasted years,
De Witt’s Pills have worked wonders.
Read just these two letters from
thousands received, that tell of pain
banished, health restored, thanks to
“ De Witt’s.”
Mr. R. H. Rogers, Rollings!one,
via Townsville North, Queensland,
says: —“ For about three years I
suffered from chronic pains. in the
back so badly that I could not stoop
—I felt just tired-out with pain, I
tried various remedies, but with no
result. I saw an advertisement con-
cerning De Witt’s Pills, and heard
people speaking of them very highly.
I commenced taking them and the
first day after the pain eased and
after the first bottle I had no pain at
all. I began to sit up and take notice
of life once again, and after my
second bottle, well I never felt better
in my. life. lam indeed very thank-
ful to De Witt’s Pills.” .
Mrs. Edyth Clifton, Powell Street,
Geelong East, Victoria, says : —“ For
the last years I have suffered from
chronic pains in the small of the back
and stomach.- I tried certain remedies
that did me; no good. <My husband
and grandfather told me to try De
Witt’s Pills, and after taking only
four pills I noticed a difference. I
have now taken one box, and I feel
better than I have done for the last
twenty-one years.”
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
will banish pain and suffering, steady
nerves, purify the blood and gives
splendid youthful vigour and vitality.
No matter what remedies you have
previously tried and found to fail,
test “De Witt’s” and see how quickly
health comes back.
Dr. De JONGH'S
LI6HT BROWN
COD LIVER OIL
is prepared from a blending of the purest
Norwegian Oils, by a process which does not
destroy the vitamins. It is the purest* most
palatable* most easily digested and most
speedily efficacious and has, for upwards
of 80 years, been highly recommended by the
leading medical authorities in the treatment of
Consumption, Diseases of the Throat
and Chest, Chronic Coughs
and Colds, Bronchitis
Asthma and
Mmmm
.. ,v . af.: ■Sttft*;
S C «T
'""•iim OWN CODM'S!
•ii ..' 1 ' U miMiiit •»*•••• " ~««•
’“wSßloulsblJ"^
llip! '""iiiiitciiuniH n ,,, "!!!.rf1)
lohooH
'M ptßlAlMtAio«R l AlMtAi 0«
ALL
DISEASE!
Liver Oil can be ob-
tained from high-class
Chemists and Stores.
Sole Proprietors .
ANSAR, HARFORD & CO., LTD.
182 GRAY'S INN ROAD, LONDON, W.C. 1
Beware of attempts to substitute Fraudulent Imitations
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
/
/
//
A
M
c
\
THOUSANDS OF ONE-TIME SUFFERERS
SAY THIS REMEDY IS MARVELLOUS!
Do you know thousands of men and women have found
that by taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills they have enjoyed a new lease of
life ? Women once crippled with pain, bedridden, have once
again enjoyed splendid vigour and vitality. Men old before
their time have regained new strength. Why not ask your
chemist,about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills ? Ask him
his candid opinion. He will tell you all about'the prescription
printed on the box, and why, if you purchase a 3/6 or 6/6 supply,
you will surely be on the road to splendid health.
DeWITPS PILLS


When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
Winchester Model 56
Magazine Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post free.
m
Write for Leaflet B.
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES (SL DUNN
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
CAN BUY
V v*
J a cU otl
•JSfe
\ a sti®S ' ts a^ 1
v» t^ptt^'^y\itv A® Y a ? Y e^sttlf
**w^ ge Sv gVv
ac^S
rV \VtvA et * d sole
ntees »■
jiaTi^ arl j!-KD
*** ns>°-
Will fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
the
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 55/"
{With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative;
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
If public form means anything, Swahilli
ought to get away with the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle on Saturday. Ilis last two
Votings resulted in brilliant victories. At
Wiiliamstown he shook off Bay of Biscay
after a prolonged bout, and won by two
lengths from Mosstrooper, who came home
exceptionally well. Ohumree (runner-up to
Iventle in last year’s National) fell after
going a mile, and, breaking his near shoulder,
had to be destroyed; this removes a dan-
gerous rival. Percy Padfield, who trains
Swahilli for Morrie Keleher, is very san-
guine of success. He prepared Sir Prim for
a Grand National Steeplechase triumph, and
ought t:o know everything that is needed
about jumpers. Because of Grosvenor hav-
ing vanquished him in the A.J.C. Hurdle,
Melbourne punters do not esteem the chance
of Songift. When tried in Victoria Grosvenor
failed repeatedly, and it is argued that he
cannot have improved with age. However,
Songift may confound his critics.
Calune, Merauki, Glontronie, Laurelmond,
Maxonit and Aneas were Grand’ National
Steeple aspirants that sported silk over
fences at Wiiliamstown. Laurelmond alone
succeeded in gaining a share of the prize
money. The favorite was Lord Bounty, who
did not appreciate having Mowgli as a dis-
putant for the role of pacemaker. Five
furlongs from home he hit heavily and
dropped out of the firing-line. Gift’, named
after George Giffen, completed the hat trick
by romping home in advance of Giru’s Rival
and Laurelmond. Both Merauki and Glen-
tronie sha<ped poorly. The former is by
Menin (son of Roi Herode), and her trainer
had strong hopes of winning at Flcmington
with thfe mare, but his confidence must have
been sadly shaken.
Tresolaus, on whom Harry Gabell, the
trainer of. Sandhurst, is depending as a
Grand National Hurdle candidate, registered
his maiden victory over the bdttens at
Wiiliamstown against other tyros. He
revealed a vast increase of efficiency in the
jumping department, whereas Trilacre —who
was the original favorite a«nd ran third-
made several blunders. Lou Robertson’s
Isocrates, making his debut as a hurdler, set
a cracking pace. He flew over some of the
obstacles, but clouted many others, and did
well to finish second. Years a<go Robertson
w r on a Grand National Hurdle with Win-
garara, but he did not enter Isocrates for
this year’s event. Tresolaus does not look
seasoned enough to give trouble at Fleming-
ton.
•Tames Wilson, of Bonny Vale, Queens-
eliff, swept the boards at Flemington and
Randwick with Outlook as a two-year-old
in the. autumn of 1918, and sold The
Welkin’s son at a fancy figure to the late
S. P. Mackay, of Westralia. He has had
other progeny from Monodia in the inter-
vening years, but perhaps the best to date
is Karomin (by Great Star), who led home
a division of the Juvenile Handicap at
Wiiliamstown. News of this colt’s speed
leaked out, and he was well backed at 6 to
1, first choice being Meadow Lea (5 to 2).
Others preferred to Karomin were Nosegay
and Yaropian. The second division went
to Refill, owned by bookmaker ,T. C. Roberts,
who raced Last Drop, dam of this youngster.
El Rey, half-brother to the Caulfield
Futurity Stakes hero Waranton, credited
that lucky young woman Mrs. E. L. Bux-
ton with the principal flat race at Williams-
town. He has struck fine form since joining
Jack Holt’s stable, and may be a tough nut
to crack in one of the big spring handicaps.
For Flcmington on Saturday
Grand National Hurdle: Swahilli, 1;
Mosstrooper, 2; Bay of Biscay, 3.
Kensington Steeple: Kentle; next,
Namera.
After a week’s rain, Moorefield was more
like a swamp than a racetrack, and it might
be wise to discoufit the form, except in the
case of Tetrawa. That gelded son of
Sarchedon —Wattle, backed at fives and fours
for a division of the Ivogarah Stakes, took
charge after going six furlongs and won in
a canter from Rooster, another three-year-
old, and Laneham. He left the mile behind
in the good time (for the day) of lmin.
45-isee., and the margin of seven lengths
between first and second would have been
doubled had Darby Munro ridden him out.
Sarchedon ha<s sired many winners, but
THE LESSER EVIL.
APPREHENSIVE HALF: “Collar me low, yer cow! I’ve got a boil on me neck.”
nothing of much account. Tetrawa looks
more robust than most of the breed, and has
a free style of galloping.
. Backers were well on the spot in some
of the races, but the ring had its turn in a
division of the Juvenile Handicap, won by
Gipsy Ruler (14 to 1), and the Moorefield
Handicap, which went to Sislene (10 to 1),
a ma*re from Newcastle, unknown to metro-
politan racing men. She and Flinders
finished wide out, there being half a length
between them. Poitiers, the favorite, flat-
tered his backers for a mile, but cut up
badly in the straight.
:& * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Park Stakes: Shingle Short; next, The
Motorist.
Flying Handicap: Pretty Bett; next, Kala
Moti.
Canterbury Handicap: Eden Hall; next,
Flinders.
Welter Handicap: Dark Isle; next, Lord
Romeo.
As a four-year-old Manfred won the Caul-
field Cup with 9st. 61b. With 81b. more
Phar Lap is by no means badly treated, nor
has he been overburdened in the Melbourne
Cup with 9st. 121 b. (,’arbine was second
at the same age with lOst., and Patron won
with 9st. 41b. If Amounis (9st. Sib.) can
be brought to the post again in his fine
form of last year he will be dangerous in the
Caulfield Cup. The handicapper considers
him 31b. worse at the distance than High
Syce, and only 81b. better than Gesto—-
which is surprising. Still, the -Magpie geld-
ing can’t go on for ever. In the Melbourne
Cup, Nightmarch has 9st. 111 b., Chide
9st. 31b. and Loquacious Bst. 121 b. Amounis
and Phar Lap will be a short-priced early
double.
Tom Pinch, who is not in the Derbies, has
Sst. in the Epsom—a tidy weight for a three-
year-old, but Tom is exceptionally good.
High Disdain is nicely in with Sst. iOlb.,
and Vertoy (7st. 121 b.) strikes one as a
mare likely to win a good race. If Night-
march can do it in the Metrop. with lOst.
31b., Phar Lap must be greater than Car-
bine. Carradale (Sst. 91b.) has been specked
in doubles and may be hard to beat.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The second clash between Johnny Peters
and Filipino Gildo at Sydney Stadium
cleared up all doubts concerning the correct 1
ness of the decision in their first fight. This
time Peters trimmed the brown boy in tell-
ing style, winning practically every one of
the 15 rounds. The pair fought at a great
pace throughout, and the tough Manilaman
was always eager to fight. But the Eng-
lishman’s clever defence nullified Gildo’s
well-meant efforts, while his own busy left
hand was an object-lesson to all, including
Gildo. Peters, Bst. silb.; Gildo, Bst. 51b.
* :!: :S *
Ludicrous was the alleged wrestling
between Geo. Kotsonaros (13st. 1041 b.) and
Tom Lurich (15st. 51b.) at Melbourne.
Exercising what is seemingly recognised as
the loser’s privilege, the lumbering Lurich
took the first fall in the fourth round. In
the next, Kotsonaros was awarded a penalty
fall, and he finished matters off in the sixth
with a “stopper,”
Footbrawl
The steep banks of St. Kilda’s ground
carried over 30,000 on Saturday, when Carl-
ton came along to see if they could do what
few teams can—defeat the Saints on their
own territory. They managed it, hut
not easily. After the last change of ends, the
locals, S points behind, put up a series oi
swift drives that brought them level, and
it was only the steadiness of veterans
Duncan, Brew and Clover ths*t stopped the
rout and set the forwards moving again. In
the end Carlton won by 92 points to 77, and
unless some miracles happen the Saints lost
their last hope of reaching the final four
this year. The Melb.-Esscndon collision drew
28,000 to the M.C.C. Ground, and they saw a
particularly fast and open game, which would
have reached a more intriguing conclusion ii
the Essendon forwards had learnt to swing
a straight leg. Melbourne’s goal-getter,
Margitich, bagged 11, and the three Essen-
don forwards 4 among them. Melb.
won by 114 to 88. Collingwood, kicking even
more accurately, put it all over Footscra*j
with 124 to Footseray’s 44. Geelong
spurred on by 10,000 barrack* rs and a 1201
gate, overcame its recent lethargy and outec
South Melbourne by 90 points to 72. Fitzroj
beat Hawthorn with .119 points to 95, and
Richmond accounted for North Melbourne,
104-43.
=i= * * *
T The twelfth Rugby Union match between
N.S.W. and Victoria was played on Sydnej
Cricket Ground, the home side winning 40-11
(10 tries, 5 converted, to a converted try
and 2 penalty goals). In spite of the big
tally against them, the visitors fought a
gallant brittle, the forwards in particulai
standing up effectively to the formidable
home pack. But, though they have a centre
of high' class in Cowper, the backs could not
cope with the pace of their flying opponents,
while the enforced withdrawal of the Aus-
tralian international, Sturtridge, was anothei
handicap. In spite of the slushy conditions
and determined defence, the ’ Welshmen
handled the ball with delightful dexterity.
Westfield was patchy at fullback, but the
three-quarter and half-back lines played
superb football. White a«t outside centre has
arrived at the international class, while
Carlton and Crossman, given every chance
by White and King, were' uncatchable, and
Sheehan is as great a five-eighth as ever.
=!= * * s'.:
Rugby League matches in Sydney on
.Saturday included the sixth successive win
of Western Suburbs, which easily beat New-
town at the Sports Ground, 16-0, scoring
4 tries, 2 of which were converted. Craig
again led the winners in masterly style, and
it is to him that the Westerners must give
thanks for their position at the top of the
table near the close of the first round. South
Sydney, somewhat subdued by recent defeats,
had little trouble to win 23-10 from St.
George on a vilely muddy pitch at Earl
Park, though the Saints pressed the premiers
hard in the opening stages. Eastern Suburbs
(33) had a practice gallop against Uni-
versity (5) at the Agricultural Ground,
scoring 7 tries, from which Hardy kicked
0 goals. At Wentworth Park, Balmain and
North Sydney drew 13-13 in a game Bal-
main should have won.
The Fifteen
The second Test at Lord’s was in remark-
able contrast to many of its predecessor’s,
since well over 800 runs were scored in the
first two days—-quite fast going. England
had to bat without Sutcliffe, for whom
Duleepsinhji deputised, while Allen took
Larwood’s place. Australia stood pat on
the team played in the Notts game. Aus-
tralian stock jumped when Fairfax got
Hobbs for a single, but Woolley (41) batted
like the Woolley of old till Wall took him
off Fairfax. Hammond and Hendren made
good in turn with 38 and 48 respectively,
while Duleepsinhji was racing along like a
champion. Missed twice, he kept going till,
just before stumps, when Grimmett sent him
back for a splendid 173. The youngster thus
emulated Uncle Ranji’s feat in scoring a
century in his first Test —at Manchester in
1896, when the Jam made 154. Tate helped
the Indian player in the closing stages of
the knock with a characteristic 54, and the
tail wagged well to carry the score to 425
on the second day. Fairfax (4-101) and
Wall (3-118) bowled really well, though
Grimmett and Ilornibrook had an off day.
Oldfield kept grandly, taking 4 catches and
allowing only 2 byes.
Opening at 11.30, Ponsford and Woodfull
soon began to give the home barrackers
cause for uneasiness. They increased the pace
until Ponsford, who had played Test cricket,
went after a chanceless 81, the score being
162. Then came Bradman, and while the
invaluable Woodfull pursued the even tenor
of his way at the other end, the Bowral boy
proceeded to give one of the finest exhibitions
of batting ever seen on the historic ground.
When the total was 393 Woodfull was dis-
missed for a fighting 155, stumped by Duck-
worth off Robins. Kippax helped Bradman
to take the Australian score to 404 for 2
wickets by stumps. Bradman was 155 n. 0.,
and Kippax 7 n.o. Allen failed badly as a
bowler, White (1-69) and Robins (1-104)
getting the wickets.
(Continued on next page.)
PLEA FOR KNOWLEDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I come as a humble
And suppliant wight,
Whose steps ever stumble
In seeking the light,
Who sues for some timely assistance
To set him aright.
No kindly physician
May doctor my ills,
Or play the magician
With potions and pills,
Where sickness of soul, not of body,
Its poison distils.
No heavenly pilot
May comfort the pain •
And hardship of my lot;
However he strain
With faith to enlighten my darkness,
The doubts will remain.
’Tis someone more lowly
By far I’d bespeak,
Not learned nor holy,
Not famed nor unique,
No leader, though “head” he be labelled,
The one that I seek.
For this is the trouble
To which one adverts—
Oh. never a double
I’ve picked, and it hurts !
So now, with the Nationals, coming,
I crave for two certs.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Bert '\m giving sport amiss
this vv»eEK”
Gert 'wEII.WHAT oo VOU
’NJEND To DO ? "
BERT ,# Oh just Slack about'
Gert ''Then CEET opp the
SPORTfNQ RAsCEE ! "
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Victoria has been taking a dis-
mayed account of the season’s football casual-
ties to date. In the senior League games
in Melbourne alone, after eight matches had
been played, the total was 146! Carlton and
Richmond head the list with IS each, (Col-
ling wood is next with 13, and the average
for six other clubs is about a dozen each,
Fitzroy having a trifling list of five or six.
Injuries range from concussion, broken ribs
and collar-bones, to bites, one unfortunate
having been badly bitten on the chest the
other day by a person or persons unknown.
* # * *
“Bumpkin” : The latest goal-kicking record
has; been put up by the Spotswood team
against Royal Park in the Victorian Band
of Hope competition. It scored 52 goals
28 behinds to nil.
v *! :
“Athletic Park”: M.L, has been interested
in the. selection of a world's Rugby team to
meet Mars. The selector is one F. M.
Hbward, w’ho has a wide personal experience
of M.L., European, Australian and South
African sides. Ilis forwards include two
Waratahs, two South Africans-, and one
man each from England, Scotland, Ireland
and Maoriland, the two Australians being
hooker Blackwood and Finia*y. George
Nepia, of M.L., is fullback, while the three-
quarters are lan Smith and Macpherson, of
Scotland; Stephenson, of Ireland; and Jaur-
reguy, of France. Waratah Tom Lawton is
at five-eighth, ■while P. De Villiers, of South
Africa, works the scrum.
“Cash Amateur”: The decision of the
N.S.W. Rugby Union to refuse reinstate-
ment to two players who had played a pro-
fessional version of the game has consider-
ably tangled things up. Some years ago the
Union announced that on and after a cer-
tain date the door would be closed to repen-
tant professional sinners. All that has been
forgotten, an.d since then dozens of men who
have played the professional game have been
readrnitted to the fold, including several of
the Warr.-tahs, and practically every playing
member of the revived Queensland Rugby
Union. The only sensible course toMay is
to let bygones be bygones, and having re-
affirmed the decision to finally bang the door
after a fixed period, to stick to it for the
future.
;|: jtj
“Amateur Pro.”: N.S.W. Rugby League
is feeling the pinch of the hard times, as are
many of the players, some of the best of
whom have been driven to take country
coaching jobs. The League is down £1509
on last year’s figures. Much depends on
the visit of the M.L. League side. If they are
capable of a decent showing in Sydney and
Brisbane there is still hope for the coffers,
but unless they are of a much higher calibre
than previous League visitors from across
the Tasman, the outlook is blue —not to say
positively blanky blue.
The Fifteen
The Australians’ second match against
Lancashire at Old Trafford, the fifteenth of
the tour, was considerably interfered with by
rain, and ended in a draw.' The tourists put
up 427, Ivippax playing a great shot for 120,
his second century of the season. Fairfax
again made good with 68, while Jackson at
last got moving in his old form with 52.
Lancashire’s most, successful bowler was
South African Hodgson, with 3 for 97.
Watson (74), and Hallows (42) made a
good sturt for Lancashire, and were supported
by Ernest Tyldesiey (48) and Hopwood
(40), but the innings closed for 259;
Wall (4-92) and Fairfax (4-29) bowled
really well to dismiss the rest cheaply.
Wall’s success, following on that of Jackson,
was cheering. The visitors had lost Richard-
son for 79 when the game ended, McCabe
(36) and Bradman (23) being the not outs.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : English cricket critics who
have been questioning the eligibility of
Duleepsinhji to represent England because he
was born in India have not uttered a peep
over the selectors’ inclusion of Allen in the
English contingent for the Lords Test, though
the young man was born in a place called
Australia. Duleep’s uncle Ranji played for
England without any protest being made, and
so did “Plum” Warner, who uttered his first
—but not his last —squeal in Trinidad in
the West Indies. Many Australians have
played for the English Gentlemen v. The
Players, and several have figured on the
Players’ side, notably Albert Trott and
Tarrant.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane” : The good money drawn
by the Australian amateurs on tour has
always been a cause of discontent among
English professionals, and this not so many
years ago culminated in several of the pros
going on strike prior to one of the big games.
According to the English press some of them
have now’ asked the Marylebone C. C. for
higher rates. For the first Test this season
the professionals got £4O flat and a third-
class return rail fare, paying all other ex-
ponses themselves. In one typical instance
this showed a profit to the player of £7,
taking into consideration the fact that he
lost £22 by missing two matches for his
county.
t- * t?
“Tliormanby”: So Wilfred Rhodes, the
apparently immortal in a cricket sense, is
to retire from first-class cricket * at the end
of the present English season—not perhaps
without having a final tilt in a Test match
with the Australian's, to whom he has always
been a force to be reckoned with. York-
shiremen —not usually a breed lacking in
good opinion of themselves, or in self-con-
fidence —are moaning dismally ‘“What’ll we
do without Wilfred?” .Writer is old enough
to remember the same cry going up when
Tom Emmett dropped out of the Tykes’
team, and when Peate died untimely, and
Bobby Peel committed suicide as a profes-
sional cricketer by talking back to Lord
Hawke. Yorkshire has always been able
to dig up a good left-hander, "and Maurice
Leyland, here with Chapman’s lust lot, looks
like the goods.
* ❖ *
“Aigburth” : Frank Woolley has achieved
a feat only excelled by “W.G.” —the
completion of 40,000 runs and the tak-
ing of 2000 wickets in first-class cricket.
The Doctor’s total of runs was 54,596 and
his bag of wickets 2876. Woolley is now in
the veteran stage, but looks to have a few
more years of county cricket at least ahead
of him yet. With a bit of luck he may. pass
the great Gloucestershire player’s records.
Racquet and Brawl
“Top Spin”: Our Davis Cup team has
proved a ghastly disappointment. The side
that was thrown out by Italy at Genoa in
the first round two years ago redeemed
itself somewhat by a good showing at
Wimbledon. The present lot, after starting
well, not only again collapsed before the
Italians but took the knock in the earliest
stages of the Wimbledon singles. Moon and
Willard were put out in the first round, the
former going to a second-rate American,
while Willard was out-pointed by the M.L.
crack, Andrews. Surviving to the third
spasm, Crawford was beaten three sets to one
by an English unknown, David. Then Lett,
another Yank of minor importance, disposed
of Hopman, and put the lid on. “Cummorn
'ome, the lot of yer!”
* * * *
“Shirley”: E. D. Andrews, the M.L. player
who downed Jim Willard arid Brugnon in the
All England singles, won the junior cham-
pionship of N.S.W. in 1926, beating Crawford
and Hopman in the process, and then went
on to fight out the final of the senior title
with the winner Fred Kalms, after putting
Willard out in the semi-final, by three sets
to one. Next year lie won: the M.L. singles
championship, "and then left for Cambridge.
At Wimbledon in 1928 he beat the formidable
American Hunter, then second to Tilden
only. He is undoubtedly a player of high
class.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Once more the Australian
Tennis Council is making an attempt to
coax an American team headed by Tilden to
visit Australia. If the visit eventuates, it is
hoped that it will coincide with that of the
Italians. In that ease a Japanese team will
be invited to make up a four-sided tourney.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Cranoustie”: Bobby Jones is not the
only golfer to carry off the British _ open
championship thrice. Young Tom Morris did
it five times in succession, though all the
games were played on his home course at
Prestwick, and the opposition was nothing
like as strong in the 1860’s as it is in these
days of entries from all over the world. For
the first 10 years the championship carried
a belt presented by the Royal Liverpool, on
w’hose course the "recent event was played.
This was to be won three times in succes-
sion, and Thomas junior made no mistake.
Since 1872 the championship has been held
alternately on half a dozen different courses.
% ' 3j£
“Divot Digger”; Eric Apperly, who col-
lected the N.S.W. amateur golf championship
recently, has made a habit of doing so., He
began in 1912, and repeated the performance’
in 1920 22-27, making five wins in all. O. H.
O’Brien ha*s won the title three times and
E. P. Simpson and Tom Howard twice.
Apperly took the Australian event in 1920
when it was played in Sydney. He has that
great asset to a golfer, the capacity to recover
from errors at small cost. /
* * *
“Fitzcray”: Victoria will stage the Aus-
tralian open championship this year, in Sep-
tember. The convincing ground will be the
Metropolitan Club’s course at Oakleigh, one
of the longest in Australia. Special efforts
are to be made to get a representative Aus-
tralian entry. Westralian nominees are as
scarce as water in a Scotsman’s whisky,
while Queensland, which is always kicking
up a row because foreigners from the South
won’t turn up in battalions to her tourna-
ments, rarely sends along a rep. Little
Tassy, on the other hand, alwajs has a
useful starter or two.
“Hamilton”: A Brisbane golf-writer has
been seriously perturbed over “Bull” Ryrie’s
assertion that though he couldn’t play golf
he was all there in the matter of the neces-
sary language. The writer in question takes
grave exception to the General’s statement,
and points out that the golfer who cannot
control his feelings may. never hope to be
anything but a mediocre performer. But
that’s what “Bull” himself says he is, and
that gets us back where we started. from. All
the same, a capacity for expletive, like a*
sense of humor, is not altogether out of
place in, a golfer’s outfit.
“Brassey”: America continues to.be the
happy hunting-ground of the gold-digging pro-
fessional golfer. The game flourishes all the
year round in one part or another of the
country, and all the player has to do is to
follow the circuit of tournaments from New
York round to San Francisco and back.
Gene Sarazen told an English interviewer
in London recently that during the three
months before he left xVmerica to play in
the British championships he had netted
£3OOO, and Gene is only one of a dozen top-
notehers in the States.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: A remarkable drive from
Darwin to Adelaide a*nd Melbourne, with the
engine running all the time, has just been
completed by a party of three in a Chevrolet.
The 2637 miles was covered in 7 days 18
hours a*nd 25 minutes. The object of the
trip wms to test a new ignition device invented
by L. Nudl, leader of the party; but, to the
surprise of the voyagers, they found on
arrival in Melbourne that they had broken
the record for the run, a matter they had
not troubled about. The new ignition inven-
tion consists essentially in the conversion of
the ordinary electric spark to an incan-
descent ray, and is claimed to have exceeded
all expectations on the long journey, ensuring
perfect combustion and greater powder, as
well as a saving in petrol.
sjc * * *
“McDonnell”: Civilisation is gradually
invading Centra-lia. The arrival of railhead
at Alice Springs has been followed by the
establishment of a hotel which proposes to
specially cater for tourists desiring to ex-
plore the alleged “dead heart” in motor-
cars. It is only 33 years since the
journey from the South to Darwin was under-
taken by mechanical transport. The-pioneer
was one Jerome Murif, who tackled the job
on a push bike in 1897. It took him 74 days
to reach his goal, and he came near perish-
ing a couple of times on the journey. The
first motor-car to complete the long trip
did so in 1908, when Dutton and Aunger
accomplished the run in 58 days, after having
to abandon thdir ea*r in a previous attempt.
* * *
“Whizz”: Wolf Barnato is having wonder-
ful success with his Bentley cai’S. At the
beginning of the season he took the Brook-
lands 24-hour event, and now has repeated
his last year’s victory in the Grand Prix
d’EnduraneAjl4-hour road race. Accompanied
by Glen lOdston, Barnato covered 2930
kilometres in the time, and for the first 224
hours averaged 122.11 m.p.h., if the cable is
correct. As his official average at the end of
the run is given as 75.83 m.p.h., there seems
a screw loose somewhere. The race also car-
ries the Rudge Whitworth Cup. Britain has
now won the Prix five times in eight starts
since 1923, Barnato having steered the win-
ning ear on four occasions.
35= - 3|e # *
“0.H.V.”: The motor-cycle engine goes on
improving in efficiency. This year’s Tourist
Trophy races on the Isle of Man—the course
is a quadrangle of roads abounding in hills
and sharp corners —were, in the three main
classes, marked by record speeds. W. Handley,
who won the Light-weight (under 250 c.c.)
event in 1927 and was runner-up in the
Senior class (under (500 c.c.) in 1926 and
in the Junior (under 350 c.c.) last year, won
the Senior race at 74.24 m.p.h. The winner
of the first race of the series in 1911
managed only 47.6 m.p.h. A surprising.record
Was put up this year by Tyre 11 Smith, a
young Irishman, who romped home in the
Junior class at 71.08 m.p.h. The first race
of the series, in 1911, was won at 41.5 m.p.h.
In the Light-weight section A, J. Guthrie
improved on the gauge set in the first race
of the series, a decade ago (43.3 m.p.h.), by
clocking 64.71 m.p.h. The Australian riders,
Simeock and Williams, were unplaced, but
made a fair showing in the events in which
they competed. The entrant from overseas
can’t compete with the chaps who train on
the course.
* * * *
“Spoke”: The first big road race event of
the N.S.W. amateur cycling season will be
the State championship, which will be decided
on the Western road on July 26. The dis-
tance has been raised for the first time, to
100 miles, thus bringing the event into line
with the Australian amateur championship.
It will be a time trial, and riders accus-
tomed to the 40-miles run which has been
the rule for nearly 25 years may find the
extra stretch too. stiff a task.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The Australian team for
the Empire Games in Canada left Sydney last
week. The party of eight is equally divided
between N.S.W. and Victorian athletes. Three
of the Victorians are middle to distance
runners, while Golding, of N.S.W., is holder
of the Australian quarter-mile title. There
is no sprinter, Jim Carlton being unable to
go, and on performance one cannot give any
of the peds. much chance against the strong
opposition they will encounter. Bobby Pearce
should be a certainty for the sculls events,
and of the two swimmers Noel Ryan may
do well if he strikes form.
* ■■■ *
“A. 8.”: Maoriland, which rarely gets to-
gether a representative eight-oar crew, has
combed the Shivery Isles to boat one for
Canada. Ten men have been selected, repre-
sentation being carefully balanced. Otago.
Wairau, Hamilton and Canterbury each sup-
ply two men, while Auckland and Picton
have to be content with a single in each
case. It. is not expected that any of the
crack English clubs will compete, and in that
ease the All Blacks may come off victorious,
though Vancouver, Canada’s leading rowing
centre, will be well fancied by the locals.
“I-lotham”: The decision of the English
Bowls Council to pay the expenses of a team
which is to visit America* shortly has rocked
the bewhiskered pastime to the bottom of the
bottle, so to speak. For some curious reason
Australian bowling addicts choose to con-
sider expense payments to touring players as
a “professional practice.” They are the only
people in the world who do. Even the athletes
at the Olympiad, which stands for amateur-
ism in sport at its highest, are allowed travel-
ling and housing expenses. England has dis-
covered what Australia obstinately refuses to
recognise—that it is impossible to get a first-
class team away, since many players cannot
•afford the heavy cost, while their places
have to be filled with folk whose bank
accounts are miles ahead of their bowls.
“Garry”: If any engineering lesson is to,
be learned from Sir Henry Segrave’s tragic
fate it surely must be in the direction of
emphasising the futility of packing more
power into a boat than it can stand. Miss
England 11. was beautifully built, but she
wasn’t much more than the size of a ship’s
lifeboat; she was a hydroplane with no
backbone, and she was moved by a pair
of 1900-h.p. engines of .such high speed that
the propellers on the ends of their tailshafts
could not be made more than 13in. in dia-
meter without putting greater strains upon
them than the finest steel could stand. In
preliminary tests two sets of these tiny pro-
pellers were wrecked, and it may be guessed
that if a Segrave hadn’t been in control the
Rolls-Royce engines would have been wrecked
tco, after more than a fraction of a second of
racing. A chunk of driftwood that pro-
bably didn’t weigh more than 101 b. was
sufficient to penetrate the flat bottom of the
hull, impacted at a* speed of over 100 m.p.h.,
a*nd there was a splitting and rending of the
floor timbers, that, acting as a terrible brake,
caused a* disaster the exact dynamics of
which are likely to remain a mystery. It
is a dearly-bought lesson, but the moral is
plain enough-—you can’t put the power of
dynamite into a peanut.
V; * i l ,: i\i
“Bee-line”: The N.S.W. Waterloo Cup
was fluked by Non Pariel, luckily drawn
among easy ones at the bottom of the card.
At a time when every course is a battle
against a first-flight greyhound, Non Pariel
got; a bye into the final; thus lie had an
easy passage. Undeniably the classiest .dog
in the stake was Jenny Jones. In the final
Jenny worked excitement high as she came
at her opponent nearing the hare. She
missed by a foot. Six hundred at card call,
course bets, £2OO stake-money and trophy
brought owner’s winnings to the vicinity of
£lOOO. His troubles about spelling!
* * * * '
“Blade Sight”: Australian riflemen are
perturbed- because of the coming change-
over from the long rifle to the short, standard
service variety, this being rendered necessary
by the decreasing .supplies of the old-style
.303 ammunition. New’ rifles will cost £l2
10s. each, a. stiff item for the average target
shot. The remedy lies in having the barrel
of the long rifle cut down, a process which
costs about 30s, Expert, experiment has
shown that the shortened rifle shoots as well
with the latest mark ammunition as the old
long barrel. Indeed, P. Berry, of Tararna
Club, recently won the M L. King’s Prize
with a cut-down bundook.


Polo brings out
all that is best*
Polo calls for the best in man and
horse. Fit, skilful riders.. .willing,
intelligent mounts .. . thorough-
breds all, trained to the minute.
A.nd all the associations of the
game must measure up to the
same fine standard .. . the people,
the frocks, even their very food
. . . and the beverages, of course.
rhat is why Tooth’s K.B. has an
honoured place in so many lun-
cheon hampers. It is a thorough-
bred beverage . . . fitting fare for
such an occasion... a TRUE lager.
9Ao
y
W
:
mm
yj
zr^
* Wtfsi
A
s^
111
:>
I : I
Jill
*
1
;
■lf;
IN
vv*
i
■
py
r
r
ipll
m
if:
,\
W s -^0»
™ss
k
, - ,!J
i v^j
V
ri ..vsi
I Y
TO OT H ft C 9 ' IT?, KENT
EiIEWUY, SYDNEY


w
L
A
DELICIOUS FLAVOUR REX QUALITY AUSTRALIAN
}
r
am
f —a
.V
o
do
*D
msw>
-
irx
A soup delicious to the taste
and full of goodness
When you lift this refreshing, wholesome soup to your
lips, you find all the splendid quality for which REX Pure
Foods are famous, and all the delicious flavor and
goodness of pea soup par excellence.
You enjoy it thoroughly. How easy, too, for the
housewife —delicious soup ready at any time, simply
prepared according to the easy directions on the label.
REX Pea Soup, and four other kinds of soup —Rex
Consomme, Rex Vegetable, Rex Ox Tail, Rex Mulliga-
tawny —are the latest addition to the long list of choice
REX Pure Foods, made in Australia, by Australians, for
Australians.
In lib. and £lb, cans.
REX PEA SOUP
To be certain that you get the Australian Soup with the fine flavor and quality, always say REX.
FOGG ITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of Unihed Provisions Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4 j-
'Phone M 4 I 3 1 for your reservation.
w
fgsL
Food
BerdL Tua.dk mask
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Better health
in
The imperfect digestion of food
is a frequent cause of under
nourishment.
A nightly cup of Benger’s Food
greatly improves the general
health. It is most easily
digested and very nourishing.
From, a Nurse: —
“My father, who is old, has your food
every day. We always think the cup he
takes at bedtime has a most soothing effect.”
Under
Royal
Warrant-
sengdaoher
ToH.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
m
Australasian Agents—
wilt & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
it*
'^arkslleidsieCS
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrar.ra—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
kraft Cheese?
Hilda Marks, Sydney’s new Mayoress, is
artistic, painting being one of many accom-
plishments. Now what will she do with the
Mayoress’s rooms? She plays golf and
tennis, speaks four languages and is a line 1
spinner. She learned this craft during the
war, when she was one of the War Chest
workers; now, in the interludes between
her journeys abroad, she works a wheel in
the interests of the Sydney Hospital Aux-
iliary. The Bush Book Club, the Fresh Air
League, the Red Cross and Day Nurseries
are a few of the good works in which she
has been for years interested. The Marks
brothers live at Kirribilli, and, although
a bachelor, E.S. likes a touch of silk the
hangings and bedspreads of the mayoral
boudoir arc in a melting shade of rose du
barry. At any rate, they w T ere a year or so
ago, when they were the envy of all the
family’s women friends.
After a week of flood rains the sun shone
out. (No, this is not a fairy story; it hap-
pened once upon a time in Sydney.) This
Letter, desiring to have her shoes half soled,
w’ent along to her bank to see if the cr.
balance admitted of the extravagance. The
young man at the counter was fair of hair
and pink of cheek, but his mouth was set m
grim lines and his brow was furrowed. “Isn’t
it a relief to see the sun again?” cooed the
Letter through the little hole in the glass
partition. “Perfect day,” moaned the young
man. “Corns or love affair,” the writing
brain diagnosed. Just then a young woman
who wore a brown beret and brown eyes
approached the little hole in the glass par-
tition. “Isn’t it glorious to -see the sun
again?” she chanted. “Perfect day,” mut-
tered the
clerk, and
turned to the
other side of
the counter to
serve a large
man, smoking
a fat cigar,
with a cheque-
book. “Fine
to see the sun
again,” t li e
large man
carolled in a
light ten o r.
“Perfect day,”
came the re-
joinder through
grinding teeth.
A little old
lady teetered
up for a counter cheque. She smiled
blandly, fixed her glasses, and “Isn’£
it just heavenly to see the sun!”
“Perfect day,” feverishly acknowledged the
young man. Just at that moment the wri-
ter’s statement came down ; and she departed,
turning back at the door to throw a glance
of compassion at the tormented' creature in
his glass cage. When last seen he had a
hunted, shrunken look. One wondered feel-
ingly what became of him before the hour
of three. Did he suddenly try to pluck
straws from liis hair and gather violets from
his ledgers?
One after another the big stores are laying
themselves out to show what a multitude of
good goods Australia is now making for
itself. It was Mark Foy’s turn last week.
Australian-made tweeds in russet and reds,
in greys, blues and greens suggestive of
winter and autumn landscapes, caught the
eye, and for below-stairs you could have
your pick of a windowful of silky-soft
woven underwear. Tweeds ' and woollies
aren’t, of course, new in Australian manu-
facture, but to-day they are better than they
ever were before. Rubber ankle-boots made
with zip fasteners, and liot-water bags and
handbags at a price that made you dizzy
w’itli regret over the money you had paid
for the imported species, bore the “Made in
Australia” label. Kitchen utensils and
gadgets gleamed in aluminium and enamel.
These cast aluminium pots and kettles —
strong enough to last a lifetime, made by
Australian workmen for Australian house-
wives—have, on their merits, practically
ousted the imported ware. Baking tins with
a rounded or an oval top look the thing to
save the inside of the oven being grease-
- splashed. A flat bathroom scales, a few
inches from the floor, very compact and
solid, its dial jutting out horizontally, would
appeal to the woman on a slimming orgy.
Linoleums —yes, these are now Australian-
made, too —lampshades, furniture of Aus-
tralian woods made to any period you
please, cushions, poker-work, Nally-ware,
crystal, leather lac for coloring shoes and
handbags—pretty well everything you can
think of to wear, plus the trunk or suit-
case to pack it in—were piled in profusion.
Short of- wallpaper, vacuums and carpets,
the, Australian citizen can now live in luxury
without the aid of the outside world, so
far at any rate as his personal and house-
hold furnishings go.
“Berkeley Square” was an f.a.q. entertain-
ment that never once stepped out of the
amateur class. To begin with, the stage of
the Palace seemed too small for the swaying,
spreading skirts of the eighteenth century
gels ; also many of the actors in their pow-
dered wigs, buckled shoes a*nd brocades
seemed glitteringly apparelled automatons.
Producer Varna had coached them excellently
in their lines and deportment, but, though
kind hearts are more than coronets, actors,
alas ! arc not born of kind hearts plus good
intentions. The cast w»s comprehensive
enough to embrace pretty debs, and matrons
from Darling Point and Elizabeth Bay, and
their friends came to purr in public over
them, even if the claw of criticism w r as un-
sheathed later on in private. The vice-regals
(a pair a* night) added to the glitter, though
on the G.-G. night only nominally so, for
the Admiralty House party was subdued to
the point of dulness.
The play, by J. G. Squire and John Bal-
derston, has for hero one Peter Standish, a
modern American, who, inheriting a Queen
Anne house in Berkeley Square, psychics
himself into a condition of being liis own
ancestor in the eighteenth century while
remaining himself of to-day. The _ young
man who pops Box- and Cox-wise in and
out of the centuries was Harry Dangar.
Ann Gordon was Helen Pettigrew, the gentle
shade with whom he falls monotonously in
love. Ann looked nice in Helen’s white satin
frock, which, with its long gathered-at-the-
waist skirt and its little bodice, _ combined
a Gainsborough look and an air of innocence.
Mrs. George Vivers, Duchess of Devonshire,
had a- white satin frock patterned with
silver wheat. The skirt was worn over wide
side-lioops, from w’hich the train flowed like
a rich harvest. Her shoulders rose superb
from the low-cut bodice. She was the only
woman in the cast with an expressive back.
Among the men, Tom Pettigrew with his
petunia coat and cascadirig frills made his
exits effective, and Helen Stephen (Ivate
Pettigrew) showed now and again a sense
of the dramatic.
After “Berkeley Square” on Friday night,
half the audience slipped around the corner
into the State for the midnight performance
of “Rookery Nook.” “Slippfd” is,the word,
for the pavements were shining and greasy
with yet another downpour. • So_ well did the
end of the amateur and the beginning of the
professional performance dovetail that there
wasn’t any time to snatch even a cup ot
coffee. The State was packed to Plimsoli;
patient paying people waited in queues to
buy tickets for a show that will run three
times a day for weeks. Fierce Kleig lights
played over all, so that the made-up coun-
tenance looked like a kalsomined mask, and
the unmade like a death’s-head. A real
orchestra distributed hand- and wind-made
music, a row of laugh-makers was put
through a “Ha ha, ho ho,” contest on the
stage to loosen up the muscles of the
audience, Mickey the Mouse further demoral-
ised them and “Rookery Nook” left them a.
jelly.
Parties at the Town Hall threaten to be
quite a thrill, now that Sydney is to have
a bachelor Mayor. Procedure is that when
a lady mayoress gives a tea-drinking in her
rooms, the Mayor flashes the light of his
countenance on the assemblage—in much the
same spirit as a rajah might smile on the
flutterings of his harem. But mayors hav,
a tiresome habit of being married, and the
most one can do is to flirt an eyelash or tw 3
at them, by way of practice. But wlicn
E. S. Marks enters the powder zone where
his sister Hilda (she’s to act as Mayoress)
is entertaining, he’ll be legitimate P re J’-
Moral: He who wears a rabbitskm can look
out for traps.
This Letter heard of a girl teacher the
other day who thought she had strayed into
the garden of Eden. And the way of it whs
this. She had taken a job as locum tor a
sick man, who was a nature lover. The
school was in his country town, and the
scholars (or so it seemed) were particularly
amiable. About half-past eleven on her first
morning the lady had got into her stride,
arid had covered the blackboard with alge-
braic equations, when she saw. rearing itself
around one of the legs of the board, a scaly
serpent with an unusually knowing look. For
one mad moment she thought “Am I Eve.
And was that board the tree of knowledge !
But a look at the grinning rows of kiddies
brought her to her senses. With one leap
she was on top of a chair. “Outside, child-
ren !” she cried. The uproar brought a
master from the other room. The serpent
turned a reproachful gaze on the newcomer;
then withdrew in dignity to the box in
which it lived (and which one of the kids
had opened). It was one of the perfectly
harmless sort; and yet it wasn’t kept.,
Lady Verney, who has just gone back to
England, was pretty little Janette Walker
before her marriage—only daughter of the
ex-Senator and sister of Australia’s best-
known twin-brothers. Dame Eadith Walker,
who gave her a farewell party at the Queen’s
Club, is a cousin. She met young Ralph
Verney, a Rifle Brigade subaltern, when he
was here as a Chelmsford A.D.C. just on
20 years ago. Since then he has done well
for himself politically. , (The Vcrneys have
been dividing their activities between poli-
tics and the Court for about a century.)
He has been secretary to the Speaker and
Taxing Officer of the House of Commons,
and he collected a knighthood for his work
a couple of years ago. The head of the
family is a baronet, but Ralph Verney had
his way to make in the world, being only a
remote collateral. A Titian-haired sister
married Frank Newton, a Queenslander, who
acted as A.D.C. during the Chelmsford
regime in the northern State.
The members of the Mothers’ Union had
a meeting the other day in Sydney. The
Mothers’ Union! What a popular scheme
that must be for pretty mothers round about
40 in these days 'of the up-and-coming
flapper! Many a> charming widow lias had
her charices spoiled by a too übiquitous
daughter. One can imagine such parents
joyously banding together for the suppres-
sion of too effulgent offspring, and drawing
up a constitution that would enforce (a)
prolonged years in the schoolroom; (6) the
veiling and cloaking of daughters, at mother’s
pleasure, whenever an interesting male w T as
around ; (c) impressing the virtue of silence
on the witty of tongue. A mothers’ union
—untold possibilities it holds for die-hard
middle-age!
A tiny decoration, a riband somewhat
faded —all that’s left to tell of some glowing
deed of self-sacrifice in France or on Galli-
poli ! The big ballroom at David Jones’s
glittered again with such things when the
2nd Divvy of the A.M.F. rallied round, as
much for "old acquaintance sake as to dance.
It was a night tremendous with memories
if you saw past the decorations, and a jolly
affair anyhow. The committee had netted
two brace of vice-regals, and
the G.-G.’s and the State Exes.,
after being heralded, sat in per-
fect amity. on the dais sur-
rounded by fair (and brunette)
women and brave men. Lady
Stonehaven’s black frock trailed
on the ground and swung a shoulder cape,
while Lady Game was lorelei-like in water-
green satin, swathed to the hips and thence
falling in plenitude to the ground. Both
State and Federal Vicereines sported pearls.
Mrs. Gordon Bennett helped her General
do the honors in a long frock of vellum
moire. Five debs., shimmering like frosted
glass figurines, were presented by Mrs. R. E.
Jackson, whose black velvet frock was back-
less and lit here and there with diainente.
Cheers for Mrs. Alfred Winn, too, an
untiring worker for the Sydney Hospital.
Last week, under her leadership, the aux-
iliary launched a ball which, in spite of ram
and mist, drew over 500 dancers to the
Town Hall. The old civic fastness is enjoy-
ing a second girlhood, and disguises itself
these times as a cabaret. The festive note
was emphasised with rosy garlands and
tender winter greens twined amid its rafters
and columns by the artistic fingers of Mrs.
George Hartman, Grace Jewell and Minna
Bourke. Sir Philip and Lady Game were
among the dancers, and in their party came
Miss Crowdy and Captain Royce Shannon.
They were met by a great concourse, lit up
by Mrs. Winn’s frock of vermilion lace, which
was warmed by a coat of the same material
collared in Arctic fox of cocoa complexion.
Mrs. John Garlick, as president, handed in
the Vice-Res., and made her la<st official
appearance in black georgettes adorned with,
pink roses. Came the Acting-Premier But-
tensiiaw’s, she in a primrose fantasy; Admiral
Evans and his lady, who was blue and pink
like an Adams decoration; and so many
Ministers that when they gravitated to one
another the ball threatened to turn into a
political salon. It’s worth an N.B. that
both Lady Game and Miss Crowdy wore
frocks w’ith the cape effect. Black satin
embossed in gold flower heads composed the
Vicereine’s .raiment, while Miss Crowdy’s
medals were resplendent on Robin Hood
green chiffons. Italy’s Consul-General Gros-
sardi brought daughter Adrienne, whose
velvet frock suggested the bloom of a ripen-
ing peach.
To mark another year of service arid help
on the good work, the Mater Hospital’s
friends will hold their yearly ball at the
Wentworth on July 10. This year Mrs.
Nutte, of Mosman, is president of the
committee.
Elaine Linton probably felt the most
important girl at the Bachelors’, Ball the
other night, for she hadn’t yet got used tq
the engagement ring that Jimmie Curtis had
fitted on. Jimmie w r as one of the hosts who
helped" to make the dance at the White City
n shining success. Query: Is a man who is
engaged a dinkum bachelor? (Refer to Billy
Curtis, K.C.) Elaine celebrated the conun-
drum by wearing lily-of-the-valley on trailing
black chiffons.
Forbes and Condobolin were linked when
Padre Hugh Paton riveted Doreen Wheatley
a<nd John Gavel. The Aubrey Wheatleys
(bride’s parents) came from Forbes for the
big event and set the wedding breakfast at
the Metropole.
Phyllis Helen Muller, daughter of the
Vaucluse med., became Mrs, John David
Bates at St. John’s in Darlinghurst. She
wore all the conventional ornate trappings,
the veil a beautiful affair of hand-made
Houiton lace. Enid Capel ’maided in daffo-
dil moires of mediaeval cut and carried wall-
flowers and yellow pansies. Robert Jones
best-manned.
The sales are on. The shops are long-
avenues of “reduced” tickets along which
women of the city and women of the suburb
flutter joyously. Of course, they are going
to fall victims —but what willing, joyous
victims! Never in the memory of most have
clothes been
so cheap; fur
coats are be-
come the wear
of the prole-
tariat; silks,
satins and vel-
vets purr in a
minor key.
Diamonds, un-
f o r t unately,
are still quite
pricey even
by the bushel,
but there are
plenty of
other depart-
ments i ii
whi c li the
little business
flapper can
abandon her-
self to the
orgy of huy-
ing. Rut let
her take heed when the bank-book puts
out the signal: “Or. 55.” For the
wage-earner is on the marked-down list
herself. After this week’s meeting with the
unemployment-tax man, she can be labelled
“Reduced 3d. in the £.”
The friend of the family was discussing
the Yellow Peril, and rounded off his argu-
ment by a conclusive: “Why, every fourth
child born into the world is Chinese.” Small
Nan. aged six, eyed the guest in an entranced
fashion. “Oh, mother,” she said, “how
splendid! First there was Hugh, then there
was Diana, then there was me, and next
time it’s the little Chinese baby’s turn.”


■ 'WITHOUT QUALITY THEM CAN
hi NO TkUE ECONOMY**
6! AM WAVON
e> C® L™.
/NO/IVM
(nivaa
new:
o 1
V
\Q
4-6 UIG 14
3 6'W I 0 i
U A BEARD WATSON
QUALITY LOWBOY SO
KEENLY PRICED MUST
INTEREST MOTHERS
OF SCHOOL BOY SONS
S DAUGHTERS AS WELL
AS MAN HIMSELF.
■ SUCH OUTSTANDING VALUE
IS POSSIBLE BECAUSE BE AO
WATSON'S AILE THE ACTUAL
MAKERS.
IN UJM6AYO LIGHT ©ft, BAILK, COLOUR,
£6.10.0
Beaud Watson & r
359 -353 CEOR.ee ST, SYDNEY.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
sr
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Exclusive Diamond Rings
at Drummonds
Diamond Bing,
with Diamond-set
step shoulders,
£3O
Solitaire Dia-
mond Ring with
Diamond-studded
Coronet.
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring/, with
Diamond shoulders,
£6O
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring with
“baton” Diamonds
on shoulders,
£6O
Calibre Diamond
Ring with “baton”
cut Diamonds on
shoulders, £BO
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
shoulders,
£37/10/-
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond-set
shoulders,
£37/10/-
Diamond Ring,
with Diamonds
set on shoulders,
£5O
Diamond Ring,
with Diamonds on
shoulders,
£3O
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
shoulders,
£2O
Solitaire Diamond
Ring'. Latest
design.
Circle Ring set
with 25 brilliant
cut Diamonds.
Rest value in Aus-
tralasia, £lB/18/-
Others from
£l2/10/-
THE illustrations are the exact size of the rings offered, and represent
a few of what constitutes the largest and finest range of rings in
the Commonwealth. Prices of all rings can be varied according to
quality and size of gems desired.
Drummond’s rings are made in their own workshops on the premises
by a staff of highly skilled ringmakers, whose entire knowledge and
ability are unreservedly devoted to their production. All diamonds are
set in pure hard platinum.
Complete satisfaction is assured or money will be refunded.
Wm. DRUMMOND & CO.,
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ANOTHER
SATISFACTORY
BONUS
THE
A.M.P. Society
On 30th JUNE ISSUED CERTIFICATES FOR 1929
BONUS DISTRIBUTION,
OVER THREE MILLION POUNDS
distributed amongst the participating members,
yielding reversionary additions to Ordinary
Department Policies of
£5,130,000
OVER £48,000,000 DISTRIBUTED IN CASH BONUSES
SINCE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SOCIETY,
Ordinary Department Policies effected under participating
Tables by 31st December will share in the Cash Surplus for
1930,
ALL CLASSES OF LIFE INSURANCE
BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Alfred Meeks, K.8.E., Chairman,
Sir Samuel Hordern, Deputy Chairman.
Alex. Jobson, Esq. Dr. G. H, Abbott. Rodney R. Dangar, Esq.
Geo. Macarthur Onslow, Esq., C.M.G. Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq.
H. W. Apperly, F.S.S., General Manager. F. T. Bridges, Assistant
General Manager. C. A. Elliott, F.1.A., Actuary. A. G. Holling-
worth, A.1.A., Secretary.
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Offices in the leading Country Towns, and Field Representatives in all
Districts.


V/A
v
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ’*
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
mi —• THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki g, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HATIDTMUTH, of " KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil feme.
London Office—Sl9. Kiugnwey. W.Ud
Australian Representative— Y
JOHN MACDOUGA.LL. P, O. Box 165. SYDNEY^
Wentworth Hotel's New Policy.
These are difficult times through which we are passing, and the Wentworth Hotel, I-td., are
endeavoring to meet these altered conditions by drastie reductions in tariff, consistent with
their usual high standard of efficiency in service, cuisine and quality. The new rates as outlined
below will operate till further notice, and the management commends them to your attention.
Single Rooms, with Breakfast only, from 12/6
Single Rooms, with Bath, Breakfast only, from 157-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, from 207-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, from 22/6
Double Rooms, per day, Breakfast only, two persons, from . . 25/-
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive, two persons, from 357-
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, two persons, from 407-
Double Rooms, per day, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from 507-
Double Rooms de Luxe, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from 55/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Day. Week.
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
After some weeks during which this Chat-
terer's only moments of cosiness have been
experienced while toasting her toes at blaz-
ing logs or a glowing radiator, she basked on
Saturday in the warmest of sunshine at the
Williamstown races. The course, which is
on the waterfront, was looking its best, with
its avenue of golden-tipped cypress-trees
flanking lawns of emerald velvet, and the
bay, in the background, as blue as a sapph-
ire. It was a scene to delight an artist
and at the same time to move him to despair
at the impossibility of painting it. Encour-
aged by the perfectly lovely weather, which
made an outing at such a picturesque spot
a joy, many more people rolled up than
were taken by mere cupidity. Apart from
all that, the Williamstown Club does its
patrons exceptionally well. The course has
been wonderfully improved in recent years,
and the gee-gees can be watched as comfort-
ably there as anywhere in the State.
On the train side of the course the hot-
pie and saveloy vendors and the fishmongers
gathered to reap their little harvest. You
could also buy cakes, lollypops and lemonade
and a small boy did a roaring trade in
mushrooms at a shilling a bag. So there was
entertainment, as the poet says, for man and
beast.
Among the contingent of regular race-
goers who frequented the committee tea-
room, which was decked with Iceland poppies
and mauve irises, were the Ben Clraffeys
with Miss Macpherson, Mrs. Rogers Thom-
son with Mrs. Sam Mackay, and Mrs. Percy
Blackbourn with Mrs. Stewart Ferguson,
both the last-mentioned being smartly turned-
out in black and white. Secretary J. F.
Nagle’s wife was with Mrs. A. V. Ivewney,
Mrs. W. P. Mein and some other sports.
As they used to say in early-Victorian jour-
nalese, “a pleasant time was had by all.”
The Melbourne Hunt Club’s race meeting
at Moonee Valley was one of those picnics
■where everybody knows everybody, and the
punters are personal friends of owners,
jockeys and officials. J. Carlson won the
steeplechase event. Among smart dressers
were Lucy Stogdale, whose beige fur coat
was topped by a beret ; Mrs. A. Laver, in
mole coat, astrachan cap; Mrs. W. Rogers
Thomson, in a cocoa-colored suit worn with
a velvet-and-felt hat; and Mrs. Russell Gabb,
in coat of mink. General Johnston and
daughter Gwen, Mrs. Embling and Lorna,
the Albert Campbells and Mayoress Luxton
were others who watched the gee-gees.
Essendon Town Hall was the scene of a
civic ball on Thursday. Mayor Fenton made
a speech before the guests commenced to
wear out their shoe-leather, the theme of his
discourse being the value of Dances as an
Antidote to Depression. Nobody present
seemed to need much assurance on the
point, but mayors will be mayors. Curator
Oliver of the municipality’s gardens decked
the stage as a bush homestead in a fernglade,
through which meandered a milkmaid. Dawn
was electrically indicated, and the first twit-
terings of the birds were reproduced by an
expert in such imitations. Sixteen white-
clad debs, carrying pink-and-blue posies paced
in the lancers and made curtsey to host and
hostess. Mrs. Fenton wore dark green satin,
draped and trained, an effective background
for her bouquet of pink blossoms. Town-
Clerk Wellington’s wife wore leaf-green
moire. Mavis Fenton combined taffeta and
tulle in her pretty frock. The councillors and
their womenfolk and the mayors and mayor-
esses of many neighboring municipalities
brushed shoulders with politicians. Among
the guests were Mr. and Mrs. A. V. Hiskens,
Mrs. W. B. Macleod and Mr. and Mrs. 11.
Scliwieger.
Ex-pupils of Santa Maria College reunited
at a da*nce at the Rex last week. The most
original dresser amongst the dancers was
Miss Hart, in a gold-bordered gown of
petunia lame that featured long sleeves and
a short cape. The train of Margaret Fan-
court’s golden satin frock was tucked over
her arm in the old way, and she wore long
white gloves. Flora Brennan, daughter of
the Attorney-General, had a spray of. crim-
son blossoms to set off her flounces of white
tulle. Cinnamon-hued chiffon velvet garbed
Mollie Hart, and Kathleen McCubbin bright-
ened a black taffeta frock with a string of
amber beads. Mrs. C. Devine, of Warrigal,
chose a gown of cornfi .nver-blue moire.
A dozen white-clad debs, paced the digni-
fied measures of the lancers at the M.L.C.
Old Collegians’ Club hop at St. Ivilda Town
Hall. The Committee —this is a very cold
winter—chose muffs of tulle as their badges.
Officers of the club present were Mrs. J. O.
Thompson, whose lace gown was of deep gold
tint, and the hon. sec., Dorothy Kerr, in
whose attire begonia-red chiffon and bro-
caded lame were blended. Stella Robinson, in
enamel green, and Laura Fountain, in deep
blue taffeta, were the engineers of the dance.
Students of Queen’s College had their
dance last week, the rendezvous being the
comfy little Ormond Hall. The master of
Queen’s, F. W. Kernick, with Mrs. Ivernick,
who was robed in black lace, headed a whole
raft of; specially-invited dons.
Lots of prettily frocked maidens went to
the Law Students’ Society’s hop at St. Kilda
Plaza, an event of the week-end. G. Cohen
and R. H. Dunn were the hon. secs. Among
specially invited guests were Prof. Bailey,
who occupies the new Law Chair at the
Uni. ; the L. A. Stillmans, she in a flowered
frilled frock; and Mr. and Mrs. P. D.
Phillips, the last-named in a gown of
begonia-red chiffon.
Next Monday night the Rotary Club will
join with the District Nursing Society in
sponsoring a ball at the Town Hall to help
the society, which assists the sick .poor.
Twenty nurses are making daily visits to
poverty-stricken homes where there are ill
or crippled people, and their work does
not end with nursing, but includes the
cooking of meals and the administration ot
gifts of food and clothing. The society is
not endowed and depends on public sub-
scriptions for its upkeep. Last year its ex-
penses were £12,000, and this year they 11
probably be a lot more, so the need for aid
is acute. Mrs. Russell Clarke and Tat
Lempriere are hon. secs, of the dance, and
his Ex. and Lady Somers have promised to
join in the jazz.
The marriage of Mary, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Leviny, of Camberwell, and
David, only son of L. H. Braham, of East
Malvern, was an evening affair that took
place at the Grammar School cliapel last
week, with a supper and dance at No. 9
afterwards. The bride had a tinge of pink
beneath a beautiful embroidered tulle veil
that fell over a gown of white satin. Three
bridesmaids, in floral taffeta frocks of rain-
bow tints, had their locks wreathed with
blossoms and leaves.
This is Brenda Harvey, who was born in
Randwiek, Sydney, but who lias been an
exile from these shores since she went to
England as a
very small
child. She
put back here
last week for
a holiday of
some months,
travelling back
with Dr. and
Mrs. W. F.
Orr, who are
old friends,
and who are
giving her
shelter at
their Toorak
home. She is
a grand-daugh-
ter of the
late T. O. S.
Green, a one-
time chief in-
spector of
the Bank of
N.S.W., and
her father, the late R. W. Hai-vey, was well
known in Sydney. She has spent most of
her adult life on the stage, with one excur-
sion into the movies. After training at the
London Academy of Dramatic Art, she had
some repertory experience and then went
to South Africa with Ethel Irving’s co. Her
most recent appearance was with Marie
Tempest in “Her Shop.” In war-time she
was a member of the Lena Ashwell co.,
playing in Paris, Lille and Antwerp to
soldier audiences.
The Music Teachers’ Association, which
numbers nearly 300 members, joined in a
chorus of praise of Florence Austral at a
reception at Anzac House one evening last
week. Pianist Harold Elvins spoke words
of appreciation, and Madame Ashton pro-
duced a welcoming posy. Songs by Henry
Thomas, with Mrs. Thomas at the piano,
were the only extras. The star wore black
taffeta beneath a fur coat.
Former students of the Albert-street Con.
claimed Florence Austral, for an afternoon
of tea and chatter on Thursday. The diva
was in a beige ensemble of georgette and
kasha cloth, with a collar .of fur so large
that it nearly engulfed her close-fitting felt hat.
A bunch of Duchess of York pansies, presented
by secretary Bessie Dougall, made a charm-
ing addition to the color scheme. Nils
Nelson, the singer’s accompanist, replied, on
behalf of Madame Austral, to a eulogy
spoken by Fritz Hart. The only music of
the afternoon was Mr. Hart’s choral work
“May in the Greenwood.” Mrs. Hart, a
study in pale grey, with white furs and
Basil Hart, who is treasurer of the U.8.A.,
took part in the welcome.
For her recital on Saturday night Madame
Austral wore golden-brown chiffon that tell
in soft pleats to the feet, and ended in a
train. Her husband, John Amadio, made his
reappearance after being absent from two
recitals nursing an attack of the flu, and
lie got a particularly cordial reception.
Mrs. Charles Gavan Duffy, who died at
Majestic Mansions, St. Kilda, last week, lived
for the greater part of her life in a poli-
tical atmosphere. She was the daughter of
Allan McLean, who represented North
Gippsland in the Vic. Leg. Assembly and
later sat in the Federal Lower House. _ Just
before Federation her father was Premier ot
Vic. for 11 months, and a little later he was
the second chief of the Reid-McLean Federal
Coalition. It was while her father was
climbing to political glory that his daughter
married Charlie Duffy, then Clerk Assistant
of the Assembly. Later he became m suc-
cession Clerk of the House of Represen-
tatives, Clerk of the Senate and Clerk of the
Parliaments. His father was a*lso a former
Premier of Vic. Charles Gavan Dufty, the
elder, who was made a knight, headed the
Government in 1871-72 and later was
Speaker.
This is E. J. D. Abraham, chaplain of
the Adult Deaf and Dumb Society, who for
29 years lias
devoted him-
self to the
interests of
the afflicted.
His step-
father, wh o
was deaf and
dumb, made
the aiding of
fellow - suffer-
ers his life
work, an d
his step-son
feels that he
has a similar
mission. Mr.
Abrahams col-
lected most of
the money for
the society’s
place in Flin-
ders - street,
and founded a
fiower-farm at
Blackburn for deaf and dumb folk of defi-
cient mentality.
The death of John Whykes at Ballarat the
other day recalled that he was mayor of
the Golden City in 1901 when George and
Mary Windsor (then Duke and Duchess of
York) dropped in. Isaiah Pearce was the
man who wore the bunny-trimmed robe and
gold chain in the adjoining municipality of
Ballarat Town. The rivalry between the
two civic fathers was very diverting to
all the royal visitors and their entourage,
and especially to the newspaper men who
were following the tour. When driving from
point to point, Whykes and Pearce nearly
took the wheels off each other's chariots so
as to be in the forefront of whatever doings
were toward. There was never a finer exhi-
bition of civic zeal and pride.
A notable Australian,_ whose interests were
deeply rooted in the soil of his native land,
was Alfred Downward, sheep-farmer, sports-
man and Parliamentarian, who passed out at
Mornington on Friday at the age of 83. He
retired from the Assembly just a few months
ago, after 35 years of continuous service
as member for Mornington. He at various
times held the portfolios of Agriculture,
Water Supply, Forests and Mines. Mel-
bourne-born, he went to the Mornington
Peninsula at the age of seven, learned there
how to ride a horse and judge a sheep, and
stuck to the district, which also stuck to
him. It was a partnership profitable to both
sides. His son Herbert succeeded him as
M.L.A. for Mornington.
Golf was played on two days last week
for the benefit of the Orthopaedic Hospital
for Children, at Frankston. An afternoon
at the Mornington links raked in about
£4O, and a foursomes match at the pic-
turesque Kingston Heath course on Thurs-
day, with bridge and sales as side-lines,
should add another £2OO when accounts are
made out. The associates of the Kingston
Heath Club, who have Mrs. Robert Morton
as president and Kath Donaldson as acting-
sec., organised the social side of the affair,
and Mrs. Rennie, Mrs. P. B. Hudson and
Jean Purse were directors of the golfing
events. Sales of flowers, cakes and other
articles, with raffles, were engineered by Mrs.
Hume Turnbull, Mary Addison, Mrs. Bar-
rington, Mrs. Seabrook, Mrs. T. Sampson
and Mrs. T. Bland.
The long-drawn-out art union of pictures
and bric-a-brac, run in the interests of a
fund to found a permanent orchestra, was
concluded last week, Lud Mayor Luxton
drawing the numbers at the Sedon Galleries.
By this means over 10,000 of the million
shillings necessary to endow the orchestra
have been collected.
At the National Gallery in a few days
there will be a memorial exhibition of the
work of the late George Lambert. The live
pictures by this artist owned by the Gallery
will be supplemented by at least 20 lent for
the occasion.
A few months ago Melbourne “Herald”
unwittingly lent its columns to American
propagandists by starting a slimming craze.
An 18-day diet was prescribed, and the jour-
nal printed each day’s appropriate menu.
A leading cafe announced that it would
serve the menu, and upwards of 300 slim-
mers attended daily. Grape-fruit figured
largely, and the price of this imported com-
modity doubled and finally nearly trebled.
Nothing more has been heard of the affair,
though there are at least two women who
have had to have special medical treatment
to recover from its rigors. By way of post-
script., this Chatterer has received from a
friend in California a note that explains a
lot:
It is glorious to read that in these hard times
there are such good-hearted and simple-minded
people as in Melbourne. This campaign of the 18-
day diet was only part of a clever propaganda of the
grape-fruit growers, who find it rather hard to get
a market. Hundreds of thousands were, spent to prove
that the fruit contains all the important , vitamines,
and, failing to do much with it, a new campaign
was organised under the title of the “18-day diet.”
The results were amazing, and the grape-fruit growers
easily disposed of their stocks to the worshippers
of the slim figure. ' But this propaganda cost them
a fortune. And now r we hear that our Australian
cousins have made a boom which has surpassed our
own, and without us spending a penny on propa-
ganda !
A very popular place for social gatherings
is the Oxford Club, on Te Arai-avenue, Bast
St. Kilda. The historic old house, known
as Oakleigh Hall, has two fine ballrooms, and
dances are held there fortnightly, usually on
Fridays, with other social minglings in
between. E. 11. Allen, the secretary of this
residential club, who arrived from Eng-
land only a couple of months ago, has been
getting a little limelight, lately since he
qualified for his air-pilot’s certificate at the
same training quarters as Amy Johnson.
Miss W. Bansgrove is the owner of the
club.
Short-skirted frocks are being given away
for songs at bargain sales, and diminutive
women able to handle needle and .scissors
are rejoicing. A perfect dream of an evening
frock, marked down from 16 guineas to 3
it looked as if it cost the ragshop at least
a tenner—has proved, with a few cuts and
stitches, exactly the right length for one
small lady of this Page’s acquaintance, and
there have been other bargains almost as
notable. It appears that the directors of
some of our big emporiums were so confi-
dent that the sex would rebel against fashion
that called for more material that they im-
ported a proportion of confections of the
old short length.
Pioneers of the Wimmera district, Mr. and
Mrs. F. W. Sallman, now of East Malvern,
celebrated their golden wedding last week.
Their family marked the event by a dinner
party at the Windsor, in a setting of golden
blossoms and ribbons. Two bridesmaids of
half a century ago were among the guests.
Scots’ Church has said good-bye to Dr.
Black, who has been preaching there on
Sundays for the last three months. He
was imported under a stipulation attaching
to the Turnbull bequest, to the. effect that
every two years a distinguished minister
from overseas must occupy the pulpit for
12 weeks. Dr. Black, who became as popu-
lar as his brilliant brother, who also spent
a period at the Collins-street kirk, was enter-
tained at many farewell gatherings, including
one staged by the E.-S.U. Among parting
gifts he took away a portfolio of etchings
by Australian artists. Dr. Black and his
wife are travelling back to their home in
New York by way of Java and the U.K.
Two hundred ex-students of Loreto Con-
vent mustered at Mandeville Hall to greet
the Mother-General, who has been inspecting
the various houses of the Order in Aus-
tralia. Pianist Rita Hope, fiddlers Margery
Gray and Ronnie Lake, and ’cellist Helga
Brennecke made music. A fur rug was pre-
sented to the guest of the afternoon by the
president, Mrs. G. Coffey, ■ and there was
tea and a great deal of chatter.
Presidents and secretaries of past-stu-
dents associations of various convent col-
leges about Melbourne were invited by Mrs.
T. C. Brennan to take tea at and view St.
Anne’s Hostel the other day. The comforts
and conveniences of the place, which accom-
modates girls who earn their own living or
who are beiug trained with that end in view,
were much admired.
A musical visitor of high tonnage is Sir
Hugh Allen, director of the Royal College
of Music and one of the heads of the Asso-
ciated Board. For several years lie has
held the Chair of Music at Oxford. He has
conducted at the Leeds Festival on occasion,
and regularly waves a baton over the Bach
choirs of London and of Oxford. He is an
organist, too.


m
y/77 'v/77/7 7 , 7
,///s, vs, '//. '//, o.'/;
V////.
-m
vs,
'////.
"m
<<
m
'//"'A
W'A
fig
%
m
"Sa
j 2%
ft
-2
M
mif/#
%
%
%
...the finest flavoured
oysters in the world/
From Stewart Island ot New Zealand
come to us the world’s most succu-
lent oysters...in cans that bear the
label "St George " Carefully chosen
and immediately canned in their own
liquor —thus 19 preserved the luscious
flavour of each of the 2 doz oysters
that are found in the large tins
Served straight from the can. they
are as succulent and tasty as the
finest oysters, freshly gathered—yet
infinitely cheaper All leading
grocers sell ST GEORGE OYSTERS
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, New Zealand.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited),
Sydney’s well-known Harbor Hotel
dc oe eon
m
amM
ODD
m
T 7 '' f ’ ■
v ' V v >
y*" *.v
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean;'
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 41 Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by , Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
THE PASSAGE
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
Synopsis: His father. Bob Cal-
laway, drowned at the bar of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied,
enough with the life, but slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
Hughie, Lew admits, has brains ; so
when Kutilcel offers him a job at
his store Lew agrees that he should
take it. Hughie buys a motor-lorry,
and soon is running a car service. lie
does so well that he goes to town to set
up in the car business. Lew is attracted
by Clem McNair, daughter of a man
who has sold, d large area of land
on one side of the Passage to Osborne,
a speculator, who has started a young
township upon it. Lew's diffidence
prevents closer relationship, and Clem,
disappointed, decides to go abroad.
Lew then marries Lena\ Christensen,
who had been keeping company with
Craig, a surveyor, but had assured
Lew that affair was “all off." A
seven-months' baby boy is born to
Lew, who, in the next year or so,
becomes entirely wrapped up in the
little fellow. The marriage, however,
is not a success: Lena becomes irri-
tated with Lew and his interest
in his work, and he grows weary
of her tired, bored smile. He is in
town visiting Hughie and their mother
(Anna) when Lena has a surprise
meeting with Craig in the bush, where
she had gone ashore for a swim after
rowing, Lena feels that she has quite
done with Craig, but his old, attraction
proves too strong, and Lett', having
returned to find, that Craig is back,
grows more and more suspicious. His
fondness for the child, Peter, keeps
him preoccupied.
CHAPTER XXVI ( Continued ).
‘T^ l ET the car out and run us up to the
v 1 hotel,” Lew said to the Wiegert boy.
“Young Peter’s crook, and I want
1o see if I can snavel a doctor. I’ll stir
Mrs. Haig up on the way.”
Martin was lying on his bunk, a cigarette
in his mouth, looking at the pictures in a
weekly paper, but as soon as he saw Lew’s
face he dropped his legs over the side and
felt for his sandshoes with his feet.
“Right,” he said. “I’ll just slip into my
coat. You run the car out, of the shed and
111 be with you in a couple of ticks.”
There was the creaking of a bed in the
other room and Mrs. Dave poked her head
out of the window, staring into the dark as
Lew hurried across the yard.
“That you, Lew?” she called out. “Noth-
ing wrong with Lena, is there?”
“No, it's Peter,” he flung back. “He’s
bad, and I’m going to look for a quack.
Lena’s alone with him there. You could
get Mrs. Haig to go over.”
The window went down with a bang, and
he could hear Mrs. Dave bundling into her
clothes, shouting through the door to remind
Martin to bring some brandy from the
hotel. The way these people all rallied
round a man if there was any sickness or
trouble in the offing. Lew ruminated, as he
lugged the car out! It had always been
the same; it, always would be. He had a
strong feeling of oneness with them as he
spun up the sandy ridge past, the light-
house and on toward the clustering cot-
tages of Lavinia. They were his people;
he would never drift too far away from
them, nor let Peter drift away, either, no
matte?Awhat ideas Lena tried to put into
his head. Dave and Albert Wiegert, Dave’s
wife, Dora and the Haig woman, old Tom—
he called up their tough, homely faces in
order to blot, out the image of a white,
convulsive one that seemed to shine just
on the other edge of the moving light.
And then he thought deliberately of the
whale, still wallowing round and round in
that, watery arena, with the killers on his
flank and the smaller sharks following the
trail of blood. Queer how awed Peter had
been by the fight, as if he had caught a
glimpse of the cruelty behind things for
the first time! Was that what was troub-
ling him still?
I “Now I come to think of it, the bloke
I took away this morning was a quack,”
young Wiegert was saying. “He and that
Craig were both going to-day, but Craig
didn’t go.” .
“Craig?”
“The surveyor bloke. Going off to a
job on the Downs, he is, but he stopped
another day for the fishing. The lot of
them were talking in the bar about there
being good snappering off the rocks just
now.”
They burst from the darkness into a
world where the electric light poured in a
white fluid over the grass, and the air was
full of the wheeze of saxophones, the thresh
of dancing feet. Chinese lanterns on the
balconies, a movement of couples on the
lawn above the beach, flashing glimpses of
men and women in evening-dress playing
cards in the lounge! But though the hotel
was crowded with golfers and fishermen.
Lew could find no doctor among them.
There had been a doctor there for the last,
fortnight, the manager told him; there
would be another coming at the week-end;
it wasn’t often they failed to have one
among the guests. Standing in the corri-
dor leading to the bar, his lips pursed and
three furrows on his forehead, he looked
Lew up and down and expressed vague
regrets. He had the air of a shopwalker in
a very elaborate store apologising about
some article not at present in stock.
Lew drove home through the writ-hen tea-
tree feeling that the fates were against
Peter.
“Wait, here,” he told the Wiegert boy
outside the house. “We may have to drive
in to Eumerella.”
There was no need for that, though.
When he went inside he found a reassuring
quiet about, the house. Peter, after his hot
bath, had fallen into a heavy, untroubled
sleep, and lay in his cot with his mouth
slightly open and one arm curved over his
head. The Haig woman and Mrs. Dave
had gone home. Lena, a candle in her hand,
was trailing about the kitchen in her sand-
shoes, brewing some cocoa on the stove.
There was hardly a sign that anything
unusual had happened, except for the towels
and sponges lying about, and the tub of
water still standing in the middle of the
kitchen floor.
Lew, emotionally rather than physically
fatigued, leant against the dresser, his eyes
heavy and listless as he listened to Lena’s
account of what she and the other women
had done. There was a queer unconscious-
ness in all her actions that was not usual
with her. She took biscuits from a tin and
spread butter on them, staring into the
fire as she ate.
“The Haig woman says it. might be hook-
worm,” she said. “Young Jimmy used to
get fits like that. They had to send him
away.”
Lew. felt a bubble burst in his brain.
“Hookworm be damned! There never was
a whisper of it till that woman . came.
And haven’t we been running about here
barefoot all our lives?”
He suspected that Lena was using this
crisis as another instrument to force him
away from the Passage. And he was more
determined than ever not to move. That
sense of having his own people around
him when he wanted them that, strong as
a flood, had swept over him an hour
before—was it a thing of no account? And
would Peter be any better off at Lavinia?
But for once Lena was disinclined to
argue.
“All right,” she said stolidly. “There’s no
need to get worked up about it.... What
do you say’s wrong with Peter?”
“Nothing. He hasn’t had one of these
shivering fits for close on two years. To-
day when we were out he got a scare.
There were some killers butchering a whale.
Then we lost an oar and had the devil’s
own job getting in.”
It was the sort of thing, he repeated, that
wouldn’t be likely to occur again. Nothing
to make a fuss about, really! Peter was a
bit nervy, and had more imagination than
most youngsters. All he needed was a bit
of toughening.
But. when she had gone to her room
he wandered out and sat on the breakwater,
his emotions loosened and fluid, arid sleep
far away from him. The moon had risen
high above the island. It poured a flood
of liquid light over the sandbanks, making
them look filmy and vaporous; it gave a
silver shimmer to the banks of the Passage.
The dark stretch of water where no light
shone had more substance than the land.
Vaguely the masts of a few boats loomed
up out of it like uprooted trees.
This life he was leading with Lena, Lew
was thinking, didn’t everything show how
impossible .it was? A dead-end they had
come to: they couldn’t talk for three
minutes without wanting to leave their
marks on one another, even after a scare
like this. And yet he had a sense of being
bottled up, of keeping back everything he
really thought and felt. Perhaps Lena felt
like that, too! The way she stopped sing-
ing as soon as she heard his footsteps on the
verandah—that must be instinctive on her
part, a sudden drying-up of something
inside her. And she no longer cared how
she looked, except when she was going out
to meet Craig. Let her go to Craig, then,
and put an end to the whole damned
circus!
Yet there was Peter—he belonged to
both of them. And Lena had shown him
that evening that she was as fond of the
boy, in her own way, as he was. The
casualness of her day-to-day dealings with
him slipped off at a time like this; he
remembered how her body had shivered
in harmony with Peter’s, as if the one set
of nerves belonged to them both. To her,
giving the boy up would be tearing out
a limb. No doubt at all about that! And
Peter himself: wouldn’t any hint of separa-
tion from his mother shake him with storms
of emotion?
He sat chewing the bitter cud of his
thoughts and watched the light spread on
the water.
“Let her go,” a voice kept urging him.
“She belonged to Craig before she ever
came to you. She’s his woman, really.
And the other men know it—old Tom and
the rest. They know you know it. What
sort of jellyfish must they take you for?”
The old instinct to ask himself what the
crowd was thinking! But deep down he
didn’t care what anyone thought. His
life was his own affair. And Peter was
the centre of it; it all came back to whether
he could make any move without hurting
Peter.
He started as he saw a white figure on
the breakwater twenty yards away; it had
appeared, as noiselessly as if it had issued
from the ground. So Lena was awake, too!
For awhile she stood there, motionless,
and then picked her way down over the
stones to the sand.
“You?” Lew said roughly. “I thought
you were asleep hours ago.”
She turned on him, resentful but uncer-
tain.
“Did you find it so easy to sleep your-
self?.... I was going to paddle about on
the water for awhile.
“Nonsense,” he said. “It’s near morning.”
“Well?”
There was a reckless note in her voice.
In the dim light she looked strange to hint,
as strange as in the days before they had
lived together. He could not be sure what
had distracted her and kept sleep from her
eyes. Was she still upset about Peter?
Or was it merely that Craig was going
away? He fastened on the fact that Craig
really was going away. For the moment it
seemed to change everything, giving life
a new movement.
“Better come in,” he said quietly. “It’s
chill out there on the water, and you’ve
only got that light wrap 0n.... No hint of
Peter waking?”
“No, he’s all right.”
“It w T as a scare, all right. Knocked us
both back a bit.... Poor old kid!”
“He’ll have forgotten about it when he
wakes. Soil we.”
“Then better get to bed now.”
She hesitated for awhile, looking out
over the water; then turned when he did,
putting a hand on his shoulder as they
stumbled up the stones of the breakwater.
In silence they went back to the still house.
CHAPTER XXVII.
The Top of the Hill.
It was a hot Saturday afternoon in
November. On the crest of a hill over-
looking the city, a dense mass of people
had clustered like a swarm of bees, and the
air was full of a quivering excitement that
increased in tensity every tinie a roar
sounded from below and one of the high-
powered cars came shooting up the white
track between the trees, swinging round'the
hairpin bends and taking the final rise
with the curving leap of a horse at a gate.
Dust was everywhere. It obscured the view
of the town below, with its myriad iron
roofs and its shining river; it drove the
birds into high air; it smarted in the nostrils
of the women and girls at the crest of the
track, accentuating the note‘of hysteria in
their raised voices. Another car coming!
They bunched together and watched with
strained eyes as the dusty torpedo shot
into view, racing its hardest to knock a
couple of seconds from the record of the
one that had gone before it.
There were the combined thrills of speed
and danger for those who watched. One
accident had already occurred in full view
of the crowd when a young man had swung
too wide a.t a bend and had hit a tree, his
light car ricocheting like a bullet and top-
pling over the steep embankment. They
had picked him up among the ferns a
hundred feet down, not quite so irreparably
smashed as his car. He sat now among
a crowd of admiring girls at the top of
the track, his head swathed in bandages,
his eyes feverishly bright, and his body
tautening every time a deep hoot came
from below. In his white, nervy face there
was still a hunger for the speed that had
so nearly destroyed him.
Anna, who could never stay at home when
Hughie’s car was in a contest, stood with
Dot a little apart from the rest, her eyes
trying to trace the course of the river
through the brown paddocks and dark little
belts of timber below. She was restless
and uneasy, in spite of the heavy immo-
bility of her face. When was Hughie’s car
coming? Wasn’t that it now?
“No, it won’t be here for half an hour
yet,” said Dot impatiently. “He’s near the
last Don’t be such a fidget, Mother.
Come over to the kiosk and have a cup
of tea. I’m going to look for Lew.”
She left her mother in the pavilion and
fluttered off, light-footed and airy in her
lacy frock. There was always a spring
about Dot when Lew was in town.
Anna sat with her untouched cup of tea
before her, listening to the babble of talk
from the girls and flannel-clad young men
around her. She was fearful of this passion
for speed that had lately taken hold of
Hughie; it was almost as if he were in the
grip of something outside himself that
drove him along, blinded. As yet he had
never had a bad accident, but would his
luck always last? She was beginning to
believe that luck really had played its part
in Hughie’s striking success. Who could
have anticipated that just when Fenner and
Callaway were putting their first ’buses on
the roads a railway strike would have
played completely into their hands? No
planning or forethought on their part could
have established them so firmly. They had
got their services in full swing before the
railways started running again, and now
they were pushing into remote suburbs,
opening up routes where there were no
trams, fastening their grip securely on the
city. Hughie’s partnership with Fenner had
been the turning-point of his fortunes, and
it was only by accident they had met. A
chance encounter on some Sunday excur-
sion!
But it was not merely in business that
success had shone upon Hughie. He had
become a social figure, and was feeling how
good it was to have youth, popularity, and
sufficient money to meet his needs. People
turned their necks when he spun doWn the
street in the high-powered car that had won
so many trophies; there was something in
his bare, curly head and bubbling good-
humor that attracted them like a magnet.
And, as often as not, there was a good-


AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Take care of the Pennies
The Pounds will take care of YOU
The greater number of our people are wage- and salary-earners
who can look only to thrift to establish a competence in later life. For
them there is no better means than the Savings Account.
The less you earn the greater the necessity for saving, and regular
deposits, no matter how small, will build a banking account at a
surprising rate. Don’t be ashamed of saving pennies—they soon make
pounds.
Branches of the Commonwealth Savings Bank are to be found
in the principal towns, and every Post Office is an Agency.
Cbminonwcaltl) Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
looking woman beside him, some singer or
member of a theatrical company that had
just come to town.
“You ought to meet Hughie Callaway,”
these birds of passage were advised by
their friends. “He’ll drive .you round and
give you a good time. Hughie knows every
place near town that’s worth seeing, and
he likes showing what his car can do.”
Suppers after the theatre, wild dashes
down to some bay resort in the moonlight,
jazzing on balconies overlooking the sea!
No wonder Anna was worried when Hughie
came to breakfast with muddy eyes and
no appetite for anything but a little dry
toast. She was caustic about his friends;
so many of them were here-to-day and
gone-to-morrow, people who made a fuss
over him for what they could get out of
him, and forgot his very name as soon as
they climbed into the Sydney express. Had
they ever sent him as much as a postcard
when they vanished over the skyline? And
wouldn’t he be old before his time if he
burned the candle at both ends as he was
doing, working hard at the office and garage
during the day and racketing
about till all hours at night?
She was proud of Hughie’s
popularity, though, and never
failed to let Rachel know of
his latest triumph when she
paid her monthly visit to her
sister-in-law’s cottage at Ked-
ron, Rachel, though not yet
seventy, had become prema-
turely old, and lived by herself
in a world of her own that was
filled with Tony’s shells and
carved models of ships and
bounded by a strip of garden.
Her memory was failing. She
mixed up Hughie and Fred
and often talked of them as if
they were both children; yet
Anna, as she stood beside her
small, bent figure in the kitchen
garden, looking over the herbs
and lettuces, often felt the old
woman was more real than she
was herself. Rachel, with her
faded blue eyes and thin cotton
frock, had a way of looking at
her as though she had dressed
up for a part and would soon
relapse into the lump of a
country girl who had come to
the Passage as Bob’s bride.
“You’ve got a lot to be thank-
ful for, Anna,” she would say
when they talked of Hughie.
“Those boys have stuck to you
better than any woman had
a right to expect. None of
mine ever come near me,
though I don’t hold it against
them. Never wanted to tie
them by the leg. No more did
Tony.”
And she would cut a few let-
tuces to put in the net-bag,
chuckling at the way Anna’s
high-heeled shoes sank in the
soft earth as they moved from
patch to patch. A happy
woman, Rachel, in spite of the
fact that her children had come
to no good! She could find
as much interest in the sprawl-
ing youngsters of a neighbor
who had moved in the day
before yesterday as in her own
flesh and blood. The only
name most of them knew her
by was “Granny.”
But this slow subsidence, into
the mass of anonymous work-
ing-class life was horrifying to
Anna.
“Some people are like that,”
she thought, with a little
shiver. “Come out of nothing
and sink back into it before
they’re dead. Thank God all my family
have tried to keep their heads up!”
She rose as Dot and Lew came strolling
over the grass toward the kiosk, Dot slim
and fragile, though with something wild
about her; Lew heavy and powerful in his
tweeds and crushed hat. He had been
tinkering with the borrowed car he had
driven them up in; there was grease on his
calloused hands and dust on the shoulder
of his coat.
“'Hughie’s due to start in a couple of
minutes,” he said. “Come further down
the hill, Mother.”
“I never can look,” said Dot. “It’s silly.
but I just have to shut my eyes till it’s
all over. Hughie wanted to take me as a
passenger, but I was too scared. Yet I
never hung back when anyone wanted me
to go out in a boat, no matter hOw big a
sea was on.”
“Hughie won’t have to look far for a
passenger,” said his mother. “There must
have been close on a dozen girls ringing
him up last night asking was he taking
anyone.... You two go down to the edge
and watch; I’ll wait here.”
There was a roar from below. Above
the matted foliage at the foot of the hill
a cloud of dust rose like* a shell burst,
following the progress of the car in its
climb. The earth of the hillside began to
vibrate beneath the feet; the air boomed
against the ear-drums. It seemed as if the
surface of the road had been loosened—
stones, dust and gravel—and was being
blown into the air by the blasts of moving
bellows; while nearer and nearer the roar
came till it made the heart of everyone
swell like' a skin stretched taut. Frag-
ments of talk flew about.
"'Let her go’ a voice kept urging him. ‘She belonged to Craig before she ever came to
you. She’s his woman, really.’”
“It’s Callaway’s Ariel.”
“Callaway’s got a hundred on himself for
a side-bet.”
“If that Ariel hits a tree there won’t be
a splinter left big enough to clean your pipe
with.”
“Don’t worry! It won’t while Hughie’s
at the wheel.”
The roar and the dust-cloud seemed to
melt into one. From a channel in the
trees the glittering aluminium body shot
out into the sunlight, swept like a flung
boomerang around a steep curve, and, skirt-
ing the edge of the hill by inches, leapt
at the final crest. It came to rest on the
strip of green beside the other parked cars,
and a throng, of people crowded round
Hughie and his passenger. They touched
the body of the quivering car tentatively
' with their fingers, as though it were a race-
horse; they bubbled with admiring com-
ments on its shape and design; they
exclaimed at the little silver figure on its
bonnet. Once more Hughie was the hero.
He had lowered the record for the hill-
climb by thirty seconds, and now he stood
beside the car receiving the congratula-
tions of his friends, his curly hair gold m
the sunlight, wrinkles of good-humor round
his eyes, his lips parted in the amiable grin
that won everybody’s heart. Only his hands
betrayed the strain of that breakneck drive
up the hill. They were trembling as he
took a cigarette from his case, and he made
several ineffectual attempts to light a match.
“Come on,” said Lew. “Time to go.
Hughie’ll have his own crowd round him.”
“The road’s not clear down the hill yet,”
objected Dot. * “There’s another car to
come You'Ve not going back to-night,
are you, Lew?”
“Sure. Old Tom’s waiting for me now.
I promised Peter I wouldn’t stay long this
trip.”
Dot’s mouth drooped. She had lately
penetrated what, was, for her, an obscure
world, and was reading poetry, going to
W.E.A. lectures, speculating about the
nature of things; but she had few friends.
The girls in Mamie’s workroom talked about
boys, fashions and moving-picture stai-s,
and Mamie talked about Vic. Dot was
driven back into an intensely personal life
of her own.
“There’s a Russian violinist giving his
first recital to-night,” she urged Lew, “and
they all say he s just wonderful I hate
always going out alone. Why don t you
stay down sometimes for a good long stretch,
Lew? I never see you really-never have
time to talk. And there s such lots of
things Ira bursting to open up about,
‘ A hat sort of things. ,
“Oh don’t be stupid, Lew. You know,
Just about—Well, hie.
There was the same eagerness that used
to light up her face when she hung on his
arm as he came m from the fishing, her
stockings trailing round her and ex-
cited accounts of her day at school tumb ing
from her lips. The inspector had come, oi
one of the boys had brought a
from the playground and let it go! But
Lew’s face was now abstracted, and Ms
eyes were fixed on the group ol people
around Hughie. , , , ■ . t
“Sorry, old gu;l, but I have to be back. At,
least a dozen jobs planned. Most liken
I’ll be down oftener after this, keeping
an eye on the new storage-sheds were
building by the river.... nho s that
woman in Hughie s car?
There was a hint of impati-
ence in Dot’s eyes.
“No one we know. Hughie
picks up his friends all over
the place Why don’t you
ever listen when I’m talking,
Lew?”
Anna had come up and was
asking if the • road was clear,
but Lew’s gaze was still fast-
ened in absorption on Hughie’s
passenger. He could only get
transient 7 glimpses of her face
among a sea of heads, but
something in the woman’s
movement, the poise of her
head, roused a peculiar emotion
in him. Could it be Clem
McNair? No. of course it
couldn’t be! He hadn’t heard
of her coming back, hadn’t
heard anything about her for
a couple of years. Yet images
flashed across his brain now,
a pool with a cowrie lying
among the water-weeds at the
bottom, a rainbow-bird starting
from its dark hole in the earth,
sea-eagles moving with spread
wings down the strip of
coast
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Clem.
The others had moved down
the hill toward the cars, and
Lew was left alone with Clem
among the handful of people
who were still remaining to
picnic on the grassy slopes and
watch the moon come up over
the faint ribbon of sea. He
was feeling strange and slow-
witted, conscious of himself in
a way he loathed. While Dot
and Hughie had been gushing
over Clem with a simple spon-
taneity he had stood aloof, his
emotions tied up in a knot
and his big figure immobile as
a hunk of granite. He was out
of his element among all this
fuss and flutter. And things
took a long while to sink into
him. Even now only his mind
had accepted the fact that
this woman who had descended
on him with such bewildering
suddenness was the girl he had
last seen by the salt-water
creek, looking disconsolately at
her bruised Christmas bells.
She herself was self-possessed
enough, though excited in a
subdued way by the encounter,
the heightened color on her
cheekbones bringing out the
rich darkness of her eyes. It had all been
so accidental, this reunion. She had met
Hughie with some other people at lunch,
and he had hardly remembered her; but
when she recalled old days at the Passage
he had challenged her to come with him
on the climb. And though she hated speed-
ing, she had snapped at the chance. What
a wonderful fellow Hughie had become!
Such a dashing man-of-the-world, and yet
as simple and natural as when he was
driving Kunkel’s cart!
“I’ve been feeling such a damnable out-
sider since I came back,” she said. “Can’t
(Continued on page 'id. )


THERMOS
REC 9 TRADE MARK
1
in
THERMOS —the only
British flask —has the
wonderful Stronglas
lining. It will stand
years of rough handling
without losing its effici-
ency/. AndTHERMOS
flasks cost you very
little more than inferior
flasks. Always look
for the THERMOS
trademark. Ask also
to see THERMOS
jugs and food jars—all
Stronglas lined all
home necessities.
T. 4
Unbreakable in
Oven use. Taste-
fully decorated.
Clean, white body.
Replacement
guarantee*.
/iCs
Made to be used on the table.
Does not break when placed
on the cold slab from a hot
oven. Replacement guarantee
against breakage in oven use.
Price of
medium size
Round Casserole
12/9
jCarflon
OvcNWARf
English Manufacture.
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (so different pieces), from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Smedley Service. — F.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S chief theatres
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tail.
HER MAJESTYS: MR. CINDERS.
(Commencing Saturday).
CRITERION: THE GARDEN OF EDEN.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
A COUNTRY GIRL.
(Commencing .July 5.)
HOYT'S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
all talkie programme.
LORD BYRON OF BROADWAY,
M.G.M.’s Musical Comedy.
ALSO
LENORE IJLRIC in
SOUTH SEA ROSE.
Legal Notices. _______
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND—
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
No. 3588.
In Divorce.
To DOUGLAS BURNSIDE the husband of Bertha
Leathart Burnside of the City of Wellington New
Zealand Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Wellington citing you to appear and answer the
petition of Bertha Leathart Burnside of the City of
Wellington wherein she prays for a dissolution of
her marriage with you on the ground of desertion,
and such citation intimated that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition and to pronounce sentence therein not-
withstanding your absence. Now therefore TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within forty days after the date of this publication
to attend in person or hv your solicitor at the
Supreme Court office at Wellington and there to
enter an appearance without which you will not he
allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings.
A copy of the said citation and petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court office at Wellington.
Dated this 27th day of May, 1930.
[l.s.] C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
Archibald Burnett Sievwright is the soliictor for
the petitioner, whose address for service is at the
office of the said Archibald Burnett Sievwright,
212 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand.
TO SARAH JANE PARKS AND ALEXANDER
HAWTHORN brother and sister respectively of
LILLIAN ELIZA ANN WATSON who died at
Kihikihi New Zealand on the 22nd April 1930
and their children and to all persons claiming by
through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 13th June
1930 by a Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand you are hereby called upon to send in to
the undersigned on or before the 30th November
1930 your claims to the estate of the ahovenamed
deceased failing which the said estate will he dis-
tributed amongst those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 14th June 1930.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
[N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1331 of 1929.
BETW r EEN SARAH LOUISA DRANE Petitioner
And JOSEPH DRANE Respondent.
To JOSEPH DRANE late of Bargo in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Sarah Louisa Drane
has commenced a, suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion during three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Nineteenth day of
September one thousand nine hundred and thirty
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Peti-
tion filed herein may he had on application to the
undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this Twentieth day of June, a.d. 1930.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] D. C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Bit AXE & MALCOMSON, Eldon Chambers, 92 a
Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Solicitors for
the ahovenamed Petitioner.
Amusements.
N- £ W COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
’ IiEON GORDON in
TEA FOR THREE,
. With ANN DAVIS.
(Commencing July 5.)
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The engagement is announced of Phyllis,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Horrobin,
Adirel Downs, Corfield (N.Q.), and John
Neill, of Longreach, son of the W. Neills, of
Ormond, Surat.
Some 300 kiddies, aged from two and a
half to six years, fui-nished the chief part
of the Queensland Crhohe and Kindergarten’s
annual demonstration in the City Concert
Hall. Lilliputian chairs and tables, plates
and saucers, were spi*ead, and the little ones
danced like fairies and sang like birds to
a gathering which included the Mayor and
the Premier. Each division had its special
demonstration representing routine work at
the erbehes. The Valley had a model of the
home and boats ; Paddington a model of home
life, childi’en’s games and animal homes;
Rosalie a model orchard, fruits and trans-
portation train; Spring Hill showed a baker
and a grocer at home and in the shop; and
Fiveways featured a model dairy farm.
Poinsettia decorated the hall.
Jean Trundle presented her players in
scenes from David Coppei-field at the Dickens
Fellowship evening, in Albert House. Pauline
Gillespie played the accompaniments. Mrs.
Cumbrae-Stewart gave a brief account of the
Travellers’ Aid Society, for whose benefit
the evening was held, and her professor-hus-
band presided.
Elma Gibbs puts up a first-class per-
formance at the Theatre Royal in “Polly-
anna” ; it is a good all-round company, with
Lou Vernon and Richard Bellairs in the
cast. Nell Douglas-Graham, daughter of the
well-known barrister, and Mary Kessell,
whose father once represented Gladstone in
the Assembly, are the newest recruits. Allen-
Shakspeare-Wilkie is understood to have an
eye on His Majesty’s after Kubelik shall
have swept the sti-ings there.
Mrs. Harriet Lane is dead at Wooloowin
at 83. A pioneer of Kobblc Creek she came
here with her husband by sailing-ship 60
years ago. Six daughtei’s and a son survive
her. Mrs. Lane left many kindly memories,
for she was a competent nurse and great Red
Cross worker.
This pretty and gifted maiden, Caro-
line Barker, was born in Melbourne and
did her first studies at the Melbourne
Art Gallery.
She was art
mistress at
Ipswich Gram-
mar, after her
parents came
to Brisbane:
thence she
went to Lon-
don to study
at the Royal
Academy and
the Byr a m
Shaw School
of Art, for
three aiid a
half years.
She won a
prize for por-
trait painting
at the latter
school, and
also exhibited
in the Paris
Sal on. She
entered paintings of Inigo Jones, our weather
prophet, and J. A. Philp for the Archibald
competitions, and she did the portrait of
Mayor Jolly which was presented to him by
the citizens of Brisbane. Portraits, still-life
and flowers are her long suits.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Repertory Club had a capacity house
for “II ay fever” in the Theatre Royal, and the
proceeds will be a welcome addition to the
Mayor’s fund for the unemployed. The piece
was produced by Molly Ick, who played
blase Sorel. Nell Anketell, as the senti-
mental, insincere Judith Bliss, wore a pic-
ture hat and trailing lace draperies in almond
greens and-later an apricot gown that suited
her Titian locks. Brian Curlewis and Tom
McGregor were among others who deserve
a good word.
The popularity of Government House ball-
room for dances is waning so rapidly that
charitable committees prefer to pay something
and have their frolic at Temple Court. How-
ever’, the Insurance . Ball, held under the
v.-r. roof, was a great success, and a sub-
stantial sum,, .augmented £ for £ by the
generous 4 G. McNess, goes to the Children’s
Hospital. Ilis Ex.-and the. Mayoral Frank-
lins came along after “Hayfever.” Insur-
ance Institute president Jim Ilay welcomed
the guests with his brunette wife looking
nice in ivory net. Mignonette-green was
Mrs. Ned Stirling’s choice; tangee and gold
chiffons swept about Alice Biggs; attractive
Dick Forster wore blue of the Bay of
Naples; Mrs. Stan Burridge chose pale
greens, Mollie McGibboii blue flowered chif-
fons, pretty Dorothy Parsons black taffetas,
Mrs. Malcolm Plaistowc white,-Mrs. Horace
Minors blue lace, and Beth Hatch vieux-
.rose g’eorgettes.
Receptions to Sir Hugh Allen, of the Royal
Academy of Music, were given by the Music
Teachers’ Association and the L.A.B. Club.
At the former gathering, in the Ivarrakatta
Club, Sir Hugh made a commonsense' speech
about the present day necessity of musical
education. Evelyn Willis, Iris Parker and
David Powell rendered some pleasing items.
Sailed for the Cold Country this month,
Mr. Carew Moss, of South Perth, whoso
eldest sou, Dr. Gerald Moss, has recently
returned after spending a fexv .years
on the high seas as an Australian Navy
surgeon. A trip to Japan On . a merchant
ship wound up his wanderings, and he in-
tends to settle down to private practice in
this State.
Recent additions to the flora of Westralia,
bits of rock of profound interest to geologists
and biological specimens, interesting if grue-
some, figured among the exhibits ranged
around the walls of the Town Hall for the
Royal Society’s conversazione. The dais
rose from a jungle of ferns, poinsettias and
wattle, and the supper tables in the Council
Chamber were festive with roses and passion
vine. Vice-president and Mrs. Shelton, she
in orange chiffons, welcomed the guests.
Their Exes, were there with both sons and
Mrs. Wilfrid Campion ; also Prof. Ross (who
lectured on “Recent Applications of Physical
Science”) with his wife, the W. M. Carnes,
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Phillips, Mr. Glauert, G.
Spencer Compton, Charley Gardner and Dr.
Simpson.
The central branch of the Women’s
National party arranged a card-shuffling at
Temple Court. Mrs. Mansfield hostessed,
and Matron Walsh and Mrs. Pitman went
home with the prizes. Lady Lathlain and
daughter Joy, Mrs. James Macfarlane, Mrs.
Ewing, Mrs. A. Raphael, Mrs. Loutit and
Mrs. Vance were among the players.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Prior to last week’s concert at the Elder
Conservatorium Dr. Hxyrold Davies (direc-
tor) presided over an afternoon tea in the
North Hall, when, with Mrs. Davies, he
entertained Sir Hugh Allen (Director of the
Royal College of Music) and pianist Wil-
helm Backhaus, with his better half. Lady
Hore-Ruthven and the Mayoress dropped
in informally, and the guests wended
their way to the concert hall fortified against
the cold.
Sir Hugh Allen was again the guest of
honoi’ on Tuesday morning when the city
organist (John Dempster) and associated
teachers tendered him a morning tea. Sir
Hugh humorously gave Australians the palm
as the champion tea-di'inkers of the world,
claiming to have consumed more of tlie
bevei-age in a week than he would dispose
of in a whole year in England.
The Adelaide University Ball was a great
success; despite hard times there were 200
more tickets sold than last year. The debs,
looked far more girlish than they sometimes
do, white being again in favor. The by-ways
had to be combed, however, to get enough
young men to lead the 40-odd up to the
vice-regal party. Chief Justice Murray, the
Premier and Mrs. Hill, the Mayor and
Mayoress were also on the dais. The young
wives of our many University professors
made a charming group; there are some
very pretty young matrons among them.
Supper was in the capable hands of Mes-
dames Davies, Smeaton, Bonnin and Sunter.
The diamond brooch we are giving Amy
Johnson is on view in the window of a
Bundle-street jeweller, and the police are
kept busy moving on the crowd. The money
subscribed over and above the £5O required
was spent upon a beautiful box of Aus-
tralian woods, with the Adelaide coat of
arms in enamel upon the lid, and a further
gift of three books of Australian art, one
featuring Hans Heysen’s work.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Kubelik charmed his audiences at two
concerts in the Theatre Royal; 22 years have
passed since his last visit. Otto Hasa’s
accompanying was a feast for music-lovers.
The £25,000 violin was on view at F.O.M.’s
bookshop during the lunch-hour.
Nat Oldham, one of our most popular
citizens, who is retiring from business and
public service, was farewelled in practical
fashion at the Chamber of Commerce rooms,
with a testimonial and with a wallet contain-
ing £lll. There was a ring of real sincerity
in the speeches, for Mr. Oldham has been a*
prominent figure in our small city for longer
than most of us care to remember.
Headmaster and Mrs. J. R. O. Harris
made a pictui'esque function of the tlee-
planting along the Collins-street frontage of
Hutchins School, to which a big crowd of
guests had been bidden. The first tree was
planted by veteran R. R. Rex, whose school-
day memories take him back to 1853; the
second tree by little Bill Growth cr, aged
four, the youngest of the old school's present
generation.
News comes of the wedding, at Mossgiel
(N.S.W.), of two Tasmanians, Nancy,
youngest daughter of the late H. R. and
Mrs. Brent, Beaulieu, and Russell, son of
the late Cecil and Mrs. Parsons. The bride’s
frock was of powder-blue moire, ankle-length,
worn under a velvet cloak with grey fox
collar. Mi*s. J. Spencer (formerly Gwen
Morton, of Hobart) was matron of honor,
and several Tasmanians were among the
guests at a dinner party after the ceremony.
The Hobart Turf Club struck a patch of
laid weather for its June meeting at
Elwick, but the racing was good and so
were some of the dividends. Mrs. A. J.
Miller was a smart figure in tweed with a
sable stole; tweed or velours, fur-trimmed,
predominated. Among those present were
the Eric Johnstons, Mrs. Claude Boag, Mrs.
Gx\een (Sydney), Dr. and Mrs. Hddgkiuson,
Col. and Mrs. D. P. Young, the George Canns,
Mrs. Ferguson, the 11. W. Strutts and Mrs.
R. Ellis.
The A. P. Flockarts are flitting from the
Speck, Mr. Flockart having accepted a big
engineering job in northern Queensland. He
sails almost immediately, his wife and young
family following in the spring.
Our R.Y.C. recently celebrated its jubilee.
W. 11. Knight is the only living original
member, but there is a long roll of members
still going strong who date back to the
club’s adolescent days. * Owen Tinning,
the Commodore, has held that position since
101(5.
Dr. and Mrs. Wilfrid, Giblin's soil Tom. ai
present in London, has taken his F.R.C.S.
degree, and intends returning to the Speck.


Books for the
Professional Artist,
Art Student,
Commercial Advertiser,
Poster Designer, etc.
Price, Postage,
Elementary Water-color Painting, by J. H. Brown .. . . 3/6 2d.
Animated Cartoons, by E. G, Lutz 15/- sd.
Graphic Design, by W. G. Raffe • • 26/- 9d.
The Way to Sketch-Notes on the Essentials of Landscape
Sketching, by Vernon Blake 10/- 4d.
Composition——An Analysis of the Principles of Pictorial Design
for use of Students, by Cyril Pearce 15/6 3d,
The Art of Shading, by Wm. Mann 6/- 4d,
Pen Drawing An Illustrated Treatise, by Magmnis 8/- 3d,
Practical Hints for Art Students, by C. Lasar 6/6 3d,
The Bases of Design, by Walter Crane 13/6 6d,
Principles of Decoration, by R, G. Hatton . . 13/6 6d.
Sketching from Nature—A Practical Treatise, by F. G', Glass . . 13/6 7d.
Poster Design, by W. G. Raffe . 42/- 1/6
The Human Figure in Motion, by E. Muybridge 34/- 1/6
Modern Poster Annual, by A. Brown 36/- 1/-
Color Harmony and Contrast —For Use of Art Students, by
James Ward 15/- 6d.
More About How to Draw in Pen and Ink, by Furniss 6/- 4d.
Sketching in Lead Pencil for Architects and Others, by Jasper
Salwey 10/- sd.
Figure Composition, by Richard Hatton 13/6 7d.
The Art and Practice of Sketching, by J. Salwey 15/6 6d.
The Amateur Artist, by F. Delamotte 7/6 3d.
First Steps in Water-color Painting, by M. Gleason 13/6 6d.
An Introduction to the Study of Color, Littlejohn 2/- 2d.
Sketching from Nature in Line and Tone, Littlejohn 2/- 2d.
Advertisement Design, by R. P. Gossop 12/6 Bd.
First Essays on Advertising, by J. Allison 13/6 6d,
Advertising Response, by H. M. Donovan 12/- 6d.
Hieroglyphic or Greek Method of Life Drawing, by Adolphe
Armand Braun 19/- 7d.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
MARKET & CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY
-M&m
m
i
■
*
a
liP^S^
•_v '" ''^pwww
«
r
8»
atu
■fc. TO.
..
m
Say it with Hillier sf
7bsUd the day they are made
zJfie famous
RecLßoxoP
GhocolateS
mm
CHOCOLATES
ADDRESS-
162-166 Pitt Stiveet
S V~t> N £ Y~*
PR.ICES
3/; IO/. 12^6.
20/ and. 30/
m
fit into things or pick up the threads I
dropped. Not a face anywhere I remem-
bered, and the very trees and houses looking
unfriendly and different ! Ten years since
I left? It seems fifty.”
She was talking rapidly, and looking at
Lew with quick, probing glances that
rested on him critically for a moment and
then fluttered away 7 . Perhaps she was try-
ing to let the image of him she had carried
in her mind merge into the real figure that
now confronted her. Lew 7 , for his part,
was engaged in a similar task. In her
black-and-gold hat that fitted closely to her
head, and her brown, clinging frock that for
all its simplicity had a foreign cut, Clem
looked mature and complete, the product
of a very civilised world. Even her figure
seemed to be that of some woman he
hardly knew. It was only by telling himself
that people didn't change so easily in their
essential selves that he could feel familiar
with her. Her face, for instance, hadnt
altered much, except for a sharper penetra-
tion in the eyes and a touch of firmness in
the lines of her mouth. But there was her
downright manner, her air of having ex-
plored the world and made up her mind
about it. The vitality that once had been
vague and diffused had gathered in upon
itself.
He w 7 as disturbed by those quick, con-
centrated flashes of her eyes. They seemed
to be asking so directly whether he had
lost the spring he used to have, and what
he had been doing writh his life. The .outer
covering of it she knew well enough: in
the two or three letters he had written he
had told her about his boats, about the
development of Lavinia, even given her a
hint of how his thoughts moved around
Peter. But he had no skill with words, and
his pen moved even more clumsily than his
tongue. Their attempts at correspondence
with one another had always faded out into
long silences. It was only now when they
were face to face that' he grasped the fact
that her life over there had been real, made
of much the same substance as his own.
Yet there was the suggestion of varied
experiences, of contact with things'he knew
nothing about. He couldn’t help blurting
out the questions that had risen to the
surface of his mind whenever he had
thought of her. growing into a secret grudge,
even though he. didn’t recognise it as such.
“Stayed over there a good deal longer
.than you expected to, didn’t you, Clem?
What was the pull it had for you? Feel
that life in your own countiy wasn’t good
enough?”
“Not at all! I always wanted to come
back after the first couple of years.”
“But you didn’t come?”
“We don’t always act on our impulses.
Pride usually has the casting vote
Perhaps I didn’t come back because I
hadn’t anything to bring.”
He was puzzled by the dryness of her
voice, not quite sure what she was talking
about.
“And what have you brought now?” he
asked simply enough.
She turned on him with a quick move-
ment of the head, her laugh failing to
conceal that a nerve had been touched.
“A trunkful of frocks,” she said.
And then, her eyes darkening suddenly
and. a hint of feeling coming to her voice,
she added:—
“For Heaven’s sake, don’t rub it in, Lew
I know I’m a washout—have known it for
years. But I had to bluff myself and keep
on; even had to bluff such a far-away person
as you by telling you of the nice things
people had said about my work. Whatever
little talent I have is desperately unim-
portant, though, and at last I can admit
it without feeling I’ve no right to live....
But talk about something else. Some day
I’ll tell you all about it—if we ever have
time.”
She laughed uncertainly again and turned
down the hill towards where the others were
waiting. Involuntarily they had struck a
note that brought them closer together,
and when Clem asked about Tom Rahilly,
the Wiegerts and old Kunkel, Lew felt his
tongue loosen and the earthy basis of
common interests become firm beneath his
feet. All these people were intensely real
to her—as real, perhaps, as to himself.
She had brooded over their figures, at one
time or another, till they had become en-
larged and important, fixed landmarks in
the stream of life that had poured around
her. It was extraordinary to him that
she should remember Corny Lait’s limp,
and the way old Tom used to drift about
the hotel yard in his faded maroon jersey
during the summer months, only half-alive
till the shoalfe of mullet began to move up
the coast.
Dot was waiting for them at the car.
“Mother’s gone home with Hughie,” she
said. “She thought you could take her
place, Clem. You’ll have to hurry, Lew,
if you mean to get your tea and catch the
boat.”
A sudden concentration came to Clem’s
eyes.
“But Lew’s not going back to-night?”
“Oh. isn’t he?” rejoined Dot. “You don’t
know Lew. He’d think his house was being
burned to the ground and young Peter at
his last gasp with typhoid fever if lie stayed
down a day longer than he had to. Isn’t
that so, Lew?”
But Lew was getting his coat from the
back of the car and didn’t hear.
"I’m only here for a day or two this
time,” explained Clem, watching his turned
back. “On Monday I’ve got to go back
to Sydney. Probably at the end of
summer I’ll come north again.... Why,
Lew, you’re getting quite grey round the
temples! The worries of family life, is it?”
(To Be continued next iccek .)
Versatility.
If I had chosen to do any one thing,
As flog a defenceless ball from green to
green
Or over a net, and had stayed fixed and keen
For that one chase w r ith never a wavering,
There are a number of things I might have
done well
Instead of the dozen failures I have seen.
It would not have been difficult to swell
The sum of man's scanty knowledge, could
content
Have waited upon me lightly and I bent
Over a microscope, giving all my days
In singleness of purpose, caring not
For the world’s dole of beauty nor the
world’s praise
If something might come from nothing, by
me begot.;
Nor difficult, had I desired that praise, to
shine
In the galaxy of fools, the brightest star
Of all their company—l might have made
mine
The things that are not done and the things
that are
And worn my ties correctly like other ninnies
And behaved like a gentleman even. Or,
wrnrse still, .
I might have counted clinkings into a till,
Given my life up to the capture of guineas.
But when a trade’s half learned you can guess
the rest
A tiresome bondage; and meanwhile there
lies
An unfollowed roadway over another hill
With fresh sights to be seen there for fresh
eyes....
T might have applied my talents otherwise
To one thing only. But perhaps it is best
That I did not seek even happiness for long,
Since happiness, when all’s said, counts not
a whit;
And I found happiness,' without looking for
it,
Time and again on entering new glades
Where life forgot I had committed this wrong
And was itself a feckless Jack-of-all-Trades.
n.s.w.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
A Psalm in the Mode of To-day.
A song I would write, of the joyous places,
With a magic tune to inspire the heart,
Filled ,up with the . savor of world-wide
spaces,
Where beggar and king play an equal
part;
Where men who can win them may find
caresses,
Where shade spreads wide as the sunlight
blesses,
And Life is a splendid, unconscious Art.
Each day is Adventure, great in the making,
Each month will offer us fruits anew,
When we start free-handed—all else for-
saking, _
The false forswearing—-to find the True.
Nor shall we worry the gods above us
(What do we care if they hate or love us?)
Who have dreams and to spare to see us
through.
Our backs will be turned on the Older Cities,
We shall set our course by the newer stars,
Nor ask a favor from him who pities
Our garments rent or our half-healed
seal’s;
We shall see the cloud and the fire before us,
And be unmoved though the crowd adore us,
Who are held by shackles and prison bars.
We shall not bow 7 to the Priests of Learning.
For we know 7 that their knowledge nigh
wrecked the Race;
There is Altar-fire in each stout heart
burning
To make' of our earth a better place.
Where each of his friends may blithely
borrow
One-half of his joy, may share his sorrow 7.
Or join in the cost of his black disgrace.
It will not be our part to exhaust in passion
The force that each may transmute to
Good;
We shall sin, perchance, but in nobler
fashion,
Not with bowed heads, where erect we
stood.
Our very failures will seem more spacious,
Our meanest deeds have an aspect gracious,
For our souls are attuned to Brotherhood.
To us is entrusted the task of doing
Those things which our fathers have left
undone;
For though they had vision they each died
rueing
The deed not finished, the height not won ;
We shall accomplish the things, they fought
for;
We shall discover the goal they sought for
Iu a brighter land ’neath a newer sun.
Yea, even the moment that comes back never,
Lost and engulfed in . the waves of Time,
Is a note in the threnody sung for ever,
Has yet a. part in the Song Sublime:
The song that is .sung by winds and waters.
With echoes caught by Earth's Sons and
Daughters,
To die at last in a poet’s rhyme.
This is the song, then, my heart is singing,
As dawns the day to be up and gone—
I would that mine ears might hear the
ringing
Of harps near the willows they hanged
upon: *
Let us steel our thew 7 s that our steps be
stronger
To march away, so we rest uo longer
Slaves by the waters of Babylon!
N.S.W.
J. M. PRENTICE.


INTRODUCING
An AJdttißßi/ Lower Priced
V SIX V
BY
The Lowest Priced Six to hear
This Famous Name
Big, capable, fast and smooth—an entirely
new Six, styled to the minute!
CONSIDER THESE FEATURES!
A sturdy chassis, with a strong, squeakless
body—a thoroughly dependable engine
that develops 61 horse power, provides
more power than you will ever need,
more speed than you will ever want
to use . . . economical to operate,
easy to start.
Full force feed lubrication to all
crankshaft, camshaft and con-
necting rod bearings. Mechani-
cal fuel pump—fuel filtered.
HERE’S ADDED SAFETY!
Added safety is assured with the security
that goes with the Dodge Brothers hydraulic
4-wheel internal-expanding brakes, which
are automatically equalized.
Never before have these advanced fea-
tures been obtainable in any car at such
low price.
TEST IT!
Test it, drive it—under any conditions
—note the comfort provided—the
full measure of luxury in every detail
—make any comparisons you wish.
Dodge Brothers newest Six will
give you the highest standard
of measurement by which to
make your choice.
m
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. Harden & Johnston Limited, Sydney
Vic.: Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty.Ltd.,Melbourne
Qld. . . Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane and Townsville
S.A Waymouth Motor Company Limited, Adelaide
W.A. .... Wbiterbottom Motor Company Limited. Perth
Tasmania:........ - Co-operative Motors Ltd „ Hobart.


By Special
m
Appointment
LADIES’
MOCCASINS
For Boudoir wear, these
pretty and comfy mocca-
sins are ideal. Made of
softest leather (soles and
uppers cut in one piece),
beaded fronts, and
trimmed with fur collar.
Tones of Saxe, Mauve
and Salmon.
All sizes. Price,
13/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Toowoomba, Longreach and Townsville.
LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
m
LEFEVER NITBQ SPECIAL
PRICE
£7/15/-
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price.
The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
say it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77,000
times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years.
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
“WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
Va
PTV. LTD.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
AS WE SHAID BEFORE-
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may he revived in old readers and
ft new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A German pawnbroker in Sydney is
blessed with one daughter, who now and
then “keeps shop” while her father attends
sales on the look-out for bargainsh. During
the temporary absence of the old Mosesh
recently, the shadow of a meek-looking Chow
AT THE THEATRE.
DE JONES: “Cool, isn’t it?”
DE SMYTHE: “I should say so! Ra-th-er!”
mingled with the spectre of the three golden
balls on the pavement in front of the hypo-
thecating saloon, and the saffron-hued owner
of the shadow asked Rachel to show him
some “welly good watchee.” Rachel handed
down four from the jewellery shelf at the
end of the counter, marked respectively “£lO
watch,” “£8 watch,” “£6 watch” and “£2
watch,” and arranged them in a line on the
counter from right to left, in the order of
their value. John inspected the watches,
and, taking advantage of Rachel’s momentary
inattention, slipped the £2 watch into the
place occupied by the £8 one, and vice versa.
When Rachel was again all attention he
picked up the £8 watch and said, “I takee
thisee cheapee watchee,” handed over the
£2 and trotted off. Shortly after Rachel
detected the swindle and sought refuge in
tears. On the return of old Mosesh she
related the misadventure with many protesta-
tions of concern. “Never mind, mine tear,”
said her father, “dose vatcbes vare all de
same brice—dirty _ shillings; but vat a tarn
schoundrel dot Shinaman moust pe!”
A respected merchant of Melbourne, whose
bulky form and fine iron-grey whiskers may
frequently be seen together about the
Exchange, had a game put up on him the
other morning which, for malice afore-
thought, cussedness and deep, dark aggrava-
tion, is unparalleled by any instance men-
tioned in history. He was leaving his
suburban residence to catch the 10.20 train
for the city on the morning mentioned when,
on opening the hall door, a sight presented
itself which froze his young blood and up-
ended his hair like bristles on the back of a
fretful old boar; for there on the floor of
the porch, sporting in the sunshine, lay a
very bald head, and it kicked up its heels
and crowed in a manner which snowed that
it quite concurred in the arrangement if
not a party thereto. On the breast of the
babe was pinned a notice calling upon the
respected merchant to take his child and be
kind to it, and Heaven would forgive him.
To describe the manner in which the gentle-
man’s angry passions rose and boiled over
the edges would take up too
much of our valuable space;
suffice it to say that iu two
seconds he had that box and
its contents on the dining-
room table, and was roaring
for the servants* and the police
and the permanent artillery,
and demanding in Imperious
tones if a man was a w~et-
nurse to have everybody’s
wall-eyed, red-headed infants
thrust upou his hands. At
this stage the baby entered
its protest with the force and
volubility of a trombone, and
all the residents and visitors
poured into the room to make
inquiries as to who had been
trodden on. Foremost amongst
these was the lady of the
house, who had received the
impression that the place was
on fire and her husband was
being slain by a daylight rob-
ber. “Good heavens, George!
What are you doing with
Tilly?” she gasped, and
snatching the child out of the
box, she proceeded to hush it
with energetic bangs on the
back and inelegant babble.
“Tilly?” gasped George, with
the look of a man who is just
recovering from the kick of
a cart-horse, aud then the
thought that he had been sold
suggested itself to him, and
he looked round for somebody
to kill on the impulse of the
moment. The babe was his
lawful and well-beloved daugh-
ter who had found her way
into the family a few weeks
previously, and whom he had
failed to recognise in conse-
quence of the shock to his
nervous system and her
marked resemblance to all the
babies of her age. There
were staying in the house at
the time three impish female
servants, two frivolous young
ladies and a youthful male
relative of the merchant’s; if
auy person or persons can
point out which of these six perpetrated' the
cruel hoax they will receive a reward of
five pounds on application at George’s office.
An old-time lawyer’s clerk tells us a little
incident of the borrowing career of a cer-
tain distinguished N.S.W. legislator, who
once waited upon Mr. William Barker, a
well-known solicitor, and effected an exchange
of cheques to the amount of £IOO. The
solicitor’s was, of course, met, but the legis-
lator’s was, like many others, returned
“N.S.F.” The clerk was sent morning after
morning to make demand for the money, but
without avail. The legislator went on a
stumping tour, and in his first speech
managed to speak of his “distinguished friend
Mr. Barker, one of the ablest lawyers in
Sydney, whose advice in law or politics I
have always sought,” etc. An early post
brought the distinguished legislator a
pleasant note from Mr. Barker: “Dear ,
don’t mind that little cheque; we will con-
sidcr it settled. Yours, etc., •”
Broken Hill is afflicted with a scarcity of
water The whisky holds out yet, and the
orvstai ein still flows like a rising tide of
joyfulness- there are schnapps upon the
mountains’ and the saddle-colored beer rises
in the east, but
the inhabitants do
not appreciate
these blessings as
they ought to do,
and they want
water. Like the
Hebrew grumblers
in the wilderness,
they complain that
there is fusel in
the whisky, and
that the gin tastes
like liquid Sheol
served out by un-
kempt barmaids at
6d. a blaze. A red-
headed devil lurks
in the schnapps,
and the beer is
flavored with cock-
roaches and spi-
ders, and the rats
crawl into the kegs
to add tone to the
liquor, and some-
body puts lost
pussies in it to
give it “body”—
dead body and
amid the driving
clouds of dust and
curses and half-
bricks and aban-
doned scrip of the
Lost Sheep silver
claim the parched
citizens scud be-
fore the blast and
demand water. But
it isn’t to be had. The beer that
lias gone flat and sour is touched up
with red ink and sold as colonial wine, and
in the leading hotels a dejected waiter now
and then asks the wandering traveller it
he will ’ave ’ock, and occasionally ja stranger
is mad enough to sa*y that ’ock is just the
particular vision of happiness that he most
pines after, and then he is supplied with
something which he is sorry about for a
long time afterwards. Outside in the street
there is a fair average of eight free fights
going on at once, and somewhere outside the
town an old gaunt bull with a crumpled
horn struggles to get his hind legs out of a
mud-hole, which hole is the last visible
remains of the Broken Hill water supply.
But the citizens don’t seem to appreciate
these blessings as they ought, and they still
howl for water and refuse to be comforted.
At Waltham Abbey (Eng.) sessions, a
woman, charged with having wilfully mur-
dered her two children, was discovered to
be suffering from delusions, headaches, pal-
pitation of the heart and sleeplessness. All
these sufferings were traced by the local
“faculty” to excessive drinking of — tea!
The “faculty” further declared that women
of a “narcotic temperament” were parti-
cularly susceptible to this kind of poisoning.
Now listen, each who tea ingurgitates,
That “cup that cheers but not inebriates,”
Give up this minute —
There’s pizen in it!
Ye shes, of “temp’rament narcotic, -
If ye must have a vice erotic,
If ye must nurse a darling sin—
Give up your tea and take to gin.
Dipso.
A quartz-mine—a . pub.
English society, according to the "London
Star,” has resolved at last to drop the term
“lady” for good and all, and the English
lady of the future will be a woman—only
that and nothing more. When will Aus-
tralian sassiety go and do likewise? The
difference between a lady and a woman is
hard to define, and somewhere .in between
the two classes comes that indefinable indi-
vidual commonly described as a “female,
who is generally too shabby-genteel to be a
woman, and too thin and shrill and socially
obscure to be a lady. Perhaps the handiest
definition of the three classes is this: a
lady is & woman that lives in a villa, and has
wine and a fat husband who swears; a
woman is a person who lives in a timber
cottage and chops her own wood; and a
female is either of them who lives in lodgings
and has a tendency to religion mixed with.
eats. Things are a good deal confused how-
ever, among all these sorts and conditions
of humanity, and if one of them can oe
abolished it would make things a good deal
easier.
There were two gugliy creatures in a train
going w T est the other day, and they crowded
themselves up iu a corner and spooned with
each other in a kissy-kissy fashion which
was maddening to the beholder. He w-as a
pi a jntive greenhorn whom she had appa-
rently annexed when he wasn't looking, and
carried away to the altar before he could
call for help, and be had an aspect of agri-
cultural imbecility and a misfit hat. She
was a girly being with a bird in her bonnet,
and she held up her mouth every five minutes
and said, “Tiss oo’, den.’ He did it. too,
GUBBINS ON PARLIAMENTARY REFORM.
“I repeat it,” continued Mr. Gubbins', “Mr. Chairman, sir, I
repeat it! What the country wants is fewer men!” (Re-
newed applause.) “And, I will add, more of them!
(Loud and prolonged cheering.)
every time. Opposite them a lank, bony lady
sat bolt upright; the glittering eye which
Providence had planted in her wooden coun-
tenance was fixed on them disdainfully, and
she snorted in a riotous fashion which was
calculated to promote a breach of the peace.
But she smothered her feelings for three long
hours until the female in the corner asked.
“If icksey-wicksey was to die what would
ootsey-wootsey do without her?’’ and then
she felt that a crisis had arrived. “Is your
little boy very ill, ma’am?” she inquired,
sympathetically, and the greenhorn’s bride
glared at her. “ if he is, all that pet-
ting and mussing won’t do him any good.
I’ve reared 10 myself, and I never made a
fuss when they were down with the measles,
let alone teething. If he’s bad just let him
be quiet, and if it’s only crossness that’s
the matter with him, a good spanking would
do him more good than anything.” The
newly-married couple fell back heavily into
the corner and there was no more gush that
journey.
THREE TRIODETS.
I BEFORE THE PLAY.
(Now, one at a time, if you please!)
What we have to go through to see Sara!
This w&y to the stalls. What a squeeze!
(Now, one at a time, if you please!)
How the gods enjoy onions and cheese!
Their tastes in Olympus was rarer.
(Now, one at a time if you please!)
What we have to go through to see Sara!
11. The Interval.
(Lemon-squash threepence a* glass!)
I wonder how long they will be?
They say she’s a widow at grass
(Lemon-squash threepence a glass!)
If we miss the last steamer, alas!
There will be no more outings for me.
(Lemon-squash threepence a glass!)
I wonder how long they will be?
111. After.
(Carriage? What name, sir? No, cab!)
And the number, I fancy, is thirty.
Those French have the gift of the gab.
(Carriage? What name, sir? No, cab!)
Was it poison she took or s> stab?
Well, I couldn’t see anything dirty.
(Carriage? What name, sir? No, cab!)
And the number, I fancy, is thirty.
W.B.Y.
THE DEADBEATS.
Iu front of the G.P.0.,
That edifice great and grand,
AH a .solemn, desolate row,
The Johnny-come-latelys stand.
They know that the English mail has come,
And they wait the stroke of ten ;
They wait the letters with money from
home —
Those seedy remittance-men.
Faces with passion rife,
Faces with hope long past.
The waifs and strays of the sea of life,
On this far-away country cast.
Never a single cent they earn—
They are far too grand to try:
'And, Lord! how they hate the whole concern
And the people that hurry by!
“Oh, for a friendly face
In this beastly, wretched town ;
A gentleman here is out of place.
He might just as well be a clown :
Rank and breeding is nothing, begad,
And a man who with swells can move
Might just as well be a beastly cad
As a baronet’s son, by Jove!”
They stare with haughty pride
At the hurrying, busy men :
But now the windows open wide
At the magic stroke of ten.
“What! Not one single letter here
For Montmorency Brown,
And I haven't the price of a long, long beer.
Can you lend us half-a-crown ?”
A NON.


.m'JCS^Sv
■ «»„-
as
r-*N
V l '
c *>.*?&
V-..L,*..
s£*\
’/»f V
Mf
i«K?
■a-;
>a
m
m
~>N
!4.-»
S£
9&S
&2&
%
;.^s>.
•v^^:<
t r-v
m,
p£4s
hi
M
#:
i%“
**•.'
V-/
Jn i<
m
h. $
fh
t ' *v-t.t
47
V-
*T*
r l
3S
*-v.
t .
«****«
STiiV
\
j/;.*
Eft
/ >
w
r <
'V>*
'••••''• tv7< •'V # .
#Tlf
x,?" ?•»>•:; ;■;;
K.-.J
fWiS
077
Mifc
BKM&r ,“ <‘- 7- v-™'' vi-,
/X-
-(j> -<<w. * * •»* «.
7f- f
"-l'2'i;S
??’•»/•
-^fci
WONDERFUL ACHIEVEMENT
KINGSFORD SMITH’S
SUCCESSFUL ATLANTIC FLIGHT
Exi6e
BATTERIES ENABLED SOUTH-
ERN CROSS TO GET BEARINGS
OPERATING RADIO AFTER BEING LOST FOR HOURS IN
DENSE FOG.
Extoe
THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY ONCE AGAIN
PROVES ITS DEPENDABILITY.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N. S. WALES: Exide Battery Service Station, 54-56 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, 2 Maffra Street (Queen’s Bridge), South Melhourne.
QUEENSLAND: Exide Battery Service (Q.), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, and Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman, Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Medhurst & Sons Pty., Ltd., 95 Collins Street, Hobart.
Advertisement of E. H. Sharpe, representing Exide Batteries, 11c Castlergqgh Street, Sydney.


Garages equipped with
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING APPARATUS
render the best service to Car Owners by
keeping cars “youthful” and' eliminating
the cause of 86 per cent, of repairs.
Particulars from
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD. - Hay Street, PERTH
CORNELL, LTD. 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE
KEEP BROS, & WOOD PTY., LTD. - Bateman Street, MELBOURNE
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD. - - Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Factory Representative - * - - Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD. ..... Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, LONDON, N.W.10
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE. CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
HAIR
<o
here's
4jmy~
pfig&a
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. Tiie well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfcQjJ&rCs (.MEXICAN'}
likunut S°&Un
♦•HEMOVES THE GREY'*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUEUDIN & SAtNSUURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne,
If unobtainable locally . posted
direct (•$/<>), 6d. being postage.
fP
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Begd. Trade Mark.)
Iu addition to “BIBKMYRE’S CLOTH” be-
iug a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each com-
plete in itself.
“BX” “H” “S’’ and “K”
“L" “OM” “M” and “N”
Any one of these marks will protect your
interests
Th * GOUROGK Export Co. LTD.
379 Keut-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mpil and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AN INEXPENSIVE
BLADE RAZOR GUARD
m
With this simple, nickelled guard the Plum or any other blade razor is converted
into a safety razor of the most efficient type. No “dragging”.... all the velvet
keenness of the hollow-ground blade is preserved. Sent post free to any address.
Suitable for |in., |in. and gin. blades, 2/-
PLUM RAZORS —Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each 15/6
Real Ivory Handle, each 21/-
7-day Sets —7 Razors in Case—Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and kept in order for two years free.
Other Specialities —-Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, pe;r tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each .. . 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 2/-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
As Between Men.
BY MARGARET FANE
AND HILARY LOFTING.
MARCO’S most expressive feature was
his ears, This was not surprising,
he being by descent partly under-
sized bull-terrier and partly Italian grey-
hound, with a dim hint of pug. By upbring-
ing and disposition he was a larrikin tough
with a kind heart; by occupation he was a
plausible, insatiably hungry tramp who did
all his fine work in persuasion with his ears.
r i hese drooped slowly in a soft cadence of
sorrow, shot upwards in hope, _ sprung to
level attention in thanks, or vanished along
his head in starving prayer. He used either
ear or both at will. They were his person-
ality, his equipment in an anxious Bohemian
life—they and a good memory.
Trotting amiably but with his accustomed
vigilance down Brazier-street this pleasant
morning he remembered the one-armed man
who kept the store. He was generally good
for something, if that big woman of his was
out of the shop. Marco remembered a
hambone —lie snorted and flicked up his
right ear as that succulent . ecstasy seemed
to cross his tongue again.
Marco wasn’t his name, but it was what
this one-armed king of men called him. That
hambone had been more ham than bone, a
unique thing in Marco’s experience. And
the man could call him ivhat he liked.
Marty was sweeping out the. shop. He
looked up as Marco came to a sidling halt
in the doorway.
“Hullo, Marco,” he said in his friendly
Avay. “How goes it?” He glanced at the
tin of broken biscuits. “What about a
biscuit?” he added lowering his A'oice.
Marco’s left ear flattened itself as he
squirmed in salaam, abased himself to the
floor of the shop, and leapt high in the air
to catch a biscuit —all in apparently one
movement.
For a feAV profitable minutes he was a
yellow acrobat flashing about the shop while
Marty’s one hand shot biscuits more “or less
in his direction. None of them reached the
floor, or any but its natural destination.
Marty chuckled. He liked this dog; he
earned liis food ; it Ava.s a caution the way
you couldn’t throiv a biscuit where he
Avouldn’t snap it, not if it was the other
end of the shop. Things got dull sometimes,
with Mary a bit quickish on .the uptake;
and a dog like Marco Avas a sort of a bright
spot, in a way. Marty beamed at Marco
and chuckled again.
Broken biscuits were only, biscuits, all said
and done, and not what you'd call filling for
a hungry dog. Marty suspended his work-
manship ; a secret thought flickered in his
eyes as he put his forefinger to his lips and
tiptoed across to the small-goods cage.
Marco paused, Avatching, licking his lips,
both ears interrogation-marks; this king of
men had something on his mind. He saw
Marty slip into the small-goods cage, cutting
off two fine fat sausages from a rope of
glory .... Marco was like to swoon in
bliss in this paradise
“Who is it ye have in the shop, Marty?”
a voice demanded from the inner room.
For a moment Marty and Marco were
rigid. Marty recovered first. “Er —nobody,
Mary, my dear,” he said.
“Is it that yelloAv dog ye have there
again?”
“Er —yes. I Avas giving him a broken bis-
cuit.” Marty threw the sausages to Marco,
who caught them in deft, utter silence.
Marty’s thumb waggled and his eyes stared
at Marco, the stare saying ‘As between men,
for the love of Mike nick off.’ Marco’s ears
levelled in gratitude, and he vanished. “He
just looked in at the door, and a broken
biscuit or two”
“A broken biscuit !” The accusing voice
was sharp Avith scorn. “A provision shop
is no place for a dog, and 'tis well ye knoAv
it, and often meself has told ye.”
“Yes, Mary, my dear,” Marty said diffi-
dently, very gently pulling the cage door
shut. “He’s gone now”
He continued liis sweeping out of the shop.
Marco was a homeless, friendless, masterless’
dog, so far as he knew ; and a biscuit or two
(or a sausage or so) teas neither here nor
there.... Marty sighed, standing his little
sawn-off broom in its corner.
That was often the way of it now. He
had known the time when if he’d wanted
to have a dozen hungry dogs in the shop
she’d have oidy laughed at the queer Avays
he had of amusing himself. Now —well, she
put her foot down ; that’s what she did.
And she didn’t laugh. If only once he could
hear that fine rich laugh of hers again, as
in the old days before Little Feller died
AVomen were not like men. They had to
have something—something they could hold
close to them and busy themselves with.
Something young and growing. A man
busied himself over his job or his shop, and
lost himself in it, especially if he Avas get-
ting to be an oldish fellow. But that wasn’t
enough for a woman; you couldn’t expect
it to be, when you came to think of it. And
you couldn’t blame her for putting her foot
down, and sitting silent in the evenings, and
not caring a button one way or the other.
If only another Little Feller; ——
Marty’s face Avas suddenly stilled. He
pushed the broken-biscuit tin an inch out
of its place and carefully pushed it back
into exactly the same place again, while a
freckled, dirty face grinned at him from
the dead. Hearing a high, happy voice that
couldn’t ever sound in life again, he stared
unseeing at the biscuit-tin, his hand moving
idly to and fro on the counter, his spirit
lost iu the old times.
Presently he roused himself. That Avas
no good. Little Feller was Little Feller,
and there was an end of it. You couldn’t
put him back, or come near to it.
The ’Loo in its happy-go-lucky Avay. had
sticky-beaked into it. Half the neighbor-
hood at this end had at one time reckoned
it was its job to find some wonderful kid
for Mary and Marty to adopt. Little mar-
vels from here, there and everywhere had
found their way into Mary’s living-room
and she'd been very nice to them, givet
them cake and lollies, and said good-byi
to them.’
Even Father Connor brought a beautifu]
orphan one night. He wasn’t sticky-beaking,
of course; but he knew what Little Feller’;,
death had been to Mary, and lie saw a chance
of lightening the load. The child’s father
was long since dead, and influenza had taker
his mother. It would be a good thing for
everybody, Father Connor had said, especi
ally for Mary herself. She had taken th
child in, and he had been like a quiet, well
mannered shadow about the place for a
week. And Mary had taken him up-countrj
to her cousins’ one day, and had come back
alone, more silent and abstracted than ever.
The boy had a good home u£ there, she said,
and Father Connor was satisfied. And that
was the end of it, as it was the end of all
the similar attempts. Mary wasn’t tlm
Mary of old times. She didn’t seem to want
to become that Mary again, which looked
to Marty like the end of the section.
Early in the morning Marco came pur-
posefully down Brazier-street again, his
cars rigid with determination. But the one-
armed son of Heaven met him at the shop-
door and didn’t invite him in. His face
was apologetic but firm.
“No, Marco, old man,” he said. “Not
inside. A provision shop’s no place for a
dog. I brought you a few”
Marco caught a flap of bacon-rind and
swallowed it, gasped, and caught the rocky
heel of a 'Dutch cheese and three biscuits
in one snap. Marty laughed.
“You ought to be ou the stage, Marco,’
he said. “I’m sorry about not coming iu;
but”
Marco’s left ear flipped gently in depre-
ciation. It was that big woman, of course.
As between men, Marty’s eyes were say-
ing, it was understood that the big woman
wasn’t a thing to sidestep with impunity.
He shot a piece of cake at Marco and dusted
his hand, chuckling again. In a dullish
time it made a pleasant break to say a word
or two to this hungry yellow dog. His eyes
made it clear to Marco that the interview
was. now over.
“Nick off now. Marco,” he said. “That’s
the lot to-day. You slip round in the morn-
ing, and there might be a couple of
scraps”——
“Marty!” the voice called from the shop.
Marty looked sternly at Marco and waggled
his thumb. Marco’s ears nodded in com-
prehension and farewell as he faded like a
dream from the doorway.
He became an early-morning habit of
Marty’s, who was glad of him as a bright
spot to start the day. After Mary had—
well, had put her foot dowu —he always
thought of Marco as earning his food. Put-
ting away the scraps for him during the day
was a pleasant, old-maidish job that appealed
to Marty; and thus Marco’s agile ears and
heroic hunger became one of the few good
things of the days.
That was why his yarn with Constable
Leary and the plain-clothes man made him
so grave. His empty basket ou his arm, he
had been passing the time of day with Leary
when the plain-clothes man joined them.
“Any word of One-Eye yet?” the plain-
clothes man asked.
“Not a whisper. And not a hope.” Leary
glanced at Marty—a responsible house-
holder and tradesman on his beat, he re-
membered —and went on. “The brick wall’s
up—the silence.”
“ffm..,. I suppose he did it, Jim?”
“Oh, he did it all right,” Leary said in
his large, confident way. “But what can you
Jo, with this new game? You can’t take
the whole street in and charge the lot.”
The plain-clothes man laughed. “Bit of a
squash if you did. I’d like to see the ser-
geant packin’ ’em away in four cells.” He
turned to Marty. “It’s what they call the
Enderworld silence. ‘Never ’eard of the
man—never seeu ’im—didn't know there
teas such a man.’ You can't get by it.”
“That part of it’s old, of course, and you
used to be able to dig out someone, if you
kept at it, who thought it’d be safer to ’ave
’eard of him, quick and lively. But not
with these gangs and gunmen who kill in
their stride and work the game like a busi-
ness. Leary spat in his hearty way.
“They’re more scared of them than they are
of us, and you can’t get by it. Half the
Barge-street end of the ’Loo has knowu
One-Eye all his life, and three-quarters of
it knows where he is. But they never ’eard
of him now; none of ’em ever knew there
was such a man.”
Marty looked from Leary’s solemn face to
that of his jaunty friend. The plain-clothes
man laughed again. “Your mate never
heard of him cither, Jim,” he said. “It’s
One-Eye Louie, just finished a three-year
stretch. A friend of his did him dirt—put
him away at the trial; and One-Eye swore
he’d get him when he got out. He got out
a fortnight ago, and last xveek his friend
was found dead in the Domain with two
bullets in him.. And One-Eye’s vanished,
behind the brick Avail of this silence.”
“But /’ll get him out of it,” Constable,
Leary said,, nodding his heavy head. “I’ll
beat the silence. I know One-Eye’s dog. The
yellow mongrel’s been kickin’ about the ’Loo
on his own while One-Eye was in ; 1 saw
him in Brazier-street this morning, but
he nicked off and disappeared. I’m trailing
his dog, quietly, and sooner or later he’ll
take me to One-Eye, you see if be doesn't.”
Mr. Leary nodded shrewdly again at Marty's
suddenly grave face.
The plain-clothes man glanced at Leary.
“Why don’t you put it in the papers, Jim?”
he suggested tartly. “I mean, you’re a sort
of a Sherlock Holmes, and it'd be a pity
to waste an idea like that”
Tea over, Marty stacked up his plates and
eup and saucer thoughtfully, and. glanced at
Mary’s impassive face.
(Continued on next page.)


tt
r
v_/
G
u
Hear everg signal
clear as a bell
With Osram MH4 A.C. Detector Valve
(with indirectly heated cathode)
WITH a detector valve of such sensitiveness and
an amplification factor of 35, combined with
moderate impedance, your set will bring in every signal
with a clarity of tone that is surprising.
The Osram MH4 is designed with an adequate
clearance between electrodes to give greater mechanical
a
A
SPECIFICATIONS t ,
Filament Volts . ’ 4.0
Fil. Current .. ..
1.0 amps, approx.
Plate Volts .. ... ;
200 (max.)
Amp. Factor .. 35
Impedance.
23,000 ohms.
Normal-Slope . . ..
1.5 m/amps, per volt.
Equivs.: E435,‘ E 438.
strength, absolute reli-
ability, and consistency in
performance. The special
gauze plate assists in the
ready dissipation of heat,
and maintains the initial
efficiency of MH4 through-
out a long and useful life.
If you cannot obtain it
locally, or any Osram
Valve you need, it will be
, sent direct, safe delivery
guaranteed. Ask also for a
copy of “The Osram Valve
Guide"—free on request.
Made in England
at the famous Osram Lamp Works
Advertisement ~,of , the British ■ General Electric Co. Ltd.
Head Office ,& Public Showrooms: Magnet House, 104-114 Clarence St., Sydney.
Y VE6
Branch Offices and Public- Showrooms at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Netccastte' and N.Z.- cities. Sole’.Agencies at Brisbane and Ilobart.
■s
US
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
. Booklet Freei
REV. w: ROWLANDS,
12 ‘ .Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, SiE.B, Victoria.
TRY BROKEN HILL.
You should see the travellers flocking
to Broken Hill; 1 ;
And the < Winter Sales • booming.
Adelaide and Sydney ; people say .
“You Are Lucky Here.”
Well, join in the luck. ' Get on -to
Broken Hill money through ,
“The Barrier’Miner.”
• Ir
P SMB'S
2' > wr^s^
-rr ;
tr-h.
'i rrn ra»
Missing Friends. __
Re T. H. FOLLEY —Deceased.
■\Y/ILL any person knowing the where-
abouts lof CLARA FOLLEY, sister of
the late Thomas Henry Folley, or any child
of the said' Clara Folley, please communi-
cate with the' PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart.
JAMES HENRY MITCHELL.
Vf/ILL the above-named, formerly of Rock-
” hanipton, Queensland, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, at once communi-
cate with O’SHEA, O’SHEA, CORSER
AND WADLEY, Solicitors, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
ELIZABETH COOPER (nee Smyth), sup-
posed to have died at Broken Hill or
Bourke,. New South. Wales, between 10 and
20-years ago. Any person who can furnish
reliable information regarding Mrs. Cooper
is- requested to' communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, Limited, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, at once.
ESTATE OF LATE JANE WHITEHAND.
YY7ILL BENJAMIN WHITEHAND,
** formerly of Learmonth, Victoria, or
anyone who knows his address, please com-
municate with Cl TIIBERT, MORROW
AND GO., Solicitors, Ballarat.
“This yellow dog', Mary ray dear,” he
began. “I was wondering”—he paused.
“Yes, Marty?” she said expressionlessly.
“I was wondering if you’d let me keep
him in the shed for a bit. He’s a poor,
, hungry sort of a dog, and—and the shed isn't
a provision-shop.”
She looked across at him without speaking.
“I have a particular reason for wanting to
keep him —er, safe for a bit.” A gleam of
interest shone for a moment in her eyes.
“And I’d be grateful if you’d agree to it.”
He waited hungrily for the gleam of in-
terest to break into speech; in the old times
she’d have had all the story out of him in
two ticks, and chuckled while she conspired
with him. But the gleam faded.
“As you wish, Marty,” she said listlessly.
“I don’t mind.”
Marty sighed. “Thank you, Mary my
dear,” he said, putting the plates on the
tray. “He’s not a noisy dog. I don’t think
he’ll bother you.”
Marco came down the street on the follow-
ing morning, his ears intent upon his fixed
idea. The idea being temporarily satisfied,
he saw that the one-armed god had still
something on his mind. That big woman
again, probably. But no. Marty’s attitude
was one of personal persuasion directed at
Marco.
“What about staying with me for a bit,
Marco?” he asked, his voice soft and plaus-
ible. “There’s a good bed of straw in the
shed, whips of scran, and nothing to do but
sleep.” Marty smiled, patting Marco’s
astoundingly hybrid head. “How about it,
Marco old man?” he murmured.
This idea wasn’t as clear as the fixed one.
But the one-armed god evidently wanted him
to do something, and his ears were emphatic
in assent. Marty glanced up and down
Brazier-street, and invited Marco into the
shop, that paradise of odors. The dimmest
of apprehensions rippled along his left ear
as Marty called him through these rich
smells and out into the yard; but the ear
was calm and firm when he saw that no big
’woman queened it here. As between men,
Marty’s murmuring voice assured him, this
was a safe and even an interesting place.
Marty opened the door of the shed.
“There you are, Marco,” he said heartily.
“There’s a pile of clean, dry straw, a tin of
fresh water, and more tucker if you can
go it. All you’ve got to do is to tear it
into you and sleep it off on the straw.” He
smiled and pulled the door to, locking it.
For a moment Marco looked uncertainly
at the closed door. Fundamentally a closed
door was a terror and an affront; that was
a law of life. Could this one-armed man
be —no ! Both ears repudiated the thought;
the character of the one-armed man was
as clear as a bell. All was well—his nose
w T rinkled, automatically, as it were. One (or
several) of those gorgeous smells.... His
ears vanished along his head, and he forgot
the puzzling insult of the closed door. Very
swiftly and intently he followed his frantic
wrinkling nose.
Marty had done the job well. The half-
kerosene-tin w r as practically full. Ends of
ham, sausages, brawn, ends of cheese, a
broken egg, pork fritz, biscuits by the thou-
sand ; corned beef, cake, four sardines, a
wedge of dripping, the root of a tongue,
bacon-bones, bacon-rind and even bacon,
pickled beetroot, butter, biscuits, biscuits....
Marco settled down to a steady job of work.
In the end, filmy-eyed and half-uncon-
scious, lie lurched to the straw. Without the
painful formality of death he had reached
Heaven.
Nor did this ineffable beauty abate. Marco
did no work in hunting or canvassing; no
strain of anxiety or fear was put upon his
ears; nothing irked or wearied him. Yet
he achieved a meal approximating that first
day’s glory in the shed every day. Chops
came his way in addition now and then
during the day; odd complements of hot
potatoes and what not, a bowl of tea—all
manner of unknown or forgotten dainties
came into the shed with the one-armed man’s
soothing voice. Morning and evening he
ran round the yard in conversation with this
man. For the rest, there was the shed, the
straw, the kerosene-tin and peace.
Marty wasn’t sure what he was doing to
the law of New South Wales in this con-
spiracy. But he was sure that it w r as no
sort of trick to play on a decent hungry dog
to make him give away his master. A
vision of Marco trustfully and unconsciously
leading Leary to One-Eye’s poor hiding-place
was quite enough to stabilise Marty’s. deter-
mination to prevent it if he could. Let them
find the man off their own bat, if they must,
without dragging a fine friendly dog like
Marco into it. You couldn’t call that way
of doing their job a fair go, whatever way
you looked at it. Or at least Marty couldn’t,
he being a friend of Marco’s.
He’d kept Marco out of it for nearly a
week when the first crash sounded in the
yard. It was dusk, and the light failing
rapidly, when a wild tearing noise startled
the evening, as of a thousand doors being
torn off their hinges.
Marty ran out into the yard. On the
instant an infuriated body flew at himj
gasping with rage, and knocked him down.
A high voice screamed at him.
“Get up, yer big stiff! Ycr three-cornered
blankard —stand on ycr blanky feet an’ I’ll
teach you to pinch me dawg!”
Marty looked up into the freckled, incre-
dibly dirty face of a boy. He was snub-
nosed, had red hair, and was beside himself
with anger.
“Get up!” he roared at Marty, “and take
what’s cornin’ to yer. Or ’ave I got to kick
you round the yard till yer find yer feet?”
Marco barked suddenly in the shed. “There
he is!” yelled the boy, and fled across the
yard, tearing the shed door open. Marty
rose slowly to his feet. One arm or no
arms, this boy had got to go through it.
Marco sidled out, his ears apologetic and
interrogative. He blinked at Marty and
at the freckled boy flying at him again.
Marty kicked a packing-case out of his
way, subconsciously aware that Mary was
looking on in consternation from the veran-
dah. At the first impact of the boy’s fist
on Marty’s chest Marco barked loudly again
in furious dissent. Marty stepped back and
caught the boy a good one with his flat hand
on the side of the head. The boy blinked
and rushed once more, his dirty chin set and
his eyes-hard and implacable. Marty side-
stepped, and the rush ended in a pile of
packing-cases which fell, tumbling about the
yard in tumult, mixed up with the spitting,
cursing boy.
Marty waited, in a stern silence. He’d have
that boy across his knee in a minute, some-
how—
“ Damn the things 5” the boy muttered,
breathing hard and wrenching his bare foot
out of a broken packing-case. He hurled the
pieces across the 'yard, where they crashed
against the shed door. Marco broke into a
deep baying bark, interrupted by a peremp-
tory knocking at the lane gate.
“Open it, Marty man,” Mary said in the
sudden silence. Marty glanced up at her in
the dusk. That note in her voice.... He
walked across the yard and opened the gate.
Constable Leary stood there, torch in hand.
“What’s all this?” he demanded. “Are you
pulling the house to pieces in a free fight?”
His torch flashed round the yard, coming
to rest on the sullen face of the boy. “Ah,
Ginger,” he said in his large heavy way,
“it’s you, is it? I’ve been looking for you.”
“ [E pinched me dawg,” the boy muttered,
staring at Leary. “Near a week ago ’e
pinched ’im.”
“Did he?” Leary nodded in assumed con-
cern. “Well, your dog won’t matter to you
where you’re going, me lad. It’s the Homes
for you. Or Emu Plains, like as not.”
Mary came down the steps. “What is it
Constable?” she asked. “What has the boy
done then?”'
Leary touched his cap. “I don’t know
that he’s done anything, Mrs. Day,” he con-
fessed. “But he’s a wrong ’un. He’s a
State child. _ Mrs. Syme in Triangle-street
looks after ’im—when ’e isn’t wagging it or
run away. She reported him last week as
missing again, and lie’s not eleven yet.”
“Perhaps lie’s not happy there, Constable.”
Leary shrugged his shoulders as the boy
glanced at Mary. “The Department put him
there,” he said.
Mary’s rich laugh seemed to fill the yard with
sudden summer. “He knows his own mind,”
she said, and chuckled again. “And he can
fight”
Marty’s heart missed a beat. A long time
he had been hungry for that sumptuous
sound. And here it was, in this dusky
yard.... He peered round for Marco, whose
ears seemed in the dusk to be rippling in
congratulation.
“Maybe he needs someone to care for him,
to be thinking about him, Constable. Maybe
he wouldn’t run away then.”
Leary shrugged again, in silence. That
wasn’t his business.
“What do ye mean by knocking me hus-
band about?” Mary twinkled at the boy.
“’E pinched me dawg.” He looked up,
and Mary’s twinkling eyes were suddenly
grave and compassionate at the sight of
his haggard guarded face. “Mrs. Syme
wouldn’t ’ave ’im in the place,” he muttered,
“an’ I made ’im a possy down by the docks.
I used to nick down a*n’ see ’im when I
could. But for near a week ’e wasn’t there.
And I been ’untin’ and ’untin’ ”
Half unconsciously Mary’s hand slipped
up, resting lightly on his shoulder. She smiled
at Leary. “There’s a* place here for a boy.
He could help Mr. Day before and after
school with deliveries. I suppose the
Department would say this was a fit home
for him, Constable,” she suggested melo-
diously.
Leary grinned. “Of course, they would,”
he said.
Once more Mary’s laugh made music in
the dusky yard. “You men—-ye’re too clever,
that’s your trouble. I wish you’d seen him
flying at Marty’s throat, Constable.” She
turned to the boy. “Will ye come here,
Ginger, a*nd make it your home?”
Ginger watched her for a moment in
silence before his eyes cleared. “An’ me
dawg comes too?” he stipulated.
“Of course, your dog comes too.” She
patted Marco’s amazing head, and glanced at
Marty. “You’ll have to share your yellow
dog now, Macty man,” she said touching
his hand. “Now come in, Ginger and get a
wash before your tea.”
The Chimes.
I heard a tall clock chiming, and I saw
The weather-beaten walls, the pallid
towers,
Blue pigeons hung like orchids on the scarp.
And Martin-place, with , its mosaic of
flowers
Under the showy awnings, where spring
hides,
And the white crests upon the toss of tides
Beyond the red-tiled jetties, and I knew
The mingled scents of Sydney, sea and
earth
And shower-pitted dust and perfumes blown
From women’s gowns! The clock chimes
bi-ought to birth
The thoughts of Sydney town, which always
lie
Seed in my heart of yellow sun and sky;
Of open parks, of roses hooped and pink,
Strelitzia in the Gardens, poised like wings
Upon its columned green: an ivied wall
Guard to a bed of monstrous cactus things,
And beyond these, where loose vine tendrils
' blew,
In shadow patterns, peacocks strutting
through!
Grey sunken' steps at Darlinghurst that
smelled
Of damp and weed, but most of all of
Time;
A fuchsia bush at Jersey-road where one
Who dreams for ever now laughed through
the chime—
The Lady of the Treasure House, who keeps
Watch o’er her garden still, although sin' '
sleeps.
O Sydney, with your ever-dipping gulls,
Your great ships outward-bound, your
rocky isle,
Your wooded ramparts and your frowning
Heads —
Swift in my soul ye rise with many a
smile.
With many a strain of music and of rhymes,
Because a towered clock in Brisbane chimes!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


m
II
■ysZ
■ ;m ; -V
$
mm
MS
■ ’
«a
«BS
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 4 1 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. cONCOItl) WEST, N. S. WALES
N.Z. Office —(Kl-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. •
"THE AGE”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established 185
ADVERTISERS!
The Court instructs every Jury to keep an
open mind, and record a verdict according to
the evidence placed before them.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age.”
Audited net Sales. 122,501 daily
(00% Metropolitan—4o% Country)..
Over 96% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is “Australia
First,” and its effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3f»5 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SO Fleet Street, London.
Cln mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” ia the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY’' COVERS
TASMANIA.
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
liable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
3tl Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 6179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cbe fldwtisef
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales inviteel.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADYCnTISEU” may be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
p, THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrir.sdon
Street, Sydney. Telephone, -8W7058.
Representative in "Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL. “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: .47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Rringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N, L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern fa
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ilhmm keep theft
yoodtockd
fytokinQ
fiteduui#
"^pm
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
<2?
£
s£|i2
us;
<rc
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
June 11, 1929.
“Examiner” Office, Launceston.
Dear Sir, —It may interest you to know that within three days T have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
wood, Sulphur Creek, Mcorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart, Winnaleah.
I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE YOU GIVE ME
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS 1 .
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from IV. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M/S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne;
W. G. DOUG AN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin’*
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,8, months from ....
for which I enclose £...
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/.
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
i<s»S>s
0°
Vi*'
{ \\ e^
%>v~ %
M
S e
(s®®
2
6)"
fyr'o\ l s'' 5 ”
aV* ■
.• “ * .• ‘ * .•' ’
•*■ ..•••■ <V ce o^>
•• of
.A''


m
mm
r f
' ..a
T /mt
" v S&i
sww
>vV&
r
■CI
@!
- \
0
(GREATER power —65 K.p. at
3200 r.p.m, —is one of the
important advantages offered by
the new Willys Six 30-cwt. Truck.
This increased 'pep” means to
truck users fast economical trans-
portation. Its hill-climbing ability
has been improved by means of
four-speed-forward transmission,
which also permits a quick
getaway with capacity loads. A
heavy counterbalanced crank-
shaft, weighing 391 b., has a
rigidity resulting in smoother
operation and long engine life.
Full forced feed lubrication
ensures the correct oiling of all
engine parts. A new hot-climate
radiator is a guarantee against
THE
overheating even under the most
strenuous conditions, A new six-
brake system is employed, giving
greater braking area —400 square
inches spread over six shoes.
Engineering science has proved
that the many high-priceddeatures
incorporated in the new Willys Six
30-cwt. Truck mean better service
and longer life, and assure truck
owners of less worry and more
profit than would be theirs with-
out these features.
Get in touch to-day with your nearest
Whippet-Willys Knight Dealer, and
arrange for a complete demonstration
of this low-priced six-cylinder truck.
Get behind the wheel yourself and test
out its capabilities.
WILLY'S SI
30CWT. TRUCK
State Distributors:
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
14S-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
